MOTION. 437 lighter than water, and as the specific gravities of air and water are to each other nearly as 1 to 815, a small bulk is sufficient to render the lesser fishes lighter than the medium they inhabit. The position of the air-bladder being immedi- ately under the spine and above the centre of gravity causes the fish to rise without the danger of turning over on its back. Those fishes which are furnished with an air-bladder are capable of either renewing, expelling, compressing, or dilating its aerial contents, and of varying its area so as to rise, sink, or remain in equili- bria The air-bladder becomes by this means an important auxiliary organ of locomotion, and affords an illustration of one of the many evidenc es of design in the primary formation of aquatic animals. The Diodons and Tetrodons render them- selves buoyant by swallowing air, which filling the first stomach becomes inflated like a bal- loon ; but as the gastric reservoir lies below the centre of gravity, the bodies roll over in an inverted position, and are driven in the direction of the winds and tides without the power of directing their course.* The forms of fishes are considerably diversified, being sphe- rical in the globe tetrodon; an elongated cy- linder in the Eel; compressed in the Dory and Spah ; flattened into planes parallel to the me- sial section in the Pleuroncctidae; elliptical in the Salmonidae, Scomberida;, and Mugilidae. In nearly all the orders of fishes the surface presented to the water by the head and shoul- ders inclines more or less to the vertebral axis of the fish, which coincides with the axis of motion, and therefore is adapted to offer resist- ance, which varies with the angle of incli- nation. In the Salmon, Cod, and Mackerel the form of the body approximates to that which is con- sidered by mathematicians to offer the least re- sistance to the surrounding medium. The organs of support are developed principally in the plane of the mesial section, and consist of superior and inferior spinous, interspinous, dorsal, and ventral fin elements, the projections of which prevent motion of the vertebral axis in the plane of the mesial section. The ver- tebr.v are short, numerous, and, towards the caudal extremity, destitute of transverse pro- cesses, an arrangement which gives the tail a considerable degree of lateral motion; owing to which it becomes the most essential organ of locomotion. The locomotive or- gans of fishes are the fins and tail; the pectoral fins represent the anterior, and the ventral the posterior extremities of the higher orders of Mammalia. In the Cod, the legs are absolutely in front of the arms, being sus- pended under the throat. The Percidx, which are provided with two dorsal, two pectoral, and two ventral, as well as anal and caudal fins, have the greatest number of locomotive organs. The planes of the dorsal and anal fins are in the mesial section of the fish, and being res- tricted m that plane by a kind of ginglymoid joint, are capable only of elevation and depres- * See Dr. Kogct's Bridgewater Treatise. sion. In the Cod, Halibut, and Gurnard, the action of these tins serves merely to increase or diminish the lateral surfaces of the fish, so as to prevent any tendency in the animal cither to oscillate laterally, or turn upon its vertebral axis into an inverted position, which it would be inclined to do without some muscular effort, since in the erect posture the centre of gravity lies above the centre of figure.* The plane of each ventral fin is in general nearly horizontal, and perpendicular to that of the caudal ; their action serves to balance the body, to incline it on either side, when one fin only acts, and to elevate and depress the fish by their joint effort.f In many fishes the pectoral fins being at right angles to the tail and vertical, act horizontally, and communicate either a progressive or a retrograde impulse to the body, thus assisting the action of the tail; if they are both retained in an extended position, they will retard the velocity of the fish ; if one pectoral fin only is extended, it will turn the fish in a curve towards that side ; if the other only, it will turn it on the opposite side: they thus per- form the office of a rudder. When the planes of the pectoral fins are directed obliquely for- wards and upwards, they communicate an as- cending and a retarding impulse to the fish, but the amount of retardation is compensated by the power which the fish acquires of ascending. When the caudal, ventral, and oblique pec- toral fins move simultaneously, there result three forces acting in different planes, whose intensities, estimated in directions perpendi- cular to those planes, are severally proportional to the products of their areas multiplied into the squares of their velocities ;J the resultant of these forces may be obtained by the law of the parallelogram of forces.ยง In the Rays, the pectoral fins are developed to an enormous extent, and being directed horizontally, their action is vertical, like the wings of a bird. They are furnished with a great number of joints, which endow thein with considerable mobility; they have the power to increase the surface of the fin during depression, and to diminish it during elevation. The disc of the ventral fins lies in the same plane as the pectoral, and acts in a similar manner, but the plane of the caudal fin is at right angles to them. The depression of the pectoral and ventral fins elevates the fish, whilst the lateral motions of the tail propel it forwards. The area of the pectoral fins in the Rays is very great compared with that of the caudal; and * In Piscibus, pars gravissima ossinm spins, copi isissima caro musculosa in dorso supremo posita est, vesica vero acrea in infimo venire recon- ditur; ergo crntruni gravitatis Piscium supra cen- trum lnagnitudinis eoruin in supremo dorso repo- situm est; ct ideo, duin in aqua innatant, natural) instinctu revolvrrentur ventre supiuo, qua- positura rum natatui valde iocommoda sit, cojuntnr Pisces artificiose se retinere situ erecto. Borelli, loco cit. p. "2-57. t Pinnae duplicate, qua; in duohus locis intimi venuis piscium cxistunt, non inserviiint ad motum sod ad stat'wnem corurn. Borelli, loco cit. p 257. } See resistance of fluids. 6 Sec method of rectangular co-oidinates.