MOTION. 425 without very sensibly increasing its weight, the carpal, metacarpal, and phalangeal bones. The scapulars which have the least velocity The force resulting from the sudden extension of are shorter and weaker. The length and the legs elevates the whole mass of the bird strength of those feathers which contribute so above the plane of position, and the body thus largely to increase the area, vary directly witli raised being deprived of the support previously the velocities of that portion of the wing to afforded would begin again to fall by its own which they belong. The ratio of the area of the weight, as soon as the projectile force became wings of birds to their weight is by no means insufficient to sustain it, but the wings having constant. It is least in the Cursores, such as in the meantime been spread out to their fullest the Ostrich, Cassiowary, and Emeu ; greater extent, are made to descend with great velocity in the Insessores, as the Raven, Crow, and by the contraction of the powerful pectoral Humming-bird; and greatestin the diurnal Rap- muscles. In consequence of the planes of the tores, as the Eagle, Falcons, and Vultures. The wings being disposed either perpendicularly, or power of flight in birds, provided the muscular obliquely backwards to the direction of their forces vary in proportion, is as the areas of their motion, a corresponding impulse is given to the wings directly, aud as their specific gravities in- centre of gravity. The resistance of the air to the versely. Owing to the triangular figure of the wings during their depression through a greater expanded wing, the area of its sections dimi- or less arc of a circle becomes greater than the nishes as their distance from the centre of gra- force of gravity on the mass of the bird, together vity increases,and from the same cause the areas with the resistance of the air on its body due to are in the inverse ratio of the velocities corres- its velocity, and consequently the bird rises, ponding to the distances of the sections from During the ascent of the wing, the opposite the axis of motion. The centre of resistance effect takes place. The bird has not only to coincides very nearly with the middle of the encounter the resistance which the air opposes length of the wing from the shoulder-joint to to the motion of the wing during its back stroke, the tip. The wing is moved on the princi- but also the resistance due to its figure when in pie of the third order of levers, and the power motion, as well as the force of gravity. These is applied sufficiently near the axis of motion are so many forces tending to neutralize the to produce a considerable relative velocity, down stroke of the wing, and to produce an The power of the muscles acting on the wing opposite effect, so that there will result a is increased in proportion to their mass, being motion, the amount of which may be pretty to those of the inferior extremity (according to nearly ascertained when the necessary data are Borelli) in the proportion of more than three to obtained by experiment. one, their absolute power in proportion to the The principal data required for computing weight of the bird being as 10-000 to 1. In the quantity of muscular action expended, the order to give the osseous framework the surface velocity of the centre of the wing, and the nura- and strength necessary for the attachment of the ber of its periodic oscillations necessary to sus- great pectoral muscles which act on the wing, tain the bird in the air, may here be briefly the sternum is carinated, whereby its surface is stated. 1st. The area of the horizontal section increased in proportion to the mass of the mus- of the body of the bird. 2d. The area of the cular fibres which are inserted into it, and the two wings whilst they are lowered. 3rd. The shoulder-joints are strengthened by the elonga- area of the wings whilst they are raised. 4th. tion of the coracoid processes, and the magni- The velocity with which the bird is driven tude of the clavicles. The fixed condition through the air. 5th. The velocity with which of the ribs and vertebral column tends also to the wings are lowered. 6th. The velocity with strengthen the thoracic sections of the bird, and which the wings are raised. 7th. The respec- enables it to resist the enormous muscular force tive durations of the elevation and depression of applied to it during flight.* This brief outline the wings. 8th. The weight of the whole bird, of the manifold adaptations necessary for aerial 9th. The weight of an equal volume of air. progression will give some idea of the number 10th. The resistance of the air due to the and complication of the elements which enter figure and velocity of the bird. 11th. The ratio into the composition of so small a fabric, and of of the resistance which the air opposes to the the enormous muscular power with which birds wings during their elevation and depression, are endowed, compared with their bulk and 12th. The ratio of the resistance of the air to weight. When a bird rises from the ground, the time of an elevation of the wings to that of and at the moment it begins its flight, the first a depression. impulse is communicated to its centre of gravity These are the principal data which are deemed by the sudden extension of the legs, as in leap- necessary for estimating by dynamics the amount ing. During this action the humerus is raised; of the force employed by birds during their the wings are unfolded and spread out hori- flightf If the area of the wings of birds always zontally by the extension of the fore-arm, and of preserved the same ratio to their weight, the * The position of the scapulo-humeral joint with respect to that of the great pectoral muscles throws the centres of gravity and figure below the axis of articulation of the wings, so that the animal is kept steady in flight, whilst iis figure is such as to enable it, to glide through the air with the least pos- sible resistance. t Let us suppose the bird to endeavour to rise perpendicularly in the air by equal flappings of its wings in a vertical direction, and let s = the area of the transvere section of the bird, A = the area of the wings whilst they are depressed, A ' = the area of the wings whilst they are elevated u — the velocity with which the bird rises in the air, V = the velocity with which it depresses its