167 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. omentum, and which accompanies them along the portal canals and interlobular fissures to their ultimate distribution in the substance of the lobules. It forms for each of the lobules a distinct capsule which invests it on all sides with the exception of its base, and is then ex- panded over the whole of the exterior of the organ, constituting the proper- capsule of the liver. Glisson's capsule serves to maintain the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic ducts in connection with each other, and attaches them also to the surface of the portal canals; it con- nects the trunks of the hepatic veins to the surface of the canals in which they run ; it sup- ports the lobules and binds them together, and by its exterior expansion it invests and protects the entire organ. But Glisson's capsule, ob- serves Kieman, " is not mere cellular tissue ; it is to the liver what the pia mater is to the brain; it is a cellulo-vascular membrane, in which the vessels divide and subdivide to an extreme degree of minuteness ; which lines the portal canals, forming sheaths for the larger ves- sels contained in them, and a web in which the smaller vessels ramify ; which enters the inter- lobular fissures, and with the vessels forms the capsules of the lobules, and which finally enters the lobules, and with the bloodvessels expands itself over the secreting biliary ducts. Hence arises a natural division of the capsule into three portions, a vaginal, an interlobular, and a lobu- lar portion." The vaginal portion of the capsule is loose and abundant; it occupies the portal canals and incloses the portal vein, hepatic duct, and hepatic artery. In the larger canals (fig. 36, 8,) it completely surrounds these vessels, but in the smaller ones (fig. 37,) is situated only on that side of the portal vein upon which the duct and artery are placed, the opposite side of the vein being in contact with the capsular surfaces of the lobules. It constitutes a me- dium for the ramification of the vaginal plexus formed by the vein, artery, and duct, previously to their entrance into the cellular interval of the interlobular fissures. The interlobular portion forms the cellular capsule for each of the lobules and the bond of union between their contiguous surfaces. It supports the plexiform ramifications of the por- tal vein, hepatic artery, and duct, and is the medium of vascular communication between all the lobules of the liver. The lobular portion forms sheaths for the minute vessels which enter the lobules, and a cellular parenchyma for the substance of those bodies. The portal vein is formed by the union of the venous trunks which return the blood from the chylopoietic viscera, viz., the superior and in- ferior mesenteric, the splenic, and gastric veins. Commencing behind the pancreas where all these veins converge, the portal trunk ascends along the right border of the lesser omentum, lying behind the hepatic artery and ductus com- munis choledochus to the transverse fissure. At the transverse fissure it bifurcates into two trunks which enter the right and left lobes, and divide and subdivide as they lake their course through the portal canals, until they are ultimately lost in the substance of the lobules. The brandies of the portal vein are accompanied throughout their course by branches of the hepatic duct and hepatic artery, and they are inclosed and connected to the capsular surfaces of the lobules forming the portal canals, by Glisson's capsule. The branches of the portal vein are divisible into vaginal, interlobular, and lobular. The vaginal brandies (Jig 36, 3, fig. 38, f) are the small veins which are given off by the portal trunks during their passage through the portal canals, and which are intended to convey Fig. 36. A transverse section of a large portal canal and its vessels. The lobules are in a state of general con- gestion, their central portions being more congested than their marginal portions. — From Kiernau's paper. No. 1, Superficial lobules forming theparietes of the canal. In some the intra-lobular vein does not extend to the surface of the canal ; this appearance depends upon the direction in which the incision is made. 2, The portal vein. 3, Vaginal branches arising from the vein and dividing into interlobular branches which enter the interlobular spaces. 4, Hepatic duct. It is seen to give off vaginal branches which divide into interlobular ducts, the latter enter the inteilobular spaces. 5, The hepatic artery ; it is seen giving off vaginal branches which divide into interlobular branches, and the latter enter the spaces with the branches of the portal vein and hepatic duct. 6, Three interlobular ves- sels, a duct, vein, and artery, entering each inter- lobular space. 1, A part of the vaginal plexus. 8,8, Glisson's capsule, which completely surrounds the vessels. their blood into the substance of the lobules. In the cellular sheath of Glisson's capsule which surrounds the portal vein, they inosculate freely with each other and form, together with the va- ginal branches of the duct and artery, a vascu- lar plexus, named from its situation the vaginal plexus. This vaginal plexus establishes a com- munication between the vaginal veins through- out the portal canals, and serves to equalise the supply of blood to the lobules. Opposite each interlobular space an interlobular vein is given off, which enters between the lobules and rami- fies in the interlobular fissures. In the larger portal canals (fig. 36,) the vaginal plexus com- pletely surrounds the portal vein, hepatic duct