17 INSTINCT. —I mean Aphides and Locusts,—are the best examples of this order. " So much as the world has suffered from these animals, it is extraordinary that so few observations have been made upon their history, economy, and mode of proceeding. " The eggs of the locusts were no sooner hatched in June," says Dr. Shaw, " than each of the broods collected itself into a compact body, of a furlong or more in square, and then marching directly forwards towards the sea, they let nothing escape them; they kept their ranks like men of'war, climbing over as they advanced every tree or wall that was in their way ; nay, they entered into our very houses and bed- chambers like so many thieves. A day or two after one of these hordes was in motion, others were already hatched to march and glean after them. Having lived near a month in this manner they arrived at their full growth, and threw off their nympha stale by casting their outward skin." " The transformation was per- formed in seven or eight minutes, after which they lay for a short time in a torpid and seem- ingly languishing condition; but as soon as the sun and the air had hardened their wings by dry- ing up the moisture that remained on them after casting their sloughs, they re-assumed their former voracity with an addition of strength and agility." " According to Jackson they have a govern- ment amongst themselves similar to that of the bees and ants; and when the king of the locusts rises, tire whole body follow him, not one soli- tary straggler being left behind. But that locusts have leaders like the bees or ants, dis- tinguished from the rest by the size and splen- dour of their wings, is a circumstance that has not yet been established by any satisfactory evidence; indeed, very strong reasons may be urged against it." " The last order of imperfect associations approaches nearer to perfect societies, and is that of those insects which the social principle urges to unite in some common work for the benefit of the community. " Many larvae of Lcpidoptera associate with this view, some of which are social only during part of their existence, and others during the whole of it. " A still more singular and pleasing spectacle when their regiments march out to forage, is exhibited hy the Processionary Bombyx. This moth, which is a native of Fiance and has not yet been found in this country, inhabits the oak. Each family consists of from 600 to 800 individuals. When young, they have no fixed habitation, but encamp sometimes in one place and sometimes in another under the shelter of their web; but when they have attained two- thirds of their growth, they weave for themselves a common tent. About sun-set the regiment leaves its quarters; or, to make the metaphor harmonize with the trivial name of the animal, the monks their ceenobium. At their head is a chief, by whose movements their procession is regulated. When he stops all stop, and pro- ceed when he proceeds; three or four of his immediate followers succeed in the same line, VOL. III. the head of the second touching the tail of the first; then comes an equal series of pairs, next of threes, and so on as far as fifteen or twenty. The whole procession moves regularly on with an even pace, each file treading on the steps of those that precede it. If the leader, arriving at a particular point, pursues a different direc- tion, all march to that point before they turn."* Examples of occasional associations, more or less resembling all these, and of which the object is in many instances still obscure, may be found in all the classes of the higher ani- mals, as is obvious, when we consider to how many tribes of animals the term gregarious is usually applied, e. g. to almost all the Rumi- nantia, some of the Pachydermata, and a few of the Rodentia. Some of the genus Muridae (rats and mice) have been long known to migrate, occasionally, in a manner resembling the locusts. " The general residence of the lem- ming," says Pallas, " is in the mountainous parts of Lapland and Norway, from which tracts at uncertain periods it descends in im- mense troops, and by its incredible numbers becomes a temporary scourge to the country, devouring the grain and herbage, and com- muting devastations equal to those of an army of locusts." " It is observable that their chief emigrations are made in the autumns of such years as are followed by severe winters." " The ground over which they have passed appears at a distance as if it had been ploughed, the grass being devoured to the roots in numerous stripes or parallel paths, of one or two spans broad, and at the distance of some yards from each other." " The army moves chiefly at night, or early in the morning. No obstacles that they meet in their way have any effect in altering their route, neither fires, nor deep ravines, nor torrents, nor marshes, nor lakes ; they proceed obstinately in a straight line, and hence many thousands perish in the waters." " If disturbed, in swimming over a lake, by oars or poles, they will not recede, but keep swim- ming directly on, and soon get into regular order again." "In their passage over land, if attacked by men, they will raise themselves up, uttering a kind of barking sound, and fly at the legs of their invaders, and will fasten so fiercely on the end of a stick, as to suffer them- selves to be swung about without quitting their hold, and are with great difficulty put to flight." " The major part of these hosts is destroyed by various enemies, as owls, hawks, weasels, ex- clusively of the number that perish in the waters, so that but a small part survive to return, as they are sometimes observed to do, to their native mountains." The campagnol, or short-tailed rat, has been known to com- mit similar ravages in France. It is obvious here, that under the influence of this instinct, and of the excitement of numbers (in which, as in our own race, the principle of imitation is probably much concerned) the usual motives to action of these animals are superseded, and their usual habits changed. We are still uncertain as to the use, or final. * Introduction to Entomology, letter xvi. C