NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) 614 hennit'crab. One ganglion, indeed, is present in the Pagurus, but both its situation and office alike militate against the hypothesis of its spe- cial subserviency to sensation : it is developed upon the end of the smooth abdominal chords, and seems to have been called into existence solely to regulate the actions of the muscles of the claspers by which the hermit keeps firm hold of the columella of its borrowed dwel- ling."*] On reviewing these statements of the ner- vous system of the entomoid Articulata, we observe that the superior ganglion of the pri- mary nervous ring, or the cerebral ganglion, passes through several degrees of complication from the Crustacea, where it presents only slight traces of a division laterally up to the Insecta, as in the bee for instance, where it preponderates greatly in size over the gan- glions, and where the sensorial nerves arising from it present distinct ganglionic enlarge- ments. The anterior or cephalic primary ner- vous ring itself we see to be gradually de- creasing in size from the Crustacea, where it is large and lengthened, to the highest Insecta, the Lepidoptera, where it is much smaller, and almost coalescing the superior and inferior ganglions developed on it into one ganglion. We observe that the number of primary ner- vous rings, with their ganglia, gradually be- comes more constricted from the Crustacea through the Myriapoda (where they are de- veloped in an undetermined length) and the Arachnida, where they are much fewer, to the Insecta, where, in their larva state, they ap- proach the Annelides, but in their perfect state we find them developed in a regular series, and more concentrated in the regions of the head, thorax, and abdomen. These anato- mical details, together with the complicated nature of the longitudinal commissures, a dis- tinct system of nerves supposed to be for re- spiration, and a par vagum, demonstrate a close analogy between the ganglionic cord of the Insecta and the spinal cord of the Verte- brata, and may be considered as reasonable grounds for ranking this interesting tribe of animals the highest of the Articulata. Further details respecting the anatomy of the nervous system of Insects will be found in the article Insecta. Vertebrata.—We now pass to the last and highest group, the Vertebrata, where the primary nervous rings of the preceding classes have become ganglions, and their commissures have become primary nervous rings. In each segment of their bodies there is but one gan- glion developed, but that one large, and situ- ated on the dorsal aspect, and each one in the different segments is united to the other by commissures, thus forming a large median ner- vous mass, the primary characteristic of a true cerebral system. This will be, of course, sub- ject to infinite modifications and degrees of organization. In the lower Vertebrata the gan- glia and their commissures will be nearly * Owen's Lectures, p. 171-72. equally developed; in the higher ones the ganglionic formation will predominate; and as these animals are characterized by this pre- dominance of ganglion, its great developement takes place in that part of their body which is itself the most highly developed, the head, and the ganglionary mass itself is called the brain. On the contrary, the developement of the commissures, or of the longitudinal fibres, takes place in the opposing point to the head, viz. the trunk, and from that results what is called familiarly the spinal marrow. Again, as it is the very characteristic of the nervous matter to accumulate and develop itself on the dorsal aspect in preference, it can easily be conceived that as the ganglionic nervous matter, or brain, increases in developement, so will it influence the direction of the spinal marrow, and, indeed, also of the whole body. For instance, in the lower nervous formations the brain and spinal marrow are perfectly hori- zontal. As the former proceeds in develope- ment, an angle, at first very acute, is formed, which gradually decreases until, in the human brain, the most perfect of all, it becomes a com- plete right angle. Another important point is, the number of ganglia and commissures that may be developed. We have already observed that each segment of the body of the Verte- brata contains a ganglion and a primary ner- vous ring: the number, therefore, of these latter is unfixed and variable, and depends en- tirely on the number of the segments of the body, or, in other words, the length of the spinal cord depends on the length of the ani- mal. But, with regard to the masses of gan- glionic nervous matter situated in that segment of the body which is the most highly deve- loped—the head—they ought to be developed in a manner fixed and determined; and such, indeed, is the case : a division into three is observable in the brains of all the Vertebrata, an anterior portion or cerebrum, a posterior portion or cerebellum, a median portion, the tubercula quadrigemina. Thus the number of ganglia forming the brain, the most highly organized part of the nervous mass, is definite and invariable, while the number of ganglia forming the spinal cord, the least highly or- ganized part of the nervous mass, is indefinite and variable. The three portions of the cere- bral mass, the anterior, median, and posterior, will be designated by the names of first, second, and third cerebral masses; and we shall en- deavour to point out the analogies which each of these portions bears in the brains of the dif- ferent animals, as we ascend the scale, respecting which anatomists have various opinions. These observations being premised, we pass to the consideration of the vertebrated classes, individually, in the manner proposed, com- mencing with the lowest, the fishes. 1. Pisces.—In these animals the nervous system presents an immense variety of forms and ' degrees of development. Even in the Cyclostomata, a division into brain and spinal marrow (in the general acceptation of the terms) is evident: in the former, a division into three