624 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) Brain. Body. fCarp as 100 : 80,600 p ) Chub as 100 : 84,200 riscES % Roach as 100 : 52,900 (.Lamprey... as 100 : 142,500 tj \ Triton as 100 : 27,300 UEPTILIA.. £ TurUe as 10Q . 454)500 Aves Pigeon.... as 100 : 9,100 t Sheep as 100 : 22,600 Mammalia] Pig. .. ...... as 100 : 32,300 (.Mouse as 100 : 3,500 In the brain of the Mammalia we shall find the same parts as heretofore to occupy our attention, though at an extraordinarily in- creased degree of developement: this, however, varying greatly in the different orders. Its direction, with regard to the spinal marrow, is no longer horizontal, as we found in the fishes and reptiles, but approaching more or less to a right angle ; the first traces of which inflection were perceptible in the birds. In the bat ( Vespertdio murinus); mouse (Mus musculm); rat (Mus rattus) ; rabbit (Lepus euniculus, Jig. 358); pig (Sus scrofa domes- tica) ; horse (Equus cuballus) ; ass (Equus asinus); sheep (Ovis amnion) ; deer ( Cervus duma) ; mole ( Talpa Europaa) ; stoat (Mus- tcla euninea); cat (Felis catus) ; and monkey ( Cailithrix ? Jig. 359); the brain exactly fills the cranial cavity, that cavity correspond- ing with the shape and size of the head. The size and bulk of the brain are greater than in any of the preceding classes, as shown by its relative weight compared with the body. In a sheep weighing, as near as could be calcu- lated, 7466 drachms, the brain weighed 33 drachms; the proportion of the brain to the body being as 100:22600. In a pig weighing about 7116 drachms, the brain weighed 22 drachms; the proportion being as 100:32350. The brain of a horse weighed 156 drachms. In a mouse weighing 327 grains, the brain weighed 6| grains, the proportions being as 100:3,500. On taking a review of the structure of the brain in Mammalia, we find that it presents a great variety of form and developement in its different parts. 1. The cerebral hemispheres, or first cerebral mass, which vary greatly in their size and extent, and are united in the median line by a commissure, the corpus cal- losum. 2. The optic lobes, or second cerebral mass, which are here small and divided into two pairs, presenting more particularly the characters of the tubercula quadrigemina in the human brain, under which name they will in future be noticed. 3. The cerebellum, or third cerebral mass, which is greatly increased in developement, and presents a division into median and lateral portions. 1st. The cerebral hemispheres, or first ce- rebral mass (Jigs. 357, 353, a) are of large size, but this varies according to the order in which they are examined. In the lower ones they resemble very much the same parts in birds, with regard to their small size and their want of convolutions. In the dol- phin they are very short and broad ; in the ornithoiynchus they are oval, and narrowed anteriorly. In both these animals their sur- faces are smooth and unconvoluted. The same occurs in the opossum and myrmecophaga di- dactyla, amongst the Marsupialia. In the bat they are no longer than wide (2§ lines each way), leaving the tubercula quadrigemina quite exposed ; they are of a triangular form, and perfectly smooth on their surface. In the rabbit (Jig. 358, a), rat, and mouse, rodent animals, they are oblong ovate, but much nar- rowed anteriorly. The tubercula quadrigemina are quite exposed, but scarcely so much so as in the bat; their surfaces are smooth and uncon- voluted, though in the rabbit there are a few slight furrows; on their inferior surface there is a faint groove, dividing them into lobes, the rudiments of the fissura Sylvii. In the pig, horse, ass, sheep, and deer, the hemispheres are more oval in form, more convex, and less narrowed anteriorly; they extend backwards, so as quite to cover the tubercula quadrigemina, and their surfaces are marked with numerous convolutions; the fissures of Sylvius are more strongly marked, and the division into lobes is more apparent. In the stoat and cat they are similarly shaped and convoluted on their surface, and they extend backwards, covering the tuber- cula quadrigemina and a portion of the cerebel- lum. In the monkey (Jig. 359, a) they are more Fig. 359. ■ ? (Monkey), natural Brain of Cailithrix size, right lateral ventricle exposed. a, First cerebral mass or cerebral hemisphere, elevated and broad, and extending backwards, covering the cerebellum, a*, posterior lobe of ce- rebrum, free from convolutions, b, corpus callo- sum. c, cavity of lateral ventricle, d, portion of corpus striatum. e, taenia semicircularis. I, third cerebral mass or cerebellum, d*, spinal cord. rounded, very much elevated, broader in the middle, and extend backwaids, covering the cerebellum. The convolutions are more nume-