445 MOTION. Fie. 239. Leptopus longipes. the centre of gravity c backwards in the direction of d e, but by the elongation of one set of legs from /' to h, and subsequent re- traction towards /', and the simultaneous con- traction of the other set from J ' to //', and subsequent extension towards/7, the centre c will be propelled laterally in the direction of a li, perpendicular to d e. The lines a b, de represent both the magnitude and direction resulting from the two movements of the legs, in g f, g'f and h f\ h'j' respectively, but, by changing the position of the legs, they may also move obliquely. ■ The Macrouvous Decapods, as the lobsters, are all organized for swimming ; and they have accordingly been considered under that section. Gasteropoda.—The motions of the Gastero- poda are proverbially slow ; the situation and structure of the muscular foot enable them to traverse surfaces vertically, as well as horizon- tally. The centre of gravity is supported within the base formed by the disc of the foot, which is organised to expand, contract, and curve in every direction; also to produce a vacuum, and to secrete an adhesive fluid for the pur- pose of securing the stability of their position on surfaces directed at any degree of obliquity, or on the ceilings of rooms, or roofs of buildings, in opposition to the force of gravity. The Limaces, or slugs, and Helices, snails, present in progression a crawling or gliding motion. When, for instance, the Helix pomatia prepares for moving, the head, neck, and foot are first protruded from the shell ; the foot is next extended on the plane of position, with the shell raised upon it; the muscular fibres of the foot then produce an alternate contraction and elongation of the successive segments of its disc, commencing posteriorly and proceed- ing forwards by a visible undulatory motion. During these alternate elongations and contrac- tions, the animal glides perceptibly from point to point, though so slowly that many hours are required to traverse the distance of a few feet. As these animals crawl up the vertical planes of a glass window, the successive undulations of the foot are plainly visible when viewed from the opposite side. Muller considers them capable of producing a vacuum at various por- tions of the disc of the foot, thus availing themselves of atmospheric pressure in addition to their adhesive mucilaginous secretions. The patella, or limpet, and similar Gasteropods are well known to produce between the foot and plane of motion, a vacuum so powerful that the shell may be broken rather than the animal will suffer itself to be detached from the surface to which it adheres. The minute dimensions of each undulation of the foot render the Gasteropods incapable of traversing loose ashes or sawdust placed in their path, and these means are consequently often employed by gardeners to prevent slugs from destroying the young and tender plants. Cephalopoda.—The locomotive organs of the Cephalopodous Molluscs are adapted to serve the triple purpose of legs for terrestrial progres- sion, arms for prehension, and oars for swim- ming ; the Loligo and Sepia are also furnished with fins,which are placed on each sidethedorsal aspect of the trunk, and are the organs chiefly employed when swimming. Their terrestrial progression is performed by eight legs, leaving the two long tentacular free for prehension. The fleshy legs of the Cephalopods are extremely flexible, of various lengths, and capable of moving in every direction, whilst the acetabular enable them to lay hold of bodies with great force. In walking, the head and trunk are inverted, the direction of motion is retrograde, and they move very slowly on solids (Jig. 240). Ophidia.—The Ophidian Reptiles are desti- tute of organs capable of supporting and carry- ing the trunk in progression, and therefore they