INSTINCT. 23 salmon, returning to the spots where they were bred alter their long migrations, are clearly analogous. But in such cases it is obvious that the pos- session of reason could not have enabled these animals, alone and unassisted, to find their way; neither was the result properly referable to instinct, this term being properly applicable only to the feeling of attachment which prompted the return home, not to the know- ledge which the animals somehow acquired where their home was to be found. The only term properly applicable to the acquisition of this knowledge is intuition, and they should be added to other facts, which shew that in va- rious instances animals acquire, by the exercise of their senses, information as to external things, more obviously distinct from the sensa- tions themselves, than those perceptions which Dr. Ifeid has so clearly shewn to be strictly intuitive inferences, drawn by the human in- tellect from the intimations of the senses. There is yet another fact well ascertained of late years regarding the instincts of animals, which we must not omit to state, because it is the only one which gives plausibility to the notion of Darwin, that sensations and experi- ence would explain the whole phenomena of instinct. This is the fact, which seems well ascertained as to certain animals at least,— which is very probably true of man, and sus- ceptible of important practical application in his case,-—that the acquired habits of one gene- ration may become instinctive propensities in the next. Thus it has been often observed that the progeny of well-trained pointers learn to point with very little instruction. It is stated by Darwin that dogs in the wild state, both in Africa and America, have been observed not to bark, that they gradually acquire that note from European dogs ; and that the latter, when turned loose, retain it for three or four generations, and gradually lose it ; and it has been ascertained that in South America, when horses which had been taught to amble had been allowed to run wild, their progeny for two or three generations continued to practice that pace, and then lost it.* Of the existence of such acquired instincts, therefore, there can be no doubt; but it need hardly be said that it is quite incompetent to explain the perfect uni- formity and the skilful contrivance observed in the instincts of animals; both because its ope- ration seems too limited, and because that sup- position would only remove the difficulty as to the continuance of the instinctive operations from the present to the early generations of animals. In reviewing the varied phenomena of which we have given this hasty sketch, it is impos- sible not to be struck with the very important share which they occupy in the provisions by which the earth's surface is made a scene of continual activity and change. It is interest- ing to reflect on the different powers, to the * This principle has been lately investigated anil illustrated by Mr. Knight, in a paper read before the Royal Society of London. operation of which we can trace the unceasing changes continually taking place around us, and particularly on the gradation, and very gradual transition that may be observed, from those by which inanimate matter is continually moved and changed, up to those which ema- nate from the intellect of man. By the ori- ginal impulse given to the world, and by the laws of gravitation and of motion impressed on al! matter, the greater and more striking movements of the inanimate world around us are continually determined ; and by the laws of chemistry, these movements are made sub- servient to constant changes in the composition of the inanimate world. Again, by the laws which were impressed on the lower class of living beings at the time of their introduction into the world, and by the consequently in- cessant reproduction of vital affinities, which it is in vain to attempt to resolve into the che- mistry of dead matter, a constant succession of living vegetable structures is determined, merely by the agency of air and water, heat and light, on those already existing. By the peculiar chemical operation of these living structures, the air, the water, and all the ma- terials of the earth's surface are subjected to peculiar and continual changes, implying slow but incessant movements, which seem clearly to indicate attractions and repulsions, peculiar to the state of vitality. It is still perhaps doubtful whether in the case of vegetables a property of vital contraction is to be added to the active powers of nature. In immediate but still obscure connection with the lowest of the vegetable creation are the lowest of the animals, where we see the first and slightest indications of sensations, and the feeblest mo- tions consequent on sensations, which we judge to be similar to those that we ourselves ex- perience and excite; and here also the vital power of contraction, on which the whole life and activity of animals essentially depends, first clearly manifests itself. Then tracing the animal creation upwards, we find that the world contains an infinite number and variety of sentient beings, the provisions for whose enjoyment we may well believe to have been the main object of Providence in all the ar- rangements on the surface of the earth; and to which are granted, in a pretty uniform grada- tion, more and more of the sensations and mental faculties by which nature is made known, and of the powers by which she may be controlled, until we arrive at the intellect and the capacity of Man. It appears farther that the maintenance, and reproduction, and the very existence of these animal structures are entrusted in part to the sensations of which they are made susceptible, and to the voluntary powers with which they are invested; but that the introduction of these spontaneous powers into the regulation of their ceconomy is so very gradual, that it is hardly possible to say where the movements which result only from physical (although vital) causes terminate, and those which are excited by mental acts begin;—-hardly possible, for example, to say, at least as to many animals,