144 LIFE. plan on which the universe itself is constructed. It is under the influence of such a power that every particular species of soul regularly con- structs a system of organs adapted to its func- tions; and every species of soul appears uni- formly to have its own species of body." * Now it is a little singular that, whilst the ten- dency of modern philosophy has been to ex- plode the idea of any secondary existence acting beneath the Creator on the constitution and actions of the universe, but to refer all its phenomena to the continued operation of the laws which He first impressed on matter, physiologists, neglecting the obvious analogy between the actions of the universe and those of any single organised being (the Macrocosm and Microcosm) pointed out by Aristotle, should have retained, with but little modifica- tion, his opinion regarding the second ; and should still attribute ihe phenomena of life to a secondary agency existing in each being and modifying the ordinary laws of matter to its purposes. This subject, however, we shall dismiss for the present, to return to it here- after. The mode of explaining vital phenomena which has been adduced as an example of early speculation on the subject, appears to have resulted from two tendencies that may be observed to characterise the unenlightened mind both in past ages, and at the present time. The first is that which may be considered as natural to man in the infancy of philosophy,—to regard all matter, at least the grosser forms of it, as essentially inert, and therefore to attribute all spontaneous motion to a union of the thing- moved with some substantial moving cause. Now, although modern science has given a more correct explanation of the causes of mo- tion in the inorganic world, and has shown that, so far from being inert, every particle of matter is capable of exhibiting actions of va- rious kinds when placed in certain relations to others,—the superficial enquirer still regards matter as inert quoad vital actions, and is un- willing to attribute them to any possible ope- ration of its properties. And in this mode of reasoning he would seem borne out by the peculiar history of organised beings,—the phe- nomena of their origin, growth, decline, dis- solution, and decay, — the. contemplation of which, with the desire of accounting for them, occasions the second tendency to which we have alluded; that, namely, to infer from this history the existence of an unknown something, which during the living state preserves the in- tegrity of the body, and the loss of which occasions the disintegration of the fabric. Thus it has happened that the doctrine of the animating principle has retained its hold over the public mind from the earliest ages of the world to the present day; and the vestiges of the opinions of the early Greek philosophers may be traced in the expressions, vital spark, vital spirit, breath of life, and others which are still prevalent. * Barclay on Life and Organisation, pp. 429- 433. The chief modification which these doctrines have undergone, in their transit to modern physiologists, has been the separation of the vital principle—the entity which is supposed to effect the organisation of the body, and to employ that organism as the instrument of its operations—from the soul or mental principle, which is concerned in a series of actions en- tirely distinct. It is somewhat singular, how- ever, that even Aristotle regarded the vovt; or reasoning faculties as separable from the re- mainder of the Yv%v), and as capable of ex- isting independently of the body; and a sub- division of this kind was adopted by the Roman philosophers, who designated the vital and sensitive principles by the term Anima, whilst to the rational they applied the name of Animus. We shall not follow these doctrines through all the modifications which resulted from the unfathomable profundity of some systems of philosophy, and the pretending shallowness of others; but shall proceed at once to the more modern opinions, which are either openly professed at the present time, or lurk in the unilluinined corners in which the heterogeneous relics of former systems find a hiding place, whose darkness is congenial to their disunited formlessness. The ancient doctrine of the identity of the vital with the mental principle was revived by Stahl in a somewhat altered form. This philo- sopher maintained that the rational soul is the primum movens of organisation ; that it is the ultimate and sole cause of organic activity; and that by its operation, according to certain fixed laws, it preserves the body from decay and cures the effects of disease. Still, however, a distinction was drawn by him between the acts of the animus and the anima, which was not ob- served by his followers, who have regarded him as wishing to identify them. He looked upon them as the common effects of one principle; and his great error was in supposing that any analogy or parallelism existed between them. Now it is necessary to bear this doctrine con- stantly in mind when reading the works of many of the physiologists of the last century, otherwise their meaning will be greatly mis- understood. In the writings of Whytt, for example, we constantly find actions referred to the soul as their cause, when it is perfectly evident that the author did not mean that the mind (as it is now termed) was at all concerned in them. This was the case with his whole class of vital and involuntary motions, to the production of which, he expressly states, con- sciousness is not always necessary. Although there are few if any philosophers who would avow such a doctrine as that of Stahl at the present time, we trace its effects very evidently exerted upon popular opinion. We have known it maintained by many well-informed persons, that the phenomena of life and mind are obviously so closely connected, that, to refer one class to the operation of the properties of matter without an independent controlling entity,—in other words, to set aside the doc- trine of a vital principle,—necessarily implies the relinquishment of the idea of mind as a