NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 178 the gall-bladder contains bile, and the mucous membrane becomes rugous and reticulated. At the eighth month, and during the ninth and tenth months, the liver becomes still more ho- rizontal in position and of a deep red colour. The bile is more abundant and of a clear green tint. At the tenth month, that is, at birth, the relative proportion of the liver to the rest of the body is as 1 to 18 or 20; the average in the adult being as 1 to 36. After birth the size and weight of the liver diminish until the end of the first year, for, according to Meckel, the liver of the newly born infant weighs one- fourth heavier than at the age of eight or ten months. The borders of the liver are rounded in the foetus, and the inferior surface is convex. The lobes are nearly equal until birth, after which the left diminishes in size, the right re- maining stationary or growing but little, and at the age of one year the left lobe is scarcely one-half so large as at birth. The texture of the liver in the foetus is soft and fragile and apparently homogeneous in structure; during the earlier periods its colour is a light brownish grey; at about the mid-period it becomes deeply red, and after birth loses a portion of its colour from a diminution of the quantity of blood circulating through it. Uses of the liver.—The liver performs two most important functions in the animal eco- nomy:—1, it separates from the venous blood of the chylopoietic viscera certain elements which are needful to digestion; and, 2, it de- purates the venous blood. The first of these functions constitutes the secretion of bile. The second is evinced in a comparative exami- nation of two of the great depurating organs, the lungs and the liver, in the various classes of animals, where the latter will be constantly found in exact relation with the development of the respiratory organ, and with the neces- sity for the removal of a larger quantity of hydrogen and carbon from the blood. Thus, in herbivorous animals, the liver is small; it is small also in monkeys and in man. It is large, and has reached its highest development amongst Mammiferous animals in Carnivora. In birds it is larger in proportion than in Car- nivora, from the greater necessity of a highly oxygenated blood in that class of animals. In Reptiles, with cold blood and a low degree of respiration, it is large; it is large also and for the same reason in Fishes; and very large among the Invertebrata. Secretion of bite.—The bile, which would appear, from the existence of follicular recesses in the alimentary canal, to be produced in all animals from the lowest to the highest, is secreted in man and in vertebrata from the blood during its circulation through the lobu- lar venous plexus in the lobules of the liver. Hence it becomes a question of importance to physiology to decide from what kind of blood it is eliminated. If, according to Kiernan, all the arterial blood of the hepatic artery become venous previously to its passage into the lo- bular venous plexus, the bile must be secreted from venous blood; that venous blood being derived from the capillaries of the chylopoietic organs, and from the capillaries of the hepatic artery. I have given K'iernan's reasons for the belief that this is the truth; and in corrobo- rating the results of his injections I must also add my own testimony to his view of the se- cretion of the biliary fluid. Muller, enter- taining, as I have already shewn, a different opinion with regard to the distribution of the vessels of the liver, believes that the bile is secreted from a mixed arterial and venous blood, resulting from the termination of both the hepatic artery and portal vein in the " vas- cula ultima reticulata," or lobular venous plexus. From the undecided manner in which he expresses this opinion, I am tempted to give the quotation in which it is contained, that my readers may judge how far he be really in earnest in his assertion. " It is known that injection thrown either into the hepatic artery or into the portal vien, fills the same capillary net-work, from which, on the other hand, the hepatic veins likewise arise." Since reading the above paragraph I have injected twelve livers for the purpose of de- ciding the question, in my own mind, of the ultimate termination of the hepatic artery; but I have in no instance succeeded in forcing in- jection into the lobular venous plexus, although every other part of the organ has been beauti- fully injected. I have therefore been forced to the conclusion that some mistake must exist with regard to this passage, and that, although perfectly true when confined to the portal vein, Muller cannot mean that the capillary net- work (lobular venous plexus) from which the hepatic veins arise, is actually filled from the hepatic artery. But he continues, " It ap- pears, therefore, that the arterial blood of the hepatic artery, and the venous blood of the poita, become mixed in the minute vessels of the liver, and that the secretion of bile ■probably takes place from both." Now, with deference to Midler's judgment, the question, with our present knowledge upon the exact anatomy of the liver, ought not to be one of probability or surmise;—does it? or does it not? But he appears far from satisfied, in relying for the support of his argument upon his own peculiar theory of the arrangement of the he- patic vessels, and, as if distrusting its effici- ency, he exclaims in another page of his Phy- siology, " But the possibility of bile being secreted from arterial blood is demonstrated by the cases in which the vena portas enters the vena cava directly instead of being distributed through the liver. Mr. Abernethy observed this anomalous structure in a male child ten months old ; and Mr. Lawrence has detailed a case in which the same malformation existed in a child several years of age. In Mr. Abernethy's case however the umbilical vein was still pervious and branched out in the substance of the liver; it is possible therefore, as Mr. Kiernan remarks, that the arterial blood, after having nourished the liver, was poured into the branches of the umbilical vein, just as it is in the normal con- dition, according to his opinion, poured into