LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. 212 jections by the veins than by the arteries. Every anatomist who has had much experience in injecting the lymphatic vessels has been in- commoded by the injection passing unex- pectedly into some large vein, and on looking for the communication, he has found the veins from a lymphatic gland conveying the injection into one of the nearest large venous trunks. This has occurred to me frequently in the human subject, where the common iliac veins and the cava inferior have received the quick- silver from the veins of the neighbouring lymphatic glands. I have also seen the same occurrence lately in the horse, and have the specimen shewing the fact now in my museum. It was these veins conveying tlie injection from the lymphatics into the venous trunks, which Lippi mistook for the vasa efferentia of the glands, and which induced him to publish his work describing many terminations to the lymphatic system in mammalia, hitherto un- known to anatomists. This error was the more excusable, inasmuch as his opinion appeared to be confirmed on the investigation being pursued by himself and others in the remain- ing classes of vertebrate animals, where various communications do actually take place between the lymphatic trunks and the veins. Coloured fluids have been thrown into the ca- vity of the pleura and peritoneum in living ani- mals for the purpose of bringing the lymphatic vessels into view, and of tracing if possible their extreme branches after absorption had taken place. In this way it is said that minute vessels anastomosing with each other, and forming a delicate net-work, may be made apparent on the surface of the serous membrane, and that the trunks of the neighbouring lymphatics may be seen filled with the coloured fluid. In post- mortem examinations also, the absorbent vessels have been observed distended with a fluid of a yellow or red colour, where effusions of pus or blood had taken place during life. In all these instances we probably first notice the injection in the larger lymphatic vessels which are easily recognized by their numerous valves, and on tracing these back to their commencing branches we only discover an intricate net-work of mi- nute vessels apparently continuous with each other. It is exceedingly difficult to distin- guish these from equally small branches of artery and vein, filled probably with the same coloured injection. You look in vain for the channel by which the injection has entered these vessels ; no continuity of lymphatic with the minute twigs of the other sets of vessels can be detected ; no open orifice belonging to either can be distinguished. Many anatom- ists have endeavoured to fill the commencing branches of the lymphatic system by forcing the injection, thrown into them, in a retrograde direction, and in fishes where there are no valves, with the effect of shewing very nume- rous lymphatic vessels destitute of orifices, but not so universally distributed as has been imagined. Fohmann, Breschet, and others have simply made a puncture in the tissues, and by forcing quicksilver into the wound, have occasionally succeeded in filling a minute net-work of lympha- tics. Cruickshank and Hewson employed liga- tures to the thoracic duct, to the larger lympha- tics, or simply round the limb immediately pre- vious or subsequent to the death of the animal, for the purpose of distending the radicles of the system. Lastly, the microscope has been had recourse to by most observers. But the pre- vailing physiological opinions of the day have had more influence than all our anatomical in- vestigations in determining our notions of the mode of origin of the lymphatic vessels. In- deed, so much has this been the case, that I shall find it convenient, in treating the subject of the origin of these vessels, to refer to the physio- logical views of the periods during which the successive opinions have been broached. The only other observation I shall make on entering upon this difficult and still obscure subject is, that the chyle seen on the coats of the in- testine, contained in its proper vessels, so near to the villous tunic, has tempted anatomists to confine their observations perhaps too much to this one-absorbing surface, with the fixed intention of applying the information thus gained, to the whole system ; whereas the fluid contained in the chyliferous vessels differs so much from that of the rest of the system, that it is not very improbable that the former which admit particles of matter should possess ori- fices, while the latter should receive its con- tents by imbibition without perceptible orifices, which, in fact, is the opinion held by two emi- nent physiologists, who have paid considerable attention to the subject, Magendie and Cruveil- hier. The first opinion with respect to the mode of origin of the lymphatic vessels which I shall consider is that by open orifices. Many investigators at various periods have attributed open orifices to the radicles of the lymphatic vessels; indeed, this has been the prevailing opinion till within the last few years. Asellius, the discoverer of that part of the system which is connected with the intes- tines, imagined that his " vasa lactea " com- menced by open mouths from the interior of the intestine. His words are, " ad intestina instar hiant spongiosis capitulis." The first dis- coverers of the rest of the system, the " vasa lymphatica," did not attribute to them the func- tion of absorption, but regarded them as destined to assist the veins in returning the circulating fluids to the heart. They supposed them, there- fore, to be continuous with those arteries which admitted a colourless fluid only, while the veins in a similar way received their contents from the arteries conveying the red blood. The lymphatics properly so called were not consi- dered to possess open orifices at their origin, until they were generally recognized as sharing with the lacteals, the important office of absorb- ing fluids, as well as conveying them towards the heart. It was not fairly established until the time of the Hunters, that these vessels formed part of the absorbent system, although Glisson and Hoffmann had expressed their opinion to this effect, a few years after the dis- covery of the lymphatic vessels. But to do justice to this part of our subject, it will be