12 INSTINCT. they may be seen in great numbers alighting on walls, rails, path-ways, &c."* Some insects, and many larva? (as the silk-worm) approaching to the state of pups, form a covering for them- selves by exudations from their own bodies, likewise at some distance of time before the frosts set in. Many hybernating animals ex- hibit so little of any vital action as to require little or no nourishment during the winter, ex- cepting the product of absorption of their own fat; but it is also well known that many of different orders (as the beaver, the hedgehog, the squirrel, the dormouse, the bee, which are seldom or never quite torpid,) are guided by instinct to lay up stores of provisions, on which they subsist during the winter. Some of these, as the lemming, have been observed to spread out their stores to dry in fine weather. Some of the most curious of the provisions of this kind are the following :— " There is an animal, the rat-hare, which is gifted by its Creator with a very singular in- stinct, on account of which it ought rather to be called the hay-maker, since man may or might have learned that part of the business of the agriculturist, which consists in providing a store of winter provender for his cattle, from this industrious animal. Professor Pallas was the first who described the quadruped exercising this remarkable function, and gave an account of it. The Tungusians, who inhabit the country beyond the lake of Baikal, call it Pika, which has been adopted as its trivial name. " About the middle of the month of August these little animals collect their winter's pro- vender, formed of select herbs, which they bring near their habitations and spread out to dry like hay. In September they form heaps or stacks of the fodder they have collected under places sheltered from rain or snow. Where many of them have laboured together, their stacks are sometimes as high as a man, and more than eight feet in diameter. A subterranean gallery leads from the burrow below the mass of hay, so that neither frost nor snow can intercept their communication with it. Pallas had the pa- tience to examine their provision of hay piece by piece, and found it to consist chiefly of the choicest grasses and the sweetest herbs, all cut when most vigorous, and dried so slowly as to form a green and succulent fodder; he found in it scarcely any ears or blossoms, or hard and woody stems, but some mixture of bitter herbs, probably useful to render the rest more whole- some, "-f " Although," says Kirby, " ants during the cold winters in this country remain in a state of torpidity, and have no need of food, yet in warmer regions during the rainy seasons, when they are probably confined to their nests, a store of provisions may be necessary for them. Now although the rainy season, at least in America, is a season in which insects are full of life, yet the observation that ants may store up provi- sions in warm countries is confirmed by an account sent me by Colonel Sykes, with respect * Introduction to Entomology, vol. ii. p. 438. t lb. p. 507. to another species which appears to belong to the same genus as the celebrated ants of visi- t at ion, by which the houses of the inhabitants of Surinam were said to be cleared periodically of their cock-roaches, mice, and even rats. The present species has been named by Mr. Hope the provident ant. These ants, after long-con- tinued rains during the monsoon, were found to bring up and lay upon the earth on a fine day, their stores of grass seeds and grains of Guinea corn, for the purpose of drying them. Many scores of these hoards were frequently observable on the extensive parade at Poona."* The great and important instinct of migration is another means by which the lives of many animals are preserved during winter. The number of species of birds, which pass the summer to bring forth their young in this country, but disappear from it in autumn, and are known to spend the winter in the south of Europe or Africa, has been stated at not less than five-sixths of the whole number resident here during the summer, and these are replaced by many other species, chiefly aquatic birds and waders, but likewise the fieldfares, redwings, starlings, &c. which have brought forth their young in the colder climates, and return here for the winter. There are others, as the crane and stork, which perform similar migrations, but are rarely seen in this country. The migra- tions of the larger birds from the northern regions are chiefly performed in large bodies, forming angular lines, very high in the air; those of the smaller birds of passage, swallows, singing birds, &c. that go southwards from hence, seem to take place less regularly, and have been less accurately observed. There are also many annual migrations from one part of this country to another, in spring and autumn, as of the plovers and lapwings, curlews, ring ouzels, &c. It is still doubtful with what sensations the propensity to perform these peri- odical migrations is chiefly connected, whether with changes of temperature, or deficiency of food, or with the changes of the sexual desire, (as maintained by Jenner.f) But it is certain that the migrations take place while the tem- perature is still such as is well borne by the animals; indeed of most of the species of birds of passage some individuals are frequently observed not to migrate; % and it is equally certain that most of the birds of passage do not gradually withdraw, as if following the gradual changes of the food on which they live, but go off suddenly, and perform their voyages, par- ticularly in autumn, so rapidly, as to be much exhausted and emaciated at the end of thern; so that it is certainly not under the influence of sensations gradually changing and tending to partial and successive changes of place, but under that of a strong determination, overcom- ing the motives to action which are usually predominant, and commanding strenuous and painful exertion at a time when no great incon- venience is felt, that these voyages are per- * Vol. ii. p. 344. 1 Phil. Trans. 1824. | See Darwin, Zoouomia, sect. xvi. 12.