NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Encephalon.) 683 emergence of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, indicates the distinction of these two sets of fibres. If the posterior column be sepa- rated from the antero-lateral in the spinal cord, the separation may be easily carried upwards along this line, in a specimen which has been sufficiently hardened. From the description now given, the res- tiform bodies may be regarded as the con- necting fibres between the cerebellum and the spinal cord. They may be designated the ce- rebellar fibres of the medulla oblongata in con- tradistinction to the others, which are entirely connected with the mesocephale and with the cerebrum. Rolando describes the restiform body as con- taining grey matter—the grey tubercle of Ro- lando. This grey matter, however, may be more correctly regarded as a portion of the central nucleus of the medulla, from which very pro- bably some fibres of the restiform body emerge. The posterior pyramidal columns.—On each side of the posterior fissure we find a narrow column, sufficiently distinct from the restiform columns. These may be traced downwards through the cervical region of the cord, and even into the dorsal or lumbar, according to Foville. They taper gradually to a fine point, the situation of which varies in different sub- jects. Superiorly they form the inferior and part of the lateral boundary of the fourth ven- tricle. Their innermost fibres end abruptly in a blunt extremity, whilst the external ones are continued upwards on each side of the ven- tricle (fig. 386, Y). Olivary columns.—The oval bodies, which form a relief upon the surface of the medulla oblongata, have been long known by the names corpora olivaria, oliva. They occupy the in- terval between the anterior pyramids and the restiform bodies, separated, however, from the latter by the narrow band of fibrous matter above described. The surface of each olivary body is crossed to a greater or less extent by the arciform fibres, as already described. Sometimes it is neces- sary to remove these fibres, in order to expose the proper texture of the olives. The superficial layer of each olivary body is evidently fibrous, and the constituent fibres seem to take a longitudinal course. If a section be made so as to remove the prominent convexity of this body, it will be seen that the white matter of which it principally consists en- closes a layer of vesicular or grey matter dis- posed in a peculiar manner. This grey layer presents the appearance of a waving line en- closing white matter. If the section of the olivary body be made transversely, the grey waving line is still present, but it presents a convex border outwards, and is open within, being evidently continuous with the central and less definitely disposed grey matter of the medulla. And when the section is vertical, and so as to divide the olivary body in its entire length, the convex border of the grey line is still external, but it is open towards the interior of the medulla. Tliis grey layer, contained within the olivary Fig. 387. Transverse sections of the medulla oblongata. A, anterior. P, posterior. o, olivary bodies, in which are seen the undula- ting line of grey matter which forms the corpus dentatum. body, is called the corpus dentatum (corps Jestoime, Fr.) It is evidently a capsule of ve- sicular matter continuous below with that of the cord, internally with that of the central substance of the medulla oblongata, and supe- riorly with that of the mesocephale (o, Jig. 387). Its disposition, in a convoluted form, has doubtless reference to the packing of a certain quantity of this matter into a given space, and to the important object of bringing the vesicular and fibrous matter into connec- tion as extensively as possible. It has been very commonly supposed that the olivary bodies are mere gangliform masses laid upon certain ascending fibres of the me- dulla, and that they may be readily removed without injury to the deeper-seated parts. Either of the two following modes of dissec- tion will, however, serve to point out the erroneousness of this view. If the anterior pyramids be removed, a concave surface is left between the two olivary bodies, in which their continuity with the central substance of the medulla is distinctly seen. This central sub- stance, which forms a substratum on which the anterior pyramids rest, and from which it is not improbable that some of the fibres of the pyramids emerge, is of considerable density. Each olivary body appears gradually to merge into it; or, adopting another mode of descrip- tion, it seems to protrude, forming a relief on the exterior, in the interval between the pyra- midal and restiform bodies on each side. Or a transverse section, as in fig. 387, will exhibit a similar continuity between the olivary bodies and the central substance of the medulla. According to this view, then, the existence of the olivary bodies in the human brain and that of the Quadrumana indicates a high de- velopement of the central substance of the medulla oblongata as compared with its other nervous columns. In all the vertebrate ani- mals below man, the medulla oblongata in- creases with the bulk of the body, and like the spinal cord evidently bears a direct relation to it. This high developement appears, how- ever, to affect more especially the restiform and pyramidal bodies, and their connecting fibres, the trapezium. The former do not leave any