INSTINCT. 21 of the species or in the conduct of different communities, as we cannot doubt must occur if the inhabitants of every hive were guided, on such unusual occasions, by processes of reason- ing, by observation of the laws of nature, by experience, and anticipation of the effects of their actions. If such mental processes were their guide, we should certainly observe a diffe- rence in the conduct of experienced workers, and of those just emerged from their pupae; and we should observe some variety in the ex- pedients adopted in different hives for meeting such accidents or difficulties. 2. While the varying operations of these animals for one 1)articular end, the preservation of their own ives and the perpetuation of their species, are planned and combined in such a manner as to indicate consummate intelligence as to what is essential for that purpose, all these indications of instinct are limited to that object, and we see no evidence of the exercise of their senses suggesting to them any other trains of thought, or exciting them to the prosecution of other objects, such as a number of human intellects capable of planning and executing such works would certainly, sooner or later, attempt to accomplish. The degree of uniformity seen in their operations, and the limitation of the ob- jects on which their faculties are exerted, are therefore our reason for thinking (although we do not wish to express ourselves with absolute confidence on the subject) that the mental pro- cesses concerned, even in those the most elabo- rate and artificial of the works of animals, be- long to the same class as those notions of man which are prompted by his instinctive propen- sities as distinguished from his reason. At the same time it ought to be stated, that there are many acts of individual animals, or of particular communities, in which we must admit that, although instinct is concerned, it must be guided by mental operations, in which short processes of reasoning, involving certain general ideas, must have been concerned. Several instances, quoted by Mr. Spence, seem hardly to admit of any other interpretation, e.g. the following from Iluber. The bees of some of his neighbours protected themselves against the attacks of the death's-head moth, (Sphinx atropos,) by so closing the entrance of the hive with walls, arcades, &c. built of a mixture of wax and propolis, that these ma- rauders could no longer intrude themselves. Pure instinct would have taught " the bees to fortify themselves on the first attack ; if the occupants of a hive had been taken unawares by these gigantic aggressors one night, on the second at least the entrance should have been bairicadoed. But it appears clear, from the statement of Iluber, that it was not until the hives had been repealed'I'y attacked, and robbed of nearly their whole slock of honey, that the bees betook themselves to the plan so success- fully adopted for the security of their remaining treasures; so that reason, taught by experience, seems to have called into action their dormant instinct." Again, " a German artist, a man of strict vera- city, states that in his journey through Italy he was an eye-witness to the following occurrence. He observed a species of Scarabaus busily en- gaged in making, for the reception of its egg, a pellet of dung, which when finished it rolled to the summit of a small hillock, and repeatedly suffered to tumble down its side, apparently for the sake of consolidating it by the earth which each time adhered to it. During this process the pellet unluckily fell into an adjoin- ing hole, out of which all the efforts of the beetle to extricate it were in vain. After several ineffectual trials, the insect repaired to an ad- joining heap of dung, and soon returned with three of his companions. All four now applied their united strength to the pellet, and at length succeeded in pushing it out; which being done, the three assistant beetles left the spot and returned to their own quarters."* A number of other instances have been col- lected by Mr. Duncan. " Professor Fischer has published an account of a hen, which hen made use of the artificial heat of a hotbed to hatch her eggs." " A fact is suited by Reaumur of some ants, which, finding they could derive heat from a bee-hive, contrived to avail themselves of it by placing their larva? between the hive and an exterior covering." " Dr. Darwin observed a wasp with a large ffy nearly as big as itself; finding it too heavy, it cut off' the head and the abdomen, and then carried off the remainder, with the wings at- tached to it, into the air: but again finding the breeze act on the wings, and impede its pro- gress, it descended, and deliberately cut off the wings. Instinct might have taught it to cut off the wings of all insects previous to flying away with them ; but here it attempted to fly with the wings on, was impeded by a certain cause, discovered what that cause was, and alighted to remove it. Is not this a comparison of ideas, and deducing consequences from pre- mises ?" " M. de la Loubicre, in his relation of Siam, says, that in a part of that kingdom which lies open to great inundations, all the ants make their settlements on trees; no ants' nests are to be seen any where else. Whereas in our country the ground is their only habitation." " We sometimes kill a cockroach," says Ligon in his history of Baibadoes, quoted by Spence, " and throw him on the ground, and mark what the ants will do with him ; his body is bigger than a hundred of them, and yet they will find the means to lay hold of him and lift hiin up; and having him above ground, away they carry him; and some go by as ready assistants if any be weary, and some are officers that lead and shew the way ; and if the van-couriers perceive that the body of the cockroach lies across, and will not pass through the hole or arch through which they mean to cany him, order is given, and the body turned endways, and this is done a foot before they come to the hole, and without stop or stay." f * Introd. to Entomology, vol. ii. p. 525. t History of Baibadoes, p. 63.