638 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Meninges.) over the fissure of Sylvius from the anterior to the middle lobe, and here its distinctness from the pia mater may be clearly demonstrated; here too it appears much stronger and more opaque than elsewhere, which is probably due to the existence of an increased quantity of fibrous tissue beneath it. In that space on the base of the brain which is bounded on each side by the middle lobes, and which is limited in front by the optic nerves and behind by the pons Varolii, the arachnoid membrane stretches across from one middle lobe to the other, leaving a considerable space between the tuber cinereum and the pons, in which it is connected to the pia mater by several long filaments similar to those which are met with on the surface of the spinal cord. This space is favourable for the accumulation of fluid, and it communicates in front with the fissures of Sylvius and other deep fissures into which fluid might make its way. Cruveilhier calls it the anterior sub-arachnoid space, and regards it as the principal reservoir of the cra- nial serosity. Immediately in front of it we observe that the arachnoid membrane is conti- nued around the infundibulum to the pituitary body. In tracing the arachnoid backwards from the great longitudinal fissure of the brain, we ob- serve that it stretches down from the posterior edge of the corpus callosum to the superior surface of the cerebellum, crossing over the tubercula quadrigemina. At this situation the arachnoid is reflected upon the vena magnas Galeni as they pass to the straight sinus. It was at this place that Bichat described the canal which goes by his name, through which, as he thought, a process of the arachnoid mem- brane was carrried in to line the interior of the ventricles. The arachnoid covers the superior surface of the cerebellum and also its inferior surface, stretching across the longitudinal fissure from one hemisphere to the other, and it is also ex- tended downwards, and a little forwards from the superior surface of the cerebellum to the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata, below the inferior extremity of the fourth ven- tricle. A considerable space is thus left, situate posteriorly between the cerebellar hemispheres, and bounded in front and inferiorly by the medulla oblongata, which also forms a conside- rable reservoir for cerebral fluid, and communi- cates freely with the sub-arachnoid space of the spinal canal; but as the arachnoid is tied down somewhat more closely over the posterior sur- face of the spinal cord, there is an appearance of constriction where the cerebral passes into the spinal arachnoid. This space is called by Cruveilhier the posterior sub arachnoid space (posterior conflux of Majendie). It commu- nicates with the anterior sub-arachnoid space through the furrows around the crura cerebelli. Of the cerebrospinal fluid.—In examining such a dissection of the membranes of the spinal cord as that above described, we shall find that at various points the visceral layer of the arachnoid membrane appears raised up by fluid or by a bubble or two of air from the subjacent viseus. If a small portion of this layer be taken up in a forceps, and a blow-pipe be introduced into it, air may be blown underneath it, raising it up all around the spinal cord to a considerable distance from that organ. The inflation is more easily ef- fected in the cervical and in the lumbar regions than in the dorsal, and the air will pass down quite to the lowest part of the canal of the dura mater, where the connexion of the arachnoid membrane to the cauda equina is particularly loose. In the same way coloured fluid, or some material which may assume the solid form, as size, tallow, &c. may be injected to demon- strate this anatomical arrangement. If now we examine a transverse section, it will be observed that a considerable interval exists between the visceral layer of the arachnoid and the pia mater of the cord, and that this interval is much greater in the neck and in the loins than in the back. We observe too that the spinal cord is by no means of sufficient size to fill the spinal canal, and that as a considerable interval exists between its surface and the visceral layer of the arachnoid, so also a still greater one is found between it and the inner surface of the dura mater. Now as it is of the very nature of a serous membrane that its free and smooth surfaces should always be in contact (for it is in that way that it favours the movements of the viscus with which it is connected), it is plain that the sub-arachnoid space in the spine must, duringlife, be kept in a state of distension, otherwise the object of a serous membrane would not be attained. Moreover, in tracing the arachnoid mem- brane upwards over the medulla oblongata and the other parts of the encephalon, we observe an evident continuity between the spinal and the cranial sub-arachnoid cavity, which is most evident at the base of the brain, where the latter possesses the greatest dimensions, so that air or fluid may be readily made to pass from one to the other. This is most conspicuous in old subjects, in which the brain being small and more or less shrunken, leaves a consider- able interval between its surface and the vis- ceral layer of the arachnoid. On opening the spinal canal in a body re- cently dead, the visceral layer of the arachnoid will almost always be found raised by fluid. When a portion of the posterior wall of the spinal canal is removed in a living animal, or in one just killed, the dura mater is found to be quite tense from the fluid which is accumu- lated within it. In a horse, whose spinal canal I opened in the dorsal region immediately after he had been knocked down in the knacker's yard, I found the dura mater perfectly tense, and semi-transparent from being stretched so firmly over fluid. Upon making a minute puncture in it, a fine stream of clear fluid was ejected with much force to a considerable dis- tance, and immediately the dura mater became quite flaccid. By a little careful dissection through the dura mater and parietal layer of the arachnoid, it may be shewn that this fluid is not contained in the arachnoid sac, but in the sub-arachnoid cavity.