333 MICROSCOPE. within the principal focus, they will neither be brought to converge nor be rendered parallel, but will diverge in a diminished degree. The same principles apply equally to a plano- convex lens, the distance of its principal focus being understood to be the diameter of the sphere. They also apply to a lens whose sur- faces have different curvatures; the principal focus of such a lens is found by multiplying the radius of one surface by the radius of the other, and dividing this product by half the sum of the same radii. For the rules by which the foci of convex lenses may be found for rays of different degrees of convergence and divergence, we must refer to works on optics. The influence of concave lenses will evidently Fig. 150. Parallel rays falling on a plano-concave lens made to diverge as from its principal focus, and rays con- verging to that focus rendered parallel. be precisely the converse of that of convex. Kays which fall upon them in a parallel direc- tion will be made to diverge as if from the principal focus, which is here called the nega- tive focus. This will be, for a plano-concave Fig. 151. Parallel rays made to diverge as from the principal focus, and rays converging to that focus rendered parallel. Rays greatly converging made to converge less, and rays slightly diverging made to diverge more. lens, at the distance of the diameter of the sphere of curvature; and for a double concave, in the centre of that sphere. In the same manner, rays which are converging to such a degree that, Fig. 153. Rays slightly converging made to diverge. if uninterrupted, they would have met in the principal focus, will be rendered parallel; if converging more, they will still meet, but at a greater distance ; and if converging less, they will diverge as from a negative focus at a greater distance than that for parallel rays. If already diverging, they will diverge still more, as from a negative focus nearer than the principal focus; but this will approach the principal focus, in proportion as the distance of the point of di- vergence is such, that the direction of the rays approaches the parallel. If a lens be convex on one side and concave on the other, forming what is called a meniscus, its effect will depend upon the proportion be- tween the two curvatures. If they are equal, as in a watch-glass, no perceptible effect will be produced; if the convex curvature be the greater, the effect will be that of a less powerful convex lens; and if the concave curvature be the more considerable, it will be that of a less powerful concave lens. The focus of conver- gence for parallel rays in the first case, and of divergence in the second, may be found by dividing the product of the two radii by half their difference. Hitherto we have considered only the effects of lenses upon a pencil of rays issuing from a single luminous point, and that point situated in the line of its axis. If the point be situated above the line of its axis, the focus will be below it, and vice versa. The surface of every luminous body may be regarded as comprehend- ing an infinite number of such points, from every one of which a pencil of rays proceeds, and is refracted according to the laws already specified ; so that a perfect but inverted image or picture of the object is formed upon any surface placed in the focus, and adapted to re- ceive the rays. Fig. 154. In optical diagrams it is usual, in order to avoid confusion, to mark out the course of the rays proceeding from two or three only of such points. By an inspection of the subjoined figures, it will be evident that, if the object be placed at twice the distance of the principal focus, the image being formed at an equal dis-