588 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Matter.) in contact with soda, potass, and ammonia, it immediately gives soapy compounds. It forms compounds insoluble in water witli other bases M. Fremy has observed a remarkable transformation of oleo-phosphoric acid. When boiled for a long time in water or alcohol, it gradually loses its viscidity and becomes a fluid oil, which is pure elaine, while the liquor con- tains phosphoric acid. This decomposition be- comes very rapid, when the liquor is rendered slightly acid. Although M. Fremy's attempts to form this acid directly, by uniting elaine and phosphoric acid, were unsuccessful, he still deems it probable that this acid may consist of the elements in question and be analogous to the compound of sulphuric acid and elaine, or sulph-oleic acid. It contains from 1.9 to 2 per cent, of phosphorus in the condition of phos- phoric acid. M. Fremy also finds, as Couerbe had previ- Infants. Albumen 7.00 Cerebral fat 3.45 Phosphorus 0.80 Osmazome and salts .... 5.96 Water 82.79 ously done, that cholesterine may be extracted from the brain in considerable quantity. He obtains it by boiling the ethereal product in alcohol rendered strongly alkaline by potass. A cerebrate, an oleate, and a phosphate of pot- ass are thus obtained, with glycerine and cho- lesterine. On cooling, the alcohol deposits the cerebrate and phosphate of potass and the cho- lesterine; and in treating the deposit by cold ether, we remove all the cholesterine, which may be purified by subsequent crystallizations. In preparations of the brain, preserved in spirits, a substance of crystalline character, which resembles cholesterine, is apt to form round the piece. The quantity of phosphorus varies conside- rably in different periods of life, and is greatly diminished in idiotcy. The following table from some analyses of L'Heritie will illustrate this statement. Youth. 10.20 5.30 1.65 8.59 74.26 Adults. 9.40 6.10 1.80 10.19 72.51 Old Men. 8.65 4.32 1.00 12.18 73.85 Idiots. 8.40 5.00 0.85 14.82 70.93 100.00 100 00 100.00 100.00 100.00 From these comparative analyses it appears that the minimum of phosphorus exists in in- fancy, in idiotcy, and in old age; and that the maximum of water is found in the infant. This latter fact is of practical interest, and affords some explanation of the greater tendency to liquid effusions in early childhood than in more advanced life. Nervous actions.—In order to offer a clear explanation of the working of the nervous sys- tem, it will not be amiss to quote a few ex- amples of actions effected through its instru- mentality. Let me, however, first remark, that as the mind is connected more especially with the nervous system, so that system becomes the channel of its mandates, as well as of impres- sions conveyed to it. But there can be no doubt that the nervous system can act inde- pendently of the mind, and that certain actions which need the intervention of nerves and ner- vous centres, are accomplished without the consciousness of the individual, and some- times in spite of his Will. It seems, therefore, a correct, as it is cer- tainly a convenient arrangement of nervous acts, to divide them into those in which the mind is concerned, either as an agent or as a recipient, (mental nervous acts,) and into those which result from mere modifications in the nervous matter, quite independent of mental interference (physical nervous acts). Let me illustrate this division by examples. Any ordinary act of the will, the voluntary movement of the arm for instance, is effected by a mechanism to which the first impulse is given by a change in the mind; I will to move my arm ; this mental change affects the nerves of the arm, which excite certain muscles to act- That the nerves are the channels for conveying this influence of the will is proved, beyond all doubt, by experiment and disease. If their continuity with the brain be injured, the power is necessarily lost, although the will itself con- tinue unimpaired. Wej'eel through the instrumentality of the nerves. In writing, I am conscious, through the sensibility of my fingers, that 1 hold a pen in my hand. Were that sensibility destroyed, although the power of holding the pen re- mained, I should lose the consciousness of its presence between my fingers, and they would cease to grasp it. This sensibility is due to the communication of the nerves with the brain, for any solution of continuity destroys it; nor can any part be said to be sensible or to possess sensibility which does not communicate with the brain through the nerves. And various parts differ as regards the degree of sensibility which they enjoy, according to the number of nerves distributed to them, and perhaps also according to the manner in which the nerves are connected with them. A touch on the skin covering the olecranon is scarcely felt, whilst the finest point impinging with the slightest force on the skin of the tip of the finger is instantly perceived. Sensations differ in kind as well as in degree. The power by which we are made sensible of conlact, or by which, under the influence of undue stimulation, we become conscious of pain, is called common sensibility. Doubtless nearly all textures possess this to a certain degree. Tendon and cartilage enjoy a very much less amount of it than skin and muscle. But we can also appreciate the influence of light, of sound, of odoi, of flavour, and we are enabled to do this by means of particular