MOTION. 465 she; that is, it swings forwards by the force of gravity alone, independently of muscular ac- tion. The supporting leg is regarded by the Messrs. Weber as a substitute for the pro- pelling weight of a clock, and the swinging leg as the substitute for the pendulum, both ex- changing their offices alternately. The distance from the point where the ball of the foot of the swinging leg quits to the point where it is again placed on the earth, is equal to the length of a double .step. This outline of the action of the legs in walking depends on principles which we shall now proceed to investigate more strictly, in doing which we shall draw largely from the theoretical and experimental researches of the Messrs. Weber, whose labours have con- tributed so extensively to advance our know- ledge in this interesting branch of human phy- siology. The positions of the body in walking at va- rious instants of time have been described both by Borelli and Weber; it is thus represented by the laiter. Let fig. 253 be the vertical, and fig. 254 the ground plan, on planes in a straight Fig. 253. f *.......^ "" t(t& "iA'St I y*$> "S,6 Fig. 254. laiz . horizontal path. In fig. 253 the simultaneous positions of the two feet are represented at the moment when they reach the ground, also the position of the centre of gravity of the body in the vertical plane. The position of the right leg is shown by the continued lines, and that of the left leg by the dotted lines. The extremity of the right foot is designated by the letter a, that of the left by the letter b, and the centre of gravity by c, the contemporaneous positions of these points being denoted by I he numerals annexed to these letters. In the horizontal projection,,/^. 254 represents the si- multaneous position ot both legs and of the cen- tre of gravity: the letters and figures are the same as in the preceding diagram. At the instant when the hinder leg is raised from the ground at the commencement of each step, the extremity of the forward leg and the centre of gravity lie in the normal plane of the line of progression ; for example, at the beginning of the first step, b0 and r0, of the second step «2 and c2, and of the third step, bK and cv lie in the normal plane of the direction of progression. In each step the extremity of one leg must VOL. [XI. be advanced as far before the foot of the other as in the preceding or following steps the other leg was placed before the first, for example:— in the first step, the foot, «, 2 3 4 must ad- vance so far before b0 , 2, as in the second step iJ)s 6must advance before «, 2 3 4. The time of each step, that is, the space of time between the raising of each foot in succes- sion, is subdivided by Borelli and the Webers into two parts, namely, one part in which one leg, and the other when both legs are on the ground : for instance, during the first step, while the centre of gravity advances from c0 to c,, one leg, and, while it advances from c, to c2 both are on the ground. In the second step, while the centre moves from c2 to c3, one leg only, but while it advances from c3 to c4 both legs are again on the ground, and so on in succession. But there is no instant in walking in which the body moves freely through the air without either leg touching the ground, as in running. The sum of the squares of the elevation of the centre of the body above the horizontal plane, and the length of the step, is equal to the square of the length of the extended leg.* This pro- position depends on the circumstance that the forward leg stands vertical to the ground at the instant the hinder leg quits it; and that the two legs, with the horizontal distance between them, form, at this moment, a right-angled tri- angle. According to the Webers, the body, in walking, continues to be affected by the exten- sor power of one leg only, because the expen- diture of the extensor power of the legs to support the body is only just sufficient to sus- tain it; and this expenditure is at a minimum only when the forward leg bears the whole burden during that period in which they are both on the ground, for as the forward leg acts at a less angle than the hinder leg, it is capable of supporting the body at a much greater me- chanical advantage, which is at a maximum when it stands vertically. MM. Weber also find that the body is accelerated whilst one leg, and is retarded whilst both legs are on the ground ; for, in slow walking, the forward leg being placed on the ground in advance of the centre of gravity, it tends for an instant to check the horizontal velocity of the body. We shall now take a brief view of the velo- city in walking, and of the principles on which it depends. MM. Weber have shewn that the velocity in walking varies with the height at which the head of the femur is carried from the ground; as this height increases, the velo- city decreases.f The length of each step de- creases as the height of the centre of gravity in- creases; for the greater the elevation, the less will be the distance to which the leg will ex- tend ; therefore corpulent persons, and porters with heavy burdens on the shoulders, take steps of diminished length. The duration of a step, * Hence we get eq. 23. T The velocity being uniform — ?' and T therefore increases as h decreases. 2 u