1'llYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 722 a the crura cerebri. (Its extent, indeed, is much the same as that which has been assigned by motor power and action. I say it is probable this U the case." And in § 151 he says, "It has al- ways appeared to me that, observing the difference between the cerebrum and the spinal marrow, the olfactory and the trifacial nerves, in regard to the psychical and the excito-motor properties, it is very improbable that in any part of the nervous system the two functions should co-exist in any one indivi- dual fibre." I am, therefore, not premature in refusing to accept as a discovery that which Dr. Hall himself regards only as probable — and not proved. Lastly, at § 370, he quotes an experiment by Van Deen and Stilling, in which one-half of the spinal marrow is divided above the origin of the bra- chial nerves, and the other half below the same point, with the effect of leaving sensation and voluntary motionundestroyed. On this he remarks, "There is, therefore, no continuous rectilinear course of nervous fibre from the brain to the extremities."!! I shall here contrast the points made out by Prochaska with the statement of Dr. Hall's " real objects" as quoted a few paragraphs back. 1. Prochaska forms a large estimate of the im- portance of the vis nervosa ; he attributes to it a high place among the forces which concur in the production of vital phenomena—not limiting the term, as Haller (lid, to the force by which nerves excite muscles to contract, but viewing it as tiif. agent in the production of all the phenomena of the nervous system. 2. He investigates the laws of this force as it is developed in the pulp of the nerves, leaving the enquiry into its nature to those who are engaged with physical experiments. 3. He shows that this nervous force, although in truth an innate property of the medullary pulp, nevertheless needs a stimulus for its developement. 4. This stimulus, he further shows, may be either physical or mental. 5. He investigates the causes and effects of the increase and of the diminution of the vis nervosa, and how it is influenced by age, sex, and tem- perament, O'. He shows that the nervous force remains in nerves separated from the centres (within certain limits) even in "singulis dissectorum nervorum frustis." 7. Prochaska lays down that nerves act in pro- ducing motion and sensation in virtue of their power of propagating impressions made on them, whether at their origin or at their periphery. 8. He shows that external impressions made upon sensitive nerves are quickly propagated to their origin and there are reflected, according to a certain law, into corresponding motor nerves, whereby certain definite motions are eifected. 9. 'I his takes place whenever motor and sensitive nerves are implanted in the neighbourhood of each other, and all that part of the ccrebro-spinal axis in which nerves are so implanted is called by Prochaska sensoriinn commune, 10. This reflexion of sensitive impressions into motor ones is a physical phenomenon independent of the mind. 11. The mind, however, may or may not be con- scious of its occurrence. 12. Examples of reflex acts of this kind are found in sneezing, in the winking of the eye when the finger is suddenly directed close to it, in the violent cough produced by a particle of food or a drop of water passing into the trachea. In all these in- stances the effects of the stimulus applied to the sentient nerves of the part irritated are propagated to the centre, and there reflected into the nerves of those muscles by which the respective movements are produced. 13. The motions which may be produced in de- capitated animals by excitation of the surface arc of this kind, the reflexion taking place in the rcsi- Pioclraska to his sensorium commune.') These fibres are quite independent of those of sensa- tion and volition and of the sensorium com- mune, using that term as indicating the centre of intellectual actions. Although bound up with sensitive and motor fibres, they are not affected by them, and they maintain their sepa- rate course in the nerves, as well as in the centres.* dual portion of the sensorium commune, which is in the spinal marrow ; and those produced in patients labouring under apoplexy are of the same kind. 14. A similar reflexion takes place in ganglia to that which occurs in the sensorium commune. 15. Prochaska has. therefore, shown that the nervous centres may affect nerves implanted in them in three ways : 1, through mental change, as in vo- luntary actions ; 2, through a physical change ori- ginating in the centres themselves; 3, through the reflexion of the change wrought in a sensitive nerve by peripheral stimulation, into a motor nerve : and that nerves may affect centres, 1, so as to excite a feeling in the mind (sensation) ; and, 2, so as to cause the reflexion of a peripheral change in the afferent sensitive nerve into an adjacent motor nerve, independently of the mind. 16. Prochaska concludes his observations by drawing a careful distinction between those motions which are animal, being directed by the mind, and those which arc mechanical or automatic (physical), of which the mind may or may not take cognizance, but in the production of which it takes no part. In these latter are included the reflex actions. Such are the conclusions to which Prochaska's observations lead him respecting the nervous system, and in them I confess there appears to me to be a large and an exact view of the phenomena of the nervous system, more comprehensive than the views of Dr. M. Hall respecting an excito-motor power and a special system of excito-motor nerves, and their centre, the true spinal nerves. In his latest publication, a volume of essays, (1845) Dr. Hall asserts his conviction of the truth of his views, and re-affirms his claims to discovery. I feel that I owe the reader some apology for this long note. The views of Dr. Hall have been so zealously pressed upon the attention of physiologists and of medical men, that it seemed to me that a work like this ought to contain as full a statement of them as its limits would permit, more especially as I have felt it my duty to express my dissent from them to a very great extent, and to criticize them with much freedom. Throughout all my remarks it has been my an- xious wish to express my opinions regarding Dr. Hall's views as of a pure question of science, omit- ting all personal considerations. It would have been infinitely more grateful to my feelings to have been able to express my concurrence in these doc- trines, (as, indeed, I was at one time much dis- posed to do,) than to have found myself compelled by regard to truth to refuse assent to his claims to original discovery as well as to his hypothesis, and even to the accuracy of some of his experiments. The cause of science demands that views which are essentially unsound, but which from the urgency with which they continue to be put forward on va- rious occasions and in various shapes, are in danger of being adopted by those who have no time nor opportunity to investigate them closely, should be exhibited in their real shape and purport by means of a careful and searching analysis. Having weighed them in this balance, I must confess that they have been found wanting. * It would be unjust to a most able physiologist and pleasing writer, Mr. Grainger, not to state that he has contributed much to the distinct enunciation and apt illustration of this hypothesis. See bis excellent woik on the Spinal Cord. Lond. 1837.