NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. 113 recurrent; and, 7, to the aryteno-epiglottic mucous folds and muscles. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerve gives filaments, 1, to the pneumo-gastric and cardiac plexus; 2, to the pharynx; 3, to the trachea ; 4, to the cesophagus ; 5, to the crico- arytenoideus posticus ; 6, to the arytenoideus obliquus and transversus; 7, to the crico- arytenoidens lateralis and thyro-arytenoideus ; 8, an anastomosing branch to the superior laryngeal. Our knowledge of the anatomical distribu- tion of the laryngeal nerves, and of the func- tions of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx, are sufficient, independently of experiment, to demonstrate the inaccuracy of the well known assertion of M. Magendie, supported by Clo- quet, Pinel, Percy, and several others, that the recurrent nerve presides over those actions which open the glottis, whilst the superior la- ryngeal influences those muscles which close the glottis. The principal facts opposed to this theory of M. Magendie may be briefly stated as follows. J. It was well known long before the promulgation of Magendie's views that the inferior laryngeal nerve gave to the arytenoid muscle a filament which had been described by Andersch,* Bichat,f and Mec- kel and subsequently by Schlemm Bischoff, Swan, Cruveilhier, Dr. Reid,and others, there- fore it has been sufficiently demonstrated that the recurrent nerve supplies the muscles that close, as well as those which open the glottis. 2. M. Magendie has stated that the crico- arytenoideus lateralis and thyro-arytenoideus opened the glottis, whereas in the preceding details it has been proved that these muscles close it. 3. The loss of voice which follows the section of the recurrent nerves results from the paralysis of all the muscles (except the crico-thyroid) which both open and close the glottis, a fact proved by the experiments of Le Gallois and Dr. Reid. The limited space allotted to this article will only permit us to notice the conclusions to which recent expe- rimenters have arrived respecting the functions of the laryngeal nerves. The external branch of the superior laryngeal is composed chiefly of motor fibres, and it controls the action of the crico-thyroid and the other muscles to which it gives filaments. The internal branch of the superior laryngeal is composed of sensi- tive fibres, which confer the most exquisite sensibility on the mucous membrane of the larynx, more especially in its supra-glottideal region. It is therefore the sensitive and the excitor nerve of the larynx. The inferior la- ryngeal supplies the muscles that both open and close the glottis, and is chiefly a nerve of motion when it reaches the larynx, but a few of its fibres go to the mucous membrane. The union of the superior with the inferior laryngeal branch by an anastomosing filament, preserves a reciprocal play in the functions of these * Fragmerttum descr. nervor. t Traite d'Anat. torn. iii. p. 216. X Man. d'Anat. torn. iii. p. 66'. VOL. III. nerves : whilst the branches anastomosing with the sympathetic, connect the larynx with the ganglionic system ; the pulmonary and cardiac branches connect it with the respiratory and circulating systems, and thus associate the larynx with those vital functions. The laryn- geal nerves also belonging to the reflex system, impressions made on the sensitive filaments of the larynx are reflected to the medulla ob- longata, and propagated by a circuitous route to the motor filaments of the recurrent, so that a long interval is traversed in circulating an impression from the sensitive to the motor nerves of the larynx; but according to the esti- mate made of the speed with which an impulse is propagated along a nerve, which is assumed to be equal to that of electricity, the time occu- pied to transmit an impression from the fila- ments of sensation to those of motion must be inappreciable to our senses. Other important physiological considerations result from recent experimental researches, those of Le Gallois and Dr. Reid in particular. 1. With respect to the motions of the glottis during respiration, the dilatation during inspiration, and contrac- tion during expiration, are the effects of the play of muscular force in opposition to the direction of the current of air in its passage to and from the lungs, the tendency of which is to produce the reverse action.* There is a constant periodical oscillatory motion of the arytenoid cartilages, revolving upon the axis of articulation, O P, (Jig. 30,) at every expiration and inspiration ; hence the necessity of a syno- vial membrane to lubricate the crico-arytenoid articulation. 2. When the recurrent nerves are diseased, compressed, or cut, so as to para- lyse the crico-arytenoideus posticus, the power of muscular action in opposition to the direction of the inspired air is lost. The valves of the glottis are drawn downwards with the air, the anterior apophysis of the arytenoid cartilages rotated inwards, the chink closes, symptoms of suffocation supervene, and asphyxia results. When spasmodic closure of the chink of the glottis occurs, the obstacle to the ingress of air is increased by convulsive attempts to draw in the breath, which causes a rarefaction of the air below the glottis, and augments the atmos- pheric pressure above it; and the chest thus, says Dr. Ley, " becomes hermetically sealed." If the aperture of the glottis be partially open, the air rushing through it causes a stridulous sound (laryngismus stridulus), whilst in ano- ther position of the glottis the crowing inspi- ration is produced ; this effect arises (accord- ing to Dr. Ley) from the chink of the glottis being partially open for the admission of air, and remaining so until an explosive expiration, such as screaming, coughing, or belching, me- chanically bursts open the floodgates, and terminates the paroxysm. * In the production of these periodica! move, ments, the action of the muscles is involuntary, but in their action for the purposes of voice, they be- come subordinate to the will, and therefore belon? also to the voluntary system. I