83 LACRYMAL ORGANS. These are elongated more or less compound follicles, secreting a peculiar sebaceous matter intended as an ointment to protect the delicate integument of the margins of the eyelids from any irritation which might result from friction, or the frequent contact of the tears, and also to preserve to it that peculiar degree of sensibility which, like all other transition structures from skin to mucous membrane, it possesses. The Meib omian glands lie imbedded in the sub- stance of the tarsal cartilages. They are ar- ranged close and parallel to each other, and ge- nerally speaking in a direction at right angles to the ciliary margin of the eyelids, where they open in that row of minute apertures alread y mention- ed. There are between thirty and forty Meibomian glands in the upper eyelid, but not so many in the lower, in which also they are shorter in consequence of the difference in breadth be- tween the upper and lower tarsus. Sometimes two glands are united towards their orifice; sometimes, on the other hand, at their end. Frequently the tail of the gland bends laterally and describes an arch. The structure of the Meibomian glands consists essentially in a central canal running from one extremity to the other, like the duct of the pancreas, and around that canal glandular loculi or crypto opening into it directly, or through the medium of each other. The duct suddenly contracts before opening on the margin of the eyelid. In a transverse section of the Meibomian glands this canal is seen, according to Zeiss, as a small hole around which are placed from five to six glandular grains. The Meibomian glands of the sow are small; representing merely a short cyst subdivided into several loculi. The glands of the eye- lashes in the same animal are, on the contrary, large. The Meibomian glands of the sheep, dog, and fox, are long very thick-walled bodies, in the middle of which there is a wide canal. Ranking next in complexity of structure are the human Meibomian glands. Those of the horse, ox, goat, and cat, Zeiss found still more complex, consisting of lobes, lobules, and granules.* The secretion of the Meibomian glands is a mild, yellowish, unctuous substance, of the consistence of lard. Occasionally the external orifice of one or more of the Meibomian ducts becomes covered by a thin film, apparently of epidermis. This prevents the escape of the secretion, which accumulating raises up the film into a small elevation, like a phlyctenula. This does not actually cause pain, but gives rise to uneasiness in the part when the eyelids are moved : the film is easily broken, and the accumulated secretion removed on the point of a pin. Hordeolum, or stye, according to some, is abscess of the Meibomian glands; according to others, a small boil implicating the cellular tissue at the margin of the eyelid. Zeissf sus- pects it has its seat in the capsule and glands * Zeiss's papers in Amnion's Zeitschrift, TL iv. and v., already quoted, t Locis citatis. of the roots of the eyelashes. Abscess of the Meibomian glands does occur, and gives rise to a tumour on the edge of the eyelid like a stye, but the nature of the case is seen on everting the eyelid. There can be no doubt that the roots of the eyelashes are involved in the disease, because the hairs at the part affect- ed generally fall out at the end. Dr. Zeiss proposes to anticipate this result by plucking them out at once, and he says that by this pro- cedure the progress of the complaint is arrested, a thing, certainly, occasionally very desirable. In a small inflammatory tumour at the root of a hair on the cheek, I have obtained such a result from plucking out the hair. Fig. 12. The eyelids of the right side seen from within. ( Modified from Soemmerring.) a, a, Inner surface of orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. b, Palpebral fissure. c, c, c, Upper mass of lacrymal gland. d, Lower mass of lacrymal gland. e, e, Conjunctiva. The palpebral portion is smoothly spread on the inner surface of the eyelids. The portion which has been dissected from off the eyeball is in folds. /, Hairs inserted into the orifices of the ducts of the lacrymal gland. These orifices are on the conjunctival surface of the upper eyelids towards its temporal extremity. g, q, Meibomian glands of both eyelids seen shining through the conjunctiva and the thin layer of tarsal cartilage covering them on the inside of the eyelids. h, Lacrymal papilla and point of the upper eyelid. i, The same of the lower eyelid. k, Lacrymal caruncle. I, Semilunar fold pressed aside to show the caruncle. II. The conjunctiva, semilunar fold, and lacrymal caruncle. The conjunctiva in general.— Tunica con- junctiva seu adnata. Ft. La Coujonctive. Ital. La Congiuntiva. Germ. Die Bind/taut. The conjunctiva is that membrane which lines the posterior surface of the eyelids, and covers the front of the eyeball to the extent of about a third of its whole periphery. This disposition has given rise to the distinction of a palpebral and ocular conjunctiva. Towards the margin of the orbit, all round the circumference of the eyeball, a cul-de-sac is formed by the reflection G 2