545 MYRIAPODA. merits, and likewise allied to the latter by the construction of their jointed locomotive legs ; these, however, instead of being only six in number, as in the true Insects, are, in the Myriapoda, always at least twelve, and fre- quently extremely numerous, being appended to all the segments of the elongated body, whence the names " Centipedes" and " Mille- pedes," by which these creatures are commonly designated. All the members of the class are apterous; they exhibit externally a succession of cylindrical or compressed rings, each of which sustains one or more, frequently two pairs of jointed feet, all of very similar con- struction, being generally terminated by a single sharp claw. There is no consolidation of the anterior segments into a thorax resembling that of the Insecta, although many celebrated Entomologists are disposed to regard the three anterior rings as the representatives of the tho- racic segments. Upon the head are placed two antennae or feelers, which, in one large group, are short, stunted, and composed of seven articulations, whilst in others these organs are long and setaceous, presenting a much greater number of distinct joints. Compound or simple eyes, allied in their structure to those of Insects, are generally, but not always, pre- sent. The mouth is formidable, and, in many respects, resembles that of Insects, being fur- nished with strong mandibles, adapted to de- vour either animal or vegetable substances. All the species breathe air by means of lateral stigmata and tracheal tubes, a circumstance whereby they are at once distinguishable from the Crustacea. Their jointed legs remove them from the Annelida, while they differ from the Insecta in many important particulars, but more especially in the progressive growth of their bodies, by the production of new seg- ments, and the development of additional loco- motive limbs, the number of which increases with the age of the animal, while, on the con- trary, in Insects, the segments that existed at birth are found to coalesce into a smaller number, and the prolegs of the larvae become obliterated when the Insect attains its complete hexapod condition. All the Myriapoda are terrestrial in their habits, lurking beneath stones or in the crevices of houses. Many of them inhabit decaying timber, or are found beneath the bark of trees, where they devour such vegetable substances as are adapted to their support; or, in the case of the more highly organized species, wage war against other animals, upon which they feed. The classification of the Myriapoda has hi- therto been and still is exceedingly imperfect and unsatisfactory, apparently in consequence of their very wide distribution and the general similarity of their appearance. Our country- man, Dr. Leach, in his zoological miscel- lany, was one of the first who gave a general arrangement of these animals, which was adopted by Latreille; but he appears only to have examined the European species. In Griffiths'Translation of Cuvier's Animal King- dom, Mr..!. E. day, of the British Museum, VOL. I I t. gave the figures of some exotic genera; but of these the Editor left the descriptions very im- perfect, and only made slight references to them in the explanations of the plates. Since that time Dr. J. F. Brandt published a mono- graph of the Myriapoda chilognatha* in which he pointed out several new genera and re-named many, previously established by Mr. Gray. More recently M. P. Gervais has pub- lished his studies on Myriapods,t consisting of a revision of the class and a list of the species, but having overlooked the slight notes given of Mr. Gray's genera, has in one or two instances been led into error. Under these circumstances it is, with very great satisfaction, that we are able, by the permission of Mr. Gray, who has kindly placed his manuscript at our disposal, to lay before our readers the following review of the entire class. Order I. CHILOGNATHA, Latr. (Jitlux, Linn.) Antennae seven jointed ; rings of the body fur- nished with two pairs of legs. Fam. 1. Julid/e. Body cylindrical, smooth, rolling up into a spiral form and composed of many joints. Each segment formed of three imbricated parts, the upper part co- vering the body and sides of the abdomen. Antennae short, thick. Eyes many in a group. Gen.l. Jultjs. (Fig. 304, 1, 2,3.) 2d, 3d, 4th, and 5th joint of antenna elon- gated, attenuated ; 2d longest, 5th and oth longer than the rest. Fig. 301. Julus. * Hull. Soc. Imp. Moscow. t Annales (les Sciences Naturelles for 1837. 2 S