MYRIAPODA. 551 resemble Insect larvae that little can be said concerning them in addition to what the reader will find elsewhere stated. (See articles An- nelida, Crustacea, Arachnida, Insecta.) The antenna upon the head, which are in- variably two in number, correspond in all essential circumstances with those met with in Insects, and doubtless perform the same func- tions. The eyes when present, which is not the case in all the genera, exhibit the form of simple ocelli congregated upon the head, and arranged in lines or triangular patches; but in no case do they exhibit the appearance of a really compound eye, such as is possessed by the generality of Insects in their perfect state. With respect to the other senses, touch, taste, and smell, but little is known except by conjec- ture, and presuming them to exist we can only suppose them to be conferred in the same manner as in the real Insect. Generative system.—A remarkable difference exists between the Chilognatha and the Scolo- pendroid Centipedes with respect to the posi- tion of the organs of generation. In the former the external openings, both of the male and female genitals, are situated near the anterior extremity of the body, as is the case among the Annelida; whilst in the Clulopodous genera, which exhibit a higher grade of organi- zation, the generative apertures are found in the caudal segment as in the Insects. In Litlwbius the structure of these parts is in both sexes very simple. In the male there are three long and convoluted secreting tubes resembling the simplest form of the testis in Insects, wherein, doubtless, the seminal fluid is elaborated. These are united at their termi- nations so as to form a kind of common recep- tacle, from which two tubes proceed to the root of the intromittent organ, at which point they are joined by four smaller auxiliary vessels, which seem to take their origin in masses of fatty substance. The penis is a homy cylin- drical tube that can be protruded from beneath a valvular plate which covers the anal orifice (Jig. 309, o). The female apparatus consists of a single sacculated ovarium, occupying the mesial) line of the body. From this proceeds a narrow excietory duct, which, however, prior to its termination beneath the anal segment becomes considerably dilated into a cavity that has been improperly named uterus. Here it receives two sets of supplementary vessels, the one a pair of wide cceca, the other composed of four convoluted vessels apparently destined to secrete some additional covering to the eggs before their extrusion. The female generative orifice, situated in the anal segment, is covered with a horny plate and furnished with a pair of small horny forceps calculated to assist in copulation. The male generative organs of Scolopendra present a very peculiar structure; but these we have already described elsewhere (see Ge- neration, organs of). The male generative organs of Julus (fig. 314, A) are two elongated and partially convoluted tubes placed side by side beneath the alimentary canal immediately above the nervous system. The excretory ducts or terminations of these tubes run towards the anterior part of the body, where they terminate in two organs of intro- mission (a), which pass out at the under surface A Fig. 314. B -Op of the seventh seg- ment by distinct ori- fices behind the se- venth pair of legs. Posteriorly they ex- tend backwards as far a> the middle of the ' colon. In the ante- rior third of their course they lie close » together, but after- wards separate, be- come smaller, and have developed from their sides at short distances a number of minute glandular coeca, or transparent vesicles (c), which doubtless constitute the secreting portions of the apparatus or proper testes of the animal. The two efferent ducts, whereby the secretion of these coeca is conveyed out of the body, inter-communicate fieely by short transverse canals (jig. 13, d d), and from the sacculated