312 MARSUPIALIA. but in this circumstance we may perceive an example of the retention of a typical structure at the deeper seated part of a system of organs, when not incompatible with a slight modifi- cation of a peripheral segment of the same system ; it being by no means obviously neces- sary to abrogate the division of the urethral bulb simply because the blood accumulated in each division was to be driverfin a concen- trated current upon a single, instead of a dou- ble glans penis. The intermediate structures of the glans be- tween the two extremes above instanced are presented by the Ursine Dasyure, Koala, and Wombat. In the Koala (jtg.135, B) the glans penis terminates in two semicircular lobes, and the urethra is continued by a bifurcated groove along the mesial surface of each lobe. In the Wombat(//g. 135, C)thereisasimilarexpansion of the urethra into two divergent terminal grooves, but the glans is larger, cylindrical, and par- tially divided into four lobes:* the chief struc- ture of interest in this part of the Wombat is the callous external membrane of the glans, and its armature of small recurved, scattered horny spines, which do not occur in any other Marsupial animal. The small retroverted pa- pilla; on the infundibuliforni gians of the Koala and on the bifurcate glans of the Phalan- ge rs and Petaurists are not horny. In the Perameles lagutis not only is the glans bifurcate, but each division is perforated, and the urethral canal is divided by a vertical septum for about half an inch before it reaches the forked glans. From the septum to the bladder the canal is simple, as in other Marsupials. The bifurcations of the glans in the Opossums' and Phalangers are simply grooved. If the experiments of iiaighton and the detection, by Drs. Bischoff and Barry, of sper- matozoa upon the ovary itself after coitus, had not rendered the question of the neces- sity of the contact of the semen with the ovarium for impregnation almost independent of the aid of Comparative Anatomy, the diffe- rences of structure above described in the urethra and glans penis of the Marsupial animals would have gone far to explode the once prevalent notion of an ' aura seminal is' fertilizing the ovum through the medium of the circulating fluid: for why, on such an hypothesis, should the impregnation of two ovaria, each communicating with a distinct oviduct, uterus, and vagina, as in the Opos- sum, require two conduits of the semen in the male, one for each vagina?—and wherefore, in the case of an uniparous Marsupial, in which the fecundating stream need ascend only to a single ovarium, as in the Kangaroos and Potoroos, is the penis terminated by a single glans ? The spermatozoa of the Perameles have a single barb at the base of the head, which is sub-elongate and compressed ; in other respects, as in size and proportion of the filamentary tail, they resemble the spermatozoa of the Rabbit. * Cuv. Lemons d'Anat. Comparer, 1805, t. v. p. 91. Neither in the Kangaroo, Phalanger, nor Da- syure did the spermatozoa present a spiral head or any noticeable deviation from the characters of the spermatozoa in the smaller placental quadrupeds: those of the Dasyure have a node at the base of the head. The corpus cavernosum penis commences by twocrura(e/, d, figs. 135, 136), neither of which have any immediate attachment to the bony pelvis. Cuvier correctly states, that in the Kangaroo the two crura of the corpus cavernosum, and the two bulbs of the corpus spongiosum, soon unite to form a single cylindrical body, having a canal which nearly follows the direction of its axis, whose panetes are equally strong and fibrous, and which contains the urethra; so that the transverse section of the corpus cavernosum resembles a ring; but the two lateral cavities are separated by two vertical septa which ex- tend one from the central canal to the dorsum penis, the other from the central canal to the inferior wall of the penis.* In the Kangaroo and Potoroo, the erectores penis (fig. 135 d, d) arise by a thin fascia from near the lower part of the symphysis pubis, soon become fleshy, and increase in thickness as they pass outwards: each muscle then returns upon itself, at an acute bend, to grasp the crus penis, and terminates in a strong tendinous expansion at the junction of the cavernous with the bul- bous structure. Fig. 136. Male Organs, Opossum. ( Cowpet, I.e.) The retractor penis (figs 135,136, g, g) arises in the Kangaroo from the middle of the sa- crum, and divides into two muscles, behind the rectum, opposite the dilated commencement of the musculo-prostatic part of the urethra; each division diverges to the side of the rectum, then passes to the interspace between the rec- tum and roots of the penis, and along the * Lemons d'Anat. Comp. 1805, t. v. p. 73.