MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 492 difficult to reject the belief that it is intimately concerned in the glandular function, and varies in correspondence with it. To the preceding summary account of these three principal kinds of epithelium much might be added respecting the intermediate forms. This, however, does not appear to be required in so general a description. The spheroidal and the prismatic are seen blended in the speci- men I have figured from the human membrana tympani (fig. 281). Of the non-ciliated and ciliated epithelium.— The true scaly variety appears never to be clothed with cilia. The prismatic epithelium is that which most commonly bears these vibra- tile organs. They are placed on the free extre- mities of the prisms in the respiratory tract and in the uterus and Fallopian tubes. The true glandular epithelium is always without cilia. This is a general fact, and one of great import- ance. But those varieties which seem interme- diate between the spheroidal and the other two forms are often furnished with cilia; of which examples may be seen in the Malpighian bodies of the kidney, in the mucous membrane of the frog's mouth, and in that of the human tympa- num (fig. 281). In all cases the cilia, when Fig. 284. Various particles of epithelium from the frog's mouth. a, b, c, small particles that have not reached the surface. They appear to present three stages or periods, showing a subdivision of the nucleus and a formation of two cells out of one ; d, three fully developed particles, with cilia on their free sur- face ; e,f,g, other complete particles, showing cilia on that part only which has formed a portion of the general surface of the membrane. Magnified 400 diameters. they exist, are developed only on that aspect of the particles which forms a portion of the gene- ral surface of the membrane. It is as yet entirely unknown by what pro- cess the cilia are produced and nourished ; whether the particles, with their cilia, are shed from time to time, and are succeeded by others, (as is most probable,) or whether the same organs remain, and merely change their com- ponent elements. (On the subject of Cilia in general the reader is referred to Dr. Sharpey's excellent article.) Of the elementally tissues appended to the mucous system.—The two elementary tissues now described may be considered as the more essential constituents of the mucous system, or as forming the simple mucous membrane. This simple mucous membrane envelopes the rest of the body. It contains within its own substance neither vessels nor nerves, but is, strictly speak- ing, extra-vascular. By modifications, chiefly of the epithelial element, it is in itself capable of presenting great variety of appearance and properties in different situations. But in im- mediate connection with its deep surface, that is, with the basement membrane, there are cer- tain tissues common to almost every part of the frame, but here assuming a peculiar arrange- ment and office, and by their diversities in various localities, occasioning the most compli- cated varieties of outward form, of structure, and of function. These appended tissues are minute blood- vessels, a lymphatic network, nerves, and areo- lar tissue. It has been already stated that in many parts the simple mucous membrane, by its innume- rable minute involutions over an extensive sur- face, is formed into a compound membrane. Into the composition of this (of which a good example is afforded by that of the stomach) the appended tissues enter more or less largely, but they are likewise, in addition, generally spread out in great abundance as a layer underneath the compound membrane. This layer has been commonly termed submucous cellular membrane, (sometimes tunica nervea,) in the case of in- ternal surfaces, and cutis vera or dermis in the case of the skin. Bloodvessels. — These may be said to be universally present under the simple mucous membrane, with the exception perhaps of the cornea, where vessels, in the normal state, have not yet been demonstrated. The capillaries, in their simplest form, appear to be arranged as a plane network, such as that of the rectum of the frog (fig. 285). The interstices of this network vary much in size and shape in diffe- rent localities. The most copious supply of blood distributed to any such membrane is that afforded to the air-cells of the lungs in all ani- mals. Here this plane capillary plexus has areolae scarcely exceeding the diameter of the vessels themselves. Where the membrane they supply is folded, however irregularly, they follow its surface, and hence result many varie- ties in their arrangement and inosculations. It even seems to be for the purpose of gaining a great freedom of inosculation between the ca- pillaries that the extraordinary complexity has been given to many parts of the simple mem- brane, especially in the secreting glands. For many foldings from somewhat distant parts of the membrane are there brought into imme- diate proximity to one another, and are sup- plied by the same or closely connected vessels. This is remarkably exemplified in the testis, kidney, and liver. The capillary system of all these, as well as of other solid glands, may be styled a solid plexus, being extended in every direction, and presenting areolae of nearly equal size in whatever plane a section of it be made. The liver presents the most perfect instance of such a solid plexus, and in it the vessels are of