72 1m PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. non, but is chiefly due to a change in the circulation of the penis, to an increased attrac- tion of blood to the organ in virtue of the inflammatory state. Enough has been said to shew that, to lay it down that every act of ingestion, of retention, of expulsion, and of exclusion, is a reflex act, is opposed to all that we know of the intimate nature of these actions. The power resident, not in the spinal cord only, but in every ner- vous centre in which nerves are implanted, whereby, to use Prochaska's words, sensory impressions may be converted into motor im- pulses, is no doubt of immense importance to the animal economy; but Dr. M. Hall has been evidently led, by an imperfect analysis of the functions we have been considering, to assign to this power too large an influence in them; and on the other hand, he has over- looked its obvious and important influence in other phenomena. Dr. Marshall Hall also attributes to the spinal cord a direct action or influence which mani- fests itself, first, in the tone, and secondly, in the irritability of the muscular system. I regret to be compelled to differ again from Dr. Hall with respect to this point, and to express my opinion that this dogma is incon- sistent with established doctrines of physiology. By the tone of the muscular system, I un- derstand that state of passive contraction which every healthy muscle exhibits when not in active contraction. It is this state which gives the firm, resisting, resilient feel, which the physician knows to be characteristic of a healthy stale of the muscle. By virtue of it a muscle can adapt itself to changes which may take place in the distance between its two points of attach- ment; and it is in virtue of this property that a muscle shortens itself when the stretching force of its antagonist has been removed. When the muscles of one side of the face have been paralysed for some short time, the features lose their balance, because the muscles of the sound side have contracted to within a smaller space, having lost the resistance of those of the opposite side. It is equality of tone which preserves the equilibrium between symmetrical muscles; it is tone or passive contraction which keeps hollow muscles quite closed, if they are empty, or firmly contracted on their contents, if not so, as the heart and intestine; the tone of the predominant flexor muscles keeps limbs, whilst at perfect rest, in a semi- flexed position ; it is tone which keeps sphinc- ter muscles in a closed state. The question is, do the muscles derive their state of tone from the spinal cord, and is this properly dependent on that organ ? This question is answered in the negative, if we can shew that there are good and sufficient grounds for affirming that muscles possess within themselves all the conditions necessary for the generation of their proper force. That muscles do enjoy these conditions is manifest from the following considerations: 1. their peculiar chemical composition, their main con- stituent being fibrine, a substance which, we know from the phenomena of the coagulation of the blood, exhibits a remarkable tendency to contract; 2. their anatomical constitution; the arrangement in fibres, the intimate texture of those fibres, which in the muscles of the greatest power, the voluntary muscles, is highly complicated ; 3. from the large quantity of blood sent to muscles, which are probably more freely supplied with that fluid than any other texture in the body, and which receive it in the greater quantity when that contractile power is more active; 4. from the fact pointed out by Mr. Bowman, that a single muscular fibre, en- tirely deprived of all nerves, may be made to contract by a slight stimulus applied to any part of it; 5. from the knowledge which we now possess that the mechanism of these ac- tions may be seen by the microscope even in detached portions of muscular fibres ; 6. from the fact that muscles dissociated from the ner- vous centres by the section of all the nerves distributed to them, retain their power of con- traction for a very considerable period, long after the nerves which sink into them have lost their excitability. All these points afford the highest degree of probability that there is no direct dependence of muscle upon the nervous centres for the developement of its proper force ; and that this force is the result of the nutrient actions of muscle. The only way in which the nervous system can be said to have an influence upon the muscular force is by promoting the actions of the muscles, and thereby their nutrition. If a muscle have its nerves divided, and be left to itself, its nutrition fails after a certain period, and its contractility with it; but if it be exer- cised daily by galvanic stimulation, its nutri- tion remains unimpaired, and its contractility likewise. The tone of a muscle is nothing but the effect of the continuous developement of the muscular force resulting from the natural changes in the muscle; it is this state of ten- sion which denotes that these changes are actively proceeding, and that a uniform degree of attraction is being exerted between all the parts of the muscular fibre, in a degree propor- tionate to their masses, and that by this the muscles are maintained in a uniform state of tension so long as they are undisturbed by sti- muli conveyed to them through the nervous system, or from some other source. It seems, therefore, as reasonable as any pro- position in physiology, to affirm that the passive contraction or tone of muscles is due to a pro- perty inherent in the muscular tissue itself, and dependent solely on its proper nutrition, and that it is not derived from any other tissue. And if this be true, it is clear that the spinal cord cannot be the source of the tone of the muscular system. This statement is confirmed by the result of the experiment of removing the whole spinal cord in frogs or other animals. When this has been done, the limbs of the animal fall quite flaccid, the muscles being no longer capable of preserving that degree of active contraction which is necessary to maintain attitude. A decapitated frog will continue in the silting