597 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nerve.) characters, with the peculiar construction of the peripheral expansion, would induce me to regard what is generally described as the optic nerve as a process of the brain itself, around the peripheral portion of which a dioptric appa- ratus has been disposed in order to produce those refractions in the rays of light which are necessary to the formation of an image upon the retina. And my friend, Mr.Bowman, has been led to adopt a similar conclusion from examin- ing the structure of the retina and optic nerve. Olfactory nerves.—The true olfactory nerves are very numerous and pass from the bulb of the olfactory process or olfactory nerve of descrip- tive anatomists. The peculiar characters of this process, as distinguishing it from a nerve properly so called, have long attracted attention. In truth, this process has the characters of a portion of the brain in a much more obvious way than the optic nerve, for it contains a larger portion of grey matter which adheres as a distinct layer to the white matter, as in the formation of the convolutions; and, moreover, its anterior ex- tremity or bulb contains a ventricle which may easily be demonstrated in a recent brain. It is from this bulb that the minute threads, which may be properly called olfactory nerves, take their rise and pass down through the foramina of the cribriform plate. Nothing satisfactory is known as to the disposition of the ultimate ramification of these nerves upon the Schnei- derian mucous membrane. The statement of Valentin that they form loops similar to those of cutaneous nerves is probably correct. It is not improbable that the papilla? described by Treviranus were particles of columnar epithe- lium to which cilia are attached. Auditory nerve.—The auditory nerve exhibits characters sufficiently distinct from the portio dura of the seventh, beside which it lies, to have led the anatomists of former days to separate it under the name of portio mollis. In fact, it pos- sesses all the appearance of cerebral substance, and it wants the fasciculated disposition which mere nerves exhibit. Its fibres are delicate and very prone to become varicose, and, as in the case of the olfactory process, it passes out of the cranium, not as a trunk, but by means of several minute filaments of various size which pierce the foramina of the cribriform floor of the internal auditory foramen. Most observers express themselves in favour of the opinion that the terminal filaments are disposed in a looped form upon the membranous laby- rinth and the cochlea. Valentin describes and delineates a plexiform arrangement, with loop- iugsofsome of the primitive fibres; others ofthem, however, he says, do not affect this disposition, but appear to have free extremities. And this de- scription corresponds with that which Henle has given. This author states that from researches which he has made upon the lamina spiralis of mammifera and the ampullae of the frog, he has no doubt of the existence of fibres which pass from one fascicle to another in a looped form ; but he finds it difficult to determine whether all the tubes contained in each fascicle form similar loops. Wagner delineates the looped arrangement, and Pappenheim adopts the same view. Mr. Wharton Jones states that the tubular structure of the nervous fila- ments ceases among grains of nervous matter, arranged into a sort of expansion, (see Ougan of Hearing), and he denies the existence of an arrangement in loops. My own observation leads me to concur in this description ; and I would add that there seem to be here, as in the retina, some elements of the grey nervous matter scattered among the primitive filaments. This fact did not escape Valentin, for he remarks the existence of " very large globules" among the primitive fibres, similar to what he and Purkinje had noticed in the grey matter of the olfactory bulbs.* If this view of the peri- pheral expansion of the auditory nerve be cor- rect, its analogy with the optic is very obvious; and it may be conjectured of the ear, as in reference to the eye, that around a process from the brain an apparatus has been organized fitted to transmit and modify sonorous undulations. In the present state of observation we should not be justified in making any positive state- ment with reference to either the central or peripheral connexions of the nerves, beyond the following : that at the centres the grey and white elements are always associated, and that nerves may be truly said to arise out of grey matter; and that at the periphery, the nervous fibres, which in their progress from centre to circumference were bound together, become separated, and connect themselves, probably by intimate ad- hesion, with the elementary parts of the tissues and organs to which they are distributed. Of the ganglionic nerves.—Without more exact information respecting the minute ana- tomy of these nerves, our knowledge of the peculiar function of the ganglionic system must be very incomplete. The following questions suggest themselves in reference to this system. 1. Are its anatomical characters sufficiently distinct from those of the cerebro-spinal system to warrant us in separating it from that system, if only for purposes of description ? 2. Is it an independent system, as some have conjec- tured, giving fibres to the cerebro-spinal nerves as well as receiving some from them. 3. If it be an independent system, wherein consist the peculiar features by which us fibres are to be dis- tinguished from those of cerebro-spinal nerves? There are many features belonging to this system which justify its separation from that of the brain and spinal cord. The great number of ganglions connected with it, suggests the propriety of designating it ganglionic system, nor does the existence of ganglions on the pos- terior roots of spinal nerves render this appella- tion less proper; for in this system every nerve, nay every fibre, is connected with or passes through one or more ganglions. The external aspect of these nerves is very characteristic. Their neurilemma is very dense, and has more of the silvery appearance of white fibrous tissue than the sheaths of cerebro-spinal nerves; they want the fasciculated character of the latter nerves, and their colour has a diffused greyish or greyish red hue. The smaller ramifications are exceedingly delicate and appear to be soft, * Valentin, liber den Verlauf unci die letzen Enden der Ncrven, p. 63.