479 MOTION. By table 13 we find that the duration of the step in leaping is less than in slow walking,* but greater than in running ;f the length of step is much greater than in walking, and may be made greater than in quickest running. As the body swings freely in the air a longer period, and rises to a greater elevation in leaping than in running and walking, it is necessary that the projec- tile force should be made greater, but the time during which the extensor power of the leg acts, although very short, is of intense action; It. "42,3 12 .JhJi_S,€_ V; leg 11 a%8 IS <i5 a 6 OS «1,8 Fig. 272. Figures designed by Weber to illustrate the formulas fur leaping. hence, it is not easy to regulate the amount of muscular action as in walking and run- ning, and consequently it may be too great or too little for the object in view. The vertical undulations also are much more considerable than in the other modes of locomotion. In descending rapidly the sides of steep hills it is much safer to do so by leaping than by running, as in the former mode of progression the fool is placed on the ground at the end of each step in a position favourable for stopping, which cannot be done in the latter. MM, Weber consider that the study of the laws which regulate the locomotion of man, and of the mechanism by which it is accomplished, will assist mankind in the construction of au- tomatic locomotive machines. Mr. G. Rennie has studied the construction of animals and the principles on which they move with a view of applying them to the locomotion of the steam- boat, on the supposition that animals move in air, in water, with the least expenditure of mus- cular force, an hypothesis which accords with * Sep Table 8. t See Table 12. our views as well as those of M. Dumas, who considers that man is capable of moving and producing a greater mechanical effect, with less expenditure of fuel, than can be produced by any steam-engine hitherto invented. In every mode of progression there is a sen- sible increase of action in the circulating and respiratory systems ; but the effect produced on them is much greater in running and leaping than in walking. In the two former cases a vio- lent palpitation of the heart and hurried respira- tory movements are quickly produced, on which account they cannot be very long continued. In running, when four steps are taken in a second, the difficulty of breathing soon causes the pedestrian either to slacken his pace, or what may be most advantageously substi- tuted when it is desirable to continue nearly the same speed, and at the same time preserve the breath, to exchange the running for a leaping movement. In consequence of the deliberate manner in which the steps may be taken in leaping, the breath may be preserved for a longer period, and the action of the heart diminished ;