307 MAltSUPIALIA. separated from that of the anterior cava by a simple erescentic ridge (e, figs. 131 and 132), which forms a salient angle of the parietes of the auricle between these apertures. The an- terior cava (b) returns the blood from the right side of the head and the right anterior extre- mity; the corresponding vein on the left side (c) passes down in all the Marsupials, as in Birds and Reptiles, behind the left auricle, below the two pulmonary veins, and, after receiving the coronary vein, joins the inferior cava (d) immediately before its expansion into the auricle. Fig. 132. Heart of the Wombat. Where the posterior extremities are less or not larger than the anterior ones, as in the Ursine Dasyure and Wombat, the posterior cava is somewhat less than the left vena mnominata (Jigs. 131 and 132), and they appear to terminate by separate apertures in the auricle; but in the Kangaroo (Jig. 131) the proportions of the two veins are reversed, and the posterior cava more obviously receives the left vena innominata before it terminates: these two veins meet at a very acute angle, and are separated by a erescentic ridge similar to, but thinner than, that which divides their common orifice from the orifice of the anterior cava. The right auriculo-ventricular valve is mem- branous, as in the placental Mammalia, and its free margin is attached by fine chorda ten- dineee to three columnse carneaD ; these in the Kangaroo (Jig. 131) all arise from the septum of the ventricles, but in the Wombat (fig. 132) the base of two of the columns: is situated at the angle between the septum and the thin outer wall of the ventricle. The right ventricle extends nearly to the apex of the heart in the Wombat, but falls short of that part in the Kangaroo. The ven- tricle is continued in the form of a pyramidal process, somewhat resembling a bulbus arte- riosus, to the origin of the pulmonary artery (J, figs. 131 and 132), and projects beyond the general surface of the heart further than in ordinary Mammalia. The appendix of the left auricle is notched in the Kangaroo to receive the apex of this pro- cess, but not in the Wombat. Two pulmonary veins (J, fig. 133.) terminate close together, or by a single trunk, at the upper and dextral angle of this auricle. The mitral valve is regulated by two short and thick columnse (k, k,Jig. 133), which send their tendinous chords to the margin and ventricular surface of the valve. Fig. 133. Heart of the Wombat. The ventricles and auricles present the usual mammalian proportions and relative thickness of their parietes. Three sigmoid valves are situated at the origin of the pulmonary artery, and the same number at that of the aorta. After the coronary arteries, the primary branches from the arch of the aorta rise in some species by three, in others by two trunks. The broad-chested Marsupials, the Koala and Wombat for instance, are those in which the left carotid (g',fig- 132) and subclavian (h!') arise separately from the arch • the arteria inno- minata dividing into the right subclavian and carotid (g, h, fig. 132), as in man. In most of the other Marsupials the innominata gives off both carotids (g, g, fig. 131) as well as the right subclavian (h ); and the left subclavian