702 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Encephalon.) and as its anterior pillars pass upwards in this situation, they receive fibres from the neigh- bouring convolutions. These pillars remain separate from the mamillary bodies to the fo- ramen of Monro, where they adhere to each other and form the apex of the body of the fornix. Traced backwards, the fibres of the fornix pass into the posterior and inferior horns of the lateral ventricle. In the former they connect themselves with the hippocampus minor by expanding over it, and in the latter they spread over the hippocampus major, forming the posterior pillar of the fornix, or taenia hippocampi. The relation of the anterior pillars of the fornix to the foramen commune anterius has been already sufficiently described. Superiorly the fornix adheres to the corpus callosum or to the septum lucidum, and the anterior commis- sure crosses in front of its anterior pillars, and almost touches them. 4. The fourth longitudinal commissure is the (tenia semicircular is. It may be traced from the corpus mamillare outwards and back- wards in the groove between the optic thala- mus and corpus striatum into the inferior horn of the lateral ventricle, when its fibres mingle with those of the middle lobe. It is evidently part of the same system of fibres with the fornix. Take away the corpus callosum, the grey matter of the internal convolution, the ventri- cular prominence of the optic thalamus, and all these commissures fall together and become united as one and the same series of longitu- dinal fibres. It is very remarkable how few fibres pass between the great mass of the cerebrum and the cerebellum. The processus cerebelli ad testes are the only fibres which can be regarded as forming commissures between these two seg- ments of the encephalon, and they are of the nature of longitudinal commissures. The transverse commissures are the corpus callosum, the anterior coynrnissure,the posterior commissure, the soft commissure. 1. The corpus callosum, so called according to some from the density of its tissue, is the great commissure of the lateral halves of the brain proper—commissura cerebri maxima of Soemmering. The fasciculated character of this structure is as obvious as that of any nerve in the body, and the direction of the fibres is clearly from one hemisphere to the other. From the description already given of the corpus callosum, it is evident that its fibres sink into the white substance of each hemisphere above the level of the corpora striata, as well as into that of the anterior and of the posterior lobes. By its principal or horizontal portion it connects the white matter of the lesser cen- trum ovale of each side, and by the fibres which form the anterior and posterior reflexions it connects the anterior and posterior lobes. It needs only a very superficial dissection to ascer- tain thus much. To determine the precise fibres with which those of the corpus callosum are continuous, and the relation which they bear to the lateral ventricles, demands a much more minute dis- section. This must be done, according to the directions of Foville, who has given a most elaborate description of this commissure, by carefully separating it in the transverse direc- tion from the internal convolution, on a har- dened brain. Pursuing the dissection in this direction, it may be detached from the sub- stance of the hemispheres as far outwards as the external border of the corpus callosum and optic thalamus. Along this edge the fibres curve downwards and inwards, and appear to become continuous with some of those which radiate from those bodies. The anterior and posterior fibres enclose the anterior and pos- terior horns of the lateral ventricles in radi- ating forwards and backwards from the corpora striata and optic thalami to those parts of these cavities. This view of the connections of the corpus callosum would indicate it to be a commissure between the thalami and corpora striata, or between the crura cerebri, as Tiedemann sup- posed, rather than between the hemispheres. Nothing is more difficult than the dissection of the fibres of the corpus callosum beyond the internal convolution: and it cannot be regarded as in any degree certain that the con- nections of its fibres are limited to those above described. The developement of the corpus callosum in the foetus, prior to that of the hemispheres or convolutions, is favourable to the view of its connections maintained by Tiedemann and Foville. Comparative anatomy is, however, more in accordance with the opinions of Gall and Reil, that it is a commissure be- tween the convolutions of opposite sides. It exists only in those animals in which convo- lutions are amply developed. In Fish, Reptiles, and Birds it is absent, and the Mammalia with least perfect brains, as the Rodents and Mar- supialia. The corpus callosum is a stratum of con- siderable thickness. Its fibres are situate on different planes, which interlace with each other so much as to render it impossible to separate any layer for any distance, and the difficulty is much increased as the fibres are nearer the white mass of the hemispheres. 2. The anterior commissure may be regarded as truly a bond of connection between the hemispheres, as well as between the corpora striata. It is a cylindrical cord of fibrous matter, very definite in its course and con- nections, and easily traced throughout its entiie extent. Its situation in front of the anterior pillars of the fornix has been already described. If followed on either side from this central portion, it may be traced through the grey matter of the anterior and inferior portion of each corpus striatum into the fibrous matter of each middle lobe of the brain. Its course is curved with convexity directed forwards. As it passes outwards on each side it becomes flattened, and after it has traversed each corpus striatum, it expands considerably and its fibres