MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 49-t motory nerves are almost exclusively found here. The tubules of the sympathetic nerves are chiefly given to the proper mucous mem- branes and to the glands. All these will be considered more at length under other heads, and they are therefore only referred to here. Of the areolar tissue.—Before describing the remarkable varieties presented by this tissue under different parts of the mucous system, I must advert to its constitution in those situations where its ordinary characters are well marked—as in subcutaneous fascia, in muscle, on the exterior of the pharynx, &c. Singular as it may appear, there is no correct account of this structure in any of the works on minute anatomy. It in truth consists of two tissues, distinct from each other, and respec- tively allied to the white and to the yellow fibrous tissues. The white fibrous element of areolar tissue is chiefly in the form of bands of very unequal thickness, in which are to be seen numerous streaks taking the general direc- tion of the whole, but not parallel to the border, nor continuous from end to end. These streaks more resemble the creases of a longitudinal folding than intervals between separate fibrilla;, for which they have been mistaken. These bands split up without difficulty in the long- direction, whence result fibrils of the most va- ried width, the finest being far too minute for measurement, even with the best instruments.* These bands interlace and cross one another in various directions, and their natural course is wavy. They frequently subdivide and join those near them. Besides these bands, com- monly called fasciculi, there are some finer filaments of the utmost tenuity which seem to take an uncertain course among the rest. The yellow fibrous element is everywhere in the form of solitary fibrillae, which correspond in their essential characters with the tissue of that name. They are disposed to curl, and are truly branched at intervals of variable length ; these branches (which usually retain the size of the fibril from which they spring) becoming- continuous with others in the neighbourhood. They have higher refractive properties than the white element, and their borders are conse- quently darker. It is easy to overlook this twofold compo- sition of areolar tissue in specimens examined in water, but their discrimination is made easy by a trifling artifice. This consists in adding a drop of acetic acid, which instantly swells the white bands, and makes them transparent, but produces no change in the yellow fibrils. These effects of the acid may be watched, if the agent be made to spread gradually over the specimen ; and there can scarcely be conceived a more beautiful example of the aid chemistry will afford anatomy than that presented in the course of this interesting process.f The change * The fibrillae of true white fibrous tissue are almost precisely similar, and, as I believe, are only produced by the observer himself in opening out his specimen for inspection. t In the case of the dartos, this procedure de- tects not only what has just been described, but a third element, hitherto in this situation quite con- produced in the white bands is such as to shew very clearly that they are not truly fasciculi, or aggregations of fibrillse. The action of the acid on these two elements is identical with that produced on the two tissues to which I have shewn them to be anatomically allied. To these two elements of areolar tissue are to be attributed physical properties similar to those of white and yellow fibrous tissues, and these will vary greatly in different situations, accord- ing to the proportion and mode of arrangement under which the two elements coexist. Of the areolar tissue of glands.—There appears to be a very prevalent misconception with regard to the quantity of this tissue found in the interior of the large glands, as the liver and kidney. It is imagined that it pene- trutes into every interstice, mingles with the capillary rete, and envelopes the ultimate secreting tubules. It is, however, impossible in the most recent specimen of these organs to discover anything answering to this descrip- tion. All that can usually be detected is a small quantity accompanying the larger vessels in their course within the organ, and forming septa between its coarse subdivisions. And it would be difficult to suppose a purpose which a more abundant supply could subserve. The ca- pillary network and the secreting tubules by their mutual and intricate interlacement sufficiently sustain one another; no freedom of motion is required between them ; there is no force tending to separate them. I am far from saying, however, that the ultimate substance of these glands consists only of simple mucous membrane and bloodvessels. In the inter- stices of these there are probably nerves and lymphatics, of the mode of termination of which we know nothing, but which seem much fewer than is commonly supposed. There is also more or less of an interstitial amorphous substance, hereafter to be described. In these glands and in the substance of many compound mucous membranes there are to be seen here and there small bodies not unlike cellular tissue in an early stage of its development. They have a bulging nucleus from which they taper to the extremities; and they are much longer and slenderer than the prismatic epithelium. With their nature and use I am at present quite unacquainted. The lungs seem mainly to owe their extraordi- nary elasticity to the yellow fibrous element of their submucous areolar tissue. This is spread in great abundance under the whole surface, and much predominates over the white. In the trachea and bronchia it is besides largely deve- loped in longitudinal bands visible through the mucous membrane. In the whole of this re- gion its fibrils take a general longitudinal direc- tion, but branch and inosculate at very frequent intervals, enclosing areolae of small dimensions. But this element does not cease with the tubes; it is prolonged in the form of branching, arching bands over the basement membrane of the air- cells, which it renders elastic and fii mly supports. founded with areolar tissue. This is non-striated muscle, at once known by its being loaded wilh corpuscles, or persistent cell-nuclei. See Mosci.E,