MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 485 ally gaining ground, that all the glands fur- nished with excretory ducts have a very close relation to the former, in which their ducts for the most part open. Still, it does not appear that the proofs of this alliance have been hi- therto, by any author, deemed sufficient to in- duce him to blend these several parts under a description common to them all. Even Midler, in whose philosophical work on the glands is contained so much new and important evidence of this relation, continues thus to sever them in the late edition of his Physiology. But, in- deed, although much weight is to be granted to the arguments drawn from continuity and occasional convertibility of structure, course of developement, rough analogies of composition or of function, and sympathies under disease, it must be allowed that hitherto that most im- portant of all proofs has been all but wanting, which, as I shall endeavour to show, is capable of being derived from minute anatomical ana- lysis. The researches which I have hitherto been able to make on this subject are still so incom- plete, that I should have gladly delayed their publication for some time longer, had the pro- gress of this work admitted of it. As it is, I shall state the conclusions to which I have been led, and the grounds they rest upon, (pointing out, as far as possible, where farther examination is demanded,) with the hope of thereby giving a clearer and more satisfactory view of the structure and relations of this im- portant class of tissues than could be otherwise accomplished. I shall point out that the skin, mucous mem- branes, and secreting glands, consist of certain elements, which the anatomist may detect and discriminate, some of which are essential to their tissue, others appended or superadded,— and that the broad characteristic distinctions between these structures, appreciable to ordi- nary sense, as well as the innumerable grada- tions by which they every where blend insensi- bly with one another, are solely due to various degrees and kinds of modifications wrought in the form, quantity, and properties of these re- spective elementary parts. The skin is the outer tegument of the body ; the mucous membranes form its internal invest- ment, and are continuous with the skin. The ducts of all glands are continuous either with skin or mucous membrane, and their true secreting portion, as already described, (see Gland,) is merely a further prolongation of the same tissue. These offsets, like the great mucous tracts, are in the direction of the inte- rior of the body ; they form follicles and tubes of infinite variety, and, however complicated, may still be regarded, in a certain sense, as ex- ternal to all other textures. Thus the mucous system may be described as a great and un- interrupted membrane, every where perfectly closed, in which the rest of the animal, or the parenchyma, is enclosed. This membrane has two surfaces, the one free, superficial or exter- nal, the other attached, deep, or parenchymal. It is on the parenchymal surface that the ap- pended structures (viz. blood- and lymphatic vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue) are found in more or less profusion. The functions of the mucous system, nume- rous and diversified as they are, all bear a dis- tinct reference to its really external anatomical position, and by this circumstance they are associated together: the principal are sensation, absorption, secretion, excretion, and defence of the parts lined by it against the contact of foreign bodies. A glance at the opinions that have prevailed concerning the structure and relations of the mucous membranes, will exemplify, mote clearly perhaps than any other course, how imperfect have been the means employed, until a very recent period, in researches into minute or structural anatomy. The distribution of their bloodvessels had indeed been studied with brilliant success by Ruysch, Lieberkiihn, and others, by the aid of injections, the admirable delicacy of which no modern art has surpassed; and somewhat of their extensive connexions, general properties, and even of their texture, had been divined from rough dissection, mace- ration, and observations on the mode of their developement and on their morbid states. But the ignorance that really prevailed, as to their intimate structure, is abundantly evinced by the number of disputed questions, the absence of precision of detail, and the substitution of loose and unwarranted analogies in its stead. Within the last five years discoveries have been made which throw a new and most important light on the whole subject, and when viewed in con- nection with one another, must be considered to have greatly simplified our knowledge re- specting it. These discoveries, due chiefly to Boehm, Boyd, and Iienle, result from exami- nations of recent specimens with the micro- scope, and those of the last observer, which are especially valuable, were made with high pow- ers employed upon a single tissue (the epithe- lium) in different forms and situations. It is this kind of research that promises the most enlarged and trustworthy results to any one who will follow it in a spirit of due caution against hasty generalization, and which has already done so much in the present day to- wards a complete remodelling of our ideas, both concerning the elements of organization and their union to form compound tissues. Before proceeding to a description of the anatomical elements of the mucous system, it is necessary to premise that a great portion of the membranes, usually termed mucous, are glands of a complicated structure, arranged in a membranous form, consisting of a closely packed mass of secreting tubules, which open on the general surface, and are essentially invo- lutions of it. The bloodvessels and other ap- pended tissues occupy the intervals of these tubules, and so approach the surface; but, ne- vertheless, they always remain on the deep or parenchymal aspect of the mucous tissue. So, the same membranes present projections, which are nothing more than hollow evolutions of the same mucous tissue, into which the appended tissues are extended. The same remarks apply strictly to many regions of the skin. Hence it