171 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. papillae that is to be attributed the facility with which Soemmering and other anatomists in- jected the ducts from the arteries and veins, and not to any direct communication between the vessels and the ducts." The mucous lining of the ducts is provided with a considerable number of muciparous follicles which mingle their secretion with the bile during its passage along the excretory tubes. These follicles have been described by all anatomists as existing in the larger ducts, but they were not known to be present in the smaller branches until they were discovered and figured by Kiernan. In the larger ducts they are irregularly dispersed, but in the smaller tubes are found arranged in two longitudinal rows upon opposite sides of the ducts. Hence the vascularity of the hepatic ducts is intended to perform a higher function than the mere nutrition of those tubes; it provides an im- portant secretion as an auxiliary to the compo- sition of the bile. The hepatic artery arises from the cceliac axis and ascends through the right border of the lesser omentum to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it bifurcates into two branches for the right and left lobes. The right and left hepatic arteries ramify in the portal canals, and give off branches which accompany each twig of the portal vein and hepatic duct. Their branches, like those of the vein and duct, are the vaginal, the interlobular, and the lobular. The vaginal arteries arise from the hepatic arteries in the portal canals, and assist in form- ing the vaginal plexus in the capsule of Glisson, from which the interlobular branches are given off to accompany the interlobular portal veins and ducts. In the larger canals the plexus completely surrounds the portal vessels, but in the smaller canals the plexus is situated only on the side opposite to the cylinder of the artery, and in the tissue of Glisson's capsule. This vaginal plexus has the effect of supplying the lobules which are the most distant from the vessel to which they belong, as certainly, as those which are in immediate contact with its cylin- der. The vaginal arteries anastomose so freely with each other, that if the hepatic artery of one side be injected, the injection will return by that of the opposite side. The interlobular arteries enter the intervals of the lobules through the interlobular spaces and ramify upon the capsular surface of the lobules. They are distributed principally to the interlobular ducts, around which they form a vascular net-work. The question of the inosculation of these vessels is very difficult to decide by dissection on account of their ex- treme minuteness; but analogy would lead us to infer that they must communicate. The lobular arteries, " exceedinuly minute and few in number," so as to be demonstrable with much difficulty in the structure of the lo- bules, enter the circumference of these bodies with the lobular ducts upon which they are distributed. They are the nutrient vessels of the lobules, and terminate in the lobular venous plexus formed by the portal vein. The mode of distribution of the hepatic ar- tery is a subject upon which some difference of opinion subsists between Miiller and Kier- nan. Kiernan states that the hepatic artery is distributed chiefly upon the coats of the ducts and gall-bladder, upon the coats of the other vessels to which it forms the vasa vasorum, and to the substance of the lobules. The ducts are highly vascular, and are abundantly supplied, the lobules sparingly, but " few" vessels, and those " exceedingly minute," being traceable into them. From the capillaries of the ducts and vessels, the blood having become venous during its circulation is returned into the portal vein, and thence conveyed onwards to the lo- bules, where it is distributed through the lobular venous plexus. The blood of the terminal lobular arteries also becomes venous in the substance of the lobules, and is likewise poured into the lobular venous plexus. So that, ac- cording to this author, the whole of the blood distributed through the hepatic artery is re- ceived by the portal vein, either in the course of that vessel, or at its termination in the lo- bular venous plexus, and therefore, that all the blood circulating through the plexus must ne- cessarily be venous. He likewise affirms that no part of the blood of the artery is poured directly into the hepatic vein. "The intra- lobular veins," he says, " convey the blood from the lobular venous plexus, and not from the arteries." These views are the results of the evidence of numerous experimental injec- tions. With regard to the vascularity of the lobules, he observes, " These bodies cannot be coloured with injection from the artery, even in the young subject; in the adult, after the most successful injection, when the arteries of the cellular capsule, those of the excreting ducts and gall-bladder, and the vasa vasorum are mi- nutely injected, a few injected vessels only are detected entering the lobules. I have fre- quently tied the thoracic aorta in living animals, thereby cutting off all supply of blood from the abdominal viscera ; and in these animals, when injected from the aorta below the ligature forty-eight hours after death, the integuments, the secreting; portions of the kidneys, the spleen, pancreas, intestines, and pelvic viscera were co- loured in a remarkable degree by the injection ; on the surface of the liver a few vessels only could be discovered, this organ presenting a curious contrast with the surrounding coloured viscera. The gall-bladder and ducts were, how- ever, equally well injected with the intestines ; the vasa vasorum were also well injected." Perceiving in the progress of his experiments that the injection thrown into the artery passed freely into the portal vein by means of the ca- pillary communication existing between these two vessels on the coats of the ducts, and through the vasa vasorum of the vessels, he imagined that the injected fluid might in this way be diverted from the lobules, and that this must be the cause of his want of success in filling the lobular arteries. To ascertain if such were the case, he injected the portal vein in the first instance with blue, and then the arteries with red. " On dissection, branches of the two sets of vessels were found in the coats of the