WHAT TO EAT AND WHY s by the teeth. But it is probable that the teeth benefit greatly by this work. As we can sec in our museums, the people of the Stone’Age had lar better teeth than we ; but they had no mills, they simply crushed the wheat between two stones. Nowadays we have to go to uncivilised races to find good teeth. It is probably our modern mills and our modern cookery that ruin our teeth and our health generally. Under the heading of bread must be classed all kinds of BISCUITS. Some pastries—cakes, rusks, etc., etc.—can quite take the place of bread; they are even better, because they must be more thoroughly masticated than bread in order to soften and swallow them ; but, as a rule, they are more expensive. Soft, greasy, and very sweet cakes are not advisable. First, because they require very little chewing and they are too rich ; secondly, because sweet things eaten in too large a quantity spoil both appetite and the taste. Moreover, we expose ourselves to a danger of which we shall speak when we discuss the question of SUGAR. Sugar is not a natural, but a manufactured product which man has learnt to extract from various plants. The employment, on a large scale, of chemically pure produqts is, however, always a rather question- able proceeding, as they lack the salts that are found in natural products. These salts of potassium, sodium, lime, magnesia and iron are as necessary to us as protein, fat and carbohydrates. This has not been until lately taken enough into consideration. I have no intention to advise my fellow men to abstain entirely from eating sugar, all I want to point out is the danger of eating too much of it. For those who are fond of sweet things there are plenty of sweet fruits which contain a proper amount of salts and are far superior to sugar, sweet pastries and cakes. It is a well-known fact that sugar spoils the teeth, and this might be attributed to sweet food containing too little lime. If, besides sugar, people eat much fine bread and meat, two products lacking lime, the result is that the organs, unable to find the necessary lime in the food, take it where they can find it, i.c., from the teeth. Hence the conclusion that sugar must be used in a limited quantity. Honey would be preferable were it not expensive. By the way, it is not only salts which are lacking in fine flour and sugar. The next group, from Nos. 39 to 47, include the FAT PRODUCTS. BUTTER holds the first place amongst fat substances, but the price of it is somewhat high. A’et, in proportion to the amount of nourishment contained, the price of it is not as expensive as one would think at the first glance. Two and a quarter lbs. (1 kilo) of butter gives 8,000 calories, against 1,000 furnished by the same weight of lean meat, and good meat is very nearly the same price as butter. Let us see how much it costs to cat butter with our bread. Supposing