WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 22 Wednesday.—Egg Gruel (6) with Syrup and Water, Stewed Spinach (75) with Potato Sautée (62). Thursday ■ Potato and Onion Soup (53), Rhubarb Cake (j 54). Friday.—Italian Beans (88) with Potatoes, Potato Omelet (171). Saturday. Potato Ring, II. (99) with Tomato Sauce (207), Rhubarb Fool (31). V. EXAMPLES OF DINNERS WITH THREE COURSES. 1. Vegetable Dish (Leeks, Carrots, Cauliflower and Potatoes) with creamed Butter, Potato Chops with Meat (173)' with Potatoes and Cucumber Sauce (216), Apple Gruel (38). 2. Tomato Soup (27), Mock Hare (195), with browned Potatoes, Apple Cake, II. (152), with whipped Cream. 3- . Cauliflower au Gratin (106) with melted Butter, Mock Turtle (197) with Puff-paste Squares, Stewed Rhubarb (33). 4- Herb Soup (47), Miroton (182), Rice Ring with whipped Cream and Stewed Prunes (145). I must refer those who believe that they could not adapt them- selves to my menus to their former way of cooking, yet it is quite possible that they might profit by a careful study of this book. They may perhaps see their way to introduce some of my recipes in place of some of their accustomed meat dishes. People must acquire the conviction that meat is not only unnecessary but it is an expensive item of food ; we eat it only on account of its taste. Bread porridge, fruit, roots, are preferable to meat, and it is evident that people ought to eat less meat and more potatoes and bread, and begin their meals with a large proportion of porridge. This gives us a good and a proper start. It will also be noticed that with the belief of the strengthening properties of meat, the taste for it will gradually decline: thus, one comes at last to realise that the fare of the peasantry, in which flesh is superseded by potatoes, is more healthy. As a boy I was taught by my father that gluttony and drunkenness were hateful sins, and that too much flesh eating belonged to the former. This moral aspect of the question is nowadays totally disregarded. No one is ashamed of entering a restaurant and eating £- lb. of meat with a very small quantity of potatoes and a thin slice of bread. Yet few would like to be seen taking only broth and potatoes with sauce. I am returning to the moral principles of my childhood, and I feel grieved when I see boys and youths revelling in meat; I hold it to be immoral to teach them such gluttony, for which they may have to pay dearly in many ways. And here again—just as with alcohol—it is science which has, unfortunately, confused people’s moral ideas.