24 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY is, without doubt, potato salad. Of course the potatoes must be good and the salad well prepared ; so much depends on little details. For instance, cold potatoes must be used even for the preparation of hot salads ; so that the potatoes are cooked in greater quantity at dinner or some are boiled immediately after dinner, so that they may have time to get cold for supper. The two purées (Nos. 241 and 242) are specially good for those who have bad teeth or weak digestion. The three following salads, vegetable, beetroot, macaroni (Nos. 237 to 239), are also very good. But you cannot eat them day after day as you can the former ; for it is difficult to make a meal of them, and you soon get tired of those salads. Lentil patty (No. 241) and Liver patty (No 242) can be spread on bread and butter Stewed gooseberries and currant jam are also very good. Besides the above supper dishes, a number of others are to be found under the heading of Boiled or Fried Vegetables (Nos. 57 to 111), and are particularly good for the evening meals. Plain boiled vegetables such as beans, cauliflower, savoy, white cabbage and sprouts are very good with or without butter. But what I should recommend above all is hot boiled carrots, eaten either with or without a little butter put on each slice of carrot. We must not forget hot potatoes eaten with cold butter. Cold potatoes left over from dinner, sliced on bread and butter, and served with salt, are more tasty than one thinks. Honey, marmalade or stewed fruits are a good addition to bread and butter. Ripe tomatoes, sliced and sprinkled either with salt or sugar, and radishes are also good. Cheese cut verjr thin and used to make sandwiches can be recommended. Or whey may take the place of cheese. As a supper drink, those who are not satisfied with water can take a glass of milk or a cup of weak tea. If no animal food (meat or eggs) is taken, I should advise milk. In my opinion it is the easiest thing to provide a variety of dishes for supper, even when no meat is served, and it is very doubtful whether one ought not to be satisfied at mid-day with a similar fare, composed mainly of bread and butter with the addition of some kind of broth, gruel or soup. We tried it successfully in our house. By means of tlie various kinds of bread : wheat bread, white bread, rolls, large biscuits, or cinnamon bread, cakes (Wholemeal Biscuits, No. 254), a large variety can be obtained. RECIPES, MEASURES AND WEIGHTS In the following recipes measures are given in quarts, and weights in grains or ounces. As I said before, it is most important in cooking to keep to the proper quantity, and a good housekeeper must not fail to use scales in the kitchen. As it is not always possible to weigh exactly very small quantities, I have given them not only in grains but also in spoonfuls (level or heaped), tea and tablespoonfuls. Before following my instructions the cook will do well to ascertain whether her spoons hold the right quantity, such as is given in the recipes. Below I give a few instances of weights which are to be understood as spoonfuls in the recipes. Every ingredient in the table is in the form of powder.