105 COOKERY RECIPES Knead together Hour, 1 oz. margarine, sugar, and the yeast stirred with sugar and some milk. Beat it well until it becomes a soft, spongy dough. Then roll out; cut the remainder of the margarine into small pieces, lay them over half the dough and put the other half over it. Roll out again, fold over, and repeat three times. The last time, the dough must be rolled out as evenly and as smoothly as possible. Shape it into rolls and various forms, and set to rise. Then bake a light colour in a hot oven. When baked, wash over with water, and sugar to glaze. A finer kind of Vienna bread can be obtained by using a larger quantity of margarine. In that case ยฃ hour must be allowed between each time the dough is rolled. Vienna bread can also be glazed before baking with an egg, and almonds and sugar spread on the top. Mix the flour with 1 oz. margarine, the milk, yeast and sugar. Knead well together so as to have a light dough, but be careful not to set to rise in a hot place. Then flour a pastry board and roll out the dough. Add the remainder of the margarine in small pieces on half the dough, fold over the other half, and roll; repeat thrice. The fourth time the dough must be rolled out 8 to 10 inches long, spread over it some stewed prunes or apple, or any kind of jam, and shape as a wreath and put on a tin to rise ; mark with a knife, sprinkle with sugar and almonds, and bake for | hour in a moderate oven. When rolling out the dough be careful to have the board and the rolling-pin well floured fhe dough can be prepared the night before, when 1 oz. of veast wili be sufficient to each 1 lb. of flour. 256. VIENNA TWIST. I. 1 lb. 4 oz. (20 large tablespoonfuls) Flour 6 oz. Margarine .... ยง pint (if glasses) Skimmed Milk 3 V oz. (31 tablespoonfuls) Sugar 2 oz. Yeast ..... 4 oz. Stewed Prunes 1 1 257. VIENNA TWIST. II. 1 k lbs. (24 large tablespoonfuls) Flour 6 oz. Margarine .... 3 oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . 2 oz. Vreast .... 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk 3J- oz. Sultanas d. 3 i i