3 WHAT DO WE REQUIRE AS NUTRITION? 20 per cent, of which is albumen ; the rest is simply water. Flour contains on the average about io per cent, of albumen and 60 pei cent, of starch ; potatoes contain 2 per cent, of albumen and 20 per cent, of starch Fat is to be found in almost pure form in pork fat, goose fat, butter, margarine, and in vegetable fats such as palmin and other similar substances. Carbohydrate is a common designation for starch and sugar. It is easy for us to reckon how many calories we absorb in our food if we know its chemical composition, for 1 gramme (or 15332 grains) of protein contains 4-1 calories ; the same quantity of starch or glucose gives 4-1 calories and an equal weight of fat, 93 calories. It is to be noticed that protein and starch are equally rich in calories, but there is a great difference in the price of them—in order to obtain 1 lb. of protein, 5 lbs. of thoroughly good lean meat are required, and at is. a lb. it comes to 5s. In many places meat is still dearer. From ijt lb. potato meal, 1 lb. of starch can be extracted, and it costs only id. One lb. of sugar costs i\d., and the same number of calories can be obtained from a little over 7 oz. of pure lard, the price of which varies between 3d. and 4d. Therefore the calories in animal protein are about twenty times dearer than those of vegetable food. Why should we not then live on potato-flour, sugar, and fat ? This, however, will not do. Our body, being essentially built of albumen, some of this must be replaced by our food. But how much ? That is the question. Until now it has been agreed that from one-sixth to one-fifth of our food ought to consist of albumen, and the amount necessary to a grown-up working man to be about J lb. of albumen, about 2 oz. of fat and over 1 lb. of carbohydrates, i.e., 3,000 calories per day. Such are the lowest limits of calories required, yet many men consume a far greater quantity of protein in the present way of living. To this I object; we do not require such a large quantity of protein. 1 maintain that, far from requiring 4 oz. of protein, we can do with 2 oz. ; and if one-tenth of our food consists of protein this is more than sufficient. There was a belief that protein contained in cereals was more difficult to digest than animal protein, and that it was therefore wise to consume half of each, and that meat, milk, and eggs should rank first. I believe I have established that such conclusions rest on false notions, for vegetable protein is as easily digested as animal protein. For the scientific confirmation of these statements I must refer to my book Protein and Nutrition. (London : Ewari, Seymour & Co., Ltd., Windsor House, Kingsway, W.C.) The problem is, therefore, to arrange our meals in such a way that we may absorb the quantity of protein, fat, and carbohydrates necessary to render our diet wholesome. J The fact that in my view by keeping to natural articles of food one cannot avoid getting sufficient protein, makes our choice a great deal easiei. Therefore, if you want to live cheaply, all you have to do is to try and get the raw material richest in calories. The housewife’s duty is to see that she buys good, cheap raw products, preparing- tastv dishes out of them. Should the calories prove too expensive in one commodity, cheaper and quite as nourishing ones can take their place By means of my table of foodstuffs (at the end of flic book) and a little trouble the housekeeper will soon find how to spend her monev to the best advantage. She will find there the approximate prices of most products, and she has only to calculate the difference of cost in the country or m town. e