5 HOW AND HOW much ought we to EAT ? However, even if people adopted the new system, course, be able to'dispense with the farmers. shape we take it must be directly or indirectly P^J^he tosers« mother earth. It is questionable whether farmers would be losers it the price of meat and milk were somewhat lower, provided that cereals, potatoes, and fruit rose higher, or at least remained at the level ; for does not the farmer spend an enormous amount of money in transforming vegetable products into animal ones . , . ,, tq If we reckon how much food an ox consumes from its birth until it is one year old and compare this quantity with the nutntaon contained in the meat and fat which the ox yields on being slaughtered, we shall find that it gives us back about 5 percent, of what it has eaten. The other 95 per cent, has gone in keeping up its bodily warmth dun g the vear. This does not seem to be good economy. After all, one would think it was quite unnecessary for me to teac Englishmen how to live healthily and cheaply- they have the best instructors in their own country. We have read a great deal lately about the miserable lot of the English rural labourer. We are tola that he only earns about two shillings a day and has to find his own food. That this does not give more than qd. a day for feeding each member of the family is obvious, and yet the rural labourers appear to be by far the healthiest section of the population. Their mortality is 38 per cent, below the average, and the mortality from diseases oi nutrition (diseases of the kidneys, hver and digestive system, diabetes and gout) is three or four times higher among the well-to-do, high- living classes in England than among the rural labourers. (See Protein and Nutrition, p. 176.) One would think that this fact alone, taken from official English statistics of mortality, would be enough to open men’s eyes. Are poverty and misery really the only means of persuading people to live rationally ? III. HOW AND HOW MUCH OUGHT WE TO EAT ? Some vegetarians maintain that we ought only to eat raw foods, all boiling, baking and roasting being unnatural and only diminishing the nutritive value of the foods. There is a certain amount of sense in this. It may be evinced with perfect legitimacy that the more “ civilisation ” advances, with its accompanying refinement of the art of cookery, the worse do people’s teeth become. But we must admit that in civilised regions of the temperate zones it is not practically possible for every man to go out into the woods and pick all the nuts, dates, bread-fruit, bananas and so on that he wants. To exclude bread from our diet would be senseless; but out of regard for our teeth we ought at least to select a bread as coarse and as hard as possible. The hardness of bread and its dryness result in its being not only masticated, but at the same time mixed with saliva. One cannot lay too much stress on this fact, that saliva is the best of fluids to dissolve bread. It is a very bad habit to soak bread in coffee or in soup before eating it. The after-effects have been proved by the following experiment: Biscuit was chewed in the usual way, then it was swallowed ; again, biscuit was crushed ; this powder was mixed with water and the compound drunk without having been masticated. An analysis of the contents of the stomach showed that in the first instance there was four times as much sugar