MENUS x7 butter, chew it and try to keep it in your mouth as long as possible. Gradually the piece of bread or biscuit will become so finely divided that it will go down of its own accord. If you do this until your feeling of hunger is stilled, you will find yourself fit, well, and ready for your work. On the other hand, if you consume a heavy beefsteak and eggs without troubling about mastication, you will feel sleepy and unfit for work. It seems that one can keep in the best of health and strength for a long period by eating exclusively bread, butter, potatoes, or other similar cheap products (oatmeal, palmine, dried fruit, etc.). Even for people who have no desire for such a simple life, it would be good to live at least one day a week on such fare. For some it may be difficult. But if the entire household alter their way of living, then it becomes an easy matter. At any rate, if nothing else is put before you, simple dishes taste as good as expensive ones. This has been proved many a time. ‘' Variety is necessary,’’ some will say. But how many know that the more refined and unnatural the food, the more variety is necessary. One could not eat a steak every day, whilst you can eat for a whole year bread, potatoes, and fruit, and not tire of them. Does this not prove that the latter fare is the more natural ? If one can procure good potatoes—and this is indispensable if one would follow Dr. Hindhede’s system—potatoes eaten with sauce or with butter constitute a tasty dish. In Denmark a variety of sauces exist: Danish people are fond of them. Yet they are economical in practice ; they can be eaten with bread and potatoes, and therefore save people from buying expensive meat. That is why bread and potatoes are served with every meal, and it must not be forgotten that coarse bread must be preferred to white bread. The latter is a too one-sided food, which is suitable only as an adjunct to other food, but not when it forms an important item of the meal. III. MENUS A. DINNER I. CHEAP MENUS OF ONE DISH. [Numbers in brackets after each dish show the number of the Recipe in the book). I. and II. contain the cheapest possible recipes. The idea is to show the poor man, who must needs live as cheaply as possible, how to do this and yet satisfy his hunger. Sunday.—Green Cabbage Soup (45) or White Cabbage Soup (48) Bread and Potatoes. Monday.—Stewed Potatoes (71) with Bread. Tuesday.—Boiled Rice (1) with Butter, Sugar, Cinnamon and Milk. Wednesday.—Pea Soup (43), Bread and Potatoes. Thursday. Potatoes with Parsley Sauce, I. (201) or Onion Sauce (210I or Potatoes with Fried Onions (61). Friday.—Oatmeal Porridge (13) with Butter, Sugar and Milk Saturday.—Stewed Carrots (69 and 70).