32 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY When it gets thick strain through a sieve, put it again on the fire, and add sugar. Those who like it can add milk. Instead of fresh rhubarb, rhubarb jam can be used. In this case the rhubarb is added to the soup when cooked. 25. BREAD SOUP. 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 14 oz. Stale Bread .... 2^- oz. (2J- tablespoonfuls) Sugar d. b For 6 persons. 2 Cut up and soak the bread on the previous night in 1 quart water, add the rest of the water when you cook it, then let it boil until the bread forms a pap, add sugar and the soup is ready. Should you use a cooking-box the bread will have to be soaked in the forenoon, brought to the boil at night, and left for the whole night in the cooking-box ; then it will have to be warmed again in the morning until it thickens ; should there be any lumps of bread, break them with a spoon. This is a very cheap dish and most suitable for children’s breakfast, eaten with milk, bread and butter, it is not only a tasty but a wholesome and cheap breakfast. 26. OATMEAL SOUP. 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 3 oz. (3 large tablespoonfuls) Oatmeal 1 glass Fruit Syrup 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . d. b For 6 persons. Soak the oatmeal the night before, boil it for 2 hours, strain and sweeten with fruit syrup and sugar to taste. Add a little salt if it is desired to reduce the sweetness. Serve with small rusks. Oatmeal can be replaced by oaten flour, which takes a shorter time to cook. The quantity of sugar to be added depends, of course, entirely on the kind of syrup used. We should advise elderberry and rhubarb syrup (No. 224). Healthy people will, perhaps, require a somewhat stronger taste ; for them 5 oz. fruit syiup and 2b oz. sugar may be recommended. Very weak stomachs would prefer pure elderberry or black currant juice. 27.* TOMATO SOUP. d. 2 pints (4 glasses) Water. 16 oz. Ripe Tomatoes . • • • • 2 (Or 1 pint (2 glasses) Tomato Purée.) 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . 2 oz. Margarine ..•••• i Pot Herbs and Salt . • • • • 1 For 6 persons. 4 Slice the tomatoes, put them in a saucepan with salt and water When this comes to the boil add some pot herbs and cook until t e