WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 5S Soak and boil the lentils, strain, and mash with the onions and apples. Fresh apples have to be peeled and cored, dried ones must first be soaked. Then put the mixture on the fire with as much of the lentil and apple liquor as will form a thin gruel. Season with salt, pepper and lemon juice ; add palmine and serve with baked potatoes. 109. STUFFED WHITE CABBAGE. 2 lbs. White Cabbage ..... 2i oz. Rusks ....... i Egg Salt and Nutmeg to taste . . . . ) £ oz. Onion . . . . . . . j I pint (1 glass) Skimmed Milk d. 2 1 1 I i For 6 persons. 5 Remove the outer leaves of a good hard white cabbage, cut off the top of it, to be used as a hd, hollow the cabbage and fill with the stuffing. This is composed of plain, unsweetened rusks, broken up and mixed with egg, onion, spices, and milk. Do not make too stiff a stuffing. Fill the cabbage with it, put back the top, tie it up in some of the large outer leaves and boil for 2 or hours. Stuffed cabbage is excellent if prepared the day before, then sliced and fried in palmine. Serve with browned butter or butter sauce. Lentil Stuffing (No. 89) can also be used for this as well as for the next recipe. Stuffing (No. 174) will appeal more to most people. no. FRIED STUFFED CELERY ROOT. ii lbs. Celery Root 2 oz. Rusks . pint (j,- glass) Skimmed Milk I oz. Onion and Salt 1 Egg .... 2 oz. Palmme d. 3 a 1 a 4 For 6 persons. 6 Peel the celery root and partly boil in salt water ; then cut off the top for a lid and make a hole in the centre of the root for the stuffing. After putting in the stuffing tie on the lid with cotton and finish boiling. The stuffing is made of broken-up rusks, finely-chopped onion, and milk. It must be thin enough to be poured into the celery root. Should there be any stuffing left over, mix it with the celery which has been taken out, enclose in a bag and boil with the rest. This dish is improved by cutting the stuffed roots into slices and frying them in palmine. Serve with Butter Sauce (No. 204) and plenty of potatoes. If preferred, mixed stuffing (No. 174) can be used instead of vege- tarian stuffing. 111. GULASCH. For this use up cold fritters or forcemeat; cut in pieces and warm up in a brown sauce (No. 212 or No. 215). Serve with boiled macaroni or mashed potatoes.