10 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY loo rich food is also lacking in the necessary salts. Should one’s means be too small to enable one to buy butter, lard, margarine, cocoa- butter, palmine, etc., can be substituted. MARGARINE must be given the preference wherever the question of price has to be considered. It contains the same food value as butter, and especially vegetable margarine, with its low melting point and easily digestible fats, can in every respect replace butter, giving the same amount of nourishment for about one-third of the price. PALMINE is used principally in cooking, but some people like to spread it on bread. MILK (Nos. 48 to 51 on the list) is a foodstuff to which great interest is attached. Nobody can deny that in milk we find a natural article of food. We might say that it is the only one we can safely call natural, and this is why it is always mentioned as a food sufficient in itself for weakened constitutions. Let us first analyse cow’s milk. If most of the cream is left it contains about 3-5 per cent, of albumen, 37 per cent, of fat, and 4-9 per cent, of sugar. One quart of milk gives 144 calories through albumen and 544 through fat and sugar, and about one-fifth of the milk calories are provided by the albumen. The richness of milk in protein is at the base of the belief that we do require a great deal of protein. Yet an objection can be made. People forget that cow’s milk is not a natural food for man. If we take human milk we find it is composed of i-6 per cent, of albumen, 3-9 per cent, of fat, and 6-i per cent, of sugar, which is giving only one-tenth of the calories from albumen. This is the child’s natural food. Granted a full-grown man requires albumen in the same proportion, he would" need to absorb or 300 calories through albumen, which makes 2 oz. of protein. Is it not, then, evident that the amount of protein given as necessary according to the old standard is two and a half times too large ? It is obvious that a growing child must require comparatively more protein than a grown-up person. If, therefore, the former can be satisfied when one-tenth of its nourishment be protein, the grown-up person must certainly be able to do with a great deal less. The above remarks lead us to the conclusion that cow’s milk is not the natural food for man that it was believed to be. The albumen is far too great in proportion compared with the other substances, and the difference is still greater in skimmed milk, viz., in milk robbed of its fat. I know it is fighting against a strong conviction to speak of milk as I do. At the time when people believed in the necessity of a large amount of albumen, milk was proved to be an essential article of food ; therefore the public thought that one could never take too much of it, and this deep-rooted belief cannot easily be eradicated. Yet there are people who cannot digest milk either pure or in dishes, and who, on the contrary, prefer food containing water. Again, milk is a dangerous propagator of tuberculosis when it comes from cows suffering from this disease, and when it has not been pasteurised. Unfortunately, boiled milk is also not without its dangers, especially to children ; it is more difficult to digest than raw milk. It is not, then, without great reason that so many people dislike the taste of boiled milk, and no one should be compelled to drink it. BUTTERMILK (Nos. 52 to 54 on the list) is as healthy a beverage in itself as junket is a wholesome food. In Denmark, however, these articles of food are not always treated and