i6 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY nevertheless 1 maintain that few people know how to eat in the right way, because they have never given it a thought. As long as primitive men lived on raw, uncooked products, which often cost them great exertion to obtain, and which were hard to eat and required long mastication, feeding was not an art. But now that cooking has become so refined, teeth seem to be a luxury to such an extent that they decay at the age from ten to twenty for want of being sufficiently used, and eating has become a difficult art to learn. I would advise every housekeeper to hang above her dining-table a card printed in large type, giving the following advice :— “ DO NOT EAT IF YOU ARE NOT HUNGRY ! STOP EATING AS SOON AS YOUR APPETITE IS SATISFIED ! DO NOT TALK WHILE EATING ! KEEP ON CHEWING ! EAT BREAD AND POTATOES ! ” Many people do not know what it means to be hungry. How seldom do you hear a man say that he is hungry—except, of course, in the very poor classes—and how many, on the contrary, complain frequently of the loss of appetite ! Ought we to laugh or to weep when we see people go to the doctor asking him to prescribe a tonic to give them an appetite ? This lack of appetite is Nature’s only weapon against over-eating, which kills energy, relaxes the capacity for work, and finally ruins not only the digestive organs but the whole of the organism. People endeavour to deprive Nature of her weapons by bringing more refinement in their cookery, and, failing such means, by making use of all kinds of “ appetisers.” Is it to be wondered at that under such treatments both stomach and bowels end by revolting ? Still, the man is lucky whose stomach kicks in time. A stomach that can digest anything brings its owner to an early grave. People must therefore make it a stringent rule never to eat unless they are hungry. But appetite is often mistaken for hunger. A desire to eat whatever dish looks appetising is not a sign of hunger. Anybody who with good appetite can eat a piece of dry bread very slightly buttered is certainly hungry, and to acquire such an appetite is the easiest thing in the world. It is sufficient to wait until it comes of its own accord. It may be half or a whole day, perhaps several days in coming. Fasting is a good old custom which we have lost, unfortunately. It is often most useful, and seldom or never hurts anyone.* Of course there are exceptions to the rule. If, however, appetite fails to show itself after that time, it is well to try a two hours early walk : this will certainly prove beneficial. THOROUGH MASTICATION is very important. Take the trouble for two days to study mastication. In order to do this, wait until you are thoroughly hungry, then take a piece of bread or a biscuit—the harder the better—with very little * I speak here of healthy people, who through loss of appetite may pa'S for being ill. Many patients whom first-class doctors had treated in vain according to the old method, began to recover after eating sparingly or after trying a hunger cure.