78 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 8 For 6 persons. on grounds of health and economy, I am unwilling to advise the use of these dishes, the effect of which is almost inevitably to make one eat more meat than is wholesome. 1 have therefore for the most part only included dishes in which meat is combined with other wholesome and cheap articles of diet. In this way the consumption of meat is more easily reduced. But of course ordinary meat dishes may be used just as well, if it is borne in mind that only a minimum of meat should be eaten and larger quantities of potatoes, bread, etc. But most people find it difficult to remember this. If No. 173, for instance, is served with plenty of sauce and potatoes, and one accustoms oneself to eat principally the two latter, only taking a mouthful of meat now and then, the consumption of meat can be reduced to a very small quantity. It will be seen that in Nos. 192—196 I have used such parts as kidneys, liver, heart and tongue. Many will consider this objectionable, but, as mentioned above, I do not believe we have a.ny proof that these foods are more harmful than ordinary meat, and they have the advantage of being cheaper. In Nos. 197—200 I have shown how pig’s and calf’s head may be used for cheap and palatable dishes. As half a head has to be bought at a time, there is meat enough for more than six persons. This gives us, therefore, with the calf’s head, enough mock turtle for several dinners. In the case of the pig’s head I have shown how the rest may be used for sausages and pickling. 173.* POTATO CHOPS WITH MEAT. d. 8 oz. Pork or Beef for boiling (off cuts) . . 4 l lb. Potatoes ......£ 5 oz. (10 large tablespoonfuls) White Bread Crumbs b 1 oz. (1 large tablespoonful) Flour . . -lx 2 oz. (4 large tablespoonfuls) White Bread Crumbs ) 4 1 oz. Palmine ...... ^ Salt and Pepper. 5h Mince the meat very fine and mix with the boiled and mashed potatoes and bread crumbs, add salt and pepper and make flat rissoles ; dip these in flour and water, then roll in bread crumbs and fry in palmine. Serve with Butter Sauce (No. 204) and potatoes. Should plenty of potatoes be eaten with those fritters, the dinner will not cost much. By using a smaller quantity of bread the flavour will be improved, but the expense greater. 174.* POTATO FRITTERS WITH MEAT. d. 8 oz. Pork or Soup Meat . . . .4 8 oz. Potatoes ...... 4 2 oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) Rusks $ 2 oz. Onions . . . . • • • j Pepper and Salt . . . . • • . i £ oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Flour . . . . ' I pint (1 glass) Skimmed Milk 4 1 Egg 1 2 oz. Palmine ...... 1