95 COOKERY RECIPES 223.* RED CURRANT SYRUP AND RHUBARB. s. d. 32 lbs. Red Currants . . . • 5 11 12 lbs. Rhubarb . . . . .16 gi lbs. Sugar . . . . . .17 9 o Boil the red currants in a little water and strain through a sieve. Boil again the berries in fresh water and strain. Use this second liquor to boil the rhubarb, putting at first only half the rhubarb to avoid having too much liquid, and then the other half. When the rhubarb is done, mix the whole of the liquid, add about 1 lb. sugar to each quart of liquor, and finish boiling. Have some jars ready warmed in the oven, and fill them with the boiling hot syrup, then cork. 224.* ELDERBERRY AND RHUBARB SYRUP is prepared the same, but requires less sugar. 225. HOW TO MAKE JAM. Jam made of fallen fruit is very inexpensive and most useful for dishes as well as for eating with bread. Any kind of fruit can be used in this way, and berries serve the same purpose, provided only part of the syrup is used. Black currants can be mixed with pumpkin. Apples can be used alone or with black currants or even with plums. Boil the fruit with a little water and cook until you have a thick marmalade, then either strain or pass it through a coarse sieve. Add to each 1 lb. of pulp from 3 J oz.to 7 oz. sugar, and simmer from 3 to 6 hours, according to the quantity. When the jam is quite compact and free from any liquid syrup, then it is ready. For apple jam, add, 1 hour before taking from the fire, 2 oz. grape sugar ; this will make it firmer ; but then use only from 3 to 4 oz. sugar to each 1 lb. of pulp. Fill the jars, let them stand uncovered in a cool place until cold. In order to keep the jam always fresh, it is a good precaution to add 7I grains of salicylic acid for every 2 lbs. of jam before filling the jars. Wait until a crust is formed on the top before covering. 226.* APRICOT JAM. „ . s. d. 1 lb. Dried Apricots . . . . .08 3 lbs. Sugar 6 Makes 6 lbs. jam. 1 2 Soak the apricots in 1 quart water for 48 hours, then put all together in a stewpan, and, when it boils, cook slowly for 1 hour. Put into jars and cover over in the usual way. " J 227* MARMALADE. 12 Seville Oranges ..... g' 4 Lemons