PART III DIET IN URIC ACID DISORDERS. The most important disorders caused by uric acid are renal gravel and gout, besides various forms of rheumatism. Certain painful conditions of the nei-ves, such as persistent headache and neuralgia, are frequently attributed to the same cause. In these ailments it is often found that the urine becomes cloudy after standing some time, and that it leaves a red precipitate. This precipitate is uric acid. In such cases, therefore, the urine is said to be saturated with uric acid. If the acid is deposited in the renal cavity, the patient will suffer from gravel; if the deposit occurs in the tissues of the body, he will have gout, rheumatism, sciatica, etc. A certain amount of uric acid is always formed in the body, and we add to the quantity through the purins contained in our food. In England Dr. Alexander Haig has called special attention to the treat- ment of uric acid complaints. His treatment is a “ purin-free diet.” As the purin bodies are most abundant in meat and fish, and especially in such internal parts as liver, kidneys, sweet-breads, etc., these articles of food are forbidden above all, while other purin-free animal products, such as milk and eggs, are allowed. In the vegetable kingdom the pulses (peas, beans and lentils), which contain purins, are expressly forbidden. In my opinion Haig’s system does not rest upon a sufficiently scientific foundation. I think the capacity of the urine (and of the blood) for dissolving uric acid is of greater importance than its actual composition. Besides which, experiments have shown that although the internal parts (liver, etc.) mentioned above certainly contain more uric acid than ordinary meat, this excess is destroyed in the body, so that the urine after eating liver does not contain more uric acid than after eating meat. I cannot go further into the question here, but will merely give the main result of my investigations : namely, that we may divide foods into groups, according as they give a urine which is capable of holding large quantities of uric acid in solution (-f), or a urine that has a tendency to precipitate the acid ( —). Between these two extremes lies a group which has no very marked action in either of these directions (o). + Milk. Root Vegetables. Green Vegetables. Fruit. Sugar. o Fats. Meat Soup. Boiled Spinach, etc. Meat. Eggs. Bread (Meal). Brussels Sprouts. Pulses. Nuts. . It is the basic salts in the foods that dissolve uric acid, whereas the acids cause precipitation. Cooking extracts in the first place the basic salts, while the acid-forming substances remain. Meat soup, therefore does not have a precipitating effect, Boiled vegetables are less solvent