what to eat and why 4- 56. CELERY SOUP. d. 1 lb. Celery ....... 2 3^ pints (7 glasses) Water. 2 oz. Margarine | 2 oz. (2 heaped tablespoonfuls) Flour . . I 1 Yolk of an Egg 1 A oz. Onion ....... J Pot Herbs, Salt, Pepper . . . . .1 For 6 persons. 5} After the celery is scraped and cut into pieces, bring it to the boil with 3^ pints of water. When it boils, add pot herbs and onion ; when the celery is soft, strain. Thicken the soup with flour, slightly browned in margarine and with a well-beaten yolk of an egg. Serve with croutons or toast. D. BOILED AND FRIED VEGETABLES AND POTATOES. BOILED POTATOES. Many cooks would be astonished if they were told that they cannot cook potatoes, and yet how many are proficient in this art ? It is important to be able to prepare properly such an essentially nourishing article of food, for, although it has been slandered over and over again, it will yet come into its own. Anyone going to a restaurant, even one of the best, and asking for meat and potatoes, will usually be served with a large portion of meat, well prepared, and one or two more or less badly-cooked potatoes. Those are considered so negligible that cooks, as a rule, do not trouble about them. The first condition for serving a good dish of potatoes is to buy only those of good quality. The best cook cannot give flavour to potatoes of inferior quality. When possible, the best time to store potatoes is the autumn, but never buy a large quantity before giving them a trial. The best way to keep potatoes is to bury them in sand in the cellar, or in a closed box, as light spoils the flavour. Above all, potatoes must be neither under nor over cooked. As soon as they are done—this can be ascertained by digging a skewer into them—pour off the water, leave them on the side of the stove without a lid for a few minutes, covered with a cloth. This makes them mealy. Remember never to throw away potato-water. It may perhaps cure your gout! PEELED POTATOES IN THE COOKING^BOX. It is very difficult to cook potatoes in the cooking-box, as it does them no good to remain too long in warm water. The following method of cooking somewhat old and not over good potatoes can, however, be recommended. Peel the potatoes and soak them in wrater for 1 hour. Boil them in fresh water and, when they are half done, pour