2.1 THE RATIONAL HIND HE DE MENUS B. BREAKFAST These dishes, fortunately, will not occupy us so long, as probably few people demand variety in their breakfast, and many people cat the same thing day after day. . , , , Of late years we have in our house taken the following bieakfast, (I have taken careful note of what I myself have eaten) . l. Coffee with Bread and Butter. 2.V oz. Brown Bread, oz. White Bread, i oz. Cheese, $ oz. butter and Margarine, half a cupful of Coffee with Milk, giving altogether 4S7 calories = 1 ^d. 2. Bread Soup with Bread and Butter* 7 oz. of Bread Soup (25), } gill of Sweet Milk, 2 oz. Brown Bread i oz. Butter and Margarine, .giving altogether 402 calones = 3^. 3. Cold Barley Groats with Currants and Hot Milk. 10 oz. Barley Gruel, i£ gills Milk, *• oz. Sugar, giving 323 calories = 21d. The barley groats which were prepared the day before are cut into slices, sprinkled with castor sugar and the milk is poured over. 4. Hot Barley Groats with Currants. The groats are brought to the boil the previous evening, and then left for the night in the cooking-box. They are eaten with butter, sugar and new milk or with stewed fruit. It is easy to make any other kind of groats (see recipes 2 to 5). For certain stomach troubles such dishes are particularly good. Anyone can add to the gruel a slice of bread, dumpling, or a biscuit and butter with a cup of tea. I recommend such meals for early breakfast. Try them only once and you will be astonished how good and healthy these cheap dishes are. The bread and butter must be well masticated and swallowed without drinking. Too much liquid is injurious to the digestion. I always find myself more fit if I do not eat much in the morning. It is evident that a man who has heavy manual labour to perform requires a larger quantity than the above, yet he can do it cheaply. C. LUNCH OR SUPPER Bread and butter (margarine) ought to form the basis of the meal. The chief kind of bread ought to be of whole meal and as coarse and hard as possible. Various simple vegetable dishes may be eaten with it. Nos. 229 to 238 give a choice of supper dishes, the’ best of which