WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 4 At first my method may appear difficult to put in practice ; but what is not so at first ? Old-fashioned cookery is a routine ; it does not require much thinking. Yet the modern woman who takes an interest in the most abstract questions will soon find out that cooking is a real science and one worth studying, resting on fixed laws and in which there is no room for fancy. The consequence will be that nutrition, the foundation of strength in all beings, will become more wholesome, more rational, and more beneficial to health. After trying my method once, women will find it extremely simple and easy ; in time they will become so confident of my recipes that they will do their cooking without any more thought than they give to the old style. Nevertheless, my recipes must be followed at first with the most scrupulous care if the entire benefit of my system is to be preserved. It may be that some, afraid that my cooking might not be tasty enough, will hesitate to give it a fair trial ; in fact, some dishes are seldom a success at first ; however, it is wonderful how quickly people take to them. Those who, like myself, have tried many experiments, find astonishing results in this respect. Every housewife will learn very quickly how to suit my recipes to the taste of her family, as my instructions do not lay down invariable rules to be followed to the letter. Many people try my system once or twice a week and the rest of the time live as they used to do ; nevertheless they eat a smaller quantity of meat and more potatoes and bread. This alone is a considerable saving to them, and in most families such a saving is not to be despised. A number of extensive experiments, carried out over a long period by certain followers of mine, caused a great sensation and were considered as representative of the Hindhede system. But this is wrong. I have never adopted such fare as a universal rule ; yet such experiments have a scientific value ; they enable one to find out how far it is permissible to go. If we know the limits we can attain, we can form an idea of how far we can alter our way of living—a most important fact for all. And as everything differs in this world, no absolute criterion of living can be fixed ; this must vary according to income, habits, and ability. Since, however, it is proved that we require much less protein than was formerly believed, and can yet be as healthy, nay, healthier than before, I can only advise housewives to give my system a fair trial and thereafter judge for themselves. It is widely admitted that my methods are not injurious. Where the new ideas are not accepted it is not on account of the scientific side of the matter, but a question of taste and indolence. Besides, we, who lay special stress on a vegetable diet, although we may not prescribe it exclusively, can wait patiently for our system to triumph over all others, for the time will come when people will be compelled to adopt it through necessity. Should the population increase at the same rate as it has done in the past, before the present century is over, the lack of animal food, the production of which remains much the same, will be one of the best reformers of our way of living. It is a most expensive and roundabout way of doing things to feed animals on the products of the land, and then to use their flesh for man’s benefit. The enormous amount of food necessary to raise cattle until they are fit for human consumption is a dead loss to 11s. This is a question of figures and values which may well stagger us. Farmers may think that if everybody took to a vegetarian diet it would be an unpleasant thing for them ; it would not be quite so bad as they think. Old habits, tastes, and traditions are stronger than science. The change would take place so slowly that it would be hardly noticeable.