6 WHAT TO EAT AND WIIA as in the second. Therefore, one must not wash down each mouthful of bread with a drink; on the contrary, one must chew it until it can be swallowed. Moreover, simple fare requires wonderfully little liquid. At any rate, on no account must one—as is the custom—drink a little after each mouthful. A drink at the end of the meal is sufficient. When once the reader has followed this method seriously, he will soon experience a feeling of lightness and comfort. But in order to arrive at tliis feeling one must be specially careful not to eat too much. For instance, anyone eating bread and butter without drinking anything will find that he eats somewhat more than when drinking at the same time—one forgets that bread and butter is a very concentrated form of food. A breakfast, consisting of oz. of brown bread, oz. of white bread, i oz. of cheese, f oz. of margarine, 2 oz. of coffee and milk, contains 487 calories and weighs altogether £ lb. In order to obtain the same number of calories with a breakfast consisting of barley porridge with milk, one would require, for instance : 1 lb. of barley broth, 10 oz. of skimmed milk, and J oz. of sugar, viz., 1 lb. 11 oz. The misfortune is that many people have dilated their stomachs to such a degree that they have become abnormally large, and therefore they must eat a much larger quantity of food to satisfy their appetite ; and were those people to fill their stomach with nothing but concentrated food they would naturally feel depressed. They would, in consequence, feel better with a smaller amount of concentrated food and a larger quantity of liquid, equal together to the same weight as their ordinary meal ; yet it would be still better for them to bring themselves to take gradually more concentrated food in a smaller volume. In this way one ought to leave off just when one is enjoying one’s food the most. But what we call being satisfied has a very wide meaning. Some people only think themselves satisfied when they cannot swallow another mouthful; others—and these are the wiser—find they have had enough as soon as their hunger is appeased. If all men came to take this point of view, I do not know if it would not be vase to abolish all the thin, weak foods, often poor in nutrition, of which dinner for the most part consists, and to confine ourselves chiefly to bread and butter and fruit, not forgetting potatoes. For my part, I do not believe in warm meals, which most people think they cannot do without. When travelling, I live principally on bread and butter, and mostly on coarse brown bread (not bolted) and on fruit. But people must have their hot meals, and this compels the writer of a book of cookery to comply with their taste. IV. WHAT THE HOUSEWIFE OUGHT TO KNOW OF THE VARIOUS ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES. The first question a woman asks herself when she has the housekeeping to do is : What food shall I buy ? Such a question has many sides, but the main points to be studied aie health, cost, and taste. I give those three points in the order of their importance in my opinion, though the usual order in which they are considered is the exact opposite. Our duty lies foremost in pointing out wholesome and cheap foodstuffs, leaving to the housekeeper to decide the question of taste. If she knows what she ought to do, it will not be difficult for a clever woman to choose cheap food and to prepare it m an appetising way. First of all I shall ask the housekeepei to study m\ table of foodstuffs, beginning with twenty-two various