I 12 WHAT TO EAT AND WI1Y The lunch given above is very effective and ought, therefore, to be the principal meal of the day. For dinner, if absolutely insisted on, an ordinary meat or fish dish may be taken, but the quantity must be very small." Example : b pint meat soup, 5 oz. vegetables (carrots, leeks, etc.), 2 oz. chicken, fo oz. potatoes. The above quantities are only given as examples of what has actually been eaten. Every one must find out his own requirements, but must be careful not to eat more than is demanded by his appetite. As a single example of the effect of the cure, the following letter may be quoted :— “ Dear Dr. EIindhede,— " According to Dr. Bjerregaard, mine is the real old-fashioned gout. My joints were stiff, enlarged and deformed. The disease came on gradually and slowly some fourteen years ago, first one joint being attacked, and then another. It spread, finally, over the whole body. Last winter I became so bad that I could do no work, and my sufferings were at times almost intolerable. I took sodium salicylate, but all to no purpose. “ Last April I tried a potato diet—potatoes, butter, milk and apples, as well as potato-water. After a month I felt better ; and now, after four months, I am nearly able to resume work. Last April, when I began with this diet, the fingers of my left hand were so cramped and bent that I could not hold anything. Now they, are so lithe and supple that one might think I had been playing the violin all my life. “ I am thirty-one years of age. “ I must admit that some of the credit for my present condition is due to the massage and baths, but I am sure that the most potent factor in my recovery has been the potato diet; and since I have been taking it I have become sensible of a state of health which I have not enjoyed for many years. My weight has also increased by about six or seven pounds. “ Yours faithfully, “ (Signed) Peder Leegaard.” This discovery of the capacity of various foods for dissolving uric acid is still fairly new, but I could already quote several examples of an almost miraculous effect on renal gravel and gout. Potatoes especially (and potato-water) seem to have an excellent effect. As my experi- ments have now proved that it is possible to live for months on potatoes and butter alone without any injurious effects, no one need hesitate to make them an important part of his diet. Fruit may also be strongly recommended ; the best results of all have been obtained from a diet consisting exclusively of potatoes with butter and bananas. But in pronounced cases of long standing the cure must be continued for years. It must be observed that where rheumatism is not due to uric acid the cure cannot be expected to operate ; but it is fortunate that it can scarcely do any harm. ,, The products that act as solvents of uric acid are among the most wholesome of our foods ; great benefit will therefore be derived from the diet in any circumstances, especially in stomach complaints. It must be remembered, however, that cabbage and the coarser green vegetables do not agree with every one, and that, where it is a question only of stomach complaint unconnected with uric acid trouble, more bread and farinaceous food generally may readily be taken. Any one may easilv convince himself of the correctness of my state-