9 ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES we are living on nothing else but bread and butter, and we lequire 2,500 calories daily, we should find that : Protein. Fat. Calories. Price £ lb. White Bread contains . 26-4 — 792 1 d. 1 lb. Wholemeal Bread contains 36-0 — 900 ii d. £ lb. Butter contains 86 800 3 d. 62‘4 86 2,492 w-j Suppose we take margarine instead of butter, or a mixture of margarine and butter (4 lbs. at 6d. and 1 lb. at is.), we save i jd. But one does not live only on bread and butter, although, as regards its composition, there would seem to be nothing against this diet. I want to point out a frequent mistake made by mothers who want to teach their children economy, and I shall give an example. For supper, smoked sausage and green peas were served. For my part I ate bread and butter with it, but an economical mother told her son that he was not to butter his bread, as it was waste. The consequence was that the boy only ate a quarter of a slice of brown bread, but double the quantity of sausage which I had, whilst I swallowed three slices of bread with butter. If we reckon the nutritive value we would find that not only did I have a much larger share of nourishment for the price, but my supper was far more sensible than the boy’s, as the latter consumed too much protein. Bread and butter is cheap as a rule and one can advantageously make a meal of it either morning or evening. One can also eat much more bread if it is buttered than if it is dry ; for the same reason it is economical to eat sauce or gravy with meat. By dipping bread and potato in the gravy we can absorb a greater quantity of those two nourishing ingredients and require less meat. Nations who eat their meat without gravy consume a much larger quantity. When a woman finds butter too expensive, it is, as a rule, because she is extravagant with it. I like bread with not too much butter on it, and yet my body gets more fatty substances than it needs. All that is necessary for me is less than £ oz. of butter to 2 oz. of bread. However, I have seen people use double that quantity of butter on half the amount of bread, and, in that case, living on this fare would mean, in order to consume 2,500 calories, an expense of Protein. Fat. Calories. Price, 6 oz. White Bread 13-2 — 39b id. 9 oz. Brown Bread 20-6 — 520 if d. 7 oz. Butter — 172 1,600 5i d. 33'8 172 2,51b 7&- It is to be noticed that with such a diet the amount of protein is very small, whilst the quantity of fat is out of proportion, and yet one does not feel satisfied after it. One absorbs only about 1 lb. 6 oz. of real nourishment, whilst, according to the first-named composition I get 1 lb. 15 oz. In order to get the equivalent of this with the larger proportion of butter, one would require to consume one and two-fifth times as much; thus absorbing 48 protein, 242 of fat, and 3,551 calories at a cost of 11 d. People would also realise that bread and butter is not so cheap after all. The amount of food to be swallowed would be too great, stoutness would ensue, and health would probably suffer