WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 28 Wash the rice and throw it into boiling salt water for 12 to 15 minutes, then pour it out on a wire sieve and pour slowly warm water over it; then put the rice back in the saucepan to dry. 11. RICE FOR SOUP. d. £ pint (i|- glasses) Water. J lb. (8 tablespoonfuls) Rice . ... h 1 oz. Margarine ...... X Salt. For 6 persons. £ Wash the rice in cold water and put it into boiling water with salt. Let it boil until the rice is soft, add the margarine and put in a wet mould. When set turn it out. 12. BARLEY GRUEL WITH CURRANTS. i-| quarts (6 glasses) Water. 9 oz. (9 tablespoonfuls) Barley 1 oz. (1 tablespoonful) Currants Salt. d. 1 i For 6 persons. 1J Boil the water, mix the barley slowly with it, and add salt. Let it simmer for 2 or 3 hours, and half an hour before it is cooked add the currants, which have been picked and well washed. If you cook in the cooking-box (see p. 15) the currants must be put in at the same time as the barley. Serve with butter, milk, and castor sugar. Other fruit can be used instead of currants (see Nos. 33, 40, 41), which are cheap, or No. 42, if it can be procured. Wiren fruit other than currants is used, it must be stewed into a rather syrupy state; it is either poured over the gruel or prepared apart. In this case milk is omitted. Some people cannot digest milk, either in milk gruels or added to water gruels ; for them I should recommend stewed apples, currants or blackberries. As there are objections to giving unboiled milk to children, this difficulty may be overcome by giving them stewed fruit with either barley or oatmeal porridge for breakfast. If, however, it is believed the children must have milk in the morning, the gruel can be prepared either with milk alone, or with half milk and half water. 13. OATMEAL PORRIDGE. d. 2 quarts (8 glasses) Water. 9 oz. (9 large tablespoonfuls) Oatmeal . . i£ Salt. For 6 persons. 11 It is wiser to soak the oatmeal the night before, especially if it is to be eaten at breakfast. When cooked with water, salt must not be omitted; moreover, this must be put in the water at the same time as the oatmeal, as it prevents scum. Oatmeal must simmer for at least £ of an hour and is served cither with stewed fruit or with milk, butter and sugar.