WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 30 After whisking the sour milk set it to boil with the margarine, whisking it all the time ; when it boils, stir in it the flour previously made into a batter, with some of the cold sour milk, and stir for about io minutes. Beat the egg with the sugar and mix it with the soup when the latter is ready. If not sweet enough add more sugar. The advantage of this soup is to use up milk which has turned sour ; though milk may sometimes be too sour to be fit for use. B. CUSTARDS, FRUIT SOUPS, STEWED FRUIT, ETC. Fruit soups and stewed fruit can be recommended occasionally, yet such dishes are neither as nourishing nor as cheap as the preceding ones. Moreover, they contain a good deal of added sugar. But they are refreshing and agree very well as a rule. I strongly recommend Rhubarb Fool (No. 31) and Red Blanc- mange (No. 34, 35), Prune-gruel (No. 36) and Apple-gruel (No. 38, 39). These are Danish national dishes which are eaten every day in my house during summer (except in the strawberry season). The Danes do not treat them as sweets, but as a second course. Sugar is sprinkled and milk poured over them. 19.* CHERRY SOUP. d. 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 1 lb. Cherries. ..... 5 oz. (5 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . 1 oz. (1 large tablespoonful) Sago Flour . 1 oz. (1 large tablespoonful) Potato Flour For 6 persons. 3-2- Fresh or dried cherries can be used for this purpose ; in the latter case half the weight is required, and dry fruit has always to be well washed. Crush the cherries, put them in cold water, and bring to the boil. When they are cooked, strain, add sugar, and thicken with sago, potato flour, or both. Serve with plain biscuits, sweet biscuits, or croutons. 20.RICE SOUP. d. 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 2J oz. (2J tablespoonfuls) Rice . . . i 7 oz. Apples ....... 1 3^ oz. Plums . . . . • • glass of Fruit Syrup £ i£ oz. (i|- tablespoonfuls) Sugar i 1 piece of Cinnamon ..... 1 For 6 persons. 3h Wash the rice and put it in boiling water ; leave it to simmer for a good \ hour, then add the washed plums and apples, cut into small pieces, and let it boil for another J hour. Add the syrup and sugar, and the soup is ready.