VI INTRODUCTION sanctified by time rather than by experience. It will be seen that Dr. Hindhede is not a fanatical vegetarian, but that he allows a certain quantity of meat. It is impossible at the present moment to consider the question of proteid in any way settled; in other words, our knowledge of feeding is too incomplete to lay down definite rules as to the quantity of meat that is desirable for daily consumption. Much has been written both for and against a rich nitrogenous diet, but it may be fairly stated that the majority of workers in this field consider that the nitrogenous (i.e., meat) portion of a man's daily food, though possibly essential, may yet be considerably reduced from the average quantity taken by the well-to-do in this country. Nitrogenous food, being chiefly meat, is expensive, consequently the poorer classes are not so apt to indulge in an excess of it as the rich. Dr. Hindhede does not dogmatise on these questions. He goes straight to the actual chemical values of foods which are known with great accuracy and can be calculated in the laboratory. Avoiding contentious ground, he gives us a reasonable diet at a reasonable price, and a diet that will hold good whichever views prevail on the subject of nitrogenous metabolism. If any working people will study and profit by this book, and it is for them primarily that it is written, since they stand to gain not only in health but also in pocket ; if they will compare its easily prepared and tasty dishes with the common meal of bread and cheese, and meat and pickles and the subsequent indigestion, and if they wall discard for once their prejudice against something “ only good enough for foreigners,” they will reap the benefit in increased health, in increased vigour, and in increased success. It is hard to estimate the gain to the community that would ensue from an improvement in the people’s food. There are evils in housing to be overcome, and better systems of sanitation may be practicable, but the social reformer to-day would have to look more to the manage- ment of the individual household than to the activity of the municipality. The marked decline in recent years in our infantile mortality has been due to the instruction of the individual mother rather than to the activity of the sanitary inspector. The state and the municipality can do little, the effort to-day must come from the people themselves. London, June, 1914. C. A. Baxg.