COOKERY RECIPES 47 Take 4 or 5 kinds of vegetables, cut up and mix them; when they are boiled, add parsley sauce and salt. This is a fiicassee without meat (a vegetarian fricassee). It has more flavour than one would suppose, but of course it must be nicely prepared; the choice of vegetables has to be studied and the expense is in proportion to the vegetables used. 74.** STEWED GREEN CABBAGE. cl. i£ lbs. Green Cabbage 11 oz. Margarine .... 14 oz. (11- large tablespoonfuls) Flour £ pint (1 "glass) Skimmed Milk 1 teaspoonful Sugar. For 6 persons. f i 3 ( Cut off the ribs of the leaves, wash these carefully and boil them in salt water, adding carbonate of soda to keep the green colour. When cooked, strain, pour some cold water over them and squeeze out the moisture, roll and chop fine with the flour on the mincing board. Melt the margarine in a saucepan and add the cabbage ; when it is warm pour the milk slowly over it and add salt and sugar to taste. It can be served as a dish by itself with an egg and fried croutons, or as a vegetable with fried potatoes. It can also be eaten with bread and butter. 75.** STEWED SPINACH. d. ij lbs. Spinach . . . . . . 2-| oz. Margarine . . . . . 1“ oz. (2-I- large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . a I pint (1 glass) Skimmed Milk . . . | Sugar and Salt to taste . .... \ For 6 persons. 5 Wash and pick the spinach, put it in boiling water with salt and a pinch of bicarbonate of soda and boil for about xo minutes. It is then strained and chopped, when dry, with the flour ; melt some margarine in a saucepan, add the spinach, some milk to taste, sugar and salt. The liquor of the spinach can be used instead of milk, for stewing. 76.** STEWED WHITE CABBAGE. 3 lbs. White Cabbage . . . . 1^ oz. Palmine . 3 i|- oz. (ij large tablespoonfuls) Flour . ! f pint (ii glasses) Skimmed Milk . . x Salt. For 6 persons. 5 Clean the white cabbage, cut in 8 pieces, and put it in cold salt water to boil When ready strain and chop. Make a sauce of palmine flour and mflk. Put the cabbage in the sauce, boil it for a short time to get it thoroughly warm ; add salt, and, if desired, a little su^ar