COOKERY RECIPES 37 many apples at once. As soon as the fruit is soft, take it out lay it in a glass dish, and let the juice cook a little longer. Pour it while warm over the apples. The quantity must be in proportion with the acidity of the apples. 41.** dried stewed apples. d. 3i oz. Dried Apples . . • • • i-I pints (3 glasses) Water. . 2*oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar .... .r oz. (1 level tablespoonful) Potato Flour . . j 2 Wash the dried apples, cook them in the water in which they have soaked ; add sugar. When ready, add some potato flour, and boil a little longer. 42.** COMPOTE. This can be prepared with any kind of fresh fruit, strawberries, raspberries, red currants, gooseberries, bilberries, etc. The fruit is stewed in a little water with sugar to taste. The juice can be thickened or not with potato or sago flour. Yet it is useful to thicken it if it is intended to be spread over bread and butter, otherwise, if it is to be eaten with porridge, etc., a thin compote is preferable. It must be observed that any such compote, made of fresh fruit, is rather expensive, and must not be eaten in too large quantities owing to the quantity of sugar it contains. C. VEGETABLE SOUPS, Etc. The recipes for these soups are, in most cookery books, given with the addition of meat, and it would be very difficult to make some housekeepers believe that the soups can be good without it. But let them make the experiment, and begin, for instance, with white cabbage soup. If people insist on a dish of boiled pork to follow, I should advise them to throw away the liquor of the pork and try my recipe of a cabbage soup. Not only myself but many others prefer it. In all soup recipes, the butter can be replaced by palmine or margarine. Many of these soups are not very nutritious, but their nutritive value may be increased to any desired extent by the addition of potatoes, carrots, etc. This is an opportunity for using up cold potatoes left over from the day before. They are served on a plate, cut into pieces of suitable size. Every one can help himself as he pleases, adding the potatoes to the soup. If bread is also eaten with it, there is no reason why this dish should not provide sufficient nourishment in itself. Do not put too much salt in these soups. Potato-water.—The water in which well-washed (peeled) potatoes have been boiled must never be thrown away. It is used as a " maigre ” soup with dishes for which a meat soup would usually be employed. Potato-water—slightly, but not too much salted—really tastes very well. The taste is further improved by boiling other roots and veget- ables in it. If we add flour-dumplings or meat balls we shall have a tasty dish resembling ordinary meat soup. UNh/Ltf oli 1 LIBRARY LEEDS