COOKERY RECIPES •IOI 2 Clean the liver carefully and put it four or five times tin ought mincing machine together with the lard and potatoes. Fry the ma - garine and flour, and thin with boiling milk until the paste does not stick to the pan. When the paste is cooled, stir into it the minced liver, egg and spice. Stir thoroughly until it is stiff, then put into a buttered dish and boil in a bain-marie m the oven for i to i i hours. Do not turn it out until it is cold. 243. GOOSEBERRY PRESERVE. Cl. 16 oz. Gooseberries . • • • • 16 oz. Sugar ...•••• 2 x. oz. (i large teaspoonful) Potato Flour . . i & pint (i glass) Water. o 3. Boil the water with sugar and put in the prepared gooseberries, taking only ripe ones. Boil them well. Then thicken with potato or sago flour, and serve them as an addition to bread and butter. If the gooseberries are very sweet a smaller quantity of sugar is required. 244. RED CURRANT COMPOTE. Take i lb. of nice picked red currants and leave them for a whole day in 3J oz. sugar. Then put in a little water or syrup and eat with bread and butter. K. BREAD, CAKES, ETC. In Nos. 246 to 258 are given recipes for some of the cheapest and best kinds of bread and cakes, which form as nearly as possible a perfect food. The first four of these must be eaten with butter. Nos. 259 to 263 give, for the sake of comparison, some of the most commonly used of small cakes, but, as they are very rich and some of them very sweet, they should be eaten in small quantities and are not for daily use. 245. COARSE WHEATEN BREAD i lb. Crushed Wheat .... J pint (1 glass) Water. 90 grains Yeast ..... 150 grains Sugar ..... x teaspoonful Salt ..... Mix the yeast with the sugar. Bring the water to a temperature of about iio° to 120°. Mix the liquid yeast, water and salt with the meal and work the dough until it does not stick to the hands; then put it aside to rise in a warm place for 1 hour ; knead again for 5 minutes, set aside again for iito 2 hours ; then shape into loaves and put at once into a very hot oven. Bake for i-j- to ii hours. (Hindhede). (1. . i .v