84 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY mould well greased, rice, boiled in salt water, and, when set, turn out on a dish ; put in the centre the stew with the fowl and macaroni, which may have been left over from the previous day. One fowl will serve for two dinners : boil the fowl the first day with leeks, carrots and celery in plenty of water (2^ quarts). This broth is eaten on the first day as first course, small forcemeat balls and cut-up root vegetables are added to it; for second course pancakes or a pudding may be served. Next day Boiled Rice (No. 1) may be taken as first course, followed by the fowl, which has been browned in a saucepan, served with Butter Sauce (No. 204) and potatoes. 189.* COD CROQUETTES. d. 8 oz. Dried Cod . . . . . . 7 oz. Potatoes ...... \ 1 oz. Margarine ...... f i Egg . i 1 tablespoonful Milk . . . . . \ Nutmeg and Pepper . i Salt to taste . . . . ' ij oz. Flour (11 large tablespoonfuls) . / j if- oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs I 1 2 oz. Palmine ...... J For 6 persons. of Bone boiled cud and chop it fine, then put it in melted margarine, but do not fry it ; then mix it with cold mashed potatoes, cooked if possible the day before ; add a spoonful of flour, egg, milk, spices, and make a thick glutinous mixture and shape into fingers about inches long, roll in bread crumbs, then in flour and water or in egg and again in bread crumbs, and fry in plenty of palmine a nice colour. It is easier to fry croquettes when they have stood some time. Serve with Mustard Sauce (No. 217) and potatoes. 190. FISH HASH. 2 oz. Margarine .... 2 oz. (2 heaped tablespoonfuls) Flour 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk 1 pint Fish Soup. 2 j>- lb. Boiled Potatoes . 5 _oz. Boiled Cod (net weight) . f oz. Mustard (mixed) 1 teaspoonful Salt . d. 3 1 1 f I "o For 6 persons. 6 Instead of fresh cod, salt fish may be used, but then only 3 oz. are ^As a rule remnants of boiled fish are used. , , Fry the margarine and flour and tlnn with boiling milk and fish soup • when the sauce is well boiled, season with mustard and sal . It should not boil with the mustard in it, as that will make it bitter. Put in the potatoes and the fish (both cut up) and stir carefully.