PART II PRACTICAL INSTRUCTION I. ECONOMICAL COOKERY. Fire is expensive, and yet it is astonishing how many otherwise most economical housewives and cooks are extravagant in fuel. It needs little attention to save with regard to coal fire, and cooking by gas is an economy if one understands the management of a gas stove. Dishes which take a long time to cook use a great deal of gas. One forgets that when food is once cooked it will not become an atom warmer whatever degree of heat it is submitted to. Water cannot go beyond boiling point if the steam can escape. The only result of overcooking is that the food becomes dry ; cold water or milk must then be added and heat wasted to bring these to boiling point. It requires a very small gas flame to keep food at boiling point. Cooking in a special cooking-box is a great saving, not only from a monetary point of view, but also with regard to the cook’s anxiety, for in a cooking-box food cannot burn. It is easy to make one. Take a wooden box, 20 inches by 20 inches, and 28 inches high, with a well-fitting lid. It is very convenient to have saucepans nearly the same diameter and with top instead of side handles. Then make a bag of sack cloth, leaving it open sufficiently top and bottom in order to allow room for the saucepans to go in easily from the top, after which nail down fast one end all round the bottom of the box. After filling the empty space between the sack cloth and the wood with hay, the other end of the sack is fastened to the top of the box. Loose hay is spread at the bottom of the box and may be renewed from time to time. After the saucepans are put in the box place a round cushion stuffed with hay on top and put on the lid—it is preferable to stand the saucepans on the top of one another with a cushion between. They must be on the boil when put in ; in this way the food simmers. The cover of the pans should not be raised, and it is essential that the lid of the box remains closed and on no account lifted to see whether the food is cooked enough. One must remember that by making use of a cooking-box the evaporation is minimised, hence a smaller quantity of water or milk is required than when food is in direct contact with the fire. II. THE ART OF EATING. It is not enough for a housekeeper to understand the cooking and the making up of dishes : if her family does not understand the best way of eating, her efforts are vain. “ Not understand how to eat ? ” my readers will say. " As if everybody did not know that.” That may be :