COOKERY RECIPES 35 34- RED BLANCMANGE WITH FRESH z \ pints (5 glasses) Water. 16 oz. Red Currants ..... 7 oz. (7 tablespoonfuls) Sugar .... ii oz. (2 level tablespoonfuls) Potato Flour 11 oz. (2 level tablespoonfuls) Sago Flour . FRUIT. d. 3 1 & £ £ For 6 persons. 4! Stew the red currants in 1 quart of water until quite soft, then strain ; put back the currants in the saucepan with 1 pint of water, press them out with a spoon, boil and strain again. Put the currants into the saucepan with 1 pint of water for a third time, and bring to the boil. Then rinse the currants in the sieve with enough cold water to obtain quarts of syrup altogether. Take 2 quarts of this, mix it with sugar and put once more on the fire ; thicken the other pint with the flour and add to the rest before it boils ; then mix the whole together, stirring until it boils. Pour carefully into a bowl, sprinkle sugar ovei it in order to prevent a skin forming. Serve when cold with milk and castor sugar. A similar dish can be made with raspberries, black currants, etc. A mixture of \ of red currants and f. raspberries is delicious. A cheaper kind can be made by adding more flour and water. 35.* RED BLANCMANGE FROM SYRUP. d. 1 pint Mixed Fruit Syrup . . . .3 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Sago Flour . . \ 4 oz. (4 large tablespoonfuls) Potato Flour . a For 6 persons. 31 Mix the fruit syrup with water, but keep a little of it in which the flour is to be mixed. Bring to the boil and thicken with a potato and £ sago flour. If this is to be used on the same day, and before it is quite cold, it requires 2^ oz. of mixed flour to each quart of syrup and water. If it is to be used only on the following day, 2 oz. are sufficient. Put into a glass dish and sprinkle sugar over it. Serve with milk and castor sugar. The less potato flour and the more sago flour used the better, but the latter is more expensive. 36.** PRUNE GRUEL. 7 oz. Stoned Prunes . . . , .4 1 & pints (3 glasses) Water. 2 2 oz. (2i tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . 1 ii oz. (2 level tablespoonfuls) Sago Flour . For 6 persons. 4f Wash the prunes well and boil them until soft. It is better to soak them the previous night and boil them in the same water • add suvar and flour, boil well and serve in a glass dish. Serve separately milk d 2