ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES 7 CEREALS either whole or ground. They hold the foremost place for cheapness, and are besides remarkably wholesome, a point which is not to be despised. They ought, therefore, to form the basis of our food. It must be emphatically observed that cereals contain more than enough protein for our requirements. About one-eighth of the contents is protein, and I maintain that we can subsist on a smaller quantity. Oatmeal is the richest of all in protein, and on this account is specially valued for its strength-giving power, which, in my opinion, is unfounded. Cereals vary very much in price, but there is not the slightest obj ection to buying the cheaper kinds, as the difference in nutritive power is nil. With meat, the best quality must be preferred. From Nos. 19 to 22 of the table (Potato-Flour, Sago, Rice-Flour, etc.) are various foodstuffs which are distinguished by the separation of their protein, leaving the starch almost pure. This shows that anyone trying to live on potato-flour alone would not absorb a sufficient quantity of protein. The only fault of cereals is too little fat. This is the reason why they must be prepared with some kind of fat, and why bread had better be eaten with butter ; but, of course, if we eat too much butter our expenses will be much higher than need be. Nos. 23 to 35 (Wholemeal Bread, White Bread, Fancy Bread, etc.) bring us to BREAD. I have praised bread so highly that I have little more to add to what I have already said. It is most important that bread must be well baked. Home-made bread, provided the dough is well kneaded, is a great saving, and is, in my opinion, far superior to baker’s bread. There have been endless discussions as to whether fine white bread {i.e., bread made of the best white flour) or coarse bread (■i.e., bread made of the whole meal, as brown or Standard bread) is best. Å lar°-e number of investigations in recent years have now made the matter clear. There are certain substances in and around the husk of tire grain that appear to be quite necessary for the maintenance of health. The Indians and Japanese fall ill when living chiefly on polished rice ; that is, rice from which the outer husk has been removed, while they keep well when eating unpolished rice. Monkeys die in the course of a few months when they are fed on white bread. It is therefore a mistake to eat only fine bread, and it would be an immense advantage to the people if they could return to the coarse bread made of unbolted flour which their forefathers presumably consumed, and which still forms the chief article of diet m Denmark. Furthermore, it is probably an advantage that the meal be not onlv unbolted, but ground as coarsely as possible. One would think bread made of such coarse meal must be difficult to digest, but this is bv no SS8^,0.0^* Weu aVC gr°und wheat by Land-power in a large coffee-mill, the resulting meal was very coarse and we could find half-grams among it Two experimental subjects lived for several months on bread made of this coarse meal (see Recipe No 24 s) with margarine. They did extremely well on this, and the remarkable thing was that the bread was digested almost as completely as bread made of finer flour But of course such bread as 1 am speaking of requires more careful mastication. The final grinding has to be done