Windsor House, Kingsway, London, W.C. Uncle Bobs” Helpful Manuals on Health and Exercise. 6d. Accidents and Ailments, Every- Day Anaemia and its Treatment. Arm, How to Develop the Asthma and How to Cure It. Back, How to Strengthen Baths and Health. Chest, How to get a Good Circulation, How to Improve Constipation, How to Cure Diet, Simple Rules and Advice. Eyes, Care of the Fingers and Wrists, How to Strengthen Fit, How to Keep (Eight minutes’ Exercise a day for the Busy Man.) Flesh, How to Tut On Foot Ailments and Care of the Feet Hair, Care of the Hollow Necks and how to Cure them. each. Heart, How to Strengthen the Height, How to Increase Indigestion, How to Cure Insomnia, How to Cure Knock-Knees and Bow-Legs. Legs, How to Develop the Liver Healthy, How to Keep the Lungs, How to Strengthen the J Nasal Catarrh, How to Cure | Nerves, How to Strengthen the j Physical Culture lor Beginners Rheumatism and How to Cure It. Round Shoulders and How to Cure them. Skin, Care of the Skipping for Health and Training. Stuttering and Stammering. Teeth, Care of the Tumbling Tricks. Weight, How to Reduce Varicose Veins. — How to treat them. WHAT READERS SAY : “ 1 Knock-Knees ’ has done me 60 shillings’ worth of good. I have a totally different appearance altogether when walking, my legs are wonder- fully improved.”—J. Park. “Instructions in ‘How to Strengthen the Nerves’ are beneliting me.'’—G. E. Barnet (Fleet). “I feel much better for daily observance of regimen suggested in ‘ How to Keep Fit.’ ”—F. Gray (Doncaster). “ I have three of your booklets for Chest, Liver and Nerves, and have put the instructions into regular practice. Although 50 years old am making rapid progress.’’—D. J. Evans (Tirphill). 6d. each booh. Post free, 7d. “Uncle Bob's” l/= Series. The following are similar to the preceding series, but larger in size, and deal more fully with their respective subjects. Ably written, well illustrated, and full of much sound and helpful advice. Brainfag, How to Remedy. Bronchitis, its Cause and Cure. Facial Massage, Blushing, and Kindred Aflections. Influenza, How Caused and How Cured. Middle Life, Health Hints for. Others in preparation. Most Booksellers, or direct from the Publishers, EWART, SEYMOUR & CO., Ltd.,