13 ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES Added to this, vegetables have another fault, i.e., they are too satisfying. Anybody choosing to feed exclusively on cauliflower would require nearly 19 lbs. a day to absorb 3,000 calories, 01 40 s. of salad. Hence the general belief that a vegetarian diet is far too filling. One can, however, obviate such a fault by glancing over the table of foodstuffs ; one will realise how many vegetable products are in reality far more concentrated as regards nourishment than lean meat. Fat meat is an exception, but it contains more fat than flesh. It is nevertheless astonishing how much vegetables are recommended nowadays, even outside vegetarian circles. Most doctors have of late decided against eating too much meat, but none has dared to go further than to say to his patients, eat meat but with a large addition of vegetables. Such advice may be good for many people, but what about the housewife who must economise? Green vegetables, I say, area luxury. They may hold their place on the table, but they must not form the principal part of a meal. Instead of saying with the doctors, eat meat with plenty of vegetables, I would urge people to eat meat with abundant roots. Now let us pass to Nos. 148 to 181 and speak of MEAT, in which we include fish. Meat has always been looked upon as the best food. But I put it in the last place. For this I have the most conclusive reasons. It is possible to argue about some of my reasons, yet there is one which must be admitted unreservedly ; this is, the price of meat. Buying lean meat, one does not get more than 15 calories for $d. Therefore, to live exclusively on lean meat, it would cost 4s. per head each day to get a sufficient number of calories, viz., about ten times too great an expense. Why, then, waste good money on dear meat ? Is it such an indispensable thing ? Far from it. True, we obtain a great deal of protein from meat, but even this is not sufficient to speak in its favour. I go so far as to say that meat can not only be dispensed with, but that, taken in large quantities, it is directly injurious, because it weakens the muscles, and may open the door to many diseases {vide Protein and Nutrition). But if meat is taken in small quantities and always cf the best quality, then I am bound to say that I cannot prove it to be injurious. This question has not yet been scientifically settled. However, first- class meat is expensive ; poor people are, therefore, compelled to eat only the second-rate quality, and this is not advisable. Those who have reasoned out the question think themselves doubly lucky to have cereals, fruit, vegetables, and so forth, to take the place of meat. The preparation of the former in the kitchen is much cleaner, and one need not be afraid to buy the cheaper kinds, as they are often c ven better than the expensive ones. The only argument which remains to those who favour meat is its taste, which they cannot easily give up. But it ought not to be difficult to alter one’s tastes. First, let people give up the idea that it is strengthening and they will soon give it up, as taste and imagination are intimately connected. BEER AND WINE are not nourishing from a practical point of view, they only please the palate and belong to the dangerous series. But it would carry us too far to go fully into the question.