ii ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES prepared as carefully as they ought to be. Whether the same is true of England I do not know. CREAM (Nos. 55 to 57 on the list) is expensive in towns. In the country it is cheap as a rule, and it can easily be substituted for butter. But cream, even more than milk, requires careful examination. In no article of diet does the housewife get more cheated than in cream, for whether it contains 6 per cent, or 25 per cent, of fat, it is all called cream. CHEESE (Nos. 58 to 70 on the list), holds a prominent place on account of the large quantity of protein it contains. I really do not see why cheese should he so highly recommended. The only tiring that can be said is that for people who wish to eat something with their bread and butter, cheese is probably more wholesome, and—expensive kinds excepted—cheaper than meat. But it must not be forgotten that the bacillus of tuberculosis is to be found in cheese, and it is therefore wise to pasteurise the milk before making cheese. However, all danger of bacilli disappears after three months. EGGS (Nos. 71 to 74 on the list) have the reputation of being very strengthening, and this is not to be wondered at when one takes into account the faith in albumen. Few people know that white of egg contains little more albumen than cereals, weight for weight. The only difference is that the white of egg is mainly composed of water, whilst wheat contains besides the albumen 60 per cent, of starch, which represents for us one of our most valuable articles of food. With the albumen, hens’ eggs contain, including the yolk, ir per cent. fat. It is easy to see that with such a mixture of almost equal parts of albumen and fat, eggs are not a fit nourishment for human beings. Attempts to live on eggs alone will therefore prove to be a failure. I say, then, away with exaggerated estimates of the value of eggs ; eggs are a luxury and should only be used in small quantities, especially as auxiliaries in the preparation of dishes. It is astonishing how the use of eggs in the preparation of dishes can be minimised without altering the taste. Nos. 75 to 79 bring us to PULSES—PEAS, BEANS, AND LENTILS. This group forms in great measure the basis of vegetarian cookery. Here one can get enough protein without the help of meat. I do not ay any particular stress on these pulses for the sake of their protein, but they can to a certain extent serve as a change now and then. The next group (Nos. 80 to 84) is formed of fatty fruits. PEANUTS, NUTS, AND ALMONDS. These are held in still greater esteem than the preceding group by vegetarians as besides much protein, they contain, above all, a great deal of fat. L uts are, of course, very good in themselves, but as one