14 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY TEA AND COFFEE ought to be indulged in to a somewhat limited extent, as thev are far more dangerous than many people think. They both contain a certain amount of a poison known under the name of caffeine, which is injurious to the heart. Of kite years attempts have been made to extract this substance from coffee, and coffee without caffeine is to be bought. If such is really the case, it can be accepted as a safe drink. The praise of COCOA as an article of food is exaggerated. It may no doubt be reckoned among the most innocent of our luxuries, but it is a mistake to suppose that the fats and carbohydrates it contains are of higher value than the same substances in cheaper foods. As an article of nutrition, therefore, cocoa is far too dear. We now come to a series of auxiliary products which contain no particular nourishment, but which can be applied in many ways in cooking for the preparation of dishes. Isinglass or gelatine are used to stiffen various dishes. Maggi, soy, browning and Lemco serve to improve the taste of sauces. Among SPICES proper, we can reckon cinnamon, clove, Jamaica pepper, vanilla, nutmeg, etc., as quite harmless in the quantities in which they are used. One must, however, be more careful with mustard, pepper, and paprika, although they may not be injurious used moderately. Horseradish is also best considered as a spice; onions occupy a place between spices and foodstuffs. Most vegetarians will reproach me for not condemning spices, vinegar, etc. To this I will answer that I cannot bind myself to condemn anything until I am thoroughly convinced that it is injurious. Until now nothing to my knowledge has proved that spices are injurious in such quantities as I use. It is not even certain that vinegar is bad when used in small quantities ; acids are a natural element of the gastric juice, and fruit contains a large amount of acids. And if we cannot afford to buy enough fruit, why should we not procure artificial acids ? It is easy to assert that the cheapest organic acid, i.e., vinegar, is more injurious than the far more expensive lemon, but proof of this is lacking. It must be admitted that too much flour and cereals may be insipid to the palate. Why not, then, have recourse to mixed preparations ? Unless we do this, it will be difficult to make many converts to the simple, diet which I advocate. However, the use of spices must not be exaggerated, and I should advise a far more sparing use of them than is customary in the old style of cookery.