" A striking consensus of opinion was elicited as to the effects of improper or insufficient food in determining physique, and this factor was acknowledged by every witness to be prominent among the causes to which degenerative tendencies might be assigned . . . Where the amount available for expenditure upon food is limited it is of special importance to get the proper materials, and it is in selection that the defects of English habits come out most prominently.” —Report of the Inter Departmental Committee on Physical Deterioration. INTRODUCTION The nineteenth century found England agricultural and left it industrial, but not until the last few years did thinking people realise that the increased wages, gigantic industries, spread of education, and all the thousand other changes which had taken place were being accompanied by a vague lack of efficiency on the part of our industrial population. Then when the century closed with the South African war, a great wave of pessimism and introspection deluged the land, and as that wave slowly subsides to-day, we seem to see the foundations of our national life washed bare of the conventional ideas that have covered them hitherto ; and as the engineers and the architects survey the substructures of their work after a flood has subsided, so do we to-day examine the foundations of our national edifice and try to locate the weakness which we know to exist. Without committing ourselves to a purely mechanical view of the universe it must be obvious that any decrease in output of energy of an individual must result largely from physical causes ; and though in dealing with a race a long interval of time is necessary to see all such physical causes in clear- perspective, some of them are only too obvious at the present moment. Amongst these the nutrition of the great bulk of our population stands out pre-eminent in its faults. No excuse is needed for an attempt like Dr. Hindhede’s to introduce some scientific system into the diet of the people. If the Englishman has owed his success in the past to eating both more and better food than his opponents on the Continent, it is not unreasonable to assign his present position in the race to a diet which, when compared with his competitors, contains less nutrition and is certainly worse cooked. Cheap food avails nothing if the food be not selected with reason, neither will a woman’s vote compensate a labourer for his wife’s lack of kitchen craft. Dr. Hindhede has tried, and, I think, succeeded in planning a diet suitable both for rich and poor, which should enable a labourer to do his work and the rich man to keep his health at a considerably smaller cost than is usual to-day. He lias planned his diet on the scientific data that are at our disposal, without flying into fantastic extremes on tire one hand, or, on the other hand, slavishly following those old habits of feeding which in this country are so frequently