12 What to eat and wi-iy can get animal fat at the same price as butter, in the form of butter or margarine, I should advise their use. Then we come to FRUITS (Nos. 85 to 116 on the list) proper ; there is not the slightest doubt that fruit is a valuable item of our fare. It is not to be denied that the structure of our teeth is conclusive evidence of our being naturally fruit eaters. Fresh fruit contains a great deal of water ; you think you are getting something, but you are really getting very little. Were we to eat nothing but apples we should have to eat fully 13 lbs. a day to ensure absorbing the necessary 3,000 calories ; with the same view, 29 lbs. of tomatoes would be required. No wonder, then, that vegetarians have failed in their attempt to live on nothing else but fruit. If dry fruit be used instead, then the result is more fortunate. The only point is that dry fruit lacks fat, but as this can be remedied by the addition of fatty fruit, spoken of in the previous group, it is evident that nothing ought to prevent us making our entire diet of fruit. It would, however, be an expensive way of living. This group goes extremely well with cereals and fat foodstuffs, which it supplements, being very much richer in salts. This is why I mix fruit with porridge and groats, and why I eat jam, apple marmalade, stewed plums, etc., with bread and butter. The aperient effect of fruit is often very useful, but, like everything else, it can be over done. We need but think of the frequency of stomach-ache during the plum season. Tomatoes I recommend. Their nutritive power is slight, it is true, but as an addition to various sauces they are valuable. TUBERS (Nos. 117 to 132 on the list). Among these is to be found my favourite—the potato. It is the best article of food I know of. Nobody has so thoroughly tested the value of potatoes as I have. For ten months I have had human test subjects living entirely on potatoes and margarine. Their health and strength during this period had not only been maintained, but had even improved. Potatoes cure constipation, dissolve uric acid, etc., etc. But this is a point into which 1 cannot go fully in this book, and therefore refer the reader to my other work, Protein and, nty itlOll Badly masticated potatoes are difficult to digest and irritate the intestines. Therefore potatoes must either be mashed in the kitchen, or, what is better still, well masticated. Other roots are closely related to’ potatoes. Carrots can provide a good many tasty dishes which I urgently recommend. This applies to all other roots, scorzonera, and so on. We shall now find from Nos. 133 to 147 the VEGETABLES. Vegetables are neither particularly wholesome nor cheap. The comparatively cheap kinds, such as cabbages, as a whole, must not be eaten in too large a quantity, for they would bring on indigestion, and the dearer kinds, well, they are too dear for people of small means.