332 commencomont of the tmusvorse or upper part of the ascending portion ; or the distance from one another at their ori"iii may bo increased or diminislied, the most Irequent change in this respect being the approxinmtion of the left carotid towards the innominate artery. _ _ The Number of the primary branches may be reduced to two : the lelt carotid arising from the innominate artery : or (more rarely), tlie carotid and subclavian arteries of the left side arising from a left innominate artery. J3ut the number may be increased to lour, rom the light carotid and subclavian arteries ari«ng directly from the aorta the innominate being absent. In most of these latter cases, the right sube avian has been found to arise Irom the left end of the arch • in other cases, it was the second or third branch given oti instead ot the lirst Lastly the number of trunks from the arch may bo increaaed to five or six; m these instances, tlio external and internal carotids arose separately from the arch, the common carotid being absent on one or both sides. . • v,, ^-a „ Number nsnal, Arrmujemcnt different. When the aorta arches over to the right side, the three branches have an arrangement the reverse of what is usual, the innominate supplying the left side • and the carotid and subclavian (which arises separately) the right side. In other cases where the aorta takes its usual course, the two carotids may be joined in a common trunk, and the subclavians arise separately from the arch, the right subclavian eenerallv arising from the left end of the arch. , , . Secondary Branches sometimes arise from the arch ; most commonly such a secondary branch is the left vertebral, which usually takes origin between the left carotid and lelt subclavian, or beyond them. Sometimes, a thyroid branch is derived from the arch, or the rio'ht internal mammary, or left vertebral, or, more rarely, both vertebrals. The Coeonart Autekies. The coronary arteries supply the heart; they are two in number, right and left, arising near the commencement of the aorta immediately above the free margm of the semilunar valves, . The Bight Coronary Artery, about the size of a crow's quill, arises from the aorta immediately above the free margin of the right semilunar valve, between the pulmonary artery and the right appendix auriculsB. It passes forwards to the rio-ht side, in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle, and curving around the right border of the heart, runs along its posterior surface as far as the posterior interventricular groove, where it divides into two branches, one ot which continues onwards in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle,^ and anastomoses with the left coronary ; the other descends along the posterior inter- ventricular furrow, supplying branches to both ventricles and to the septum, and anastomosing at the apex of the heart with the descendmg branch of the lett ''"''Thk vessel sends a large branch along the thin margin of the right ventricle to the apex, and numerous small branches to the right auricle and ventricle, and the commencement of the pulmonary artery. _ t,, , ft... The Left Ooronary, smaller than the former, arises immediately above the tree ed^e of the left semilunar valve, a little higher than the right; it passes forwards between the pulmonary artery and the left appendix auricute, ^d descends obliquely towards the anterior interventricular groove, where it divides mto two branches Of these, one passes transversely outwards in the left auriculo-ventn- cular .roove, and winds around the left border of the heart to its posterior surface, wto it anastomoses with the superior branch of the right coronary ; he other descends along the anterior interventricular groove to the apex of the hear^ there it anastLoses with the descending branch of the right coronary. The left Toronary supplies the left auricle and its appendix, both ventricles, and numerous small branches to the pulmonary artery, and commencement of the aorta. Peculiarities. These vessels occaBionally arise.by \<^-^--}^-':^^^^^^ be increased to three; the additional branch being of small size. More rarely, tuere two additional branches. Aeteria Innominata. The innominate artery is the largest branch given off from the J^'^^ f ^^^J^^; It arises from the commencement of the transverse portion in front of the clt IrZ U ascending obliquely to the upper border of the right stcrno.clavicular