NERVOUS TISSUE. Ixv skull and spine. This is called the cerebrospinal system, and is divided into the brain (inclnding- the medulla oblongata), the spinal cord, the cranial nerves, the spinal nerves, and the ganglia connected with both those classes of nerves. The second, called the sympathetic system, is not directly connected with the brain or spinal cord, though it is so indirectly by means of its numerous communications with the cranial and spinal nerves. It consists of a double chain of ganglia, with the branches which go to and come from them. A third method of division of the nervous system is based upon the functions which it performs. On this principle it is divided into the nervous system of animal life and the nervous system of organic life—the former subserving the higher functions of volition, sensation, &c., the latter those of growth and nutrition. It is clear that the former qualities reside mainly in the cerebro-spinal system, while the intimate connection between the sympathetic nerve and the great viscera renders it highly Fig:. XXIV.—Nerve-vesicles from tlie Gasserian ganglion of the human sub- ject : a, A globular one with defined border; b, its nucleus; c, its nucleo- lus, d, Caudate vesicle; e, Elongated vesicle with two groups of pigment particles; f, Vesicle surrounded by its sheath or capsule of nucleated par- ticles; g, The same, the sheath only- being in focus. Magnified 300 dia- meters. Fig. XXV.—-Nerve-vesicles from the inner parts of the grey matter of the convolutions of the human brainj magnified35otimes. Nerve-cells: «,larger, 6, smaller, c, Nerve fibre, vsdth axis-cylinder. probable that the sympathetic system has mainly to do with the oi-^anio- functions Conseqnently, the cerebro-spinal system was designated the system of animal life, and the sympathetic the system of organic life. But the dis motion though true to a certain extent, is by no means physfotil °' ''"'^ by consulting the worlfs of modern The grey OT vuiaOar n^om Mance is distinguished by its dark redd.sh-grey colour, and soft consistence. It is found in the brain spinal r;e:rutTr.ef;ti irrr ~ either t : rr ^T*' ""^ *he vesicles being a^mbfdded nucleated llr ^ ^-T t'"^ <>■• - - '=^P-'<^ °f uucleated cells, as m the ganglia. Each vesicle consists of an exceedingly