SURGICAL ANATOMY. 322 Nerunus Sttppk- '^'^''^ l''^''-^"'' ^'^^'^'^ polHcis is supplied by tlio internal plantar nerve, and soraetimos (according to Meckel) receives a branch from the external plantar. other three nmscles of this layer are supphed by the external plantar norvo. .r Belations. By its mulor surface with the tendons of the long and short Mexors and Lumbricales. By its tipper surface, with the Interossei. Fourth Layer. The Interossei. The Interossei muscles in the foot are similar to those in the hand, with this exception, that they are grouped around the middle line of the second toe, instead of the middle line of the whole member, as in the hand. They are seven in number, and consist of two groups, dorsal and plantar. The Dorsal Interossei, four in number, are situated between the metatarsal bones. They are bipcnniform muscles, arising by two heads from the adjacent sides of the metatarsal bones between which they are placed; their tendons are inserted into the bases of the first pha- lano-es, and into the aponeurosis of the common extensor tendon. In the angular interval left between each muscle at its posterior extremity the perforating arteries pass to the dorsum of the foot; except in the first Interosseous muscle, where the interval allows the passage of the communicating branch of the dorsahs pedis artery The first Dorsal interosseous muscle is inserted into the inner side of the second toe; the other three are inserted into the outer sides of the second, third, and fourth toes. They are all abductors from the middle line of the second toe. The Plantar Interossei, three m number, lie beneath, rather than between, the metatarsal bones They are single muscles, and are each connected with but one metatarsal bone They arise from the base and inner sides of the shait of the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, and are inserted into the inner sides of the bases of the first phalanges of the same toes, and into the aponeurosis of the common ex- tensor tendon. These muscles are all adductors towards the middle line of the second toe. All the Interossei muscles are supplied by the external plantar nerve. 197.—The Dorsal Interossei. Left Foot. ,q8—The Plantar Interossei. Left Foot. SURGICAL ANATOMY. are selected for illustration and description.