359 SUBCLAVIAN. the vessel to the inner border of the Scalenus anticus. On the left s:dc it ascends vertically, to gain the inner border of that muscle The second part passes lut vlrds behind the Scalenus anticus ; and the thuxi part passes ft-om the outer uutvvcuus, utiiu „inv;plp to the lower border of the first rib, maro-in of that muscle, beneath tlie claMCie, vo ^ , ^ a-o- whereat becomes the axillary artery. The first portions of these ^>wo ves- B difi-er so much in their course, and in their relation with neighbouring P-^^'/^^^^^^^^^^ described separately. The second and third parts are precisely ahke on both sides. First Part op the Right Subclavian Aeteky. (Pigs. 205, 207.) The right subclavian artery arises from the arteria innomlnata. opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation, passes upwards and outwards across the root of he neck, and terminates at the inner margin of the Scalenus anticus muscle. In this part of its course it ascends a little above the clavicle, the extent to which it does so varying in different cases. It is covered, in front, by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, deep fascia, the clavicular origin of the Stemo-mastoid the Sterno- hyoid aud Sterno-thyroid muscles, and another layer of the deep fascia, it is crossed by the internal jugular and vertebral veins, and by the pneumogastric, the cardiac branches of the sympathetic, and the phrenic nerve. Beneath, the artery is invested by the pleura, and behind, it is separated by a cellular interval from the Longus colli, the transverse process of the seventh cervical or first dorsal vertebra, and the sym'pathetic; the recurrent laryngeal nerve winding around the lower and back part of the vessel. The subclavian vein lies below the subclavian artery, immediately behind the clavicle. Plan of Relations of First Portion of Right Subclavlw^ Artery. In front. Clavicular origin of Sterno-mastoid. Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-tliyroid. Internal jugular and vertebral veins. Pneumogastric, cardiac and phrenic nerves. Beneath. Pleura. Behind. Hecurrent laryngeal nerve. Sympathetic Longus colli. Transverse process of seventh cervical or first dorsal vertebra.* First Part op the Left Subclavian Artery. (Fig. 205.) The left subclavian artery arises from the end of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, opposite the third dorsal vertebra, and ascends to the inner margin of the first rib, behind the insertion of the Scalenus anticus muscle. This vessel is, therefore, longer than the right, situated more deeply in the cavity of the chest, and directed almost vertically upwards, instead of arching outwards like the vessel of the opposite side. It is in relation, in front, with the pleura, the left lung, the pneumogastric, phrenic, and cardiac^ nerves, which lie parallel with it, the left carotid artery, left internal jugular and innominate veins, and is covered by the Sterno-thyroid, Sterno- hyoid, and Sterno-mastoid muscles; behind, it is in relation with the oesophagus, thoracic duct, inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, Longus colli, and verte- bral colunin. To its inner side are the oesophagus, trachea and thoracic duct; to its Older side, the pleura. * In five cases recently examined successively the artery was found to lie on the traiis- verse process of the first dorsal.