ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 648 cardiac end of the storaacb, fox-uiing the gastro-splcnic omentum, which contains between its layers the splenic vessels and nerves, and the vasa brevia. The internal sm'face is in relation, in front, with tlie great end of the stomach; below, with the tail of the pancreas; and behind, with the left crus of the Diaphi-agm and coiTCsponding snpi'aroiial capsule. The Mjjper end, thick and rounded, is in relation with the Diaphragm, to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum, the suspensory ligament. The loiuer end is pointed ; it is in relation with the loft extremity of the transverse arch of the colon. The anterior margm is free, I'ounded, and often notched, especially below. The posterior mcurfiin is rounded, and lies in relation with the left kidney, to which it is connected by loose areolar tissue. The spleen is held in its position by two folds of peritoneum : one, the gastro- splenic omentum, connects it with the stomach; and the other, the suspensory ligament, with the under surface of the Diaphragm. 353.—Transverse Section of the Spleen, sliowinfr the Trabecular Tissue and the Splenic Vein aud its Branches. The size and weight of the spleen are liable to very extreme variations at different periods of life, in different individuals, and in the same individual under different conditions. In the adult, in whom it attains its greatest size, it is usually above five inches in length, three or four inches in breadth, and an inch or an inch and a half in thickness, and weighs about seven ounces. At hirtli, its weight, m proportion to the entire body, is almost equal to what is observed in the adult being as i to 350 ; whilst in the adult it varies from i to 320 and 400. In old aqe the organ not only decreases in weight, but decreases considerably m pro- portion to the entire body, being as i to 700. The size of the spleen is increased durino- the after digestion, and varies considerably, according to the state ot nutrition of the body, being large in highly-fed, and small starved animals. In intermittent and other fevers, it becomes much enlarged, weighing occasionally from 18 to 20 pounds. Structure. The spleen is invested by two coats: an external serous, and ail internal fibrous elastic coat. The external, or serous coat, is derived from the peritoneum ; it is thin, smootn and in the human subject intimately adherent to the fibrous clastic coat It invests almost the entire organ ; being reflected from it, at the hiluni, on to the great end of the stomach, and at the upper end of the organ on to the Uia- phragm.