MUSCLES AND FASCL/E. 280 Posterior Brachial Reoion. (Fig. 174.) Suporfwial Layer. Extensor Comnmnis Digitomm. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris. Extensor Minimi Digiti. Anconeus. The Extensor Oommunis Digitomm is situated at the back part of the forearm. It arises from the external condyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from the deep fascia, and tho intermuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. Just below the middle of the forearm it divides into three tendons, which pass, to<^ether with the Extensor indicis, through a separate compartment of the annular lis°ament, lubricated by a synovial membrane. -Jhe 7endons then diverge the innermost one dividing into two ; and all, after passing Tcross the back of the hand, are inserted into the second and third phalanges of the fingers m the following manner- Each tendon becomes narrow and thickened opposite the metacarpo- phalangeal articulation, and gives oiF a thin fasciculus upon each side of the joint, which serves as the posterior ligament; after having passed the joint, it spreads out into a broad aponeurosis, which covers the whole of the dorsal surface of the first phalanx ; being reinforced, in this situation, by the tendons of the Interossei and Lubricales. Opposite the first phalangeal joint, this aponeurosis divides mto three slips a middle, and two "lateral: the former is inserted into the base of the second phalanx; and the two lateral, wHch are continued onwards along the sides of the second phalanx, unite by their contiguous margins, and are inserted into the dorsal surface of the last phalanx. As the tendons cross the phalangeal joints, they furmsh them with posterior ligaments. The tendons of the middle, ring, and little fingers are connected together, as they cross the hand, by small oblique tendmous slips. The tendons of the index and little fingers also receive, before then- division, the special extensor tendons belonging to them. „ , p j -u j Belations. By its suferjicial surface, with the fascia of the forearm and hand, the posterior annular ligament, and integument. By its cZeep sm/a^e, with the Supinator brevis, the Extensor muscles of the thumb and mdex finger, the posterior interosseous vessels and nerve, the wrist-joint, carpus, metacarpus, and phalanges. By its radial lonler, with the Extensor carpi radialis brevior. By ite vMar harder, with the Extensor minimi digiti, and Extensor carpi ulnans. The Extensor Minind EigUi is a slender muscle placed on the inner side of the Extensor communis, with which it is generally connected. It axises from the common tendon by a thin tendinous slip ; and from the intermuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. Its tendon runs througli a separate compartment m the annular ligament behind the inferior radio-ulnar joint, then divides mto two as it crosses the hand, and, at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, unites with the tendon derived from the common Extensor, lying at first to the ulnar side of that tendon and somewhat more superficial. The common tendon then spreads into abroad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the second and third P^^^^^^g^^ Httle finger in a similar manner to the common extensor tendons of the other fingers^ The Extensor Carpi Ulnaris is the most superficial muscle on the u nar side ot the forearm. It arises fxom the external condyle of the humerus, by tl^e common tendon ; from the middle third of the posterior border of the ulna below the Anco- neus! a;d from the fascia of the forearm. This muscle terminates - a Woi^ which runs through a groove behindthe styloid process of the ulna Pa«;<^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^ a separate compartment in the annular ligament, and is msei-ted into the ulnar side of the base of the metacarpal bono of the little finger. Belations. By its superficial surface, with the fascia of the forearm. By its deep surface, with the ulna, and the muscles of the deep layer. Th; Anconeus is a small triangular muscle, placed behind and below the elbow- ioint and appears to be a continuation of the external portion of the Inccps. it ir ses by a separate tendon from the back part of the outer condyle of the humerus and isiLerted into the side of the olecranon, and upper fourth of the postenor surface of the shaft of the ulna ; its fibres diverge from their origin, the upper ones being directed transversely, the lower obliquely inwards.