AllTICULATIONS. 3. LlGAMBNTS CONNECTINO THK ArTICULAU PkOCESSES. Capsalar. Tho Capsular 'Litjaments (fig. 118) aro thin and h)osc ligamentous sacs, attached to tho contiguous margins of the articulating processes of each vertebra?, through tho greater part of their circumference, and completed internally by the ligamenta subllava. They are longer and more loose in the cervical than in the dorsal or lumbar regions. Tho capsular ligaments are lined on their inner surface by synovial membrane. 4. Ligaments connecting the Spinous Pbocesses. Inter-spinous, Supra..spiiious. The Inter-spiiwus Licjaments (fig. 116), thin and membranous, are interposed between the spinous processes in the dorsal and lumbar regions. Each ligament extends from the root to near the summit of each spinous process, and connects together theii- adjacent margins. They are narrow and elongated in the dorsal region, broader, quadrilateral in form, and thicker in the lumbar region. The Supraspinous Ligavient is a strong fibrous cord, which connects together the apices of the spinous processes from the seventh cervical to the spine of the sacrum. It is thicker and broader in the lumbar than in the dorsal region, and intimately blended, in both situations, with the neighbouring aponeuroses. The most superficial fibres of this ligament connect three or four vertebra; those deeper seated pass between two or three vertebras; whilst the deepest connect the contiguous extremities of neighbouring vertebrae. 5. Ligaments connecting the Tkansvekse Processes. Inter-transverse. The Inter-transverse Ligaments consist of a few thin scattered fibres, interposed between the transverse processes. They are generally wanting in the cervical region ; in the dorsal, they are rounded cords; in the lumbar region they are thm and membranous. Actions. The movements permitted in the spinal column are. Flexion, Extension, Lateral movement, Circumduction, and Rotation. In Flexion, or movement of the spine forwards, the anterior common ligament is relaxed, and the intervertebral substances are compressed in front; while the posterior common ligament, the ligamenta subflava, and the inter- and supra- spinous ligaments, are stretched, as well as the posterior fibres of the interver- tebral discs. The interspaces between the laminae are widened, and the inferior articular processes of the vertebite above glide upwards, upon the articular pro- cesses of the vertebrae below. Flexion is the most extensive of all the movemen; of the spine. •. j- In Extension, or movement of the spine backwards, an exactly opposite disjio- sition of the parts takes place. This movement is not extensive, being limited by the anterior common ligament, and by tho approximation of the spmouS pro^s^ses.^ and extension are most free in the lower part of the lumbar, and in the cervical regions ; extension in the latter region being greater than fiexion, tho reverse of which is the case in the lumbar region. These movements ai-e least free in the middle and upper part of tho back. In Lateral Movement, the sides of the intervertebral discs arc compressed tbe extent of motion being limited by the resistance offered by the surrounding liga- ments, and by the approximation of the transvei-se processes. This movement may take place in any part of the spine, but is most free in the neck and loins.