prorainont point behind corresponds to i8 THE SKELETON. 21.—Lateral View of the Spine. middle of the twelfth dorsal. Its most the body of the seventh or eighth verte- bra. The lumhar curve commences at the middle of the last doi-sal vertebra, and terminates at the sacro-vertebral angle. It is convex anteriorly ; the convexity of the lower three vertebras being much greater than that of the upper ones. The pelvic curve commences at the sacro-ver- tebral articulation, and terminates at the point of the coccyx. It is concave an- teriorly. These curves are partly due to the shape of the bodies of the vertebrae, and partly to the intervertebral substances, as will be explained in the Articulations of the Spine. The spine has also a slight lateral curvature, the convexity of wbich is di- rected toward the right side. This is most probably produced, as Bichat first explained, chiefly by muscular action; most person^ using the right arm in preference to the left, especially in making long-continued efforts, when the body is curved to the right side. In support of this explanation, it has been found, by Beclard, that in one or two individuals ■who were left-handed, the lateral curva- ture was directed to the left side. The spinal column presents for exami- nation an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral surfaces; a base, summit, and ver- tebral canal. The anterior surface presents thebodies of the vertebrge separated in the recent state by the intervertebral discs. The bodies are broad in the cervical region, narrow in the upper part of the dorsal, and broadest in the lumbar region. The whole of this surface is convex transversely, concave from above down- wards in the dorsal region, and convex in the same direction in the cervical and lumbar regions. The posterior surface presents in the median line the spinous processes. These are short, horizontal, with bifid extremi- ties in the cervical region. In the dorsal region, they are directed obliquely above, assume almost a vertical direction in the middle, and are horizontal below, as are also the spines of the lumbar vertebras. They are separated by considerable in- tervals in the loins, by narrower intervals in the neck, and are closely approximated in the middle of the dorsal region, Occa-