DEVELOPMENT OF GENITAL ORGANS. cxxvii I . Below this portion of the duct of Miiller, that body on either side, and I the ducts of the Wolffian body, are united together in a structure called ! ' the genital cord,' in which the two Mlillerian ducts approach each other, lying^'side by side and finally coalescing to form the cavity of the vagina i and uterus. This coalescence commences in the middle, corresponding to the body of the uterus. The upper parts of the Mlillerian ducts in the genital cord constitute the cornua of the uterus, little developed in the human species. The only remains of the Wolffian body consist in a struc- ture (parovarium or organ of Eosenmiiller) which can usually be detected lyipg between the ovary and Fallopian tube, and consisting of a group of tubules converging to a single diict, which is sometimes of considerable size and runs for some distance in the broad ligament. About the fifth month an annular constriction marks the position of I the neck of the uterus, and after the sixth month the walls of the uterus ! begin to thicken. The round ligament is derived from the lumbar ligament of the Wolffian j body, the superior ligament of the genital gland becomes the cord which ; attaches the ovary to the fimbriated extremitj^ of the Fallopian tube, the peritoneum constitutes the broad ligaments, the superior ligament of the Wolffian body disappears with that structure. Internal organs in the male.— I. The genital gland, in its development into a testicle, becomes rounded and thick, and is more vertical than the ovary is in its eax'ly state. The tubuli seminiferi are early visible, being at first short and straight, and then gradually assuming a coiled arrange- ment. The tunica albu^inea is formed about the third month. 2. The MiiUerian ducts disappear in the male sex, with the exception of their lower ends. These unite in the middle line, and open by a common orifice into the urogenital sinus. This constitutes the utriculus hominis or sinus prostaticus. 3. The head of the epididymis, its canal, the vas deferens and ejacu- latory duct, are formed from the canals and'from the duct of the Wolffian body. The remains of the W^olffian bodies also form the vas aberrans (see p. 713), and a structure described by Giraldes* and called after him, 'the organ of Giraldes,' which bears a good deal of resemblance to the organ of Eosenmiiller in the other sex. It consists of a number of convoluted tubules lying in the cellular tissue iu front of the cord and close to the head of the epididymis. The descent of the testis and the formation of the gubernaculum are described at p. 715, The External organs of generation, like the internal, pass through a stage in which there is no distinction of sex (Figs. LXIL, i. ii. iii.). We must therefore first describe this stage, and then follow the development of the female and male organs respectively. As stated above, the anal depression at an early period is formed by an involution of the external epithelium apart from the intestine, which is still closed at its lower end. When the septum between the two opens, which is about the fourth week, the urachus in front and the intestine be- y • Joimi. lie Phi/s., i86r. I