i6d AUTlOtJLATrONS' more infcriorly tlio inferior dental vessels and nerve separate it from tlie ramus of the jaw. Internally, it is in relation with the Internal pterygoid* The Stijlo-MaxillariiUgament is a thin aponeurotic cord, which extends from near the apex of the styloid 122,—Temporo-Maxillary Articulation. Internal View, process of the temporal bone, to the angle and posterior border of the ramus of the lower jaw, between the Masseter, and Internal pterygoid muscles. This Ugament separates the parcrtid from the sub-maxillary gland, and has attached to its inner side part of the fibres of origin of the Stylo-glossus muscle. Although usu- ally classed among the ligaments of the jaw, it can only be considered as an accessory in the articulation. Along with the stylo- maxillary ligament, may be described the stylo- hyoid ligament, although it is in no way connected with the functions of the lower jaw. This is a fibrous cord, which continues the styloid process down to the hyoid bone, being attached to the tip of the former and the small cornu of the latter. It is often more or less ossified. The Capsular Ligament consists of a thin and loose ligamentous capsule, attached above to the circumference of the glenoid cavity and the articular surface immediately in front; below, to the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw. ^ It consists of a few thin scattered fibres, and can hardly be considered as a distinct ligament; it is thickest at the back part of the articulation. The Interariicular Fihro-cartilage (fig. 123) is a thin plate of an oval form, placed horizontally between the condyle of the jaw and the glenoid cavity. Its upper surface is concave from before backwards, and a little convex trans- versely, to accommodate itself to the form of the glenoid cavity. Its under surface, where it is in contact _yg,tjcal Section of Temporo-Maxillary Articulation, with the condyle, is ^ concave. Its circum- ference is connected ex- ternally to the external lateral ligament; inter- nally, to the capsular ligament; and in front to the tendon of the Ex- ternal pterygoid muscle. It is thicker at its cir- cumference, especially behind, than at its cen- tre, where it is some- • times perforated. The • Dr Humnhrv describes the internal portion of tbe capsuhu: ligament separately, as the 8h?rt fSKoraT^ament; and it cLainly seems as cTescmng of a separate descnp- tion as the external lateral ligament is.