DEVELOPMENT OP THE TEETH. 6ti successive extensions backwards of the back part of the primitive dental groove. Durino- the fourth montb, that portion of the dental groove which lies behind the last temporary molar foUicle remains open, and from it is developed the papilla, the rudiment of the first permanent molar. The follicle in which it is contained, becomes closed by its operculum, and the upper part of the newly-formed sac elongates backwards to form a cavity of reserve, in which the papilla of the second permanent molar appears ah the seventh month after birth. After a con- siderable interval, during which the sacs of the first and second permanent molars have considerably increased in size, the remainder of the cavity of reserve presents for the last time a series of changes similar to the preceding, and gives rise to the sac and papilla of the wisdom-teeth, which ajjpear at the sixth year. Groiuth of the Teeth. As soon as the dental sacs are formed by the^ closing in of the follicles, they gradually enlarge, as well as their contained papillaa. Each sac consists of two layers: an internal, highly vascular layer, lined by epithelium ; and an external or areolo-fibrous membrane, analogous to the corium of the mucous membrane. The dental pulps soon become moulded to the form of the future teeth, and are adherent by their bases to the bottom of the dental sacs; in the case of the molars the base of the pulp is divided into two or more portions, which form the future fangs. Daring the fourth or fifth month of foetal life, a thin lamina or cap of den- tine is formed on the most prominent point of the pulp of all the milk teeth. In the incisor and canine teeth, this newly-formed lamina has the form of a hollow cone; in the molar teeth, as many separate laminse are found as there are eminences upon its crown. These laminte grow at the expense of the pulp-substance, increasing in breadth by a growth round their margins, and in thickness by a similar forma- tion in its substance; the separate cones (if a molar tooth) ultimately coalesce, and the crown is comjDletely formed. The pulp now becomes constricted, so as to form the cervix; and the remaining portion becomes narrow and elongated, to form the fang. The growth of dentine takes place from the surface towards the interior, until nothing but the smaU pulp-cavity remains in the centre of the tooth, com- municating by the aperture left at the point of each fang with the dental vessels and nerves. As soon as the formation of the dentine has commenced, there is developed from the inner wall of the dental sac a soft pulpy mass, the enamel organ, which is intimately united to the surface of the dental pulp, or its cap of dentine. It consists of a mesh of fibres, elastic and spongy, containing within its reticulations fluid albumen; and at the point of junction of each fibre, a transparent nucleus is visible. The surface towards the dentinal pulp is covered by a layer of elongated nucleated cells, the enamel memhram. The deposition of the enamel takes place on the outer surface of the cap of dentine. The cementum appears to be formed at a later period of life, by the periodontal membrane, extending from the margin of the enamel downwards. Eruption. When the calcification of the difi"erent tissues of the tooth is suffi- ciently advanced to enable it to bear the pressure to which it wiU be afterwards subjected, its eruption takes place, the tooth making its way throuo-h the gum The gum IS absorbed by the pressure of the crown of the tooth against it which isitself pressed up by the increasing size of the fang (fig. 328). At the same time the septa between the dental sacs, at first fibrous in structure, ossify, and constitute the alveoli; these firmly embrace the necks of the teeth, and afford them a solid basis of support. The eruption of the temporary teeth commences at the seventh month, and is complete about the end of the second year, those of the lower jaw preceding the The periods for the eruption of the temporary set are : 7th month, central incisors. r^ifl,+^ ^ <.i i.i ', ,1 , 14ta to 20th month, canine. ytti to Ioth month, lateral incisors tSUt f« o/;^-! ii, j. • i , ,, ' iin^iauis. Iotli to 36th month, posterior molars. 12th to 14th month, anterior molars. n n 2