PELVIS. 119 the age of puberty, ossiRcation takes place in each of the remaining portions, and they become joined to the rest of the bone about the twenty-fifth year. ArticulaUons. With its fellow of the opposite side, the sacrum and femur. Attachment of Muscles. Ilium. To the outer lip of the crest, the Tensor vaginra femoris, Obliquns extevnns abdominis, and Latissimus dorsi; to the internal lip, the Transversalis, Qnadratus lumborum, and Erector spinae; to the interspace between the Hps, the Obliquns internus. To the outer surface of the ilium, the Gluteus maximus. Gluteus medius, Gluteus minimus, reflected tendon of Rectus, portion of Pyriformis; to the internal surface, the Iliacus, and the Multifidus spinte to the internal surface of the posterior superior spine ; to the anterior border, the Sartorius and straight tendon of the Rectus. Ischium. To its outer surface, the Obturator externus; internal surface. Obturator internus and Levator ani. To the spine, the Gemellus superior. Levator ani, and Coccygeus. To the tuberosity, the Biceps, Semi-tendinosus, Semi-membranosus, Quadratus femoris, Adductor magnus. Gemellus inferior, Transversus perinei. Erector penis. To the pubes, the ObUquus externus, Obliquus internus, Transversahs, Rectus, Pyramida- lis. Psoas parvus, Pectineus, Adductor longus. Adductor brevis. Gracilis, Obtu- rator externus and internus. Levator ani. Compressor urethras, and occasionally a few fibres of the Accelerator urinae. The Pelvis (figs. 100, loi). The Pelvis, so called from its resemblance to a basin, is stronger and more massively constructed than either the cranial or thoracic cavity; it is a bony ring, interposed between the lower end of the spine, which it supports, and the lower extremities, upon which it rests. It is composed of four bones: the two ossa innominata, which bound it on. either side and in front; and the sacrum and coccyx, which complete it behind. The pelvis is divided by a prominent line, the linea ilio-pectinea, into the false and true pelvis. The false pelvis is all that expanded portion of the pelvic cavity which is situated above the linea ilio-pectinea. It is bounded on each side by the ossa ilii • in front it is incomplete, presenting a wide interval between the spinous processes of the ilia on either side, which is filled up in the recent state by the parietes of the abdomen ; behind, in the middle line, is a deep notch. This broad shallow cavity is fitted to support the intestines, and to transmit part of their weight to the anterior wall of the abdomen. The true pelvis is all that part of the pelvic cavity which is situated beneath the linea iHo-pectinea. It is smaller than the false pelvis, but its walls are more perfect. For convenience of description, it is divided into a superior circum- ference or inlet, an inferior circumference or outlet, and a cavity. The superior circumference forms the margin or brim of the pelvis, the included space bemg called the inlet. It is formed by the linea ilio-pectinea, completed in front by the spue and crest of the pubes, and behind by the anterior margin of the base of the sacrum and sacro-vertebral ano-le. The inlet of the pelvis is somewhat heart-shaped, obtusely pointed in front divergmg on either side and encroached upon behind by the projection forwards of he promontory of the sacram. It has three principal diameters: antero- posterior (sacro-pubic), transverse, and obhque. The antero-posterior extends from the sacro-vertebral angle to the symphysis pubis; its average measurement w\rmrddie?f\: w^^^^^ — -4 . " ""^ side to the same point on the oonosite • its average measurement is five inches Thp nKi;«„o a e i.i "PPP'^"^' T,ol„4a^ A- *■ -v -^"^ oblique extends from the margm of the s^nhvT"^?. to the iho-pectineal eminence on one side, to the !acro-iliac symphysis on the opposite side ; its average measurement is als^ five inches. ine camty ot the true pelvis is bnnnrl£>.q ^« f,,.. j. i j.i ^ • i- VipViinrl 1,^ -4. i XL »0""aed in tront by the symphysis pubis; abotp nnH ^ f.^' """^ '■^"'^ forwards above and below, contracts the inlet and outlet of the canal; and laLally it is