527 CERVICAL PLEXUS. SupicuFiciAL Branches of the Cervical Plexus. The Superficial^ Colli arises from the second and third cervical nerves, tarns round the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid about its middle and passing obliquely forwards beneath the external jugular vein to the anterior border of that muscle, perforates the deep cervical fascia, and divides benea h the Pktysma into two branches, which are distributed to the anterior and lateral parts ot the neck. The ascending hranch gives a filament, which accompanies the external jugular vein; it then passes upwards to the submaxillary region, and divides into branches, some of which form a plexus with the cervical branches of the facial nerve beneath the Platysma ; others pierce that muscle, supply it, and are distri- buted to the integument of the upper half of the neck, at its fore part, as high as the chin. The descending hranch pierces the Platysma, and is distributed to the integument of the side and front of the neck, as low as the sternum. This nerve is occasionally represented by two or more filaments. The Jhiricularis Magnus is the largest of the ascending branches. It arises from the second and third cervical nerves, winds round the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, and after perforating the deep fascia, ascends upon that muEcle beneath the Platysma to the parotid gland, where it divides into numerous branches. The facial hranches pass across the parotid, and are distributed to the integu- ment of the face ; others penetrate the substance of the gland, and communicate with the facial nerve. The posterior or auricular branches ascend vertically to supply the integument of the back part of the pinna, communicating with the auricular branches of the facial and pnenmogastric nerves. The mastoid hranch joins the posterior auricular branch of the facial, and crossing the mastoid process, is distributed to the integument behind the ear. The Occipitalis Minor arises from the second cervical nerve; it curves round the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid above the preceding, and ascends verti- cally along the posterior border of that muscle to the back jsart of the side of the head. Near the cranium it perforates the deep fascia, and is continued upwards along the side of the head behind the ear, supplying the integ'ument and Occipito- frontalis muscle, and communicating with the occipitalis major, auricularis magnus, and posterior auricular branch of the facial. This nerve gives off an auricular hranch, which supplies the Attollens aui'em and the integument of the upper and back part of the auricle. This branch is occasionally derived from the great occipital nerve. The occipitalis minor varies in size; it is occasionally double. The Descending or supra-clavicular hranches arise from the third and foui-th cervical nerves ; emerging beneath the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, they descend in the interval between that muscle and the Trapezius, and divide into branches, which are arranged, according to their position, into three groups. The inner or sternal hranch crosses obUquely over the clavicular and sternal attachments of the Sterno-mastoid, and supplies the integument as far as the median line. The middle or clavicular hranch crosses the clavicle, and supplies the integu- ment over the Pectoral and Deltoid muscles, communicating with the cutaneous branches of the upper intercostal nerves. Not unfrequently^ the clavicular branch passes through a foramen in the clavicle, at the junction of the outer with the middle third of the bone. The external or aaromdal hranch passes obliquely across the outer surface of the Trapezius and the acromion, and supplies the integument of the upper and back part of the shoulder.