513 SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. postenor ethmoidal cells, a few being prolonged to the upper and back part of the septum. , „ -i 1 .1 i 1 1 The naso-palatine nerve (Cotunnius) outers the nasal fos.sa wi h the other nasal nerves, and passes inwards across the roof of the nose, belovv the onface of the sphenoidal sinus, to reach the septum ; it then runs obliqaely downwards and for- wards along the lower part of the septum, to the anterior palatine foramen, lymg between the periosteum and mucous membrane. It descends to the roof of the mouth bj a distinct caual, which opens below in the anterior palatme fossa ; the right nerve, also in a separate canal, being posterior to the left one. In the mouth, thej become united, supply the mucous membrane behind the mcisor teeth, and join with the anterior palatine nerve. The naso-palatine nerve occasionally fur- nishes a few small filaments to the mucous membrane of the septum. 278.—The Spheno-Palatine Ganglion and its Branches. The posterior branches are the Vidian and pharyngeal (pterygo-palatine). Tbe Vidian nerve, if traced from Meckel's ganglion, may be said to arise from the back part of the spheno-palatine ganglion, and then passes through the Vidian canal, enters the cartilage filling in the foramen lacerum basis cranii, and divides into two branches, the large petrosal, and the carotid. In its course along the Vidian canal, it distributes a few filaments to the lining membrane at the back part of the roof of the nose and septum, and that covering the end of the Eustachian tube. These are upper posterior nasal branches. The large petrosal branch (nervuspetros^bs superfioialis major) enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum basis cranii, having pierced the cartilaginous sub- stance which fills in this aperture. It runs beneath the Casscrian ganglion and dura mater contained in a groove in the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and, being continued through it into the aquaxluctus Pallopii, joins the gangliform enlargement on tho facial nerve. Properly speaking, this nerve passes from the facial to the spheno-palatino ganglion, forming its motor root. The carotid branch is shorter, but larger than tbe petrosal, of a reddish-grey L L