742 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. Its outer loall is formed by ilio libi-ous septum covering the inner side of tlie femoral vein. Its inner loall is formed by tlio junction of tlie transversalis and iliac fasciaj, whicb form the inner side of tlie femoral sheatli, and cover the outer edge of Girabernat's ligament. This canal has two oi-ificcs: a lower one, the saphenous opening, closed by the cribriform fascia ; an upper one, the femoral or crural ring, closed by the septum crurale. 403.—Ilemiii. The Relations of the Femoral and Infernal Abdominal Rings, seen from witliin tlio Abdomen. Rijilit Side. The femoral or crural ring (fig. 403) is the upper opening of the femoral canal and leads into the cavity of the abdomen.* It is bounded in front by Ponpart's ligament and a deep crural arch ; behind by the pubes, covered by the Pecttneus muscle, and the pubic portion of the fascia lata; internally, by Gimbernat's lio'ament, the conjoined tendon, the transversalis fascia, and the deep crural arch ; externally, by the femoral vein, covered by its sheath. The femoral ring is of an oval form; its long diameter, directed transversely, measures about half an inch, and it is larger in the female than in the male, which is one of the reasons of the greater frequency of femoral hernia in the former sex. Position of Farts around tlio Bing. The spermatic cord in the male, and round ligament in the female, lie immediately above the anterior margin of the femoral ring, and may be divided in an operation for femoral hernia if the incision for the relief of the stricture is not of limited extent. In the female, this is of little importance, but in the male the spermatic artery and vas deferens may be divided. The fem,oral vein lies on the outer side of the ring. The epigastric artery, in its passage inwards from the external iliac to the umbilicus, passes across the upper and outer angle of the crural ring, and is con- sequently in danger of being wounded if the stricture is divided in a direction upwards and outwards. The communicating hranch between the epigastric and obturator lies in front of the ring. • This rinsr, like the crural canal, is a morbid or an artifioinl product. ' Each femor.il hernia makes for itself (for neith'.r outlet e.vists in the nnlural anatomy of the region) a crural canal, and a crural (femoral) ring.'—Callendkr, op. at., p. 4°-