336 ARTERIES. the arfcory and vein, on a plane posterior to both. On opening the sheath, these three structurea are seen to ho separated from one another, each being enclosed in a separate iibrous invostniont. lielations. At the lower part of the neck the common carotid artery is very deeply seated, being covered by the superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia, the Sterno-mastoid, Sfcerno-hyoid, and Sterno-thyroid muscles, and by the Omo-hyoid opposite the cricoid cartilage; but in the upper part of its course, near its ter- mination it is more superficial, being covered merely by the integument, the superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia, and inner margin of the Sterno- mastoid and is contained in a triangular space, bounded behind by the Sterno- mastoid' above by the posterior belly of the Digastric, and below by the anterior belly of'the Omo-hyoid. This part of the artery is crossed obliquely from within outwards by the sterno-mastoid artery; it is crossed also by the facial, lingual, and superior thyroid veins, which terminate in the internal jugular, and descend- ance on its sheath in front, is seen the descendens noni nerve, this filament being joined with branches from the cervical nerves, which cross the vessel from without inwards. Sometimes the descendens noni is contained within the sheath. The middle thyroid vein crosses the artery about its middle, and the anterior jugular vein below. Behind, the artery lies in front of the cervical portion of the spine, restino- first on the Longus colli muscle, then on the Rectus anticus major, from which°it is separated by the sympathetic nerve. The recurrent laryngeal nerve and inferior thyroid artery cross behind the vessel at its lower part. InternaUy, it is in relation with the trachea and thyroid gland, the inferior thyroid artery and recurrent laryngeal nerve being interposed; higher up, with the larynx and pharynx. On its outer side are placed the internal jugular vein and pneumo- At the lower part of the neck, the internal jugular vein on the right side diverges from the artery, but on the left side it approaches it, and often crosses its lower part. This is an important fact to bear in mind during the performance of any operation on the lower part of the left common carotid artery. Plan of the Relations of the Common Carotid Aeteey. In Front. Integument and fascia. Omo-hyoid. Platysma. Descendens noni nerve. Stpriio-mastoid. Stemo-mastoid artery. , , . , . Stemo-hyoid Superior thyroid, lingual, and facial vems. Sterno-thyroid. Anterior jugular vein. Internally. / \ Trachea. • ff'-r^'^-. f — ) SrieiS'wngeal nerve. Internal jugular vem. I Ca:.ud. I f^ior thyroid artery. Pneumogastric nerve. \ / Larynx. \^ Pharynx. Behind. Longus colli. Sympathetic nerve. Rectus anticus major. Inferior thyroid artery. Ilecurrent laryngeal nerve. TM^c. as to Oriyin The riykt common carOid rn^ T.jf riaTiontcTuL^in'^ point, the upper border of the leoJntiy^Le than helow origin than the right. In the majority f ^^^j.^J'^^^^^ trunk. nrtSry, or if the innominate artery is absent, the two being occasion- Tie left carotid has a tendency towards the right side of the aich ^«'^J^^ "^^j^ left hUv the first hmnch given oil-from the transverse portion. It imely joins subclavian, except in caaes of transposition of the arch.