ARTICULATIONS. l62 and, on tho right side, with the vona azygos major ; behind, with the interarticular ligament and synovial membranes. In the first rib, which articulates with a singTe vertebra only, this ligament does not present a dis- ,^ ^ x i i i / . . . , I J- • • • , ,1 124.—Costo-vertebi'al and uosto-traneverse Articulations tmct division into throe ^ Autorior View. fasciculi; its superior fibres, however, pass to be attached to the body of the last cervical ver- tebra, as well as to the body of the vertebra with which tho rib ar- ticulates. In the tenth, eleventh and twelfth ribs also, which likewise ar- ticulate with a single vertebra, the division does not exist; but tho upper fibres of the liga- ment, in eacb case, are connected with the ver- tebra above, as well as that with which the ribs articulate. The Capsular Liga- ment is a thin and loose ligamentous bag, which surrounds the joint be- tween the bead of the rib and the articular cavity formed by the junction of the vertebrae. It is very thin, firmly connected with the anterior ligament, and most distinct at the upper and lower parts of the articulation. The Interarticular Ligament is situated in the interior of the joint. It consists of a short band of fibres, flattened from above downwards, attached by one extremity to the sharp crest on the head of the rib, and by the other to the intervertebral disc. It divides the joint into two cavities, which have no communication with one another, but are each lined by a separate synovial membrane. In the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, the interai-ticular ligament does not exist-, conse- quently, there is but one synovial membrane. Actions. The movements permitted in these articulations are limited to eleva- tion, depression, and a slight amount of movement forwards and backwards. The mobility, however, of the different ribs varies very much. The first rib is almost immoveable, excepting in deep inspiration. The movement of the second rib is also not very extensive. In the other ribs, theii- mobility increases successively down to the last two, whicb are very moveable. The ribs are generally more moveable in the female than in the male. INTCR-ARTrCULAn LIST 2. AfiTlCULATIONS OF THE NeCKS AND TUBEHCLES OF THE RiBS WITH THE Transverse Processes. (Fig. 125.) The ligaments connecting these parts are— Anterior Costo-Tbansverse. Middle Costo-Transverse (Interosseous). Posterior Costo-Transverse. Capsular. The Anterior Oosto-Tramverse Ligament is abroad and strong band of fibres, attached below to the sharp crest on the upper border of the neck of each nb, and