LATERAL VENTRICLES. 485 I.- c Minroid Dlexus, covpus fimbriatum, and tenia semicircularis, thalamus opticus, choroia picxu , p fornix . , . i? r,oa<3inCT outwards into the anterior lobe, and oumng ronnd the anterior extiemity o UpMnd bv the corpus bounded above and in front, by the corpus callosum; behind, by p ^'"T'hW.i. «r,», or digital city, -7 ^-'=T':rd?a^d%re^Wd:' the po Jrlor lobe, its direction being backwards and o— On its floor is seen a longitudinal eminence, which couesponus -Optween the between two eonvolutions : this is called '^^I'lZTZ Zi.lc^ Z^ middle and posterior horns a smooth eminence is observea, ^"J^ siderably in size in different subjects. It is called the emmenha collaterals The co~ striatum received its name from the stnped appearance wh ch its section presents, in consequence of diverging white fibres ^^^^ .^^^^'^^Wlar ,.rey matter which forms the greater part of its substance. The interventricular portion is a large pear-shaped mass, of a grey colour externally; its broaa ex- tremity is directed forwards, into the fore part of the body, and anterior cornu ot the lateral ventricle: its narrow end is directed outwards and backwards, bemg separated from its fellow by the thalami optici: it is covered by the serous hning of the cavity, and crossed by some veins of considerable size. The extraventncular portion is imbedded in the white substance of the hemisphere. The tcenia semicircularis is a narrow, whitish, semi-transparent band ot medullary substance, situated in tbe depression between the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus Anteriorly, it descends in connection with the anterior pillar ot the fornix- behind, it is continued into the descending horn of the ventricle, where it becomes lost. Its surface, especially at its fore-part, is transparent, and dense in structure, and this was called by Tarinus the horny hand. It consists of longi- tudinal white fibres, the deepest of which run between the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus. Beneath it is a'large vein (vena corporis striati), which receives numerous small veins fi'om the surface of the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus, and joins the venas Galeni. The choroid plexus is a highly vascular, fringe-like membrane, occupying the margin of the fold of pia mater (velum interpositum), in the interior of the bram. It extends, in a curved direction, across the floor of the lateral ventricle. In front, where it is small and tapering, it communicates with the choroid plexus of the opposite side, through a large oval aperture, the foramen of Monro. Posteriorly, it descends into the middle horn of the lateral ventricle, where it joins with the pia mater through the transverse fissure. In structure, it consists of minute and highly vascular villous processes, the villi being covered by a single layer of epitheHum, composed of large, round corpuscles, containing, besides a central nucleus, a bright yellow spot. The arteries of the choroid plexus enter the ven- tricle at the descending cornu, and, after ramifying through its substance, send branches into the substance of the brain. The veins of the choroid plexus termi- nate in the venae Galeni. The (corpus fimbriatum (tmnia hippocampi) is a narrow, white, tape-like band, situated immediately behind the choroid plexus. It is the lateral edge of the posterior pillar of the fornix, and is attached along the inner border of the hippo- campus major as it descends into the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. It may be traced as far as the pes hippocampi. The thalami optici and fornix will be described when more completely exposed, ' in a later stage of the dissection of the brain. The middle cornu should now be exposed, throughout its entire extent, by introducing the little finger gently into it, and cutting outwards, along the finger through the substance of the hemisphere, which should be removed, to an extent sufficient to expose the entire cavity. The middle, or descending cornu, the largest of the three, traverses the middle lobe of the brain, forming in its course a remarkable curve round the hack of the