236 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. almost vertically, is iuscrtod into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, foilrth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebras. The lower part of this muscle separates the subclavian artery and vein : the latter being in front, and the former, with the brachial plexus, behind. , . Relations. In front, with the clavicle, the Subclavms, Sterno-mastoid, and Omo-hyoid muscles, the Transvorsalis colli, and ascending cervical arteries, the subclavian vpin, and the phrenic nerve. By its posterior surface, with the pleura, the subclavian artery, and brachial plexus of nerves. Ifc is separated from the Longus colli, on the inner side, by the vertebral artery o , . • , The Scalenios Medius, the largest and longest of the three Scaleni, arises, by a broad origin from the upper surface of the first rib, behind the groove for the subckviau artery, as far back as the tubercle; and, ascending along the side of the vertebral column, is inserted, by separate tendinous slips, into, the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lower six cervical vertebrae. It is separated from the Scalenus anticus by the subclavian artery below, and the cervical nerves above. a i. 4-1, Belations By its anterior surface, with the Sterno-mastoid; it is crossed by the clavicle, the Omo-hyoid muscle, and subclavian artery. To its outer side is the Levator anguli scapul£e, and the Scalenus posticus muscle. The Scalenus Posticus, the smallest of the three Scaleni, arises by a thin tendon from the outer surface of the second rib, behind the attachment of the Serratus ma-nus, and enlarging as it ascends, is inserted, by two or three separate tendons, into the posterior tubercles, of the transverse processes of the lower two or tlu-ee cervical vertebrae. This is the most deeply placed of the three Scalem, and is occasionally blended with the Scalenus medius. ^ t, . w Va Nerves The Rectus capitis anticus major and minor and the Rectus latera ls are supplied by the suboccipital ai^d deep branches of the cervical plexus; . the Longus colli and Scaleni, by branches from the lower cervical nerves. Actions The Rectus anticus major and minor are the direct antagonists of the muscles at the back of the neck, serving to restore the head ^^^^^^^ after it has been drawn backwards. These muscles also serve to flex the head, and from their obliquity, rotate it, so as to turn the face to one or the other s de. The Longus colh will flex and slightly rotate the cervical portion of the spine. The S ini muscles, taking their fixed point from below, draw the — processes of the cervical vertebrae, pending the spinal column to one or the other s'de If ^he muscles of both sides act, the spine wiU be kept erect. When they tike their fixed.point from above, they elevate the first and second nbs, and are, therefore, inspiratory muscles. MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE TRUNK. The muscles of the Trunk may be arranged in four groups: the muscles of the Back, of the Abdomen, of the Thorax, and of the Perineum. Muscles of the Back. The muscles of the Back are very numerous, and may be subdivided into five layers:— FiestLayee. Thied Later. . Serratus posticus superior. LSimusdorsi. Sei-ratus posticus inferior. Splenius capitis. Second Layee. Splenius colli. T 1 FouETH Layer. . Levator anguh scapula. Sacral and Umhar l^gio^is. Rhomboideus minor. ^acrau an Rhomboideus major. Erector spm^e.