LIGAMENTS OF THE STERNUM. obliquely downwards, and tbe jniddle fasciculi horizontally. The superficial fibres of this ligament are the longest; they intermingle with the fibres of the ligarnents above and below them, with those of the opposite side, and with the tendinous fibres of origin of the Pectoralis major; forming a thick fibrous membrane, which covers the surface of the sternum. This is more distinct at the lower than at the upper part. The Posterior Oosto-Sternal Ligament, less thick and distinct than the ante- rior, is composed of fibres which radiate from the posterior surface of the sternal end of the cartilages of the true ribs, to the posterior surface of the sternum, becoming blended with the periosteum. The Gwpsidar Ligament surrounds the joints formed between the cartilages of the true ribs and the sternum. It is very thin, intimately blended with the anterior and posterior ligaments, and strengthened at the upper and lower part of the articulation by a few fibres, which pass from the cartilage to the side of the sternum. These ligaments protect the synovial membranes. Synovial Membranes. The cartilage of ih.e first rib is directly continuous with the sternum, without any synovial membrane. The cartilage of the second rib is connected with the sternum by means of an interarticular ligament, attached by one extremity to the cartilage of the second rib, and by the other extremity to the cartMage which unites the first and second pieces of the sternum. This articulation is provided with two synovial membranes. That of the thu'd rib has also two synovial membranes ; and that of the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh, each a single synovial membrane. Thus there are eiglit synovial cavities on each side in the articulations between the costal cartilages of the true ribs and the sternum. They may be demonstrated by removing a thin section from the anterior surface of the sternum and cartilages, as seen in the figui'e. After middle life, the articular surfaces lose their poHsh, become roughened, and the synovial membranes appear to be wanting, In old age, the articulations do not exist, the cartilages of most of the ribs becoming continuous with the sternum. The cartilage of the seventh rib, and occasionally also that of the sixth, is connected to the anterior surface of the ensiform appendix, by a band of ligamentous fibres, which varies in length and breadth in different subjects. It is called the costo-xiphoid ligament^ Actions. The movements which are permitted in the costo-sternal articulaitions, are limited to elevation and depression; and these only to,a slight extent. Articulations of the Caetilagbs of the Ribs with each other (Inter-Chondral). (Fig. 126.) The cartilages of the sixth, seventh, and eighth ribs articulate, by their lower borders with the corresponding margin of the adjoining cartilages, by means of a small, smooth, oblong-shaped facet. Each articulation is enclosed in a thru capsular ligament, lined by synovial membrane, and strengthened externally and internally by ligamentous fibres (intercostal ligaments), which pass from one cartilage to the other. Sometimes the cartilage of the fifth rib, more rarely that of the ninth, articulates, by its lower border, with the^ adjoining cartilage by a small oval facet; rtiore frequently they are connected'together by a few hgamentous fibres. Occasionally, the articular surfaces above-mentioned are wanting. Articulations of the Ribs with their Cartilages (Costo-chondral). (Fig. 126.) The outer extremity of each costal cartilage is received into a depression in the sternal end of the ribs, and held together by the periosteum. VIII. Ligaments op the Sternum. The first and second pieces of the Sternum are united by a layer of cartilage, which rarely ossifies, except at an advanced period of life. These two segments are connected by an anterior and posterior ligament. (See on this head p. 75 note.)