726 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. In the fcBtus, tlie ovaries aro situated, like the testes, in the lumbar region, near the kidneys. They may be distinguished from those bodies at an early period by their elongated and flattened form, and by their position, which is at first oblique and then nearly ti'ansverse. Thoy gradually descend into the pelvis. The Licjamenf, of the ovary is a rounded cord, which extends from each superior angle of the uterus to the inner exti-emity of the ovary ; it consists of fibrous tissue, and a few muscular fibres derived from the uterus. The Bound LigamPMts are two rounded cords, between four and five inches in length, situated between the layers of the broad ligament in front of and below the Fallopian tube. Commencing on each side at the superior angle of the uterus, this ligament passes forwards and outwards through the internal abdominal ring, along the inguinal canal to the labia majora, in which it becomes lost. The round . ligament consists of areolar tissue, vessels, and nerves, besides a dense bundle of I fibrous tissue, and muscular fibres prolonged from the uterus, enclosed in a dupli- ■ cature of peritoneum, which, in the foetus, is prolonged in the form of a tubular , process for a short distance into the inguinal canal. This process is called the camZ I of NucJc. It is generally obliterated in the adult, but sometimes remains pervious I even in advanced Ufe. It is analogous to the peritoneal pouch which accompanies the descent of the testis. Vessels and Nerves, The arteries of the ovaries and Fallopian tubes are the ovarian from the aorta. They anastomose with the termination of the uterine arteries, and enter the attached border of the ovary. The veins foUow the course of the arteries; they form a plexus near tbe ovary, the pampiniform plexus. The nerves. are derived from the inferior hypogastric, or pelvic, plexus and from the ovarian plexus, the Fallopian tube receiving a brancb from one of the uterine nerves. Mammaet Glands. The mammae, or breasts, are accessary glands of the generative system, which secrete the milk. They exist in the male as well as in the female; but in the former only in a rudimentary state, unless their growth is excited by peculiar circumstances. In the female, they are two large hemispherical eminences situated towards the lateral aspect of the pectoral region, corresponding to the interval between the third and sixth or seventh ribs, and extending from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Their weight and dimensions differ at different periods of Hfe, and in different individuals. Before puberty they are of small size, but enlarge as the generative organs become more completely developed. They increase durmg pregnancy, and especially after delivery, and become atrophied in old age. The left mamma is generally a little larger than the right. Their base is nearly cii-cular, flattened or shghtly concave, and has its long diameter directed up- wards and outwards towards the axilla; they are separated from the Pectoral muscles by a tHn layer of superficial fascia. The outer surface of the mamma is convex, and presents, just below the centre, a smaU conical prominence, the nipple {mammilla). The surface of the nipple is dark-coloured, and surrounded by an areola having a coloured tint. In the virgin, the areola is of a deUcate rosy hue ; about the second month of impregnation, it enlarges, and acquires a darker tinge, which increases as pregnancy advances, becoming, in some cases, of a dark brown, or even black colour. This colour diminishes as soon as lactation is over, but is never entirely lost through life. These changes in the colour of the areola are of extreme importance in forming a conclusion in a case of suspected pregnancy. . - The nipple is a cyHndrical or conical eminence, capable of undergomg a sort ot erection from mechanical excitea.ent. It is of a pink or brownish hue, its sur- face wrinkled and p.ovidcd with papillce, and it as perforated by numerous orifices, the apertures of the lactiferous ducts. Near'the base of the nipple, and upon the surface of the areola, are numerous sebaceous glands, which become mucli enlarged during lactation, and present the appearance of small tubercles beneath