629 SMALL INTESTINES. Stmciurc. The wall of the small intestine is composed of four coats : serous, muscular, cellular and mncous The first, or ascending portion The serons coai IS derived irom the periconeuui. ^ > ox of the duodenum, is almost completely surrounded by this -^-bmne ; the s^^^^^^^^^^ or descending portion, is covered by it only in front; and the ^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^ portion lies behind the descending layer of the transverse meso-colon, by which it I covered in front. The remaining portion of the small - f^^! ^ -^-f/^ by the peritoneum, excepting along its attached or mesenteric bolder, here a space is left for the vessels and nerves to pass to the gut. -i. j- 1 The muscular coat consists of two layers of fibres, an external or longitudinal, and an internal or circular layer. The longitudinal fibres are thinly scattered over the surface of the intestine, and are most distinct along its free border. The circidar fibres form a thick, uniform layer ; they surround the cylinder ot the intestine in the greater part of its circumference, but do not form complete rings. The muscular coat is thicker at the upper than at the lower part ot the small intestine. The cellular, or suhmiocous coat, connects together the mucous and muscular layers. It consists of a loose, filamentous, areolar tissue, which forms a nidus for the subdivision of the nutrient vessels, previous to their distribution to the mucous surface. The mucous membrane is thick and highly vascular at the upper part of the small intestine, but somewhat paler and thinner below. It presents for exami- nation the following constituents :— Epithelium. Simple follicles. Valvulee conniventes. f Duodenal glands. Villi. Glands. < Solitary glands. L Agminate or Peyer's glands. The epithelium, covering the mucous membrane of the small intestine, is of the columnar variety. The valvulce conniventes (valves of Kerkring) are reduplications or foldings of the mucous membrane and submucous tissue, containing no muscular fibres. They extend transversely across the cylinder of the intestine for about three- fourths or five-sixths of its circumference. The larger folds are about two inches in length, and two-thirds of an inch in depth at their broadest part; but the greater number are of smaller size. The larger and smaller folds alternate with each other. They are not found at the commencement of the duodenum, but begin to appear about one or two inches beyond the pylorus. In the lower part of the descending portion, below the point where the common choledic and pancreatic ducts enter the intestine, they are very large and closely approximated. In the transverse portion of the duodenum and upper half of the jejunum, they are large and numerous; and from this point, down to the middle of the ileum, they dimi- nish couvsiderably in size. In the lower part of the ileum, they almost entirely disappear; hence the compai'ative thinness of this portion of the intestine, as compared with the duodenum and jejunum. The valvulos conniventes retard the passage of the food along the intestines, and afford a more extensive surface for absorption. The villi are minute, highly vascular processes, projecting from the mucous membrane of the small intestine throughout its whole extent, and giving to its surface a velvety appearance. In shape, some are triangular and laminated, others conical or cylindrical, with clubbed or filiform extremities. They are largest and most numerous in the duodenum and jejunum, and become fewer and smaller in the ileum. Krause estimates their number in the upper part of the small intestine at from fifty to ninety in a square line ; and in the lower part from forty to seventy ; the total number for the whole length of the intestine being about four millions. In structure each villus consists of a network of capillary and lacteal vessels,