2S4 MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. tendons, the external or larger lioing attached to tlio crest of the ob puhis; the internal, smaller portion, interlacing with its fellow of the opposite side, and being connected with the ligaments covering the symphysis pubis. The fibres ascend vertically, and the mnscle, becoming broader and thmner at its upper part, is inserted by three portions of unequal si.e into the cai-tilages of the fifth, sixth and seventh ribs. Some fibres are occasionally connected with the costo-xiphoid | ligaments, aM side of the ensiform cartilage. The Rebtus muscle is traversed by a series of tendinous intersections, which vai-v from two to five in numbei'i and have recfeived the name Linese transversa?. Orle of these is usually situated Opposite the umbilicus, and two above that point; of the latter one col'responds to the ensiform caftilage, and the other^ to the interval between the'ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus ; there is occasionally one below the umbilicus. Thtese intersections pass transversely or obliquely across the muscle iti a zigza'^ course; they rarely extend completely through its Bubstance, some- times pass only halfway across it, and are intimately adherent to the sheath m which the muscle is enclosed. The Rectus is enclosed in a shfeath (fig. i66) foi^med by the aponeuroses of the Oblique and Transversalis muscles, which are arranged in the following manner. When the ap'oneurosis of the Internal oblique ai-rives at the outer margm of the Rectus it divides into two lamelliB, one of which passes in front of the Rectus, blend- ing witb tlie aponeurosis of the External obliqile ; the other, behind it, blending with the aponeurosis of the Transvfersalis: and these, joining again at its inner border are inserted into the linea alba. This arrangement of the faSCise exists along the tipper threte-fourths of the muscle ; at the commencement of the lower fourth, th6 posterior wall of the sheath terminates in a thin curved margin^ or falciform eclqe the concavity of which looks downwards towards the pubes ; the aponeuroses of all three muscles passing in front of the Rectus without any separakon. The Rectus muscle, in the situation where its sheath is deficient, is separated from the peritoneum by the transversalis fascia. , -, . xi, i The Pyramidalis is a small muscle, triangular in shape, placed at the lower part of the abdomen, in front of the Rectus, and contained in the same sheath lith that muscle. It arises by tendinous fibres from the front of the os pubis and the anterior pubic ligament; the fleshy portion of the muscle passes upwds diminishing in size as it ascends, and terminates by a pointed extremity, which is inTerted into the linea alba, midway between the umbilicus and the os puW This muscle is sometimes found wanting on one or both sides ; the lower end of the Rectus then becomes proportionately increased m size Occasionally, it has been found double on one side, or the muscles of the two sides are of unequal size. Sometimes its length exceeds what is stated above. • The Quadratuf Lu^ulorum (fig. i6r, p. 243) is situated m the 1--^- ^^^^^ is irrec^ularly quadrilateral in shape, broader below than above and consi ts of two poSons One portion arises by 'aponeurotic fibres from the iho-lumbar hgament. Td the adiacent portion of the crest of the ilium for about two inches and is twed info Ihe Ler border of the last riTo, abotit haK its leng^^'^^^^^^^ ^'d small tendons, into the apices of the transverse processes of Jhird, fourt^^^ and fifth lumbar vertebra. The other portion of the muscle, ^^^nated m ta^^ oyhe .,receding, arises from the upper box-ders of the transverse J^^^^ fourth, aid fifth lumbar vertebra,, and is inserted m o loweymarg^n^^^ last rib. The Quadratus lumborum is contained m a sheath formed by the anterior and middle lamelte of the aponeurosis of origin of the Transversahs. Belations. Its anterior surface (or rather the fascia which covers its anterior surface) is in relation with the colon, the kidney, the psoas muscle, and the dia phragm. Its posterior sheath separates the Quadratus m front from J^ector spLf behind, the external edge of the Quadratus, however, overlapping the gastric, and ilio-inguinal nerves. The Quadratus lumborum receives filaments from tie anterior branches of the lumbar nerves.