617 TI-IE CBSOPHAGUS. In the thorax, it is at first situated a little to the left of the median hue : it then passes across the left side of the transverse part of the aortie arcl, and descends in the posterior mediastinum, aWng the right side of tl.e aorta, nearly to the Diaphragm, where it passes in fr^nt and a little to the left 0 the artery, previous to enterhig the abdomen. It is in relation, in front, with the trachea,_ the arch of the ao?ta, the left bronchus, and the posterior surface of the pericardium ; helvkid, it rests upon the vertebral column, the Longus colh, a.nd the intercostal vessels ; and below, near the Diaphragm, upon the front of the aorta ; lateraUy, it is covered by the pleurce; the vena azygos major lies on the right, and tlie descending aorta on the left side. The pueumogastric nerves descend m close contact with it, the right nerve passing down behind, and the left nerve in tront of it. Surdical Anatomy.—raiie relations of the resophagus are of considerable pvactical interest to the s\irg-eon, as he is frequently required, in cases of stricture of this tube, to dilate tlie canal by a bougie, when it becomes of importance that the direction of the oesophagus, and its relations to surrounding parts, should be remembered. In cases of malignant disease ot the oesophagus, where its tissues have become softened from infiltration of the morbid de- posit, the greatest care is requisite in directing the bougie through the strictured part, as a false passage may easily be made, and the instrument may pass into the mediastinum, or into one or the other pleural cavity, or even into the pericardium. 'I'he student should also remember that contraction of the oesophagus, and consequent symptoms of stricture, are occasionally produced by an aneurism of some part of the aorta pressing upon this tube. In such a case, the passage of a bougie could only hasten the fatal issue. It occasionally happens that a foreign body becomes impacted in the oesophagus, which can neither be brought upwards nor moved downwards. When all ordinary means for its removal have failed, excision is the only resource. This, of course, can only be performed when it is not very low down. If the I'oreigu body is allowed to remain, extensive inflam- mation and ulceration of the oesophagus may ensue. In one case with which I am acquainted, the foreign body ultimately penetrated the intervertebral substance, and destroyed life by inflammation of the membranes and substance of the cord. The operation of oesophagotomy is thus performed. The patient being placed upon his back, with the head and shoulders slightly elevated, an incision, about four inches in length, should be made on the left side of the trachea, from the thyroid cartilage downwards, dividing the skin and Platysma. The edges of the wound being separated, the Omo-hyoid muscle, and the fibres of the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, must be drawn inwards; the sheath of the carotid vessels being exposed, should be drawn outwards, and retained in that position by retractors; the oesophagus will then be exposed, and should be divided over the foreign body, which should th^ be removed. Great care is necessary to avoid wounding the thyroid vessels, the thyroid gland, and the laryngeal nerves. Structure. The oesophagus has three coats :. an external, or muscular; a middle, or cellular; and an internal, or mucous coat. The muscular coat is composed of two planes of fibres of considerable thickness, an external longitudinal, and an internal circular. The longitudinal fibres are arranged at the commencement of the tube, in three fascicuH: one in^ front, vfhich is attached to the vertical ridge on the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage; and one at each side, which are continuous with the fibres of the Inferior constrictor: as they descend they blend together, and form a uniform layer, which covers the outer surface of the tube. The circular fibres are continuous above with the Inferior constrictor: their direction is transverse at the upper and lower parts of the tube, but oblique iu the central part. The muscular fibres in the upper part of the oesophagus are of a red colour, and consist chiefly of the striped variety ; but below, they consist entirely of the invo- luntaiy muscular fibre. The cellular coat connects loosely the mucous and muscular coats. The mucous coat is thick, of a reddish colour above, and pale below. It is dis- posed in longitudinal folds, which disappear on distension of the tube. Its surface IS studded with mmute papilla), and it is covered throughout with a thick layer of squamous epithelium.