INFRA-HYOID REGION. 225 Variations This musclo is sometimes continuous with the Thyro-hyoid and Inferior con- strictor of the pharynx J and a lateral prolongation from it sometimes passes as far as the 09 hyoides. Belatiom. By its arderior surface, with the Stcrno-hyoid, Omo-hyoid, and Sterao-mastoid. By its posterior surface, from below upwards, with the trachea, vena innominata, common carotid (and on the right side the arteria mnommata), the thyroid gland and its vessels, and the lower pai-t of the larynx. Ihe middle thyroid vein lies along its inner border, a relation which it is important to remem- ber in the operation of tracheotomy. The Thip-o-Eyoid is a small quadrilateral muscle appearing like a continuation of the Sternothyroid. It arises from the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, and passes vertically upwards to be inserted into the lower border of the body and gi'eater cornu of the hyoid bone. P54'.—Muscles of the Neck. Anterior View. Belations. By its external surface, with the Sterno-hyoid and Omo-hyoid muscles. By its internal surface, with the thyroid cartilage, the thyro-hyoid mem- brane, and the Superior laryngeal vessels and nerve. The Omo-Hymd passes across the side of the neck, from the scapula to the hyoid bone. It consists of two fleshy bellies, united by a central tendon. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, and occasionally from the transverse liga- ment which crosses the suprascapular notch; its extent of attachment to the scapula varying from a few lines to an inch. Erom this origin, the posterior belly forms a flat, narrow fasciculus, which inclines forwards across the lower part of the neck, behind the Sterno-mastoid muscle, where it becomes tendinous, it then changes Its direction, formmg an obtuse angle, and the anterior belly ascends almost vertically upwards, close to the outer border of the Sterno-hyoid, to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides, just external to the insertion of the Sterno- hyoid. The tendon of this muscle, which varies much in its length and form in different subjects, is held lu its position by a process of the deep cervical fascia, Q