6io ORGANS OF DIGESTION. succeodod by tlio follicles for the incisorK, which aro complotGd about the eloventh or twelfth week ; and, lastly, the foUiolo of the posterior molar is completed about the four- teenth week. These changes constitute the second or follicular stage. About the thirteenth week, the papiliiu begin to grow rapidly, project from the follicles, and assume a form corresponding with that of the future teeth : the follicles soon become deeper, and from their margins small membranous processes, or opei'cula, aro developed, which, meeting, unite and form a lid to the now closed cavity (fig. 327). These processes correspond in. shape to the form of the crown of the tooth, and in number to the tubercles on its surface. The follicles of the incisor teeth have two opercula, the canine thi-ee, and the molars four or five each. The follicles are thus con- verted into dental sacs, and the contained papillse become pulps. The lips of the dental groove gradually advance over the follicles from behind forwards, and, uniting, gradually ob- literate it. This completes the third or saccular stage, which takes place about the end of the fifteenth week. The deep portion of the primitive dental groove is now closed in; but the more super- ficial portion, near the surface of the gum, still remains open; it is called, by Mr. Goodsir, the secondary dental groove; from it are developed the ten anterior permanent teeth. About the fourteenth week, certain lunated depressions are formed, one behind each of the sacs of the rudimentary milk teeth. They are ten in number in each jaw, and are formed successively from before backwards; they are the rudimentary follicles of the four permanent incisors, the two canine, and the four bicuspids. As the secondary dental groove closes in, the folhcles become closed cavities of reserve (fig. 327). The cavities soon elongate and recede from the surface into the substance of the gum, behind the sacs of the deciduous teeth, and a papilla projects from the bottom of each, which is the germ of the permanent tooth; at the same time, one or more opercula are developed from the sides of the cavity; and these uniting, divide it into two portions ; the lower portion containing the papilla of the permanent tooth, the upper narrower por- tion becoming gradually contracted in the same ■way that the primitive dental groove was obliterated over the sacs of the deciduous teeth (fig. 328). , . The six posterior permanent teeth m each jaw, three on each side, arise from Development of Teeth, nc. 324. FIG. 32S. FIC. 329. JErit/ttion ofMM-toat/'-