EXTERNAL ILIAC. 4°? Plan of the Relations of tue External Iliac Artery. In f ront. Peritoneum, intestines, and iliac fascia, linear f Spermatic vessels. Genito-crural nerve (genital brancHJ. Circumilox iliac vein. Lymphatic vessels and glands. Poupart's Ligament. Outer side, 3oas mag) Iliac fascia Innm' side. Psoas ma-nus \ / External iliac vein and vas deferens \ / at femoral arch. Behind. External iliac vein. Psoas magnus. Surgical Anatomy. The application of a ligature to the external iliac may he required in cases of aneurism of the femoral artery, or in cases of secondary htemorrhage, alter the latter vessel has been tied for popliteal aneurism. This vessel may be secured m any part ot its course, excepting near its upper end, which is to be avoided on account of the proximity ot the great stream of blood in the internal iliac, and near its lower end, which should also be avoided, on account of the proximity of the epigastric and circumflex iliac vessels. _ One ot the chief points in tlie performance of the operation is to secure the vessel without injury to the peritoneum. The patient having heen placed in the recumbent position, an incision should be made, commencing below at a point about three quarters of an inch above Poupart s ligament, and a little external to its middle, and running upwards and outwards, parallel to Poupart's ligament, to a point above the anterior superior spine of the ilium. When the artery is deeply seated, more room will be required, and may be obtained by curving the incision from the point last named inwards towards the umbilicus for a short distance; or, if the lower part of the artery is to be reached, the surgeon may commence the incision nearer the inner end of Poupart's ligament, taking care to avoid the epigastric artery. Abernethy, ■who first tied this artery, made his incision in the course of the vessel. The precise line of incision selected is of less moment, provided an easy access to the deeper parts is secured. The abdominal muscles and transversalis fascia having been cautiously divided, the peritoneum should be separated from the iliac fossa and pushed towards the pelvis; and on introducing the finger to the bottom of the wound the artery may be felt pulsating along the inner border of the Psoas muscle. The external iliac vein is generally found on the inner side of the artery, and must be cautiously separated from it i)y the iinger-nail, or handle of the knife, and the aneurism needle should be introduced on the inner side, between the artery and vein. Collateral Cirodation. The principal anastomoses in carrying on the collateral circulation, after the application of a ligature to the external iliac, are—the ilio-lumbar with the circum- flex iliac; the gluteal with the external circumflex ; the obturator with the internal circum- flex ; the sciatic with the superior perforating and circumflex branches of the profunda artery; the internal pudio with the external pudic, and with the internal circumflex. When the. obturator arises from the epigastric, it is supplied with blood by branches, either from the internal iliac, the lateral sacral, or the internal pudic. The epigastric receives its supply from the internal mammaiy and inferior intercostal arteries, and from the internal iliac, by the anastomoses of its branches with the obturator. In the dissection of a limb, eighteen years after tbe successful ligature of the external iliac artery, by Sir A. Cooper, which is to be found in Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 50, the anastomosing branches are described in three sets. An anterior set. i. A very large branch firom the ilio-lumbar artery to the circumflex iliac; 2. Another branch from the ilio-lumbar, joined by one from the obturator, and breaking up into numerous tortuous branches to anastomose with the external circumflex; 3. Two other branches from the obturator, which passed over the brim of the pelvis, communicated with the epigastric, and then broke up into a plexus to anastomose with the internal circumflex. An internal set. Branches given off from the obturator, after quitting the pelvis, which ramified among the adductor muscles on the inner side of the hip-joint, and joined most freely with branches of the internal circumflex. A posterior set. I. Three large branches from the gluteal to the external circumflex; 2. Several branches from the sciatic around the great sciatic notch to the internal and external circumflex, and the perforatmg branches of the profunda. Brcmches. Besides several small branctes to the Psoas muscles and the neighbouring lymphatic glands, the external iliac gives off two branches of con- siderable size, the Epigastric and Circumflex iliac. The Epigastric artery arises from the external iliac, a few lines above Poupart's