190 ARTICULATIONS. continuous at each side with the cotyloid ligament. An interval is left beneath the ligament for the passage of nutrient vessels to the joint. The Synovial Mcinhrane is very extensive. Commencing at the margin of the cartilaginous siu'faco of the lioad of the femur, it covers all that portion of the neck which is contained within the joint; from the head it is reflected on the internal surface of the capsular ligament, covers both surfaces of the cotyloid ligament, and the mass of fat contained in the fossa at the bottom of the aceta- bulum, and is prolonged in the form of a tubular sheath around the ligamentum teres, as far as the head of the femur. The muscles in relation with the joint are, in front, the Psoas and Iliacus, separated from the capsulai" ligament by a synovial bursa ; above, the straight head of the Rectus and Gluteus minimus, the latter being closely adherent to the capsule ; internally, the Obturator externus and Pectineus ; behind, the Pyriformis Gemellus superior. Obturator internus, Gemellus inferior, Obturator externus, and Quadratus femoris. The arteries supplying the joint are derived from the obturator, sciatic, in- ternal circumflex and gluteal. The Nerves are articular branches from the sacral plexus, great sciatic, obtu- rator, and accessory obturator nerves. Actions. The movements of the hip, like all enarthrodial joints, are very extensive; they are, flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. The hip-joint presents a very striking contrast to the other great enarthrodial joint—the shoulder—in the much more complete mechanical arrangements for its security and for the limitation of its motions. In the shoulder, as we have seen, the head of the humerus is not adapted at all in shape to the glenoid cavity, and is hardly restrained in any of its ordinary movements by the capsular ligament. In the hip-joint, on the contrary, the head of the femur is closely fitted to the acetabulum for a distance extending over nearly half a sphere, and at the margin of the bony cup it is still more closely embraced by the ligamentous ring of the cotyloid ligament, so that the head of the femur is held in its place by that ligament even when the fibres of the capsule have been quite divided (Humphry). The anterior por- tion of the capsule described as the ilio-femoral or accessory ligament, is the strongest of all the ligaments in the body, and is put on the stretch by any attempt to extend the femur beyond a straight line with the trunk. That is to say, this ligament is the chief agent in maintaining the erect position without muscular fatigue, the action of the extensor muscles of the buttock being balanced by the tension of the ilio-femoral and capsular ligaflaents. The security of the joint is also provided for by the two bones being directly united through the ligamentum teres. Flexion of the hip-joint is arrested by the soft parts of the thigh and abdomen being brought into contact; * extension by the tension of the ilio-femoral ligament and front of the capsule ; adduction by the upper part of the accessory ligament and of the capsule, and in the flexed position of the limb by the ligamentum teres ; abduction by the lower portion of the ilio-femoral ligament and of the capsule ; rotation outwards by the front part of the capsule, and the ligamentum teres, and rotation inwards by the back part of the capsule. II. Knee-Joint. The knee is a ginglymus, or hinge-joint; the bones entering into its formation are, the condyles of the femur above, the head of the tibia below, and the patella in front. The articular surfaces arc covered with cartilage, and connected to- gether by ligaments, some of which are placed on the exterior of the joint, whilst others occupy its interior. • The hip-joint cannot be completely flexed, in most pereons, without at the same time flexing the knee; on account of the shortness of tlie ham-string muscle?. Cleland, Jotmi. of Anat. and Pliys. No. I. Old Series, p. 87.