668 ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. The lower harder is conuocted to the cricoid cartilage, in the median line, by the crico-tliyroid membrane; and, on each side, by the Crico-thyroid muscle. The posterim-hnxlersJ thiclcnnd rounded, terminate, above, in the superior cornua; and,, below, in the inferior cornua. Tlie two superior cornua are long and narrow, directed backwards, upwards, and inwards ; and terminate in a conical extremity "vvhie-h gives attachment to the thyro-hyoid ligament. The two inferior cornua are short and thick ;. they pass forwards and inwards, and present, on their inner surfaces, a small, oval, articular facet for articulation with the side of the cricoid cartilage. The posterior border receives the insertion of the Stylo-pharyngeus and Palato-pharyngeus muscles on each side. The Cricoid GartilagB is so 362.—^The Cartilnges of the LarjTix. Posterior View. EPIGLOTTIS. THYROID called from its resemblance to. a signet ring QicplnoQ, « ring).. It is smaller Taut thicker and stronger than the thyroid carti- lage, and forms the lower and back part of the cavity of tbe larynx. Its antevior Tialf is narrow, convex, affording attachment in front and at the sides to the Crico-thyroid muscles, and, be* bind those, to part of tbe Inferior constrictor. Its posterior half is very broad, both from side to side and from above downwards ; it presents in tlie middle line a vertical ridge for the attacbment of the longi- tudinal fibres of the cesophagus; and on either side a broad depres- sion for the Crico-arytEenoideus posticus muscle. At the point of junction of the twof halves of the cartilage- on either side, is a small round elevation, for articulation with the inferior cornti of the thyroid cartilage. The lower horder of the cricoid cartilage is horizontal, and con- nected to the upper ring of thfi- trachea by fibrous membrane. Its upper horder is directed ob^ liquely upwards and backwards, owing to the great depth of its posterior surface. It gives at- tachment, in front, to the crico- thyroid metnbrane ; at the sides, to part of the same memljrane and to the lateral Crico-arytenoid muscle ; behind, the highest point of the upper border is Surmounted 6n each side by a smootll oval surface, for articulation with the arytenoid cartilage. Between the artifculai' surfaces is a slight notch, for the attachment of part of the Aryttenoidens muscle. The inner surface of the cricoid cartilage is smooth, and lined by mucous membrane. ARYTENOIO jT/lSCyflO/t. tr^ CRico-ARrTytNoicr pflSTICLBETLATEKALIS CRICOID jl.rlitnilaT' ya/Tct ^ rfuc u7n r fa /_ »f Thyroid C. /\ Arytenoid CartV