372 ARTERIES. by its ftnnstomoses with the intercostal and internal mammary arteries. If the point included in the ligature be below the origin of the subscapular artery, the anastomoses are less free. The chief agents in restoring the circulation, will be the posterior circum lex, bv its anasto- nioscs with the suprascapular and acroinial thoracic and the communicat-ions between the subscapular and superior profunda, which w. 1 be afterwards re erred to as performing the same oihce after lioature of the brachial. The cases m which the operation h.as been per- formed are few in iTumbor, and no published account of dissection of the colkteral circulation appears to exist. The branches of the axillary artery are,— „ , T. , r Superior thoracic. F^vm 1st Part | ^^J.^^^^i thoracic. ^ 7 -n / r Thoracica longa. From 2nd Fart < m, . , ■ I Thoracica alaris. r Subscapular. From 3nZ Part < Anterior circumflex. L Posterior circumflex. The superior tlioracio is a small artery, which arises from the axillary Beparately, or by a common trunk with the acromial thoracic. Running forwards and inwards along the upper border of the Pectoralis minor, it passes between it and the Pectoralis major to the side of the chest. It supplies these muscles, and the parietes of the thorax, anastomosing with the internal mammary and mter- costal arteries. The acromial thoracic is a short trunk, which arises from the fore part ot the axillary artery. Projecting forwards to the upper border of the Pectoralis minor, it divides into three sets of branches, thoracic, acromial, and descending. The thoracic branches, two or three in number, are distributed to the Serratus magnus and Pectoral muscles, anastomosing with the intercostal branches of the internal mammary. The acromial branches are directed outwards towards the acromion, supplying the Deltoid muscle, and anastomosing, on the surface of the acromion, with the suprascapular and posterior circumflex arteries. The descending branca passes in the interspace between the PectoraHs major and Deltoid, accompanying the cephalic vein, and supplying both muscles. i i j p The long thoracic passes downwards and inwards along the lower border ot the Pectoralis minor to the side of the chest, supplying the Serratus magnus the Pectoral muscles, and mammary gland, and sending branches across the axiUa to the axillary glands and Subscapularis, which anastomose with the internal mammary and intercostal arteries. , The thoracica alaris is a small branch, which supplies the glands and areolar tissue of the axilla. Its place is frequently supplied by branches from some ot the other thoracic arteries. . -i. ai „ The subscapular, the largest branch of the axillary artery, arises opposite the lower border of the Subscapularis muscle, and passes downwards and backwards along its lower margin to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it anastomoses with the posterior scapular, a branch of the subclavian. It distributes branches to the Subscapularis, Serratus magnus, Teres major, and Latissimus doi^i niuscle^ and gives off, about an inch and a-half from its origin, a large branch, the dorsaiis scapute, which curves round the inferior border of the scapula, leaving the axilla in the interspace between the Teres minor above, the Teres major J^low, and the long head of the Triceps in front. Three branches, or sets of branches arise from the dorsaHs scapute: the first enters the subscapular fossa, beneath the buD- scapularis, which it supplies, anastomosing with the posterior scapular and supra- scapular arteries; the second, the trunk of the artery {dorsaiis scapulae) inrns round the axillary border of the scapula, and enters the infraspmous fossa, wbere it anastomoses with the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries ; and a tm , or median branch, is continued along the axillary border of the scapula, betwee the Teres major and minor, and, at the dorsal surface of the mferior angle ot bone, anastomoses with the posterior spapular. ,„,/^„-nr ctr- The circumflex arteries wind round the neck of the humerus. The postmor