SPINAL NERVES. 5^8 Deep Branches of the Cervical Plexus. Internal Series. The cunmvmiicatvrui hmnohes consist of several filaments, which pass from the loop between the first and second cervical nerves in front of the atlas to the pnenniogastric, hypoglossal, sympathetic, and fifth cervical. Muticular hranchcs supply the Anterior recti and Rectus lateralis muscles ; they proceed from the first cervical nerve, and from the loop formed between it and tlie second. Tlio Gommunioans Nonl (lig. 276) consists usually of two filaments, one being derived from the second, and the other from the third cervical. The.se filaments pass voi'tically downwards on the outer side of the internal jugular vein, cross in front of the vein a little below the middle of the neck, and form a loop with the desccndens noni in front of the sheath of the carotid vessels. Occasionall}^ the junction of these nerves takes place within the sheath. The Phrenic Nerve (interiMl res'piratorij of Bell) arises from the third and fourth ' cervical nerves, and receives a communicating branch from the fifth. It descends to the root of the neck, lying obliquely across the front of the Scalenus anticus, passes over the first part of the subclavian artery, between it and the subclavian vein, and, as it enters the chest, crosses the internal mammary artery near its root. Within the chest, it descends nearly vertically in front of the root of the lung, and by the side of the pericardium, between it and the mediastinal portion of the pleura, to the Diaphragm, where it divides into branches, which separately pierce that muscle, and are distributed to its under surface. The two phrenic nerves dilfer in their length, and also in their relations at the upper part of the thorax. The right nerve is situated more deeply, and is shorter and more vertical in direction than the left-; it lies on the outer side of the right vena innominata and superior vena cava. The left nerve is rather longer than the right, from the inclination of the heart to the left side, and from the Diaphragm being lower on this than on the opposite side. At the upper part of the thorax, it crosses in front of the arch of the aorta to the root of the lung. Each nerve supplies filaments to the pericardium and pleura, and near the chest is joined by a filament from the sympathetic, by another deiived by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, and occasionally, by one from the union of the descendens noni with the spinal nerves : this filament is found, according to Swan, only on the left side. It is also usually connected by a filament with the nerve to the sub- clavius muscle. From the right nerve, one or two filaments pass to join in a smaU ganglion ■with phrenic branches of the solar plexus ; and branches from this ganglion arc distributed to the hepatic plexus, the suprarenal capsule, and inferior vena cava. From the left nerve, filaments pass to join the phrenic plexus, but without any ganglionic enlargement. Deep Branches of the Cervical Plexus. External Series. Communicating branches. The cervical plexus communicates with the spinal accessory nerve, in the substance of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, in the occipital ti-iangle, and beneath the Trapezius. Muscular branches are distributed to the Sterno-mastoid, Levator anguli scapula;, Scalenus medius and Trapezius. • , ,1 The branch for the Sterno-mastoid is derived from the second cervical, tlie Levator anguli scapute receiving branches from ihe third, and the Trapezius branches fi'om the third and fourth. Posterior Branches ok tub Cervical Nerves. The posterior branches of the cervical nerves, with the exception of those of the Srst two, pass backwards, and divide, behind the posterior Intertransverse muscles, mto external and internal branches.