ORGANS OF DIGPJSTION. 646 The Panceeas. Disseciion. The pancreas may be exposed for dissection in three different ways: i. By raising the liver, drawing down the stomach, and tearing througli the gastro-hepatic omentum and the ascending hiyer of the transverse nieso-colon. 2. liy raising the stomach, the arch of the colon, and great omentum, and then dividing the inferior layer of tiie trans- verse meso-colon. By dividing the two liiycirs of peritoneum, which descend from the great curvature of the stomach to form the great omentum ; turning the stomach upwards, and theu cutting through the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. (See fig. 332, p. 620.) The Pancreas (trav-Kpinc, all flesh) is a conglomerate gland, analogous in its structure to the salivary glands. In sbape it is ti-ansvorsely oblong, flattened from before backwards, and bears some resemblance to a dog's tongue, its right extremity being broad, and presenting a sort of angular bend from above down- wards, called the head, whilst its left extremity gradually tapers to form the tail, the intermediate portion being called the hody. It is situated transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen, at the back of the epigastric and both hypo- chondriac regions. Its length varies from six to eight inches, its breadth is an inch and a half, and its thickness from half an inch to an inch, being greater at its right extremity and along its upper border. Its weight varies.from two to three and a half ounces, but it may reach six ounces. The right extremity or head of the pancreas (fig 352) is curved upon itself from above downwards, and is embraced by the concavity of the duodenum. The 352.—The Pancreas and its rielnlions. common bile-duct descends behind, between the duodenum and pancreas; and the pancreatico-daodenal artery descends in front between the same parts.^ On'the posterior aspect of the pancreas is a lobular fold of the gland, which passes ti-aus- versely to the left, behind the superior mesenteric vessels, formmg the back part of the canal in which they are contained. It is sometimes detached from the rest of the gland, and is called the Zesse7-jja?tcreas. The lesser end or tail of the pancreas is narrow ; it extends to the left as far as the spleen, and is placed over the left kidney and suprarenal capsule. The hody of the pancreas is convex in front, and covered by the ascending layer of the'transverse meso-colon and the posterior surface of the stomach.