MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 3o6 Obtnmtor internus, whicli is received into a groove between them. They are called superior and inferior. The Oemellus Superior, tho smaller of the two, arises from the outer surface of the spine ^f the ischium, and passing horizontally outwards becomes blended with the upper part of tho tendon of the Obturator intornus, and is inserted with it into the upper border of the groat trochanter. This muscle is sometimes wanting. Bclations. By its superficial surface, with the Gluteus maximns and the sciatic vessels and nerves. By its deej') surface, with the capsule of tho hip-joint. By its upper border, with the lower margin of the Pyriformis. By its lower border, with the tendon of tho Obturator internns. The Gemellus Inferior arises from the upper part of the outer border of the tube- rosity of the ischium, and passing horizontally outwards is blended with the lower part of the tendon of tho Obturator internus, and inserted with it into the upper border of the great trochanter. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Gluteus maximus and the sciatic vessels and nerves. By its deep surface, with the capsular ligament of the hip- joint. By its upper border, with the tendon of the Obturator internus. By its loiuer border, with the tendon of the Obturator externus and Quadratus femoris. The Quadrakis Femoris is a short, flat muscle, quadrilateral in shape (hence its name), situated between the Gemellus inferior and the upper margin of the Ad- ductor magnus. It arises from the outer border of the tuberosity of the ischium, and proceeding horizontally outwards is inserted into the upper part of the linea quadrati, on the posterior surface of the trochanter major. A synovial bursa is often found between the under surface of this muscle and the lesser trochanter, which it covers. Belations. By its posterior surface, with the Gluteus maximus and the sciatic vessels and nerves. By its anterior surface, with the tendon of the Obturator ex- ternus and trochanter minor, and with the capsule of the hip-joint. By its upper border, with the Gemellus inferior. Its loiver border is separated from the Adductor magnus by the terminal branches of the internal circumflex vessels. Dissection. In order to expose the next muscle (the Obturator externus), it is necessary to remove the Psoas, Iliacus, Pectineiis, and Adductor brevis and longus muscles from the front and inner side of the thigh; and the Gluteus maximus and Quadratus femoris from the back part. Its dissection should consequently he postponed until the muscles of the anterior and internal femoral regions have been examined. The Obturator Externus (fig. i88) is a flat triangular muscle, which covers the outer surfece of the anterior wall of the pelvis. It arises from the margin of bone immediately around the inner side of the obturator foramen, viz., from the body and ramus of the pubes, and the ramus of the ischium; it also arises from the inner two-thirds of the outer surface of the obturator membrane, and from the ten- dinous arch which completes the canal for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerves. The fibres converging pass outwards and backwards, and terminate in a tendon which runs across the back part of the hip-joint, and is inserted into the digital fossa of the femur. Belations. By its anterior surface, with the Psoas Iliacus, Pectmcus, Adductor longus, Adductor brevis, and Gracilis ; and more externally, with the neck of the femur and capsule of the hip-joint. By its posterior surface, with the obturator membrane and Quadratus femoris. Nerves. The Gluteus maximus is supplied by the infen'or gluteal nerve and a TDraneh from the sacral plexus; the Gluteus racdius and minimus, by the superiiM- gluteal; the Pyriformis, Gemclli, Obturator internus, and Quadratus femons, by TDTOUchcs from the sacral plexus, and the Obturator externus, by the obturator nerve. , . o i • Actions. The Glutei muscles, when they take their fixed pomt from the pelns are all abductors of tho thigh. The Gluteus maximus and the postenor fibres ol