423 PLANTAR. .,. , ,• •. 1 „.,j „ iivonfli from the anterior tibial compensates for the poster or t.b.al supplies its P ace ; and ^ J^^-^f J4°;i,, ,1 artery has Leu found the diminished anterior peroneal artery, m one ta.o, f j "^SJ ::£Speronoal is sometimes enlarged, and takes the place of the dorsal artery of the foot. The peroneal avteiy, in its course, gives off branches to the Soleus, Tibialis posticus, Flexor longus pollicis, and Peronei nxuscles, and a nutrient branch to the fibula. , , . The Anterior Peroneal, the only named branch of the peroneal artery pierces the interosseous membrane, about two inches above tbe outer malleolus, to reach the fore part of the leg, and, passing down beneath the Peroneus tertius, to the outer ankle, ramifies on the front and outer side of the tarsus, anastomosing with the external malleolar and tarsal arteries. ... The nutrient artery of the tibia arises from the posterior tibial near its origin, and after supplying a few muscular branches, enters the nutrient canal of that bone, which it traverses obliquely from above downwards. This is the largest nutrient artery of bone in the body. The muscular branches of the posterior tibial are distributed to the Soleus and deep muscles along the back of the leg. The communicatincj branch to the peroneal runs transversely across the back of the tibia, about two inches above its lower end, passing beneath the Flexor longus pollicis. The infernal calcanean are several large arteries, which arise from the pos- terior tibial just before its division; they are distributed to the fat and integu- ment behind the tendo Achillis and about the heel, and to the muscles on the inner side of the sole, anastomosing with the peroneal and internal malleolar arteries. The Internal Plantar Artery (figs. 234, 235), much smaller than the external, passes forwards along the inner side of the foot. It is at first situated above the Abductor pollicis, and then between it and the Flexor brevis digitorum, both of which it supplies. At the base of the first metatarsal bone, where it has become much diminished in size, it passes along the inner border of the great toe, inoscu- lating with its digital branches. The External Plantar Artery, much larger than the internal, passes obliquely outwards and forwards to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. It then turns obliquely inwards to the interval between the bases of the first and second meta- tarsal bones, where it anastomoses with the communicating branch from the dorsalis pedis artery, thus completing the plantar arch. As this artery passes outwards, it is at first placed between the os calcis and Abductor pollicis, and then between the Flexor brevis digitomm and Flexor accessorius ; and as it passes forwards to the base of the little toe, it lies more superficially between the Plexor brevis digitorum, and Abductor minimi digiti, covered by the deep fascia and integument. The remaining portion of the vessel is deeply situated; it extends from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe to the back part of the first interosseous space, and forms the plantar arch ; it is convex forwards, lies upon the Interossei muscles, opposite the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones, and is covered by the Adductor pollicis, the flexor tendons of the toes, and the Lumbricales. Branches. The plantar arch, besides distributing numerous branches to the muscles, integument, and fasciaa in the sole, gives ofi" the following branches : Posterior perforating. Digital—Anterior perforating. The Posterior Perforating are three small branches, which ascend through the back part of the three outer interosseous spaces, between the heads of the Dorsal interossei muscles, and anastomose with the interosseous branches from the meta- tarsal artery. The Digital Branches are four in number, and supply the three outer toes and half the second toe. The first passes outwards from the outer side of the plantar