ARTEIiTES. 346 Survival Anatomy. It occnsioniiUy hiippens that the Bui (,'eon is called upon to perfonu the operation of iirtoriotoniy upon tliis vessel in cases ol infiammntion ot the eye or brain. Under these circunistnnccs, the anterior brunch is tiio one usually selected. If the student will consider the relations of the trunk of this vessel, as it crosses the zygomatic arch, with the surrounding structures, ho will observe that it is covered by a thick and dense fas-cia, crossed by one or two veins, and accompanied by branches of tlio lacial and temporo- nuricular nerves. Bleeding should not bo performed in this situntion, as much diiliciilty may arise from the dense fascia over the vessel preventing a free flow of blood, and consider- able pressure is requisite afterwards to repress the lucmorrhage. Again, a varicose aneurism may be formed by the accidental opening of one of the veins in front of the artery ; or severe neiirahnc pain may arise from the operation implicating one of the nervous filamenta in the neighbourhood. , , , ■ t ^ ]•! The anterior branch is, on the contrary, subcutaneous, is a large vessel, and as readily compressed as any other portion of the artery; it should consequently always be selected for the operation. The Internal Maxillary (fig. 210), the larger of the two terminal branches of the external carotid, passes inwards, at right angles from that vessel, to the inner 210.—The Internal Maxillary Artery, and its Branches. Plan of the JBranehes Deefi MltUlc Afinmi/tnl — MfTifyiijiit ToTvit — Vym/iaiUc l/( \DeseeTidiryg Falatins side of the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, to supply the deep structures of the face. At its origin, it is imbedded in the substance of the parotid gland, being on a level with the lower extremity of the lobe of the ear. In the first parb of its course (maxillary portion), the artery passes horizontally forwards and inwards, between the ramus of the jaw and the internal lateral lieament The artery here lies parallel with the auriculo-temporal nerve ; it crosses the inferior dental nerve, and lies beneath the narrow portion of the External pterygoid muscle.