BONE. Iv earthy constituents of the bones with advancing years. Dr. Eees states, that this is especially marked in the long bones, and the bones of the head, which, in the foetus, do not contain the excess of earthy matter found in those of the adult. But the bones of the trunk in the fcetus, according to this analyst, contain as much earthy matter as those of the adult. On the other hand, the analyses of Stark and Von Bibra show, that the proportions of animal and earthy matter are almost precisely the same at different periods of life. According to the analyses of Von Bibra, Valentin, and Dr. Eees, the compact substance contains more earthy matter than the cancellous. The comparative analysis of the same bones in both sexes shows no essential difference between them. There are facts of some practical interest, bearing upon the diflPerence which seems to exist in the amount of the two constituents of bone at different periods of life. Thus, in the child, where the animal matter predominates, it is not uncommon to find, after an injury to the bones, that they become bent, or only partially broken, from the large amount of flexible animal matter which they contain. Again, in aged people, where the bones contain a large proportion, of earthy matter, the animal matter at the same time being deficient in quantity and quality, the bones are more brittle, their elasticity is destroyed; and, hence, fracture takes place more readily. Some of the diseases, also, to which bones are liable, mainly depend on the disproportion between the two constituents of bone. Thus, in the disease called rickets, so common in the children of scrofulous parents, the bones become bent and curved, either from the superincum- bent weight of the body, or under the action of certain muscles. This depends upon some defect of nutrition, by which bone becomes deprived of its normal proportion of earthy matter, whilst the animal matter is of unhealthy quality. In the vertebrae of a ricketty subject, Dr. Bostock found in 100 parts 79'75 animal, and 20'2$ earthy matter. Development of hone.—In the foetal skeleton, some bones, such as the long bones of the limbs, are cartilaginous, others, as the cranial bones, are membranous.* Hence two kinds of ossification are described: the intra-cartilaginous and the intra-membranous; and to these a third is sometimes added, the subperiosteal, which is a variety of the second. In the intra-cartilaginous ossification the first step is that the cartilage cells increase rapidly in number, and arrange themselves in rows, with the long axis of the cell transverse to that of the future bone. The cells are closely packed, and in some places are even wedged together, an appearance which is supposed to be due to their cleavage horizontally. The accompanying illustration, taken from Rollett's article in Strieker's 'Handb. der Lehre von den Geweben,' p. 95, will save much of minute detail, and make the accompanying description intelligible. The intra-cellular matrix of the cartilage a is still semi-transparent, though somewhat granular. Lying below this cartilaginous layer {i.e. nearer to the centre of ossification), is a layer, h, consisting of large round The bones which are developed entirely in membrane nre the occipital, as far as it enters into the formation of the Tanlt of the skull, the parietal and frontal bones, the squamous portion of the temporal with the tympanic ring, the AVormian bones, the nasal, lachrymal, malar, palate, upper and lower maxillary, and vomer: also, apparently, the internal pterygoid plate and the sphenoidal turbinated bones.