630 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 337.—^Two Villi magnified. JB/iiHitJial -.AfUry with nuclear corpuscles and fat globules in their interstices, enclosed in a thin prolongation of basement membrane covered by a single layer of columnar epi- thelium, the particles of which are arranged perpendicular to the surface. A layer of organic muscular fibre has been described forming a thin hollow cone round the central lacteal. It is possible that this assists in the propulsion of the chyle along the vessel. The mode of origin of the lacteals within the villi is unknown. Tho simi.de follicles, or crypts of Lieber- kiihn, are found in considerable numbers over every part of the mucous membrane of the small intestine. They consist of minute tubular depressions of the mucous membrane, arranged perpendicularly to the surface, upon which they open by small circular apertures. They may be seen with the aid of a lens, their orifices appearing as minute dots, scattered between the vilh. Their walls are thin, consisting of a layer of basement membrane, lined by cylindrical epithelium, and covered on their exterior by capillaiy vessels. Their contents vary, even in health, and the purpose served by their secretion is still very doubtful. The duodenal, or Brunner's glands, are limited to the duodenum and com- mencement of the jejunum. They are small, flattened, granular bodies, imbedded in the submucous areolar tissue, and open upon the surface of the mucous mem- brane by minute excretory ducts. They are most numerous and largest near the pylorus They may be compared to the elementary lobules of a salivary gland spread out over a broad surface, instead of being coUected in a mass. In structure they resemble the pancreas. i. . ,i The solitary glands (glandules solitarim) are found scattered throughout the mucous membrane of the small intestine, but are most numerous m the lower part of the ileum. They are smaU, round, whitish bodies, from half a Ime to a line in diameter, consisting of a closed saccular cavity, having no excretory duct, and containing an opaque white secretion. Their free surface is covered with viUi, and each gland is surrounded by openings like those of the foUicles ot Lieberkiihn. Their use is not known. _ Fever's glands (figs. 338-9) maybe regarded as aggregations of sohtaiy glands, forming circular or oval patches from twenty to thirty in number, and varpng m length from half an inch to four inches. They are largest and most numerous m the ileum. In the lower part of the jejunum they are small, of a circular form and few in number. They are occasionally seen in the duodenum. They are placed lengthwise in the intestine, covering the portion of the tube most distant from the attachment of the mesentery. Each patch is formed of a group of small, round, whitish vesicles, covered with mucous membrane. Each vesicle consists of a mode- rately thick external capsule, having no excretory duct, and containing an opaque ^hite secretion. Each is surrounded by a zone, or wreath o£ simple folhcles, and the interspaces between them are covered with vilh. These vesicles are usually closed • but it is supposed they open at intervals to discharge the secre ion contained within them. The mucous and submucous coats of the mtest.ne are intimately adherent, and highly vascular, opposite the Peyerian glands. Their use is not known. They are largest and most developed durmg the diges- tive process.