2 THE SKELETON. The Irmjular or Mixed bones are such as, I'rom their peculiar form, cannot be grouped under either of the preceding heads. Their structure is similar to that of other bones, consisting of a layer of compact tissue externally, and of spongy cancellous tissue within. The irregular bones are, tho vertebral, sacrum, coccyx, temporal, sphenoid, ethmoid, malar, superior maxilla/ry, inferior max'dlary, palate, inferior turhinated, and hyoid. Surfaces of Bones. If the surface of any bone is examined, certain eminences and depressions are seen, to which descriptive anatomists have given the following names. „ . , , A prominent process projecting from the surface of a bone, which it has never been separate from, or moveable upon, is termed an apophysis (from (i7ro>v<nc, an excrescence) ; but if such process is developed as a separate piece froni the rest of tho bone, to which it is afterwards joined, it is termed an &piphysi8 (from tin- (hvfTiQ, an accretion). These eminences and depressions are of two kinds: articular, and non-articuLar. Well-marked examples of articular eminences are found in the heads of the humerus and femur; and of articular depressions, in the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and the acetabulum. Non-articular eminences are_ designated accordmg to their form. Thus, a broad, rough, uneven elevation is called a tuberosity; a small rough prominence, a tubercle; a sharp, slender, pointed eminence, a spine ; a narrow rougli elevation, running some way along the surface, a i-idge, ^The non-articular depressions are also of very variable form, and are described as fossfB, grooves, furrows, fissures, notches, etc. These non-articular eminences and depressions serve to increase the extent of surface for the attachment of ligaments and muscles, and are usually well marked in proportion to the muscularity of the subject. THE SPINE. The Spine is a flexuous and flexible column, formed of a series of bones called ^^*'ThT Vertebrae are thirty-three in number, exclusive of those which form the skull and have received the names cermcal, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeaL according to the position which they occupy; seven being found in the cervical region, twelve in the dorsal, five in the lumbar, five in the sacral, and four in the "'"""'TStumber is sometimes increased by an additional vertebra in one region, or the number may be diminished in one region, the deficiency being supplied by an addiSonal vertebra in another. These observations do not apply to the cervical portion of the spine, the number of bones forming which is seldom mcreased or *^™Thf Vertebrae in the upper three regions of the spine are separate through- out the whole of life ; but those found in the sacral and coccygea regions are, Tthe ad^t firmly united, so as to form two bones-five entering into the forma- t^n of the upper bone or sacrum, and four into the terminal bone of the spine or coccyx. GENERAt ChAKACTERS OF A VeRTEBRA. Each vertebra consists of two essential parts, an interior solid segment or body, aad a posterior segment or arch. The arch is formed of two pedicles, and two iTmin^: supporting seven processes; viz. four articular, two ti-ansverse, and one The bSb of the vertebra are piled one upon the other, forming a strong pillar for the support of the cranium and tn.nk; the arches forming a hollow Ser behind for the protection of the spinal cord. The ^^-''t-^;^ connected together by means of the articular processes, and the intervertebral