ARTERIES. 374 muscles, ■which shglitly overlap the artery. By its mner side, its upper half is in relation with the internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves, its lower half with the median nerve. It is accompanied by two venas comites, which lie in close contact with the artery, being connected together at intervals by short transverse com- municating branches. PfjAN OF THE Relations of the Brachial A.etery. In f ront. Integument nnd fasclffi. Bicipital fascia, median basilic vein. Median nerve. Outer side. Median nerve. Coraco-brachialis. Biceps. Inner side. Internal cutaneous and ulnar nerve. Median nerve. Behind. Triceps. Musculo-spiral nerve. Superior profunda artery. Coraco-brachialis. Bracbiahs antic us. Bend of the Elbow. At the bend of tlie elbow, the brachial artery sinks deeply into a triangular interval, the base of which is directed upwards towards the humerus, and the sides of which are bounded, externally, by the Supinator longus, internally, by the Pronator radii teres ; its floor is formed by the Brachialis anticus and Supinator brevis. This space contains the brachial artery, with its accompanying veins; the radial and ulnar arteries ; the median and musculo-spiral nerves ; and the tendon of the Biceps. Tho brachial artery occupies the middle Line of this space, and divides opposite the coronoid process of the ulna into the radial and ulnar arteries ; it is covered, m front, by the integument, the superficial fascia, and the median basilic vein, the vein being separated from direct contact with the artery by the bicipital fascia. Behind, it lies on the Brachialis anticus, which separates it fi-om the elbow-joint. The median nerve lies on the inner side of the artery, but sepa- rated from it below by an interval of half an incli. The tendon of the Biceps lies to the outer side of the space, and the musculo-spiral nerve stiU more externally lying upon the Supinator brevis, and partly concealed by the Supinator longus. Pemliarities of the Arteiy as regards its Course. The brachial artery, accompanied by the median nerve, may leave the inner border of the Biceps, and descend towards the inner condyle of the humerus, where it usually curves round a prominence of bone, to which it is connected by a fibrous band; it then inclines outwards, beneath or through the substance of the Pronator teres muscle, to the bend of the elbow. The variation bears considerable analogy with the normal condition of the artery in some of the carnivora: it has been referred to, above, in the description of the humerus. As regards its Division. Occasionally, the artery is divided for a short distance at its upper pai-t into two trunks, which are united above and below. A similar pecuharity occurs in the main vessel of the lower limb. The point of bifurcation may be above or below the usual point, the tormer conaiiion beinff by far the most frequent. Out of 481 examinations recorded by Mr. Quain some made on the right, and some on the left side of the body, in 386 the artery bifurcated in its normal position. In one case only was the place of division lower than usual, being two or three inches below the elbow-joint. ' In 94 cases out of 481, or about one in 55, there were two arteries instead of one in'some part, or in the whole of the ami.' _ , . There appears, however, to be no correspondence between the arteries ot the two arras, with respect to their irregular division ; for in sixty-one bodies it occurred on one side on y in forty-three ; on both sides, in diflerent positions, in thirteen ; on both sides, m the siuue ^°^The'point''of bifurcation takes place at different parts of the arm, being most ^eq^"/'° the upper part, leas so in tho lower part, and least so in the middle, tho most usual point lor