THE TONGUE. 567 membrane, wliioh form the glosso-epiglottic ligaments, and with the soft palate and pharynx by means of the anterior and posterior piUars of the fauces. Its apex or tip, thin and naiTOW, is directed forwards against the inner surface of the lower incisor teeth. The under siu-face of the tongue is connected with the lower jaw by the Genio-hyo-glossi muscles; from its sides, the mucous membrane is reflected to the inner surface of the gums ; and, in front, a distinct fold of that membrane, the frcemim Unguce, is formed beneath its under surface. The Up of the tongue, part of its under surface, its sides, and dorsum, are free. The darsum of the tongue is convex, marked along the middle lino by a raphe, which divides it into two symmetrical halves ; and this raphe terminates behind, about half an inch from the base of the organ, a little in front of a deep mucous follicle, the/orameii ciecum. The anterior two-thirds of this surface are rough, and covered with papillae; the posterior third is more smooth, and covered by the projecting orifices of numerous muciparous glands. The mucous membrane invests the entire extent of the free surface of the tongue. On the under surface of the organ it is thin and smooth, and may be traced on either side of the frsenum, through the ducts of the submaxillary glands; and between the sides of the tongue and the lower jaw, through the ducts of the sub- lingual glands. As it passes over the borders of the organ, it gradually assumes its papillary character. The mucous membrane of the tongue consists of structures analogous to those of the skin, namely, a ctitis or corium, supporting numerous jpapt'ZZcB, and covered, as well as the papillee, with epithelium. The cutis is tough, but thinner and less dense than in most parts of the skin, and is composed of similar tissue. It contains the ramifications of the numerous vessels and nei'ves from which the papillse are supplied, and afibrds insertion to all the intrinsic muscular fibres of the oi-gan. The papillae of the tongue are thickly distributed over the whole of its upper STU'face, giving to it its characteristic roughness. They are more prominent than those of the skin, standing out from the surface like the villi of the mtestine. The principal varieties are the papilla maximse (cii-cumvallatae), papillse mediaa (fungiformes), and papillse minimae (conicse or filiformes). The papillee maximce (circumvallatse) are of large size, and vary from eight to ten in number. They are situated at the back part of the dorsum of the tongue, near its base, forming a row on each side, which running backwards and inwards, meet in the middle line, like the two lines of the letter V inverted. Each papilla consists of a central flattened projection of. mucous membrane, circular in form, from ^L- to -jJ^ of an inch wide, attached to the bottom of a cup-shaped depression of the mucous membrane ; the exposed part being covered with numerous small papillae. The cup-shaped depression forms a kind of fossa round the papilla, having a circular margin of about the same elevation, covered with smaller papillre. The fissure corresponding to the papilla, which is situated at the junction of the two lines of the circumvallate papillse, is so large and deep, that the name foravien cacum has been applied to it. In the smaller papillse, the fissure exists only on one side. The papillcB medice (fungiformes), more numerous than the preceding, are scattered irregularly and sparingly over the dorsum of the tongue ; but are found chiefly at its sides and apex. They are easily recognised, among the other papilla3, by their large size, rounded eminences, and deep red colour. They are narrow at their attachment to the tongue, but broad and rounded at their free extremities, and covered with secondary papillse. Their epithelial investment is very thm. The papillee minima} (conicse—filiformes) cover the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum of the tongue. They arc very minute, more or less conical or filiform in shape, and arranged in lines corresponding in direction with the two rows of the papillaa circumvallate j exceptirg at the apex of the organ, where their direction