691 THE KIDNEYS. proper; tbe hilum will bo seen opening into the smus just as, m osteology, a fissure ;pens into a fossa. The relation of the hdum o the smus wdl be under- stood by comparino- figs. 375, 376. In the former the h:lum and smus are seen m :SL,Te him occupie^^bV'^ eom^encement of the ureter P^^-^^;™ filled b; the pelvis. In the latter figure, the pelv;. has been ^^-^^J/-- greater part of the sinus of the kidney, and partially hf ed out of at. position of the vessels and ureter to each other is usually, although "«J^^WB' as follows:-from above downwards; artery, vein, ureter: from before backwards, vein, arteiy, ureter. 376.—Diagram of the Ililum, Sinus, nnd Pelvi.i of tbe Kidney. a. The hilnin cnt open, leading into (b) the sinus, c. The pelvis of the nretcr partly separated from tho waUs of the sinns, and lifted out; the ureter is seen continuous with it, and emerging fi'om the hilnm below, d, e. The renal artery and vein passing through the sinus. The superior extremity, directed slightly inwards as well as upwards, is thick and rounded, and embraced by the supra-renal capsule. It corresponds on the left side with the upper, and on the ricflit with the lower border of the eleventh rib. The inferior extremity, directed a little outwards as well as downwards, is smaller than the superior and more flattened ; it extends nearly as low as the crest of the ilium. General stbucttjee of the Kidney. The structure of the kidney, as seen by the naked eye on making a section from its convex to its concave border, will be found to consist of two parts; the glandular portion, or Icidney pro'per, and its excretory duct or ureter* which, latter will be described separately. The Idclney proper presents two distinct parts: the outer or cortical portion, snrrounded by the capsule, and the inner or medullary, which latter is arranged in large conical masses called the pyramids of Malpighi. The capsule is a fibrous coat formed of dense areolar tissue. It is thin and smooth and easily removed from the cortical structure, to which it is connected only by small blood-vessels and by numerous fine fibrous processes continuous with the connective tissue of the kidney. At the hilum it is reflected inwards so * In this section the two first portions of the duct are alone seen. Tliese ave usually called the calices and pelvis of the kidnn/ ■ hut inasnuich as they are really part of the urder, they will be described under that head. Y r 2