MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 262 1(38.—Uiflsoction of Upper Extremity. of tliG abdomen below ; opposite tho mamina, it sui^divides into two layers, one of wliicb passes in front, tlio otber be- hind that gland ; and from botb of these layers numerous septa pass into its substance, suppoi'ting its from the anterior processes pass for- S.DLstscetioii of SHOULDER & ARM /. JJix.Sfclioii of PECTORAL HHOION and AXILLA 2. BEND o/" ELBOW various lobes: layer, fibrous ■ward to the intcgmnent and nipple, enclosing in their areola) masses of fat. These processes wore called by Sir A. Cooper tho Urjamenta s^isponsoria, from the support they alford to the gland in this situation. On removing the superficial fascia ■with the mamma the dee^p fascia of the thoracic region is exposed: it is a thin aponeurotic lamina, covering the surface of the great Pectoral muscle, and sending numerous prolongations between its fasciculi: it is attached, in the middle line, to the front of the sternum; and, above, to the clavicle : it is very thin over the upper part of . the muscle, somewhat thicker in the interval between the Pectoralis major and Latissimus dorsi, where it closes in the axillary space, and divides at the outer margin of the latter muscle into two layers, one of which passes in front, and the other i t u behind it; these proceed as far as the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae, to which they are attached. At the lower part of the thoracic region, this fascia is well developed, and is continuous with the fibrous sheath of the Uecti muscles. FORE-ARM PALM of HAND Ani'eeior Thoracic Region. Pectoralis Major. Pectoralis Minor. Subclavius. The Pectoralis Major (fig. 169) is a broad, thick, triangular muscle, situated at the upper and fore part of the chest, in front of the axilla. It arises from the anterior surface of the sternal half of the clavicle; from half the breadth of the anterior surface of the sternum, as low down as the attachment of the cartilage ot the sixth or seventh rib ; its origin consisting of aponeurotic fibres which mtersect with those of the opposite muscle; it also arises from the cartilages of all t^e true ribs,with the exception, frequently, of the first, or of the seventh, or both; and from the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle of the abdomen, ibe fibres from this extensive origin converge towards its insertion, gmng to the muscle a radiated appearance. Those fibres which arise from the clavicle pass obhquely outwards and downwards, and arc usually separated from the rest by a cellular intei-val: those from the lower part of the sternum, and the cartilages of the lower true ribs, pass upwards and outwards; whilst the middle fibres pass lionzonta ly. As these three sets of fibres converge, they are so disposed that the upper overlap the middle, and the middle the lower portion, the fibres of tbo lower portion bemg folded backwards upon themselves ; so that those fibres which are lowest in front become higl.est at their point of insertion. They all terminate in a flat tendon abont two inches broad, wl.ieh is inserted into tho anterior bicipital rulge of tho