THE PELVIS. 699 surface of the liver ; and on the left, with the pancreas and spleen The posterior snuace or tae Jivui , •ninnhrao-m opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. .i^j^ace rests upon the eras of the ^^^^P^^""^ i^^ards. The lower tHek The upper thin eonvex border xs ^^"'^^^^^ 7;;^Xney, to which it is connected concave border rests npon the upper end o^ the^^ J, splanchnic by areolar tissue. The vnner larder n relahoi wxt g ^^^^I^.^^ nerves and semilunar ganglion, and lies m contact f _ inferior vena cava, and on the left side wi h the aorta. _ ^he smtace ot tlae 1 renal -land is surrounded by areolar tissue containing much lat, ana cioseiy s::ite°<; V. thu. aureus ooj, is aifflc„.t to --^rrzu'ot numerous tibrous processes and vessels which enter the oigan tniou^n on its anterior surface and base. t i • +n r-nnsist of Structure. On makmg a perpendicular section, the g and is seen to consist ot two substances : external or cortical, and internal or medullary. The cortical substance forms the chief part of the organ ; it is of a deep ye ow colour, and consists of narrow columnar masses placed perpendicularly to the surlace. The medullar!; substance is soft, pulpy, and of a dark brown or black colour, hence the name, airabiliary capsules, formerly given to these organs. In the centre is often seen a space formed by the breaking down of the component parts ot the According to the researches of Oesterlen and Mr. Simon, the narrow columnar masses of which the cortical substance is composed measure about y^^th of an iuch in diameter, and consist of small closed parallel tubes of Hmitary membrane containing dotted nuclei, together with much granular matter, oil globules, and nucleated cells. According to Bcker, the apparently tubular canals consist of rows of closed vesicles placed endwise, so as to resemble tubes ; whilst KolKker states, that these vesicles are merely loculi or spaces in the stroma of the organ, having BO limitary membrane, which, from being situated endwise, present the appearance of linear tubes. Nucleated cells exist in large numbers in the suprarenal glands of ruminants, more sparingly in man and other animals, but the granular matter appears to form the chief constituent of the gland ; the granules vary in size, and they present the singular peculiarity of undergoing no change when acted upon by most chemical re-agents. The columnar masses are surrounded by a close capillary network, which runs parallel with them. The medullary substance consists of nuclei and granular matter, uniformly scattered throughout a plexus of minute veins. The arteries supplying the suprarenal capsules are numerous and of large size ; they are derived from the aorta, the phrenic, and the renal; they subdivide into numerous minute branches previous to entering the substance of the gland. The suprarenal vein returns the blood from the medullary venous plexus, and receives several branches from the cortical substance; it opens on the right side into the inferior vena cava, on the left side into the renal vein. The lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are exceedingly numerous ; they are derived from the solar and renal plexuses, and, according to Bergmann, from the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. They have numerous small ganglia developed upon them. THE PELVIS. The cavity of the pelvis is that part of the general abdominal cavity which is below the level of the hnea ilio-pectinea and the promontory of the sacrum. Boundaries. It is bounded, behind, by the sacrum, the coccyx, and the great sacro-sciatic ligaments; in front and at the sides by the pubes and ischia, covered by the Obturator muscles ; above, it communicates with the cavity of the abdomen ; and below, it is hmited by the Levatores ani and Coccygei muscles, and the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, which is reflected from the wall of the pelvis on to the viscera.