MUSCLES OF LARYNX. 673 365.—Muscles of Larynx. Side View. Eight Ala of Thyroid Cartilage removed. Artloula-T jfti-JO' ^^Inftri^ir Comu of Xhtfroid Cart The Crico-arykenoideus lateralis is smaller than the preceding, and of au oblonK form. It ai-ises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid cartilage and, passing obliquely upwards and backwards, is inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, in front of the preceding muscle. The Thyro-arijtcenoideus is a broad, flat muscle, which lies parallel with the outer side of the true vocal cord. It arises in front from the lower half of the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and from the crico- thyroid membrane. Its fibres pass horizontally backwards and outwards, to be inserted into the base and anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. This muscle consists of two fasciculi. The in- ferior, the thicker, is inserted into the anterior angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, and into the ad- jacent portion of its anterior surface; it lies parallel with the true vocal cord, to which it is occasionally adherent. The su]perior fasciculus, the thinner, is inserted into the anterior surface and outer border of the arytenoid cartilage above the preceding fibres ; it lies on the outer side of the saccalus laryngis, imme- diately beneath its mucous lining. The Arytcenoideus is a single muscle, filling up the posterior con- cave surface of the arytenoid carti- lages. It arises from the posterior surface and outer border of one arytenoid cartilage, and is inserted into the corresponding parts of the opposite cartilage. It consists of three planes of fibres : two oblique, and one transverse. The oblique fibres, the most superficial, form two fasciculi, which pass from the base of one cartilage to the apex of the opposite one. The tramvertse fibres, the deepest and most nume- rous, pass transversely across be- tween the two cartilages ; hence the Arytsienoideus was formerly con- sidered as several muscles, under the name of transvemi and obliqui. A few of the oblique fibres are oc- casionally continued round the outer margin of the cartilage, and blend with the Thyro-arytenoid or the Arytteno-opiglottidous muscle. XX 366.—Interior of the Larynx, seen from above. (Enlarged.)