350 ARTERIES. neck; beliind, by tlio anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid; above, by Ibo anterior belly of the Omo-liyoid ; and is covered by tlio integument, superficial fascia, Platysma,and deep fascia; ramifying between which is seen the descending branch of the suporiicialis colli nerve. Beneath these superficial structures, are. the Storno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, which, together with the anterior margin of the Storuo-raastoid, conceal the lower part of the common carotid artery.* . , • i This vessel is enclosed within its sheath, together with the internal jugular vein, and pncuniogastric nerve ; the vein lying on the outer side of the artery on tl'ie right side of the neck, but overlapping it, or passing directly acro.ss it on the left side ; the nerve lying between the artery and vein, on a plane posterior to both. In front of the sheath are a few filaments descending from the loop of communication between the descendens and communicans noni; behind the sheath are seen the inferior thyroid artery, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the sympathetic nerve ; and on its inner side, the trachea, the thyroid gland, much more prominent in the female than in the male, and tlie lower part of the larynx. By cutting into the upper part of this space, and slightly displacing the Sterno-mastoid muscle, the common carotid artery may be tied below the Omo- hyoid muscle. -nil The Superior Carotid Triangleis bounded, behind, by the Sterno-mastoid; below, by the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid ; and above, by the posterior belly of the Digastric muscle. Its floor is formed by parts of the Thyro-hyoid, Hyo-glossus, and the inferior and middle Constrictor muscles of the pharynx; and it is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia; ramifying between which, are branches of the facial and superficialis colli nerves. This space contains the upper part of the common carotid artery, which bifurcates opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage into the external and internal carotid These vessels are occasionally somewhat concealed from view by the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, which overlaps them. The ex- ternal and internal carotids lie side by side, the external being the more anterior of the two The following branches of the external carotid are also met with m this space : the superior thyroid, running forwards and downwards; the lingual directly forwards; the facial, forwards and upwards; the occipital, backwards; and the ascending pharyngeal directly upwards on the inner side of the mternal carotid The veins met with are : the internal jugular, which lies on the outer side of'the common and internal carotid arteries ; and veins corresponding to the above-mentioned branches of the external carotid, viz. the superior thyi-oid the lingual, facial, ascending pharyngeal, and sometimes the occipital ; all of which accompany their corresponding arteries, and terminate m the mternal jugular. The nerves in this space are the following :-In front of the sheath of the common carotid is the descendens noni. The hypoglossal nerve crosses both carotids above, curvino- round the occipital artery at its origin. Within the sheath, between the artervtnd vein, and behind both, is the pneumogastric nerve ; behmd the sheath, the svmpathetic. On the outer side of the vessels, the spinal accessory nerve mns for a short distance before it pierces the Sterno-mastoid muscle; and on the mner side of the internal carotid, just below the hyoid bone, may be seen the superior laryngeal nerve; and stHl more inferiorly, the external laryngeal nerve. The np^er part of th; larynx and lower part of the pharynx are also found m the front ''^%t''Sul^n:^lary Triangle corresponds to the part of the neck in^eduit.ly beneath the body of the jaw. It is bounded, above, by the lower border of the • Tl.Prpfore the carotid artery and jugular vein are not, strictly speaking, contained in this ^- 1 f h.v are covered b v the Sterno-maetoid mu8cle, that is to say, he behind the triangle, since ti p are^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ ^ triangle. But as they anterior b";'^^ o In t m^^^^^^^^ ^ lontM in the triangle, and whose position nJSeS l: ItX in opevating on tli part of the artery, it has seemed expedient to study the relations of all these parts together.