246 MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. cesses to the spinous processes of the vertebra), extending from the lower part of the dorsal region to the upper part of the cervical. The Scmispinalis Borsi consists of thin, narrow, fleshy fasoicuh, interposed between tendons of considerable length. It arises by a scries of small tendons from the transverse processes of the lower dorsal vertebroe, from the tenth or eleventh to the fifth or sixth ; and is inserted, by five or six tendons, into the spinous processes of the upper four dorsal and lower two cervical vertebree. The Scmisvmalis OolU, thicker than the prccedmg, arises by a series of tendinous and fleshy points from the transverse processes of the upper four dorsal vertebra, and from the articular processes of the lower four cervical vertebrte: and is inserted into the spinous processes of four cervical vurtebr83, from the axis to the fifth cervical. The fasciculus connected with the axis is the largest, and chiefly muscular in structure. t -xi. xi, t • Eelations By their superfioial surface, from below upwards, with the Liongis- simus dorsi. Spinalis dorsi, Splenius, Complexus, the profunda cervicis artery, the princeps cervicis artery, and the posterior cervical plexus of nerves. By their cZeew Wace, with the Multifidus spinsB. The MuUiflclm Spinoi consists of a number of fleshy and tendinous fasciculi, which fill up the groove on either side of the spinous processes of the vertebrae, from the sacrum to the axis. In the sacral region, these fasciculi arise from the back of the sacrum, as low as the fourth sacral foramen, and from the aponeurosis of origin of the Erector spinee ; in the iHac region, from the inner surfaxie ot the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and posterior sacro-iliac Hgaments; m the lumbar and cervical regions, from the articular processes ; and m the dorsal region from the transverse processes. Each fasciculus, ascending obhquely upwards and inwards, is inserted into the lamina and whole length of the spinous process of one of the vertebrae above. These fascicuH vary in length : the most superficial, the longest pass from one vertebra to the third or fourth above; those next m order pasf from one vertebra to the second or third above ; whilst the deepest comiect two contiguous vertebrce. . ci • i- j BelatLs. By its sr^perficial surface, with the Longissimus dorsi, Spinalis dorsi, Sem slaHs dorsi, and Semispinalis colli. By its deep surface, with the lamm^ anTspinous processes of the vertebra., and with the Rotatores spniae m the dorsal "The Botatores Spin, are found only in the dorsal region of the Bpinej^^entl'e the Multifidus spin£e; they are eleven in number on each side. Each muscle s small and somewki; quadrilateral in form; it arises from the upper and back paXo the transverse process, and is inserted into the lower border and outer surface of the lamka of the vertebra above, the fibres extending as far inwards ^ he root of the spinous process. The first is found between the first and second dorsal ^he last, between the eleventh and twelfth. Sometimes the number of lermuscles is diminished by the absence of one or more from the upper oi '""%C%.praspinales consist of a series of fleshy bands, which he on the spinous ^-?rt;e:^.:XtrS^ pW in ^rs between the • I . ^rlcelseT of the contiguous vertebra.. In the cervical regwn, hey are between the levon h ^t,':, Uween U,e five lumbar vertob™. There aho :e:::i™% - in tl«™u. space, between the laat dor.a> and first <n»bar, -^r—:1,:^Lr.-,„ar ra,.... oecaslona,,, p.sent,