THE SKIN. xei surface, the fasciculi are much finer, and they have a closer interlacing, the most superficial layers consisting of a transparent, homogeneous matrix, with embedded nuclei. ^ t . v i The corium varies in thickness, from a quarter of a line to a Ime and a half, in different parts of the body. Thus, it is thicker m the more exposed regions, as the palm of the hand and sole of the foot; on the posterior aspect of the body, than the front; and on the outer, than the inner side of the limbs. In the eyelids, scrotum, and penis, it is exceedingly thin and delicate. The skin generally is thicker in the male than in the female. , . « n. i i The areolce are occupied by adipose tissue, hair-foUicles, and the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands; they are the channels by which the vessels and nerves are distributed to the more superficial strata ot the corium, and to the papillary layer. Unstriped muscular fibres are found in the superficial layers ot the corium, wherever hairs are found; and in the subcutaneous areolar tissue of the scrotum, penis, perinseum, and areola of the nipple. In the latter situations the fibres are arranged in bands, closely reticulated, and disposed in superimposed laminae. The papillary layer is situated upon the free surface of the corium; it consists of numerous small, highly sensitive, and vascular eminences, the papillEe, which rise perpendicularly from its surface, and form the essential element of the organ of touch. The papillae are conical-shaped eminences, having a round or blunted extremity, occasionally divided into two or more parts, and connected by their base with the free surface of the corium. Their average length is about j^^th of an inch, and they measure at their base about ■^Vo^'^ of an inch in diameter. On the general surface of the body, more especially in those parts which are endowed with slight sensibility, they are few in number, short, ex- ceedingly minute, and irregularly scattered over the surface; but in other situations, as upon the palmar surface of the hands and fingers, upon the plantar surface of the feet and toes, and around the nipple, they are long, of large size, closely aggregated together, and arranged in parallel curved lines, forming the elevated ridges seen on the free surface of the epidermis. In these ridges, the larger papillae are arranged in a double row, with smaller papillae between them; and these rows are sub- divided into small square-shaped masses by short transverse furrows, regularly disposed, in the centre of each of which is the minute orifice of the duct of a sweat-gland. No papillae exist in the grooves between the ridges. In structure, the papillae resemble the superficial layer of the cutis; consisting of a homogeneous tissue, faintly fibrillated, and con- taining a few fine elastic fibres. The smaller papillae contain a single capillary loop ; but in the larger the vessels are convoluted to a greater or less degree : each papilla also contains one or more nerve-fibres, but the mode in which these terminate is uncertain. In those parts in which the sense of touch is highly developed, as in the lips and palm of the hand, the nerve-fibres are connected with the 'tactile corpuscles.' Kolliker considers that the central part of the papillae generally consists of a connective tissue more homogeneous than that of the outer part, sur- rounded by a sort of sheath of elastic fibres, and he believes that these