or THE FOOT. 317 internally to the tibia, and above is continuous with the fascia of the leg ; it contains two seplte sheaths, one internally, for the tendon ot the Tibiahs anticus; one externally, for the tendons of the Extensor longus digitorura and Peroneus tertms the tendon of the Extensor proprius pollicis, and the anterior ttb:al vessels and nerve pass beneath it, but without any distinct sheath. The honzontal portion xs attached externally to the upper surface of the os calcis, in front of the depress on for the interosseous ligament, and internally to the inner naalleolus and plantar fascia : it contains thi ee sheaths ; the most internal for the tendon of the libia .s anticus, the next in order for the tendon of the Extensor proprius polhcis and the most external for the Extensor longus digitorum and Peroneus tertius: the anterior tibial vessels and nerve lie altogether beneath it. These sheaths are lined by separate synovial membranes. The Internal Ammlar Ligament is a strong fibrous band, which extends from the inner malleolus above, to the internal margin of the os calcis below, converting a series of bony grooves in this situation into osseo-fibrous canals, for the passage of the tendons of the Flexor muscles and vessels into the sole of the foot. It is con- tinuous above with the deep fascia of the leg, below with the plantar fascia and the fibres of origin of the Abductor pollicis muscle. The three canals which it forms, transmit from within outwards, first-, the tendon of the Tibialis posticus; second, the tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum, then the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, which run through a broad space beneath the ligament ; lastly, in a canal formed partly by the astragalus, the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis. Each of these canals is lined by a separate synovial membrane. The External Anmdar Ligament extends from the extremity of the outer malleo- lus to the outer surface of the os calcis: it binds down the tendons of the Peronei muscles in their passage beneath the outer angle. The two tendons are 6nclosed in one synovial sac. Dissection of the Sole of the Foot. The foot should be placed on a high block with the sole uppermost, and firmly secured in that position. Carry an incision round the heel and along the inner and outer borders of the foot to the great and little toes. This incision should divide the integument and thick layer of granular fat beneath, until the fascia is visible; the skin and fat should then be removed from the fascia in a direction from behind forwards, as seen in fig. 189. The Plantar Fascia, the densest of all the fibrous membranes, is of great strength, and consists of dense pearly-white glistening fibres, disposed, for the most part, longitudinally : it is divided into a central and two lateral portions. The central portion, the thickest, is narrow behind and attached to the inner tubercle of the os calcis, behind the origin of the Flexor brevis digitorum, and becoming broader and thinner in front, divides opposite the middle of the meta- tarsal bones into five processes, one for each of the toes. Each of these processes divides opposite the metatarso-phalangeal articulation into two slips, which embrace the sides of the flexor tendons of the toes, and are inserted into the sides of the metatarsal bones, and into the ttfansverse, metatarsal ligament, thus forming a series of arches through which the tendons of the short and long flexors pass to the toes. The intervals left between the five processes allow the digital vessels and nerves, and the tendons of the Lumbricales muscles to become superficial. At the point of division of the fascia into processes and slips, numerous trans- verse fibres are superadded, which serve to increase the strength of the fascia at this part, by binding the processes together, and connecting them with the inte- gument. The central portion of the plantar fascia is continuous with the lateral. portions at each side, and sends upwards into the foot, at their point of junction two strong vertical intermuscular septa, broader in front than behind, which separate the middle from the external and internal plantar group of muscles- from these again thmner transverse septa are derived, which separate the various layers of muscles m this region. The upper surface of this fascia gives attachment behind to the J< lexer brevis digitorum muscle. The lateral portions of the plantar fascia are thinner than the central piece and cover the sides of the foot.