581 THE LENS. fcban water, less than one-fiftieth of its weight beiug solid matter, chiefly chloride of sodium. 1 1 • t , The anterior chamber is the space bounded in front by the cornea ; behmd, by the front of the iris and cihary ligament. ■ jy The posterior chamber, smaller thau the anterior, is bounded m front by the iris; behind, by the capsule of tlic lens and its suspensory ligament, and the ciliary pi'OCGSSGS In the adult, these two chambers communicate through the pupil; but in the fcetus in the seventh month, when the pupil is closed by the membrana pupil- lai'is, the two chambers are quite separate. It has been generally supposed that the two chambers are lined by a distinct membrane, the secreting membrane of the aqueous humour, analogous in strao^ ture to that of a serous sac. An epithelial covering can, however, only be found on the posterior surface of the cornea. That the two chambers do, however, secrete this fluid separately, is shown by its being found in both spaces before the removal of the membrana pupillaris. It is probable that the parts concerned in the secretion of the fluid, are the posterior surface of the cornea, both surfaces of the ii'is, and the cdiary processes. ViTEEOUs Body. The vitreous body forms about four-fifths of the entire globe. It fills the concavity of the retina, and is hollowed in front for the reception of the lens and its capsule. It is perfectly transparent, of the consistence of thin jelly, and consists of an .albuminous fluid enclosed in a delicate transpai-ent membrane, the hyaloid. This membrane invests the outer surface of the vitreous body ; it is intimately connected in front with the suspensory ligament of the lens ; and is continued into the back part of the capsule of the lens. It has been supposed, by Hannover, that from its inner surface numerous thin lamellee are prolonged inwards in a radiating manner, forming spaces in which the fluid is contained. In the adult, these lamellae cannot be detected even after careful microscopic examination; but in the fcetus a peculiar fibrous texture pervades the mass, the fibres joining at numerous points, and presenting minute nuclear granules at their point of junction. The fluid from the vitreous body resembles nearly pure water; it contains, however, some salts, and a little albumen. In the foatus, the centre of the vitreous humour presents a tubular canal, through which a minute artery passes along the vitreous body to the capsule of the lens. In the adult, no vessels penetrate its substance ; so that its nutrition must be carried on by the vessels of the retina and ciliary processes, situated upon its exterior. Crystalline Lens and its Capsule. The crystalline lens, enclosed in its capsule, is situated immediately behind the pupil, in front of the vitreous body, and surrounded by the ciUary processes, which slightly overlap its margin. The cajpstde of the lens is a transparent, highly elastic, and brittle membrane, which closely surrounds the lens. It rests, behind, in a depression in the fore part of the vitreous body : in front, it forms part of the posterior chamber of the eye ; and it IS retained in its position chiefly by the suspensory ligament of the lens' The capsule is much thicker in front than behind, structureless in texture ; and when ruptured, the edges roll up with the outer surface innermost, like the elastic ammsB of the cornea. The lens is connected to the inner surface of the capsulo by a single layer of transparent, polygonal, nucleated cells. These, after death, absorb moisture from the fluids of the eye ; and, breaking down, form the li.pior Morgagm. ° In the foetus, a small branch from the arteria centralis retinro runs forwards, as already mentioned, through the vitreous humour to the posterior part of the cap- sule of the lens, where its branches radiate and form a plexiform network, which