358 ARTERIES. Tho anterior cerebral arises from the internal carotid, at tlie inner extremity of the fissnre of Sylvins. It passos forwards in the groat longitudinal fissure between tho two anterior lobes of tlio brain, l)oing connected, soon after its origin, with the vessel of tho opposite side by a short anastomosing trunk, about two lines in length, the anterior conmmmicating. The two anterior cerebral arteries, lying side by side, cnrve round tho anterior border of the corpus callosum, and run along its upper surface to its posterior pari., where tliey terminate by anastomosing with tho posterior cerebral arteries. They supply the olfactory and optic nerves, the under aurfaco of tho anterior lobes, the third ventricle, the anterior perforated space, the corpus callosum, and tho. inferior surfaco of the hemispheres. Tho anterior commwiicatmg artery is a short branch, about two lines in length, but of moderate size, connecting together the two anterior cerebral arteries across tho longitudinal fissure. Sometimes this vessel is wanting, the two arteries joining too-other to form a single trunk, which afterwards subdivides. Or the vessel may be° wholly or partially subdivided into two ; frequently, it is longer and smaller than usual. The middle cerebral artery, the largest branch of the internal carotid, passes obliquely outwards along the fissure of Sylvius, within which it divides into three branches : an anterior, wbich supplies the pia mater, investing the surfaco of the anterior lobe ; a posterior, which supplies the middle lobe ; and a median branch, which supplies the small lobe at the outer extremity of the Sylvian fissure. Near its origin, this vessel gives off numerous small branches, which enter the substantia perforata, to be distributed to the corpus striatum. The posterior commionicating artery arises from the back part of the internal carotid, runs directly backwards, and anastomoses with the posterior cerebral, a branch'of the basilar. This artery varies considerably in size, being sometimes small, and occa-sionally so large that the posterior cerebral may be considered as arising from the internal carotid rather than from the basilar. It is frequently larger on one side than on the other side. . . xi u i The anterior choroid is a small but constant branch which arises from the back part of the internal carotid, near the posterior communicatmg artery Passing backwards and outwards, it enters the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, beneath the edge of the middle lobe of the brain. It is distributed to the hippo- campus major, corpus fimbriatum, and choroid plexus. ARTERIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The artery which supplies the upper extremity, continues as a single trunk from its commencement down to the elbow, but different portions of it have received different names, according to the region through which it passes That part o the vessel which extends from its origin to the outer border of the first rib s termed the subclavian; beyond this point to the lower border of the axilla, it is termed the axillary ; and from the lower margin of the axillary space to the bend of the elbow, it is termed brachial; here, the single trunk terminates by dividing into two branches, the radial and ulnar, an arrangement precisely similar to what occurs in the lower limb. Subclavian Arteries. Tho subclavian artery on the right side arises from the arteria innominaia, oppit tfet^rst^rno^clavieular articulation ; on the left side it a-es frcnn the arch of the aorta. It follows, therefore, that these two vessels must, n he fii^ part of their course, ' differ in their length, their direction, and their relation witil "^ttrtTfldUtate the descnption of these v-els, more especially in a sur. • „1 „„,„t nf view eacli stibdavian artcvy liM been divided into tliree parK- K flrTportL ol' rXlt side, ascends'oblique,, outwards, from the ongni o!