BRACHIAL. 373 ramflex (fig. 216), the larger of tlie two,, arises from the back part of the axillary, opposite the lower border of the Sabscapularis muscle, and, passing backwai-ds ..k the circumflex veins and nerve, through the quadrangular space bounded l.y the Teres major and minor, the scapular head of the Triceps and the humerus winds round the neck of that bone aad is distributed to the Deltoid muscle and shoulder-joint, anastomosing with the anterior circumflex, suprascapular and aero- .uial thoiicic krteries. ^he anterior circumflex (figs. 216, 217), considerably smaller t han the preceding, arises just below that vessel, from the outer side of the axillary arteiy. It passes horizontally outwards, beneath the Coraco-brachiahs and short head of the Biceps, lying upon the fore part of the neck of tl^e humerus, and, on reaching the bicipital groove, gives off an ascending branch, which passes upwards along the groove, to sup- 218.—Tlie Surgical Anatomy of the Brachial Artery, ply the head of the bone and the shoulder joint. The trunk of the vessel is then continued outwards beneath the Deltoid, which it sup- plies, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex, and acromial thoracic arteries. Beachial Aetert. (Fig. 218.) The Brachial Artery commences at the lower margin of the tendon of the Teres major, and passing down the inner and anterior aspect of the arm, terminates about hali an inch below the bend of the elbow, where it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. The direction of this vessel is marked by a line drawn from the outer side of the axillaiy space between the folds of the axilla, to a point midway between the con- dyles of the humerus, which cor- responds to the depression along the inner border of the Coraco- brachialis and Biceps muscles. In the upper part of its course, the artery lies internal to the humerus ; but below, it is in front of that bone. Ilelatio7is. This artery is super- ficial throughout its entire extent, being covered, in front, by the in- tegument, the superficial and deep fascia ; the bicipital fascia separates it opposite the elbow from the me- dian basilic vein ; the median nerve crosses it at its middle ; and the basilic vein lies in the line of the artery, but separated from it by the fascia, in the lower half of its coui^se. Behind, it 13 separated from the inner side of the humerus above, by the long and inner heads of the Triceps, the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery inter- vening ; and from the front of the bone below, by the insertion of the Coraco- brachiahs muscle, and by the Brachialis anticus. By its outer side, it is in relation with the commencement of the median nerve, and the Coraco-brachialis and Biceps Internal Ificrvo f Snperluo- ' I'rqfu.'ncla (Inferior XPtofutjitUi, AfnaitoTivo ttca