3o8 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. Itelatmis. By its swperficial surface, with tlie Gluteus niaximus and fascia lata. ' By its deei) surface, with the Scniiinonibraiiosus, Adductcu- magiius, inner head of the Gastrocnemius, and internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The Semimemhmnosus, so called from the membranous expansion on its anterior and posterior surfaces, is situated at the back part and inner side of the thigh. It arises by a thick tendon from the upper and outer facet on the back part of the tuberosity of the ischium, above and to the outer side of the Bieeps and Serai- tendinoBus, and is inserted \\\\o the inner and back part of the inner tuberosity of" the tibia, beneath the internal lateral ligament. The tendon of the muscle at its oiigin -expands into an aponeurosis, which covers the upper part of its anterior surface : from this aponeurosis, muscular fibres arise, and converge to another aponeurosis, which covers the lower part of its posterior surface and contracts into the tendon of insei'tion. The tendon of the muscle at its insertion divides imto three portions: the middle portion is the fasciculus of insertion into the back part of the inner tuberosity ; it sends down an expansion to covei- the Popliteus muscle. The internal portion is horizontal, passing forwards beneath the internal lateral ligament, to be inserted into a gi-oove along the inner side of the internal tuberosity. The posterior division passes upwards and backwards, to be inserted into the back part of the outer condyle of the femur, forming the chief part of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The tend ons of the two preceding muscles, with those of the Grraeilis and Sartorius, form the inner ham-string. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Semitendinosus, Biceps, and fascia lata. By its deep surface, with the popliteal vessels^ Adductor magnus, and inner head of the Gastrocnemius, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa. By its innea- border, with the Gracilis. By its outer border, with the great sciatic nerve, and its internal popliteal branch. Nerves. The muscles of this region are supplied by the great sciatic nerve. Actions. The ham-string muscles flex the leg upon the thigh. When the knee is semi-flexed, the Biceps, in consequence of its oblique direction downwards and outwards, rotates the leg slightly outwards ; and the Semimembranosus, in consequence of its oblique direction, rotates the leg inwards, assisting the PopUteus. Taking their fixed point from below, these muscles serve to support the pelvis npon the head of the femur, and to draw the trunk directly backwards, as in feats of strength, when the body is thrown backwards in the form of an arch. Surgipol Anatomy. The tendons of these muscles oocnsionally require subcutaneous division in some forms of spm-ious anchj'losis of the knee-joint, dependent upon permfvnent contraction and rigidity of the Flexor muscles, or from stiflenLnfr of the ligamentous and other tissues surrounding the joint, the result of disease. This is effected by putting the tendon upon the stretch, and inserting a narrow sharp-pointed kuife between it and the skin: the cutting edge being then turned towards the tendon, it should be divided, taking cai'e that the wound in the slun is not at the same time enlarged. MnsciiEs AjjjD Fascm of the Leg. JDisscction (fig. i86). The knee should be bent, a block placed bene;ith it. and the foot kept in an extended position; then make an incision through the integument iu the middle line of the leg to the ankle, and cootinue it along the dorsum of the foot to the toes. Make a second incision transversely across the ankle, and a third in the same direction across the bases of the toes; remove the flaps of integument included between theae incisions, iu order to examine the deep fascia of the leg. The Fascia of the Leg forms a complete investment to the whole of this region of the limb, excepting to the inner surface of the tibia. It is continuous above with the fascia lata, receiving an expansion from the tendon of the Biceps on the : outer side, and from the tendons of the Sartorius, Gracilis, and Semitendinosus on i the inner side ; in front it blends with the periosteum covering the tibia and . fibula; below, it is continuous with the annular ligaments of the ankle. It is thick and dense in the upper and anterior part of the leg, and gives attach-