578 ORGANS OF SENSE. pupil. Thoy form, by tboii- interlacement, a delicate mesh, in wliicli tlie pigment- cells, vessels, and nerves are contained. ^ „ . 1 . J- ^- ^-i The muscular fibre is involuntary, and consists of circular and radiating fibres. The circular fibres (sphincter of the pupil) surround the margm of the pupd on the posterior surface of the iris, like a sphincter, forming a narrow band, about one thirtieth of an inch in width ; those near the free margin being closely atr^reeated ■ those more external somewhat separated, and forming less complete circles Tlie radiating fibres (dilator of the pupil) converge from the circum- ferenco towards the centre, and blend with the circular fibres near the margin of Svigment-cells are found in the stroma of the iris, and also as a distinct layer on its anterior and posterior surfaces. In the stroma, the cells are ramified, and contain yellow or brown pigment, according to the colour of the eye. On the front of the iris, there is a single layer of oval or rounded cells, with branching offsets. On the back of the iris, there are several layers of small round cells, filled with dark pigment. This layer is continuous with the pigmentary covering of the ciliary processes. ■, , . -v ■< r The arteries of the iris are derived from the long and anterior cihary, and from the vessels of the ciliary processes. , ^ ^ Membrana pupillaris. In the foetus, the pupil is closed by a delicate, transparent, vascular membrane, the membrana pupillaris, which divides the space m which the iris is suspended into two distinct chambers. This membrane contams numerous minute vessels continued from the margin of the iris to those on the front part of the capsule of the lens. These vessels have a looped arrangement, converging towards each other without anastomosing. Between the seventh and eighth month, the membrane begins to disappear, by its gradual absorption from the centre towards the circumference, and at birth only a few fragments remam. It is said sometimes to remain permanent, and produce bhndness . . • .v, f The Giliary ligament is a narrow ring of circular fibres, about one-fortieth of an inch thick, and of a whitish colour, which serves to connect the external and middle tunics of the eye. It is placed around the circumference of the iris, at its point of connection with the external layer of the choroid, the cornea and sclerotic Its component fibres are delicate, and resemble those of elastic tissue. At its point of connection with the sclerotic a minute canal is situated between the two, called the sinus circida/ris iridis. . , ^, n • i The Giliary muscle (Bowman) consists of unstriped fibres: it forms a greyish, semitransparent, circular band, about one-eighth of an inch broad, on the ou er surface of the fore part of the choroid. It is thickest m front, and gradually becomes thinner behind. Its fibres are soft, of a yellowish-white colour, longitu- dinal in direction, and arise at the point of junction of the cornea and sclerotic Passing backwards, they are attached to the choroid, m front of the retma, and coriispond by their inner surface to the plicated part of the former membrane. This muscle is admitted to be the chief agent in accommodation i e., in adjusting the eye to the vision of near objects. Mr. Bowman believed that this was effected by its compressing the vitreous body and so causing the lens to advance ; but the vfew which now prevails is that the contraction of the muscle by drawmg on the Xry processes compresses the lens, increasing the curvature of its anterior surface, and causing the iris to advance. The pupil is at the same time shghtly ^°°Thf ietl« may be exposed by carefully removing the choroid from its external surface It s a delicate nervous membrane, upon the surface of which the images n^eXnal objects are received. Its outer surface is in contact with he pigmentary f Tr ^f the choroid ; its inner surface, with the vitreous body. Behind, it is con- t^ous tth^t^^^^^ oikc nerve; it gradually diminishes in thickness from behind * See explanation and diagmm iu Power's ' Illustrations of some of the Principal Diseases of the Eye,' p. 590-