577 CHOROID AND IRIS, between correspoucllug foldings of the suspensory ligament of the lens, thus establishino- a communication between the choroid and inner tunic of the eye. Tliey are arranged in a circle, behind the iris, round the margm of the lens. They vary between sixty and eighty in number, lie side by side, and may be divided into large and small; the latter, consisting of about one-third of the entu-e number, are situated in the spaces between the former, but without regular alter- natiou. The larger processes are each about one-tenth of an inch m length, and 304.—The Arteries of the Choroid and Iris. The Sclerotic has been mostly removed. (Enlarged.) liemiRpherical in shape, their periphery being attached to the ciliary ligament, and continuous with the middle and inner layers of the choroid: the opposite margin is free, and rests upon the circumference of the lens. Their anterior surface is ■turned towards the back of the iris, Vidth the circumference of which it is con- tinuous. The posterior surface is closely connected with the suspensory ligament of the lens. Structure. "The ciliary processes are similar in structure to the choroid: the vessels are larger, having chiefly a longitudinal direction. Exteraally. they are covered with several layers of pigment-cells; the component cells are small, rounded, and full of pigment-granules. The Iris (iris, a rainbow) has received its name from its various colours in different individuals. It is a thin, circular-shaped, contractile curtain, suspended m the aqueous humour behind the cornea, and in front of the lens, being per- forated at the nasal side of its centre by a circular aperture, the pupil, for the transmission of light. By its circumference it is intimately connected with the choroid; externally to this is the ciliary ligament, by which it is connected to the sclerotic and cornea ; its inner edge forms the margin of the pupil • its sur- faces are flattened, and look forwards and backwards, the anterior surface towards the cornea, the posterior towards'the ciliary processes and lens. The anterior surface is variously coloured ha different individuals, and marked by lines which converge towai-ds the pupil. The posterior surface is of a deep purple tint, from bemg covered by dark pigment ; it is hence named uvea, from its resemblance in colour to a npe grape. pigf ent-ths composed of a fibrous stroma, muscular fibres, and The fihrous stroma consists of fine, delicate bundles of fibrous tissue, which have a circular direction at the circumference ; but the chief mass radiate towards the P P