ARTERIES. 4o6 The Lateral Sacral Arteries (fig. 227) are usually two in number on eaoh side, superior and inferior. The superior, which is of largo size, passes inwards, and, after anastomosing with 1 branches from the middle sacral, enters the first or second sacral foramen, is ; distributed to the contents of the sacral canal, and escaping by the corresponding > posterior sacral foramen, supplies the skin and muscles on the dorsum of the sacrum. The inferior hramch passes obliquely across the front of the Pyriformis muscle, and sacral nerves to the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina, descends on th© jtj front of the sacrum, and anastomoses over the coccyx with the sacra media and", opposite lateral sacral arteries. In its course, it gives off branches, which enter' the anterior sacral foramina: these, after supplying the bones and membranes off the interior of the spinal canal, escape by the posterior sacral foramina, and are distributed to the muscles and skin on the dorsal surface of the sacrum. ^ The Gluteal Artery is the largest branch of the internal iliac, and appears to be f the continuation of the posterior division of that vessel. It is a short, thick trunk, j which passes out of the pelvis above the upper border of the Pyriformis muscle, ' and immediately divides into a superficial and deep branch. Within the pelvis, it . gives off a few muscular branches to the Iliacus, Pyriformis, and Obturator internus, and just previous to quitting that cavity a nutrient artery, which enters the ilium. The superficial hra/ncJi passes beneath the Gluteus maximus, and divides into numerous branches, some of which supply that muscle, whilst others per- forate its tendinous origin, and supply the integument covering the posterior surface of the sacrum, anastomosing with the posterior branches of the sacral arteries. The deep hranch runs between the Gluteus medius and minimus, and sub- divides into two. Of these, the superior division, continuing the original course of the vessel, passes along the upper border of the Gluteus minimus to the anterior superior spine of the iHum, anastomosing with the circumflex iliac and ascending branches of the external circumflex artery. The inferior division crosses the Gluteus minimus obliquely to the trochanter major, distributing branches to the Glutei muscles, and inosculates with the external circumflex artery. Some branches pierce the Gluteus minimus to supply the hip-joint. External Iliac Artery. (Fig- 227.) The external iliac artery is the chief vessel which supplies the lower limb. It is larger in the adult than the internal iliac, and passes obliquely downwards and outwards along the inner border of the Psoas muscle, from the bifurcation of the common iliac to the femoral arch, where it enters the thigh, and becomes the femoral artery. The course of this vessel would be indicated by a line drawn from the left side of the umbilicus to a point midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium aiid the symphysis pubis. Relations. In front, with the peritoneum, subperitoneal areolar tissue, the intestines, and a thin layer of fascia, derived from the iliac fascia, which surrounds the artery and vein. At its origin it is occasionally crossed by the ureter. The spermatic vessels descend for some distance upon it near its termination, and :t is crossed in this situation by a branch of the genito-crural nerve and the circumflex iliac vein; the vas deferens curves down along its inner side. Behind, it is la relation with the external iliac vein, which, at the femoral arch, lies at its mner side ; on the left side the vein is altogether internal to the artery. Externally, li- rests against the Psoas muscle, from which it is separated by the iliac fascia. The artery rests upon this muscle near Poupart's ligament. Numerous lymphatic vessels and glands are found lying on the front and inner side of the vessel.