ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 636 accumulated in the intervals between the Bacculi; in the rectum, they fo^-m a thick layer, especially at its lower end, where they become numerous, and form the Internal sphincter. The cellular coat connects the muscular and mucous layers closely together. The mucotis membrane, in the ccccum and colon, is pale, and of a greyish or pale yellow colour. It is quite smooth, destitute of villi, and raised into numerous crescentic folds, which corrosjjond to the intervals between the sacculi. In the rectum, it is thicker, of a darker colour, more vascular, and connected loosely to the muscular coat as in the oesophagus. When the lower part of the rectum is contracted, its mucous membrane is thrown into a number of folds, some of which, near the anus, are longitudinal in direction, and are effaced by the disten- sion of the gut. Besides these, there are certain permanent folds, of a semilunar shape, described by Mr. Houston.* They are usually three in number ; sometimes a fourth is found, and, occasionally, only two are present. One is situated near the commencement of the rectum, on the right side ; another extends inwards from the left side of the tube, opposite the middle of the sacrum ; the largest and most constant one projects backwards from the fore part of the rectum, opposite the base of the bladder. When a fourth is present, it is situated about an inch above the anus on the back of the rectum. These folds are about half an inch in width, and contain some of the circular fibres of the gut. In the empty state of the intestine they overlap each other, as Mr. Houston remarks, so effectually as to require considerable manoeuvring to conduct a bougie or the finger along the canal of the intestine. Their use seems to be, ' to support the weight of fascal matter, and pi-event its urging towards the anus, where its presence always excites a sensation demanding its discharge.' The mucous membrane of the large intestine presents for examination, epithelium, simple follicles, and solitary glands. 343.—Minute Structure of Large Intestine. itb Siilitary Gland. The epithelium is of the columnar kind. The simple folliclee are minute tubular prolongations of the mucous membmnc, arranged perpendicularly, side by side, over its entire surface; tliey are longer, more numerous, and placed in much closer apposition than those of the small intestine ; and they open by minute rounded orifices upon the surface, giving it a cribriform appearance. The solitary glands in the large intestine are most abundant in the cajcum appendix vermiformis; but are irregularly scattered also over the rest of the intestine. They are small, prominent, flask-shaped bodies, of a whitish colour, and present no orifice. • Luh. Hasp, Reports, vol. v. p. 163.