47 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. forated by the teeth in this situation. It is from the extreme ihmness of the walls of this cavity, that we are enabled to explain how a tumour, growmg fx-om the antrum, encroaches upon the adjacent partB, puslnng up the floor of the orbit, and displacing the eyeball, projecting inward into the nose, protrudmg forwards on to the cheek, and making its way backwards into tlie zygomatic fossa, and downwards into the mouth. •, , j . .1 i r „ The Malar Process is a rough triangular emmence, situated at the angle of sepa. ration of the facial from the zygomatic surface. In front it is concave forming part of the facial surface ; behind, it is also concave, and forms part of the zygomatic fossa- above, it is rough and serrated for articulation with the malar bone ; whilst below, a prominent ridge marks the division between the facial and zygomatic sur- faces. A small part of the Masseter muscle arises from this process. The Nasal Process is a thick triangular plate of bone, which projects upwards inwards, and backwards, by the side of the nose, forming part of its lateral boundary. Its external surface is concave, smooth, perforated by numerous fora- mina, and gives attachment to the Levator laHi superioris alseque nasi, the Orbicularis '5)alpebrarum, and Tendo oculi. Its internal surface forms part of the outer wall of the nose ; it articulates above with the frontal, and presents a rough' uneven surface, which articulates with the ethmoid bone, closing in the anterior ethmoidal cells ; below this is a transverse ridge, the superior turbinated crest, for articulation with the middle turbinated bone of the ethmoid, bounded below by a smooth concavity which forms part of the middle meatus ; below this again is the inferior turbinated crest (already described), for articulation with the inferior tur- binated bone ; and still more inferiorly, the concavity which forms part of tho inferior meatus. The anterior border of the nasal process is thin, directed obliquely downwards and forwards, and presents a serrated edge for articulation with the nasal bone : its posterior border is thick, and hollowed into a groove for the lachrymal duct: of the two margins of this groove, the inner one articulates with the lachrymal bone, the outer one forms part of the circumference of the orbit. Just where the latter joins the orbital surface is a small tubercle, the lachrymal tubercle; this serves as a guide to the surgeon in the performance of the operation for fistula lachrymalis. The lachrymal groove in the articulated skull is converted into a canal by the lachrymal bone, and lachrymal process of the inferior turbinated ; it is directed downwards, and a little backwards and outwards, is about the diameter of a goose-quill, slightly narrower in the middle than at either extremity, and lodges the lachrymal duct. The Alveolar Process is the thickest and most spongy part of the bone, broader behind than in front, and excavated into deep cavities for the reception of the teeth. These cavities are eight in number, and vary in size and depth according to the teeth they contain. That for the canine tooth is the deepest; those for the molars are the widest, and subdivided into minor cavities ; those for the incisors are single, but deep and narrow. The Buccinator muscle arises from the outer'surface of this process, as far forward as the first molar tooth. The Palate Process, thick and strong, projects horizontally inwards from tho inner surface of the bone. It is much thicker in front than behind, and forms a considerable part of the floor of the nostril, and the roof of the month. Its upper surface is concave from side to side, smooth and forms part of the floor of the nose. In front is seen the upper orifice of the anterior palatine (incisor) canal, which leads into a fossa formed by the junction of the two superior maxillary bones, and situated immediately behind the incisor teeth. It transmits the anterior palatine vessels, the naso-palatine nerves passing through the intermaxillary suture. The inferior surface, also concave, is rough and uneven, and forms part of the roof of the mouth. This surface is perforated by numerous foramina for the passage of nutritious vessels, channelled at the back part of its alveolar border by a longitudinal groove, sometimes a canal, for the transmission of tho posterior palatine vessels, and a large nerve, and presents little depressions for the lodgment of the palatine glands. This surface presents anteriorly the lower onTice of the