ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 6o8 322.—Vertical Section of a Molar Tooth. •on-n 323.—Vertical Section of a Bicus- pid Tooth. (Magnified.) ■C'TOtVA richly supplied with vessels and nerves, which enter the cavity through the small aportui-e at the point of each fang. The solid portion of tho tooth consists of throe distinct structures, viz., ivory (tooth-bone, or dentine), which forms the larger portion of the tooth ; enamel, which covers the exposed part, or crown ; and tho cortical substance, or cement (crusta petrosa), which is disposed as a thin layer on tho surface of the fang, Tho IvORV, or dentine (fig. 323), forms the principal mass of a tooth ; in its central part is the cavity enclosing tho pulp. It is a modification of the osseous tissue, from which it difiers, however, in structure and chemical com- position. On examination with the microscope, it is seen to consist of ,a number of minute wavy and branching tubes, having distinct parietes. They are called the dental iuhuli, and are embedded in a dense homogeneous substance, the intertuhular tissue. The dental tiihuli are placed parallel with one another, and open at their inner ends into the pulp cavity. They pursue a wavy and undulating course towards the periphery. The direction of these tubes varies; they are vertical in the upper portion of the crown, oblique in the neck and upper part of the root, and towards the lower part of the root they are inclined downwards. The tnbuli, at their commencement, are about an inch in diameter ; in their course they divide and subdivide dichotomously, so as to give to the cut surface of the dentine a striated appearance. Prom the sides of the tubes, especially in the fang, ramifications of extreme minuteness are given ofi", which join together in loops in the intertuhular substance, or terminate in small dilatations, from which branches are given off. Near the periphery of the dentine, the finer ramifications of the tnbuli terminate in a somewhat similar manner. In the fang these ramifications occasionally pass into the crusta petrosa. The dental tnbuli have com- paratively thick walls, and contain, according to Mr. Tomes, slender cyliudrical prolongations of the pulp-tissue. The intertuhular substance is translucent, finely granular, and contains the chief part of the earthy matter of the dentine. After the earthy matter has been removed, by steeping a tooth in weak acid, the animal basis remaining is described by Henle as consisting of bundles of pale, granular, flattened fibres, running parallel with the tubes ; but by Mr. Nasmyth as consist- ing of a mass of brick-shaped cells surrounding the tubules. By Czermak and Mr. Salter it is supposed to consist of laminae which run parallel with the pulp cavity, across the direction of the tubes. Chemical Gomposition. According to Berzelius and Bibra, dentine consists of 28 parts of animal, and 72 of earthy matter. The animal matter is resolvable by boiling into gelatin. The earthy matter consists of phosphate of Ume, carbonate of lime, a trace of fluoride of calcium, phosphate of magnesia, and other salts. The Enamel is the hardest and most compact part of a tooth, and forms a thm crust over the exposed part of the crown, as far as the commencement of the fang. It is thickest on the grinding surface of the crown, until worn away by attrition, and becomes thimier towards the neck. It consiBts of a congeries of mmuix^ hexagonal rods. They Uc parallel with one another, resting by one extremity