ARTERIES. 402 Branches. Within the pehts, the obturator artery gives off an iliac hra/iich to the iliac fossa, ■which supplies the bone, and the Iliacus muscle, and anastomoses with the ilio-lunibar artery ; a vesical branch, which runs backwards to supply the bladder ; and a 'pulio branch, which is given off from the vessel just before it loaves the pelvic cavity. This branch ascends upon the back of the pubes, com, municating with ollsots from the epigastric artery, and with the corresponding vessel of tho opposite side. This branch is placed on the inner side of the femoral ring. External to the pelvis, tho obturator artery divides into an external and an internal branch, which are deeply situated beneath tho Obturator externus muscle ; skirting the circumference of the obturator foramen, they anastomose at the lower part of this aperture with each other, and with branches of the internal circumflex artery. The internal branch curves inwards along the inner margin of the obturator foramen, distributing branches to the Obturator muscles, Pectineus, Adductors, and Gracilis, and anastomoses with the external branch, and with the internal circumflex artery. The external branch curves round tho outer margin of the foramen, to the space between the Gemellus inferior and Quadratus femoris, where it anastomoses with the sciatic artery. It supplies the Obturator muscles, anastomoses, as it passes backwards, with the internal cii'cnmflex, and sends a branch to the hip- joint through the cotyloid notch, which ramifies on tho round ligament as far as the head of the femur. Peculiarities. In two out of every three cases the obturator arises from the internal iliac ; in one case in 3^ from the epigastric; and in about one in seventy-two cases by two roots from both vessels. It arises in about the same proportion from the external iliac artery. The origin of the obturator from the epigastric is not commonly found on both sides of the same body. When the obturator artery arises at the front of the pelvis from the epigastric, it descends almost vertically to the upper part of the obturator foramen. The artery in this course usually Ues in contact with the external iliac vein, and on the outer side of the femoral ring (228, hg. i) ; in such ca.ses it would not be endangered in the operations for femoral hernia Occasionally, however, it curves inwards along the free margin of Gimbernat's hgament (228, fig. 2), and under such circumstances would almost completely encircle the neck of a hernial sac (supposing a hernia to exist in such a case), and would be in great danger of being wounded if an operation was performed. 228.—Variations in Origin and Course of Obturator Artery. The Internal Puclic is the smaller of tho two terminal branches of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, and supplies the external organs of generation. It passes downwards and outwards to the lower border of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and emerges from the pelvis between the Pyriformis and Coccygeus muscles ; it then crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. The artery now crosses the Obtui-ator internus muscle, to the ramus of the ischium, being covered by the obturator fascia, and situated about an inch and a half from the margin of the tuberosity ; it then ascends forwards and upwards along the ramus of the ischium, pierces the posterior layer of the deep perinoDal fascia, and runs forwards along the inner margin of the ramus of the pubes ; finally, it perforates the anterior layer of the deep periniEal fascia, and divides into its two terminal branches, the dorsal artery of the penis, and the artery of the corpus caveruosum.