51 PALATE BONE. Articulations. With four bones : three of the cramutn, frontal, sphenoid, and temporal • and one of the face, the superior maxillary. . „ AUaciZu of Muscles. Levator labii superioris propnus, Zygomatxcus major and minor, Masseter, and Temporal. The Palate Bones. The Palate Bones are situated at the back part of the nasal foss^ ; they are wedged in between the superior maxillary and the pterygoid Process of the sphenoid. Each bone assists in the formation of three cavities: the floor and outer wail of the nose, the roof of the mouth, and the floor of the orbit; and enters into the formation of three foss^B: the zygomatic, spheno-maxillary, and pterygoid ; and one fissm-e, the spheno-maxQlary. In form the palate bone somewhat resem- bles the letter L, and may be divided into an inferior or horizontal plate, and a superior or vertical plate. The Emizontal Plate is thick, of a quadrilateral form, and presents two surfaces and four borders. The superior surface, concave from side to side, forms the back part of the floor of the nostril. The inferior surface, slightly concave and rough, forms the back part of the hard palate. At its posterior' part may be seen a transverse ridge, more or less marked, for the attachment of the aponeurosis of the Tensor palati muscle. At the outer extremity of this ridge is a deep groove con- verted into a canal by its articulation with the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, and forming the posterior palatine canal. Near this groove, the orifices of one or two small canals, accessory posterior palatine, may frequently be seen. The anterior border is serrated, bevelled at the expense of its inferior surface, and articulates with the palate process of the superior maxillary bone. The posterior border is concave, free, and serves for the attachment of the soft palate. Its inner extremity is sharp and pointed, and, when united with the opposite bone, forms a projecting process, the posterior nasal spine, for the attachment of the Azygos uvuliB. The external border is united with the lower part of the perpen- dicular plate almost at right angles. The internal border, the thickest, is seii-ated for articulation with its fellow of the opposite side ; its superior edge is raised into a ridge, which, united with the opposite bone, forms a crest in which the vomer is received. The Vertical Plate (fig. 51) is thin, of an oblong 51.—Left Palate Bone. Internal View (enlarged). ,iial P, form, and directed upwards a.nd a little in- wards. It presents two surfaces, an external and an internal, and four bor- ders. The internal surface pre- sents at its lower part a broad shallow depression, which forms part of the inferior meatus of the nose. Immediately above this is a well-marked horizontal ridge, the inferior turbi- nated crest, for articulation with the inferior turbinated bone ; above this, a second broad shallow depression, which forms part of the middle meatus, surmount- ed above by a horizontal ridge less prominent than the inferior, the superior turbinated crest, for articulation with the middle turbinated bone. Above the AfajciSitri:! jPtoccis HORIZONTAL TLATC