696 URINARY ORGANS. Henco although tho two hmbs of Henle's loops vary much in size, their hare is almost similar, owing to the difl'erent tliickness of their epithelial lining. The Renal Blood-vessels : their origin, course, and distribution. The kidney is plentifully supplied with blood by the renal artery, a large offset of the abdominal ivorta, wliich enters tho sinus tlirough the hilum, dividing in its passage through the latter into four or five branches. These, whilst in the sinus, give off a few twigs for tho nutrition of the surrounding tissues, and terminate in the arierice propriie renales, which enter the kidney proper in the columns of Bertini. Two of these pass to each pyramid of Malpighi and run along its sides for its entire length, giving off as they advance the afferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies in the columns. Having arrived at the bases of the pyramids, they make a bend in their course, so as to lie between the bases of the pyramids and the cortical arches, where they break up into two distinct sets of branches devoted to the supply of the re- maining portions of the kidney. The first set, the interlobular arteries (figs. 385, 386, b), are given off at I'ight angles from the side of the arterise propriae renales looking towards the 385.—Diaf^i-ainniatical Sketch ctf Kidney. 386.—A portion of fig. 385 enlarged. (The references are the same.) a A a A A a Proper renal artery and vein, the former giving off the renal afferents, the latter receiving the renal efferents B b. Interlobular artery and vein, the latter commencing from the stellate vems, and receiving branches from the plexus around the tubuli contorti, the fonner giving off renal afferents. C. Straight tube surrounded by tubuli contorti, with which it communicates, forming a pyramid of Feirein, as more fully shown in fig. 381. D. Margin of medulUiry substance. E E E. Receiving tubes, cut off. F/. Ane- riotai et vena} recta}, the latter arising from (O) the plexus at the meduUary apex. cortical substance, and passing directly outwards between the pyramids of Ferrein, supply the capsule, terminating in the stellate plexus of veins beneath that struc- ture. In their outward course they support the Malpighian bodies by supplying them with afferent vessels, which, having pierced the capsules, end in the Malpi- ghian tufts. From each tuft the corresponding renal efferent arises, which, having made its egress from the capsule near to the point where the afferent entered, anastomoses with other efferents from other tufts, and conti-ibutes to form a dense -venoios jolexios around the urinary tubes adjacent. The second set from the arterire proprioe renales are for the supply of the medullary pyramids, which they enter at their bases; and passing through their substance straight to their apices, terminate in the venous plexuses found m that situation. They are called the arteriolce rectce. (figs. 385, 386, f). The lienal Veins arise from three sources : the veins beneath the capsule, the