PULMONARY. 449 Caediao Veins. The veins which retni-n the blood from the substance of the heart are, the Great cardiac vein. Anterior cardiac veins. Posterior cardiac vein. VensD Thebesu. The Ch-eat Cardiaa Vain is a vessel of considerable size, which commences at the apex of the heai-t, and ascends along the anterior interventricular groove to the base of the ventricles. It then curves to the left side, around the auriculo- ventricular groove, between the left auricle and ventricle, to the back part of the heart, and opens into the coronary sinus, its aperture being guarded by two valves. It receives the posterior cardiac vein, and the left cardiac veins from the left auricle and ventricle, one of which, ascending along the left margm of the ventricle, is of large size. The branches joining it are provided with valves. The Posterior Cardiac Vein commences, by small branches, at the apex of the heart, communicating with those of the preceding. It ascends along the posterior interventricular groove to the base of the heart, and terminates in the coronary sinus, its orifice being guarded by a valve. It receives the veins from the posterior sm-face of both ventricles. The Anterior Cardiac Veins are three or four small branches, which collect the blood from the anterior surface of the right ventricle. One of these (the vein of Galen), larger than the rest, runs along the right border of the heart. They open separately into the lower part of the right auricle. The Vence TJiehesii are numerous minnte veins, which return the blood directly from the muscular substance, without entering the venons current. They open, by minute orifices (foramima Thebesu), on the inner surface of the right auricle. The Coronary Sinus is that portion of the great cardiac vein which is situated in the posterior part of the left auriculo-ventricular groove. It is about an inch in length, presents a considerable dilatation, and is covered by the muscular fibres of the left auricle. It receives the great cardiac vein, the posterior cardiac vein, and an oblique vein from the back part of the left auricle, the renmant of the obliterated left innominate trunk of the fcBtus, described by Mr. Marshall. The coronary sinus terminates in the right auricle, between the inferior vena cava and the auriculo-ventricular aperture, its orifice being guarded by a semilunar fold of the lining membrane of the heart, the coronary valve. All the branches joining this vessel, excepting the oblique vein above-mentioned, are provided with valves. The Pulmonary Veins. The Pulmonary Veins return the arterial blood from the lungs to the left auricle of the heart. They are four in number, two for each lung. The pidmonary difier from other veins in several respects:—i. They carry arterial instead of venous blood. 2. They are destitute of valves. 3. They are only slightly larger than the arteries they accompany. 4. They accompany those vessels singly. They commence in a capillary network, upon the parietes of the bronchial cells, where they are continuous with the ramifications of the pulmonary artery, and, uniting together, form a single trunk for each lobule. These branches, uniting succes- sively, form a single trunk for each lobe, three for the right, and two for the left lung. The vein from the middle lobe of the right lung unites with that from the upper lobe, in most cases, forming two trunks on each side, which open separately into the left auricle. Occasionally, they remain separate ; there are then three veins on the right side. Not unfrequcntly, the two left pulmonary veins terminate by a common opening. G G