642 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. trunks wliicli opon into the vena cava, while that vessel is situated in the fissure appropriated to it at the back of the liver. 1 Horizontal section of liver (clog). The vena portse has been injected, o. Trunk of interlobnlar vein. 6. Trunk of intralobular vein. A dense system of capillary vessels Is between them. The hepatic cells are of a more or less spheroidal form ; but may be rounded, flattened, or many-sided, from mutual compression. They vary in size from the to the of an inch in diameter, and contain a distinct nucleus in the interior, or sometimes two. In the nucleus is a highly refracting nucleolus, with granules. The cell-contents are viscid, and contain yellow particles, the colouring matter of the bile, and oil-globules. The cells adhere together by the surfaces, so as to form rows, which radiate from the centre towards the circum- ference of the lobule. These cells are the cHef agents in the secretion ot the ^%naino/ the Uliarij cZwcfe.—Three views have prevailed in recent times as to the origin of the biliary ducts, i. That they commence external to the lobules in an mierlobular plexus, the bile being secreted by the hepatic cells withm the lobule, and passing into the radicles of the ducts by osmosis from those cells ihis was Kiernan's view.* 2. The other two views coincide m the belief that the radicles of the biliary ducts commence within the lobules by a plexus ot intra- lobular channels, but they differ as to the relation between these channels and tbe hepatic cells ; the one which we wiU caU Beale's view, teaches that the hepatic cells are contained within the intralobular biliary channels ; 3- the other view, which we may caU Bering's, teaches that the intralobular bihary channels lie between tbe hepatic cells. This anatomist has given what appears the most mteUigible descrip- tion of the minute anatomy of the liver, and one which really coincides in many essential points with the original description of Kiernan, as ^« ^™ Beale Bering describes the liver cells as lying packed together m the channels which are formed between the meshes of the capillary blood-vessels, but sepamtecl from the wall of the capillary by a clear space. In the centre of the line whicli forms the base of a pair of cells (or more rarely in the human subject ™ t^e ang e formed by the meeting of several cells) a minute channel is formed, which is t ie radicle of the bile duct, the intralobular biliary channel, much smaller than th. CSry or the hepatic cells. Kiernan's view would confine the name of bdiary ducts to the bile passages external to the lobule (interlobular), while Beale s vie entirely external to the lobules.