57 INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. forward as the first molar tootli. The tn/.nor harder is rounded longer than the superior, and thicker in front than behind; it presents a shallow groove, just where the body joins the ramus, over which the facial artery turns The Perveldicular Portions, or Rami, are of a quadnlateral form. Each presen s for^ examination two surfaces, four bonlers, and two processes. The ^ .rface is flat, marked with ridges, and gives attachment throughout , „i,.i„ ,.f i^. ..for^f, fn the Masseter muscle. The internal surface nearly the whole of its extent to the Masseter i r +i presents about its centre the oblique aperture of the inferior dental canal, for the ■pissace of the inferior dental vessels and nerve, The margin of this opening fs irreVlar; it presents in front a prominent ridge, surmounted by a sharp spine ^vhich gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the ower jaw ; and at its lower and back part a notch leading to a groove, the mylo-liyoidean which runs obliquely downwards to the back part of the submaxillary fossa j and lodges the mvlo-hyoid vessels and nerve : behind the groove is a rough surface, for the insertion of the Internal pterygoid muscle. The inferior dental canal runs obliquely downwards and forwards in the substance of the ramus, and then hori- zontally forwards in the body; it is here placed nnder the alveoli, with which it> communicates by small openings. On arriving at the incisor teeth, it turns back to communicate with the mental foramen, giving off" two small canals, which run. forward, to be lost in the cancellous tissue of the bone beneath the incisor teeth. This canal, in the posterior two-thirds of the bone, is situated nearer the internal surface of the jaw ; and in the anterior third, nearer its external surface. Its walls- are composed of compact tissue at either extremity, and of cancellous in the centre. It contains the inferior dental vessels and nerve, from which branches are dis- tributed to the teeth through small apertures at the bases of the alveoli. The upper border of the ramus is thin, and presents two processes, separated by a deep concavity, the sigmoid notch. Of these processes, the anterior is the coronoid^ the posterior the condyloid. The Coronoid Process is a thin, flattened, triangular eminence of bone, which varies in shape and size in diff"erent subjects, and serves chiefly for the attach- ment of the Temporal muscle. Its external- surface is smooth, and aSbrds attachment to the Masseter and Temporal muscles. Its internal surface gives attachment to the Temporal muscle, and presents the commencement of a longitu- dinal ridge, which is continued to the posterior part of the alveolar process. On the outer side of this ridgeis a deep groove, continued below on the outer side of the alveolar process ; this ridge and part of the groove afibrd attachment, above, to the Temporal; below, to the Buccinator muscle. The Condyloid Process, shorter but thicker than the coronoid, consists of two portions: the condyle, and the constricted portion which supports the condyle, the neck. The condyle is of an oblong form, its long axis being transveiree, and set obliquely on the neck in such a manner that its outer end is a little more forward and a little higher than its inner. It is convex from before backwards, and from side to side, the articular surface extending further on the posterior than on the anterior surface. The neck of the condyle is flattened from before backwards, and strengthened by ridges which descend from the fore part and sides of the condyle. Its lateral margins are narrow, and present externally a tubercle for the external lateral ligament. Its posterior surface is convex; its anterior is hollowed out on its inner side by a depression (the pterygoid fossa) for the attach- ment of the External pterygoid. The loioer harder of the ramus is thick, straight, and continuous with the body of the bone. At its juuction with the posterior border is the angle of the jaw, which is either inverted or everted, and marked by rough oblique ridges on each side for the attachment of the Masseter externally, and the Internal pterygoid internally; the stylo-maxillary ligament is attached to the bone between these muscles. The aiiterior harder is thin above, thicker below, and continuous with •the external oblique line. The posterior harder is thick, smooth, rounded, and jcovered by the parotid gland.