292 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. Fracture of the lower end of the. rmlim (lig. 185) is usually called Colles's fracture, from the name of the oniinent Duhlin Hurgeou who first accurately described it. It is generally produced by the patient falling upon tlie hand, which receives tlio entire weight of the body. This fracture usually takes ])lace from half an inch to an inch above the articular eurfaco if it occurs in the adult; hut in the child, before the age of sixteen, it is more frequently a separation of the epiphysis from the diaphysis. The displacement which is produced is very considerable, and bears some resemblance to dislocation of the carpus backwards, from which it should be carefully distinguished. The lower fi-agment is drawn jgj.—Fracture of the Lower End of the Radius. upwards and backwards behind the upper fragment by the Combined acfions of the Supmator longus and the flexors and the extensors of the thumb and carpus, producing a well-marked prominence on the back of the wrist, with a deep depression above it. The upper fragment projects forwards, often lacerating the substance of the Pronator quadratus, and is drawn by this muscle into close contact with the lower end of the ulna, causing a projection on the anterior surface of the forearm, immediately above the carpus, from the flexor tendons beinc thrust forwards. This fracture may be distinguished from dislocation by the de- foruiity beino- removed on making sufficient extension, when crepitus may be occasionally detected ; at'the same time, on extension being discontinued, the parts immediately resume their deformed appearance. The age of the patient will also assist in determining whether the iniury is fracture or separation of the epiphysis. The treatment consists in flexing the forearm, and making powerful extension from the wrist and elbow, depressing at the same time the radial side of the hand, and retaining the parts in that position by well-padded 2yistol-shaped splints. MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The Muscles of the Lower Extremity are subdivided into groups, corresponding ■with the different regions of the limb. Hip. Crluteal Region. 'Gluteus maximus. Gluteus medius. Iliac JRegion. Psoas magnus. Psoas parvus. Uiacus. Thigh. Anterior Femoral Region. Tensor vaginas femoris. Sartorius. Rectus. Vastus externus. Vastus internus. Crureus. Subcrurcus. Internal Femoral Region. Gracilis. Pectineus. Adductor longus. Adductor brevis. A-dductor magnus. Gluteus minimus. Pyriformis. Gemell'us superior. Obturator internus. Gemellus inferior. Obturator externus. Quadratus femoris. Postenor Femoral Region. Biceps. Semitendinosus. Semimembranosus. Leo. Anietior Tihio-fihular Region. Tibialis anticus. Extensor longus digitoruni. Extensor proprius poUicis. Peroneus tertius.