134 THE SKELETON. nlout IfH.'^yn- bolow. Its upper third is rough, for the attachment of the Soleus muscle ; its lower part presents a triangular rough surface, connected to the kbia by a strong interoLous ligament, and between these two points the entire surface is covered by the fibres of origin of the Fle^^or longus pollicis muscle At aboat the middle of this surface is the nutrient foramen, which is directed downwards In order to distinguish the side to which the bone belongs, hold it with the lower extremity downwa^-ds, and the broad j 12 _pian of the Development of the groove for the Peronei tendons backwards, to- Fibula. By Three Centres. wards the holder: the triangular subcutaneous surface will then be directed to the side to which the bone belongs. Artic'idations. With two bones: the tibia and astragalus. Development. By three centres (fig. 112): one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the shaft about the sixth week of foetal life, a little later than in the tibia, and extends gradually towards the ex- tremities. At birth both ends are cartilaginous. Ossification commences in the lower end in the second year, and in the upper one about the fourth year. The lower epiphysis, the first in which ossification commences, becomes united to the shaft first, contrary to the law which appears to prevail with regard to the junction of the epiphyses with the shaft: this takes place about the twentieth year ; the upper epi- physis is joined about the twenty-fifth year.* Attachment of Muscles. To the head, the Biceps, Soleus, and Peroneus longus : to the shaft, its anterior surface, the Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius, and Extensor proprius pollicis ; to the internal surface, the Soleus, Tibialis posticus, and Flexor longus poUicis: to the external surface, the Peroneus longus and brevis. THE FOOT. (Pigs. 113, 114-) The skeleton of the Foot consists of three divisions : the Tarsus, Metatarsus, and Phalanges. Th. Tabsus. The bones of the Tarsus are seven in number: viz., the calcaneum, or os calcis, astragalus, cuboid, ^scaphoid, internal, middle, and external cuneiform bones. The Calcaneum. The Galcanemi, or Os Galois, is the largest and strongest of the tarsal bones. It is irregularly cuboidal in form, and situated at the lower and back part ot the foot, serving to transmit the weight of the body to the ground, and forming a strong lever for the muscles of the calf. It presents for examination six surfaces : supe- rior, inferior, external, internal, anterior, and posterior. , . , . f The suverior swrface is formed behind, of the upper aspect of that part oi the OS calcis which projects backwards to form the heel. It varies m length in difi-erent individuals ; is convex from side to side, concave from before back- wards, and corresponds above to a mass of adipose substance placed in front o the tendo Achillis. In the middle of the superior surface are two (sometimes three) * ItwiU be observed that in the fibula, aa in other long bones the epiphysis towards which the nutrient artery is dkccted is the one first jomed to the suan. 1