538 SPINAL Ni^iiVES. beliind the axillary and upper part of the brachial arteries, passing down in front of the tendons of the Latissimns dorsi and Teres major. It wmds round the humerus in the spiral gvoovo with the superior profunda artery, passing from the inner to the outer side of the bone, beneath the Triceps muscle. At the outer side of the arm, it descends between the Brachialis anticus and Supinator longus to the front of the external condyle, where it divides into the radial and posterior inter- osscons nerves. The branches of the musculo-spiral nerve are :— Muscular. Radial. Cutaneous. Posterior interosseous. The muscular hranches are divided into internal, posterior, and external; they supply the Triceps, Anconeus, Supinator longus, Extensor carpi radialis longior, and Brachialis anticus. These branches are derived from the nerve, at the inner side, back part, and outer side of the arm. The internal muscular branches supply the inner and middle heads of the Triceps muscle. That to the inner head of the Triceps, is a long, slender filament, which lies close to the uhiar nerve, as far as the lower third of the arm. The posterior muscular branch, of large size, arises from the nerve m the groove between the Triceps and the humerus. It divides into branches which supply the outer head of the Triceps and Anconeus muscles. The branch for the latter muscle is a long, slender filament, which descends in the substance of the Triceps to the Anconeus in the same course with the posterior articular branch from the superior profunda artery. The external, muscular branches supply the Supmator longus, Extensor carpi radialis longior, and, usually, the Brachiahs anticus. The cutaneous Iranches are three in number, one internal and two external. The internal cutaneous branch arises in the axillary space, with the inner muscular branch. It is of small size, and passes through the axilla to the inner side of the arm, supplying the integument on its posterior aspect nearly as far as ^^^Thetwrexternal cutaneous branches perforate the outer head of the Triceps, at its attachment to the humerus. The upper and smaller one f oUows the course of the cephalic vein to the front of the elbow, supplymg the mtegument of the lower half of the upper arm on its anterior aspect. The lower branch pierces the deep fascia below the insertion of the Deltoid, a,nd passes down ^lo-g side of the arm and elbow, and along the back pai4) of the radial side of the fore-ann to the wrist, supplying the integument in its course, and jommg, neai- its termination, with a branch of the external cutaneous nerve. ™e raiaZ nerve passes along the front of the radial side of the fore-arm to the commencement of its lower thi.^d. It lies at first a little to the outer side of • the rS artery, concealed beneath the Supinator longus. In the middle thnd S the forel^f It lies beneath the same muscle, in close re ation with the outer side of the artery. It quits the artery about three inches above the wrist, parses beneath the tendon of the Supinator longus, and, piercmg the deep-fascia at the outerborder of the fore-arm, divides into two branches. The extenial branch, the smaUer of the two, suppl es the -teg^en^ ^^^^^ radiil side and ball ofthe thumb, joining with the posterior bxunch of the external ^"Lre^l- branch communicates, above the ^^^^^f pxf ernal cutaneous, and, on the back of the hand, ferms an arch .vith the dorsal ^^^h of thrulnaV nc^ve. It then divides into four digital nerves, which are ^ . tit d a foUows • The first supplies the ulnar side of the thumb; the second fl^ ndi^l si^^^^ ndex finger / the third, the adjoining sides- of th. mdex and IdTffiL rs and the fourth,!he adjacent borders of ti.e middle and ring fingers. ?;ettter?e:;e com^^^^^ with a' filament from the dorsal bi.nch of tl. ulnar "'"The posterior mferosseous nerve pierces the Supinator bi.3vis, winds to the back of