Iviii GENERAL ANATOMY. lag-inous ossification, but this process uever extends to any very great , i distance. The epiphyses remain separated from the shaft by a narrow || . cai-tilaginous layer for a definite time. This layer ultimately ossifies, the • I distinction between shaft and epiphysis is obliterated, and the bone has i I assumed its completed form and shape. The same remarks also apply ;1 to the processes of bone which are separately ossified, and called aijophysea. I The intra-cartilaginous ossification, and the growth by means of epi- 1 physes, are usually described from the long bones; but almost all the || bones of the body are primarily laid down in cartilage (see note, p. Iv.); 1 and a great many of the flat and short bones grow by means of epiphyses,, as will be seen in the detailed description of each, given in the body of ■ the work. The medullary spaces which characterise the cancellous tissue are- produced by the absorption of the original foetal bone in the same way as • the medullary tube is formed, and the same is the case with the Haversian spaces above referred to as a sort of intermediate step between the' Haversian canals and the medullary spaces. Thus the distinction between the cancellous and compact tissue appears to depend essentially upon the extent to which this process of absorption has been carried, and we may perhaps remind the reader that in morbid states of the bone inflammatory absorption effects exactly the same change, and converts portions of bone naturally compact, into cancellous tissue. The intra-membranous ossification is that by which the bones of the vertex of the skull are entirely formed. In the bones which are so de- veloped no cartilaginous mould precedes the appearance of the bone tissue. The process, though pointed out originally by Dr. Nesbitt in the year 1736, was first accurately described by Dr. Sharpey; and it does not appear that subsequent observers have been able to add anything essential I to his description. This is, substantially, as follows:—In the membrane which occupies the place of the future bone a little network of bony spiculse is first noticed, radiating from the point of ossification. When these rays of growing bone are examined by the microscope, there is found a network of fine clear fibres (osteogenic fibres), which become dark ! and granular from calcification, and as they calcify they ai'e found to enclose in their interior large granular corpuscles (the so-called ' osteo- i blasts' described above in the account of the intra-cartilaginous ossifica- tion). These corpuscles at first lie upon the osteogenic fibres, so that the corpuscles must be removed by brushing the specimen with a hair-pencil in order to render the fibres clear; but they gradually sink into areola> developed among the fibres. The areolse appear to be the rudiments of the lacunae, the passages between the fibres form the canalicuH, and the |l osteoblasts are the rudiments of the bone-cells. As the tissue increases in thickness vessels shoot into it, grooving for themselves spaces or chan- nels, which become the Haversian canals. The subperiosteal is in all essential respects identical with the intra- membranous process of ossification. The period of ossification is different in different bones. The order of succession may be thus aiTanged (Kolliker):— In the second month, first, in the clavicle, and lower jaw (fifth to seventh i