I xcvii EPITHELIUM. THE EPITHELIUM. All the surfaces of the body, the external surface of the skin, the in- ternal surface of the digestive and respiratory tracts, the closed serous cavities, and the ducts of all glands, are covered by one or more layers of simple cells, called epithelium or epithelial cells, which serve various purposes, both as a protective layer, and as an agent in secretion. Thus, in the skin, the main purpoee served by the epithelium (here called the epidermis) is that of protection. As the surface is worn away by the a.gency of friction or change of temperature, new cells are supplied, and thus the surface of the true skin, and the vessels and nerves which it contains, are defended from damage. In the gastro-intestinal mucous j membrane and in the glands, the epithelial cells appear to be the principal agents in separating the secretion from the blood or from the alimentary fluids. In other situations (as the nose, fauces, and respiratory passages) the chief ofl&ce of the epithelial cells appears to be to maintain an equable temperature by the moisture with which they keep the surface always slightly lubricated. In the serous carities they also keep the opposed layers moist, and thus facilitate their movements on each other. Finally, in all internal parts they ensure a perfectly smooth surface. The epithelium is usually spoken of as tesselated or pavement, columnar, spheroidal or glandular, and ciliated. The pavement-eT^ithelixim. is composed of flat nucleated scales of various shapes, usu:ally polygonal, and varying in size. These scales often contain Fig. XL.—Epithelial cells in tLe oral cavity of man. a, Large, b, Middle-sized, c, The same with two nuclei. Magnified 350 times. ■granules, as in Eig. XL. This kind of epithelium is found on the surface of the skin (epidermis), on all the serous surfaces (unless the ventricles of the brain be an exception), on the lining membranes of the blood-vessels, ■ on many of the mucous membranes, and in the ducts. The nails, hairs, and in animals the horns, are a variety of this kind of epithelium. The columnar epithelium (Fig. XLI.) is formed of cylindrical or rod- shaped cells, each containing a nucleus, and set together, so as to form a complete membrane. This form of epithelium covers the mucous membrane of the whole gastro-intestinal tract and the glands of that part, the gi-eater part of the f