396 ARTERIES. right side of the aperture for transmitting that vein. Near the back part of the central tendon, each vessel divides into two branches. The internal branch rung forwards to the front of the thorax, supplying the Diaphragm, and anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the musculo-phrenic, a branch of the intei'nal mammary. The external branch passes towards the side of the thorax, and inosculates with the intercostal arteries. The internal branch of the right phrenic gives off a few vessels to the inferior vena cava; and the left one some branches to the oesophagus. Each vessel also sends capsular branches to the supra- renal capsule of its own side. The spleen on the left side, and the liver on the right, also receive a few branches from these vessels. The Lumbar Autebies are analagous to the intercostal. They are usually four in number on each side, and arise from the back part of the aorta, nearly at right angles with that vessel. They pass outwards and backwards, around the sides of the body of the corresponding lumbar vertebra, behind the sympathetic nerve and the Psoas muscle ; those on the right side being covered by the inferior vena cava, and the two upper ones on each side by the crura of the Diaphragm. In the interval between the transverse processes of the vertebrte each artery divides into a dorsal and an abdominal branch. The dorsal branch gives oflP, immediately after its origin, a spinal branch, which enters the spinal canal; it then continues its course backwards, between the transverse processes, and is distributed to the muscles and integument of the back, anastomosing with, eacb other, and -with the posterior branches of the intercostal arteries. The spinal hrancli, besides supplying offsets which run along the nerves to the dura mater and cauda equina, anastomosing with the other spinal arteries, divides into two branches, one of which ascends on the posterior surface of the body of the vertebra above, and the other descends on the posterior surface of the body of the vertebra below, both vessels anastomosing with similar branches from neigh- bouring spinal arteries. The inosculations of these vessels on each side, throughout the whole length of the spine, form a series of arterial arches behind the bodies of the vertebrfB, which are connected with each other, and with a median longitudinal vessel, extending along the middle of the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebree, by transverse branches. From these vessels offsets are distributed to the periosteum and bones. The abdominal brandies pass outwards, behind the Quadratus lumborum, the lowest branch occasionally in front of that muscle, and, being continued between the abdominal muscles, anastomose with branches of the epigastric and internal mammary in front, the intercostals above, and those of the iUo-lumbar and circum- flex iliac, ieZoiy. The Middle Sacral Autebt is a small vessel, about the size of a crow-qmll, which arises from the back part of the aorta, just at its bifurcation. It descends upon the last lumbar vertebra, and along the middle Hue of the front of the sacrum, to the upper part of the coccyx, where it anastomoses with the lateral sacral arteries and terminates in a minute branch, which runs down to the situation of the body presently to be described as ' Luschka's gland.' From it, branches arise which run through the meso-rectum, to supply the posterior surface of the rectum. Other branches are given off" on each side, which anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries and send off small offsets which enter the anterior sacral foramina. Coccygeal Gland, or Luschha's Gland.-Lymg near the tip of the coccyx, in a small tendinous interval formed by the union of the Levator am muscles of either side, and just above the coccygeal attachment of the Sphincter ani, is a small conglobate body, about as large as a lentil or a pea, farst described by Luschka,* and named by him the coccygeal gland, but the real nature and uses of which are doubtful, nor does it seem at present certain that it always exists. Its most obvious connections are with the artenes * Ber Ilirnanhang unci die Steissdriise desMenschen, Berlin, i860; Anatomic dcsMenschcn-, Tubingen, 1864, vol. ii. pt. 2, p. 187.