The Muscles and Fasciee* THE Muscles are connected with the bones, cartilages, ligaments and skin, either directly or through the intervention of fibrous structures, called tendons or aponeuroses. Where a muscle is attached to bone or cartilage, the fibres terminate in blunt extremities upon the periosteum or perichondrium, and do not come into direct relation with the osseous or cartilaginous tissue. Where muscles are con- nected with the skin, they either He as a flattened layer beneath it, or are connected with its areolar tissue by larger or smaller bundles of fibres', as in the muscles of the face. The muscles vary extremely in their form. In the limbs, they are ot con- siderable length, especially the more superficial ones, the deep ones being generally broad; they surround the bones, and form an important protection to the various joints.' In the trunk, they are broad, flattened, and expanded, forming the parietes of the cavities which they enclose ; hence, the reason of the terms, long, hroad, short, etc., used in the description of a muscle. There is a considerable variation in the arrangement of the fibres of certam muscles with reference to the tendons to which they are attached. In some, the fibres are arranged longitudinally, and terminate at either end in a narrow tendon If the fibres converge, like the plumes of a pen, to one side of a tendon, which runs the entire length of a muscle, the muscle is said to be penmform, as the Peronei; if they converge to both sides of the tendon, the muscle is caUed Upenniform, as the Hectus femoris; if they converge from a broad surface to a narrow tendinous point, the muscle is said to be radiated, as the Temporal and Glutei muscles. ^ i • <? i. n c 4.i,„ They difi-er no less in size ; the Gastrocnemius forms the chief bulk ot the back of the leg, and the fibres of the Sartorius. are nearly two feet m length whilst the Stapedius, a small muscle of the internal ear, weighs about a gram, and its fibres are not more than two lines in length. -, . , o +1, • The names applied to the various muscles have been derived: i, fi'om their situation, as the Tibialis, Radiahs, Ulnaris, Peroneus ; 2, from their du-ection, as the Rectus abdomiuis, Obliqui capitis, Transversalis ; 3, from their uses, as Flexors, Extensors, Abductors, etc. ; 4, from their shape, as the Deltoid Trapezius, Rhom- boideus ; 5, from the number of their divisions, as the Biceps, the Triceps ; 6 fi-om their points of attachment, as the Sterno-cleido-mastoid, Stemo-hyoid, Sterno- ti'the description of a muscle, the term oHgin is meant to imply its more fixed or central attachment; and the tevm insertion the moveable point to which the force of the muscle is directed; but the origin is absolutely fixed m only a very small number of muscles, such as those of the face, which are attached by one extremity to the bone, and by the other to the moveable integument; m the greater number, the muscle can be made to act from either extremity. * The Muscles and Fascife are described conjointly, in order that sidfir the arrangement of the latter in his dissection of the former It is ^^^^5^^ JP" Sudent of ratomy in this country to have the opportunity ^'^^-^^ ^tiwTen f.mratelY • and it is for this reason, as well as from the close connection that exi ta between rmSl^s'and their investing aponem-oses, that ^1^7-^3^^^^^^^^^^^ speS creneral observations are first made on the anatoiuy of the muscles antt lasciiB, w y description being given in connection with the diflerent regions.