INTERNAL MAMMARY. 367 The Internal Mammary arises from tbe under surface of the first portion of the sabch^vi^ln artery, opposite the tliyroid axis. It descends behind the clavicle to the inner surface of tbe anterior wall of the chest, resting upon the costa caa'tilao.es a short distance from the margin of the sternum; and, at the interval between the sixth and seventh cartilages, divides into two branches, the musculo- phrenic, and superior epigastric. , , i • • i At its orioin, it is covered by the internal jugular and subclavian veins, and crossed by the phrenic nerve. In the upper part of the thorax, it lies upon the costal cartilages, and internal Intercostal muscles in front, and is covered by the pleura behind. At the lower part of the thorax, the Triangularis sterni sepamtes the ai-tery from the pleura. It is accompanied by two veins, which join at the tipper part of the thorax into a single trunk. The branches of the internal mammary are— Comes nervi phrenici (superior phrenic). Anterior Intercostal. Mediastinal. Perforating. Pericardiac. Masculo-phrenic. Sternal. Superior epigastric. The conies nervi phrenici (superior phrenic), is a long slender branch, which accompanies the phrenic nerve, between the pleura and pericardium, to the Diaphragm, to which it is distributed ; anastomosing with the other phrenic arteries from the internal mammary, and abdominal aorta. The mediastinal branches are small vessels, which are distributed to the areolar tissue in the anterior mediastinum, and the remains of the thymus gland. The pericardiox branches supply the upper part of the pericardium, the lower part receiving branches from the muscnlo-phrenic artery. Some sternal branches are distributed to the Triangularis sterni, and both surfaces of the sternum. The anterior intercostal arteries supply the five or six upper intercostal spaces. The branch corresponding to each space passes outwards, and soon divides into two, which run along the opposite borders of the ribs, and inosculate with the intercostal arteries from the aorta. They are at first situated between the pleura and the internal Intercostal muscles, and then between the two layers of those muscles. They supply the Intercostal and Pectoral muscles, and the mammary gland. Tlhe perforating arteries correspond to the five or six upper intercostal spaces. They arise from the internal mammary, pass forwards through the intercostal spaces, and, curving outwards, supply the Pectoralis major, and the integument. Those which correspond to the first three spaces, are distributed to the mammary gland. In females, during lactation, these branches are of large size. The musculo-phrenic artery is directed obliquely downwards and outwards, 1 behind the cartilages of the false ribs, perforating the Diaphragm at the eighth or ninth rib, and terminating, considerably reduced in size, opposite the last inter- costal space. It gives off anterior intercostal arteries to each of the intercostal spaces across which it passes; these diminish in size as the spaces decrease in length, and are distributed in a manner precisely similar to the anterior intercostals from the internal mammary. The musculo-phrenic also gives branches backwards : to the Diaphragm, and downwards to the abdominal muscles. The sxiperior epigastric continues in the original direction of the internal ■ mammary, descends behind the Rectus muscle, and, perforating its sheath, divides mto branches which supply the Rectus, anastomosing with the epigastric artery from the external iliac. Some vessels perforate the sheath of the Rectus, and supply the muscles of the abdomen and the integument, and a small branch which passes inwards upon the side of the ensiform appendix, anastomoses in front of that cartilage with the artery of the opposite side The Superior Intercostal (fig. 212) arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery, behind the anterior scalenus on the right side, and to the inner side of the muscle on the left side. Passing backwards, it gives off the deep cervical branch, and then descends behind the pleura in front of the necks of the