The Articulations. THE various bones of wliicli the Skoleton. consists, are connected together at different parts of tlieir surfaces, and such a connection is designated by tlie name of Joint or Articulation. If tbe joint is immoveaUe, as between the cranial and most of the facial bones, their adjacent margins are applied in almost close contact a thin layer of fibrous membrane, the sutural ligament, and, at the base of the skull, in certain situations, a thin layer of cartilage being interposed. Where slight movement is rcquii-ed, combined with great strength, the osseous surfaces are united by tough and elastic fibro-cartilages, as in the joints of the spine, the sacro-ihac, and interpubic articulations; but in the moveable joints, the bones forming the articulation are generally expanded for greater convenience of mutual connection, covered by cartilage, held together by strong bands or capsules of fibrous tissue, called ligaments, and lined by a membrane, the synovial membrane, which secretes a fluid to lubricate the various parts of which the joint is formed: so that the structures which enter into tlie formation of a joint are bone, cartilage, fibro-cartilage, ligament, and synovial membrane. Bone constitutes the fundamental element of all the joints. In the long bones, the extremities are the parts which form the articulations; they are generally somewhat enlarged, consisting of spongy cancellous tissue, with a thin coating of compact substance. In the flat bones, the articulations usually take place at the edges; and, in the short bones, at various parts of their surface. The layer of compact bone which forms the articular surface, and to which the cartilage is attached, is called the articular lamella. It is of a white colour, extremely dense, and varies in thickness. Its structure differs from ordinary bone tissue in this respect, that it contains no Haversian canals, and its lacunsB are much larger than in ordinary bone, and have no canaliculi. The vessels of the cancellous tissue, as they approach the articular lamella, turn back in loops, and do not perforate it; this layer is consequently more dense and firmer than ordinaiy bone, and is evidently designed to form a firm and unyielding support for the articular cartilage. i <. -i • The articular will be found described along with the other kmds of cartilage m the Introduction. • . n Ligaments are found in nearly all the moveable articulations; they consist ot bands of various forms, serving to connect together the articular extremities of bones, and composed mainly of bundles of white fibrous tissue placed parallel vnth, or closely interlaced with, one another, and presenting a white, shining silvery aspect Ligament is pHant and flexible, so as to allow of the most perfect fi-eedom of movement, but strong, tough, and inextensile, so as not readily to yield under the most severely appUed force ; it is consequently well adapted to serve as the connecting medium between the bones. Some ligaments consist entirely of yellow elastic tissue, as the ligamenta subflava, which connect together the adjacent arches of the vertebrce, and the ligamentum nucha?. In these cases, it will be observed that the elasticity of the ligament is intended to act as a substitute for muscular ^^^^^ynomal Membrane is a thin, delicate membrane, arranged in the form of a short wide tube, attached by its open ends to the margins of the articular extremities ot the bones, and covering the inner surface of the various ligaments which connect the articulating surfaces. It resembles the serous membranes in structure, but differs in the nature of its secretion, which is thick, viscid, and glairy, like t i white of egg ; and hence termed synovia. The synovial membi-aucs found m ili body admit of subdivision into three kinds, articular, bursal, and vaginal The articular synovial membranes are found in all the freely moveable joints In the foetus, this membrane is said, by Toynbeo, to be continued over the suriac of the cartilages ; but in the adult it is wanting, excepting at their circumference, upon which it encroaches for a short distance : it then invests the inner surface ot