OF THE TARSUS. 20I snrface of the cuboid bono behind the peroneal groove. A separate synovial mem- brane is found in the calcaneo-cuboid articulation. The ligaments connecting the os calcis with the scaphoid are two in number :— Superior Calcaneo-Scaphoid. Inferior Calcaneo-Scaphoid. The SicjoenorCalcaneo-8cajphoid(&g. 144) arises, as already mentioned, with the internal calcaneo-cuboid in the deep groove between the astragalus and os calcis ; it passes forwards from the inner side of the anterior extremity of the os calcis to the outer side of the scaphoid bone. These two ligaments resemble the letter Y, being blended together behind, but separated in front. The Inferior Calca7ieo-Scaphoid (fig. 145) is by far the larger and stronger of the two ligaments of this articulation; it is a broad and thick band of fibres, which passes forwards and inwards from the anterior and inner extremity of the os calcis to the under surface of the scaphoid bone. This ligament not only serves to con- nect the OS calcis and scaphoid, but supports the head of the astragalus, forming part of the articular cavity in which it is received. The upper surface is lined by the synovial membrane continued from the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articula- tion. Its under surface is in contact with the tendon of the Tibialis posticus muscle.* The ai'ticulation between the astragalus and scaphoid is an arthrodial joint; the rounded head of the astragalus being received into the concavity formed by thepos- 146.—Oblique Section of the Articulations of the Tarsus and Metatarsus. Showing the Six Synovial Membranes. tenor surface of the scaphoid, the anterior articulating surface of the calcaneum, and the upper surface of the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, which fills up the triangular interva between those bones. The only ligament of this joint is the superior astragalo-scaphoid, a broad band, which passes obliquely forwards from the neck of the astragalus to the superior surface of the scaphoid bone. It is thin and weak in texture and covered by the Extensor tendons. The inferior calcaneo-scaphoid Buppnea the place of an mferior hgament. _The Synovial ifem&rane which lines the joint is continued forwards from the mot^X' w 'Jf This articulation permits of considerable ^tagllus '° occasionally of dislocation of the fourTn\?T^^ ilfemirme. (fig. 146) found in the articulations of the tarsus, are lour m number : one for the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation ; a sJcond