SUPERIOR AND INFERIOR MAXILLARY REGIONS. 215 ,1 4.„ „^naa f.hfl nosti'ils. The Dern-essor aluo nasi is a .thus tends rather to open than to close me not-u no. 1 .Liiuo tuuuo iiiuiioi. f ^„cr.lf.Q fimw n"-the ala of the nose downwards, direct antagonist of the preceding muscles, aiawin„ uno and thereby constricting the aperture of the uares. 6 Superior Maxit-labt Region. (Fig. 148.) Levator Labii Superioris. Zygomaticus Major. Levator Anguli Oris. Zygomaticus Mmor. TheL^atorLabu Supenorls (proprius) is a thin muscle of a q-^drilatera^^^^^^^ It arises from the lower margin of the orbit immediately ^"^'^'^^^^lll'^^'^^^^ foramen, some of its fibres being attached to the superior °f ^^^^^^ malar bone ; its fibres converge to be inserted into the muscular substance of the "^^S/aLs. By its superfioial surface, witb the lower segment of the Orbicularis palpebrarum; below, it is subcutaneous. By its deep surface, it conceals the origin of the Compressor nasi and Levator anguK oris muscles, and the infraorbital vessels and nerves, as they escape from the infraorbital foramen. The Levator Ancjuli Oris arises from the canine fossa, immediately below the infraorbital foramen • its fibres incline downwards and a little outwards, to be inserted into the angle of the mouth, intermingling with those of the Zygomatici, the Depressor anguli oris, and the Orbicularis. Relations. By its sii/perficial surface, with the Levator labii superioris and the infraorbital vessels and nerves. By its deep surface, with the superior maxilla, the Buccinator, and the mucous membrane. The Zygomaticus Major is a slender fasciculus, which arises from the malar bone, in front of the zygomatic suture, and, descending obliquely downwards and inwards, is inserted into the angle of the mouth, where it blends with the fibres of the Orbi- cularis and Depressor anguli oris. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the subcutaneous adipose tissue. By its deep surface, with the malar bone, and the Masseter and Buccinator muscles. The Zygomaticus Minor arises from the malar bone, immediately behind the maxillary suture, and, passing downwards and inwards, is continuous with the outer margin of the Levator labii superioris. It lies in front of the Preceding. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the integument and the Orbicularis palpebrarum above. By its deep surface, with the Levator anguli oriS. Nerves. This group of muscles is supplied by the facial nerve. Actions. The Levator labii superioris is the proper elevator of the upper lip, carrying it at the same time a little outwards. The Levator anguli oris raises the angle of the mouth and draws it inwards ; whilst the Zygomatici raise the upper lip and draw it somewhat outwards, as in laughing. 7. Inferior Maxillary Region. (Fig. 148-.) Levator Labii Inferioris (Levator meuti). Depressor Labii Inferioris (Quadratus menti). Depressor Anguli Oris (Triangularis menti). Dimdim. The Muscles in this region may be dissected by making a vertical incision through the integument from the margin of the lower lip to the chin : a second incision should then be carried along the margin of the lower j^iw as far as the angle, and the integument carefully removed in the direction shown in fig, 1.47. The Levator Lahii Liferioris (Levator mentiy is to be dissected by everting the lower lip and raising the mucous membrane. It is a small conical fasciculus, placed on the aide of the frsenum of the lower lip. It arises from the incisive fossa, ex- ternal to the symphysis of the lower jaw : its fibres descend to be inserted into the integument of the chin. Relations. On its inner surface, with the mucous membrane ; in the media7i line, it is blended with the muscle of the opposite side ; and on its otUer side, Avith. the Depressor labii inferioris.