DEVELOPMENT Ob' CRANIUM. cxiii As the cerebral extremity of the foetus grows it becomes twice bent forwards on its own axis (Fig. LVL). The upper or posterior curvature is called the cerebral; the lower or anterior, the frontal protuberance. From the anterior end of the chorda dorsalis four prolongations proceed on either side, and meet in the middle line (Fig. LV., 4, 7, 8, 9). These are the pharyngeal arches, and in them, and in the frontal protuberance, certain Fig. LV.-Face of an embryo of 4to 28 days, magnified 15 times, i, Frontal P;"mi°ence °2, 3, Tvifrht and left olfactory fc^. 4, Inferior maxillary tubercles, united in the middle line. 5, Superior maxillai-y tubercles. 6, Mouth. 7, Second pharyngeal arch, 8, Ihud, 6, Fourth. 10, Primitive ocular vesicle. 11, Frimitive auditory vesicle. bones are developed, which are called secondary bones, to distinguish them i from those above enumerated, which are formed from the primitive cranium I itself. Between the first pharyngeal arch and the frontal protuberance is situated the buccal depression, which afterwards becomes the cavity of the mouth. The frontal protuberance next gives off two lateral parts (lateral frontal protuberances), on each of which a depression is formed, the olfac- ^ tory fossa, boimded on either side by the internal and external nasal pro- cesses. There is a groove external to the external nasal process, which afterwards is transformed into the lachrymal canal, and another groove leading from the olfactory fossa to the buccal cavity—the nasal groove. The first pharyngeal arch divides at its anterior extremity into two parts—a superior and inferior maxillary protuberance. The latter unites very early to its fellow of the opposite side to form the lower jaw. Tlie superior maxillary protuberances are displaced outwards and unite to the external nasal process ; from this part are developed the internal plate of the pterygoid process, the palate bone, the superior maxillary and the malar. The lateral masses of the ethmoid, the os unguis and nasal bones are furnished by the internal nasal process. The rest of these processes on either side is united by a single protuberance, the incisive tubercle from which the intermaxillary bone and the middle of the upper lip is formed, and, according to some, the vomer. g