6i4 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. nervo and its bi-ancUcs, wliicli ciucrgc at its anterior border; the great auricular nerve pierces the gland to join the facial, and the temporal branch of the inferior maxillary norvo lies above the upper part of the gland. The internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein lie close to its deep surlace. The dud of tho parotid gland (Stono'H) is about two inches and a half in lenoth. It opens upon the inner surface of the cheek by a small orifice, opposite tho second molar tooth of tho upper jaw; and Irom tliis orifice it may be ti-aced obli(picly for a short distance beiicatli tho mucous membrane, and thence through tho substance of the Buccinator muscle, and across the Massetcr to the anterior border of tho gland, in the substance of which it commences by numerous branches. 330.—The Salivary Glands. The direction of the duct corresponds to a line drawn across the face about a finder's breadth below the zygoma, from the lower part of the concha, to midway between the free margin of the upper Hp and the ala of the nose. Whde crossmg the Masseter it receives the duct of a small detached portion of the gland, soaa varoticlis, which occasionally exists as a separate lobe, just beneath the zygomatic arch The parotid duct is dense, of considerable thickness, and its canal about the size of a crow-quill; it consists of an external or fibrous coat, of considerable density, containing contractile fibres, and of an internal or mucous coat, hned with ""^^T^sZsZidNeZ's. The arteries supplying the parotid gland are derived from the external carotid, and from the branches given off by that vessel m or near its ZlLnce T^hevems follow a similar course. The lymphatics terminate m the supefficiai and deep cervical glands, passing in their com-se through two or three supertLCi ^ substance of the parotid. The lymphat^ g^ands>^P^^^^ the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, the facial, the ""'Tfioial temporal, branches of the auriculo-temporal, aad great auricular nerves. '""^trl^^nZlary gland is situated below the jaw, in the anterior part o the submaxiulrrtriangle of the neck. It is irregular in form, and weighs about two