LARGE INTESTINE. The Large Intestine. 1 r +cTmiTi!ition of tlio ileum to the amis. The large intestme extends from f« ^^^^^^J^^^^^l, ,,tent of the intestinal It is about five feeb in length, bemg one-fifth ot tlie wuoie oxt 338.—Patch of Peyer's Glands. From the lower part of the Ileiitn. 339.—A portion of the above magnified. Aw canal It is largest at its commencement at the csecum, and gradually diminishes as far as the rectum, where there is a dilatation of considerable size, just above the anus. It differs from the small intestine in. its greater size, its more fixed position, and its sacculated form. The large intestine, in its course, describes an arch which surrounds the convolutions of the small intestine. It commences m the rio-ht iliac fossa, in a dilated part, the C£BCum. It ascends through the right lumbar and hypochondriac regions to the tinder surface of the liver; passes transversely across the abdomen, on the confines of the epigastric and umbiUcal regions, to the left hypochondriac region ; descends through the left lumbar region to the left ihac fossa, where it becomes convoluted, and forms the sigmoid flexure ; finally, it enters the pelvis, and descends along its posterior wall to the anus. The large intestine is divided into the caecum, colon, and rectum. The^Gmcum (ccecus, blind) (fig. 340) is the large blind porch, or cul-de-sac, in which the large intestine commences. It is the most dilated part of the tube, measuring about two and a half inches, both in its vertical and transverse diameters. It is situated in the right iliac fossa, immediately behind the anterior abdominal wall, being retained in its place by the peritoneum, which passes over its anterior surface and sides; its posterior surface being connected by loose areolar tissue with the iliac fascia. Occasionally, it is almost completely surrounded by peri- toneum, which forms a distinct fold, the meso-C£ecum, connecting its back part with the iliac fossa. When this fold exists the caecum obtains considerable freedom of movement. Attached to its lower and back part is the appendix vermiformis, a long, narrow, worm-shaped tube, the rudiment of the lengtheiied caecum found in all the mammalia, except the ourang-outang and wombat. The appendix varies from three to six inches in length, its average diameter being about equal to that of a goose-quill. It is usually directed upwards and inwards behind the ciEcum, coiled upon itself, and terminates in a blunt point, being retained in its position by a fold of peritoneum, which sometimes forms a mesentery for it. Its canal is small, and communicates with the cajcum by an orifice, which is some- times guarded with an incomplete valve. Its coats are thick, and its mucous lining furnished with a large number of solitary glands. Ileo-Co'cal Valve. The lower end of the ileum tei-minates at the inner and back part of the large intestine, opposite the junction of the co&cum with the