oiv» GENERAL ANATOMY. The blastodermic membrane soon afterwards splits into two layers, the division proceeding from the point where the thickening or aggregation next to be described as the ge;-minal area occurs, and extending gradually over the whole circumference of the ovum, which now consists of three concentric layers of membrane—the external, the primitive chorion, the middle, the external layer of the blastodermic vesicle, and the inner, its internal layer. The annexed figure shows this division commencing. It Fisr XLVII —Ovum with the germinal area, seen in profile to show the division of the blas- todermic membrane. I, Vitelline membrane. 2, Blastoderm. 3, Germinal area. 4, Place where the blastoderm is just divided into its two layers. is said that the ovum is in this condition at about eigbt days, but no observations of the human ovum at so early a period exist. The internal layer of the blastodermic membrane next separates into two at the situa- tion of the area germinativa. The membrane which results from this separation is called the middle layer of the germinal or blastodermic membrane, and is distinguished from the others in not being co-extensive with the embryo, but existing only at the germinal area. Germinal area.—In the mass of nucleated ceUs into which the yelk becomes converted during the formation of the blastodermic vesicle, a small agglomeration is formed, which then spreads out into an area of nucleated cells, from which the embryo is to be formed, and which has accordingly received the name of germinal disc or area germinahva. In this portion of the ovum the first trace of the embyro appears as a faint streak, which is caUed the primitvve trace or prmiihve groove. This groove first deepens into a deep furrow, bounded by two plates—the lamince dorsales, beneath which a delicate fibril appea.rs-the chordu dorsalis or notochord-in which cartilage can very early be recognised, and which forms the future spinal column. » ., The germinal disc is found to consist on a transverse section of three layers: an upper (external), or serous 9 a lower (internal), or mucous ; and a middle layer, which is formed from the mucous lamina, a« above shown. The chorda dorsalis and the laminae dorsales are the rudiments of the vertebral column and canal. The upper or serous layer of the embryo eives origin to the cerebrospinal nervous centres, and to the organs of the senses, including the cuticle and its appendages, as also to the mammary dands. From the middle layer are developed the locomotive organs, the sninal and sympathetic nerves, the vascular system, the ductless glands, the sexual organs, the cutis where the middle layer touches on the ex- ternal and the muscular and submucous coats of the intestines, where it touches on the internal layer. The latter furnishes the hnmg of the alimentary canal and its various appendages, liver, pancreas, &c., the re-