572 ORGANS OF SEN^E. In the mferior vwalux, the oi-ifice of tbo nasal duct is partially bidden by either a sinde or'double valvular mucous fold, and the anterior palatine canal either completely closed in, or a tubular cuUdcsao of mucous memhrane is continued a short distance into it. , , . . t „v,j 4v In the roof the opening leading to the sphenoidal smus is narrowed, and the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid completely closed in The arteries of the nasal fossm are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, from the ophthalmic, which supply the ethmoidal cells, frontal sinuses, and roof of the nose the spheno-palatiue, from tlic internal maxillary, which supphes the mucous membrane covering the spongy bones, the meatuses and septum ; and the alveolar Wch of the internal maxillary, which supplies the lining membrane of the antrum. The ramifications of these vessels form a close, plexiform network, beneath and in the substance of the mucous membrane. The vems of the nasal fossm form a close network beneath the mucous mem- hrane They pass, some with the veins accompanying the spheno-palatine artery, through the spheno-palatine foramen; and others, through the alveolar branch, ioin the facial vein ; some accompany the ethmoidal arteries, and terminate m the Ophthalmic vein; and, lastly, a few communicate with the vems m the interior of the skull, through the foramina i,. o:^^ in the cribriform plate of the soo.-Nerves of Septum of Nose. Right Side. ethmoid bone, and the foramen csecum. The nerves are, the olfactory, the nasal branch of the ophthal- mic, filaments from the anterior dental branch of the superior maxillary, the Vidian, naso- palatine, descending anterior palatine, and spheno-palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion. The olfactory, the special nerve of the sense of smell, is distributed over the upper thii-d of the septum, and over the sur- face of the superior and middle spongy bones. The nasal branch of the oph- _ , n ^t. >. „„a thalmic distributes filaments to the upper and anterior part of the septum, and outer wall of the nasal fossae. ■ Filaments from the anterior denial branch of the superior maxillary supply the inferior meatus and inferior turbinated bone. The Vidian nerve supplies the upper and back part of the septum, and superioi spongy bone; and the upper anterior nasal branches from the spheno-palatine ganghon, have a similar distribution. The naso-palatine nerve supplies the middle of the septum. ltZg!.%v anterior Jatine nerve, supplies the middle and lower spongy bones. The Eye. The eyeball is contained in the cavity of the orbit In this situation it is securely protected from injury, whilst its position is such as o ensure the most .tile ran-e of sio-ht. It is acted upon by numerous muscles, by which it is ' I e o beiug directed to any part, supplied by vessels and nerves, and is Xttnat pro'cted in front b/severll appendages, such as the eye-brow, eye- ^'"^'tS'eyeball is spherical in form, having the segment of a smaller and more promtnt fpLre engra^tod upon its anterior part. It is from this circumstance