IilUSCLES AND FASCIA. '■30 Dissection, ((iff. 156). In order to examine tlie muscles of the pharynx, cut through the trachea and a38ophagu8 just above the sternum, and draw them upwards by dividmg the loose areolar tissue connecting the pharynx with tlio front of 156 Muscles of the Pharynx. External View, the vertebral column. The parts being drawn well forwards, apply the edge of the saw immediately behind the styloid processes, and saw the base of the skull through from below upwards. The pharynx and mouth should then be stulled witli tow, m order to distend its cavity and render the muscles tense and easier of dissection. Tho hiferior Constrictor, the most superficial and thick- est of the three constrictors, arises from the side of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. To the cricoid cartilage it is attached in the interval be- tween the crico-thyroid mus, cle, in front, and the articular facet for the thyroid carti, lage hehind. To the thyroid cartilage, it is attached to the oblique line on the side of the great ala, the carti, laginous surface behind it, nearly as far as its posterior border, and to the inferior cornu. Prom these attachments, the fibres spread backwards and inwards, to be inserted into the fibrous raphe in the posterior me- dian line of the pharynx. The inferior fibres are horizontal, and continuous with the fibres of the oesophagus ; the rest ascend, in'creasing in obliquity, and overlap the Middle constrictor. The superior laryngeal nerve passes near the upper border, and the inferior, or recurrent laryngeal, beneath the lower border ot this muscle, previous to their entering the larynx. Belations. It is covered by a dense cellular membrane which surrounds tlie entire pharynx. Behind, it is in relation with the vertebral column and the Lono-us colli muscle; laterally, with the, thyroid gland, the common carotid artery and the Sterno-thyroid muscle ; by its i7iternal surface, with the JMiddle constrictor, the Stylo-pharyngeus, Palato-pharyngeus, the pharyngeal aponeurosis, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The Middle Constrictor is a flattened, fan-shaped muscle, smaller than the pre- ceding and situated on a plane anterior to it. It arises from the whole length ot the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, from the lesser cornu, and from the stylo- hvoid li-ament. The fibres diverge from their origin : the lower ones descending beneath°the Inferior constrictor, tlie middle fibres passing transversely, and the upper fibres ascending and overlapping the Superior constrictor. Jl^e muscle is inserted into the posterior median fibrous raphe, blending m the middle hue with that of the opposite side. , . , i „i„aef^ Eelationl This muscle is separated from the Superior constrictor by gW- pharyncreal nerve and the Stylo-pharyngeus muscle; and from the Inferior con- tZlov by the superior laryngeal nerve. Behind, it lies on the vertebral co umn he Lon'gu^s colli, and the Rectus anticus major. On each sule.t is m relation ith the carotid vessels, the pharyngeai-plexus, and some lymphatic glands. Torigin it is covered by the Hyo-glossus, from which it is separated by the