ORGANS OF SENSE. 596 sion, fovea hemispherica, which is perforated, at its anterior and inferior part, by several minute holes (macula cribrosa), for the passage of the filaments of the audi- tory nerve ; and behind this depression is a vertical ridge, the pyramidal eminence. At the hinder part of the inner wall is the orifice of the aquoidudus vcdihuli, which extends to the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It transmits a small vein, and, according to some, contains a tubular prolongation of the lining membrane of the vestibule, which ends in a cul-de-sac between the layers of the dura mater within the cranial cavity. On the wpper wall or roof is a transversoly-oval depression,/o-uea semi-eZ%fica, separated from the fovea hemi- spherica by the pyramidal eminence, already mentioned. Behind, the semicircular canals open into the vestibule by five orifices. In front is a large oval opening, which communicates with the scala vestibuli of the cochlea by a single orifice, apertura scales vestibuli cocldeoi. The Semicimdar canals are three bony canals, situated above and behind the vestibule. They are of unequal length, compressed from side to side, and describe the greater part of a circle. They measure about one-twentieth of an inch in diameter, and each presents a dilatation at one end, called the ampulla, which 314.—The Osseous Labyrinth laid open. (Enlarged.) ^Uitdujittie "Vcstiiulo M^'tstie, jya^ssf^t thronqJi Opcjuiigf of measures more than twice the diameter of the tube. These canals open into the vestibule by five orifices, one of the apertui-es being common to two ot tlie The superior semievrcular canal is vertical in direction, and stretches across the petrous portion of the temporal bone, at right angles to its posterior surtace ; its arch forms a round projection on the anterior surface of the petrous bone. It describes about two-thirds of a circle. Its outer exti-emity, which is ampui- latcd, commences by a distinct orifice in the upper part of the vestibule; tne opposite end of the canal, which is not dilated, joins with the correspondmg part ot the posterior canal, and opens by a common orifice with it in the back part ot tue ^^^ThJposienor semicircular canal, also vertical in direction, is directed backwards nearly parallel to the posterior surface of the petrous bone : it tl^/*;"/^^^^ three, its ampullated end commencing at the lower and back part of the vestibule, its opposite end joining to form the common r-anal alreadv mentioned The exiernal, or horizontal canal, is the shortest of the three, its arch bemg