II DEVELOPMENT OF THE VERTEBRA. united into one) for the end of the spinous process. At twenty-one years (fig. lo) a thin circular epiphysal plate of bone is formed in the layer of cartilage situated on the upper and under surfaces of the body, the former being the thicker of the two. All these become joined; and the bone is completely formed about the thirtieth year of life. . , „ , j j Exceptions to this mode of development occur m the first, second, and seventh cervical, and in the vertebraa of the lumbar region. The Atlas (fig. ii) is developed by two primary centres, and by one or more epiphyses. The two primary centres are destined for the two lateral^ or neural masses, the ossification of which commences before birth, near the articular pro- cesses, and extends backwards : these portions of bone are separated from one another behind, at birth, by a narrow interval filled in with cartilage. Between the second and third years, they unite either directly or through the medium of an epiphysal centre, developed in the cartilage near their point of junction. The anterior arch, at birth, is altogether cartilaginous, and this portion of the atlas is completed by the gradual extension forwards and ultimate junction of the two neural processes. Occasionally, a separate nucleus is developed in the anterior arch, which, extending laterally, joins the neural processes in front of the pedicles ; or, there are two nuclei developed in the anterior arch, one on either side of the median line, wljich join to form a single mass, afterwards united to the lateral portions in front of the articulating processes. The Axis (fig. 12) is developed by stic centres. The body and arch of this bone are formed in the same manner as the corresponding parts in the other vertebrae : one centre for the lower part of the body, and one for each lamina. The odontoid process consists originally of ian extension upwards of the cartilaginous mass, in which the lower part of the body is formed. At about the sixth month of foetal life, two osseous nuclei make their appearance in the base of this process : they are placed laterally, and join before birth to form a conical birlobed mass deeply cleft above ; the interval between the cleft and the summit of the process is formed by a wedge-shaped piece of cartilage ; the base of the process being separated from the body by a cartilaginous interval, which gradually becomes ossified, sometimes by a separate epiphysal nucleus. Finally, as Dr. Humphry has demonstrated, the apex of the odontoid process has a separate nucleus. The Seventh Cervical, The anterior or costal part of the transverse process of the seventh cervical, is developed from a separate osseous centre at about the sixth month of foetal life, and joins the body and posterior division of the trans- Terse process between the fifth and sixth years. Sometimes this process continues as a separate piece, and, becoming lengthened out'jyards, constitutes what is known as a cervical rib. The Lumiar Vertebrce (fig. 13) have ttvo adfJAtional centres (besides those peculiar to the vertebrae generally), for the tubercles, which project from the back part of the superior articular processes. The transyerse process of the first lumbar is sometimes developed as a separate piece, which may remain permanently uncon- nected with the remaining portion of the bone ; thus forming a lumbar rib, a peculiarity which is rarely met with. Progress op Ossification in the Spine Generally. Ossification of the laminBs of the vertebrae commences at the upper part of the spine, and proceeds gradually downwards ; hence the frequent occurrence of spina bifida in the Ipwer part of the spinal column. Ossification of the bodies, on the other hand, commences a little below the centre of the spinal column (about the ninth or tejith dorsal vertebra?), and extends both upwards and downwards. Although, however, the oesific nuclei make their first appearance in the lower dorsal vertebrse, the lumbar and first sacral are those in which these nuclei are largest at bu-th. Attachment of Muscles. To the Atlas are attached the Longus colli, Rectus anticus minor. Rectus lateraHs, Rectus posticus minor, Obliquus superior and in- ferior, Splenius colli, Levator anguli scapulas, Interspinous, and Intertransverse. To the Axis are attached the Longus colH, Obliquus inferior. Rectus posticus