ANTERIOR TIBIAL. 417 deep bmncli supplies the lower part of tlie fomur and knee-joinfc, and forms an anastomotic arch across tho bone with the anastomotica magna artery. The azygos articular is a small branch, arising from the popliteal artery opposite the bend of tho knee-joint. It pierces the posterior ligament, and supplies the ligaments and synovial membrane in the interior of tho articulation. The inferior articular arteries, two in number, arise from the popHteal, beneath the Gastrocnemius, and wind round tho head of the tibia, below the joint. The internal one passes below the inner tuberosity, beneath tho internal lateral ligament, at the anterior border of which it ascends to the front and inner side of the joint, to supply the head of the tibia and the articulation of the knee. Tho external one passes outwards above the head of the fibula, to the front of tho knee-joint, lying in its course beneath the outer head of the Gastrocnemins, the external lateral ligament, and the tendon of the Biceps muscle, and divides into branches, which anastomose with the inferior internal articular artery, the superior ai'ticular arteries, and the recurrent bi-anch of the anterior tibial. Antekiok Tibial Aetery. (Fig. 233.) The anterior tibial artery commences at the bifurcation of the popliteal, at the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, passes forwards between th,e two heads of the Tibialis posticus, and through the aperture left between the bones at the upper part of the interosseous membrane, to the deep part of the front of the leg ; it then descends on the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane, and of the tibia, to the front of the ankle-joint, where it lies more superficially, and becomes the dorsalis pedis. A line drawn from the inner side of the head of the fibula to midway between the two malleoli will mark the course of the artery. Eelatiuns. In the upper two-thirds of its extent, it rests upon the interosseous membrane, to which it is connected by delicate fibrous arches thrown across it. In the lower third, upon the front of the tibia, and the anterior ligament of the ankle-joint. In the upper third of its course, it lies between the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum; in the middle third, between the Tibialis anticus and Extensor proprius pollicis. In the lower third, it is crossed by the tendon of the Extensor proprius pollicis, and lies between it and the innermost tendon of the Extensor longus digitorum. It is covered, in the upper two-thirds of its course, by the muscles which lie on either side of it, and by the deep fascia; in the lower third, by the integument, annular ligament, and fascia. The anterior tibial artery is accompanied by two veins .(vense comites), which lie one on either side of the artery; the anterior tibial nerve lies at first to its outer side, and about the middle of the leg is placed superficial to it; at the lower part of the artery the nerve is genei'ally again on the outer side. Plan of the Relations of the Anterior Tibial Artert. In front. Integument, superficial and deep fascife. Tibialis anticus (overlaps it in upper part of leg). Extensor longus digitorum 1 . , ,• , n Extensor proprius poUicis | (overlap it slightly). Anterior tibial nerve. ' Inner side. Tibialis anticus. Extensor proprius pollicis (crosses it at its lower part). Outer side. Anterior tibial nerve. Extensor longus digitorum. Extensor proprius pollicis. Behind. Interosseous membrane. Tibia. Anterior ligament of ankle-ioint. E E