OF THE MUSCLES OP THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 323 Y 2 199. -Fracture of the Neclc of the Femur within the Capauloi- Ligament. IS SUPcnion -uuiunnFOR INTERNUS -w...'.....w„J INFtKIOR ATOH i:«TI:«NU» '111 riMOBII 200.—Fracture of the Femur below the Trochanters. MCMBRAiq. Fracture of the neck of the femur internal to the capmlarlu/nnieui (fig. 199), is a very common accident, and is most frequently caused by indirect violence, BLich as slipping ofl'tl e edge of the kerbstone, the im- petus and weight of the body falling upon the neck of the bone. It usually occurs in females, and sel- dom under fifty years of age. At this period of life, the cancellous tissue of the neck of the bone not un- frequently is atrophied, be- coming soft and infiltrated with fatty matter: the com- pact tissue is partially ab- sorbed : hence the bone is more brittle, and more liable to fracture. The chan racteristic marks of this ac- cident are slight shortening of the limb, and eversion of the foot, neither of which symptoms occur, however, in some cases until some time after the injury. The eversion is caused by the combined action of the extern,il rotator muscles, as well as by the Psoas and Iliacus, Pec- tineus, Adductors, and Glutei muscles. The shortening is produced by the action of the Glutei, and by the Rectus femoris in front, and the Biceps, Semitendinosus, and Semi- membranosus behind. Fracture of the femur just helow the trochanters (fig. 200) is an accident of not unfrequent occurrence, and is at- tended with great displacement, producing considerable deformity. The upper fragment, the portion chiefly dis- placed, is tilted forwards almost at right angles with the pelvis, by the combined action of the Psoas and Iliacus; and, at the same time, everted and drawn outwards by the external rotator and Glutei muscles, causing a mai-ked prominence at the upper and outer side cf the thigh, and much pain_ from the bruising and laceration of the muscles. The limb is shortened, in consequence of the lower frag- ment being drawn upwards by the Rectus in front, and the Biceps, Semimembranosus, and Semitendinosus behind 5 and, at the same time, everted, and the upper end thrown outwards, the lower inwards, by the Pectineus and Ad- ductor muscles. This fracture may be reduced in two different methods: either by direct relaxation of all the opposing muscles, to effect which the limb should be placed on a double inclined plane ; or by overcoming the contrac- tion of the muscles, by continued extension, which may be efiected by means of the long splint. Oblique fracture of the femur immediately above the con- dyles {hg 201) is a formidable injury, and attended with considerable displacement. On exaniination of the limb, the lower fragment may be felt deep in the popliteal space, being drawn backwards by the Gastrocnemius, Soleusj and i lantans muscles; and upwards by the posterior femoral and Kectus muscles. The pointed end ot^ the upper frag- ment 18 drawn inwards by the Pectineus and Adductor ,^p.?''' ""'i tilted forwards by the Psoas and Iliacus, piercing the Kectus muscle, and occasionally, the integu- ment. Kelaxation of these muscles, and direct approxi- ♦^t r v. ° ^"^oUn fragments is efiected by placing me limb on a double inclined plane. The greatest care