2i6 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. The Dopresscrr Lahii Inferioris {Quadratus menti) is a small quadrilateral muscle, situated at the outer side of the preceding. It arises from the external oblique lino of the lower jaw, between the symphysis and mental foramen, and passes obliquely upwards and inwards, to be inserted into the mtegument of the lower lip, its fibres blending with the Orbicularis, and with those of its fellow of the opposite side. It is continuous with the fibres of the Platysma at its origin. Ihis muscle contains much yellow fat intermingled with its fibres _ mations. By its superficial surface, with part of the Depressor anguh oris, and with the integument, to which it is closely connected. Tiy .tn deep surface, with the mental vessels and nerves, the mucous membrane of the lower hp, the labial glands, and the Levator menti, with which it is intimately united. " The Depressor Anrjuli Oris is triangular in shape, arising, by its broad base, from the external obhque line of the lower jaw, from whence its fibres pass upwards, to be inserted by a narrow fasciculus, into the angle of the mouth. It is continuous with the Platysma at its origin, and with the Orbicularis and Risonus at its insertion, and some of its fibres are directly continuous with those of the Levator anguli oris. , -r. -j. j /• Belations. By its superficial surface, with the integument. By its deep surface, with the Depressor labii inferioris and Buccinator. Nerves. This group of muscles is supphed by the facial nerve. Actions. The Levator labii inferioris raises the lower lip, and protrudes it for- wards, and at the same time wrinkles the integument of the chin. The Depressor labii inferioris draws the lower hp directly downwards and a little outwards, ihe Depressor anguh oris depresses the angle of the mouth, being the antagonist to the Levator anguli oris and Zygomaticus major ; acting with these muscles, it will draw the angle of the mouth directly backwards. 8. Inter-Maxillaet Region. Orbicularis Oris. Buccinator. Risonus. Dissection. The dissection of these Mascl.s may be considerably facilitated by filing the caviTv of he mouth with tow, so as to distend the cheeks and hps ; the mouth should then be dosed by a few stitches, and the integument carefully removed from the surface. The Orbicularis Oris is a sphincter muscle, elliptic in form, composed of con- centric fibres, which surround the orifice of the mouth. It consists of two thick semicircular plants of muscular fibre, which interlace on either side ^th those of the Buccinator and other muscles inserted into the hps. On the free margin of the lips the muscular fibres are continued uninterruptedly from one hp to the othei around the corner of the mouth, forming a roundish fasciculus of fine pale fibres closely approximated. To the. outer part of each segment some special fibres are added by which the lips are connected directly with the maxillary bones and 'septum of the nose. The additional fibres for the upper segment consist ot lour bands two of which (Accessorii orbicularis superiores) arise from_ the alveolar border of the superior maxilla, opposite the incisor teeth, and arching outward. orea;h side, are continuous at the angles of the mouth with tbe o^ier musdes inserted into this part. The two remaining muscular slips, called tbe iNaso- connect the'upper lip to the septum of the nose: - they desee^^^^^^^^ the septum, an interval is left between them, which corresponds to that lett by the divergence of the accessory portions of the Orbicularis above described^ it is Sterval which forms the depression seen on the surface of the f^^J^^^. +bP seotum of the nose. The additional fibres for the lower segment (Accessoin Sictrinferiores) arise from the inferior maxilla, eternally to t,^^^^^^^^ labii inferioris, and arch outwards to the angles of the mouth, to join the Bucci nator and the other muscles attached to this part. , . i •. • iZions. By its superficial surface, with the integument, to which it is closc^^y eonlted. By fts deep ../a., with the buccal glands, and coronary vessels. By its outer circumjerence, it is blcndca wu