ARTICULATIONS. 192 Showing Internal Ligaments. tlie Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, and Popliteus muscles ; tlie central portion is formed of fasciculi, obliquely directed and separated from one another by apertures for the passage of vessels. The strongest of these fasciculi is derived from the tendon of tlie Semi-membranosus, and passes from the back part of the innei- tuberosity of the tibia, obliquely upwards and outwards to the back part of the outer condyle of the foraur. The posterior ligament forms part of the floor of the popliteal space, and tho popliteal artery rests upon it. , , . The Internal Lateral Ligament is a broad, flat, membranous band, thicker behind than in front, and situated nearer to the liack than the front of the joint. It is attached, above, to tho inner tuberosity of the femur; below, to the inner tuberosity and inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, to the extent of about two inches. It is crossed, at its lower part, by the aponeurosis of the Sartorius, and the tendons of the Gracilis and Semiteudinosus muscles, a synovial bursa being interposed. Its deep surface covers the anterior portion of the tendon of the Semi, membranosus, the synovial membrane of the joint, and the inferior internal arti- cular artery and nerve ; it is intimately adherent to the internal semilunar fibro- cartdage. . The Long External Lateral Ligament is a strong, rounded, fibrous cord, situated nearer to the back than the front of the joint. It is attached, above, to the outer tuberosity of the femur ; below, to the outer part of the head of the fibula. Its outer surface is covered by the tendon of the Biceps, which divides at its insertion mto two parts, separated by the Hgament. The ligament has, passing beneath it, the tendon of the Popliteus muscle, and the inferior external articular vessels and 141.—Rig^it Knee-.Toint. nerve. The Short External Lateral Ligament is an accessory bundle of fibres, placed behind and parallel with the preceding ; attached, above, to the lower part of the outer tuberosity of the femur ; below, to the summit of the styloid process of the fibula. This ligament is intimately con- nected with the capsular ligament, and has, passing beneath it, the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. The Capsular Ligament consists of an exceedingly thin, but strong, fibrous membrane, which fills in the intervals left by the preceding ligaments. It is attached to the femur immediately above its articular surface ; below, to the upper border and sides of the patella and the margins of the head of the tibia and inter- articular cartilages, and is continuous behind with the posterior ligament. Tliis membrane is strengthened by fibrous ex- pansions, derived from the fascia lata, from the Vasti and Crureus muscles, and from the Biceps, Sartorius, and tendon of the Semimembranosus. The Orucinl are two interosseous liga- ments of considerable strength, situated in the interior of the joint, nearer its posterior than its anterior part. They are called crucial, because they cross eachi' other, somewhat like tho lines of the letter X; and have received the names ^ anterior and posterior, from tlie position of their attachment to the tibia. The Anterior or Bxtemal Crucial Ligament (fig. 14O. smaller than the posterior, ■ is attached to the inner side of the depression in front of the spine of the tibia, ^