674 ORGANS OF YOICE AND RESPIRATION. Tlio muscles of the epiglottis are, the Thyro-epiglottideus. Arytcono-epiglottideus superior. Arytamo-epiglottideus inferior. The Thyro-cjyigloUidaus is a delicate fasciculus, which arises from the inner surface of tlie thyroid cartilage, just external to the origin of the Thyro-arytenoid muscle, and spreading out upon the outer surface of the sacculus laryngis, some of its fibres are lost in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, whilst others are continued forwards to the margin of the epiglottis (Depressor einrjlottidls). The Aryicuno-epiglottideufs superior consists of a few delicate muscular fasciculi, which arise from the apex of the arytenoid cartilage, and become lost in the fold of mucous membrane extending between the arytenoid cartilage and side of the epiglottis {anjteno-epigloitidean folds). The Arytoino-epiglotlideus inferior (Compressor sacculi laryngis, Hilton) arises from the arytenoid cartilage, just above the attachment of the superior vocal cord; passing forwards and upwards, it spreads out upon the inner and upper part of the sacculus laryngis, and is inserted, by a broad attachment, into the margin of the epiglottis. This muscle is separated fxom the preceding by an indistinct areolar interval.* Actions. In considering the action of the muscles of the larynx, they maybe conveniently divided into two groups, viz. : i. Those which open and close the glottis. 2. Those which regulate the degree of tension of the vocal cords. I. The muscles which open the glottis are the Crico-aryt^noidei postici; and those which close it are the Arytsenoideus, and the Crico-aryt^noidei laterales. 2. The muscles which regulate the tension of the vocal cords ai'e, the Crico-thy- roidei, which tense and elongate them ; and the Thyro-aryt^noidei, which lelax and shorten them. The Thyro-epiglottideus is a depressor of the epiglottis, and the Arytasno-epiglottidei constrict the superior aperture of the larynx, compress the sacculi laryngis, and empty them of their contents. The Crico-arytmnoidei postici separate the chordee vocales, and, consequently, open the glottis, by rotating- the base of the arytenoid cartilages outwards and backwards; so that their anterior angles, and the ligaments attached to them, become widely separated, the vocal cords, at the same time, being made tense. The Crico-arytanoiclei laterales close the glottis, by rotating the base of the arytenoid cartilages inwards, so as to approximate their anterior angles. The Arytanoidezis wr«sc/e approximates the arytenoid cartilages, and thus closes the opening of the glottis, especially at its back part. The Crico-thyroid muscles produce tension and elongation of the vocal cords, by drawing down the thyroid cartilage over the cricoid. The Thyro-arytcenoidei muscles draw the aiytenoid cartilages, together with the part of the cricoid to which they are connected; forwards towards the thyroid, and thus shorten and relax the vocal cords. . The Thyro-epiyhttidei depress the epiglottis, and assist in compressms the sacculi laiyngis. The ArytEeno-epiglottideus superior constricts the superior aperture of the larynx, when it is drawn upwards, during deglutition, and the opening closed by the epiglottis. The Arytfeno- epiglottideus inferior, together with some fibres of the Thyro-aryttenoidei, compress the sacculus laryngis. The Mucous Membrane of the larynx is continuous, above, with that lining the mouth and pharynx, and is prolonged through the trachea and bronchi into the lungs. It lines both surfaces of the epiglottis, to which it is closely adherent, and forms the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, which encircle the superior aperture of the larynx. It lines the whole of the cavity of the larynx ; forms, by its redupli- cation, the chief part of the superior, or false, vocal cord: and, from the ventricle, is continued into the sacculus laryngis. It is then reflected over the true vocal cords, where it is thin, and very intimately adherent; covers^ the inner surface of the' cricoid-thyroid membrane, and cricoid cartilage ; and is ultimately continuous * MuscuLTTS TRITICEO-GLOSSXJS. Bochdalek iunr. (Prayer VtciieJ/ahrschi-iff, 2nd Vavt, i866^ describes a muscle hitherto entirely overlooked, except a brief statement in Jlenles ' Anatomv ' which arises from the nodul'e of cartilage (corpus triticeum) in the posterior thvro-hvoid li.^ament, and passes forwards and upwards to enter the tongue along ^^^th the Kerato-glossus muscle. He met with this muscle ei-ht times m twenty-two subjects. It occurred iu both sexes, sometimes on both sides, at others on one only.