352 ARTKRIES. intermediate between this and its usual level. Occasionally, it passes in front of tbo Scalenus anticns, or pierces tiic fil)rcs of tliat muKclc. Tiio subclavian vein lies behind the clavicle, and is usually not seen in this S[)ace; but it occasionally rises as high up as the artery, and has oven been seen to pass with that vessel behind the°Scalenus anticus. The brachial plexus of nerves lies above the artery and in close contact with it. Passing transversely across the clavicular margin of the space, are the suprascapular vessels ; and traversing its upper angle in the same direction, the transverse cervical vessels. The external jugular vein runs vertically dowi'i wards beliind the posterior border of the Sterno-niastoid, to terminate in the Subclavian vein; it receives the ti-ansverse cervical and suprascapular veins, which occasionally form a plexus in front of the artery, and a small vein which crosses the clavicle from the cephalic. The small nerve to the subclavius also crosses this triangle about its middle. A lymphatic gland is also found in tho space. Internal Carotid Artery. The internal carotid artery commences at the bifurcation of the common carotid, opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and runs perpendicularly up- wards, in front of the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebra, to the carotid foramen in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. After ascending in it for a sbort distance, it passes forwards and inwards through the carotid canal, and, again ascending a little by tbe side of the sella Turcica, carves upwards by the anterior clinoid process, where it pierces the dura mater, and divides into it« terminal branches. This vessel supplies the anterior part of the brain, the eye, and its appendages. Its size, in the adult, is equal to that of tho external carotid. In the child, it is larger than that vessel. It is remarkable for the number of curvatures that it presents in different parts of its course. In its cervical portion it occasionally presents one or two flexures near the base of the skull, whilst through the rest of its extent it describes a double curvature which resembles the italic letter / placed horizontally ~. These curvatures most probably diminish the velocity ot the current of blood, by increasing the extent of surface over whicb it moves, and adding to the amount of impediment produced from friction. In considering the- course and relations of this vessel, it may be conveniently divided into four por- tions : a cervical, petrous, cavernous, and cerebral. Cervical Portion. This portion of the internal carotid is superficial at its com- mencement, being contained in the superior carotid triangle, and lying on the same level as the external carotid, but behind that artery, overlapped by the Sterno-mastoid, and covered by the Platysma, deep fascia, and integument: it then passes beneath the parotid gland, being crossed by the hypoglossa nerve, the Dio-astric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and the external carotid and occipital arteries Higher up, it is separated from the external carotid by the Stylo-glossus and Stvlo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and pharyngeal branch of the pneumoo-astric. It is in relation, helmid, witb the Rectus capitis anticus major, the superior"cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and superior laryngeal nerve ; ex- ternalhj, with the internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve; tnternnlly, witU the pharynx, tonsil, and ascending pharyngeal artery. i • . Petrous Portion. When the internal carotid artery enters the canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, it first ascends a short distance, then curves forwards and inwards, and again ascends as it leaves the canal to enter the cavity of the skull. In this canal, the artery lies at fii-st anterior to the tympanum, from which it is separated by a thin bony lamella, which is cribnform in the • young subject, and often absorbed in old age. It is sepai-ated from the bony wall of the carotid canal by a prolongation of dura mater, and is surrounded by fila- ments of the carotid plexus. , o •. «f Cavernous Portiol The internal carotid artery, in this part of its course at first ascends to tlie posterior clinoid process, then passes forwards by the side