CRANIAL NERVES. oval opening in the dura mater, opposite the internal auditory meatus : hero the fibres of the lai-ger root enter a large semilunar ganglion (Casserian), while the smaller root passes beueatli the gangh'on without having any connection with it and joins outside the cranium witli one of the trunks derived fi-oin it. ' The Casserian, or Semilunar GANanoN, is lodged in a depression near the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It is of a somewhat crcscentic form •with its convexity turned forwards. Its ujjper surface is intimately adherent to tbe dura mater. Branches. This ganglion receives, on its imier side, filaments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic ; and from it some minute branches are given off to the tentorium cerebelli, and the dura mater, in the middle fossa of the cranium. From its anterior harder, which is directed forwards and outwards, three large branches proceed: the ophthalmic, superior maxillary, and inferior maxillary. The ophthalmic and superior maxillary consist exclusively of fibres derived from the larger root and ganglion, and are solely nerves of common sensation. The third division, or inferior maxillary, is composed of fibres from both roots. This, there- fore, strictly speaking, is the only portion of the fifth nerve which can be said to resemble a spinal nerve. Ophthalmic Neuve. (Fig. 272.) The Ophthalmic, or first division of the fifth, is a sensory nerve. It supplies the ej^eball, the lachrymal gland, the mucous lining of the eye and nose, and the integument and muscles of the eyebrow and forehead. It is the smallest of the three divisions of the fifth, arising from the upper part of the Casserian gan- glion. It is a short, flattened band, about an inch in length, which passes for- wards along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, below the other nerves, and just before entering the orbit, through, the sphenoidal fissure, divides into three branches, lachrymal, frontal, and nasal. The ophthalmic nerve is joined by fila- ments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and gives off" recurrent filaments which pass between the layers of the tentorium, with a branch from the fourth nerve. Its brancbes are, the Lachrymal. Frontal. Nasal. The Laclmjmal is the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic. Not unfrequently it arises by two filaments, one from the ophthalmic, the other from the fourth, and this Swan considers to be its usual condition. It passes forwards in a separate tube of dura mater, and enters the orbit through the narrowest part of the spbenoidal fissure. In the orbit,, it runs along the upper border of the External rectus muscle, witb the lachrymal arteiy, and is connected with the orbital brancb of the superior maxillary nerve. Within the lachrymal gland it gives ofi" several filaments, which supply the gland and the conjunctiva. Finally, it pierces the palpebral ligaments, and terminates in the integument of the upper eye- lid, joining witb filaments of the facial nerve.. The Frontal is the largest division of the ophthalmic, and may be regarded, both from its size and direction, as the continuation of this nerve. It enters the orbit above the muscles, through the highest and broadest part of the sphenoidal fissure, and runs forwards along the middle line, between the Levator palpebrte and the periosteum. Midway between the apex and base of the orbit it divides into two branches, supratrochlear, and supraorbital. The stcpratrocJdear hrancJi,- the smaller of the tw©, passes inwards, above the pulley of the Superior oblique muscle, and gives off^ a descending filament, which joins witb the infratrochlear branch of the nasal nerve. It then escapes from the orbit between the pulley of the Superior oblique and the supraorbital foramen, curves up on to the forehead close to the bonc^ and ascends behind the Corrugator supercilii, and Occipito-frontalis muscles, to both of whicb it is distributed; iinally, it is lost in the integument of the forehead.