Till'] SKELETON. 24 Surfaces. The external surface (fig. 25) is convex, smooth, and marked about Its centre by an eminence', called tlie parietal eminence, which indicates the point where ossitication commenced. Crossing the 7niddle of the bone in an arched direction is a curved ridge, the temporal ridge, for the attachment of the temporal fascia. Above this ridge, the surface of the bone is rough and porous, and covered by the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis ; below it the bone is smooth, forms part of the temporal fossa, and ailbrds attachment to tlnj temporal muscle. At the back part of the superior border, close to the sagittal suture, is a small foramen, the parietal foramen, which transmits a vein to tlie superior lono-itudinal sinus, and sometimes a small branch of the occipital artery. Its existence is not constant, and its size varies considerably. The internal surface (fig.. 26), concave, presents eminences and depressions for lodging the convolutions of the cerebrum, and numerous furrows for the ramifica- tions of the meningeal arteries; the latter run upwai-ds and Ijackwards from the anterior inferior angle, and from the central and postei-ior part of the lower border of the bone. Along the upper margin is part of a shallow groove, which, when joined to the opposite parietal, forms a channel for the superior longitudinal sinus, the elevated edges of which afford attachment to the falx cerebri. Near the groove are seen several depressions; they lodge the Pacchionian bodies. The internal opening of the parietal foramen is also seen when that aperture exists. 25.—Left Parietal Boue. External Surface. Arltcxtlal-es Frothfa.l B: A.rbiculnli lift Borders. The superior, the longest and thickest, is deutated to articulate with its fellow of the opposite side, forming the sagittal suture. The ivfimor is divided int^ three parts: of these, the anterior is thin and pointed, bevelled at the expense of the outer surface, and overlapped by the tip of the great wing of the sphenoid : the middle portion is arched, bevelled at the expense of the outer surface.