GENERAL ANATOMY. cx villi, but there is no direct continuity between the maternal and foetal vessels. The arteries open into the placental cells somewhat after the manner of the erectile tissue. The veins anastomose freely with one another, and give rise at the edge of the placenta to a venous channel ■which runs around its whole circumference—the placental sinus. The umbilical cord appears about the end of the fifth month after preg- nancy. It consists of the coils of two arteries (umbilical) and a single vein, united together by a gelatinous mass (gelatin of Wharton) contained in the cells of°an areolar structure. There are originally two umbilical veins, but one of these vessels becomes obliterated, as do also the two omphalomesenteric arteries and veins, and the duct of the umbilical vesicle, all of which are originally contained in the rudimentary cord. The permanent structures of the cord are therefore those furnished by the allantois. Growth of the embryo.—The youngest human embryos which have been met with are two described by Dr. A. Thomson in the ' Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1839,' and in his paper references to the other extant de- scriptions of early ova will be found. The ova in question were believed to be of the ages respectively of twelve to fourteen days, and about fifteen days.* The figures are here reproduced. The earliest ovum (Fig. LI.) was of i rig. LI.—Human ovum, 12 to 14 days, i, Natural size. 2, Enlarged. Fig. LII.—Human ovum, IS days. Fig. LHT.—Embryo from tbe preceding ovum. I, Umbilical vesicle. 2, Med- ullary groove. 3, Cephalic portion of tbe embryo. 4, Caudal portion. 5, Fragment of membrane (amnion ?) an inch in diameter, when freed from some adherent decidua. The chorion presented a slightly villous appearance, and consisted only of one lityer ot membrane. On opening it the umbilical vesicle and embryo were found not to fiU its cavity completely. The embryo was a line in length, and nearly ^ of an inch in thickness. The chorion was united to the embijo and umbilical vesicle by a thin tenacious web of albuminous filaments, formed probably by coagulation in the spirit in which it had been kept. There were no vessels on the umbilical vesicle. The abdomen of the em- bryo presented no appearance of intestine, but merely a long shaliow groove, forming a common cavity with the yelk-sac. Around this intes- tinal groove the germinal membrane was continuous with that on tne • For the data on which these calculations arc founded, the reader is referred to the original paper.