700 URINARY ORGANS. Contents. Tho viscera contained in this cavity are the ui-inaiy bladdei-, the l"ectum, and some of the generative organs peculiai* to each sex : they are partially covered by the peritoneum, and supplied with blood and lymphatic vessels and nerves. The Bi.adder. The bladder is the reservoir for the ixrine. It is a musculo-membranous sac, situated in the pelvis, behind the pubes, and in front of the rectum in the male, the uterus and vagina intervening between it and that intestine in the female The si lape, position, and relations of tho bladder are greatly influenced by age, sex, and tho degrees of distension of the organ. Durlv.g iiij'anaj, it is conical in shape, and projects above the upper border of tho pubes into the hypogastric region. In the adult, when quite empty and contracted, it is a small triangular sac, placed deeply in tho pelvis, flattened from before backwards, its apex reaching 387-—Vertical Section of Blaiklur, Teuis, and Urethra. Prep «o» as high as the upper border of the symphysis pubis. When slightly distended, it has a rounded form, and partially fills the pelvic cavity; and when greatly dis- tended, it is ovoid in shape, rising into the abdominal cavity, and often extending nearly as high as the umbilicus. It is larger in its vertical diameter than from side to side, and its long axis is dii-ected from above obliquely downwards and backwards, in a line directed from some point between the pubes and umbilicus (according to its distension) to the end of the coccyx. The bladder, when distended, is slightly curved forwards towards the. anterior wall of the abdomen so as to be more convex behind than in front. In the female, it is larger in the transverse than in the vertical diameter, and its capacity is said to be greater than in the male. "When moderately distended, it measures about five inches in length, and three inches across, and the ordinary amount which it contains is about a pint. The bladder is divided into a summit, body, base, and neck. The summit, or apex, of the bladder is rounded and directed forwards and