483 CORPUS CALLOSUM. and a half of the posterior, part of the bram. It is somewhat broader behind than m front, and is thicker at either end than in its central part, being thickest behind. It presents a somewhat arched form, from before backwards, terminatmg anteriorly in a rounded border, which curves downwai-ds and backwards, between the anterior lobes to the base of the brain. In its course, it forms a distinct bend, named the Imee, ov genu, and the reflected portion, named the heah {rostrum), becoming gradually narrower, is attached to the anterior cerebral lobe, and is 263.—Section of the Brain. Made on a level with the Corpus Callosum. connected through the lamina cinerea with the optic commissure. The reflected portion of the corpus callosum gives off", near its termination, two bundles of white substance, which, diverging from one another, pass backwards, across the ^.nterior perforated space, to the entrance of the fissure of Sylvius, They are called the -peduncles of the corpus callosum. Posteriorly, the corpus callosum forms a thick, rounded fold, which is free for a little distance, as it curves forwards, and is then continuous with the fornix. On its upper surface, its fibrous structure is very apparent to the naked eye, being collected into coarse, transverse bundles. Along the middle line is a Unear depression, the raphe, bounded laterally by two or more slightly elevated longitudinal bands, called the strice longitudinales, or nerves of Lomcisi; and, still more externally, other longitudinal strioB are seen, beneath the convolutions which rest on the corpus callosum. These are the strice longitudinales laterales. The under surface of the corpus callosum is continuous behind with the fornix, being separated from it in front by the septum lucidum, which forms a vertical partition between the two ventricles. On either side, the fibres of the corpus callosum penetrate into the substance of the hemispheres, and connect together the anterior, middle, and part of the posterior lobes. It is the large 112