FRACTURES OF THE UPFER EXTREMITY. 289 180.—Fracture of the Middle of the Clavicle. placement, the outer fragment being drawn downwards, forwards, and mwards; the inner fragment slightly upwards. The outer fragment is drawn down by the weight of the ann, and tlie action of the Deltoid, and forwards and inwards by the Pectoralis minor and Sub- clavius muscles : the inner fragment is slightly raised by the Steruo-cleido-iuastoid, but only to a very limited extent, as the attachment of the costo-clavicular ligament and Pectoralis major below and in front would prevent any very great displacement upwards. The causes of displacement having been ascertained, it is easy to apply the appropnate treatment. The outer fragment is to be drawn outwards, and together with the scapula, raised upwards to a level with the inner fragment, and retained in that position. In fracture of the acromial end of theclaoick, between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, only slight displacement occurs, as these ligaments, from their oblique insertion, serve to hold both portions of the bone in apposition. Fracture, also of the stmial end, internal to the costo-clavicular ligament, is attended with only slight displacement, this ligament serving to retain the fragments in close appo- sition. Fracture of the acromion process usually arises from violence applied to the upper and outer part of the shoulder; it is generally known by the rotundity of the shoulder being lost, from the Deltoid drawing the fractured portion downwards and forwards ; and the dis- placement may easily be discovered by tracing the margin of the clavicle outwards, when the fragment will be found resting on the front and upper part of the head of the humerus. In order to relax the anterior and outer fibres of the Deltoid (the opposing muscle), the arm should be drawn forwards across the chest, and the elbow well raised, so that the head of the bone may press the acromion process upwards and retain it in its position. Fracture of the coracoid jjrocess is an ex- tremely rare accident, and is usually caused by a sharp blow on the point of the shoulder. Displacement is here produced by the com- bined actions of the Pectoralis minor, short head of the Biceps, and Coraco-brachialis, the former muscle drawing the fragment inwards, and the latter dh-ectly downwards, the amount of displacement being limited by the connec- tion of this process to the acromion by means of the coraco-acromial ligament. In order to relax these muscles and replace the fragments in close apposition, the forearm should be flexed so as to relax the Biceps, and the arm drawn forwards and inwards across the chest so as to relax the Coraco-brachialis; the humerus should then be pushed upwards against the coraco-acromial ligament, and the arm retained in that position. r racture of the anato^nical neck of the htimerus within the capsular ligament is a rare accident, attended with very slight displace- ment, an impaired condition of the motions of the joint, and crepitus. Fracture of the surgical neck (fig. 181) is very common, is attended with considerable displacement, and its appearances correspond somewhat with those of dislocation of the head of the humerus into the axilla. The upper fragment is slightly elevated under the coraco-acromial ligament by the muscles at- tached to the greater and lesser tuberosities ; the lower fragment is drawn inwards by the Pectoralis major, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major; and the humerus is thrown obliquety outwards from the side by the Deltoid, and occasionally elevated so as to project be- neath and in front of the coracoid process. The deformity is reduced by fixing the shoulder, and drawing the arm outwards and downwards. To counteract the opposing muscles, and to keep the fragments in posi- tion, the arm should be drawn from the side, and pasteboard splints applied on its four u 181.—Fracture of the Surgical Neck of the Humerus.