287 OF THE HAND. 178.—The Dorsal Interossei of Left Hand. Belaiions. By its superficial sitrfacr., with tho Plexor brcvis, and Abductor minimi di^iti By its dorp mrfacG, with the interossei muscles in tho fourtli metacarpaf space, tho metacarpal bone, and the Flexor tendons of the little finger. Nerves. All tho nmsclos of this group are supplied by tho ulnar nerve. Actimis. The actions of tho muscles of tho little finger are expressed in their names. The Palmaris brevis corrugates the skin on the inner side of the palm of the hand. Middle Palmar Region. Lumbricales. Interossei Palmares. Interossei Dorsales. The LumhricaUs {^g. 177) are four small fleshy fasciculi, accessories to the deep Flexor muscle. They arise by fleshy fibres from the tendons of the deep Flexor : the first and second, from the radial side and palmar surface of the tendons of the index and middle fingers ; the third, from the contiguous sides of the tendons of the middle and ring fingers ; and the fourth, from the contiguous sides of the tendonsof thering and little fingers. They pass forwards to the radial side of the cor- responding fingers, and opposite the meta- carpo-phalangeal articulation each tendon terminates in a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the tendinous expansion from the Extensor communis digitorum, covering the dorsal aspect of each finger. The Interossei Muscles are so named from occupying the intervals between the metacarpal bones. They are divided into two sets, a dorsal and palmar; the former are four in number, one in each metacar- pal space ; the latter, three in number, lie upon the metacarpal bones. The Dorsal Interossei are four in num- ber, larger than the palmar, and occupy the intervals between the metacarpal bones. They are bipenniform muscles, arising by two heads from the adjacent sides of the metacarpal bones, but more extensively from that side of the meta- carpal bone which corresponds to the side of the finger in which the mascle is inserted. They are inserted into the base of the first phalanges and into the apo- neurosis of the common Extensor tendon. Between the double origin of each of these muscles is a narrow triangular interval, through which passes a perforating branch from the deep palmar arch. The First Dorsal Interosseous muscle, or Abductor indicis, is larger than the others. It is flat, triangular in form, and arises by two heads, separated by a •fibrous arch for the passage of the radial artery from the dorsum to the palm of the hand. The outer head arises from the upper half of the ulnar border of the first metacarpal bone; the inner head, from almost the entire length of the radial border of the^second metacarpal bone; the tendon is inserted into the radial side of he index finger Ihe second and third dorsal interossei are inserted into the I'vf T''; T '"i*" i^to ulnar side. The fourth IS inserted into the ulnar side of the ring-finger .nn^fhf'^T ^^'l"^, '^"mber, are smaller than the Dorsal, and placed TWnwl^F m"'" f nietacarpal bones, rather than betv;een tliem. They arise from the entire length of tho metacarpal bone of one finger, and are