752 SURGICAL A.NATOMT OF THE PERINEUM. Sphincter muscles ; lastly, tlio anterior libres, fclie longest, descend upon the side of the prostate gland to unite beneath it with the muscle of the opposite side, blending with the fibres of the external sphincter and Transversus perineei nauscles, at the tendinous centre of the porinsoum. The anterior portion is occasionally separated from the rest of the muscle by cellular tissue. From this circumstance, as well as from its peculiar relation with the prosiate gland, descending by its wide, and surrounding it as in a sling, it has been described by Santorini and others as a distinct muscle, under the name of the Levator prostatce. In the female, the anterior fibres of the Levator ani descend upon the sides of the vagina. 'Relations. By its wpfer or pelvic surface with the recto-vesical fascia, which separates it from the viscera of the pelvis and from the peritoneum. By its outer or perinceal surface, it forms the inner boundary of the ischio-rectal fossa, and is covered by a quantity of fat, and by a thiii layer of fascia continued from tlie obturator fascia. Its posterior harder is continuous with the Coccygeus muscle. Its antenor harder is separated from the muscle of the opposite side by a triangular space, through which the urethra, and in the female the vagina, passes from the pelvis. Actions. This muscle supports the lower end of the rectum and vagina, and also the bladder during the efforts of expulsion. The Coccygeus is situated behind and parallel with the preceding. It is a triangular plane of muscular and tendinous fibres, arising, by its apex, from the spine of the ischium and lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, and inserted, by its base, into the mai-gin of the coccyx and into the side of the lower piece of the sacrum. This muscle is continuous with the posterior border of the Levator ani, and closes in the back part of the outlet of the pelvis. Belations. By its imier or pelvic surface, with the rectum. By its external surface, with the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. By its posterior harder, with the Pyriformis. Action. The Coccygei muscles raise and support the coccyx, after it has been pressed backwards during defsecation or parturition. Position of the Viscera at the Ovtlet of the Fehis. Divide the central tendinous point of the perinfeum, separate the rectum from ite connections by dividing the fibres of the Levator ani, which descend upon the sides of the prostate gland, and draw the gut backwards towards the coccyx, when the under surface of the prostate gland, the neck and base of the bladder, the vesiculse seminales, and vasa deferentia will be exposed. The Prostate Gland is placed immediately in front of the neck of the bladder, around the prostatic portion of the urethra, its base being turned backwards, and its under surface towards the rectum. It is retained in its position by the Levator prostata and by the pubo-prostatic ligaments, and is invested by a dense fibrous covering, continued from the posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia. The longest diameters of this gland are in the antero-posterior direction, and trans- versely at its base ; and hence the greatest extent of incision that can be made m it without dividing its substance completely across, is obliquely outwards and backwards. This is the direction in which the incision is made through it in the operation of lithotomy, the extent of which should seldom exceed an inch m length The relations of the prostate to the rectum should be noticed : by means of the finger introduced into the gut, the surgeon detects enlai-gement or other disease of this organ; he is enabled also, by the same means, todirect the point of a catheter when its introduction is attended with much difficulty, cither fi-om iniury or disease of the membranous or prostatic portious of the urethra. Behind the prostate is the posterior surface of the neck and base of the bladder; a small triangular portion of this organ is seen, bounded, in front by the prostate gland; behind, by the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum; on either side, by he LieuL seminales and vasa deferentia ; and separated from direct contac<> wi^^^^^^^^^ rectum by the recto-vesical fascia. The relation of this portion of the bladder io Te rectum is of extreme interest to the surgeon. In cases of retention of unne