340 AR'I'KIUES. Surqicnl Anatomy. The superior tliyroid, or some of ita branches, are often divided in cases of cut throat, giving rise to considoniblo liu'.uiorrliago. In sucii cases, the artery should be secured, tlio wt)uiid being enlarged lor tluit jjurposo, if necessary. Tiie operation nuiy be easily performed, the position of tlie artery being very superlicial, and the only structures of importance covering it being a few small veins. The operation of tying the superior thyroid artery in bronchocele, has been perlbrmed in numerous instances with partial or temporary success. When however, the collateral circulation between tiiis vessel and the artery of the opposite side, and the inferior thyroid, is completely re-established, the tumour usually regains its former size. Tlio Lingual Aktiory (fig. 212) arises from the external cai'otid between tlic saporiov tliyroid and facial; it runs obliquely upwards and inwards t(j the great cornu of the liyoid bone, tliou passes liorizontally forwards parallel with the great cornu, and, ascending pei-pondicularly to the under surface of the tangue, turns forwards on its under surface as far as the tip of that organ, under the name of the ranine -artery. llelations. Its first, or oblique portion, is superficial, being contained in the triangular space already described, resting upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and covered by the Platysma and fascia of the neck. Its second, or horizontal portion, also lies upon the Middle constrictor, being covered at first by the tendon of the digastric and the Stylo-hyoid muscle, and afterwards by the Hyo-glossus, the latter muscle separating it from the hypoglossal nerve. Its third, or ascending portion, lies between the Hyo-glossus and Genio-hyo-glossus muscles. The fourth, or terminal part, under the name of the ranine, runs along the und-er surface of the tongue to its tip: it is very superficial, being covered only by the mucous membrane, and rests on the Lingualis on the outer side of the Genio-hyo-glossus.. The hypoglossal nerve lies nearly parallel with the lingual artery, separated from it, in the second part of its course, by the Hyo- glossus muscle. The branches of the lingual artery are, the Hyoid. Sublingual. Dorsalis Linguae. Ranine. The hyoid iTanoh runs along the upper border of the hyoid bone, supplying the muscles attached to it and anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side. The dorsalis Unrjum (fig. 212) arises from the Ungual artery beneath the Hyo- glossus muscle (which, in the figure, has been partly cut away, to show the vessel); ascending to the dorsum of the tongue, it supplies the mucous membrane, the tonsil, soft palate, and epiglottis ; anastomosing with its fellow from the opposite side. The suUingual, which may be described as a branch of bifurcation of the lingual arteiT, arises at the anterior margin of the Hyo-glossus muscle, and, running forwards and outwards beneath * the Mylohyoid to the sublingual gland, supphes its substance, giving branches to the Mylo-hyoid and neighbouring muscles, the mucous membrane of the mouth and gums. The ranine may be regarded as the other branch of bifurcation, or, as is more usual, as the continuation of the lingual artery; it runs along the under surface of the tongue, resting on the Lingualis, and covered by the mucous membi-ane of the mouth; it lies on the outer side of the Genio-hyo-glossus, and is covered by the Hyo-giossus and Stylo-glossus, accompanied by the gustatory nerve. On arriving ah the tip of the tongue, it anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. These vessels in the mouth are placed one on each side of the frajnum. Surgical Anatomy. The lingual artery may be divided near its origin in cases of cut throat, a complication that not unfrequently happens in this cla^s of "^'^^fXLuror hfemoirha^'e which cannot be restranied by ordinary means, may ensue from a wouna, or ren ulcer of the tonoue. In the former case, the primary wound may be enlarged if necessa T and t e bleeding vessel secured. In 'the latter cn^^e, it has been suggested that JheX^^raHer; should L tied near it. origin. Ligature of occasionally practised, as a palliative measure, m cases ot tumour of the tongue, m oracr w ' That is to say, it is deeper than the muscle in dissecting from the surface. In the natural position of the body, the artery lies above the muscle.