SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM. 746 two ov three cutaiioous brandies of tlio small sciatic nerve ; these turn ronn-I the inferior border of the Gluteus maxinius, and are distributed to the integument in this region. , 404.—DiasocLion of Poriiucum and Iscliio-Ilectal Region. The External sphincter is a thin flat plane of muscular fibres, elliptical in shape, and intimately adherent to the integaiment surrounding the margin of the anus. It measures about three or four inches in length, from its anterior to its posterior extremity, being about an inch in breadth, ojDposite the anus. It arises from the tip of the coccyx, by a narrow tendinous band ; and from the superficial fascia in front of that bone ; and is inserted into the tendinous centre of the periuEeum, joining with the Transversus perinosi, the Levator ani, and the Acce- lerator urinte. Like other Sphincter muscles, it consists of two planes of muscular fibre, which surround the margin of the anus, and join in a commissure before and behind. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the integument; by its deep surface, it is in contact with the Internal sphincter ; and is separated from the Levator ani by loose areolar tissue. The Sphincter ani is a voluntary muscle, supplied by the hajmorrhoidal branch of the fourth sacral nerve. This muscle is divided in the operation for fistiila in ano ; and also in some cases of fissure of the rectum, especially if attended with much pain or spasm. The object of its division is to keep the parts at rest and in contact during the healing process. The Internal sphincter is a muscular ring, about an inch in breadth, which surrounds the lower extremity of the rectum, about an inch fi-om the margm of the anus. This muscle is about two lines in thickness, and is formed by an aggregation of the involuntary circular fibres of the intestine. It is paler in colour^ and less coarse in texture, than the External sphincter. The iscMo-rectal fossa is situated between the end of the rectum and the tuberosity of tlie ischium on each side. It is triangular in shape, its base, directed to the surface of the body, is formed by the integument of the ischio-rectal region ; • its apex, directed upwards, corresponds to the point of divi&ion of the obturator fascia and the thin membrane given ofi" from it, which covers the outer surface of the Levator ani (ischio-rectal fascia). Its dimensions are about an inch 111 breadth at the base, and about two inches in depth, being deeper behind than m front It is bounded, internally, by the Sphincter ani. Levator am, and Coccygeus muscles: exfernalh,, by the tuberosity of the ischium, and the obturator fascia, which covers the inner surface of the Obturator internus muscle ; mfrovt, it i.s limited by the line of iunction of the superficial and deep perinatal fasc,.«: and hehiml by the margin of the Gluta^ns maximns, and the great sacro-sc.al.c