433 SINUSES OP THE DURA MATER. The Oerehellar Veins occupy the snrfaco of the cerebellum, and are disposed in three sets, superior, inferior, and lateral. The superior pass forwards and inwai-ds, across the superior vorraiform process, aud terminate in the straight sinus: some open into the vente Galeni. The Inferior cerebellar veins, of large size, run transversely outwards, and terminate by two or three trunks in the lateral sinuses. The lateral anterior cerebellar veins terminate in the superior petrosal sinuses. Sinuses of the Dura Matee. The sinuses of the dura mater are venous channels, analogous to the veins, their outer coat being formed by the dura mater ; their inner, by a continuation of the serous membrane of the veins. They are fifteen in number, and are divided into two sets :—i. Those situated at the upper and back part of the skull 2. Those at the base of the skull. The former are the Superior longitudinal. Inferior longitudinal. Occipital sinuses. Straight sinus. Lateral sinnses. The Superior Longihidmal Sinus occupies the attached margin of the falx cerebri. Commencing at the crista Galli, it rujis from before backwards, groov- 238.—Vertical Section of the Skull, showing the Sinuses of the Dura Mater. Torru/ar \ . Forftmfin Cftctun ing the mner surface of the frontal, the adjacent margins of the two parietal and the superior division of the crucial ridge of the occipital bone, and terminates by dividmg mto the two lateral sinuses. This sinus is triangular in form, narrow m front, and gradually mcreasing in size as it passes backwards. On examining Its inner surface it presents the internal openings of the cerebral veins, which run, for the most part, from behmd forwards, and open chiefly at the back part of the sinus, then; orifices bemg concealed by fibrous areola; numerous fibrous bands {cUrda. W^ll^s^^) are also seen, which extend transversely across the inferior angle of the sinus; and lastly, some small, white, projecting bodies, the glandul^e The'ti^Ti J^-;---—f^-Porior cerebral veins, nume;ous vis from the diploe and dura mater, and, at the posterior extremity of the sagittal and parietal suture, vems from the pericranium. F F