264 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. forms the antorior margin of tlio axilla, boing at first separated from tbo Latissimus dorsi by a cousidorable interval; but both uiusolos gradually converge towards the outer part of the space. . P,ruliariti,',. Tu luuscnlar subjects, tho sternal onizins of tl.e two Pectoral muscles are separated only by a narrow interval ; but tl.is n.torval is enlarged where tbese unisc es are ill developed. VerV rarely, the whole of tl.e st.n-nal por ion as de .cent. ( ccas.onally one or two addit onal nmscular slips arise from the aponeurosis o the h.xten.al ob Hi-.e, and become tirted t X ower imu-in of tlio Pectoralis .najor. A slender muscular shp is occasiona ly Cnd lvi,ri uallelwiUi the outer raart,nn of the sternum, oyorlappmg the on-.n ot the Jound r^'^iVir ittached by one end, to the upper part of the sternum near tlie ongm ^^Z±J^^^^y'^^^^^^ t the antJi/wall of the sheath of the Rectus abdominis. It has received the name ' Koctus sternalis. nk^rfion Detach the Pectornlis major by dividing the muscle along it.s attachment to the c avic e and by making a vortical incision through its substance a little extenml to its 1 no of a ta^ nnont to the sternum and costal cartilages. The muscle should then be reflected outward and its tendon carefully examined. Tho Pectoralis minor is now exposed and humediately above it, in the interval between its upper border and the clavicle, a strong fascia, the costo-coracoid inemhranc. The costo-coracoid memhrane protects the axillary vessels aud nerves; it is very thick and dense externally, where it is attached to the coracoid process, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm; more internally, it is connected with the lower border of the clavicle, as far as the sternal extremity of the first rib ; traced downwards, it passes behind the Pectoralis minor, surrounding, m a more or less complete sheath, the axillary vessels and nerves ; and above, it sends a prolongation behind the Subclavius, which is attached to the lower border of the clavicle, and so encloses the muscle in a kind of sheath. The costo-coracoid membrane is pierced by the cephalic vein, the thoracico-acromialis artery and vein, supenor thoracic artery and anterior thoracic nerves. . j ^ The Pectoralis Minor (fig. 170) is a thin, flat, triangular muscle, situated at tlie upper part of the thorax, beneath the Pectoralis major. It arises by three tendinous digltations, from the upper margin and outer surface of the thu-d, fourth, and fifth ribs, near their cartilages, and from the aponeurosis covering the Inter- costal muscles; the fibres pass upwards and outwards, and converge to form a flat tendon, wliicli is inserted into the anterior border of the coracoid process of the ^""^mations. By its anterior surface, with the Pectoralis major, and the superior tboracic vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface, with the ribs, Intercostal muscles, Serratus magnus, the axillary spa^e, and the axillary vessels and nerves^ Its upper border is separated from the clavicle by a triangular interval, broad internally, narrow externally, bounded in front by the costo-coracoid membrane and internally by the ribs. In this space are seen the axillary vessels and nerves. The costo-coracoid membrane should now be removed, when the Subclavius muscle wiU ^'tTc Snhclavius is a long, thin, spindle-shaped mu^scle, placed in the interval betv^een L clavicle and the first rib. It arises by a short, thick endon from the cSXe of the first rib, in front of the rhomboid hgament; the Aeshy fibres proceed obliquely outwards, to be inserted into a deep groove on the under surface nf the middle third of the clavicle. ^ -x • BcmZ By its rm^er surface, with the clavicle. By its under surface it is sepfratedTom he first rib by the subclavian or axillary vessels and brachial plexus 7nertes. Its anterior surface is separated from the Pectoralis major by he costo- coracoid aponeurosis, which, with the clavicle, forms an osteo-fibrous sheath xn which the muscle is enclosed. Tf fl,o ro.lal attachment of the Pectoralis minor is divided across, and the muscle rc- vessels and nerves are brought fully into view, and should be "''''Tervrs. The Pectoral muscles are supplied by the anterior Jl^o^-^^j^ ' Subclavius, by a filament from the cord formed by the union of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves.