cxxii GENBRAli ANATOMY. together into the common trunk of the omphalomesenteric vein. They receive branches from the allantois and anterior surface of the embryo. The right vein soon disappears; the left umbilical vein, on the contrary, grows till it becomes the trunk vessel into which the omphalomesenteric vein and its mesenteric branch appear to open. Next the liver begins to be formed around the umbilical vein, and then this vein sends branches into that gland (afeerent veins) which afterwards become the portal veins in the interior of the liver, and which give origin to other veins (efferent), which return the blood from the liver, and form afterwards the hepatic veins. The portion of the umbilical vein between the giving off of the future portal vessels and the reception of the hepatic, forms the ductus venosus. The mesenteric vein communicates at first with the omi)halo- mesenteric; when the veins of the liver are formed, the omphalomesenteric is transferred from the umbilical vein to the right afferent hepatic. A portion of it persists and forms the trunk of the portal vein. The systemic veins are developed from four trunk veins, two on either side, above and below, which appear before the formation of the allantois or the umbilical vessels. These unite into one canal on either side (sinuses of Cuvier), which open into the common trunk of the omphalomesenteric veins, and so into the auricular portion of the rudimentary heart. These four primitive veins lie, two of them in front, the anterior cardinal, or jugular veins, and the other two behind, the posterior cardinal veins. As the umbilical vein increases, and the omphalomesenteric diminishes in volume, the sinuses of Cuvier are transferred to the former vein, and when the inferior cava is formed and the umbilical vein becomes merely its tribu- tary, the sinuses of Cuvier open into the inferior vena cava. At a later period the portion of the vena cava inferior, between the opening of the sinuses of Cuvier and the auricle, disappears, and then the auricle receives three veins—viz., the inferior cava, and the two sinuses of Cuvier, which are now called right and left superior vena cava (Fig. LXI.). The superior cardinal, or jugiilar veins, which form the upper branches of the smuses of Cuvier on either side, unite about the second month by a transverse nnas- tomosing branch. The left superior vena ca.va assumes an obhque position, and empties itself into the lower and left end of the auricle. Finally, its trunk disappears, while its orifice is transformed into the coronary sinus, in which the great cardiac vein opens. The right smus of Cuvier, or superior vena cava, persists ; the transverse anastomosing branch between the two iuo-ulars becomes the left innominate vein, and the end of the right iuo-ular the right innominate. The venous circulation m the lower part of the embryo is at first carried on by the inferior cardinal veins, which return the blood from the Wolffian bodies, and receive branches corresponding to the intercostal, lumbar and crural veins. _ Between the fourth and fifth week, the inferior vena cava begins to appear in the form of a vessel which passes upwards behmd the liver and between the two Wolffian bodies. It anastomoses below with the two cardinal veins, and with the crural veins, which gradually come to open The middle part of the cardinal veins disappears; their distal extremities persist as the hypogastric veins, which open along with the crura into the vena cava, fouuLg the iliac and other veins of the lower extremities.