545 LUMBAR PLEXUS. of the thigh and leg. It arises by two branches : one from the third, the other from the fourth lumbar nerve. It descends through the inner fibres of the Psoas muscle, and emerges from its inner border near the brim of the pelvis ; it then runs aloncr the lateral wall of the pelvis, above the obturator vessels, to the upper part of the obturator foramen, where it enters the thigh, and divides into an anterior and a posterior branch separated by the Adductor brevis muscle. The anterior hranch (fig. 289) passes down in front of the Adductor brevis, being covered by the Pectineus and Adductor longus ; and at the lower border of the latter muscle, communicates with the internal cutaneous and internal saphenous nerves, forming a kind of plexus. It then descends upon the femoral artery, upon which it is finally distributed. This nerve, near the obturator foramen, gives ofi" an articular branch to the hip.joint. Behind the Pectineus, it distributes muscular branches to the Adductor longus and GraciHs, and occasionally to the Adductor brevis and Pectineus, and receives a communicating branch from the accessory obturator nerve. Occasionally this communicating branch is continued down, as a cutaneous branch, to the thigh and leg. This occasional cutaneous branch emerges from the lower border of the Adductor longus, descends along the posterior margin of the Sai'torius to the inner side of the knee, where it pierces the deep fascia, communi- cates with the long saphenous nerve, and is distributed to the integument of the inner side of the leg, as low down as its middle. When the branch is small, its place is supplied by the iuternal cutaneous nerve. The posterior branch of the obturator nerve pierces the Obturator externus, and passes behind the Adductor brevis to the front of the Adductor magnus, where it divides into numerous muscular branches, which supply the Obturator externus, the Adductor magnus, and occasionally the Adductor brevis. . The articular branch for the knee-joint perforates the lower part of the Adductor magnus, and enters the popliteal space; it then descends upon the popliteal artery, as far as the back part of the knee-joint, where it perforates the posterior ligament, and is distributed to the synovial membrane. It gives filaments to the artery in its course. The Accessory Obtueatoe Neeve (fig. 287) is of small size, and arises either from the obturator nerve near its origin, or by separate filaments from the third and fourth lumbar nerves. It descends along the inner border of the Psoas muscle, crosses the body of the pubes, and passes beneath the Pectineus muscle, where it divides into numerous branches. One of these supplies the Pectineus, penetrating its under surface ; another is distributed to the hip-joint; while a third communi- cates with the anterior branch of the obturator nerve. This branch, when of large size, is prolonged (as already mentioned), as a cutaneous branch, to the leg. The accessory obturator nerve is not constantly found ; when absent, tke hip.joint receives branches from the obturator nerve. Occasionally it is very small, and becomes lost in the capsule of the hip-joint. The Anteeioe Ceueal Neeve (figs. 287, 289) is the largest branch of the lumbar plexus. It supplies muscular branches to the lUacus, Pectineus, and all the muscles on the front of the thigh, excepting the Tensor vagina femoris; cutaneous filaments to the front and inner side of the thigh, and to the leg and foot; and articular branches to the knee. It arises from the third and fourth lumbar nerves, receiving also a fasciculus from the second. It descends through the fibres of the Psoas muscle, emergmg from it at the lower part of its outer border; and passes down between it and the Iliacus, and beneath Poupart's Hgament, into the thigh, where It becomes somewhat flattened, and divides into an anterior or cutaneous, and a posterior or muscular part. Beneath Poupart's ligament, it is separated from the femoral artery by the Psoas muscle, and lies beneath the iliac fascia. mtUn thepeMs the anterior crural nerve gives off from its outer side some small branches to the Biacus, and a branch to the femoral artery, which is dis- tributed upon the upper part of that vessel. The origin of this branch varies ; it occasionally arises higher than usual, or it may arise lower down in the thigh. NN