i6 THE SKELETON. slight,, affecting only its lower end. In another set of cases, the bono was curved throughout its whole length, but especially towards its middle. In a third set, the degree of curvature was less marked, and affected especially the lower third of the bone, Bevclofmenl (fig. 17). The sacrnm, forniod by the union of five vertebras, has thiriij-fivG centres of ossification. The lodies of the sacral vertebras have each three ossific centres; one for the central part, and one for the epiphysal plates on its upper and under surface. The arch of each sacral vertebra is developed by two centnss, one for each lamina. These unite with each other behind, and subsequently join the body. The lateral masses have six additional centres, two for eacli of the first three vertebras. These centi-es make their appearance above and to the outer side of the anteHor sacral foramina (fig. 17), and are developed into separate segments, which correspond with the anterior transverse processes (fig. 18) ; they are subse- quently blended with each other, and with the bodies and the posterior transverse processes, to form the lateral mass. Lastly, each lateral surface of the sacrum is developed by two epiphysal plates (fig. 19) ;'one for the auricular surface, and one for the remaining part of the thin lateral edge of the bone. n p f . •« Penod of Developvient. At about the eighth or nmth week of fcetal life, ossifa- cation of the central part of the bodies of the first three vertebraa commences ; and at a somewhat later period, that of the last two. Between the sixth and emhih months ossification of the laminae takes place; and, at about the same period the characteristic osseous tnbercles for the first three sacral vertebrae make their appearance. The laminae join to form the arcb, and are umted to the bodies, first in the lowest vertebrge. This occurs about the second year, the uppermost segment appearing as a single piece about the fifth or sixth year. About the six- teenth year the epiphyses for the upper and under surfaces of the bodies are formed and, between the eighteenth and twentieth years, those for each lateral surface of the sacrum make their appearance. At about this period the last two segments are joined to one another; and this process gradually ex- tending upwards, all the pieces become united, and the bone is completely formed from the twenty- fifth to the thirtieth year of life. Articulations. With four bones : the last lumbar vertebra, coccyx, and the two ossa iunominata. Attachment of Muscles. In front, the Pyriformis and Coccygeus, and a portion of the Ihacus to the base of the bone; behind, the Gluteus maximus, Latissimus dorsi, Multifidus spinse, and Erector spina?, and sometimes the Extensor coccygis. Thk Coccyx. 20.—Coccyx. Corntia, Anterior Surface The Coccyx {^U^vl, cuckoo), so called from having been compared to a cuckoo's beak (fig. 20), is usually formed of four small segments of bone, the most rudimentary parts of the vci-tebral column In each of the first three segments may be traced a rudimentary body, articular and transverse pro- cesses- the last piece (sometimes the third) is a mere nodule of bone, without distinct pro- cesses All the segments are destitute of lammas and spinous processes; and, consequently of spinal canal and intervertebral foramina. Ihe first segment is the largest; it resembles the lower- most sacral vertebra, and often exists as a separate n n piefe; the last three, diminishing in size from above downwards, are usually blended