319 or THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. FIRST LAYER. inserted, together with the innermost tendon of the Flexor brevia pollicia, into the inner side ot' the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. It is supplied by the internal plantar nerve. Belations. By its superficial surface, with the plantar fascia surface, 194. -Muscles of the Sole of tho Foot. First Layer. CIS, By its deep ■with the Flexor brevis polli- the Flexor accessorius, and the tendons of the Flexor longus digitorum and Flexor longus pollicis, the Tibialis anticus and posticus, the plantar vessels and nerves, and the articulations of the tarsus. ■ The Flexor Brevis Bigiiomm (per- forcitus) lies in the middle of the sole of the foot, immediately beneath * the plantar fascia, with which it is firmly united. It arises by a narrow tendi- nous process, from the inner tubercle of the OS calcis, from the central part of the plantar fascia; and from the in- termuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. It passes forwards, and divides into four tendons. Oppo- site the middle of the first phalanges, each tendon presents a longitudinal slit, to allow of the passage of the cor- responding tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum ; the two portions form a groove for the reception of that tendon. The tendon of the short Flexor then re- unites and immediately divides a second time into two processes, which are inserted into the sides of the second phalanges. The mode of division of the tendons of the Flexor brevis digitorum, and their insertion into the phalanges, is analogous to the Flexor sublimis in the hand. It is supplied by the internal plantat" nerve. Belations. By its superficial surface, with the plantar fascia. By its deejj surface, with the Flexor accessorius, Lumbricales, the tendons of the the the ex- nerve, from Flexor longus digitorum, and ternal plantar vessels and which it is separated by a thin layer of fascia. The outer and iimer borders are separated from the adjacent muscles by means of vertical prolongations of the plantar fascia. The Ahductor Minimi Digiti lies along the outer border of the foot. It arises, by a very broad origin, from the outer tubercle of the os calcis, from the under surface of the os calcis in front of the tubercles, from the plantar fascia, n,nd the intermuscular septum between it and the Flexor brevis digitorum. Its tendon, after ghding over a smooth facet on the under surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bono, is inserted with the short Flexor of the little toe into Bide of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. It external plantar nerve. the outer is supplied by the In the erect position, this would, of course, be above.