Of the Lymphatics. THE LymphaticR hare derived their name from the appearance of the fluid con- tained in their interior {hjmplia, water). They arc also called absorbents, from the property they possess of absorbing certain materials from the tissues, and conveying them into the circnlation. The lymphatic system includes not only the lymphatic vessels and the glands through which they pass, but also the lacteal, or chyliferous vessels. The lacteals are the lymphatic vessels of the small intestine, and differ in no respect from the lymphatics generally, excepting that they contain a milk-white fluid, the chyle, during the process of digestion, and convey it into the blood through the thoracic duct. The lymphatics are exceedingly delicate vessels, the coats of which are so transparent, that the fluid they contain is readily seen through them. They retain a nearly nniform size, being interrupted at intervals by constrictions, which give them a knotted or beaded appearance. These constrictions are due to the presence of valves in their interior. Lymphatics have been found in nearly every texture and organ of the body, with the exception of the substance of the brain and spinal cord, the eyeball, cartilage, tendon, the membranes of the ovum, the. placenta, and umbilical cord, the nails, cuticle, and hair. Their existence in the substance of bone is doubtful. The Ivmphatics are arranged into a superficial and deep set. The superficial lymphatics, on the surface of the body, are placed immediately beneath the integu- ment, accompanying the superficial veins ; they join the deep lymphatics in certain situations by perforating the deep fascia. In the interior of the body, they lie in the submucous areolar tissue, throughout the whole length of the gastro-pulmonary and genito-urinary tracts; and in the subserous areolar tissue in the cranial,, thoracic, and abdominal cavities. These vessels probably arise in the form of a dense plexiform network interspersed among the proper elements and blood-vessels of the several tissues ; the vessels composing which, as well as the meshes between them, are much, larger than those of the capillary plexus. From these networks small vessels emerge, which pass, either to a neighbouring gland, or to join some larger lymphatic trunk. The deep lymphatics, fewer in number, and larger than the superficial, accompany the deep blood-vessels. Their mode of origin is not known ; it is, however, probably, similar to that of the superficial vessels. The lymphatics of any part or organ exceed the veins in number ; but in size they are much smaller. Their anastomoses also, especially those of the large trunks, are more freqiient, and are effected by vessels equal in diameter to those which they connect, the continuous trunks retaining the same diameter. The lymphatic or absorbent glands, named also conglobate glands, are small solid glandular bodies, situated in the course of the lymphatic and lacteal vessels. They are found in the neck and on the external parts of the head ; in the upper extremity, in the axilla and in front of the elbow ; in the lower extremity, in the groin and popliteal space. In the abdomen, they are found in large numbers in the mesentery, and along the side of the aorta, vena cava, and iliac vessels ; and in the thorax, in the anterior and posterior mediastina. They are somewhat flattened, and of a round or oval form. In size, they vary from a hemp-seed to an almond, and their colour, on section, is of a pinkish grey tint, excepting the bronchial glands, which in the adult are mottled with black. Each gland has a layer, or capsule of cellular tissue investing it, from which prolongations dip into its substance forming partitions. The lymphatic and lacteal vessels pass through these bodies in their passage to the thoracic and lymphatic ducts. A lymphatic or lacteal vessel, previous to entering a gland, divides into several small branches which are named afferent vessels. As they enter, their external coat becomes con- tinuous with the capsule of the gland, and the vessels, much thinnod, and consisting o o 2