The Sympathetic Nerve. THE Sympattetic Nerve is so called from the opinion entertained that through it is produced a sympathy between the affections of distant organs. It con- sists of a series of ganglia, connected together by intervening cords, extending on each side of the vertebral column from the base of the skull to the coccyx. It may, moreover, be traced up into the head, where the ganglia (which are all m connection with the fifth cranial nerve) occupy spaces between the cranial and facial bones. These two gangliated cords He parallel with one another as far as the sacrum, on which bone they converge, communicating together through a single ganglion {ganglion impar), placed in front of the coccyx. Some anatomists also state that the two cords are joined at their cephalic extremity, through a small ganglion (the ganglion of Ribes), situated upon the anterior communicating artery. Moreover, the chains of opposite sides coromunicate between these two extremities in several parts, by means of the nervous cords that arise from them. The ganglia are somewhat less numerous than the vertebrae : thus there are only three in the cervical region, twelve in the dorsal, four in the lumbar, five in the sacral, and one in the coccygeal. The sympathetic nerve, for convenience of description, may be divided into several parts, according to the position occupied by each; and the number of ganglia, of which each "part is composed, may be thus arranged : Cephalic portion 4 ganglia. Cervical „ 3 „ Dorsal „ 12 „ Lumbar ,, 4 „ Sacral „ 5 n Coccygeal „ I „ Each ganglion may be regarded as a distinct centre, from or to which branches pass in various directions. These branches may be thus arranged :—i. Branches of communication between the ganglia. 2. Branches of communication with the cerebral or spiaal nerves. 3. Primary branches passing to be distributed to the arteries in the yicuaity of the ganglia, and to the viscera, or proceeding to other ganglia placed in the thorax, abdomen, or pelvis, 1. The branches of communication between the ganglia are composed of grey and white nerve-fibres, the latter being continuous with those fibres of the spinal nerves which pass to the ganglia. 2. The branches of communication between the ganglia and the cerebral or spmal neiwes also consist of a white and a grey portion ; the former proceeding from the spmal nerve to the ganglion, the latter passing from the ganglion to the spmal nerve. 3. The primary branches of distribution also consist of two kinds of nerve- fibres, the sympathetic and spinal. They have a remarkable tendency to form intricate plexuses, which encn-cle the blood-vessels, and are conducted by them to the viscera. The greater number, however, of these branches pass to a series of visceral ganglia : these are ganghonic masses, of variable size, situated in the nSl 'fTl of the trunk, the thorax, and abdomen; and are connected with tho roots of the great arteries of the viscera. The visceral ganglia are single and unsym- metrical, and are called the cardmc and semilunar. From these visceral ganglia numerous plexuses of nerves are derived, which entwine round the blood-fessels, and are conducted by them to tho viscera.