ARTERIES. 376 to avoid woiindinf!^ tlio intornnl ciitanoous nervo or basilic vein, which sonieliiuea run on tbo surface of tho artery na liigh as the axilla. The I'ascia having been divided, it should bo remembered, that tho ulnar and inttirnal cutaneous nerves lie on the inner side of the artery, the median on tlio outer side, the latter nerve being occasionally superficial to the artery in this situation, and that tlie vento coinitea are also in relation with the vessel, one on either side. These being carefully separated, tho aneurism needle should be passed round the artery from the ulnar to the radial side. If two arteries are present in the nrm, in consequence of a high division, they are iisually placed side by side; and if they are exposed in an operation, the surgeon should endeavour to ascertain, by alternately pressing on each vessel, which of the two commu- nicates with tho wound or aneurism, when a ligature may be applied accordingly; or if pulsation or hitsmorrhage ceases only when both vessels are compressed, both vessels may be tied, as it may be concluded that the two communicate above tlio seat of disease, or are reunited. It should also be remembered, that two arteries may be present in the arm in a case of high division, and that one of these may be found along the inner intermuscular septum, in a line towards the inner condyle of the humerus, or in the usual position of the brachial, but deeply placed beneath the common trunk: a knowledge of these facts will suggest tbe precautions necessary in every case, and indicate the measures to be adopted when anomalies are met with. In the middle of the arm the brachial artery may be exposed by making an incision along the inner margin of the Biceps muscle. The forearm being bent so as to relax tlie mu.scle, it should be drawn slightly aside, and the fascia being carefully divided, the median nerve will be exposed lying upon the artery (sometimes beneath) ; this being drawn inwards and the muscle outwards, the artery should be separated from its accompanying veins and secured. In this situation the inferior profunda may be mistaken for the main trunk, especially if enlarged, from the collateral circulation having become established; this may be avoided by directing the incision externally towards the Biceps rather than inwards or backwards towards the Triceps. The loioer part of the brachial artery is of extreme interest in a surgical point of view, an accoimt of the relation which it bears to tlie veins most commonly opened in venesection. Of these vessels, the median basilic is the largest and most prominent, and, consequently, the one usually selected for the operation. It should be remembered, that this vein runs parallel with the brachial artery, from which it is separated by the bicipital fascia, and that in no case should this vessel be selected for venesection, except in a part which is not in contact with the artery. Collateral Cirmlation. After the application of a ligature to the brachial artery in the upper third of the arm, the circulation is carried on by branches from the circumflex and subscapular arteries, anatomosing with ascending branches from the superior profunda. If the brachial is tied heloiu the origin of the profunda arteries the circulation is maintained by the branches of the profundre, anastomosing with the recurrent radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries. In two cases described by Mr. South,* in which the brachial artery had been tied some time previously, in one ' a long portion of the artery had been obliterated, and sets of vessels are descending on either side from above the obliteration, to be received into others which ascend in a similar manner from below it. In the other, the obliteration is less exten- sive, and a single curved artery about as big as a crow-quill passes from the upper to the lower open part of the artery.' The branches of the brachial artery are the Superior profunda. Inferior profunda. Nutrient artery. Anastomofcica magna. Muscular. The superior profimda arises from the inner and back part of the brachial, oppo- site the lower border of the Teres major, and passes backwards to the interval between the outer and inner heads of the Triceps muscle, accompanied by the musculo-spiral nerve ; it winds round the back part of the shaft of the humerus in the spiral groove, between the Triceps and the bone, and descends^ on the outer side of the arm to the space between the Brachialis anticus and Supinator longus, as far as the elbow, where it anastomoses with the recurrent branch of the radial artery. It supplies the Deltoid, Coraco-brachialis, and Triceps muscles, and whilst in the groove between the Triceps and the bone, it gives off the posterior articular artery, which descends perpendicularly between the Triceps and the bone, to the * Chelius' Surgery,, vol. ii. p. 254. See also White's engraving referred to by Mr South, of the anastomosing brandies after ligature of the brachial, in White s Cases »7i Surffcn/ Porta also gives a case (witli drawings) of the circulation alter hgature of both brachial and radial—Alteruzioni Futulur/iche delle Artcric.