ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 624 The stomach is held in position by the lesser omentum, which extends from the transverse fissure of the liver to its lesser curvature, and by a fold of peritoneum, which ])asses from tlio Diaphragm on to the ccsophageal end of the stomach, the gastro-phrcnic ligament; this constitutes the most fixed point of the stomach. 333. The IMucous Menihrano of the Stomach and Uuodenum with the Bile Ducts. Cyttle duct whilst the pyloric end and greater curvature are the most moveable parts : hence when the stomach becomes greately distended, the greater curvature is directed forwards, whilst the anterior and posterior surfaces are directed, the former upwards, and the latter downwards. Alterations in Positions.—There is no organ in the body the position and connectioiis of which present such frequent alterations as the stomach. JJtirmff msinmtion, it is displaced downwards by the descent of the Diaphragm, and elevated by the pressure ot the abdoniiual muscles durin^' expiration. Its position in relation to the surrounding viscera is also changed, according to the empty or distended state of the organ. IVhm empty it occupies only a small part of the left hypochondriac region, the spleen lying behind it; the lelt lobe ot the Uver covers it in front, and the under surface of the heart rests upon it above, and in front; heins separated from it by the left lobe of the liver, besides the diaphragm and pericardium. This close relation between the stomach and the heart explains the fact that, in gastralgia, the pain is generally referred to the heart, and is often accompanied by palpitation and inter- mission of the pulse. When the stomach is distended the Diaphragm is forced upwards, con- tractinc the cavity of the chest; hence the dyspnoea complained of, from inspiration being imneded The heart is also displaced upwards; hence the oppression in this region, and the nalnitation experienced in extreme distension of the stomach. IW^stire from without, a CJtSh lacing, pushes the stomach down towards the pelvis. In disease, also, the pos ion and connections of the organs may be greatly changed, from the accumulation of ETn the chest or abdomen, or from alteration in size of any of the surrounding viscera.