RIBS WITH TRANSVERSE PROCESSES. passing obliquely upwards and outwards, to the lower border of the transverse process immediately above. It is broader below than above, broader and thinner between the lower ribs than between the upper, and more distinct in front than behind. This ligament is in relation, in front, with the intercostal vessels and nerves; behind, with the Lougissimus dorsi. Its internal harder completes an aperture formed between it and the articular processes, through which pass the posterior branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves. Its external border is continuous with a thin aponeurosis, which covers the External intercostal muscle The first and last rihs have no anterior costo-trans verse ligament. The Middle Gosto-Transverse or Interosseous Ligament consists of shoi-t, but strong, fibres, which pass between the rough surface on the posterior part of the neck of each rib, and the anterior surface of the adjacent transverse process. In order fully to expose this ligament, a horizontal section should be made across the transverse process and corresponding part of the rib; or the rib may be forcibly separated from the transverse process, and its fibres put on the stretch. In the eleventh and twelfth H&s, this ligament is quite rudimentary. The Posterior Oosto-Transverse Ligament is a short, but thick and strong, fasciculus, which passes obhquely from the summit of the transverse process to the rough non-articular portion of the tubercle of -the rib. This ligament is shorter and more obUque in the upper than in the lower ribs. Those corresponding to the superior ribs ascend, and those of the inferior ones slightly descend. In the eleventh and twelfth rihs, this hgament is wanting. The articular portion of the tubercle of the rib, and adjacent transverse process lorm an arthrodial joint, provided with a thin Capsular ligament attached to mlmlmnr articulating surfaces, and enclosing a small ^jnovial In the eleventh and twelfth ribs, this articulation is wanting motion oTil. ^^^.^7^°^^^; P^™^*^^d tliese joints ia limited to a slight gliding motion ot the articular surfaces one upon the other. & & & M 2