GENERAL ANATOMY'; xlil of a criminal examined shortly after his execution, and in whom tlie thoracic duct was found distended with chyle, is as follows:— Water 90-48 Alburnon, with traces of fibrinous matter 7 08 Aqueous extractive ......... '56 Alcoholic extractive or osma/.ome . . . . . . -53 Alkiiliue chloride, carbonate and sulphate, with traces of alkaline phosphate and oxide of iron -44 Fatt}' matters .......... -92 loo-oo Lymph, as its name implies, is a watei-y fluid. In the lymph the molecular base is absent, and the lymph-corpuscles are very few in number, and indeed are said by Kolliker to be absent in the smaller vessels. According to the same author, the size of the lymph-irlobules increases as the fluid ascends higher in the course of the circulation. In this view the lymph is at first a mere albuminous fluid, and the chyle at first a mere albumino-fatty fluid, the cells iia both being pro- duced during the passage of the fluid through the glands (lymphatic or mesenteric, as the case may be), and being further elaborated, and even new cells produced by the division of the old ones, in the course of the circulation. The presence of blood-globules in the lymph or in the chyle is regarded by most authors as accidental, i.e. produced by the manipula- tions of the dissector. The lymph-corpuscles, as seen in the above figure, are in all essential respects the same in the chyle, the lymph, and the blood, where they have been described above as the colourless blood-corpuscles. In the chyle and lymph, however, they vary very much in size. In some cases several younger cells have been enclosed in the original corpuscles. CELLULAR AND FIBROUS TISSUE. The cellular or areolar tissue is so called because its meshes are easily distended, and thus separated into ceUs or spaces which all open freely into each other, and are consequently easily blown up with air, or per- meated by fluid, when injected into any part of the tissue. Such spaces, however, do not exist in the natural condition of the body, but the whole tissue forms one unbroken membrane composed of a num- ber of interlacing fibres, variously superimposed. Hence the old term ' the cellular membrane' is in many parts of the body more appropriate than its more modern equivalents. The chief use of the cellular tissue is to bind parts together; while by the laxity of its fibres and the permeability of its areolse it allows them to move on each other, and affords a ready exit for inflammatory and other effused fluids. It is con- sequently often denominated connective tissue, and this term is still more appropriate to the fibrous tissue which forms the bond of connection between the intimate elements of solid organs ; in which more restricted sense the term is often used in modern works. The areolar tissue consists essentially of two forms of fibrous tissue, the ivhite and yelloiv, intermixed in varying proportions, together with a great quantity of capillary vessels, nerves and lymphatics, and in most situations it contains fiit. The cellular tissue is .continuous over the whole body; so that fluid, and especially a ir,