6o6 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. The crown is directed vorLically, is wedge-liko in form, being bevelled at the expense of its posterior surface, so as to terminate in a sharp, horizontal cutting edge, which, before being Kubjcct to attrition, presents three small prominent points. It is convex, eniootli, and highly polished in front; slightly concave behind, where it is frequently marked by slight longitudinal furrows. Tiio neck is constricted. The fang is long, single, conical, transversely flattened, thicker before than behind, and slightly grooved on each side in the longitudinal direction. The incisors of the upper jcm are altogether larger and stronger than those of the lower jaw. They are directed obliquely downwards and forwards. The two central ones are larger than the two lateral, and their free edges are sharp and chisel-like, being bevelled at the expense of their posterior edge : the root is more x-ounded. The incisors of the lower jmo are smaller than the upper: the two central ones ai"e smaller than the two lateral, and are the smallest of all the incisor teeth. The Canine Teeth (cusjpidaii) are four in number, two in the upper, and two in the lower jaw ; one being placed behind each lateral incisor. They are larger and stronger than the incisors, especially the root, which sinks deeply into the jaw, and causes a well-marked prominence upon its sui'face. The crown is large and conical, very convex in front, a little hollowed and uneven posteriorly, and tapering to a bluuted point, or cusp, which rises above the level of the other teeth. The root is single, but longer and thicker than that of the incisors, conical in form, compressed laterally, and marked by a slight groove on each side. The upper canine teeth (vulgarly called eye-teeth) are larger and longer than the two lower, and situated a little behind them. The loioer canine teeth are placed in front of the upper, so that their summits correspond to the interval between the upper canine tooth and the neighbouring incisors on each side. The BicuSi'iD Teeth (small, or false molars) are eight in number, four in each jaw, two being placed immediately behind each of the canine teeth. They are smaller and shorter than the canine. The c^-own is compressed from without inwards, and surmounted by two pyra- midal eminences, or cusps, separated by a groove, hence their name, hicuspidate. The outer of these cusps is larger and more prominent than the inner. The nech is oval. The root is generally single, compressed, and presents a deep groove on each side, which indicates a tendency in the root to become double. The apex is gene- rally bifid. The upper Ucuspids are larger, and present a greater tendency to the division of their roots than the lower : this is especially marked in the second upper bicuspid. The Molar Teeth (muUicuspidati, true, or large molars) are the largest of the permanent set, and are adapted, from the great breadth of their crowns, for grind- ing and pounding the food. They are twelve in number, six in each jaw, three being placed behind each of the posterior biscuspids. The croiun is nearly cubical in form, rounded on each of its lateral surfaces, flattened in front and behind; the upper surface being surmounted by four or five tubercles, or cusps (four in the upper, five in the lower molars), sepai-ated from each other by a crucial depression, hence their name, muUicuspidati The nech is distinct, large, and rounded. The root is subdivided into from two to five fangs, each of which presents an aperture at its summit. The first molwr tooth is the largest and broadest of all: its crown has usually five cusps, three outer and two inner. In tlie upper jaw, the root consists of three fangs, widely separated from one another, two being external, the other