POSTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. 281 Belations. By its superficial surface, with a strong fascia derived from the Triceps. By its deep surface, with the elbow-joint, the orbicular ligament, the ulna, and a small portion of the Supinator brevis. PosTBuiOK Brachial Region. (Fig. 175.) Deep Layer, Supinator Brevis. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis. Extensor.Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis. Extensor Secundi Internodii Polhcis. Extensor Indicis. The Supinator B^j^^hvoad muscle, of a hollow cylindrical form, curved round the upper thirOTfttlPiiius. It arises from the external condyle of the humerus, from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, and the orbicular ligament of the radius, from the ridge on the ulna which rans obliquely down- wards from the posterior extremity of the lesser sigmoid cavity, from the triangular depression in front of it, and from a tendinous expansion which covers the surface of the muscle. The muscle surrounds the upper part of the radius : the upper fibres forming a sKng-like fasciculus, which encircles the neck of the radius above the tuberosity, and is attached to the back part of its inner surface ; the middle fibres are attached to the outer edge of the bicipital tuberosity ; the lower fibres to the oblique line of the radius, as low down as the insertion of the Pronator radii teres. This muscle is pierced by the posterior interosseous nerve. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the superficial Extensor and Supinator muscles, and the radial vessels and nerve. By its deep surface, with the elbow- joint, the interosseous membrane, and the radius. The Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis is the most external and the largest of the deep Extensor muscles : it lies immediately below ihe Supinator brevis, with which it is sometimes united. It arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the ulna below the insertion of the Anconeus, from the interosseous ligament, and from the middle third of the posterior surface of the shaft of the radius. Passing obliquely downwards and outwards, it terminates in a tendon which runs through a groove on the outer side of the styloid process of the radius, accompanied by the tendon of the Extensor primi internodii pollicis, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Belations. By its superficial surface, with the Extensor communis digitorum, Extensor minimi digiti, and fascia of the forearm ; and with the branches of the posterior interosseous artery and nerve which cross it. By its deep surface, with the ulna, interosseous membrane, radius, the tendons of the Extensor carpi radialis longior and brevier, which it crosses obliquely ; and, at the outer side of the wrist, with the radial vessels. By its upper border, with the Supinator brevis. By its lower border, with the Extensor primi internodii pollicis. The Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis, the smallest muscle of this group, lies on the inner side of the preceding. It arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the radius, below the Extensor ossis metacarpi, and from the interosseous membrane. Its direction is similar to that of the Extensor ossis metacarpi, its tendon passing through the same groove on the outer side of the styloid process, to be inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Belations. The same as those of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis The Extensor Becimdi Internodii Pollicis is much larger than the preceding muscle, the origin of which it partly covers in. It arises from the posterior surface of he shaf of the ulna, below the origin of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and from the interosseous membrane. It terminates in a tendon which passes through a separate compartment in the annular ligament, lying in a narrow oblique groove at the back part of the lower end of the radius. It then crosses obliquely the Extensor tendons of the carpus, being separated from the other Extensor ten- dons of the thumb by a triangular interval, in which the radial artery is foun<l; and ,s finally mserted into, the base of the last phalanx of the thumb.