VEINS. 444 Vein. muscle. It is accompanied by the external saphenous nerve. It receives numerous largo branches from tho back part of the leg, and communicates with the deep veins on the dorsum of tho foot, and behind fahe outer malleolus. This vein has only two valves, 245.—External or Short Saphenous one of which is always found near its termination in the popliteal vein. Tho Deep Veins of tho lower extremity accom- pany the arteries and their branches, and are called the vence comites of those vessels. The external and internal plantar veins unite to form the posterior tibial. They accompany the posterior tibial artery, and are joined by the peroneal veins. The anterior tihial veins are formed by a con- tinuation upwards of the vena) comites of the dorsalis pedis artery. They perforate the in- terosseous membrane at the upper part of the leg, and form, by theii-junction with the posterior tibial, the popliteal vein.. The valves in the deep veins are very n-nmerous, The Popliteal. Vein is formed by the junction of the venae comites of the anterior and posterior tibial vessels; it ascends through the popliteal space to the tendinous aperture in the Adductor magnus,: where it becomes the femaral vein. In the lower part of its course, it is placed internal to the artery ;, between the heads of the Gastroc- nemius, it is superficial to that vessel; but abovei the knee-joint, it is close to its outer side. It receives the sural veins from the Gastrocnemius muscle, the articular veins,, and the external saphenous. The valves in this vein are usually four in number. The FemO'EAL Vein accompanies the femoral artery through the upper two-thirds of the thigh- In th-e lower part of its course, it lies external to the artery ; higher up, it is behind it; and be- neath Poupart's ligament, it lies to its inner side, and on the same plane. It receives numerous- muscular branches ; the profunda femoris joins it about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament, and' near its termination the internal sa.phenous vein.. The valves in this vein are four or five in number. The External Iliac Vein commences at the-termination of the femoral, be- neath the crural arch, and passing, upwards along the brim of the pelvis, terminates opposite the sacro-iliao symphysis, by uniting with the internal iliac to form the common iliac vein. On the right side, it lies at first along the inner side of the external iliac artery; but as it passes npwards, gradually inclines behind it. On the left side, it lies altogether on the inner side of the artery. It receives, immediately above Poupart's ligamentj the epigastric and circumflex iliac veins. It has no valves. The Internal Iliac Vein is formed by the venas comites of the branches of the internal iliac artery, the umbilical arteries excepted. It receives the blood f;rom the exterior of the pelvis by the gluteal, sciatic, internal pudic, and obturator veins ; and from the organs- in the cavity of the pelvis by the hasmorrhoidal and vesico-prostatic plexuses in the male, and the uterine and vaginal plexuses in the female. The vessels forming these plexuses are remarkable for their larger size, their frequent anastomoses,, and the number of valves which they contam. Tht