ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 622 The lower end of the rectum, the neck, base, and anterior surface of the bladder, the whole of the front, and the lower part of the posterior, wall of the vagina, have no peritoneal covoriii|T^. Numerous folds are formed by the peritoneum, extending between the various organs. Those servo to hold them in position, and, at the same time, enclose the vessels and nerves proceediug to each pai't. Some of the folds are called ligaments, from their serving to suppoi-t the organs in position. Others, which connect certain parts of the intestine witli tlie abdominal wall, constitute the mesenleries; and lastly, those aro called omenta, which proceed from the stomach to certain viscera in its neighbourhood. The Ligaments, formed by folds of the peritoneum, include those of the liver, spleen, bladder, and uterus. They will bo found described with their respective organs. The Omenta aro the lesser omentum, the great omentum, and the gastro-splenic omentum. The lesser omentum (gastro-hepatic) is the duplicature which extends between the transverse fissure of the liver, and the lesser cui'vature of the stomach. It is extremely thin, and consists, as before said, of two layers of peritoneum. At the left border, its two layers pass on to the end of the oesophagus ; but at the right border, where it is free, they are continuous, and form a free rounded margin, which contains between its layers the hepatic artery, the ductus communis choledochus, and portal vein, lymphatics and the hepatic plexus of nerves—all these structures being enclosed in loose areolar tissue, called Glisson's capsule. The great omentum (gastro-coUc) is the largest peritoneal fold. It consists of four layers of peritoneum, two of which descend from the stomach, one from its anterior, the other from its posterior surface, and, nniting at its lower border, descend in front of the small intestines, as low down as the pelvis ; they then turn upon themselves, and ascend again as far as the transverse colon, where they separate and enclose that part of the intestine. These separate layers may be easily demonstrated in the young subject; but, in the adult, they are more or less inseparably blended. The left border of the great omentum is continuous with the gastro-splenic omentum; its right border extends as far only as the duodenum. The great omentum is usually thin, presents a cribriform appearance, and always contains some adipose tissue, which, in fat subjects, accumulates in considerable quantity. Its use appears to be to protect the intestines from the cold, and to facilitate their movement upon each other during their vermicular action. The gastro-splenic omentum is the fold which connects the concave surface of the spleen to the cul-de-sac of the stomach, being continuous by its lower border wdth the great omentum. It contains the splenic vessels and vasa brevia. ■ The Mesentbeibs are, the mesentery proper, the meso-caecum, the ascendmg, transverse, and descending meso-colon, the sigmoid meso-colon, and the meso- rectum. The mesentenj {fxirrov, 'ivrspov), so called from being connected to the middle of the cylinder of the small intestine, is the broad fold of peritoneum which connects the convolutions of the jejunum and ileum with the posterior wall of the abdomen. Its root, the part connected with the vertebral column, is narrow, about six inches in length, and directed obliquely from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the°right sacro-iliao symphysis. Its intestinal border is much longer ; and here its two layers separate, so as to enclose the intestine, and form its peritoneal coat. Its breadth, between its vertebral and intestinal border, is about four niche.-. Its upper harder is continuous Avith the under surface of the transverse meso- colon ; its lower harder, with the peritoneum covering the ca3cnm and ascending colon. It serves to retain the small intestines in their position, and contains between its layers the mesenteric vessels and nerves, the lacteal vessels, and mesenteric glands. The mesa-ccectim, when it exists, serves to connect the back part ot tbc ca^cnni with the right iliac fossa; more frequently, the peritoneum passes merely in front of this portion of the largo intestine.