OF THE JOINTS. 19O 2 the the that it is a refle&ion of the Capfule that lines the cavity of the joint; and the procefs (f) of the r ancle being turned back, the great head, or the cartilaginous pulley of the Aftragalus (g), is expofed covered with its fmooth cartilage. The flat fide of the Aftragalus within the joint is alfo feen at (£), where it was embraced by the inner ancle or procefs of the Tibia (/). There is but one ligament to be noti- ced in this drawing ; for ift, Is a band very ftrong indeed, which pafles from the Aftragalus to the Os Cal- cis. It has, as is feen here, the diftinft form of a ligament. It ties the Aftra- galus and Os Calcis ftrongly together ; and fo it has alfo the office as well as the mere form of a ligament. But it d±c0 Happens, that the tendon of the Flexor Polli- cis runs through this ring ; therefore its office as a ligament (which it truly is) is ve- ry little noticed. 2d, There is a ligament of the inner ancle, like the perpendicular ligament of the outer ancle. It is of a triangular form ; and is hence named Ligamentum Deltoides. A procefs of this ligament binds down the Tendons of the Tibialis Pofticus, and of the common flexor of the toes. Therefore the ligament marked (2J, at the fame time that it binds the bones of the foot together, holds down the flexor tendons. 3d, The figure (3) marks the great ligament of the foie of the foot. It proceeds final- ler from the point of the heel bone ; it enlarges towards its infertion into the Os Cu- eoides. It binds thefe two bones particularly; and, by binding them, it fupports very powerfully the whole arch of the foot; and this ligament, which is alfo very thick and ftrong, is of fuch particular length, (the longeft ligament of all the Tar- fus), that it is called Ligamentum Calcis Longius. It is feen under the edge of the foot in the drawing, figure iv. marked (l). But the trueft fupport of any joint is not its ligaments fo much as the mufcles which bend it ; and it is thus with all the flexor mufcles which pafs under this great arch of the foot—How could the arch of the foot be fuftained, by ligaments of any kind, under i