116 OK THE MUSCLES. over by their own weight to the inner fide of the fore-arm, fo that in this lower drawing their tendons are lefs perfe&ly feen. (05.) The Extensor Carpi Ulnaris is feen in the upper drawing differed very clean, lying loofe and flabby, but yet not feparated from the Ulna ; whereas in the lower drawing it is fo fully differed, as to fall away from the Ulna, leaving the bone at (m) naked. And fo there remains of all the mufcles on this fide of the fore-arm, thofe only which extend the fingers and thurpb ; and they are all feen, in the upper drawing, difiedled, but kill in their places. In the lower arm they are all thrown loofe. (96.) The Extensor Communis Digitorum is feen in the upper drawing thick and maffy ; covering the other (lender mufcles. This mufcle goes to all the fingers, by the tendons (n n) which are feen on the back of the hand. In the upper figure the Ex- tenfor Communis is in its place; in the lower drawing it is cut up, and thrown out upon the table. {'97.) Extensor Digiti Minimi vel Auricularis is feen only in the lower drawing, for in the upper drawing it is covered by the Extenfor Communis. It is like a flip of the Extenfor Communis, and confequently it is cut up here along with the Extenfor Communis. The (lender tendons of the Extenfor Communis are marked (n «.) The (lender tendon of the Auricularis is marked (0.) But the fore finger alfo has a particular Extenfor, which is named Indicator, and the thumb has three Extenfors, named ift, 2d, and 3d. (98.) The Extensor Primus Pollicis is thefirft upon the edge of the arm, pafiing ob- liquely over the Radius (ggd) The Extensor Secundus is next to that; and the Extensor Tertius (ioo.) is next to that again. Thefe three Extenfors are feen fully difledted in the lower drawing, hanging loofe, and their (lender tendons diftindtly feen. In the upper drawing they are lefs difledled ; and the manner in which the three ten- dons crofs obliquely over the wrift, and the manner of their coming up to the thumb touching the great joint of it, ris well explained. It is feen here that thefe tendons are bound