OF TK'E MUSCLES. 3.12 I. Muscles lying upon the Scapulav There is feen here, the part of the Serratus Major Anticus Mufcle, (66.) which lies upon the fore-part of the cheft, which goes backwards under the Scapula, be- twixt it and the ribs; and which is implanted,, as is feen here, into all the line of the Balls of the Scapula, to pull it forwards. The place where the Supra- spina- tus (73.) lies, above the Spine, is feen filled with its mufcle in the upper drawing, and the place of that mufcle is feen empty, and with only naked bone in the lower drawing. The Infra-sfinatus, (74.) is feen both in the upper and in the lower drawing, covering, all that part of the Scapula, w'hich is below the Spine. The Teres Minor, (75.) is feen both in the upper and in the lower drawing, lying in its place not much differed, and fo little feparated from the Infra-fpinatus (74.) that it looks rather like a particular fafciculus of that mufcle, as indeed it is ; but though the Teres Minor is not in its flelhy belly eafily diftinguiffied from the Subfcapularis, yet it has its tendon very diftindt:.. The Teres Major, (76.) is neither like the Teres Minor, nor is it round as its name imports, but is a large, flat, and long mufcle which comes along with the Teres Minor, from the angle of the Scapula, and being here fully diflTedted, and hanging, flabby, it is feen, that it twifts under the Ihoulder bone, and is implanted, not like the Teres Minor, which goes into the knob on the outiide of the head of the ffioul- der bone; but low down, and upon the lhaft of the bone, almoft as low as the in- fertion of the Deltoid Mufcle; fo that the fhoulder bpne is embraced betwixt the two Teretes Mufcles, even in the natural condition of the parts; and in the aukward twiftings of a luxation, the head of the bone is often ciofely embraced and ftrangled, as it were, betwixt the two Teretes mufcles, and not unfrequently under the fub- fsapularis ; an accident which makes the bone mote difficult to reduce ; but very often the