BOOK SECOND, PLATE THIRTEENTH. i b £• of the Os Ifchium ; (s) the Sacro-Sciatic Ligament palling from the Sacrum, to the Ifchium; (t) the Spine of the Ilium ; (u) the great Trochanter of the Thigh Bone ; and (y') the lhaft of the fame bone. And the mufcles that are feen are. First, the Gluteus Medius (164.) cut'away from its origin, which is from the Os Ilium at (v) ; the great Glutseus, which rifes from the Sacrum and Ilium,, from (g) to (t) being cut entirely away. The middle Glutseus (164.) is feen to be implanted into the very Apex of the Trochanter ; the Gluteus Minimus (165.) which lies under it, rifes again from that part of the Os Ilium that forms the focket for the Thigh Bone ; and is of courfe the deepeft, and the fmalleft of thefe mufcles. Behind the Gluteus Minimus is feen the Pyriformis (168.); and the reafon of its name, taken from its Pyramidal form, is well explained; and its broad thin belly is feen coming from the hollow of the Sacrum within the Cavity of the Pelvis ; and its fmall flat tendon is feen inferted into the root of the Trochanter Major. The Quadratus Femoris, (170.) a fhort and fquare mufcle is feen coming from the tuberofity of the Os Ifchium, and implanted into the greater Trochanter. The mufcles, named Marfupiales, are feen going into the Trochanter at the point marked (y') and I do not put their right numbers (166.) (167.) upon them, left it fhould confound fo fmall a drawing. Befides, it will be eafily enough under- stood, that the white tendon, marked (j/), is the tendon of the Obturator Inter- ims, which comes from within the Pelvis, turning over the tuberofity of the Os Ifchium; and the little flelhy flips above and' below this white tendon, and inclof- ing it upon either fide, are the Gemini Muscles (166.) (167.), one above, another below the Obturator Xnternus, and all the three inferted together into the root of the Trochanter at the point (j/). A part of the Triceps Femoris is marked (161.) ; the heads of the Biceps, and of the Semi-tendinofus, and Semi-membranofus X where