OF THE MUSCLES. 12 O The is feen marked (c), coming from under the Deltoid mufcle where it rifes from the Coracoid Procefs. Its flat tendon, which expands upon the fore-arm, and flrengthens the general fafcia of the arm, is feen fpreading out over the mufcles at (J), and the ragged edges of the fafcia are feen lying out upon the mufcles, for the mufcles both above and below are differed clean, while the fafcia of the arm is left only at (d)y that the connection betwixt this fafcia and the Biceps tendon might be explained. In the lower drawing the fhorter head of the Biceps (c) is feen cut away from the Cora- coid Procefs (e), and hung up by a firing. The longer head (3) is pulled upwards by a firing, that it may be feen how it comes from under the clavicle, where it rifes within the fhoulder joint. The Coracoid Procefs whence the fhorter head arifes is marked (e), and it is feen that there are three points of mufcles flicking to the apex of the procefs ; for the little peftoral mufcle (67.) is implanted into it ; and the Coraco-brachialis (72.) and this fhorter head of the Biceps rife from it. The Brachialis Internus ('79.) is feen in both arms, lying under the belly of the Bi- ceps, and rifmg from the bone. The Coraco-brachialis (72.) is feen in both the drawings. In the upper drawing it is touched by the fhort head of the Biceps, which makes it lefs diflinfl. In the low- er drawing the fhort head of the Biceps is tucked up. The Coraco-brachialis is fully diflecled, and is left flaccid and hanging away from the arm bone ; and its ori- gin from the Coracoid Procefs (<?), and its infertion into the middle of the fhoul- der bone at (g) are both well feen.. Over the middle of the bending of the Coraco-brachialis there is feen the remains of a flat and broad tendon, (69.) flicking to the arm bone, which is the cut tendon of the great pectoral mufcle, which is implanted thus low upon the Os Humeri, to give it the advantage of a lever in pulling the fhoulder bone inwards. I have ufed the mark (69.) of the pectoral mufcle to point out its tendon. The Triceps (Bo.J is alfo well feen, efpecially two of its heads, viz. the longefl head (/jj and the fhortefl head (g), while the head which is of a middle length lies upon the back part of the bone, and cannot be feen in this view.