r* r> BOOK FIRST, PLATE EIGHTH. PLATE DO T That divifton of the Os Innominatum, which is called the Os Ilium ; where (i) marks the hollow bofom of that expanded wing, which lying obliquely outwards like the wing of a chariot, is called the Ala Ilii : the Iliacus Interims Mufcle, arifes from this furface. — (k) Is the circle called the Spine or Ridge of the Os Ilium. (/) Is the fudden lliarp point, by which the Spine ends, and which is there named the Spinous Procefs, to which the name Anterior is added, to diftinguilh it from others, which lie concealed in the joining with the Sacrum. This Anterior Superior Spi- nous Procefs has another under it fmaller and marked (in'), which is called the An- terior Inferior Spinous Procefs. It is merely a fmall Bump, over the top of the focket for the origin of the Reftus Mufcle. (11) Marks the back or Dorfum llii, from which the Glutsei Mufcles arife. U U Thefe two letters interfeft all that part of the Os Innominatum, which is called Ifchium ; where (o') marks the body of the bone, where it forms a chief lhare in the focket. (p) Marks the Spinous Procefs, which js feen through the opening of the Pelvis projecting towards the Sacrum »(y) Marks the Tuberofity or Bump of the Os Ifchium, the loweft point of the Pelvis, and the .part upon which we reft in Jsch.uA.vi fitting ; and (r) marks the Ramus, or branch of the Rafe, as it rifes to meet a like A branch of the Pubis. V Marks the third piece of the Os Innominatum, viz. the Pubis ;—where (j) is the body, where it forms part of the focket for the thigh-bone ; (t) the higheft point named Crifta Pubis; (u) points to the Symphifts Pubis, or joining of the oppoftte bones ;—(w) marks the leg of the Pubis, defcending to meet the leg of the Ifchium. The Rami of the Ifchium and of the Pubis form, with the other parts of the Os Innominatum ; firft the Arch of the Pubis ;—fecondly, the Thyroid Hole ; and the Rami are faid to meet one half belonging to the Pubis, and one half to the Ifchium, becaufe they are in fa<5l feparate in the child ; a clear tranfparent cartilage, being interpofed betwixt them. (x) Marks this Thyroid Hole; and (j) marks the Acetabulum or focket for the thigh bone.