BOOK SECOND, PLATE SEVENTH. I 27 of the ribs ; and bjT railing three ribs it is plain that they mud raife the whole cheft. The Serratus Inferior Posticus (114.) is the exadfc antagonift of this, and exaftly like it in all refpedls, only that it goes obliquely from below upwards, to pull the ribs down. It arifes by a filvery Aiming tendon like the upper one ; the tendon is very ltrong, but thinner than a llieet of paper. It ends in three heads, which are thin flat flips of flefli, infer ted into the three or four lower ribs a little beyond their angles. The Levatores Costarum, (115 .) are concealed by thefe mufcles, but are feen in the next difle&lon, Figure II. where they are feen to be in number twelve pairs corre- fponding with the number of the ribs. The nine uppermoft are feen to be fliort ; the three lower pairs are feen to pais one rib, and to take hold on the rib below. Whence they are named Levatores Costarum Longiores. / The Levatores Coftarum are thefe tw'elve diftindt mufcles, riling from the tranfverfe pro- cefs of each vertebra, and going down to lay hold upon each rib ; and fo they lie flat upon the outfide of the ribs, and keep clofe to the Spine, and are fliort. But there are befides regular plans of fibres lying in the interftices of the ribs, which go from the edge of one rib to the edge of another, and fill up the fpace betwixt the ribs and lienee are named 1 ntercostals. The internal intercc ftals exactly referable the external intercoftals. The external intercoftals only can be feen here, and they are feen bell in the left fide of figure ii. marked (116.) the three lower internal intercoftal mufcles lying upon the three lower ribs are longer than the others, juft as the lower Levators are longer; but it is not fo in the outer layer of intercoftals which (except in a few ftraggling fibres) are all of equal length. The mufcles which raife the trunk from the Hooping pofture, and efpecially the Qua- dratus Lumborum, Sacro-Lumbalis, Longissimus Dorsi, Transversalis Col- li, and Cervicalis, are explained from page 297, to page 301. and they are all. pretty diftinclly marked in figures i. and ii. In Figure I. the Longissimus Dorsi (126.) and the Sacro Lumbalis (127.) are feen only in the middle of the back; for they are covered by the Rhomboid and Serratus fupetior