BOOK SECOND, PLATE SECOND, 97 its place, defending and concealing the Arytenoid Cartilages ; or at lead the tips only of the Arytenoid Cartilages are feen (4.) peeping over the border of the Thy- roid Cartilage. (3.) The fore-part of the ring-like or Cricoid Cartilage, is feen connedled with the upper ring of the Trachea ; but leaving an interftice (i) of a triangular form, at which point, (and not betwixt the rings of the Trachea), Mr Vique D. Azir propofes Co perform the operation of Brondrotomy. Figure VIII. Shows the back view of the fame dlffedtion. The Os Hyoides is fnown in outline, and in its true polition with its fmall ligament which connects it with the upper horns of the Thyroid Cartilage ; and here it is explained how (1. 1.) the two horns of the Os Hyoideg project, far beyond the Larynx. They belong more properly tG the Pharynx, “ and liold t}>€' Pharynx extended, as we “ hold a bag open with the finger and thumb. (2.2.) Show how deep the Thyroid Cartilage is ; how fairly it inclofes the Cricoid Cartilage, and conceals and defends the Arytenoid Cartilages, and the opening which they make ; and here it is feen,, that the edges of the Thyroid Cartilages belong alfo to the pharynx, for the borders of the Thyroid Cartilage do, in faft, form part of the fides of the Pharynx ; they afiift the horns of the Os Hyoides, in keeping the bag of the Pharynx extended. And the Conftrkilor Pharingls, (44. 45. 46.) the great Circular Mufcie which embraces the Pharynx, arifes chiefly from the tips of the horns of the Os Hyoides, and from this projecting edge of the Thyroid Cartilage. (3.) .Is feen the great deepnefs of the Cricoid Cartilage behind, and it is feen by (4), how the Glottis (which is juft the opening betwixt the two Arytenoid Cartilages), is railed by this deepnefs of the Cricoid Cartilage, in its back parts. The third row of figures exhibits the more important of thofe delicate mufcles by which the Cartilages are moved upon each other; but before thefe mufcles are explained, it is neceffary to obferve the place and effect of the Epiglottis, which is well feen in figure x. and by the aftiftar.ce of this figure joined with the de- N * monftration