222 OF THE MUSCLES. The and has a deeper arch under it: for the tendons which it binds down are very numerous, and conne£ted with much ftronger mufcles than thofe on the back of the hand. The Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, (86.) lies along the ulnar edge of the arm ; is a penni- fcrm or feather-like mufcle, very flelhy ; rifes from the inner Condyle along with the Palmaris Longus, (83.) and is implanted by a ftrong round tendon into the projefting Pifiform Bone. The Flexor Digitcrum Sublimis, (87.) is a very large thick bellied mufcle. It is called Sublimis, becaufe it is the outtermoft of the two flexor mufcles. It is feen here lying in its place, thick and flelhy in its belly ; its tendons palling under the arch of the Anular Ligament, appearing in the palm of the hand, to go to all the fingers ^ there are four diftindt tendons, which are here fupported upon a blow-pipe mark- ed (m) ; and the place of the Flexor Profundus, which lies under, it is feen at (88.) In the lower drawing, the mufcles of the fore-arm are feen much freer and better. The Pronator Teres (82.) is feen in its place, thick, round, and flelhy. The Palmaris Longus, (83.) is thrown out upon the table; by which it is feen how lhort and delicate its mufcular belly is ; how long, llender, and delicate its tendon (/z), from which it has got its name. And the Palmar Apponeurofis, or tendinous^web, (/), which covers the palm of the hand, and which like the palm is of a triangular form, is here cut up and left connected with its tendon. The Upper Flexor of the fingers, or Flexor Sublimis, (87.) is fupported by a ligature, fo as to draw its four tendons nearly into a ftraight line, Ihowmg how they are fplit near the fingers, whence this mufcle is often named Perforatus. The deep Flexor, Flexor Profundus, (88.) is left at its origin. Its belly is raifed ana drawn out a little, and held extended by a pin; and the three tendons of this mnfcle are feen going through the loops, or fplits of the tendon of the Tall mufcle, whence this one is named Mufculus Perforans.