BOOK SECOND, PLATE FIRST. 83 lip ; is in the red part of the lip, but is much broader than the red part. Its fibres are grofs and ftrong, they go in a circular direftion fairly round both lips, they are not interrupted at the angles of the mouth ; they fend up a fmall flip, which palling in the furrow of the lip, and mounting upon the Septum of the Nofe, is named Nafalis, and is marked (2). (15.) The Constrictor Nasi, is here diftinftly marked running over the point of the Nofe *. (30.) Is the Temporal Muscle ; which is feen here, lying under its fafcia. The fafcia, or Tendinous expanfion of the Temple being here entire, and nothing cut away but the Membraneous Mufcles of the ear, the Anterior and the Superior Auris. (31.) Is the Masseter, -yvliich j3 a fliort, thick, and flefhy mufcle ; and to lay it en- tirely open, the Parotid Gland which is marked (£), is differed up from the cheek, fo that the head of the Maffeter is feen arifing from the Cheek Bone; and its lower end is feen implanted into the Jaw f. (?«_) Marks the Fascial Artery, or Labial Artery, as it is called, the Artery of the face, eroding over the angle of the Jaw. Thus we fee in the dead body, thofe mufcles which give form and charafler to the hu- man countenance, lying all dead and flaccid. The mouth open, the lips loofe and fhrivelled ; the angles of the mouth dropping down, the cheek funk; and the eye alfo clofed, and funk down within its orbit.—All the countenance is deformed, and the traits of individual chara&er or beauty, quite gone;'—but ftill enough re- mains to explain to us what thofe mufcles are, upon which chiefly the interefting variety of expreflion and form depends. The Occipito Frontalis wrinkles the L 2 forehead. * This is the Tranfverfus Nafi of Walther. The action of this mufcle is very diftindtly feen, in the agony of an Afthmatic fit; it is feen alfo in violent diftortion, produced by rage, or defpair. Cant compares it to that mufcle in the dog, by which he curls the Nofe, and fhows the teeth in fcarling. + This i$ fometimes called, the Musculus Mansor.