156 OF THE muscles. nus (173.) is feen in its place. The Vastus Internus (174.) is gut and thrown down, and left hanging over the knee like the ReCtus. The Sartorius (175.) is alfo cut away from the Ilium, and left hanging down along the leg. The Fascialis (156.) is feen here alfo with a rag of its fafcia conne&ed with it. The Psoas Magnus (157.) which comes from the fides of the Lumbar Vertebrae, and the Iliacus Internus (159.) which comes from the infide of the haunch bone, are'* feen turning over the fore-part of the Pelvis together to go down through among the flelh of the thigh, to the lefier or inner Trochanter of the thigh bone. The Pectinalis (160.) is feen rifing from the Pubis, and ftretching flat and direCt to- wards the thigh bone. The Triceps Longus marked (1.), as it is the firft head of the Triceps Femoris, (161.) is feen here thick, and flelhy. This covers the other two heads of the Triceps, viz. the Triceps Brevis, and Triceps Magnus; the edge of the Triceps Magnus, or third head of the Triceps, is feen here, (3.) ; but the Triceps Brevis or fecond head of the Triceps is here entirely covered by the PeCtinalis and Triceps Longus, and is feen only in the fecond drawing, where it is marked (2.) The mufcles on the back-parts of the hip and thigh, are explained in figures ii. and iii.fv. In Figure II. we have the Glutjeus Maximus (163.) hung out by a firing as in the other drawing. The Psoas Magnus (157.) croffing the brim of the Pelvis as in the former drawings ; the Triceps Longus marked (1.) defcending from the Pubis, to the mid- dle of the thigh bone ; behind that is feen the Triceps Brevis, vel fecundus, (2.) the fecond head of the Triceps, which is held as a part of the fame mufcle, though it lies behind the firft, and is of a different layer; and behind that ftill lies the Triceps Magnus (3.), which has alfo very little connection with the other heads, but it is called the third bead of the Triceps ; and there is feen the Femoral Artery marked (c) palling through the Triceps Magnus from the fore to the back part of the thigh 5 the artery is marked (c), and the tendon of the Triceps Magnus, where it is implant- ed