CF THE MUSCLES. afcend towards the Sternum, while the lower ones go obliquely downwards to the Pubis. This is the mufcle which gives that mufcular covering of the Spermatic Cord, ftrong in animals, though weak in man, which is named Cremafter. The tefticle of the right fide is torn up from the Scrotum, and thrown out upon the thigh, that the conne&ion of the Spermatic Cord with this the Internal Oblique Mufcle, might be feen; and although it could not be diftin&ly exprefted in fo fmall a figure, without exaggerating and departing from the true drawing, yet there is a conical form of the. Spermatic Cord at its upper end, which lliows where the Cremafter Mufcle joins it. TheTransversalis Abdominis, ('145.) is feen on the left fide. It looks at firft fight much like the Internal Oblique, but it is to be remembered, that the Internal Ob- lique of this fide (144.) is thrown down over the thigh. The Transverse fends aft its fibres direclly acrofs the Abdomen; and it is feen to belong to the inner furface of the Thorax, as much as the External Oblique Mufcle belongs to- the outer furface of it. (a a) Reprefent the place where the flefli of this mufcle ends, and the tendon begins ; and the tendon at this- point is ftrongly attached to tire tendon of the inner Oblique Mufcle. The letters (a «,) mark the edge where the two thin tendons adhere to form the fheath for the Rectus Muscee ; the letter (b) is placed in the fheath itfelf; the fheath is feen again on the left fide empty, and marked (3 1), with the bowels of the Abdomen firinning through the back part of the fheath, which though very denfe and ftrong, is yet thin and alnroft tranfparent.. But at the lower part (c),. it is lefs perfect, or rather is wanting ; the thinner, membrane of the Peritoneum only being found there. 4-;. Tire Rectus Abdominis, (146.) of the left fide remains in its place j it is differed on its fore-part, fo' as to flrow the tendinous interfe£iions (dd), where the fore- part of the fheath adheres; but at the back, of the fheath, (J. e.) at (£) there are. no fuch adlrefions, and though the Redtus is fo attached at the fore-part, as to be very