OF THE JOINTS. l80 many fringes of the Mucous Butts; much fat is found at each fide of the Patella at {a a), but the chief collection is at the lower part of the Patella. At ('b) figure u this fat appears peeping out from under that ligament, by which its motions are regulated ; but at (/;) in figure ii. the ligament is cut away, and all the fat is freely feen. This collection of fat and Mucous Butts makes a rifing upon each fide of the Patella, marked with a deep, and fmooth fulcus round the edge of the bone; and this hanging of the fat on each fide of the Patella, is named by Weidbright the Liga- mentum Alare Majus, where it hangs in the inner fide of the Rotula ; and Ligamen- tum Alare Minus, where it projetts lefs at the outfide of the Rotula ; (Vid. (« a) figure i.) But all this is quite arbitrary ; thefe are not ligaments, nor do they tie any other part; they are but looter foldings of the inner coat of the Capfule, where it rifes over the inner furface of the Patella, and where it holds larger globes of fat, or condutts the fringes of the Mucous Follicules. 2. The Mucous Ligament. Thefe bundles of fat are tied by a true ligament (c), which properly belongs to them. But to underhand this ligament and its names, it mud be obferved, that the two Lunar Cartilages are moveable ; that the two horns of the Lunar Cartilages are tacked together by a little Tranfverfe Ligament; and that this Tranfverfe Ligament is again connetted with the little mafs of fat, which lies under the lower border of the Patella ; and laftly, it is to be remembered, that thefe fatty bundles are chiefly intended for condutting and defending the Mucous Dutts or fringes. Now the li- gament (y) figure i. which regulates at once the pofitions of all thefe parts in the various motiQns of the joints, has been named “ Ligamentum Mucofum,” by Ve- falius, he referring it to the Mucous Membrane it is named “ the Ligament moving the Semi-lunar Cartilages” by Cheflelden; it is named, “ Ligamentum Internum ** Longitudinale,”