181 BOOK THIRD, PLATE THIRD. u Longitudinale” by Walther, becaufe of its running down exaflly in the middle of the joint; it is named not unfrequently “ Ligamentum Gracile,” from its delica- cy. Weidbright feems to call 'it (in one place at leaf!) Ci Frenulum Pinguedinis “ Glandulofseand he concludes with a queltion, whether this in place of being a diftinft Ligament be not rather a continuation of his two Aliform Ligaments. But the nature of this ligament istvery diftinft. It is a regular ligament of a very con- ftant form, and having very curious ufes ; it is a ligamem tolerably thick, but of a foft and membranous nature. It is fmall and pointed above as at ('d), where it rifes from the interftice betwixt the two condyles of the thigh bone ; it gradually broad- ens downwards, fo as to acquire rather a triangular form, terminating by a broad bafe near the root of the patella at(e e). It lies in the fore part, or rather perhaps in the centre of the joint in the middle behind the patella, and before the Crucial- Ligaments. Its balls fpreads out into two limbs (ee) ; one going to the right fide, and the other to the left,, and this forking of it is named by Walther Lie amen- tum Transversu-m Semicirculare* ; calling the upper and fmaller part of this li- gament the Longitudinal Ligament; while he names the balls and broader part of the ligament the Tranfverfe Ligament, and it is under this root or tranfverfe part of the mucous ligament that the fat which it confines is feen peeping out at (&). This ligament then, (which in place of dividing thus curioufly into Longitudinal and Tranfverfe or Alar ligaments, may be defcribed under the general title of Mucours Ligament), is of confiderable fize, being almolt of the thicknefs of the little finger, and is the part that is feen when the joint is firfl opened ; not firm and hard like thofe ligaments which tie the bones, but foft, delicate, and membranous, fit for its office of conducting the mucous duels in fafety, and regulating the motions of the fatty bun- dles. It is fmall at ('d), where it comes off from the great Sulcus betwixt the con- dyles. * So Walther names as Tranfverfe Ligament thofe parts which Weidbright marks by the names of Ligamentum Alare Majus and Minus.