OF THE MUSCLES. 126 flat tendon from the Spines of the neck and back, and are implanted quite flelhy, but Hill thin and flat, into the whole length of the nails of the Scapirla. The divi- flon betwixt the cervical portion of this mufcle, (64.) which is the Rhomboides Minor, and the larger portion coming from the Spines of the back, and which is named Rhomboides Major, (65.) is very flight. Part of the InfraSpinatus, (74.) is feen here ; the Deltoides, (71.) is alfo feen ; the Serratus Major Anticus, (66.) or great mufcle for moving the Scapula forwards, is feen lying upon the fide of the cheft, riling fiom the ribs to pafs under the Scapula, where it is implanted into the whole length of the Balls of the Scapula, exaflly oppofite to the infertion of the Rhomboides. But in Figure II. the Ser- ratus Major Anticus is reprefented again lying under the Scapula; and the Scapula, to Flow it, is cut almoft away from the trunk, and is thrown out into a very unnatural pofition, and the confluence of the feparate heads or Serrae by which this mufcle rifes from each of the ribs is indiftindlly marked. Thus the Serratus Anticus is feen to be a mufcle belonging to the Scapula; but the SeRRati Postici, (113. 114.) art mufcles of the ribs belonging chiefly to refpira- tion, and they are feen in Figure I. and thefe mufcles of the ribs are explained in the book from page 285, to page 290. The upper Serrated mufcle lies flat under the Rhomboides ; the lower Serrated mufcle lies in like manner flat under the La- tiffimus Dorfi mufcle ; but they cover the Longissimus Dorfi and Sacro-lumbalis mufcles, the lower Serratus covering their flelhy bellies, and the uppermoft cover- ing their tendons. The Serratus Superior Posticus (113.) is feen lying flat upon the fide of the neck; on the right fide the Rijomeoides covers it; on the left fide it is feen naked. It be- gins by a neat flat lhining tendon, refplendent like the colours of a filh turning in the water; and this flat tendon (which is exactly like the flat tendon of the Rhom- boid mufcle) comes from the three lower Spines of the neck, and divides into three neat fmall flelhy heads which are marked (a a), and thefe are implanted into three of