§2 OF THE MUSCLES. (7.) Levator Anguli Oris ; arifes above the dog tooth, and is thence named Caninus.— This mufcle arifes under the Infra Orbitary Hole, as the laft arofe from above it; this of courfe lies under the laft, and fo is lefs perfe&ly feen here. Its direction is different from that of the Levator Labii; as it runs more perpendicularly, or runs rather outwards than inwards. It is ftiort; two headed like the laft ; rifes properly from the Socket Procefs of the firft Grinder. It lifts the Angle of the mouth, whence its name; and it operates on both lips, whence it is named, Levator Communis. (8.) Zygomaticus Major ; arifes from the Zygomatic Procefs of the Cheek Bone ; goes inwards to the corner of the mouth ; is long, {lender, oblique in its dire&ion. It paftes over that hollow in the Cheek Bone, which is filled up with fat, and fo when the mufcle is differed, it falls into this loofe flaccid and bending form *. (9.) The Zygomaticus Minor, like it, but not always found. (10.) The Buccinator, is feen here to lie deeper ; it forms the flat part of the cheek; it arifes from the Coronoid Procefs of the Lower Jaw, and from the roots of the back Grinders. It goes forward with direft fibres, (as feen here) towards the corner of the mouth. (11.) The Triangularis, is near, fmall, triangular; its bafe arifes from the jaw, its point ends in the corner of the mouth.—It draws the corner of the mouth down, and is named Depreffor Anguli Oris, or the Depreffor Communis Labiornm. (12.) Is the Depressor Labii Inierioris Proprius. This mufcle arifes from the line of the Jaw, touches and croffes its fellow under the middle of the lower lip. They pull the lip downwards. (13.) The Orbicularis Oris, is thick, broad, and fiefhy ; forms the flefhy part of the lip; ferves this feparate part proceeding from the fibres of the Orbicularis, fo particularly as to reckon it almoft a diffcinft mufcle, a depreffor of the lower Eye-lid; faying, “ Ex confpeftu ilium habere decet. “ pro depreffore Mufculo Palpebrae Inferioris.” Cant 'd Impetus. * This Zygomaticus Major, is fometimes fplit into two infertions at the angle of the mouths