BOOK SECOND, PLATE THIRD. 1 °5 two-bellied mufcle. The belly (36.) is fixed into the Os Hyoides. The middle ten- don (Z») is feen under the Maftoid mufcle ; and the lower flethy belly lies too deep to be feen, for it rifes from the Scapula near the Coracoid Procefs. Thefe are the chief mufcles which pull the throat downwards. The mufcles which pull the throat upwards are the Mylo-Hyoideus, the Biventir, and the Stylo-Hyoideus mufcles. (37.) The Mylo-PIyoideus arifes from the whole length of the jaw Bone, from the chin to the angle; and it arifes not from the lower border of the jaw; but ra- ther from the inner furface of the jaw-bone, almoft as high as the fockets for the teeth. It is thick and flelhy; but Hill it is flat and broad ; and goes downwards in a radiated or fan-like form, to be implanted into the bails of the Os Hyoides. Within this mufcle lies hidden the Gemo-Hyoideus ; without, lies the fore belly of the Digaftric Mufcle ; the Sub-maxillary Gland (c) is an external Gland, and lies under the corner of the jaw without, (z. e.') over the Mylo-hyoideus ; the Sub- lingual Gland is an internal Gland which lies under the tongue beneath this mufcle. The Mylo-hyoidei mufcles of oppoiite fides are united to each other by a rapha or tendinous feam or line, which is feen at (z), and which goes down from the center of the chili to the center of the Os Hyoides. (40.) The Eiventeu Maxilue Inferioris belongs after all more properly to the throat than to the jaw ; it is called Biventer from its two bellies, which are indeed very dif- tinft and beautiful; one belly' (i) arifes from the root of the Maftoid Procefs, and fo is feen here coming out from under the Parotid Gland; the fore-belly (7) is feen ariflng from under the chin ; the middle tendon has the number of the mufcle ("40.) put upon it at that point where it paffes the flde of the Os Hyoides, and there it is attached to the Os Hyoides, not merely by' running through a fort of Cartilaginous loop on the fide of that bone, but alfo by running through a loop made by the flelh of the Stylo-Hyoideus mufcle, which forks at its infertion. (39.) Is the Stylo-Hyoideus coming .from under the Parotid Gland, and implanted in- to