/ 54 or THE BONES. H Marks the 3 firft Falfe Ribs, whofe cartilages run into the cartilage of the feventh rib. I Marks the Two Loofe or floating Ribs, whofe cartilages do not join the other cartilages, nor are united to the fternum ; but Hand out in the flanks, free and independent, their cartilages being buried in the thick fleih of the abdominal mufcles. K The Cartilages of the Ribs. L The Firfl or triangular piece of the Sternum. M The Second or long piece, which receives almoft all the Cartilages. N The Third peice, as it is ufually called; though it is merely Cartilage, to extreme old age.—This 3d piece N is the Cartilago Mucronata, Enfiformis, or Swordlike. O The Clavicle, or Collar Bone, as it lies upon the top of the cheil; and here it is feen how the bone by its proper pofltion, keeps off and fupports the fcapula or flioulder- blades. P Marks the lower border of the Scapula. (£) Marks the Acromian Procefs, to which the Clavicle is connebted. —(<:) is the Glenoid or Articulating Cavity, for holding the fiioulder bone ; (7f) is the Caracoid Procefs, fhowfing how it projects on the infide of the joint, in the hollow under the arch of the Clavicle.—It is plain from this pofltion , 1 of the procefs, that it fliould be felt on the breaft juft above the border of the Axilla. The bodies of the Lumbar VertebrEe, thick and maffy to fupport the weight of all the parts above. R The Tranfverfe proceffes of the Lumbar Vertebra, (dd') touch the Spinous. Proceffes, where they appear in the interftices of the Tranfverfe ones.——(eee) Mark the intervertebral fubftances, or rather reprefent the putty, which is put betwixt the Vertebrae (in making our ikeleton) to Hand, in place of the interverte- bral fubftance. S The Os Sacrum ; where (ff) reprefent the holes of the Sacrum difpofed regular- ly in pairs.—(gg) Reprefent the white lines, which were cartilaginous in the child dividing the Sacrum into five pieces, but are now confolidated into white lines of pro- minent bone particularly hard and firm (h) Reprefents the joining of the Sacrum to the Os Ilium at either fide, which joining is named the Sacro-Iliac Symphyfis. T That