38 07 'THE BONES. the Palatine Nerve and Artery, to come down from the back of the noftrils to the Palate. • _ The backs of the noftrils are formed by the rifing plates of the proper Palate Bones, and by the Pteregoid Proceffes. At the back of the noftrils, we fee, (£) the Vomer, fo named from its refemblance to a plough-ftiare, and ftanding exa&ly in the middle, for it is the partition of the nofe ; (i) the Outer Pteregoid Procefs, forming the back of the noftrils ; (£) the Hook of the Inner Pteregoid Procefs, upon which the tendon of the Teiifor Palati Mufcle turns : and a fmall tip of the Palate Bones, which is at this point covered by thefe Pteregoid Proceffes of the Sphcenoid Bone, is named, the Pteregoid Procefs of the Palate Bone. And (/) marks the appearance outwardly of the Wedge-like Proceffes of the Occipital and Sphcenoidal Bones. 2. About the roots of the Temporal Bones we have, (7;/) the Boot of the Zygomatic Procefs, where the Condyle of the lower Jaw plays ; and («) the Ridge juft before the Condyle, upon the top of which the Condyle ftands, in a dangerous fituation, almoft out of its focket when the jaws are opened wide; and which it flips over, getting into the hollow for the Temporal Mufcle, when the lower jaw is diflocated. (0) Is the Mamillary, and (/>) the Styloid Procefs, of the Temporal Bone, (q) Is the Oval Hole of the Sphcenoid Bone, for tranfmitting the great nerve of the lower jaw. (r) Is the Spinous Hole of the Sphoenoid Bone, for admitting the artery of the Dura Mater, (s) Is the hole near the point of the Temporal Bone, for the Carotid Artery. (t 11) The Crucial Ridges of the Os Occi- pitis.—(u) The Pofterior Tuber, or the Acute and Prominent Point of the Occipital Bone.—(x) The Additamentum Suturae Lambdoidalis, which joins the back cor- ner of the Temporal to the Occipital Bone. The Zygoma, as formed by the Zygomatic Proceffes of the Temporal Bone, and of the Cheek Bone, is marked (y) ; and the hollow under the Zygoma for lodging the Temporal Mufcle and the branch of the lower jaw to which that mufcle is attach- ed, is marked (ss) ; and is feen in this view on both fides full and large. PLATE