l5o OF THE MUSCLES. Peroneus Brevis, which is fo exaClly like the Peroneus Longns, that its not being feen in this view, is hardly an imperfection, the demonllration being fufficiently full. The foot is differed in Figure iii. where is feen firfl the lhort Flexor, the Flexor Brevis Digitorum Pedis (191.), cut up from the heel bone where it has its origin ; its flelhy belly is thrown out; its lhort neat tendons are going to each of the toes ; its ten- dons are perforated like thofe of the hand, for the tranfmiflion of the tendons of the long Flexor. The tendons of the long Flexor are marked (0) ; they are feen going forwards to thread the loops, made by the lhort tendons ; and there is feen conneCled with the long Flexor that lhort fupplementary mufcle which comes from the heel bone, and which being irregular in its form, is called the Mass a Carnea Jacobi Silvii (190.). The Lumbricales are too delicate to be feen in a fmall drawing like this, but they are ealily found in diflection, for they are like a continuation of the Mafia Carnea lying in the forks of the tendons. The tendon of the long Flexor of the great toe is feen here (p), efcaping from under the inner ancle, and appearing upon the foie of the foot ; and it is feen to be con- nected here (by a fmall flip of tendon) with the long Flexor of all the toes. This tendon of the long Flexor of the great toe is feen to pafs betwixt the two heads of the lhort flexor, which is marked with its proper number (191.) The AbduCtor of the little toe is alfo feen. There remain to be explained, certain mufcles which immediately furround the hip joint; and which are defcribed in the book from page 347, to 352. The Trochanters are fo named, becaufe they are placed .fo that moll of the mufclea which are implanted into them, at the lame time that they bend the thigh, turn, it alfo. Tbefe mufcles are explained by figure iv. The Pelvis is hung up by a rope, put round the Lumbar Vertebrae ; and the points of bone to be obferved as explaining, the pofture are, (j) the line of the Os Sacrum, and Os Coccygis; (r) the tuberofity ©f x.