BOOK SECOND, PLATE ELEVENTH. 147 four diftiudl tendons, but adhering to each other in the form of a fort of denfe ten- dinous membrane, very white and gliftening ; forming a fort of ftieath over the fore-parts of the Vertebrae ; having flat firings, which are thicker and ftronger, and more brilliant than the others ; but not to be. feparated (without violence1*, into the fhapes of diftindl feet. The tendinous feet of the Diaphragm (h h~), unite into the Crura at (gg), and the two Crura, growing gradually more flefhy, form at (it) the Pofterior Mufcle of the Diaphragm ; and it is here, that the fibres of ffiis pofterior or lefler mufcle crofs and mix, and furround the hole for the (Efophagus, with thofe fibres, which by their crofting, defcribe irregularly the figure of eight ; and by their comprefling the (Efophagus form a fort of Sphindter. (3.) The Central Tendon is compofed of fibres, “ which come from the vari- “ ous Fafciculi of this mufcle, and meet and crofs each other with a confufed in- <f ter-lacement which Albums has been at much pains to trace, but which Haller de- “ fcribes much more fenfibly, as Intricationes variae, et vix dicendse ; irregular and “ confufed crofting chiefly at the openings, and efpecially at the Vena Cava, the <c triangular form of which feeins to be guarded in a moft particular way.” Vid. book, page J27. And the figure (3, 3.) is repeated upon the furface of the tendon, to Ihow the various Fafciculae of the tendinous fibres, which are truely “ varise et “ vix dicendse,” and which it were not only difficult, but ufelefs to defcribe. (i) Is the Aorta, where it comes out from the Thorax into the Abdomen ; it is here flaccid, and uninjedted. Its firft branches, vi*. the Cseliac, and upper Mefenteric Arteries are feen going off at this point. It was drawn afide to ihow the hole through which it pafies, and was fixed fo by a pin. (iy Is the hole, by which the (Efophagus pafles, left empty. (m) Is the hole, by which the Vena Cava pafles through the tendinous center of the Diaphragm. T a la