142. $>** THE MUSCLES. f2.) The Lower or Posterior Muscle of the Diaphragm rifes from the loins by fmall tendinous heads, which are hidden here by the Aorta (a) paffing over them ; but the fiefhy part of this lower mufcle is feen with fibres clofely furround- ing and embracing the CEfophagus. (3.) The Middle Tendon is feen, but I do not enter upon the detail, nor pretend to reprefent the crofting of the Tendinous Fibres in this general drawing. Thus is the Diaphragm, compofed of one great and circular mufcle before, of one fmaller circular mufcle behind, and of the triangular tendon betwixt them ; and, both in its fiefhy and tendinous parts, it is perforated by feveral veffels, paffing reciprocally between the Thorax and the Abdomen. Firft, (a) the Aorta, the great artery of the trunk, paffes betwixt the Crura, or legs of the Diaphragm, which like an arch ftrides over it to defend it from pref- fure. Secondly, The CEsophagus (5), which paffes through the Diaphragm, a little above the Aorta, and a little towards the left fide. Its pafiage is by the hole (£) through the lower fleftiy belly, and through the mod fiefhy part of the Diaphragm, and the mufcular fibres of the Crura Diaphragmatis firft crofs under the hole for the CEfophagus. They furround it, then crofs again above the hole, fo that they form the figure of 8 ; and the CEfophagus is fo apparently ccmpafled by thefe furrounding fibres, that fome anatomifts have reckoned this a fort of Sphincter for the upper orifice of the ftomach. Thirdly, The Great Vena Cava ; (V) (both that branch of the Great Vena Cava, which belongs to the Liver, and that alfo, which comes from the lower extremity) goes up to the right fide of the heart, through the right fide of the Diaphragm by the hole (c)} where a part of this great vein is feen hanging down with a flaccid and open mouth ; and this hole (c), being of a triangular form, paffing in the hard tendon, and being larger than the vein requires, there is no danger of the vein being ftrangulated. Is 2