BOOK THIRD, PLATE FIRST. ijl The Coronary Ligament (<?) is juft that part of the General Capfule, which belongs to the head of the Radius. In attaching itfelf to the neck of the Radius, it feems a little radiated or purfed up at the root (V/) ; a little higher as at (c), where it goes over the plain button-like head of the Radius, it is braced very firm ; it is in- deed hard and cartilaginous, particularly hard and fmooth within ; and at this point, it is efpecially ftrengthened by two Acceffory Ligaments ; the one (/«), named the Anterior Accessory Ligament, is hardly to be diftinguifiied from the fore-part of the General Capfule, which is irregular and very lax. This Ac.* ceflbry Ligament is almoft mixed with the lower part of the Capfular Ligament being in fa£t but a ftronger band of the general Capfule, the Capfule being ftretched over the point of the Coronoid Procefs of the Ulna. But there is another ftrengthening of the Capfule, which forms a more diftintt and ftronger Acceftory Ligament for the Coronary Ligament Of the Radius : This AccefTory ring of Ligament is marked (rc), and rifes from the {harp edge of the Coronary Procefs of the Ulna. And laftly, the two Internal Lateral Ligaments, or the {Lengthenings of the Capfule by flips of Ligament, which come from the Condyle are marked (o o). There are generally two as here reprefented ; but fometimes they are united into one larger Ligament. Thefe two fmall but ftrong flips of ligament go from the inner Condyle of the Os Humeri to the root of the Coronoid Procefs, where it rifes from the body of the Ulna. The Inter-o'sseus Ligament, which paffes betwixt the Radius and Ulna, is marked fp') ; its ftringy fibres are feen, and alfo the holes by which arteries and veins pafs from the fore to the back parts of the fore arm. One particular flip of ligament marked (y), is named Chorda Transversalis Cubiti ; and is always found of this form, ftretching from the Radius below its Tubercle, to the Coronoid Procefs of the Ulna, In the lower part of the fame drawing, we have the wrift-joint, where (y) marks the Y a Scaphoid