OF TH£ MUSCLES, ICO The Sterno-Li^^^Ts^ implanted into the Thyroid Cartilage, at the point where the Crico-thyroideus (42) ends, and the Hyo-thyroideus (41) begins; fo that the Crico-thyroidseus is in part covered by the Sterno-thyroideus ; and the Hyo-thyroi- deus again looks like a continuation of the fame mufcle. In Figure X. are feen chiefly the fmall mufcles by which the Cartilages of the Larynx are moved upon each other, modulating the voice. And the chief of thefe are, firft, the Crico-Arytenoideus Posticus, and fecondly the Arytenoide- us Transve-rsus. The Crico-arytenoideus Pofticus (45), “ is a fmall pyramidal Mufcle, which rifes “ broader from the back part of the Cricoid Cartilage, where the ring is broad “ and deep ; and going diredlly upwards, is implanted with a narrow point into the “ back of the Arytenoid Cartilage. This pair of mufcles pulls the Arytenoid “ Cartilages” backwards and outward, fo that they at once lengthen and widen the flit; enlarging the opening of the Glottis. Under this lies the Crico-aryte- noideus Lateralis, the fmalleft of thefe mufcles, which arifes from the rim of the Cricoid, and is inferted into the root of the Arytenoid Cartilage, and plainly fepa- rates the Arytenoid Cartilages, and widens the'Glottis. The Arytenoideus Transversus, (43) is feen here. It is feen crofting betwixt the two Arytenoid Cartilages, going from the root of the une, to the root of the other ; its natural office being to contract, or occafionally to clofe the Glottis. The Arytenoideus Obliquus, is a very delicate mufcle which lies under this, in the L.afcrcLlii fame way that thevArytenoideus QUiqmas lies under the Arytenoideus Pofticus *. The XI. Figure explains the Conftriclores Pharyngis, and the Styloid Mufcles ; for (11) reprefents the Velum Pendulum Palati, cut off from the roof of the mouth, and * The young fcudent fhould carry the throat to his room, waft it in a handhafon, fteep and , difledt there—A piece of Anatomy, which with thefe drawings he will eafily manage, which is hardly uncleanly, and cannot but be very important. It is indeed negledted only from being thought impradticable.