T ^ -T> BOOK SECOND, PLATE SIXTH. 1 “ J 'Thefe tendons of the Perforans and Perforatus are alfo well feen in the uppermoft figure, where the perforating tendons are raifed over the blowpipe (o), and the perforated tendons are alfo fupported upon another blowpipe (m). The mufcle marked ("83 *) which feems to go with a particular tendon towards the fore- finger, as if it were a particular Flexor for the fore-finger, is merely that head of the general Flexor which goes to the fore-finger, it is a part of the Flexor Profundus ; and this particular appearance is produced merely by differing this belly a little too high up ; for this mufcle, and the Flexor Sublimis alfo, are divided or divifeable into four diftinfl bellies, for each of the four diftincf fingers which they ferve. The Flexor Longus Pollicis, (90.) is a large and ftrong mufcle for bending the laid joint of the thumb ; its tendon is feen going in under the two fhort mufcles of the thumb, and is feen again at (y) efcaping from betwixt the fhort Flexors, and going forwards to the point of the thumb. The Pronator Quadratus, ("91.) is feen lying flat upon the Interofieous Membrane which is marked (p). The mufcles of the Hand are not fully explained, but yet the chief mufcles are feen. The Abductor Brevis Pollicis, (103.^ is feen in the upper drawing rifing from the outfide of the Annular Ligament. The Flexor Brevis Pollicis, (105) is feen rifing alfo from the Annular Ligament. Another head rifes deeper in the hand, but is not feen here, there is feen only the tendon of the long Flexor, palling betwixt thefe two heads of the Ihort Flexor. The Opfonens Pollicis, ("104.) cannot be feen here, becaufe it does not move any of the joints of the thumb. It belongs only to the Metacarpal Bone of the thumb ; and of courfe it lies under thefe two. The Adductor Pollicis, (106^) or, that which carries the thumb towards the fore- finger, is alfo feen here ; but fo much under Ihadow, that it is not to be dif- tinguilhed from the Abductor Indicis, (iio.) For the Addu&or Pollicis and Abdu&oc