OF THE MUSCLES. 102 * that point of the Os Hyoides, the lower fibres of the Stylo-pharyngeus ran along- fide of the upper fibres of the middle conflridor, fo that they almoft mix. Thefe three Styloid Mufcles perform the fi-rft movement in the ad of fwallowing, for they all coincide in lifting up the throat, preffing back the root of the tongue againft the palate, (to firaiten the Arches of the Fauces ;) and confining the morfel. By comp-refiing the morfel, they pufh it down, and fo begin that adion, which is compleated by that ftrong Mufcle of the Pharynx, which is next feen. For the Constrictor Pharyngis, (55.) is a very large and flelhy mufcle, which covers ♦five inches (in length) of the CEfophagus, and pufhes down the morfel, which is already prefled by the contradions about the top of the Pharynx, and chiefly by the adion of the Styloid Mufcles. The Conflridor is fairly enough divided into three mufcles, (54. 55. and 56.) of which the upper one, which cannot be feen here,; rifes about the back of the jaws, and from the bails of the fkull, and from the root of the tongue. The Middle Constrictor, marked (55.) rifes from tips of the horns of the Os Hyoides alone, and goes in a diverging form upwards, till it almoft touches the Ikull, and downwards pretty low upon the Gullet; The Lower Constrictor (56.) arifes from the borders or wings of the Thyroid'. Cartilage, and from the ring of the Cricoid Cartilage. This is the thickeft and flefhieft of all the Conftridors ; it is very large, and goes obliquely upwards, covering the lower part of the middle Conflridor, and a fmall fpace is left, a kind of angle betwixt the two Conftridors, which is thin and membranous,, and there the tips of the horns belonging to the Thyroid. Cartilage, are faintly indicated, as fhining through the thin membrane.. The (Esophagus is frill farther covered with a fheath of mufcular fibres, which run in a perpendicular diredion longitudinally along it, till they expand at laft upon the flomach Med. Tnis fheath of mufcular fibres is called the Vaginalis Gulje, and is marked (57.) PLATE