84 OF THE MUSCLES. forehead : the Corrugator Supercilii knits the. brows: the Levatores Labioruut lift up the lip, fpread wide the noftrils, and open the mouth ; the Depreffores Labiorum deprefs the lip j the Triangular Mufeles draw down the corners of the mouthy the Zygomatic Mufcle diftorts the cheek, and the Orbicularis Oris antago- nifes all thefe, and clofes the mouth.—Thefe mufeles, while they are performing more important offices, alfo exprefs the paffions, and mark the countenance with traits never to be effaced, the true ftudy of thofe who would be Phyfiognomifts; who- talk but idly, when they fpeak of expreffion in thofe immoveable features, which are formed rather by the Contour of a bone. “ The fagacious forehead or (economical “ nofe,” are the rhapfodies of an Enthufiaft, not the ferious obfervations of a fedate man, ftudious of that fubjeft, which is interefting above all others. The Hi apes of the bones determine the general form of the face. One great mufcle, the Maffeter, gives the rounding of the cheek; the reft are all delicate and moveable mufeles ; and the great characters of die face, center round the mouth and noftrils where thefe mufeles converge- The lean and delicate face, gains in expreffion where the cheek is hollow, the angle of the mouth moveable, the lines ftrong; but in diofe who are bloated, the cheek is fuller, the lines obliterated, the delicate turnings of thought and feeling are loft ; all but the more violent drains of paffion are hur- ried in the mafs. The great lines of character, are the line of the Zygomatic Muf- cle, coming from above, and of the Triangular Mufcle coming from the chin ; and die moving point towards which they all aft, is the corner of the mouth. In chear- ful emotions the features rife all towards the eye, which becomes full and turgid., In the depreffing paffions the features fink, the eye is languid,, and the whole coun- tenance ge^ts a thoughtful ferious call. But ftill it is the corner of the mouth, that is the central point of all thefe changes. The corners of the mouth are continually fupportsd by the aftion of the Levator, ,and of the Zygomatic Mufeles ; they are raifed high in fmiling, fo as to form a dimple there. They are raifed higher in laughter, fo as to fwell the cheek, wrinkle the 3 eye