8r BOOK, SECOND, ELATE TIR.ST, "The CoRRUGATOR Supercilii (2.) arifes from the Os Frontis betwixt the Eye-brows, and lies under that Peak of the Frontalis which expands upon the back of the Nofe.—. This Corrugator may almoll be confidered as merely a flip of the Orbicularis Oculi (3.) ; for in faft the fibres of the Corrugator go round the orbit with the upper- .fibres of the Orbicularis Oculi, and mix with them, fo as to form the upper edge of the Orbicularis ; and thence the names of Corrugator and Orbicularis are fome- times interchanged*. £5.) f Is the Levator Labii Suterioris, and Ala: Nasi ; This mufcle arifes by a fmall double Tendon, from the Nafal Procefs of the Upper Jaw Bone, and has one little flip (y) going into the Ala Nafi for dilating it; and another (f) going into the upper lip, for drawing it upwards J. \ 6.) Levator Labii Superioris Proprius, arifes from the Jaw Bone at the very edge of the Orbit, and above the Infra Orbitary Hole §. It has two flips of fibres, one {g) coming from the bone, from under the Orbicularis Mufcle, and another flip, y-j) which is continued from the lower fibres of the Orbicularis Mufcle itfelf. So this is a Biceps Mufcle; it lies fuperficially; it draws the middle of the lip up- wards ; it is often named' as a Biceps or two headed Mufcle ||. L 7. Levator * Walther, in his description of his own and Sanflorin’s Plates, draws into the explanation of this Corrugator Mufcle, all the upper part of the Orbicularis Oculi; as if it were but a part of the Corrugator. f It will be obferved here, that the fuite of the numbers 1, 2, 3, See. is not regularly followed, fcecaufe it was impoffibk to explain abfolutely every mufcle in any fett of drawings, however full. J “ Maxime hunc in ufum habent illi, qui detra&ores con tern ptorcfque funt aliorum, et forte haec w verba in uno vel aTtero eundum mo turn excitabunt.-” $ This is the Mus-cuuus Pyramidalis of Walther. || Euftachius draws the mufcle with thefe two heads. Albinus deferibes the little head (h), a3 a diftinri part of the taufde, both in his explanation of Euftachius, and in his own plates. Cant ob~ ferret