I49 BOOK SECOND, PLATE ELEVENTH. (2.) The Transversalis Perinali, (151.) rifes along with the Eredtor; from the Tu- ber Ifchii (a), it croffes the deep hollow which is betwixt the Ifchium and the Anus ; and is fixed into the backmoft point of the bulb of the Urethra. OO The Accelerator Urinal, (152.) is a double mufcle ; or a pair of mufcles one ly- ing upon each fide of the bulb of the Urethra, fo that the whole fairly furrounds the bulb. And indeed this tumor of the bulb feems chiefly formed to favour the a&ion of the Accelerator Mufcle ; and the two flender and horn-like tendons of the Accele- rator are feen plainly turning off from the cavernous body of the Urethra (b) to go out upon the cavernous body of the Crus Penis (e), by which hold it plays more powerfully upon the bulb. We feel the a&ions of this mufcle very plainly in the throwing out of the laft drops of urine, as well as in the ejaculation of the Semen , and its great power of throwing the Semen to a diftance has been afcertained by ex- periments, fuch as Ihould not be repeated, nor mentioned, indeed, except in that language in which they were told. “ Conftat enim per experimenta, ob turpitudinem “ non repetenda, multo longius femen de fano et dudum cafto homine profelire u quam abeft uterus.” The Sphincter Ani (153.), is feen furrounding the open- ing of the Anus. Wounds of thefe mufcles are attended with no degree of danger, nor followed by any kind of incapacity, but yet it is very manifeft, that fince the incifions for Lithoto- my Ihould be made in one regular and uniform line, thefe mufcles will be cut by every dextrous operator in one certain way and the naming them wrong mull be a mark either of ignorance of thefe parts, or at the leaft, of a bad irregular operation. Now, as the aim of the Lithotomill is to get into the bladder by that great hollow which lies betwixt the Tuberofity of the Os ifchium (a), and the Anus (J) ; the incifion mull pafs exa£lly in the middle betwixt the Tuber and the Anus. for entering the Vagina. What a pity it is that the illuftrious author had not afcertained this curious angle ! for we Ihould naturally conceive, at leaft from what we fee after our injedtions, that the Penis when in full eredtion, ftood up to the Pubis as clofe as it could lie.