»F THE JOINTS, iSS the {3.) The Anterior Ligament of the outer ancle is for tying the outer ancle to the Afh'agalus, as the perpendicular one ties it to the heel bone. It goes fometimes in two diftimft bands, as reprefented here. Very often they are fcarcely divided ; it ap- pearing as one ftrong uniform ligament, white and gliftening, palling obliquely for- wards from the lowelt point of the Fibula to the neck of the Aftragalus. Thefe three are the chief ligaments of the ancle ; and the order of ligaments which come next, is of thofe which tie the Aftragalus to the Os Calcis and to the Os Navicu- lare. 1 ft, (a) Is a ligament, or rather two or three ligaments, which crofs the great hole, which, in the drawings of the bones of the Tarfus, is marked uTith a pencil thrufl up through it. This is called the Cavitas Sinuofa; and fo thefe irregular ligaments are named Ligamenta, or Aparatus Ligamentosus Cavitatis Sinuos®. They are merely irregular ligaments, lying deep in this hollow, and tying the Aftragalus to the Os Calcis. 2d, (£) Is a ligament which ties the Aftragalus to the Os Naviculare. It begins at the neck of the Aftragalus ; touches the Os Naviculare; goes ftill forwards, and fpreads a little upon the cuneiform bones ; and, from this expanding form, is named Liga- mentum Latum. Though there are feveral bands of ligament on the inner fide, they are not fo particular, nor fo formal in their fhapes or ufes, as to have any ap- propriated name. 3d, (c) There are ligaments tying the Os Calcis, in its turn, to the Os Naviculare and to the Os Cuboides. The letter (c) is placed upon that prominent point of the Os Calcis whence thofe ligaments go off; and they go fomewhat in a ftar-like form, juft as I have drawn them, and not very diftindt. And thofe bands which go up- wards tie the Os Calcis to the Os Naviculare;—thofe which go downwards tie it to the Os Cuboides; for the chief articulation of the heel-bone is with the Os Cu- boides. 4th, (d) There goes a little flip of ligament, not much noticed from this fame point of