174 OF THE JOINTS. is exceedingly fliallow, or where rather the bony margin, of the focket is wanting, and its place is fupplied by a Ligamentous fubftance. (4.) Is the Capfular Ligament of the hip, which is the ftrongeft in all the body. The thick cut edges of the Burfal Ligament are feen here ; and the ligament is feen to come off at (%), from the Cartilaginous borders of the Acetabulum, being truely (as it is explained in the defcription of this joint) a continuation of the Perichondri- urn, or membraneous covering of the Cartilage, confifting of two Gancefce, one of which comes from the Internal Surface of the Socket, while the other comes from the outer furface of the bone, and both of them are condenfed into the Burfal Li- gament. (5.) Is a ftrengthening of the General Capfule, or what may be called the Acceffory Ligament, coming down from that little Bump which is named the Inferior An- terior Spinous Process of the Os Ilium ; and this Acceffory Ligament is bell feen in figure ii. where the Capfule is preferved entire, chiefly for the purpofe of fhowing this ftrengthening or fupplementary band. (6.) Is the Central Ligament, which is commonly called the round ligament, though it is truely of a Triangular form; riling by a broader balls at (6.) from the center of the focket, and implanted fmall, neat, and round into that dimple which is feen in the drawings of the thigh bone, in the very center of its globular head ; indeed the dimple made by the infertion of this ligament is well feen here at (7.) (8.) In the deep part of the focket, where this figure is placed, we fee dimples irregu- larly hollow, which axe the beds for lodging the Mucous Ducts of the joint, or what has been called, though not truely, the STnovial Gland ; and at thefe hollows there are Frenulse, or little tongues of the inner membrane of the focket, which hold thefe Mucous Duds in their place ; there are alfo little Frenulse round the neck of the bone, efpecially at its root, which condud the Mucous Duds, which lie there,. Thefe are the Frenulse, or little ligaments, which I meant to enumerate in page 446,.