59 BOOK FIRST, PLATE NINTH. FIGURE III. The Tibia. *X*HIS is a drawing of the right Tibia, feen from before. The upper end belonging to the knee is large and broad, and is likened to the trumpet end of a pipe. The lower head belonging to the ancle is fmall, and has one projecting point, viz. that which forms the inner ancle, and which is thought to refemble the flute-mouth of a pipe. The whole Bone has the triangular or prifmatic form of the Ulna and Radius. (l._) Is the Upper head of the Tibia belonging to the knee joint; where (h) marks a lit- tle tubercle or riling, which divides the two articulating furfaces from each other. It is from the back part of this tubercle, that the crofs ligaments of the knee joint arife. (f i) Mark the two lunar hollows, upon which the two Condyles of the thigh bone reft, and in which the femilunar or moveable cartilages of the knee joint lie. (£) Is that rough circle which bounds the articulating furface, and from which the Capfular Ligament arifes. (7) Is the tubercle or bump of the Tibia, upon which we reft ia kneeling, and into which the great fore tendon called the Ligament of the Patella is fixed : and (m) is the prominent ridge of the lhin, which begins from this tubercle, and goes downwards in the waving form of an Italic f. («) Is that part of the Tibia which receives the upper end of the Fibula. (2.) Is the middle part of the Bone, which is of a triangular or prifmatic form, and the figure (2) is repeated upon each of the three angles. (3.) Is the lower and fmaller head of the Bone belonging to the ancle joint; where (n) marks the fmooth hollow which receives the bones of the foot, and which is named (like the articulating furface of the Radius), the Scaphoid, or Boat-like Cavity of the Tibia. (0) Marks the projefhon or procefs of the inner ancle, which guards the joint, preventing luxation inwards. (/>) Is the fmall cavity on the fide of the Tibia, which receives the lower head of the Fibula, in the way that is reprefented in next plate. H 2 FIGURE 1