8o OP THE MUSCLES. general appearance, the thinnefs and delicacy, and the undefined con- nections of the mufcles, are well exprefled ; and it is to be particularly noticed, that the Levator Anguli Oris (7.) is not fo true in the engrav- ing, while it is, I believe, very true and correct in the outline. {1.) Is the Occipito Frontalis, which covers the Occiput and forehead, with its two flefhy bellies, and the crown or top of the head with its thin flat tendon. The Occi- pital Belly is not feen here. The thin Tendon fometimes miltaken for the Pericra- nium, is marked (a) ; the Frontal Belly is marked (Z>) ; or rather there are two Frontal Bellies marked (££). Each Frontal Belly fends a fmall flip of fibres, ora peak, down upon the back of the Nofe marked (c) *. The Frontalis is conneded chiefly with the Ikin, but little with the bone; is chiefly for furling up and wrink-’ ling the Ikin of the forehead. (2.) Is the Corrugator Supercilii, more conneded with the Orbicularis Oculi, than with the Occipito Frontalis, and lying under the Occipito Frontalis. (3.) Is the Orbicularis Oculi ; arifing by a fmall white Tendon (d), from the Nafal Procefs of the Jaw Bone. Its fibres go in regular circles round the eye, and they are continued circles which return to the white Tendon in the corner of the eye, whence they firft arife ; the whole mufcle is thin, flat, broad, very diftind, fliuts the eye-lids, comprefies the eye, fqueezes out the tears f. The * This Nafal Peak of the Occipito Frontalis is not the flip which is fixed into the Os Frontis; that lies deeper, while this Nafal Peak is fuperficial, runs down the back of the Nofe, expanding upon it, and forming with the mufcles below a fort of fafcia, or Tendinous expanfion, which covers the Nofe This Nafal dip is implanted rather into the Ikin of the Nofe, and wrinkles it; while the General Mufcle corrugates the Ikin of the forehead. t The whole of what we call the Orbicularis Oculi, is named by Walther, Corrugator Oculi; and he feems to divide it into an upper and lower portion, by the names of Mufculus Semicircularis Palpebrse Superiors, and Mufculus Semicircularis Palpebrse Inferioris,