OF THE MUSCLES. 128 i’uperior mufcles above, and in the fame way by the Serratus inferior Pofiicus be- low ; but in figure ii. the three great mufcles of the Spine, viz. the Quadratus Lumborum (125.) the Longissimus Dorsi (126.) and the Sacro-Lumbalis (127.) are feen quite uncovered, and in their whole length ; for their tendinous origin in the loins at (b), their middle bellies at (126, 127.) and their long tendinous infer- tions at (c), are all diftin&ly feen ; and alfo their connexion with the Cervicalis Descenders (128.) is explained. The Quadrates Lumborum, (125.) which is cut away bn the right fide, is feen dis- tinctly on the left fide, arifing big and flelhy from the Spine of the Ilium, and infert- ed partly into the tranfverfe procefies of the loins, but chiefly into the lowed; rib. The common tendon of the Longifiimus Dorfi, and of the Sacro-Lumbalis, is feen at (b); it is a firm, thick, and Itrong origin, which is thus entirely tendinous without, but flefhy within; it rifes from the Sacrum, Ilium, and tranfverfe procefies of the Vertebrae, and fills up all the hollow upon both fides of the Spine. The belly of the Sacro-Lumbalis (127.) parts from the belly of the Longissimus Dorsi, (126.) at the top of the loins, nearly oppofite to the loweft rib. The Longifiimus Dorfi keeps clofer by the Spine, and is inferted by a double row of \ tendinous feet; but they lie fo under its own belly, and under the belly of the Sa- cro-Lumbalis, that they are hidden from the view. The tendinous feet of the Sacro- Lumbalis are well feen, fpreading out wider from the Spine and attaching themfelves to the ribs; and thefe tendons marked (c c) are feen in figure i. lying flat and regu- lar, each in its right place; but in figure ii. they are more differed, are torn up a lit- tle from the flat furface of the ribs, and hang fomewhat loofe and flaccid. On the right fide of the neck is feen the Cervicalis Descendens, (12%.) rifing from the tranfverfe procefies of the neck, going down to be implanted tendinous into the back, (i. e.') into the ribs. The Cervicalis is inferted under the upper tendons of the Sacro-Lumbalis, and the Longifiimus Dorfi, on the other hand, is feen to fend a de- licate flip of tendon up into it; fo that the Cervicalis feems equally conne&ed with both