OF THE MUSCLES. " 2 ' Obliquus 13° ['he riling flip of the LongilTxmus Dorfi has led to this explanation of the Tranfverfalis, and of the Cervicalis Defcendens ; but naturally before thefe, there fhould have been explained the two larger mufcles which cover them, viz. the Splenius and Complexus, which are bell feen in figures i. and iii. In figure i. are J'een, the Splenii (n8.) ftraight and flat, lying along the fide of the neck, like the legs of the letter V. and in the interftice or place of their forking, is feen. the chief belly of the Complexus, (119.) where it is implanted into the Occiput, lying under the Splenii. In figure iii. the Splenii are cut away, the Complexus only is feen,. the chief belly of the Complexus where it is implanted into the Os Occipitis is marked with its proper number (119.) ; while its feet (partly ten- dinous and partly fieftiy), by which it rifes from the Tranfverfe Proceffcs of the. neck and back, are marked (« f). The mufcles belonging exclufively to the Spine, are next feen in figure iii. for the chief of them are thefe two, Firft, the Spinalis Dorsi, (131.) or long mufcle be- longing to the Spinous Proceffes of the back. It runs along the whole back from 4 fpine to fpine; it is very flender and almoft entirely tendinous, and is marked’ ■with its- number, (131.J Secondly, the Multiiidus Spin^e, (133.) which is a . confufed mixture of tendon and flefti, but thick and maffy enough to fill all the hollow over the Oblique Proceffes of the Vertebrae, and betwixt the Spinous and Tranfverfe Proceffes. Three of the four fmall mufcles which perform the quick turning and nodding motions- of the head, are explained upon the head, figure iv. where the two fmall mufcles- called Recti Capitis are feen difiecled fairly, and laid over a blow-pipe ; and here it will be obferved that the two Recti Minores (121.) are fmaller, and lie deeper betwixt the Atlas and the Scull; that the Rectus Major ('122.) is not, as its name implies, a ftraight mufcle, but is truely oblique. One of the Oblique mufcles is alfo ftiown here, for there are two oblique mufcles, fome\vhat like the Real or ftraight ones. The Oblique Mufcle (123,) which is here lhown, is the