OF THE MUSCLES. 153 The Vastus Externus (173*) making all the flelh on the the outfide of the thigh. The Vastus Internus (174.) making that culhion of flelh, which is fo prominent upon the inner fide of the knee joint, and which makes fo particular a mark in the drawings of the thigh : and all thefe three nrufcles, viz., the Reclus, Vaftus Exter- nus, and Vaftus Internus, are inferted together into the Patella, which is marked (<). Then the Sartorius 175.) is feen riling from the higheft point of the Os Ilium ; crof- fing the thigh, long and llender like a ftrap, and bending down the Vaftus Internus. Mufcle. The head of the Gracilis (176.1 where it rifes from the Pubis is here feen ;—next to that is feen the firft head of the Triceps (161.) ; and next to that the Pectinalis (160.) with the artery of the thigh lying flat upon its belly. Thefe are the chief mufcles on the fore part of the thigh 5 they are naturally covered with the Fascia, or broad tendinous expanfion, marked (f), and the Fascialis Muscle, which, from its making this vagina tenfe, is named Tenfor Vaginae Femoris ; is marked with its appropriated number (136.), and is drawn out along with the fafcia, and is feen riling from the fame point of the Os Ilium, from which the Sar- torius rifes. In the Leg, (g) marks the Tibia j and the mufcles are. The Gastrocnemius, (181.) The ^Tibialis Anticus (187.), which comes from the fore part of the Tibia, crofles the ancle obliquely, goes over the fide of the foot to be implanted into the root of the great toe; and this is the tendon which makes that lharp angle on the fore-part of the ancle where the buckle lies. The Extensor Pollicis (i 96.) lies next to the Tibialis, and its tendon pafles like that of the Tibialis Anticus under the Annular Ligament of the ancle, which is marked (&) ; and next to the Extenfor Pollicis lies the Extensor Longus Digitorum Pedis (193.) which lies deeper ftill, and more towards the outfide of the.leg. Its tendons are feen going out to each of the toes, and thefe tendons are accompanied with the 3 tendons