BOOK FIRST, PLATE TENTH. 6j (2‘) TheOs Calcis lies under the Aftragalus, and is the large!! of the Tarfal Bones,, rap- porting all the weight of the body; and here thefe points chiefly are feen.— ('e)The tip of the bone, which looks upwards, receiving the Tendo Achillis, or great Back Tendon. CO .The loweft rough point ; the point of the heel upon which we Hand.——- (g) The head, by which the Os Calcis is joined to the Os Cuboides, marked (7.) the Os Cuboides being received at this part into a large hollow focket of the Os Calcis. (3.^) Is the Os Naviculare or Scaphoides, whichhas been fo named from its refemblance to a boat. But if there be any fuch refemblance it is eflfe&ually concealed in all thefe' views. The Os Naviculare has rifing edges and a fair round focket, which is turned towards the Aftragulus (1.) to receive the large round head of that bone. (4, 5, and 6.) Are the Cuneiform or Wedge-like Bones ; and in this view the fquare ex- ternal furfaces chiefly are feen ;—and thefe Cuneiform Bones, ought juft to be rec- koned limply according to their order, the firft, fecond, and third cuneiform bones7 beginning with that which fupports the great toe. (7.) The Os Cuboides is a large fquare or cube like bone, as its name implies, but by no- means a regular cube It forms a large ftiare of the Tarfus, and fupports the Me- ta tarfal Bone of the Little Toe. The Cuneiform Bones are lefs eafily underftood, and I have therefore made a fecond drawing of the foot. Fig. V. (where the fame letters and marks are ftill preferv- ed,) in which 1 have lhown the point of the Cuneiform Bones, the Metatarfal ones being taken away. In this figure the faces of the Cuboid and of the Cuneiform Bones are direftly feen. And it is underftood why they are called Cuneiform or wedge-like bones, for the upper furfaces marked (4, 5, 6,) are broad and fquare ; while their lower furfaces at (*) are fmall and pointed ; Thefe fmaller ends of the wedges being turned inwards cr towards the foal of the foot. In Fig. IV. (b) marks the five Metatarfal Bones; fo named from their being placed on the