OF THE MUSCLES. I5& little belly of the Plantarls, crofles the joint with oblique fibres ; comes from the Condyle of the thigh bone; is inferted into the back of the Tibia, and fo bends the knee. In the legs of both drawings, the following deep feated mufcles are feen. In the firft leg, the deep mufcles of the toes which lie under the Tibialis Anticus, and they are all extenfors of the toes. In the fecond leg the deep mufcles which lie under the ( Gaftrocnemius and Solaeus ; and they are all flexors of the toes. In Figure I. is feen ([m), the place upon the fore-part of the Tibia, from which the flelhy belly of the Tieialis Anticus is cut away, fo that the next mufcle the Extensor Follicis (196.) is feen, which is a long, penniform, and very ftrong mufcle ; and its long tendon is feen going to the great toe. Behind that again, lies the Extensor Longjjs Digitorum Pedis ('193.J, which has its flelhy belly lying behind the Extenfor Pollicis ; and its four tendons are railed over one leg of the compafles, fo as to expofe the fliort flexor which lies beneath, uporr that part of the foot where the buckle refts ; and which is feen beginning by a fmall head (ti), from the heel bone. Behind the Extenfor Digitorum lies a third mufcle, which is like a flip of the Extenfor, but its tendon does not run into the toes. It is fixed into the fide cf the foot at the root of the little toe, it is therefore a bender of the foot, and from its riling from the Fibula, Is named Peroneus Tertius (194.) And Laftly, in this figure, a part of the PeRoneus Longus (T84.J is feen, a mufcle which rightly belongs to the other fide of the leg, and the tendon of whick. pafifes behind the outer ancle, to go down into the foie of the foot. In Figure II. are feen, in like manner, all the long flexors of the toes and foot. Firft the Tibialis Posticus (186.) begins with a ftrong fifcfhy belly upon the back part of the Tibia ; is penniform like moft of thefe long mufcles of the leg ; and fends a long tendon doivn behind the inner ancle, which runs in a particular ring of the Ligaments that are behind the ancle ; and, getting into the foie of the foot, is fixed; hy many fpreading roots into the feveral bones of the Tarfus. The: