Rook SECOND, plate THIRTEENTH. 159 The FleXor Longus Digitorum Pedis {183.) lies immediately behind this; is like it in all points ; lends its long (lender tendon down alio behind the ancle in its own peculiar ring, but, palling the bones of the Tarfus, it divides into four tendons, which go to each of the leflfer toes. The Flexor Longus Pollicis Pedis (188.) is the appropriated mufcle of the great toe. It has a large fle(hy belly, a very llrong big tendon, and runs by the inner ancle in its own peculiar ring. Now it is to be noticed, that this Flexor Pollicis, though the flexor only of one Angle toe, is much bigger than the common flexor of all the toes. It is even bigger than both thefe, or the Tibialis Pofticus, which is the great mufcle of the foot. The meaning of which is very plain ; viz. that thefe mufcles of the toes are to be confidered not fo much as mere benders of the toes ; for when we obferve how little the toes move, and how much walking confifts in rifing upon the ball of the grea4 toe, we (hall regard thefe mufcles rather as benders of the whole foot. It is by the power of thefe mufcles, that we beat the ground in each ftep in walking, for in walking each pufh in carrying the body is made by the prefting of the ball of the great toe againll the ground; and thefe mufcles all prefs down the ball of the great toe. In making the ftep, thefe flexor mufcles of the toe, and foot, are chiefly aflifted by a mufcle belonging to the other fide of the leg, I mean the Pe- roneus Longus (184.), which rifes not like thefe, from the back of the Tibia, to pafs behind the inner ancle, but from the whole length of the Fibula, whence it's name of Peroneus, and pafies down in a ring behind the outer ancle ; and this llrong tendon which makes the (harpnefs behind the outer ancle, and gives (hape to the leg, is here drawn out with a firing juft where it is defcending into its Iheath or ring. Thus all the mufcles which bend the foot, and fo taife the body at each ftep, are dif- tindlly feen in this difledtion ; viz. The Gastrocnemius (181.) the Solieus (182.) and the Plantaris (183.); the Tibialis Posticus (i8<») Flexor Digitorum (189.) Flexor Pollicis (188.) and Peroneus Longus. (184.) There is but one more, the a Peroneus