t>4 ©F THE BONES. (£) the fecond,—(/) the third rank , M FIGURE VI. Q . . cHows the foot in profile, and explains particularly well the large head of the Aftra- galus (d'). Thefe drawings are juft half the fize of nature, whence it may eafily be un- S . derftood how large this head of the aftragalus is ; — as large fully as the head of the ftioulder bone :—and the focket of the Os Na viculare, (3), into which this head of the aftragalus is received, is both larger and'a deeper circle than the Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula, into which the head of the ftioulder bone is received. The manner in which the procefs (c) of the Aftragalus is joined with the Os Calcis, (2) fo as to allow of a ftiuffling motion, is alfo explained here. The great length of the firft bone, or Metatarfal Bone of the great toe (h) is alfo to be obferved, becaufe it is fome- times to be cut away ; and it fliould not be forgotten that it goes very deep into the foot. The fmall bone, commonly called Sefamoid Bone, from its refembling, or being thought to refemble, a grain of Sefamum (though it is much larger), is feen here at (m) lying under the ball of the great toe, where it is conne&ed with the tendons of the ftiort flexor mufcles of the great toe. There are commonly two under the ball of each great toe, and there are occafional Sefamoid bones under the other toes, and fometimes under the great joint of the thumb. The feveral Phalanges, as they are- called, or ranks of bones in the toes, need not a- gain be explained. The only important point remaining to be explained, is the double arch of the foot; for there are two arches. Firft (n) the great and general arch; the two points of which are the tip of the heel, and the ball of the great toe. Thefe points alone of all the foot touch the ground.—The elafticity of this arch, proceeding from its nu- merous bones and their joinings, gives a fpring and eafe in the ftep ; and the arch the Tarfus. — (i) Marks the firft rank or phalanx,— of the bones of the toes. is