BOOK SECOND, PLATE THIRTEENTH. I37 ed ifito the inner Condyle of the thigh bone, is marked (d) ; fo that the artery paffes through the Triceps from the fore to the back part of the thigh, only a little above the knee. The root of the Semi-membranofils (178.) is feen at (e), where it rifes by a thick and flefhy head from the Tuberofity of the Os Ifchium; the lower end of it where it is attached to the head of the Tibia is cut, and hangs down at (/). The oppofite Ham-ftring Mufcle the Biceps (180.) is feen ; its bellies are marked with the proper number of the mufcle. Its longer head is feen riling in common with the Semi-membranofuS from the Tuberofity of the Os Ifchium at (g) ; the longer head is marked (g), but the Ihorter head of the Biceps which rifes from the back of the thigh bone, is marked (Z>) ; the place where the long and the Ihort heads of the Biceps Femoris unite and mix their fibres is marked (i) ; and the tendon of the Biceps which forms the outer ham-ftring is marked (£). All the ham, or the back part of the knee-joint, is now expofed by the throwing dowa. of the conjoined mufcles, :_the Gastrocnemius Externus (181.) and the Sol^eus, (182.) which are left only at their infertion by the great Achillis Tendon (/), which is fixed into the heel bone; and the Gaftrocnemius and Solaeus being thu3 thrown dowrn, the two curious mufcles which lie in the ham are expofed, viz. the Plantaris (183.) which rifes from the outer Coadyle of the Os Femoris, has a very fmall delicate flelhy belly, like that of the Palmaris Longus. It has alfo a fmall round tendon like it, the fmallell and longelt in the body, not grofler than a fiddle-ftring ; which going down along the inner furface of the GaftrocnEemius, and making an imprefiion upon the inner furface of the great Achillis Tendon, accompanies it to the heel, where it is implanted along with it. The other fmall mufcle is the proper mufcle of the ham, which is thence named Mus- culus Poplitahus It is a beautiful triangular mufcle, which lies exaftly upon the back part of the joint as a fort of guard to the Capfule, and like a check band for fupporting the knee. It comes from the outer Condyle along with the little