BOOK SECOND, PLATE FIFTH. 113 the joint is not at all embraced by the mufcles, but is quite loofe and moveable, and its being eafily reduced, is rather perhaps to be conlidered as a fign of the joint being much hurt and all thefe mufcles torn away. (71.) Is the Deltoides, the laft mufcle which proceeds from the Scapula on this fide of the arm. It is feen here riling from the Spine of the Scapula («), from the tip of the Acromion Procefs (7>), and alfo it has an origin from a part of the clavicle. It is feen here implanted in the arm bone at (d), about one third down. In the upper drawing it lies in its place ; in the lower drawing it is cut up and turned backward, to Ihow the head of the bone, and the infertion of the Teres Minor. But there are Hill two other mufcles which rife from the Scapula, to be implanted into the arm bone, vi%. the Subscapularis, (77.) and the Coraco-brachialis, (72.) which are both feen in the next plate. II. The Mufcles moving the fore-arm, and which lie' upon the arm, are the Triceps and Anconeus behind, and the Biceps and Brachialis Internus before. The Triceps (80.) was once defcribed as three mufcles, but is now accounted as one mufcle, having three heads ; (y) the firft, a long head, which rifes from the lower edge of the Scapula, near the Glenoid Cavity; and, coming down betwixt the Teres Major, and the Teres Minor Mufcles (75.) and (76.) meets the fecond head which is Ihorter ; for the fecond head of the Triceps (f), rifes from the Ihoulder bone, a little below the head of the bone, ahd takes a long origin from almoft the whole length of the humerus. In thefe two drawings, the firfl: and fecond head only of the Triceps is feeu ; but in the next plate, the third or fhorteft head (g) of the Triceps is feen, coming rather from the inner fide of the bone, and lower down. The Anconeus, (81.) or Mufcle of the Elbow, is a fmall mufcle not very eafily found nor underflood. It lies exactly upon that part of the elbow on which we reft in lean- ing upon the arm. It is feen in the upper drawing only, and is marked with its number (81). P (78.) The