21 BOOK SECOND, FLATS SIXTH. The mufcles of the Fore-arm, i. e. all the Flexors of the hand, fingers, and thumb, are fhown here ; in the upper drawing, they are in their natural pofition, in the lower drawing, they are feparated for demonftration, and feme of them, are hung out. In the upper drawing, the mufcles of the fore-arm are few and fimple, lying regularly in their places ; and fo are eafily underllood. One mufcle belonging to the outfide of the arm is feen here, viz. the Supinator Radii Longus, (92.) the belly of which is feen lying upon the Radial edge of the arm, above the elbow ; the next to that is the Pronator Teres, (Si-) It rifes at (h)v from the internal Condyle ; is implanted into the Radius at (7), and turns the hand prone, (i. e.') flat down. It is called Pronator Teres, becaufe it has a round flelhy belly, very oppofite in Ihape to the Pronator Quadratus ; for the Provator Quadratus, (91.) which is feen in the lower drawing is of afquare form, lying flat upon the Inter-olTeous Membrane, riling from the Ulna, implanted into the Radius, and having only one dired office, viz. that of turning the Radius. The next mufcle to the Pronator Teres, is the Flexor Carpi Radialis, (85.) or the bender of the wrift, on the fide of the Radius. Its head is covered in part by the expanding tendon of the biceps at (d) ; then the reft of the mufcle is naked ; and its long tendon is feen as it goes along the Radial edge of the fore-arm marked (&). The Palmaris Longus, (83.) is a long, {lender, and delicate mufcle; it is merely a bender of the wrift ; and comes by a fmall head from the inner Condyle of the Hu- merus, and its fmall tendon runs down the middle of the arm till it touches the Anular Ligament of the wrift, to be implanted into it. This Anular Ligament I have marked (*) ; but though it has the fame mark with the Anular Ligament on the outfide of the arm, it is not a continuation of the fame Ligament, nor is it like it; but is a fhort, thick, and very ftrong ligament palling acrofs from the Pifiform, to the Scaphoid bone of the Carpus. It is lhorter and ftronger than the Anular Ligament of the outfide ; it has a firmer origin from two particular bones, o. and