OF THE MUSCLES. SB central point from which the mufcles rife, or in other words, the true place of the Optic hole by which the Optic N erve enters, and from the margins of which all thefe niufcles rife. This Will be eafily explained by the marginal plate, which fhows the holes within the focket; the pofition of the eye with regard to thofe holes, and fo explains the relative length of each of the mufcles. ill, The eye is placed in the focket, as I have reprefented by the circle (a), not direct- ly in the middle, but a little to one fide. The eye does not look out from the Orbit in the direftion of the Axis of the Orbit; for the axes of the twa orbits meet almoft in the bottom of the focket, eroding in the Celia Turcica, * but both the eyes look direclly forwards. The plane of the fore part of the Orbit being oblique, and falling off towards the temple, while the eye looks directly forwards; the axis of the Orbit, and of the eye can not coincide f. This is the reafon of the Pupil, being nearer to one angle and not in the center of the focket, for which we have the bell authority, that of meafuring the eye when we pleafe. But the authorities of books on this point are thefe ; Heifter makes the Pupils diftant three inches from each other. Camper makes the Pupils diftant two in- ches and a half. But the eye being compared not with the other eye, but with its own focket, it is found that the center of the Pupil is eight lines from the outer angle of the eye, and feven lines from its inner angle J. Thefe are my rules for placing the eye in its focket, in this plan. And the eye being thus regularly placed, we find by this drawing, (not geometrically true, but ftill fuflicient for proving and illuftrating fo plain a matter as this is,) that the Foramen Opticum and the larger end of the Foramen Lacerum are much above the center of the orbit, and towards the inner fide; whence it is plain that the Optic Nerve in going towards the ball of the eye, moves a little outwards and defeends. And it is alfo . very * Camper. f Winllow, Academie des Sciences. t Petit Acaaamie des Sciences.