BOOK SECOND, PLATE SEVENTH, J-29 both of thefe mufcles, but it is rather more beholden to the Longiffimus Dorfi, for this flip ; while the accident of the Cervicalis riling under the tendinous feet of the Sacro-Lumbalis makes hardly any connexion. On the left fide again there is feen, the Transversalis Colli (129.); which riling from the Tranfverfe Procefles of the back, afcends towards the Tranfverfe Pro- cefles of the neck; it is rather ftrong and fleihy, has little connexion with any other mufcle ; the Cervicalis Defcendens lies under it, while this the Tranfverfalis is in its turn covered by the Splenms and Complexus *. R The * There are three flender mufcles in the neck, which are in danger of being confounded, viz. the Trachelo-mastoideus, ^Transversalis Cervicis, and the Cervicalis Descenders. It is impoffible to give a perfect drawing on fo fmall a fcale, nor indeed is it poflible by any drawing, f to reprefent them fo that they fhall be eafily found, and diftinguifhed; perhaps they will beft be found by following this order of dilfedtion. 1. The Trapezius and the Rhomboides, the two large flat external mufcles belonging to the Scapula, are to be cut away ; and then the Serratus Superior where it covers the lower part of the Complexus is to be raifed. 2. The Splenius and Complexus are •to be diflefted and laid alide; and 3. the Trachelo-maftoideus, and the two other mufcles come into view. Of thefe, First, there lies immediately under the Complexus the Trachelo-maftoideus, large and fleihy, riling from the Tranfverfe Procefles in the back and lower part of the neck, by tendinous and fleihy feet, and going obliquely upwards and outwards till it is implanted fleihy into the Maftoid Procefs; and though it is more fleihy than the two mufcles which come next, it ftill is fo much a mix- ture of tendon and flelh, as to be named the Complexus Minor.—Secondly, There is the Transver- salis Cervicis, which lies immediately under the Trachelo-maftoideus, keeps clofe to the Spine, i. e. lies in the hollow by the fide of the Spinous Procefles. It rifes from the Tranfverfe Procefles of the back to be implanted in the Tranfverfe Procefles of the neck; is immediately covered by the Trachelo-Maftoideus; and covers in part the Cervicalis Defcendens.—Thirdly, there is the Cer- yicalis Descendens, which lies more to one fide than the Tranfverfelis Cervicis; it therefore iies more properly under the Trachelo-Maftoideus ; its feet or tendinous origins begin from the tips of the Tranfverfe Procefles of the neck, juft where the feet or fmall tendons of the Levator Scapulae begin ; it is very flender and is a confuted mixture of tendon and flelh, being chiefly ten- dinous, though it is fleihy in part. It is necelfary to give this warning, that not even the large!!; drawing can make this piece of difieftion perfedtly eafy ; perhaps it may be the eafier for this de- feription and arrangement.