BOOK SECOND, PLATE FIFTH. only in figure ii. where it is feen lying clofe upon the Inter-ofieous Ligament, riling from the Ulna, going acrofs to be inferted broad and flelhy into the Radius, and turning the Radius upon the Ulna, fo as to throw the palm upwards. The two next mufcles keep alfo very exadlly to the Radial edge of the arm ; belong to the wrill; are the extenfors of the wrilt on the Radial fide of the arm ; and are named Extenfores Carpi Longior et Brevior. (93.) The Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior, riles from the arm bone juft under the place of the Supinator Longus (92.) ; has a ftrong flelhy belly like it; and its long tendon accompanies the long tendon of the Supinator, and is implanted near the root of the thumb, at (k~)f to bend the wrift back. (94.) The Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior, rifes alfo from the Ihoulder bone, but lower, and thence it is Ihorter; but it is in all other refpeds like the former ; like it has a lhort thick flelhy belly; a long and flender tendon, running along the wrift, is implanted into the back of the hand, at the root of the fore-finger, at (/) ; and like the former it bends the wrift backwards. Thefe three mufcles, the Supinator, and the two extenfors, form tire chief flelli of tire fore-arm juft under the elbow joint, and the three bellies make three dimples and three curious fwellings, which are drawn by the painter with great care, for they make the chief marks of the fore-arm ; and the true drawing of the fore-arm (in its bendings and fore-lhortenings, and efpecially in its ftrong exertions of pulling or grafping,) confifts chiefly in the right placing of thefe three bellies, where they cover the joint; and it is the riling belly of the Supinator, which (in the drawing),- joins the fore-arm rightly to the arm. Thefe three mufcles are feen lying in their places in the upper drawing, but flaccid. In the lower drawing,, the Supinator, (92.) is cut away, and the place, whence it was cut out from the arm-bone, is marked with its number (92.), while the long Extenfor (93.) and the lhort Extenfor (94.) are both left in their place ; but they are much difiefted, and allowed to hang P 2 over