BOOK SECOND, PLATE SECOND. IOI and hung out by firings; (o) is the Uvula or Pap, in the centre of it; (p) is the Anterior Arch of the Palate ; (q) is the Poflerior Arch ; (r) is the Tonfil lurking betwixt the arches at the fide of the root of the tongue ; (y) is the tongue; (i.) is the Os Hyoides ; (2.) is the Thyroid Cartilage ; (3.) the Cricoid Cartilage ; (6) the Thyroid Gland; (t) the Trachea ; (u) a piece of wood thrufl up through the CEfophagus, and appearing again in the throat at the back part of the tongue ; and the great conflri&or mufcle, is feen going in waves round this piece of wood ; or in other words, courfing round the upper part of the (Efophagus, i. e. the Pha- rynx ; and (v) is the laid point of this demonflration, and the mofl important, for it is the Styloid Procefs, whence (39.) (53-) and (53.) the three Styloid Mufcles arife *. The mufcles then which are to he feen in this drawing of the throat are, 1. The fet of the three Styloid Mufcles; 2. the Conflriclor Pharyngis ; and 3. the Vaginalis Gulte. The Styloid Mufcles are, the Stylo-glossus (58.) arifing from the forepart of the Styloid Mufcle, and going forwards into the fubflance of the tongue, firetching forwards into its point for drawing it back into the mouth. The Stylo-hyoideus (39), which begins rather from the backpart of the Styloid Procefs, and goes here into the fide of the Os Hyoides, being flender at its be- ginning, and broad towards its infertion, as all the Styloid Mufcles are. The Stylo-pharingeus (53.) lies behind or under the Stylo-hyoideus ; for it lies clofe upon the Gullet or Pharynx, expands upon that part of the bag where it is held extended upon the horns of the Os Hyoides ; fo that the Stylo-pharyngeus, when it expands upon the Pharynx, touches the horn of the Os Hyoides, which is marked (#), and as the middle conflriflor of the Pharynx arifes efpecially from that * The Stylo-gloffus I had defcribed in my book of the mufcles; but after claffing it in the general arrangement, I had forgotten it in the defcription of individual mufcles.