93 OF THE MUSCLES. monftration of figure vi. the fucceffion of parts is very fairly explained.—1. The Os Hyoides.-—2. The Thyroid Cartilage.—3. The Cricoid Cartilage follow each other in figure vi—4. The Arytenoid Cartilages, figure vii. and viii.—5. The Epiglottis, figure ix.—6. The Thyroid Gland, figure vi.—7. The rings of the Trachea, betwixt which rings, and below the Thyroid Gland, the operation of Bronchotomy is to be performed. This x. figure then compleats thofe connections of the parts of the throat; and the effects of accidental wounds, or of the attempts of Suicides, or of our operation of Bronchotomy will be eafily underftood. Suicides in their attempts very com- monly cut fo high in the throat, immediately under the jaw, that they feldom wound the Carotid Artery; nor do they even hurt the more material parts of the throat; for they flrike fo high, (commonly above the Thyroid Cartilage), that they do not touch the Trachea, nor injure the Glottis. They only cut off the Os Hyoides from the Larynx; they do not fo properly cut the throat as the tongue ; and when the food paffes by the wound, it does not come from a cut of the CEfophagus acrofs the Trachea, but comes merely from the root of the tongue. Thefe Lateral views explain alfo how idle it is to talk of performing Bronchotomy above the Thyroid Cartilage, fince the Thyroid Cartilage is not in the Trachea, and fince the obftruftion is below that point, being commonly in the Thyroid Gland, whcih is here marked (6).— Mr Vique D’ Azir is not more correct in his Anatomy, where he advifes Bronchotomy to be performed betwixt the Thyroid and Cricoid Carti- lages, in the Triangular Membranous fpace marked (£) : for, that is exactly by the fide of the Sacculus Laryngis, or Sac of the Larynx, a mucous fecreting bag, which lies here on the infide of the Trachea ; and the Trocar would lie almoft in the opening of the Glottis, or fo near it, that the irritation could not be endured. The Larynx cannot bear the operation of Bronchotomy, becaufe it is moveable, furnifhed with many mufcles that are eafily excited ; and the lead irritation near the Glottis, throws them into violent contractions. But the Trachea itfelf, can eafily bear to be transfixed