OF THE JOINTS. 176 is feeti here {liming through the Capfule of the joint, (i) Marks the Capfule of the joint itfelf, thin and delicate at this point (by the fide of the Patella). (£, Marks the oreat Internal Lateral Ligament, which is fometimes named Ligamenxum Latum Internum, from its great breadth. It is not merely a flrengthening of the common Capfule, as the Lateral Ligaments of the elbow-joint are, but is a firm and diftind ligament, bright and gliilening with filvery lights upon it like mother of pearl, of full three inches in length, very regular and formal, of a triangular fiiape, rifing by a broad bafis from the inner Condyle of the thigh bone, inferted by a fmaller and more pointed end into the head of the Tibia ; and ftretching down the bone, fo as to mix gradually with the Periofteum, and with the General Fafciae or Tendinous Expanfions, which go out over the fore parts of the Tibia. And that it may be underftood, how little this Ligament is connected with the Capfule, and how fairly it is entitled to the name of Lateral Ligament, I have differed it fo as to thruft a piece of Bougie (/), under the middle of the ligament, where it pafles over the middle of the Capfule. Behind this at (m), there is a band of ligament lying, and in the direction of the greater ligament, which might almofl be named as a lefier Internal Lateral Ligament, but which is defcribed only as a flrengthening of the greater one. Figure IV. at the fame time that it explains the Pofterior Ligaments, reprefents alfo the Lateral Ligaments on the outer fide of the joint. (a) Marks the thigh bone; (£) the Tibia; (n) the Fibula; (z) the Burfal Ligament of the joint, fo cut as to expofe the inner Condyle of the thigh bone, naked and filming. This Burfal Ligament is {Lengthened every where behind, by irregular firings of li- gament pafiing over it in all directions, but chiefly oblique, and one of thefe ob- lique Fafciculi or bands is generally fo very ftrong, as to deferve the name of Liga- mentum Pofticum. So I have marked the irregular Fafciculi (0), and I have marked the more formal Ligament the Ligamentum Pofticum Winflowii (/>). The*