6lasoow preeeiiteD 30114012759968Jm t 1t»AS ( 51^ / Pastry Sandwiches—KoU out some good puif paste tiU it is as thin as a wafer, and cut it into two pieces the same size and shape. Lay one of these on a buttered baking-tin, and spread over it lightly some fine fruit jelly. Place the other piece of pastry on the top, press it lightly with the fingers, mark it in squai-es where it is afterwards to be cut, and bake it in a moderate oven. Sift powdered sugar over the sandwiches before serving them, and arrange them on a neatly-folded napkin, or cut them when cold into narrow strips, pile them in a circle on a dish, and pour whipped cream into the middle of them. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, without the cream, 8d. Sufficient, a quarter of a pound of paste will make a nice supper dish. Pastry Sandwiches (another way).— Roll out two squares, one of almond paste and the other of puff paste, to the same size and thickness. Lay the puff paste upon the almond paste, press them lightly with the fingers, and cut them out together into shapes. Brush beaten egg over them, sprinkle powdered sugar upon them, and bake them in a moderate oven. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2d. each. Pasty, Forcemeat of {see Forcemeat of Pasty). Pasty of Fresh or Preserved Fruit. —A pasty is distinguished from a pie or a tart, because it has pastry both under and above the fruit. It may be baked either with or without a plate. When no dish is used, roll the pastry out thin, and stamp it into a small round shape, spread the jam, or slice the frixit, upon half the round, and turn the other half over it. Moisten the edges with a little water, press them securely together, and bake the pasties in a moderate oven. Sprinkle powdered sugar over before serving. Time to bake, according to size. A pasty made of fresh fruit will require baking a little longer than one made of jam. Pasty, Potato {see Potato Pasty, Modem). Pate Brisee {see Crust, Pate Brisee). Pate de Gibier, or Game Pat^. Su- perlative.—Bone four partridges, or if they are to be had, take two partridges and two grouse; variety is always acceptable in game pasty. Cut up a hare, and season it as well as the partridges with salt and cayenne. Put inside each of the partridges a good-sized truffle and a portion of forcemeat, prepared as follows : Mince finely and separately, and then mix thoroughly, one pound of calf's Uver, and the livers of the birds and the hare, all of which must be cooked apart; add three pounds of fat bacon. Season this mixture with salt, cayenne, and mixed savoury herbs, pound it in a mortar, and afterwards mix with it a pound and a half of truffles. Make some pastry, and mould it to the proper shape, according to the directions already given {see Paste for Raised Pies) ; cover the bottom of the pie with a layer of slices of fat bacon, place upon this half the hare and half the forcemeat, then put in the partridges, two with their breasts upwards and two with their breasts downwards, place the remainder of the hare and the forcemeat upon them, and cover tho whole with a good slice of bacon fat and two bay-leaves. Put the lid on the pie, ornament it prettily, and bake it in a good oven for four hours or more. When it has been drawn from the oven, and is almost cold, pour into it, through a hole made in the centre of the lid, a quarter of a pint of dissolved gravy-jeUy, which has been made by stewing the bones in water and mixing the stock with a little isin- glass or gelatine. Probable cost, varying with the price of the game. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Pat^ of Fish.—Boil and mash smoothly, with an ounce of butter and a spoonful of milk or cream to each pound, as many potatoes as will make a border about three inches high within the rim of the dish which it is intended to use; three pounds of potatoes will be suffi- cient for a moderate-sized dish. Raise this border, ornament it in any fanciful way, then brush it over with beaten egg, and put it in a hot oven until it is lightly browned. Have ready some hot crab, or some fish stewed in sauce, and when the potatoes are coloured put in the preparation, and serve very hot. To prepare the fish—Take two pounds of cold boiled fish, which has been picked care- fully from the bones and broken into small pieces, warm these in a pint of good white sauce, nicely flavoured and seasoned; stir it gently over the fire until the fish is hot, then turn the whole into the hollow in the centre of the potatoes. If no stock is at hand, the white sauce may be made as follows:—Simmer the bones of the fish, with a handful of parsley, an onion, stuck with one clove, half a blade of mace, and a pint of water, until the liquid i? reduced one-half; strain it, and mix with it four table-spoonfuls of thick cream, season with salt and cayenne, and thicken with a little flour and butter. It is then ready for the fish. To prepare the crab—Pick the meat from the shell, mix with it the eighth of its bulk in finely-grated bread-crumbs, and season with salt, cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg. Pound the mixture in a mortar, moisten with a little gravy, which has been thickened with flour and butter, add a table-spoonful of sherry, and stir the preparation over the fire until it is quite hot; squeeze the juice of a small lemon over it, and it is ready for use. Time to warm the fish in the sauce, until it is quite hot, with- out boiling. Probable cost, according to the nature of the fish. Sufficient for five or six persons. P^te of Foies Gras.—These pasties, 80 highly esteemed by epicures, are made at Stras- burg, and thence exported to various parts. They are prepared from the livers of geese, which have been tied down for three or four weeks to prevent them moving, and forcibly compelled to swallow, at intervals, a certain amount of fattening food. When they have become so fat that they would die in a short time, they are killed, and their livers, which have become very rich, fat, and pale during the process, are used for the above( 61« ) PAT PAT purpose. Those pates are very expensive. A good iiuitutiou of thoni may be made without subjecting the unfortunate geeao to the cruelties desui-ibod by following the direc- tions here given:—Take the livers from three line fat geese, such as are ordinarily brought to market, and in drawing the birds bo careful not to break the gall-bag, as the contents would impart a bitter taste to the livers. Carefully Tomovo any yellow spots there may bo upon them, and lay the livers in milk for six or eight hours to whiten; cut them in halves, and put three halves aside for forcemeat. Soak, wash, and scrub, and peel three-quarters of a pound of truffles, carefully preserving the cuttings. Slice a third of them into narrow strips, like lardoons, and stick them into the re- mainder of the livers three-quarters of an inch apart; sprinkle over them a little pepper, salt, and spice, and put them in a cool place until the forcemeat is made. Mince finely, first separately and afterwards together, a pound of fresh bacon, a third of the truffles, the halves of the livers that were put away for the purpose, two shallots, and eight or ten button mush- rooms ; season the mixture with plenty of pepper and salt, two or three grates of nutmeg, and half a salt-spoonful of powdered mar- joram, and keep chopping until it is quite smooth. Make the paste according to the direc- tions given in Paste for Raised Pies [see Paste for Eaised Pies). Cover the bottom of the pie with thin rashers of ham, fat and lean together; spread evenly on these one-half of the forcemeat, then put in the three livers, with the slices of truffle stuck in them, and afterwards the remainder of the forcemeat. Intersperse amongst the contents of the pie the remaining quarter of a pound of truffles, and cover the whole with two or three more slices of ham or bacon. Put the cover on the pie, ornament as fancy dictates, brush it over with beaten egg, make a hole in the centre for the steam to escape, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, two hours or more. Probable cost, iincertain. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Pate of Poies Gras, Mock {see Calf's Liver). Pate of Macaroni—Put six ounces of the best macaroni into a saucepan, with a moderate-sized onion and three pints of boiling water, seasoned with half a salt-spoonful of salt and half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and let it simmer gently for twenty minutes; dram it well put it back into the saucepan, with half a pint of broth, and lot it simmer again until the onion is absorbed and the maca- roni tender, but unbroken. Place a layer at the bottom of a deep pie-dish, sprinkle over it a dessert-spoonful of grated Parmesan, and put little pieces of butter hero and there upon it ; cover it with beef-steak which has been seasoned rather highly, stewed until tender in good brown (rravv, and then cut into small thin pieces. A pound of beef-steak wiU be sufficient for this quantity of macaroni. If preferred, fncasseed chicken, minced veal, sweetbread cut into dice, or mushrooms, may be substituted for the beet, but they must aU be stewed in rich gravy before they are put with the macaroni. Fill up the dish with alternate layers of macaroni and moat, and let the upj>enno8t layer be composed of macjiroui; sprinkle an ounce of Parmesan oyer the top, and pour over it lialf an ounce of clarified butter, then put tlie dish into a Dutch oven, Ixjfore a clear fire, or into the oven, and •when the cheese is dissolved the pate is ready for serving. Time to bake, five or six minutes. Probable cost, 'is., if made with steak. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Patience.—Patience is the name of a plant which closely resembles spinach, and which is easily cultivated and very productive, though it has of late years fallen into comparative disuse. As it is particularly mild in flavour, the addition to it, at the time of cooking, of a small propor- tion of sorrel, or of true spinach, will be found a great improvement. It is prepared as follows:— Tear the mid-rib out of each leaf, lea\'ing only the green part. Wash the leaves in two or three waters to free them from grit, put them into a very large saucepan, with half a pint of water, or just sufficient to keep them from burning, press them down well with a wooden spoon, and let them boil until they are perfectly tender, then drain them thoroughly, and mash them well, seasoning them with pepper and salt. Put them into a clean saucepan, with a little butter, "and stir the preparation over the fire until it is quite hot. Put it on a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Time to boil, ten minutes. Probable cost uncertain, patience being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, a pailful for three or four persons. Patissiere, Cream {see Cream Patissiere). Patties.—Recipes for making the following patties wiU be found under their respective headings:— Beef Macaroni Cheese Makrow Chicken Meat Dresden Mince for Eel Mutton Fish Oysters Game Oysters with Ham and Chicken Mushrooms Ham and Eggs Shrimps Jam Sweet Lemon Turkey Lobster Veal. Patties, Fried.—Prepare some good puff paste, and roll it out to the thickness of about a quarter of an inch, stamp it with a pastry- cutter into rounds an inch and three-quarters in diameter, place a tea-spoonful of minced meat between two of these, moisten the edges, pinch them securely, and frj' them in plenty of fat until they are crisped and lightly browned. Thoy should be placed in a ^^•l^e drainer, plunged into the fat ^yhen it is boiling, and wcU drained from it before they are served. The following is one amongst many of the preparations which may be put int^ the patties :-Minco finely six ounces of cold dressed veal, and twelve ounces of j'oilcd ha^, add an egg, boiled hard and chopped small, and s^son «fe mixture with a 1 ttle pepper. salt powdered mace, and grated lemon-nnd.PAT PEA ( 519 ) moisten it with a table-spoonful of thick cream and one of good gravy. It will then be ready for use. Time to fry the patties, twelve to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 2d. each. A dozen are required for a dish. Patties, Pried Bread.—Cut three or four sUces,an inch and a half thick, from a stale quartern loaf. That called by bakers a sand- ■svich loaf answers excellently for the purpose. Cut the slices into rounds an inch and thi-ee- quarters in diameter, and make a tolerably deep incision at one end, a quarter of an inch from the edge, to mark the Ud and the part which is afterwards to be scooped out for the admission of the meat. Fry the bread in plenty of boiling fat or dripping imtil it is lightly browned all over, drain it from the fat, take off the top, and remove the crumb from the middle, and put in its place the prepared meat. Serve on a neatly- folded napkin. Fry until the patties are equally and lightly browned all over. Time to fry, about twelve minutes. Probable cost of cases, Id. each. Sufficient, a dozen for a dish. Patties, Gravy for {see Gravy for Patties). Patties, Monks'. — Make some good puff paste, and line as many patty-moulds as are required, according to the directions already given. Pare a large truffle, and mince it very finely; mix with it the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs cut into dice, half a salt-spoonful of seilt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and as much powdered mace as would cover a threepenny-piece. Moisten the mixture •with a table-spoonful of thick cream. Put a smaU portion into each patty, place the cover on the top, press the edges securely, and pinch them with a pincers. Bake in a tolerably brisk oven. If preferred, half a dozen button mush- rooms, stewed in butter, and afterwards chopped small, may be used instead of the truffle. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 2d. each. This quantity is sufficient for three or four patties. Patties, Preparation of.—Patties may either be baked in patty-pans or without them. They are usually made with puff paste, and filled with savoury ingredients of various kinds. They should be baked in a brisk oven. If made in patty-pans, lightly grease the pans. Make the pastry according to the directions given for puff paste, and roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Line the moulds with this, fill them ^.*J\ flo^. or place a crust of bread in the middle of them, put on the cover, trim the pastry evenly with the moulds, moisten the edges, press thorn together, and mark them with the prongs of a-fork, or with scissors. Hake in a moderate oven. When done enough, raise the covers, take out the crusts, and return the patties to the oven lor a minute or two to dry. Before serving, put the proper meat into the place where the bread has been. When made without moulds, roll out the paste as before, and cut it into an equal number of rounds, an inch and three- quarters m diameter. Place half of these on a huttered baking-tin, moisten the edges, place a tea-spoonful of the proper forcemeat in the centre of each, and cover if with another of the rounds, press the edges securely, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake in a brisk oven. Patties, whether served hot or cold, should be arranged on a folded napkin. Time to bake, twelve to fifteen minutes, Patty-pans {lee illustration accompanying the article on Almond Puffs). Peach.—The peach is amongst the most delicious and most highly-esteemed of our fruits. It differs from the nectarine in being covered with a soft down. This fruit, both when fresh and when preserved, is excellent for the table. The young leaves and the kernels possess an agreeable flavour, and may be used in cookery for flavour- ing purposes. When a peach is of superior quality and in good condition the skin is thin, and very lightly covered with down, the stone small, the pulp firm though full of a delicious juice, and the colour deep and bright on one side {see also Nectarines and Peaches). Peach. Cakes (a pretty dish for a Juvenile Party).—Divide carefully the yolks from the whites of four eggs; beat the yolks thoroughly, and mix with them six ounces of finely- powdered and sifted loaf sugar, a small pinch of salt, and a few drops of almond flavour- ing. Beat these ingredients thoroughly for a quarter of an hour, then dredge in gradually six ounces of fine flour, and afterwards the whites of the eggs, which have been whisked to a solid froth. Beat the mixture five minutes longer, then drop it, in small roimds of uniform size, either upon a buttered and floured baking- tin or upon a sheet of thick cartridge paper; bake in a brisk oven until they are lightly browned. The cakes must be carefully watched or they will be too highly coloured. When they are sufficiently baked, spread a little peach jam upon the under parts, and stick the cakes together in two, so that they will re- semble as nearly as possible a peach in size and shape. Cover them over very thinly with a little white icing, made by beating the whites of two eggs to a firm froth, and then mixing with them half a pound of finely-sifted loaf sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice, the whisking being continued until the Liquid looks thick, smooth, and white. Let the icing dry, and, if liked, brush over one side of the cakes with a little water, coloured with cochineal, to make them look more like peaches. Serve the cakes neatly arranged on a glass dish, with whipped cream in the centre. Time to bake, eight to twelve minutes. Probable cost, 2s, 6d. per pound. Peach Cream Ice.—Divide twelve ripe peaches into halves, blanch the kernels, and put them, with the fruit, into a stewpan, with a syrup, made by boiling six ounces of loaf sugar in half a pint of water until the sugar is dis- solved. Stir the contents of the saucepan over the fire until the fruit is reduced to pulp, then press it through a hair sieve into a basin. Add three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine, dissolved in half a pint of water, a pint of whipped cream, and three or four drops of prepared cochineal. Put the cream into an ice-mould that has a cover, and when it begins to thickenPEA PEA ( 626 •) stir it well. When it is quite thick put on the cover, and spread some Luttor over the opouing, so that no water may got into it. Lot tho ice and saltpetre be at least three inches thick around the mould. When quite firm the poach ice is ready for serving, but should remain till wanted. Probable cost, 28. 6d. per pint, with poaches 2d. each. Sufficient for nearly throe pints of ice. Peach Cream Ice (another way).—Boil a dozen ripo poaches in syrup, and rub them through a sieve, as directed in tho last recipe, Mix with the pulp a custard, made of half a pint of milk, the yolks six eggs, and three ounces of sugar. Add two or three drops of cochineal to impart a pink tinge to the prepara- tion, and freeze as directed in the preceding recipe. It may remain in the ice till wanted. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pint, with peaches 2d. each. Sufficient for a quart of ice. Peach Fritters.—Make a smooth batter as follows :—Mix four ounces of fine flour and a small pinch of salt with two table-spoonfuls of oil, or one ounce of dissolved butter, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Add very gradually one gill of tepid water, and beat the mixture with the back of a wooden spoon until it is smooth and thick. Put it aside for an hour or two, and twenty minutes before it is used add the whites of the eggs, which have been beaten to a firm froth. Skin, halve, and stone a dozen ripe peaches, dip them into the batter, and fry in boiling fat until they are crisp and lightly coloured. Drain them well, and serve piled on a dish, with a little ■whipped cream round them. If preferred, the cream may be omitted, and the fritters served on a napkin, with powdered sugar strewn thickly over them. Time to fry the fritters, eight or ten minutes; to drain them, five minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Peach Jam or Marmalade. — Take the peaches when quite ripe; skin, stone, and divide them into quarters, put these into a preserving-pan, and stir the fruit over the fire until it is quite soft. Kub the pulp through a coarse sieve, beat it well until no lumps remain, weigh it, and mix with it an equal weight of powdered loaf sugar and a fourth part of the kernels, blanched and bruised. Boil the mixture for a quarter of an hour, stirring and skimming constantly. Pour the jam into jars, cover these in the usual way, and store in a cool, dry place. Time, about half an hour to reduce the peaches to pulp; a quarter of an hour to boil them with the sugar. Pro- bable cost, uncertain. Peach Jelly.—Peel, divide, and stone a dozen ripe peaches, and boil them and the bruised kernels for a quarter of an hour, in a thin syrup, made of ton ounces of sugar and half a pint of water. Flavour tho syrup with the grated rind and strained juice of four lemons, strain it through a jelly-bag, and add to it an ounce of dissolved isinglass or gelatine. Pour it into a mould, which should be set upon ice until tho jelly is sufficiently stiff to turn out. The fruit from which this jolly is made may be served as a compQte, with a little red currant-juice added to the syrup. Time, a quarter of an hour to simmer the fruit. Pro- bable cost, 28. a pint. Sufficient for a quart mould. Peach Water Ice.— Pare, stone, and quarter half a dozen ripe peaches. Put them in a syrup, made by boiling a pound of loaf sugar, with a pint of water, tho white of an egg, beaten to a firm froth, and one peach kernel, for five minutes. Let the peachcB simmer until they are quite soft. Press them through a fine hair sieve, and add to the liquid tho strained juice of two small fresh lemons and two or three drops of cochineal. Freeze in the usual way. Time to boil the peaches, varying with the quaUty. Probable cost. Is. 8d. with peaches at 2d. each. Sufficient for four or five persons. Peaches, Bottled. —Pare, halve, and stone the poaches. Place the halves in per- fectly dry wide-mouthed bottles, and cover them entirely with a thick syrup, made by boiling a pound of loaf sugar in three-quarters of a pint of water until the sugar is dissolved. Cork the bottles, and tie them down. Wrap a wisp of hay round them to prevent their knocking against each other, and place them side by side in a deep stewpan, with cold water up to their necks. Let the peaches boil gently for a quarter of an hour after the water has reached the boiling point, then lift the saucepan from the fire, and do not remove the bottles until the water is almost cold. Seal the corks, and store in a cool dry place. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to 6d. each. Peaches, Brandied.—Stew some very fine, ripe, well-flavoured peaches, in a syrup of seven otinces of sugar to half a pint of water, turning them often. When tender, put them, with the sjoTip, into new jars or wide- mouthed glass bottles, leaving space on the top for brandy, which should be poured in when the fruit is quite cold. A few peach or apricot kernels may be blanched and added before the bottles are corked. Average cost of peaches, 28. per dozen {see also Peaches Preserved in Brandy). Peaches, Compote of.—Divide six or eight ripe peaches into halves. Make a syrup, by boiling six ounces of loaf sugar in half a pint of water for eight minutes. Put in the fruit, and let it simmer gently for five minutes. Drain tho peaches from the sjTup, take off their skins, and put them into a compote dish. Add to the sjTup a dessert-spoonful of lemon- juice, or, if procurable, two table-spoonfuls of red currant-juice. When lemon-juice is used, two or three drops of cochineal should also be added, to colour tho syrup slightly. Let it boil three or four minutes longer, then pour it over tho peaches. Blanch three or four of the kernels, split them in four, and place a quarter here and there upon tie fruit. Sen-e either hot or cold. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to 6d. each. Suffi- cient for six or eight persons. Peaches, Compote of (another way).-- Boil together for ten minutes half a pint of water and five ounces of sugar. Let the sugarPEA ( 521 ) PEA be of the best. Put half a dozen fine ripe peaches into the syrup. Take off the skins, and remove the stones if their absence is do- sired. Simnier very gently for about twenty minutes, but not so long if the fruit be <iivi<ied to take out the stones. Put the fruit on a dish; but reduce the syrup by fast boiling, and boil a few of the kernels, blanched, with it. Serve either hot or cold. Peaches, Compote of (another way). Pai-e, halve, and stone half a dozen ripe peaches, and simmer until they are soft enough to be pierced by a needle, in a syrup, made by boiling a quarter of a pound of sugar in half a pint of water for a quarter of an hour. When done enough, put them into a dish, and pour half the syrup over them. Throw into the other half of the syrup two pounds of ripe peaches, which have been pared, cored, and sliced; add four ounces of sugar and a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and simmer the fruit, stirring it constantly, until it is reduced to a firm, smooth, dry pulp. Spread half of this in a smooth layer at the bottom of a glass dish, pile the stewed peaches in the centre, fill the spaces between them with the remainder of the marmalade; then reduce the half of the sjTup which was first taken out until it is quite thick, and pour it upon the fruit. Garnish the dish with macaroons, blanch and slice the kernels, and strew them equally over the surface. Time to prepare, one hour or more. Probable cost, 3s. or 4s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Peaches, Plane of; or Peaches in a Raised Crust.—Make three-quarters of a pound of good short crust, and roll it out until it is half an inch thick. Butter well the inside of a mould, and Kne it with the crust, pressing the crust so that it may take the form of the mould. Pinch the part that rises above the mould with the pincers, fill the case with flour, and bake in a moderate oven. When the crust is firm, remove the flour, carefully take the case out of the mould, and put it into the oven a few minutes longer to dry. Di\'ide a dozen peaches into halves, boil them until tender in a syi'up made of six ounces of loaf sugar and half a pint of water. When they are sufficiently cooked, lift them out one by one, and put them into the case. Boil the syrup a few minutes longer, add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, colour with a little cochineal, let it cool, then pour it over the fruit. A few of the kernels, blanched and quartered, may be introduced, if liked. Time, about one hour to bake the flanc; twenty minutes to prepare the fruit. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Peaches, Pickled.—Take a dozen sound poaches which have been gathered before they are fully ripe. Rub them well with a soft cloth, and put them into a brine made by boiling a pound of salt in throe quarts of water for one minute. Skim the liquid carefully, pour it, when cold, over the peaches, put a thin board on the top to keep them under the water, and let them remain for three days. At the end of that time lift them out carefully, put them into a largo earthenware jar, and pour over them a 11* pickle prepared as follows:—Boil half a gallon of vinegar with a quarter of a pound of bruised ginger, a dessert-spoonful of salt, three large blades of mace, one pound of mustard, a quarter of a pound of whole pepper, and a tea-spoonful of cayenne tied in muslin. Skim the liquid care- fully, and pour it, whenboiling, upon the peaches. Cover the jar with a bladder, and store in a cool dry place. The pickled peaches will be ready for use in nine or ten weeks. If it is -wnshed to pickle the peaches as an imitation of pickled mangoes, take each peach singly, after it has been drained from the brine, and cut out of the stalk end a round piece, an inch in diameter, draw out the stone, and put in its place a little fresh mustard-seed which has been washed in vinegar and flavoured with a finely-minced shallot and a pinch of cayenne. Put the piece back again, and secure it in its place with strong thread; then proceed according to the directions given above. Time, ten minutes to boil the vinegar with the spices. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to 6d. each. Peaches, Pickled (another way).—Take the peaches when they are sound, but not over- ripe. Rub the down from them, and stick flve cloves into each peach. Place them side by side in a deep jar, and pour over them as much hot pickle as will cover them, made by boiling one pound of moist sugar with each quart of vinegar. Set the jar aside for ten days, then drain off the vinegar; let it boil once more, skim it well, and again pour it upon the peaches. Let them get quite cold, then lift them care- fully into glass or earthenware jars, cover them with the vinegar, and tie down securely. Store in a cool dry place. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to 6d. each. Peaches Preserved in Brand.y.— Gather the peaches when they are perfectly sound,' but fully ripe. Make as much sjTup as will cover them, boiling ten ounces of loaf sugar with every three-quarters of a pint of water until the sugar is dissolved. Pare the peaches, put them into the syrup, and simmer gently until they are so tender that a needle can be easily passed through them. As they reach this condition, lift them out one by one vnth a skimmer, and put them carefully into the jar intended for them, which they must only half fill. Pour the syrup over them, and within two inches of the top, add a few of the blanched kernels, and when the syrup is cold fill up the jar with brandy. Cork closely, and cover the corks ^vith bladder. It is well to examine the jars occasionally, and as the fruit absorbs the brandy to add more. If it should happen that the peaches are not quite ripe, pour boiling water over them, and keep them near the fire until the skin can be easily dra\vn off. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to 6d. each. Peaches Preserved in Brandy (ano- ther way).—Put the peaches into cold water, and simmer them very gently until thoy begin to soften. Lift the .a out carefully one by one, drain them, and when they are cold put them into glass jars. Crush a pound and a half of white sugar-candy to powder. Dissolve it in aPEA PEA ( 622 ) pint of bmndy, and fill up tho glasses with the Byrup. Cork und seal the jars, and store in a cool dry plaoo. Exainino tho jars occasionally, and as the fruit absorbs tho brandy add a little more. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to Gd. each. Peaches Preserved Whole. —This preserve is best made in the early part of Octo- ber. Gather tho peaches before they are fully ripe, wipe the down from thorn, put them into a deep pan, pour boiling water over them, cover them over, and let them remain near the tii-e, though not upon it, for an hour; then take out the poaches, put them in a bowl of cold water, and in a quarter of an hour take off the skins, push out the stones, and weigh the fruit. Take an equal weight of loaf sugar, dip each lump separately into water, put it into a preserx-ing-pan, and then boil the moistened sugar gently until you have a clear syrup. Put the peaches in carefully with the blanched kernels, let them simmer for six minutes, then lift them out with a skimmer, put them into a deep dish, and pour the boiling syrup over them. The next day di'ain the syrup from them, let it boU for four minutes, and pour it again over the fruit: repeat this process every day for a week. On the eighth day boil up the syrup as usual, and put the peaches into it. Let them boil quickly for eight or ten minutes, but do not allow them to break; lift them out carefully one by one, put them into jars, place an equal portion of the kernels in each jar, and fill it up with the syrup. In two or three hours tie down securely with paper brushed over with the white of an egg, and store in a cool drj' place. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to 6d. each. Peaches Preserved Whole (another way).—Take peaches which are perfectly sound and not overripe, wipe off the bloom, and put them into a deep jar; pour boiling water over them, throw a cloth over the bowl to keep in the steam, and let them remain until the water is nearly cold. Lift them carefully out of the water, drain, and peel them. Place a single layer of the fruit at the bottom of a deep earthenware jar, cover the peaches thickly with finely-powdered and sifted sugar, and place another layer of sugar and fruit upon the top of the last; repeat imtil the jar is full, being careful that the sugar is strewn very thickly over the fruit, and that the topmost layer is composed of sugar. Close the jar im- mediately, and fasten it securely, either with a large cork and resin, or with bladder, and keep the fruit in a dark, cool, dry place. Time, an hour to soak the peaches. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to 6d. each. Peaches, Vol-au-vent of.—Take as much fine puff paste as is required for the size of a vol-au-vcnt. It should be the exact size and shape of the inside of the dish on which it 'is intfindcd to be served. EoU it out to the thickness of an inch and a quarter, and stamp the cover on the top accord- ing to the directions given for a vol-au-vent. {Sec Vol-au-vent.) Bake in a brisk oven. If t]u\ pastry has been properly made it will rise in , the oven until it is about five inches in height; when it has done so, and is lightly coloured, take it out, remove the lid, and scoop out tho inside. Have as many peaches as will bo required to fill the empty space, already cut into luilves and stewed in syrup until they are tender, but unbroken. Put them into the vol- au-vent, boil the syrup quickly for a few minutes until it is very thick, pour it upon the peaches, and serve the vol-au-vent on a neatly, folded napkin. Time to bake a moderate-siy^ed vol-au-vent—say one made with three-quarters of a pound of puff paste—about twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Peacock.— This beautiful and majestic bird has been introduced on the table both by the ancients and the modems, but chiefly as a showy and ornamental dish, the bird being pre- served in some of its handsome plumage. The flesh is coarse and ill-coloured. Peafowl.—The peafowl is generally to be had during the first six months of the year, and when young and well kept it tastes not imlike pheasant. It requires to be larded on the breast and legs, as the flesh is rather dry. When the cock is served, some of the feathers of the tail should be preserved and stuck into the bird before it is sent to table, and when this is neatly done it presents an ex- cellent appearance. The hen is, however, much more frequently served than the cock. Peafowl, Larded and Roasted.— Choose a young bird, lard it closely over the breast and legs, fill it with a good veal force- meat—but the forcemeat may be omitted— truss it firmly, and roast before a clear fire for an hour or an hour and a half, ac- cording to the size of the bird. When done enough, take off the buttered paper which was round the head {see Peafowl, Trussed), trim the feathers, glaze the larding, and aewe the bird on a hot dish, with a little clear brown gravy under it. Garnish the dish with watercresses, and send bread-sauce to table in a tureen. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for five or six persons. Peafowl, Trussed.—Peafowls should be trussed in the same way as pheasants, except- ing that the head should be left attached to the skin of the breast implucked. It should be carefully covered with buttered paper, and fastened under the wing. When the bird is sufficiently cooked, and before it is dished, the paper should be removed and the plumage trimmed. Pear.—The pear is very wholesome wh.-'n ripe, but is not so when green. It is then, however, fit for stewing. The best pears for baking purposes are rather austere than sweet; by cooking, part of the acid is changed into sugar. P(>ars m;iy be proservod in the samo way as apples; they are also ]iarod and dried in an oven, by which means th(>y will ]<oo]^ for years. This" jnothod of jiresorvation is much followed in France. Several h\mdT?«i kinds of I pears are cultivated in the orchards of Europe.PISA ( 628 ) TEA Pear Anchovy.—This is a "West Indian fruit, not unlike the mango in taste. When in a green state it is sometimes pickled. Pear and Plum Jam without Sugar (see Plum and Pear Jam). Pear, Avocado, or Alligator—A fruit, about the size of an • apple, met with in the West Indies. It takes rank amongst the most delicious prodwotions of the vegetable kingdom. It consists of a kernel enclosed in a soft rind; the yellow pulp having the firmness and deh- cate flavour of the peach. Pear Charlotte.—Peel and core a dozen Bon Chretien pears, cut them into quarters, dip them into finely-powdered sugar, and shake them over the tire in a little clarified butter until they are tender; then drain them well. Cut three or four slices of crimib of bread the third of an inch thick. Line a plain round mould with these, first cutting out a small round for the bottom, and then cutting the rest into fin- gers, which must be placed round the mould overlapping each other. Dip the bread into clarified butter before putting it into the mould. Fill the mould with the cooked pears, cover the top with slices of bread dipped in butter, and place the dish in a brisk oven until the bread is lightly browned. If the oven be not sufficiently brisk the bread will not colour {)roperly, nor will the charlotte preserve its form. Turn the char- lotte out of the mould, and brush it over with apricot jam, or sift powdered sugar thickly over it. Time to bake, from three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Pear Jam.—Pare, core, and quarter six pounds of ripe mellow pears, put them into a jar, cover closely, and place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, which must be kept boiHng until the pears fall and are quite soft. Turn them into a preserving pan, and mix with them a quart of syrup, made in the proportion of a pound and a half of loaf sugar to each half a j)int of water. Mix the fruit and the syrup thoroughly, and stir the jam over the fire for twenty minutes. Turn it into jars, cover in the usual way, and store in a cool dry place. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Pear Klosse (a German dish) .—Pare, core, "nd mince finely half a dozen ripe pears. Mix With them half a nutmeg grated, two ounces of clarified butter, sugar to taste, four well-beaten eggs, and as much finely-grated bread as will make the mixture stiff and smooth. Mould it into egg-shaped balls with a large spoon, drop these into boiling water, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Serve on a hot dish, with sifted sugar and a little powdered cinnamon strewn over them. Send milk sauce to table with them. Time to simmer, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pear Marmalade.—Weigh, pare, halve, and core as many ripe mellow pears as it is dosired to use. Put them into a presnrving- ]'!;n, barely cover them with cold water, and M!iiinor gontlv until thov are tender. TAft tliem out of the wator. and boil the liquid for an hour with the skins and cores of the pears. Strain it, make a syrup of it by boiling a pound and a half of sugar and a quart of liquid for every two pounds of fruit, and let this syrup boil until it will stiflien when a small quantity is poured upon a plate. Stir the pears into the syrup, and boil all together for a few minutes. Tm-n the marmalade into jars, cover in the usual way, and store in a cool dry place. Time, boil the pears until tender; one hour to stew the skins, &c. ; boil the syrup until it jellies. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Pear Soup.—Pare, core, and slice six or eight large pears. Put them into a stewpan with a penny roll cut into thin slices, half a dozen cloves, and three pints of water. Let them simmer until they are quite tender, then press them through a coarse sieve, and return the puree to the saucepan, with two ounces of sugar, the strained juice of a fresh lemon, and half a tumblerful of light wine. Let the soup boil five or ten minutes, when it will be ready for serving. Send small spongecakes to table with this dish. Time, about one hour and a half to stew the pears. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Pear Tart.—If mellow pears are used they will not require to be stewed before the pastry is put over them, but if the ordinary baking pears are made use of they must be pre- pared as follows:—Take six or eight large pears. Pare them thinly, core and quarter them, and put them into a stewpan vsdth a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, two cloves, a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and a quarter of a pint of water. Let them simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour, then turn them into the dish prepared for them. When the fruit is cold, moisten the edge of the dish and line it with pastry, wet the band, put the cover on, press it down all round with the finger and thumb, trim the edge, and mark iL with the back of a knife. Ornament the top by placing on it leaves or flowers stamped out with the pastry-cutter. Bake in a good oven. About ten minuteS before the tart is done enough, draw it out, sprinkle over it white of egg mixed with a little cold water, sift pow- dered sugar thickly over it, and put it back in the oven to finish baking. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Pearlina Pudding, Baked.— Hub a quarter of an ounce of fresh butter over the inside of a saucepan, and put into it a quart of milk, with any flavouring that may be liked. Let it boil, then sprinkle in gradually four table-spoonfuls of Brown and Poison's pearlina, and stir it over a gentle fire for ten minutes, or until it is thick. Pour it out, let it cool a few mlr-ntes, and then add a pinch of salt, half an ounce of butter, three ounces of moist sugar, throe woll-beaten eggs, and half an ounce of candied-peel finely minced. Pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven until the pudding is nicely browned. Send wine sauce to table with it. Time, about throe-qnartera of an hour to bake. Probablo cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six jjcrHouH.( 624 ) PEA PEA Pearlina Pudding, Baked, without Eggs. —- Butter a pio-dish mthor tliickly. Pour into it a quart of milk, and atir in four tablo-spoonfuls of Brown and Poison's poarlina. Add half an ounco . of butter, a pinch of salt, and two or throo drops of any flavouring that may be proforrod. Put the puddinf^ into a slow ovon, and bako very gently until it is nicely browned. Servo with powdered sugar. Time, about two hours and a half to bake. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pearlina Pudding, Boiled. —Put a pint of milk into a saucepan with two square inches of thin lemon-rind, half an inch of stick cinnamon, three or four almonds blanched and bruised, or any other flavouring that may be preferred. Bring it slowly to a boil, then eprinkle in very gradually three table-spoonfuls of Brown and Poison's pearlina, and stir the mixture briskly over the fire for a quarter of an hour. Turn it into a bowl, and mix with it half an ounce of fresh butter, a small pinch of salt, three dessert-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and half an ounce of candied peel sliced very finely, and a well-beaten egg. Pour the pud- ding into a well-buttered mould which it will quite fill, tie a floured cloth securely over it, plunge the mould into a saucepan three-parts filled with boiling water, and keep the pudding boiling until it is done enough. Move it about during the first quarter of an hour to prevent the ingredients settling to the bottom. When the pudding is done enough, turn it on a hot dish, and send melted butter or sweet sauce to table in a tureen. Time, one hour to boil the pudding. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pearlina Pudding, Cold, To Make Use of the Remains of a.—Carefully remove; tlio alciii and brown parts from the pudding, and press the remainder into a plain basin. Place a weight upon it so that it may take the form of the mould, and when wanted turn it out on a glass dish, and put stewed fruit or jam round it. Time, a few minutes to prepare the pudding. Pears, Baked.—Rub half a dozen large hard pears with a soft cloth. Put them on a buttered baking-tin into a slow oven, and let them bake gently for five or six hours. When tender they are done enough, and will be found excellent if eaten with sugar. Pro- bable cost, 4d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pears, Baked (another way).—Pare very smoothly a dozen large baking pears. Cut them into halves, take out the cores, and put them side by side into a well-brightened block- tin saucepan with a closely-fitting cover. Pom- over them as much cold water as will cover them, add the thin rind of a small lemon, a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, an inch of stick cinnamon, and fifteen grains of allspice. Put on the cover, place the dish in a gentle oven, and let it remain there until the poarR arc tender. A little white wine may bo added, if Uked. If a saucepan such as is described is used, no cochine-al will be reaiiired for the syrup. Time to bake, six hours. Probable cost, 1b. 8d. Sufficient for eight or ten per. sons. Pears, Compete of.—When ripe juicy l)oarM are used for making compotes they should be stewed whole, but wh(;n hard baking pears oidy are to bo had it is best to cut them into halves or quarters, reserving only one largo piece to put in the centre. Peel the pears, and put them into the syrup. The pro- portion of sugar used wiU depend upon the quality of the pears. Put with them a few drops of prepared cochineal, and either a strip of lemon-rind, a quarter of a stick of vanilla, or a few cloves. Simmer very gently until they are quite tender without being broken, then drain them well, put them on a dish, boil the syrup quickly until it is thick : when it is cold, and just before the compote is to be served, strain, and pour the sjTTip over the fruit. The pears are to be boiled until tender. Probable cost. Is. 4d. for a dish. Sufficient for five or six persons. KZARS. 1. Louise Bonne, 2. Marie Louise. 3. Uvedaie's St. Germain. Pears, Essence of Jargonelle.—The article sold imder this name is the acetate of the oxide of amyl, mixed with spirits of wine. It very closely resembles the natural flavour of pears. Pears, Frosted or Iced.—Take half a doz6n large pears, which have been stewed whole in syrup. Dry them well, then cover them smoothly and evenly with a white icing made as follows:—Beat the white of an egg to a firm froth, add a quarter of a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a few drops of cold water, and beat the mixture thoroughly until it forms a very thick smooth liquid. When the pears are covered, set them in a warm place, or in a cool oven, to stiffen the icing. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient for a dessert-dish. Pears, Giblets with Giblets with Pears). Pears in Jelly (a pretty dish for a Juve- nile Party).—Peel six or eight largo pears, cutPEA ( 526 ) FEA them into halves, take out the cores, and throw them as they are done into cold water 10 keep them from becoming discoloured. Put them into a saucepan with as much syrup as will cover them, and let them stew gently until they are tender, but unbroken. The quantity of sugar put into the syrup will depend upon the quality of the peare, as some are naturally much sweeter than others. When sufficiently cooked, drain the pears from the syrup, brush them over with the beaten yolk of an egg, sprinkle powdered and sifted sugar thickly over them, and arrange them on a glass dish. Sup- posing there is a pint and a half of syi'up, dissolve in it an ounce of gelatine which has been soaked in as much cold water as will cover it for one hour. Let it boil quickly for five or six minutes, colour with two or three drops of cochineal, and strain it through a jelly-bag over the pears. Put the dish into a cool place, and when the jelly is quite stiff it is ready for serving. Time, about one hour to stew the pears. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pears, Jargonelle Jargonelle Pears). Pears, Jargonelle, Preserved. — Gratherthe pears before they are soft, weigh them, and pare them as thinly as possible. As the fruit is likely to keep longer if the seeds are removed, scoop these out from the end with a fruit-knife, or with a bodkin. Place the pears in a preserv- ing pan, cover them with a thin syrup made with half a pound of sugar to each pint of water, and let them simmer gently imtil they are sufficiently tender to be pierced easily with a needle, but they must not be allowed to break. Turn them into a bowl, pour the syrup over them, and leave them to soak for two days. Drain off the syrup, and add to it a further quantity of sugar, so that there will be the same weight of sugar that there was of fruit in the first instance, together with half an ounce of whole ginger and the juice and thinly-pared rind of a lemon to each quart of syrup. Boil for ten minutes, and skim carefully. Put in the pears, and let them simmer gently until they look clear. When they are done enough they may either be drained from the syrup, and dried in the sun or in a gentle oven, or they may be kept in the syrup, and dried or not as they are wanted. Probable cost of pears, Id. each. Pears, Meringue of.—Pare, core, and halve a dozen pears, and stew them in sjTup until they are sufficiently tender to be pierced easily with a needle; put them into a deep tart- dish which they will ahnost fill, and boil the syrup quickly until it is so much reduced that, when poured over the pears, it will only half cover them. Whisk the whites of four eggs to a solid froth. Stir into them four table-spoon- fuls of powdered and sifted sugar, and spread the mixture evenly and smoothly over the fruit; put it at once into a moderate oven, and bake until the crust is lightly coloured and crisp even in the middle. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 1b. Sufficient for four or six persons. Pear'^, Pickled. — Put three quarts of good vinegar into a tiji saucepan with a dessert-spoonful of salt, twelve onioDS, and two dozen large baking pears which have been well rubbed with a soft cloth, but not pared. Sim- mer gently until the pears are tender without being broken, then take them out, and when they are cold pare and core them, and divide each one into six or eight pieces. When the onions also are soft take them out, and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Put into the vinegar a dessert- spoonful of peppercorns, a small tea-spoon- ful of cloves, a small tea-spoonful of allspice, six blades of mace, two ounces of whole ginger, three dessert-spoonfuls of turmeric, two cloves of garlic; if Hked, a dessert-spoonful of mus- tard seed and a dessert-spoonful of coriander seed may also be added. Let these ingredients boil for ten minutes, then stir in the mashed onion, and boil ten minutes longer. Put the pears into jars, and pour the seasoned vinegar over them. Divide the spices equally amongst the jars, and place them at the top of the pears. Tie the jars down with bladder, and store in a cool dry place. Time, about one hour and a half to stew the pears. Probable cost, 28.6d. Sufficient for a gallon of pickle. Pears, Preserved. — Gather the pears before they are quite ripe, pare, halve, core, and weigh them, and put them into a deep jar, allowing three pounds of sugar to every four pounds of pears, and just enough water to moisten the sugar and keep the fruit from burn- ing. The strained juice and thinly-pared rind of a lemon and an inch of whole ginger may be put with every two pounds of pears. Place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and let the fruit steam gently for six or seven hours. Turn it into jars, fasten these down securely, and store in a cool dry place. Two or three drops of cochineal may be added to the pears after they are cooked to improve the appearance It must not be expected that pears preserved as above will keep good more than three or four months. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Pears, Preserved, Red.—If when pre- serving pears it is wished to impart a deep pink tinge to the fruit and syrup, use a per- fectly bright block-tin saucepan. If this is not convenient, add three or four drops of cochineal to the syrup, or a small proportion of red cur- rant or red gooseberry-juice. Pears, Stewed.—Pare, core, and halve eight or ten good-sized pears, leaving on the stalks or not, according to taste ; put them into a tinned saucepan, with six ounces of loaf sugar, six cloves, six whole allspice, three-quarters of a pint of water, and a glassful of port, and let them boil as gently as possible until they are quite soft without being broken. Lift them out, put them on a glass dish, and when the syrup is cold strain it over them. A little Devonshire cream, or, failing this, a little cus- tard, is a great improvement to this dish. Time to stew the pears, from two hours and a half to three hours. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pears Stewed in Butter.—Take half a dozen large baking pears, pare and core with- out breaking them, and fill the cavity in each with a clove crushed to powder, a little moistFBJl ( 626 ) PEA sugar, and a small lump of butter. Put them | into a stowpan with the atalk onda uppermost, and pour over thorn three ouiicos of cliirilied butter; cover the saucepan closely, and lot them stew gently until they are quite soft without being broken, then lift them out carefully, 1111 the hollows with red currant jelly, and arrange the peiirs on a dish, with the narrow parts meet- ing in the centre. Pile half a dozen macaroons which have boon soaked in sherry in the centre of the fruit, pour the syrup round it, and serve. Time to stew the pears, about one hour. Proba- ble cost, e.xclusive of the sherry, is. 2d. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Pears Stewed in Vinegar (for Dessert). —Pare smoothly two pounds of small winter pears, cut them in halves, and take out the cores. Boil a pint of vinegar, twelve cloves, twelve ounces of sugar, and a stick of cinnamon for ten minutes. Put the pears into the syrup, and let them simmer very gently imtil they are sufficiently tender to be pierced easily with a pin. Take them out carefully, drain them, and put them into jars. Boil the syrup quickly until it is quite thick, and when it is cold pour it over the fruit, which must be covered with it. Tie down the jars with bladder, and store in a cool diy place. At the end of a week look | at the fruit, and if the syrup has turned their colour boil it over again. Time to stew the pears, until tender; the time will vary with the quality of the pears. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Pears, Stewed, To Colour.—This may be done in several ways. Port wine and a few drops of liquid cochineal will impart a bright red colour. Or some fine white candied sugar dissolved in a wine-glassful of port wine may be added to a moderate-sized dish of pears. Or pears may be stewed in a block-tin vessel, which wiU give a fine red. Pears, The Pips of {see Apples and Pears, The Pips of). Pears, Wine of.—A sort of wine in which pears were employed is thus described by Mr. Booth in his work on wine making. " In the North of France, having hedted fifty- live pounds of the juice of wild pears to 180 degrees, I added about a tenth of that weight of raisins, and bunged up the whole in a cask. In a short time the heat of the liquor had fallen to 77 degrees, when I drained out the raisins, bruised them, returned them into the must, and closed the cask, so as to allow the fermentation to take place. A fortnight after, the wine, or perry, was racked into stone cans, and, after standing three months in the cellar, it was reckoned by good judges equal to the best wine from grapes." Pears with Rice.—Wash six ounces of best Carolina rice in two or three waters, put it into a saucepan with a quart of milk, some white sugar, and a quarter of a stick of vanilla, and let it simmer gently for an hour. Turn it upon a hot dish, and lay upon it four or five good baking pears which have been cored, halved, and stewed until quite tender with three pints of water, four ounces of sugar, and a quarter of a stick of vanilla. Boil the syrup in which the pears were ' i stewed very quickly for a few minutes to thicken it, and pour it over the rice. Serve eitlier liot or cold. Time, one hour and a bilf or more to stew the pears. Probable cost, 9d. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Peas.—Tlie pea has been cultivated as a culinary vegetable from a very early period. The Greeks prized it highly, and grew it ex- tensively. It is uncertain when it was first cultivated in Britain. Long after its introduc- tion it was rare, and in the time of Elizabeth we find it imported from Holland, most hkoly in a ripe state. Either as a horticultural or as an agricultural product the pea is of great im- portance. In a green state the seeds are held to be one of our most esteemed vegetables, when boiled; when ripe they are much used in forming a favourite and nutritious soup. Though a great many varieties of peas have been produced by cultivation, yet they may all be ranged under one or other of two divisions— white, or yellow, and grey peas. Of the former the choicest kinds are grown in gardens to be eaten green, but vast quantities are also cul- tivated in the fields, and allowed to ripen for drying. Grey peas are coarse in flavour, and are used solely as food for horses and cattle, i Peas are sown in the garden at different periods so that they may be fit for gathering in succes- sion. They are usually divided into early and late peas; the former, which constitute one of the great luxuries of the beginning of summer, are often forced on hot-beds. The peas, how- ever, which are best in quahty are those which have been brought to maturity by the natural heat of summer. Peas, Asparagus Heads as {see Aspargugus Heads as Peas). Peas "Brose."—"In the West of Scot- land, especially in Glasgow," says Dr. Andrew in the "Cyclopaadia of Domestic Medicine," &c., "' peas brose,' as it is called, is made of the fine flour of the white pea, by forming it into a mass merely by the addition of boiling water and a Uttle salt. It is a favourite dish with not only the working classes, but is even esteemed by many of the gentrj'. It was in- troduced into fashion chiefly by the recom- mendation of Dr. Cleghom, late Professor of Chemistry in Glasgow University. The peas brose is eaten with milk or butter, and is a sweet nourishing article of diet, peculiarly fitted for persons of a costive habit, and for children." Peas, Chick.—^This is a small variety of pea, little known in Britain, but much cul- tivated in the South of Europe. The seeds are not softened by boiling. They are sometimes parched in a frying-pan in Egypt and S>Tia, where they are held to be a conA enient food for travellers bound on long expeditions. In Italy and the South of France they are occasionally roasted, and made to do duty for coffee. Peas, Green.—To have green peas in perfection, care should bo taken to ohtim them young, frcshlv-gathered, and freshly- shelled. The condition of the peas may bo kno^vn from the appearance of the shells. ' When the peas are young the shells are grepn,PEA PEA ( 527 ) when newly-gathered they are crisp, when old they look yellow, and when plump the peas are fine and Itirgo. If peas are shelled some hours before they are cooked they lose gi-eatly in flavour. Peas, Green (a French mode of cooking). Peas are often served in France as a dish by themselves, and eaten with bread alone. They require, therefore, to be enriched with butter and flavom-ed with seasoning. They are pre- pared as follows:—Put a quart of freshly- gathered young green peas into a bowl with plenty of cold spring water and two ounces of butter. Work well with the fingers until the butter adheres to the peas, then pour off the water, and drain the peas in a colander. Put them into a stewpan with half a tea-spoon- ful of salt, half a dozen small young onions, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. A sprig of parsley is frequently added, but it shoidd be used very sparingly, as its strong flavour destroys the fresh taste of the peas. Put the lid on the saucepan, and let the peas stew gently over a slow fu-e for thirty minutes. Eemove the onions and parsley, and add a table-spoonful of strong gravy and two ounces of fresh butter which has been kneaded to a smooth paste with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Shake the saucepan over the fire until the butter is melted and the peas properly thickened: taste them to ascertain if a little more salt and sugar are required. Serve the peas as quickly as possible, piled high on a hot dish. Probable cost, 8d. per peck, when in full season. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Peas, Green (a French mode of cooking: another way).—Melt one oxince of fresh butter in a saucepan. When it is dissolved without being the least coloured, throw in a quart of peas. Shake them over the fire for a minute or two, then pour over them as much boiling water or weak stock as will barely cover them, add half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, the heart of a lettuce finely skred, three young onions, and a small sprig of parsley. Simmer gently until the peas are tender. Take the saucepan from the fire for a minute, and in order to thicken the sauce stir in the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. . The peas must not boil up after the eggs are added. Serve the peas on a hot dish with the sauce poured over them. Time, half an hour. Pro- bable cost of peas, 8d. per peck, when in full season. Sufficient for four or five persons. Peas, Green (a French mode of cooking: another way).—Take two quarts of green peas, and put them in a panful of cold water with three ounces of butter. Work the peas in the water, so that their surface may bo equally smeared with the butter, that they may adhere together. Drain off the water, take out the peas by handfuls, and transfer them to a colander. Stew them over a moderate fire with some green onions and a bunch of parsley; dust a little flour over them, and stir carefully ; next pour over the peas just enough boiling water to cover them. Boil fast till the water is evaporated, then' put in a lump of sugar, tnoiatenfd. tJiat it maybe more quickly dissolved, and a little salt. Have ready mixed two ounces of butter with some flour; stir it into the peas, and lot it be equally distributed among them. Then serve. Peas, Green la Paysanne).—Prepare the peas as in the preceding recipe. Take a handful of parsley, a few green onions, and a few cabbage and cos-lettuces, wash them, and break, instead of cutting them. Drain them from the water, and put them with the peas over a very slow fire. No other moisture than the butter will be required. Be careful, by stirring the contents of the stewpan repeatedly, that they do not burn. When done enough, add pepper and salt, and serve. Peas, Green, Boiled.—Choose peas which are young and freshly-gathered. Do not shell them until just before they are to be boiled. To boil a quart of peas, put two quarts of water into a saucepan, and with it a quarter of an ounce of salt. Let it boil, and skim it well, then thi-ow in the peas, and let them boil quickly without being covered until they are tender. As soon as this point is reached, take them at once off the fire, or they will quickly break, and their appearance be spoilt. Drain them, put them into a clean saucepan with three ounces of fresh butter, sprinkle a little salt and white sugar upon them, and shake them over the fire until the butter is melted. Serve immediately. A bunch of mint is frequently thrown into the water with the peas ; but before doing this it is well to ascer- tain if the flavour is liked, as some jjersons have a strong objection to it. Instead of being shaken up with butter, green peas are sometimes served with a handful of finely- chopped mint strewn over them in the tureen, pats of fresh butter being served separately in a cooler. Time to boil young fresh peas, a quarter of an hour; large old ones, twenty-five minutes or more. Probable cost of garden peas when in full season, 8d. per peck; field peas, 4d. Sufficient for fotir or five persons. Peas, Green, Boiled (Dr. Kitchener's recipe).—" Young green peas well dressed are one of the most delicious delicacies of the vege- table kingdom. They must be young; it is equally indispensable that they be fresh gathered, and cooked as soon as they are shelled, for they soon lose both their colour and sweet- ness. If you wish to feast upon peas in per- fection, you must have them gathered the same day they are dressed, and put on to boil within half an hour tifter they are shelled. Pass them through a riddle, i.e., a coarse sieve, which is made for the purpose of separating them. This precaution is necessary, for large and small peas cannot be boiled together, as the former will take more time than the latter. For a peck of peas, set on a saucepan with a gallon of water in it; when it boils, put in your peas with a table-spoonful of salt; skim it well, keep them boiling quick from twenty to thirty minutes, according to their age and size; the best way to judge of their being done enough, and indeed the only way to make sure of cook, ing them to and not beyond the point of per- fection, or, as the pea-eatera eay, of ' boiling( 528 ) PEA PEA thorn to a bubble,' is to take them out with a spoon, und tasto thorn. "Whon thoy aro doiio euougli, di'iiiu thorn on a huir siovo. If you liko thoiu butttii'od, put tlioui into a i)io-diHh, divido sonio buttoi- into wniall bitu, and lay thom on the peas; put another dish over thoui, and turn thom over and over; this will molt tlio butter through thom; but as all people do not liko buttered peas, you had bettor send tliom to table plain as thoy come out of tho saucepan, with molted butter in a sauce tui-eon. It is usual to boil some mint with the peas; but if you wish to garuisli tho pons witli mint, boil a few sprigs in a saucepan by themselves. A peck of young peas will not yield more than enough for a couple of hearty pea-eaters; when tho pods aro full, it may servo for three. Never think of purchasing peas ready-shelled, for the cogent reasons assigned in the first part of this recipe." Peas, G-reen, Bottled.—Shell the peas, put them into dry wide-mouthed bottles, and shake them together so that they may lie in as little space as possible. Cork the bottles closely, and seal the corks. Bury the bottles in the driest part of the garden, and take them up as they are wanted. They will keep good five or six months. Peas, Green, Bottled (another way).— Choose peas which are large and f uUy grown, though not old. Put them into perfectly dry mde-mouthed bottles, shake them down, cork securely, and cover the corks with bladder. Tie a wisp of hay round the lower part of the bottles to prevent their knocking against each other in the pan, put them side by side in a large saucepan, and pour into it as much cold water as will reach to- their necks. Put the saucepan on the fire, and let it remain for two hours after the water has reached the boiling point, then take it off, but do not remove the bottles until the water is cold. Seal the corks, and store in a cool dry place. Peas, Green, Old, How to Cook.— When peas are old they should be shelled, and soaked in water for some time before being cooked. If of superior quahty they will only require soaking about half an hour, but if not three or four hours will not be too much for them. An excellent dish may be made with old peas, by soaking them as above directed, and then stewing with them a small piece of beef, or salt pork. The time required for cook- in" wiU of course depend upon the weight of the meat. It is best, however, to use as much water only as will barely cover the peas. Serve the meat and vegetables on the same dish, and as hot as possible. Time, half an hour for the peas. Probable cost, 6d. per peck. Peas, Green, Preserved.—Take the peas when they are fully grown, but not old Shell them, throw thom into boiling water, and let them boil for ten minutes, then dram well, spread them out on tins, and put them m a cool oven once or twice to harden. When done piit them into paper bags, tie up securely, and hang in a dry warm room until wanted. Before using them, soak them in water for_ a bttle while, and put an ounce of butter into the water in which they are boiled. Peas, Green. Preserved (other ways) Fill a tin box witn thom, pour iu a bttle water wliich has boon salted, put on th(! C(jvor, wlxich must bo soldered, so that the box sliall be her- metically tiglit, and ihon boil the box. Or, dry tho pcuia in a cool oven, and afterwards hang thom up in paper bags. Or, gather the peas on a fine dry day, open the pods on a large clean cloth, and leave tho peas for five or six houis exposed to tho sun and air. Rub them gently in a rough towel till they are perfectly dry, bottle them as air-tight as possible, and store in a dry place. Peas, Green, Puree of.—Throw the peas into as much boiling water as will cover thom. Season with salt and sugar, and wlien they are quite soft di-ain in a colander, and press them through a fine hair sieve. Put the pulp into a stewpan, with one-eighth of its bulk of good stock or white sauce, or, if pre- ferred, with three or four ounces of butter, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the mixture over the fire until it is very hot, and serve immediately. This puree is used with lamb cutlets, and various other meats. Time, half an hour. Probable cost of peas, when in full season, 6d. per peck. Suflicient, a peck for four or five persons. Peas, Green, Soup.—In making green peas soup it is most important that the peas used should neither be old nor of inferior quality, or the flavour of the soup wiU be spoilt. They are best when they are almost fully grown. SheU a peck of green peas and put aside about a tandful of these to be used as hereafter directed. Put the rest into H stewpan with four ounces of fresh butter, a fresh lettuce finely shred, a small sprig of mint (if the flavour be not disliked), a moderate- sized onion, a tea-spoonful of salt, and a dozen leaves of spinach for colouring. Let the vegetables steam gently in the butter until they are quite soft, stirring occasionally to prevent their burning, then press them through a fine sieve, and mix with the pulp two quarts of clear stock or water. Return the soup to the sauce- pan, add a small lump of sugar and a dessert- spoonful of arrowroot, mix smoothly with water and stock to make half a pint. Stir this into the hquid, boil, and skim carefully. Wliilst it is simmering, put the handful of peas which were put aside into another saucepan of boiling water with half a tea-spoonful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar. Let the peas boil until tender, then drain them weU, and put them into the soup. Serve as hot as possible. Send a little powdered mint to table on a plate. Peas are so nourishing that stock is not needed for this soup, and the colour will be better if water be used. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per quart. Peas, Green, Soup, Economical.- The slioUs of peas arc sometimes used m making soup, and tho flavour and colour of the soup are improved thereby. Shell a pock of young peas, wash the shells, throw them into two quarts of boiling water with a dessert-spoonful of salt, a toa-spoonful of powdered sugar, and a sprig or two of parslov, ""d boil them for half an hour. Sti-ain the liquid, and rub the ahollsPEA " PEA ( 629 ) well with the back of a wooden spoon, over a fine sieve, till the green pulp which covers the shells has passed through the sieve, leaving the skins of the shells clean. Put an onion into a stewpan, with about two quarts of water. When the liquid boUs quickly, add the peas, two lettuce hearts finely shred, half a tea- spoonful of pepper, a sprig or two of mint or of tiu-ragon, if eiiier are liked, and a little more salt if required. Boil quickly tUl the peas are tender, then press the vegetables through a fine sieve, boU up the pulp with the liquid, and thicken lightly with arrowroot. If preferred, stock may be used instead of part of the water, and the peas may be gently fried in butter, before being put into the soup. Time, two hours. Probable cost, 8d. if made with water. SuflBcient for seven or eight persons. Peas, Green, Soup, without Meat, Economical and Excellent.—Take a quart of gi'oen peas fully grown, but neither yellow nor worm-eaten, and put them into a saucepan, with thi-ee pints of boiling water, a tea-spoonful of salt, an ounce of butter, two or three sprigs of mint, a dozen spring onions, and a handful of fresh parsley, or a dozen leaves of spinach. Boil until the peas are tender, then strain ofp the liquor and preserve it. Pound the peas in a mortar, add to them the liquid in which ■ the peas were boiled, and then pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Bring the soup to the point of boiling, stir into it another ounce of butter, a dessert- spoonful of Liebig's extract of meat, a tea- spoonful of powdered sugar, pepper, and a spoonful of arrowroot moistened with water. Serve as hot as possible. Time, half an hour to boil the peas. Probable cost, lOd. Suffi- cient for six or seven persons. Peas, Green, Stewed.—Shell a peck of young peas, put them into a bowl with plenty of cold water and two ounces of butter, work them well with the fingers to make the peas stick together, and then drain them in a colander. Put the peas into a stewpan, with half a dozen young onions, two cabbage-lettuces cut into small pieces, a handful of parsley, a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, and a little salt. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents stew gently over a slow fire for about half an hour. If the lettuces and peas do not yield sufficient water a table-spoonful may be added, but if they are simmered gently this will in aU probability be unnecessary, bhake the stewpan occasionally, that all may be equally cooked. Mix two ounces of butter smoothly with a dessert-spoonful of flour, and when the peas are tender put the mixture into the saucepan with them. Shake them over the fire for three or four minutes until the butter is melted, then turn them upon a hot dish, and serve immediately. If preferred, an egg beaten up with a table-spc onful of water may be substituted for the butter. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Peas, Green, Stewed with Ham and Lettuces.—Shell a pock of young gi-een peas and prepare them according to the directions given in the last recipe. Put them into a stew- pan, with the hearts of two cabbage-lettuces finely shi-ed, a large onion cut into thin slices, a handful of parsley, and half a pound of ham or bacon cut into small pieces. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents stew until the peas are tender. If necessary add a table- spoonful of water or stock. Shake the sauce- pan over the fire occasionally to prevent burn- ing. When the peas are cooked enough take out the ham and onion, put in two ounces of butter mixed smoothly with a dessert-spoonful of flour and a table-spoonful of cream. A sprig or two of mint may be stewed with the peas if the flavoiir be Uked. Simmer gently for four minutes, and serve as hot as possible. Time, about half an hour to stew the peas. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Peas, Green, with Cream Sauce.— Boil a quart of young freshly-gathered peas in slightly salted water until they are tender, then drain them in a colander. Melt two ounces of fresh butter over the fire, mix smoothly with it a dessert-spoonful of flour, and add veiy gradu- ally a cupful of thick cream, or failing this, new milk. When the sauce boils put in the peas, stir them until they are quite hot, and serve immediately. Time, from fifteen to twenty-five minutes to boil the peas. Probable cost, 8d. per peck when in full season. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Peas, Nutritive Properties of.— Peas are so rich in flesh-forming matter, that they are to be avoided as a simple article oi diet; they are most wholesome when mixed with a less nutritive food, such as the potato. The flesh-former in peas is legumin, which closely resembles casein. Green peas contain more sugar and less casein than dried peas. One hundred parts of peas, air dried, is stated to contain:— Water Casein Starch Sugar Gum Fat . Woody fibre Mineral matter Or, Water .... Flesh and force producers Force producers Mineral matter Peas Porridge.—Soak a pint of split peas for a night in cold water, and take away those that float. Slice two moderate-sized Spanish onions and fry them in a little hot fat, with two or three sticks of celery cut into two- inch lengths. Drain them and put them into a large saucepan, with a bunch of savoury herbs, two anchovies, or failing these half a red herring, a crust of bread toasted on both sides, and three quarts of cold water. BoU gently until the liquid is strongly impregnated with the flavour of the herbs, &c. Skim and strain it, and return it to the saucepan with the soaked peas and a pound of raw potatoes coarsely grated. Simmer again until the peas are quite soft. Press them through a hair sieve, and 14-1 23-4 37-0 2-0 90 20 100 2-5 14-1 23-4 600 2-5PEA ( 630 ) PEA whilst pressing keep pouring a little liquid upon thoni to soften thcua. Return the por- ridge to the saucepun; und if it is not thick enough add to it a lump of butter mixed amoothly with a little flour. Season with pepper and salt. Cut up half a dozen leeks into two-inch lengths, boil them in the soup, and when they are tender it is ready for serving. Time, three hours or more. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Peas Pudding (Dr. Kitchener's recipe). —" Put a quart of split peas into a clean cloth; do not tie them up too close, but leave a little room for them to swell; put them on to boil in cold water slowly till they are tender; if they are good peas they will be boiled enough in about two hours and a half; rub them thi-ough a sieve into a deep dish, adding to them an egg or two, an ounce of butter, and some pepper and salt; beat them well together for about ten minutes, when these ingredients are well incorporated together; then flour the cloth well, put the pudding in, tie it up as tight as possible, and boil it an hour longer. It is as good with boiled beef as it is with boiled pork; and why not with roasted pork ? This is a very good accompaniment to cold pork or cold beef." To increase the bulk and diminish the expense of this pudding, the economical housekeeper who has a large family to feed may add to the above ingredients two pounds of potatoes that have been boiled and well mashed. To many this mixtm-e is more agreeable than peas pudding alone. Peas Pudding (another way). — Soak a pint of split peas over night, and remove aU that are not quite good. The follow- ing morning drain them, tie them in a thick cloth, leave room for swelling, and put them into a saucepan with plenty of soft cold water. If soft water cannot be ob- tained half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda should be stirred into that in which the peas are boiled. Boil until the peas are tender, then press them through a colander, stir an ounce of butter into the pulp, with a little pepper and salt, and, if liked, two weU-beaten eggs. Beat the mixture thoroughly, tie it tightly in a cloth, and boil again for one hour. If the eggs are omitted the pudding will have to be served in a shape, as the eggs bind it together. If the peas are not soft at the end of two hours and a half they are of in- ferior quality and cannot be made soft. One hour's boiling will be found sufficient for superior peas. Time, altogether, to boil, three hours and a half. Probable cost, 5d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Peas Pudding, Superlative. —Soak and boil a pint of peas according to the direc- tions given above, press them through a sieve, season with pepper and salt, and beat thoroughly for eight or ten minutes, first adding three weU-beaten eggs, two ounces of clarified butter, and a table-spoonful of thick cream. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, which it should quite fill, cover with a floured cloth, plunge the mould into boiling water, and let the pudding boil quickly till done enough. Turn it out before serving, and send melted butter to table with it. Time, four hours. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Peas, Puree of {»ee Peas, Green, Puree of). Peas Soup.—Peas soup may be made from dried peas either whole or split: the latter are to bo profoiTed. Soak a quart of peas over night. The next day wash and drain them, and put them into a large sauce- pan, with six ounces of lean ham, or if it is at hand, the knuckle-bone of a ham, three sliced carrots, two onions, and three or four sticks of celery cut into small jjieces. Pour over these three quarts of the liquor in which pork, beef, or mutton has been boiled. Sim- mer gently until the peas are reduced to pulp, stirring frequently, then rub the whole through a hair sieve, and put the soup back into the stewpan. Let it boU, and skim it carefully. Add pepper and salt if necessary, stir in an oimce of butter, and serve as hot as possible. Send powdered mint or powdered sage to table on a separate dish. A table-spoonful of curry powder wiU greatly improve the soup. Time, four hours. Probable cost, 9d. per quart. Suf- ficient for eight or nine persons. Peas Soup (another way).—When no stock is at hand procm-e two pennyworth of fresh bones the day before the soup is wanted. Wash them well, trim them, and put them into a saucepan with two quarts of cold water, two carrots, three onions, one turnip, four or five sticks of celery, eight peppercorns, half a tea- spoonful of dried mint, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a table-spoonful of moist sugar. Biing the Liquid to a boil, skim carefully, then draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for four or five hours. Soak a pint of spUt peas over night. The next day wash and boil them gently in a quart of water until tbey are reduced to a pulp. Be careful to stii fre- quently, or the peas may burn to the bottom. Strain the stock and mix it with the peas. Boil all together until the peas are well mixed with the soup, and add two ounces of butter which have been smoothly mixed with tliree dessert-spoonfuls of flour, a tea-spoonful of salt, haK a tea-spoonful of unmixed mustard, and a pinch of cayenne. Boil for half im hour, then rub the soup through a hair sieve, boil again, and serve immediately. Send toasted sippets and powdered dried mint to table on sepamte dishes. Time, from an hour and a half to three hours to boil the peas; half an hour to boil the soup. If the water used in making peas soup has been previously used in cooking animal or vegetable food, the soup will thereby be greatly improved. Probable cost. Is. Suffi- cient for six or eight persons. Peas Soup (another waj-V—Cut two ounces of lean ham or bacon into aico, and fry them with a shced onion in a little dripping imtil they are lightly b^o^vned. Put with them one turnip, two carrots, three or four sticks of celery, and one leek, all cut into small pieces, and stir the whole of the above ingredients over the fire for ten minutes more. Pour over them three quarts of water, boil, and add a pint ofPEA PEC (631) pea8 which have been soaked in cold water all ^io^t. Boil gently until the peas are quite Boft, stir frequently to prevent burning, then add'a little salt and pepper, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a salt-spoonful of dried and powdered mint. Rub the soup through a sieve. If it is not sufficiently thick, stir into it three or four ounces of flour mixed smoothly with a little cold water. Boil half an hour longer, and serve very hot. Time, three hours. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Peas Soup (another way).—Soak a quart of spht peas all nisfht. Wash them in two or three waters, and put them into a large stew- pan with half a dozen of the outer sticks of a head of celeiry, two large scraped carrots, two onions, two pounds weight of salt pork, and three quarts of water. Boil gently until the peas are tender, stirring frequently, then take out the pork, and rub the soup through a hair sieve, or a colander. Pour it back into the saucepan, let it boil, stirring occasionally, season with a little pepper and salt if neces- sary, and put in the pork which has been cut up into convenient-sized pieces. When the meat is hot the soup is ready for serving. Send toasted sippets, and either dried and powdered mint, or dried and powdered sage,, to table on separate dishes. Time, three hours. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Peas Soup, Nutritive Properties of. —Peas soup, says the Inventory of the Food Collection at Bethnal Green Museum, is one of the most economical articles of diet. The following ingredients will make one gallon of palatable and nutritious soup:—Peas, sixteen ounces; meat, sixteen ounces; pot barley, one ounce; salt, an ounce and a half; onions, an ounce and a half; black pepper, forty grains; and water, four quarts. The peas should be soaked in three or four pints of the water (cold) for twelve hours. The meat shoxild be boiled in five pints of the water for three hours. The peas should then be put in a bag, and boiled with the meat one hour. The contents of the bag should then bo pressed into the soup, and the skins removed. The salt, pepper, onions, and pot barley should then be added, and the whole boiled for an hour. Water should be added from time to time, to make up a gallon. If the water had been previously used in cook- ing animal or vegetable food, the soup will be rendered more nutritious. One pint of this soup contains:— Water . Legumin or casein Starch Sugar Fat Gum Woody fibre Gelatin . Mineral matter Or, Water Flesh and force producers Force producers Mineral matter While this and other souj: 170 0-270 2-64 0103 8 are to be com- aiended, it should be recollected that they 17-0 0- 270 1- 0 0-16 0-257 0-40 0-41 0-147 0-103 cannot be made a substitute for solid food, such as bread and meat." Peas Soup, Quickly and Easily Made.—If there be at hand any stock, made from bones or any of the liquid in which meat has been boiled, it may be quickly converted into peas soup by stirring into it a small quantity of prepared peas, sold by aU grocers, in packets, at Id., 2d., 3d., and 6d. The powder should be mixed smoothly with a little cold liquid, and added gradually to the soup, which must afterwards boil for fuUy a quarter of an hour. Peas soup made with this powder is not so good as that made with di-ied peas. Suffi- cient, a dessert-spoonful of powder for a quart of soup; more, if it is liked very thick. Peas Soup, To Flavour.—A pinch of the following savoury powder will impart an agreeable flavour to dried peas soup:—Pound together in a mortar one ounce of dried sage, one ounce of dried mint, two drachms of celery- seed, half a drachm of cayenne, and a drachm of allspice. When the ingredients are reduced to powder, put them into a perfectly dry bottle, cork securely, and store until wanted for use. Peas, Split, Boiling of.—In boiling split peas, some samples, says Mr. Loudon, fall or moulder down freely into pulp, while others maintain their form. The foi-mer are called boilers, and this property of boiling depends on the soil; stiff land, or sandy land that has been limed or marled, or to which gypsum has been applied, produces peas that will not melt in boiling, no matter what the variety may be. The same effect is pro- duced on beans by the soil or manure, and indeed on all leguminous plants, this family having a great tendency to absorb gypsum from the soil. To counteract this fault in the boiling it is only necessary to throw into the water a small quantity of sub-carbonate of soda. Peas, Sugar.—This is a verj' sweet variety of pea, in wliich the tough internal film of the pod is wanting. These pods, when young, are boiled whole, and eaten in the same way as French beans. Peasant's Pudding.—Butter a moderate- sized pie-dish, and fill it with alternate layers of fruit and thin slices of bread or grated bread- crumbs. Add sugar according to the acidity of the fruit, and if it is not a juicy kind, pour half a cupful of cold water, or a little lemon-juice, over the pudding. Red and white currants, strawberries, raspberries, and cherries \vill not require any water to moisten them. The first layer in the dish should consist of bread, and the last of fruit. Bake in a well-heated oven for half an hour. Probable cost uncertain, varying, of course, with the fruit. This is an inexpensive and wholesome pudding. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pectoral Broth (Invalid Cookery).— Out a chicken into joints and put it into a stewpan, with two pints of cold spring water, a fresh lettuce finely shred, three ounces of prepared Iceland moss, a dessert-spoonful of gum-arabic, a sprig of burrage, two or three sprigs of cliervil, and a small pinch of salt andPEP C 532 ) FEE pepper. Bring tho liquid gontly to a boil, stirring it occasionally, then draw the saucepan to the side and lot its contents simmer gently for an hour. Strain it, add a little more salt if required, and servo either hot or cold as a jolly. The flesh of the bird may be made into a chicken panadii (see Chicken Tanada). The above is good for consimiptive persons. Probable cost, Ss. Sufficient for one person. Peel, Orange and Lemon.—The rinds of the orango and lemon may be classed amongst the aromatic condiments. They owe their high flavour to the essential oil they contain, which is extracted, and sold as the essence of oranges and lemons. A few drops of this essential oil is quite as useful as the peel itself: besides it has the advantage of being easily preserved, whereas the peel when dried loses in course of time most of its flavour, fi'om the essential oil escaping. Peels of Fruits, To Preserve the.— The portion of the peel to be preserved should be separated from the rest and dried in a gentle heat. Pemmican.—Pemmican is a preparation of preserved meat, made by cutting lean meat into thin steaks, drying these thoroughly, re- ducing the substance to powder, and mixing it with melted fat, or beef suet. It is an indispensable article for the Arctic voyager, and constitutes an important item in the supplies furnished by the Hudson's Bay Company to their employes. The following is an account given by Sir John Richardson of the prepa- ration of pemmican for use in the search for Sir John Franklin:—"The round or buttock of beef, of the best quality, having been cut into thin steaks, from which the fat and membranous parts were pared away, was dried in a malt- kiln over an oak fire until its moisture was entirely dissipated, and the fibre of the meat became friable. It was then ground in a malt-miU, when it resembled finely-grated meat. Being next mixed with an equal quantity of melted beef suet, or lard, the pre- paration of plain pemmican was complete; but to render it more agreeable to the unaccustomed palate, a proportion of the best Zante currants was added to part of it, and part was sweetened with sugar. Both these kinds were rnuch approved of in the sequel, but more especially that to which the sugar had been added. After the ingredients had been well incorporated by stirring, they were transferred to tin canisters capable of containing eighty-five pounds each, and having been firmly rammed down, and allowed to contract further by cooling, the air was completely expelled by filling the canister to the brim with melted lard through a small hole left in the end, which was then covered with a piece of tin, and soldered up. Finally the canister was painted and lettered according to its contents." Penguin.—The common penguin is the size of a duck; the great penguin is as large as a goose. It is only used as food m rare cir- cumstances. Pennant describes the Patagonian penguin as follows:—They are very fat, but taste fishy, not unlike our puffins. As they are very full of blood, it is necosftary to cut off their heads as soon as they are killed, in order that it may run out. It is also requisite that they should bo flayed, for without these premutions their iU'.nh is scarcely eatable. When salted, it becomes good food. Sir K. Hopkins preserved in tliis way sixteen hogsheads, which served as beef above two months. Peninsula Pudding.—Take six ounc^js of picked and diied cim-auts, and four ounces of raisins weighed after they have been stoned. Mix wth these four ounces of sugar which has been rubbed upon the rind of a small lemon and powdered, and add six ounces of chopped apples, three ounces of finely-shred suet, tlu-ee ounces of bread-crmnbs, a j^inch of salt, and the eighth of a nutmeg grated. Mix the dry in- gredients thoroughly, then stir into them three well-beaten eggs, the strained juice of the lemon, and a glassful of brandy. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould which it will fill to the brim, cover with oiled paper, and tie the mould in a fioured cloth. Plimge it into boiling water, and keep the pudding boiHng until it is done enough. Turn it out carefully, sift powdered sugar thickly over it, and send sweet sauce or wine sauce to table with it. Time to boU, two hours. Probable cost. Is. 3d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pepper.—Pepper, as used for seasoning, is the produce of a plant which grows almost ex- clusively in tropical countries, and is remark- able for its aromatic, hot, pimgent taste. There are several kinds to be met vdth, of which the most important are black pepper, white pepper, long pepper, cayenne pepper, and Neilgherry pepper (see under these difiEerent THE PEPPEE PLANT. headings). In order to test the quality of the peppercorns rub them between the hands; if they are easily crushed to powder they are bad. Pepper was known to the ancient Greeks and Romans. We find two sorts described in the fourth century n.c. At one time it held a much more important place in the commerce of the world than now, having been, before the Aayu of cotton, coffee, and sugar, n loading article in the traffic between Europe and India. TributePEP PEP ( 633 ) waa levied in pepper, and it was often used as a medium of exchange. When Kome was besieged by Alaric, in the beginning of the fifth century, he demanded as a ransom, besides gold and silver, 3,000 pounds of pepper. Dealers in spices were of old called pepperers, and in the twelfth century they formed a fraternity which afterwai-ds merged into the Grocers' Company. " Pepper is very generally employed as a condiment, and from its promoting the secre- tion of the gastric juice, it aids the digestive powers of the stomach, sometimes rendered necessary in our artificial mode of living ; but, even in small quantities, it is hurtful in inflammatory habits." Pepper, Black.—This is the most im- portant sort of pepper. It is the dried ripe berry of a cUmbiag plant that has been culti- vated in India for ages. In the state in which we receive the berries they are black and wrinkled. They are then ground into the coarse grey powder known at table as black pepper. From Pereira we learn that there are three kinds of Hack pepper^ distinguished by wholesale dealers. These are " Malabar Pepper —this is the most valuable ; it is brownish black, free from stalks, and nearly free from dust. Penang pepper—this is brownish black, larger, smoother, free from stalks, but very dusty. It is sometimes used in England to manufacture white pepper. Sumatra pepper—this is the cheapest sort. It is black mixed with stalks, and contains much dust. Under the name of Sumatra pepper, some dealers include the Penang or brownish black sort, and the black Sumatra sort." Pepper, Butter Seasoned with {see Butter Seasoned with Pepper). Pepper, Cayenne, is a compound article, the chief ingredient of which is the epidermis and pulp of the common capsicum, a plant much cultivated in most tropical cUmates. The best cayenne pepper is manufactured in the West Indies. " The berries, which are often larger than an egg, although other varieties are scarcely larger than a clove, are opened, and the seeds are taken out: the scarlet epidermis and pulp are then weU beaten up with flour and salt into a paste, which is afterwards baked imtil quite hard, and then ground into a coarse powder, which is put into weU-corked bottles for use. Other methods are used, but this is the mode of preparing the much-prized West India cayenne pepper." Cayenne pepper has become a necessary article at table, and is highly esteemed for its flavour and the quality it is supposed to possess of aiding the diges- tion of fish and other kinds of food. One may reasonably question whether indulgence in this powerful spice is conducive to health, for though cayenne pepper, like highly-flavoured Indian soys, may occasionally assist digestion, it would perhaps be better for persons of weak digestion to abstain from food requiring a vigorous stomach, than to employ artificial stimulants. The capsicum from which cayenne popper is mostly obtained is a native of the East and West Indie^ where it grows readily with very little care. " There are," says Dr. Yeats, " numerous species of capsicimi, named after the form and colour of the pod, which varies considerably. All are, however, included tmder the Mexican name of chillies. In tropical coun- tries cnillies are used in great quantities, the con- sumption as a condiment being almost universal, and nearly equal to that of salt. In India they are the principal ingredients in all curries, and form the only seasoning which the millions of the poor of that country can obtain to eat with theii' insipid rice. Capsicums or chillies are imported into this country in the form of red and brown pods, which are broken, dried, and packed in bales, weighing 2^ cwt., principally for making pepper." Pepper Gherkins.—Choose the gher- kins of uniform size, and not more than two inches long. Cover with salt, and leave them until the next day, then wipe each one singly with a cloth, and put them into jars, cover with boiling vinegar, and allow a dozen bay-leaves, a sprig of tarragon, a quarter of an ounce of black peppercorns, an ounce and a quarter of salt, two small blades of mace, and two shallots, to each quart of vinegar. Cover the jars, and leave them for three days; then drain off the vinegar, boil it up, let it get quite cold, pour it once more over the gherkins, and tie the jars securely down with bladder. Store in a cool dry place. Probable cost, uncertain. Pepper, XiOng, is the product of a plant found in the Circar mountains, where it is gathered in its wild state. It is imported into England from Bengal, but in inconsiderable quantities, as the qualities of long pepper are analogous to those of white pepper. It is a favourite in some culinary operations, particu- larly in making pickles. Pepper, Neilgherry.—The Neilgherry pepper, so much prized by East Indian gourmets, is prepared from the berries of a yellow variety of the pepper-plant, cultivated for the purpose on the Neilgherry Hills. It is flavoured with cumin and other aromatic seeds. Pepper Pot (a hotch-potch).—Put four quarts of boiling water inta a large stewpan, with a mixture of any meats that may be pre- ferred—either three pounds of gravy beef and haK a pound of lean ham, or three pounds of the neck of mutton and half a pound of pickled pork; add half a cupful of best rice, a bunch of savoury herbs, two large onions, and three large potatoes coarsely grated. Skim the liquid carefully during the first half hour, and let it simmer gently until all the goodness is drawn out of the meat. This will require from three to four hours. Strain the soup and let it stand until cold, so that the fat may be entirely removed. Put the liquid into the stewpan, with a large fowl cut into joints, and the meat of a lobster or crab finely minced. When the fowl is almost tender, put in a dozen small light suet dumplings, and a pint and a half of whatever vegetables are in season cut up into small pieces. In summer these will consist of peas, cauliflowers, French beans, lettuces, or spinach, and in Avinter of carrots, turnips, or celery. Season with cayenne and salt, if required. When the vegetables are done enough serve the entile preparation in a tureen. In theC 534 ) "PEP PER West Indies, where this dish is a groat favourite, it is so highly Boasouod that it is imivorsally known as "pepper pot." Time, about an hour after the fowl is put in. The probable cost varies with the ingredients. Suf- ficient for eight or nine persons. Pepper Pot, West Indian. —In country houses where much company is kept, a diffi- culty is often experienced in disposing of the remains of poultry or game, and thus avoiding waste. The foUomng dish may be recom- mended, as being palatable and convenient, and also a great favourite with those who have tried it. Procure a bottle of casaripo sauce. This sauce is sent from the West Indies. It is thick and dark in appearance, and is sold in quart bottles. Take whatever re- mains of meat or poultry you may have, cut them into convenient pieces, trim them neatly, put them into a pan, and cover them with the sauce. Make the whole hot over the fire, and take out as much as is required for immediate use. Put a further supply of game, &c., into the pot when there are any remains, remember- ing always to cover the additional meat with sauce, and to warm it each time it is used. The sauce will keep the meat quite good. Pepper, Purchase of.—Unless one con- sumes pepper in considerable quantities, little should be bought at a time. The strength of it, especially in a ground state, is constantly lessened by exposure to the air. Pepper Vinegar.—Take fifty fresh red English chillies, cut them in two, put them into a wide-necked bottle, and pour over them a pint of best vinegar. Let them remain for a fortnight, and shake the bottle occasional^. Strain, and bottle for use. Fresh vinegar may be put over the chillies three or four times, until the strength is exhausted. This vinegar is an agreeable addition to melted butter in making fish sauces, and is very useful for flavouring purposes. If genuine cayenne can be obtained, a quarter of an ounce put into a pint of vinegar will answer the same purpose. English chillies are at their best during September and October. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 3s. per hundred chiUies. Sufficient for a pint of vinegar. Pepper Watpr (for flavouring).—Strain the juice of a fresh lemon into a pint and a half of cold water. Slice an onion and pound it in a mortar, with twelve peppercorns, three cloves of garKc, a table-spoonful of currj' powder, and a. dessert-spoonful of salt. Put all into a sauce- pan, bring the liquid to the point of boiling, cover closely, and let it simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, then strainit through muslin. Put with it a small onion which has been chopped small and fried lightly in butter. Boil up once moro, and the pepper water is ready to be bottled. Cork closely, and store in a cool, dry place. In India, where this re- cipe is in groat repute, a ])ioce of tamarind is substituted for the lemon-juice. ProbaV^le cost, 2d. per pint. Pepper, White.—"V\'Tiite pepper is the product of uhr; same plant as black pepper. To manufacture it the black wrinkled coats of the Mjcdri arc removed by soaking and friction. They are then ground to powder. White pepper is by many preferred to black, on account of its superior appearance. It is deti- cient, however, in both strength and flavour. Like black pepper, white pepper is divided by wholesale dealers into three kinds or varie- ties. These are -Tellicherry pepper, which is of two kinds. Large or fine Tellichr-iTy ])epper is larger and whiter than any other description of white pepper, and fetches a higher price; small or coriander-like pepper is shriveUed. Common white pepper comes from Penang by Singapore; it is round, and not shrivelled ; its value depends on its size and whiteness. English bleached or white pepper.—When the two preceding sorts are scarce, brown Penang pepper is bleached. The yellowest and largest grains are chosen for this purpose, for neither an expensive nor small sort would pay. Pepper used to be subject to scandalous adulteration. Peppermint CordiaL—Take of white sugar and water in the proportion of 196 pounds of the former to fifteen gallons of the latter. Break the sugar into pieces, put it into a 120-gallon cask, and pour the water on it. Let it stand tiU the next day; then put a stick into the bunghole, and rummage until the sugar is dissolved. Next add two ounces of Enghsh oil of peppermint and forty gallons of proof spirit. Mix well, and add, further, enough water to make the whole up to 106 gallons. Let the cordial stand till fine. Peppermint Drops.—Rub the inside of a brass or block-tin saucepan with a little oil oi butter. Put into it half a pound of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and two or three table-spoonfuls of water or of strained lemon- juice. Place the saucepan on the fire, and let the syrup boil for ten minutes, then stir into it a dessert-spoonful of the essence of peppermint, or one hundred and twenty drops of the oil of peppermint. Let the mixture faU in drops upon white paper which has been well rubbed over with butter. Probable cost. Id. per ounce. Peppers, To Pickle Quickly.—Put a hundred peppers into a bowl, and pour over them a strong brine, made with a pint and a half of salt and as much water as will cover them. Put a board over them to keep them under the water, and let them lie for two days. Drain them, make a small incision in the side of each to let out the water, Avipe them with a soft cloth, and put them into a stone jar, Avith half an ounce of allspice, half an ounce of cloves, and a small lump of alum. Pour cold vinegar over them, and tie a bladder securelj' over the jar. WTien pickled in this way, the peppers will preserve their colour. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. for this quantity. Perch. — The porch is one of the com- monest of our frosh-water fish : at the same time it is one of the host. It is mot with in almost all the lakes and rivers of Groat Britain and Ireland, and throughout the whole of the tem- perate regions of the continent. Porch abound in deep, dark, sluggish rivers, and delight to lie about bridges, mill-pnnis, and in any doop and dark holes in the still parts of water, orPER ( 636 ) the gentle eddies about flood-gates and similar places. When full-grown they are large fish : one weighing a pound is a good fish, and one of three pounds is thought very large; but they have been found weighing even eight or nine pounds. The flesh is white, firm, of a good flavour, and easily digested. Perch are so tenacious of life that they may be carried sixty miles in straw, and yet survive the journey. They are best crimped the moment they are taken out of the water. The pecu- liarity about the flesh of the perch is that it is very difficult to scale, so much so that some cooks boil the fish first and scale it after- wards. If this is not done, it will be found an assistance to plunge it for a minute into boiling water, and then scale it. Perch is in season from the latter end of May till the THE PEBCH. beginning of I'ebruary. When fresh, the body has a bright shining appearance, and the gills are rosy red. l erch, like all fresh-water fish, should be used as soon as possible after they are caught. Perch la Maitre d'Hotel).—Put as much cold water as will cover the fish into a sauce- pan, with half a dozen chives, a handful of parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Put it on the fire, and bring it to a boil. Wash the fish in lukewarm water to free it from the slime, empty it, remove the gills and the fins, and scrape it carefully. Plunge it into the boiling water, and when done enough, which will be when the flesh gives way on being pressed with the finger, drain and dish it on a folded napkin, garnish mth curled parsley, and send a sauce, made as follows, to table in a tureen:—Mix two ounces of fresh butter smoothly with one ounce of flour. Add a quarter of a pint of milk, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Stir the mixtvire over the flre without ceasing until it is on the point of boiling. Pour it into a tureen, add to it a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and serve very hot. Time to boil the fish, according to the size : small fish, ten minutes ; large, half an hour. Probable cost uncertain, perch being seldom offered for s,'ilc. Sufficient, a moderate- sized perch for each person. Perch, Boiled—Wash the fish in Inko- wann water to take off the slime, scale it care- fully, empty it, take out the gills, cut off the fins, phicc the fish in boiling salted water, and keep it boiling until it is done enough. In ordi i to a.scortain when tliis point is reached. press the fish with the fingers; if it gives way to the touch it is done. Take it up, drain it, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish with parsley, and send melted butter, parsley sauce, or Dutch sauce, to table in a tureen. Time, about a quarter of an hour for a moderate-sized fish. Probable cost uncertain, perch being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for one person. Perch, Boiled (another way). — Clean them carefully and put them in a fish-kettle with as much cold spring-water as will cover them, adding a handful of salt. Set them on a quick fire till they boil. When they boil, set them on one side to boil gently for about ten minutes, according to their size. Perch, Fried.—Wash, scale, and clean the fish carefully, wipe them dry, and flour them Lightly aU over; then rub off the flour, dip them into beaten egg, and afterwards into finely-grated bread-crumbs, and fry them in plenty of boiling fat, until they are nicely browned. Drain them for a few minutes on an inverted sieve, serve on a hot dish, and garnish with parsley. Send shrimp sauce, anchovy sauce, or plain melted butter, to table in a tureen. Time to fry, according to their size. Probable cost, uncertain, perch being seldom offered for S4.1e. Sufficient, four or five for a dish. Perch, Pried, with Herbs.—Take two moderate-sized perch. Wash, empty, and scale them carefully, wipe them dry, and lay them on a dish. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and pour on them six table-spoonfuls of oil. Let them soak for half an hour, and turn them once during that time. Drain them well, and cover them thickly with finely-grated bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and flavoured with a powdered clove, or a little grated nutmeg, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Fry them in boiling fat till the fish are brightly browned, serve on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and send melted butter, parsley sauce, or piquant sauce to table in a tureen. Time to frr, ten minutes or more, according to size. Sufficient for two persons. Perch, Potted.—Take ten or twelve moderate-sized perch. Empty them, take out the gills, skin them, and cut off the heads, tails, and fins. Put them into a pie-dish that will only just hold them when they are closely packed, sprinkle a little salt over them, and lay on them a muslin bag containing the following ingredients, which have been crushed to powder: —eight peppercorns, two chillies, four allspice, half an inch of ginger, a bay-leaf, and a laurel- leaf. Put ten ounces of fresh butter, out mto slices, upon the fish, cover it closely, and bake in a gentle oven. When done, lift out the bag, and keep the fish in a cool place until wanted. SerA-e cold. Time to bake, two hours. Pro- bable cost uncertain, perch being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Perch, stewed. — Take three or four moderate-sized perch. Wash, scale, and empty them, and take out the gills, put them into a stewpan, and barely cover them M'ith woalv( 636 ) PER stock, or water. Put with thorn a largo onion cut into slicos, four clovos, a buncsh of paraloy, a small sprig of thyino, a bay-loaf, two pinches of salt, and two pinches of popper. Simmer gently until the fish is done enough. In order to ascertain when this is the case, press the tiosh with the finger, when it should give way to tho touch. Lift out tho porch, and drain them. Strain the liquid in which they were stewed, thicken it with a little flour and butter, and boil it quickly ;for a few minutes. Stir into it a wine-glassful of claret, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoouful of the essence of anchovy, a small pinch of cayenne, and a table-spoonful of chopped pars- ley. Skin the fish, preserve the fins, put them upon a hot dish, strain the sauce over them, and put the fins at each side of them; serve very hot. Time to stew the perch, fifteen or twenty minutes, according to size. Probable cost un- certain, perch being seldom offered for sale. Sufiicient for two or three persons. Perch Stewed in Wine.—Like all fish of its kind, the perch, though very good when plainly dressed, is slightly insipid ; it is there- fore very often cooked, as the great Izaak Walton says, "with trouble and charges." When economy is not studied, the following will be found an excellent dish :—^^Take three medium- sized perch, wash, then scale and empty them, and take out the gills. Lay them in a stewpan, and just cover them with equal parts of sherry and stock, or, if preferred, with sherry only. Put with them a sliced onion, a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a small clove of garlic, and a little pepper and salt, and let them simmer gently until they are sufficiently cooked. Drain them, and keep them hot until the sauce is made. Strain the liquor, put it into a stewpan, and mix gradually with it an ounce of flour which has been smoothly worked with an ounce of butter; let it boil, then add a large table-spoonful of chopped parsley and half an ounce of cold butter. Stir the sauce until the butter is dissolved. Take the whole of the skin off the perch, pour the sauce over them, and stick the red fins into the middle of the backs; serve as quickly as possible. Time, about a quarter of an hour to stew the perch. It is seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for two or three persons. Perch, Water Souchy.—This is the best way to dress porch. When they are plen- tiful, take the smallest fish, clean them, cut them into pieces, and boil slowly with some parsley- roots, and whole pepper, and salt, till a strong broth is obtained. Strain the broth through fine muslin, pick out the parsley-roots, slice them, and return thom to the strained liquor, in which the larger perch, previously crimped, are to be boiled. When about done, introduce a few bunches of parsley previously scalded in water to preserve their green colour. Serve in a deep dish, accompanied by slices of brown bread-and-butter. No s'auce is required, the broth, with the addition at table of pepper and salt, being sufficient. Perch, Water Souchy (nnother wny).— put into a siiucepan as much water as will barely cover tho fish. Throw into i t a little i)epper and salt, and a handful of parsley. Wash, clean, and scale tho fish. Take out the gills and cut off" the fins, but let the milt and liver remain inside. As soon as the parsley is soft, lay in tho fish. Put with it a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and let it simmer gently until it is done enough. Serve on a hot dish, with the liquid in which it was cooked poured over it. If preferred, tho fish may bo filleted, and weak stock substituted for the water. Send brown bread and butter to table as an accompaniment. Time to boil, ten to twelve minutes. Perch is seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, one perch for one person. Perigord Pie.—This celebrated pie de- rives its name from Perigord, in France, which is a place celebrated for its truffles. It will be evident from this that truffles enter largely into its composition; and as they are both expensive and scarce, it will generally be found more satisfactory to purchase the pies which are imported than to endeavour to manufacture them at home. Nevertheless, as there may be some who prefer making to buying them, the following recipe is given :—Procure some fine truffles, and be particular to smell them, and reject any that are at all musty; one pound -will be required for three partridges. Soak them for two or three hours in fresh water, to loosen the earth about them, then rinse them weU, and scrub them with a hard brush. Peel them, mince the small and broken ones, and put the rest aside for a little while. Truss, as if for boiling, as many partridges as will be I'oquired for the size of the pie. Bone and lard them, and season them with a little salt, pepper, and powdered spice. Make some highly-seasoned forcemeat, according to the directions given for quenelles. Mix with it the minced truffles, and stuff the birds with whole truffles and a portion of the forcemeat. Make a raised crust {see Paste for Eaised Pies). Line it with shces of bacon and forcemeat. Place the birds in it, backs downmost, fill the vacant places with forcemeat, lay a slice of bacon on the top, put on the lid, ornament as fancy dictates, and bake in a well-heated oven. Perigord Pie (another way).—See Game Perigord Pie). Pirigueux Sauce.—Soak, rinse, and scrub four or five truffles. ]\Iince them finely, and put them into a stewpan, with half a pint of good brown sauce, a piece of g-arlic the size of a pea, and a glassful of sheiTy or madeira. Simmer for ten minutes, then add two table- spoonfuls of the gravy from meat or half a tea- spoonful of Ijiebig's extract of meat, dissolved in a little boiling water, and half a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovy. Serve with roast chicken, &c. When no brown sauce is at hand it maybe easily made, as follows :—Work equal part's of butter and flour smoothly to- gether. Stir tho mixture over a gentle fire for three minutes, until it is brightly coloured, then add, graduallv, as much stock as will make it of tho consistencv of thick- cream. SoASon with popper and salt, and boil the siiuce for a minute or two, when it is ready for use. Time,PER C 837 ) PER ten minutes to boil the sauce. Probable cost, j varying with the price of the truffles. Suffi- cient for six or seven persons. Periwinkle.—Littor 'ma lUtorea is pre-emi- | uently the periwinkle of the British coasts, j Immense quantities are brought to the London market, and form a considerable article of food among the poorer classes. After being boiled, the animal is picked out of the shell with a pin. Periwinkles, Boiled.—Wash the peri- winkles in several waters, and then let them soak in plenty of fresh water for half an hour; when that is done, wash them again. These precau- tions will be fomad necessary to cleanse the fish from the mud and sand which adhere to them. Before boiling, shake them up to make them withdraw into their shells. Put them into a saucepan, and cover with boiling sea-water that has stood a little while to settle, and then been poured off from the sediment. Boil quickly for twenty minutes, and serve, accompanied by brown bread and butter. Probable cost, 2d. a pint. Sufficient for three or four persons. Perricot.—To make this liqueur take four ounces each of the kernels of apricots and nec- tarines ; mash them in a mortar along with eight ounces of peach-leaves and half that quantity of black cui-rant-leaves; add a drachm of beaten cinnamon and a drachm of mace. Put all these ingredients into five quarts of prepared spirit, let them infuse for a week, then draw off about two quarts, or, if it runs clear, five pints, with a gentle heat. Perry and Cider.—Those are fermented beverages, prepared from the juice of pears and apples. They are not usually reckoned among the wines, but they belong to that class of beverages as much as those obtained from cui-- rants, gooseberries, and other fruits. Both are of ancient date : Pliny tells us that they were made by the Komans in Italy. There are many varieties of pears suited for making perry. In Gloucestershire the Tinton squash is in the highest esteem; it is an early fruit, and remarkable for the tenderness of its flesh. The perry obtained from it is pale and sweet, yet uncommonly fine, and of a strong body. The Oldfield pear is another favom-ite ; it yields a finely-flavoured liquor. The Bar- land pear of Worcestershire is in high repute, as is also the red pear. The best pears for perry, or, at least, the kinds which hitherto have been deemed the fittest for making the liquor, are so _ excessively tart and harsh, that no one can think of eating them as fruit: even hungry swine will not feed on them. All pears which possess colour and richness are capable of making perry, but a good perry pear requires an assemblage of qualities which are not often met with in the same fruit. " It must contain a large proportion of sugar, or its juice can never possess sufficient strength; and unless it be at the same time astringent, the liquor produced from it will be acetous when- ever it ceases to be saccharine; in the latter Htate it will agree with few constitutions, in the former with none. The juice of the best perry pears, according to one authority, ' is so harsh and rough as to occasion a long-continued, heat and ii-ritation in the throat when the fruit is attempted to be eaten; yet by being simply pressed from the pulp, it becomes rich and sweet, without more roughness than is agree- able to almost every palate.' This circumstance, though extraordinary, does not stand alone in the vegetable world; there are many cases where similar changes take place with acrid vegetable substances." To affox'd perry in the greatest perfection, the pear must be in a certain state of maturity : it should be ripe without being either mellow or decaying. The produce of the same tree ripens very irregularly; the planter must therefore have a considerable number of each kind he plants, or he will rarely have a suffi- cient quantity of fruit ready to be ground at the same time. Even when the pears have fallen spontaneously from the trees, a fourth at least of some kinds wiU be found immature or decaying, and quite unfit for making fine perry. These ought to be separated from the rest-, though they rarely or never are. To speak now of the apples required for cider : no juice can be depended on for making a good liquor that does not possess at the same time body and flavour; the former depends on the juice contained in the pulp or flesh of the fruit, and the latter on the juice contained in the external skin or peel, and in the seeds or pips. The most agi-eeable apples to the palate are those which abound in a jixice at once sweet and acidulous, whereas those which suit best for cider have the juice both sweet and acerb, with little mixtui-e of acid. Hence the best fruits for cider manufacture, with few excep- tions, are too astringent to be in demand for table use. Perry and cider are obtained from their respective fruits pretty much in the same way. To describe the process of making the one, wiU enable the reader to understand how to make the other. We shall describe, then, the manu- facture of cider, that being decidedly the most popular liquor. " Cider is manufactuxed," says a writer in the English Cyclopeedia," with very rude machinery, by the following process:—The apples are thrown into a circular stone trough, usually about eighteen feet in diameter, called the chase, round which the rutmer, a heavy circular stone, is turned by one or sometimes two horses. When the fruit has been ground until the rind and the core are so completely reduced that a handful of ' must,' when squeezed, wiU all pass without lumps between the fingers, and the maker sees from the white spots that are in it that the pips have been broken, a square horse- hair cloth is spread under a screw-press; and some of the must is poured with pails upon the hair, the edges and comers of which are foldec*. inwards so as to prevent its escape. Ten or twelve of these hairs are piled and filled one upon the other, and then surmounted with a frame of thick boards. [This is the process in Hereford district. In Devonshire a lever press is used, and 'reed,' unthrashed straw, is placed in layers in the place of hairs. The method used in the South of France for expressing oil from olives is identically the same]. Upon thisPER ( 638 ) PEB the screw is slowly worked down by a lever; and with tlic pressure, a thick brown juice exudes from the hairs, leaving within them only a dry residue, which, in years when apples are scarce, is sonictimes mixed with water, l>:round again, and the liquid pressed out as before. This latter product is called ' water cider,' a thin unpalatable liquor, which is given to the labourers early in the year. " The cider is received by a channel in the frame of the press upon which the hairs stand, emptying into a flat tub called a ' trin.' From the trin it is poured with buckets or ' racking cans' into aisks, placed either out of doors or in sheds where there is a free current of air. In about three or four days, more or less ac- cording to the heat of the weather, the liquor usually will ferment; the thick heavier parts will subside as a sediment at the bottom of the cask, and the lighter become bright clear cider. This should then be ' racked,' or drawn off, into another cask, and the sediment be put to strain through linen bags, and what oozes from them should be restored. "It is during the fermentation that the management of cider is least understood, and there is the greatest hazard of injury. It is necessary also to know what fruit will by itself make good cider, which kinds should be ground together, and what proportions should be mixed. But it is in the preservation of the strength and flavour after the cider is ground that the principal difficulty consists : slight fermentation will leave the liquid thick and unpalatable; rapid fermentation will impair both its strength and durability; e^ccessive fermentation will make it sour, harsh, and thin. Other things being equal, that cider wiU probably be the best in which the vinous fermentation has proceeded slowly, and has not been confounded with the acetous. The remedies used in cases of cider not clearing, are either yeast, or the addition of cider in a state of fermentation, isinglass, eggs, OT a quart of fresh blood stirred up with the liquor, in which last case it is to be racked on the following day : these do not always prove effectual. But the common evils are excess or rapidity of fermentation; and if a better quaUty than farm-house or ' family drink' is sought, cider requires so much care to prevent its being spoiled, that the best and most careful makers frequently have it looked at during each night for some weeks after it is made; and if the bubbling hissing noise, the sign of fermenta- tion, becomes frequent or too loud, the liquor is immediately racked off .into another cask. This check often requires to be repeated several times, but although at each racking some portion of the strength will be lost, the body flavour and sweetness will chiefly be retained. It is not the habit of the farmer to add sugar, treacle, brandy, or any colouring matter to the liquor; it is only adulterated in the hands of cider dealers and publicans who wiU not lose a hogshead, and if one has turned sour or has been otherwise damaged, it must be 'doctored' in order to render it marketable." At the beginning of January the cider is moved into cellars. In March the liquor is bunged down; it may be used soon afterwards, though it will greatly improve by keeping. If I bottled cider is required, it should be bottled and wired in the Septeml>er or October after it , is made. Home persons prefer an earlier timij the (jnd of April or the beginning of May ; a : greater degree of efterveacence is thus attained, but a considerable loss accrues from the number of bottles that will be burst. The quantity of cider consumed by workmen is very large. The usual allowance given by masters in Herefordshire is two or three quarts a day; and in harvest-time many labourers drink in a day ten or twelve quails of a liquor that in a stranger's mouth would be mistaken for vinegar. The men do not like sweet cider. Cider of good quality is manufactured in Ireland, in the counties of Waterfoid and Cork; in Normandy, whence we liave many of our best apples ; in Belgium; and in Geimany, the product of the last-named country being of inferior quaUty. It is also made in abundance, and of excellent quality, in many parts of the United States. Good cider contains about six per cent, of proof spirit. It is sometimes adulterated with lead, with a view to concealing tartness. This is a highly injurious practice, lead being a dangerous poison. Common cider is also exten- sively employed for the manufacture of spurious wine. Notwithstanding the extensive scale on which cider is generally manufactured in the cider counties, it is by no means necessarj'; and it is quite possible to make it in small quantities of as excellent a quahty as is procurable in any other manner. The superabundant apples of a moderately large garden may be economically converted to this use, and without a great deal of trouble. The machinery necessary for making cider on this domestic scale is simple, and easily obtainable at a small expense. The following answers the purpose as weU as more costly apparatus:— A tub is to be procured, made of strong staves; the bottom is to be much thicker than usual, and the peripheral edge of it must be at least half an inch thick where it is let into the chimb. The iron hoops must be strong, especially the two lower ones on the chimb. This tub is to answer the purposes of a crushing trough; it must sustain the strokes of a heavy pounder, and hence the necessity of its being made as strong as possible. The diameter of the bottom of the tub should be only eighteen inches ; its height about the same. The next article is the pounder. This is to be made of any hard wood. Its shape may be easily conceived by imagining a cone, about the size of an ordinary loaf of sugar, with a handle, proceeding from its apex, of about four feet in length. The base of the cone should be per- fectly flat. The press which will be foimd most con- venient, is the common square clothes' press. It consists of a rectangular horizontal board, three feet in length, a foot and a half in breadth, and at least four inches in thickness. At each end of this, and mid-way in the breadth, is erected a perpendicular square pillar, the trans- verse section of which is about four inches square; the height of each pillar is three feet.PER . ( 639 ) From the top. of one pillar to thn other is extended a cross-bar of considerable scantling, not under six inches square, and through the middle of this is a hole with a concave screw, which receives the convex screw that constitutes the press. The perpendicular convex screw is attached at its lower end to a pressing board, which slides up and down between the two pillars, and has had square pieces cut out of its ends to receive the pillars, which by this con- trivance keep it always in its place, while it follows the screw in its ascent or descent. The pressing board follows the screw because the latter is so attached that it can turn freely in the pressing board, but cannot be drawn out. The pressing board is made equally thick with the rectangular board which constitutes the basis of the whole press. The screw, near ■where it is inserted into the pressing board is made to swell into a bulb; and through this are two cross holes to admit an iron bar, for the purpose of acting as a lever in working the press. The whole is made of hard wood, firmly put together by dove-tails, and strengthened with iron cramps. The pressing board may be screwed down even until it meets the bottom board; or it may be screwed up until it arrives at the top cross-bar. It is obvious, from the construction of this press, that if a bag of apple-juice be submitted to its action, the juice will be forced out, but will run over its bottom board and go to waste. In order to prevent this, a tin tray is made use of. This tray is rectangular, its area is a little less than that of the pressing board; it is shallow, its rims being only about two inches in height. Proceeding from one side, correspond- ing with the front of the press, a pipe emerges, so that whatever juice is forced through the bag of pulp will trickle down the sides of the bag, will be received in the tray, and from this will flow thi'ough the pipe into a vessel placed beneath. The pipe is somewhat bent downward for the purpose of more freely delivering itself. It is to be observed that when a bag of pulp is to be pressed, it must be set standing on its end in the middle of the tray, and immediately under the screw above. The bag need not be tied round its mouth, but only folded over loosely; the pressing board wiU keep it suffi- ciently tight. The bag may be made of strong canvass or hair-cloth, strongly sewed with double thread or pack-thread. These are the chief articles of apparatus required for domestic cider-making. In crushing the apples, it will not answer to throw a number of them into the tub at once, and to commence pounding them. In this way vast labour would be expended in doing the busmess very badly. The proper mode is to throw m half a dozen first, and crush them well, which will bo done with three or four strokes of the pounder; then another half dozen may be thrown in and similarly treated, vvhen there is so much pulp in the tub as to embarrass the further crushing of the fruit, it must be transferred into any other wooden vessel. The apples being all reduced to a tolerably small pulp, the next part of the process is to express the juice. The pulp thrown into the canvas bag is to bo put under the press, and the juice forced out by a gradual and steadily- urged action of the screw. In this way the juice may be drawn out perfectly transparent; but if the screw be urged suddenly, or by starts, the juice will be muddy, and the quantity of lees will occasion some loss of cider. It will be found also that when the pressing board can be forced no tighter, by leaving it un- touched for a few minutes it will be easy to force it a little more, and by repeating this process a much greater product of juice may be obtained than if force enough had been applied at first to endanger ^^he press. Having procured the necessary quantity of juice, the next step is its fermentation. A very convenient fermenting apparatus is a cask which has no bung-hole, or has it well stopped up. This cask is set standing on either of its ends; a cock is fixed in one of the staves, about an inch above the bottom chimb; so that in drawing off the liquid the sediment cannot also run. In the centre of the top of the ciisk, that is, in the centre of its other end, a hole is to be bored, of such size as will admit a large bottle- cork. The cask set on end should be fiUed with apple-juice through the cork-hole at the top, and it njiay be left to ferment at the natural temperature of the air should it be not under 60° in the shade. If the air be lower than that degree, the cask must be placed near the fire. In some hours (many will elapse if the month be November, and especially if it be cold for the season) the fermentation commences, the head of yeast rises up through the cork-hole, is retained by the chimb, falls back into liquor for the most part, and runs back into the cask, leav- ing the true yeast on the top outside. This ar- rangement succeeds better in the beginning of (September; but if the season be much more advanced, it will be better not to fill up the cask entirely. In this way the yeast will not be thrown out of the liquor, in which, at this cool season, its presence is so necessary to continue the languid fermentation that alone can be expected when the quantity is small. If there were some hundred gallons in one body under fermentation, the case would be different, and it might be an object to remove some of the yeast, so as to restrain an inordinate action. In cider-making, any degree of fermentation that does more than generate a due quantity of carbonic acid to impregnate the liquid for the purpose of taste is injurious. It need not possess any intoxicating quality; an agreeable taste is the only quality to be expected from it; and this will be attained by fermenting until the excessive sweetness of the apple is removed, and is replaced by the sharpness of the carbonic acid, which just at that period vnR have been generated in sufficient quantity. The pleasing sourness of the malic acid will remain un- altered; and if the cider, when finished, comprises the three qualities of sweetness, sharpness, and acidity, without a predominance of any of them, the fermentation may be con- sidered to have been of the most successful kind. The criteria by which the liquor may be known to be sufficiently fermented are easily understood. In a large vessel not full a burn- ing candle may be let down ; if it bum there, the fermentation is over. As soon as the cide»( 640 ) PER has coasod to fonnont, it is to bo drawn off tlio leoa by boring a gimlet-hole at the bottom of the cask, a littlo above the chimb. The liquor as it runs out is to be received in a clean cask, which when fuU is to be bunged, and may be kept for draught. Or, after remaining in tliis aisk for two or three weeks, it may bo drawn oft' and bottled, when it wiU soon get into good order. If the cider bo made in cold weather it will require a longer time to clear; and the same will happen if there had been a very considerable ratio of crabs amongst tho apples. A littlo dissolved isinglass added will soon clear it; but this tends to Hatten. Those, and a variety of minor circumstances can be only learned and provided for by practice.— Donovan. Before bottling cider, examine it, and see whether it is clear and sparkling. If not so, clarify it in the same way as beer, and leave it for a fortnight. The night before you intend to put it into bottles, take the bung out of the cask, and leave it so till the next day. The filled bottles should not be corked down tiU the day after ; if this is done immediately, they will burst by keeping. Use only the best corks. Champagne bottles are the sort usually chosen for cider. It is customary to wire down the corks, and cover them with tin-foil, just like champagne. A few bottled at a time may be laid to ripen in a warm place. Should the cider be wanted for immediate use, or for consump- tion during the cooler months of the year, drop a small piece of loaf sugar into each bottle before corking. Or, which comes to the same thing, cork the bottles two or three hours after they are filled. In summer, or for long keep- ing, this practice, however, is inadmissible. Store the bottled cider in a cool cellar; the quality will greatly improve by age. Cider for bottling should be of good quality, sound and piquant, and at least a twelvemonth old. When out of condition it is unfit for bottling. Mr. Knight, a well-known authority on the subject, states, that in the manufacture of perry the pears are ground and pressed in the same way as apples in the manufacture of cider; but that it is not usual for the reduced pulp to be allowed to remain any length of time with- out being pressed. In Herefordshire, and in the counties in its neighbourhood, it has never been the practice to blend the juices of the different varieties of the pear, in order to cor- rect the defects of one kind by the opposite properties of another. It is, however, Mr. Knight aUows, more easy to find the required portion of sugar and of astringency in three or four varieties than in one; hence, he supposes, a judicious mixture of fruits affords a prospect of great benefit. The method of fermenting perry is nearly the same as that of fermenting cider. The former, however, does not afford the same indi- cations as the latter by which the proper period of racking-off may be known. "The thick scum that collects on the surface of cider rarely appears in the juice of the pear, and during the time of the suspension of its fermentation the excessive brightness of the former bquor in seldom seen in the latter; but where the fruit has been regularly ripe, its produce will generally become moderately clear and quiet in a few days after it is made, and it should then be drawn olf from its grosser lees. In tho after-management of perry the method is the same as that of cider; but it does not so well boar situations where it is much exposed to change of temperature. In bottle it almost always retains its good qualities, and in that situation it is always advisable to put it, if it remains sound and perfect, at the conclusion of the first succeeding summer. Perry is generally thought inferior to cider. Some hold tliat it resembles champagne more than gooseberry-wine does; and it is said, when of the best quality, to have been occa- sionally sold for cliampagne. Perry and Cider, Wliolesomeiiess of.—Perry should be used in moderation by those liable to stomach and bowel complaints, as it sometimes causes colic, especially if it is anywise acid. Either alone, however, or mixed with equal parts of water, it is, when of good quality, an excellent refreshing summer beve- rage. " Cider," says one writer, " is not so nutritious as malt liquor, but it forms an excel- lent beverage for labouring men in the summer months, its acid assisting materially in quench- ing thirst. Eough Herefordshire cider has been recommended as an antiseptic in cases of low fever." Persian Sherbet (a refreshing summer beverage).—Boil six or eight stalks of green rhubarb and a quarter of a pound of raisins or figs, cut into slices, in three pints of water. When the liquid has boiled gently for half an hour, strain it through muslm, and stir into it as much lemon or orange syrup as is agreeable to the taste, and a few drops of rose water or orange-fiower water. Probable cost, 4d. Suffi- cient for two or three persons. Persian Sherbet (another way).—Pick a pound of ripe strawberries, and bruise them well with the back of a wooden spoon. Put them into a basin, with a fresh lemon, cut into thin slices, and a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water, and pour over them a quart of cold water. Let them remain for three hours, then stram the liquid through muslin, and squeeze the fruit weU to make it yield as much juice as possible. Mix with the juice a pound of refined loaf sugar, and stir until the sugar is dissolved; then strain it again, and place the vessel con- taining the sherbet on ice until it is wanted for use. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for nearly three pints of sherbet. Persian Sherbet, as Sold in the Shops.—Mix two ounces of bicarbonate of soda with two ounces of tartaric acid, and four ounces of powdered loaf sugar. Flavour the mixture with thirty drops of the essence of lemon, and add two or three drops of any sbght perfume. Keep the powder in a closely- stoppered bottle, men wanted for use, mix a tea-spoonful in half a tumbler of water. PetitS Morceaux (for Dessert).—Rub the rind of half a lemon upon four ounces of loaf suRar ; crush it to powder, and mix with it tho white of one egg which has been whisked to a firm froth, and six ounces of sweet almonds, and( Bil ) PHE PET six bitter ones which have been blanched and chopped tine. Roll out half a pound of good pufl'-paste to the thickness of half an inch, spread the mixtm-e upon it, and stamp it out m fancy shapes, such as rings, diamonds, hearts, &c. Bake the morceaux on a buttered tin in a well-heated oven, and let them get cold before they are used. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. Pewter, Vessels of.—There are three kinds of pewter in common use, called " plate- metal," "triple," and "ley." Plate-metal is said to be formed of 112 parts of tin, six or seven of antimony, and a small portion of brass or copper to harden it. It is the best kind, and used for making dishes. The sort termed triple is used for alehouse pots, and is com- posed of lead and tin, with a little brass. The ley pewter, used for wine and spirit measures, has more lead. Lead being a cheaper article than tin, it is the interest of the manufacturer to employ as much as he can of the former metal; and, consequently, pewter is apt to contain too much of it. Pewter Vessels, To Clean.—Pewter vessels may be cleaned by means of emery powder or whiting, or with a solution of potadi or of soda to remove grease. Pheasant.—The pheasant, almost more than any other bii-d, requires to be hung as long as it possibly can be with safety. When this is done, the flesh acquii-es a delicious flavour, peculiar to itself ; when it is not done, the flesh is tough and flavourless. The length of time that the bird should be kept depends, of course, upon the state of the weather. In cold, frosty weather three weeks may be safely per- mitted ; in warm, damp weather four or five days ^viU probably be found sufficient. As a general rule, the bird is ready for the spit when it begins to smell slightly, and to change colour; certainly it should never be cooked until the blood begins to drop from the bill. The hen pheasant is more delicate in flavour than the cock. The old birds may be known by the length and sharpness of the spurs, which in the young ones are short and round. Young pheasants are, of course, to be preferred. These birds are in season from October to February. Pheasant (a la Bonne Femme).—Pick, draw, and singe a well-hung pheasant, and put it into a buttered stewpan with three ounces of good beef dripping, and six ounces of ham, fat and lean together, cut into inch squares. Fry over a gentle fire until the pheasant is equally and lightly browned all over, then add a table-spoonful of chutnee, and three or four large Spanish onions cut into thin slices. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently until the pheasant is done enough, and the onions are quite soft. Put the bird on a hot dish. Beat the onions over the fire for eight or ten minutes, season with pepper and salt, and put them round the bird. Serve imme- diately. Time, about an hour to stow the pheasant. Probable cost of pheasants, 3s. when in full season. Pheasant (a la Sainte Alliance). An epi- cure's dish.—Take a well-hung cock pheasant draw it, and truss it for roasting. Stuff it with a forcement made as follows:—Mince finely the flesh and intestines of two woodcocks or snipes, add to them two ounces of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, a good pinch of cayenne, a small bunch of savoury herbs finely powdered, and as many chopped truffles as will be requii-ed to fill the pheasant. Truss the bird firmly, and roast it before a clear fire, basting liberally with fresh FHEASANT. butter. Lay under it, in the pan, a round of toasted bread upon which a little of the stuffing has been spread, and serve the bird on the toast. Brillat Savarin, with whom this recipe originated, says that a pheasant prepared thus is fit for beings better than men. Send brown gravy and bread sauce to table separately. Time to roast, from three-quarters of an hour to one hour and a quarter, according to the size. Probable cost of pheasants, 3s. when in full season. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pheasant and Macaroni.—Pick the meat from the remains of a cold roast pheasant; carefully remove the skin and sinews, and with two forks pull the flesh into pieces about half an inch long. Weigh it, and put it aside until wanted. Place the bones and trimmings in a saucepan with as much water as will cover them, and let them simmer gently until all the goodness is drawn out, and the sauce is so much reduced that it will merely moisten the meat; then, supposing that the latter weighs about half a pound, put with the gravy two shallots, a little salt and 'pepper, half a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a table-spoonful of sherry. Thicken with a table-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with two ounces of butter, and let the gravy simmer gently twenty minutes longer. Strain it, put it back into the saucepan, and let it boil up. A few minutes before the pheasant is to bo served put the meat into the gravy, let it warm through without boiling, then pour it into the centre of a hot dish, and place round it some macaroni prepared as follows ;—Thi-ow six ounces of good macaroni into three pints of boiling water, add a little pepper and salt, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Drain well, and put it back into the saucepan with a pint of good stock, a small tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of unmixed mustard, half a( 642 ) PHE PHE Balt-apoonful oi" gratod nutmeg, a pinch of cuyonuo, and a ualt-spoonful of pepper. Lot tliu mixture boil until tho macaroni is tondor, thou add a table-spoonful of grated Parmesan and an ounco of butter. Sinnner a quarter of an hour longer, shaking and tossing tlie sauce- pan to mix the nuicaroni thoroughly with tho cheese ; then serve. Time, three hours. Pro- bable cost. Is. 4d., exclusive of tho cold meat. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pheasant, Boiled. — Pick, draw, and singe the pheasant, and truss it tirmly, as if for boiling. Cover with buttered paper, wrap it in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and after it has once boiled up draw it to tlio side, and let it simmer as gently as possible until it is done enough. Tho more gently it is simmered the better the bird will look, and tho tenderer it will be. Put it on a hot dish, pour a small quantity of sauce over it, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Celery sauce, horse- radish sauce, oyster sauce, white sauce, soubise sauce, or even plain onion sauce, may all be served with boiled pheasant. Time to boil half an hour from the time of boiling, for a small young bird; three-quarters of an hour for a larger one; one hour or more for an old one. Probable cost of pheasants, about 3s. each when in full season. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pheasant, Boudins of (a la RicheUeu) —Pick the meat from a cold pheasant. Care^ fully remove the skin and sinews, and pound the flesh in a mortar to a smooth paste. Sup posing there to be twelve ounces of pheasant- meat, mix with it twelve ounces of pounded potatoes, or eight ounces of panada {see Pa- nada), and six ounces of fresh butter. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, pound them together, and season rather highly with salt, cayenne, and powdered mace. Bind the mixture together with the unbeaten yolks of five eggs added one at a time, the whites of two, two table-spoonfuls of white sauce, and, last of all, two table-spoonfuls of boiled onions chopped small. As it is very important that the preparation should be as light and spongy as possible, it is well to test a small quantity by making it up into a ball and poaching it in hot water, so that if it is not of the proper con- sistency, it may be made so before the whole is cooked. If not firm enough, more eggs should be added. If too firm, add a small quantity of water. Spread the forcemeat out on a dish, and make it up into small cutlets, about three inches long, two inches wide, and a quarter of an inch thick. Drop these carefully into verj' hot water, and poach them gently for a few minutes. The water should not be allowed to boU, or the boudins wrill bo spoilt. Take them up, drain well, let them get cold, then dip them into egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot butter until they are lightly browned. Serve in a circle on a hot dish, and send some good gravy to table in a tureen. The gravy may be made as follows :—Peel and slice four onions. Fry them in butter until they are lightly browned, dredge an ounce of flom- over them, and pour upon them half a pint of stock, or, failing this, a tea-spoonful of Liobig's ox- tract of moat dissolved in half a pint of boilinir water. Add a glassful of sherry or cW th? anS: pheasant broken uL smalt pfece and a little pepper and salt. Simmer the sauc*^ over a gentle tire for twenty nnnutos, sS through a sieve, and it is ready for use. Time lour or five minutes to simmer tho boudimj' lobe fried m hot fat until they are lightly browned. Probable cost of pheasants, 38. each when m full season. Sufficient, boudins made Irom tho flesh ot a moderate-sized pheasant, for SIX or eight persons. Pheasant, Braised, and Rump fc>teak.-l ick draw, and singe a pJiea^int^ and truss it as for boiling. I'ut into it a little forcemeat made with three ounces of finely- grated bread-crumbs, two ounces of fresh butter, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, fu V* pepper, and cayenne. Cover the breast with slices of fat bacon, and fasten them on securely with twine. Though this bacon is not served with the pheasant, it will be found excellent for breakfast if it is boiled two or three minutes before being used. Take two pounds of, good rump-steak, three-quarters of an inch thick. Lay two or three slices of fat bacon on this. Rub the inside of a good- sized saucepan with a clove of garlic. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in it, put in the beef, and roimd it a dozen chestnuts which have been skinned and scalded. Lay the pheasant upon it, breast uppermost, add a scraped carrot, three or four of the outer sticks of a head of celery cut into small pieces, four shallots, a good-sized lump of sugar, a small tea-spoonful of pepper, half a tea-spoonful of mustard, a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a tea-spoonful of soy, and a dessert-spoonful of mushroom- ketchup. Pour over these rather less than a pint of boiling stock or water, cover the sauce- pan closely, bring the contents to a boil, then draw the pan to the side, and let them simmer as gently as possible for quite three hours. Serve the beef and the pheasant on separate dishes, and as hot as possible, with a little of the gravy strained over the pheasant, and the rest in a tureen. The nuts should be used to garnish the beef. If an acid flavour is liked, the juice of half a lemon may be added to the gravy, and a little salt put in if neces- sary, but this will depend upon the quality of the bacon. Probable cost, about 8s., with the pheasant at 3s., and the rump-steak at 1b. 6d. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Pheasant, Broiled.—Pick, draw, and singe the pheasant, and divide it neatlj' into joints. Fry these in a little fat until they are equally and lightly browned all over. Drain them well, season with salt and cayenne, and dip them into egg and brcad-cnunbs. Broil over a clear fire, and servo on a hot dish, with brown sauce, mushroom sauce, or piquant sauce, as an accompaniment. The remains of a cold roast pheasant may be treated in this way. Time to broil, about ten minutes. Probable cost of pheasants, 38. each when in full season. Sufficient for tlu'oe or four persons. Pheasant Cutlets.—Take two young( 043 ) PHE PHE weU-hung pheasants. Pluck, draw, and singe thorn, and cut them into neat joints, lake out the bones carefully, and shape the joints into cutlets; flatten these with the cutlet- bat, season rather highly, and cover them thickly with egg and linely-grated bread- crumbs. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with a carrot, a tm-nip, an onion, a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a little pepper and salt, and as much water a,s will cover them. Let them stew slowly, until the flavour of the herbs, &c., is drawn out, tlieri thicken the gravy, and strain it. Fry the cutlets in a saute pan with butter until they are brightly browned all over. Serve on a hot dish with one of the small bones stuck into each cutlet. The gravy must be made hot, and poured rovmd them. Time to fry the cutlets, ten or twelve minutes. Probable cost of pheasants, 38. each when in full season. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Pheasant, Fillets of.—Take a well-hung yoimg pheasant. Pluck, draw, and singe it, and then braise the fillets. To do this, cut off the flesh from the breast and wiAg in one slice from each side; this will give two large fillets; and to get three fillets of unifoi-m size, flatten the minion or smaller fillets, which consist of the strips of flesh which lie imder the wings, with the flesh of the merry- thought, and any little pieces that can be lifted oft". Dip the fillets into beaten egg, and then into rather highly-seasoned bread-crumbs. Fry thin slices of bread of the same size as the fillets in hot fat, until they are lightly browned; drain and dry them. Fry the fillets also, and when they are equally and brightly browned, serve upon the pieces of toast on a hot dish, with a good gravy poured round them. To make the gravy, stew the bones and trim- mings of the pheasant in half a pint of water, with an inch or two of lemon-rind, a pinch of salt, and half a dozen peppercorns. When they have simmered for half an hour or more, strain the graN-y, skim carefully, and thicken with a tea-spoonful of brown thickening. Add a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, or a tea-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, if either are hked; make the sauce hot, and serve. Time, three-quartei-s of an hour to stew the sauce, ten or twelve minutes to fry the fiUets. Probable cost of pheasants, 3s. each when in full season. Pheasant, Flavour of.—The pheasant 18 sometimes domesticated for the table, but the flavour of the bird is decidedly best when in a natural wild state. M. Ude says, " It is not often that pheasants are met with possessing that exquisite taste which is acquired only by long keeping, as the damp of this climate prevents their being kept so long as they are in other countries. The hens in general are most deli- cate. The cocks show their age by their spurs. They are only fit to be eaten when the blood begins to run from the bill, which is commonly SIX days or a week after they have been killed. The flesh of the pheasant is white, teader, and has a good flavour, if you keep it long enough; if not, it has no more than a common hen or fowl." Pheasant, Forcemeat for {see Force- meat for Pheasant). Pheasant, Hashed.—Cut the remains of one or two cold roast pheasants into neat joints, put them into a cool place, and cover them over until they are wanted. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a stewpan, mix half an ounce of flour smoothly with it, and stir the mixture quickly over a gentle fire, until it is lightly coloured. Pour over it half a pint of stock or water, and add a glass of claret, a finely-minced, onion, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a little pepper and salt. Simmer the sauce gently by the side of the fire until it is thick enough to coat the spoon, then strain it, and put in the pieces of pheasant. Let these simmer for a minute or two until they are quite hot, but the sauce must not boil after the game is added. Serve the pheasant on a hot dish, with the hot gravy poured over it. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the wine and cold meat. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pheasant, Mock.—When only one pheasant can be obtained, a fine young fowl which has been kept three or four days may be trussed and roasted with it. Few people will discover that the two birds served on the same dish are not of the same species. Pheasant Pie.—Take six ounces of the cushion of veal, free it carefully from skin and gristle, and mince it finely. Mix with it six ounces of fat oacon also finely minced, six ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, three ounces of chopped beef suet, and one ounce of grated lean ham. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, season rather highly with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and bind the forcemeat together with yolk of egg. The addition of thiee or four chopped mushrooms will be an improvement. Pluck and clean a well-hung pheasant. Cut off its head, and divide it in two lengthwise. Bone the bird carefully, and fry the halves in hot fat until they are lightly browned. Drain them well, and put about half the forcemeat into them, then put them close together in their original position. Line a pie-mould, or form a case, according to the directions already given {see Paste for liaised Pies). Lay slices of fat bacon at the bottom, and spread half of the remaining forcemeat on them. Put in the pheasant, the remainder of the forcemeat, and a slice of fat bacon over all. Lay on the lid, make a hole in the centre, and bake in a brisk oven. If there is any danger of the pie burning, lay a paper upon it. In order to ascertain when it is done enough, push a trussing-needle through the hole in the centre; if it penetrates easily, the pie is sufficiently cooked. This pie, if preferred, may be baked in a dish, and the pheasant may be jointed before it is put in. Half an hour after it is taken out of the oven pour into it, through the hole in the centre, a quarter of a pint of strong gravy made from the liver. Time to .bake, two hours, or more. Probable cost, 68. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Pheasant, Potted.—Pluck, draw, and singe a well-hung pheasant. Cut off its head.PHE ( 644 ) PHE and season it inside and out Avith salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg. Tut it into a dish breast downwards, and pour over it live or six ounces of dissolved butter. Cover the pan with a coarse paste made of ilour and water, and balte in a moderate oven. When the bird is suffi- ciently baked, take it from the oven, and di-ain the butter from it. Let it got cold, then put it into a pot breast downwards, and cover with clarified butter. \VTion the butter is set, tie a double fold of paper over it, and store in a cool place. If preferred, the bird can be divided into joints after it is baked, and packed closely into the pan. The advantage of this plan wiU be that much less butter will be required to cover it than if the bird were potted whole. Time to bake, .ibout one hour. Probable cost of the pheasants, 3s. each when in full season. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pheasant, Potted (another way).—Pick the meat from a cold roast pheasant, mince it finely, and pound in a mortar to a smooth paste; put the bones into a stewpan with a quart of strong stock, two ounces of lean ham, three shallots, two table-spoonfuls of sherry, two table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a dozen peppercorns. Boil this down quickly until it is reduced to a glaze {see Glaze), then strain through a fine hair sieve, and mix with the meat. Add five or six ounces of clarified butter, and a little salt, and cayenne. Pound these ingredients together, and press the mixture into small potting-jars. Pour over them clarified butter to the thickness of half an inch, and store in a cool, dry place. Probable cost, 4s., with pheasants at Ss. each. Pheasant, Roast. — Pluck, draw, and singe a brace of pheasants. Wipe them with a dry cloth, truss them firmly, and either lard them or tie round the breasts a slice of fat ■bacon. Flour them well, put them before a clear fire, and baste liberally. When they are done enough, remove the bacon, serve the birds on a hot dish, and garnish with watercresses. Send good, brown gravy a,nd bread sauce to table with them. If the fashion is liked, half a dozen of the best of the tail- feathers may be stuck into the bird when it is dished. Time, three-quarters of an hour to roast a good-sized pheasant. The drumsticks are excellent when devilled. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pheasant, Roast, To Carve—Fix the fork in the centre of the breast, and cut slices ROAST PHEASANT. off evenly on eitlicr side. Should there be more guests to parfcxke of the roast pheasant than these slices will satisfy, disengage the legs and wings in the same numner as is done when carving boiled fowl. In taking oft the wings, be careful not to cut too near the neck ; if you do, you will hit upon the neck-bone, from which the wing must bo separated. Out off the merry- thought by passing the knife under it towards the neck. Cut the other parts as in a fowl. The breast, wings, and merry-thought of a pheasant are the most highly prized; but the log has a superior flavour. Pheasant, Salmi of.—Roast a weU-hung pheasant until it is a little more than half- di-essed, then take it from the fire, and when it is almost cold, cut it into neat joints, and carefully remove the skin and fat. Put the meat aside until wanted, and place the bones and trimmings in a saucepan with an ounce of fresh butter, a sprig of thyme, and a bay- leaf, and stir these ingredients over a slow fire until they are lightly browned ; then pour over them half a pint of good brown sauce, and a glassful of sherry. Let them simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; strain the gravy, skim it carefully, add a pinch of cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon, and put it back into the saucepan with the pieces of game. Let them heat very gradually, and on no account allow them to boil. Pile them on a hot dish, pour the hot sauce over them, and garnish with fried sippets. If there is no brown sauce at hand, it may be prepared as follows:—Mince finely a quarter of a pound of the lean of an unboiled ham, and put it into a saucepan, with two ounces of fresh butter, a shaUot, a large scraped carrot, two or three mushrooms (if at hand), a blade of mace, a small sprig of thyme, a handful of parsley, two cloves, and half a dozen peppercorns. Stir these over a slow fire until they are brightly browned; then dredge a table- spoonful of flour over them, and let it colour also. Pour in gradually three-quarters of a pint of water, and a glassful of sherry, and add a little salt, and the bones and trimmings of the pheasant; let the sauce boil up, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it keep simmering for an hour and a half. Strain the gravy, and skim carefuUy. Put it back into the saucepan with the joints of meat, a lump of sugar, and a little lemon-juice, or Seville orange-juice; heat slowly, and serve as above. Time, twenty to thirty minutes to roast the pheasant, a quarter of an hour in the first instance, or an hour and a half in the second, to simmer the sauce. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the pheasant. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pheasant, Sea {see PintaU or Sea Pheasant). Pheasant Soup.—no"r a well-hung pheasant rather thickly, put it down to a brisk tire, and roast it for'a quarter of an hour, basting it plentifully all the time. Take it from the fire, and let it get nearly cold; then take off the flesh from the breast and the upper part of the wings, slcin it, and put it aside. Cut up the rest of the bird, and briiise the bones. Scrape a small carrot finely, put it into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, an ounce of thePHB PIC ( 545 ) lean of an unboiled hum finely minced, a small pprig of thymo, a biiy-leaf, a handful of parsley, lialf a blade of mace, three or four cloves, half a dozen peppercorns, a shallot, and three or four of the outer sticks of a head of celery. Stir these ingredients over a gentle fire until they are brightly browned, put in the flesh and the bruised body of tlie bird, pour over them a quart of veal or beef stock, and after boiling stew gently for half an hour, and be careful to remove the scum as it rises. Strain the soup, and rub the meat through a tamis or sieve. Mix the puree with the soup, add to it a small pinch of .cayenne, a little salt, a glassful of sherry, and the fillets of the pheasant cut into thick slices; stir over the fire until it is quite hot, and serve. Time, an hour and a half or more. Probable cost, 5s. This soup may be made with the remains of dressed pheasant. Pheasant Soup (another way).—Roast a well-hung pheasant according to the directions given in the last recipe. Take off the flesh from the breast and wings, skin it, and lay it aside. Divide the rest of the bird into joints, put it into a stewpan, pour over it a quart of unseasoned beef stock, let it boil, and simmer gently for three hours. Strain the soup, and carefully rub the meat through a tamis or sieve. Pound the flesh of the breast in a mortar until it is reduced to a smooth paste, mix with it an ounce of fresh butter, a heaped table-spoonful of finely-grated bread- crumbs, a large tea-spoonful of salt, a blade of jnace powdered, and a pinch of cayerme. Mix this paste with the soup, stir it over the fire until it is quite hot, skim carefully, and serve. Time, nearly five hours. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Pheasant, Stewed.—Pluck and draw a well-hung pheasant, and truss it as a fowl is trussed for boiling. Put it in a saucepan with. as much hot stock or water as will cover it, and put with it a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, three or four outer sticks of celery, a bunch of parsley, half a dozen peppercorns, and a pinch of salt. Let the liquid boil, and care- fully remove the scum as it rises; then draw it to the side, and let it simmer very gently until the bird is done enough. Take it up, and serve the pheasant with celery sauce poured over it; garnish vnth potato croquettes. Time to stew,' three-quarters of an hour or more, according to the size of the bird. Probable cost of pheasants, 3s. each, when in full season. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Pheasant, Stewed with Cabbage.— i ick, draw, and smgo two pheasants, and truss them as for boiHng. Divide two good-sized cabbages into quarters, soak them for an hour cut ofl: the stalks, plunge them into boiling water and lot them boil for ten minutes; then take them up, drain them, press the water from them, and put them into a large stewimn. Bury the pheasants in the cabbage, and add half a pound of streaky bacon, one pound of uncooked J5ologna sausages, one pound of pork sausages, ^ handful of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, a '«y-leat, two carrots, an onion stuck with six troves, and a little pepper. Pour in as much stock ns will juat cover the whole, cover the s stewpan closely; bring the contents to a boil, and then let them simmer gently for an hour and a quarter. At the end of that time, lift out the birds and the meat, and keep them warm in the oven. Drain the cabbage, season with salt and pepper, and stir over a good fire imtil it is di-y. Place it on a dish, put the pheasants upon it, and place round it the bacon, sausage, and carrot cut into slices. Send good brown sauce, or, if prefen-ed, a little poivrade sauce, to table in a tureen. Probable cost of pheasants, 3s. each, when in full season. Suffi- cient for eight or ten persons. Pheasant, Stuffed and Roasted.— Pick, draw, and singe the pheasant, truss it as for roasting, and fill it with a forcemeat prepared as follows :—Wash the liver of the bird, and fry it in hot fat until it is done enough; mince it finely, pound it in a mortar, and mix with it two table-spoonfuls of grated bread-crumbs, a dessert-spoonful of finely-minced ham, three mushrooms chopped smaU, a minced shallot, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a little pepper and salt, and half an ounce of fresh butter. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and bind them ' together with the yolk of an egg. Cover the breast of the bird with thin slices of fat bacon tied on securely with twine, and roast before a clear fire. When it is done enough, serve the pheasant on a hot dish, with a sauce prepared a follows in a tureen:—Put a table-spoonful Oi olive-oil into a stewpan with six raw button- mushrooms, a clove of garlic, two shallots, and half a tea-spoonful of capers, all finely minced. Add four cloves, a bay-leaf, a small sprig of thyme, another of parsley, and half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and stir these over a gentle fire for five or six minutes. Pour over these ingredients two table-spoon- fuls of broth and a glassful of sherry, and simmer very gently for fifteen minutes. Ee- move the cloves, the herbs, and the garlic, pour in two spoonfuls more of broth, simmer five minutes longer, and skim the sauce carefully. Hub it through a fine hair-sieve, add a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice, heat the sauce once more, and it is ready for serving. If preferred, three or four tomatoes may be added to this sauce. They should be simmered with the other ingredients until they can be pressed through a sieve. Time to roast the pheasant, three- quarters of an hour or more, according to the size ; three-quarters of an hour to prepai'e the sauce. Probable cost of pheasants, 3s. each, when plentiful. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pheasant, Trussed.—The pheasant may be trussed either with or without the head. If without, care must be taken to leave sufficient skin on the neck to skewer back ; if the head, however, is left on, it must be brought roimd tmder the wing, and fixed on the point of a skewer, with the bill laid straight along the breast. In this case the crop must be removed through a slit made for the purpose in the back of the neck. Draw the bird, bring the thigh close under the wing, pass a skewer through the pinion, the body, and the leg, and skewer and tie the legs firmly down. Piccallilli. — Piccallilli may be made of almost all kinds of vegetables that are used forPIC PIC ( 646 ) pickling—cauliflowers, whito cabbages, Froncli bciins, eiipsicums, gherkins, largo und small onions, cucumbors, radish pods, groon tomatoes, and nasturtiums. Take equal quantities of each kind. Prepare them by slicing the large sorts, shredding the cabbage, and pulling the cauliflower into small pieces. Put tliem into a largo pan with boiling brine sufficiently strong to bear an egg. Let them simmer for one minute, then drain the liquid from them, spread them out on large dishes, and place them in tho sun imtil they are perfectly di'y. Prepare as much pickle as will entirely cover tho vegetables, in the following proportions: — Boil two quarts of good vinegar with two ounces of bruised ginger, one ounce of whole whito pepper, one ounce of allspice, two ounces of turmeric or curry-powder, and two ounces of shallots. Boil these for five minutes, then mix two ounces of best Durham mustard smoothly with a little boiling vinegar, and stii" it into the rest of the vinegar, which must not boil after the mustard is added. Let the first heat go off, then pour the vinegar over the vegetables, and when they are quite cold store them in jars, and intermix the spices amongst them. Be careful that the vegetables are covered with the vinegar, and cover the jar with bladder to exclude the air. This pickle must be examined at intervals, and as the vegetables absorb the vinegar, fresh cold vinegar must be added and ■well stirred in. Additions of various vegetables may be made as they come into season; but it should be remembered that they must be scalded in brine and diied, then scalded in hot vinegar, and allowed to gxow cold, before they are put to the rest of the pickle, or they will not keep. Pickled Meats and Fish.—Recipes for the following pickled meats and fish will be found under their respective headings:— Bacon Cheeks Beef, Pickle for Beef, Round of Bullocks' Tongues Cockles Eggs Haddock Ham Ham, Pickle foii Hamburgh Herrings Herrings (French Method) Irish Salmon Mackerel Mussels Ox Tongue Oysteus Pork Salmon Pickle.—When meat is to be salted, it should either be put into tho pickle while it is warm after killing, or be allowed to hang a day or two in summer, and five or six days in winter, to become tender. Before it is put into the brine the kernels and pipes should be removed, and the meat wiped well with a dry cloth. It is an excellent plan to rub a little dried and warmed salt into tlic meat, and leave it until the next day, then drain it well from the filime and blood which will have flowed from it, and put it into tho brine, which ought to cover it entirely. Tho meat should be turned and rubbed every day. IMcklo for meat may be used again and again if it is boiled and skimmed occasionally, a little fresh salt being added to it. The tub which contains it should be kept covered, either, with a lid or a thick cloth, and a cool place should ho chosen for it to stand in Meat is more tender when cured with bay salt than with conamon stilt: the former is the more expensive of tho two. Sugar makes the meat mellow; saltpetre colours it, but tends to make it hard, diy, and indigestible. Two or three recipes for pickle are liere given, all of wliich will be found excellent. They are suit- able for beef, hams, and tongues. Pickle for Beef, Pork, and Tongues. —Put two gallons of cold water into a luigc stewpan with three pounds of hay salt, hjilf a pound of good moist sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Bring it to a boil, skim carefullv, and let it boil for twenty minutes. Turn it into a deep pan, and when it is quite cold it is- ready for the meat. Meat muy be kept in this pickle for three weeks in mild weather, though it may be used in five or six days. The liquid in which it is boiled will not be found too salt to use for soup. The pickle may be used re- peatedly. Add one pound of common salt, or half a pound of bay salt, and a pint of water every time the pickle is boiled. Pickle for Tongues (another way).—Rub a handful of salt and another of moist sugar over the tongues, and lay them,on a dish in a cool place. Turn and rub them everj- day for four days. On the fourth day, put a quart of water and a quart of porter into a saucepan with four ounces of saltpetre, two pounds of bay salt, and two pounds of common salt. Bring the liquid to a boil, and skim thoroughly. Put tho tongues in a deep pan, and pour the pickle over them while it is hot, and see that they are perfectly covered with it. At the end of eight days they will be fit for use. The pickle should remain on the fire mitil it boils. Pickle for Meat.—Put two gallons of spring water into a large pan with five poundi> of common salt, two pounds of imadulterated moist sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Boil for twenty minutes, and skim carefully. A large roimd of beef would require to lie in thi& pickle for a fortnight before it is dressed. The meat will not be so mellow as if bay salt wore used. The liquid iu wliich the meat is boiled will be too salt for soup. If preferred, three pounds of bay salt may be substituted for com- mon salt. Add one poimd of common salt, or half a pound of bay salt, and a pint of water everj^ time the pickle is boiled. Pickle that will keep Two Years or more.—But three gallons of cold s])ring water into a large pan or copper, and with it two pounds of bay salt, six pounds of common salt, two pounds of moist sugar, and throe ounces of saltpetre. Let the pickle boil for half an liour, and skim carefully, tlien pour it into a deep earthen pan Avith "a closely-fitting lid. "\ATien cold, it is ready for the meat. A small ham may lie in this pickle two weeks, a large one throo weeks, a tongue ten or twelve days, and beef, according to its size and the degree of salt- ness dasired. When tho pickle has boon need two or throe times boil it up and skim care- fully : this o]ieration sliould bo occasionally repeated. The. pickle will require to be boiledPIG ( 547 ) oftener in hot weather than in cold. Every time it is hoiled add to it two pounds of common salt, two pints of water, two ounces of sugar, and h;ilf an ounce of saltpetre. Pickles.—This is the name given to vege- tables or fruit preserved in vinegar. They are used as accompaniments to cold meat, to gar- nish dishes, and to flavour hashes and sauces. It is generally understood that they can be bought cheaper than they can be made. Nevertheless, there is always a certain amount of satisfaction in using home-made preparations, as by this means the quality of the article can be assured beyond all qiiestion, and many ladies take great pride in their store of home-made pickles. A great outcry was raised some years ago about the unwholesomeness of pickles, and attention was called to the fact that most of those ordi- narily sold were positively pernicious, because the vinegar used in making them was boiled in copper vessels. This evil has now been, to a great extent, remedied; and it may be reason- ably assumed that pickles which arc sold by re- spectable dealers have been properly prepared. At the same time, for safety's sake, the rule should be laid down that aU pickles which arc beautiful and brilliant in coloui" and appearance should be avoided, as this is a certain sign that the vinegar used has been boiled in a metal pan. In making pickles, care must be taken that the vegetables and fruit used for the purpose are procured at the right season, that they are perfectly sound, not overripe, and have been gathered on a diy day. They should be trimmed and wiped before they are used, and not washed, unless they are afterwards to be par- tially boiled or soaked. The vinegar must be of the best quality. White wine vinegar is generally recommended, for the sake of the appearance, but it is not so wholesome as the best brown vinegar. Metal utensils should never be used in making pickles, as the vinegar acting upon the metal produces a poison." Enamelled or stone vessels and wooden spoons should there- fore be used; and the best method that can be adopted is to put the vinegar into a stone jar, and heat it on a stove or hot hearth. Pickles should be kept in glass bottles, or unglazed earthen jars, and should be closely corked, and the corks sealed down, or covered with wet bladder. They should be stored in a dry .place. As the vinegar becomes absorbed, more should be added, as it is important that the vegetables should be covered at least two inches above the surface with vinegar. If any of the vinegar is left after the pickle is used, it should be boiled up with fresh spices, and bottled for flavouring sauces, &c. It should be remembered that to boil vmcgar is to decrease its strength. If it is wished to hasten the preparation of the piclilcs, partially boil the vegetables in brine, and let them cool and- get quite dry before the vine- gar is poured, over thorn. Tho following, list gives the best times for making pickles : Artichokes . . July and August. Oahbaoe, Ked . . August or after early frost. Cabuaoe, White . SeptemberandOctober. Capsicums, Red, Yel- The end of July and LOW, AND trUEEK . AugUSt. Caulifloweks Chillies . cucumbeks French Be.^'s Gaelic Gherkins . HORSEItADISH Jerusalem Arti- chokes . Melons (for Mangoes) July and August. The;end of July .and August. The middle of Julv and August. Mushrooms pickhng and chup) Nasturtiums Onions (For ket- July. Midsummer toMichael- mas. , ■ (. The middle of July and August. November and Decem- ber. : July and Aug-ust. Middle of July and August. September. The middle of July. The middle of July and August. Radish Pods . . July. Samphire . . . August. Shallots . . . MidsummcrtoIMichael- mas. Tomatoes . . . End of July and August Walnuts . . . From the middle of July to the middle of August. ; To Green Pickles: keep them in hot vinegar until they become- so, and keep them closely covered down, or the evaporation of the steam, may injure the colour. To make pickles crisp, dissolve a very small piece of alum in the vinegar. A piece the size of a bean will be sufficient for a gallon of vinegar. ; ■ ' ' Re'cipes for the following piclvles will bo- found under their rcBpective headings :— Artichoke Bqttoms Barberries Beans, French Beetroot Brocoli Cabbage, Red Capsicums CAULIFLOWril Cherries Cranberries ^ Cucumbers Fennel Garlic Gherkins Gherkins (French. Method), Gr^vn dm^vmma's Grape Horseradish Hot Indian L.VDIES' Lemons Ll.MES Mangoes JIelons fOr Venison Mushrooms JMushrooms in Brine Nasturtium Onions Onion.s, Sp.i>;i.su Onjon.s, Spanish, and Beetroot Oranges Peaches Radisu-pods Roots Shallots Tomatoes Walnuts Pickles, Mixed.—Begin maldng this pickle about the middle of ]\L'iy. Take a large earthen jar which will hold two gallons. Put into it a gallon of the best brown vinegar, and add four ounces of bruised ginger and four ounces: of mustard-seed. Put into a bowl a quarter of a pound of salt, one ounce of ground black popper, a quarter of an ounce of cayenno, two blades of mace finely powdered, a quarter of a pound of unmixed mustard, and two ouUcbs of turmeric. Make thcae ingredients into ,aPIC ( 648 ) PIC paste by mixinp^ thoni smootlily with a littlo cold vinogar, add thoin to i\w viuogur iu the jur, and mix thoroughly. Cover tho pan very closely, keep it in a warm place, and stir it every day for a month witli a wooden spoon. Gather different vogotablos as they come into season, prepare them as for piccallilli [soc Piccal- lilli), see that they are perfectly dry, and put them into the pickle. When no further addi- tions aro to bo made, put the pickle into earthen jars, cover closely, tie down with moistened bladder, and store in a dry place. As the vegetables absorb tho liquid, add fresh vinegar, and stir the pickle with a wooden spoon. This pickle must be kept twelve months from the time it is begun to be made before it is used. Pickles, Poisonous.—In Accum's well- known " Death in tho Pot," under the head of Foisonous Fickles, we have the following infor- mation as to the greening of pickles :—" Vege- table substances preserved in the state called pickles, by means of the antiseptic power of vinegar, whose sale frequently depends greatly upon a fine lively green colour, and the con- sumption of which, by seafaring men in particular, is prodigious, are sometimes inten- tionally coloured by means of copper. Gher-. kins, French beans, samphire, the green pods of capsicum, and many other pickled vegetable substances, oftener than is perhaps expected, are met with impregnated with this metal. Numerous fatal consequences are known to have ensued from the use of these stimulants to the palate, to which the fresh and pleasing hue has been imparted according to the deadly formulae laid down in some modem cookery- books, such as boiling the pickle with halfpence, •or suffering them to stand for a considerable period in brazen vessels." " Among the many recipes," says Dr. Hassall, -writing on the adulteration of food, "which modem authors of cookery-books have given for imparting a green colour to pickles, the following are particularly deserving of censure, and it is to be hoped that they will be sup- pressed in future editions of the works from which they are extracted :— " ' To Pickle Gherkins.—Boil the vinegar in a bell-metal or copper pot; pour it boiling hot . over your cucumbers.' " ' 7b make Greeninff.—Take a bit of verdigris the bigness of a hazel-nut, finely-powdered, half a pint of distilled vinegar, and a bit of alum powder, with a little bay salt. Put all in a bottle, shake it, and let it stand till clear. Pour a tea-spoonful into codlings, or whatever you wish to green.' " One author directs—' To render pickles green, boil them with halfpence, or allow them ito stand for twenty-four hours in copper or .brass pans.' . . " To detect the presence of copper it is only .Tiecossary to mince the pickles and to pour .liquid ammonia, diluted with an equal bulk of water, over them in a stoppered vial: if tho pickles contain the minutest quantity of copper, the ammonia will assume a blue colour.'' Another very simple and efficient method ot detecting the presence of copper in pickles la the following :—Put throe or four drops of the 8U8i)(!cted vinegar on the blade of a knife; add one di o]) of sulpliuiic acid, and lieat tho under Buii'ace of tho knife over the flame of a candle; tlie vinegar in evaporating will deposit the coi)per upon tho iron if any be present. Another easy way of detecting this adulteration is to take a clear and bright piec(; of iron—a bit of wire will do—and immerse it for a few hours in the vinegar of the pickle. If co])per is present, tho metal will be deposited in a per- ceptible though thin crust upon the iron. Pickles, Summer, for present use. —Cut equal quantities of young onions, sour apples, and fresh cucumbers into tliin slices. With,these fill an imglazed earthen jar which will hold a quart of liquid. Shake in with the vegetables a dessert-spoonful of salt and a tea- spoonful and a half of cayenne. Pour in four table-spoonfuls of sherry and four table-spoon- fuls of soj"^, and as much vinegar as the jar will hold, and cover closely until wanted. If it is wished^ to make this pickle in the autumn or winter, finely-minced celery may be sub- stituted for the cucumbers. The pickle can be used the day it is made. Pickles. Sweet American.—Take seven pounds of damsons, or -ssTnesours, four pounds of pounded loaf sugar, an ounce of stick cinna- mon, an ounce of cloves, and a pint of ■vinegar. Lay the fruit and the other dry ingredients, in layers, in a deep stone jar, and pour the vinegar over aU. Put the jar into a large pan of boning water, and keep boiling until the sugar is thoroughly [dissolved and the juice of the fruit extracted, then put the jar in a cool place. The next day drain off the syrup, boil it, and pour it over. the fruit: repeat this process six or seven successive days until the skin looks hard and the plums clear. Let the preparation stand a week, then take the plums out one by one, place them in jars, boil the syrup, and fill up the jars with it. "When cold, put brandy-papers over, and tie a bladder on the top to keep the air out, or the pickles will lose their colour. Pears, apples, peaches, and cherries can all be pickled in tMs way, and will be found delicious. A little cochineal in a bag dropped in the jar wiU improve the colour greatly. If kept in a dry place, they will keep six or seven years. Time, three weeks. Cost varies nearly every year. Pickles, Wholesomeness of.— " Pickles," says Dr. Graham, in his " Domestic Medicine," "are merely vegetable receptacles for vinegar, but the vegetable being hardened by the acid, renders it somewhat difiicult of digestion, and therefore pickles are not much to be recommended. The pickled onion seems to be among the most wholesome of this sort of condiment." Pickling Jars.—Some sensible remarks on this head are given in the " Encyclopajdia of Domestic Economy:"—As vinegar is a corro- sive substance, capable of dissolving several metals, and likewise some of the glazes of earthenware which contain lead, great care must be taken in selecting proper vessels to pre- pare and keep pickles in, otherwise dangerous consequences may ensue, from poisonous matterPIE ( 649 ) PIE teing introduced into the pickle from the action of the acid upon the vessel containing it. Pickles should never be made or kept in any vessel of metal, for the vinegar •wiU dissolve copper and produce verdigris—a poisonous sub- sfcmco; and it acts upon lead, forming acetate of lead, another poison; and neither pewter, tin, nor zinc are altogether safe, to say nothing of the inconvenience of having the vessels cor- roded. Iron is harmless, but is liable to be corroded by vinegar, though shghtly. If covered with a glaze containing no lead it is perfectly safe. The safest materials for pickUng-vessels are unglazed earthenware, glass, porcelain, or earthenware covered with a glaze containing no lead, such as stoneware. Take note also that anything that has held grease will spoil pickles. Piedmont Cake.—Take four ounces of sweet almonds and eight bitter ones. Blanch them, and pound them in a mortar, putting in half a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water every now and then to prevent them oiling. When they are soft and smooth, soak them in half a pint of cream for three-quarters of an hour, then pass the cream through a jelly-bag, and rub the almond-paste well with the back of a wooden spoon to squeeze as much of it into the Hquid as possible. Keep the flavoured cream in a cool place until wanted for use. Prepare two ounces of candied-peel and four ounces of pistachio kernels, by cutting the peel into small pieces, and blanching the pistachios and cutting them into quarters; then put both aside until required. Beat three-quarters of a pound of butter to a cream. Add gradually four ounces of powdered sugar, half a salt-spoonful of salt, a quarter of a pound of di-ied flour, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs; and when these are thoroughly mixed, work in gradually three-quarters of a pound more of flour, two more egg yolks, and four whole eggs. Beat the paste with a wooden spoon. Dissolve three- quarters of a pound of German yeast in a little lukewarm water, and knead it into the batter with the almond-flavoured cream. Butter a large mould, pour in the mixttire, and put the pistachios and candied peel evenly round the uiside. When the cake has sufficiently risen bake m a moderate oven imtil it is lightly browned. AVhen it is done enough (which may be ascertamed by sticking a skewer into the centre : if it can be drawn out dry, the cake is ready), turn it out of the mould. Pie, Christmas.—Presents of game are often made at Christmas time by friends in the ^untry to those in London and lige town? and tins game will be found to go much further if ^t^r^A * ^^^'^ ""^"^ or boiled. Partridges, pheasants, woodcock, grouse, and snipes may be thus used. If the birds are smaU, they may be kept whole; if large, the legs and wings should be cut off and thp breasts larded with bacon. Woodcock and snipes should not be drawn, as the i^Sines' which should be carefully cleaned, are con- sidered a great delicacy.' Make some S tL I?- !i -^b^y bo "I'ide of the livers of the birds pounded with an equal quantity of bacon, some sweet herbs, bread-cnunbs, and three or four chopped trufiles. Season rather highly. Line the edges of a pie-dish with good crust. Put a beef steak at the bottom of the dish, then the birds with the forcemeat balls, place pieces of butter here and there, and strew over the whole three or four truffles and some fresh mushrooms, both chopped. If the steak is omitted, slices of fat bacon may be laid under and above the meat. Pour a little stock over, cover the dish with a good crust, brush the pie over with the yolk of a beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. When the pie is to be eaten hot, make some gravy of a little good melted butter, with the juice of a lemon and a little claret added. This will be an improve- ment, and wUl not interfere with the flavour of the game. If it is to be eaten cold, lift off the lid just before serving, and place some cubes of savoury aspic jelly on the top. The time to bake will depend on the size of the pie, but it should not be baked too much. Pies.—Eecipes for the following pies wiU be found under their respective headings : AND Apple Apricot Australian Beef Beef, Raised Beef Steak Beef Steak Oyster Beef Suet for Pie- crust Brandy-mince for Pies Bride Calf's Head Carp Carrot Cherry Chicken Chicken and Sweet- bread Cod, Fresh Cod, Salt Conger Eel Creamed Apple Crust, Common, for Raised Crust, Dripping, for Kitchen Use Dartmouth Devizes Devonshire Squab DOWLET Duck Dutch Apple Eel Eel, -with Tench Egg Egg Mince Fife Fish Fish and Oysters Folkestone Pudding Fowl, Mock Stras- BURO French French, Raised Fruit for Invalids Game Game and Macaroni Game, Christmas Game, Hunting Game, Perigord GiBLET GoDivEAu, Raised Goose Grouse Grouse (Scotch Fashion). Halibut Hare Hare, Raised Herb Herrings Hunter's Icing for Fruit Italian J ELLY for. Clarify Jelly, Meat Cold Jelly, Meat Economical Jelly, Meat Superior Kidney Lamb Lamb and Currant Lancashire, Raised Lark Lark, Hot Leicester Lei c ESTERS hire. Medley Ling TiOBSTEU Lobster and Oyster Macaroni Mackerel Meat (a la Dou Pedro) Mince Moor Game JIUTTON T o for. for. fob.TIG PIE (( 530 ) pwvRi Bebit !■ ' OiiivK, Vkai, .Oystbii 'Pate de Gikieu PiciKON (a r Angliiitt) Pll CUAllU ANP LkEK PoilK PouK. AND Apple PpTATO Potato (with Sausage Moat) JtAHHIT Uaisej) .Khuharr POOK Snm'es, Potted .Smi'k»i, Raibed Pie .S014E 8(n;A|t Tench , Veal and Ham Veal and Ovsteu Veal and Sweet- buead Veal, Solid Vboetahle Venison Pastut Woodcock yorkshiiie. Pies, Common Crust for Raised (see Crust, Common, &c). Pies, Dripping Crust for Kitchen i(iee Crust, Dripping), Pies, Extraordinary.—A favourite dish at the teibles of oui- forefathers was a pie of stupendous magnitude, out of which, on its being opened, a flock of Uving birds flew forth, to the no small surprise and amusement of the guests. This was a common j oke at an old English feast. • These animated pies were often intro- duced " to set on," as Hamlet says, *' a quantity of baiTen Spectators to laugh." There is an instance of a dwarf undergoing such an incrustation. About the year 1630, King Charles and his Queen were entertained by the Duke and Duchess of Buckingham, at Burleigh on the Hill, on which occasion Jeffery Hudson, the dwarf,, was served up in a cold pie.—I)r. Kitchener. ■ Pies, Meat, Jelly for.—Break up two pounds of the knuckle of veal, and put them into a stewpan with the knuckle-bone of a ham, or, failing this, half a pound of raw lean ham. Pour.Qvesr.the^n three pints of cold water, and add a carrot, an onion, half a bay-leaf, three or four sticks of Qclery, a handful of parsley, a small" sprig pf thjone, a blade of mace, two clov^s, a roll of lomon-rind, a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of. cayenne, a lump of sugar, and six. peppercorns. Co^er the stewpan, and bring the contents 4owIy to a boil. Remove the scum as at ri.s,es., dJ^aw the;pan to the side, and sipi- iner gently, .,)3ut continuously, for five hours. Strain the liquid through a jelly-bag, and let it stand until it is oold and stiff. .B,emove the fat, by first scraping it off with a spoon, and after- w(ird3 pouring a little hot water over the sur- face, draining it ofi: immediately, and thei: wiping off the moisture with a dry napkin. If the jelly has been gently boiled it should not need to be clarified.. If, however, it is not quite clear and bright, dissolve it over a gentle fire, and when it is melted, without being hot, mix with it the white of an egg which has been well whisked, with half a tea-cupful of water, and add the crushed shell of the egg, a dessert- spoonful of tarragon A-incgar, and a glassful of shoify. Put the pan on the fire, and stir it briskly until it .begins to boil; then draw it to the side, put on the 'tover, and let it simmer, with being touched, for a quarter of an hour. Strain it again through a jelly-bag, and when cold it is. ready for use. The bones, necks, and feet of fowlH, or the shuuk-bones of u k-g of mutton, if boiled down carefully wit}i an ox-lxwl or a calf's foot, will makie good meat jelly. Probable cost, 28. 8d. SuHicient for three pints of jolly. Pies, Meat, Jelly for (Econoniical and quickly made).—Put an ounce of gelatine into a cup with as mudi cold water as will cover it, and let it soak for half an hour. Put a pint and a half of good stock, quite free from fat^ into a stewpan with a sprig of thj-me, a bay- leaf, five or six shallots, half a blade of mace, six cloves, an onion, and a little pepi^er and salt. Bring the gravy gently to the boil; cool itj stir the gelatine into it, and continue Stirling until it is dissolved. Let the gi'avy cool; mix with it the whites and ci'ushcd shells of two eggs which have been beaten up with a cupful of cold water. Stir them into the stock, whisk all together until the liquid is on the point of boil- ing, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for ten minutes. Pass the gravy through a jolly-bag, and it will be fit for use. If the stock is already nicely flavoured, the flavouring in- gredients need not be added. A dessert-spoon- ful of tarragon vinegar and half a glassful of sherrj' may be stirred in, with the whites of the eggs, if approved. The jelly will become stiff more quickly if it is poured out on a large dish. Time, one hour to make. Probable cost, exclusive of stock. Is. Sufficient for a quart of jelly. Pies, Paste for [see Paste for Common Pie^, Paste for Kaised Pies, &c.). : Pig Harslet {see Harslet, Pig's). Pig, Roast, Forcemeat for {see Force- meat for Eoast Pig). Pig, Sectional Diagram of Bacon {sec the illustration accompanying the article Bacon, To Cut up a Pig for). Pig, Sucking.—Sucking pigs are in season all the year round, though they are to be preferred in cold weather, and are at their SUCKrSG PIO. ' best from the middle of November to the end of i December. To be eaten in perfection thov should not be more than three wcclcs old, and should be rooked as soon as possible after they are kiUod, as thev deteriorate m quahty i every liour that they arc kept. Suckmg-pig, is \ fattened with milk and whey, with thePIG PIG addition of barloy-meal. Some consider the flesh a gi-eat delicacj-; others, however, hold it to be too luscious. It is very noui-ishing, but not so digestible as might be supposed. The price of a sucking-pig varies consider- ably with the season and the demand; they may be had sometimes for 5s. or 6s., at others 20s. or 25s. may be asked for them. The average cost is from 6s. to 9s. Pig, Sucking (a la rran9aise).—^Wipethe pig quite di-y inside and out, and stuff it with a ■forcemeat prepared as follows:—Shred half a pound of beef suet very finely, mix with it half a poimd of grated bread-crtmibs, and add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, eight sage- leaves minced, and a Little pepper and salt. Bind the mixture together with the weU-beaten yolks of two eggs and a table-spoonful of milk, if necessarj'. Sew up the slit securely, and roast the pig until it is three-parts cooked. Take it down, put it on one side, and cut it up into neat pieces. Place these in a stewpan, barely cover them with a little stock, and add a large Spanish onion finely minced, a dessert- spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, a little salt, grated nutmeg, and cayenne pepper, a bvmch of parsley, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Stew these ingredients gently together for antovir. Strain the sauce, and thicken it with a dessert- spoonful of bi'own thickening, or, failing this, with half an ounce of butter rolled in flour; add -a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, with the stuffing made up into small balls. Stew a quarter of an liour longer, and serve the pig on a hot dish with the sauce poured over it. Probable cost of sucking-pig, 6s. to 98. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Pig, Sucking, Baked.—Prepare and stuff the pig exactly as for roasting. Brush it well in every part with beaten white of egg; it wiU then require no firrther basting, and the crackling will be perfectly crisp. Serve and dish it in the same way as roast pig, and with the same accompaniments. A sucking-pig is much more easily baked than roasted, and is, in the opinion of the majority of persons, quite as nice. Time to bake a throe weeks' old pig, ■an hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost, 63. to 9s. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Pig, Sucking, Broiled (a la Tartare).^ l.ut the remams of a cold roast pig into neat slices, freed entirely from skin and gristle. Dip them mto clarified butter, and afterwards into highly-seasoned bread-crumbs, and broil them over a clear fire until they are brightly browned. Servethe sUces on a hot dish, with a sauce, made as follows, in a tureen:—Mince a moderate-sized onion very finely, and fry it in half an ounce ot butter until it is Hghtly bro^vned. Season rather highly with pepper, pour two table- spoonfuls of vinegar over it, and boil all to- gether for three minutes. Add a table-spoonful ot Hour mixed smoothly with half a pint of water, and half a tea-spoonful of Liebig's extract of moat. Boil these for a quarter of an nour. Stir m a table-spoonful of mixed mus- tard, a table-apoonf ul of Worcester sauce, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy. Serve very hot. When the shoulders of the pig are left untouched they ai-e excellent broiled whole in this way, and curry or tomato sauce may be served with them, instead of the above. Time, ten minutes to broil the slices j half an hour to make the sauce. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold pig, 8d. Sufficient for foui' or five persons. Pig, Sucking, Currant Sauce for (see Currant Sauce, &c.). Pig, Sucking (en Blanquette).—Cut the remains of a cold roast pig into neat pieces, freed entirely from skin and gristle, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Melt one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and mix with it half an ounce of flour. Add half a dozen mushrooms cut into slices, and a bunch of parsley, and moisten the whole with half a pint of stock and a glassful of sherry. Simmer the sauce gently until it is considerably reduced, and of the consistency of thick creain, then strain, and put in the meat. When this is quite hot, without having boiled, stir into the sauce the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Stir this for a minute, and serve the meat on a hot dish with the sauce poured over it. Time, two hours. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pig, Sucking, Galantine of.—Scald and clean a sucking pig four or five weeks old; cut off its head, spKt it open, lay it flat, and bone it. Make a seasoning, by mincing a dozen sage- leaves very finely, and mixing with them two nutmegs finely grated, three blades of mace reduced to powder, and three table-spoonfuls of salt. Sprinkle the pig all over with this, roll it tightly, bind it securely with tape, and fasten it in a thin linen cloth. Biing to a boil as much veal stock, or, failing this, water, as will cover the pig, and put with it a dozen peppercorns, a clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme. Let the pig simmer in this until it is tender. Lift it out, and when it is cold remove the tape and the cloth. Let the pig lie until it is cold, when it is ready for serving. Piquant sauce should be sent to table with it. If. liked, the pig can be kept for a week in a pickle made of the liquor in which it was boiled, salted and flavoured with vinegar. Time to simmer, four hours or more, until the tape becomes loose. Probable cost of pig, 6s. to 9s. Suffi- cient for ten or twelve persons. Pig, Sucking, Galantine of (Superior). —^Scala and clean the pig, split it open, lay it flat upon a table, and bone it carefully. The head may be cut off, if liked: if left on it should not be boned. Make as much good veal stuffing as can be spread evenly and thinly over the pig. Place upon this, in layers, thin slices of tongue, hard-boiled eggs, truffles, fat bacon, and ham, and cover the whole with another layer of veal forcemeat. Eoll the pig tightly, so as not to displace the forcemeat, &c., bind it firmly with fillets of tape, cover with a soft cloth, and sew up securely. Boil as much nicely-seasoned stock as wiU. cover tlie pig, put with it, if liked, a glassful of sherry, and simmer gently until the tape becomes loose. Let thePIG PIG ( 552 ) galantino grow cold in tho liquor in which it was boiled, then lift it out, and boil tho Btock quickly until it is sufficiently reduced to fonn a jelly Avhen cold, clear it with white of ofrf^, and pour it over tho meat. Some cooks place a weight upon tho galantino until it is cold, and then either glaze it or cover it with bread raspings. Time to boil the galantine, five hours or more. Probable cost, 12s. to los. Sufficient for a largo breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish. Pig, Sucking, Potato Stuffing for (see Potato Stuffing for Goose and Sucking Pig, Sucking, Boast.—"Wipe the pig thoroughly, stuff it, and sew up the slit securely with soft cotton. Truss it like a hare, with tho fore-legs skewered back and the hind-legs drawn forward. Eub it over with clarified butter, or fresh salad-oil, and put it down, not too near, before a clear brisk fire. Baste con- stantlj', or tho crackling will be blistered and burnt, instead of crisp and brown. As tho middle part requires less roasting than the ends, it is usual, when the pig is half done, to hang a flat iron from the spit in such a position that it will shade the heat of the fire from the middle. It is well to tie some butter in a piece of muslin, and rub the pig over with this two or three times whilst it is roasting. When it is done enough, cut oflE the head before the pig is taken from the fire, take out the brains, and chop them up quickly with the stuffing; add the gravy which has dropped from the pig, and, when it can be obtained, a cupful of good veal or beef gravy, together with a little cayenne, lemon-juice, and grated nutmeg. To dash it, cut the pig open, and lay the sides back to back, lengthwise, upon the dish, with one half of the head at each end and the ears at the sides. If preferred, the brains may be stirred into melted butter instead of gravy. Rich brown sauce, tomato, poivrade, piquant, proven9ale, bread, apple, and the old-fashioned currant sauce, are all served with sucking-pig. Time to roast, according to size: a three weeks' old pig, two hours. Probable cost, 6s. to 128. Suffi- cient, a three weeks' old pig for eight or nine persons. Pig, Sucking, Roast (Dr. Kitchener's recipe).—A sucking-pig is in prime order for the spit when about three weeks old. It loses part of its goodness every hour after it is killed; if not quite fresh, no art can make the crackling crisp. To be in perfection, it should be killed in the morning to be eaten at dinner; it requires very careful roasting. A sucking-pig, like a young child, must not be left for an jnstant. The ends must have much more fire than the middle ; for this purpose is contrived an iron to hang before the middle part, called a pig iron. If you have not this, use a common flat-iron, or keep tho fire fiercest at the two ends. For the stuffing, take of the crumb of a stale loaf about five ounces; rub it through a colander; mince fine a handful of sage {i.e. about two ounces), and a large onion (about an ounce and a half); mix these together with an egg, some pepper and salt, and a bit of butter as big as an egg; fill the belly of the pig with this, and sow it up ; lay it to tlio fire, and baste it with salad-oil till it 18 quite done. Do not leave it a moment; it requires tho most vigilant attendance. ltoa«t it at a clear brisk fire at some distance. To gain the praise of epicurean pig-eaters,, the crackling must bo nicely crisped and deU- oately and hghtly browned, without being either blistered or burnt. A small three weeks' old pig will be done enough in about an hour and a half. Before you take it from the fire, cut off the head, and part that and the body down the ndddle; chop the brains very fine with sorao boiled sage-leaves, and mix them with good veal gravy, or beef gravy, or what runs from the pig when you cut its head off. Send up a tureenful of beef gra\'y sauce besides. Currant sauce is still a favourite with some of the old school. Lay your pig back to back in the dish, with ono half of the head on each side, and the- ears one at each end, which you must take care- to make nice and crisp. When you cut off the pettitoes, leave the skin long, round the- ends of the legs. When you first lay the pig- before the fire, rub it aU over with fresh butter or salad-oil; ten minutes after, and the- skin looks dry, dredge it well with flour all over; let it remain on an hour; then rub it with a soft cloth. A pig is a very troublesome- subject to roast. Most persons have them baked. Pig, Sucking, Scalded.—A sucking-pig is generally sent from the butcher's ready for the spit, but for the benefit of those who find it necessary to prepare it themselves the following; directions are given:—Put the pig into cold water directly after it is killed, and let it remain for five minutes, then take it up, and hold it by the head in a large pan of boiling water for two minutes. Lay it on a table, and rub the hairs ofi with a coarse cloth. If they do not come oft easily, put the pig in the water another minute. When quite clean, make a slit down the belly,, and take out the entrails, leaving the kidneys, imtouched. Cut off the feet at the first joint, and leave a small portion of skin to fold neatly over the end. Clean the nostrils and ears, thoroughly, wash the pig in two or three waters, and dry it, inside and out, with a cloth,, then wrap it in a damp cloth until it can be cooked. The feet, the heart, and the liver of a sucking-pig are generally served separately. Pig, Sucking, Stuffed.—Remove the bones n-om every part of a sucking-pig except the head, which should be left entire. Stuff the pig with equal parts of bacon and veal- liver cut small, and seasoned with salt, pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, as well as -with some sage and basil cut as small as possible. Lay on the stuffing some slices of ham and tongue, arrange these in layers, and cut in strips some bacon,, truffles, &c. Arrange the skin over these,, bring tho sucking-pig into as natural a shape- as possible, and then enclose it in a linen cloth, -w^ith some slices of bacon, and basil, and sage- leaves. Put it in a pan with some stock broth, salt and pepper, and dress it at a very gentle heat. Allow it to get sufficiently cold in the vessel in whicn it is cooked, that it may be compressed between the hands to force out thePIG ( 553 ) PIG liquid inside it. Let the sucking-pig get quite cold, and remove the cloth before sending it to table. Pig, Sucking, Stuffing for.—A sucking- pig is usually filled with a stuffing prepared as foflows:—Take half a pint of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Mix with them a dozen sage- leaves, chopped smaU, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a pinch of cayenne. Moisten these with two ounces of clarified butter and the well-beaten yolk of an egg. One onion or more, chopped smaU, may be added or not, according to taste. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for one young pig. Pig, Sucking, Stuffing of Chestnuts for.—Peel, scald, and blanch half a hundred chestnuts, and boil them in a pint of milk, with a pinch of salt and half an ounce of butter. When they are done enough, drain and dry them, and mix them ynth. one pound of good pork sausage meat. Fill the body of the pig, and sew it securely. When the pig is filled with this forcemeat, a sauce, made as follows, should be sent to table with it:—Peel, scald, and blanch six ounces of sound chestnuts, and stew them in three-quarters of a pint of good brown gravy until they are sufficiently tender to be rubbed through a hair sieve. Stir into the pulp half a dozen table-spoonfuls of rich brown sauce, season rather highly with mace and cayenne, and add a little salt, if necessary. Stir the sauce over the fire until it boils, and serve immediately. A glassful of madeira or sherry may be added or not. Time, twenty minutes to boil the chestnuts for the stuffing; one hour and a quarter for the sauce. Pro- bable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for one pig. Pig, Sucking, Stuffing of Potatoes for. — Potatoes mashed with milk, and seasoned with pepper and salt, are sometimes used as a stuffing for roast sucking-pig. Any of the ordinary sauces may be sent to table with this dish. Pig, Sucking, Stuffing of Truffles for.—Take one pound of English truffles. Wash and brush them well, changing the water several times, dry them, and cut each one into quarters. ^Mince half a pound of fat bacon finely, and pound it to a paste. Put it into a stewpan, with the truffles, a clove of garlic, half a tea-spoonful of chopped thyme, a bay-leaf, and a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Let these ingredients simmer over a gentle fire for ten minutes, when they will be ready to put mside the pig. When the pig is fiUed with this forcemeat a sauce, made as follows, should be sent to table with it:—Wash, wipe, and pare four truffles, and chop them very small. Put them into a stewpan, wth half a pint of thick brown sauce, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, and a glassful of sherry, and let them boil for ten mmutes. Mix with them half a tea-spoonful of Liebig's extract, and a tea-spoonful of tho essence of anchovy. Boil up once more, and servo. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for one pig. Pig, To Cut up for Bacon (see Bacon, To Cut up a Pig for). S*" - Pig's Blood.—Black puddings arc made with pig's blood and oatmeal. Tho blood of animals, it is to be remarked, is rich in restora- tive matter, and although when an animal is killed it is usually treated as refuse, blood may sometimes advantageously be used as food. Pig's Cheek, Boiled.—If the cheek has been di'ied, soak it for three or four hours ; if it has been taken fresh from tho pickle it will require only to be washed in two or three waters. Put it into a saucepan, cover with cold water, bring the water to a boil, and let it simmer gently until tender. Draw oflE the rind, and cover the outside of the check with, bread-raspings. Put the cheek before the fire for five or six minutes, that the raspings may set. A bag of raspings may be bought at the baker's, a pint for 2d., or they may be made of pieces of stale bread, which have been, dried slowly in a cool oven until they are brown and hard, and then crushed to powder. Time to boil the cheek, two hours and a half from the time of boiling, if the cheek is fresh ; three hours if it has been dried. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Pig's Cheek, Boiled, and Served with Vegetables.—Take half a pig's head, remove the brains and tongue, and put it into a deep pan. Eub it well with half a pound of common salt, and let it lie for three or four days, turning and basting twice a day. When it is to be cooked, wash it, and put it into a stewpan, with four quarts of cold water; bring it to a boil, skim it well, and -put with it a few outer sticks of celery, one or two sliced onions, and a dozen peppercorns. Lot it sim- mer until it is done enough, then di-ain it from the liquid, serve on a hot dish, and send potatoes and boiled greens to table with it. Some cooks like the vegetables boiled with tho cheek, and served round it. The liquid in which it has been boiled may be converted into excellent pea-soup. Time to boil the check, two hours and a half. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Pig's Cheek, M. Soyer's Mode of Dressing.—Take a nicely-pickled pig's cheek. Let it boil gently until it is quite tender. Tie half a pint of good split peas loosely in a cloth, put them into boiling water, and boil them for an hour; then take them out, pass them through a hair sieve, and mix with the pulp a little pepper and salt, an ounce of butter, and four well-beaten eggs. Stir the mixture ever the fire until the eggs begin to set, then spread it upon the cheek, brush over with, beaten egg, sprinkle bread raspings on it, put it in tlie oven a few minutes, and serve. Time, two hours and a half to boil the cheek. Probable cost of cheek, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Pig's Cheek, Pickled.—Split open a pig's head, take out the brains, cut out tho snout, and chop off the upper bono, to mako the cheeks a good shape. K;ib the cheeks with salt, and let them lie for two or three davs. Boil a handful of common salt, half a pound of bay salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, four ounces of moist sugar, and a pennyworth of cochiueBl.PIG ( 654 ) in a pint of strong alo for a quarter of an hour. Pour the liquid, whon cold, over tho chooks, and lot thoni rt'inaiu in it for a fortnight, turning and basting overy day; tlion Imng tlioin in smoke for a week, when thoy will bo roudy for uso.^ Probable coat of chuoks, 8d. por pound. Sufficient, one cheek for eight or ton persons. Pig's Cheek, Pickled (another way).— Wash a coupio of pig's cheeks, strew a handful of salt over thorn, and leave them for twenty- four hours. Drain tliem, and dry them well with a soft cloth. Powder and mix the following ingredients :—A quarter of a pound of common salt, a quarter of a pound of moist sug.-ir, one ounce of saltpetre, and half an ounce of ground popper. Dry this mi.\turo thoroughly before tho fire, rub it well into the cheeks, and turn and rub them ever day for four weeks. They may either be boiled straight from tho pickle or hung to diy in a cool place; if they arc boiled at once they require only to be well washed before being cooked; if they are dried they must be soaked. When pig's cheeks are cured and dried like bacon they are called Bath Chaps. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Pig's Cheeks, Potted.—Take a large pig's head, split it oi^en, take out the brains, and cut off the ears. Let it soak in cold water for twenty-four hours, then put the cheek, with the tongue, into a saucepan, cover with cold water, bring slowly to the boil, and let the meat simmer gently until it is so tender that the bones can be easily drawn out. Draw off the skin, if possible in one piece, and while the meat is still hot mince it quickly, and season rather highly with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Lay half the skin at the bottom of a pan or bowl, put in the mince, and cover with the remainder of the skin. Place a plate with a weight upon it, and leave it until it is quite cold. It will turn out in a shape, and should be cui in thin slices, and eaten with vinegar and mustard. It may be kept in a pickle made of the liquid in which it was stewed boiled with a little salt and vinegar. Time to boil the cheeks, two hours and a half to three hours. Probable cost of pig's head, 6d. or 8d. per pound. Sufficient for a standing breakfast dish. Pig's Ears. — Pig's ears are generally dressed with the feet. They may, however, be stuffed and stewed as follows:—Bone an an- chovy, and pound it to a paste. Mix with it six ounces of grated broad-crumbs, two ounces of minced veal, four- ounces of shred suet, a tea-spoonful of shred parsley, and two or three sage-leaves. Season this forcemeat with salt and cayenne, and bind it together with the yolks of two eggs. Take two or four ears which have been already soaked for some hours and pai-tially boiled. liaise tho skin of tho upper jido, and fill them with the stuffing. Fry thCm in hot fat till they are brightly browned, drain them well, and stow them gently in thi-ee-quarters of a pint of very rich brown gravy, nicely flavoured and highly seasoned. Serve the cars on a hot dish, with the gravy strained and poured round them. If likod, a I pur6o of peas can bo sent to table with them. > Time to stew, half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain, jiig's ears being generally sold with the head. Sufficient for two or thi-ee persons. Pig's Feet (a la SainteMenehould).—Take two large pig's feet which have been salted, or not, as most conveni(;nt. Cleanse them perfectly, split them in halves, and bind them securely with tape to keep tlieni in their jn-oper jjosition. Put them into a saucepan, witha quait of broth or water, and with them a little pei)i>er—and .salt, if required—a caxTot, an onion, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, and two or three outer sticks of celery. Let : them simmer gently for several hours until quite tender. Drain them, draw out the large bone, and press the feet between two dishes, until they are cold and stiff. When wanted for use, dip them into clarified butter, cover thickly with highly-seasoned bread-crumbs, and broil over a clear fire until they are lightly browned all over. Turn them twice during the opera- tion. Serve on a hot dish, with piquant sauce, or Robert sauce, or, if preferred, with a puree of green peas in the centre of the dish. Time to broil, till hot thi-ough. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pig's Feet and Ears.—Clean and soak the feet and ears, and boil them in water until they are tender. SpUt the feet in halves, di'aw out the bones, and press them between two dishes until they are cold and stiff. Cut the ears into strips, half an inch wide, and set them also aside. When they are to be served, dissolve two ounces of fresh butter, and mix smoothly with it a tea-spoonful of flour. Slice two good-sized onions, and stew them in the mixture until they are tender; put in the ears, and when they are hot, stir in with them- a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard. Turn the whole upon a hot dish, and keep it in a warm place. Dip the feet into clarified butter and seasoned bread-crumbs, and broil over a clear fire. Put them on the dish, with the ears, &c., and serve as hot as possible. Time to boil, imtil tender; to broil, ten minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pig's Feet and Ears, Frica?seed.— Take the feet and ears of a pig, which, if not fresh, have been pickled with salt without any vinegar. Cleanse and wash them, then cut them into neat pieces, half an inch wide, and boil them in a pint of milk until they are quite tender. Drain and dry them well, and put them into a stewpan, with half a pint of veal stock, a little salt and cayenne, a blade of mace, a strip of lemon-rind, and a sliced onion. Simmer for a quarter of an hour, then add a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, rolled thickly in flour, and three table-spoonfuls of cream. Stir the hquid over a slow fire until it is smooth and tlvick, and serve the meat on a hot dish, with tho sauce poured round it: garnish with sliced lemon. Pigs' feet and ears should ho f/eiitli/hoilcd. Suflicient for four or five peraonti. Pig's Feet and Ears Fried in Batter. —Wasli and cleanse the feet and oars of a fully- grown pig, and lot them lie in salt for four or( 555 ) PIG PIG five days. The day before they are to be served, boil them gently in a quart of water, with an onion, a carrot, a bunch of savoury herbs, a stick of celery, and a little pepper and salt When they ai-e done enough, take them up, "drain them, cut the feet in two, lengthways, draw out the large bone, and press them, with the ears, between two dishes, until they are stiff and cold. Two hours before they are wanted, make a batter, by mixing five ounces of flour and a pinch of salt smoothly with a gill of water. Beat the yolks of two eggs to a paste, with two table-spoonfuls of oil; stir this mto the flour, and put the mixture aside. Twenty minutes before it is to be used, add the whisked wliites of the eggs, and a little more water if the batter is too tliick. Beat it weU; dip mto it the pig's feet and ears, and fry in hot fat nntil they are equally and lightly browned. Drain them, and serve on a hot napkin. If liked, a gravy, made of two or three table- spoonfuls of the liquid in which they were boiled, mLxed with a little vinegar, may be sent to table with them. Time, the feet and ears must be boiled till tender ; twenty minutes to fry them. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pig's Feet and Ears in Jelly.— Cleanse and scrape the feet and ears, and let them soak in cold water for two or thi-ee hours. Put them into a stewpan, with as much water as will barely cover them, and simmer gently until they are quite tender. Take them up, and draw out all the bones. Put the meat back into the liquid, with six sage-leaves, chopped small, a table-spoonful of finely-shred parsley, and a seasoning of salt, cayenne, and pov/dered mace, and simmer again until the flavour is drawn out of the herbs and the liquid is reduced to a jelly. Pour the whole into a shape, and serve cold. Time, the pigs' feet and ears must be long and gently boiled till they are tender. Sufficient for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Pig's Feet, Boiled (au Naturel).—Scald and scrape the leet of a fully-grown porker, and carefully remove the covering of the toes. Split them in halves, lengthways, and bind them securely with tape in their original position. Put them into a ste^vpan, with a quart of stock or water, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, two onions, two carrots, a stick of celery, and a little salt and cayenne. I^et them simmer gently until they are tender. Drain them, and draw out the largo bones. Put them back into the liquid, and let them remain in it until cold. After the feet have been boiled as above directed, they may be either served hot, with peas pudding and tiirnip-topg, eaten cold with vinegar, broiled, or fried. Time to simmer, three hours from the time the gravy reaches the boiling point. Sufficient for two persons. Pigs' Feet, Soup of.—Take two sets of pigs' fcctand pigs' ears, cleanse thorn thoroughly, and put them into a stewpan, with three quarts of water, a little pepper and salt, a bunch of savoury herbs, a carrot, two onions, and half a head of celery. Remove the scum as it rises, and simmer the liquid gently for four hours. Pour it out, strain it, cut the meat into dice. lay it aside, and leave the soup to get cold. The next morning Uft oflE the cake of fat which wUl have settled on the top, pour ofl:' the liquid, free from sediment, return it to the saucepan, season rather highly with salt, cayenne, and white pepper, and thicken with flour and butter. Let the soup boil gently for some minutes. Put the pieces of meat into a saucepan, with as much gravj' as will cover them; let them get quite hot, then put them with the soup. Simmer all together for a few minutes, and serve. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Pig's Feet, Soused.—Take four young and tender pig's feet. Scald and scrape them, and put them into a stewpan, with as much, lukewarm water as wiU cover them. Bring the liquor to a boil, and skim carefuUy, then simmer the feet gently until aU the bones can be taken out. Lift them out, put them into a deep pan, and sprinkle salt over them. As the liquid cools, remove the fat from the top of it; and when it is quite clear, boil a quart of it with the same quantity of vinegar, a dessert-spoon- ful of whole pepper, and a blade of mace. Let it boU ten minutes, and pour it boiling hot over the feet. Cover the jar closely. If liked, the head can be soused with the feet. The meat may be eaten cold from the vinegar, or fried and browned, and served hot. Time to boll the feet, three hours. Sufficient for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Pig's Fry.—A pig's fry, which is composed of the heart, liver, lights, and sweetbread, should be used when quite fresh. Wash it well, and sinmier it in a little salt and water for half an hour. Dry it, and cut it into slices the third of an inch thick. Dredge these with flour, and season with a little salt, pepper, cayenne, and powdered sage. Fry them in hot fat until they are lightly browned. If liked, a slice of bacon, finely minced, and a chopped onion, may be fried with them. Serve the fry neatly ai-ranged on a hot dish, with a shallot, finely minced, sprinkled over it, or with the following sauce poured round it:—Mince two large onions and one large apple, and fry them in melted butter until they are quite soft. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour over them, and add a pinch of cayenne, a large pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard. Pour over these a table-spoon- ful of vinegar, and stir the sauce over a gentle fire for four minutes. Add two table-spoonfuls of claret, and serve. Time to fry the slices, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pig's Fry (another way).—Procure a fresh pig's fry. Wash it well, and dry it, then cut it into slices the third of an inch in thickness. Butter a baking-dish, cover the bottom with" a layer of the lean slices, and sprinkle over them a little powdered sage, minced onion, pepper, and salt. Place sliced potatoes on these, axid then a layer of fat slices, with a little more seasoning, and sHced potatoes over the whole. Fill the dish with boiling stock or water, mixed smoothly with a small portion of flour, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve very hot Time to bake, two hours and a half. Probable( 666 ) PIG PIG cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pig's Head and Feet in Brawn.— Tiiko the head and i'eot of a fully-grown purkor, iind cleanse them thoroughly. Prepare them, by splitting open the head, cutting off the ears and snout, romov-ing tho brains and eyes, scraping tho feet, and, if necessary, singeing the coverings of tho toes until they are loose, and can bo taken oft"; then sprinkle salt freely over the head, feet, and ears, and leave thcni to di-ain for twenty-four hours. At tho end of that time wipe them all dry, put them into a deep pan, and rub into them an ounce and a half of powdered saltpetre, mixed with half a pound of moist sugar ; and add, in a few hours, half a pound of common salt. The following day pour a cupful of strong vinegar over them, and turn and baste them every day for a week. Wash them in one or two waters, and put them into a stewpan, with as much lukewarm water as cover them, and let them simmer until tender, so that the bones can be easily drawn out from both the head and feet. Cut the gristle from the thick part of the ears. Wipe the moat, lay it on a flat board, and season it equally in every part with a mixture made of a tea-spoonful and a half of powdered mace, mixed with a large nutmeg, grated, a salt- spoonful of powdered cloves, and a salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper. Fut one cheek, skin down- wards, upon a board, lay the feet and ears upon it and on the top of the other cheek, and make it as even as possible, by laying the thick part of one cheek upon the thin part of the other. Roll it as tightly as possible, and bind securely with pieces of broad tape. Fasten a cloth over the meat, and sew it up at both ends. Lay it in a stewpan, and put with it the bones and trimmings of the head and feet, two onions, two carrots, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, two or three sticks of celery, and a tea-spoonful of peppercorns. Simmer all gently together for two hours, then lift_ the stewpan ofE the fire, and leave the meat in it undisturbed until the liquid is half cold. Take off the cloth, put the brawn between two dishes, .place a weight upon these, and let the brawn lie until it is cold and stiff. Then, and not before, remove the tapes, and serve as required. The brawn should be cut in thin slices, and will be found excellent for breakfast, supper, or luncheon. If liked, the feet can be omitted, and the head only used. Time, two hours and a half to three hours to boil plainly; two hours to boil after being rolled. Sufficient for a breakfast or supper dish. Pig's Head, Boiled—Take a pig's head which has been salted by the butcher, or if more convenient, pickle it at home. To do this, ecald and cleanse it thoroughly. Ecmovo the hair, the snout, the eyes, and the brain. Soak it for twenty-four hours, then cover it with one pound of common salt mixed with an ounce of saltpetre, and turn and baste it every day for five or six days. Drain it, put it into a sauce- pan cover with cold water, and put it on the tire,' skim the liquid carefully, and simmer tho head gently for two hours from the time when tho water boils. Send it to table with peas pudding, and boiled greens. The liquor in which the liead was boiled may be converted into excellent pea-soup. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Pig's Head, Collared. — Scald and clean a pig's head, and remove the hair, the snout, the eyes, and the brain. Let it soak in cold water for twelve hours, drain it, and sprinkle over it one pound of common salt mixed with a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre, and turn and baste it every day for five days. Wash it, put it into a saucepan half filled with cold water, bring it to the boil, and skim care- fully, then simmer gently until the bones can be easily drawn out. SpHt the head open, season rather highly with black and Jamaica pepper and salt, and roll it evenly by laying the thick part of one cheek to the thin part of the other. Put the head into a cloth, and bind securely, and as lightly as possible, with broad tape. Place it in a stewpan, cover with stock or water, and let it simmer gently until done enough. Lay it between two dishes, place a heavy weight upon it, and let it remain until cold; then turn it out of the cloth, and send to table on a neatly-folded napkin. The feet of the pig may be used as well as the head, or one cheek only with a couple of cow-heels. If it is wished that tho pig's head should bo collared like brawn, use a larger proportion of saltpetre than is directed above, put in with tho cheeks some pieces of lean pork, and cover the whole with cow-heel. The collared head may, if liked, be kept in a pickle, made of the liquid in which it was boiled, salted, and mixed with vinegar. This pickle should be boiled fre- quently. Time to boil, two hours or more the hrst time, two hours the second. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for a breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish. Pig's Head, Collared (a German recipe). —Take a freshly-kiUed pig's head, and spUt it open lengthways. Singe and cleanse it care- fully, and take out the brains. Bone it, without injuring the outer skin, and spread it open, skin downwards, upon a table. Sprinkle salt and pepper upon it, and spread evenly and thickly over it a suitable forcemeat. If preferred, minced liver can be substituted for the pork, and a few bread-crumbs can be added. Lay on the forcemeat the tongue of the pig, cut into neat shoes, and some strips of lean pork, and between these half a dozen strips of bacon and five or six sliced pickled gherkins, and if there is room, two shced kidneys, with some slices of veal. Cover these with another layer of forcemeat, lay the head upon the top, press the two parts closely, and sew them together securely willi soft cotton. Tie the head in a bladder that has been soaked in three or four waters, and put it into a stewpan, with the bones and trimmings of the head, two calf's feet, and as much cold water as will cover it. Add three or four sticks of celery, half a dozen shallots, two bay-lcavcs, a sprig of parsley, a sprig of thj-me, five or six crushed cloves, and a quarter of a jiint of vinog.ir. Lot tho water conio to a boil, then skim^it carcfullv, and let it simmer gently, until a skewer "will pierce the head easily. Leave it in the liquid until it is half cold, then( 557 ) PIG pia press it under a weight. When it is cold and stilf take out the tlireads, glaze the head, and serve it, garnished with clear jelly cut into dice. This jelly may bo made of the liquid in wliich the head was cooked boiled quickly down, and cleared with white of egg {see Aspic Jelly). Before sending the head to table it is well to cut a slice off the neck end to show of what the dish consists. Time to simmer, three hours or more. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Pig's Head, Collared (Superlative).— Take a pig's head cut with as much of the neck as Ciin be had. Clean it carefully, split it open to take out the brains, and bone it without injming the outer skin. Eub it well with common salt, and let it di-ain for twenty-four hours, then put it into a deep pan, and pom- over it a cold brine, prepared as follows :—Put one poimd of salt and a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre into a stewpan, with four quarts of water, a handful of chopped juniper-berries, half a dozen bruised cloves, three bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme and basil, and two or three sage- leaves. Boil quickly for a quarter of an hour, itTicn put aside to cool. Let the head lie in this brine for nine or ten days, and tm-n and baste it frequently. Take it up, drain and dry it, and lay it open, skin downwards, upon a table; spread evenly over it a forcemeat, made of half a pound of undressed ham, half a pound of breast of bacon, four ounces of fresh butter, haK a dozen young onions, finely-minced, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, with a little cayenne and jpoundcd mace. Pound these ingredients ■smoothly together. Shape the head as evenly as possible by laj-ing the thick part of one cheek to the thin part of the other, then roll it tightly, bind it securely with tape, cover vnth. a Knen cloth, and put it into a stewpan, with as much cold water or stock as will cover it, together with the bones and trimmings of the head and a little seasoning. Let it simmer gently until •done enough, that is, until a skewer will pierce it easily. Leave the head in the liquor until it is almost cold, then put it under a weight, and let it lie until the next day. Remove the bindings, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Collared pig's head is a most convenient dish to keep in the house, as it vdll remain good for a considerable time in moderate weather. Time to boil, four hours, or more, from the time the liquid reaches the boiling point. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Pig's Head, Made in the Shape of a Cheese. — Take away the bones entirely from a pig's head, and remove the flesh without injuring the skin. Cut the meat in pieces, separating the fat from the lean. Deal with the ears in a similar manner, and mix them with thyme, bay-leaves, sage, and parsley, cut as fine as possible. Add also the grated lind of a lemon, with its juice, and season the whole with salt, popper, spices, and nutmeg. Place the skin of the head on a dish, and arrange the meat upon it, mixing the fat and lean together. Add some pork fat, a tongue, cut into thin slices, and some trufflos cut in strips. Whi'u the skin is tilled, arrange it, and sew it round tc close it. Now place it in a saucepan just large enough to hold it, and put with it some vege- tables, spices, salt, and pepper, together with equal parts of water and white wine, and simmer at a moderate heat for six or seven hours tiU done. Take the saucepan from the fire, and let the meat remain in it until almost cold. Then take it out, put it in a mould or iron saucepan, and place a wooden plate with a heavy weight on it to squeeze the head and flatten it into the form of a cheese. If prcfeiTcd, a similar dish to the above may be prepared with the ears alone. Clean the ears, cut them in two pieces, season, and stew in white wine. When cooked sufficiently, arrange them in a mould with alternate layers of tongue or ham which hao been cooked separately and cut into slices. Press out the whole then as flat as possible. Pig's Head, Moulded.—Lay the head and feet of a pig, and two calf's feet, all pro- perly cleansed, into a stewpan, with an onion, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and as much water as will barely cover the whole. Simmer all gently together until the meat is tender, then draw out the bones, and when the meat is nearly cold, cut it into small pieces about the size of a bean, and put with it any remains of dressed poultry, tongue, or meat that may be at hand, first cutting them into pieces like the rest. Strain and skim the liquor, and boil it quickly down to a jelly. Clear it with white of egg, and flavour with plenty of salt and pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a few drops, of tarragon vinegar if liked. Put the minced meat into it, with half a dozen sliced gherkins, and let it remain until quite hot. Pour a small quantity of the clear jelly into a mould, and bend it round, when it begins to stiffen, so that it may adhere to the sides, and the inside of the mould be evenly coated. Ornament the bottom prettily with beetroot, sliced green pickles, pieces of hard-boiled egg, chopped parsley, &c. Lay three or four table- spoonfuls of the thinnest part of the mince gently into the mould, and when set pour ia the rest. Let it stand until the next day. If there is any difficulty in turning the jellied meat out of the mould, tie a cloth, which has been wrung out of boiling water, round it for a minute or two, and loosen the edges with a knife. Serve on a neatly- folded napkin. Time, to boil the meat till ten- der. Probable cost of head, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for a breakfast or a luncheon dish. Pig's Head, Piquant.—Take afresh pig's head. Singe and clean it carefully. Lay it in a pickling-pan, with a dessert-spoonful of common salt, half a dozen cloves, one or two bay-leaves, a salt-spoonful of peppercorns, a salt-spoonful of bruised juniper-beriics, two sliced onions, and half a lemon, thinly sliced. Pour half a pint of vinegar over the whole, let it lie for five days, turning and basting the head and rubbing in the spices at least once each day. Take it up, drain and dry it, brush it over with clarified butter, and jjlace it in a stewpan over a moderate fire until it is lightly browned all over. Pour in the marinade, leaving out mo.st of the lemon, and add a cupful of water. Put the lid on the saucepan, steam the meat gently for an hour and a half, and baste( 658 ) PIG PIG it two or thrco times while it is being cooked with llio li(iui(l. Tut llio head on a hot dish. Skim and strain tho sauce, and send it to tablu in a tureen. Time, five days to lie in tho marinade; a quarter of an hour to colour tho head; ono hour and a half to steam it. Pro- bable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Pig's Head, Roast.—Take up a pig's head which has been already boiled until it is sufficiently tender to take out tho bones. Shape it neatly, and skewer it finnly. Sprinkle over it some sage-leaves, finely powdered, and a little pepper and salt, and hang it before a clear fire. Baste it well whilst it is roasting. Servo on a hot dish, with a good gravy poured over it, and send apple sauce to table in a tureen. Time to roast, half an hour. Pig's Head, Scrapple of (an American dish).—Scald and clean a pig's head, and remove the hair, the snout, the ears, and the brain. Put it on the fire in four quarts of cold water, and bring it slowly to the boil. Skim carefully, season the liquid rather highly with salt and cayenne, and add half a dozen sage- leaves, chopped small. Let the head simmer gently for two hours, then take out the bones, mince the flesh finely, and put it back into the liquid. Stir in as much sifted corn-meal as will thicken the liquid, and simmer two hours longer, until it is of the consistency of thick porridge. Pour it into deep jars, and set in a cool place. When scrapple of pig's head is to be eaten, cut it into slices, and fry these in hot fat for break- fast. Time, ten minutes to fry the slices. Probable cost of head, 8d. per pound. Suffi- cient for three or four good-sized jars. Pig's Kidneys.—Pig's kidneys may be broiled, fried, or stewed, in the same way as mutton kidneys. The skirts may be cooked with the kidneys. Cut them, lengthwise, into slices a quarter of an inch thick, season with salt and cayenne, and sprinkle over them a dessert-spoonful of finely-powdered herbs, of which two-thirds should be parsley, and one- third chives. Fry them for five or six minutes in two ounces of hot butter, and when nicely browned, stir a dessert-spoonful of flour in amongst them, and add, very gradually, a quarter of a pint of good gravy, and a table- spoonful of ketchup. When on the point of boiling, take out the meat, put it on a hot dish, let the sauce remain on the fire for one minute, and pour it boiling over the kidneys. Garnish with toasted sippets. A glassful of light wine may be added to the sauce or not. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. Suffi- cient for two or three persons. Pig's Kidneys. Broiled.—Split the kidneys lengthwise from the rounded part, without separating them entirely. Peel off the skin, and pass a wooden or metal skewer through them to keep them flat. Sprinkle a little pepper, salt, and powdered sage over them, oil them slightly, and broil them over a clear fire, the hollow side first, so that the gravy may be kept in when they are turned. Serve on a hot dish, either with or without maitre d'hOtel sauce in a tureen. Time to broil tho kidneys, four minutes each mdc, or more, ac- cording to the size. Sufficient for two persona. Pig's Kidneys, Pried. — Peel tho kidneys, cut them into slices, dip them in clariiicd butter, and afterwards into a mixture, made of two finely-minced shuUota, two table- spoonfuls of cliopped parsley, a pinch of l)Owdorcd thyme, and a little pepper and salt. Fry them in an ounce of butter until thoy are lightly browned, put them into a hot disli, and mix with tho butter two table-spoonfuls of thick brown gravy and two tabie-spoonfuIb of claret. Boil the sauce, pour it over the kidneys, and serve hot. If no sauce is at hand, take the kidneys up, mix a tea-spoonful of flour smoothly with the butter in the pan, and add a wine-glassful of boiling water, a dessert-si^on- ful of mushroom-ketchup, a little salt and cayenne, and a glassful of claret. Boil the sauce, and strain it over the kidneys. Time to fry, six minutes. Probable cost of pig's kidneys, 6d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pig's Liver, Baked.—Pig's liver may be dressed according to the directions given for calf's liver. It is very good prepared as follows :—Soak a fresh pig's fiver and cut it iuto slices less than half an inch thick. Boil and mash two poimds of potatoes, and put a layer of them at the bottom of a well-buttered mould. Lay on this a few slices of the hver, with an equal number of slices of fat bacon, and sprinkle over the meat a little pepper, chopped parsley, minced onion, and powdered sage. Put in potatoes again, and repeat until the dish is full, remembering always that the topmost layer must consist of potatoes. Pour half a cupful of boiling stock or water over the whole, and bake in a well-heated oven. Turn the mould upon a hot dish, bro-wm the top with a salamander, and serve. A large handful of parsley, two sage-leaves, two onions, and a tea- spoonful of pepper, will season this dish. The amount of salt required must be regulated by the quahty of the bacon. Time to bake, two hours. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pig's Liver, Baked in a Caul.—Wash and soak the liver until it is quite free from blood. Di-sade it into halves, horizontally, without separating the two pieces, and lay it open on a dish. Sprinkle pepper and salt on it, pour over it two ounces of clarified butter, and let it Ue for twenty minutes. Spread evenly over it a layer of forcemeat, a quarter of an inch in thickness, close the liver, and wrap it in some pig's caul, or " leaf," which has been soaked in cold water, drained, and dried in a soft cloth. Put the roll in a deep dish, with a slice of fat bacon under and over it, and bake in a moderate oven. When it is done enough take it out of its covering, and serve on a hot dish, with the gravy which has flowed from it, mixed with a little lemon-juice. "The force- meat may bo made as follows :—^Mincc half a pound of loan ham, and mix with it half a pound of fat bacon, four ounces of buUor. half a dozen chopped onions, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of( 559 ) PIG powdered thj-me, a grated nutmeg, and a little pepper. Pound these ingredients together, and Le sure that thej^ are thoroughly blended. Tiuie to bake the liver, one hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pig's Liver, Fried.—Soak the liver of a freshly-killed pig, and cut it into slices less than half an inch thick. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over these, and fry them in hot fat until they are brightly browned on both sides. Take them up, put them on a hot dish, and mix a tea-spoonful of flour smoothly with the butter in which they were fried. Moisten with two table-spoonfuls of boiling stock or water and two table-spoonfuls of claret. Stir the gravy over the fire until the sauce is on the point of boiling, add pepper and salt, if required, and pour it over the liver: serve very hot. If Ukcd, one or two sliced onions may be fried ■with the liver. Time to fry the liver, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pig's Pettitoes, or Sucking Pig's Feet, Fried in Batter.—Make a frying batter as follows : — Mix five ounces of flour smoothly with a gill of water and a little salt. Add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, mixed with two table-spooiifuls of Lucca oil; beat the batter for five or six minutes, then put it aside for an hour. It ought to be as thick as custard. A few minutes before it is wanted, stir in the whites of the eggs, whisked to a firm froth. Clean the pettitoes thoroughly. Boil them gently in as much broth or water as will cover them, imtil they are tender. Take them up, dry them well, split them open, dip them into the batter, and fry them in hot butter until they are lightly browned. Serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Time to boil the pettitoes, from twenty to thirty minutes; to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, uncertain, pig's pettitoes being generally sold with the pig. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pig's Pettitoes, Stewed.—Cleanse a set of pettitoes thoroughly, and put them into a stewpan, with the heart, the liver, a thin slice of bacon, six or eight peppercorns, a sprig of thyme, half a blade of mace, and as much broth or water as will cover the whole. Simmer gently-for a quarter of an hour, then take out the heart and the liver, and mince them finely. Leave the feet until they are tender—they will require to be simmered from twenty to thirty minutes, counting from the time when they first reach the boiling-point. When they are done enough, put the mince back into the stew- pan, with a little pepper and salt, a piece of butter roUed in flour, and a table-spoonful of cream. Shake the saucepan over the fire for five or six minutes. Serve the mince in the sauce on a hot dish, split the feet, lay them upon the mince, and gurv.hh. with toasted sippets. The pettitoes arc generally sold with the pig. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pigs' Tongues.—Trim six or eight pigs' tongues neatly at the root, and rub thorn well with moist sugar. Leave them for twenty-four hours; then rub into them a powder, made of four ounces of common salt, two ounces of bay salt, and half an ounce of saltpetre. Turn them daily. They will be ready for use in ten days. If' liked, they may be put into sausage-skins, dried, and smoked. Sufficient for one or two persons. Pigeons.—Tame pigeons should be cooked as soon as possible after they are killed, as they very quickly lose their flavour. Wood pigeons and rock pigeons, on the contrary, should bo allowed to hang a few days before they are dressed. Although these birds may be said to be in season all the year round, they are at their best from Midsummer to Michaelmas. In choosing them, it should be remembered that dark-coloured birds are thought to possess the highest flavour, and light-coloured birds to be the most delicate. Toung birds are, of course, always to be preferred to old ones. When the legs are large and deeply coloured, the pigeon is old, and wiU very likely be tough. House pigeons are the best, and wood pigeons the largest. Rock pigeons are inferior in quality to both the others. Pigeons (a la St. Menehould).—Mix an ounce of butter and flour smoothly together over a moderate fire. Add half a pint of milk, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay- leaf, two moderate-sized onions, a carrot, and a parsnip, all sliced, and a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir the sauce until it boils; then put in two plump young pigeons, trussed as if for boiling, and let them stew gently until they are done enough. Take them up, drain them, cover them with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat until they are lightly coloured. Serve on a hot dish, with the sauce poured roimd them. Time, about half an hour to stew the pigeons. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Suffi- cient for two or three persons. Pigeons, Braised, with Mushrooms, &C.—Stuff three pigeons with good veal force- meat, and truss them as if for boiling. Put one or two slices ©f fat bacon under and over the birds, and place with them, in a pan just large enough to centain them, a large onion fried in hot butter, a broken shank of veal, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, a little pepper and salt, and a pint of good stock. Cover the preparation with buttered paper, press the lid of the sauce- pan closely down, and let the pigeons stew as gently as possible. Take them up, and keep them hot while the gravy is boiling quickly down to a jeUy. Glaze them with this, and serve with stewed mushrooms or green peas. Time to braise, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 3b. 6d. Sufficient for three persons. Pigeons, Broiled. — Pigeons may be broiled whole, or split open and flattened with a cleaver. They are more easily cooked when flattened, but retain their juice better if left '^hole. Pluck, draw, singe, and wash the bird. Dip it in some oil or clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and broil over a clear fire until it is nicely browned. Baste once or twice; and in order to do this put the bird on a plate, and with a feather brush it over withpia- PIG ( 560 ) oil or buttor. Sorvo as hot as possible, and send mushroom sauce, brown gi-avy, parsley sauce, tomato sauce, or piquant sauce to table in a tureen. Time to broil the pigeon, fifteen minutes each side. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. 9d. each. Sutliciont for one person. Pigeons, Broiled (another way).—Mix an ounce of butter with a dessert-spoonful of di-icd flour. Add a finely-minced shallot, a salt- spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Stii- the mixture over the fire for five minutes. Truss two pigeons as if for boiling, flatten them without breaking the skin, put a piece of butter and a little pepper and salt inside them, and tie them at both ends. Dip them into the mixture while it is warm, and continue to do so until they are covered with it. Leave them in a cool place for an hoiu" or more, then broil them over a slow fire. Send tomato, mushroom, or piquant sauce to table with them. If preferred, pigeons may be split open and half cooked in butter before they are egged, breaded, and broiled. Time to broil, fifteen minutes each side. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. 9d. each. Sufficient for two persons. Pigeons, Broiled (another way).—To be worth the trouble of picking, pigeons must be well grown, and well fed. Clean them well, and pepper and salt them; broil them over a clear slow fire; turn them often, and put a little butter on them. When they are done, pour over them either stewed or pickled mush- rooms, or ketchup and melted butter. Garnish with fried bread-crumbs or sippets, or, when the pigeons are trussed as for boiling, flat them with a cleaver, taking care not to break the skin of the backs or breasts; season with pepper and salt, a little bit of butter, and a tea- spoonful of water, and tie them close at both ends; so when they are brought to table they bring their sauce with them. Egg and dredge them well with grated bread (mixed Avith spice and sweet herbs, if you please), then laj' them on the gridiron, and turn them frequently. If your fire is not very clear, lay them on a sheet of paper well buttered, to keep them from getting smoked. They are much better broiled whole. Pigeons, Compote of.— Truss half a dozen plump young pigeons as if for boiling. Lard them down the breasts, or, if preferred, cover their breasts with thin slices of fat bacon. Fry them in hot butter tiU they are equally and lightly browned all over; then drain them, and put them side by side into a stewpan large enough to contain them. Barely cover them with good gravy, and add half a dozen small onions, a dozen button-mushrooms, a glassful of claret, and a little salt and cayenne. Let the birds stew gently for half an hour; then add a large table-spoonful of tomato sauce, and stew a few minutes longer. Place the birds on a hot dish, with the sauce, &c., round them. If liked, the birds may be stuffed with veal force- meat, and a dozen forcemeat balls may be sent to table with them. Time, altogether, about two hours. Probable cost, 6s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Pigeons, Curry of.—Cut one or two pigeons into quarter.s, and fry them in butter until they are nicely browned. Take them up, drain tliem, and put them aside until wanted. Peel and slice three large onions, and fry them in the same butter. Put witli them half a dozen chopped mushrooms and luilf a pint of strong veal stock. Stir them together, add a large tea-spoonful of curry paste and a salt-spoonful of curry powder, and boil all together until the onions, &c., are quite soft, then rub the whole through a fine hair sieve. Add a dessert-spoon- ful of brown thickening, and boil tlie sauce until it is of the consistency of custard. Draw it to the side of the fire, let it cool a minute, then put in the pieces of pigeon, and let them heat in the hot sauce, without boiling. Pour the whole upon a hot dish, and serve with a border of rice round the curry. A cupful of thick cream will be considered a great improve- ment to this dish by many persons. A sour apple also may be minced and fried with the onions. When brown thickerung is not at hand, a dessert-spoonful of ground rice may be mixed smoothly with a little of the sauce, and stirred into the rest. Brown thickening is, however, so useful that' it ought to be at hand in every kitchen. {8ee Gravy, Brown Eoux for). Time, half an hour to heat the pigeons in the sauce. Probable cost, 2s. 6d., exclusive of the cream. Sufficient for two or thi-ee persons. Pigeons, Cutlets of.—Divide two or three pigeons in halves lengthwise, by cutting them down through the breast and back; remove the wing bones, and turn the leg bones inside, so as to shape them something like a chop. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and fry in hot fat until they are done enough. Put them between two dishes, place a weight upon the top, and leave them until they are cold. Mince two small shallots, and fry them in the fat until they are lightly browned. Pour over them half a pint of stock or (failing this) water, and season the gravy with pepper and salt. Boil gently, and slcim carefully, for half an hour or more, then strain the liquid. Heat it when it is wanted, and send to table in a tureen. A glassful of sherry or claret may be added to this gravy, or if liked, a table-spoonful of red currant jelly may be dissolved in it. A\Tien the cutlets are wanted, dip them in clarified butter, then into bread-crumbs, and broil them over a clear slow fire until they are brightly browned. Dish them in a circle, with French beans, peas, asparagus, or stewed mushrooms in tlie centre. A cut lemon, or, if preferred, a little red currant jelly is an excellent accompaniment to pigeon cutlets. Time to broil the cutlets, five minutes for each side. Probable cost of pigeons, 8d. to Is. 9d. each. Sufficient for three or four per- sons. Pigeons (en lilatclote).—Put some butter and flour into a stewpan, and simmer until they turn brown. Cook in the butter the pigeons cut in pieces, with a few tliin sUces of bacon. Pour over them some stock broth and white wine, and add some chives, parsley, thjune, mush- rooms, and onions fried in buttor, as well as salt, pepper, and spice. Bod down over a good fire.PIG ( 561 ) Pigeons (on Papillotes).—Pluck and draw two young freshly-killed pigeons, and split them'ill two down the back. Season rather hi"-hly with pepper, and cover them with a mfxture made of the liver finely minced, two shallots, chopped small, half a dozen sliced button-mushrooms, a table-spoonful of shi-ed parsley, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Lay thin slices of fat bacon over the mixture, and PIGEOSS EN PAPILLOTES. enclose each half pigeon in a sheet of thick writing-paper which has been liberally oiled on both sides. The paper must be sufficiently large to enfold the birds, and the edges must be twisted tightly in, to prevent the escape of the gravy. Broil the birds over a clear fire, and servo them in the papillotes. They will not require any sauce. Time to broil, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 28. 3d. Suf- ficient for two j)ersons. Pigeons (en Surprise).—Pluck and draw two plump young pigeons, and truss them as if for boiling. Put them into boiling water for a minute to blanch them, then take them out, put in their jilaces two fine large lettuces, and let these boil for fully fifteen minutes. Whilst they are boiling, make a forcemeat with the livers of the birds, a slice of bacon, two or three leaves of tarragon, two shallots, and a spoonful of parsley, all finely minced, seasoned with pepper and salt, and bound together with the beaten yolk of an egg. Take up the let- tuces, press the water from them, open them, ■without taking off the leaves, line them with the forcemeat, and place a pigeon inside each lettuce so as to be hid entirely. Tie the ends with thread, and stew all gently together in as much stock as will cover the pigeons. A bunch of parsley, a carrot, an onion, two cloves, and half a blade of mace may be put into the saucepan to flavour the gravy. "When the pigeons are done enough take them up, drain them, and remove the twine. Keep them hot before the fire whilst the sauce is strained and thickened with a dessert-spoonful of brown thickening. Serve the pigeons in the lettuces on a hot dish, with the sauce poured round them. Time, one hour to stew the pigeons. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for two persons. Pigeons, Forcemeat for [see Forcemeat for Pigeons). Pigeons, Pricandeau of.—Pluck and draw four plump young pigeons, and stuff them \vith a forcemeat made of the livers of the birds, finely minced, mixed with an equal quantity of finely-shred suet and of finely-grated bread- crumbs, a table-spoonful of shred parsley, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Season the mixture with salt and cayenne, and bind it together with beaten yolk of egg. Truss the pigeons as if for roasting, and lard theii* breasts deli- cately with very slender lardoons. Lino the bottom of a braising-pan with slices of fat bacon. Place a thin layer of veal on this, and then the pigeons, breast to breast. Put another layer of veal and of bacon over the pigeons, pour upon them a pint of good stock, and add any bones or trimmings of meat or poultry that may be at hand, together with a blade of mace, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a glass of sheity, and a little pepper and salt. Cover the sauce- pan closely, and let the bii-ds stew gently for an hour. Lift out the pigeons, strain and skim the gTavy, and boil it down quickly until it is much reduced. Put in the pigeons once more, and baste them liberally untU they are suf- ficiently glazed. Serve on a hot dish, with the sauce poured round them. Probable cost, 5s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pigeons, Fricasseed, Brown.—Take three plump young pigeons; make them ready for boiling, and season with a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Put them into a stewpan, with three ounces of clarified butter, and turn them about until they are brightly browned all over. Take them up, drain them well, and put them into a clean saucepan with half a pint of nicely-seasoned stock and a glass of claret. Add a bunch of parsley, a smaU sprig of thyme, three inches of thin lemon-rind, five or six small onions, a little pepper and salt, and a few grains of cayenne. Cover the sauce- pan closely, and let the pigeons stew gently fol half an hour; take them up, thicken the liquor with brown thickening, and add a few small mushrooms and a table-spoonful of lemon juice. When the sauce is smooth, heat the birds in it again, dish them, and pour the gravy over them. This dish may be varied in several ways. A few veal forcemeat-balls may be boiled in the gravy, or a dozen oysters may be fried and laid over the birds and the dish may be garnished with sliced lemon, toasted sippets, or strips of curled bacon. Probable cost, 3s., exclusive of the wine and garnishes. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pigeons, Fried.—Pluck, singe, and draw two young pigeons, and truss them as if for boiling. Spread a little clarified butter over them, and dredge them well with flour. Lay two or three rashers of bacon in a stewpan, place the pigeons upon these, season with salt and pepper, and turn them about until they are nicely browned all over. Add half a cupfiU of water, and steam them until done enough. Take them up, drain them well, dip them into some frying batter, and let them be entirely covered with it. Fry in hot fat until they are brightly browned, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish the disli with parsley, and send the gravy to table in a tureen. The fry- ing batter may be made as follows :—Make five ounces of dried flour into a paste by stin-ing into it half a pint of water. ]Mix two table- spoonfuls of oil smoothly with the <voll-boaten yolks of two eggs, and add a pinch of salt; mix these ingredients with the flour and water. The batter ought to be rather thicker than.PIG PIG ( 562 ) cream. If it appears too thick, a little more water must be added—some Hours require less liquid than others. Just before the batter is used, stir into it the whitus of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. Time, lialf an houi- to steam pigeons; ton or twelve minutes to fry them. I'ro- bablo cost, '2s. 2d. SuUicient for two persons. Pigeons, Galantine of {see Galantine of Pigeons). Pigeons in a Mould of Jelly.—lloast two plump young pigeons. Prepare them by cutting off the ends of the toes, cleaning and singeing the heads, sprinkling salt and pepper in the inside, and trussing the birds with the heads tied in their natural position, by means of a piece of thread fastened round the neck, the feet being bent under the body as if the birds were sitting. Bake the birds, and be careful that they are equally browned all over. As soon as they are done enough, cover them to preserve their colour. Take a quart of the' liquid in which a knuckle of veal or a couple of calf's feet have been boiled, and which forms a strong jelly when cold. Take it up, free from fat and sediment, and boil it with a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, three or four cloves, and a little salt, and when the liquid is nicely flavoured let it cool, and clear it by boiling with it the beaten whites and crushed shells of two eggs— mixed with a cupful of cold water—and strain- ing it through a jelly-bag. Pour a little of this jeUy, about an inch and a half deep, into the mould intended for the pigeons. When it is set without being quite hard, put the birds side by side into it, with the heads and backs downwards, and with a sprig of myrtle in the bill of each. Fill up the mould with the rest of the jeUy, which should cover the feet at least an inch and a half, and leave it in a cool place until it is quite hard. Pigeons in a mould of jeUy make a very pretty supper dish, where a large number and variety of dishes are required. They should be prepared fully twenty-foiu- hours before they are wanted, and the mould should be kept on ice, if possible. The mould must be turned out before serving. When the veal jelly is not at hand, a little may be easily prepared as follows:—Soak an ounce of gelatine in cold water for an hour, then strain it. Warm a pint and a half of nicely-flavoured stock in a stcwpan with a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a glass of sherry. Add the gelatine, and stir until it is dissolved, then draw the jelly from the fire to cool. Whisk the whites of two eggs with a cupful of cold water; mi.x this and the crushed sliclls of the eggs with the liquid. Let it boil ten minutes, strain through a jelly-bag, and the jelly will be fit for use. Time, twenty to thirty minutes to bake the pigeons. Probable cost, 4s. Sufl&cient for a two-(luart mould. Pigeons, Jugged.—Pluck, singe, and draw tliree or four freshly-killed young pigeons. Stuff them, with a forcemeat made as follows : —Mince the livers finely, and mix with them an equal weight of fincly-shrcd suet and of finely-grated bread-crumbs, the peel of a quarter of a lemon chopped small, the bruised yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, a tablo-spoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thyme, and a little salt, pepper, and gratc-d nutiiK^g. Mix tlie ingredients thoiouglily, and moisten them with an ounce of fresh butler, and a weU- beaten egg. Fill the crops of the pigeons with this mixture, and tie or sew the vents securely. Brown the birds in a stewpan over the fire with a little hot fat; dredge a little pepper and salt over them, and put them into an earthen jar, with a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, half a dozen peppercorns, half a head of celery cut into small pieces, three cloves, a small nutmeg grated, a glass of claret, and half a pint of stock or water. Cover the jar either with a closely-fitting lid or with three or four folds of paper tied over it. Put it into a saucepan of boiling water, which must be kept boiling until the pigeons are dene, being careful only that the water is not so high that it can enter the jar. When the pigeons are done enough, strain the gravy into a saucepan, stir a spoonful of brown tliickeiiing into it, and let it boil a few minutes. Serve the pigeons on a hot dish, with the gravy poured over and around them, and garnish the dish with slices of lemon. This dish may be increased in quantity' by the addition of a poimd of rump steak. This should be cut into very thin sUces, over which a Uttle of the forcemeat may be spread evenly and thinly. The sHces should then be rolled up, tied with a little thread to preserve their form, and cooked ■with the pigeons. Time to boil the pigeons, one and a half hours. Probable cost, exclusive of the steak and wine, 3s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pigeons, Pate Chaud of,—Make some stiff paste as follows :—Boil four ounces of lard in half a pint of water. Stir this while hot with a pound of flour to which a little salt has been added, and work the whole intoa stiff, smooth paste. Shape two-thirds of it according to the directions given for shaping raised pies, fill it with bran or flour, roll out the untouched piece of paste, place it on the top as a lid, ornament in any Avay that may be preferred, brush over with beiiten egg, and bake in a well-heated oven. When the paste is done enough, cut out the Hd, remove the bran carefully, and fill the pie with stewed pigeons. Put with them stewed mushrooins, or any other garnish, and pour a little poivrade sauce over the whole. Serve as hot as possible. The shell of this pie may be made and baked the day before it is wanted, and put into the oven to heat when the pigeons are ready for serving. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 5s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pigeon Pie (a I'Anglaise).—Take two or more freshly-killed young pigeons. Divide in two lengthwise, cut off their feet at the first joint, and turn their legs inside close to the pinions. Put inside each half bird a little forcemeat made of the Uvers finely minced, with a little parsley, pepper, salt, and butter. Moisten the edges of a pie-dish with a little stock or water, and line them with strips of pastry a quarter of an inch thick. Place at the bottom of th<? dish one pound of rump steak cut into neat pieces, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Lay the pigeonsPIG PIG ( 563 ) upon these, breast downwards, and put the yolk of a hard-boiled egg between each two half pigcous. Sprinkle some pepper and salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg over. the pigeons, put here and there upon them an ounce of butter broken into small pieces, lay on the top a small bay-leaf, and pour over the birds a cupful of nicely-seasoned stock suf- ficiently strong to form a jelly when cold. If there is any doubt about this, a dessert-spoonful of gelatine must be dissolved in the stock. Cover the pie with a thick crust, ornament prettily, brush over with beaten yolk of egg, put three of the feet, properly cleaned, in the middle of the crust, and bake the pie in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about two hours and a half. Probable cost, 4s., with pigeons at 9d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pigeons, Piquant.—Slice a large onion and put it into a shallow dish with two bay- leaves, twenty juniper berries, half a tea-spoon- ful of peppercorns, and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Lay two pigeons in this marinade, and turn and baste them twice a day for two days. If the birds are old they will need to remain in the marinade a day or two longer. Take them up, wipe them dry, and lard the breasts evenly, then put them into a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and turn them about over a mode- rate fire unto, they are brightly and equally- browned. Lift them out, stir a spoonful of flour in with the butter, and mix it briskly with a wooden spoon until it begins to colour, then add four ounces of fat bacon cut into small pieces, the liver of the birds, a cupful of stock or water, the strained juice of half a lemon with an inch or two of the rind, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Let this sauce boil, then put in the pigeons, cover them closel}^ and let them stew for half an hour. Serve the birds on a hot dish with the sauce poured round them. Time to stew, about au hour. Probable cost, 2s. SuflS.cient for two persons. Pigeon Pudding. — Line a pudding- basin with a good suet or butter crust. Fill it with a poimd of rump steak cut into neat pieces and nicely seasoned, and two or three pigeons divided into halves, and prepared as for a pie. Add the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, a small lump of butter, and a cupful of rather highly- seasoned _ gravy. Cover the pudding with pastry, tie it in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil quickly until done enough. Time to boil, two hours and a half. Proba,ble cost, 4s., with pigeons at 9d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pigeons, Pupton of. —Butter a pie- dish rather thickly, and line the inside with a highly-seasoned veal forcemeat about three- quarters of an inch in thickness. Lay upon this three or four thin slices of fat bacon, three plump young pigeons split in halves and flat- tened, a blanched sweetbread cut into slices, an ox palate boiled tender and cut up small, a dozen asparagus tops, as many button mush- rooms, and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. Cover the whole with a layer of forcemeat spread on the top like a pie-crust, and bake in a well-heated oven. Servo the pupton ' turned on a hot dish in a shape, with rich brown gravy poured round it. Time, to bake from two to three hours. Probable cost, 68. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Pigeons, Bagout of.—Pluck, singe, and draw a couple of young pigeons, cleanse and open the gizzards, and stew them with the livers in as much water as will cover them until they are done enough. Mince all finely, and mix with them their weight in finely-shred beef-suet and grated bread-crumbs. Add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thyme, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg Moisten the forcemeat with a well-beaten egg and half an ounce of butter, and with it cover the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and put these balls inside the birds. Truss the pigeons securely, as if for boiling, and browii them in a little hot butter. Pour over them the liquid in which the gizzards were boiled, and add a sliced onion, a tea-spoonful of brown thickening, a glass of claret, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, then strain the gravy, pour it back into the saucepan, put six or eight button- mushrooms into it, stew about half an hour longer, and serve. A few forcemeat balls stewed for eight or ten minutes in the gravj- are a great improA'^ement to this ragout. Pro- bable cost, 2s., exclusive of the wine. Suf- ficient for two or three persons. Pigeons, Hoast.—Pluck, singe, and draw a couple of young pigeons, and truss them firmly. Mince the livers, and mix with them two ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, two ounces of fresh butter, or, if prefen'ed, finely-shred beef suet, a shallot finely minced, a tea-spoonful of shred parsley, and a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Fill the birds with this forcemeat, fasten a slice of fat bacon over the breast of each, and roast before a clear fire. Make a sauce by mixing a little water with the gravy which drops from the birds, and boiling it with a little thickening; season it with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Pigeons are sometimes served on a toast, and brown gravy and bread sauce sent to table with them. Time to roast, twenty to twenty- five minutes. Probable cost of pigeons, 9d. to Is. 9d. each. Sufficient for two persons. Pigeons, Hoast (another way).—Eoasted pigeons require a brisk fire, and must be well done, and at the same time afford gravy when cut into. Roast the bii-ds, with stiifBng in the belly, prepared as follows :—Take the livers and hearts of the pigeons, and about double the quantity of the fat of ham or bacon, and beat these ingredients in a mortar to a smooth paste. Moisten some crumb of bread with milk, then press out the milk through a napkin. Add chopped parsley, grated lemon-peel, black pepper, and salt; unite these with white and yolk of egg beat together, divide the mass into equal portions, and stuff the birds. As pigeons possess scarcely any fat, they are often while roasting basted with butter. By way of sauce, melt somo butter with a little flour, moisten with veal consomme, and stir in some chopped( 564 ) PIG PIG parsley. Spriiilde the pigeons with a little sauce, and then pour the sauce over them. Pigeons served with Water-Cress. —Koust a coupli) of young piyt'uus in tlio usual way. Wash and pick two or thioe bunclios of young wator-cross, and dry thoni well. To do this, put thorn into a dry cloth, tidvc; hold of this by the four corners, and shako the leaves until they aro chy. Put thcni on a dish, sprinkle a little salt over them, lay the pigeons upon them, and pour brown gravy over. The cresses aro sometimes arranged round the dish instead of being placed under the birds. Time, about twenty minutes to roast the pigeons. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for two persons. Pigeon Soup.—Take half a dozen plump pigeons and roast them lightly. Pick off the best of the moat and lay it aside. Flour the bones well, and crush them in a mortar. Cut into small pieces a large carrot, an onion, an •ounce of lean ham, and half a head of celery, and fry these in butter with a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, a smaU sprig of thjmie, three clovss, and half a blade of mace. Stir these ingre- dients over the fii-e until they are brightly browTied. Add the crushed bodies of the birds and one ounce of brown thickening—or, fail- ing this, a lump of butter rolled in flour—and moisten the whole with a quart of stock or water. Bring the liquid to the boil, skim thoroughly, let it simmer gently for an hour, then strain the 60up, and pulp the vegetables through a tammy. Pour the soup back into the pot, add the flesh of the pigeons, and pepper and salt if required. Skim it again, and serve very hot. Time, altogether, about three hours. Probable cost, .5s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Pigeons, Stewed.—^Pluck and draw two plump young pigeons, and divide them into •quarters. Put these into a stewpan with a little salt, and a small quantity of water, say as much as will three-parts cover them. Place the lid on the saucepan, and let the birds stew gently until they are almost done, then add a pinch of pepper, and half an ounce of fresh butter, and let them simmer again until they are sufficiently cooked. Take them up, thicken the gravy with a tca- epoonful of flour mi.\ed smoothly in it, and add two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley. Let it boil, then draw it from the fire, let it cool for a minute, and stir into it a well-beaten «gg. Put the pigeons in again to get hot, and serve immediately. The gravy must not boil after the egg is added. A little cream is a great improvement to this dish, though it may be di.spensed with. Time, twenty minutes to etew the pigeons. Probable cost. Is. 9d. Suf- ficient for tsvo persons. Pigeons, Stewed (another way).—Truss four plump young pigeons as if for boiling; cover their breasts with thin slices of fat bacon tied securely on with twine, and stew them in .a little veal broth according to the directions given for " Stewed Pigeons." Wliilst the pigeons are stewing, prepare a mixture of vegetables, such as French beans, carrots, turnips, and cauliflowers, and arrange it so that thoy shall be done enough at the same time as the pigeons. Take a piece of the stale crumb of bread, and sliapo it neatly, making it three and a half inches liigh,tho liottom part four inches square, and the top jjart two and a half inches squiire. Fry this in hot butter until it is lightly browned all over, then drain it from the tat, and fl.v it in the middle of a dish with paste made of the white of egg Jiiixed smoothly with a little flour. Take up the jjigoons, and lean each one against one of the sides of the piece of fried bread. Anange the vegetables between the pigeons, so as to hide the bread entirely from view, and ornament the top with a cauhflower, or half a dozen Brussels sprouts. Pour a little white sauce over the pigeons only, and send a little more to table in a turoeo. Time, about an hour to stew the pigeons. Probable cost of pigeons, from 9d. to Is. 9d. each. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pigeons, Stewed (another way).—Make a stuffing with pigeons' livers parboiled and bruised in a mortar, add bread-crumbs, butter, pepper, salt, i)oun(ied cloves, j^arsley, sweet herbs chopped small, and the yolk of an egg. Fill the bu'ds with this stuffing, and tie them up at both ends. Half roast or fry them, then place them in good gravy or beef broth, along vidth an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of QT73et herbs, and a sUce of lemon. Stew the pigeons A'ery gently for about an hour, strain and skim off the fat, add pickled mushrooms, hard-yolk-of-egg balls and forcemeat-balls. It is an imjn'ovement to lard the pigeons. Pigeons Stewed with Asparagus.— Prepare and stew the pigeons as in either of the two last recipes. Cut off the gi-een tender points from fifty heads of asparagus, and divide these into pieces not more than the thnd of an inch in length. Wash them well, and blanch them in boiUng water. When the pigeons are almost done enough, put in the asparagus, and simmer again until they are tender. Time, about an hour to stew the asparagus. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pigeons Stewed with Cabbage.— Pluck, singe, and draw two pigeons, and stuff them with a forcemeat made as follows:—Iilince the livers finely, and mix with them an equal quantity of finely-shred beef suet, and grated bread-crumbs. Add a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, a. table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a salt-spoonful of powdered thj-me. Moisten the whole with the yolk of a beaten egg. Truss the pigeons firmly, as if for boil- ing. Half boil a good-sized white cabbage, and shred it finely. Drain thorou<jhly, and lay it at the bottom" of a stewpan. Place the pigeons upon it, cover them with white stock, put the lid on the saucepan, and stew the whole gently till quite tender, then add a lump of butter the size of an egg rolled in flour, and two table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Stew a few minutes longer, and serve as hot as possible. The pigeons should l)e served on a hot dish with the cabbage and sauce round them. Pro- bable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for two or three pei'sons. Pigeons Stewed with Green Peas. —Pluck, draw, and singe two plump youngPIG PIG ( 565 ) pio-cons. Cut off the heads and necks, put the livers hack into the inside, truss securely, as if for hoiling, and tie the pigeons with twine instead of skewering them. Cut half a pound of streaky hacon into small pieces, and put these into a stewpan with the pigeons and one ounce of hutter. Place them on a moderate fire, and move them ahout until they are equally and lightly browned all over. Take the birds up, drain them, make a roux by mixing an ounce of flour smoothly with the fat in the saucepan, moisten with a pint of stock, and .stir the gravy over the fire until it boils. Strain it, and put it into a clean stewpan with the pigeons, the bacon, a bunch of parsley, a a small sprig of thyme, and a pint of freshly- gathered shelled green peas, and a little pepper and salt if required. Simmer gently till the peas are done, take out the herbs, and place the pigeons on a hot dish with the gravy poured over them and the peas and bacon round them. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pigeons Stewed with Green Peas (another way).—Prepare the pigeons, and brown them in butter, as in the last recipe. Take them up, drain them, and cut them into halves length- wise. Put them side by side in a stewpan with two ounces of butter rolled in flour. When this is dissolved, put in a pint of freshly-gathered young green peas, and a table-spoonful of nicely- seasoned veal stock. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the pigeons stew very gently until they and the peas are done enough, moving the pan about occasionally to prevent its contents burn- ing. Serve the birds on a hot dish with the sauce and vegetables arranged around them. Time, twenty minutes to stew the pigeons. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pigeons Stewed with Mushrooms. —Pluck, draw, and singe two plump young house pigeDns. Cut ofl: their heads and necks, and truss them with the legs inwards, as if for boiling. Put them into a stewpan with half a poimd of streaky bacon cut into small pieces and an ounce of fresh butter, and turn them about until they are equally and lightly browned, then take them up, drain them, and mix one ounce of fine flour smoothly with the butter in which they were fried. Moisten the roux with a pint of gravy or water, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, add a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, and stir the gravy over the fire until it boils, then strain it, and put it into a clean saucepan with the pigeons, the fried bacon, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, and a dozen button onions. Simmer gently for half an hour, take out the horbe, add a dozen small mushrooms, and stew ten minutes longer. .Serve the birds on a hot dish, with the gravy poured over them, and the bacon, onions, and mushrooms put with them. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pigeons, Stuffed and Roasted.— Pluck, draw, and singe two plump young pigeons, and fill them with a forcemeat made as follows:—Mince the livers finely, and mix with them the same quantity of finely-sliced suet and grated bread-crumbs. Add a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace, a heaped table- spoonful of chopped parsley, and a pinch, of powdered thyme, and moisten the whole with beaten yolk of egg. Truss the bu-ds firmly, tio thin slices of bacon over the breasts, and put them down to a clear fire. To make the gravy, mix the droppings from the birds with half a cupful of boiling stock or water. Add a table- spoonful of claret, a little of the forcemeat, season with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg,, and thicken the whole with the yolk of egg well beaten. Serve the birds on a hot dish, with the sauce poured round them, and a little bread- sauce in a tureen. Time to roast the pigeons, from twenty to thirty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for two persons. Pigeons, Stuffed and Boasted (Ger- man method).—Pluck and di-aw two young freshly-killed pigeons. Open, scald, and clean the gizzard, and mince it with the liver and heart very finely. Mi.x with the mince the crumb of a roll which has been soaked in cold milk and pressed dry, and add a little salt and cayenne, a shallot chopped small, and a table- spoonful of shred parsley. If the flavour of the onion and the parsley is objected to, a littlo' bacon and a pinch of powdered mace may he substituted for them. Bind the forcemeat to- gether with yolk of egg, and fill the crop with, it between the flesh and the neck. The skin must be cut and raised carefully with the fingers, and then sewn or tied securely with thread. Dip the pigeons into butter, dredge well with flour, and season with pepper and salt. Cover them entirely with thin slices of fat bacon, put them into a stewpan, and turn them frequently until they are brightly browned all over. Pour half a cupful of boiling water upon them, cover the saucepan closely, and let them steam until done enough. Serve on a hot dish, with the sauce round them. Time, about an hour to steam the birds. Probable cost, 23. Sufficient for two persons. Pigeons, Stuffed and Stewed.—Pluck and draw two plump, freshly-killed young pigeons, and truss them as for boiling. Mince the livers finely, and mix with them twice their bulk of highly-seasoned bread-crumbs, half a salt-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, half a salt- spoonful of powdered thjme, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and the yolk of a hard- boiled egg crushed to powder. Fill the birds^ with this forcemeat, and put in each half an ounce of fresh butter. Lay them breast down- wards into a small stewpan, and barely cover- them with veal stock or, failing this, water, l^b.. them stew gently until they are done enough, then take them up, strain the gravy, thicken with two table-spoonfuls of flour mixed smoothly with two table-spoonfuls of cream, and the yolks of two eggs, and season with a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Stir the sauce over the fire until it is quite hot without boiling, put in the pigeons for a minute to heat, and "serve- immediately. A few stewed mushrooms is a great improvement to this dish. Time, about rd hour to stew the pigeons. Probable cost, 2s., with pigeons at 9d. each. Sufficieni for two op three persons. Pigeons Stuffed with Chestnuts, and Roasted.—Tako a dozen sounil chest-( 606 ) PIG PIK nuts. Tako oflE the brown skin, throw thorn into boilin{jf water, and lot them remain for two minutes, then blanch them like almonds. Weigh them, and mix with every tlireo ounces an equal weight of fat bacon, minced as finely as possible, an ounce of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and a little salt, cayemie, and gi-ated nutmeg. Pound the mixture thoroughly, and moisten with beaten yolk of egg. iStiift two pigeons with this forcemeat, truss them firmly, cover their bvc;ists with a slice of fat bacon and a vine-leaf, and roast them before a clear fire. Serve on a hot dish, with the bacon and vino-leaves over them, and send nicely-seasoned brown gravy to table in a tureen. Time to roast the pigeons, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for two persons. Pigeons, Trussed.—Pigeons need to bo very carefully plucked and cleaned, and they should, if possible, be drawn as soon as they are killed. They are very good roasted with a slice PIGEONS TRUSSED. of bacon over the bread, and a vine leaf under the bacon. To truss for roasting :—Cut off the head and neck, cut off the toes at the first joint, and wash the bii-ds well. Dry them carefully, truss the wings over the back, and pass a skewer through the wings and body. The gizzard may be cleaned and put under one of the wings. To truss for boiling :—Cut off the legs at the first joint, put the legs into the body, and skewer the pinions back. Pigeons, Vol-au-Vent of.—RoU out a piece of puff-paste [sec Puff-paste) to the shape and size of the dish in which it is intended to serve the vol-au-vent. It should be a little more than an inch in thickness. Make a knife hot in water, and with it mark the cover evenly an inch from the edge all round. Ornament the border in any way that may be preferred, and brush the vol-au-vent quickly over with yolk of egg. Put it at once into a brisk oven. When it is sufficiently risen and brightly coloured, take it out. Take off the marked cover carefully, and scoop out the soft paste from the inside, without injuring the outside. Put the vol-au-vent back into the oven for a few minutes to drj', and fill it with the pigeons and sweetbreads prepared as follows:—Divide two freshly-killed young pigeons into neat joints. Put two veal sweetbreads into a saucepan, cover them with lukewarm water, and set them over the fire until the water boils; then lift them out, and plunge them at once into cold water. Cut them into neat pieces of uniform shape and size, and bind these securely together with twine. 1 ut the sweetbreads, with the pigeons, into a stew- pan, pour a cupful of water over them, and qAjI an onion, a bunch of parsley, a small spng of thjTne, a bay-leaf, a shce of fat bacon, half an ounce of butter rolled in fiour, and a little popper and salt. Siinm(;r gently for half an hour, then remove the twine from the sweet- breads, strain and thicken the gi'avy if neces- sary, and fill the vol-au-vent with the fricassee. The sauce must be very thick, or it will soften the light pastry. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pigeons with Rice and Parmesan. —Stew until tender three or four plump young pigeons according to the directions given for Pigeons, Stewed. Boil half a pound of best Carolina rice in a pint of stock, and add to it, if necessary, a seasoning of salt, pepixir, and grated nutmeg. When it is tender, throw in an ounce of grated Parmesan, and shake the saucepan until the cheese is dissolved. If there is any danger of the cheese oiling, add a little more stock. Put the pigeons on a hot dish, spread half the rice round them, and cover them with the remainder. Brush the rice over with, beaten egg, strew grated Par- mesan thickly over, and bake in a slow oven until the rice is brightly coloured. The best way of doing this is to sjjread a layer of salt upon a flat baking-tin, put the dish con- taining the pigeons and rice upon this, and serve them on the dish in wluch they are baked. If prefei-red, macaroni may be used instead of rice. Time, half an hour to stew the pigeons ; about an hour to boil the rice; about a quarter of an hour to bake it. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for fonr persons. Pike.—This fish is found in most of the lakes of Europe, particularly in the noi-th. Naturalists have disputed as to whether it is indigenous in England, but the opinion of the best authorities is that sufficient proof exists of THE PIKE. its being a native. The size of the English pike is considerable. Instances have been known of their attaining the length of tliree feet, and the weight of forty pounds. In Lapland and Russia they have been found eight feet long. The usual colour of the pike is a pale olive grey, deepest on the back, and marked on the sides by several yellowish spots or patches ; the abdomen is white, slightlv spotted with black ; the mouth is furnished with a prodigious number of teolh The pike is so voracious that he is often callo.l the fresh-water shark. He attacks and devours all smaller fish, and sometimes faUs a victim t^ his own greed by his inability to swallow a fasivPIK ( 567 ) that is half engulfed in his capacious throat. It is told of one pike that it swallowed the head of a swan that was peacefully feeding under ■water, and, not being able to disgorge, both lost theii- lives. It is a highly prolific Hsh, and the multiplication of the pike is immense in the northern districts of Russia and Siberia, where they are captured on a wholesale scale, and con- stitute an article of commerce, being salted and dried for exportation. The names ■pike and jack refer only to the age of the fish. A jack is a pike •which has not attained more than three pounds in weight, or does not exceed twenty-four inches in length. Sir John Sinclair mentions as a fact that ought to be better known, that it is dangerous to swallow the bones of the pike, as they are shai-p and of so peculiarly hard a texture that they will not dissolve in the stomach. Pike may be plainly boiled, or cut into jimks, marinaded, and fried. They may be eaten with any sauce. The roe of the pike is made into a caviare, and in some countries the fish is salted and dried. It was at one time a very popular article of food. One pike was equal in value to two house-lambs. It is still considered a good fish for the table. Pike (a la Genevoise).—Pike which has lost its first freshness is sometimes stewed in rich stock and wine, so as to disguise its condition. For fresh fish this mode of cookery is quite unnecessary. Clean the pike weU, without scaling it. Put it into a fish-kettle just large enough to contain it, and strain over it as much hot court bouillon—mixed with whatever pro- portion of wine may be wished—as will cover it. Set it on the fire, and let it stew gentty until done enough. Drain the pike, and scale it thoroughly. Put it into a clean pan with as much of the liquid as will moisten it, and add half a pint of white stock, a little salt and cayenne, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies, and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Thicken the sauce with a tea-spoonful of roux, or with a small lump of butter rolled in flour. Let it boil until smooth. Lay the fish on a hot dish, strain part of the sauce over it, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Court bouillon is a sort of broth which is made to boil fresh-water fish in; it maj- be used several times if it is boiled up every four days with an additional pmt of water. Each successive boiling wiU make it richer. It is prepared as follows: — Boil a sliced carrot, an onion, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, half a dozen peppercorns, half a dozen cloves, and a shaUot, with an ounce of fresh butter, for ten minutes. Add two quarts of water and half a pint of A^negar, and simmer the liquid gently lor an hour. Strain it, and, if liked, before using it, mix a little light wine with it. This bouillon will be found an excellent foundation for fish sauces. Some cooks pour boiling vinegar over the pike, and let it lie in it for two or three days before dressing as above. Time to boil according to size. A medium-sized pike wUi take halt an hour. When the flesh wiU leave the bones easily the fish is done enough. . Pike, Baked.—Take a fresh pike weigh- ing not less than four, nor more than eight, poumls. Wash it thoroughly, and scale it. The best way to do this is to poui* boiling v/ater over it until the scales look dull, then plunge it at once in cold water, and immediately remove the scales with the back of a knife. Wipe the fish dry in every part, fiU it -with a good veal stufling, or oyster stuffing, or with forcemeat {see Pike, Stuffing for). Truss it in a circle by tying the head and tail together, passing the tail between the jaws. Put it into a shallow circular dish, lay half a pound of butter broken into small pieces here and there upon it, and put with it a pint of broth or water, or flour and water, a minced shaUot, and a little chopped parsley. Put it into a moderate oven, and bake until done enough. Baste frequently with the gravy, and be care- ful that the pike is gently cooked, or it will be dry and unpalatable. When it is done, lift the fish out very carefully, and put it on a hot dish; then strain the gravy, thicken it with two ounces of butter mixed with two ounces of flour, add a table-spoonful of mushi-oom ket- chup, or a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, a little salt and cayenne, a glass of sherry, and two or three chopped gherkins. Boil the sauce for ten minutes, pour part of it over the pike, and send the rest to table in a tureen. If pre- .ferred, the pike may be baked without being stufl'ed. Less time will then be required to cook it. Time to bake a moderate-sized fish, thirty to forty minutes; for a large fish allow one hour to one hour and a quarter. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Probable cost, un- certain. It is, of course, impossible to give the exact time required for baking and roasting pike, as it varies witn the size of the fish. It may be known, however, that when the flesh leaves the bone easily in the thickest part it is done enough. As pike is naturally a very dry fish it is important that it should be taken out of the oven as soon as, though not before, it is done. Pike, Baked (another way).—Wash, scale, and empty the fish, and dry it perfectly in every part. YiU. it or not with forcemeat, and skewer it with, its tail in its mouth. If the fish is not stuffed, sprinkle a little salt and cayenne in the iaside, and place an ounce of butter there. Egg and bread-crumb it twice. Season the bread- crumbs with salt and cayenne, and mix with them a thii-d of their quantity in shred parsley. Pour a little clarified butter over the fish, and bake in a moderate oven. Lay a buttered paper over the dish. Any good fish sauce may be sent to table with pike dressed in this way. Time to bake, thirty to forty minutes for a moderate-sized fish. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pike, Baked (another way).—Prepare the flesh of a pike as in the next recipe. Dip the slices m claiifled butter, and afterwai'ds into highly-seasoned bread-crumbs. Put them into a thickly-buttered baking-dish, and lay on them a coating of beaten egg with a spoon. Bake m a moderate oven until they are lightly browned, then serve them on a hot dish, with lemon-juice squeezed over them. If there is any danger that the fish will colour too deeply before It is done enough, lay a buttered paper over the dish. Time to bake, about half anPIK ( 668 ) PIK hour. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for four or live persons. Pike, Baked in Sour Cream (a Gcr- man rccipo).—Clean a pike weighing thi-co or four pounds, or, if preferred, take part of a largo fish, and cut the flesh into neat slices free from skin and bono. Mince two small onions vciy finely, and break up two bay-leaves into little pieces. Butter a piu-dish thickly, and lay in it the slices of fish, with tho onion and tlie bay- leaves distributed amongst them. Season with salt and cayenne, and pour half a pint of sour cream over tho fish. Bake in a moderato ovon, and when tho piko is three-parts done strew finely-grated bread-crambs thickly over it, and return it to the oven to colour. Lift tho slices carefully into a hot dish, and make u gravy by mixing a little stock or water, and a table- spoonful of lemon-juice, with the cream, ire, in the dish. Mix thoroughly. Pour the gravy round the fish, and serve very hot. Time to bake, about half an hoirr. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, uncertain. Pike, Boiled.—Wash, scale, and empty the pike, soak it for half an hour in vinegar and water, and skewer it with its tail in its mouth. Put it into a fish-kettle with as much very hot stock or water as will cover it, and add a table-spoonful of salt, a sliced onion, a bunch of parsley, and half a cupful of vinegar. Bring it to a boil, skim carefully, and simmer it gently until done enough. The time required for boiling will, of course, depend upon the size of the fish. Lift it out carefully, serve on a folded napkin, and send either Dutch, piquante, or caper sauce to table in a tureen. Time to boil a moderate-sized pike, half an hour. • Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, uncertain. Pike, Boiled (another way).—Take a pike weigiiing three or four pounds, which has been kept in a cool larder for two days. Cleanse it thoroughly, remove the gills, and skewer it in a ring, with its tail in its mouth. Put it in a wcll-tinned fish-kettle, cover with court bouillon {see Pike k la Gensvoise), and let it boil gently for forty minutes. Lift it from the fire, and leave it in the liquid until the next day. Half an hour before the pike is to be serA'cd, take it up carefully, drain it,' preserve the liquid, and clean the kettle thoroughly. Put the fish and the bouillon back into the pan, and stew gently for twenty minutes. Drain the fish, dish it on a napkin, and send caper sauce to table in a tureen. Pike dressed in this way may be eaten cold with Mayonnaise sauce. Of course, if desired, the pike may be boiled in court bouillon and served the same day, but the taste of a fish thus dressed is not to be compared with one which has been allowed to soak in tho liquid for several hours. Suf- ficient for two or thi-ee persons. Probable cost, uncertain. Pike, Cold, Re-dressed—Take the re- mains of a dressed pike, and cut the flesh into neat slices. Season with salt and cayenne, and fry in hot fat until the slices are lightly browned. Drain them from tho fat, and dish tueni neatly. Send to table on a hot dish, with a sauce prepared as follows ;—LIix smoothly in a stewpan two ounces of fresh butter with an ounce of flour. Add a Httle pepper and salt, tho eighth of a nutmeg grated, a desseit- spoonfid of strained lemon-juice, and a table- spoonful of shred parsley. Pour in half a pint of milk, and stir the sauce over the tire until it is on the point of boihng. Just before sending to table, stir half an ounce of butter into it until it is dissolved. Time, ten minutes to fry the slices. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold fish. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pike, Crimped.—Take a very fresh pike of a good size. Ckiansc and scale it, and cut it up as soon as possible after it is dead into slices about half an inch thick. Lay these in very cold spring water to crimp them. Put them into boiling salted water, and let them boil gently until they are done enough. Take them up immediately, and serve on a hot dish, with any of the sauces recommended in the recipe. Pike, Sauces for. SHces of pike crimped in this way may be dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, and fried as well as boiled. They will be found excellent. Time to boil, twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Pike, Dressing of.—The pike is at its best from September to March. Although it is frequently served boiled—and therefore direc- tions are here given for boiling it—it is much better baked or roasted. The roe should always be removed when the fish is cleaned, as it is a strong purgative. Pike is best for baldng and boiling when it weighs from three to eight pounds, and for frj'ing when it is quite small, weighing about two pounds. A pike which is too large to be dressed all at once may be divided. The head and tail may be baked or boiled, and the middle cut into thin shoes, crimped, and fried. Pike, Gravy for {see Gravy for Pike). Pike (Isaac Walton's mode of dressing).— '' First open yoiu- pike at the gills, and, if need be, cut also a little sht towards the belly. Out of these take his guts, and keep his liver, which you are to shred very smaU, with thjrme, sweet marjoram, and a Httle winter savorj-; to these put some pickled oysters and some ancho-\-ies, two or three, both these last whole, for the an- cho\^es will melt and the oysters should not; to these you must add also a pound of sweet butter, which you are to mix with the herbs that are shred, and let them all be well salted. If the pike be more than a yard long, then you may put into these herbs more than a pound, or if he be less, then less butter wiU suffice; these being thus mixed with a blade or two of mace, must be put into the pike's beUy; and then his beUy so sewed up as to keep all the butter in the belly, if it be possible; if not, then as much as you possibly can. But take not off the scales. Tlien you are to thrust tho spit through his mouth, out at his tail. And then take four, or five, or six sjilit sticks or very tliin laths, and a convenient quantity of tape or fillctir.g; tlicse laths arc t« bo tied round about the pike's body from his head to his t^ul.PIK ( 569 ) PIK and the tape tied somewhat thick, to prevent his breaking "or falling ofl: from the spit. Let him be roasted very leisurely, and often basted ■with claret wine, and anchovies and butter mixed together, and also with what moisture falls from him into the pan. When you have roasted him sufficiently, you are to hold under him, when you unwind or cut the tape that ties him, such a dish as yoxi propose to cat him out of, and let him fall into it, with the sauce that is roasted in his beUy, and by this means the pike will be kept unbroken and complete. Then, to the sauce which was within, and also that sauce in the pan, you are to add a fit quantity of the best butter, and to squeeze the juice of three or four oranges. Lastly, you may either put it into the pike, -svith the oysters, two cloves of garlic, and take it whole out when the pike is cut off the spit; or to give the sauce a haut gout, let the dish into which you let the pike fall bo rubbed with it; the using or not using of this garlic is left to 'your discretion. This dish of meat," says honest Isaac to his companion, " is too good for any but anglers, or very- honest men; and I trust you will prove both, and, therefore, I have trusted you with this secret." Pike, Larded and Baked.—Clean and lard a moderate-sized pike as in the next re- cipe. Stuff it or not, and skewer it with its tail in its mouth. Butter a baking-dish, lay the fish in it, season with salt and cayenne, and pour in half a pint or more of flour and water. Lay little pieces of butter here and there upon the fish, and bake in a moderate oven. When it is half done strew highly seasoned bread-crumbs over it, baste occasionally, and bake until it is lightly browned. When it is done enough, lift it care- fully on a hot dish, squeeze a little lemon-juice over it, and send piquante, Dutch, or caper sauce to table in a tureen. Time to bake, thirty to forty minutes for a moderate-sized fish. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Pike, Larded and Roasted. — Scale and cleanse a moderate-sized pike. Remove the gills, empty the fish, and lard it thickly over with strips of fresh bacon. Fill it with a good veal forcemeat, and sew the body up se- curely with soft cotton. Butter a paper thickly, cover it with sweet herbs and a little pepper and salt. Wrap the fish in this, lay it in a cradle-spit, and baste with butter. Serve on a hot dish, and send piquante or caper sauce to table in a tureen. If preferred, the pike may be roasted in this way without being larded. Time to roast, twenty-five to thirty- five minutes. Probable cost, imcertain. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Pike, Matelote Sauce for—Put a tea- spoonful of sugar into a stewpan, and place it over a quick fire. When it has dissolved, and is beginning to colour, put with it two ounces of fresh butter and a quarter of a hundred of small button-onions. Shako these over the fire until thoy are brown, then add a dessert-spoon- ful of flotir, a glass of claret, and, gradually, a pint of water or stock. Stir the sauce till it boila, then put with it a bunch of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a lump of sugar. Simmer gently, and skim carefully until the sauce is thick and smooth, and the flavour is dra^vn out of the herbs; then stir into it a table-spoonful of essence of anchovy, haK a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat, and two or three drops o2 browning if the sauce is not suf- ficie-:tly coloured. A few oysters or mushrooms will improve this sauce. Time to simmer, half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine,. 8d. Sufficient for a large pike. \ Pike, Potted. — Cleanse and scale the fish, cut ofl: the head and tail, split it open all the way down, and take out the bones. Wipe it dry, sprinkle bay salt and cayenne over the inside, and roU it tightly. Put it into a jar, and lay little pieces of butter here and there upon it. Lay a buttered paper over it in the oven, and bake in a moderate oven until it is done enough. Take it up, drain it, and when it is cold put it into a pot just large enough to contain it, and cover with clarified butter. Time to bake, according to the size; thirty to forty minutes for a moderate-sized fish; one hour or more for a lai"ge one. Pro- bable cost, uncertain. Pike, Sauces for.—Plain melted butter^ brown caper sauce, Dutch sauce, piquant sauce,, or anchovy sauce may all be served with pike. Or, if preferred, a sauce may be used prepared as foUows; —Mix a small tea-spoonful of flour with as much water as will make it into so. smooth paste. Stir this into two ounces of clari- fied butter. Add a quarter of a pint of milk or cream and a small anchovy which has been, freed from skin and bone and chopped small. Stir the sauce over the fire until it is on the point of boiling, then add a table-spoonful of Indian soy, and a little salt and cayenne if necessary. Just before sending the sauce to- table, stir into it a dessert-spoonJful of strained lemon-juice. Time, five minutes to boil the sauce. Probable cost, 6d., if made with milk. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pike, Sea.—"It is an opinion," says Mr. Donovan, "amongst the fishermen, that the shoals of mackerel arrive on the shores of this- country under escort of another kind of fish called the sea-pike, a most singiilar-looking, creature. This is sometimes brought to market,, and it is curious that its flavour very muck resembles that of the mackerel, but in my opinion it is superior. Its elongated, slender,, and pointed head more resembles the long bill of a snipe than the head of a fish. When the fish measures twenty-one inches from snout to tail, the head and bill together measure six inches, and the bill three inches and a half in length. This bill or head is very slender,, the upper jaw, as it may be called, being some- what homy. Both jaws are thickly planted with minutp teeth as sharp as needles. This biU or beak is supposed to be its weapon of protec- tion to the mackerel, but is too soft to act aa such. In its general appearance this fish ia like an eel, but is not so round, its sides being- somewhat flattened. The colour is a handsome bluish-grey on the back, with splendid silvery( &70 ) PIK PIK ft ' sidtja.'' When tho length is twcnty-ono inches the greatest girth is four, and its weight five ounces and a half. Its oyo is largo for the size of the fish. A singular property of tho baek- hone is that Avheu boiled the colour becomes greon." Pike, Seasoned (German recipe).—Scale and wash a moderate-sized pike, take out tho gills, then pick the llesh off tho bono, leaving it entire. jNIince the flesh finely, and mix with it a little salt and cayenne, some grated nutmeg, and a chopped onion. Put it into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of butter and a cup- ful of bread-crumbs, and stir tho mi.xture over tho fire until tho fish is cooked without being browned. Bind it together with beaten egg. It should be rather stiff than otherwise. Lay the bone of the pike in a thickly-buttered baking-dish. Cover with tho seasoned mince, and restore it as neai'ly as possible to its ori- ginal shape. Brush over with beaten egg, strew grated bread-crumbs over it, and lay upon it here and there little pieces of butter. Cover the head and tail with buttered paper, to keep them from browning before the rest of the fish is done, and bake in a moderate oven. Send brown easier, piquante, or Dutch sauce to table •with this dish. Time to bake, until the fish is lightly browned all over, say about half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for four or fi:ve persons. Pike, Stewed.—Clean and scale a pike weighing about four pounds, and cut it into slices three-quarters of an inch thick. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan. Put with it a shallot and a small onion chopped small, a table-spoonful of shred parsley, two cloves, and a little pepper and salt. Shake these ingre- dients over the fixe for five or six minutes, then pour over them half a pint of stock or water, a glassful of claret, and a glassful of vinegar. Lay the fish in the stewpan, cover closely, and let it simmer until done enough. Take it up, and lay it on a hot dish. Thicken the sauce ■with a little flour and butter, stir into it a table- spoonful of bruised capers, let it boil a minute, and pour it over the fish. Time, altogether, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, xmcertain. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pike, Stewed in Gravy—Wash and cleanse a pike, and lard it thickly with bacon. Put it in a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, and with slices of veal and bacon under and over it, cover closely, and let it steam gently for a quarter of an hour. Pour upon it half a pint of gravy and a glass of wine, and let it simmer until done enough.- Serve on a hot dish, with the gravy in which the fish was stewed poured around it. Time to stew, thirty to forty minutes, according to size. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pike, Stuflang for.-Take asmanyfinely- gratcd bread-crumbs as wiU fill the body of the pike two-thirds full. Make up the other third with finely-shred bccf-suet, and add a hberal seasoning of pepper and salt, two table-spoon- fIlls of chopped parsley, the rind of half a.lcmon %elv-minced, and a tea-spoonful of fennel and chervil. Moisten the mixture with the yolka of one or two eggs. Wlien mushrooms aie in season, half a dozen button-muslu-ooms juny be minced and added to the rest. Or beard and mince a dozen oysters. lUx witli tliera four ounces of finely-grated broad-crumbs, tliree ounces of slirod suet, a dessert-spoonful of minced savoury lierbs, and a little salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg. Moisten the whole with the yolk of an egg and the liquor fioni the oysters, and mix tlie ingredients tUl tliey form a smootli paste. Tlie body of tlie pike should bo (Wiped diy with a soft cloth before the stup- ing is put into it, and it sliould then be sewed up securely with soft cotton. When a larger quantity of stufiing has been made thun is re- quired to fill the fish, it may be made into cakes, which should be fried in butter, and used foi garnishing. Pike, To Cook.—Wash and cleanse thoroughly two fish, each weigliing from six to eight pounds; scale and empty them; di ssect out the flesh and bone, leaving the head and tail attached to the skin. Pick ofl: the flesh from the bodies of the fish, avoiding all the small forked bones, which are exceedingly numerous. This being done, beat the separated flesh in a mortar along with three anchovies, the yolks of four eggs, and a pound of butter; add a good quantity of chopped parsley, a few sweet herbs, minced shallots, black pepper, and salt, and form the whole into a mass with white and yolk of egg. Place this in the skin of one of the fish, and sew it up neatly. Piick the skin with a sharp fork in a few places, and roast till done before a brisk fu-e. Put into the dripping-pan a i)int or a pint and a half of cider, w-ith which the fish is to be fi-equently basted. What remains wdU, with the additiou of a little cayenne, be the proper sauce for the fish. Time, one hour to roast before the fij.-e. Pike, White Sauce for.—l^rclt one ounce oS butter and mix smoothly with it a dessert- spoonful of flour. Stir in gradually half a pint of water and let the sauce boil. Add off tho fire the well-beaten yolks of two fresh eggs with salt and cayenne to season it pleasantly. Stir the sauce over a gentle fire imtil it is quite hot without boiling, add a few drops of lemon juice, if liked, and serve. Probable cost, 6d. Suffi- cient foi four or five persons. Pike with. Sour-Kraut.-Cleanse and scale a good-sized pike, and cut the flesh into neat fillets. Dry these well, flour thorn, dip them into beaten egg and seasoned bread- crumbs, and frj^ in hot butter until they are brightlv browned. Butter a dish thickly. Put on it a laver of boiled Icraut, grate some cheese over this, then put a layer of the fried pike with a little sour cream, then kraut again, and repeat until the dish is fuU. Lay little pieces of butter here and there upon the top, cover the whole with fincly-gi-ated bread- crumbs, and pour in a small quantity of stock. Bake in a moderate oven, and serve very liot. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain.PIK ( 671 ) Pikelets.—AVhisk two eggs thoroughly, and mix with them a pinch of salt, a little gi-ated nutmeg, a pint of lukewarm milk, two poimds of Hour, and a table-spoonful of good fresh yeast. Beat the mixture for ten or twelve minutes, put it into a bowl, cover with a cloth, and let it remain near the fire for two hours, by wliich time it ought to have risen lightly. ' Make it into round cakes, half an inch tliick "and the size of a saucer. Bake these on a girdle, and when they are done enough on one side, turn them upon the other. Butter the pikelets whilst hot, and send three or four to table together. If any are left till the next day, they should bo toasted and buttered like crumpets. Time to bake, three or four minutes. Probable cost, id. each. Sufiicient, one or two for each person. Pikelets (another way).—Rub an ounce of fresh butter into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, and a well-beaten egg. Put the flour into a bowl, and make a hole in the middle of it. Pour into this a quarter of an ounce of German yeast dissolved in two table- spoonfuls of tepid water. Stir the whole together, and add as much lukewarm milk as will make the whole like thick batter. Beat for ten or twelve minutes, and let it stand near the fire for an hour. Put the bakestone over a moderate fire. Melt a little butter or lard upon this, and pour over it a tea-cupful of the batter. "When one side is done, turn it lightly upon the other. Butter the pikelets whilst hot, and serve them three or four on a plate. The bake- stone will require to be freshly greased with each pikelet. Time to bake, about two minutes each side. Sufficient, one or two for each person. Probable cost, ^d. each. Pilau.—This is an Oriental dish, much liked by those who have become accustomed to it wMlst travelling or residing in the East. We are told by travellers, that in Tui'key and Arabia it is a very simple preparation, consist- ing generally of poultry or meat too much dressed served with rice under-dressed, and reasoned; vnth. pepper and salt. English families who have resided abroad require a little more than this, however, and for them the succeeding recipes are given. The following additional recipes wUl be found under their respective headings:— Indian, Plain Rahbit Indian, Real Turkish Oyster Pilau. Arabian.—Take three or four pounds of a nock or loin of mutton. Trim off: the fat, and .stew the meat gently in four pints of nicely-seasoned stock until it is done enough. Take it up, and put it aside, then throw into the boiling stoclc a pound of Patna rice, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Stir in four winces of fresh butter, and simmer again until tho rice is tender without being broken. Cut the meat into convcnient-siK^d pieces, fry these lightly in butter, and servo ihem in the dish with the rice. If liked, the pilau may bo gar- nished with hard-boiled eggs out into quarters longthwise, or with forcemeat balls, or rings of onion, fried until very dry. Time to boil th». mutton, an hour and a half. Probable ooflt, 4s. 6d. Sufticiont for five or six persons. Pilau, Arabian (another way). See Arabian Pilau. Pilau, Indian.—Take three pounds of the neck or loin of mutton or lamb, and divide them into cutlets; or, if preferred, take a chicken, and cut it into neat joints. Chop three large onions, and fry. them in two- ounces of butter, with an Indian mango, cut uj> small. If the mango cannot be had, four ounces of Sultana raisins and a quarter of, a clove of gaiiic may be substituted; and in this case, two table-spoonfuls of curry powder may be mixed with the butter. Stir the ingredients over the fire for ten minutes, sprinkle a little salt over, and simmer all gently together- for three-quar- ters of an hour. Whilst the meat is simmering, boil the rice according to the directions given for Rice for a Pilau {see PUau, Rice for a). Pile it on a dish, lay the pieces of meat upon it, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. Instead of preparing the rice as previously mentioned, it may be dressed as follows:—Wash three- quarters of a pound of rice, and boil it gently for a quarter of an hour in a pint of stock. Pour off the gravy, add three ounces of fi-esh butter to the rice, and stir over a quick fire until it is brightly and equally coloured. Moisten with a little stock, season with a pinch of mixed sweet herbs, a pinch of gi-a,ted nutmeg, and the thin rind of half a lemon. Simmer again until the rice is quite tender without being broken. Lift out the lemon- rind, and add a quarter of a pint of thick cream. Spread half the rice on a hot dish, lay the pieces of meat upon it, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and cover with the remainder of the rice. Time, three-quarters of an hour to stew the meat and siriimCr the rice. Probable cost, 3s. 4d., if made with mutton and -wathout cream. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pilau, Indian (another way).—Boil a chicken and two pounds of bacon in the usual way. Take them up ; to keep in the heat as . much as possible, lay them on a hot dish, and cover with a cloth doubled in five or six thicknesses. Boil up again two pints , of the chicken broth, and put with it two sniall.onions, six cloves, six peppercorns^ and three allspice, and half a pound of rice. Simmer gently for three-quarters, of an hour, or until the rice is tender, but unbroken. Lift out the onions and the bag containing the spices, put in the fowl to make it quite hot, place it on a dish, and pile the rice smoothly over it. Send the bacon I to table on a separate dish. The bacon should ; be boiled in the same liquid as the fowl, in ' order to season it. Time to boil thfe chicken, ', according to size. Sufficient for three or four persons. Probable cost, 4s. 6d., with a chicken, at 2s. Gd. \ Pilau of Fowl.—Truss a' plump, young i chicken as if for boiling. Put it into a stew- Ipan, with five pints of stock seasoned ratlicr I highly -with popper, salt, and jiowdered mace, land boU gently until it is three-parts done. Whilst the fowl is boiling, wash a pound of test( 672 ) PIL PIL Patna rico, and dry it in a soft cloth. Throw it into boiling water, and boil quickly for live minutes, drain it, and stir it in a atewpan witli two ounces of butter until it is equally and lightly browned. When the fowl is half cooked, put in tho rico, and four ounces of Sultana raisins, and let all simmer gently together until tho grains arc tender without being broken, and tho gravy is almost absorbed. Lay the fowl in a hot dish, cover with tho rice, lay tho nvisins at tho top, and garnish the dish with hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, or with thinly-sliced onions fried until they aro quite dry and brown. Serve very hot. Time to boil the fowl, according to size. Three-quarters of an hour to simmer the rice. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 38. 6d., with a chicken at 2s. 6d. Pilau of Fowl (another way).—Cut up a plump chicken into neat joints, and lay these in a ste^ivpan with two salt-spoonfuls of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, a drachm of powdered mace, and as much stock as will cover the fowl. Let it simmer gently until done enough. Lift the joints out, and drop into the liquid very gradual!}''—so that the boiling may not be stopped—half a pound of Patna rice. Let it simmer imtil the grains are quite tender with- out being broken, then add three ounces of fresh, butter divided into small pieces, and let the pan remain near the fire for a minute or two until the butter is melted. Fry the pieces of chicken until they are brightly browned. Pile the rice lightly on a hot dish, arrange the pieces of chicken upon it, and serve very hot. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 3a. 3d., with a chicken at 2s. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pilau, Kice for a.—The 'most important part of a Pilau is the rice. It is prepared as follows:—"Wash and pick half a poimd of rice, throw it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil rapidly for five minutes. Drain it, put it into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, and stir it over a quick fire imtil it is lightly coloured; add cayenne pepper, a table-spoonful of safEron-water, and three- quarters of a pint of stock, and simmer gently until the grains are quite tender without being broken. Stir in a table-spoonful of curry- powder, pile the rice high on a dish, and send it to table with the meat placed upon it. Or wash and pick half a pound of rice, and dry it thoroughly in a soft cloth. Drop it very gradually into a pint and a half of boiling water, and let it boil gently until the rice is quite tender without being broken, and the water is absorbed. When this point is reached, throw in two ounces of butter broken into small pieces, with a little salt and cayenne. Stir the whole briskly for a minute or two, and serve hot with stewed meat cut into neat pieces placed upon the rice. Time to boil the rice, about three-quarters of an hour. Pro- bable cost, rice, 3d. per pound. Patna rice is the best for this purpose. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pilchards.—Pilchards are rarely found on the British shores except on the coasts of Corn- wall and Devon, particularly the former, where I " thev are captured in great numbers from tho middle of July to tho end of November, or even tho middle of December. Cornish fisher- men say that the pilchard is the least fish in the sea for size, the most in number, and the greatest for gain taken from the sea. The princii>al seats of the pilchard fishery are St. Ives, Mount's Bay, and Mevagissey. Tho fish are captured either by seam or by drift-nets. A scan is a net 200 or 300 fathoniH long, and over ten feet deep, liaving cork buoys on one edge and lead weights on the other. Whenever the fish aro brought on shore they are carried to cellars or warehouses, and piled in large heaps, a sufficient quantity of salt being placed between the layers. After remaining in this state for about thirty-five days they are care- fully washed and cleaned, and then packed in hogsheads, containing on an average 2,600 fish. They are then pressed, so as to extract the oil, of which each hogshead yields about three gal- lons, provided the fish be caught in summer. Those taken late in the season do not yield above a gallon and a half. The fresh fish in a hogshead of pilchards weigh about six hundred- weight, and the salt about six hundred-weight and a half; the weight of the hogshead, how- ever, when cured and pressed, is reduced to about foiir and a half hundred-weight, includ- ing the weight of the cask, which ranges from twenty to twenty-four pounds. The quantity of pilchards taken at one time is sometimes extraordinary. Mr. Yavul, ia 1841, mentions that an instance has been known where 10,000 hogsheads have been taken in one port in a single day, thus providing the enor- mous multitude of over 25,000,000 of living creatures drawn at once from the ocean for human sustenance. Pilchards are not used in England except in Devon and Cornwall. They are principally exported, and are largely consumed in some parts of the continent during the season of Lent. The taste of the pilchard is very like that of the herring, but it is more oily. Even after much of the oil has been removed by pressure, it is still as rich as could be wished. THE PILCHARD. Pilchard and Leek Pie (a Dcvonshir© dish).—Trim off the coarser leaves from four or five large leeks. Cut the white part only into equal lengths, and scald these in salted water. Lay them in a pie-dish, tho edges of which are lined with plain pastry, put between the layers four salted pilchards which have been laid in cold water Uie previous day to soak, and put on thePIL PIN ( 673 ) cover. Bake in a moderate oven. When the pie is done enough, lift up the cover, dram oft" the gravj-, and put in its place a cupful of boil- ino- cream. Time to bake the pie, forty muiutes or more. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pilchards, Cooking of—Pilchards are very oily, and quickly deteriorate in quality, so that they are not often sent uncured to any great distance from the place where they are caught. They may be dressed according to the direc- tions given for herrings. They may be distin- guished from the herring by the fact that the fin is exactly in the middle of the back, whilst in the heriing it is nearer the tail. Probable cost, uncertain. Pimento, Allspice, or Jamaica Pep- per.—The tree from which the fruit producing this spice is obtained is a native of the West Indies. It is cultivated, however, almost ex- clusively in Jamaica, thus giving rise to the name Jamaica pepper. The designation all- riMENTO. spice is derived from the spice resembling in flavoiir a mixture of cloves, cinnamon, and nut- meg. The berries are gathered in an unripe state, when the essential oil contained in them is most abundant; they are then dried in the sun. _ The flavour resides within the shell of the pimento, which is, when dried, about twice the size of a peppercorn. AUspice is inexpensive in price, and agreeable in flavour. It is much used in domestic cookery. The berries may be bought either whole or ground. Pimento Curry {see Curry, Pimento). Pine-apple, The.—The pine-apple is a Iruit of dchcious flavour. It is principally grown in South America and the West Indies, though it has been very successfully cultivated in England, where it sometimes reaches a large size. The price is exceedingly variable, owing to the uncertainty of the supply. Pine-apple, Bottled.—Bo very careful that the pmc-apples are perfectly sound and ripe. Pare them, and remove the specks. Cut them into slices half an inch thick, and divide these into halves. Put them into drj- wide-mouthed bottles, cover them with syrup, and cork down securely. Wrap a wisp of hay round each bottle. Put them side by side in a boiler, with cold water up to their necks. Bring the water to a boil, and let it boil gently for twenty minutes. Draw the pan aside, and let the bottles remain untouched until they are quite cold. Wax the corks, and store in a cool cellar. The syrup, which is to be poured over the fruit, should be made as foUows :—Dissolve three pounds of loaf-sugar in a quart of water. Stir in half the white of an egg, and stir the' syrup over the fire for two or three minutes. Let it boil, and skim care- fully. In order to assist the scum in rising, throw in a spoonful of cold water two or three times. Strain the syrup through a napkin, and it wiU be ready for use. Time to boil the bottled fruit, twenty minutes. Probable cost, pine-apples, when cheap. Is. to 2s. each. Pine-apple^ Bottled, without Boil- ing.—Choose pme-apples which, though ripe, are perfectly sound. Pare then., remove the specks, and cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Weigh them, and allow one pound of powdered and sifted sugar to each pound of fruit. Put a layer of the sugar haH an inch deep at the bottom of a small glass jar. Place on this a layer of equal depth of sliced fruit. Press it down, and repeat until the jar is fuU, remembering only that the first and last layer must be of sugar. Fit the cover as closely as possible, to keep the fruit air-tight. Pine-apple, Brandied. — Pare, trim, and slice the fruit, weigh it, and allow one pound of powdered sugar to each pound of fruit. Choose glass jars which are as nearlj' as possible the size of the slices of fi'uit. Fill them lightly, without pressing them down, with alternate layers of sugar and pine-apple, remembering always that the undermost and uppermost layer must consist of sugar. Pour in as much brandy as wiU a little more than cover the slices, put on closely-fitting covers to exclude the air, and store in a cool, dry, dark place. Pine-apple Cardinal (a cooling drink). Peel a pine-apple, and cut it into thin slices. Put these into a deep dish, cover them with powdered sugar, and let them stand four or five hours. Put the rind into a small stewpan, with as much water as will cover it, bring it to a boU, skim it, and pour it over the fruit. Add six ounces of refined sugar and a bottle of light wine. Cover the vessel which contains the fruit, &c., and leave it in a cool place for two hours. When it is wanted for use, stir it well, and mix with it a bottle of seltzer. If a larger quantity of the beverage is required, another bottle or more of wine may be added, but it must bo remembered that six ounces of sugar must be put in with every additional bottle. If preferred, champagne may be used instead of seltzer. Time, seven or eight hours. Probable cost, pine-apples, when cheap, Is. to 2s. each. Pine-apple Chips. — Pare some pine- apples, ana carefully remove the specks or eyes with the point of a knife. Cut them into slices,PIN PIN ( 674 ) and place those on a largo dish In a single layer ■with • as much powdered and sifted sugar sprinkled over as will cover them. Keep the fruit in a hot closet until it is dry, turning it regularly each day. When the dry point is reached, put tlio slices oh a tin, and place tliem in a quick oven for ton minutes. \VTion quite cool, store thorn in single layers in a tin box ■with writing-paper between each layer. Time, nine or ton days to dry the slices. Pine-apple, Compote of.—Peel a pine- apple, and pick all the specks or eyes from it; cut it into slices half an inch thick, keep one of the lai-gest of tlieso Avhole, and divide the rest into halves. Make some syrup by boiling five ounces of lump sugar in half a pint of water for ten minutes, put in the slices of fruit, and let them boil for five minutes. Leave them in the syrup until they are quite cold; .drain them; put the whole shoe in the centre of a compote- dish, and arrange the half slices in a circle round it; pour the syrup over, and serve. Time to boil the syrup, ten minutes; ■with the fruit, five minutes. Probable cost, pine-apples, when very,cheap. Is. to 2s. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pine-apple Cream in a Mould.— Take a moderate-sized pine-apple, fully ripe, pare it carefully, pick out the specks or eyes, strip all the pulp from the core, and cut it into dice with a silver knife. Strew over it nine ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, add two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and let it soak for two hours. Put the peel into a saucepan with half a pint of water, and let it simmer gently for an hour; strain it, and let it cool. Eetum the liquid into the saucepan, ,with the fruit, sugar, and juice, and boil all gently together for a quarter of an hour. Skim it, and mix with it three-quarters of an ounce of best isinglass. Boil it ten minutes longer, pour it out, and mix ■with it a pint and a quarter of thick cream. Whisk the mixture briskly until it begins to thicken, then pour it into a mould, and set it on ice. The cream should be stirred for a few minutes after it is put upon the ice, or the fruit will sink to the bottom. Probable cost, 4s. 6d., with pine-apples at Is. 6d. each, and cream at Is. 6d. per pint. Sufficient for a quart mould. Pine-apple Cream, made with Tinned. Fruit.—Cut half a pound of pre- served pine-apple into dice. Put the sja-up into a stcwpan with three ounces of loaf-sugar and half a pint of water. When the sugar is dissolved, put in the fruit, and boil all quickly for ten minutes. Add three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass, and boil ten minutes longer. Pour the. mixture into a bowl, and whisk it well with! one pint and a quarter of cream. As soon as it .begins to thicken, pour it into a nMuld, and set, it upon ice. Stir it for a .few minutes after it is on the ice to prevent the frultr settling to the bottom. Time, throe- quartcrs of an hour. Sufficient for seven or eight people. Pine-apple Creams Served in Glasses.—Pare a ripe pino-applc, and cut the rind into pieces. Boil it in a quarter of a i pint of milk until the flavour is drawn out,- then strain it, and mix witli it four ounces of loaf-sugar, a pint of cream, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Pour the uiixtun; into a sauce- pan, and stir over a gentle fire until it begins to thicken. Pour it out, let it cool, tlien whisk until it is nicely frothed, and put it into the glasses. When pine-upple cream is made in this way, the pulp may be cut up and uscid for dessert. Time, lialf an hour to Ijoil the rind in the milk. Probable cost, lis. 2d. Sufficient for half a dozen glasses. Pine-apple Drops.—Pare a very ripe pine-ai)ple, bruise the pulp in a mortar, and jjress it through a coarse sieve. Put it, with it.s juice, into a basin, and stir into it, very gi-adually, as much coarsely-sifted sugar as will make it into a stiff paste. Put it into a small sugar-boiler, and stir over the fire until it boils. Let it fall in drops upon an oiled baking-sheet, and when the drops are cold lay them on a sieve, and place them in a hot screen until they are quite dry. Pine-apple Fritters. — Pare a pine- apple with as little waste as possible. Cut it into thick slices, and place these in a shallow dish. Sprinkle two ounces of powdered and sifted sugar upon them, pour a wineglassful of brandy, cura(,'oa, or maraschino over them, and let them soak for five hours. Make a frying batter as follows:—Mix a salt-spoon- ful of salt ■with three-quarters of a pound of flour; add the well-whisked yolks of two eggs and two ounces of clarified butter, and pour in, very gradually, a little more than half a jiint of lukewarm water or, if preferred, beer. Beat the mixture thoroughly whilst the water is being added, so that it may be quite smooth. This batter should be sufficientlj' thick to drop from the spoon. It should be made at the time that the sUces are put into the Hqueur, and then put aside, as it is best ■when made two or three hours before it is wanted. Ten minutes before it is to be used, add the whites of three eggs whisked to a firm froth. Dip the pieces -of pine-apjjle into the batter, and ch-op them into boiling lard. Turn them lightly in this until they are crisp and brown on both sides, then drain from the fat, and serve thom quickly. They should be piled on a neatly-folded napkin, and have powdered sugar sifted over them. Time to fry, six or eight minutes. Probable cost, pine-apples, when cheap, Is. to 2s. each. Sufficient for tlu-ee or four persons. Pine-apple Glace for Dessert.—Take some sUces of pine-apple, and boil them in syrup as if for a compote {see Pine-apple, Compote of). Let them remain in the s\Tiip until cold, then drain them entirely from it, put a skewer half way through each "slice, and place them in a hot screen to dry. Prepare some sugar as follows : —Dissolve a pound of sugar in a pint of water, put it over a quick fire, skim cvn-efuUy. and "boil it until it has readied the third, or feathered, degree. When it is almost done, .stir it lightly for a minute or two, and press the side of the pan ^vith the spoon. In order to ascertain whim the sugar has reached the jiroper stage, dip in the skimmer, shake it, and give it a sudden toss. If done enough, the sugarPIN ( 575 ) PIN will fly off like snow-flakes. When the precise point is reached (a few seconds will make, a difference), put in the slices of pine-apple by means of the skewers, cover them entirely with the sugar, and then place them on a wu-e fruit- di-ainer. In about ten minutes, if the operation has been successful, it ought to be possible to draw away the fi-uit, without distui-bing the sugar, by pressing it with the fingers from beneath. Preparations of this kind are best left to the confectioner. Time to drj' the fruit, about an hour. Probable cost, pine-apples, when cheap, Is. to 2s. each. Pine-apple Ice Cream.—Whisk the yolks of six eggs thoroughly. Mix with them half a pint of lukewarm riiilk, and add two ounces of loaf sugar. Stir this custard over a gentle fire until it begins to thicken, then pom- it out, and stir it again. Pai-e a pine-apple with as Kttle waste as possible. Cut it into slices, and boil it for five minutes in a syrup made of half a pound of loaf sugar and a quarter of a pint of water. Press the fruit thi-ough a coarse sieve, and stir the pulp and the syi'up into the custard. Put the cream into a mould, and freeze in the usual way. This cream may be made with half a pound of preserved pine- apple. Probable cost, pine-apples, Is. to 2s. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pine-apple Ice Cream (another way). —Slice the pine-apple, and bruise it in a mortar. Add a pint of cream, a quarter of a pint of good fi'esh milk, a little lemon-juice, and a quarter of a pound of fine sugar. IkGx the whole well together, and pass it through a hair sieve. Freeze. If preserved pine-apple be used, a half-pound pot will be required. Time, twenty-five minutes to freeze. Probable cost, 3b. per quart. Sufficient for eight persons. Pine Apple Jam. — Weigh the pine- apples, then skin and eye them, and cut them into thin slices. Boil it tiU cooked in as much water as will barely cover it, and add a little sugar. Rub it through a sieve. Take half a pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Boil this with the pine-apple water to a clear thick syrup, add the fruit pulp, and stir over the fire till done. Pine-apple Jelly.—Pare a ripe pine- apple, and cut it into slices. Lay these on a dish, cover them with powdered and sifted sugar, and leave them for six or seven hours. Pour off the syrup and strain it. Dissolve and clarify an ounce of isinglass {sec Isinglass to Clarify) in half a pint of water. Mix with it a pint of the strained juice, and simmer all gently together for five minutes. Add a glass- ful of curaijoa. Pour three table-spoonfuls of the jelly into a mould shaped like a pine-apple, if one be at hand. Let the jelly stiffen, then lay neatly on it two or three slices of the pine- apple, and a little more jelly. Let this also stiffen, and repeat until the mould is fiiU. Turn the jelly out very carefully when it is wanted for use. If preferred, this jelly can be piit into the moTild without the fruit, but will not then be so elegant. When time is a consideration, the flavour of the pine-apple may be drawn out tnore quickly by cutting the fruit into slices, and boiling half a pound of it with eight ounces of loaf sugar, and haK a pint of Avater for half an hour, then straining it thi-ough a napkin. Time, two days. If the mould cannot be put upon ice, the jelly should be made some houi-s before it is wanted. Probable cost, 3s., exclu- sive of the cui-a9oa, if made with a pine-apple costing Is. 6d. Sufficient fcr six or eight persons. Pine-apple Julep.—Paxe a very ripe pine-apple with as little waste as possible, and. cut it into thin slices. Lay these in a large bowl, and strain over them the juice of two sweet oranges. Pour in a quarter of a pint of maraschino, a quarter of a pint of gin, and a quarter of a pint of raspberry syrup, and mix thoroughly. Just before serving, add a bottle of sparkling Moselle and a tumblerful of shaved ice. Pine-apple MTarmalade.—Choose ripe sound pines. Pare them, take out the eyes, weigh the fi-uit, and allow an equal weight of pounded and dried sugar. Grate the flesh on a coarse grater, then put it over a moderate fire, and let it heat gently for ten minutes, or until it is quite tender. Add the sugar very gradually, and boil the mixture until it looks thick and clear. Turn it into jars, and cover in the usual way. If preferred, the fruit may be cut up and pounded iostead of being gTated; but though more troublesome it is best when grated. Pi-obable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Pine-apple, Preserved. — Pine-apples are so expensive that it is very unusual to pre- serve them in any quantity. Nevertheless, as the jam made fi-om them is very delicious and highly esteemed, the following recipes are given:—The foreign fruit and that which is grown at home is often mixed with advantage. It need scarcely be said that that which is grown at home is much superior to that sent from abroad. Great care must be taken in choosing the fruit to secure it perfectly sound and fully ripe, without being in the least de- cayed. If the flesh roimd the stalk looks mouldy or dark, the fruit should not be pre- served. The flavour of pine-apples may gene- rally be guessed at by their odour. Pare the pine-apples, and take out the eyes. Cut them into slices a third oi an inch thick. For every pound of fruit thus weighed after being pared, take a pound of loaf sugar, and a small teacup- ful of water. Dissolve the sugar in the water, skim carefully, and boil until it forms a clear syrup. Put in the slices of pine, and boil gently until thev look bright and clear. Put the preserve into jars, cover closely, and store in a cool, dry place. Time to boil, at least half an hour after the fruit reaches the boiling point. Probable cost, when pine-apples are cheap, Is. 3d. per pound. Pine-apples, Preserved (for a short time only).—Pare the fruit, cut it into slices, and remove the specks and the hard part from the centre. Tear the rind into small pieces; put these and the waste portions into a stewpan. with as much water as wiU cover them, and let them simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, or until the liquid is pleasantly flavoured.( 676 ) PIN PIN Strain it, and put it buck into tho saucepan with the fruit, and lot it sinuuor u quurtor of iin hour: then add sugar to taste, and Hiinmur anotlicr quarter of an hour. Turn it out, and it is ready for serving. I'robablo cost, pine- apples, when cheap, Is. 6d. to 2s. each. Pine-apple Pudding.—Boil Imlf a pint of milk with three ounces of butter and three ounces of sugar. As soon as tlie milk rises in IJio pan, lift it from the fire, stir four ounces of flour into it, and beat it well until it is quite smooth. Put it on tho fire again, and stir until it leaves tho sides of the saucepan with tho spoon. Pour it out, and mix in the well- beaten yolks of three eggs and three ounces of preserved pine-apple cut into dice. Butter a mould rather thickly, and just before pouring tho mixture into it, add the whites of the eggs, which have been beaten to a firm froth. Steam the pudding by placing it in a saucepan upon an inverted pudding-plate, and keeping it sur- rounded with about three inches of boiling water until it is done enough. Turn the pudding out upon its dish, with a little wine sauce poured over it. Time to steam, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four pci'sons. Pine-apple Pudding (another way).— Cut three ounces of preserved pine-apple into dice, and carefully preserve the syrup for the sauce. Crumble three ounces of stale sponge- cake. Pour over them a quarter of a pint of milk or cream, and add three weU-beaten eggs, the fruit, and a dessert-spoonfid of powdered and sifted loaf sugar. Beat all thoroughly for a quarter of an houi-. Pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, cover with buttered writing- paper, and steam the pudding by placing the mould upon a plate turned upside down in a saucepan, and keeping round it two inches of boiling water. Let it steam until done enough, then turn it out carefully, and send it to table with the sauce poured round it. To make the sauce, put two table-spoonfuls of the pine-apple syrup into a saucepan, with two table-spoonfuls of water, a table-spoonful of apple-jelly, and a small lump of sugar crushed to powder. Let the syrup boil, then thicken it with half a tea-spoon- ful of arrowroot, mixed smoothly with a small quantity of cold water. Boil it a minute or two, add a table-spoonful of brandy or cura9oa, and serve. Time to steam the pudding, about fifty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d., if made with milk. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pine-apple Pudding, Cold, or Pain d.'Ananas.—Cut a ripe pme-applc into slices, and boil it for ten minutes in a pint of syrup. Lift out the fruit, and press it through a sieve. Soak an ounce of gelatine in half a pint of cold water for twenty minutes, drain it, put it into the syrup in which the pine-apple was boiled, and stir it over the fire until it is (lissolved. Strain through a napkin, and when the syrup is cold mix the pine-apple pulp with it. Decorate a plain mould with an ounce of pistachios cut into strips, a large pear cut into dice, and some preserved cherries. The fruit znay be stuck upon tho mould with a little molted gelatine. Pour in the mixture, and place the pudding upon ice until it is wanted. Turn it out before serving. Tiine to prepare, about an hour. Probable cost, 3a. Sufficient for six or soveu persons. Pine-apple Pudding, Cold, or Pain d'Ananas, Rich.—I'are a large ripe pine- n[)l>\v, and carefully take out the specks or eyes. Slice it, and cut it into dice. Boil for ten minutes in a quarter of a pint of syrup, and put the fruit aside until wanted. Tear the rind into small pieces, and pour over these half a pint of boiling cream. Let them infuse for half an hour, then stir in the yolks of six eggs, well beaten, and three table-spoonfuls of sugar. Stir the custard over a moderate fire until it begins to thicken, strain it, and when it is quite cold add the syrup and the fniit. Ornament a plain mould according to tho directions given in the i^re- ceding recipe, set it in ice, and fill it with the preparation. Put a baking-sheet over it, lay some ice on this, and let it remain until it is wanted. Turn it out of the mould carefully, and serve. Time to prepare, an hour or more. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pine-apple Punch,.—^Take a sound, ripe, well-flavoured pine-apple, pare it, pick out the specks, and cut it into thin slices. Weigh the pulp, and put half a pound of it into a bowl. Boil a quarter of a pound of best Carolina rice in a quart of cold water, with two inches of stick cinnamon, and a quarter of a drachm of green nutmeg. AYhen the rice is soft, strain the water, and put it aside for a short time. Rub a few lumps of sugar upon the rind of eight fresh lemons, add more sugar to make up a pound and a haK, and put this and the strained juice of the lemons with the pine- apple. Pour in three pints of boiling water, and then with two jugs—one in each hand— pour the liquid backwards and forwards from a good height, and continue this for twenty minutes. Add gradually half a bottle of French brandy, half a bottle of madeira, and a bottle and a half of rum, and whilst the spirits and wine are being added keep on pouring the liquid from one jug to another for fully three- quarters of an hour, by which time the pxmch will bo delicately flavoured. Last of all, add the seasoned rice-water, stir it quickly into the punch, pour the preparation into a bowl with a closely-fitting lid, throw a cloth over this, and leave it in a cool place for eight hours. Strain through a jelly-bag until tho punch is quite blight, then bottle it, and cork securely. Pine- apple punch improves with keeping. Sufficient for about a gallon of punch. Pine-apple Sauces for Puddings.— Pare a pine-apple, and carefully remove the specks. Cut it into slices, and then into dice, and place these in a saucepan. Witli twelve ounces of fruit put four table-spoonfuls of water, let tho fruit simmer gently, and when it is quite tender mix with it half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar. Let it boil a few minutes, and pour it over the pudding. Or, pare the fruit as above directed, weigh it. and cut it into dice. Put a quarter of a pound into a saucepan with( 67? ) PIN its juice, and a dessert-spoonful of water, and lot it simmer very gently until tender; then add foui- ounces of powdered and sifted sugar, and boil gently until tho sauce looks bright and clear. Before sending to table stir into it a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. A superior sauce, and one which will keep for some time, may be made as follows :—Put a pound of the minced flesh of a pine-apple into a saucepan with three-quarters of a pint of cold water. Let it simmer gently until tender; strain the juice, and mix with it a pound of refined loaf-sugar broken small. Let it heat until the sugar is dissolved, then boil it over a moderate fire. If it is not wanted immediately, pour it into a jar, and cover like jam. Time to boil the juice -svith the sugar, a quarter of an hour. Proi)able cost, pine-apples, when cheap, Is. 6d. to 2s. each. Pine-apple to Cut for Serving.— Pare a pine-apple so that the fruit shall be wasted as little as possible, and in order to do this notch it in and out, and carefully remove all the specks or eyes. Pick the fruit from the core with a silver fork in pieces as large as a bean, and place the dish which contains it on ice until it is wanted. Sugar may be strewed over the fruit or not. It draws out the juice, which is not always desired. Pine-apple Water (a refreshing summer beverage).—Take a moderate-sized pine-apple ; pare and slice it, and pound it to a pulp in a mortar. Put this into a bowl with the strained juice of a large fresh lemon, and pour over it a pint of boiling sjTup made in the proportion of one pound of sugar to a pint of water. Cover the jug which contains the liquid, and leave it in a cool place for two hours or more. Strain through .a napkin, put two pints of cold spring water with it, and serve. Probable cost, pine- apples, Is. 6d. to 2s. Sufficient for three pints of pine-apple water. Pine-apple Water Ice.—Take one or two pine-apples which are perfectly sound and fully ripe. Pare them, and pick out the specks. Grate the flesh on a coarse grater, and press the pulp through a colander. To a pint of pulp add half a pint of water and eight ounces of sugar, with the white of a fresh egg beaten to a firm froth. Put in the egg in smaU quantities at a time, and beat the mixture for some minutes. Freeze in the usual way. Or, take half a pound of the flesh of a ripe pine-apple. Pound in a mortar, then mix with it the strained juice of a fresh lemon, a pint of syrup, and half a pint of water. Strain through a napkin, and freeze in tho usual way. Probable cost, pine-applcs, Is. 6d. to 2s. each. _ Pink Cream.—Take a pint and a half of npo red currants. Strip thorn from the stalks, and put them into an earthen jar with a closely- fitting lid. Set this in a pan of boiling water, and boil gently until tho juice flows freely. Strain the juice through a fine sieve, and sweeten to taste with powdered Avhite sugar. Stir into b:ilf a i)int of jiiicf; a pint of cream, and beat the niixtun; until it begins to thicken. Servo in a glass dish. If liked, the juice of a loiuon may ha added to the cream. Time to boil the T currants, two hours. Probable cost, 2s. 2i Sufficient for five or six persons. Pink Icing.—Put the whites of two eggs into a bowl and break them lightly. Mix in gradually icing sugar to make a stiffish paste, and mix but do not work the icing. Add now and then three or four drops of lemon-juice and a drop of cochineal until the mixture looks thick, smooth, shiny, and as deeply coloured as is desired. The icing should be spread fuUy a quarter of an inch thick over the cake, or whatever it is used for, and should be placed in a cool oven until dry. If the eggs are beaten to a firm froth, the icing will not dry so easily. Time to mix the paste, till it is stiff. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Pink Pancakes.—Take a moderate-sized boiled beet-root; pare off the dark outer skin, and cut the root into slices, and pound it in a mortar to a smooth pulp. Make a batter by mixing two table-spoonfuls of flour with half a pint of milk and five well-beaten eggs. Add half a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg and a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, and when these ingredients are weU mixed beat the pulp of the beet-root into the batter. Fry the pan- cakes as quickly as possible, and serve them rolled, with a little bright coloured jam inside each one. Time, four or five minutes to fry the pancakes. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pink Sauce for Meat or Fish.—Take a large, wide-mouthed bottle, and put into it a quarter of a pint of port, a pint of vinegar, a dessert-spoonful of walnut ketchup, two dessert- spoonfuls of anchovy liquor, two cloves of garlic, or, if preferred, three shallots, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, and half a quarter of an ounce of cochineal. Stir the mixture briskly for a minute or two, then cork it, and leave it in a cool place for two days, stirring it up every now and then. Strain through a tamis, and keep the sauce in srhall bottles closely corked until wanted; this sauce may be used as a relish for cold meat, or to flavour fish sauces. Sufficient for a pint and a quarter. Pink Sugar for Ornamenting Sweet Dishes.—Crush the sugar either coarsely or to a powder, whichever is required. Place two or three drops of prepared cochineal in the palm of the hand, and rub the sugar in with it until it is sufficiently coloured, when it is ready for use. Pintail, or Sea Pheasant. — This bird, though highly esteemed where it is known, is not common. It is considered best when roasted, and is cooked like an ordinary pheasant, great care being taken to baste it constantly. It should be sent to table with good brown gravy, and a piquant sauce. It will of itself yield a good gravy if it is taken down when it has been before the fire for about twenty-five minutes, dished, laid in front of the firo for a few minutes, and then served imme- diately. Time to roast, about haJf an hour. Probable cost, uncertain, sia-])hea8antH being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for thi'ee or four persons.( 578 ) PIS PIP Pippin Tarts.—Tako half adozon Flandors pippins, or any othor good cooking applos. Pare and core thorn, and put thorn into a saucepan with a littlo Luttor, luid Builiciont watei" only to prevent thorn burning. Lot thoin simmer until they begin to fall, then add four ounces of moist sugar, and the strained juice and finely-mincod rind of a Seville orange. Boil and stir tho mi.\turo until it thickens, then turn it out to cool. Put it into tjirtlet shells already baked, and servo cold. Time, about hiilf an hour to boil the applos. Probable cost, 9d. for the apple paste. Sulficient—according to tho size of the pippins. Pippins, Frosted.—Take half a dozen russets or ilibston pippins. Pare, core, and divide them in halves, then place them side by side, with the flat part downwards, on a buttered tin. Whisk the white of a fresh egg to a firm froth. Spread it on them, then sprinkle over them tho thin rind of a lemon cut into long narrow strips, and add a covering of powdered and sifted sugar. Bake in a moderate oven until tender, and serve hot. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Suf- ficient for three or four persons. Pippins, Golden, Preserved {see Golden Pippins). Pippins, Normandy {see Normandy Pippins). Piquant Sauce. —Mince very finely a table-spoonful of capers, a table-epoonful of shallots, and a table-spoonful of gherkins. Put them into a saucepan with a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper and three table-spoon- fuls of vinegar, and let them simmer gently for three minutes. Add half a pint of broth or stock, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat, a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovy, and a dessert-spoonful of brown thickening. Boil the sauce until it is thick and smooth, skim carefully, and it is ready for use. If brown thickening is not at hand, mix half an ounce of butter with half an ounce of flour, and stir these ingredients quickly together over a moderate fire until the mixture is brightly coloured; moisten with the stock, and pour it over the gherkins, &c. Time, a quarter of an hour. Sufficient for nearly a pint of sauce. Probable cost, lOd. Piquant Sauce (another way).—Dissolve an ounce and a half of butter in a small sauce- pan over a moderate fire. Throw in a table- spoonful of chopped onions, and stir them about for two minutes, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of flour over them, and beat it with the_ back of a wooden spoon to prevent it getting into lumps. Add half a pint of stock or broth, a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of cayenne. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, then lift out the herbs, pour in half a wine-glassful of vinegar, and add a littlo pepper and salt if required; let aU boil up together, and servo. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for nearly thype-quartcrs of a pint of sauce. Piquant Sauce (another way). — Mix to-^ctlK^r a table-spoonful of minced capers and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Put with them six anchovies which have been boned and pounded, tho yolks of thre(i liard-lxiiled oggs, and a talile-spoonful of dry mustard. Hub those ingredients with the back of a wooden spoon until they are smoothly mixed, then press them through a coarse sieve. Add a pinch of cayenne, and moisten the whole with two table-spoonfuls of oil and two of vinegar. Stir the piiste into half a pint of stock or melted butter ; let it boil, strain it, and it is ready for serving. Time, half an h(jur. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for nearly three-quarters of a pint of sauce. Piquant Sauce for Storing.—The month of August is the best time for making this sauce, and it should not be used for fully three months after it is made. Take equal quantities of young walnuts and large mush- rooms; put them into separate pans, bruise them well, and whilst bruising sprinkle a little salt in with them. A pound of salt will be sufficient for a peck of mushrooms and a hundred and fifty walnuts. Let them lie for a week, turning and bruising them frequently; then press them well, and drain o£E the liquor. Boil it separately until the scum ceases to rise. Measure it, and mix it in equal quantities, and with each pint of the mixed liquid put a pint of vinegar, haH a blade of mace, four allspice, two cloves, a quarter of an ounce of ginger, as much cayenne as will lie on a threepenny piece, half a salt-spoonful of mustard seed, a clove of garlic, and three shallots. Boil and skim the sauce for twenty minutes. Pour it out, and when cold strain it, and mix with each pint a glassful of port, a quarter of a pint of claret, and a table- spoonful of soy. Put the liquid into small bottles, cork and seal them securely, and store —as indeed should be done with aU such preparations—in a cool, dry place. Probable cost, uncertain. • PISTACHIO NUTS. Pistachio Cream.—Blanch and peel a quarter of a pound of pistachio nuts, and pound them to a smooth paste, with a little rose or orange-flower water. Stir tho paste into a pint of thick cream, add a table-spoonful of sugar and a table-spoonful of brandy, and stir the mixture over a gentle fire until it is on the point of boiling. Pour it out, and when cold servo in a glass dish or in glasses, with a few pistachios, blanched and cut into long narrow strips, jgprinkled on the top. Probable cost,( 679.^ PIS 2s. lOd. Sufficient for a little more than a pint of cream. Pistachio Ice Cream.—Blanch and peel a quarter of a pound of pistachios, and pound them to a smooth paste with a few drops of rose-water. Beat the yolks of six eggs, and pour over them a pint and a half of boiling milk; add four ounces of powdered sugar, and stir the custard over the fire until it begins to thicken; then pour it out, and when cool stii- into it the pounded pistachios and a tea-spoonful of spinach colouring. Pass the whole through a sieve; mould and freeze. If preferred, the pistachio paste can be mixed with cream instead of custard. Time, about a quarter of an hour to boU the custard. Sufficient for a quart of ice cream. Probable cost, 2s. PistacMo KernelSjEurnt—Blanchand peel a quarter of a pound of freshly imported pistachio kernels, and put them in a gentle oven until they are quite dry and hot through. Put half a pound of loaf sugar into a saucepaii with just enough water to dissolve it, and add a few drops of vanilla flavouring and of spinach juice. Let the sugar boil until it is nearly, but not quite, brittle; then take the saucepan from the fire, throw in the pis- tachios, and stir them about in the sugar imtil they are well covered with it, taking care that the sugar does not stick to the sides of the pan. Turn all out of the pan, and lay the kernels on a sieve; cover them over, and leave them for a few minutes. Pick the sugar from them, put it again into the pan with enough water to dissolve it, and boil again imtil it reaches the same point as before. Throw in the kernels, stir them about, and when they are once more covered take them out; repeat the operation a third time, until the kernels are twice their original size, when they are ready for use. If required, a few more drops of spinach colouring may be put in the last time of boiling. Time, about an hour. Probable cost, pistachios, 4s. per pound. Pistachio Macaroons. — Blanch seven ounces of pistachios and seven ounces of Jordan almonds, and pound them in a mortar to a smooth paste, adding the white of an egg —a few drops at a time. Put with these ingredients a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar, a table- spoonful of cura^oa, and a tea-spoonful of spinach juice for colouring. When the mixture is pounded to a smooth but firm paste, form it into balls nearly an inch in diameter, and lay those on a baking-sheet. Leave a little distance betwficn the macaroons, and bake in a gentle ovon until they are hard and set. Turn them upside down, and brush the back of the baking- sheot with a little water, which will make it easier to lift off the macaroons. Keep them in a cool, dry place until wanted. Time to bake the macaroons, .about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 28. per pound. Pistachio Nuts.—Pistachia or Pistachio nuts, (says McCuUoch), are the fruit of the Pistaehia vera, a kind of turpentine tree. It grows naturally in Arabia, Persia, and SjTna; al.so in Sicily, whence the nuts arc annually brought to us. They are oblong and pointed, about the size and shape of a filbert, including a kernel of a pale greenish colour, covered vnih a yellowish or reddish skin. They have a pleasant, sweet, unctuous taste, resembling that of sweet almonds; their principal difference from which consists in their having a greater degree of sweetness, accompanied with a light, grateful flavour; and in being more oily. Pis- tachios imported from the East are superior to those raised in Europe. Pistachio nuts have a tendency to become rancid. They are used on the Continent, in districts whore they are plentiful, in the manufacture of ragouts and various other dishes. When used in cookery they should be blanched and peeled like almonds. They are useful for garnishing. Plaice.—Plaice is a flat fish, and not very highly esteemed, excepting when soles, turbot, and salmon cannot be procured. It comes into season at the beginning of summer, and continues for the remainder of the year. It may be known to be in good condition when PLAICE. the body is thick and firm, the eyes bright, and the pale side shghtly tinged with pink. Plaice is never so nice as when filleted, dipped into egg and bread-crumbs, and fried. Probable cost, plaice, when plentiful, 6d. or 8d. each. Plaice, Baked.—Empty one or two mode- rate-sized plaice, sprinkle a little salt over them, let them lie a couple of hours, then drain them, and dry them well with a soft cloth. Cut them across into slices about two inches wide; then mince finely half an ounce of onions, spread a portion of this at the bottom of a baking-dish, and put with it an ounce of buttei or good beef dripping, and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley. Put the slices of plaice upon this, and cover with the remainder of the onion mixed with a little chopped parsley and some finely grated bread-crumbs. Add a little pepper and salt if necessary, lay an ounce of fat broken into pieces on the top of the fish, and pour in at the side a wine-glassful of stock or water. Put the dish into a well-heated oven. As soon as the flesh seems to shrink from the bone it is done enough. Servo the plaice with its own gravy. If the fish is not suificiently browned in the baking, hold a red-hot shovel over it for a minute or two. Time to bake, from ten to twenty minutes, according to size and thickness. Probable cost, plaice, when plentiful, 6d. or 8d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Plaice, Baked (au Gratin).—The larger the plaice for this purpose the better. Salt and drj' the fish, rinse it, and let it di-ain. Take an oval dish that ^viII hold the plaice and stand thePLA PLA ( 680 ) heat of tho oven. Smetir the bottom well with butter; then scatter over it a layer of gi-atod bread-crumbs and chopped parsley, with a little chopped shalot and three chopped mushrooms, if liked. On this lay the plaieo, white side uppermost; pour on it a toa-spooiiful of lomon- juicu and two table-spoonfuls of gravy; after- wards sprinkle on it fine bread-crumbs and pai-sley. Set the dish in the oven, which should be brisk enough to brown tho bread-crumbs. As soon as any juice comes away, baste the fish with it, and continue to do so till it is done enough. Serve in the dish in which it was baked, and just before serving .sprinkle over the fish a few drops of lemon-juice. Plaice, Boiled.—Empty and clean the fish. Cut a slit through the skin from the head down the back, to prevent the white side breaking in boiling. Put it into cold water with ^ a table-spoonful of salt, and a wine- glassful of vinegar. Let it boil, and carefully remove the scmn, then draw it to the side, and let it simmer gently until done enough. The time required will of course depend upon the size of the fish, and great care must be taken that the plaice does not break. Four or five minutes only will be sufiicient for a moderate-sized fish. As soon as the flesh appears to shrink from the bone it is done enough. Large plaice, however, are the best for boiling. Serve the plaice on a neatly-folded napkin, with shrimp sauce, pars- ley sauce, or plain melted butter, in a tureen. Garnish the fish with parsley or sliced lemon. Probable cost, when plentiful, 6d. or 8d. each. Sufficient, one moderate-sized plaice for two persons. Plaice, Broiled.—Next to frying this is the best way to treat plaice. Should the fish be inconveniently large, divide it, and broil the pieces by twos and threes. The fish can be cut up into squares by di^dsion along the backbone, and then transversed. Plaice, Choosing.—Kentish fishermen say the plaice is not at its best until it has tasted May water ; but it is eatable during the greater part of the year. When the fish is fresh, plump, clear-skinned, and with the orange spots on the back brightly coloured, it may be safely handed over for cooking. Plaice, Filleted.—Skin the plaice. Lay it flat on the table, and with the point of a sharp knife cut right down the back-bone. Insert the knife close to the head, slip it under the flesh, and pass it from head to tail. By this means the fillet may be removed entire and smooth. Trim the ends neatly, and the fish is ready to be fried or stewed. Almost all fish- mongers send tho plaice already filleted if desired to do so. Plaice, Filleted and Stewed with Oysters.—Fillet two or three moderate-sized plaice. Dry them with a soft cloth, sprinkle a little salt over them, dredge them lightly \vith flour, and fry them in plenty of hot dripping until they are nicely browned. Beard and drain a dozen oysters. Put their liquor into a fltewpan with a quarter of a pint of white stock or water, a glass of white wini, three anchovies, and a little pepper, salt, and <jratud nutmeg. Hunmer it gently for a few minutes, th(3n put in the fish with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and let it remain until the sauce is smooth and thick. A minute or two Ijofore serving the fish put in th(! bearded oysters. When they are hot, lay the plai(« on a hot dish, and serve the sauce round it. Time to fry the plaice, according to thickness, say until it is a bright golden colour. If the fish is very thick the pan should be held high above the fire. Probable cost of moderate-sized pkice when plentiful, 6d. or 8d. each. Sufficient for four or five persons. Plaice, Fried.— Fried plaice are best when they are filleted before they are fried {see Plaice, Filleted). Indeed this is by far the most satisfactory mode of dressing this fish. If preferred, the plaice may be cut across into pieces about two inches wide. Sprinkle a little salt over the fish, and let it lie for two or three hours. Dry it well, dredge it with flour, then dip it into beaten egg and fine bread-crumbs, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of bread raspings over the top, and fry the fish in plenty of hot fat until it is brightly coloured. Drain well, and serve on a hot napkin. Garnish with green parsley. If preferred the plaice may be simply' floured instead of being egged and breaded, or it may be fried in batter. (See Batter for Frying.) Plaice, Stewed.—Take two or three moderate-sized plaice, cut them into pieces about as wide as the length of a finger, sprinkle a little salt over them, and wrap them in a cloth for twenty minutes. Shce a moderate- sized onion, and fry it in a little hot fat until it is quite tender. Put it into a stewpan, lay the pieces of plaice on the top of it, and add the juice of five or six lemons, a wine-glassful of water, and a quarter of an ounce of ground ginger. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, and be careful not to let the liquid reach the boil- ing point. Lift the fish out, and place it on a hot dish. Let the sauce cool, stir ^udually into it three well-beaten eggs, and keep stirring over the fire imtil it begins to thicken, but it must not boil. Pour it over the fish, and serve hot. Garnish with slices of lemon. Time, altogether, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, according to the number of the fish, which, when plentiful, cost 6d. or 8d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Plain Pudding, Ellen's.—Line a pie or pudding-disli with thin slices of bread and butter. Peel, core, and slice some apples, lay them in layers in the centre of the lined dish, adding here and there a smaU lump of fresh butter, some grated lemon-peel, and sugar; fill up the dish, and lay at the top some thin slices of bread and butter soaked in cold milk. Cover the top with a plate or dish, and put a weight on it to press down tho fruit. Bake for three hours in a slow oven. An hour before the piulding is done enough remove the plate or dish and the weight, and let it brown on the top. When ready, turn it out of the pie-dish into the one on which it is to be sent to table. Plaits of Pastry .— Make half a pound of pufl^-pasle, and give it nine tunis {sec Puff- paste). Roll it out liU it is half a quarter of( 581 ) PLA PLA an inch in thickness, and cut it into strips the , third of an inch wide. Fasten three, four, or live of those together at the ends, moistening the pastry with a little water to make the pieces stick together; plait them evenly and loosely, and fasten them at the other end. Place the plaits on an oUed baking-tin, brush over them beaten egg, and bake in a well- heated oven. These plaits are useful for oma- | menting open tarts, or they may be sent to table on a separate dish, with small portions of jam of various colours placed in the empty spaces. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. Plantain, or Banana—This is the pulpy fruit of the Musa paradisiaea, an herbaceous plant extensively grown in most tropical coun- tries. It is especially cultivated in Mexico. It is used in these regions as an established article of diet, and not like most other fruits, as an occasional luxury. There are many varieties of plantain, the fruit of each possess- ing considerable variations of size, flavour, and shape. In some cases the plantain is not above two or three inches long; in others it is not far short of a foot; some kinds are sweet, and in flavour reminds one of a good mellow pear; the larger kinds, however, are for the most part coarse and farinaceous. "The banana," says McCulloch, " forms a principal part of the food of the people of Mexico, and the apathy and PLANTAIN. indolence of the natives of the tierraa calientes, or hot regions, have been ascribed, and pro- bably with good reason, to the facility with which it supplies them with subsistence. It is by no means in such extensive use in tropical Asia, and in that part of the globe comes no- where into competition with com as an article of food." Gerard says that the pulp of the plantain eats something like that of a musk melon : ho calls the plant Adam's apple-troe, from a notion that it was the forbidden fruit of tho garden of Eden. Others suppose that the plantain was the grape brought out of the Promised Land to Moses. Dampier says it is the king of all fruit, not excepting the cocoa-nut itself. Of the ease with which tho banana is culti- vated in its native region, M. Humboldt, in his £ssai siir la Nouvelle-iEspagne, gives some interesting particulars. "I doubt," he says, " whether there be any other plant that pro- duces so great a quantity of nutritive substance in so small a space. Eight or nine months after the sucker is planted it begins to develop its cluster. The fruit may be gathered in the tenth or eleventh month. When the stalk is cut there is always found, among the numerous shoots that have taken root, a sprout (pimpollo), which, being two-thirds the height of its parent plant, bears fruit two months later. Thus a plantation of bananas perpetuates itself, with- out requiring any care on the part of man, further than to cut the stalks when the fruit has ripened, and to stir the earth gently once or twice a year about the roots." PlantSjWild, Edible, and Poisonous. —In the olden time many vegetables and leaves were eaten which are now neglected, and our ancestors were content to season their homely dishes with wild herbs and plants which we despise. Commerce and horticulture have made us to a certain extent independent of the woods and fields. The subject of edible wild plants, however, ought not to be neglected. By the study of it we may not only upon an occasion increase our own resources, but be of service to the poor by pointing out what plants they may make use of in seasons of scarcity. All vegetables not absolutely poisonous may be rendered edible by proper preparation. Many sorts, for example, are unpalatable from their bitter and acrid taste ; but this may to a great degree be removed by maceration in cold or hot water. The vegetable matter once reduced to a state of insipidity, it is easy to give it taste and flavour by the addition of salt, or by vinegar or oUs, by adding other vegeta- bles of agreeable tastes and flavours, as thyme, mint, celerj'-seed, onions, &c., or by adding roasted carrot, parsnip, potato or dandelion roots, or beans, peas, or wheat, or toasted bread. The leaves of trees and bushes, as birch, beech, willow, and gooseberry, we are told, used to be eaten as salads, and there can be little doubt that man in a primitive state of society would eat almost any green thing that came in his way. For the following list of edible wild plants growing in England we are indebted to Lou- don's admirable "Encyclopaedia of Gardening." Plants that might be used as Greens AND Pot-herbs. Black Bryony (Tamus communis):—A twining perennial, found growing in hedges, and often thought a poisonous plant. The young leaves and tops are eaten in spring by country people. Burrock {Arctium lappa).—A well-known perennial, the tender stalks of which are frequently eaten when boiled. Charlock [Suiapis arvensis). — A common annual weed met with in corn-fields. Tho young plant is eaten in spring as a substitute for turnip-tops, and is considered not inferior to that vegetable. Chick WEEP (Alsine media). — A common( 682 ) PLA garden weed, said to be a remarkably good pot- herb boiled in the spring. Fat Hen {Chenopodium urbicum and Chcno- podiuin album).—Both those pknts are annuals, and are frequently met with amongst the rubbish of buildings, &c. Boiled and oaten as spinach, they are quite as good as that vegetable. "Several other native, but less conunon, species of this genus may be applied to the same use." Ox ToNQUK {Picris hieracioides). — An annual common in clayey pastures and wastes. When boiled it affords a good green. Sauce Alone, or Jack by the Hedge, {Erysimum alliaria).—A biennial plant, found beside hedges whore the soil is dry and rich. The stem rises two or three feet high, with heart-shaped leaves of a yellowish green colour; the flowers are white, and appear in May. The whole plant has a strong odour of garlic. It is occasionally employed as a salad, boiled as a pot-horb, or introduced in sauces. Neill observes that, when gathered as it approaches the flowering state, boiled separately, and then eaten with boiled mutton, it certainly forms a most desirable pot-herb, and, to any kind of salted meat, an excellent green. Sea Beet {Beta maritima).—A biennial com- mon on various sea-shores. It is used like the "Fat Hen." Sea Orache {Atriplex littoralis). — An annual which is eaten in the same manner as the Chenopodium. Shepherd's Purse {Capsella bursapastoris).— An esculent plant in Philadelphia, brought in large quantities to market early in the season. When boiled it tastes not imlike cabbage, but is softer and milder than that vegetable. Sow Thistle {Sonchus oleraceus).—A hardy annual, and a well-known weed in rich garden and field soils. There are two varieties, a prickly and a smooth, both abounding in a milky, bitter juice. The tender tops of the smooth variety are in some countries boiled and used as greens, or mashed as spinach. Spotted Hawkweed {Sypochceris maculata). —^A perennial, the leaves of which are eaten as salad, and also boiled as greens. Stinging Nettle [Zfrtica dioica).—"This perennial, foimd in dry, rubbishy soils, and in hedges, is but seldom seen in places where the hand of man has not been at work, and may therefore be considered as a sort of domestic plant. Early in February the tops will be found to have pushed three or four inches, furnished with tender leaves; in Scotland, Poland, and Germany, these are gathered as a pot-herb for soups, or for dishes like spinach, and their peculiar flavour is by many much esteemed. No plant is better adapted for forcing; and in severe winters, when most of the Brassica tribe have been destroyed, it forms an excellent resource. Collect the creeping roots, and plant them either on a hot bed or in pots, to be placed in a forcing-house, and they will soon send up abundance of tender tops; these, if desired, may be blanched by covering with other pots. We have known the nettle forced by being planted close to the flue in a vinery, so as to produce excellent nettle kail and nettle spinach in the last week of January." Wild Rocket (Smjmbrimn officinale). —A common annual of a yellowish hue, from two to throe foot high. It is sometimes uaed as a pot-lierb. In salading the tender young leaves greatly resemble mustard in taste and flavour. Willow Heuh {Epilobivm anyustifolium).— The leaves are a wholesome green, and the young and tender shoots are eaten as a«paragu8. Wild Plants with Edible Roots, Arrowhead {Sagittaria myittifolia). — An aquatic perennial, the roots of which are said to be very Uke those of the West India arrow- root {Maranta arundinacea). They are sometimes dried and pounded, but are reported to possfiss an acrid, unpleasant taste, though this might, it is believed, be got rid of by washing the powder in water. Bitter Vetch or Mouse Pea {Orobus tu- berosus).—"The tubers are said to be chewed by the Scottish Highlanders as a substitute for tobacco. Boiled till a fork will pass through them, and dried slightly and roasted, they are served up in HoUand and Flanders in the maimer of chestnuts, which they resemble in flavour. Dickson recommends cultivating them in a bed or border of light rich soil paved at the depth of twentj' inches to prevent their roots from .running down. Plant the tubers six inches apart, and three inches below the surface. The second year some will be fit to gather, and by taking only the largest, the bed will continue producing for several years by adding some fresh compost every year." Common Arum {Arum maculatu/m).—^A com- mon plant in hedges and woods in loamy soils. It is very abundant in the island of Portland, where the roots used to be dug up by the country people, macerated and steeped. The powder so obtained was dried, and sent to London, where it was sold under the name of Portland Starch. Common Comfrey {Symphytum officinale).— This plant has tuberculated roots and succulent stems, both abounding in farinaceous matter. When it is cultivated and the stalks blanched, they are not only wholesome, but agreeable. Eap.th Nut {Bunium bulbocastanum). — A bulbous perennial. Its roots are eaten raw, and are considered a delicacy by some people. In Sweden they are highly esteemed, being made there an article of trade. Besides being eaten raw, the roots are sometimes stewed as chestnuts. Goat's Beard {Tragopoyon prafen^is).—The roots of this plant are thought to be equal to those of the Viper's Grass or Spanish Salsify {which see), if not superior. Marsh Clown's All-heal {Stachyspalustris). —A plant frequently met with in moist rich cornfields. It increases rapidly by means of its creeping roots, and forms on those, during the summer, a number of thickened, elongated, tuberous-looking buds, which are rich in a sweet farinaceous matter. \^Tien planted in a rich soil the roots become large and tender,, and furnish a delicacy in the winter season. Meadow Sweet {Spireea Filipcndula). — A perennial common is most meadows whore tho soil is boggy or inrlinod to peat. The tubers are ground and made into bread in Sweden.( 683 ) PLA PLA Sago (Orchis Morio).—This is a plant par- ticuliu-ly abundant in the Vale of Gloucester. The powder of its roots is used in making the beverage called salop. 'PiLsvroTLT {Itanunculus Ficaria).—The young leaves are boiled in spring by the common people in Sweden, and eaten as greens. " The roots are sometimes washed bare by the rain, 80 that the tubercles appear above ground, and in this state have induced the ignorant in super- stitious times to fancy that it rained wheat, which these tubercles somewhat resemble." Silver-weed [Potentilla anserina).—The roots of this plant are frequently eaten in Scot- land, either roasted or boQed. They taste like parsnips. Solomon's-Seal {Fohjgonatum vulgare).—The young shoots are boUed and eaten as greens. The roots are sometimes dried, ground, and made into bread. Tree Primrose, or German Rampion (CEnotkera biennis).—A native of Virginia,but naturalised in some parts of England. When the plant is cultivated like the carrot or parsnip its roots are crisp and sweet. Viper's Grass, or Spanish Salsify [Scor- zonera hispanica). — This plant was once be- lieved to be an antidote to the bite of the adder: it is now used merely as a dietetic plant. The ■ roots are fleshy and not unlike carrots and par- snips. When boiled their flavour is very like that of asparagus. Edible Leguminous Wild Plants. Sea-peas (Pisum maritimum).—The taste of the sea-pea is bitter and disagreeable: when more pleasant food is to be had it is therefore let alone. In 1555, however, when there was a great famine in England, the seeds of the sea- pea were employed as food, and by this means thousands of fives were saved. Wild Vetches {Lathyra, Vicia, and Ervum). The seeds of all the British species of these genera may be employed as peas. They are met with in hedges, woods, and cornfields, and are particularly abimdant in dry seasons. Wild Plants that maybe employed as Salads. Ladies'-Smock (Cardamine pratensis). — The leaves furnish an agreeable acrid salad not un- like the American cress. BucKSHORN Plantain, or Star op the Earth {Plantago coronopiis).—A hardy annual, a native of Britain, met with in sandy soils. It used to be cultivated as a salad herb, and em- ployed like the common cress; now, however, it is neglected, probably on account of its rank and disagreeable.smell. _ Dandelion [Leontodon Taraxacum).—A na- tive of Britain, a hardy perennial, well known to every one, and regarded by gardeners as a troublesome weed. It may be used as salad, and the root is much employed by the poor in some continental districts as a substitute for coffee. The young roots and also the blanched leaves, which considerably resemble those of endive, are sometimes eaten in France with thm slices of bread and butter. Ox-eye Daisy {Ghrymnthcmim leucanthe- mum). — A perennial plant common in dry pastures. Salad Burnet {Poteriim Sanguitorba).—The leaves of the salad bumet smeU and taste just like cucumber. Sea Bindweed {Convolvulussoldanella).—This plant is plentiful on the sea-coasts, where the natives gather the tender stalks and pickle them. Stonecrop, or Orpine [Sedum telephium).— The leaves of the stonecrop are eaten in salads like those of purslane, to which the French hold it to be equal. Sweet Cicely [Seandix odorata).—The leaves of this plant used to be employed like those of the chervil. The green seeds ground small and used with lettuce and other cold salads impart to them a warm agreeable taste. Wild Plants furnishing a Substitute for Tea. Speedwell [Veronica spieata).—This is occa- sionally employed as a substitute for tea: it is said to have an astringent taste Hke green tea. Spring Grass {Anthoxanthum odoratum).—A decoction of this highly odoriferous grass is said strongly to resemble tea. Black-currant leaves also furnish a very good substitute for green tea, and those of Saxifraga crassifoHa are reported to be used as tea in Siberia. Betonica ofiicinalis is held by some to have the taste and all the good qualities of foreign tea vnthout the bad ones. Miscellaneous Edible Wild Plants. Butterworth [Pinguicula vulgaris).—In Lap- land and the north of Sweden the inhabitants pour milk warm from the cow on this plant, thus giving it the consistency of cream. They then strain it immediately, and lay it aside for two or three days till it acquires a degree of acidity. '' This milk they are extremely fond of; and once made they need not repeat the use of the leaves as above, for a spoonful of less of it will coagulate another quantity of warm milk, and make it like the first, and so on as often as they please to renew their food. Cow-parsnip (Seracleum sphondylimn).—In Kamschatka, about the beginning of July, the natives collect the footstalks of the radical leavef of this plant, peel oflE the rind, and dry them separately in the sun. They then fasten them in bundles, and lay them up carefully in the shade. Shortly afterwards these dried stalks are covered over with a yellow saccharine efflorescence tasting like liquorice, and in this state they are eaten as a delicacy. The Russians not only eat the stalks thus prepared, but manage to get a very intoxicating spirit from them. Heath [Erica vulgaris).—The young tops of the heath are said to have been once used alone to brew a kind of ale, and even now the inhabi- tants of some of the Scottish isles manufacture a very potable liquor by mixing two-thirds of the tops of the heath with one of malt. Substitutes for Capers. — Amongst these are the flower-buds of the marsh marigold, the young seed-pods of the common radish, and the unripe seeds of the garden nastiu-tium. Poisonous Plants to be avoided in searching FOR Edible Wild Plants. " The principal poisonous plants, natives, or growing in Britain," says Loudon, "are the following : the whole for obvious reasons ought to be known at sight by every gardener;—.PLO ( 684 ) PLO " Bitter poisons, for which acids, astringents, wine, spirits, and spices, ai-e useful correctives :— Chelidonium majus, Cicuta virosa, Colchicuiu autumnale, (Enanthe crocata, Cerasus Lauro- corasus. The berries of the last-named are used for pies and puddings in the neighbour- hood of Moor Park, Hertfordshire, but the leaves are deleterious. "Acrid poisons, which should be counteracted by powerful astringents, as bark, and after- wards the stomach restored by soft mucilaginous matters, as milk, fat broth, &c.:—Aconitum Napellus and Lycoctonum, Actsea spicata, Rhus Toxicodendron. "Stupefying poisons, to be counteracted by vegetable acids and emetics:—^thusa Cyna- pium, Atropa Belladonna, Datura Stramonium, Hyoscyamus niger, Solanum Dulcamara and ni- grum, Lactuca virosa, Apium graveolens. The two last-named plants, it is well known, aflEord, in_ a cultivated state, lettuce and celery, but wild, in hedges and ditches, they are poisonous. " Foetid poisons, to be attacked by ether, wine, or acids :—Coniimi macidatum. Digitalis purpurea, HeUeborus foetidus, Juniperus Sabina, Scrophulaxia aquatica. " Drastic poisons, to be corrected by acids, alkalies, and astringents:—Asclepias syriaca, Bryonia dioica, Euphorbia Lathja-is and amyg- daloides, Mercurialis perennis and annua, Peri- ploca grajca, Veratrum album." Plomb, Gateau de (see Gateau de Plomb). Plombiere's Ice.—Blanch and peel six ounces of Jordan almonds and ten bitter ones. Dry them in a soft cloth, and pound to a smooth paste with a little orange-flower water. Stir this paste into a pint and a half of boiling milk, then press the liquid through a jelly-bag. Mix ten yolks of eggs,well beaten with the milk, and stir the custard over a moderate fire imtil it begins to thicken. Take it off the fii-e, stir two or three minutes longer, and strain it once more through a tamis. When cold freeze it, and when it is ready for serving mould three rings of the iced cream, diminishing in size as they go up. Fill the centre with apricot jam, and serve. Time, about ten minutes to boil the custard. Suificient for six or seven persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Plover.—Though several kinds of plover are knoAvn to naturalists, two species onl}' are recognised in cookery—the golden plover and the grey plover. The golden plover is the commoner, and the grey plover the larger of the two, though both are smaller than a woodcock. They are pleasantly-flavoured birds, and are best when roasted lilce woodcock without being drawn. In favourable weatlior they wiU keep good some time, and are bettor for being kept. They are at their best from September to January. The eggs of the plover are highly esteemed. Plover, Golden, Roasted.—Truss like woodcock, and roast before a brisk fire. Put a slice of the toasted crumb of bread about half an inch thick imder the birds, and baste con- stantly with butter until suflBciently cooked. Serve the plovers on the toast, which should be well saturated with the basting and the trail. Pour some good gravy over them in the dish {nvc Gravy for Game). Time, about a qiiai-t<ir of an hour to roast. Probable cost, 28. Gd. per brace. Sufficient, a brace for two persons. THE GOLDEN PLOVEE. Plovers, Choosing of. — Choose those birds which feel hard at the vent, which shows they are fat. In other respects plovers should be selected by the same marks as other fowls. When stale, the feet are dry. Plovers wiU keep a long time. In consequence of a pecu- liarity in the flavour of the plover, the bird is not universally liked; by some, however, it is a favourite. The grey plover is superior, as game, to the green. Plovers' Eggs.—Plovers' eggs are es- teemed a great delicacy. They are usually boiled hard, and sent to table either hot or cold. If hot thej' should be placed on a napkin; if cold in a moss-lined basket. They are frequently shelled, and served with good white sauce or brown gravy poured over them; or used as a garnish for salads. Half a dozen plovers' eggs neatly arranged in a moss basket form a ver^' pretty addition to the breakfast-table. One of the little baskets in which fruit is sold by the greengrocers may be utilised for the purpose. It should have a twist of wire fastened into it for a handle, then be brushed* over with gum, and both handle and basket entirely covered with green. If no other moss is at hand, I packets may be bought at the greengrocer's for I a trifling sum. Time to boil the eggs, ten minutes. Probable cost, uncertain. SufBcient —aUow one or two for each person. Plovers' Eggs {see also Eggs, Plovers'). Plovers Priedwith English Truffles. Pluck foiu- plovers, and truss tliom as if for roasting. Lay them breast downwards in a stewpan, with four ounces of fresh butter and seven or eight raw truffles which have been washed perfectly clean, \Nnped, pared very thin, and cut into slices about the size of a ])onny. Add two cloves, a bay-leaf, and a little salt and pepper. Stir the whole gently over a sharp iiro for ten minutes, then pour in a pint of stock which has been smoothly mixed with a dessert-PLO ( 686 ) PLTI spoonful of flour, and a glass of sherry. Sim- mer gently by the side of the fire for twenty minutes, luid skim the liquid carefully. Place the bii-ds on a hot dish. Boil the sauce quickly till it is thick and smooth, flavour with the strained juice of a lemon, add a small lump of sugar and half a tea-spoonful of browning, and pour it hot over the birds; serve imme- diately. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, plovers, 2s. 6d. per brace. Sufficient for five or six people. Plovers, Pie of.—Pluck, draw, and skin three plovers, and truss them as for roasting. Lay half a potmd of rump steak cut into convenient-sized pieces at the bottom of a moderate-sized pie-dish, and season these rather highly with pepper and salt. Lay the birds upon them, and beside each bird place the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Clean a dozen moderate-sized mushrooms, cut the stalks ofl:', and lay them at the top of the pie. Pour in half a pint of good brown gravy. Line the edges of the dish with pufp-paste, cover it with the same, ornament prettUy, make a hole in the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake the pie, about an hour and a half. Sufficient for five or six persons. Plovers, Roasted. — Pluck a brace of plovers without di-awing them, and wipe them well outside with a damp cloth. Truss them with the legs close to the body, and the feet pressing upon the thighs; bring the head round under the wing. Put them down to a clear fire. Lay in the pan slices of toast, one slice for each bird, first moistening it in good gravy, and baste the plovers liberally. A few minutes before they are done dredge a little flour over them, and let them be nicely frothed. Spread the trail which has dropped from the birds evenly upon the toast, and serve the birds upon it. A little melted butter may be sent to table in a tureen. Time to roast the birds, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, plovers, 2s. 6d. a brace. Sufficient for two persons. ^ Plovers, Stewed.—Pluck and draw % brace of plovers. Mince the trail, and mix with it two ounces of finely-shred beef suet, four roasted chestnuts pounded, the yolks of two hard-boiled, eggs, and two artichoke bottoms boUed and minced; mix these ingredients thoroughly, and season rather highly with pepper and salt. Fill the birds with the force- meat, and truss them as if for roasting. Put them side by side in a stewpan just large enough to hold them, pour over them three- quarters of a pint of good brown gravy, and add a glass of port or claret, a table-spoonful of strained lemon-j nice, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, three or four mushrooms, or, failing this, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a little pepper and salt if required. Cover the saucepan closely, and stew gently for half an hour. Take up the birds, and put them in a hot dish. Strain the gravy, and thicken it with a dessert-spoonful of brown thickening. If this is not at hand, a little may bo made by mixing equal proportions of flour and butter, and stirring the paste quickly over a gentle fire for three minutes, then putting it into the sauce, and boiling it until smooth. Pour the gravy round the birds, and garnish the dish with plovers' eggs boiled hard, shelled, cut into quarters, and plficed round it. Time to stew, half an hour. Probable cost, plovers, 2s. 6d. per brace. Sufficient for two or three persons. Plum.—The plum is an agreeable and refreshing though not very wholesome fruit. There are several varieties, and these may be cooked in a great many ways, all of which are generally acceptable. This fruit, if eaten when unripe or unsound, is almost sure to bi'ing on diarrhoea. It is not so objectionable when cooked. Plum and Pear Jam without Sugar. —Take half a peck of ripe pears, and another of ripe plums. Peel and stone them. Pour a cupful of good cider into a preserving-pan with the fruit, and a quarter of an oimce of powdered cloves. Let the mixture boil gently, with in- cessant stirring, until it is thick and smooth, and be very careful that it does not bum to the bottom of the pan. Pour it into jars, cover with brandied paper and bladder, and store in a cool dry place. Time, about two hours. Plum Beverage, Prench, for In- valids.—Take half a dozen fine French plums. Put them into a stewpan with a pint of boiling water, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Pour them into a bowl. When cold take out the plums (which may be put aside for eating), sweeten the liquid according to taste, stir into it a table-spoonful of port, and it is ready for use. Probable cost, 6d. Suf- ficient for one person. Plum Buds, to Pickle.—Throw the buds into plenty of hot salt and water, and let them simmer gently untU they are soft. Strain the liquid from them, and let them get quite cold. BoU as much white-wine vinegar as wiU cover them, and flavour according to taste with mace and white pepper. Pour the liquid over the buds, and let them lie in it eight or nine days. Afterwards boil them in the vinegar until they turn green. Pour them into bottles, and when cold cover closely, and store for use. Probable cost uncertain, plum buds being seldom offered for sale. Plum Buns made with Yeast.—Mix half a tea-spoonful of salt with three pounds of best flour. Rub into this three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter or good beef di-ip- ping. Put the mixture into a bowl, and make a hole in the centre. Moisten an ounce of German yeast smoothly and gradually with three-quarters of a pint of lukewarm water. If preferred, a quarter of a pint of good brewer's yeast may be substituted for the German yeast. Put the yeast into the hollow, and mix with it a little of the flour tiU it is like thin batter, then put it on the hearth for about an hour to sponge. Whisk two fresh eggs, and mix with them twelve ounces of moist sugar. Stir them into the yeast, and knead the dough thoroughly with a pint of warm milk. Cover with a cloth, and let the dough stand \mtil it is lightly risen. It will require about an hour and a half. Add si.x oimces of well-washed and dried currants, mould the dough into buns( 686 ) PLU PLU about the size of a lai'go ogg, place thorn in rows upon a buttered baking-tin, with fully three inches between thorn, and set them before the fire for about ton minutes to rise. Bake in a brisk ovon for about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for about throe dozen buns. Plum Buns without Yeast, Plain- Mix thoroughly a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda with a tea-spoonful of tartaric acid. Rub this and half a tea-spoonful of salt into two pounds of flour. Work in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and add a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a quarter of a pound of washed and dried currants, and, if liked, a few caraway seeds. Make a hole ia the centre of the flour, and pour into this two eggs which have been well beaten and mixed with a pint of lukewarm milk. Stir all quickly with a knife, and when the dough is ready mould it into bims, place these on a buttered baking-tiii, and bake in a brisk oven for a quarter of an hour or more. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for about two dozen buns. Plum Cake.—Mix a piach of salt and a dessert-spoonful of baking-powder with one poimd of flour. Rub into this a quarter of a pound of good beef dripping, and add a quarter of a pound of sugar, and half a pound of picked and dried currants, one oimce of finely minced lemon-peel, and half a nutmeg grated. Make the mixture into a stiff dough with new milk, pour it into a buttered tin, and bake imme- diately for about an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for a moderate-sized cake. Plum Cake {see Currant Cakes). Plum Cake (another way).—Beat one pound of butter to a cream, and mix with it three well-beaten eggs, two pounds of best flour, one pound of currants, one poimd of sugar, five heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking- powder, and a pinch of salt. Mix rather lightly with lukewarm milk. Put the dough into buttered tins, and bake immediately. This cake is very good, but does not improve with keeping more than a day or two. Time to bake, one or two hours, according to the size of the tins. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for two or three cakes. Plum Cake, Excellent. — Mix three tea-spoonfuls of baking powder and half a tea- spoonful of salt with one pound of flour. Rub into this half a pound of butter, lard, or sweet beef dripping, or portions of each. Add three- quarters of a poimd of washed, dried, and picked currants, a quarter of a pound of stoned and chopped raisins, half a pound of moist sugar, two ounces of candied peel cut into narrow strips, and a small nutmeg grated. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Whisk two eggs for five or six minutes. Mix with them four drops of almond essence and a little milk now-milk-warm. Stir this into the flour, and add as much milk as will make it into a light dough. Put it into a large buttered tin, or two small ones, and bake im- mediately for one or two hours, according to the size of the tins. Probable cost, 2s. Suf- ficient for a good-sized cake. Plum Cake made with Soda.—Rub a quai-tor of a pound of butter into a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, half a poimd of sugar, half a pound of washed and dried currants, and two ounces of cjindiod pool cut into shreds. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, then beat them into a paste with half a pint of milk. Dissolve a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda in two table- spoonfuls of warm milk. Stir this into the dough, and beat it again thoroughly. Put it into a buttered tin, and bake in a well-heated oven from an hour and a half to two hours. Sufficient for a good-sized cake. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Plum Cake made with Soda (another way).—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream. Add two eggs thoroughly whisked, four ounces of powdered sugar, and a quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda dissolved in two table-spoonfuls of warm milk. Beat the batter thoroughly, then work in gradually a pound of best flour and a quarter of a pound of washed and dried currants. Beat the dough thoroughly for several minutes, pour it into a buttered tin, and bake in a well-heated oven for about an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Suf- ficient for a moderate-sized tin. Plum Cake, New York.—Prepare all the ingredients before beginning to mix the cake. First of all, wash and pick two poimds of currants, and put them to dry. l^Iix thoroughly a quarter of an ounce each of ground cloves, ground cinnamon, ground mace, and grated nutmeg. Cut a pound of citron into thin strips. Stone two pounds of raisins, and chop them slightly. Beat separately the yolks and whites of eight eggs. Beat a pound of butter to a Smooth cream ; add a pound of sugar, the eight eggs, and, very gradually, keeping on beating all the time, one pound of flour, two pounds of raisins, two poimds of currants, the powdered spice, and as much water as will make a smooth batter. If preferred, a wine-glassful of brandy or of rose-water and a wine-glassful of orange- flower water may be used instead of the plain water. Beat the cake fuUy three-quarters of an hour. Line the tins with two folds of buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate ovep. Two or three folds of paper should be placed under and over the cake, to prevent it burning. This cake may be iced according to the directions which follow. Time to bake, about four hours if made in one cake. Probable cost, 6s., exclusive of the brandy or rose-water. Sufficient for one large or three small cakes. Plum Cake, Plain, for Family use. —Take three pounds of best flour, and mix with it a dessert-spoonful of salt. Make a hole in the centre, and pour in an ounce of German yeast, which has been gradually and perfectly moistened and blended with half a pint of lukewarm water. Stir to this as much of the surrounding flour as will make a batter, then throw a cloth over the bowl, and put it near the fire for about an hour. When the yeast has risen to the top of the flour, cut up half a pound of butter, lard, or good beef dripping. Dissolve this in half a pint of hot nulk, and add as much cold milk as v.oil makePLU PLU ( 587 ) it new-nulk-wann. A beaten egg or two may be added or not, and a grated nutmeg, or hail an oimce of powdered aUspice. Put in hall a pound of brown sugar, and knead aU weU to°'ether, adding a little more mUk if necessary. Cover it again, and set it to rise for about an hour, until it is very Ught, then add halt a pound of stoned and chopped raisms, and three quarters of a pound of washed and dried cur- rants. Put the dough into half a dozen well- greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven. In order to ascertain whether or not a cake is suf- ficiently baked, plunge the blade of a kniEe into the middle of it; if it comes out clean the cake is done enough. Time to bake, one hour or more, according to the size of the loaves. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for six smaU or three moderate-sized cakes. Plum Cake, Plain, made with. Baker's Dough.—Those who are not m the habit of making bread at home often find it difficult to do so. This difficulty may be easily overcome if they will procure a little dough from the baker's, and proceed as follows:-—Take two pounds of dough. Put it at once into a basin, cover with a thick cloth, and let it rise. Place it on a floured paste-board, sprinkle over it a tea-spoonful of baking-powder, and add a quarter of a pound of lard or butter broken into small pieces, a quarter of a pound of_ moist sugar, a quarter of a pound of stoned raisins, a quarter of a pound of washed and dried currants, a few caraway-seeds, if liked, and a grated nutmeg. Knead thoroughly with as much luke- warm milk as is necessary. Butter some tins; half fill them with the dough, place them on the hearth imtil the dough has risen so that they are three parts full, then bake the cakes in a well- heated oven. Plunge a knife into the middle of each; when it comes out clean they are done enough. Time to bake, one to two hours, according to the size of the tins. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for three small loaves. Plum Cake, Rich.—Put a pound and a half of butter into a good-sized bowl, and with the hand beat it to a cream. Mix with it the whites of eight fresh eggs whisked to a froth, and afterwards the yolks well beaten, and add a dessert-spoonful of salt, a povmd of powdered sugar, a pound and a half of flour, two pounds of currants washed, picked, and dried, eight ounces each of candied lemon and citron cut into narrow strips, half an ounce of mixed spices, consisting of nutmeg, cinnamon, and allapice, all pounded to a powder, half a pound of almonds, blanched and pounded, the rind of four oranges rubbed upon three or four lumps of sugar and then powdered. Add each ingre- dient separately, and beat it well in before adding another. A glassful of brandy may be stirred in if liked. If this cake is to be light, it should be beaten fully three-quarters of an hour. Lino a tin with double folds of buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake the cake in a moderate oven. Put twelve folds of paper under the cake, and four or five on the top of it, to prevent it burning. Time to bake, three hours if made in one cake, one hour and a half each if made into two. Probable cost, 5a. 6d., without the brandy. Sufficient for one large or two small cakes. Plum Cake, Rich, Icing for.—Kich plum cakes are much improved if they are covered with almonds and sugar icing. They may then be used as twelfth cakes. The almond paste is made as follows:—Blanch and peel half a pound of almonds. Pound them in a moiiar to a smooth paste, and whilst pounding add a few drops of orange-flower water to keep them from oiling. Mix with them one pound of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and add sufficient white of egg to make a soft paste. Bake the cake, and let it get cold. Spread the almond paste smoothly over it, and when it is hard cover with sugar icing about a quarter of an inch thick. To make the sugar icing, take the whites of two or, if necessary, three eggs, and do not beat them. Mix with them two pounds of icing sugar to make a stiffish paste that will not run, and add a few drops of lemon-juice occasionally. Mix, but do not work, the icing, and spread it evenly on the cake with hands which have been dipped in cold water, put it in a cool oven or hot screen mtil it is dry and hard. Ornament it in any way that fancy suggests. liaised and mottoed ornaments may be fastened upon it, or a smaU portion of the icing may be made thicker with a little more sugar, and then be squeezed through the small end of a piece of paper twisted in the form of a sugar-bag, to make a piping. Plum Cheese, made from Plums which have been used for Jelly.— Skin and stone the plums from which the juice has been strained. Weigh them, and boil them until dry. Mix one pound of powdered loaf sugar with every three pounds of fruit, and boil it again imtil the pulp leaves the sides of the pan with the spoon. Press it into shallow moulds, cover it as jam is covered, and store in a cool dry place. Time to boil, one hour and a quarter to boil the fruit by itself, half an hour to boil it with the sugar. Plum Jam.—The directions for making various kinds of plum jam are given under the name of the plum itself. There are so many varieties of this fruit, and these differ so much in quality and sweetness, that hardly any general recipe can be given. Nevertheless, as there are numerous occasions, especially in towns, where fruit is bought without its distinctive name being known, the following instructions are given, as it will answer for most kinds of the fruit. It must be remembered that when the plums are very hard and sour a larger proportion of sugar will be required. Divide the plums, and take out the stones; or, if preferred, merely gash them with a silver knife, and remove the stones as they rise in the pan. Spread the plums out on large dishes, sprinkle over them three pounds of sugar to every four pounds of fruit, and let them remain for twenty-four hours. Put them into a preserving-pan, and bring them gently to a boil, stii-ring them with a wooden spoon to keep them from burning. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, afterwards boil them quickly for a quarter of an hour. If I hked, a few of the stones can be cracked, and the( 588 ) PLU PLU kernels peeled and added to the jam two or three minutes before the jam is taken from the fire. "When the jam sets and the plums are tender, the preparation is sufficiently boiled. Plum Jam without Sugar.—Take a gallon of ripe elderberries. Strip them from their stems, put them into a deep earthen jar, place this in a saucepan of water, and keep it boiling until the juice flows freely. Tress the juice througli a strainer, put it into a pre- serving-pan with two gallons of dry ripe plums (mussel plums are the most suitable for the purpose), a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cloves, and six inches of thin lemon-rind finely minced. Let the jam boil gently for two hours or more until it is thick and smooth: stir frequently to keep it from burning. Turn it while hot into stone jars, and when it is cold pour boiling mutton suet over it, or cover with brandied paper and bladder. Store in a cool dry place. Plum Jelly.—Take four pounds of sound, ripe, red plums. Boil them in four quarts of water until the liquid is reduced to three pints. Strain through a jelly-bag, and vdth each pint of juice put a poimd of sugar. Boil the syrup until it jellies. Pour into small jars, and cover in the usual way. Or, put the plums into a deep earthen jar, cover it closely, and set it in a pan of boiling water, which must be kept boiling until the plimis yield their juice readily. Pour the juice from them, strain, and measure it; then boil it quickly for twenty-five minutes. Put with it three pounds of sugar for every four pints of juice, and boil it until it will stiffen. In either of the above cases the plums from which the j nice has been strained may be sweetened and used for common pies; or they may be made into plum paste for dessert. Plum Kalteschale (a German dish for hot weather).—Take one pound of sound ripe plums. Put them into a deep earthen jar, sprinkle over them a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, and pour half a pint of water over them. Tie two or three folds of paper over the jar, and set it in a pan three-parts full of boil- ing water, which must be kept boiling until the plums are quite soft; then lift the jar out, and put it aside until the next day. Press the pulp through a tamis. Crack the stones, and boil the kernels, with the thick part which will not pass the strainer, half a stick of cinnamon, and two cloves, in half a pint of water for twenty minutes. Strain the liquid into the fruit. Add a little sugar to taste, and wine—claret for red plums, and light Ehine wine for green ones— with a little more water, if liked. Serve the fruit in a compote dish, with a slice of toast cut into dice, and thrown when cold into the fruit. Time, two days to prepare. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for four or rive persons. Plum Loaf, Plain.—Put two pounds of best flour into a bowl, and mix with it half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a pound of picked and dried cnrrants. four ounces of moist sugar, and half a nutmeg grated. Didsolvo half an ounce of German yeast very gradually in three-quar- ters of a fjint of lukuwunn milk, in wljich has been dissolved four ounces of butter or good beef dripping. Stir this into the flour, and knead it to a smooth dougli. Put a cover over tlie bowl, and set it to rise for about an hour. Make it up into a loaf, put it into a butUjred tin, and bake in a moderate oven. If preferred, a table-spoonful of solid brewer's yea^t or two dessert-spoonfuls of baking-powder may be used instead of tlic German yeast. In order to ascertain whether the loaf is sufficiently baked, put a skewer into it; if it comes out clean and dry, the cake is done. It is perhaps a better plan to knead in the sugar, currants, and spice after the dough has risen (as in Plum Cake, Plain). Plum Lozenges for Dessert.—Put a pound of ripe ami sound Orleans plums into a jar, and place them in a saucepan of boil- ing water over the fire until they are so soft that the stones can be removed. AVhilst this is being done, soften in the same way half a pound of cored and sliced apples. Turn both plums and apples into a preserving-pan. Put with them the juice of half a lemon and three-quarters of a pound of sugar, and boil quickly for three-quarters of an hour. Stir well to keep the fruit from burning. Pour the paste upon shallow dishes, and when it is cold cut it into lozenges, and dry these on a sieve before the fire. Keep them between sheets of writing-paper in a tin box. Plum Marmalade. — Pick the stalks from the fruit, weigh it, gash it with a silver knife, and put it into a preserving-pan. Let it simmer gently until the fruit is quite soft, lift out the stones as they rise to the sur- face, and keep the plums well stirred to pre- vent their burning. Press the pulp through a coarse sieve. Mix with it three-quarteis ut a pound of sugar to a pint of pulp, and boil gently, stii-ring constantly till the marmalade is very thick. Pour tlie marmalade into jelly- pots, and cover closely. Plum Paste Sweetmeats. — Put the plums into a preser\dng-pan with just enough water to cover them, and let them simmer until quite soft. Strain' the juice from them, and pass them through a sieve. Stir the pulp over the fire until it is quite dry. Great care vn]} be required to keep it from burning. Weigh it, and mix one pound of powdered sugar with each pound of pulp. Stir it again over the fire until it leaves the pan with the spoon. Spread it out on a shallow dish, and as soon as it is cold stamp it into squares, diamonds, or rounds, and put these in a warm place until they are quite dry. When cold, store them in layers in tin boxes, with a sheet of writing-paper between each layer. If preferred, the paste may be kept in small jars, and covered over like j(>lly. Plum paste may be made of the plums from which jelly has been made. Time, according to the quality of the plums. Plum Porridge or Broth.—Plum por- ridge was a favounte dish two hundred years ago, but it is now almost obsolete, as it has been superseded by plum pudding.^ The fol- lowing is a recipe of Uueen Anne's time:—Take ten pounds of the shin of beef, and two pounds of the neck, and boil these in three giillons of water for five hours. Strain the liquor, and skim carefully. Put it back into the saucepan, with three pounds of stoned I'ai- sins, tlu-ee pounds of stewed prunes, and two pounds of currants, and let the fruit boil gently for an houi-. Take the crumb of a twopenny loaf, dip it into the liquid, and beat it smoothly •with a fork. Mix with it the pulped prunes, an ounce of powdered cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cloves, half an ounce of grated nutmeg, and a quarter of an ounce of powdered mace. Put thip mixture into the soup to thicken it, and boil for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time to keep the soup from burning. Add sufficient s^igar to suit the taste, a little salt, a quart of claret, and half a pint of sack. Cut some white bread into dice. Lay it in a soup tureen, put a piece of the meat ower it, pour in the broth, and serve. Plum Pudding, Apple {see Apple Plum Pudding). Plum Pudding, Baked.—Shred finely half a pound of beef suet. Mix with it a salt- spoonful of salt, a pound of flour, a heaped tea-spoonful of baking-powder, half a poxmd of picked and dried currants, half a pound of stoned raisins, one ounce of candied peel cut into thin strips, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Moisten them with an egg beaten up with as much milk as will make a thick batter. Pour this into a buttered dish, and bake in a well-heated oven. Turn the pudding out before serving, and strew powdered sugar thickly over it before sending it to table. For a plain pudding, the egg and half the fruit may be omitted. Time to bake, from an hour and a half to two hours. Pro- bable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Plum Pudding, Baked, without Suet.—Grate finely half a pound of the crumb of a stale loaf. Pour over it half a pint of boiling milk, and beat into it whilst warm four ounces of butter. Let it stand until cold, then add a quarter of a pound of picked currants, a quarter of a pound of chopped raisins, three ounces of moist sugar, an ounce and a halB of candied peel cut into shreds, half a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Beat all these ingredients smoothly together; add two weU-beaten eggs and a table-spoonful of brandy if liked. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, and bake in a weU-hesited oven. Turn the pudding out before serving, and sift powdered sugar thickly over it. This pudding can be steamed instead of baked. When this is done, the basin which contains it should be put into a saucepan upon a plate which has been turned upside down. Boiling water, three inches deep, should be poured round it, and this should be kept boiling antil the pudding is done enough. It is very good cold. Time to bake or steam, an hour and a quarter. Proliablo cost. Is. 2d. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Plum Pudding, Christmas {see Christ- mas Plum Pudding). Plum Pudding, Cottage {see Cottage Plum Pudding). Plum Pudding, Economical.—Shred a quarter of a pound of beef suet very finely; mix with it three-quarters of a pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of bread-crumbs, half a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, half a pound of currants, half a pound of moist sugar, the peel of a lemon finely shred, and half a nutmeg grated. Mix the dry ingre- dients thoroughly, and stir in with them six weU-beaten eggs and as much milk as is re- quired to make a stiff paste. Put the pudding into a floured cloth, and tie it up, not too tightly, but leaving room for it to sweU. Put it into a pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly for five hours. Do not turn it out of the cloth until just before it is to be served. Send sweet sauce to table in a tureen. If pre- ferred, three eggs only may be used, and three heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder. Pro- bable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Plum Pudding, Excellent.—Take six ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and mix with them a pound of flour, a pound of finely- shred beef suet, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a pound of raw sugar, three-quarters of a pound of stoned and chopped raisins, three-quarters of a pound of currants, two ounces each of candied lemon, orange, and citron cut into shreds, a quarter of a poimd of apples pared, cored, and chopped, half an ounce of mixed spice consist- ing of pounded cloves, cinnamon, and grated nutmeg, and half a tea-spoonful of finely- minced lemon-rind. Mix these ingredients tho- roughly, then make the mixture into a stiff batter by adding to it five eggs beaten up with half a pint of milk and a glass of brandy. Turn the pudding either into a cloth or a mould; if the latter is used, it must be filled quite full, and covered with a cloth. Put the pudding into boiling water, and keep it boiling until done enough. Sift powdered sugar over the pudding before serving it, and send brandy sauce or whip sauce to table in a tureen. Time to boil, five hours. Probable cost, 3s. Suf- ficient for seven or eight persons. Plum Pudding, Family.—Beat four eggs thoroughly. Mix with them half a pint of new milk and a tea-spoonftd of salt. Then stir in half a pound of beef suet finely shred, a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, four ounces of cur- rants picked and dried, four ounces of brown sugar, a grated nutmeg, and an ovmce of candied peel cut into strips. Stir these ingredients well together, and pour in another half-pint of milk; then add equal quantities of grated crumb-of- bread and flour, to make a stiff paste. Half an ounce of almonds blanched and chopped small, a little more candied peel, and a few more currants, may be added if liked, but if the pudding is too rich it will not be so likely to turn out properly. It may be boiled either in a cloth or in a mould. In a cloth it will be more quickly cooked; it will look better if boiled in a mould. A glassful of brandy and a dessert-spoonful of noyau stirred into the sauce greatly improves this pudding. Time to( 590 ) ■PLU boil, four to five hours. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Plum Pudding, French, {see French Plum Pudding). Plum Pudding, Hedgehog.—Grate one pound of stale broad very finely, and mix with it half a pound of di-ied floui-. Add a toa- spoonful of salt, a povmd of currants carefully cleaned and diied, a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, a pound of beef suet finely minced, two ounces each of candied lemon, citron, and orange, half a pound of brown sugar, the rind of a large lemon rubbed upon sugar and crushed to powder, a small nutmeg g-rated, an ounce of sweet almonds, and three bitter ones blanched and chopped small. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly; moisten them with eight eggs well beaten up and mixed with a glass of brandy or a glassful of ale. If preferred, milk may be used instead of the ale, but no more liquid should be employed than is required to moisten the pudding. Tie the pudding in a mould or cloth, put it into a large pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling until done enough. If a mould is used, the pudding should entirely fill it. Turn it out, and when it is dished stick over it, as thickly as possible, three ounces of almonds which have been already blanched. This pudding will keep for six months after boiling. It will only re- quire to be boiled again for an hour before being used. Time to boil, ten hours. If the pudding is allowed to simmer only, the sweet- ness will go into the water. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Plum Pudding, Plain. — Shred six ounces of suet very finely, add a pound of flour, a quarter of a poimd of currants, a quarter of a pound of raisins, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, and stir into them three- quarters of a pint of milk in which has been dissolved three table-spoonfuls of treacle. Tie the pudding in a cloth, and boil it until done enough. A little spice and sugar may be added if liked. Time to boil, three hours. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Plum Pudding, Sauce for.—Plum pudding when served at Christmas is generally sent to table with brandy only poured over it and lighted. At other times, or when sauce is required, sweetened melted butter, fiavoured or not with brandy, may be served in a tureen, or any of the following sauces:—Rich Sauce.-—Take two spoonfuls of poTinded lump sugar, and, if liked, a pinch of grated lemon-rind. Put it into a bowl by the side of the fire, and pour over it a table-spoonful of brandy and two ounces of clarified butter. When the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, pour in another table- spoonful of brandy, and a glass of sherry. Stir the sauce a minute, and pour it over the pudding, or serve in a tureen. If Uked, the mixture may be stirred into a quarter of a pint of thick melted butter, and sent to table with a Uttlo nutmeg grated over it. Time, five or six minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Almond Sauce.—Blanch an ounce of sweet almonds and four bitter ones, and pound them to a smooth paste with a tablospoonful of orange-flower water. Mix with tlioin tlu-ee ounces of powdered sugar, and poui- over them a quarter of a piut of boiling cream. Stir the sauce until it is well mixed. Add the yolks of two eggs, and stir it over a slow fire until it begins to thicken. Whisk it to a froth, and serve. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Arrowroot Sauce.—Mix a table- spoonful of arrowroot to a smooth paste with two table-spoonfuls of water. Add two table- spoonfuls of loaf sugar and a third of a pint of milk or water. Stir the sauce over the fire until it boils. Flavour with wine, liqueurs, or any kind of fiavouring. Time, fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 3d., made with water and fiavoured with lemon. Sufficient for four or five persons. Plum Pudding with Apples.—Chop four ounces of apples very small; mix with them four ounces of currants cleaned and dried, two ounces of raisins stoned and chopped, four ounces of the crumb of bread finely grated, a heaped table-spoonful of loaf-sugar, and half an ounce of candied peel. Stir into the mixture one ounce and a half of clarified butter and four weU-beaten eggs. Pour the pudding into a buttered motild, or tie it in a cloth, and boil until it is done enough. This pudding is better if mixed the day before it is wanted. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four persons. Plum Pudding without Eggs.-;-Shred finely four ounces of beef suet; add a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of flour, half a poimd of finely-grated bread-crumbs, six ounces of currants, picked and dried, two table-spoon- fuls of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, and a Httle candied peel. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, then stir into the mixture as much milk as will make a stiff batter. A table-spoon- ful of brandy may [be added or not. Tie the pudding in a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil quickly imtil done enough. This pudding may, if liked, be baked instead of being boiled. Time to boil, four hours. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Plum Pudding without Suet (another way).—Break three eggs into a bowl, and whisk them thoroughly. Mix smoothly with them three ounces of flom-, and add three table- spoonfuls of sugar, half a small nutmeg grated, and, very gradually, half a pint of milk flavoured with lemon-rind. Beat the mixtiire for some minutes. Put in three ounces of grated bread- crumbs, three ounces of raisins stoned and chopped, three oimces of currants picked and dried, and three ounces of butter broken into small pieces. When the pudding is well mixed, pour it into a buttered mould, tie a cloth over it, phmge it into boiling water, and keep it boihng quickly until done enough. Send bnmdy sauce to table with it. Time to boil, two and a half hours. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Plum Sauce for Puddings and Sweet Dishes.—Wash and stono the plums. Break the stones, and simmer the kernels in as much water as will barely cover them until the(691 ) 1>LU Kquid is strongly flavoiired with, them, then strain it, and put it aside until wanted. Place the fruit in a saucepan with as much water only as will keep it from burning. Add a glass of claret, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, and a slice of toasted bread, and simmer all gently together until the plums are quite soft. Press the whole through a coarse sieve, add the liquid from the kernels and as much sugar as will sweeten the sauce. If it is too thick, stir in a little more water before serving. Time, according to the quality of the plums. Suf- ficient, half a pint of sauce for five or six persons. Plum Sauce, Simple, for Sweet Puddings.—Wash and stone a pound of ripe red plums. Put them into a saucepan with a quarter of a poimd of sugar and a quarter of a pint of water. Let them boil to a pulp, and stir them occasionally to prevent their burning. Press them through a coarse sieve, and serve them in a tureen or poured over the pudding. Time to boil the plums, about half an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Plum Soup (a German dish.).—Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a small stewpan, add an ounce of flour, and stir the mixture smoothly together until it is lightly coloured. Pour over it a quarter of a pint of boiling water, add a little cinnamon for flavouring and as many ripe plums as the liquid will cover. Boil the plums to a pulp. Press aU through a sieve. Sweeten the juice, and mix with it equal por- tions of water and claret until it is of the con- sistency of thick cream. Eetum the soup to the saucepan. Throw into it a dozen or more ripe plums. When these are soft, without being broken, serve immediately. Time, about an hour. Probable cost, 8d. a quart, exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Plum Tart.—Line the edge of a tart-dish with puff-paste or with good short crust. Fill the dish with plums, and sprinkle a little moist sugar over them. The quantity of sugar required wiU depend upon the quality of the plums. Cover the dish with pastry, bake in a moderate oven, and serve the tart hot or cold. The ap- pearance of the tart will be improved if it is glazed. To do this, take it from the oven before it is quite done enough. Brush it over with white of egg which has been whisked to a froth, and cover with finely-sifted sugar. Sprinkle a few drops of water over it, and return it to the oven to set the glaze. Or, before putting it in the oven, brush it quickly with cold water and sprinkle white sugar upon it. Probable cost. Is. for a moderate-sized tart. Plum Tart, French {see Frencli Plum Tart). Plum Vol-au-vent. —Boil six ounces of loaf sugar in half a pint of water for ten mmutes. Take off the stalks from a pound of plums, wash and drain them, and then put them into the syrup. Let them boil up once, then draw the saucepan to the side, and simmer them very gently for about throe minutes, or until they are quite tender without being broken. Lift the plums out carefully, boil the syrup tmtil it is considerably reduced and very thick, strain it, and when cold pour it over the fruit. Plums prepared in this way may be used for large and small vol-au-vents. The fruit should not be put into the pastry until the moment before it is to be served. Plum Wine.—A wholesome wine is oc- casionally made from plums with, or without other fruits and ingredients. Plums, Compote of.—Boil half a pint of water with from six to ten ounces of loaf sugar for ten minutes. Put in a pound of plums, and let them simmer until they are tender without being broken. Lift them out, place them on a compote dish, and pour the syrup over them. The amount of sugar used, and the length of time the fruit is boiled, must be regulated by the quality of the plums. Plums, Frencli or Dried.—French plums (known in France as pruneaux) are made from fresh fruit which has been slowly and carefully deprived of its moisture, by being placed alternately in the sunshine and in an oven. These plums are the object of a con- siderable trade in different parts of France, particularly in the Touraine and the Agenois. They are exported in large quantities to other countries, and are considered exceedingly whole- some. They may be had all the year round, but they are mostly used for dessert in winter time, when fresh fruit cannot be obtained. They may be bought either loose, in bottles, or in pretty ornamental boxes which are intended to be placed upon the table. Probable cost, Is. to 2s. per pound. Plujns, French, Stewed for Dessert. —Soak a pound of French plums. Put them into a saucepan with the water in which they were soaked, and let them simmer gently for an hour. Lift out the fruit, strain the liquid, and make a syrup of it by boiling with it four ounces of loaf sugar. When it is quite clear, put in the plums, the rind and juice of half a lemon, and a glass of port. Stew gently for an hour and a half. When the preparation is cold, put the plums into a glass dish, pour the syrup over them, and serve. Time, two hours and a half. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Plums, French, Stewed (another way), —See French Plums, Stewed. Plums in Vinegar.—Take three pounds of mussel plums, sound and ripe, and rub them with a soft cloth. Boil a pound of loaf sugar in a pint and a half of vinegar, with a dozen cloves, and a quarter of an ounce of stick cin- namon. Put in the plums, a few at a time, and let them simmer gently. As the skins crack, lift them carefully out, and put them on dishes to cool. When they are cold lay them in a deep jar, and shake them to make them lie closely together. They ought not to be at all soft. Boil the vinegar and sugar a few minutes longer, then pour it out, and when it is cold strain it over the plums, which it ought to cover entirely. Leave the jar in a cool place for a week. At the end of that time strain off the 8>Tup and boil it. If the plums are hard, pour the syrup hot over them, if soft, let it get cold( 692 ) first. Cover the jars in the usual way, and Btoro in a cool place. If liked, half a pint of claret may be put with each pint of vinegar. These plums are excellent served with Roust Mutton. Plums, Magnum Bonum Utc Matrnuui BonumsJ. ° PLVilS. 1. Yellouj Magnum Bonum. 2. Golden Drop. 3. &)-eengage. Plums, Magnum Bonum, Pre- served.—Mag-nmn bonum and other fine plums may be boiled into a jam in the usual way, or preserved whole like apricots, or as follows:— Take fine ripe, sound fruit. Pare them, and in order to do this more easily throw them into boiling water for a minute. If they are not fully ripe, they will need to simmer gently for two or three nunutes. Take a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Dissolve in a little water, skim carefully, and boil imtil it is almost candy height. Throw in the plums, and let them boil gently for a quarter of an hour. Lift them out carefully, strain the syrup over them, and let them He for two days. I3oil them again untU. they look quite clear, put them into jars, cover with the syrup, tie the jars up, and store in a cool, dry place. Time, three days. Boil the plums the last time about ten minutes. Plums, Orange, To Preserve (see Orange Plums). Plums, Orleans, To Bottle for Win- ter Use (see Orleans Plums, to Bottle for Winter Use). Plums Pickled like Olives.— Take some hard green plums which have been gathered before the stone was formed. Boil as much vinegar as will entirely cover them with a table-spoonful of salt and half an ounce of mustard-seed to each pint of the liquid. Pour it hot over the fruit. Let it stand imtil the next day, then drain it off, boil again, and repeat the performance. When the plums are quite cold, put them into bottles, cover with vinegar, tie up securely, and store in a cool, dry place. Plums Pickled like Olives (another yray).—Boil together some dill and fennol-seed in a mixture of white-wine vinegar and water. Put the plums into this while hot, let them simmer a little, set them on one side to cool, and then preserve in pots. ' Plums, Preserved Dry.—Divide the plums, take out the stones, and put them into a sj rup made with half the weight of the fruit in sugar boiled with as much water as will dissolve it. Keep the plums covered with the syrup, and let them simmer very gently until they are tender without losing their shape. Lift the pan oif the fire, and let the fruit stand in the syrup until the next dsiy. Strain the syrup, boil it up with more sugar, so that there may be an equal weight of sugar and fruit, and let it boil almost to candy. Pour it out, and let it get cold. Put it back into the pan with the fruit. Let it simmer gently for a few minutes until the plums are quite soft. Let them remain in the syrup for three days, drain them, and spread them singly on dishes to dry. Time, five days. Or, put the plums whole into a syrup made with their weight in sugar and as much water as wiU dissolve the sugar. Let them boil gently for about twenty minutes, then let them remain in the S)TTip until the juice flows freely, and boil them a second time. Lift out the plums carefully, one by one, put them into deep jars, and pour the s}Tup over them. Leave them until the next day, drain them, and spread them singly on dishes to dry. Or, take plums which are fully grown but not ripe; prick them, put them into a pan of cold water, and let them remain until it is on the point of boiling. Let them cool, and drain them in a sieve. Take as many pounds of sugar as there are of fruit, and boil it to a strong syrup with as much water as will dissolve it. Put the plums in, and boil them gently for twenty minutes. The next day boil them again untU the sugar is ready to candy. Pour the plums into deep jars, and let them stand all night in a cool oven. Let them get cold, then lift them out, and spread them singly on dishes to dry. Plums, Preserved, for Making Pies.—Divide the plums, and take out the stones. Put them into a deep jar, place this in a saucepan of boiling water, and let them boil gently until the juice flows freely. Then mth each poimd of the fruit put an ounce of crushed loaf sugar. When the sugar is dissolved by the hot juice, pour the whole into ^^nde-mouthed glass bottles. Cover the tops closely, and store in a cool place. Plums preserved in this way will keep for a short time only. Time, about an hour. Plums, Quiddamy of.—Take a pound of plums and remove thc stones. Boil the fruit, with an equal quantity of loaf sugar, in a quart of plum-juice; keep boiling till the contents of the pan are of the consistency of jelly; then pour into pots, and cover in the usual way. Plums, Varieties of.—There are said to be nearly 300 varieties of plums. Tlic dam- son or Damascene plum takes its name from Damascus, where it grows in great quanlilios, and from whence it was introduced into Italy about 114 u.c. The Orleans plum is from( 693 ) PLtr PLTJ France. The greengage is so called after the Gage family, who first brought it to this coun- try from the monastery of the Chartreuse at Paris, where it went under the name of Reine Claude. The magnum bonum is our largest plum, and in great request for preserves and for culinary purposes. The wild sloe is thought by some to bo the parent of the plum; the ac- climated kinds, however, came from the East. The cultivation of the plum was probably at- tended to verj' early in England, as Gerard teUs us he had in his garden in Holbom, in 1597, a great variety of sorts. We extract the following list of dessert plums, arranged m the order of their ripening, from a " Descriptive Catalogue of Plums cultivated in Britain, given some years ago by a well-known bo- tanical authority:— Name. Size. CoIova: Ripens. Jaune hative Medium YeUow End July. Precoce de Tours Medium Purple Beg. Aug. Morocco Medium Purple Beg. Aug. Royal hative Medium Purple Beg. m. Aug. Nectarine Large Purple Beg. Aug. Drap d'or Small Tel. Green Mid. Aug. Fotheringham Medium Purple Mid. Aug. Greengage Medium Tel. Green Mid. e. Aug. Blue Perdrigon Medium Purple End Aug. White Perdrigon Medium Pale Yellow End Aug. Virgin Medium Pui-ple Beg. Sept. Wh. Impdratrice Medium Pale Yellow Beg. m. Sep. Diapr^e Rouge Large Red. Violet Beg. m. Sep. Washington Large Yellow Sept. D'Agen Medium Purple End Sept. Reine Claude Medium Purple Sept. Violette Jefferson Large Orange Red Sept. Large Gr. Drying Large Green. Yel. Mid. e. Sept. Coe's Golden Drop Large Yellow Sept., Oct. Blue Impdratrice Large Purple Oct. Ickwortli ditto Medium Purple Oct. Coe's fine late red Medium Purple Oct. The following is a list of kitchen plums, from the same source, arranged in the order of their ripening:— Name. Size. Colour. Ripens. Early Orleans Medium Purple Beg. m. Aug. Gisbome's Medium Yellow Mid. Aug. Mirabelle Small Pale Yellow Mid. Aug. Orleans Medium Purple Mid. e. Aug. Shropsh. Damson Small Purple Mid. Sept. Wine Sour Bel. Md. Purple Mid. Sept. Red Magnum Large Purpsh.Red Sept. Bocum White Magnum Large Yellow Sept. Bonum St. Catherine Medium Yellow Mid. e. Sept. In connection with the first of the above lists, it is to be remarked that the greengage, perd- rigons, and more especially Coe's golden drop, although classed as dessert fruit, are also proper for preserving. Plums,Wholesomeness of.—"Plums," remarks Professor Martyn, " when suflSciently ripe, and taken in moderate quantity, are not unwholesome; but in an immature state they are more liable to produce colicky pains, diar- rhoea, or cholera, than any other fruit of this class. Considered medicinally, they are emol- lient, cooling, and laxative, especially prunes, and what are called in England French plums (brignolcs), which arc peculiarly useful in costive habits." Plumbe's (H. M.) Arrowroot. This arrowroot was first introduced into this country by John Williams, the well-known missionary to the South ISca Islands. It is very suitable for breakfast, luncheon, dinner, supper, &c., and can be made into tempting puddings, cus- tards, jellies, and such like articles, as may be seen from the following recipes. For children's food it is excellent. Plumbe's Arrowroot Biscuits.—Hub together three-quarters of a pound of sugar and the same weight of butter until they rise beat three eggs well mixed with these ingredients, then stir in four table-spoonfuls of arrowroot and two cups of sifted flour. Eoll the mixture out, cut the biscuits with a pastry cutter, place them in buttered tins, and bake in a slow oven. Probable cost, Plumbe's arrowroot, Is. 6d. per pound. Plumbe's Arrowroot Blanc-Mange. —Take one quart of milk, and mix with it four ounces, or four table-spoonfuls, of arrowroot, flavour to taste, and boil the whole for four minutes, stirring all the time. Allow the blanc- mange to cool in a mould, and send milk and jelly, or milk and sugar, to table with it. Probable cost, Plumbe's arrowroot, Is. 6d. per pound. Plumbe's Arrowroot Breakfast- Cakes.—Mix together two cupfuls of arrow- root and half a cupful of flour, add a table- spoonful of salt butter, one egg, and as much milk or water as will bring the whole to the consistency of paste. Eoll out the paste, cut it with a breakfast-cup, and put the cakes in a baking-iron. They will be baked enough in a few minutes. Split and butter them, and send them to table hot. Probable cost, Plumbe's arrowroot, Is. 6d. per pound. Plumbe's Arrowroot Cream.—Take one ounce of arrowroot, one quart of milk, and three ounces of lump sugar. 5Iix the arrowroot with a little cold milk and the yolk of an egg, stirring it well and breaking the lumps. Boil the milk with the peel of a lemon and a little cinnamon, sweetening it with the sugar; pour it boiling hot over the arrowroot, stir well till cold, pour into glasses, and serve. Plumbe's Arrowroot Custard. — Take one quart of milk, mix with it two ounces of arrowroot, one or two eggs well beaten, and add a Kttle butter and four table-spoonfuls of sugar. Flavour to taste. Boil the custard four minutes, pour it into a pie-dish, and brown before the fire. This is an exquisite delicacy. Plumbe's Arrowroot Custard Pud- ding.—Beat up two or three eggs with a small dessert-spoonful of arrowroot; sweeten with loaf-sugar, and add seven drops of essence of almonds. Pour on this mixture a pint of boil- ing milk—take care that the milk really boUs —and bake immediately for half an hour in a quick oven. Plumbe's Arrowroot Gruel.—Take a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot, and mix with it a wine-glassful of cold water. Pour on this a pint of boiling water; sweeten wdth moist sugar, flavour with a little nutmeg, let the gruel simmer on the fire for five minutes, and then add a table-spoonful of brandy. Plumbe's Arrowroot Jelly (Invalid Cookeky).—This is a nutritious and restoring1>LU POE ( 694 ) jolly for invalids. Mix in a tumblor a piled toa-spoout'ul of arrowroot with a little cold wutor; pour upon it HufUciont ljoiliiif>- water to forai a clear jelly, stii'riug well whUfit the water is being poui-ed on it; last of all add a glassful of sherry. Plumbe's Arrowroot Omelet.—Boat up two eggs, and mix. with them one table- spoonful of iu-rowroot and a tea-cupful of mUk; add a little popper and salt, and sugar, if pre- ferred ; thi-ow the whole into a ilat saucepan, previously well heated, and covered with melted butter. Keep the saucepan in motion over the fire, then turn the omelet several times; roll it up, and keep it in motion till it is slightly browned. Probable cost, Plumbe's arrowroot, Is. 6d. per pound. Plumbe's Arrowroot Pudding, Baked.—Take about four table-spoonfuls of arrowi'oot, or three and a half ounces, and add to it one quart of milk. Boil for four minutes, stirring briskly. Allow the pudding to cool, and then thoroughly mix into it two eggs well beaten, with three table-spoonfuls of sugar. Flavonr to taste, and bake for half an hour in an oven, or brown the pudding before the fire. Probable cost, Plumbe's arrowroot. Is. 6d. per pound. Plumbe's Arrowroot Sponge Cake. —Take a quarter of a pound of arrowroot, a quarter of a pound of butter, and two tea- spoonfuls of baking-powder, and mix these in- gredients very well together. Take three eggs, and beat the yolks and whites separately for fifteen minutes, then add to them a quarter of a pound of bruised white sugar; mix all well together, flavour to taste, beat for fifteen minutes, put the cake into a buttered tin papered all round two inches deeper than the tin, and bake in a quick oven for an hour. Probable cost, Plumbe's arrowroot, Is. 6d. per pound. Plumbe's Arrowroot Thickening for Soups, &C.—To thicken soups take one ounce of arrowroot, and very gradually add sufficient liquid to make it of the consistency of batter; that it may be smooth, moisten spar- ingly at first, and beat with the back of a spoon till every lump has disappeared. BoU the soup quickly whilst the thickening is being stirred into it, and let it simmer for ten minutes after- wards. One ounce of arrowroot is sufficient for one quart of soup. To thicken gravies, sauces, and stews, the arrowroot should be used in the same way as in thickening soups, but scarcely so much should be employed. Probable cost, Plumbe's arrowroot, Is. 6d. per poimd. Podovies, or Beef Patties. — Take half a dozen slices of under-dressed roast beef, with a small portion of fat, shred it finely, and season it with pepper, salt, and a little chopped onion or shallot. Roll out a quarter of a pound of puff-paste very thin. Lay spoonfuls of the minco upon it, an inch apart, and moisten the pastry round the meat with a little water. Cover with a piece of pastry. Press together the portion round each Httle ball of mince, and stamp rounds out with a cutter. Pinch the edges, and fry the patties in hot fat until they are brightly coloured. Drain them on blotttng- pai)(ir, and serve piled high on a dish. Time to fry, ten minutes. .Sufficient, a dozen for two or throe persona. Podovies, or Beef Patties (another way).—Mince very lineiy two or three slices of under-dressed cold roast beef. Mix with the meat a third of its bulk in fat, and season with a little pepper and salt, and a finely-minwid shallot, and, if the flavour is liked, an anchovy cut into small pieces. Prepare the patties ac- cording to the directions given in the preceding recipe, fill them with a tea-spoonful of the mince, and bake in a brisk oven. Serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2d. each. iSuf- ficient, a dozen for a dish. Po6le.—Poelo is a kind of rich gravy which is used in expensive cookery to boil various meats in instead of water. It is especially suited for fowls, turkeys, sweetbreads, and similar meats which are in themselves a little insipid. The same poele may be used three or four times, and in favourable weather will keep several days. For ordinary domestic use it is a quite uimecessary expense. To make it, proceed as follows :—Take . a pound of fat bacon and a pound of lean ham, two pounds of veal, two carrots, and two onions, aU cut up into dice. Put them into a stewpan with a pound of fresh butter, and stir constantly until the bacon is half melted. Add a bimch of parslejr, a sprig of thyme, two bruised bay- leaves, three or four cloves, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and three or four young onions. Pour in three pints of boiling water, cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer gently for an hour and a half or two hours. Strain through a sieve, and press the meat and vegetables well, to draw out their juices. Keep the poele in a cool place until wanted. Peeling. — Take a pound of beef suet, one of fresh butter, and one of very fat bacon; cut the suet and bacon into very large dice, and put them in a stewpan with two pounds of veal cut in the same manner; fry them till the veal becomes white; moisten with three pints of clear boiliug water, a handful of salt, a bay- leaf, a few sprigs of thyme, an onion stuck with cloves, and a bundle of parsley and green onions. Let the whole boil quietly tiU the onion is done; strain it through a sieve, and set it by for use. Poele is employed to make everything boiled in it look white, and ac- quire a relishing taste; it wiU keep for a week. Do not boU any lean of bacon with it, or the meat boiled in it wiU turn red, from the saltpetre used in curing the bacon. Pooling and braising are almost the same operation; but in the former, meat must be underdone, in braising overdone. Poet's Recipe for Salad (gencraUy ascribed to the Eev. Sydney Smith):— "Two boiled potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve. Softness and smoothness to the salad gire; Of mordant mustjird add a single spoon, Distrust the condiment which bites too soon; Yet deem it not, thou man of taste, a fault To add a double quantity of salt;( 696 ) POl POL Four times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, And twice with vinegar procured from town ; The flavour needs it, and your poet begs The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs; Let onions' atoms lurk within the bowl. And, scarce suspected, animate the whole; And, lastly, in the flavoured compound toss A magic tea-spoon of anchovy sauce. Oh, great and glorious! Oh, herbaceous meat! 'Twould tempt the dying anchoret to eat; Back to the world he'd turn his weary soul. And dip his finger in the salad-bowl. Then, though green turtle fail, though venison's tough. And ham and turkey are not boiled enough, Serenely full, the epicure may say, 'Fate cannot harm me—I have dined to- day.' " Poivrade Sauce (a very good sharp sauce).—Dissolve two ounces of butter over a gentle fire, and put with it a small slice .of ham cut into dice, a scraped carrot, a turnip, an onion, a shallot, a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, a small sprig of thyme, a stick of celery cut small, and twenty peppercorns. Stir these in- gredients over the fire till they are nicely browned, then add gradually a wine-glassful of vinegar, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a glass of port or sherry, a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, and half a pint of good brown sauce. Simmer gently by the side of the fire, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Strain, and serve hot. When thick brown sauce is not at hand, dissolve one ounce of butter in a saucepan, mix an ounce of flour smoothly with it, and stir quickly over a slow fixe for three or foiir minutes, or until it is nicely browned. Moisten gradually with a little broth, or failing this, water, until the sauce is of the consistency of thick cream. Boil it a minute or two, and it is ready for use. The quantity of vinegar used in this recipe may be increased or diminished, according to taste. Time, half an hour to simmer the sauce. Pro- bable cost, Is. for this quantity. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Poivrade Sauce (another way).—Take a slice of lean ham, and cut it into dice. Put it into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, and add a carrot, a turnip, a shaUot, and two young onions, all finely sliced, together with a blade of mace and six or eight peppercorns. Stir these over a gentle fire imtil they are slightly browned, then add very gradually four table-spoonfuls of vinegar, three table-spoonfuls of port, a lump of sugar, and a quarter of a pint of good brown sauce. Simmer all gently together until the sauce is smooth, thick, and nicoly flavoured, then strain, and serve imme- diately. When brown sauce is not at hand it may be easily made by mixing over a gentle fire equal proportions of butter and flour, stir- ring the mixture constantly until it is slightly browned, and then moistening it with boiling stock or even water. Time to boU the sauce, half an hour. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the port. Sufficient for five or six persons. Poivrade Sauce, Easily made.—Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan with two onions, a shallot, a carrot, a turnip cut into dice, two cloves, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thjTne. Stir these ingredients constantly over a gentle fire until they are lightly browned, then dredge a dessert-spoonful of flour over them, and add a little pepper and salt, a glass of claret, half a glass of vinegar, and a glass of water. Boil all gently for half an hour. Skim, strain, and serve. Time, ten minutes to fry the vegetables. Sufficient for foiir or five persons. Probable cost, 5d., exclusive of the wine. Polenta.—Indian corn-flour, which is very commonly used in Italy, is sent to various parts from that country, and sold under the name of polenta. In taste it much resembles macaroni, for which it is often used as a substitute. Semolina is frequently and advantageously used for the preparations which go by the name of polenta. Polenta (a I'ltalienne).—^When made with Indian meal, put a quart of milk into a sauce- pan with a tea-spoonful of salt. Let it boU quickly, then drop into it very gradually as much Indian meal as will make it quite thick, stirring briskly all the time. Let it boil until quite smooth, then turn the polenta into a buttered mould, and mix with it an ounce of grated Parmesan. Stir briskly, and bake for a quarter of an hour. The polenta may be turned out or not. When made with semolina, boil a quart of milk with half a tea-spoonful of salt. Drop into it about a quarter of a pound of semolina, stirring briskly all the time, and let it boil gently for ten minutes. Be very careful to prevent it burning. When quite thick, pour into a plain mould, and set it in a cool place to stiffen. Cut it into slices three- quarters of an inch thick. Butter a fresh plain mould. Pour into it a small quantity of clari- fied butter, and then a layer of grated Par- mesan. Place on this a layer of slices of paste, and another layer of cheese. Moisten the mixture with a few drops of butter, and repeat tmtU the.paste is used, and the dish is almost full. Place a thick layer of the cheese at the top, and a little more clarified butter, then bake the preparation in a moderate oven until it is brightly browned. Turn it upon a hot dish, and serve. A little grated cheese is sometimes sent to table on a dish with the polenta, or a little brown gravy is poured round it, but it requires neither. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Polenta, Italian {see Italian Polenta). Polenta Pudding, Sweet.—Boil the milk and the polenta as in the last recipe. When the mixture is quite smooth and thick, mix with it three table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, four ounces of stoned raisins, an ounce of candied peel finely shred, half a nutmeg grated, and an ounce of butter. When the ingredients are woU mixed, pour the preparation into a buttered mould, and bake in a good oven. Turn the pudding out before serving. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons.POM ( 596 ) POL Polenta Pudding (to bo oaton witli moat).—Boil a pint and a half of inillc, and drop into it vory gradually, stirring briskly all tho tinio, half a pound of polonta or maize- flour. Boil, and atir until tho mixturo is quite thicjt and smooth, then stir in a little popper and salt, and an ounce of fresh buttur. Pour the mixturo into a buttered mould, and bake in a good oven. Tuni the pudding out before serving. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Polish Cutlets.—Take a pound of tender runip steak not more than an inch thick ; cut it into neat rounds, and beat these flat with a cutlet bat. Mince finely two shallots, or a mo- derate-sized onion, and, if liked, add half a clove of garlic. Put these ingredients into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and thi-ee bruised cloves. When the onions are tender, without being at all browned, lay the cutlets upon them, cover the saucepan closely, and let them steam very gently until they are quite tender. If the gravy dries, add one or two spoonfuls of stock, or even water. When the cutlets are done enough, lift them out, and place them on a hot dish. Skim the gravy. Dredge a little flour into it, and colour with burnt sugar—or, better still, put a nut of brown thickening into it—let it boil two or three minutes, and strain it over the meat. Put a bordering of fried sliced potatoes round the dish, or place a few mashed potatoes in the centre, and serve very hot. Time to steam, about an hour. Probable cost. Is. lOd. Suf- ficient for two or three persons. Polish. Pudding.—Blanch one ounce of sweet almonds and six bitter ones, and pound them in a mortar to a smooth paste, adding a few drops of water to prevent their oiling. Put them into a saucepan with half a pint of new milk, and bring the liquid slowly to the boil. Mix two table-spoonfuls of arrowroot very smoothly with half a pint of cold milk. Pour the boUing milk upon this, and stir briskly for a minute or two. Add two ounces of fresh butter, and two well-beaten eggs, and stir the mixture again imtil it is cool. Put it into an oiled mould, and set it upon ice, if possible ; if not, lay it in a cool place imtil it is wanted. Turn it out before serving, and send hot plates to table with it, and the following sauce in a tureenBeat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Add two oimces of powdered sugar and two glassf uls of sherry, and mix thoroughly. Put the mixturo into a small saucepan, and stir gently until it boils. Serve immediately. Time, six or eight hours to set the pudding, if it is not put upon ice. Probable cost. Is., ex- clusive of the sherry. Sufficient for four or five persons. Polish Sauce, for Sweet Puddings. —Put an ounce of butter and a tea-spoonful of moist sugar into a stewpan, and when tho sugar is dis.solved stir in a tea-spoonful of fine flour. Let it brown, then pour in four table-spoonfuls of claret add a tea-spoonful of stoned and chopped raisins, a tea-spoonful of picked and washed currants, the eighth of a small nutmeg pirated an inch of thin lomon-rind, and half a dozen almonds blanched and cut small. Sim- mer tho Biiuco gently, uutU tho currants are soft, and serve. Time to simmer, a ijuai-ter of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the wino, 3d, Sufficient for two or three porsoriH. Polish Tartlets. —If a little piece of puif paste is left after making vol-au-vents, or tai-ts, or any other aiiiclos of that sort, it may bo advantageously used as follows:— Roll out the pastry till it is very thin, and cut it into pieces a little more than two inches square. Moisten the surface of these with a little water, and fold over the comers so that they will all meet in tho centre. Put a little ball of pastry in the centre of each, and press it lightly down vidth tho finger. Brush the tartlets over with egg, sprinkle a little pow- dered sugar upon them, and bake in a hot oven. Before serving, put a little bright- coloured jam round the little ball of pastry, and serve the tartlets on a neatly-folded napkin. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. each. Sufficient, a quarter of a pound of pulf pastry for a moderate-sized dish. Polish Tea. — Rub two or three large lumps of sugar upon the rind of a large fresh lemon until all the yellow part is taken oft'. Add a little more sugar to make up two ounces, and crush the sugar to powder. Strain over this the juice of tho lemon, add two wine-glass- fuls of white wine, and cover the sjTup until it is wanted. Put a pint of ale into a saucepan with four inches of stick cinnamon. Let it simmer gently for a few minutes, then stir into it a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot which has been made into a paste with a little wine. Add the syrup, and a little more sugar if required, and simmer the liquid a few minutes longer, stirring constantly. Draw the tea from the fire for a minute, and whisk into it the yolks of two eggs which have been beaten up wdth a little wine. Before serving, add a glass of maraschino. Time, twenty minutes to simmer the tea. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the wine and liqueuri Sufficient for almost a quart of Poli^ tea. Polpetti, Italian {sec Italian Polpetti). Pomegranate.—This is the fmit of tho pomegranate tree {punica granattdn), a plant which grows to the height of fifteen or twenty feet. The fruit is a pulpy many-seeded berr>% the size of an orange, covered with a thick brown coriaceous rind. Its value depends on the smallness of the seed and the largeness of the pulp. Tho pulp is of a reddish hue, and has a pleasant sub-acid taste; it is ver>' re- freshing. The singular and beautiful appear- ance of the fruit contributes to the variety of the dessert; pomegranates, being powerfully acid and astringent, are used medicinally in fevers and inflammatory disorders. The pomegranate is a native of most parts of the South of Europe and of China. In Lan- guodoc, and some parts of Italy, it is employed as a hedge plant. It was cultivated in England, Loudon informs us, by Gerard, in 1596; but though it grows very well in the open air, it sel- dom ripens its fruit so as to render it worth anything. The finest pomegranates, called byPOM POM ( 597 ) the Persians badana, or seedless, are imported into India from Cabul and Candahar, where the tree grows in perfection. The fruit brought to this country from the South of Europe and the West Indies is very inferior to that of Persia. The pomegi-anate, in addition to its valu- able qualities, possesses great historic interest. POMEGKANATE AND FLOWEK. "We find it often mentioned in the Bible, where it is included in the fruits of Palestine, with the vine, the fig, the oUve, and other 'pleasant fruits.' It likewise grows wild in Barbary. Phny says that the Romans brought it from Carthage in the time of Sylla. It was likewise well known to the ancient Greeks, and held in great esteem by them. The story of Proserpine is familiar, who, having been carried oflE by Pluto, was prevented from returning to the earth in consequence of having tasted of this fruit in the Elysian fields. Pomegranates are frequently represented in ancient sculp- ture." The name pomegranate is derived from "pomum granatum," a kemelled apple. Pomegranate W'ater.—Carefully take out the deep-coloured pips from three ripe pomegranates, and bruise them well with the back of a wooden spoon. Mix with them six ounces of roughly-powdered sugar, the strained juice of a lemon, three-quarters of a pint of water, two or three drops of cochineal, and half a dozen drops oi the essence of elder flowers if it is at hand; if not, it may be dispensed with. Filter the liquid until it is clear, and it is ready for serving. Time, about twenty minutes to prepare. Probable cost, pomegranates, 4d. to Is. each. Sufficient for a pint and a quarter of pomegranate water. Pomegranate Water Ice.—Take the ruby pips from two ripe pomegranates. Place them on a fine sieve over a basin, and bruise them well with the back of a wooden spoon to draw out the juice. With half a pint of this mix half a pint of strong syrup, the juice of a large fresh lemon, two or three drops of cochi- neal, a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and the rind of an orange which has been rubbed upon two or three large lumps of sugar and crushed to powder; freeze in the usual way. Time, about twenty minutes to prepare. Pro- bable cost, pomegranates, 4d. to Is. each. Suf- ficient for a little more tiiaii a pint of water icu. Pomfret Puddings.—Rub the rind of a fresh lemon upon two or three limips of sugar untU aU the yellow part is taken off. Add a little more sugar to make the weight up to a quarter of a pound, then crush the sugar to powder. Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream. Add a pinch of salt, two well-whisked eggs, the powdered sugar, and a quarter of a pound of flour, and beat the mixture briskly for two or three minutes. Three parts fill some small cups with it, and bake in a brisk oven. When the puddings are done enough, turn them out upon a hot dish, and send wine sauce to table in a tureen. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for half a dozen cups. Pomme Mange.—Take two pounds of apples weighed after they are pared and cored. Cut them into thin slices, and put them into a saucepan with the thinly-cut rind of two small lemons, half a pint of water, and one poimd of loaf sugar. Boil the fruit until it is stiff and dry. Beat briskly for a minute or two, take out the lemon-rind, and press the apples into an oUed mould. Put it aside until cold, and turn out before serving. Time, var3dng with the quality of the apples. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for a moderate-sized mould. Pommes, Gateau de {see Gateau de Pommes). Pomona Jelly.—Take half a dozen good- sized and rather acid apples—Keswicks will answer excellently for the purpose. Pare, core, and slice them, and as they are done throw them into cold water to keep them from turning yellow. Drain them, and put them into a saucepan with six ounces of loaf sugar and a very small quantity of water to keep them from burning, and let them simmer gently until they are quite soft. Press them through a coarse sieve, and mix with them half an ounce of isinglass or gelatine which has been dissolved in less than half a pint of water. Rub three large lumps of sugar upon the rind of a fresh lemon till the yellow part is taken oflE; add this to the jelly. Stir the jelly over the fire until it is quite hot, put it into a mould, and set it in a cool place to stijSen; turn out before serving. Time to stiffen, twelve hours. Probable cost, lOd. if made with gelatine. Sufficient for a pint of jelly. Pompadour Pudding, Rich. —Pour a third of a pint of boiling cream upon two ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and let them soak until cool. Beat well with a fork, and mix vsdth them five ounces of finely-shred beef suet, an ounce of flour, two ounces of macaroons crushed to powder, three ounces of powdered sugar, two ounces of table raisins weighed after the stones are taken out, two oimces of dried cherries, four ounces of candied peel cut into thin slices, the grated rind of half a lemon, half a nutmeg grated, and a pinch of salt. When these ingredients are well mixed, stir in the yolks of four eggs and a glassful of brandy. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould which it will fiU to the brim, cover with oiled paper, and tie securely in a floured cloth. Boil or steam the pudding until it is done enough, let it stand a minute or twyPON POO ( 698 ) before turning it out, dish it ciirofully, and Borve at oaco. If liked, the pudding can bo ad- ditionally flavoured, and will bo improved by boiling in the croam boforo it is poiu'od over the crumbs throe ounces of blanched sweet almonds and three bitter ones. Before sondin" the pudding to table, pour over it a sauco prepared as follows:—Make two gliisses of ahony hot, but do not lot it boil. Pour it oyer a large table-spoonful of powdered and ^ted sugar, and when this is dissolved stir into it the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Whisk the sauce briskly over a gentle fire, and when it begins to thicken and is lightly frothed it is ready. Time to boil the pudding, two hours and a half. Probable cost, 2s. 8d., exclu- sive of the sauce and brandy. Sufficient for a pint mould. Pontiff's Sauce.—Take a quarter of a pound of veal and a quarter of a pound of ham cut into small pieces. Put these into a stew- pan with a quarter of a pound of carrots, a quarter of a pound of parsnips, a quarter of a pound of celery, and a quarter of a pound of onions, all sliced, and a quarter of an ounce each of lemon rind, shallots, and coriander- seed. Pour over these ingredients a pint of vinegar and half a pint of ketchup, and simmer all very gently for three or four hours. About ten minutes before the sauce is taken from the fire put with it half a pint of white wine. Skim and strain the liquid. When it is cold, put the sauce into small bottles. Cork these securely, and store for use. Probable cost, 2s. 6d., exclusive of the wine. A small portion of the pontiff's sauce to be used for flavouring sauces and gravies. Pooloot, Indian {see Indian Pooloot.) Poor Epicure's Pudding.—Put two pints of new milk into a saucepan with four inches of stick cinnamon, half a dozen blanched and sliced almonds, the thin rind of a lemon, or any flavouring that may be preferred. Bring it slowly to the boil; strain and add to the milk a pinch of salt and a little sugar. If Swiss milk is used sugar will not be required. When the milk is cold, mix with it three weU-beaten eggs. Pour the custard into a buttered pie-dish, and lay on the top slices of bread the third of an inch thick. These should be thickly buttered on both sides, should be entirely free from crust, and should cover the milk entirely. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, forty minutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Poor Knight's Pudding. —Cut two penny rolls into slices three-quarters of an inch thick. Lay them on a dish, pour over them half a pint of milk, and let them lie imtil the bread has soaked up aU the milk. Make a little custard with three-quarters of a pint of milk, three eggs, a little sugar, and grated nutmeg. Pour half of this over the shoes of roll. Fry in butter until they are brown. Put them on a hot dish, and pour the rest of the custard over them. Send butter and sugar to table with them. Time to fry, about ton minutes. Pro- bable cost, 9d. Sufficient for three or four persona. Poor Man's Galette (see Galette.Poor Man's). Poor Man's Jelly.—Take a cow's heel properly pr(Ji)ared ]jy the butcher. Cut it into HinaU pieces, and put it into a stewpan with throe quarts of cold water. Cover closely, and lot it simmer gently for six or seven hours until the liquid is reduced to thi-ee pints. Strain, and let it stand until stiff. Take the fat from the top, and clear it oft" entirely by rinjjing with a httlo warm water and pressing with Wotting-paper. Take out the jelly, being care- ful to leave behind the sediment, which will have settled at the bottom. Put the jelly into a stewpan, with the thin rind and strained juice of two lemons, a pint of Scotch ale, or, if pre- ferred, two glassf uls of shen-y, and eight or nine lumps of sugar. Stir the jelly over the fire, and as it melts mix with it the well-whisked whites and crushed shells of three eggs. As soon as the liquid begins to get hot cease stirring, and do not touch it again. Let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour after it reaches the boiling point. Draw the saucepan away from the fire, and let it stand to settle for twenty minutes longer. Pour it, two or three times if necessary, through a jeUy-bag which has been rung out of boiling water. If, however, the directions given have been closely followed, the jelly can scarcely fail to be clear after once straining. Turn it into a damp mould, and let it stand until firm. Sufficient for two quarts of jelly. Probable cost, 6d. per pint, exclusive of the wine or ale. Poor Man's Sauce for Cold Meats. —Pick a handful of young parsley-leaves, and chop them small. Put with them a table- spoonful of chopped shallots, or a dozen young green onions finely minced, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, put them into a tureen, and pour over them two table-spoon- fuls of salad-oil and four of vinegar. Stir all together and serve. If liked, a table-spoonful of pickled French beans or gherkins cut small may be added to the sauce. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Poor Man's Sauce (another way).— Mince an onion or two or three shallots finely. Fry it in a little dripping until it is tender; then pour over it a glass of \inegar and a glass of water or broth, and add a httlc pepper and salt. Let the sauce simmer gently a few minutes, and serve. A table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup can be added or not. This sauce may be served with yoimg roast turkey. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Poor Man's Soup.—The dripping which is used for making soup should be taken out of the tin almost as soon as it has dropped from the meat. If any cinders have accidentally dropped into it, it should be clarified. Throw four t^ible- spoonfuls of beef dripping into two quarts of boihng water. Add an ounce of butter, a pound and a half of raw potatoes sliced, and a little pepper and salt. BoU for an hour. Take the heart of a yoimg cabbage, break it into small pieces, throw it into the soup, and let it boil( 699 ) POO FOB quickly until it is done enough. Serve imme- diately. Send toasted sippets to table on a separate dish. If, instead of water, the liquid in which meat has been boiled can be used, the soup will, of course, be much improved. Suf- ficient for five pints of soup. Probable cost. Id. per pint. Pool- Man's Soup (anotherway).—Slice two onions, and cut four ounces of bacon into dice. Fry these in two ounces of good beef dripping until they are lightly browned. Add a large carrot, a turnip, a leek, and three or four outer sticks of celery, aU cut into thin pieces. Fry for a few minutes longer. Pour in six quarts of water. Let the liquid boil, then throw in a little more than a pint of split peas, which have been soaked for several hours in cold water. Simmer the soup gently until the peas are re- duced to a pulp. Press through a sieve. Eetum the soup to the saucepan, mix with it two table- spoonfuls of salt, one of sugar, one of dried mint, half a table-spoonful of pepper, and half a poimd of flour mixed smoothly with a pint of water. BoU half an hour longer, and serve. If preferred, the mint can be served separately at table, and taken or not according to indi- vidual taste. Time, varying with the freshness of the peas, usually about four hours. Suf- ficient for twelve or fourteen people. Probable cost, Id. per quart. Poor Man's Soup, Dr. Kitchiner's. —Wash a quarter of a pound of Scotch barley in two or three waters. Drain it, and put it into a large stewpan with four ounces of sliced onion and five quarts of water. Boil the liquid, skim it, and let it simmer gently for an hour, then pour it out. Put into the pan two ounces of clear beef dripping and two ounces of fat bacon cut into dace. When these are melted, stir in four ounces of oatmeal, and rub these to a smooth paste with the back of a wooden spoon. When well mixed, add the barley liquid very gradually, first by spoonfuls. Stir frequently imtU it boils. Season with salt, jwpper, and a little allspice; boil a quarter of an hour longer, and serve. If hked, the flavour of this soup can be varied by frying a larger portion of onion or a little carrot and celery with the bacon. Time, two and a half to three hours. Probable cost, Id. per quart. Suf- ficient for a dozen people. Pope, or Ruffe—This is a small fresh- water fish,_ closely allied to the perch. It is to be met with in all the rivers and canals of England, its favourite haunt being slow shady streams. It greatly resembles the perch iu flavour, being firm, delicate, and well-tasted, and is excellent broiled in buttered paper. Pope's Posset.—Blanch eight ounces of sweet almonds and six or eight bitter ones, and pound thom in a mortar with a few drops of w-ater to prevent them oiling. Put them into a pint of cold water, and bring the liquid slowly to a boU. Strain, and mix vnth it a bottle of white wine boiling hot. Add sugar to taste, and serve. Time, about half an hour to pro- pare. Sufficient for a quart jug. Porcupine Meat (we Meat, Porcupine). Porcupine Pudding.—Wash a quarter of a pound of the best Carolina rice in two or three waters. Drain it, and put it into a stew- pan with a pint or more of cold milk, a little sugar, the thin rind of half a lemon, or any- other flavouring that may be preferred. Boil very gently until the rice is quite tender and has absorbed all the milk. The time required will depend in a great measure upon the quality of the rice, but fully an hour should be allowed for it. When it is quite dry, turn it out, beat it well with a spoon to a smooth paste, mix vnth it three weU beaten eggs, and turn it into a well-oiled mould. Cover it, and steam it by placing it on a plate turned upside down in a saucepan with about three inches of water round it. Whilst it is steaming, blanch two ounces of sweet almonds, cut them into shreds, and throw them into cold water to preserve their colour. Turn the pudding out upon a dish, stick the almonds all over it, and pour round it a pint and a half of nicely-flavoured custard. Time to steam, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 9d. exclusive of the custard. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Pork.—Pork, more than any other meat, requires to be chosen with the greatest care. The pig, from its gluttonous habits, is particu- larly liable to disease, and if it is killed and its flesh eaten when in an unhealthy condition, those who partake of it wiU probably have to pay dearly for their indulgence. It is gene- rally understood that dairy-fed pork is the best. When it is possible, therefore, it is always safest to obtain pork direct from some farm where it has been fed and killed. When this cannot be done, it should either be purchased from a thoroughly respectable and reliable person or dispensed with altogether. Pork is best in cold weather. It is in season from November to March. It shoiild be avoided during the summer months. The fat should be white and firm, the lean finely grained, and the skin thin and cool. If the skm is thick, the pig is old; if it is clammy, it is stale; if any kernels are to be seen in the fat, the pig was diseased at the time it was killed. Pork should not be allowed to hang more than a day or two before it is cooked, as it will not keep unless it be salted. If cooked quite fresh, however, it will be hard. The head, heart, kidneys, liver, &c., should be cooked as soon as possible. Care should be taken that pork is thoroughly cooked, as it is most indigestible when under-dressed. A porker, or pig which is to be cut up for fresh pork, is generally kiUed when it is from six to nine months old. A bacon pig is allowed to grow older and bigger. The manner of cutting up the pig varies in diif orent parts. A porker is generally divided as follows :— 1. Spare- rib. 2. Hand. 3. BeUy, or spring. Eoasted. To be cooked whilst fresh. Slightly salted and boUod. Gene- rally too fat for roasting. Slightly sjilted and boiled, or salted for bacon. lOd. to lO^d. per pound. 8d. to 9d. per pound. 9d. to lOd. per pound.POR ( 600 ) POR 4. Foro To be jointed and loin. rousted. Cut into chops, used for curry or for pica. 9id. to lOid. per pound. 6. Hind Ditto, ditto. lid. per loin. pound. 6. Log. Roasted, or salted lOd. to lid. and boiled. Most per pound. economical joint. Head. Stuffed like a 6d. to Gjd. sucking-pig and per pound. roasted, or cheeks saltedand boiled. The rest of the head, with the tongue, feet, and eai's, salted and made into brawn. Fry, in- To be cooked as o d. per eluding soon as possible. pound, the liver, heart, kidneys, &c. Feet. Salted, boiled, and Hd. to 3d. served with each, parsley sauce. A bacon pig is cut up differently. The chine is in some parts cut from the centre of the pig the whole length from the tail to the neck. In other parts the meat which is taken from the upper part of the spine, between the shoulders, is called the chine, and the hind loin the griskin. The chine may be salted and boiled, or roasted. It is highly esteemed. The hind leg is salted and cured, and called ham; the fore leg is generally left with the side, and salted for bacon. The spare rib is sometimes cut out, oftener it is left with the bacon. Some- times the meat for bacon is cut oft' from the shoulder-blade and bones, and the latter, with very little meat on them, are divided into chines, spare-ribs, and griskins. The inner fat is melted down for lard. In pickling pork great care must be taken that every part is basted regularly and turned about the brine. If any portion is long exposed to the air it may be spoiled. Pork (a la mode).—Large pork, such as por- tions of the shoulder, loin, or spare rib, of large bacon hogs, may be cooked as follows:—Rub the joint with pepper and salt, and put it into a large saucepan which ha.s a closely-fitting Hd. Add two or three onions and caiTots, with half a dozen sticks of celery, four sage-loaves, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of mar- joram and thjTne, and as much stock or water as will cover the whole. Let the liquid boil, skim carefully, then draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for three or four hours, according to the size of the joint. When the pork is done enough, lift it out, put the vegetables round it, strain and thicken a portion of the gravy, find pour it boiling hot over the pork. When the ])ork is removed from the table, trim it neatly, place it on a clean dish, strain and thicken the rest of the gravy, and pour it over the meat. It will be ready fu^ serving when cold. Time to boil the pork, twenty-two minutes per pound from tlie time the water boils. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Pork and Apple Pie.—Cut the pork m thin slices, and season these with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Fill a pie-dish with alternate layers of thijse, and of apples which have been pared, cored, and sliced. Add a little sugar for sweetening, and as much white wine as will moisten the contents of the dish, and place two or three good-sized lumps of butter upon the top. Cover the whole with a good crust, and bake in a hot oven. Time to bake a moderate-si;ied pie, one hour and a half. Pork, Belly of.—The belly of pork is generally either pickled and boUed, or salted and cured for bacon, and it may be dressed as follows :—Take the belly of a porker, either fresh or salted, lay it, skin downwards, flat on the table, and sprmkle over the inside a savoury powder made of two table-spoonfulB of finely- grated bread-crumbs, two table-spoonfuls of powdered sage, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea- spoonful of pepper, and two finely-minced shallots. RoU the meat tightly roimd, bind it with tape, and either bake it or roast it. It may be served hot with brown gravy, or allowed to grow cold, and then be pressed. Time to roast or bake, twenty minutes per pound. Probable cost, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Pork, Belly of, Rolled and Boiled. —Salt a belly of pork; young meat will be the best for the purpose. To do this, mix a salt- spoonful of powdered saltpetre with two table- spoonfuls of common salt, sprinkle the mixture over the pork, and let it lie for three days. When ready to dress the meat, wash it in cold water, and dry it with a cloth. Lay it, skin downwards, on a table, remove the bones, and cover the inside with pickled gherkins cut into very thin slices. Sprinkle over these a little powdered mace and pepper. Roll the meat tightly, and bind securely with tape. Put it into a saucepan with two onions stuck with six cloves, three bay-leaves, a bimch of parsley, and a sprig of thjone. Bring the liquid slowly to the boil, skim carefully, draw it to the side, and simmer gently till the meat is done enough. Put it between two dishes, lay a weight upon it, and leave it until it is quite cold. The bandages should not be removed until the meat is to be served. Time to simmer, half an hour per pound. Probable cost, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Pork Black Puddings.-When black puddings or blood puddings are liked at all they are generally liked very much. They are boiied in the intestines of the hog, and these must of course be very carefully prepared for them ns follows : — Empty them, wash and scrape them in several waters, turning thcin inside out two or three times, and lay them in salt and water all night. The next day rinse them in fresh cold water, and thoy wiU be ready for use. To make the puddings, throw a little salt into a quart of the warm blood, and stir until the blood is cold. Mix with it a quart of whole groats which have been soaked inPOR ( 601 ) POR cold water all niglit, add the grated crumb of a quartern loaf which has been soaked in two quarts of hot milk until the milk was ab- sorbed. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Prepare a seasoning of a tea-spoonful of winter savoury mixed with a tea-spoonful of chopped thyme, a tea-spoonful of chopped onion, half a tea-spoonful of penny-royal, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, half a dozen pounded cloves, half a nutmeg grated, and a quarter of an ounce each of pounded allspice and ginger. Stir this seasoning into the groats, bread- crumbs, and blood, and add thi-ee pounds of finely-chopped beef suet and six well-beaten eggs. Cut half a pound of the inward fat of the pig into pieces the size of a large bean. Tie the skins at one end, and turn them inside out. Half fill them only with the mixture to allow room for swelling, and put in the fat at regular intervals. Tie them in equal lengths or rounds, fasten the ends securely, thi'ow them into boil- ing water, and when they have boiled for five minutes take them out, prick them to let out the air, put them back, and boil gently for half an hour. Take them up, and when they are cold hang them in a cool dry place until wanted. When they are to be used, boil a few minutes in water, and toast in a Dutch oven. Probable cost, 48. 6d. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Pork Black Puddings (another way).— Prepare the skins. {See the preceding recipe.) Put a little salt into the warm blood, and stir until it is cold. Boil a quart of half grits until tender in as much milk as will cover them all the time. Drain them, and mix with them half a pound of bread-crimibs which have been soaked in hot milk until all the milk was absorbed, a pint of cream, and as much blood as will make the pud- ding a dark colour. Add a pound of finely shred suet and a dessert-spoonful each of chopped sage, thj-me, marjoram, penny-royal, and onion, ^vith a table-spoonful of parsley, and a seasoning made of two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, six cloves, and a quarter of an ounce each of pounded nutmeg, ginger, and allspice. Mix all thoroughly with eight well- beaten eggs. Cut two pounds of the inward fat of the pig into pieces the size of a large beau. Half fill the skins, put in the fat at regular intervals, and tie the pudding in equal lengths. Put these into hot water, boil five minutes, then prick and boil them again half an hour. Sc Tve as before directed. Probable cost, 6s. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Pork Black Puddings (another way). —8ee Black Pudding, &c.; also Pig's Blood. Pork Black Puddings with Onions. —Prepare the skins according to the directions given in the last recipe but one. Put a table- spoonful of vinegar into a quart of warm blood, and stir until it is cold. Cut four ounces of the inward fat of the pig into dice, and mix with thi.s two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, a quarter of an ounce each of allspice and ginger powdered, and six ounces of minced onions which have been fried until tender in a little dripy)ing or lard. Add the blood, and mix thoroughly. Half fill the skins, tie them in equal lengths, and boil very gently until they are done enough. In order to ascertain when they have reached the proper point, prick tliem with a large needle. If nothing but fat follows the needle, take them up, lay them on a napkin to cool, and hang them in a cool dry place. When they are wanted, simmer them for ten minutes, cut them into thin slices, and fiy them. Time to boil, about twenty-five minutes. Suf- ficient for six or eight persons. Pork Black Puddings with Rice. —Stir a little salt in a pint and a half of warm blood till it is cold. Add the grated crumb of half a quartern loaf, and six ounces of Carolina rice which has been boiled until tender in a quart of milk. Mix thoroughly, add the seasoning mentioned in the preced- ing recipe, with three ounces of the inward fat of the pig cut into dice, one pound of finely-shred beef suet, and four well-beaten eggs. Half fill the skins, boil, hang, and serve as before; these puddings are very good when they are lightly broiled instead of being fried. Time to boil, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Pork, Bladebone of.—The bladebone of pork from a full-grown bacon-hog, and from which nearly all the meat has been cut, may be taken. It is best broiled over a quick fire until the meat is done through. A minute before it is taken from the fire a little pepper and salt should be sprinkled over it. Serve on a hot dish with a tea-spoonful of mustard mixed with a piece of butter the size of an egg laid upon the meat. Time to broil, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 8d. to 9d. per pound. Pork Brawn.—Take a small pig's head with the tongue, and two pig's feet. Clean and wash them, sprinkle two table-spoonfuls of salt over them, and let them drain until the following day. Dry them with a soft cloth, and rub into them a powder made of six ounce? of common salt, six ounces of moist sugar three-quarters of an ounce of saltpetre, and three-quarters of an ounce of black pepper. Dry the powder well, and rub it into every part of the head, tongue, ears, and feet: turn them over and rub them again every day for ten days. Wash the pickle from them, cut off the ears, and boil them vdth the feet in a separate saucepan with as much cold water as wiU cover them. They will require to be boiled one hour and a half before the head, and afterwards may be put with it. Put the head and tongue into a stewpan, cover with cold water, and let them boil gently until the bones will leave the meat. Take them up, di-ain them, cut the meat into small pieces, first re- moving the bones from the head, feet, and ears, and the skin from the tongue; do this as quickly as possible. Season the mince with a tea-spoonful of white pepper, three salt-spoon- fuls of powdered mace, one salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and one salt-spoonful of cayenne. Stir all well together, press the meat while still warm into a brawn tin, and lay a heavy weight on the lid. Put it in a cool place until the following day, dip the mould in boiling water, turn the brawn out, and serve onPOB ( 602 7 POR a noatly-foldod napkin. Vinegar and mustard should bo served with pork brawn. Time to boil the head, two hours, less or more, according to size ; till tho llosh leaves the bone. Probable cost of head, 5d. to 6^d. per pound. Sufficient for a good-sized breakfast or luncheon dish. Pork, Breast of, with Rice—Wash one pound of best rice, and boil it in a quart of water for five minutes. Drain it, and put it aside. Cut a pound of the breast of pork, fat and lean together, into dice. Fry these in two oimees of butter till they are lightly browned, then add tho rice, three pints of stock or water, and a little pepper and salt if required. Sim- mer all gently for half an hour, and stir the mixture occasionally to keep the rice from burning to the bottom of the saucepan. Serve all together on a hot dishwith a pound of fried sausages laid round it. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d., exclusive of the sausages. Pork Cheese.—Take four pounds of rather imder-dressed cold roast pork, one poimd of which should be fat, and the rest lean. Cut it into small neat pieces, and season rather highly with pepper and salt. Chop small six or eight large sage-leaves, and miY with them two table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, half a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, half a tea- spoonful of powdered marjoram, two blades of powdered mace, a tea-spoonful of minced lemon- rind, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated. Put the meat into a mould, sprinkle the savoury powder in with it, and just cover it with strong, nicely-flavoured gravy. Bake in a moderate oven. Let the meat stand till cold, and turn it out before serving. Vinegar and mustard should be eaten with pork cheese. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost of pork, 9d. to lid. per pound. Sufficient for a moderate- sized breakfast dish. Pork Cheese (a I'ltalienne).—Take three pounds of fresh pork, one pound and three- quarters fat and one pound and a quarter lean. Chop it rather coarsely, and mix with it a savoury powder made of three tea-spoonfuls of salt, three salt-spoonfuls of pepper, a tea-spoon- ful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoonful of chopped sage, a salt-spoonful of powdered thyme, a tea- spoonful of mushroom-powder, and a grated nutmeg. Press the meat into a shallow baking- tin, and bake in a slow oven. Let the cheese get cold, and when serving cut it in slices like brawn. Send vinegar and mustard to table with it. Pork Cheese (a I'ltalienne. Another way).—See Italian Pork Cheese. Pork, Chine of.—The chine of pork is that part of the pig which is taken from the spine between the shoulders. It is generally sent to table with turkey, and should be salted for three or four days before it is cooked. There is a good deal more of fat than lean in it. To boil it, put it in plenty of water, let it boil slowly, skim thoroughly, and serve garnished with any kind of greens. It is as often roasted as boiled. "When roasted, tho skin should be scored before it is put down to the fire. Make ^ sauce by frying two or three sliced onions in butter till they are lightly browned. Pour off the oil, and add a cupful of good gravy with a toa-Hpoonful of mixed mustard, half a cupful of vinegar, a pinch of salt, and a large limip of sugar. Boil this, and pour it into the (tsh. Time to boil, half an hour to tho pound after it boils; to roast, twenty minutes to the jjound. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient, four or five pounds for a moderate-sized tui-key. Pork, Chine of (another way).—Make a savoury powder with a dessert-spoonful of finely - chopped sage, hiilf a tea-spoonful of thyme, half a tea-spoonful of parsley, a small tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Score the chine lengthwise, and slip the powder under the skin. Roast according to the directions given above. If liked, the powder can be omitted, and a sauce, made as follows, sent to table with the chine:—Slice two large onions, and fry them in a little good dripping until they are lightly browned without being burnt. Drain them, and put them into a clean saucepan with half a pint of brown sauce, two table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, or a tea-spoonful of mushroom-powder, or a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and one tea-spoon- ful of mixed mustard Let the sauce boil, and serve. Time to roast, twenty minutes per pound. Probable cost, 94d. to lOid. per pound. Pork, Chine of. Boiled.—Lay the chine in common brine, and turn it every day for ten days. Wash it from the pickle, drain it, put it into a saucepan, and cover with cold water. Bring it to the boil, skim the liquid carefully, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the pork simmer very gently imtil done enough. Gramish the dish with small boiled cauliflowers or brussels sprouts. Time to boil, half an hour to the poimd from the time the water boils. Probable cost, 9Jd. to lO^d. per pound. Pork, Chine of. Roasted.—Score the chine length\vise, brush the skin over with salad oil, and put the meat down to a clear fire, a considerable distance from it at first, that it may heat gently through before it browns. Baste liberally. Send good brown gravy, apple sauce, tomato sauce, or piquant sauce, to table with it. If liked, a table-spoonful of powdered sage may be sprinkled over the meat a quarter of an hour before it is taken from the fire. When this is done, care should be taken that the gravy is poxu-ed round, and not upon, the meat. Time to roast, twenty minutes to the pound. Probable cost, Q^d. to lOid. per pound. Pork, Chine of, Roasted (another way). —Remove some of the fat, then roast the meat for two hours or longer—say, until it is thoroughly done. Send it to table by itself, or with piquant sauce. Before cooking this joint it should be sprinkled with salt and spices, and hung up for three days, or longer, according to the season. Pork, Choosing of.—Pinch the lean, and if young it will break. Should the rind bo tough, thick, and not easily impressed by tho fingers, the meat is old. A thin rind is a dc- sirabjo feature ifl aU pork. When fresh, thePOB ( 603 ) flesh will be smooth and cool; if tainted, it will be clammy. What is known as measly- pork is very imwholesome; it may be recognised by its being full of kernels, which in good pork is never the case. Dairy-fed pork is the best. Pork Chops.—The best chops are those which are taken from the kidney end of the loin, and a little slice of kidney may be advan- tageously cut with each chop. In whatever way pork chops are cooked, whether they are fried, broiled, or stewed, care should be taken that they are done through. Every particle of meat should be raised to, and kept for a few minutes at, a temperature at least a trifle above that of boiling water. If thoroughly cooked vsdthout being di-ied up, few viands are more grateful than pork chops for taste in dishing, and for whatever pleasant adjuncts may be bestowed upon them. These may be con- siderably varied. Pork chops may be sent to table surrounding mashed potatoes which have been turned out of a mould after browning in the oven. They may be served on a puree of sorrel or a layer of spinach ; they may encircle a mound of brussels sprouts, with a suitable sauce pom-ed over the sprouts; they may be served on stewed red cabbage or chopped savoy; or they may be simply dished in a circle with tomato sauce, thick brown sauce, apple .jauce, piquant sauce, cucumber sauce, Robert sauce, proven9ale sauce, or shallot gravy, in a tureen. Probable cost of trimmed chops, Is. per pound. Pork Chops, Bread-crumbed and Broiled,—Trmi the chops as in the next recipe, season them pleasantly, and dip them in clarified butter, or brush them over with oil; then egg and bread-crumb them. Broil them over a clear fire; turn them frequently. Serve very hot. Send tomato or piquant sauce to table with them. Time to broil, sixteen to eighteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for one person. Pork Chops, Broiled.—Cut the chops rather less than half an inch thick. Have a clear fire: make the gridiron hot before putting the chops upon it, and let them be at such a distance that they may be done through. Pepper them before putting thorn down, and two or three minutes before they are done sprinkle a little salt over them, and, if liked, a little finely- chopped sage or tarragon. Txmi them fre- quently, and serve very hot. Tomato sauce, piquant sauce, Italian sauce, or Robert sauce, may be sent to table with them. Time to broil, sixteen to eighteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for two persons. Pork Chops, Fried.—Cut two pork chops haK an inch in thickness, take ofF part of the fat, and trim them neatly. Sprinkle them on both sides with a little salt and pepper. Melt an ounce of butter in a sjiutc pan, put the chops in it, and fry them until they are thoroughly done. If liked, a little powdered sage can be sprinkled over thorn before serving. Send Robert sauce, apple sauce, or piquant sauco to table in a tureen. Time to fry, twenty minutes—ten minutes on each side Pork Chops. Savoury.—Cut the chops half an inch thicK from a good loin of pork; trim them neatly, and sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them. Take a slice of fat bacon, cut it and the trimmings from the chops into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a spoonful of chopped sage, a finely-minced shallot, a salt-spoonful of salt, and half a salt- spoonful of white pepper. Add the chops, cover the saucepan closely, and let them stew gently for twenty minutes. Lift them out, put them on a hot dish, and keep them hot. Pour over the herbs two table-spoonfuls of stock or water and a table-spoonful of strained lemon- juice. Let it boil up, strain it, and skim ofE the fat. Boil again with a glass of port, and serve it rovmd the chops. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for two or three persons. Pork Collops. — Cut a pound of cold roast pork into neat slices. Trim off the fat, season with pepper and salt, cover up the slices to keep them from the dust, and put them aside. Mince finely two large onions and three apples, put them into a saucepan with two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and four of sherry. Let them simmer gently until reduced to pulp, stirring them every now and then to keep them from burn- ing. Beat them until quite smooth. Broil the collops over a clear fire. Pour the sauce into the centre of a hot dish. Put the collops round, and serve. Time to broU the collops, eight minutes ; one hour to simmer the sauce. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the wine and cold meat. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pork, Curried.—Take two pounds of pork with a moderate share of fat. Cut it into neat slices, and fry these in a little butter until they are nicely browned; drain them, and put them aside. Put iuto the butter six onions and one apple finely minced. Move them about untU they are quite soft, and work them through a sieve by pressing them with the back of a wooden spoon. Mix with the pulp a table- spoonful of curry powder, a table-spoonful of curry paste, a dessert-spoonful of ground rice, three-quarters of a pint of stock or water, and a little salt. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boUs, put in the slices of pork, let these boil up, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the curry is done enough. Take out the pieces of meat, boil the sauce quickly for two or three minutes, pour it over the curry, and serve. Send a little rice to table on a separate dish. Time to boU the curry, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, pork, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or four people. Pork Cutlets.—Pork cutlets are best taken from the neck or fore loin of small, dairy-fed pork, not very fat. They should be neatly trimmed, the chine bone removed, and the end of the bone bared about an inch. The skin should be scored at regidar intei-vals, and the cutlets flattened with a cutlet-bat, and then broiled or fried according to the directions given in the following recipes,( 604 ) POR POR Pork Cutlets, Broiled.—Prepare the cutlets iiccordiuf^- to the directions given above; season with i)Opi)L'r and salt, In-ush thoiri over with oil, and lilaeo thorn on a hot gridiron over a clear hro. Turn them two or three times that thoy may be ociuully browned on both sides, and let thorn bo thoroughly cooked. Put thorn on a hot dish, and send tomato or piquant sauco, sauce liobort, or any other ap- propriate sauce, to table with them. Pork cutlets may be served with the same accompani- ment as pork chops (see Pork Chops). The jippoarance of the cutlets will be improved if they are lightly brushed over with a little glaze, but they must be quickly served after they are taken from the fire or they will be spoiled. Time to broil, sixteen to eighteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for two persons. Pork Cutlets, Pried.—Pork cutlets may be fried according to the directions given for pork chops, or as follows :—Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan, and stir into it a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of chopped sage, and a tea-spoonful of finely- minced shallot. Move these ingredients about for a minute, then add a little salt and pepper and two eggs well beaten. Dip the cutlets first into this mixture, then into finely-grated bread- crumbs, and let them stand ten minutes. Melt a little butter in the frying-pan, fry the cutlets in it, and when done enough, serve with good brown sauce in a tureen. Time to fry, fifteen to eighteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for two or three persons. Pork Cutlets, Marinaded.—Mince an onion finely, and lay it at the bottom of a shallow dish, with a bay-leaf, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a salt-spoonful of pepper. Lay the cutlets upon tins mixtiire, and cover with oil. Let them lie for two hours, turn them, and leave them two hours longer. Fry them in the marinade tUl they are thoroughly cooked; drain them, place them round a hot dish, pour a little tomato sauce into the centre, and serve. Time to fry, fifteen to eighteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for two or three persons. Pork Cutlets, Savoury.—Savotuypork cutlets may be dressed according to the direc- tions given for savoury pork chops [see Pork Chops, Savoury), or as follows :—Take a moderate-sized saucepan with a closely- fitting lid. Melt in this two ounces of fresh butter, and throw into it a table-spoonful each of chopped parsley and sage, a pinch of thyme, three bay-leaves, a blade of mace, and eight allspice. Stir over the fire for a minute, then add a glass of light wine and a pound of properly trimmed pork cutlets. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the contents steam for a quarter of an hour. Take the cutlets up, drain them, and dip them first into beaten egg, and afterwards into finely-grated bread- crumbs. Fry quickly, and serve them round a hot dish, with the sauce poured into the centre. The sauce may be prepared as follows:—Strain the sjiuce from the cutlets. Skim it, stir a table-spoonful of lemon-juice into it, thicken with a very small portion of fiour, and just before sending it to table mix a tea-spoouful of niustavd witli it. Time, toii minutes to fry tlio cutlets. Probable cost, cutlets, is. jjer pound. Sufficient for two or three persona. Pork Cutlets with Sauce Robert.— Take two pounds of properly trimmed ]jork cutlets, and lay them in a deep dish. Put a gkss of vinegar, a glass of sherry, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, three shallots, a blade of mace, eight peppercorns, and two allspice into a saucepan. Let these ingre- dients boil up, then turn the mixture into a basin, and when quite cold, pour it over the (iutlets. Let them lie in the mixtuie twelve hours, turning them two or three times. When wanted, drain and dry them, egg and bread- crumb them, and broU over a clear fire until they are thoroughly cooked. Serve in a hot dish, and pour half a pint of sauce liobert over them. Pork, Cutting up and Salting (French method).—^As soon as the pig is killed, do not scald but singe it. To do this, put the carcase on a truss of straw, and set fire to it windwai-d. Then after turning the pig, bum ofE any bristles that are left with torches of burning straw. Broom the pig, wash it well with cold water, and scrape it thoroughly -«dth a knife. Open it, and reserve the blood for a black pudding. Throw the fiy into cold water, and cleanse the chitterlings. These must be used speedily. Let the pig hang for some hours in an airy situation till it is cool and stiff. Halve it, and cut 'it up into convenient-sized pieces, of from three to five pounds' weight. The feet and tail, the tongue, nostril, brains, and ears can be left unsalted, and cooked separately, and, if liked, a few roasting pieces also. To salt the pork, supposing it to weigh 200 pounds, make a powder by mixing thirty pounds of common salt, quarter of a pound of powdered mixed spice, and two ounces of ground pepper. Rub each piece of pork with the powder. Put a layer of powder at the bottom of the salting- tub, pack in closely a layer of pork, and sprinkle the powdered salt and spice over it. Place on this another layer of pork, and repeat until the pan is full. Put salt thickly on the top, pour a pint of cold water over the whole to assist the salt in dissohdng, and put on tlio wooden cover. The pork may remain in thi?. pickle from four to six months, and should then be placed in a single layer on a wicker hurdle, and left to djj in a cool airv place until it is wanted. Bacon thus pickled is the only meat ever tasted by large numbers of Frenchmen. Pork, Dangers of Eating {see Pork; Trichinatous). Pork, Fresh, Stewed.—Cut a spare-rib or any fresh lean pork into chops. Fry these in a little fat until thoy are lightly browned. Take them up, drain them, put them into a clean stewpan, and pour over them as much boiling water as will cover them. Let the liquid boil once more, then diaw it to the( 606 ) side, and simmer very gently until the chops are done enough. ThicKen the gravy with Hour and butter, season with popper and salt; boil a few minutes longer, and serve the pork on a hot dish with the gi-avy poured round it. Time, four minutes to fry the pork; three- quai-ters of an hour to stew. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Pork, Griskin of—A. griskin of pork is a loin from a large pig with the bacon cut off, and is unfortunately often sent to table dry and hard. In order to prevent this, put it into a stewpan with as much cold water as wiU cover it. Bring the water to the boil, take out the meat, remove the skin, and put it down to a clear fire. A short time before it is done enough, strew over it a tea-spoonful of pow- dered sage mixed with an equal quantity of bread-crumbs, and a little salt and pepper. Baste Ubei-ally before the powder is strewn over the meat, but not afterwards. Send some apple sauce and gravy to table with it. If the skin is left on it will require longer roasting. Time, for a joint weighing seven pounds, an hour and a half. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Pork. Griskin of (as Dressed in the South of Europe).—In the Southern Penin- sula the griskin of pork is allowed to He in claret flavoured with garlic for five or six days before it is dressed, being hung up to diy at intervals. At the end of that time it is roasted, and served with tomato sauce; or sweet herbs being sprinkled over it, it is wrapped in bay leaves, and stewed gently in the wine in which it was soaked, to which a slight flavouring of Seville orange-juice has been added. It forms a peculiar and piqiiant dish, much liked by those who have acquired a taste for prepara- tions of the kind. Pork, Griskin of Roasted. — The griskin is usually roasted. It should be put down to a clear fire, and basted constantly, and brown gravy and apple sauce should be sent to table with it. If liked, a tea-spoonful of powdered sage may be sprinkled over it a few minutes before it is taken down. As this joint is liable to be hard and dry when served, many cooks are accustomed, before roasting it, to put it in a saucepan of cold water, place it on the fire, and bring the liquid to the point of boiling : then drj- it well, flour it, and roast it as above described. Time, twenty minutes to the poimd. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Pork, Hand of.—The hand of pork is usually salted and boiled, and may be. sent to tabic with greens and pease pudding in a separate dish. It should have lain in salt about four days. If it has lain longer than that, and is very salt, it is well to let it soak a short time before boiling. It should be put into cold water, skin uppermost, the liquid should bo brought slowly to the point of boiling, tikimmod carefully, and then simmered gently until the pork is done enough. Time, half an hour per pound from the time the water boils. • 'rohable cost, 9(1. per pound. Pork, Hashed.—( !ut a pound .-ind !i half of cold roast pork into neat slices. If any gravy was left from the joint, it may be thickened with a tea-spoonful of brown thickening, or with flour and butter flavoured with a little mushroom-ketchup or any other flavour- ing, and used for the hash. If this is not at hand, put the bones and trimmings from which the meat was cut into a saucepan -with a sliced onion, a clove, a blade of mace, a little salt and pepper, and a pint of water. Stew gently for an hour or more, skim and strain the gravy, and flavour as above. Put in the shoes of pork, and let them heat gently by the side of the fire for about twenty minutes. The gravy must not boil after the meat is added. Serve on a hot dish, garnish with toasted sip- pets, and send apple sauce to table in a tureen. The gravy may be made more saA'Oury by gently frying the onions in butter before stew- ing them, and, if liked, sage and onion sauce may accompany the hash. Time, half an hour after the gravy is made. Probable cost, ex- clusive of the cold meat, 4d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pork Kidney, Stewed.—Pork kidneys may be fried as directed for mutton kidneys, or they may be served as follows :—Take oft" the skin, and cut two kidneys into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Season -with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over them equal parts of parsley and finely-minced shallot. Fry in butter until they are lightly browned, stir a tea-spoonful of flour amongst them, and shake them weU in the pan. Add gradually a wine- glassful of gravy, or even water, and half a wine- glassful of light wine. Bring the sauce to the point of boUing. Take out the kidney. Mix a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley with the sauce, let it boil two minutes longer, pour it over the kidney, and serve very hot. Time altogether, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, pork kidneys, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for two persons. Pork Xiard.—The inside fat of the pig is melted for lard. To make it, cut the fat into thin slices, and put these into a jar. Place the jar in a pan of water, and keep this boUing until the fat dissolves. As it melts, pour it off into small jars or bladders properly prepared, the smaller the better, as the lard will not keep well after it has once been opened. Tie up securely, and store for use. Pork, Leg of, as Goose (Dr. Kitchiner's recipe).—Parboil a leg of pork, and take oft' the skin. Make a stuffing as follows:—Mince two ounces of onion very finely; if the strong flavour is objected to, the onions may be pre- viously boiled. Mix with the onions half a chopped apple, four ounces of bread-crumbs, half a dozen chopped sage-leaves, an ounce of butter, and a little pepper and salt. Bind the mixture together with the yolk of an egg. Make a slit in the knuckle, put the stuffing into it, and fasten securely. Put the pork down to a clear fire, and baste liberally. Half fin hour before it is taken up, sprinkle over it a stivonry powder made of two table-spoonfuls of brcad-cTumbs mixed with one table-spoon- ful of poAvdered sage, and a little pepper nnd salt. Do not baste the meat after the powder( 606 ) POR is put upon it, Sorvo with good brown gravy and applo sauce. Time, a log of pork weighing six pounds will require one hour's gentle boiling, and roasting for one hour and a half. Probable cost, lOid. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ton poi'sons. Pork, Leg of, Boiled—A log of pork which is to bo boiled should be previously salted. WTien purchasing it, choose a small compact log not too fat. If ah-oady salted, wash it before beginning to cook it. If not, put it into a perfectly clean dry earthen pan, rub it well in every part with common salt, and repeat this operation every day for ton days, turning the moat each time, so that the brine may reach every pai-t equally. When the pork is wanted, saw ofi' the shank-bone, wash it well, put it in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and bring the liquid slowly to a boU. Skim carefully, and simmer gently until the meat is done enough. If it is allowed to boil quickly the knuckle end will be sufficiently cooked before the heat has penetrated to the middle of the thick part of the leg. Carrots, turnips, parsnips, and pease pudding, are the usual accompaniments of boiled leg of pork. If liked, the vegetables can be boiled with the meat, but they must not be put in until the water boils. The appearance of the dish will be improved if the skin is scored into small squares or diamonds, and each alternate square taken out. Time, a leg of pork weighing six pounds wiU require two hours' gentle simimering. Probable cost, lO^d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Pork, Leg of. Boiled (another way).— Take a leg of pork, rub it over with salt, and put it, well covered with salt, in a vessel, wherein it must be left for ten days. At the end of that time boil it in soft water, and serve with green cabbage all round, and a peas pudding, made as follows:—Take a quart of dry peas, wash them, wrap them in a clean towel, and throw them into the same vessel as the pork. When the peas are done, strain them through a sieve, put in a large lump of butter, some salt, and two yolks of eggs, and poach the pudding, wrapped up in a clean towel, to make it of a good substance. Observe that the peas must be put in cold soft water for two hours before being boiled, otherwise they wiU never boil mellow. Pork, Leg of. Fresh, Roasted.—A fresh leg of pork ought not to be kept more than a day or two before being cooked. Score the skin at regtdar intervals round from the knuckle, or, if preferred, cut it into squares or diamonds, taking great care not to pierce the flesh. Rub the rind over with butter or sweet- oil to keep it from blistering; put it down at some distance from a clear fire, and baste constantly. Brown gravy and applo sauce, tomato sauce, and Robert sauce, are all suitable accompaniments to roast pork. Time, a joint weighing eight pounds will require three hours. Probable cost, lO^d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient, a moderate-sized leg of pork for eight or ten persons. Pork, Leg of. Roasted.—A leg of pork of eight pounds will require about thi-ee hours. Score the skin across in narrow strips—some score it in diamonds—alxjut a quarter of an inch apart. Stuli the knuckle with sage and L£a OF FOBE. onion minced fine, and a little grated bread, seasoned with pepper, salt, and the yolk of an egg. Do not put the meat too near the fire; rub a little sweet-oU on the skin with a paste- brush or a goose feather; this makes the crack- ling crisper and browner than basting it with dripping, and it will be a better colour than all the art of cookery can make it in any other way. And this is the best way to prevent the skin from blistering, which is principally oc- casioned by its being placed too near the fiire. Pork, Leg of Roast, To Carve.—In carving either the roast leg or loin of pork the knife must follow the direction of the lines scored by the cook before the meat was roasted, on the skin which forms the crackling. This skin is too crisp to be conveniently cut through. It usually happens that the lines scored on the roasted leg of pork are placed too far apart for single cuts. In order therefore to cut thin slices from the meat, raise up the crackling. The seasoning should be placed imder the skm. round the shankbone. Often, however, sage and onion are sent to table separate from the joint. Pork, Leg of, Stuflfed and Roasted.— ]\Iince finely three large onions which have been previously boiled or not, according to taste; mix with them haK a dozen chopped sage- leaves, four ounces of bread-crumbs, an ounce of butter, a little pepper and salt, and half an apple chopped small. Bind the forcemeat together with the yolk of an egg. Raise the skin round the knuckle of the leg of pork, fasten it securely, and brush the rind aU over vdth sweet-oU. Put it down at some distance from a clear fii-e, and baste liberally. Serve the meat on a hot dish, and send brown gravy and apple .ssiuce to table with it. If any gra\^ is put into the dish it should be poured round, but not upon the meat. The flavour of this joint will be im- proved if it is stuffed the day before it is roasted The Germans stuff a leg of pork with som apples only. Time, a joint weighing eight jjoimds will require three hours. Probable cost, 10|d. to Is. per poimd. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Pork, Loin of (i\ la Fran(^aiso).—Take a piece of the loin, neck, or spare-rib of pork;POR ( 607 ) POR score the skin neatly in lines atout a quarter of an inch apart, and rub it over witli salad-oil. Put it into a deep baking dish with eighteen or twenty apples pared, cored, and quartered, as many potatoes peeled and divided, and nine or LOIN or POEK. ten moderate-sized onions. Put the dish in a well-heated oven, and when the meat and vege- tables are done enough serve them on a hot diah, the meat being placed in the centre, and the apples, onions, and potatoes arranged round it. Tune to bake a joint weighing about four pounds, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 9^d. to lOjd. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Pork, Loin of, Baked (German method). —Score the skin of a fresh loin of pork; sprinkle a tea-spoonful of salt over it, and lay it in a baking dish with half a cupful of stock or water; baste Hberally. When the meat is half cooked, sprinkle two table-spoonfuls of caraway seeds over it. The brown gravy which is in the dish may be served with the meat. The fat must be cleared from it, and it must be strained and seasoned with pepper and salt. Time to bake, allow twenty-five minutes for every pound. Probable cost, 9^d. to lO^d. per pound. Pork, Loin of. Marinaded (a German recipe).—Score a fresh loin of pork in the usual way, and rub it well with powdered sage; lay the meat in the salting-pan, and pour over it two pints of tarragon vinegar and two pints of cold water; add a dessert-spoonful of salt, one ounce and a half of bruised peppercorns, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, twelve young sage- leaves, and a small onion. Turn and rub the pork every day for three days. ^ Take it up, drain it, rub it again with powdered sage, wrap it in an oiled paper, and roast before a clear fire. Baste liberally with the pickle. Serve on a hot dish, and send a sauce prepared as follows to table with the meat:—Mix smoothly in a saucepan two oimces of butter and a table-spoonful of flour; add gradually half a pint of the picklo with which the pork has been basted, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, half a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and a glass of port. Simmer the sauce over a gentle fire untU it is of the con- sistency of cream, and send it to table in a tureen. Time to roast, allow twenty-five minutes per pound. Probable cost, pork, 9^d. to lO^d. per pound. Pork, Loin of, Marinaded and Baked (aGerman recipe).—'J'fikothc skin from a loin of pork, lay th(! iiioat in a dec;];) earthen pan, pour over it half a pint of vinegar, and put with it two sliced onions, twelve young sage- leaves, a sprig of thyme and sweet basil, a dozen juniper berries, six cloves, twenty bruised peppercorns, and a table-spoonful of salt. Let the pork remain in this marinade five or six days, turning and basting it twice a day. Take it up, put it with the pickle into a baking dish, and baste frequently. When it is about half baked, pour half a cupful of boiling water into the dish, strain the gravy, and put it back. When the meat is sufficiently cooked, serve on a hot dish, skim the gravy, and pour it round. Time to bake, twenty-five minutes to the pound. Pro- bable cost, 9^d. to lO^d. per pound. Pork, Loin of. Roast.—Score the skin of a fresh loin of pork at equal distances about a quarter of an inch apart. Brush it over with salad-oil, and place the joint before a clear fire, though at a good distance from it, for fear the cracfling should bum before the meat is suf- ficiently cooked. Baste liberally, and when done enough serve on a hot dish, and send brown gravy and apple sauce or Robert sauce to table with the meat. If liked, a little sage and onion stuffing may be served in a separate dish. It is better not to send it to table on the same dish as the meat, as many people object to the flavour. Time, a loin of pork weighing five poimds, about two hours. Probable cost, 9Jd. to lO^d. per pound. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Pork, Loin, Roast, To Carve {see Pork, Leg of Eoast, To Carve). Pork, Loin of, Savoury.—Score the skin of a fresh loin of pork in lines a quarter of an inch apart. Rub it thoroughly in every part with a savoury powder made by mixing together a salt-spoonful of powdered sage, a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of dry mustard, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a chopped onion. Wrap the joint entirely in oiled papen^ and put it down before a clear fire, though at a distance from it, and baste liberally. Half an hour before the meat is taken down, remove the paper, and baste the meat again Tintil the crackHng is nicely browned. Serve on a hot dish, and send brown gravy and apple sauce to table with the meat. Time, twenty-five minutes to the pound. Probable cost, 9|d. to lOJd. per pound. Pork, Loin of, Savoury (another way). —Score a small loin of pork as before. Make a savoury mixture of a moderate-sized onion chopped small, a piece of garlic the size of a pea also chopped, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of shred parsley, half a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, and a bay-leaf cut small. Stir this powder into a quarter of a pint of salad-oil, and rub the pork well with the mixture. Put it into an earthen pan, and let it remain closely covered for two days, turning it every day. Take it up, wrap it in well-oiled paper, and roast as in the preceding recipe. Servo on a hot dish, and send a sauce prepared as follows to table in a tureen:—Mince finely a moderate-sized onion and a sharp apple. Put those into a small saucepan with a tea-spoonful of sugar, half a tea-spoonful of mustard, half a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, andPOH ( 608 ) tho strained juico of a lomon. Stir them over the firo for a minute or two, then pour over thorn half a pint of nicely-flavoured stock, and lot tho sauce simmer gently for twenty minutes. Serve the sauco in a turocn. Time to roast tho pork, twonty-fivo minutes per pound. Probable cost, 9kl. to 10|d. pur pound. Pork, Loin of, with Pried Potatoes. —lioast a piece of tho loin or spare i-ib of pork in the usual way. Basto liberally, and when it is almost done enough, take six or eight large po- tatoes—French kidney potatoes arc best for the purpose, as they do not break -whilst cooking so much as the regents—wash and peel them, dry them well in a napkin, and cut them into slices the eighth of an inch thick. Pour the fat which has dropped from the pork into a small deep saucepan. When it is quite hot, throw the potatoes into it, and move them about occasion- ally that they may be equally cooked. Drain them from tho fat, and serve the pork on a hot dish, the- fried potatoes being arranged round it: send brown gravy to table in a tureen. Time, ten minutes to fry the potatoes. Probable cost: pork, 9Ad. to lOid. per pound. Pork, Loin of, with Sauce Robert. —Eoast a loin of pork in the usual way, baste liberally, and when done enough serve on a hot dish with a sauce prepared as follows poured roimd it:—Cut four good-sized onions into small pieces, fry them in two ounces of butter imtil they are lightly browned. Sprinkle an ounce of floirr over them, and stir them about -with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire for two minutes. Add a little salt and pepper, a pint of stock, and a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat, and let the sauce simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, stirring it aU the time. Pour it on a hot dish, lay the joint upon it, and serve imme- diately. Send apple sauce to table in a ttireen. A little made mustard may be added to the sauce, if liked. Loin of pork, when served ■with this sauce, is sometimes stewed instead of being roasted. To do this, put the joint ■with a small portion of clarified butter into a ste^svpan just large enough to hold it. Let it bro'svn brightly on both sides, then pour over it as much stock as ■will cover it, and add a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with two cloves, a little salt and pepper, and a glass of light ■wine; let it simmer gently for two hours, and baste two or three times at intervals during the time. Serve the pork on a hot dish ■with the sauce poured round it. Time to roast a loin weighing about four pounds, one hour and a quarter. Probable cost, 9td. to lO^d. per pound. SuflRcient for five or six persons. Pork, Meat Cake of.—IMince separately one pound of lean pork and three quarters of a pound of fat bacon. Mix them, and season the mixture rather highly with salt, pepper, cayenne, and chopped sa ge. Bind the ingredients together with the yolk of an egg. Form a round cake about an inch thick; dissolve a small portion of butter in a stowpan. Put in the cake, let it brown on one side, then turn it, and let it brown equally on the other. Put it on a hot dish, drcdtro a little flour into the butter, mix it to a smooth paste, thin it witlx a little stock, season with pepper and salt, and boil until it is of the consistence of cream; put in the ciike, let it heat through, and serve with the sauco in the dish. If the flavour is Ukod, a little linoly-minced onion may hn added both to tho cake and the sauce. Time to fry, from twelve to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Suflicient for three persouB. Pork, Meat Cake of. Cold.—Cut the meat, fat and lean, hum a cold joint of roast pork, and mince it very finely; mix with it a couple of largo potatoes freshly boiled and mashed, a little salt and pepper, a chopped onion, and a pinch of powdered sage. Add two or three eggs and a little milk, sufficient to make a very thick batter. Fry the cake like an omelet, or bake in a buttered dish. Serve with pickled onions or gherkins. Time to fry, until nicely bro-wned. Probable cost, 6d., ex- clusive of tho cold pork. Pork, Minced.—Take a pound of cold roast pork, free from fat or skin, and season it with a little pepper, .salt, and dry mustard. Pare, core, a,nd mince finely four large apples, and put them into a saucepan -with two ounces of fresh butter and three chopped onions of a moderate size. Stir these ingredients over the fire imtil tender. Pour over them three table-spoonfuls of nicely-flavoured stock, or if any is at hand, of the gravy that was served with the roast pork. Add a table-spoonful of vinegar, and a piece of brown thickening the size of a small nut, or if this is not to be had, a tea-spoonful of flour mixed smoothly -with a dessert-spoonful of cold stock. Let the sauce boil five or six minutes. Stir into it the minced pork, and when this is quite hot, add the juice of a small lemon, and serve immediately. If the fiavour is liked, a piece of garlic the size of a pea may be sim- mered -with the sauce. Garnish the dish with toasted sippets. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pork, Minced as Collops (a German recipe).—]\Iince one pound of colcllean pork and two ounces of fat pork very finely. Mix with it four otmces of grated bread-crumbs, and a little pepper and salt, and bind the mixture together ■with two well-beaten eggs. Form tho minco into balls, flatten these on the top, brush thou over with egg, dip them in bread crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Serve ■with good brown gra\'y. If liked, tlie collops instead of being fried may be stewed in a gravy prepared as follows :—Put the bones and trimmings of tho pork into a stewpan with as much stock as wiU cover them. Season the gra^vy with pepper and salt, and simmer it gently for half an hour. Strain it, place it again in the saucepan, and put in the collops. Lot thorn stew for a quarter of an hour. Lift them out carefully, and keep them hot. Thicken the gravy with brown thickening, and add a table- spoonful of chopped ciipcrs or a couple of finely- minced shallots to the sauce. Send r;iuliflowcr or delicately-fried potatoes to t^ible with tho collops. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for three or four jiersons. Pork, Neck of, Rolled and Roasted. —Take tho ueck or spring of fresh young pork.( 609 ) POR Have the bones removed, and spread evenly over the inside a forcemeat made of three table-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs, two table-spoonfuls of chopped sage, a little pepper and salt, and a beaten egg. Eoll and bind the meat tightly in a nice shape. Put it to roast before a clear fire, though at a good distance from it, and baste liberally. Send good brown gravy to table with the pork. If liked, the forcemeat may be omitted, and tomato sauce, poivrado sauce, or soubise sauce may accompany the meat. Time to roast the pork, twenty-five minutes per pound. Probable cost, 9^d. per pound. Pork, Nutritive Properties .of.— Compared with some of our leading articles oi diet derived from animals, pork, so far as nutriment is concerned, occupies the lowest place, except in the matter of fat. This may be seen from the following analytical table :— Veai. Beef. Mutton. Pork. Mineral matter . 4-5 5-0 3-5 1-5 Gelatine . . 7-6 7-0 7*0 5 o Fibrine . . 9-0 8 0 5 5 45 Fat . . . 16-5 30-0 40-0 60-0 Water . . 62-5 50 0 44-0 38-5 100 0 100-0 100 0 100-0 Pork Pancakes.—Beat thoroughly the yolks of two fresh eggs. Stir in two table- spoonfuls of flour, and beat to a smooth paste. Add a pinch of salt and the third of a pint of mUk, and let the batter stand for an hour or two. Out the remains of cold roast or boiled pork into thin slices, and cover these to keep them moist and free from dust. When the pancakes are to be fried, whisk the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, and add them to the batter. Dip the slices of pork into this, and fry them separately in hot fat for a minute. Sur- round each slice with a spoonful of batter, fry it again until set, and when it is done on one side turn it over to the other. Serve the pancakes on a hot dish, and send good brown sauce made from the trimmings of the pork to table with them. If liked, the pancakes can be made with fresh meat, but in tins case it will be necessary to fry the slices of pork before they are dipped into the batter. Three or four pan- cakes may be fried at once in an ordinary omelet pan. Time to fry the pancakes, four minutes each. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient, allow two or three for each person. Pork, Peas Pudding to Eat with Boiled {nee I'eas I'udding). Pork, Peas Pudding, whj eaten with.—" Pork and peas pudding," remarks Dr. Johnson, " is a conjunction of viand.s which docs not owe its popularity either to old habit or to the mere taste of the epicure. It is in reality an admixture which constitutional experience has prescribed as better fitted to the after comfort of the alimentary canal of every healthy indi- vidual than cither kind of food eaten alone." Pork, Pickle for.—The wime pickle may be used again and agi.in for pork if it is boiled up occasionally. The following are excellent recipes :—Boil half a pound of common salt, a quarter of a pound of salt prunel, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, one and a half pounds of loaf sugar, and two pounds of bay-salt, in twa gallons of water for half an hour. Skim the hquor well, and when cold put it into the tub. Or boil six pounds of common salt, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, and one and a half pounds of moist sugar, in two gallons of water, as above. When the meat is put into either of these pickles, put a weight upon it to keep it covered with the brine. Pickle should be thrown away after a pig's head has been laid in it. Pork, Pickle for (another way).— Pickle for Beef, Pork, and Tongues. Pork, Pickled.— As pork will not keep unless it is salted, it should be cut up as soon as it is cold, and in such pieces as will lie quite flat in the pan. Strew a layer of salt and a slighter one of sugar at the bottom of the salting-pan. Rub the sides of the pork over with sugar and salt, lay the pieces, skin down- wards, in the pan, and put a layer of sugar and salt between the layers. When the pan is full, cover the whole with a layer of salt sufficiently thick to exclude the air. Lay a cloth over the pan, and put a board with a weight upon it over the cloth to keep the meat in the brine. Leave it for a week or ten days. If at the end of that time the salt has not dissolved into a brine, sprinkle a little warm water over the top layer of salt. It is better, however, to avoid doing this if possible: it should only be found necessary in very drj- weather. Pork pickled in this way will be ready for use in three or four months, and wUl be found excellent. If excluded from the air, it will keep good for two years. Although saltpetre is more commonly used than sugar in. pickling meat, the latter imparts the finer flavour, though there is no reason why both should not be used for pork as well as beef. Pork, Pickled (American method).—Dis- solve an ounce of saltpetre and half an ounce of saleratus in a small quantity of boiling water. Put this into a large saucepan containing three gallons of water, and add two and a half pounds of common salt, two pounds of bay- salt, and one pound of moist sugar. Boil the liquid, and skim well until it is quite clear, then pour it into the pickling-pan, and when it is cold it is ready for use. Pork which is to be boiled should be put into this pickle, and kept under the brine, by means of a board and a weight laid upon it, until it is wanted. The time required for pickling vrill of course de- pend- upon the size of the meat and the taste of those who are to eat it. Usually it wiU be found that two days is sufficient for the streaky parts, four days for the hand and spring, and five or six days for a moderate- sized leg. The pickle may be used again and again if boiled occasionally. Pork, Pickled (an easy way).—When povk is to be dressed in a short uime, it may be pickled in the following oasy way:—Take the pig as soon as it is cold, cut it into con- venient-sized pieces, and rub it weU with com- mon salt. Lay it in the salting-pan, and turn, and rub it overy day till it is required for( CIO ) POR POR of the moiit, friendly reader, your oracle cau- tions you to buy no leg of pork which is slit at the knuckle. If pork ig not done enough, nothing is jnore disagreeable; if too much, it not only loses its colour und flavour, but its substance becomes soft like a jelly. It must never appear at table without a good peas pud- ding, and, if you plwise, parsnips or carrots, turnips and greens, or mashed jjotatoes. Obs.: liomember not to forget the mustard-pot." Pork Pies.—Pork pies are generally made of tlie trimmings taken from a hog when it is cut up. Make and shape the pies according to the directions given in the foliow'ing re- cipe, and remem^Jer that the pies must be moulded while the paste is wai-m, and that they are much more easily made with a mould than without one. As a mould is not always at hand, those who are not particularly ex- perienced in the work (and it requires skill) may mould the pie round a jelly-pot or bottle, which has been made warm bj- being immersed I for some time in warm water. Cut the meat use. Remember always to wash the hands in cold water the last thing before touching the meat. The time required for the moat to lie in salt depends upon taste. If it is wished that it should bo only modei-atoly salted, the hand and belly may remain in the pan four days, and a leg weighing six pounds live or six days. Pork, Pickled (another way).—Every part of the pig which is thin and streaky may be converted into pickled pork, but the fillet and breasts are the portions best suited for this purpose. Cut the meat into pieces, and lay these at the bottom of an earthen pan on a layer of crushed salt, packing them as closely as pos- sible. Cover with a mixture of fifteen parts of salt and one of saltpetre. Lay on the top a cloth folded in four, and above the cloth a round board bearing several heavy stones. If the pork is wanted for immediate use, remove it at the end of five or six days; but if it is wished to preserve it for a considerable time, let it remain longer in salt. Pork, Pickled, Boiled.—If the pork be very salt, let it soak for an hour before it is dressed. Put it into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and bring it slowly to the boil. Skim the liquid carefully, draw the pan to the side, and let the meat simmer very gently until it is done enough. If boiled quickly it will not be good. Pickled pork is generally served as an accompaniment to fowls or other white meats. If under-dressed, pickled pork is very indi- gestible. Thick pieces will require longer boil- ing than thin ones; as a general rule, half an hour per pound from the time the water boils. Pork, Pickled, Dressed (Dr. Kitchiner's observations on).—" Pickled pork takes more time than any other meat. If you buy your pork ready salted, ask how many days it has been in salt; if many, it will require to be soaked in water for six hours before you dress it. When you cook it, wash and scrape it as clean as pos- sible ; when delicately dressed, it is a favourite dish with almost everybody. Take care it does not boU fast; if it does, the knuckle will break to pieces before the thick part of the meat is warm through; a leg of seven pounds takes three hours and a half very slow simmering. Skim your pot very carefully, and when you take the meat out of the boUer, scrape it clean. Some sagacious cooks (who remember to how many more Nature has given eyes than she has given tongues and brains), when pork is boiled, score it in diamonds, and take out every other square, and thus present a retainer to the eye to plead for them to the palate; but this is pleasing the eye at the expense of the palate. A leg of nice pork nicely salted and nicely boiled is as nice a cold relish as cold ham, espe- cially if, instead of cutting into the middle ■when hot, and so letting out its juices, you cut it at the knuckle; slices broiled are a good lun- cheon or supper. Some persons who sell pork ready salted have a silly trick of cutting the knuckle in two—we suppose that this is done to save their salt—but it lets all the grsivy out of the leg; and unless you boil your pork merely for the sake of the pot-liquor, which in this case receives all the goodness and strength into pieces the size of a small nut, and keep the meat and fat separate. Season the whole vnth. pepper and salt, half a dozen young sage-leaves finely shred; or a tea-spoonful of dried and powdered sage, one ounce of salt, two and a quarter ounces of pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, may be allowed for a pie containing three pounds of meat. Pack the fat and lean closely into the pie in alternate layers until it is filled. Put on the cover, press and pinch the edges, and ornament according to taste. Brush, over with well-beaten egg, and bake in a slow oven, as the meat is solid and requires to be cooked through. Neither water nor bone should be put into pork pies, and the outside pieces will be hard unless they are cut small and pressed closely together. The bones and trim- mings of the pork may be stewed to make gravy, which should be boiled until it will jelly when cold, and when this has been nicely flavoured, a little may be poured into the pie after it is baked through an opening made in the top. When pies are made small they require a quicker oven than large ones. Time to bake, about two hours for a pie containing three pounds. Probable cost, 3s. {See also Raised Pies.) Pork Pies, Pastry for.—Put a quarter of a pound of finely-shred beef suet—or five ounces of lard, or a quarter of a pound of mutton suet—and an ounce of fresh butter into a sauce- pan with half a pint of boiling water and a pinch of salt. Stir the mixture until the fat is dissolved, and pour it boiling hot into a pound and a half of flour. Knead well to a stiflt paste, and add a little more warm water if required. Shape the dough, and got it into the oven while it is warm. If the pie is to be baked in a mould, lay a piece of the proper shape in the bottom. Press long pieces into the sides, and fasten these to the top and the bottom with white of egg. If a mould is not to be used, cut oft' as much pastry as will nrnkf) the cover, and wrap it in a cloth to keep it warm. Mould the rest with both hands into the sh.ape of a cone, and make the sides smooth and firm. Press the top down vnih. the knuckles of the right hand, and with thePOR POB ( 611 ) left press the outside closely to keep it firm and smooth Be cai-eful that the walls are equally thick in every part. FiU the pie, put on the ^over, pinch the edges, fasten sccui-ely witn white of egg, ornament the outside m any way that may suit the fancy, brush over with yolk of egg, and bake in a slow oven if the pie be large, in a quicker one if it be small. Pork, Precautions in Cooking.— Take particular care it be done enough : other meats underdone are unpleasant, but pork is absolutely uneatable; the sight of it is enough to appal the sharpest appetite if its gi-avy has the least tint of redness. Be careful of the ■crackUng: if this be not crisp, or if it be .burned, you will be scolded. Pork Pudding. — line a well-buttered -basin with good suet crust. Fill it with alter- nate layers of pork cut into neat slices and j)ork sausage meat, and allow double the weight .of pork to that of sausage meat. Put a little pepper and salt, a chopped onion, and half a ^ozen sage-leaves finely shred with the meat, .and add two or three spoonfuls of gravy made irom the trimmings. Put on the cover, fasten the edges securely, tie the pudding in a floured <;loth, plimge it into boiling water, and keep it "boiling untn it is done enough; then turn it out carefully, and serve on a hot dish. Time to boil a moderate-sized pudding, about three hours. Probable cost, pork and pork sausage, lOd. per pound. Pork Pudding (another way). A Dutch recipe. — Put half a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs into a bowl. Pour over these three-quarters of a pint of milk which has been mixed with two well-beaten eggs, and let them .-soak for an hour. Stir in with them two pounds of lean pork finely minced and sea- .soned with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Add a little more butter to the sides of the dish, if requii'ed. Time to bake, two hours. Probable cost, 28. 3d. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons. Pork, Rearing Hogs for.—As regards the wholesomeness of its flesh, the hog is more affected by the mode of keeping than any other known animal. It is naturally indolent and filthy in its habits, but cleanliness and atten- tion have a great influence in making it thrive. The kind of food given to swine produces a marked eft'oct on the quality of the flesh. Skimmed milk and peas, oats, and barley-meal rank first in excellence as food for making delicate pork. Milk alone will fatten pigs, and milk-fed pork is the most delicate of any. Pork fed on beans is hard and ill-flavoured; that which is fed entirely on grain has the fat spongy; fermented grain and the must of cider render the hog bloated, and " liable to fits of the gout, from being kept in a state of constant intoxication." Potatoes make a light, insipid flesh. Reared on oUcake the flesh is little better than carrion, and butchers' offal makes the pork fuU of gravy, but gives it a disgusting strong taste and smell. For bacon and flitches hogs are fattened on purpose, and their food will depend on the circumstances of their owners. Round the forests of this country it is tho practice to di-ive the hogs in at the proper season of the year, that they may feed on the acorns and other kernels that fall from the trees. It is said that Westphalia hams owe much of their excellence to a similar custom. Pork, Roast, Apple Sauce for.— Peel some apples, cut them into quarters, and put them into a stewpan with a little brown sugar and water. Stir weU with a wooden spoon, add a little butter, and when done enough send the sauce to table. The apples must not be too much stewed, or they will lose their acidity and become too brown. Pork, Rolled.—Bone a leg of pork; have ready a forcemeat of chopped sage, bread- crumbs, allspice, salt, and pepper; put this forcemeat within the meat, and roll it up tight. Roast gently, keeping the meat at fii'st some distance from the fiLre; froth it with butter and flour a few minutes before serving. Pork, Saddle of, Roasted.—Have a saddle of pork cut in the same way as a saddle of mutton. As pork is not often cut up in this way, it wiU be necessary to order it beforehand. Take ofi the skin, trim the joint neatly, and cover the fat with buttered paper. Put it down to a clear fire, and baste liberally. Half an hour before it is taken up, remove the paper, dredge the meat lightly with flour, and baste until it is brightly browned. Send brown gravy and apple-sauce, tomato-sauce, orpoivrade sauce, to table with it. If Uked, the skin can be left on, and it will then require to be scored lengthwise, the same way in which the saddle is carved. This is the handsomest joint of pork that can be served. Time, without the skin, twenty minutes per pound. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Pork, Salted.—Of all animal food pork takes salt best, and is most easily preserved. A smaller quantity of salt will keep it than any other meat. It also acquires saltness mol-e slowly than any other. Pork, Salted, for Larding.—In salting pork it is well to put aside a piece to be used exclusively for larding, and for this to omit saltpetre altogether, and merely rub it well with salt, put a weight upon it, and leave it for five or six weeks, until it is ready for smoking. If saltpetre is rubbed into bacon which is to be used for larding, there wall be danger that the lardoons will impart a pink tinge to the white meats that come in contact with them. Pork Sausages.—First prepare the skins. To do this, empty the hog's intestines, cut them into lengths, and lay them in salt and water for three or four days. Turn them inside out once or twice during that time. Rinse and scrape them, and they are ready for use. To make the sausages:—Mince finely a pound of lean pork free from skin and gristle. Add one pound of finely-shred beef suet, two large table-spoonfuls of grated bread, a plentiful allowance of pepper, salt, and finely-chopped sage, and a pinch of powdered allspice and powdered cloves. Fill the skins, and leave plenty of room to tie the ends. Or mince finelyPOR (612) POR a pound and a quarter of fat pork and a pound and a quarter of lean pork. Add throe ounccH of white popper, one ounce of salt, a doHSort- spoonful of powdered sago, a pinch of powdered mace, and a pinch of cloves. Or mince finely two pounds of loan pork and a pound and a half of the inward fat of the pig. Add the crumb of a penny roll which has boon soaked in cold water and pressed quite dry, and a seasoning of popper, salt, powdered sage, grated nutmeg, and lemon thyme. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Or mince finely one pound of pork, fat and lean together. Add one pound of linely-shrod beef suet, one pound of lean veal, half a pound of finely-grated bread- crumbs, a small nutmeg grated, six or seven youn^ sage-loavos cut small, or a tea-spoonful of dried and powdered sage, two tea-spoonfuls of sjilt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, a pinch of powdered savory, a pinch of powderedmarjoram, and the rind of half a small lemon cut small. Mix thoroughly, and put the meat into skins. Or mince finely six pounds of pork, fat and lean together; add half a tea-spoonfxil of pounded sage, half a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, a tea-spoonful of ground allspice, an ounce of salt, and half an ounce of white pepper. In making sausage meat it must be remembered that it is most important to keep out all pieces of bone, sinew, and skin. If a larger quantity of the meat has been mixed than is required for immediate use, what is left may be packed closely in a perfectly dry jar, tied tightly with bladder, and kept in a cold place till wanted.. Probable cost, pork, 9d. or lOd. per pound. Pork Sausages, Dressed.—Pork sau- sages may be either baked, broiled, boiled, or fried. The usual way of cooking is to fry them : the best way is to bake them. To fry them :— Put the sausages into a frying-pan over a clear fire with a little piece of butter in the pan to keep them from burning. Roll and turn them about that they may be equally cooked. The time required will depend upon the size of the sausages. If large, they will need twenty minutes; if small, ten or fifteen minutes will be enough. To bake sausages:—Put them in a tin in a single layer, and place them in a moderate oven. Turn them over when they are half done, that they may be equally browned all over. The advantage of cooking sausages in this way is that they get cooked through, and are consequently much more wholesome. Time, one hour to one hour and a half. To broil sausages:—Prick smaU sausages on both sides to keep them from bursting, and broil them till they are done enough. Serve on a hot disli. They will require from eight to twelve minutes. To boil sausages:—Plunge them into boiling water, let them boil up, draw the saucepan to the side, and simmer gently for half an hour. Pork sausages should be served very hot, either on fresh toast or round a mound of mashed potatoes. Brown-sauce, apple-sauce, or tomato-sauce may be sent to table with them. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Pork Sausages for Eating Cold.— Put two pounds of pork, fat and lean together, and two pounds of lean beef into a pickle for ten days {see Pork, Pickled). Take the meat out. waah, drain, and dry it, mince it finely, season with a littlo black popper, salt, and allBpice, mix thoroughly, and put it into skinu. Tie the ends securely, wrap the sausages in one fold of muslin, and lumg thetn in smoke, as hams are hung, imtil they turn red. When wanted, tlirow them into boiling water, lot them simmer gently until done enough, let them get (;old, and serve cut into tliin slices. Time to l>oil, hall an hour. I'robable cost, Is. 2d. per pound. Pork Sausages without Skins.— Prepare the sausages according to the directions ah-eady given {see Pork Sausages); and when the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, bind them together with two or three weU-beaten eggs. Make them into small rolls, egg and broad-crumb them, and fry them over a cleai- fire vmtil they are nicely bro-wned. Send good brown gravy to table with them. Time to fry, ton to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. por pound. Pork Saveloys.—Take three pounds of tender pork free from skin and sinew; rub it well with half an ounce of saltpetre and eight ounces of common salt. Leave it for three or four days, and turn and rub it every day. Mince finely, and mix with it a heaped tea- spoonful of white pepper, half a dozen young sage-leaves chopped small, and half a pound of finel3''-grated bread-crumbs. Mix these ingre- dients thoroughly. Fill the skins which have been prepared according to the directions given in the recipe for making pork sausages, tie them securely at both ends, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Pork, Scambled (an American dish).— Soak a pound of salt pork to freshen it. Drain it, cut it into pieces about an inch square; fry these in hot fat, and move them about that they may be equally cooked. "VNTien they are almost done enough, stir in with them from six to twelve weU-beaten eggs, and beat aU quickly together. When the eggs are set, turn the mixture upon a hot dish, and send boiled, baked, or roasted potatoes to table with it. If the pork gives out a good deal of fat whilst it is being fried, pour it off before dishing the meat. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, pork, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pork, Shoulder of, Marinaded (a German mode of cooking).—Lay a shoulder of pork in a deep cjirthen pan, pour over it half a pint of vinegar, and put with it a dessert- spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of bruised peppercorns, half a lemon, two onions sliced, a tea-spoonful of juniper berries, half a dozen cloves, and a bay-leaf. Let the pork lie ih this pickle for five days, and turn and rub it every day. Take it up, drain it, cover it with oiled paper, and roast before a clcjir fire, though at some distance from it. Baste liberally with the strained ]uckle. For sauce, mix a quarter of a pint of the pickle with a quarter of a pint of cold water; add half a toa-spoonful of brown thickening, and a little popper and salt if re- quired. Serve in a tureen.(613) POB POR Pork, Spare-rib of, Roasted. — A spare-rib of pork usually weighs about eight or nine pounds, and will take from two to three hours to roast it thoroughly—not exactly ac- tording to its weight, but the thickness of the meat upon it, which varies very much. Lay the thick end nearest to the fire. A proper hald spare-rib of eight pounds' weight (so called Jbecause almost all the meat is pared off), with a steady fire, will bo done in an hour and a quarter — there is so little meat on a bald sparo-rib that if you have a large, fierce fire it will be burnt before it is warm through. Joint it nicely, and crack the ribs across as you do ribs of lamb. When you put it down to roast, dust on some flour, and baste with a little hutter. Dry a dozen sage-leaves, rub them through a hair sieve, and put them into the top of a pepper-box, and about a quarter of an hour before the meat is done baste it with butter, then dust pulverised sage, or sprinkle with duck-stuffing. Some people carve a spare-rib by cutting out in slices the thick part at the bottom of the bones. When this meat is cut away the bones may be easily separated, and are esteemed very sweet picking. Apple-sauce, mashed potatoes, and good mustard, are indis- pensable. Pork, Spare-rib of. Roasted (another •way).—Sprinkle a handful of salt over the spare- rib, and let it lie for a day or two. When it is to be cooked,brush or wash the salt off, joint the meat neatly, and crack the ribs across. Put it down to a clear and steady, but by no means fierce, fire, or the little meat that there is upon it win be dried up. Dredge a little flour over it, and baste well. About a quarter of an hour be- fore it is done enough, sprinkle a little powdered sage over it, and send brown gravy and apple- sauce to table with it. Time, according to the thickness rather than the weight of the joint: ^«ly a quarter of an hour per pound, if thin. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Pork, Stewed with Vegetables (Ger- man recipe).—Cut the heait of a large savoy into quarters. Put these into a large iron stewpan with half a dozen carrots cut into lengths, three turnips halved, eight moderate- sized whole potatoes, and two pounds of fresh pork with more lean than fat in it. Season with pepper and salt, pour over them a pint of nicely-flavoured stock, cover the saucepan closely, and let them stew as gently as pos- sible until done enough. Serve the pork on a hot dish with the vegetables neatly arranged round it. Pour part of the gravy over the meat, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Time to stew, from two and a half to three hours. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pork, Stufllng for {^ee Onion and Sage Stuffing for Gccse, Ducks, or Pork). Pork, Trichinatous.—There are some dangers attending the consumption of pork, and to these we would here call attention. To the pig wo arc indebted for two of the most repulsive and dangerous worms ever introduced into the human system—the Totnia, or tape- worm, and Trichina. The latter is particularly deserving of notice, as people in this country are often in the habit of eating cold foreign sausages and uncooked pork relishes liable to contain this deadly parasite. The first notice taken of Trichina spiralis seems to have been in 1822 by Tidemann ; it was not, however, des- cribed till 1835, when it received the notice of Owen. From 1835 to 1859 it occupied pretty much the position of a curiosity, and was not regarded as dangerous. But immediately after the latter date a Prussian doctor had no fewer than six patients suffering in one year from trichinatous disease. Fear and interest were at once roused, and the excitement was augmented by the investigation of Zenker, a Prussian medical man of repute, who showed that the migrations of trichina3 among human muscles, far from being harmless, as had hitherto been ' believed, produced symptoms of the most agonising sort, and terminated the existence even of the strong and healthy within a few weeks after the unfortunate sufferers had par- taken of the contaminated pork. Shortly ^er this—namely, in October, 1863—at the little town of Helstadt, in Prussia, on a festive occa- sion, a hundred and thi-ee people dined together. "Before a month had elapsed, twenty had died of trichinatous disease, eighty were in the excruciating agonies of the fearful malady, while the remainder, not yet attacked, lived in. continual terror of the fatal worm. Case after case perished, lingeringly and horribly, as, although most of the leading physicians of the coimtry were consulted, none were able to cure or even assuage the pangs of the dying. At first it was suspected that the distemper was the result of intentional poisoning, but microsco- pical investigations of the remains of the feast revealed the cause of all the suffering and death. The damage had been done at the third course of the dinner, consisting of rostewurst, or smoked sausage meat, which on examination turned out to have been made from an ill- conditioned pig that swarmed with encapsuled worms." Facts such as these should put the public on their guard. It is a case for caution, however, and not one for unnecessary alarm, as will be seen from the following abstract of a paper read by Dr. Cobbold before the Linnaean Society :—" In England ordinary precautions will suffice to prevent the introduction of tri- chinasis. English swine are almost entirely, if not absolutely, free from this disease, and not a single case of trichinasis in the living human subject has been diagnosed in the United King- dom. Some twenty or thirty cases have been discovered post mortem, but it is most probable that all these individuals had contracted the disease by eating German sausage or other pre- paration of foreign meat." In these days, when cheapness in the article of food is too often achieved by the sacrifice of purity and care in its selection, no precautions can be un- necessary. Professor Kiihne, of Halle, who was engaged by the Prussian Government in 1865 to investigate the disease, states that "pigs affected with trichinae do not present symptoms sufficiently obvious to be recognised by the breeders. The process of boiling or roasting should be carried on with the greatest care. People should not partake of any meat that has(614 ) POR FOB not beon sufficiently cooked, and should avoid all roast pork which presents traces of blood." Pork, Wholesomeness of.—Pork is a very savoury food, and uncommonly nourish- ing: it is thus suited to persons who lead an active or laborious life. It is not, however, easily dij^estod. The too frequent and long- continued use of this moat is held by medical men to favour obesity, produce foulness of the stomach and bowels, and occasion dis- orders of the skin. The flesh of the sucking- pig is considered a gi-eat dolicjicy, and is noui-ishing, but it does not appear to bo more wholesome than that of the grown animal. It is not readily dissolved in the stomach. Bacon is a coarse, heavy, and very indigestible food, only suited to be used as diet by the robust and by labouring people. The flesh of the wild hog is dense, but suf- ficiently tender, very nourishing, and more savoury, as well as more easily digested, than that of the domestic hog. It is in season in October. The finest part is the head, and the flesh of the young wild hog is considered a great delicacy. Pork, fat and lean together, has been shown to require about five hours for digestion. There is no doubt that much of the indigestibility of pork arises, not only from the fat, ostensibly existing as such, but from the large amount of fatty matter mixed with the muscular fibre. Porpoise.—The porpoise, antiquarians teU us, was once a favourite at the tables of the great; and King Henry VIII. gave occasion for some witticisms by his fondness for this archetype of obesity; if it was too large for a horse-load, an extra allowance was made to the purveyor. The sauce used was composed of vinegar, bread- crumb, and sugar. In some countries it is still eaten. The flesh of the young animal has been compared to veal, and is said to be well tasted. In Norway, a delicate caviare has been made from its eggs. Occasionally a porpoise is brought to Billingsgate Market; but instead of being food for kings, not even the beggar will touch it: it is bought only for show by the fishmongers. Porridge, Milk {see Milk Porridge). Porridge, Milk, French. —Soak two ■)unce3 of oatmeal in a half a pint of water. When the oatmeal has settled at the bottom and left the water clear, strain oil, and add the same quantity of fresh, which should rest till the next day, and then be passed through a fine sieve into a saucepan. When boiling, pour in the milk, and serve. This makes a wholesome breakfast for a delicate stomach. Time, half an hour to boil. Probable cost 4d. per pound. Porridge, Oatmeal.—Oatmeal porridge is a leading article of food with the Scottish peasantry. It is generally accompanied with milk when milk is to bo had; when milk is very scarce butter is sometimes used, sometimes sugar, and sometimes treacle beer. " For most persons in a sound condition of health," says a north-country writer, "there is no more wholesome article of food than porridge and milk, none that contains a larger proportion both of flesh-forming and hoat-producing sub- stances ; whilst to almost all who have ever- been accustomed to its use, it is extremely palatable. Gcnerally speakiug, there is no better article of food for the nursery, none more likely to maintain a healthy condition of the stomach, or to give vigour to tlie frame;, although there are exceptional cases, botli amongst the young and amongst adults, in which the use of pomdge is unsuitable, pro- ducing painful distention of the stomach and indigestion. Whilst the caprices of children ought not to be heeded in such a matter, the actual condition of their constitutions ought to be carefully observed and regarded. Pon-idge is in general made by simply boiling oatmeal iu water, stirring all the time to prevent singeing,, and to secure the thorough mixture of the meal and water into a homogeneous mass without knots. The quality of porridge very much depends on the amount of boiling which it receives. It cannot be too thoroughly boiled. Imperfectly boiled oatmeal porridge is a very coarse article of food ; and unfortunately much of the porridge used by the poorer classes in Scotland and elsewhere is of this character and the porridge prepared for the nursery is often no better, through the carelessness of servants who wish to get through their work with as little trouble as possible. It is not nearly so digestible, and, therefore, not so nutritious, as porridge really well made. A common mistake in the making of porridge must also here be noticed as tending much to the deterioration of its quality—the adding of meal by degrees, whilst the boiling goes on, until the proper thickness is acquired, the result being that part of the meal is imperfectly boiled. The cook ought to know the proper proportions of meal and water—knowledge not very difficult to acquire—and mix them at once, so that all the meal may be equally weU boiled. But it is to be observed that the water must be boiling before the meal is put in, which is not to be introduced in a mass, but, as it were, strained through the fingers handful by handful as quickly as possible. " Whey is sometimes used instead of water for the making of oatmeal porridge, and affords an agreeable variety to those in the habit of using porridge every day. Milk porridge is another variety esteemed an especial luxury by the Scottish peasantry, and is certainly both an agreeable and a very nutritious article of diet. Whether fine oatmeal or coarse oatmeal should be used for the making of porridge is merely a matter of taste." Porridge, Oatmeal (another way).—Put a pint and a half of water or milk and water into a saucepan, and add a pinch of salt. "UTien the liquid fuEy boils, as it is rising in the pan, sprinkle gradually two ounces of oatmeal into it with the left hand, and at the same time stir briskly with a fork held in the right hand. Keep stirring until the lumps are beaten out. Boil Iho mixture tor a quarter of an hour, pour it on a plate, and eat it with milk and sugar or treacle. A larger or a smaller quantity of oiitm&il may bo used, according to taste. Porridge will be found to make a very nourishing and wholesome breakfast for children. The secret of making;POR POB ( 615 ) it properly is to let the water boil fast before putting in the oatmeal. Time, a quarter of an hour from the time the water boils. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for one person. Porridge, Oatmeal (nnother way).—"See Oatmeal Porridge. Porridge, Onion {see Onion Porridge). Porridge, Peas {see Peas Porridge). Porridge, Plum {see Plum Porridge or Broth). Portable Soup.—Take five pounds of the shin of beef and three pounds of the knuckle of veal. Cut the meat into small pieces. Take out the marrow from the bones, and break them up. Put them into a stewpan with two gallons of cold water; bring this gradually to the boil, skim carefully, and add half a cupful of cold water two or three times to assist the scum in rising. Draw the soup to the side of the fire, and let it°simmer gently but continuously for eight or ten hours. Strain through a hair sieve, and put it aside imtil the following day. Kemove the cake of fat from the top, and pour off the soup carefully, leaving behind the settlings which are at the bottom of the pan. Put it into a saucepan with a dozen peppercorns and a tea-spoonful of salt; leave the pan uncovered, and let it boil quickly until the liquid begins to thicken. Pour it at once into a clean dry jar, place this in a saucepan over a gentle fire, and let it boU until it feels quite ropy and thick. Watch it carefully that it does not bum. Take a little out in a spoon, and if it jellies it is done enough. Pour it at once into small jolly- pots, and when it is cold turn the shapes out and put them on flannel in a warm place to dry. Keep them in tin canisters. If it is wished that the soup should be flavoured, sweet herbs, vegetables, and spices can be stewed with the meat, but usually it is more convenient that these should be omitted: the soup can then be used for any purpose. ^Tien it is wanted it is only necessary to dissolve one or two of the cakes in boiling water, and make the soup of any strength or any flavour that is reqmred. This portable soup, which was formerly very valuable for ordinary household purposes, and also for the use of those who were obliged to take their provisions with them on long journeys, is now almost entirely superseded by Liebig's Ex- tract of Meat. Time, two days to make; eight or nine days to dry. Porter.—A kind of malt liquor, which dif- fers from ale and pale beer in its being made with high-dried malt. The origin of porter is highly curious. It is thus stated by Malone : —"Before the year 1730 the malt liquors in general use in London wore ale, beer, and two- penny, and it was customary for the drinkers of malt liquor to call for a pint or a tankard of half-and-half—that is, half of ale and haK of boer, or half of beer and half of twopenny. In course of time it also became the practice to call for a pint or tankard of three threads, moan- ing a third of ale, of boor, and of twopenny; and thus the publicans had the trouble to go to three casks, and turn three cocks, for a pint of liquor. To avoid this inconvenience and waste, a brewer of the name of Harwood conceived the idea of making a liquor which should partake of the united flavours of ale, beer, and two- penny. Ho did so, and succeeded, calling it entire, or entire butt; and as it was a very hearty and nourishing liquor, it was very suit- able for porters, or other working people ; hence it obtained the name of porter." It would hardly be possible to ascertain what was the precise quality of the porter of that time, but it was very likely different in some respects from the beverage of the same name made at present, in consequence of changes in the in- gredients and the mode of manufacture, as well as in the taste of the public, and alto from enactments which have restricted the ingre- dients witljin narrower limits than those to which they were formerly confined. On the subject of porter we gain some interesting particulars from Dr. Hassall's "Pood and its Adulterations." Porter should be brewed of malt and hops alone, and the colour and flavour should be due to these alone. The colour of all malt liquor depends upon the .degree of heat to which the malt has been subjected in the kiln, and upon the amount of ripeness attained by the hops before being stripped from the poles. Thus for pale bitter ale one must prevent the husk of the malt from charring in the least, and maintain the original straw colour of the barley ; and in the selection of the hops care must be taken that they be picked as soon as sufficiently ripe to keep, and that no single brown or withered leaf be suffered to remain. In the case of the malt and hops required for porter the reverse of all this is the case. " The malt should be briskly dried until the flower of the grain is of a light brown colour, and crushes with a crisp friability between the teeth; the hops, also, should have hung in the autumn sun till they have attained a rich golden hue, and the seeds are perfectly developed. With all attention to these requirements, however, the beer brewed would still be far from the necessary colour and flavour, and to attain these the maltster is compelled to prepare malt in a peculiar manner. It must be remembered, nevertheless, that the strength of the porter is due almost entirely to the pale malt, as the other kinds have their saccharine properties so dried up and burnt as to render them nearly useless, except for colour and flavour. " In addition to these distinctive properties of porter, there is one other of still greater importance, the peculiarity of the fei'menta- tion. Up to the commencement of this last stage of the process of brewing, the manu- facture of porter is conducted in exactly the same manner as that of ale, with the addi- tion of the different flavouring malts befoi-e mentioned ; but during the fermentation the great difference is effected, as all the sugar is converted into spirit, excepting only such por- tion as is required to preserve the beer from the acetous fermentation, which is less than in ale, by reason of the Lirger amount of hops used in proportion to the strength of the work. Ordinarj^ ale is more liable to damage tho stomach by reason of its gTcator sweetness, while porter is more heady in proportion to itsPOR ( 616 ) POR strength and soporific in its tendency, from the strong infusion of hops in its composition." According to Mr. Donovan, the following fonnula will alford oxcoUont porter:— For every hogshojid of keeping drink, or a hogshead and a third of drink for speedy consumption: the ingredients, when the thermometer sttmds at 55?, may bo used in these relative quanti- ties :—the grist, in all twelve stone, sliould consist of a stone and a half of amber malt, a pound and a half of patent malt (that is, malt resolved into mere colouring matter by charring), and all the rest is to be pale ma^t. The quantity of water for the different naashings, if the porter is for immediate use, and a hogshead and a third is to be produced, should be such that the gravity of the worts on Dicas's saccharometer will Do 55 pounds per barrel when all the worts are mixed. Jji sunamer, three pounds ol best Kent hops will be reciuired; but in winter a quarter or half pound less will answer sufficiently well for preservation. If the drink is to be brewed for keeping, the quantity of malt and hops must be increased in proportion to the time. Porter, Adulteration of.—The follow- ing are the substances said to have been em- ployed for the adulteration of porter, and the effects -which they are intended to produce :— *' Quassia, gentian, wormwood, broom-tops, nux vomica, and strychnine, to impart bitterness in lieu of hops; capsicums and grains of para- dise (in concentrated tinctures), ginger, cori- anders, orange-p'^el, and caraway-seeds, to give pungency and flavour; opium, cocculus Indicus, nux vomica, tobacco, extract of poppies, and the tincture and juice of henbane, to impart intoxi- cating properties or ' strength ;' molasses, colour- ing, sugar, burnt sugar, and corianders, as .substitutesfor malt; sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol), alum, green vitriol, and common salt, to impart an appearance of age; and 'foots,' pearlash, Scotch soda, and some of the articles before- named, as ' heading,' or to give the beer the property of bearing its 'head' or 'froth.' " Porter, Bottling of.— For this clear weather should if possible be chosen. Leave the bung out of the cask aU night, fiU the bottles, cover with sheets of paper to keep out the dust, and let them stand twenty-four hours; then cork them, and pack away in a cool place. If for immediate use, porter may be ripened in two or three days by adding a small piece of sugar to each bottle before corking. Porter Cup.—Cut two small lemons into thin slices, and put them into a bowl, carefuUy leaving out the pips. Pour over them a tea- cupful of sherry and a pint of porter. Add the eighth of a nutmeg grated; mix all thoroughly, ice, and serve. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Sufficient for a quart cup. Porter Jelly or Ale JeUy {see Ale or Porter Jelly). Porter, Wholesomeness of.—" Good ripe strong beer or porter," says Dr. Andrew, " in moderation, or in draughts of not more than half a pint, twice or even thrice a day where active exertion and outdoor labours are com- tined, can do no possible injury, and in many cases may do much good ; and it is a most valu- able auxiliary in the trfjutment of those fevers usually denominated putrid. (Jarbonic acid is combined in considerable quantity with the nourishing and tonic qualities of this vinous liquor, and in many cases it proves not only a substitute for wine, but in a great variety of instances even superior to that more expensive liquor." " There are few medical men," says another professional authority, " who Vill not testify to the highly beneficial effects which follow the use of good porter in many cases; it is, in fact, an ad- mirable tonic, superior to any other form of malt liquor, and especially so, because it is less likely to disagree and to become acid on the stomach than the other varieties of malt beverage. Dr. Prout recommends the use of porter in dia- betes, not only for its tonic properties but as less likely to prove injurious in many cases of that disease than any other drink. In convalescence from acute disease porter is a strengthening medium, most grateful to the patient. In order to prove of service, porter must not be flat; it is therefore better, for invaUds at least, to drink it bottled." Portland Pudding. — Beat separately the whites and yolks of four eggs. Put the yolks into a bowl, and mix with them very gradually half a pound of dried flour. Beat the batter till it is quite free from lumps. Stir into it four ormces of moist sugar, six ounces of clarified butter, one ounce each of candied lemon and candied orange-peel, the two last being finely shred. Add a pinch of salt, the eighth of a nutmeg grated, one pound of sttmed raisins, and last of aU the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Beat the pudding five or six minutes. Pour it into a buttered basin, tie it in a cloth, and leave room for the pudding to sweU. Plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling until it is done enough. Turn it out carefully, and serve with sweet sauce. Time to boil, five hours. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Portuguese Apple Pie.—Line the inside of a moderate-sized pie-dish -with good crust. Put into it half a dozen good baking apples, which have been pared, cored, and cut into thin slices. Sprinkle a little sugar and two or three inches of thin lemon-rind cut into narrow strips over them. Spread a small portion of apricot jam upon them, and cover the whole with a cold custard made with half a pint of milk and six well-beaten eggs. The custard should be sweetened, and may be flavoured with lemon, almond, or any other flavouring. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, half an hour. If the apples are not of a kind to fall they should be cooked beforehand. Portuguese Cakes.—Beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Add half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, Imlf a pound of fine flour, and the yolks of five eggs. Boat the ingredients thoroughly, and mix m gradually a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, a glass of sherry, four ounces of picked and dried currants, and last of all the whites of the c^gs, which have been beaten to a firm froth. BoavPOS POR ( G17 ) t)ie mixture for some minutes, pom; it into small buttered tins, and bake in a brisk oven from fifteen minutes to half an hour, according to the size of the tins. Probable cost, Is. lOd., exclusive of the sherrj'. Portuguese Cakes (another way).— Take half a pound of flour and the yolks of six eggs. Put these into a basin, and work with a spoon till frothy. Pound four ounces of almonds with the white of an egg, pass them through a sieve, add a pinch of orange-sugar, and dilute with the juice of four oranges. As soon as the cake-prepara- tion is frothy, add to it carefully four ounces of potato-flour. Ne.xt add the almonds and orange-juice, together with the six whipped whites of eggs. Pour the mixture on a baking- sheet with an up-standing border, the baking- sheet being buttered and covered with paper. Spread the mixtm-e in a layer one inch thick. Bake in a moderate oven. When the cake has cooled, face it on the top and mask on this side, first with a thin layer of apricot marmalade, and afterwards with a layer of orange-icing sugar. Divide the cake immediately into squares, and let the glaze dry. The orange- icing sugar is made by soaking the rind of two oranges in a giU of syrup, adding the juice of the fruit, sugar to make a stiff paste, and yellow colouring. This icing should be worked over the fire till warm. Portuguese Fritters.—Put half an inch of stick cinnamon and the rind of half a small lemon into a pint of milk. Let the liquid remain a little time till the milk is slightly flavoui-ed, then pour it, without straining it, into a saucepan, and put with it six ounces of best Carolina rice, two ounces of fi'esh butter, and a little sugar. Let it simmer very gently until the rice is quite tender and has absorbed aU the milk. Pour the preparation out, beat it well for two or three minutes, and stir into it the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. When it is a little cool, make it into balls about an inch and a half in diameter, and carefully introduce into the centre of each a small portion of orange marmalade. Brush the balls over with beaten egg, and dip them into finely-grated bread- crumbs. Put them into a wire frying-basket, and plunge them into as much hot fat as will quite cover them. Let them remain until they are lightly browned,- drain them carefully, and eerve piled on a napkin and covered with sifted sugar. Time to boil the rice, about three-quar- ters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons. Portuguese Pudding.—Boil half a pint of milk with three inches of thin lemon-rind. Stir into it, when boiling, three dessert-spoonfuls of ground rice which has been mixed smoothly with three table-spoonfuls of cream. Stir the mixture over the fire for two minutes after it boils, then pour it out to cool. Add a little sugar, together with the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs well beaten. Pour the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven. When done enough, take out tiie pudding, and let it stand xmtil it is cold and stiff. Before serving, lay upon it a little apricot or any other fine jam! Time to bake, U* about three quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 9d., exclusive of the jam. Sufficient for a small dish. Portuguese Sauce (for fish).—Beat the yolks of two fresh eggs, and mix them with four ounces of butter and a table-spoonful of leraon- jmce. Put these ingredients into an earthen jar, and set this in a small saucepan of hot water. Put the pan on a slow fire, and beat the contents of the jar unceasingly until the sauce begins to thicken. Add a small quantity of water in order to make it of the consistence of thick cream. Season with pepper and salt, and serve. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Port Wine Jelly.—Put an ounce of best isinglass into a perfectly clean saucepan with half a pint of cold water, an inch of cinnamon, and a blade of mace. Stir over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved. Put with it an ounce of sugar and a pint of port. Strain through a jelly-bag, and put it in a cool place to set. This jelly is considered to be extremely nourishing for invalids. Time, one hour to prepare. Posset.—This is an old and popular domestic preparation for the sick, made with milk curdled by means of treacle, beer, and other articles. Posset, Ale.—Boil a pint of new milk with a slice of toasted bread. Pour a bottle of mild ale into a bowl, add sugar and spices to taste, then pour the boiling milk over it. A fine head should rise. Posset, Corn Flour (for a cold).—Mix a quarter of a pint of sherry gradually and smoothly with half an ounce of corn-flour. Add one ounce and a half of pure honey and two cloves, and put the mixture into a saucepan. Stir over a gentle fire for four or five minutes, strain, and drink the posset warm the last thing at night. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for one person. Posset, Pope's {see Pope's Posset). Posset, Sack.—Boil some cream and sweet biscuits grated; add sugar, cinnamon, and nut- meg. Warm some sherry; stir it into the cream. Then pour the whole quickly from one vessel to another until it is quite smooth. Eggs beat up in milk may be used instead of cream. Posset, Treacle (for a cold).—Boil half a pint of milk, and stir into it, as it is rising in the pan, one table-spoonful of good treacle. Let it boil until the curd separates, then strain it ofl:, and serve the posset very hot. A little water may be added if it is too sweet, and ch-y toast may be eaten with it. Time, five or six minutes. Probable cost, 2^d. Sufficient for one person. Posset, Treacle (another way).—Take half a pint of new milk, one wine-glassful of sherry or marsala. and one or two table-spoon- fuls of treacle. Heat these ingredients together in a clean saucepan till the milk coagulates. Tliis preparation—sometimes called treacle pos- set and sometimes molasses posset—is highly esteemed in some parts of tlio country as aPOS ( 618 ) POT domestic remedy for eoldH. It is taken before going to hed. I.emon-juieo, strong old ulo, ' or even vinegar, is somotimos 8ul)8tituted for wino, and powdered ginger or nutmeg added : to taste. Posset Wine.—Grato finely the crumb of a stale roU, and put it into a Baucepuii with a pint of water and two largo lumps of sugar [ which have been rubbed upon the rind of a Seville orango until the yellow part has been taken off. Let the mixture simmer until it is thick and clear, then add a pint of light wine, two ounces of sweet ahnonds, and six bitter ones blanched and pounded, half tlio juice of the Seville orange, and sugar to taste. Mix thoroughly, and serve. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the wino. Potage (a la Colbert).—Take a quarter of a pound of carrot and a quarter of a pound of turnip, and turn them into squares, diamonds, rounds, or any other shapes of unifonn size. Boil them in slightly salted water until they ai'e done enough. Drain them, and jjut them into a clean stewpan, with three pints of deli- cately-flavoured clear soup. Let them boil a minute; then serve the soup. Send half a dozen poached eggs to table on a separate dish, or adopt a more usual method, serve the poached eggs in the tureen with the soup. Potage (a la Conde).—Soak a breakfast- cupful of red haricot beans in cold water all night. Slice an onion, put it with the beans, and boil in three pints of water for four hours. Pass the liquid through a hair sieve, and rub the beans through with a wooden spoon. Put pulp.and liquid back into the saucepan, season with pepper and salt, stir till the soup boils, and serve. Potage (a la Crecy).—A superlative carrot soup.—Slice off the red part of a dozen large carrots, and put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a large lump of sugar, three good-sized onions, two turnips, a dozen pepper- corns, a quarter of a pound of undressed lean ham, the outer sticks of two heads of celerj', and four leeks. Cover, then sweat the vegetables over a gentle fire for ten minutes. Shake the saucepan to keep the contents from burning. Pour over them a quart of cold stock or water, and let them simmer gently for two hours, or until the vegetables are quite tender. Strain off the soup, and press the vegetables with a wooden spoon through a sieve. Mix the pulp again with the stock, season with pepper and salt, put it back into the stewpan, and let it boil. Draw it to the side of the fire for a few minutes, and skim off the fat as it rises to the surface. Add pepper and salt, and serve. Send toasted sippets to table in a separate dish. If there is no stock at hand, and water has to be used for the soup, a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat should be added to it. Time, three hoTirs and a half. Probable cost, 8d. per pint. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Potage (a la Heine).—This is a delicate white soup, said to bo a great favourite with Her Majesty.—Skin and wash carefully throe young chickens or two large fowls, and boil them in five pints of good nicoly-flavoured veal stock for about an hour. Lift them out, i)i( k off all the white meat, put the bodies of the birds again into the Ht(;wpun, and let thcni simmer an hour and a half longer. Season tlie broth with salt and cayenne, and when it in sufliciently simmered pour it out, lot it cool, and thoroughly take off the fat which ri.ses to the surface. Pound the white flesh of the birds to a perfectly smooth paste, and with it a tea-cupful of finely-grated bread-crumbs. lUx. gradually with this paste a small quantity of the ])oiling stock, and press it through a fine hair sieve. Add the rest of the stock, and stir the whole over a gentle fire in a clean saucepi'.n until it boils. Add from a pint to a pint and a half of boiling cream. Serve very hot. If liked, the cream may be slightly flavoured with almonds. If veal broth is not at hand, a little may be made as follows:—Buy a knuckle of veal from which nearly all the meat has been cut oft'. Break it into small pieces, and put it into a stewpan with half a i)ound of leitn ham cut up small—or a ham bone—a small carrot, a small onion, a head of celery, a large blade of mace, a bunch of parsley, and a dozen white peppercorns. Pour over these a gallon of cold water. Bring the liquid slowly to the boil, skim very carefully, then draw the pan to the side and let the contents simmer for six or seven hours until the stock is reduced to five pints. Pour the soup out, and leave it until the next day. Take the fat from the top, and pour oft' the soup with- out the settlings. Boil the fowls in this stock. If the soup is not sufficiently thick, it may be- made so with a little arrowroot or ground rice. Time, about four hours. Probable cost. Is. 8d. per pint, exclusive of the veal stock. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Potage (a la Xavier). — Mix the well- beaten yolks of four eggs and the white of one with three-quai-ters of a pint of fiour. Add a little pepper and salt, the eighth part of a mitmeg grated, and a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, and mix all the ingredients- thoroughly. Stir in as much stock as will make the batter thin enough to pass through a colander. Boil two quai-ts of strained and nicely-flavoured stock. Put the batter into it by means of a ladle perforated with holes, and stir well as long as it is on the fire. Skim carefully. Boil a quarter of an hour longer, and serve. Probable cost, exclusive of the stock, 7d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Potage, Bisque {see Crayfish Soup or Potage Bisque). Potage de Veau.—Take a knuckle of veal weighing about five pounds;. Cut off the meat, not too closely, and break the bone into- small pieces. Put these into a stewpan with an onion, a largo blade of mace, a dozen popper- corns, a bimch of parsley, and a small .sprig of thyme. Pour over all two quarts of cold water. Cover the saucepan clo.soly, and simmer the liquid gently for five hours. Strain the soup, and leave it until the next day; it ought to form a jelly. Put it, free from fat and si-di- niont, into' a stewpan, with a little pepper and salt, and anv vegetables or mixture of vegetables that'may be chosen. Jerusalem( 619 ) POT POT a-tichokes, seakale, and celery, are the most suitable. Stew these uutil they ai-e quite teuder, and press them through a haii- sieve. ■Make the soup hot, mix with it half a pmt ot boiling cream, and serve. Send fried crusts to table on a separate dish. Time to simmer the soup, five hours the first day from the time the water reaches the boiling point; one hour and a hidf the second. Probable cost, vaiying with the ingredients. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Potato.—The potato on its introduction into the British Islands [see Potato, History of the) was served at first as a delicacy, and came very slowly into general use, though now it con- stitutes one of the cheapest and most common kinds of vegetable food. It is not very nutri- tious ; indeed, it is less so than any other vege- table (see Potato, Nutritive Properties of the); nevertheless its cultivation has again and again prevented famine in agricultural districts, and it is well knowm that the Irish—a hardy and healthy race—subsisted for some time almost en- tirely upon it. There are a great many varieties of potato, and generally each locality has its favourite, which is known by the local name. Its excellence, however, depends to a very large extent upon the cooking; and whilst a good potato may be spoiled by bad cooking, an in- ferior potato may, with proper management, be rendered comparatively good. It is to be feared, however, that large quantities of potatoes are constantly wasted in many families, owing to the way in which they are dressed. Potato and Almond Pudding.— JNIash six ounces of boiled potatoes, di-y and floury, till they are perfectly smooth. Blanch three ounces of sweet almonds and four bitter ones, and pound them, but not finely, with a little omnge-flower water. Let them simmer in half a pint of new milk until the flavour is drawn out, and dissolve in the milk four ounces of fresh butter and four ounces of powdered sugar. Stii* the mixture into the potatoes, add a pinch of salt, a little grated nutmeg, and the rind and juice of half a lemon. Beat the pudding till it is light and smooth, and add separately the yolks and well-whisked whites of five eggs. Line a pie-dish with pulf-paste, and pour in the mixture. Chop half a dozen almonds rather coarsely, strew them over the pudding, and bake in a well-heated oven for one hour. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato and Almond Pudding (an- other way).—See Almond and Potato Pudding. Potato and Leek Soup {see Leek and Potato Soup). Potato Balls.—Steam two pounds of mealy potatoes, and beat them till they are quite smooth and free from lumps. Mix with th(;m two ounces of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of salt, and two table-spoonfuls of boiling cream or milk. Make them into balls the size of a walnut, brush each one over with beaten egg, and fry in hot butter until they are nicely browned. If liked, a little grated ham, a finely- minced shallot, or a little chopped parsley, may ^ added to the potatoes, and the mixture may be bound together with the yolk of an egg. Send good brown gravy to table with the potato balls. Time, ten minutes to fry the potatoes. Probable cost. Id. or 2d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. {See also Potato Cones.) Potato Balls (another way).—Mash one pound of diy mealy potatoes until they are quite smooth. Before they have time to cool, mix with them a table-spoonful of hot milk, one ounce and a half of clarified butter, a salt- spoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Beat the mixtui-e till these ingre- dients are thoroughly blended, then add the ' whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. Mould the preparation into small balls the size of a large marble, and fry in hot fat until they are lightly browned. Drain, and serve the balls piled on a hot napkin. Time to fry, five or six minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Suf- ficient for three or four persons. Potato Balls (economical).— Take one pound of cold boiled potatoes, rub through a wire sieve, put into a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of milk; beat over the fire till smooth. Add pepper and salt, the yolk of an egg, and a little chopped parsley. When cold form into balls, brush over with the white of egg, roll in bread- crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Potato Beer.—In Silesia potato beer is made thus cheaply.—" Twenty-five gallons from half a bushel of potatoes, ten pounds of malt, half a pound of hops, and two quarts of yeast. The cost of one tun of such beer is said not to exceed two shillings and twopence ; conse- quently the cost of a quart does not amount ,to , one farthing." Potato Biscuits.—Bake half a dozen large potatoes, and when they are done enough, burst them open, and scoop out the inside with a tea-spoon until there is a quai ter of a pound of the flour. Pass this through a fine sieve, and mix with it the weU-beaten yolks of eight eggs, the grated peel of half a lemon, and half a pound of pounded and sifted sugar. Beat the paste until it is quite light, then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Make some small paper cases, oil them, and half fill them with the batter. Strew a little sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. If liked, a little bright-coloured jelly may be put over the biscuits before serving. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Potato Biscuits (M. Tides' recipe).—Take fifteen fresh eggs, break the yolks into one pan and the whites into another. Beat the yolks with a pound of sugar pounded very fine, scrape the peel of a lemon with a lump of sugar, dry that, and pound it fine also; then throw into it the yolks, and work the eggs and sugar till they are of a whitish colour. Next, whip the whites well, and mix them with the yolks. Now sift half a pound of flour of potatoes through a silk sieve over the eggs and sugar. Have some paper cases ready, which lay on a plafond, with some paper underneath. Fill the cases, but not too full; glaze the contents with some rather coarse sugar, and bake the whole in an oven moderately heated.POT ( 620 ) POT Potato Bread.—In making bread, a por- tion of inushwl poliito iH somctiinea uddod to thts tiour, and this addition improves the hroiid y«ry much for muuy tastes; it also keeps it from getting' dry quite so soon. At the same time it is not so nutritious as ordinary hoiue- jnade bread. Boil the required quantity of ipotatoes in their skins, drain and dry them, then peel and weigh them. I'ound them with the rolling-pin until they are quite free from lumps, and mi.x. with them the flour, in the pro- portion of seven pounds of flour to two and a half pounds of potatoes. Add the yeast, and knead in the ordinary way, but make up the bretid with milk instead of water. Wb(3n tlie dough is well risen, bake the bread in a gentle oven. Bake it a httle longer than for ordinary bread, and when it seems done enough, let it stand a little while, with the oven door open, before taking it out. Unless these precautions are_ taken, the crust will be hard and brittle, ■while the inside is still moist and doughy. Potato Bread (another way).—Rasp or bruise the potatoes by a rasp or mill, dry the pulp, and reduce it to flour, which may then be made into bread, with the ordinary proportions of yeast. When potato flour is mixed with. wheaten flour in equal proportions, it makes excellent bread, being light, and capable of keeping a long time. Bread made with potato flour alone is not, however, to be compared with wheaten bread. The following is a way of introducing potatoes into wheaten bread : — Boil live pounds of potatoes well, and dry them over a fire or in the oven until they fall to pieces and become flour, which they will do if properly managed. Make of them a batter-like, thick gruel; strain this through a coarse sieve or colander; then mix this instead of water with twenty pounds of flour. If the yeast be good, the bread thus made will be as light and . agreeable as that made of all flour. ^Potato Cake.—Take half a pound of dry Houry potatoes which have been baked or boiled and then crushed and beaten with a roUing- pin until they are quite free from lumps. Mix with them three ounces of flour and a little pepper and salt, and add to them as much luke- warm milk and butter as will make a smooth, firm dough. Add either a little yeast or an •egg, and half a tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Roll this paste out till it is about two inches thick, and then dredge a little flour over it. Cut it out to the exact size of the pan in which it is to be baked. Rub the saucepan over with butter or dripping before putting the cake into it, lay it in very carefully, cover with a plate, shake it every now and then to keep it from burning, and bake on the trivet of the stove over a gentle fire. When it is half done on one side, turn it carefully upon the other. Serve on ii hot dish. Cold potatoes, if dry and floury, may be warmed up in this way. Time to bake the cake, about half an hour. Potato Cake (another way).—Peel mealy baked i)otatoes, mash, and put them into a saucepan with salt, gi-ated lemon peel, and fresh butter, stirring the whole well. Add orange-flower water, the yolks of eight eggs, Ihe whites whisked of four, and mix the whole with the potato puree. Pour into a buttered mould, and bako. Potato Cake, Sweet.— Bake the ro- ipiirud number of potatoes, and when th('y an- done enough, burst them, and scoop out the contents with a Ki)oon. Crush them until they are quite smo(jth, find weigh them. Mix witlj half a jjound of potato two ounwis of jjowdorod sugar, a little candied-peel cut into thin strips, and the well-beaten yolks of three (.'ggs. When these ingredients are thoroughly blended, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Put the mixture into a buttered dish, sift a little sugar over the surface, and bake in a brisk oven. Serve the cake hot in the dish in which it was baked. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. ' Sufiicient for four or five persons. Potato Cake, Sweet (another way).— Take a quarter of a pound of boiled potatoes, dry and floury, and beat them to flour. Mix with this one ounce of ground rice, an ounce of sweet almonds and four bitter ones blanched and pounded together, and three ounces of sugar rubbed upon a fresh lemon for a few minutes to extract the flavour and then crushed to powder. Mix these dry ingre- dients thoroughly, and stir into them the well- beaten yolks of five eggs. Beat the mixture for five or six minutes, and add the whites of the eggs beaten to a finn froth. Turn the paste into a well-buttered tin, and bake in a brisk oven for about forty minutes. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for a small cake. Potato Cakes.—Rub two ounces of good beef dripping and two ounces of lard into one pound of flour, add a tea-spoonful of baking- powder, a pinch of salt, and a pound of potato flour wliich has been obtained by scooping out the inside from some hot baked potatoes. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and stir into them a well-beaten egg and as much lukewarm milk as will make a smooth, light paste. Roll this out to the thickness of an inch or an inch and a half, and cut it into squares or rounds. Lay these on a buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven. When the cakes are lightly browned on one side, turn them upon the other. Cut them open, butter them as soon as they are taken out of the oven, and serve very hot. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Potato Cakes, German, to serve with Game or Poultry.—Beat up two or three pounds of hot boiled potatoes, dry and mealy, with a slice of butter and two or throes eggs. Rub the mash with a wooden spoon until it is quite smooth, imd spread it out in a layer about three-quarters of an inch tliick. Stamp it into shapes with an ordinary pastry- cutter, brush these over with beaten egg, cover with bread-crumbs, and sprinkle lightly upon them a little grated Pannesan. Fry in liot fat till they are lightly browned, drain them on blotting-paper, and serve very hot. If liked, they may be used to garnish the dish they are to accompany. Time, four or five minutes to brown the cakes. Prolmble cost, lOd. Sufficient for foui or five persona.POT ( 621 ) POT Potato Cheese.—Potato cheeses are verj- hii-hly esteemed in Germany; they can be made of'vaj-ious qualities, but care must be taken that they are not too rich, and have not too much heat, or they wnU bui-st. Boil the potatoes till thoy are soft, but the skin must not be broken. The potatoes must be large and of the best quality. When boiled carefully peel them, and beat them to a smooth paste in a mortar ■with a wooden pestle. To make the commonest cheese, put five pounds of potato paste into a cheese tub, with one pound of milk and rennet; add a sufficient quantity of salt, to- gether with caraways and cumin seed, suf- ficient to impart a good flavour. Knead all these ingredients well together, cover up, and allow them to stand three or four days in winter, and two or three in summer. At the end of that time, knead them again, put the paste into wicker moulds, and leave the cheeses to drain until they are quite dry. When diy and firm, lay them on a board, and leave them gradually to acquire hardness in a place of very moderate warmth; should the heat be too great, as we have already said, they will burst. When, in spite of all precautions, such accidents occur, the crevices of the burst cheeses are, in Germany, filled with curds and cream mixed, some being also put over the whole surface of the cheese, which is then dried again. As soon as the cheeses are thoroughly dry and hard, place them in barrels with green chickweed between each cheese ; let them stand for about three weeks, when they will be fit for use. Potato Cheese (other ways).—A better potato cheese than that produced by following the preceding recipe may be made with four pounds of potato paste, and two pounds of milk and rennet; one still better by mixing three pounds of potato paste, with three pounds of milk and rennet; and one better still by add- ing three pounds of milk and rennet to two pounds of potato paste. But the most delicate of potato cheeses is prepared in the following manner:—Mix one part of potato paste with three parts of milk and rennet salted. Knead in the way prescribed in the foregoing recipe, and leave the mixture in the moulds for three or four days, when at the bottom of each mould there will be found a layer of cheese about three- quarters of an inch thick. On the surface of this spread with a spoon a piece of fresh butter a little larger than a plover's egg, and over this strew a mixture of pounded mace and caraway seeds. On this now place another similar cheese, with the same ingredients spread over its surface. Continue adding cheese after cheese until the basket is full. After a time, which varies according to the state of the weather, all these layers will bo found adhering together and forming one large cheese. Take this out, and place it on a board to dry gradually. This cheese will keep for many years. Potato Cheese (a Saxon recipe).—Potato cheese is mado thus in Saxony:—Boil potatoes of the large white kind, and when cool peel thorn, and reduce thorn to a pulp by a grater or a mortar. To every seven pounds of this pulp, add a pint of sour milk, and salt to taste. Knead the whole together, cover it up, and let it remain three or four days; at the end of which time, knead it again, form it into chooses, and place the cheeses in smaU baskets to drain. Dry them in the shade in layers in pots. Potato cheeses are always much improved by keeping. Potato Cheesecakes.—Rub two ounces of lump sugar upon the rind of half a small lemon until the yellow part is taken off, then crush them to powder. Mix with this three ounces of boiled potatoes, dry and floury, two ounces of clarified butter, and the yolks of two well-beaten eggs. Beat the mixture thoroughly, and add at the last moment the white of an egg beaten to a firm froth. Line the patty-pans with puff paste, half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a well-heated oven. Or, take a quarter of a pound of boiled potatoes, diy and floury. Bruise them well, and let them cool a little, then mix with them two ounces of finely- grated bread-crumbs and three ounces of loaf- sugar which has been rubbed upon half a small lemon and crushed to powder. Add three ounces of fresh butter which has been beaten to a cream, and three eggs. The eggs should be added separately, and the mixture should be well beaten between each addition. Three-parts fill the lined patty-pans, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Potato Cheesecakes (another way).— See Cheesecakes, Potato). Potato Cones, or Loaves.—Prepare some potatoes according to the directions given for potato balls. Form them into balls or cones, brush them over with beaten egg, and place them in the pan under a roasting joint, which is sufficiently cooked to drop the gravy with the fat. Turn them about that they may be equally browned, and allow a little of the gravy to drop upon them. Send them to table with the meat, but on a separate dish. Time to brown the cones, about, twenty minutes. Potato Cottage Pudding.—Take half a pound of boiled potatoes, dry and floury. Beat until they are quite smooth, and add a pinch of salt, the grated rind and strained juice of a small lemon, two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, two ounces of clarified butter or good beef dripping, and two well-beaten eggs. Beat the mixture thoroughly, turn it into a buttered dish, and bake in a well-heated oven. The flavour of the pudding may be varied by the addition of a few washed and dried currants, or an ounce of blanched and pounded almonds, or a glassful of sherry. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Croquettes. —Bake half a dozen largo potatoes (regents). When done enough, burst them open, and scoop out the contents with a spoon. Beat the pulp until it is quite smooth, then put it into a clean saucepan with the yolks of one or two eggs, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Beat this mixture over a moderate fire, until it leaves the sides of the saucepan with the spoon, then spread it out on a dish and let it cool. Shape it into balls;POT ( 622 ) POT dip these in beaton of?g, then into broad-crumbs, and fry thorn in liot fut until thoy aro oqually and lightly brownod. Lot them diuin before the lire, disli tliom on a hot napkin, iind serve immediately. If liked, the potato paste can be shaped into the form of corks or ])oar8, a little piece of parsley-stalk being stuck into them to imitate the stalk. Probable cost, 8d. Suf- ficient for a small dish. Potato Dumpling.—Take three parts of dry lioury boiled potatoes, and beat them till they are quite smooth. Put with them one part of whoaten flour, a little salt, and as much milk as is wanted to make a tolerably iSi-m paste. Pour the mixture into a buttered basin, or tie it in a floured cloth, and boil until it is firm and light. Serve either with brown gravy, melted butter, cooked apples, stewed prunes, jam, treacle, or sweet sauce. This preparation of food, though not much known in England, forms a daily meal of poor artisans and others in North Germany, with whom meat is a very unusual luxury. It is cheap, simple, and wholesome. Potato Flour.—The farina of the potato, properly granulated and dried, is frequently sold as a substitute for arrowroot. It may be successfully prepared at home, and will be found upeful for thickening soups, and for makiiig puddings easy of digestion for children and invalids. If kept dry it will remain good for years. Peel and wash some good mealy potatoes—those which have a yellow tint are the best for the purpose. Grate them upon a bread grater into a large pan of cold water, stir them well together, then strain the mass through a sieve. Let the grated potatoes settle until the water is quite clear. Pour the water off, and add fresh, stir up, and let it settle as before; and repeat until the water is quite clear, and the powder remaining at the bottom of the pan is pure white and fine. Spread the potato sediment upon dishes, and dry it in the sun or before the fire. Turn it frequently. Pound it in a mortar, pass it through a hair sieve, put it into jars, and cork securely. It wiU be quite white and flavourless. Time, ten minutes to stand each time between changing the waters. The changes to be repeated until the water that comes from it, after being stirred, is quite pure. A table-spoonful of potato flour mixed with two table-spoonfuls of cold water, stirred into a pint of boiling soup or sauce, and boiled for half a minute, will make the liquid of the consistence of thick cream. Potato Flour (another way).—This flour is obtained by grating any quantity of good mealy potatoes, and steeping them in a vessel of water for six or eight hours. Change the water, and stir every three hours during the day. Pour off this water at night, covering again with fresh water as before. In the morning strain the flour into a hair sieve. Have ready a clean vessel in which to stand the sieve, and wash the flour through it. Allow it to settle, then pour off the water, and spread the sediment on dishes to be put into a slow oven. It will dry quite- white, and keep good in jars, closely scaled up, for a considerable time. Potato Flour, Arrowroot (»eo Arrow. root I'otato Flour). Potato Flour, Miscellaneous Ob- servations on.—Potato Hour can be made into a jelly in the same way as airowroot. It must fiist bo moistened with cold water, then put into a bowl, and boiling water very gradujiJly poured on it, stirring all the time, and in a fow minutcs the jelly will be formed. A little salt or sugar may bo mixed with the moistened flour before the warm water is added, and a little milk will make it very palatable. Potato flour boiled with milk and a little sugar forms one of the most palatable, wholesome, and cheap dishes of which a labouring jnan can paitake, and cannot be too strongly recommended to cottagers, who ought always to convert a por- tion of their potato crop into flour, to be used when fresh potatoes cannot be got. Potato Flour Pudding, Baked.— Boil the thin rind of a lemon, or any other flavouring that may be preferred, in a quart of milk. Mix three table-spoonfuls of potato flour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk, pour the hot liquid upon this, and stir it until it is cool. Add a little sugar, from three to five well-beaten eggs, and a little brandy or sherrj- if liked. Orange marmalade stirred into the pudding is by many considered an improve- ment. The pudding may be baked before the fire in an American or Dutch oven for twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for foui- or five persons. Potato Flour Pudding, Steamed.— Pour a pint of boiling milk, nicely flavoured, upon a smooth paste, made of three table-spoon- fuls of potato flour mixed with a httle cold milk; add a little sugar and six weU-beaten eggs. Butter a plain round mould rather thickly, and ornament it prettily with alternate rows of stoned raisins and candied fruits. Pour in the pudding, laj'^ a piece of oiled paper upon it, and cover closely. Place the mould upon a plate turned upside down in a saucepan containing boiling water about three inches in depth, and be very careful that the water does not overflow the top. Keep the water boiling until the pudding is done enougl. Turn it carefully upon a hot dish, and send sweet sauce to table in a tureen. If a richer pudding is required, cream may be used instead of milk. Time to steam, an hour and a half. Probable cost, if made with milk. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Flour, Souffll.-Kub the rind of half a lemon upon two or three lumps of sugar until the yellow part is taken oft". Put these into a saucepan with half a pint of milk or cream, two ounces of fresh butter, and thiee table-spoonfuls of sugar. Stir into the hot milk three ounces of potato flour that has been mixed smoothly with a little cold milk, and continue to stir the croam over the fire until it boils. Add the well-bcjiten yolks of throe eggs, and, separately, the wliitos of six whisked to a firm froth. Pour the preparation into the lining of a soufll6 dish, round which has been fastened a baml of oiled paper, to jiro- vent the souflle overflowing the sides whilstPOT POT ( 623 ) in the oven. Bake in a well-heated oven, and te ciu-eful to turn the souffle round two or three times, that it may be equally baked. Serve the moment it comes out of the oven, or it will fall. It should have risen to twice its original height. Time to bake, nearly half an hour. Pr(^able cost, Is., if made with milk. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Potato Fritters. —Bake three or four large potatoes. Burst them open, and scoop out the floury part with a spoon. Beat four ounces of this flour well, and mix with it a table-spoonful of thick cream, a table-spoonful of sherry or brandy, two table-spoonfuls of .sugar, a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, a little flavouring, and the well-beaten yolks of three and the whites of two eggs. Beat the batter for several minutes tmtil it is quite smooth. Make the lard or dripping hot in the frying- pan, and drop into it the mixture, a large table-spoonful at a time. Two or three table- ;spoonfuls can be fried together, but they must be kept apart. When the fritters are nicely bro^vned, drain them upon blotting-paper, serve ■them piled high on a white napkin, and sift powdered sugar thickly over them; send wine :sauce to table with them. Time to fry the fritters, from five to seven minutes. Pro- bable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six per- .sons. Potato Fritters (other ways).—Boil and l^eel the potatoes, grate or mash them, add four weU-beaten eggs, a little cream, chopped parsley, ■chives, salt, and spice, and mix the whole well together. Drop a tea-spoonful of this paste into a pan of boiling lard or butter, when it will swell into a light fritter. Or, take the mealy part of potatoes roasted under the ashes; beat it in a mortar with a little fine salt, a .spoonf ul of brandy, some fresh butter and cream. Mix the whole, adding gradually a well-beaten egg; shape the paste into small balls, which roll in flour, fry, and serve, sprinkled with powdered sugar. Potato Gripsy Pie. — Peel and slice thinly as many potatoes as will fill a moderate- sized pie-dish. Put them into it in layers, and over each layer sprinkle a little salt and pepper, and a very small portion of finely-minced onion. Pour half a cupful of water over the whole, and place little pieces of butter here and there on the top; cover with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. When the pie is done enough, pour a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup into it, through the hole in the top, before serving it. Time to bake, according to the size of the pie. Probable cost, potatoes, Id. to 2d. per pound. Potato, History of the.—The intro- duction of the potato as an article of diet forms a very interesting chapter in the history of the human race. It was brought into England by the colonists who were, in 1584, sent out by Queon Elizabeth, to " discover and plant new- countries not possessed by Christians." Thomas Ileriot, the mathematician, was one of these adventurers; he returned with the rest, after an expedition of two years, and it has been supposed that to him we are indebted for the potato. Sir Walter Raleigh, who headed the expedition of discovery to North America, in- troduced the potato into Ireland on his return from Virginia; but so little did he understand or care about this valuable root, that having planted and reared the plant on his estate at Youghal, in the county of Cork, and his gardener having gathered the " apples," as the tine fruit brought from abroad by his master was termed, Raleigh ordered them to be rooted out. The gardener obeyed, and in so doing found a large quantity of tubers, which saved the plants from destruction. It appears that the potato was brought into Southern Europe by a different channel, and at an earlier date than the introduction of the root from Virginia into this country. Clusius received it during his residence at Vienna, in 1596, from the Governor of Mons, in Hainault, who had procured it in the preceding year from Italy, under the name of Taratouffi. For some time after its introduction into this country the potato was planted in the gardens of the nobility as a curious exotic; in the reign of James I. it was considered a delicacy, being provided in small quantities for the queen's household, and at the price of 2s. per pound. It remained extremely scarce through the suc- ceeding reign and during the Commonwealth, and not until nearly a hundred years after the discovery of Virginia by Raleigh was its cul- tivation gradually spread. A letter from Mr. Buckland, a Somersetshii-e gentleman, to the Royal Society, in 1663, drew attention to its value as a preservative in case of famine; the consequence was that the Society did its best to encourage potato cultivation. But though their utility as articles of food was beginning to be recognised, potatoes bore no very high character. Books upon gardening published about the end of the seventeenth cen- tury, a hundred years after their introduction, speak rather slightingly of them. One author says, "They are much used in Ireland and America as bread, and may be propagated with advantage by poor people." " I do not hear that it hath been yet essayed," remarks another, " whether they may not be propagated in great quantities, for food for swine or other cattle." Even the famous EveljTi regarded them with no favour. " Plant potatoes," he says, writing in 1699, "in your worst ground. Take them up in November for winter spending; there will enough remain for a stock, though ever so exactly gathered." In The Complete Gardener, published in 1719, the well-known nurserymen, Loudon and Wise, completely ignore the potato; and in another work of the same period it is mentioned as inferior to radishes. Gradually, however, the excellent qualities of the potato became recognised, and the use of the tuber spread. But it was not till the middle of the eighteenth century that potatoes were generally known over the country. Since that time they have been extensively cultivated. Fifty years later no fewer than 1,700 acres were planted with potatoes in Essex alone for the use of the London market. In Scotland the cultivation of potatoes in gardens was very little understood till about 1740; as a plant for field gi'owth they receivedPOT ( 624 ) POT no attention till twenty years after that period. About the same time the potato was introduced into Saxony and some parts of Germany; and in the latter part of the century it made its way into France. There it owed much to the o.vertioiiB of I'armeiitier. In some Gorman districts, Government took an interest in the plant, and aided its culture by compulsory enactments. The culture of the potato in the rest of Em-ope appears to have attained to no great extent until during the last century. It waa introduced from England into the Netherlands, and thence into Gemiany; but it was still im- known to the agriculturists of Saxony in 1740, subsequent to which period its culture increased so rapidly, that in thirty years after the above date, a small detachment of the French army, while in that country, having its supplies wholly cut oft", the soldiers subsisted for eight or ten days entirely on potatoes obtained from the fields; nor did they consider this a hardship. The potato was introduced into Sweden in 1720, but the exertions of Linna>us in favour of its culture were little regarded, and it did not come into general cultivation until 1764, when a royal edict was published for the encourage- ment of this branch of husbandry. In Switzer- land the value of the root was discovered about the same period at which it was introduced into Sweden; and in a few years the inhabitants not only grew potatoes among their mountains in abundance, but had likewise learned the art of drj-ing them, grinding them into flour, and making them into bread. A traveller in 1730 relates that the miller of Untersen had scarcely anything to grind but potatoes; and in 1734 a peasant was so well aware of the proiit arising from this culture, that he bought a small field situated near the Swiss mountains, and in only two years after paid the purchase-money by the produce of his potato-crops. In 1846 and 1847 terrible famine resulted in Ireland and elsewhere through the failure of the potato-crop. The potato disease was first noticed in Germany, and assumed a serious character at Liege in 1842. Two years later it invaded Canada, and at once proved very de- structive there. In 1845 it was observed in the British Isles, and during that year its ravages were very considerable. They reached their height in 1846, when the Irish famine was the consequence. Since 1847 the potato-disease has gradually diminished, but it still breaks out in particular localities. Its cause and origin have never been satisfactorily explained. Potato KlOSse (a" German dish).—Scoop the floury part from five or six baked potatoes, until six ounces of potato flour have been obtained. Mix with this two ounces of butter beaten to a cream, a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Boat the mixture thoroughly, and form it into small balls. Drop these in boil- ing salt and water, and bo careful to do this with a metal spoon, and to dip it into boiling water each time it is used. Serve the klosse with soup. Or, take the same weight of potato floui-. Beat it until smooth with two ounces of butter which has boon beaten to a cream, and add two ounces of finoly-gratod bread-crumbs, bne ounce of grated parmesan, a , little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, tlie yolks of two and the white of one egg. Mould the klosse, and boil them as above. Serve on a hot dish, with fried bread-crumbs sprinkled over them. Time to boil the klosse, ten minutes. Probable cost, Gd. or 8d. for thiu (piantity. Suflicient for five or six persons. Potato Klosse. Sweet (a German dish).— Boat four ounces of tresh butter to a cream. Add to this a pinch of salt, five or six large lumps of sugar which have been well rubbed upon the rind of a fresh lemon and afterwards crushed to powder, the well-beaten yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, two table-spoonfuls of finely- grated bread-crumbs, and as much potato flour, or flour scooped out of freshly-baked potatoes, as will make a thick firm paste. Form this into balls the size of a walnut, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and ivy in hot fat until they are equally and brightly browned. Drain them on blotting paper, and serve piled high on a white d'oyley, with powdered sugar sifted over them. Time to fry, five or six minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Potato Mould.—Beat an egg thoroughly, and mix with it a third of a pint of boiling cream or milk, a table-spoonful of sugar, a little grated lemon-rind, and as much cold boiled potato beaten till smooth or grated as will form a stiff thick batter. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a well- heated oven, '^r^^len it is nicely browned, turn it out, and serve very hot. Time to bake, half an hour or more. Probable cost, 6d., if made with milk. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato MtLffins.—Scoop the inside from four large freshly-baked potatoes. Beat this, flour until it is quite smooth, and add to it a pinch of salt, two ounces of clarified butter, and as much warm water as will make a thin batter. Beat three eggs, and add them to the mixtiu-e, together with three pints of best flour; Dissolve a tea-.spoonful of soda in a pint of lukewai-m water, knead this with a cupful of fresh yeast into the dough, and let it rise all night. Tiie next morning bake the muffins in rings upon a griddle, and when one side is lightly browned, turn them upon the other. Wlien to be eaten, tear the muffin a little round the edge, toast it on both sides, divide, butter, and afterwards quarter it. Time to bake the muffins, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Id.each. Potato, Nutritive Properties ot the.—In two parts of potato there are :— Water Albumenoid Matters . •' ■ Starch ^'^"^ Sugar • 3-2 0-2 3-2 0-5 Dextrine Fat Woody Fibre Mineral Matter or AVater . . . • Flesh and Force-producers Force-producers . Mineral Matter . 7r)-2 1-4 22-5 0-9( 626 ) POT POT To retain the highest amount of nourish- ment in potatoes they should, be di-essed with their skins on, as we have said elsewhere. If they are at aU dry or shrivelled they may advantageously be left to soak for three or four hours in cold water before being cooked. Potatoes dressed in their jackets have been found to bo nearly twice as rich in potassa salts as those which have first been peeled. "As an addition to other and more nutritive food, the potato is most valuable; as the sole article of diet, although capable of supporting life, it is a wretched material, and any com- bination of circumstances which induces or compels a population to depend upon it in too great a degree must be regarded as most unfortunate. "The potato undoubtedly contains the ele- ments of nutrition—that is starch and gummy matters capable of sustaining the respiratory processes, and also ' plastic material' adapted to build up the muscular and other constituents of li\Tng animal bodies, but those plastic materials are so deficient in quantity, their amount is so small compared with that of the other consti- tuents of the tuber, which, moreover, contains a large amount of water, that a man living solely upon potatoes must consume a very large quantity to keep himself in health and sti'ength, even if he can do the latter, when undergoing anything like exertion. From seven to eight pounds per day is by no means an unusual amount for a labouring Irishman to consume; but the ten pounds of the root contain no more real nutriment than one pound and a half of good wheaten bread, although they afford abundant respiratory or carbon material. In consequence of the less amount of muscular * plastic' nutriment contained in his food, the Irish labourer is less adapted for continued exertion than the Englishman on his wheat and meat, or the Scotchman on his oatmeal. More- over, it has been remarked that the constitution of the Irish labourer is apt to give way earlier in Hfe than that of the men of the sister king- doms, and he is certainly more liable to be the victim of epidemic diseases. "A remark of Liebig's well illustrates the value of the potato as an article of nutriment; he 8<'i}'s, ' a horse fed on potatoes and compelled to work loses weight; when he does no work, his weight remains unchanged,' thus evidently showing that the root is tmable to supply the loss by ' motor change,' when active muscular exertion is undergone." Potato Omelet.—Take a largo freshly- bakod potato, break it open, and scoop out the inside \vith a spoon. Beat this till smooth, and mix with it a little pepper and salt, a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice, and the yolks of four eggs. A minute or two before the omelet is to be fried, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Fry in the usual way, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish with parsley. Time to fr>', five or six minutes. Probable cost, 5d. or 6d. Sufficient for two persons. Potato Omelet (another way). — See Omelet, Potato. Potato Pasty, Modern.—In order to make this properly, a pasty-pan must be pro- cured which has a well-fitting perforated plate, and a valve-pipe to screw on. This can be had of almost any ironmonger, and will cost Iroiii 4s. to 5s. The meat, seasoning, and gravy are put into the lower part. The plate is then laid on the meat, the valve-pipe screwed on, ani mashed potatoes spread equally on the top. The pasty should be baked in a moderate oven and sent to table in the same tin in which ^t POTATO PASTY PAN. was baked, which should have a neatly-folded, napkin pinned roimd it. The cover should not be removed until the meat is to be served, and an empty dish should be placed in readiness f ex- it. If properly baked, the potatoes will be nicely bro-wned, and will be flavoured like the meat. The contents of this pie may of course be varied indefinitely. Mutton or veal cutlets, pork chops,, chickens or rabbits cut into neat joints, and fish of various kinds may all be used, and will all be found excellent. The meat should be neatly trimmed, and nicely seasoned, and a small quantity of gravy poured over it. The mashed potatoes should form a crust at least three inches thick. Two pounds of meat and three pounds of potatoes wiU make a moderate- sized pasty. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for four persons. Potato Patties.—Take as many large- well-shaped potatoes as it is intended there- should be patties, wash them well, and bake them. Take them out before they are quite done enough, so that the skin may not be in- jured, and carefully cut off the top, and scoop out the inside with a spoon. Mix with the flouiy part two or three spoonfuls of thick cream, a little piece of butter, and a pinch of salt, together with sugar, lemon or cinnamon flavouring, and the yolks and whites of two or three eggs- beaten and added sei^arately. Put this mixture- into the hollow potatoes, place them tipright side by side in a buttered dish, and bake them in a hot oven. If liked, saA'Oury instead of sweet potato patties can be made by mixing- with the potato flour a little pounded veal and ham, and cream, salt, pepper, lemon-peel,, grated nutmeg, and mushroom ketchup added in suitable proportions. Time to bake, twelve to fifteen minutes. Potato Pie.—It is a good plan to havt^ made a tin lid perforated with holes, and witVi a handle at aach end, to fit an ordinary-sized pie-dish, on pur^iose for potato pies. This lid should fit down at least an inch below the level of the dish, and before using it the first tim(^ it should be washed in boiling soda rind water.POT POT ( 626 ) as now tin is somotimcs poisonous. Having obtained this lid, cut the cold meat into noat jjlices, sprinkle over them a little popper and salt, two finoly-mincod onions, half a cupful of gravy—or failing this, water—and two or three lumps of butter or good beef di-ipping. Put on the tin lid, and pile upon it as many cold boiled potatoes mashed with milk as will iill the .space to the top of the dish. Bake in a well- heated oven. Send the pie to table in the dish in which it was baked, with a hot napkin pinned round. The top should be brightly browned. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost, 28. .■Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Pie (another way).—Take half a ■dozen boiled potatoes, diy and floury, mash them smoothly with three ounces of butter, i;he beaten yolk of an egg, and a little pepper and salt. Cut a pound of cold roast beef into neat slices free from skin and gristle. If the meat is rather underdressed, so much the better. Spread a layer of the potato at the bottom of .a pie-dish, put the slices of meat upon it, season with pepper and salt, and pour over the meat a tea-cupful of gravy made by stew- ing the bones and trimmings, and a table- •spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Cover with potato, and ornament the top of the pie with a fork. Bake in a moderate oven, and serve very hot. Time to bake the pie, half an hour. Probable cost, about Is. 6d. Sufficient for three persons. Potato Pie (another way).—Butter a shallow pie-dish rather thickly. Line the ■edges with a good crust, and then fill the pie with mashed potatoes seasoned with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Lay over them some marrow, together with small lumps of butter, liard-boiled eggs, blanched almonds, sliced dates, sliced lemon and candied peel. Cover the dish with pastry, and bake the pie in a well-heated •oven for half an hour or more, according to the .size of the pie. Probable cost. Is. or Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Pie (another way).—Peel and :slice some potatoes thin, and put them into a pie-dish. Between each layer of potatoes place ;8ome sliced onion—to every pound of potatoes allow say three-quarters of an ounce of onion— .add pepper and salt, put in a little water, and ■cut about two ounces of dripping or suet into little bits; lay these on the top, cover the pie close with common paste, and let it bake for about an hour and a half. The taste of the pie will be improved by the addition of a few slices of bacon. Time, about one hour and a half to hake. Potato Pie, " Ten to One."—This pie is a great favourite in country places in the North of England. Line the edges of a deep pie-dish with good crust. Fill it either with beef steak or slices of mutton nicely seasoned, •and slices of raw potato the third of an inch thick, and allow eight or ten slices of potato to one piece of meat. Pour a little gravy or water over the whole, cover with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve very hot. The jpic must be gently baked, or the pastry will te burnt before the potatoes are sufficiently cooked. Time to bake, one liour and a half or more, according to the size of llie pie. PotatoPie,with Sausage-meat.—Line the edges of a pie-dish with good crust, and butter the inside rather thickly. Mash five or six mealy potatoes with a little pepper and salt, a well-bcaton egg, and as much milk as will make a tliick batter. Mix witli this an equal quantity of nicely-seasoned sausage-meat, and fill the pie with the mixture. Cover with a good crust, and bake in a well-heated oven. iSend good brown gravy to table with the pie. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. for a moderate-Bized pie. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Pot.—Take an earthen jar with a closely-fitting Hd, put into it beef or mutton, cut into convenient-sized pieces, till it is a quarter full. Season with salt and pepper. Cut one or two onions into thin slices—the number being regulated by taste, f^ay these over the meat, and fill the dish with peeled potatoes of uniform size. Sprinkle a little salt and flour over these, pour in a cupful of water or, better still, stock, put the lid on the jar, and bake in a moderate oven. When the potatoes are done enough, Hft them carefully out with a spoon so as not to break them. Place them round a dish, put the meat into the centre, pour the gravy over all, and serve very hot. Underdressed cold meat may be used for the dish, though, of course, fresh meat will be nicer. Time, according to the size and qualitj' of the potatoes. If more convenient, the jar can be closely covered, set in a saucepan of water, and stewed for about an hour after the water reaches the point of boiling. Plenty of time should be allowed, as the potatoes are better baked slowly. Probable cost of pota- toes, Id. or l|d. per pound. Sufficient, a pie with two pounds of potatoes for thi-ee or four persons. Potato Pudding. — Mash a pound of boiled potatoes, drj' and flourj', and make a batter by mixing with them an ounce of clari- fied butter, tliree weU-beaten eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of milk, together with a little salt and pepper. Butter a baking-dish rather thickly, pour half the batter into it, and lay upon this three-quarters of a pound of underdressed beef or mutton, cut into neat slices, and quite free from fat, skin, and gristle. Pour the rest of the batter over the meat, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. Serve very hot, and send good brown sauce to table in a tureen. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Suf- ficient for two or three persons. Potato Pudding (another way).—Take a quarter of a pound of freshly-boiled potatoes, dry and &ouTy. Beat them till quite smooth, then mix with them half a pound of butter melted, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and a quarter of a pound of picked and dried currants. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, add six well-beaten eggs and a glass of wine, or a table-spoonful of brandy. Pour the mix- ture into a buttered dish or mould, and either bake or boil it. The baked pudding is the better of the two. Time, half an hour or more.( 627 ) POT POT Probable cost, Is. 6d., exclusive of the brandy. ■Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Pudding (another way).—Mash three pounds of boiled potatoes, dry and floury. Mix with them four ounces of finely-shred beef suet, four ounces of grated cheese, the flesh of ji herring torn into flakes with two forks, and a quarter of a pint of milk. Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake in a well-heated oven for half an hour. Probable cost, Is. ;Sufficient for five or six persons. Potato Pudding (another way).—Take a iew potatoes, boil them well, and mash them fine with a little milk; then sweeten to taste, and press into a pie-dish. Beat one egg, and lay it on the top of the pudding with a little grated nutmeg. Bake for half an hour. Potato Pudding, Baked. — Rub a pound of boiled potatoes through a wire sieve. jVlix with a pinch of salt, two ounces of butter, melted, two egg yolks, sugar to taste, the juice .and grated rind of a lemon, and last the whisked whites of eggs. Bake in a buttered dish for lialf an hour. Serve hot. Potato Pudding, Cottage {see Cottage Potato Pudding). Potato Pudding, Sweet.—Bake half a dozen large potatoes, and when they are done ■enough break them open and scoop out the contents with a spoon. Beat them lightly, and with a quarter of a pound of the potato flour put three ounces of clarified butter, half a tea- spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind, a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice, a pinch of salt, three table-spoonf\ils of powdered sugar, and three table-spoonfuls of milk or cream. Beat the pudding for five or six minutes, then add separately the yolks and well-whisked whites of three eggs. Butter a plain mould, ornament it with dried frait or slices of candied peel, pour in the pudding, and bake in a well-heated ■oven, or steam the pudding if preferred. Turn it out before serving, sift sugar thickly over it, and garnish the dish with jam. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour ; to steam, one hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Potato Pudding, with Ham, &c. (a German recipe).—Take some large potatoes, roast them, brsak them and scoop out the inside; to two quarts of potato add six ounces of butter and the yolks of four eggs; work through a sieve, season with pepper and salt. Butter well a mould and sprinkle it with broad crumbs or raspings; fill it about two inches deep with potato puree; then put a thin layer of ham, dressed veal, or anything else preferred, which cover with potato; then put a layer of moat again, and so on till the mould is filled. Bake the pudding for an hour, loosen the sides carefully with a knife, and turn out carefully that it may not break. _ Potato Puddings (Count Rumford's Re- cipes).—!. Mix together twelve ounces of boiled mashed potatoes, one ounce of suet, one ounce (a sixteenth of a pint) of milk, and one ounce of chooHo. The suet and cheese to be laelted, or chopped as fine as possible. Add as much hot water as will convert the whole into a tolerably stiff mass; then bake it for a short time in an earthen dish, either in front of the fire or in an oven. 2. Twelve ounces of mashed potatoes, one ounce of milk, and one ounce of suet, with salt. Mix and bake as before. 3. Twelve ounces of mashed potatoes, one ounce of red herring chopped fine or bruised in a mortar. Mix and bake. 4. Twelve ounces of mashed potatoes, one ounce of suet, and one ounce of hung beef grated or chopped fine. Mix and bake. Potato Puffs.—Put three table-spoonfuls of new milk into a clean saucepan with a couple of ounces of fi'esh butter, the thin finely-minced rind of a small lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar. Let the milk heat very gently until the butter is dissolved. Add gradually three ounces of boiled potatoes, drj' and fioury, and beat the mixtm-e until it is light and per- fectly free from lumps. Stir in the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and just before the puft's are to be baked the whites whisked to a firm froth. Butter some small patty-pans. Put the mixt'ire into them, and bake in a well-heated oven. Sift powdered sugar thickly over them, and sers'e very hot. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Suf- ficient for haK a dozen pulfs. Potato Puffs (another way) Bake two large potatoes. "V\Tien done enough, burst them open and scoop out the contents with a spoon. Beat them until quite smooth, and mix with them two ounces of flour, a pinch of salt, a little grated nutmeg, a heaped table-spoonful of sugar, half an ounce of butter, and a well- beaten egg. Divide the mixture into small cakes, fry them in hot fat till they are nicely bro'WTied, drain them on blotting paper, and serv'e verj' hot. Send white sauce to table with them. Time to fry, four or five minutes. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for one person. Potato, Puree of.—Peel and wash a pound of good regents. Boil and drain them, and beat them up with a fork. Stir in with them a quarter of a pint of good broth or thick cream, and pass them thi'ough a wire sieve. Put the puree into a saucepan with two ounces of butter and a little pepper, and stir it over a gentle fire until it is quite hot. Pour it into the centre of a hot dish, and arrange delicately- broiled cutlets—mutton, pork, or lamb—in a circle round it. Time, five or six minutes to heat the puree. Probable cost, 8d. if mixed with cream. Sufficient for a small dish. Potato Puree (anotherway).—Take some potatoes well boiled and well drained, pound them in a mortar, moisten with good broth and salt, then rub them through a sieve; wlien done, put the puree to warm in a stewpan, and add two ounces of fresh butter. Puree must be thinner than mash. Put fried bread round the puree. Sometimes cream may be used instead of broth; but it is not so wholesome, besides being much dearer. Potato Ribbons.—Wash and peel half a dozen large kidney potatoes, and let them lie in cold water for a few minutes. Cut them into ribbons, ro\md and round, like an dpple, and( 628 ) POT POT keep the strips iia nearly as possible of one width. Thoy must not be too thin or they will break. I Fry them in plenty of liot fat until they are lightly browned. Drain th(Mii on a wire sieve, and sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them. Serve on a hot dish. Time to fry, eiglit or ten minutes. Probable cost of potatoes, Id. or 2d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Potato Rice.—Boil two pounds of pota- toes—regents are best for the purpose—mash them with two ounces of butter and four table- spoonfuls of boiling milk, and season with pepper and salt. Put them into a largo colander, and press them through this on to a hot dish, and wliilst doing so, shake the colander every minute or so, that the potatoes may fall lightly like rice. Serve very hot, with broiled steak or sausages. Time, about three-quarters of an hoiu-. Probable cost of potatoes, Id. or l^d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Rissoles.—Take two pounds of mashed potatoes, and mix with them two table- spoonfuls of chopped parsley. Make them up into balls the size of a small apple, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in plenty of hot fat till they are equally and brightly browned. Drain them on blotting paper, and serve them piled high on a white d'oyley. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost of potatoes. Id. or l^d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Rolls.—Take four large boiled potatoes, dry and floury. Mash them till they are smooth, and while they are still hot, mix with them a little salt, a table-spoonful of clarified butter, and half a pint of hot milk. When the mixture is lukewarm, add half a tea- cupful of yeast, and as much flour as will make a firm dough. Knead it well, cover with a cloth, and set it near the fire to rise. When it is sufficiently light, mould it into rolls, place these a little apart from each other on buttered tins, let them rise again for about ten minutes, and bake in a well-heated oven till they are firm, but they must not be too hard. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. Sufficient, allow one for each person. Potato Salad.—Potato salad may be made all the year round with both new and old potatoes, and when plainly boiled is an agreeable accompaniment to cold meat. Cold potatoes that are left may be served up in this way, and wiU form an appetising dish. If the potatoes are boiled on purpose for the salad, small ones should be picked out, as they often prove wasteful when boiled with large ones. They should be boiled in their jackets, and should be peeled and sliced whilst warm. Make the salad two or three hours before it is wanted. Cut the potatoes into slices the third of an inch thick. Put these in layers into the salad bowl, and sprinkle over each layer a little pepper and salt, finely-chopped parsley, and, if liked, minced chives or shallot. Add oil and vinegar in the proportion of two table-spoonfuls of vinegar to three of oil. and stir them well into the salad. Garnish with sliced beet-root, pickled gherkins, olives, or herbs, or boil an egg hard, mince tho^ yolk and the white separately, and place them in little heaps round the salad. A chopped bloater or two or tliroe sardines finely minu:(l may be stirred in with a potato salad as aa occasionnl clumge, and tarragon vinegar may bo substituted for plain vinegar. Potato Salad (a French recipe).—Th<? following is a good formula for the simple but delicious potato salad of a Parisian hotel:—Cut ten or twelve cold boiled potatoes into sliws from a quarter of an inch to half an inch thick; put these into a saLad bowl with four table- spoonfuls of tarragon or- plain vinegar, six table-spoonfuls of best salad-oil, one table- spoonful of minced parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir well, that all the ingredients may be thoroughly mixed. Potato salad should be made two or three hours before it is required for the table. Anchovies, olives, or any pickles may be added to it, and also bits of cold beef, chicken, or turkey, if desired. It is excellent, however, without these. Potato Salad (a German recipe).—Cut the potatoes into slices the third of an inch thick, and sprinkle a little pepper and salt amongst them. Cut two or three rashers of bacon into very small pieces, and fry these over a gentle fire until they are lightly browned. Pour into the pan with them half a cupful of water and half a cupful of vinegar, let the bacon simmer in this for a minute, and pour the sauce over the potatoes. If after soaking a little time the salad looks dry, add half a cupful of milk. Time, five or six minutes to make the salad dressing. Probable cost of potatoes. Id. to l^d. per poimd. Potato Sandwiches.—Cut a pound of cold roast beef into slices, and fry these gently in hot fat for two or three minutes. Take them up, drain them, and spread over them on both sides a layer of mashed potatoes a quarter of an inch thick. Dip them into egg and bread- crumb, and frj' in hot fat till they arc lightly browned. Serve piled on a white napkin. Time to fiy the sandwiches, five or six minutes. Potato Snow.—Choose fine white potatoes free from spots. Wash them well, put them in their jackets into a saucepan, and barely cover them with cold water. Let them boil gently imtil they begin to crack, then pour the water from them, let them drain, and then dry by the side of the fire until they fall to piecet;. Take away the skins, and lay the hot dish on which the potatoes are to be served before the fire. Rub the potatoes through a hot wire sieve, so that they shall fall lightly upon the dish, and on no account disturb them after they have fallen. Serve very hot. Time, thirty to forty minutes to boil the potatoes. Probable cost. Id. or I Jd. per poimd. Sufficient, three potatoes for one person. Potato Souflle.—Bake six or eight large potatoes, and when they are done enough bur.'^t the skins, and scoop out the floury part with a spoon. Take a quarter of a pound of this flour and mix with it two table-spoonfuls of finely- .sifted sugar, an ounce of butter, half a pint of I boiling cream pleasantly flavoured with lemon-( 629 ) POT POT rind or cinnamon. Beat the mixture until it is quite smooth, then add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and, separately, the whites of six eggs whisked to a firm froth. Pour the souffle into a. buttered souffle tin, round the top of which, i has been secured a broad band of oiled paper to prevent the souffle overilowing its sides, and bake in a weU-heated oven. Serve the souffle the moment it is taken from the oven. If a proper souffle tin is not at hand, a deep pie-dish may bo substituted for it. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Potato Soup.—"Wash a dozen or more large potatoes (regents are to be preferred), in lukewarm water, and scrub them until quite clean with a soft brush. Drain them, and put them into a saucepan, barely cover them with cold water, and let them simmer gently until they are done enough. Pour off the water, and let them dry. Dissolve an ounce and a half of butter in a saucepan, and put in with it two moderate-sized onions finely minced, and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and let the onions steam gently until tender. Peel the potatoes, and rub them through a colander until quite smooth. Put them into the pan with the onions, &c., and stir all well together. Add a bay-leaf to the mixtm-e, then pour in as much boiling water as will make a thick batter, and afterwards add as much boiling milk as will make the soup of the consistency of thick cream. Let it boil, put in pepper and salt to taste, and also a little grated nutmeg, and serve with toasted sippets in the dish. The soup will be better if white stock be used instead of water. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 4d. per quart. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Soup (another way).—Wash and peel ten or twelve large potatoes. Cut them into slices, and put them into a stewpan vnth one large onion sliced, four ounces of butter, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Let them steam for two or three minutes, then pour over them two quarts of white stock, or the liquid in which meat has been boiled, and let the whole simmer gently until the potatoes are soft. Press them with a wooden spoon through a fine sieve, return the puree to the soup, and stir it over the fire until it is quite hot. Add half a pint of cream or new milk, and serve; sending fried crusts to table on a separate dish. Time, an hour and a half. Pro- bable cost, 5d. per quart, exclusive of the stock, if made with milk. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Potato Soup (another way). —Wash and peel a dozen large potatoes, and pjit them into a stewpan with two quarts of the liquor in which meat has been boiled, one onion, and one car- rot. Let all boil gently together for an hour, or until the potatoes arc quite soft, then rub the whole through a fine sieve, and put the soup back into the stewpan. Mix three table-spoon- fuls of flour to a smooth paste with half a pint of cold water. Mix a little of the boiling liquid with this, and afterwards turn the whole into the soup, and stir until the flour unites with the potatoes. Add pepper and salt if required, boil a few minutes longer, and serve very hot. Half a pint of milk or cream can be added or not. Send fried crusts to table on a separate dish. Time to boil the soup with the flour, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 3d. per quart. Sufficient for eight or ten [ persons. Potato Soup (another way).—Wash and peel a dozen large sound potatoes. Cut then), into thin slices, dredge them well with flour, and put them into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a handful of parsley, one large onion, and a little pepper and salt. Barely cover them with cold water, and let them steam gently until soft. Press them through a sieve, and mix with the puree two quarts of nicely- flavoured stock. Boil a few minutes longer, and serve. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, exclusive of the stock, 3d. per quart. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Potato Soup (another way).—Take two pounds of peeled potatoes, a stick of celery, and the white part of two leeks, sweat in butter for ten minutes, add salt and a quart of water, and boil half an hour. Press the whole through a sieve, afterwards boil it for six or eight minutes, and serve very hot, mixed with half a pint of boiling milk or cream. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the stocky 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Soup (another way).—Boil some potatoes in stock ; mash them, and mix them with forcemeat made of chopped meat, bacon, and spice, herbs, and eggs. Make balls of these ingredients, roll them to the size of an egg, and either warm or fry them in the soup. Potato Soup (a la Creme).—Take about twenty large-sized potatoes; cleanse, peel, wash, and cut them in pieces. Put them into a stew- pan with one large onion and one head of celery also sliced up. Add fom- ounces of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Set the pan on a slow fire, let the contents simmer, stii-ring occasionally, till they are nearly reduced to a sort of puree. Add three pints of good white consomme, then let the potatoes boil gently by the side of a moderate fire for half an hour, pass them through the tammy, and after having removed the puree into a soup-pot, add, if required, a little more consomme, and set the puree on the fire to boil gently by the side of the stove, in order to clarify it in the usual way required for other purees of vegetables. Just before serving add a pint of boiling cream, a pat of fresh butter, and a little pounded sugar. Potato Starch.—Potato starch is useful for thickening white sauces and preparing potages au gras. For these purposes it should be beaten Tip wdth a small quantity of the liquid and added to the sauce, taking care to stir it continually until mixed. Potato Starch, Adulteration by means of.—The starch of the potato is often used for the adulteration of the higher-priced starches, or sago, tapioca, and arrowroot. It is also added to cocoa, honey, butter, lard, and many other articles. Potato StuflBLng for Geese [xce Goose I Stuffing, Potato).( 630 ) POT POT Potato Stuffing, for Goose and Sucking Pig. — Wiibli and pool IhroD or iuur liu-gu sound pututous, smd cut thorn into vory small pieces, i'ut tlioni into a stowpan with two ounces of butter, a tablo-spoouf ul of linely- shrod piirsley, a little popper, suit, and grated nutmeg, and, if liked, a tinely-niiuced onion. Cover closely, and let thuin steam over a gentle fire until thoy arc tlu'oo parts cooked; they must not be so soft that they will fall to pieces. Shake the saucepan now and then to keep them from burning to the bottom. Mince the liver of tlio pig or goose, and put it with the potatoes. Stir the mixture over the fire for a minute or two, and it will bo ready for use. If liked, one or two cold fried sausages may be freed from skin, cut np small, and used instead of the liver. Time to steam the potatoes, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for one smaU pig. Potato Stuflang for Sucking Pig {see Pig, Sucking, Stuffing of Potatoes for). Potato, Sweet.—After the introduction of the potato into this country it used to be confounded with this plant, which it resem- bled and from which it received its name. The sweet potato was originally a Malayan plant, and was brought into England long be- fore the introduction of the potato. It was considered a great delicacy, and was made into a confection. It is still cultivated to a certain extent in Spain and the South of France. Shakespeare alludes to the sweet potato in his Merry Wives of Windsor—" Let the sky rain potatoes and hail kissing-comfits." Besides being used in Spain and France, the sweet potato is largely eaten in tropical America. It may be employed as food by way of a substitute for the potato. Potato Turnovers.—Mince finely the remains of cold roast meat—beef, mutton, veal, or ham. Take away the pieces of skin and gristle, season the -mince highly with salt and cayenne, and add a small proportion of chopped pickles. Mash some cold boiled potatoes, and make them into a paste with a little flour and one or two beaten eggs. Dredge a little flour over this, and roll it out. Cut it into rounds the size of a saucer. Put a little of the mince upon one half of one of these rounds, and fold the other half over it like a turnover. Pinch the edges neatly, and make up the rest of the pastry in the same way. Fry the turnovers in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Drain them, and serve very hot. Time to fry, four or five minutes. Probable cost, 2d. each. Potato, Wliolesomeness of the.— The potato forms an excellent article of diet, as it contains a large quantity of farinaceous nutriment. When well boiled it is generally easy of digestion. " There are, however," says a medical authority, " certain states of the stomach when potatoes are huiiful, as where there is a tendency to flatulency and feeling of fullness after meals; and also in persons who are just recovering from severe illness, or in cases of bowel complaint, as they are apt to increase the irritation in the intestinal canal." Such potatoes as boil " waxy" are far from wholesome}. The same may be tutid of early potatoes, by which is moaut those wliich are in an inunature condition. Mashed potatoes labour under the disadvantage tliat they do not get sufliciently mixed with tlie saliva to secure tlieir full digestion. Wlien soaked with gravy and di-ipping from roasted meat potatoes sliould be avoided by dyspeptics, though they may agree well enough with those of strong digestive powers. The use of potatoes is a preventative against scurvy, if not an actual cure for it. Potatoes that have been exposed to the air and have become green are not wholesome, and new potatoes, i.e., unripe ones, are greatly answer- able for the prevalence of cholera and such like diseases during the siunmer months. Potato Wine —Wine of considerable quality may be made from frosted potatoes, if not so much frosted as to have become soft and waterish. The potatoes must be crushed or bruised; a wooden mallet answers the purpose. If a plank of wood is made hollow, in the manner of a shallow bowl, they may be bruised with a mallet or put into a cider-press. A Winchester bushel must have ten gallons of water, prepared by boiling it mixed with half a pound of hops and half a pound of commoa white ginger. This water, after having boiled for about half an hour, must be poured upon the bruised potatoes, into a tub or vessel suited to the quantity to be made. After standing in this mixed state for three days, yeast must be added to ferment the liquor. When the fer- mentation has subsided, the liquor must be drawn off as pure as possible into a cask, add- ing half a pound of raw sugar for every gallon. After it has remained in the cask for three months it will be ready for use. Potato Yeast.—Boil some good mealj potatoes until they are quite soft. Peel and weigh them, and while they are hot mash them till they are smooth. Mix them quickly with as much boiling water as will make the mash of the consistency of good beer yeast. Rub the puree through a sieve, and add for every poimd of potatoes either two ounces of treacle or an ounce of brown sugar or honey. Boil the mixture until it is as thick as batter, and stir into it whilst it is warm two large spoon- fuls of yeast for every pound of potatoes. Cover with a cloth, and keep in a warm place till it has done fermenting. In twenty-four hours it will be ready for use. It will be necessarj' to use twice as much of this yeast as of beer yeast to make bread. Sufficient, a pound of potatoes will make a quart of yeast. Potatoes (a la Creme).—Boil some potatoes of a firm kind in the usual way. Take a small, sharp, thin-bladed knife and cut them into thm slices. Put a pint of these into a ste^imn with a tea-spoonful of salt, an ounce of butter, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Pour a quarter of a pint of cream over the top, cover the saucepan closely, and shake it over the fire for eight or ten minutes. Place the potatoes on a hot dish, and be very careful not to break thePOT ( 631 ) POT slices. Cold potatoes which are left from dinner may, if tirin, bo di-essed in this way for break- fast. If cream is not at hand, milk slightly thickened with flour and butter may be substi- tuted for it. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or Mve persons. Potatoes (a la Duchesse).—This, it has been said, is " the acme of delicacy in the cooking of potatoes." " Prepare some potato paste as for croquettes {see Potato Croquettes). When this is cold, mould it with a very small quantity of flour into oblong or round cakes. Fry these in clarified fat, first on one side then on the other, and take them out the instant they have ac- quired a delicate golden-brown colour. With moderate care, potatoes thus cooked are de- licious." Potatoes (a la Maitre d'Hotel).—Boil or steam a dozen kidnej- potatoes in the usual way, and cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Put them into a saucepan with two or three spoonfuls of white sauce or gravy, two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, four ounces of butter, and a little pepper and salt. Shake the saucepan over the fire until the potatoes are covered with the sauce and quite hot, then squeeze over them the juice of a large fresh lemon, and serve. Time, ten minutes to heat the sliced potatoes. Probable cost, 8d. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Potatoes (a la Maitre d'Hotel)—Another way.—Wash the potatoes, and boil them in their jackets in salt and water. When they are done, let them cool, then turn them in the shape of large corks, and cut them into slices about as thick as a shilling—if the slices are too thin they will break in the sauce. Make a butter sauce, mix with it a little chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a little glaze, and the juice of a lemon if acid is required. Take care that the sauce is neither curdled nor too thick, and pour it gently over the potatbes after they are dished. Potatoes and Eggs {see Eggs and Pota- toes) . Potatoes au Lard (a French recipe).— Cut some bacon into small pieces, put it in a stewpan with a bit of butter, and let it bro-wTi. When the bacon is three parts done, throw in a little flour, add salt, pepper, parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a bay-leaf. Moisten with some stock. When these ingredients have boiled a few minutes, put in the potatoes half done, peeled, and cut into pieces. Skim, clean, and serve. Potatoes, Baked.—Choose large potatoes of uniform size. Wash them well in luke- warm water, and scrub the skins with a soft brush. Put them in the oven, or in a Dutch oven, and bake until done enough. Do not let them remain in the oven after they are cooked, or they will become hard and shrivelled. Serve, neatly folded, on a hot napkin, and send pats of butter to table with them. Some cooks cut a little slice from the top of the potato after it is baked, mix with the pulp a pinch of minced shallot, a little pepper and salt, and a quarter of an ounce of butter, then put on the hd, and serve hot. Time to bake, two hours if ] of a good size. Probable cost of potatoes. Id. ' and 1 Jd. per pound. Sufficient, allow two for each person. I Potatoes, Beef Steak and Pried {see Beef Steak and Fried Potatoes). Potatoes, Beef-steaks with (French, fashion).—Take some thin slices of rump of beef, flatten them, and season with a little salt, pepper, &c. Dip these slices into a little- butter, that the gravy may not drop out whilst broiling. Have some parsley chopped very fine- and mixed with butter, salt, pepper, lemon, &c> Wlien tlie beef-steaks are done, put the above- ingredients under the steaks, and all around fried potatoes of a fine brown colour. Glaze the beef-steaks; you may serve them with dif- ferent sauces, as mushroom, oyster, and sauce hache. Potatoes, Beignets of.— Take some potatoes ; bake them, take off their jackets and pound them with a little salt, cream, a little- butter, and a glass of brandy. A whole egg- should be added whilst pounding till the paste is so thick as to be easily formed into balls.. Let the paste cool. Form it into balls, brush these over with egg, frj- them in verj- hot fat,, and serve with sugar sifted over them. Potatoes, Boiled.—"VSTien about to boill potatoes, pick them out as nearly as possible of one size, or the large ones will be hard when the small ones are reduced to pulp. If this cannot easily be done, cut them to one size. Wash them well, remove the specks or eyes, and pare them as thinly as possible, not only to avoid waste, but because the best part of the potato* is near the skin. As they are pared, throw them into cold water, and let them remain in it until wanted. An iron saucepan is preferable to a tin one for cooking them, as it prevents them, boiling so fast, and the more slowly they are- boiled the better. Put them into a saucepan with barely enough cold water to cover them, and as- soon as the water boils throw in a little more- cold water. This will check the heat,, and keep the potatoes from breaking before they are done through. Thrust a fork into them occasionally; and as soon as they are soft take them up, pour off the liquor, and let them stand by the side of the fire with the saucepan partially uncovered till the moisture has evaporated and they are quite dry. If they are allowed to remain in the water after they are done enough, they will certainly be spoilt. Serve very hot. When potatoes are done before they are wanted, they should be drained and left in the saucepan by the side of the fire, and instead of. the lid folded cloth shovdd be laid over them. This- wiU absorb the moisture and keep them hot and in good condition for some time. In order to make boiled potatoes look floury, boil and drain them as above, and whilst they are drying by the side of the fire shake the saucepan vigorously every minute or two. This will give them a very good appearance, but it is rather wasteful, as a good portion of the potato stickt to the side of the pan. Time, according to the quality of the potato, from half an hour to an hour and a half. Probable cost. Id. or l^d. per pound. Sufficient, two or three potatoes for each person.POT POT ( 632 ) Potatoes, Boiled (another way).—Choose potiitooB of uniform Bizo, wash tlium well, and scrub thorn with a soft brush, but do not touch them at all with a knifo, ovon to remove the apecks. Put thorn in a saucepan, barely cover them with cold water, throw in a spoonful of salt, and let them simnKir gently until they are done enough, then let thorn boil quickly for two or three minutes. Drain the water from them, leave them in the saucepan by the side of the tiro partially covered, and let them re- main until they are quite dry, then peel them quickly, and serve at once. Leave the cover of the tureen a lictle on one side, that the steam may escape and not descend upon the potatoes. Time, half an hour to an liour, according to the quality of the potatoes. Pro- bable cost, Id. or IJd. per poimd. Sufficient, half a dozen for two or three persons. Potatoes, Boiled (another way).—"Wash, pare, and boil the potatoes in the usual way. Pour off the water, and instead of drying the potatoes by the side of the fire, turn them into a, bowl. Put the tureen in which they are to be served before the fire. Take each potato separately, lay it in a warm soft napkin, and twist the cloth round it to dry it, and at the same time shape it neatly. Put each potato as it is done into the vegetable dish, and keep this covered with a hot cloth. Serve as quickly as possible. Potatoes are certainly very good pre- pared in this way, but it is necessary to use des- patch in diying them, or they will be cool before they can be served. Time to boU. the potatoes, half an hour to an hour, according to the quality. Probable cost, Id. or Ijd. per pound. Sufficient, two or three for each person. Potatoes, Boiled (another way).—Take twenty middle-sized potatoes, peel, wash, and drain them, put them into a two-quart stewpan with one quart of water and a little salt. When they have boUed fifteen minutes, throw off the water, cover closely, and let them steam till done, which will be in about five minutes more. Potatoes, Boiled (another way).—The boiling of potatoes in the best manner, which to some may seem a very simple affair, requires considerable attention, and much of the good- ness of the vegetable depends on its'being properly cooked. The following directions are given in the Farmer's Magazine, Vol. V., pp. 191 and 503 :—" It is of consequence that the potatoes be as nearly as possible of one size; that they be well washed and cleared of earth or dii-t; that .they be put, with cold water, into a pan or kettle, well rinsed about, and kept there for an hour or two, which will extract the black liquor with which they are impregnated. They ought then to be put, with their skins on, not into boiling water like greens, but into fresh cold water, with a little salt, and boiled in a kettle or saucepan, closely covered, in the most rapid manner. No more water should be put in than merely to cover them, as they produce themselves a considerable quantity of fluid. When sufficiently done, the water should be instantly poured off, and the vessel containing the cooked potatoes is to be placed on the side of the fire with the cover off until the steam be completely evaporated; the potatoes are thus rendered quite dry uiid mealy." Potatoes, Boiled (Irish fashion).—In Ireland potatoes are cooked so that they may have, as they call it, a bone in them; that is, that the middle pait shall not be quite woked. They are done thus:—Put a gallon of water with two ounces of salt in a large iron pot with the potatoes, boil for about ten minutes, or until the skin is loose, pour the water out of the pot, put a dry cloth on the top of the potatoes, and place the pot on the side of the fire, with- out water, for about twenty minutes, and servo, In Ireland turf is the principal aiticle of fuel, which is burnt on the flat hearth; a little of it is generally scraped up round the pot so as to keep a gradual heat; by this plan the potato is both boiled and baked. Probable cost, Id. or IJ^d. per pound. Potatoes, Boiled in their Jackets.— Potatoes are frequently boiled and served in their jackets, and a small plate is placed by the side of each guest to receive the skins. They are certainly nicer boiled in this way than in any other, and also better, for the most nutritious portion of the potato is said to lie quite close to the skin, and it is frequently cut off when the potato is carelessly peeled: at the same time this method is an inconvenient and not very tidy way of 8er^^ng them. Choose potatoes of uniform size, and scrub them with a soft brush until they are perfectly clean. Put them into a saucepan with a little cold water, not quite sufficient to cover them. Boil them as gently as possible, for the more slowly they are cooked the better they will be. If a httle salt is thrown in occasionally, it will be found a great improvement. If the potatoes are large, add half a cupful of cold water every now and then. In order to ascertain whether or not they are done enough, probe them occasionally with a fork, and when they are tender throughout, pour off the water, put the saucepan once more on the fire, and let it rfemain until the potatoes are quite dry. Send them to table with the skins on. Time to boil the potatoes, from half an hour to an hour, according to size and quality. AUow six potatoes for two persons. Probable cost, Id. per pound. Potatoes, Broiled. — Take some cold potatoes; cut them lengthwise into slices half an inch thick, dredge a little flour lightly over these, and lay them on a hot gridiron over a clear but not very fierce fire. Turn them about that they may be equally coloured on both sides, and serve very hot. The slices must not be allowed to get hard, or they will be spoilt. Time, till browned. Allow two or tliree potatoes for each person. Probable cost. Id. or lid- per pound. Potatoes Browned under a Roast- ing Joint.—Half boil eight or ten large kidney potatoes. Drain the water from them, flour them well, and lay them in an earthen dish or a tin pan. Put this in the drippmg-pan under the meat, and baste the potatoes liberally from time to time. When they are browiiod on one side turn them upon the other. Before sending to table, place them on blotting-paperPOT POT ( 633 ) or on a move, to clear them from fat, and servo very hot. The potatoes may be either put on a separate dish or placed roimd the joint they ai-e to accompany. Time to boil the potatoes, about a quarter of an hour; t<.) brown them, one hour or more. Probable cost of potatoes, Id. or IJd. per pound. Allow two or three for each person. Potatoes, Casserole of {see Casserole of Potatoes). Potatoes, Choosing of.—There are so many sorts and sizes of potatoes, and tastes differ so much with regard to them, that it is scarcely possible to give a general rule as to choosing them. It is best to buy them with the mould hanging about them, as this shows that they are freshly dug, and this mould should not be removed until they are about to be used. YeUow-looking potatoes are the best, and reddish-coloured ones aie better than white. Potatoes are more likely to be good when they are of a moderate size and fi-ee from blemish than when they are very large. Potatoes, Cold, Fried in Slices.— Cut up half a dozen firm boiled potatoes in slices a quarter of an inch thick. Put these into a saucepan with two oimces of fresh butter, and shake them over the fire Tintil they are lightly browned. Sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of finely-minced onion, and the juice of half a small lemon. A tea- spoonful of good brown gravy may be added or not. Serve very hot. Time, ten minutes to fry the pot<itoes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for two or thi-ee persons. Potatoes, Cold, to Re-dress.—When potatoes are left after being served, they may be sent to table again in two or three ways. They may be mixed wdth cabbages, and made into colcannon {see Colcannon), or they may be made into a salad {see Potato Salad), or they may be warmed with cream {see Potatoes a la Ci ■eme and Sliced with Parmesan), or they may be sliced and fried (see Potatoes, Cold, Fried in Slices), or they may be more simply fried, as follows:—Melt a piece of clean dripping in a frying-pan, slice the potatoes into this, season with pepper and salt, and keep stirring them about until they are quite hot. Serve immediately. Or beat up cold potatoes till they are quite free from lumps. With one pound of the pulp mix two tablo- spoonfuls of flour, a little pepper and salt, an ounce of butter, and as 'much milk as wiU moisten the beat potatoes. Press them into a plain mould, and bake in a moderate oven until they are nicely browned. Serve very hot. Or take the remains of maahed potatoes as soon as they come from the table. Press them lightly into a small mould, and leave them until the next day. Half an hour before they are wanted, turn them out, cut them into 8lices"^haLf an inch thick, and brown them in a baking-tin in the oven. Potatoes en Salade.—Boil, peel, and Huce potatoes, and season them with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and fine herbs, either sliced gherkins, beet-root, or capers. Potatoes, rish Soup with {see Fish Soup with Potatoes). Potatoes, Forced (a French recipe).— Take two large kidney potatoes, wash and peel them, cut them in half lengthwise; scoop out the inside carefully with a spoon, leaving the outer part about the thickness of a penny-piece. Take two large roasted potatoes, two shallots chopped fine, a piece of butter the size of an egg, a little piece of fat bacon, a pinch of parsley and chives chopped fine; pound all with pepper and salt, form into a paste, butter the insides of the potato-sheUs, and fill them with this paste, in which let the upper part be convex ; butter a baking-tin with fresh butter, put your potatoes on it, and bake them in a moderate oven; in half an hour, if the upper and under pai-ts are browned, serve. Potatoes for Pilgrims (a Trappist recipe).—Boil six or eight potatoes, and cut them in slices. Make a little frying liatter {see Frying Batter), and dip in it half a dozen onions thinly sliced; fry these in hot fat, and when they are browned, put the potatoes into the pan with them. Pour over them as much milk as will barely cover them. Sprinkle powdered sugar upon them, let them stew gently a short time, and serve very hot. Time to stew, five or six minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potatoes Fried.—French kidney potatoes are the best for this purpose. Wash and peel some potatoes, and cut them from the breadth (not the length) in slices as thin as a shilling. As they are sliced throw them into cold water, and keep them there until wanted. When they are to be dressed, dry them carefully in a nap- kin, and throw them—a few at a time—into as much boiling fat as will cover them entirely. The fat may be known to be boiling when it ceases to hiss, and is still. Move the potatoes about in the fat that they may be equally cooked, and when they are brightly browned on both sides and crisp, put them on a cloth or on brown paper before the fire to drain' the grease from them, sprinkle a little salt over them, and serve very hot. Fried potatoes are good with steaks or chops, or may be even served by themselves as a breakfast dish. Cold boiled potatoes may be sHced and fried in the same way, but the slices should be cut a quarter of an inch thick. Time to fry, about eight minutes. _ The best and easiest way of frying potatoes is to put them a few at a time into a frying basket and fry in boiling fat. Potatoes, Fried (another way).—Cut the potatoes into slices about the thickness of a shilling, then fry them in clarified dripping. If you have any goose dripping, it will do better. When the potatoes are fried a fine brown colour and crisp, drain all the grease on a towel, and serve them quite hot on a napkin, or in a deep dish; they cannot be dished nicely in any other way. Do not forget to sprinkle them over with a little pounded salt. Potatoes, Fried (another way).—Take a sufficient number of potatoes, and cut them in thin slicea. Wash well and drj', then put them( 634 ) POT POT m a saucepan with cold water, and boil up once JJrain and dry. Melt a slice of butter in a Irying-paii, ahako the slicea in this over the lire till brown, and serve. By way of variety, pota- toes nuiy bo fried in batter, a little popper and salt being shaken over them when they are fry- ing. Small new potatoes are best for this method. Potatoes Pried for Garnish {see Garnish, Potatoes Fried for). Potatoes, Fi'ied, Garnish of.—Cut the potatoes into any fanciful shapes, wash thom, drain them on a cloth, and then molt an ounce of butter, and pour it over them. Put the potatoes in a stcwpan large enough to allow thom to lie clear of one another. Toss them about every two or throe minutes till they axe brightly browned, and serve immediately. Potatoes, Fried (Gei-man method).—Fry in some butter small slices of bread and sliced potatoes parboiled in water lightly salted; serve them on a dish, and pour over them a little bouilli of potato flour; sprinkle with sugar, and brown them in a Dutch oven. Potatoes Pried in Butter.—Peel some raw potatoes, and cut them in thin slices. Fry them in butter over a hot fire, continually turning them, until they become sufficiently bro-svn. Let them drain; then arrange them on a hot dish, sprinkle salt over them, and serve. Potatoes Pried Whole, — Boil small potatoes of unifomi size until they are almost done enough. Drain them, and put them into a frying-pan sufficiently large to allow them to lie without touching one another, with plenty of hot fat. Shake them about till they are lightly and equally browned all over, and serve as soon as they are done enough. If liked, they may be dipped in egg and bread-crumb before they are fried. Cold boiled potatoes maj' be re-dressed in this way. Time to fry, ten or twelve minutes. Probable cost, potatoes Id. or l^d. per pound. Allow two or more potatoes for each person. Potatoes, Prost-bitten.—Frost seems to have the curious effect of converting the starch of potatoes into sugar. "When the tubers are affected by frost, or are what is called frost- bitten, they become sweet, and in this state are no longer fit for eating; they are usually given to cattle, or are used for distillation of spirits, or for making beer. If only slightly frost-bitten they may be partially restored by throwing them into cold water. Potatoes in Cases.—Wash half a dozen large potatoes, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done enough, cut a round the size of a crown from the top of each, and carefully scoop out the inside, tho'igh not so as to leave the skin quite bare. Rub the pulp through a colander, and mix with it an ounce of butter, two table-spoonfuls of milk, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the mixture over the fire until it is hot, then add the white of an egg beaten to a froth. Eub the skin of the potatoes with butter, fill them with the mixture, jMit the lids in their places, and bake the potatoes in a quick oven. If liked, the potato-cases can be filled with minced meat or forcemeat instead of nuished potatoes. Time to bake the potatoes, two hours at first, afterwards until quite hot.' Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for two or thiee persons. Potatoes, Mashed,—Boil or steam the potatoes until they are sufficiently cooked, and are mealy and dry. Carefully remove any dis- coloured places there may Ije upon them, put them into a bowl, and beat them with a wooden spoon for two or throe minutes, and whilst beating, add a little salt, a slice of butter oiled, and one or two table-spoonfuls of boiling milk or cream. When the beaten potatoes are quite smooth and free fiom lumps, put them into a saucepan, and beat them over the fire for a minute or two, till they are light and quite hot. Dish them Hghtly, and draw the fork backwards over them to roughen the surface. Or butter a mould, press the potatoes into it, brown them in the oven, and turn them out before serving. Or put them into a dish, and reserve a small portion of the mash. Press this through a colander upon the top of the potatoes, and brown the surface before the fire, or with a red-hot iron. Or press them into small buttered pans, brown them, and turn them out before serving; serve very hot. Time, half an hour or more to boil the potatoes. Probable cost. Id. to l^d. per pound. Suf- ficient, two pounds of potatoes for four or five persons. Potatoes, Mashed (another way).— Mashed potatoes are ordinarily prepared hy crushing the hot di-essed tubers with a rolling- pin or the back of a spoon, the tubers being placed in a bowl or dish, or on a pie-boai-d. A little milk, butter, and salt may be added or not, according to taste, and the potatoes may either be at once served up, or pressed into forms, browned ofl: in the oven, and then served. Potatoes Mashed and Browned,— Boil a pound of mealy potatoes in their skins. When done enough, peel them, throw them into a bowl, and beat them lightly with an ounce of butter, two table-sj)oonfuls of cream or milk, a little pepper and salt, and the yolk of an egg. Butter a pie-dish, turn the mashed potatoes into it, brush over with the white of an egg, ornament on the top, and brown in a quick oven. Serve the potatoes in the dish. Time, half an hour or more to boil the potatoes, ten minutes to brown them. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for two persons. Potatoes, Mashed, Cod with (see Cod with Mashed Potatoes). Potatoes, Mashed, with Onions.— Boil and dry the potatoes, and mash them ac- cording to the directions given above, and whilst mashing mix with them two or three onions which have been boiled till soft and finely minced. The quantity of onion used will of course be regulated by taste. Some cooks, when the flavour is verj-- much liked, chop up a mw onion, and mix it with the potatoes. Time, from half an hour to an hour to boilPOT ( 635 ) POT the potatoes. Probable cost, Id. or Hd. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds of potatoes for four or five persons. Potatoes, Mock New, in Cream — Wash and peel a number of old potatoes of a, small size, and cut them do^vn to the size of new potatoes. Boil them in salt-and-water for eight or ten minutes, then pour off the liquid, cover with a cloth, and let them steam by the side of the fire for ten minutes. Ahnost cover them with cream, sprinkle a little siilt over them, and let them simmer very gently until they are quite done enough, but whole. Lift them out carefully with a spoon, pour the cream over them, and serve very hot. If preferred, white sauce may be used instead of cream. Time, half an hour. Probable cost of potatoes. Id. or Ud. per pound. Allow half a dozen for each person. Potatoes Moulded with Parmesan. —Mash some potatoes till quite smooth, and bind them together with one or two well-beaten eggs. Put them into a dish, and shape them in a dome-like form high in the centre. Smooth the surface, and afterwards draw the back of a fork gently over it, and sprinkle upon it some finely-grated Parmesan. Put little pieces of butter here and there upon it, and bake the potatoes till they are brightly browned. Serve very hot. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient, two pounds of potatoes for four or five persons. Potatoes, New, Boiled.—Take freshly- dug new potatoes. Wash them well, and rub off the skin with a flannel or a coarse cloth. Throw them into boiling salted water, in which a sprig of mint may be put if the flavour is not disliked, and let them simmer gently until they are quite tender. Pour off the liquid, and let them stand by the side of the fire with the lid only half on the saucepan, till they are thoroughly dry. Put a slice of butter into a hot vegetable tureen, pile the potatoes over this, and serve very hot. New potatoes should be cooked before they have been twenty- four hours out of the ground. Although agreeable to the taste, they are by no means 80 digestible as fully-grown tubers. Time to boil, fifteen to thirty minutes, according to size. Probable cost. Id. to l^d. per pound. Sufficient, three pounds for six persons. Potatoes, New, Stewed in Butter.— Take new potatoes when they first come into season and are young and small. Rub off the skins with a flannel or coarse cloth, wash and dry them well, and put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter—four oimces will be enough for a good-sized dish. Let them steam gently until they are done enough, shaking the saucepan every two or three minutes, that they may be equally cooked. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and serve very hot. Time to stew, about half an hour. Pro- bable cost, when they first come into the mar- ket. Is. per pound or more. Sufficient, three pounds for a dish. Potatoes, Preserved.—Potatoes mavbe preserved so as to endure the longest voyages by tho'-oughly desiccating them in an oven, or- by steam heat. To facilitate the operation, the tubers, either raw or thi-ee-parts dressed, are usually first cut into dice three-quarters of an. inch square. Potatoes, Rolled.—Take two pounds of boiled potatoes, dry and floury. Mash them well, flavour wdth grated nutmeg, and beat them up with an ounce of clarified butter^ a table-spoonful of sherry, and the yolks of two eggs. Make the mixture into a roll, brush it over with beaten egg, sprinkle finely-grated bread-crumbs equally over it, and bake in a well-buttered dish till it is nicely browned aU over. Serve on a hot dish, and pour over it a sauce prepared as follows:—Beat the yolk of an egg, and mix with it two glassfuls of hght wine. Add a little sugar and grated nutmeg,.. and whisk the mixture over the fire until it begins to thicken. Take it off at once, and serve immediately. Time, two or three minutes to boil the sauce; about half an hour to brown . the roll. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine,. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potatoes, Savoury (a German recipe).— Half-boil six or eight large potatoes, and cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, or, if preferred, substitute two ounces of fat bacon cut into small pieces for the butter. Add a minced onion, and let it stew until tender. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour into the- butter, and stir until it is smooth and brown ; then pour in gradually as much boiling stock or water as will make the sauce of the consistency of cream. Add a pinch of thyme and mar- joram, a large table-spoonful of chopped parsley,, some pepper and salt, and a little grated nut- meg, a bay-leaf, or any other flavouring. Let the sauce simmer a few minutes, put in the sliced potatoes, and when they are tender without being broken, turn the whole upon a dish, and serve very hot. If liked, the butter and flour may be kept from browning, and a little milk may be used to thin the sauce. Time, one hour or more. Probable cost, Is^ Sufficient for three or four persons. Potatoes, Scalloped.—Mash some pota- toes in the usual way with butter and a little hot milk. Butter some scallop-shells or patty- pans, fill them with the mashed potatoes, make- them smooth on the top, and then di-aw the- back of a fork over them. Sprinkle finely- grated bread-crumbs on the top, and lay smaE pieces of butter here and there upon them. Put the potatoes in a Dutch oven before the- fire till they are brightly browned, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin in the scallop-shells. Time, about a quarter of an hour to brown the potatoes. Probable cost. Id. or 1-Jd. per pound. Sufficient, one scaUop-shell for each person. Potatoes, Sliced (German way of cooking).—Dissolve two ounces of butter in. a saucepan, mix one ounce of flour smootlily with it, and stir the paste until it is lightly brovsTied. Add a table-spoonful of vinegar, a small lump of sugar, a quarter of a pint of hot stock, and a bay-leaf, and boil th<.- sauce Until it is of the consistency of cream.-POT ( 686 ) POT Slice foui- or tivo poUitoea, thi-ow them into the sauce, and let them uimmor gently until tender. Servo immediately. If liked, the sauce van be flavoured witlx onion. Time to simmer the potatoes, ton minutes. Probable cost, 6d. <Sulhcieut for two persons. Potatoes, Sliced, with Parmesan.— Cut some tirm boilea, potatoes into slices. Place them in layers in a dish, and pour over «ach layer a small portion of white sauce. Put a little of the sauce smoothly over the top, and sprinkle over this some grated Parmesan cheese and bread-crumbs so as to cover it •entirely. Drop a little butter here and there on the top, put the dish in a well-heated oven until the potatoes are warmed through, and then serve. Cold potatoes may be warmed in this way, and they will be very good if the Panncsan is omitted and cream used instead of white sauce. Time to heat the potatoes, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. for a moderate-sized dish. Potatoes, Steamed.—Wash and pare some fiilly-grown potatoes, and as they are done throw them into cold water. Drain them, put them into a steamer, and place this over a saucepan of boiling water. Cover closely, and keep the water boiling until they are done enough. When a fork will pierce them easily they are ready. Shake the steamer over a bowl for a minute to give the potatoes a flowery appearance, and serve very hot. In order to steam potatoes it is, of course, necessary that the steamer should be made to fit the sauce- pan which contains the boUing water. Time, twenty to forty minutes, according to the quality of the potatoes. Probable cost, Id. to l^d. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds for four or five persons. Potatoes, Stewed (a la Fran^aise).— Wash eight or nine large potatoes in two or three waters. Drain them, and put them into a saucepan with barely enough water to cover them, and let them simmer gently till they are half cooked. Peel them, and let them lie till they are almost cold; then cut them into slices half an inch thick. Melt an ounce of fresh butter in a saucepan, and mix half an ounce of flour smoothly with it. Add gradually three-quarters of a pint of boiling stock, four small onions finely shred, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Sunmer the sauce gently until the onion is quite soft. Put in the sliced potatoes, let them simmer gently imtil done enough, and serve m a hot dish with the sauce poured over them. Time to simmer the potatoes by themselves, a few minutes; in the sauce, ten minutes. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potatoes, Storing of.—H kept in a cool dry place, potatoes wlU keep good for many months, and as they are generally high in price during the winter months, it is a good plan to huy a quantity when they are cheap for use when they are dear. When spring comes they will begin to put out shoots, especially if they are kept in a damp place, and this will make them unfit for food. To prevent this, some cooks dip them for a moment into boiling water before storing thom. For domestic use, the best way to preserve them is to buy them with the earth still clinging around them, a« they are dug out of the ground, to lay them upon straw in a dry, cool collar, iind in winter time to cover them with straw to ke(;p the frost from them. They should be looked over care- fully before they are put way, and if there are any rotten ones amongst the number they should be removed, or they may contaminate the rest. When a large quantity are to be pre- served, a deep hole should be dug in the ground and lined with straw, the potatoes put into it, and covered with straw. Potatoes, Stuffed.—Hollow out large potatoes, and fill them with mealy potatoes beaten to a paste in a moitar with chopped parsley, chives and shallot, butter, fat bacon cut into dice, pepper and salt. Butter the insides of the potatoes, and nearly fill them with the above paste; put them on a buttered tin, and bake in a Dutch oven. When browned, serve. Potatoes, Substitutes for. — Oxalis Crenata, introduced from South America as a substitute for potatoes, which it resembles, may be dressed as follows:—Set the roots on the fire in boiling water, and when soft pour oflE the water, and place some hot cinders near the lid of the saucepan, which will thoroughly drj' the roots, and render them mealy. The stalks of the plant may be peeled, and used like those of rhubarb—in tarts. The Uerfeuil Bulbeux is another substitute for the potato. It is said to surpass that vegetable in nutritive qualities, containing more starch and fatty matter. It has a very agreeable flavour. Another substi- tute is a gigantic yam, a yard in length, from Rio Janeiro and New Zealand. Potatoes, Varieties of.—The varieties of the potato that are cultivated are very numerous, and new ones are constantly appearing. The soil in which the potato is grown wiU be foiind to have a considerable influence in determining the quality of the potato; and almost every district has its peculiar varieties, their names being quite arbitrary or local. Most kinds are vastly improved by removal to a different locality; hence growers rarely use for many years in succession their own tubers for seed, but continually renew the stock by purchases from another district. One tuber will produce as many separate plants as it has eyes, but a piece of the potato must be planted with each eye or shoot. The many varieties differ in form, size, colour, and time of ripening; some are more prolific than others, some are naturally waxy and watery, and some are mealy, which is an unfailing characteristic of the best kinds. Potatoes with Sauce.—Put some butter in a stewpan, thicken it with flour, and fry some onions in it till they become biown. Pour over them some stock broth, and season with salt and pepper, nutmeg, and vinog:ir. When the onions are sufliciontly cooked, add some cooked potatoes; let Ihcm remain until they are hot, and then serve immediately.POT ( 637 ) POT Potatoes with Sauce Piquant.— Wash, pare, and half boil some large potatoes. Drain them, and when nearly cold cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Cut two or three i-ashers of fat bacon into small pieces, place them in a stewpan with a finely- minced onion, and let them steam until the onion is tender. Add a little pepper and salt, a lump of sugar, a bay-leaf, and as much stock or water as will barely cover the sliced potatoes. This sauce should be thickened with flour to make it of the consistencj of thick cream, and as much vinegar may be added as will make it agreeably acid. Let the sauce boil a few minutes, put in the sliced potatoes, and let them simmer till they are tender without being broken. Serve very "hot, with the sauce poured over them. Time, an hour or more. Probable cost, potatoes. Id. or 2d. per pound. Sufficient, six large potatoes for two or three persons. Potatoes with White Sauce.—Take some dressed potatoes, cut them in pieces, pour white sauce {see AVhite Sauce) over them, and serve. Potatoes with White Sauce (another way).—Thicken some butter with flour in a stewpan, add some milk or cream, with chives and parsley cut small, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and boil these ingredients to the consistence of sauce. When ready, put in some cooked potatoes cut in slices, let them remain till hot through, and serve. Pot-au-feu.—This is a common dish in France, and is to be met with in almost everj- household. The foundation is beef, and if other meats are used they are reserved to make their appearance under different disguises. The parts most generally used are the leg, shoulders, and ribs. The upper parts of the leg are, however, the best for the purpose. The bouillon or broth is flavoured with vege- tables that are boiled in it, and these are served with the bouilli or boiled beef. In making pot-au-feu it must be remembered that the stewpan must be scrupulously clean. It is usually made of tinned metal or earthenware. The meat should be quite fi-esh, should be simmered very gently but continuously, and skimmed with great care. The fire should be steady but slow, and should be mended very gently when necessarj-, that the ebullition may not be increased. The steAvpan should not be very closely covered, or the bouillon will not be clear—and the true French bouillon is clear, limpid, of a golden-amber colour, and exhales pleasantly the combined aromas of the various meats and vegetables. The latter should be added after the meat has simmered half the time, and they should not be allowed to remain in the pan after they are done enough, or they will absorb some of its flavour. A little caramel or burnt sugar may be used to colour the bouillon, and this should be added the last thing. Some prefer the bouillon the first day, and some the second. To preserve it, it should be strained, put into a clean earthenware pan without cover, kept in a cool place, and boiled up every day in summer and every three days in winter. It should bo remembered that if either turnips or garlic are used the broth will not keep so well as if they were omitted. It is the French custom to put small slices of toasted bread into the soup tureen, to pour the bouillon over them, and to let these soak a few minutes before serving. The follow- ing are the detailed instructions for making pot-au-feu:—Take four pounds of fresh beef and any bones that may be at hand. Bind th& meat to keep it in shape, and break the bones into small pieces. Put the bones into the stew- pan, lay the meat upon them, pour over them, three quarts of cold water, and add a tea-spoon- ful of salt. Heat the liquid slowly and care- fully, removing the scum as it rises. Keep adding a table-spoonful of cold water to assist its doing so, and skim most particularly until the soup is quite clear. When it is thoroughly skimmed, cover tightly to keep out the dust, and let it simmer very gently for two hours. Add an onion stuck with three cloves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, five or six outer sticks of celerj', a leek, two carrots, a bay-leaf, a turnip, and a tea-spoonful of whole pepper. The vegetables should be added gradually, that the temperature of the soup may not be lowered by them. Let the vegetables simmer gently and continuously for two hours longer, or until they are tender. Add a little more pepper and salt if required, and serve the bouillon in a tureen; and as a remove, the bouilli and the vegetables. Time, five hours from the time the liquid has once boiled. Probable cost, beef, lid. per pound. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Pot-au-Feu (another way).—Make up the fire so that it wUl bum for three hours without, putting on coals; taking care that it is not too fierce. For the little pot-au-feu (enough for four persons), take a pound and haK of meat—for choice let it be the rump or round of beef—ten pennyweights of bone (about the quantity which is sent with the meat), fom- quarts of water filtered, tV?o pennyweights of salt dry and well powdered, ten pennyweights of carrots, ten pennj^weights of onions, fifteen pennyweights of leeks, one pennyweight of celery, one pennyweight of cloves, ten penny- weights of turnips, and two pennj'weights of parsnips. The cloves should be stuck in one of the onions. By pennyweight, it should be explained, is here meant the weight of an or- dinary bronze penny, which is the third part of an ounce. For the greater pot-au-feu (for high days and holidays), take three pounds of moat, one pound of bones, six quarts of water, four pennyweights of salt, twenty pennyweights of carrots, twenty pennyweights of onions, thirty pennyweights of leeks, three pennyweights of celery, two pennyweights of cloves, twenty pennyweights of turnips, and four penny- weights of parsnips. Be careful that the beef is fresh. Stale and dry meat makes bad soup and worse pot-au-feu. Tie up the meat with a tape to keep it in shape. Smash the bones.. Put the bones in the saucepan first, then the meat, then the water, cold. Put on the fire, add the salt, and make the pot boil. As soon as the scum begins to rise, throw in half a pint of cold water for the great, and a gill for the small pot-au-feu, and skim with a perforated spoon. Do both three times. WipePOT POT ( 638 ) the odgos of the pot carofuUy; then add the vogctubloB lis mentioned above, and as soon as the pot begins to boil put it on the side of the tiro, and simmer very gently—five hours for the great pot-au-fou, and three hours for the smaller. Never let the boiling be rapid ; never let it fail to simmer. Take the meat out, and place it on a dish. Taste the soup, and if not salt enough, add a little wilt when in the tureen. Skim off the fat, strain off the soup, add a little burnt sugar to colour it five minuteB before serving, and send up the meat with the vegetables arranged round it. This soup will serve as the stock for ahnost any soup that is desired. Pot-au-Feu (another way).—" The pot-au- feu," says Mr. Buckmaster, " is an economical and wholesome dish, and is well-suited either to a large or small family. It is the standard dish ■of all classes in France, and the origin of beef stock." Mr. Buckmaster's recipe for making pot-au-feu and bouillon is as follows :—Take a piece of fresh beef weighing six pounds, and about a pound of bones. Tie up the meat neatly with tape or string. Put all into a saucepan holding six quarts, fill it up with •enough rain-water to cover well both meat and bones, and set the pan on the fire. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, and do not let the liquid boil. At intervals add small quantities •of cold water, which will have the effect of ■checking the ebullition and helping the scum to rise. "WTien the scum is all removed, put in an ounce of salt, a salt-spoonful of whole pepper and allspice, one onion stuck with three cloves, one leek, three carrots of average size cut in two-inch lengths, two turnips of average size each cut in four, and a bouquet garni (bunch of herbs). These vegetables should not be put in all at once, but at short intervals, so as to keep the contents of the saucepan at the same temperature. Skim now for the last time, and set the pan by the side of the fire to simmer gently for three or four hours. According to the season aU or some of the following vege- tables may now be added:—A small head of celery cut in two-inch lengths, and a couple ■of parsnips. When about to serve, strain the broth, skim off the fat, and add a small tea- spoonful of pounded loaf sugar. Make the broth boUing hot, and pour it into the soup tureen over small slices of toasted bread, adding, according to taste, a portion of the vegetables cut into thin slices. Remove the tape or string, and serve the meat, garnishing with mashed potatoes, spinach, or other vege- tables in season. Do not be too liberal in the use of pepper and salt; these can be added according to taste after the soup is ready. Pot-au-Peu, Frencli, Analysis of the.—In the housekeeping of the French artisan the broth-pot yields the most substan- tial nourishment; the wife attending to it, yet without possessing the slightest notion of chemistry: she places the meat in the pot, with about two quarts of water to three pounds of beef, at the corner of the firo, where, slowly becoming hot, the heat swells the muscular fibres of the beef, dissolving the gelatinous substances therein contained. By these means > J the scum gradually rises, the oswazome (which 18 the most savoury part of the meat) gently adds Its unction to tlie broth, and the a/butxen (which is the muscular part producing the scAim) exuding itself, rises to the surface. Ihus by the simple process of having conduet^.'d her broth-jjot by slow degi-(!es, a relishing and nutritious broth lias been obtained, and a piece of meat tender and palaUible also. Such are the advantages of this truly chemical operation; whilst in inconsiderately pkcing the pot over too quick a fire, the boiling is precipitated, the albumen coagulates and hardens; the water fjre- yented from jjcnetrating the meat, the osmazome is hindered from disengaging itself, and thus nothing is obtained but a piece of meat hard in the eating, and a broth without taste or succu- lence; therefore the greatest masters direct those who are charged with the putting on of the stock-pots, to skim them slowly over a gentle fire, adding at intervals a little cold water, that the scum may rise more copiously; these are the useful results that practice daily evinces to even the least skilful of the profes- sion. It is sufficient to possess but a small share of sense to become quickly aware of these first principles of alimentary chemistry. Pot-au-Peu, au Bain-Marie.—Put in an earthen pot three pounds of beef cut in sUces, two pound? of fiUet of veal, a loin of mutton, removing all the fat, a fowl coloured by roasting, and five pints of cold water. Add two carrots, a turnip, thi'ee leeks, and half a head of celery tied in a bimdle, and a clove stuck in an onion. Cover the pot closely, and surround it with a rim of paste made rather soft and of flour and water only. The paste should hermetically close the cover that the steam may be retained within. Place the pot within a stewpan four inches more in width containing water, and let it boU im inter- ruptedly for six hours. Be careful to add boil- ing water at intervals to the bain-marie, the ebullition of which will thus always remain the same. At the end of the six hours remove the IDaste from the cover, pass the broth through a silk sieve, and use it for soups and consommes. This is also a stock for a familj"^, and nourishing for persons whose stomachs are impaired by fatigue, and it may be made more refreshing if, in making, two lettuces, a handful of sorrel and chervil, picked, washed, and tied in a bundle, are added. Pot-au-Feu, Household (a restorative broth).—Put in an earthen jjot sufficiently large four pounds of beef sliced, a good Icnuckle of veal, and a fowl half roasted. Add nearljf three quarts of cold water, set it at the side of the fire, and skim gently. Add salt, two carrots, a turnip, three leeks, and half a head of celery tied in a bundle, and a clove stuck in an onion, and let it boil slowly for five hours without ceasing. Then take up the roots and trim them neatly; taste the broth, using but little salt to flavour the soup; skim, add the roots to it, and serve. This is a healthy soup, and good in families whore the nourish* ment of cliildren is to be attended to.POT ( 639 ) POT Pot-herbs—One is inclined to infer from the name pot-hcrbs that they play an impor- tant pai-t in cookery, and occupy the place ot leading articles of diet. It is not so, how- ever : pot-herbs are rather those which are of secondary importance, and of value chiefly for flavouring, as parsley, horseradish, Indian cress, (fee. . Borage.—A native or naturahsed m some parts of this country. Its young leaves and tender tops afford a boiled dish in summer and autumn; they are also sometimes used as salads. Chervil.—An annual plant, a native of various Continental regions, and sometimes met Avith naturalised in English gardens. A variety -of chervil cultivated in Paris has beautiful frizzed leaves. The tender leaves are made use of in salads and soups; those of the curled variety are also used in garnishing. Dill.—X hardy biennial plant, possessing powerful aromatic properties. By means of its leaves one may heighten the relish of some vegetable pickles, particularly cucumbers. The leaves are also employed in salads and soups. _ Fennel.—A perennial plant, naturalised in this country, and long an inmate of our gardens. Its tender stalks are used in salads ; the leaves boiled form an ingredient in fish sauces; they are used raw to garnish several ■dishes. There is a variety of fennel called finochio, the blanched stalks of which are eaten with oil, vinegar, and pepper, as a cold salad; sometimes they are put into soup. Horseradish.—A perennial plant found by the side of ditches, and in marshy places in some parts of England. Its cultivation in gardens has long been attended to. The root of the horseradish, when scraped into threads, is a popular accompaniment to roast beef. It is also employed in sauces, and in winter salads. Indian Cress.—The Indian cress or nastur- tium is a native of Peru, and a hardy annual. In its native clime it stands several seasons, "but with us—our winter being too severe—it lias to be treated as an annual plant, and be sown every year. Its flowers and j'^oung leaves are often eaten in salads; they have a warm taste like the common cress. The flowers are also used as a garnishing for dishes. The berries, when gathered green and pickled, form an excellent substitute for capers. Marigold.—The marigold, or pot marigold, has been known in this country since 1573. It is a native of France and Spain, and an annual plant. In some districts of England the flowers are employed in broths and soups. Parsley.—K hardy biennial introduced into this coimtiy in 1548. It is a native of Sar- dinia. It is now so common with us as to be naturalised in several districts both in England and Scotland. " It may be right to notice," says Neill, "that the poisonous plant called fool's parsley (yEthusa Cynassium), a common weed in rich garden soils, has been sometimes mistaken for common parsley. They are eastly distinguished: the leaves of fool's parsley are of a darker green, of a different shape, and instead of the peculiar parsley smell, have, when bruised, a disagreeable odour. When the flower-stem of the fool's parsley appears, the plant is at once distinguished by what is vulgarly called its beard—three long pendant leaflets of the involucrum. The timid may shun aU risk of mistake by cultivating only the cui-led variety. This last, it may be remarked, makes the prettiest garnish.'' The leaves of the common plain-leaved parsley and the curled-leaved are used as pot-herbs all the year round; they are also used for garnishing. The broad-leaved sort has a large white caiTot- shaped root, which is dra^vn in autumn and winter, like parsnips, for the table. Purslane. — An annual plant, a native of America. It was introduced into England in 1652. The young shoots and succulent leaves of the purslane are considered cooling, and are used in spring and summer in salads, and also as pot-herbs and pickles. Purslane is not so much in demand now as it used to be. Tarragon.—A perennial plant, a native of Siberia, cultivated in England since the middle of the sixteenth centuiy. The smell of tar- ragon is fragrant, and it has an aromatic taste. The leaves and tender tips form an ingi-edient in pickles. A pleasant fish sauce is made by simply infusing the plant in vinegar. "In France it is employed, on account of its agreeable pungency, to correct the coldness of salad herbs; it is also put in soups and other compositions." The following directions for drying and preserving pot-herbs are from the pen of a celebrated herbalist:—"It is very important to those who are not in the constant habit of attending the markets to know when the various seasons commence for purchasing sweet herbs. All vegetables are in the highest state of perfection, and fullest of juice and flavour, just before they begin to flower; the first and last crop have neither the fine flavour nor the perfume of those which are gathered in the height of the season; that is, when the gi-eater part of the crop of each species is ripe. Take care that they are gathered on a dry day, by which means they will have a better colour when dried. Cleanse your herbs well from dirt and dust, cut off the roots; separate the bun.ches into smaller ones, and dry them by the heat of a stove, or in a Dutch oven before a common fire, in such quantities at a time that the process may be speedily finished, i.e., ' kill 'em quick,' says a great botanist; by this means their flavour wiU be best preserved. There can be no doubt of the propriety of drying herbs, &c., hastily by the aid of artificial heat, rather than by the heat of the sun. The onlj^ caution requisite is to avoid burning, and of this a sufficient test is afforded by the preserva- tion of the colour." The common custom is, when they are perfectly dried, to put them into bags, and hang them up to the roof of a kitchen, or lay them in a dry place; but a better method is to pick off the leaves from the stalks, to rub them over a hair sieve so as to extract the dust which generally adheres to them, particularly those which are purchased with the roots on, and to put them in wide-mouthed bottles (taking care that they are quite drj'), and if well stopped the aroma of the herb will be preserved. Another plan is to infuse the herbs in as much spirit, vinegar, or \^ane, as will cover them, and after ten or twelve days to( 640 ) POT POU strain oflE, repeating it with the strained liquor over fresh herbs if it is wished to have the essence very sti-ong. This iuiprognatos boui)8 or sauces with the flavour without any appear- ance of the herb, and it will keep good for years, whilst a very small quantity Buitices. The proper season for gathering the following herbs to be preserved in either mode or in both, is as follows:—Basil, from the middle of August to middle of September; knotted mar- joram, from beginning of July to end of August; savory, the same ; thyme, throughout June and July; mint, July; sage, August and September; tarragon and burnot, from July and August; chervil, parsley, and fennel, May, June, and July. Pot, Pepper (see Pepper Pot). Potted Dishes.—Recipes for the follow- ing potted dishes will be found under their respective headings:— Anchovies Mutton Australian Meat Neat's Feet Beef Neat's Tongue Cheese Ortolans Chicken and Ham Ox Cheek Crab Ox Tongues Crayfish Ox Tongue, Whole Eels Partridge Eggs Pheasant Fowl Poultry Fowl with Ham Prawns Grilse or Trout Prawns, Shrimps, Grouse OR Cray-Fish Ham Rabbit Ham and Fowl Salmon Hare Shrimps Herrings Snipes Lamprey Tongue Larks Trout Lorster Veal Mackerel Potted Head.— Cleanse perfectly half a bullock's head and a cow-heel. Put them into lukewarm water, and let them soak for two or three hours. Drain them, and put them into a stewpan; cover with cold water, and let them simmer very gently until the meat is quite tender. Pour the liquid into a separate bowl, and set it in a cool place. Let the meat cool, remove from it the bones, skin, and sinew, and cut it into very small pieces. Skim the fat from the top of the broth, strain the liquor, and put it into a jar, with the minced meat and a seasoning of salt, cayenne, and pounded mace. Cover closely, and let it bake in a gentle oven for three hours longer. Pour it into small moulds, and let these stand in a cool place. WTien quite cold the preparation will form a jelly, and it should bo turned out for use, and served cold. Garnish the dish with sprigs of fresh parsley. If the jelly is so stiff that there is a difficult)^ in turning it out, plunge the mould into boiling water for a second or two, and it ^vill come away easily. Time, about three hours to simmer the head from the time the water reaches the boiling- point. Probable cost of bullock's head, 8d. per pound. Potted Meat.—To pot moat is one way of preserving it longer than would be possible in the ordinary way; and in potting it this is done by pounding the flesh to a pulp in a mortar, mixing it with salt and spices, pressing it into a jar, and covering it with a thick coat of melted butter or lard to exclude the air. The jar is then tied down tightly with bladder or oiled paper. The remains of any tender, well- roasted moat will answer just an well for pot- ting as if it were dressed for the purixjse; but care should be taken first that the meat is cut through, and that every little piece of skin, fat, sinew, and gristle is removed, and after- wards that it is pounded so thproughly that not a single lump is to be found in it. Care is re- quired, too, in seasoning it, and it is better to add the spices gradually, and to keep tasting the meat until it satisfies the palate—for additional spice can be put in when it cannot be taken out. At the same time potted meat is worth nothing unless it is pleasantly flavoured, and it is almost universally liked rather highly seasoned. The meat should be cold before it is cut, and the butter should be cool before it is poured upon the paste. The gravy, too, should be drained thoroughly from the meat, or it will not keep. Dry and salted meats will need more butter than fresh white ones. Potting.—By potting is generally meant the operation of preserving edible substances in a state for immediate use in small pots or jars. In the case of animal food, the method of pro- ceeding is first to dress the substance well, carefully deprive it of bones, skin, sinews, &c., and then mince it. Aiter being minced it is pounded in a clean polished marble or iron mortar, together with a httle butter and some cayenne pepper, or other suitable sauce or spice, until it forms a perfectly smooth paste. This is pressed into pots, which are about two- thirds filled," Clarified butter is then poured in, to the depth of about an eighteenth of an inch; the pots are closed over and stored in a cool place. In this state their contents can be preserved for a considerable time. Potted meats, fish, &c., are commonly sold in the shops. They are all intended for relishes, and are spread upon bread just like butter. For various recipes for potted meats, &c., see Potted Dishes. Pot Top Liquor.—The fat should always be skimmed carefully from the top of soups and sauces, and this fat may be used for frjong purposes, and ■will be found excellent. It should, of course, be clarified: to accomplish this it should bo boiled gently with a little water, then strained through a gravy strainer. Or it may be 2)oured into a bowl with the water, and when it is cold it will be found that the impin-itics have sunk to the bottom of the cake of fat, and may easily be removed. It is most essential to the excellence of soup that it should be well skimmed, and it is a good plan to throw a tfible-spoonful of cold water into the liquor as it approaches the boiling-point, to assist the scum in rising. Poulac Ketchup.—Take a quart of ripe elderberries, measured after they have been(641 ) POtI i>ou sti-ippod from the stalks. Put them into a deep jar, and pour over them a pint and a half of boUing vinegar. Place the jar in a cool oven overnight. Next day strain the liquid without squeezing the fruit, and put it into a saucepan with an inch of whole ginger, two blades of mace, a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of cloves, and eight shallots. Boil all together for five or six minutes, then pour the ketchup out, and when cold, put it with the spice into small bottles, which must be corked and sealed securely. If liked, half a pound of boned an- chovies may be put into the liquid with the spices, and stirred gently until they have dis- solved. Probable cost, uncertain, elderberries being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for four half-pint bottles. Poularde.—This is simply another name for capon; it may be di-essed according to the recipe given for turkeys. PoTllarde (a la Eoyal).—Bone the bird. Unless the cook is experienced, this had better be done by the poulterer. Fill it with mush- room forcemeat, which will be improved by the addition of a boiled sweetbread. Truss it securely, cover it with thin slices of fat bacon, put oiled paper over this, and tie it on with twine. Put it down at some distance from a clear fire until it is heated through, then draw it nearer, and baste liberally until it is done enough. About a quarter of an hour before it is taken down remove the paper and bacon, and let the bird brown nicely. Dish it on a puree of chestnuts prepared as follows:—Peel the outer rind from half a hundred sound Spanish chestnuts; throw them into a sauce- pan of hot water, and let them remain upon the fire until the inner brown skin can be easily removed. Pour the water from them, throw them into cold water, peel, and wipe them with a soft cloth. Put them into a stew- pan with a pint of cold milk, and let them simmer very gently until they are quite soft. Drain them, and rub them while hot through a wire sieve. Put the pulp into a stewpan with two table-spoonfuls of milk or cream, a slice of butter, a lump of sugar, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the puree over the fire till it is quite hot, and it is ready for the capon. Time to roast the capon, about an hoiir and a quarter ; to boil the chestnuts, varying with the quality. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for five or six persons. Poularde (a Stamboul).—Draw the bird carefully, and wipe it out with a damp cloth. Boil half a pound of best rice till it is tender, then drain the liquid from it, and lay it on a sieve before the fire to swell. Moisten part of it slightly with a little highly-seasoned veal stock, and fill the bird with it. Truss it firmly and securely, cover with thin slices of bacon, fasten oiled paper over this, and lay the bird down to a clear fire. Baste liberally, and a quarter of an hour before it is taken down remove the paper and bacon, and lot the bird brown nicely. Moisten the remainder of the rice with veal stock, place it on a hot dish, and lay the capon upon it. Garnish the dish with V slices of lemon, or fresh barberries if they can be had. Probable cost, variable. Sufficient for five or six persons. Poularde, Galantine of (an excellent supper dish).—This dish is always served cold. Split a poularde up the back, and bone it with- out injuring the skin. If the cook is not ex- perienced in the art of boning poultry, this had better be done by the poulterer. Lay it flat upon the table breast downwards, and season with pepper, salt, and aromatic spices. Spread on it a layer an inch thick either of nicely- seasoned sausage-meat or of good forcemeat, and lay on this long slices of cold boiled tongue or ham, and a few small black truffles, if these are obtainable. Repeat these layers until the galan- tine is sufficiently filled up. Sew it up securely with twine, as nearly as possible in its original form, roll it lightly in an oiled cloth, and fasten the ends with string. Lay the bones and any trimmings of meat that may be at hand into a stewpan. If there are none, a calf's foot must be used. Lay the fowl upon these, and add a large onion stuck with one clove, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a carrot, and as much good veal stock as will barely cover the fowl. Cover closely, and let it stew gently until done enough. Let it remain in the stock until it is partially cold. Take it up, and having strained the gravy, reduce it quickly to a jelly, and clarify it {see Jelly, To Clarify). Part of this jelly may be used to glaze the galan- tine, and a little isinglass may be dissolved in it to stiffen it. Let it remain until quite cold, then remove the cloth, take out the stitches, and glaze the poularde. When the jelly is quite stiff, cut it into cubes or diamonds, and use it for garnishing the dish. Time to stew the galantine, one hour and three-quarters, or two hours if very large. Probable cost, varj'- ing with the ingredients. Sufficient for a supper dish. Poularde Raised Pie. —Make three pounds of good forcemeat. This may be made either with equal parts of fillet of veal and fat bacon freed from skin and gristle, chopped, powdered, and nicely seasoned; or with a pound and a half of fillet of veal, a pound of fresh beef suet, six ounces of panada {see Panada), and four eggs. Whatever ingredients are used, however, care must be taken to pound them thoroughly, first separately and afterwards to- gether, and to add the seasoning gradually so that the forcemeat may be agreeably flavoured. For ordinary tastes, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper and half a tea-spoonful of nutmeg will be sufficient for this quantity of forcemeat. The amount of salt used will depend upon the quahty of the bacon. Wash a pound of truffle? perfectly clean. Wipe and pare them, then cvt them into thin slices. Line a mould or shape J pie large enough to hold the poularde and the forcemeat {see Paste for Raised Pies). Spread at the bottom of it a layer of forcemeat and some of the slices of truffle. Split a poularde down the back, and take out the bones without injuring the skin. If more convenient, tliis may be done by the poulterer. Lay it breast downwards upon the board. Season the inside with pepper, salt, and spices, and spread on it a( G42 ) POU layer ot forconioat half an inch in thickness 1 ut 8omo slices of trullloa on this, an.l then another layer of forcemeat. Roll the poulurd,! over, make the skin meet at the back, and shai..! It to ht the niouUl. Lny it hreast upnennust on the torcoineat in the pie. Sprinkle a little popper and salt over it, lay on it some slices of truffle, and cover with tho remainder of the torcomoat. Lay on the top some thin slices of fat bacon, put on tho lid, press it down, and pinch the edges together; brush over with egg, and ornament it; make a small hole with a knife 111 tho centre, tie a band of buttered jjaper round the pie, and bake in a moderate oven. In order to ascertain when it is sufficiently baked, pierce it to the centre with a knife or skewer, and if it is tender throughout it is done. Let it cool for half an hour, then pour into it, thi-ough the hole at the top, a quarter of a pint of savoury jelly reduced to gravy. This jelly may be made by stewing the bones and trimmings of the bird and of the meat, sea- soning the liquid nicely, and dissolving in it a Uttlo isinglass. Wlien quite cold, serve the pie on a napkin, garnish it with parsley, and carve it in slices the breadth of the pie and about the third of an inch thick. If liked, the truffles may be omitted, and slices of veal and bacon used in their place. Time to bake, two hours. Sufficient for a good-sized pie. Poularde with Rice.—Wash half a pound of best Carolina rice in several waters. Pluck and draw carefully a fine capon, and truss it for boiling. Put it into an oval stewpan with the rice which has been well drained, an onion stuck with two cloves, and as much nicely-flavoured broth as will cover the fowl. Simmer gently for an hour and a half; strain the gravy, and if it is not sufficiently re- duced set aside part of it, and use only as much as is required for sauce for the fowl. Skim the fat from the top. Put the rice upon the dish, lay the fowl upon it, and pour the sauce over all. This dish vsdll be improved if the sauce is thickened with flour, and made to look white by the addition of a little cream or new milk, but this \vi11 add to the expense. A small quantity only of sauce must be poured over the fowl or its appearance will be spoilt. Even without the cream this is a pleasing dish, and it is inexpensive and wholesome. Time to simmer the fowl, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, 3s. to 5s. Sufficient for flve or six persons. Poulet a la Marengo.—Cut up a large fowl into neat joints. Put these side by side into a stewpan with a little pepper and salt, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, two shallots, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and four table-spoonfuls of salad-oil. Move them about until they are nicely .browned. Lift them out, and keep them hot. Dredge an ounce of flour into the oil, and stir until it is quite smooth. Add a pint of nicely-flavoured stock, and stir the sauce over the fire until it is sufficiently thick to coat the spoon, remem- bering not to skim tho fat from the sauce. Put in tho pieces of (;hick(;n, and l(;t them got quite hot, hut the sauce must not boil after they are added. Serve on a hot dish, and strain the sauce over tho pieces of chicken. GarniA with fried bread and eggs fried in oil. 'J'ime to fry the chicken in the oil, Imlf an houi. I'robuble cost of cliicken, 2h. 6d. to Hn. Gd. Sufficient for two persouH. Poulet Blanc—Pluck and draw cfirefully a tender young fowl of good ni/e, and trusn it firmly for boiling. Put it into a stewpan with four ounces of butti;r i/ielted, and turn it over two or three times. Lih it out, and mix Kinootlily with tho butter two taljle-spooufubj of flour and as much weak veal stock as will nearly cover tho bird. Put in the fowl, and with it luilf a dozen small oruons, a dozen fresh mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a l;ay-leaf, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a little pe]>per and salt. Let it simmer gently until it is done enough. Lift it out, and keep it hot for a few minutes. As quickly as possible strain the gravy, mix with it the well-beaten yolk of an egg, and stir over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken, but it must not boil, or it will curdle. Serve it poured over the fowl, and garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. Time to boil the fowl, one hour and three-quarters or two hours, according to size. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Poulet en Cotelettes.—Chicken cutlets may either be made of the legs only of three or four fowls, the superior parts of which have been used in other ways, or a fresh chicken may be divided into cutlets. ^Vhen the legs only are used, cut out the thigh-bone, and leave the drumstick untouched. Cover the joints with shoes of fat bacon, and stew in nicely-seasoned stock until they are quite tender. Lift them out, put them between two dishes with a weight over them, and let them get quite cold. Trim them neatly, and rub them with a savoury powder made of a tea- spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, and the eighth of a small nutmeg grated. Dip them in beaten egg and then into bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are Hghtly browned. These cutlets may either be served without sauce, with the juice of a lemon squeezed over them, or they may have white or brovm sauce poured round them. The sauce may be made by stewing the bones and trimmings of the chicken. If a whole chicken is used, the bones should be removed, and six cutlets should be made by flattening and shaping neatly the legs, wings, breast, and meriy-thought. They should then be rubbed with the savoury powder, egged, breaded, and fried, as above. Time, three or four minutes to fry the cutlets which have been already dressed; ten minutes to fry those from a fresh chicken. Probable cost of chickens, 28. 6d. to 38. 6d. each. Sufficient, allow two cutlets for each person. Poulette. Cucumbers a la {see Cucum- bers a la Poulette). Poulette Sauce*—Take three ounces of fresh butter ; cut from it a little piece the size of a nut, and melt the rest in a stewpan. Jlix three ouncoH of flour smoothly with it, and stir tho paste over tlie fire for f hroc minutes, then add gradually a pint of boiling stock. Stir the( 643 ) POTJ POU sauce over the fixe for a quarter of an hour. Draw it away for a minute that it may cool slightly, and mix with it the yolks of two eggs which have been beaten up with two table- spoonfuls of thick cream. Simmer the sauce again until it Logins to thicken, but it must not boil. Add to it a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a little pepper and salt, and a dozen mushroom buttons, and pour it into the tureen. Just before sending to table stir into it the little piece of butter which was reserved : then serve immediately. To prepare the mushrooms, re- move the stalks and peel them. Put them into a stewpan with a table-spoonful of lemon- juice and a table-spoonful of water. Shake them over the fire for a minute or two till they have absorbed the juice. Put an ounce of but- ter with them, and boil over a quick fire for five minutes. Turn them into a basin, cover them over, and they are ready for the sauce. Time, altogether, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Suificient for six or seven persons. Poultry.—Under this head are included domestic birds which are reared for the table, and for their eggs, feathers, &c. The poultry of this country are the common domestic fowl, the turkey, the duck, and the goose ; to which some would add the guinea-fowl, and the peacock. In the following table, drawn up by Dr. Kitchiner, we have the particulai- seasons for various kinds of poultry and game :— Come into Season. rSpring . < Chickens, CApril . , Poutodswith|^ eggs . . .> I Dearest Poultry and Ga/ine. Chickens . Continue. Cheapest. To he had") through)- November, the year .) Till June . Decemher. Fowls Caiwns J in April, • I May, and ( June ^ Largest . < at Christ- Cmas Green Geese , Geese . . . Turkey Poults Turkeys . . Ducklings . . Ducks . . . To be had'^ through >November, the year .) C October Ditto. . . and No- C vemher. JTiUSeptem-|j5i^^^_ September{1^^/«^"r«- April . . Till June . September Till March March . . Till May . June . .(Till Febm- I ary March Wild Ducks September Till ditto Widgeons Teal Plovers Larks . Wheatears . . Wild Pigeons. Tame ditto . Tame Babbits Wild ditto. . Sucking Pigs Leverets . . 1 Lire's . . . Partridfjcs. . Pheasants . . Grouse . . . i'vrof>r Game . Woodcock Snipes ] Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. ] Ditto. 'December; but the flights are un- certain. November July . . Till March fAnd during I August Ditto. March. .{Tilljeptem-j^^^g^ Juno March , September Ditto October August All the year • { ary^'^'"^'^'} November. All the year ("Till Septem- ' C her — Till March. ■) Novenibe:-. For the month of January. — Capons, poulards, and fowls of all sizes; chickens, tur- keys, larks, snipes (golden plovers are the best). The well-known plovers' eggs are those of the black plover. Woodcocks, tame pigeons, and squab pigeons, wild ducks, widgeons, teal, dun- birds, pintails (commonly called sea-pheasants). Tame rabbits every month alike. Febbuaky.—AH kinds of poultry peculiar to January may be had in this month (wild fowl upon the decline), guinea-fowl, green geese, ducklings, &c. Makch.—Guinea-fowl, &c. &c. &c., same as the preceding months (the March flight of wild fowl is generally known). Turkey poults, turkeys, wild fowl (these mai/ be obtained, but are out of season). April.—Same as March, spring chickens (no -wild fowl). May, June.—Quails, pea-fowls, guinea-fowls, turkey poults, ducklings; geese are considered to be prime in these months; chickens to be had every month in the year. Plovers' eggs come in season the beginning of April, and continue till the 5th or 6th of June. Wild rabbits in this month. July. —The same as June, ruffs and reas. August.—Fine Essex ducks are good this month ; quails are good till game is in season. Other things the same as July. September. — Turkeys, game, ducks and geese, fowls and chickens, pigeons, rabbits, wild and tame. October.—Pheasants, &c. &c. &c., same as September. November.—All kinds of wildfowl; guinea- fowls come in this month, turkeys of all sizes. December.—Wild fowl cf every description; the largest turkeys and capons, and almost all other kinds of poultry, to be had in perfection this month. Fowls and chickens to be had every day in the year. Fowls which are fattened artificially are by some epicures preferred to those called barn- door fowls, whom we have heard say, that they should as soon think of ordering a iar»- doo7- for dinner as a barn-door fowl. The age of poultry makes all the difference —^nothing is tenderer than a young chicken; few things are tougher than an old cock or hen, which ia only fit to make broth. The meridian of perfection of poultry is just before they have come to their full growth, before they have begun to harden. Fowls must be kiUed a couple of days in moderate and more in cold weather before they are dressed, or they will eat tough; a good criterion of the ripeness of poultry for the spit is the ease with which you can then pull out the feathers: when a fowl is plucked leave a few to help you to ascertain this. "It is sometimes taken for granted by writers on this subject," says one author, " that aU the birds which can bo domesticated with advantage have already been domcstic^ttod. The assumption is quite gratuitous, and it might as well be asserted that improvement had reached its utmost in any other direction. The concurrent supposition that the common •lomestica-ted kinds were given to man at first as domestic is likewise unsupported by evidence,POTT ( 644 ) potr although tho domosticjition of some of our poul- try birds must bo roforrod to u vory ourly date. Among tho Anfiii(/(c Homo progroaa has rocontly bcon made in tho domestication of new kinds ; and a beginning may even bo said to have been made as to somo additional gallinaceous birds." Poultry a la Tartare.—Divide tho remains of a turkey capon or any poultry into neat joints, dip those in egg and bread-crumbs, tlien into clarified butter, then into egg and bread-crumbs again, and sot them aside until wanted. Put tho yolk of an egg into a bowl, and beat it for two or three minutes. Add a tablo-spoonfiil of dry mustard, a littlo popper and salt, and a small pinch of cayenne, and, vory gradually, eight tablo-spoonfuls of salad- oil. Tho oil should bo put in first in drops and afterwards in tea-spoonfuls, beating well between each addition. Stir in a tea-spoon- ful of vinegar, and then more oil and vine- gar in the same proportion until the sauce is as thick as custard. Taste it, and add a larger proportion of vinegar if liked, but this will make the sauce thinner, which is not de- sirable. Add three shallots finely minced, a tea-spoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil, and five or six drops of the essence of an- chovies. Pour this cold sauce upon a dish. lU-oil the pieces of chicken over a clear fire tiU they are brightly browned, lay them upon tho sauce, and garnish the dish with finely-minced pickled gherkins. A fresh chicken may be cut into neat joints and served in this way, and if young, will be excellent. It should be seasoned, dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, sprinkled with clarified butter, dipped into egg and bread-crumbs again, and broUed over a clear fire for twenty-five minutes or half an hour. Time to broil the chicken, ten minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold chicken. Is. 4d. Poultry, Aspic {see Aspic Game or Poultry). Poultry, Boiled, Remarks on. —In picking, be careful-not tj break the skin; in I Ira wing, not to break tho gall-bladder. Let the fowls hang from two to five days, for the most diilicate" fowl will be tough and thready if too soon dressed. When to be used, draw, singe without blackening, and wash thoroughly, passing a stream of water again and again through the inside. Boiled fowls must be very neatly trussed, as they have small aid from skewers; and nothing is more indecorous than to see unfortunates on a dinner-table, " whose dying limbs no decent hands composed." Put them on ^vith plenty of water, a littlo warmed, and in a floured cloth if you like. Ha^^ng, as usual, skimmed thorn vory carefully, simmer by the side of the fire from thirty-five minutes to an hour and a hrilf, according to the mv.c of the fowl. A small turcon of very good barley or rice broth, seasoned with shred parsley and young onions, may be added at the same time, d a .s/inn/i: or small cutlets of neck-mutton be added; which last may be frugally served in tho broth. Some good cooks put fresh 8\iet and slices of peeled lemon to boil with fowls, if loan, but larding is better; while legged fowls are most worthy of attention, whether for eating or ajjpeurancc. Poultry, Boning of.— It is scarcely likely that written iuHtructions only will enable any one to perform this diflicult operation; and far moro would be leanit by watcliing a com- petent person do tho work once than by read- ing whole pages about it. Nevertheless, the knowledge how to bone meat and poultry in a very desirable kind of knowledge to attain, and ono which can only be perfected by practice. The thing to aim at is to loosen the flesh with- out injuring the skin, and this can be done only by working the knife close to the bone. A short, sharjj-pointed knife is the most suitable for the purpose. It is easiest to divide the bii'd into joints, and remove the bone from each joint separately. If this will not do, the bird may be split open right down the back, and the bones cut out afterwards, and this jilan answers excellently for galantines and dishes of a similar description. The most diflicult operation of all is to bone the bird without opening it. Poul- terers and butchers are generally very pleased when desired to do this work for their cus- tomers. Poultry, Boudins, or French Pud- dings, of.—Half roast the bird. Take ofl; the skin, draw out the siniews, and mince and pound the flesh till it is quite smooth. IMix with it its bulk in baked potatoes, dry and floury, season rather highly with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, and add as much butter as there was meat. Pound the forcemeat between every addition, then mix in gradually three whole eggs and the yolks of two others, together with one or two table-spoonfuls of white sauce, chopped mushrooms, or dressed onions, but take care that the mixture is not too moist. To ascertain this, make up a small ball, drop it into boUing water, and poach it for five minutes. If it wants firmness, put another egg to it; if it is too firm, add a httle sauce or water. Form the forcemeat into small sausages or boudins, or mould them into the shape of an egg ^vith a table-spoon: drop them then into boiling water and poach them. Serve the bou- dins piled high on a dish, and pour brown Italian sauce, or white sauce, roimd them. Before moulding the boudins, put the prepara- tion on ice or in a cool place for some time. Time, four or five minutes to poach the bou- dins. Poultry, Fattening of, for the Table.—They should be kept clean, warm, and dry. For their food, mix oat and poase- meal with mashed potatoes, and a Uttlc kitchen- stuff. Have their food always fresh and plenti- ful, but do not cram them. Those who value (>olour as much as quality sometimes fatten fowls on rice swelled in sweet, skimmed milk. On the Continent they arc fattened on barley- meal with milk, or on buckwheat, and the flavour is excellent. Young pullets are used at any age. Poultry for the Sick.—Boil or roast a fowl in the usual way. As it i8 not likely( 646 ) POU POU that a sick person will eat the whole at one time, cut off as much as is required for present use, and put the rest aside. As much as it is thought will be used may be cut off as it is wanted, and warmed up in two or three ways, as follows :—Wrap the joint in oiled paper, lay it on a hot giidii'on, and warm it gently over a clear fire. Serve it with a little light gravy for sauce. Or broil it without the paper. Or put it in a stewpan, barely cover with a little cold broth, and heat it very gently over a moderate fire. Or put an ounce of Carolina rice into a stewpan with half a pint of stock, and let it stnmier gently until the rice is quite tender and the liquid absorbed. If it is very drj', put two more spoonfuls of stock with it, lay the piece of bird upon the rice, and let it remain a few minutes until it is quite warm. Serve the rice, fowl, and gravy together. When an invahd finds it difficult to masticate food, the fowl may be prepared as follows:—Pick the meat from a cold roast or boiled chicken, and carefully remove every little piece of skin, gristle, or sinew. Mince finely, and, if liked, season with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Generally speaking, however, it is best to defer seasoning the food which is intended for the sick, as their fancies vary so much, and they very often exceedingly dislike flavoured dishes. Put the bones and trimmings of the bird into a stewpan, with a bunch of parsley and a little pepper and salt, and let them simmer gently imtil the gravy is considerably reduced. When the mince is wanted, put a little of it into a clean stewpan, strain a small quantity of gravy over it, thicken it or not, according to taste, with a little flour and butter, let it get quite hot, and serve immediately. Poultry, Garnish for {see Garnish for Poultry, Game, &c.). Poultrv, Garnish for (another way).- See Quenelles as a Garnish for Poultry. Poultry, Gravy for {see Gravy, Beef, for Poultiy and Game). Poultry, Potato Cakes to Serve with {see Potato Cakes, German, to serve with Game or Poultiy). Poultry, Potted.—Poultry may either be potted whole or cut into neat joints and potted, or the flesh may be picked from the meat and pounded before it is put into the jars. In any case the meat must be thickly covered with butter, or it will not keep. When the meat is not pounded, the joints must be packed together as closely as possible, or they will require a good deal of butter. Birds which are boned and stuft'ed are excellent potted: they must be quite fresh, must be carefully cleaned, nicely seasoned, baked, and quite cold before they are put into the jars, and the butter must be clarified before it is poured over them. If the meat is to be kept, the jar should be covered with bladder and tied down closely. Potted chicken is improved by pounding a little fat and lean ham with the meat. Poultry Prepared for Cooking.— Pluck off the fofithors of poultry as soon as possible after thoy urg kiUed. Whep t}iqy be- I come cold it is difficult to draw out the quills without tearing the skin, and so spoiling the look of the birds. The down that remains after the feathers are removed is afterwards to be singed off with lighted paper. In the case of some birds, one must draw out the sinews of the leg: this is done by binding the joint close to the claw, and fastening the claw in a vice; pull the bird then strongly, and the sinews wiU give way. The next operation is to empty the crop. Cut a slit in the back of the neck, so as to open into the crop. Remove the contents through this slit. Open the vent, and clean out the entrails. Take care not to break the gall- bladder ; if it is not removed carefully its contents will give a bitterness to the flavour of the liver which washing wiU hardly remove. When the bird is drawn, separate the liver and gizzard from the rest of the entrails, and put them to be cleansed in cold water. Cut off the necks of fowls, ducks, or geese, close to the body. Before doing this, push up the skin that hangs loosely upon the neck above the part at which it is to be cut off. After cutting off the neck, draw the skin down, and wrap it over the end of the neck to hide it from view. Before fastening it down, pour cold water through the body of the fowl. Then break the two bones which lead to the pinions. Now truss the bird. For roasting fowls, trussing is accomplished by cutting off the first joint only of the legs, and by turning them down close to the sides towards the vent, and fastening them by a game-skewer passed from one to the other. Pass another slight skewer through the joint of one wing, into the body, and through to the opposite wing. Place the liver and gizzard, one under each wing. To truss fowls for boiUng, cut off the whole of the leg, except the thigh, the end bones of which tuck into the apron. Set up the breast to look plrunp; place the wings with the liver and gizzard as if for roasting. Tie the whole in proper form with a slight string, which before serving is to be cut and removed. To truss a goose, cut off the legs, feet, and pinions. These, with the neck, head, liver, and gizzaid, are what are called giblets. The head of a turkey is not cut off in trussing, but twisted round one of the wings. Poultry, Ragoiit of.—This recipe may be followed with almost any kind of poultry or game. Partially roast the bird in the usual way. When it is half dressed, take it down, and, if liked, divide it into joints, or it may be stewed whole. Put it into a stewpan with any bones or trimmings that may be at hand, a large onion stuck with two cloves, the thin rind of a quarter of a lemon rolled, half a tea-spoonful of allspice, half a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, as much stock—or, failing this, water-as will cover the ingredients, and a little salt if required. Simmer all very gently till the bird is done enough, then pour oft" the liquor, and keep the bird hot. Strain the gravy, and skim the fat from it. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and mix smoothly with it as much flour as will make it into a paste, add gradually the hot liquor, a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice, and a glass of port or clftrQt. J^et; it boil' ft qiiftutg Qr two. Put tfe^POW ( 646 ) POU meat on a dish, pour tho hot gravy over it, ' garnish with toastod sippots, and sorvo very hot. If liked, chilli vinegar can bo substituted for the lemon-juice. The remains of cold poultry may be served in tho same way, but the meat will not bo so succulent as it would bo if it were only partially roasted before it was stewed. Time, varying with tho size and age of the bird. Sufficient for five or six persons. Poultry, Ragout of (another way) .-This is a general recipe, and may bo used to ragout poultry, pigeons, rabbits, &c. Half roast tho thing which is to bo dressed as a ragout. Carve it into joints, as at table, and stew in good stock, with a couple of onions, two dozen corns of allspice and black popper, a few cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and for some things a stick of celery, for others a couple of bay-leaves. Skim the stew, and, keeping the lid quite close, let it simmer for thi-eo-quarters of an hour or more, according to the age and size of the birds. Strain off the gravy, leaving the fowls in the stewpan to keep hot. Take off the cake of fat which will soon form, and thicken the gravy with bro^vn roiix, or butter rolled in browned flour till it is as thick and stiff as pancake batter. Add to this a glass of white wine and the squeeze of a lemon. Dish the fowls, ducks, or rabbits, or whatever your dish may be, and pour the sauce hot over' them. The sauce must be well worked, and ought to be smooth, thick, and well coloured. It may be made without wine. Poultry, Roasted.—Poultry requires to be plucked and drawn carefully before being roasted. It is a good thing for the cook to know how to do this, as geese and ducks may often be bought at less expense unplucked and Tintrussed than when ready for the spit, besides which the feathers, if trimmed and dried in the oven, may be used to make pillows and cushions. Geese and ducks are generally stuffed with sage and onions; turkeys with veal forcemeat or with pork sausage-meat. Poultry, To Make Tender.—"If obliged to dress poultry immediately^ after killing," says the author of a collection of French recipes, "to make it tender, do as foUowB:—Steep it in boiling water, and feather it in the hot water; or before you kill the poultry, be it turkey or goose, make it swallow a spoonful of vinegar. These methods wiU make the poultry as tender as if lolled some days previous to being dressed." Pound Cake. —Beat a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Beat into it a pound of fine sugar pounded and sifted, upon part of which, before it was pounded, the rind of two oranges or lemons has been rubbed, a pound of dried flour, a pinch of salt, eight eggs which have been thoroughly whisked, the whites and volks separately, and a glass of wme, brandy, or rose-water. Beat the mixture for twenty minutes, and pour it into a tin which has boon lined with buttered paper. Bake in a wcll- heatcd though not fierce oven and if possible do not increase the heat untU the cake is baked. Though the cake must be turned about that it may bo equally browned, the oven door must not bo opened oftener than is absolutely necessary; and if tho cake gets too highly coloui-ed before it is done enough, a ijiece of paper should be laid upon it. In order to as- cei-tain wliether it is sufficiently baked, put a skewer to tho bottom of it, and if it comes out dry and clean the cake is done; if moist, it must bo returned at once to the oven. When the cake is done it should be turned out at once, and placed upon its side, or else on a sieve, which has been turned upside down until it is cold, and tho i)aper should not be removed until tho cake is to be used. This cake may be made either larger or smaller by increasing the quantity of the ingredients in their due proportions; and it may be made less rich by using a larger quantity of flour. A pound of picked and dried currants is fre- quently added to the other ingredients, and the flavour may be varied by the addition of candied peel, lemon or orange, blanched and chopped almonds, pistachio kernels, dried cherries, or plums. Time to bake, one hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Poutarg.—This is a kind of dry and pressed caviar. It is prepared with the roes of mullet or tunny, and is much in demand in Italy and the East. It is served as a hors d^ceuvre, cut iato thin slices, and seasoned with oil, pepper, and lemon-juice. Powders.—^In addition to those given be- low, recipes for the following powders will be f oimd under their respective headings:— Almond-dust, Burnt Cukry Anchovy Herbs Baking Horseradish Biscuit Mushrooms Curry (Dr. Kitch- Oyster iaer's Kecipe) Ragout Powder, Baking {see Pastry-powder or Baking-powaer). Powder, Blancmange.—To make this powder, mix one pound of sago meal, fifteen drops of essence of lemon, and twelve grains of mace. Powder, Custard.—Take two pounds of sago meal, half an ounce of powdered turmeric, and half a drachm each of mace, cassia, and bitter-almond powder. Powders, Ginger Beer.—Take one to two drachms of white sugar powdered, twenty- six grains of bicarbonate of soda, six grains of the finest Jamaica ginger powdered, and one drop of essence of lemon. Mix these ingre- dients, and wrap the powder in blue paper. Take thirty-five grains of powdered tartanc acid, or thirty grains of powdered citric acid, and wrap in white paper. To use, dissolve each colour in about half a glassful of water; mix the two, and drink whilst cffervcscmg. Powders, Ginger Beer (another way). —Take sixteen ounces of wliitc sugar powdered, one ounce of tho finest Jamaica ginger, five ounces of bicarbonate of soda, and fifty or sixty drops of essence of lemon. Tilix, and dmde the( 647 ) POW PRA powder between ninety-sLx blue papers. Put six ounces of tiirtiu-ic acid into the same number of white papers. Use as directed in the pre- ceding recipe. Powders, Lemonade. —Take twelve grains of powdered citric or tartaric acid, half an ounce of white sugar powdered, one di-op of essence of lemon, or a little of the yellow peel of a lemon rubbed off on a lump of sugar. Enough for one glass. Powders, Lemonade (another way).— Take four pounds of white sugar powdered, an ounce and a half of citric or tartaric acid, and a quarter of an oxmce of essence of lemon. Mix well, and bottle for use. To make a glass of lemonade, take one to two dessert-spoonfuls of the powder. Powders, Lemonade (another way).-- Powder half an ounce (apothecaries' weight) of citric or tartaric acid with three ounces of loaf sugar and a few drops of oil of lemon-peel. Rub these ingredients thoroughly together in a marble mortar, and divide the powder into twelve parts. For use, dissolve one of these in half a pint of cold water. Powders, Lemonade, Effervescing. —Take one pound of powdered white sugar, a quarter of a pound of bicarbonate of soda, and one and a half drachms of essence of lemon. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and divide them between six dozen papers. Take five ouQces of tartaric or citric acid, and divide it between the same number of white papers. Use as in the case of Ginger Beer Powders {see Powders, Ginger Beer). Powders, Sherbet. — Prepare in the same way as Lemonade Powders, varying the flavouring ingredient to suit the particular case. Powders, Soda-water.—Place thirty grains of bicarbonate of soda in each blue paper, and twenty-five grains of tartaric acid or twenty-four grains of citric acid in each ■white paper. To use, mix the contents of each paper separately in about half a glassful of water; mix the two and drink at once. This is a cooling, wholesome summer drink, but it should not be partaken of to excess. Powders, Spruce Beer.-Prepare in the same way as Ginger Beer Powders, but, in- stead of powdered ginger, use three to six di'ops of the essence of spruce. Prawn.—The prawn is a delicate shell-fish, very much like a shrimp, but larger and more delicate in flavour. It varies very much in price. Prawn and Lobster Soup.—Take a freshly-boiled hen lobster, remove the meat from the tail and claws, cut it into neat square pieces, and put these aside. Pick fifty prawns, put the head and bruised shells of the lobster and the shells of the prawns into a ste-wpan with a quart of stock, a sliced onion, and an ounce of butter. Let them simmer gently for an hour, then pour over them an additional two quarts of stock. Mix six ounces of flour with a little cold stock, add this to the soup, and stir until it begins to thicken. Draw it back, set it by the side of the fire, let it simmer gently for half an hour, then press the whole through a fine sieve. Return the soup to the stewpan and let it boil; skim carefully, and add whatever seasoning is required. Put in the picked prawns and the lobster meat, let them get quite hot, add a breakfast-cupful of thick cream, and serve Time, two hours or more. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Prawn Curry.—Chop half an onion very finely, put it into a stewpan with half an ounce of fresh butter, and let it steam over a gentle fire until it is tender without being browned. Rub it with a wooden spoon through a fine sieve, mix a dessert-spoonful of curry-paste with the pulp, and add gradually half a pint of good stock. Bon the sauce for a few minutes, put into it a pound of prawns which have been weighed after being boiled and shelled, and let aU stew gently together. Serve the curry on a hot dish with a border of boiled rice round it. Time to stew the pra^vns, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, variable. Sufficient for five or six persons. Prawn Curry (another way). — Mince an onion finely, and steam it in a little butter until it is quite soft. Rub it through a fine sieve, and mix with the pulp a table-spoonful of the rasped meat of a cocoanut, and a table- spoonful of curry-paste or powder — paste is much the better of the two. Add gradually a pint of good broth and haK a stick of cinna- mon, and let the sauce simmer for a quarter of an hour. Put in a pound of prawns weighed after they have been shelled, and let them simmer for a few minutes. About ten minutes before the curry is taken from the fire, mix a tea-spoonful of flour smoothly with the cocoa- nut-milk, and add it to the sauce. Stir gently over the fire for five minutes, squeeze the juice of a lemon into the curry, and serve very hot. Send boiled rice to table on a separate dish. Time, one hour. Probable cost, prawns, variable. Sufficient for five or six persons. Prawn Pie.—Have as many well-cleaned prawns as will nearly fiU the pie-dish. Season with pounded mace, cloves, a little cayenne or Chili vinegar. Put some butter in the dish, and cover with a light puff-paste. The pie will take less than three-quarters of an hour to bake. Prawn Soup.—Mince finely two onions, a carrot, and half a dozen of the outer sticks of a head of celery, and put them into a stewpan with three ounces of fresh butter, a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme, and let them steam gently for a quarter of an hour. Shake the saucepan every now and then to keep them from burning. Pour over them three pints of broth or water, and mix this gradually with four ounces of flour mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold water; stir the liquid over the fire till it boils, then draw it back, let it simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, and strain. Pick out the tails of fifty prawns, and put the bodies and shells into a stewpan with a little stock and a glassful of light wine. Let them stew for a quiu-ter of an hour; then pass the liquid through a fine sieve, and mix it with the soup. Season( 648 ) FBA FBA with a little cayenne, and add a taLle-gpoon- ful of muahrooni kotchup, a dessort-Hpoonful of lemon-juico, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce. Put in the picked prawns, let them boil for live or six niinutos, and servo very hot. Time, an hour and a half. I'robablo cost, variable. Sufficient for si-x. or seven persons. Prawn Soup (another way).—Prepare two (luarts of stock according to the directions f^iven in the last recipe. Pick the tails from a hundi-ed freshly-boiled prawns, and put the shells and bodies into a stowpan witli a quarter of a pint of vinegar, a qxxarter of a pint of stock, and a blade of mace. Let them simmer for twenty minutes. Press the prawns through a sieve, and with them the crumb of a French roll which has been softened with a little of the stock. Mix the liquid with the soup, and add a little lemon-juice and Harvey's sauce, with a tea-spoonful of anchovy, and a pinch of cayemie; boil for five minutes; add the shelled prawns, and, when they are quite hot, serve the soup in a tureen. Time, altogether about an hour and a half. Probable cost, un- certain. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Prawns and Shrimps, Choosing of. —"When fresh, prawns have a sweet flavour and a bright colour, and are firm and stiff. Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and are to be judged by the same rules. Prawns, Boiled.—Put two table-spoon- fuls of salt into half a gallon of water, and biing the liquid to the boil. Throw in the prawns, and let them remain for about eight minutes. They are done enough when they change colour. Drain them on a sieve, and let them cool. They should be served while fresh. Stale prawns which are not too stale will be improved if they are thrown for one minute into fast-boiling water, before they are served. Prawns are best when they have no spawn under their tails. Prawns, Buttered. — Pick a pint of freshly-boiled prawns. Bruise the shells, and put them into a stewpan with a breakfast- cupful of stock, and a little cayenne and grated nutmeg. Let them simmer for twenty minutes; strain the liquid, and thicken it with flour and butter to the consistency of thick cream. Put in the picked prawns, and heat them thoroughly. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with toasted sippets. Time, three minutes to heat the prawns. Sufficient for three or four persons. Prawns, Cold, to Dish.—Place a cup upside down in the centre uf a small dish, and cover it neatly with a white napkin. Put the prawns round it, and garnish with plenty of parsley. Or cut a slice from a lemon or orange, so that it may stand firmly. Place it on a napkin, and aiTange the praAvns prettily upon it, putting a little fresh parsley between the rounds. The prawns may be kept in posi- tion by the horns being stuck lightly into the lemon. Garnish with parsley. Prawns in Jelly (a pretty supper dish). —Tfike a qu.art of stiff calf's-foot stock free from fat and sediment, and put it into a stew- pan with half a dozen shallots, each one with a clove stuck in it, two bay-leaves, half a hlade of mace, and a sprig of thyme. Let these simmer gently until the stock is pleasantly fluvoui-od, then strain it into a bowl, and let it cool. Whisk the whites of two eggs with a littli) cold water. Stir this biiskly into the stock, put it back into the saucepan, add the crushed shells of the eggs, and let the stock boil, but on no account stir it after it begins to boil up. Keep it boiling for a quarter of an hour, then lift it from the fire, and let it stand to settle for another quarter of an hour. Strain it througu a jelly-bag until it is clear. Pour a little of the jelly into a damp mould. When it is firm, lay some prawns upon it with their backs downwards, and pour more jelly over them. Repeat until the mould is full, and be careful that each layer of jelly is set before another is put in. Put the jeUy in a cool place, and turn it out before serving. If liked, the jelly may be made with isinglass or gelatine dissolved in water instead of calf's-foot stock. Time, an hour to make the jelly. Sufficient for a three-pint mould. Prawns, Malay Curry of.—Pick some prawns from their shells; let them be a pint when prepared. Rasp the half of a large cocoa- nut into two spoonfuls of hot water, and then smooth it through a sieve. Stew the prawns very gently with a shred onion and enough good mutton or veal broth to cover. See that the broth is well seasoned, and put in a stick of cinnamon. When the prawns are getting tender, mix two dessert-spoonfuls of curry- powder in a little cold broth, add it to the rest in the stewpan, and simmer for a few minutes. Take out the prawns, and strain the gravy over them into a clean pan; make hot, and add the rasped cocoa-nut, and flour enough to thicken, which should be mixed with some of the nut- milk. Let all simmer gently for a few minutes, and serve with juice of a lemon and boiled rice in a separate dish. Time, one hour. Sufficient for a dish. Prawns, Potted. — Pick fresh prawns after they have been boiled. Cut them lightl)'', and pound them in a marble mortar with a small quantity of fresh butter, a seasoning of cayenne and powdered mace or grated nutmeg, and a little salt, if neces- sary, but it is probable that they will not require it. Put them into jars, cover with clarified butter lukewarm, and tie a bladder securely over them. Time to boil, eight minutes. Prawns, Shelling of.—Hold the head of the prawn firmly in the right hand and the tail in the left. Straighten the body of the fish, and bring the thumbs near one another. Break the shell of the tail with a httle twist of the right hand, then draw the shell off. It will come off almost whole, a very small piece only being left. Unless the prawns are fresh, they will not shell easily. Prawns, Shrimps, or Crayfish, Potted.—Boil them in water with plenty of salt in it. When you have picked them, powder them with a little beaten mace, or grated nut- meg, or allspice, and pepper and salt; add aPRA ( 649 ) little cold butter, and pound all well together in a marble mortar till of the consistence of paste. Put it into pots covered with clarified butter, and covei" these over mth wetted bladder. Prawns, Stewed—Pick the tails from a pint of freshly-boiled prawns. Bruise the shells, and put them with the heads into a saucepan with a pint of white wine and water, then add a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, half a blade of mace, and a little cayenne. Let them simmer gently for half an hour. Strain the liquid, put it back into the saucepan, thicken with a tea-spoonful of flour mixed smoothly with a little butter, and boil till it is of the consistency of thick cream. Put in the tails of the prawns, and let them get quite hot. Toast a slice of the crumb of bread, and cut it into strips. Lay these in their original form on a dish, pour the stewed prawns over them, and serve very hot. Garnish with parsley. Time, three or four minutes to heat the prawns. Sufficient for four or five persons. Preservation of Food.—There are four leading methods by which food, and particularly animal food, has been, and is, preserved with a greater or less amount of success. These are— first, drying, or desiccation; second, the appli- cation of cold, or refi-igeration; third, the use of chemical agents, or antiseptics; and foui-th, the application of heat. To speak of these methods in order, let us first take the process of drying, or desiccation. In a sense this is hardly a scientific mode of food- preservation at all; certainly it is far from a satisfactory one in reference to animal sub- stances, which must be dried almost to a chip before they are fitted thoroughly to resist the ordinary laws of decomposition. It is not, however, altogether to be despised, as by it mankind has been able to utilise a vast quantity of food which would otherwise have been wasted. A good example of food preserved in this way is Charqui, or South-American dried beef, which possesses considemble nutritive value, as is shown by the fact of its having been the staple article of food among the labouring populations in the tropical regions of South America for many years. The attempts made to introduce Charqui into this country have not met with any encouragement, but it is possible that it might be made an adjunct to our food supply. One of the great difficulties attending desic- cation is that animal matter preserved by its means loses its flavour, and becomes tough and indigestible; the fat also becomes rancid, and in damp weather the meat absorbs moisture, and is liable to turn mouldy and sour. To a certain extent, this obstacle, is overcome by mixing absorbent substances with fatty food, as in " pemmican," where sugar and spice are mixed with dry powdered meat. Meat biscuits, such as those now supplied by wholesale manufac- turers, are made on the same principle of fari- naceous meal tvbsorbing meat essences. The first recorded patent in this country for the preservation of vegetables by desiccation was granted in 1780 to John Graefor, who dipped the vegf;ta>)lf!s in boiling salt and water, and then dried them. In November, 1850, a patent was V * obtained for drying and forcibly compressing vegetables, so that they were reduced to one- seventh their original size; a cubic yard thus contained rations for 16,000 men. The French have been very successful in this line of pre- servation, but many English houses now pro- duce vegetables in the form of chips or of com- pressed cakes. From America dried vegetables are being imported at Is. 6d. a pound, half an ounce being sufficient for adding to a pint of soup. " Considering," says one writer, the high price charged by greengrocers for vegetables, and the waste in utilising them in almost every household, housekeepers, even among the working classes, would do well to give their attention to these dried vegetables, and at least give them a trial. When soaked and well boiled they will be found not only economical in their use, but excellent in soups, and even in eating with meat in lieu of ordinary fresh vegetables. The process of drj'ing elimi- nates little else but the water, and takes from them little, if any, of their flavour." Perhaps the reader remembers that compressed vege- tables, together with dried meat, were largely consumed in the Crimea by the English and French armies, and that vast quantities of com- pressed vegetables were supplied to the British troops during the Ashantee campaign. In soup squares or tablets we have a form of preserved food prepared partly by the desiccat- ing method. Most of them are compressed, but some are in the form of grains or flour, being composed of various substances, combined with powdered meat or meat extracts. One house offers an almost endless variety of soup squares, such as carrot, pea, chestnut, mulligatawny, &c.; also large cubes called " Gargantua," after the mythical giant celebrated by Rabelais, one of which, dissolved in three pints of water, makes a most delicious pot-pourri of four poimds' weight of nutritious food. The second method, the preservation of food by refrigeration, will be found explained in a succeeding article {see Refrigeration, Food Preserved by). On the preservation of meat by the use of chemical agents, or antiseptics, much ingenuity has been expended by scientific men. The best known antiseptic is chloride of sodium, or conmion salt, which has been employed for the preservation of animal substances from a very early period. It is likely always to remain in use, either simply or in conjunction with an after-process of drying or smoking, or with both combined. The fact is that many substances treated with common salt are extremely tasty and palatable—ham and bacon, for example— and the cost of the process is exceedingly trifling. It should be remembered, howeter, that salt by itself is only a temporary preserva- tive agent, and is diotetically to be objected to on the ground that i^, extracts the soluble con- 8titu;.ntt. of meat, makes it hard and indiges- tible, and thus deprives it of its stimulating and nutritive constituents. From the eating of large quantities of salt meat without the jiroper quantity of vegetables to counteract its effects, it is well known that scorbutic diseases ensue; Besides common salt, other saline substancer, have been employed for the preservation ofFEE < 650 ) FBE meat; for example, saltpetre, acetate of am- monia, sulphiito of potasli, and muriiito of ammonia. Tlio smokinfj; of meat or lisli by exposuro to tho vapour of poat, wood, &c., is choniicully aubjocting them to the action of tho croosoto of the empyreumatic oil of the nmoko, Tho preservation of provisions by means of salt, sugar, spices, vinegar, spirit, and fumiga- tion by burning wood, have tho diviwback of being pai-tly chemical additions to food, and also of inducing chemical changes, which, to a certain extent, influence the digestibility of tho article. Salt, also, as wo have hinted, draws out from the moat some of its chief nourishing constituents. Liebig, in his " Chemistry of Food," remarks:—"It is universally known that in the salting of meat the flesh is rubbed and sprinlded with dry salt, and that where the salt and meat ai-e in contact a brine is formed, amounting in bulk to one-third of the fluid contained in the raw flesh. I have ascertained that this brine contains the chief constituents of a concentrated soup, or infu- sion of meat, and that therefore, in the process of salting, the composition of the flesh is changed, and this, too, in a much greater degree than occurs in boiling. In boiling, the highly nutritious albumen remains in the mass of the flesh; but in salting, the albimien is sepai-ated from the flesh; for when the brine from salted meat is heated to boiling, a large quantity of albumen separates as a coagulum. "It is now easy to understand that, in the salting of meat, when this is pushed so far as to produce the brine above mentioned, a num- ber of substances are withdrawn from the flesh which are essential to its constitution, and that it therefore loses in nutritive quality in pro- portion to this abstraction. If these substances be not supplied from other quarters, it is obvious that a part of the flesh is converted into an element of respiration—certainly not conducive to good health. It is certain, more- over, that the health of a man cannot be per- manently sustained by means of salted meat, if the quantity be not greatly increased, inas- much as it cannot perfectly replace, by the substances it contains, those parts of the body which have been expeUed in consequence of the changes of matter, nor can it preserve in its normal state the fluid distributed in every part of the body—namely, the juices of the flesh. A change in the gastric juice, and consequently in that of the products of the digestive process, must be regarded as an inevitable result of the long-continued use of salted meat; and if, during digestion, the substances necessary to the, transformation of that species of food be taken from other parts of the organism, these parts must lose their normal condition." "We come now to the preservation of food by the application of heat. This is the most suc- cessful method yet discovered and practically applied. It is properly termed "preservation in vacuo," and in its leading features is simple enough. Tho first simple process consisted in placing meat with a charge of water in a tin case with a small aperture, or "pin-hole" at the top, and then laying it in boiling water nearly up to its top ; when the steam has dis- placed tho air the hole is stopped up with solder. This process has been improved upon, anil there are now four methofls, in a sense distinct from each other, of applyiiig heat to tlie vessels, and perfecting the preservation of their contents. These are—flrst, the ordinary Aljordoen process; second, the steam retort process; tlurd, tho clilorido of calcium process; and fourth, Jones's iiatent vacuum process. " The older, or ordinary Aberdeen process," says tho authority to whom we are indebted for tho greater part of our information on tliis subject, " is carried out as follows:—The raw meat, with or without a small quantity of fluid, is placed in tins, which are soldered down perfectly air-tight. They are let down on iron frames, or ' gridirons,' by means of pulleys into baths of boUing water, raised to a liigher tem- perature by the addition of salt, and kept there for a certain time, according to the size of the tins; the first bath of a six-pound tin, for instance, requiring two hours and a half. At the expiration of this time they are removed, and placed on a table near the bath, and tho expanded air and vapour are let out through a minute aperture in the lid of the tin. This is done by one of the workmen touching with a hot iron the small piece of solder placed over the aperture, or ' pin-hole,' originally made in the lid. The steam at once rushes out, but within a few seconds another workman follows, and again solders down the ' pin-hole.' This part of the process is, in the vernacular, caUed ' brogging.' The tins are then returned to the boiling brine for the same time as before, when they are again ' brogged.' Once more they are returned to the bath, and afterwards with- drawn, and stood to cool, and the process is complete. It may be here mentioned that some of the beef and mutton is partially baked or roasted before being placed in the tins, and these are labelled as ' roast' beef or mutton, as distinguished from the boiled, though the dif- ference, practically, when tasted, is verj^ sUght. "The steam retort process, as adopted by Messrs. Hogarth, who have by it preserved from time to time a large quantity of meat for our Government at the Deptford Victualling Yard, consists in placing the tins, with the ' pin-hole' open, in what may be called a steam-tight retort, into which steam is allowed to pass, producing a pressure of something Uke 230 degrees. After an hour and a half or two hours, they are taken out, and the ' pin-hole' soldered down. They are then placed in the retort for an hour or an hour and a half, at a temperature of about 240 degrees, axid then taken out and cooled. " The chloride of calcium process consists in placing the tins, with the ' pin-hole' open, to about one-half or two-thirds their depth in a bath of solution of chloride of calcium, by which a temperature may be gained of froni 260 to 270 degrees. This temperature is only gradually arrived at, and for three or four hours the steam escapes from the tins at the ' pin-holes.' The tins are then soldered down, but are continued in this bath for a further period before they are taken out to cool. In carrying out the above briefly-described pro- cesses, manufacturers may vary a little in details, some using a higher temperature thanPRE PEE ( 651 ) others, or not subjecting the tins for so long a period to the hot batjis, or modifying the operation of 'brogging,' or introducing some other slight modifications which do not reaUy att'ect the main principle of these methods of preservation by heat. "The chief feature of the patent vacuum process of Mr. Jones is that each tin, as it stands in the hot bath, is connected by a tube with a vacuum chamber, and that the steam and moisture are from time to time suddenly drawn off from the tin by turning a tap con- nected with the chamber. The advantage of this process is that a vacuum is created in the tins more quickly than by the other heat processes, and thus the necessity of overcooking their contents, as in the other methods, in order to obtain a perfect vacuum, is to a great extent obviated, and the meat turns out more solid. This comparative complication, how- ever, of Jones's process, and the difficulty in its manipulation, coupled with the fact that the weight of the contents of the tins is so greatly reduced by the absorbtion of the moisture, have militated against the adoption of the patent by meat-preservers generally, though many of them fully acknowledge its superiority to other methods in the food preserved by it. " Such are the several processes, differing somewhat in detail, but substantially the same in principle, by which preserving by heat is effected. It is by one or other of these, with certain trifling modifications adopted by this or that manufacturer, that almost all the solid meat, fish, poultry, vegetables, soups, stews, the variety of ' odds and ends,' such as kidneys, tripe, sausages, minced meat, and the several ' made dishes,' both in this country and abroad, are preserved; and it is by heat alone that it can fairly be said the food-preservation question has been solved, and then only in a certain modified sense. By all the above heat methods, however, preservation—simply as preservation —is perfect. As long as the tin or other receptacle in which meat, or any other sub- stance, has been successfully preserved by the creation of a perfect vacuum, remains sound and air-tight, so long will its contents remain sound also. Tins, with the meat perfectly good in them, though preserved nearly fifty years ago, are stiU in existence. At the London Exhibitions of 1851, 1862, and 1863, tins of meat which had been put up from twenty-five to forty years before were exhibited and tested, and were found perfectly sound. Stores of preserved meat, &c., in tins, have been left in the Arctic regions for years, annually ex- posed to a temperature of 92 degrees below, and 80 degrees above zero. They have been brought back to this countrj--, and the con- tents of the tins found to be as soimd as the day they were put up. As a matter, then, of more preservation, the heat processes are an unquestionable success, and by their agency we have in this country been able to obtain a large supply of sound, edible, and cheap beef and mutton from the very ends of the earth." Preserved meat in tins comes to this coun- try from Australia, Now Zealand, and South America. It has failed to attain that popularity which was anticipated at first, though the con- sumption, it cannot be denied, is very consider-, able. One of the chief reasons for receiving little notice at the hands of some people is its over- cooked state. "With all its imperfections, however," says one writer, " we hold it might be much more widely used than it is ; for even, if it is admitted that, mouthful for mouthful, it is of less nutritive value than butcher's meat, yet the latter, after the deductions in weight for cooking and bone, costs really about twice as much as the preserved meat." The heat process has been applied with con- siderable success to the preservation of fish; but this, however, is inclined to grow soft and pulpy after being some time in the tins. It should be eaten within a reasonable period of its preservation. Vegetables and fruit have also been subjected to the heat process, and are well worthy of attention. Preserved Fruit in Pastry. —Pre- served fruits ought not to be baked long; indeed, those that have been preserved with their full proportion of sugar require no baking. Bake the crust in a tin shape, and add the fruit afterwards ; or put the fruit in a small dish or tart pan, and bake the covers on a tin, cut according to taste. Preserved Fruit, Omelet of (a French recipe).—Beat the whites and yolks of six eggs separately; add a little zest of lemon to the latter; then mix the two together, beating them well, with a little cream, and two table-spoonfuls of apple marmalade, apricot, gooseberry, or any fruit you have. Pour it into the pan; sugar it when in the pan; turn it topsy-turvy into a plate; put it on a dish, cover the surface thickly with powdered sugar, and brown it with the salamander- Preserved Milk.—The value of preserved milk is acknowledged by thousands of households in which no other form of milk is used. The history of this article is soon told. For many years the only sort of preserved milk was what was called desiccated milk, but it never was regarded with much favour; the process by which it was obtained destroyed some of the essential constituents of the original substance, and thus lessenned its nutritive value. '' The method of condensing and preserving the milk is substantially the same at all the manufactories. The writer of this article," says a popular author, " has watched the process from beginning to end, on more than one occasion, both at Aylesbury and Middle- wich; it may be thus described: — Steam is got up about six in the morning, and the farmers who live within one to ten miles of the factory begin to deliver their milk about seven o'clock, and it is nearly nine before the last arrives. The milk is emptied at once from the large tin cans generally used in the trade into a trough, which conducts it through sieves into a large tank, holding about eight hundred gallons, in the department where the first part of the process takes place. From this tank it is drawn into large open metal cylinders, which are slung up by a crane, and placed in a hot water bath, in large tanks, somewhat after the( 652 ) PRE PRE maimer of the tins of moat in the chloride of i iilcmm proceaa, aa adopted in the pruaervation of meat. After roniaininf? in the bath aomo Lmie, they arc again lifted by the crancis, and oniptied into large open funnel-shaped vata, whence the hot milk is drawn up, throuf,'h a pipe in the centre, into the condeusing-pans on tJie upper tioor. Su-^ar having been mixed with it, solely, let it be renuu-ked, for the purpoBO of preserving it, it remaina in tliese pans, subject tv a somewhat low heat, for two or three hours, while the evaporation of the water is taking place, and the milk is gradually becoming condensed. When tins part of the process, which may bo watched through the glass ■svindow of the condenser, is completed, the milk, now about the consistency of liquid honey, returns by a pipe into a lower room, and is received again into the open cylinders, whicli are swung into the central tanks—this time tilled with cold water—for the purpose of cool- ing. The regulation of the temperatui-e dming the whole of these processes is a matter of the greatest nicety, and of the utmost importance in securing success. After cooling the con- densed milk, it is taken to the ' filling room,' and run into the tins, which are at once soldered up, and packed in cases ready to be sent to their dilferent destinations. The condensed milk gradually thickens in the tins, becoming slightly more consistent up to five or six months, after which it remains of the same consistency, and will continue sound and good as long as the tin remains perfect. " It will thus be seen that the condensed milk is simply natural cows' milk, from which a certain proportion of water has been abstracted, and to which a certain quantity of sugar has been added. Speaking in round numbers, it may be said that of cows' milk 85 per cent is water, but, as has been demonstrated by evi- dence given at various prosecutions under the 'Adulteration of Food Act' during the last few years, the relative proportion of water and soKd matter v?iU vary according to the variation of the breed of cattle, their age, pasturage, food, climate, and the seasons of the year. Ordinary mUk, according to Professor Wanklyn, consists of the following proportions:—water, 87"19; and solids, 12-81 = 100. Condensed milk, ac- cording to Baron von Liebig, shows—water, 22-44; solids, 77-56 = 100. The process of con- densing, or, as it might be called, evaporising milk eliminates the greater part of the water ; and the further analysis of the condensed milk shows that the caseine, butterous or fat, and other solid or nutritive particles remain intact in their original form. Thus we have an article which is in reality ^wre milk with the addition of a little sugar in order to preserve it, and not an article made/ro/w milk. Any introduction of a foreign substance, in the way of adulteration, would at once cause the milk to decompose, and we believe we are quite correct in saying that no attempt has ever been made to adulterate this article. When the contents of a tin are found to be unsound, the cause it; co be souf;ixt in the failure in making a pr^rticular batch of milk—always a most delicate operation—owing to which the external air has been admitted. Baron Liebig, in his recorded analysis of the Swiaa nulk, aaya,' It conflists of nothing but cows' milk and tho best refined sugar, and poa- aoaacs all tlie proiKjrtiea and quaUti(;s of a jx.-r- fec.tly i)ure milk;' und Dr. ilaswidl and oilier eminent analysts certify to the same effect. But it is in the jxiwer of any ojie to teat the con- densed milk without the aid of any chemical appliances. If sullicient w/ttc^i- is added to th(; condensed milk to bring it back to its original state—i.e., to re-estalilish th<! (jriginul jjropor- tion between tlie water and other constituents, cream will rise from it in the ordinajy way; only it muat be stood in open flat veasels, and not in high glass columns, called ' graduated test tubes,' beaiuse the sugar to aome extent pre- vents the cream readily rising. Again, if the condensed milk, mixed with the pro]>er projior- tion of water, be raised to a temperature- of 70 degrees, it will chum into butter like ordinary milk. " Each one-pound tin represents the conden- sation of about two quarts to five pints of crude milk, and therefore will bear so nmch water added to it as to bring it back to its original condition and bulk. In each tin there is about four ounces of the best refined sugar. Now, putting the value of the tin at one penny, and the milk at tenpence, we get for sevenpence or eightpence what otherwise would cost us from elevenpence to one shilling, simply because the manufactuiers in countrj' districts can obtain the milk at about twopence per quart. Of the convenience of the article it is hardly necessary to speak. It is invaluable for travellers by land and sea. Nor is it less convenient as an article for ordinary household consumption, while the certainty of its genuineness adds much to its value. It can be used for any purpose for which ordinary milk and sugar are used—for puddings, custards, and other culi- nary requirements ; it is admirably adapted for eating with fruit tarts, as Devonshire cream, and with the usual ingredients makes capital salad-di-essing. Less than a tea-spoonful, without water, is sufficient for a cup of tea, while four or five times that quantity will make a basin of sweet bread and milk for a child. It is almost impossible to exaggerate the value of this milk for infants and children, especially during the prevalence of infantile diarrha^a, which, in the opinion of the majoiity of medical men, is to be attributed to the badness of the milk supplied to the poor in large centres of population." Preserve or Jam Omelet. — Beat thorouglily the yolks of six eggs. Add three ounces of sugar, and if any flavouring is added be careful that it harmonises with the jam that is to be used. A strawberry omelet may be flavoured with orange-flower water, an apple-mai-malade omelet with grated Icrton- rind. Boat the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, and just before tho omelet is poured into the pan mix thom with the rest. Dissolve two ounces of butter in the omelet-pan, pour in the mixture, and fry the omelet in the usual way {see Omelet). Before folding it, lay tw o or throe table-spoonfuls of jam in the centre. Sprinkle a little sugar over" the top, candy by holding over it a siil.nnander or red-hot fire-shovel, and serve immediately before the omelet am fall.( 663 ) 'i'imc, four to six minutes. Probablo cost, lOd. Sutlicient for two or three persons. Preserves, Fruit.—Homo-made jam is both a convenicnco and a luxury. When well and ciirefully made it is not only superior to that which is usually ottered for sale, but very much more economical also, and no store-closet can bo said to be well filled which does not boast a goodly show of neatly-labelled jars of preserves. In making jam, the first thing to be looked after is the fruit. As a general rule, this should be fully ripe, fresh, sound, and scrupulously clean and dry. It should be gathered in the morning of a sunny day, as it will then possess its finest flavour. The best sugar is the cheapest; indeed, there is no economy in' stinting the sugar, either as to quality or necessary quantity, for inferior sugar is wasted in scum, and the jam will not keep unless a sufficient proportion of sugar is boiled with the fruit. At the same time too large a proportion of sugar will destroy the natural flavour of the fruit,°and in aU probability make the jam candy. The sugar should be dried and broken up into smaU pieces before it is mixed with the fruit. If it is left in large lumps it wiU be a long time in dissolving, and if it is crushed to powder it will make the jam look thick instead of clear and bright. The quantity to be used must depend in every instance on the nature of the fruit, and will be found in the several recipes throughout this work. Fruit is generally boiled in a brass or copper pan uncovered, and this should be kept perfectly bright and clean. Great care should be taken not to place the pan flat upon the fire, as this will be likely to make the jam bum to the bottom of the pan. If it cannot be placed upon a stove-plate, it should be hung a little distance above the fire. Glass jars are much the best for jam, as through them the condition of the fruit can be observed. Whatever jars are used, however, the jam should be examined every three weeks for the first two months, and if there are any signs of either mould or fer- mentation, it should be boiled over again. The best way to cover jam is to lay a piece of paper the size of the jar upon the jam, to stretch over the top a piece of writing-paper or tissue paper which has been dipped in white of egg, and to press the sides closely down. When dry, this paper will be stiff and tight like a drum. The strict economist may use gum dissolved in water instead of white of egg. The object aimed at is to exclude the air entirely. Jam should be stored in a cool dry place, but not in one into which fresh air never enters. Damp has a ten- dency to make the fruit go mouldy, and heat to make it ferment. Some cooks cover the jam as soon as possible after it is poured out, but the generally-approved plan is to let the fruit gro%v cold before covering it. In making jam, continual watchfulness is required, as the result of five minutes' inattention may be loss and disappointment. There are other ways of pre- serving fruit besides making it into jam, such as drying, bottling, and candying. The recipes for these processes will be given in their proT)er places. Uocipes for the following preserves will bo round under their respective headings :— Jaugonbllb Peaks Lemon Juice Lemon Peel Lettuce Stalks Limes Magnum Bonum Plums Melon mulberuies Nectarines Orange Plums Oranges, Whole Oranges, Whole, Cauveh Peaches in Brandt Peaches, Whole Pears Pears, Red Plums Pumpkin Quinces Siberian Crabs Strawberries Straw HERRiES in Wine Tomatoes Truffles Water Melon Rind Windsor Beans Almack's Apples Ari'LEs for Winter Use Apricots in Jelly Apricots, Whole or IN Halves Barberries Beetroot Biffins Black Currant Cherries Cherries in Svrup Cherries, Morella Cranberries Cucumbers Damsons Eggs Figs Ginger Ginger, Imitation Golden Pippins Gooseberries, Green, as Hops Gooseberries, Green, Whole Grapes Grapes in Brandy Greengages, Dry Greengages in Syrup Preserving Pans are used for boiling sugar and sjTups. They are usually made of copper, and require a well-regulated heat, for which charcoal stoves and hot plates are very convenient. Pressed Beef. — Take any number of pounds of the brisket of beef, as lean as can be obtained, and nicely salted. The beef may be bought salted of the butcher, or it may be salted at home. To do this, dissolve a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre in a little water, and mix with it two pounds of common salt and half a pound of moist sugar. Rub this pickle into the meat every morning for eight days, and turn it over each day. Take it from the pan, drain, and bone it. The butcher wUl do this if desired. Put it into a saucepan with as much lukewarm water as wUl quite cover it, and put with it an onion stuck with two cloves a large carrot, and a bay-leaf. Let the water- boil up once, skim carefully, then draw the saucepan quite to the side of the fire, and sim- mer the meat as gently as possible till it is done enough. Lift the saucepan quite away from the fire, and leave the meat in the liquor for half an hour. Take it out carefully, drain it, place it between two flat dishes, and put a heavy weight on the top. Let it remain until the next day. Take off the weight, and glaze the beef. The easiest way of doing this is to buy a quarter of a pound of glaze ^of the grocer. This is sold in skins like sausages, and may be bought for 8d. or 9d. Peel the skin froni an inch of this glaze, and put it into a jar with a table-spoonful of cold water. Place "the jar in a saucepan with about two inches of boiling water, and let it steam until the glaze is dis- solved. The water in the saucepan must not be allowed to flow over into the jar. Take an( 664 ) PBl ordinary -um brush which has boon soakod in hot waller to nuiko it soft, and witli it cover tlio suriaco of the moat oiitiroly wit), tlio dissolved glaze It ought to be laid lightly on ratlier than brushed on, so as not to show the marks of the brush. When one c;oating of glazo is quite stitt give the moat a second ono. and, if liked, a third, riaco the meat on a dish, garnish with parsley, and it is ready for serving. Time to simmer tlio moat, half an hour per pound froiu the time tho water boils after the moat is put in. Probable coat, 9d. or lOd. per pound. Prickly Pear, or Indian Fig.—This fruit IS m the form of a fig or pear, with clusters of small spines on the skin, which enclose a fleshy pulp of a red or purple colour, and an agreeable subacid flavour. Tho plant which produces it is a native of Virginia and Bar- bary. The prickly pear is sent to the dessert in the West Indies. In countries where the fruit abounds it is considered very wholesome, and though the taste is not agreeable to aU persons till they have eaten of it several times, yet they soon become very fond of it. It is now naturalised in many parts of the south of Europe, and north of Africa, and in other warm countries. The prickly pear in some coimtries is extensively employed as an article of diet. It is imported into Britain to a small extent from the Mediterranean. In the south of England the plant grows in the open air, and occasionally ripens its fruit. Prince Consort's Pudding.—Rub three or four large lumps of sugar upon the rind of a small lemon until all the yellow part is taken off, then crush them to powder with a little additional sugar to make up the weight to two ounces. Grate finely six oimces of stale sponge cake, pour over it half a pint of boUing milk or cream, and add the flavoui-ed sugar and a pinch of salt. Let the crumbs Boak until the milk is cold, then beat the mixture with a fork, and stir into it the yolks of four eggs and the white of one well whisked. Butter a mould thickly, and flour it, ornament the inside with dried fruit, pour in the mixture, and tie it over with oiled paper. Put it on a plate turned upside down in a saucepan, and let there be two or three inches of boUing water round it; the water must not come so high as to flow into the pudding.. When it is done enough, turn it out, and send jam and a good custard to table with it, or a sauce prepared as follows:—Pour a quarter of a pint of boiling milk over a tea-spoonful of arrowroot which has been mixed to a smooth paste with a little boiling milk. Sweeten it, and stir it over the fire for two or three minutes. Pour it out, and mix with it a quarter of a pound of any kind of fruit jelly, either red-cun-ant, raspberry, or cherry. The jelly should have been previously dissolved till it is in a liquid state. The sauce may cither be poured round the pudding or served in a tureen. Time to steam the pudding, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d., if made with milk, and exclusive of the sauce. Sufficient for three or four persons. Prince Consort's Pudding (another •way).—Crumble six ounces of stjue sponge cake. Povir over them nulk flavoured with I ulmonds prepared as follows:—Blanch two ounces of sweet aliiiondH and four latter ones. Simmer them softly for half aii hour in a ([uarter of a pint of milk, then pound thorn to a paste, and mix them again with the milk. Add to tho mixture a pinch of salt, two ounces of powdered sugar, tho yolks of four and the white of ono egg, thi'oe table-spoonfuls of thick cream, and two of brandy. Mix these in- gredients thoroughly, then ])our the pudding into a buttered mould, steam, and serve ac- cording to the directions given in the previous recipe. Time to steam, about throe-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Prince Frederick's Pudding.—Rub two or three lumps of sugar upon the rind of a fresh lemon until all the yellow part is taken off. Crush it to powder with additional sugar to make up the weight to four ounces. Beat separately the yolks and whites of six eggs, and, when they are thoroughly whisked, put them together, and add the flavoured sugar and the strained juice of the lemon. Butter a tin mould, and half fill it with the mixture. Bake in a quick oven. Serve immediately before the pudding has time to faU. A sauce prepared as follows may be sent to table with it:—Whisk two eggs thoroughly, and mix with them gradu- ally a glassful of sherry or madeira. Add a little sugar which has been rubbed upon lemon-rind and powdered. Pour the mixture into a sauce- pan, and stir it briskly over the fire imtil it is well frothed and very hot; it must not boil. Pour it roimd the pudding, and serve. Time to bake the pudding, ten to fifteen minutes. Pro- bable cost, lOd., exclusive of the sauce. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Prince of Wales's Ketchup.—Take some ripe elderberries, and strip off the stalks. Fill a jar with the fruit, pour over it as much boiling vinegar as the jar will hold; put it in a cool oven, and let it remain there all night. Strain the liquid, and put with every pint half a tea-spoonful of salt, a blade of mace, four shallots, a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, a dozen cloves, and two ounces of anchovies. Boil the liquid until the anchovies are dissolved, and when it is quite cold strain it, and bottle for use. This ketchup is chiefly used for fish. Prince's Metal, or Britannia Metal, Utensils of.—One great advantage belong- ing to Prince's metal is that it takes a high polish, and does not tarnish easily. When kept perfectly bright it looks well, far excelling pewter, and approaching in lustre to silver. It is not easily acted upon by acids, and is perfectly safe. One of the most valuable uses to which Britannia metal is appHcd is in the making of spoons, which are not only brighter and more pleasing to the eye than those of pe^vter, but less apt to bend. Princes' Pudding.— Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Add a table-spoonful of sifted sugar and tho well-whisked yolks of throe and tho white of one egg. Crush an ounce and a half of macaroons to powder. Stir this into tho pudding, and pour in two table-spoonfuls of bnmdy. Boat tho pudding for some minutes, pour it into a well-buttered( 665 ) PRO tin, and bake in a well-heated oven. Turn it out before serving, and garnish with apri- cot or strawbeiTy jam. Thas pudding may be served either hot or cold. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Princes' Sauce for Broiled Fish and Salads.—Take a smaU handful of tar- ragon-leaves, bumet, chervil, and chives. Einse them, tlirow them into boiling water, and let them boU gently for a few minutes; pour oflE the water, and squeeze them in a cloth. Put them in a mortar with three anchovies which have been washed, dried, and freed from bone and skin, the yoDis of three hard-boiled eggs, a dessert- spoonful of dry miistard, and a dessert-spoonful of capers. Put these ingredients in a mortar, pound them well, and add very gradually two raw yolks of eggs, a quarter of a prut of salad-oU, and a quai-ter of a pint of tarragon vinegar. Eub the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and it is ready for use. Sufficient for a little more than half a pint. Princes' Soup. — Take half a dozen turnips, and with a vegetable cutter cut them into small balls the size of a marble. Put them iato a stewpan with as much clear veal stock as will cover them, and let them simmer till tender; then pour over them a pint and a half of additional stock, clear and bright, let it boU, and pour it into the tureen. Cut a slice or two from a stale loaf less than a quarter of an inch thick. Have these cut in rounds about three- quarters of an inch in diameter. Throw them iato a saute pan with about an ounce of but- ter, and shake them over the fire till they are brightly browned. Drain from the fat, and place them on blotting-paper to absorb the grease. Send them to table with the soup, and serve the crusts either on a separate dish or in the tureen. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost of turnips, 4d. to 6d. a bunch. Sufficient for three or four persons. Properties, Nutritive, &c., of Food. —Several substances go to constitute the bodies of men and animals. Some of these substances from their containing nitrogen are called nitro- genous, others being destitute of that principle are termed non-nitrogenous; besides these there are mineral constituents, and water. Of the nitrogenous substances of the animal body, the chief are—fibrine, met with in the bone and muscle; albumen and globtdine, found in the blood; and gelatine, in the bones, tendons, and ligaments. The principal non-nitrogenous constituent is fat. Vegetables have a composition in the main resembling that of animals. They also contain nitrogenous substances, though usually in smaller amounts, and fat in them is represented xor the most part by starch and sugar. In some exceptional cases, however—in the seeds, for example, of various plants—fat or oil is met with. "The nitrogenous elements of the human body," says the author of a valuable article on this subject in *' Food, Water, and Air," " are capable, under some circumstances, of furnishing both fat and sugar; thus, there is evidence to show that the fatty part of milk and the sugar of diabetes are thence derived, at least to some extent. Again, starch and sugar are sometimes transfonned into fat, but the greater part of the fat of the body is derived from that contained in the food. " Notwithstanding this partial and occasional formation of fat from the nitrogenous, starchy, and saccharine elements of the food, yet each separate class is needed to sustain the body in a state of health. Thus, perfect health cannot be maiutained for any length of time on nitro- genous food alone, even with water and the mineral constituents; and although it may be supported for a longer period on such food combined with fat, yet, for perfect health, the albuminates, fat, and the C£irbo-hydrates, as sugar and starch, are all necessary, though how the latter act in nutrition is not yet fully understood, since they do not enter into the composition of the tissues like the others. Further, it should be clearly understood that excess of lean meat increases the oxidation of the fat, thus tending to the reduction of obesity; excess of the carbo-hydrates acts in the same way. " Now, these several nitrogenous and non- nitrogenous constituents of the food are con- stantly imdergoing change and destruction in ministering to the several necessities of the living animal organisation—as the growth, substance, and waste of the body, its heat, electricity, and muscular force ; and hence the necessity for a frequent supply of food. " The mineral constituents of the body are not less aecessary than the albuminates, fat, and the carbo-hydrates, and equally require to be renewed in the food consumed. Thus, sulphur and phosphorus are constantly present, com- bined chiefly with the albuminates. Phosphate of lime is found principally in the bones, teeth, and ceUs and tissues; phosphate of potash in the tissues and cells ;• chloride of sodium in the liquids; iron in the Iblood; and, lastly, carbonic acid, lactic, tartaric, acetic, and some other acids, which are converted in the system into carbonic acid, are requisite to maintain the alkalinity of the body, the loss of which gives rise to scurvy. "Again, the imbibition of a large quantity of water daily is likewise a necessity, in order to endow many of the constituents of the food —especially the albuminates — with certain physical properties, to render them plastic, soluble, or the more readily reducible to a state of solution ; thus aiding absorption, nutrition, and elimination." There is thus, we see, between the composition of the body and the food consumed, whether animal or vegetable, the closest possible re- semblance. Having now seen what kinds of food are needed to keep the body in health, we come to look at the quantities required. The quantities . ^ course vary according to age, weight, and mu.,:''lar exertion, but it has been determined, by numerous independent inquiries, that the food daily consumed by an adult man of average weight—140 pounds—in moderate work, should contain about the follo^nng quantities of the several classes of food, the figures given beingPRO thoso of Molosholt, quoted by Parkes in his valuable work on " Practical Hygiene." Drv Food Ounces Nitrogen. Carbon. •* ■ and GniiuB. Uraiiifl. Oniiua. Albuminous substances 4-587 317'0 107;5-() Fatty substiiucoa . . 2-964 none 102-1-4 Carbo-Hydrates . . 14-267 none 2769-4 Salts 1-058 — — 22-866 *' One ounce of dry albuminate contains 69 grains of nitrogen, and 234 of carbon; one ounce of dry fat, 345-6 grains of carbon, and the same weight of citlicr of the carbo-hydrates; starch or sugar, 194-2 grains; or 100 grains of albuminates contain 15 8 of nitrogen, and 53 5 of carbon ; fat, 79 grains of carbon; and starch and sugar, 44-4 grains. " But water, to the extent of between fifty and sixty-nine per cent., is contained in the food consumed, raising the amount to about forty ounces." Now, nearly the whole of the nitrogen and carbon contained in the chief articles of our food may be thus divided and distributed :— Lean Raw Meat Fat of Meat . Egg Cheese Butter Bread Potatoes . Other Vegetables MUk Sugar 16 oz. less one-fifth bone, 14-4=cookcd, about 8 oz. i 2 1 1 18 16 8 2 f oz. 5> Having thus arrived approximately at the quality and quantity of the several kinds of food required by an adult man of average size and weight, and in moderate work, it next becomes important to ascertain how each person may calculate for himself, and so ascertain the nutritive quality of his own or any other dietary. This important object may be accom- plished by the help of the following table from the work of Dr. Parkes, before quoted:— Table fok Calculating Diets. drates. Salt. Lean Raw Meat,) »g.Q bone-free . .) Fattened Beef) (Gilbert and [ 63-0 Lawes) ) Roast Meat (no dripping be- ing l?8t)-l54.o Ranke (boiled, [ assumed to be I the same) . . / Bread.... Flour .... Biscuit . . . Rice .... Oatmeal (Von Bibra) . . Oatmeal(Lethe- by) . . . 15-0 8-4 14-0 19-0 27-6 15-45 — 1-6 3-7 2-95 40-0 8-0 1-6 49-2 1-3 15-0 11-0 2-0 70-3 1-7 8-0 15-6 1-3 73-4 1-7 10-0 6-0 0-8 83-2 0-5 12-0 160 6-8 63-2 2-0 15-0 12-6 5-6 63-0 3-0 Maizc(Poggialo) I'cus . . Potiitoes . Carrots, all core excluded Cabbage. Butter Eggs, less 10 per cent, for sheU . . Cheese . . . Milk (specific gravity, 1030) Milk (specific gravity, 1026) Sugar . . . "The use of Water. 13-5 160 74-0 Albunii- UUtCH. 100 220 1-5 6.7 2-0 0-1 86-0 0-6 0-26 910 6-0 0-2 0-3 0-5 9-91 Uy- dratea. 64-6 53-0 23-4 8-4 6-8 1- 4 2- 4 10 73-5 13-5 11-6 36-8 86-7 90-0 3-0 33-6 4-0 24-3 3-7 3-0 2-5 6-0 3-9 96-6 10 6-4 0-6 0-5 0-5 the above table is exceedingly simple. The quantity by weight of any of the articles enumerated being known, the amounts of the albuminates, fats, and carbo-hydrates are easily calculated by a simple rule-of-three sum. Thus, supposing the allowance is twelve ounces of meat, one-fifth ftiust be deducted for bone, the water in the remaining 9 6 ounces will bo 75 X 9-6 ascertained as follows: = 7'2, and so on for the other constituents." The following tables, for which we are in- debted to the Catalogue of the Bethnal Green Food Collection, will be found highly interesting. In the first we have the results of actual experi- ments made to discover the maximum amoimt of force produced by one pound of various articles of food when oxidised in the body :— Tons raised one Name of Food. Cod-liver Oil . Beef Fat Butter . Cocoa-nibs Cheshire Cheese Oatmeal Arrowroot Flour . Pea-meal Ground Rice . Gelatine Lump Sugar . Yolk of Egg . Grape Sugar . Hard-boiled egg Bread-criunb . The Lean of Boiled Ham Mackerel The Lean of Beef The Lean of Veal Guiness's Stout Potatoes. Whiting Bass's Ale Apples . Milk . White of Egg Carrots . Cabbages The maximum airtount foot high. 5-649 5-626 4-507 4-251 2-704 2-439 2-427 2-383 2-341 2-330 2-270 2 077 2 051 2 033 1-415 1-333 1-041 1-000 0-885 0-726 0-666 0-618 0-491 0-480 0-400 0-390 0-357 0-322 0-261 mechanical work which one pound of each of the above substances enable a man to perform fextemnl work) isPRO ( 657 ) PRO about one-lifth of the amount montionod in tho above table. "It is not to bo understood from this," say the compilers of tho Catalogue, "that taking one pound of cod-liver oil would enable a man to lift one-fifth of 6,649 tons (that is, 1,130 tons) one foot off. the ground. What is meant is that that is the total mechanical work which the combustion in the body of one pound of the oil is capable of producing outside the body, supposing its effect to be wholly expended in the production of this mechanical work without any waste. Moreover, this statement of the amount of work in tons hfted one foot does not take time at all into account. It simply reckons the total work which it is possible to get out of the combustion of one pound of cod-liver oil, no matter how long it may take to do it." The two following tables Illustrate the application of the above data, the first giving the weight and cost (1866) of various articles of food required to be oxidised in the body in order to raise 140 lbs. to the height of 10,000 feet. External Work = i Actual Energy. . Name of Food. Cheshire Cheese Potatoes Apples Oatmeal Flour Pea-meal Groimd Rice Arrowroot Bread Lean Beef Lean Veal Lean Ham, Boiled Mackerel . Whiting . White of Egg . Hard-boQod Egg Isinglass . Milk Carrots Cabbages. Cocoa-nibs Butter Beef Fat . Cod-liver Oil . Lump Sugar Commercial Grape Sugar Bass's Pale Ale (bottled) Guiness's Stout Weight in lbs. Price q^^^ required. per lb s. d. R 1-156 0 10 0 5-068 0 1 0 7-815 0 H 0 1-281 0 2f 0 1-311 0 93 0 1-335 0 3| 0 1-341 0 4 0 1-287 1 0 1 2-345 0 2 0 3-532 1 0 3 4-300 1 0 4 3-001 1 6 4 3-124 0 8 2 6-369 1 4 9 8-745 0 6 4 2-209 0 H 1 1-377 16 0 22 8-021 5d. per qt. 1 9-685 0 ^ 1 12-020 0 1 1 0-735 1 6 1 0-693 1 6 1 0-556 0 10 0 0-553 3 6 1 1-505 0 6 1 }1-537 0 3* 0 j 9 bot. \ lOd. ) 1 p. bot. j 7 6f „ Do. 5 d. Hi iif 3^ H 54 4 H H 6 1 4 H H o| H H oi H 0^ 5* 111 3 6i Our last table shows the weight of various ARTICLES OF FOOD required to sustain respira- tion and CIRCULATION in the body of an average man during twenty-four hours. Name ot Toed. Cheshire Cheese Potatoes Apples Oatmeal Flour. Pea-meal Weight in Ounces. 3-0 13-4 20-7 3-4 3-5 3-5 NjLinfi of Pf»o<l Weight in Ounces. Ground Rice . 3-6 AjTowroot .... . 3-4 Bread .... . 6-4 Lean Beef.... . 9-3 Lean Veal.... . 11-4 Lean Ham, Boiled . 7-9 Mackerel .... 8-3 Whiting .... . 16-8 White of Egg . . 23-1 Hard-boiled Egg . 5-8 Gelatine .... . 3-6 Milt lYJLXliV .... 91-2 Carrots .... . 25-6 Cabbage .... . 31-8 Cocoa-nibs . 1-9 Butter • . . . . 1-8 Cod-liver Oil . . 1-5 Lump Sugar . 3-9 Commercial Grape Sugar . . 4-0 All food is either of animal or vegetable ongm. The former seems more allied to our nature, and is most easily assimilated to our nourishment; the latter, though digested with more difficulty, is the foundation of the former, as vegetables are the nourishment of animals, and all food is therefore properly derived from this source. The diet best suited to preserve a perfect state of health appears to be a combination of animal and vegetable food. There are few, says a medical authority, who subsist entirely on vegetables, and of these few the constitu- tions have generally inferior stamina. In hot climatea a vegetable diet may be carried to a great ^ptent without injury; while, on the other hand, some northern nations live almost entirely on animal food, and in a very cold atmosphere this may be indulged beyond what would otherwise be safe for the health of the body, so that a mixture of vegetable and animal nourishment appears best fitted for the health of mankind in general. In the matter of diet we are liable to commit errors, both as regards its quantity and quality. The error in the quantity is ordinarily the worse of the two. It should never be forgotten that we are not nourished, as Dr. Abernethy used to say, by what we eat, but by what we digest. Nature is easily satisfied, and is usually best provided for when we do not intrude upon her more than a small and mo- derate quantity of the most digestible animal and vegetable food, at regular intervals of four hours through the day. As to the quantity of food to be actually taken that must be regulated altogether by the appe- tite, the supply required, and the condition of health of the individual. The natural con- sequence of repletion is satiety, and before this takes place the stomach itself gives timely warn- ing. The weak, delicate, and sedentary require less food than the strong, robust, and active; infants need less than children, and children than adults. " There can be no doubt," remarks Dr. Graham, " that the majority of the more respectable inhabitants of Groat IBritain eat and drink twice as much as is necessary and bene- ficial; and this is nearly equally true of the same class of persons in most of the otheiPRO ( 668 ) PRO nations of Europe. It is a roinarkablo fact that almost all thoso who havo lived to a groat age have uniformly observed a very temperate dit^t, and in numerous instances of longevity it has boon scanty and coarse." In regard to the quality of our food, it ought to be varied in much the same way as the quantity. A keen and healthy appetite calls for a daily supply of animal and' other solid food, whilst the patient with a deficient and capri- cious appetite will often derive most bone tit from a vegetable diet. The sedentary and in- active, and those whose constitutions aro natur- ally delicate, do not require such nourishing ^ood as those of a strong robust frame, and others who are daily engaged in laborious work in the open air. Children need more animal food than infants, adults than children, men than women. " It may be safely said that the flesh of fuU- growTi animals is much more digestible and nutritious than that of their young, and as it respects the larger animals, this rule is without an exception. Beef and mutton, for example, are more easily digested and more wholesome than veal or lamb ; yet it may be proper some- times to give the preference to the latter in the case of patients who are convalescent from acute diseases, because they are less likely directly to excite heat or feverishness. Even here, how- ever, it will be found that where the stomach of the patient is very delicate and irritable, a little tender beef or mutton will produce much less heat and general uneasiaess than either veal or lamb, particularly the former. It may also be assumed, as a general rule, in^^ronic diseases and in health, that a solid diet is more digestible and better than a fluid one. In acute diseases it is the reverse. All salted meats are with difiiculty digested, and are unwholesome. Generally speaking, the flesh of tame animals is more wholesome than that of wild animals, the flesh of quadrupeds than birds, and that of birds than fishes." "There are," eays Dr. Doran, "upwards of seventeen hundred works extant on the subject of diet and digestion. Sufferers may study the question till they are driven mad by doubt and dyspepsia and differences of opinions among the doctors. Fordyce saw no use in the saliva, and Paris maintains that without it digestion is not. But Paris's book on diet is the safest guide I know for a man who, being dyspeptic, wants to cure himself, or simply to discover the define- ment of his sufferings. On the other hand, every man may find comfort in the reflection that with early hours, abundant exercise, generous diet, but not too much of it, and occupation— without which a worse devil than the former enters on possession of the victim—dyspepsia cannot assume a chronic form. It may be a casual visitor, but it wiU be the easiest thing possible to get rid of him." About the year 1823 some experiments were made on the subject of digestion by Dr. Beau- mont, of Boston, United States, under rather extraordinary circumstances. The result of these experiments is given in the following table, showing the mean time of digestion of various articles of diot:— Tahle Showing the Mean Time ov Diges- TION 01' THE DlFFEUENT AllTICLEH OF DiET. Articles of Diot. liice Sago Tapioca . ^ Barley . Milk . Ditto . Grelatino Pigs' Feet, Soused Tripe, Soused. Brains . Venison Steak Spinal Marrow Turkey, Domestic Ditto, ditto . Turkey, Wild Goose Pig, Sucking. Liver, Beef, Fresh Lamb, Fresh . Chicken, Full-grown Eggs, Fresh . Ditto . Ditto . Ditto . Ditto . Ditto, Whipped Custard Codfish, Cured, Dry Trout, Salmon, Fresh Ditto, ditto . Bass, Striped, Fresh Flounder, ditto Catfish, ditto . Salmon, Salted Oysters, Fresh Ditto, ditto Ditto, ditto Beef, Fresh, Lean, Eaw, Ditto, ditto. Dry Ditto, ditto, Steak Ditto, with Salt only Ditto, with Mustard Ditto, Fresh, Lean. Ditto, Old, Hard, Salted Pork, Steak . . ' . Pork, Fat and Lean Ditto, recently Salted . Ditto, ditto . Ditto, ditto . Ditto, ditto . Pork, recently Salted Mutton, Fresh Ditto, ditto . Ditto, ditto . Veal, Fresh . Ditto, ditto . Fowls, Domestic . Ditto, ditto . Ducks, ditto . Ditto, Wild . Suet, Beef, Fresh . Ditto, Mutton. Butter .... Cheese, Old, Strong Time re- Mode of Quirod for Digestiou. b. ni. Priiimration. Boiled . . 1 4/5 Ditto . . I 0 Ditto . . 2 0 ])itto . . 2 0 Ditto . . 2 0 Itaw . 2 IF) Boiled . . 2 30 Ditto . . 1 0 Ditto . . 1 0 Ditto . . 1 45 Boiled . . 1 35 Ditto . . 2 40 Roasted . 2 30 Boiled . . 2 25 Roasted . 2 18 Ditto . . 2 30 Ditto . . 2 30 Boiled . . 2 0 Ditto . . 2 3G Fricassee . 2 45 Hard-boiled . 3 30 Soft ditto . 3 0 Fried . . 3 30 Roasted . 2 15 Eaw Ditto . . 1 30 Baked . . 2 45 Boiled . . 2 0 Ditto . . 1 30 Fried . . 1 30 Broiled. . 3 0 Fried . . 3 30 Ditto . . 3 30 BoQed . . 4 0 Raw . 2 55 Roasted . 3 15 Stewed . . 3 30 Roasted . 3 0 Ditto . . 3 30 Broiled. . 3 0 Boiled . . 2 45 Ditto . . 3 30 Fried . . 4 0 Boiled . . 4 15 Broiled. . 3 15 Roasted . 5 15 Boiled . . 4 30 Fried . . 4 16 Broiled. . 3 15 Raw . 3 0 Stewed. . 3 0 Roasted . 3 15 Broiled. . 3 0 Boiled . . 3 0 Broiled. . 4 0 Fried . . 4 30 Boiled . . 4 0 Ronsted . 4 0 Ditto . . 4 0 Ditto . . 4 30 Boiled . . 5 3 Ditto . . 4 30 Melted . . 3 30 liaw . 3 30 »PRO pRir ( 659 ) Articles of Diet. Soup, Beef, Vegetables, and Bread . Soup, Marrow-bones Ditto, Beans . Ditto, Barley . Ditto, Mutton Green Corn and Beans . Chicken Soup. Oyster ditto . Hashed Meat and Vege- tables . . Sausage, Fresh Heart, Animal Tendon .... Cartilage Aponeurosis . Beans, Pod . Bread, Wheaten, Fresh Ditto, Com . Cake, ditto Ditto, Sponge. Dumpling, Apple . Apples, Sour and Hard . Ditto, ditto. Mellow Ditto, Sweet ditto Parsnips Carrots, Orange Beet Turnips, Flat. Potatoes, Irish Ditto, ditto . Ditto, ditto Cabbage Head Ditto, wath Vinegar Ditto, ditto From these details, and the whole coxrrse of his experiments. Dr. Beaumont drew a number of inferences, of which the following were the most important:— " That stimulating condiments are injurious to the healthy stomach." " That the use of ardent spirits always pro- duces disease in the stomach, if persevered in." " That the quantity of food generally taken is more than the wants of the system require; and that such excess, if persevered in, gener- ally produces not only functional aberration, but disease of the coats of the stomach." " That bulk as well as nutriment is necessary to the articles of diet." " That the digestibility of aliment does not depend upon the quantity of nutrient principles that it contains." " That gentle exercise facilitates the digestion of food." " That the time required for that purpose is various, depending iipon the quantity and quality of the food, state of the stomach, &c.; but that the time ordinarily required for the dispersal of a moderate meal of the fibrous parts of meat, with bread, &c., is from three to three and a half hours." Provencal Potage, Bouillabaisse.— Take any kind of fish, but tho best are whiting, dory, haddock, or cod. Fillet the fish and trim it. Put in a frying-pan an onion sliced, a clove of garlic, some parsley finely chopped. Time re- Mode of quired for jzi cpu.rUiXJ.uii* "Oiirestion. h. m. Boiled . . 4 0 Ditto . . 4 15 Ditto . . 3 0 Ditto . . I 30 Ditto . . 3 30 Ditto . . 3 45 Ditto . . 3 0 Ditto . . 3 30 Warmed . 2 30 Broiled. . 3 20 Fried . . 4 0 Boiled . . 5 30 Ditto . . 4 15 Ditto . . 3 0 Ditto . . 2 30 Baked . . 3 30 Ditto . . 3 15 Ditto . . 3 0 Ditto . . 2 30 Boiled . -30 Raw . 2 60 Ditto . . 2 0 Ditto . . 1 30 Boiled . . 2 30 Ditto . . 3 15 Ditto . . 3 45 Ditto . . 3 30 Ditto . . 3 30 Roasted . 2 30 Baked . . 2 30 Raw . 2 30 Ditto . . 2 0 Boiled . . 4 30 a bit of lemon or orange-peel, some salt, popper, spice, saifron, with a pint of water, a table- spoonful of oil and a glass of light wine for each pound of fish. Add tho fish filleted. Stii- the potage, and put it on a quick fire for a quarter of an hour till it bubbles. Let it remain now on the fire for five minutes; add a bit of butter mixed with flour, and serve. Fennel and bay-leaf may be added, if liked. Provencal Potage, Bouillabaisse (another way).—This way is for mackerel, sar- dines, herrings, or any otber rich fish. Take the fish and cut them ia fillets. Put in a stew- pan some leeks cut fine. Add some oil, or a. little melted butter, then put in the fish, well floured. Let them brown well, turning the fillets during five or six minutes. Add a glassful of water for every guest who ia to partake of the potage, along T\dth an onion, cloves, lemon- peel, pepper, salt, spice, and safEron, dissolved in butter or oil. Boil quickly for a quarter of an hour; add a roux; let the potage remain for five minutes at the fire, and then serve as in the last recipe. Proven9ale Sauce.—Put a spoonful of salad oil into a stewpan with a clove of garlic, a table-spoonful of chopped shallots, and three table-spoonfuls of chopped raw mushrcoms. Stir these ingredients over the fire for five minutes., then add a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a glass- ful of sherry, half a tea-spoonful of pepper- corns, and half a blade of mace. Simmer gently for a quax-ter of an hour. Take out the herbs- and garlic, and add two table-spoonfuls more^ stock, and a little salt if required. Simmer five; minui^k carefully skim the sauce, rub it thxoughi a fine TO,ir-sieve, heat it again, and serve very- hot. A table-spoonful of lemon-juice should! be added at the last moment, or, if preferred, three or four ripe tomatoes may be boiled in the sauce rmtU they are soft enough to pass through the sieve. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain. SuiEcient for four or five persons. Prune Pudding. — Wasb and stone a pound of prunes. Blanch the kernels, and simmer them with, three-quarters of a pint of water, a glassful of port, and a table-spoonful of sugar, till they are quite soft. Line a mould with pieces of the crumb of bread which have been soaked in clarified butter. Poiir in the stewed prunes gently, so as not to displace the bread, and add a table-spoonful of marmalade. Cover the fruit with a layer of bread, tie a piece of buttered paper over the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Or, stew the fruit as above, mix with it half an ounce of dissolved isinglass, pour it into a mould, and when it is set, turn out, and serve. Time to bake, one hour. Pro- bable cost of prunes, 4d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight jjersons. Prune Pudding (another waj'^).—Beat a tea-cupful of flour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Add two well-beaten eggs, a pinch of salt, and as much milk as will make a rather thick batter. Wash half a pound of pnmes, and simmer them in a little water tiU they are quite soft. Drain off the liquid, take out the stones, sprinkle a little flour over the prune?, and then stir them into the pudding. Dip a cloth into boiling water,PRtT ( 660 ) wring it well, and drodgo a littlo flour over it. I'onv tlio piidiliiif^ into it, and tie it Hocuroly, but loavci !i littlo room for tho pudding to swell, riungo it into boiling water, and keep tho pud- ding boiling until it is done enough. Horvo with sweet sauce. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cost, 7d. SulKcient for live or six persons. Prune Roly-poly Pudding. — Wash and stone a pound of prunes. lUanch the kernels, and put thorn into a stowpan with tho fruit, a table-spoonful of moist sugar, half a pint of water, and a glassful of port. Boil tho prunes to a thick paste. lloU out a piece of pastry, such as is used for boiled pudding, a third of an inch thick. Spread the fruit upon it, moisten the edges, and make it into a roll. Fasten the ends securely. Tie the pudding in a tloured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil it quickly till done enough. Send wine sauce to table with it. Time to boil, about two hours and a half. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Prune Sauce for Puddings.—Wash a quarter of a pound of prunes, and simmer them in as much water as will cover them until they are quite soft. Drain and stone them, and blanch the kernels. Put fruit and kernels into a stewpan with the liquid in which they were boiled, a glassful of wine, the strained juice of half a lemon, a small strip of thin lemon-rind, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a pinch of powdered cinnamon. Simmer gently for ten minutes, then rub the sauce with the back of a wooden spoon through a ^arse sieve. If the pulp is too thick, dilute ita^th a little water. Time, one hour. Probable cost of prunes, 4d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Prunes and Prunelloes.—Prunes and prunelloes are a sort of dried plums, of which there are many varieties. The finest prunes come to us from France, large quantities being exported from Bordeaux. The best prunes are packed in hampers or baskets made of white osiers, weighing from six to ten pounds each. Prunes, when stewed, form an excellent article of diet for convalescents or persons in delicate health, as they act as gentle laxatives. Prunes, Stewed, for Dessert.—Wash the prunes, and let them soak all night in as much water as will cover them. Lift them out, and let the liquid stand a little while, then drain it from the sediment, and put it into a stewpan with a small quantity of sugar, if desired, and a little lemon-rind and cinnamon for flavouring. Stew gently for half an hour. Add as much wine as may be wished—port is the most suitable for the purpose—and stew twenty minutes longer; serve cold, in a glass dish. Probable cost of prunes, 4d. to Is. per pound. Prunes, Tisane of, for Irritation of the Throat,—This simple beverage, if sipped in small quantiticis at intervals, will greatly re- lieve ii-ritation of the vocal organs. If it is too sweet to be agreeable it may bo diluted with water, or oven sharpened with strained lemon- juice. Boil half a poimd of prunes in a quart ^—— of water for three-quarters of an hour, and keep up tli(! (piantity of the liquor l^y adding a littlo fresli water occaHionally. Pour ofl' tho liquor, and when cold it is roftdy for una. Few children will refuse to eat the prunes after they have been boiled. Probable Wist of prunes, 4d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for a quart of liquor. Prussian Balls,—Knead half a pound of ilour with lialf an ounce of fresh yeast and as inuch milk as will make a stiff dough. Put it into a bowl, throw a wanu cloth over it, and set it by the fire to rise. When it is light, mix it up with an ounce and a half of clarified butter, two weU-beaten eggs, and a table-spoonful of powdered sugar flavoured with lemon-rind, and knead it until it leaves the sides of the bowl in a lump. Make it into little balls, insert inside each one a tea-spoonful of good jam, and close the aperture. Put tho baUs on a floured paper, and lay this on a tin; put it in a warm place, and let them rise once more. When light, throw them into hot fat, and fry till they are lightly and equally browned all over. Drain them well, servo on a hot dish, and sift powdered sugar thickly over them. Time, five minutes or more, according to size. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Prussian Cutlets.—Take a pound of lean meat—beef, mutton, or veal—and two ounces of fat Cut it into dice, and mix with it a little salt and pepper, and four ounces of bread-crumbs, a dessert-spoonful of finely-minced onion, and the eighth of a nutmeg grated. Mix the meat with the seasoning, and bind it together with egg yolk. Divide it into portions the size of an egg, press it well together, and make it up into the shape of cutlets. Stick a little piece of bone in at the nan-ow end, and brush the cutlets over twice with beaten egg. Sprinkle grated bread-crumbs thickly over them, and fry in hot fat over a slow fire till they are brightly browned, then brush them over witli glaze. Place them in a circle roimd a hot dish, and put a mound of hot dressed vegetables in the centre. Send good brown gra\y, tomato, Robert, or onion sauce to table in a tureen. Time to fry the cutlets, ten minutes. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient, one or two for each person. Prussian Soup.—Cut two heads of celery into small pii3ces, and put them into a stewpan with three ounces of dripping, two carrots, two turnips, two onions, two locks, and a pound of potatoes; the vegetables must all be cut up small. Fry until they are soft, which vnR bo in about twenty minutes. Put with them half a pound of lean beef or mutton cut into slices, cover the saucepan closely, let the ingredients steam gently for an hour, and be very careful that they do not bum. Pour over them two quarts of water, and add a pint of split peas soaked for twelve hours or more. Bring the liquor to the point of boiling, and skim carc- fullv. Draw it back, and lot it simmer for three hours. Press the vegetables through a co- lander, season the soup with salt and pepper, and, if liked, a little dried mint: boil it up again, and serve very hot. The peas may, if(661 ) PRU PUB liked, be omitted, and a little brown thickening may be boiled with the soup. This economical dish is very popular in Prussia, hence its name, 'lime, five horns or more, according to the quality of the peas. Probable cost, 4d. a pint. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Prussienne Charlotte {see Charlotte,. Prussienne). Ptarmigan. — The ptarmigan, or white grouse, is found on the summit of mountains, in cold bleak situations, and is keenly sought after by many sportsmen. Its flesh has a pecu- liar and bitter taste, much relished by epicures. It should be hung as long as possible before being dressed. It is about the same size as the red grouse. Ptarmigan, Roasted.—Hang the birds as long as possible. Pluck and draw them carefully, and truss like grouse. Baste liber- ally, and just before they are done enough flour and froth them nicely. Serve very hot, either on fried bread-crumbs or on buttered toast, and send brown gravy and bread sauce to table with them. Time to roast, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. each. Sufficient, two for a dish. Ptarmigan Salad.—Take the remains of cold roast ptarmigan, or, if liked, roast a bird specially for the purpose, and in this case let it be slightly under-dxessed. Cut it into neat joints, and lay these aside until wanted. Wash any fresh salad that may be in season in salted water, and dry it carefully by putting it after it has been washed, a smaU quantity at a time, into a dry napkin, and then taking this up by the four comers and shaking the moisture from it. Put a layer of the salad at the bottom of a dish, lay the inferior joints of the bird upon it, and cover each piece with sauce. Cover these %vith the remainder of the salad, and lay the rest of the bird upon it; pour sauce over the whole, and serve. The sauce may be made as follows:—Beat the yolk of an egg for a minute. Mix with it a large pinch of salt, half a, tea- spoonful of powdered sugar, a tea-spoonful of finely-minced shallot, and the same of chopped parsley, tarragon, or chervil. Stir in, first in drops and afterwards in tea-spoonfuls, foui- table-spoonfuls of best aalad-oil, and beat the sauce briskly between each addition. Add gradually two table-spoonfuls of chilli vinegar, and set the sauce in a cool place till it is wanted. Before using, mix with it a quarter of a pint of thick cream. The salad should not be arranged upon the dish until just before it is wanted. It may be garnished in any way that fancy dictates. It looks very pretty as follows :—Place a thin flat rim of butter round the dish on which the salad is to be served. Cut four hard-boiled eggs into half-quarters lengthwise, and stick the pieces upon the butter, placing the yolk and the white alternately to the outside. Arrange round the salad, and rest- ing upon the top of the eggs, a sort of trellis- work of beetroot cut into thin slices. Pour the white sauce over the salad, and sprinkle over it half a dozen parsley-leaves broken into small pieces. Serve as soon as possible after the sauce is poured on. A salad garnished in this way would have to be served on a flat dish, and not in a salad-bowl. Time, half an hour to roast the bird. Sufficient for five or six per- sons. Probable cost of ptarmigans. Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. each. Public Dietaries.—For the following details on this subject we are indebted to the "Inventory of the Food Collection" at Bethnal Green Museum, to which we are already under obligation. The experience of nations in the support of persons depending upon public diets, such as the soldier, sailor, pauper, or prisoner, gives data for determining the quantity of flesh-formers and force-pro- ducers required for support under different conditions, however varied may be the sub- stances composing the dietaries. It is curious to observe the amount of flesh-formers and of the carbon (charcoal) in the food of soldiers and sailors in different countries. Carbon is the element which chiefly determines the value of the force-producers. As a general rule, men in fighting condition require a daily supply of five or six ounces of flesh-formers and ten ounces of carbon. The English soldier requires, both in this country and in India, five ounces daily of flesh- formers in food. This must also contain ten ounces of cai'bon. The English sailor requires five ounces of flesh-formers in food, and consumes daily ten ounces of carbon. In his salt meat dietary he has nearly six ounces of flesh-formers daily, and twelve ounces of carbon. This may be necesagiy, from the less digestible nature of the The Dutch soldier when in war receives five ounces daily of flesh-formers in his food, to- gether with ten ounces and a half of carbon. When living in peace, or in gairison, he has a lower diet, in which there are only three ounces and a half of flesh-formers and ten ounces of carbon. He is no longer in " fighting condi- tion." The French soldier, although his diet is of a very different description fi'om the soldier of our own country, receives nearly the same amount of flesh-formers in his food—namely, four ounces and three-quarters, and twelve ounces of carbon. The French soldier, unlike the Dutchman, is thus always kept in " fighting condition." When the British soldier retires to Chelsea Hospital, or the sailor to Greenwich Hospital, he does not require such a large amount of flesh-formers in his food : these are reduced to between three and four ounces daily. To be exact, Greenwich pensioners have three ounces and a half of flesh-formers and ten ounces of carbon daily in their food. Pensioners of Chel- sea Hospital have four ounces of flesh-formers and nine ounces and three-quarters of carbon daily. Paupers in workhouses, not being exposed to much labour, require less flesh-fonners in food than active soldiers and sailors. Taking the average of all the workhouses in the kingdom, it is found that paupers have daily three ounces and a quarter of flosh-formers and eight ounces and a quarter of carbon.PUG ( 662 ) PUD Boys ton years old at school receive about ono-half tho tlosli-formors of active men, and about tlinHi-fourths tho quantity of carbon. The boys of tv^« lioyal Naval School at Clroon- ■wich liavu two ounces and a half of liosh- formoia and soven ounces and a half of carbon in thoir food daily. Tho boys of Clirist's Hospital, London, have daily two ounces and a half of flosh-fornioi-s and seven ounces of carbon. Puchero, Spanish.—This is a Spanish soup. Like tho "pot-au-fou" in France, it ap- pears daily at tho tables of families in Spain. T;ike two pounds of brisket of beef, place them in an cartlion stock-pot with a pig's car, tho gib- lets of a chicken, half a pound of blanched ham or salted pork, and three handfuls of softened " garbani^os." Moisten the meats with five or six quarts of water, put the stock-pot on the fire, skim, and when the liquid begins to boil, set it on one side. After two hours, add to the soup two leeks tied together, a bunch of chervil, a pinch of wild mint, a slice of good pumpkin from which the peel and seed have been re- moved, a large carrot, a head of cabbage-lettuce, and half a blanched savoy cabbage. After another hour add a " choriso," and continue to boil moderately. Before serving, remove the stock-pot from the fire, pass the soup gently through a sieve into a stewpan, and from that pour it into a tureen. Add the leeks and let- tuces cut up, and some slices of fried toast. Place the beef on a dish, surrounded with the " choriso," the vegetables, and the ham. The meats appear at table with the soup. To be thorougidy appreciated, puchero must be eaten in Spain. Pudding-Moulds (se^ Illustration ac- companying the article ov Aunt Elizabeth's Pudding). Pudding-Pies.—Put a pint of milk into a saucepan with a little thin lemon-rind, mix with it two ounces of ground rice, and keep it stirred over the fire until it is thick and free from lumps. Pour it into a bowl, stir into it a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and add a pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of white sugar, a little grated nutmeg, two eggs, and a heaped table-spoonful of currants. Stir the rice occasionally until it is cool. Line some large patty-pans with good pastry rolled very thin, three-parts fill them with the mix- ture, and bake in a gentle oven. These pud- dings may be made larger by increasing the quantities in the proper proportion, and richer by putting in a little more butter and an additional egg or two. If liked, the currants can be strewed over the pudding-pies just before they are put into the oven instead of being stirred into it. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 9d. SuSfficient for five or six persons. Pudding Sauce, Caremes (the Chandot).—Beat the yolks of two eggs, to which add half a pint of madeira and four ounces of pounded sugar. Set this upon v.mbers or a slow fire, and mill it with a chocolate mill. It will thicken and become smooth, and is a superior pudding sauce. Serve in a sauce- tureen, and the moulded pudding without sauce. The chandot answers well for all kinds of plum or other ricli puddings. Pudding Sauces, Sweet.—When any unusual sauce is appropriate to a pudding, the recipe is either given in this work with it, or a reference is made to it. The most usual saucMiH for puddings an,-—sweetsauce, wine siiuce.arrow- root sauces, and fruit sauces. They are made as follows :—fiweet Sauce.—Sweeten a little good ; melted butter, and flavour it with grated l<;mon- ! rind, nutmeg, or powdered cinnamon. Strew a little of the grate over the top, and serve in a tureen. A little wine or brandy miiy be added at pleasure. This sauce is suitable for almost all ordinary boiled puddings. Wine Sauce.—Boil the thin rind of half a lemon or hall' an orange in a wine-glassful of water till the flavour is extracted. Take out the lind, and thicken the sauce by stirring into it a salt-spoonful of flour which has been mixed smoothly with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Boil for a minute, then add half a tumblerful of any good wine. Let the sauce get quite hot without boiling, sweeten, and serve. If port is used, the juice of the lemon may be added. A Superior Wine Sauce.—Take half a tumblerful of light wine (madeira or sherry), and mix thoroughly with it the well- beaten yolks of two eggs. Place the jar in boUiug water, add a Little sugar, and whisk over the fire till it is nicely frothed. Serve at once. Arrowroot Sauce, —Mix a table-spoonfiil of arrowroot smoothly, with a little cold water. Add the third of a pint of water, a glassful of wine, the juice of a lemon, and sugar and flavouring. Stir the sauce OA'er the fire tiU it boils. This sauce may be varied by omitting the wine, and using mUk or milk-and-water with the arrowroot. The juice of almost any fruit, too, may be boiled with the arro^Toot. Fruit Sauces.—Boil fruit (almost any kind may be used) with a little water until it is quite soft. Rub it with the back of a wooden simoon through a fine sieve. Sweeten to taste, make it ht>t, and pour the sauce over the boiled or steamed puddings. Puddings.—Without pretending to make a skilful cook by book, we believe that any in- teUigent beginner may compound a good pud- ding by attending to the following simple rules and plain directions:—Attention is all that is required, and a Httle manual dexterity in turn- ing the pudding out of the mould or cloth. Let the several ingredients be each fresh and good of its kind, as one bad article, particularly eggs, will taint the whole composition. Have the moulds and pudding-cloths carefully washed when used, the cloths ^vith wood ashes, and dried in the open air. Lay them aside sweet and thoroughly dry. Puddings ought to be put into plenty of boiling water, which must be kept upon a quick boil; or baked, in general in a shai-p but not scorching oven. A pudding in which there is much bread must be tied loosely, to allow room for swelling. A battrr purfding ought to be tied up firmly. Moulds should be quite full, well buttered." and covered -wnlh a fold or two of paper floured and bTitlored. Eggs for puddings must be used in greater( 663 ) PUD PUD quantity when of small size. The yolks and whites, if the pudding is wanted particuliirly li<>-ht and nice, should be strained after being separately well beaten. A little salt is neces- sary for all potato, bean, or peaa puddings, and all puddings in which there is suet or meat, as it improves the flavour. The several ingredients, after being well stirred together, should in general have a little time to stand, that the flavours may blend. A frequent fault of boiled puddings, which are often solid bodies, is being underdone. Baked puddings are as often scorched. Puddings may be steamed with advantage, placing the mould or basin in the steamer, or three-parts dipped in a pot of boiling water, which must be kept boilrag, and fiUed up as the water wastes. When the pud- ding-clotha are to be used, dip them ia hot water, and dredge them with flour; the moulds must be buttered. Plain moulds or basins are easily managed. "When a pudding begins to set, stir it up in the dish, if it is desired that the fruit, &c., should not settle to the bottom ; and, if boiled, turn over the cloth in the pot ibr the same reason, and also to prevent it from sticking to the bottom, on which a plate may be laid as a preventative. The time of boiling must be according to size and solidity. Large puddings are sometimes tethered to the ring of a twelve or fifteen-poimd weight, to keep them below water in the pot. When the pudding is taken out of the pot, dip it quickly into cold water. Set it in a laasin of its size. It will then more readily separate from the cloth with- out breaking. Have the oven very clean for all uses, cleaning it regiilarly before lighting the fire. Take care that the jxiice of pies does not boil over, or the liquid contents of puddings; and remember that sugar, butter, and suet be- come liquids in boiUng. It is from their excess that puddings often break. Be, therefore, rather sparing of sugar ; for if you have much syrup you must have more eggs and flour, which make puddings heavy. It is often the quantity of sugar which makes tapioca and arrowi-oot, boiled plain, troublesome to keep in shape when moulded, liice or other grain pud- dings must not be allowed to boil in the oven before setting, or the ingredients will separate and never set; so never put them into a very hot oven. As a rule, we may assume that such flavouring ingredients as lemon-grate and juice, vanilla, and cocoa-nut, are more admired in modem puddings than cinnamon, cloves, and . nutmeg. Care must be taken to mix batter pud- dings smoothly. Let the dried flour be gradu- ally mixed with a little of the milk, as in making mustard or starch, and afterwards, in nice cookery, strain the latter through a coarse sieve. Puddings are lighter boiled than baked. Raisins, prunes, and damsons for puddings must be care- f >illy stoned; or sultanas may be used in place of other raisins. Currants must be picked and plunged in hot water, rubbed in a floured cloth, and plumped and dried before the fire; almonds must be bLanched and sliced; and in mixing grated bread, pounded biscuit, &c., with milk, pour the milk on them hot, and cover the vessel for an hour, which is both better and easier than boiling. Suet must be quite fresh and free of fibres. Mutton suet for puddings is lighter than that of beef: but marrow, when it dan be obtained, is richer than either. A baked pudding for company has often a paste border or a garnishing of blanched and sliced almonds about it, but these borders are merely matters of ornament; if moulded, puddings may also be garnished in various ways, as with bits of currant jelly. The best seasoning for plain batter puddings are conserve of Seville orange, lemon-rind, lemon brandy, or orange- flower water. The sweetness and flavour of puddings must, in most cases, be determined by individual taste. Sugar can be added at table. Very good puddings can be made without eggs; but they must have as little milk as will mix, and must boil three or foiu- hours. A few spoonfuls of fresh small beer, or one of yeast, will answer instead of eggs. Or snow is an excellent substitute for eggs, either in puddings or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will supply the place of one egg, and the article it is used in will be equally good. This is a useful piece of information, especially as snow often falls at the season when eggs are dearest. The snow may be taken up before it is wanted, and will not lose in virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. " Batter puddings," says Dr. ELitchener, " must be quite smooth and free from lumps. To insure this, first mix the flour with a little milk, add the remainder by degrees, and then the other ingredients. If it is a plain pudding, put it through a hair-sieve — this will take out all liimps efiectually. Batter puddings should be tied up tight; if boiled in a mould, butter it first; if baked, also butter the pan. Be sure the water boils before you put in the pudding, set your stewpan on a trivet over the fire, and keep it steadily boiling all the time. If set upon the fire the pudding often bums. " Be scrupulously careful that your pudding- cloth is perfectly sweet and clean; wash it without any soap, then rinse it thoroughly in clean water after. Immediately before you use it, dip it in boiling water, squeeze it dry, and dredge it with flour. If your fire is very fierce, mind and stir the puddings every now and then to keep them from sticlang to the bottom of the saucepan. If in a mould, this care is not so much required; but keep plenty of water in the saucepan. When puddings are boiled in a cloth, it should be just dipped in a basin of cold water before you untie the pudding-cloth. " Currants, previous to putting them into the pudding, should be plumped. This is done by pouring some boiling water upon them. Wash them well, and then lay them on a sieve or cloth before the fire; pick them clean from the stones. This not only makes them look better, but cleanses them from aU dirt. Raisins, figs, dried cherries, candied orange and lemon-peel, citron, and preserves of all kinds, fresh frmts, gooseberries, currants, plums, damsons, &c., are added to batter and suet puddings, or inclosed in the cmst ordered for apple dumplings, and make all the various puddmgs called by tliose names. '' Plum puddings, when boiled, if hung up inPUD PUD a cool place in the cloth they are boiled in, will keep good some months. When wanted, take them out of the cloth, and put them into a clean cloth, and as soon as warmed through they are ready." According to Soyer, every sort of pudding, if Bweot or savoury, is bettor dressed in a basin than a cloth. If boiled in a basin, the paste receives all the nutriment of the materials, which, if boiled in a cloth, are dissolved out by the water, when by neglect it ceases boiling. To cause puddings to tui-n out well, the inside of tli(! basin should bo thoroughly larded or rubbed with butter. In preparing meat puddings, " the first and most important point is never to use any meat that is tainted; for in puddings, above all other dishes, it is least possible to disguise it by the confined process which the ingredients undergo. The gradual heating of the meat, which alone would accelerate decomposition, will cause the smallest piece of tainted meat to contaminate the rest. Be particular also that the suet and fat are not rancid, always remembering the f^raud principle that everything which gratifies the palate nourishes." A pudding-cloth, however coarse, should never be washed with soap ; it should just be (h-ied as quickly as possible, and kept dry and tree from dust, and stowed away in a drawer or cupboard free from smell. Recipes for the following puddings will be found imder their respective headings:— Acidulated Adelaide Agnew Albemarle Albert Albert's, Prince Alderman's Almond, Boiled Almond, Jewish Almond, Plain Almond, Eich Almond, Sauce for Almond and Bread Almond and Potato Almond and Raisin Amber Ambrose Apple, Alexandra's Apple, Baked Apple, Baked, Rich Apple Batter Apple, Boiled Apple Cake Apple Charlotte Apple Custard Apple, Mother's Apple, Nottingham Apple Plum Apple Roly-poly Apple Swiss Apples and Almonds Apples and Apri- cots, Charlotte AruicoT Apricot, Baked Apricot Charlotte Arrobiv Arrowroot Arrowroot, Plain Arrowroot, Steamed Ashantee Asparagus Aunt Alice's Aunt Elizabeth's Aunt Mary's Aunt Susie's Austrian Bachelor's Bakewell Bakewell, Rich Batley Batter, Baked Batter, Baked, and Apples Batter, Boiled Beans, French Beef Steak and Kidney Beef Steak, Baked Bermuda Bernese Bird's-nest Black Black (a la Fran- 9ai8e) Black-cap Black Currant Bread Bread and Meat, Portable Bread, Boiled Bread, Bkoken Bread, Buown Bread-custard Bread, with Onions Bun Cabinet, Boiled Cabinet, Cold Cabinet, Plain CaI INKT, Rich Canadian Canterbury Caurot, Baked or Boiled Cassell Chancellor Cheese Cheltenham Cherry, Baked Cherry, Boiled Che.ster Chestnut Chichester Chicken and Maca- roni Chicken and Rice Chocolate Christmas Plum Christmas Plum, for Children Christmas Plum, Economical Christmas, Tee- totaller's Citron Citron and Almond Clarendon Cleton COBURG Cocoa-nut Cold College College, Baked Conservative Corn, American Corn-flour Corn-flour, Baked Corn-flour Custard Corn-flour Fruit Corn-flour Souffl^ Corn-meal Cottage Cottage Bread Cottage Plum Cottage Potato Counsellor's Cream, Rich Crumpet and Muffin Crust, Butter for Crust, Suet for Cup Curate's CUKD Currant Currant, Boiled Custard, Baked CusTAHD, Boiled Dame Jane's Damkorf Da.mson Pelaville Delaware Deptford Devonian Devonshire Brandi Duke of Norfolk's Duke of Northum- berland's Emi'kekh's ElCliCHTHEUM Erfurt, or German Eve's Exeter Fat or Marrow Fio FlKII Fish, Plain Flame Flour Flour, Hasty Folkestone French French Plum Fruit Fruit, Paste for Fruit, Sauce for Fruit, Suet Fun Geneva George German, Baked German, Boiled German Brown Bread German Rice German, Sauce for Ginger Ginger and Bread Gingerbread Ginger Souffle Gloucester Golden GOOSEBEKRY', BaKED Gooseberry and Rice Gotham Green Bean Greengage Ground Rice Ground Rice, Rich Guernsey Half-pound Hampshire Hannah More's Harrogate Hasty Hasty, Baked Hasty, Oatmeal Hasty, or Faumfk's Rice Hedgehog Henriette Herb Her Ma.)esty'8 Herodotus Hide and Seek Hillsboko' Hilton Hog or Black Hunteu's Huntek's Bread and Meat Iced Indian Indian, BakedPUD ( 665 ) PUD Indian, Cheap Inooldsby, Chkist- MAS Irish, Black Italian Italian, Boiled Jam RoLY-yoLY Jejune Jelly Jenny's Jersey Jewish Almond Jubilee Judy's Kentish Suet Kidney Kidney and Liver Lady Abbess's Lamartine's Lamb Larks in Batter Leamington Leicester Lemon, Baked Lemon, Baked, Plain Lemon, Boiled Lemon Bread, Baked Lemon Bread, Boiled Lemon Roly-poly Little Mary's Cup Liver Macaroni Macaroni, Parisian Macaroni, Plain Macaroon Madeira Madonna Malvern Manchester Mandarin Manna Croup Mansfield Marchioness Marlborough Marmalade,Orange Marrow Marrow, Baked or Mary's [Boiled Meal Meal in Skins Merton Almond Middleton Miles Standibh Military Millet Milton Mixed Fruit Molly Clark's Monmouth Montagu Montreal Mother Eve's Muffins Neapolitan Cus- Nectakine [tard Nehselkode Neukchatel Nbw Colleob Newmarket Nonesuch Norwegian Nottingham nouilles Oatmeal, Hasty Orange Orange, Boiled Orange Marmalade Oran GE Marmalade, Baked Orange Marmalade Orleans[and Bread Oxford Palestine PAliADISB Paris Parliament Partridge Paste, Suet, for Peas [Boiled Peas, Superlative Peasant's Peninsula Pigeon Pine Apple Plum (several) Plumbe's Arrow- Polenta [root Polish Pomfret Pompadour Poor Epicure's Poor Knight's Porcupine Pork Portland Portuguese Potato (several) Prince Consort Prince Frederick's Prunes Pudding in Haste Pudding Pies Pudding Sauce Pudding for Inva- Puff [lids Pumpkin Puritan's Quaking Queen Adelaide's Queen Mab's Queen's Quince Rabbit Radical Raisin Ramakin, or Cheese Raspberry Ratafia Recruit's Regent's Rhubarb Rhubarb AND Bread Richmond Rice (several) Roly-poly Romford's Plain Rotterdam [Indian Rump Steak Saffron Sago Salmon Saratoga" Sauce Saucer Sausage Save-all Savoy Saxon SCHODOH Semolina Shropshire Snipe Snowdon Souffle Souse Spanish Spongecake Strawberry and Custard Strawberry Hy- SUET [dROPATHIC Summer Sussex Swiss Swiss Cocoanut Tadcaster Tansy Tapioca (several) Tapioca and Apple Teal Tinned Meat Tiverton toad-in-a-holb Town Transparent Treacle, Rolled Trinity College Tun BRIDGE United States Upton uxbridgb Vanilla Custard Veal and Macaroni Veal Vegetable Vermicelli Vermicelli, Baked Vermicelli, Boiled Vice-Chancellor's Victoria Virginia Wafer Welsh West Country West Indian White Whiting Wholesome Fare Wilberforce Wiltshire Windsor Woodcock Yankee Pudding Yorkshire [Sauce Yule Zandrina Puddings for Invalids.—The simpler and lighter puddings for invalids are the more easily they will be digested. Wine or brandy should only be put into them when specially ordered, and as to sugar, cream, and flavouring, the taste of the patient should be ascertained before they are added. Sick people have generally a great objection to highly-flavoured dishes. The following is a light little pudding, and can be quickly prepared:—Beat a tea- spoonful of flour to a smooth paste, and pour over it a tea-cupful of boiling milk, which has been lightly flavoured with lemon or cinnamon. Add a pinch of salt and a tea-spoonful of sugar, and stir until the latter is dissolved. When the milk is cold, strain it, and stir into it a well- beaten egg. Pour the custard into a buttered basin, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn it out upon a hot plate, and, if approved, serve with a glassful of sherry or a little jam. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 3d Puddings in Haste. — Take a cupful each of flne-shred suet, finely-grated bread- crumbs, and picked and washed currants. Mix these ingredients with two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of sliced peel, and a pinch of salt. When the dry ingredients are well mixed, make them up into a light paste with two well-beaten eggs and half a cupful of milk. Wring some small cloths out of boiling water, flour them, and tie in each a small tea-cupful of themixturo. Plunge them into boiling water, and boil quickly. Turn them out on a hot dish, sprinkle white sugar thickly over them, and serve. Time to boil, twenty miputeg. Probable cost, 8d,( 666 ) PUP PUD Puddings. Plum Sauce for {see Plum Sauce for riiddings iintl Swoet Dishos). Puddings, Prune Sauce for {see Pruno Sauco). Puddings, Sweet, Punch Sauce for {see Punch Sauco). Puddings, Sweet Sauce for (seePoliuh Sauce for Swwit Pudding-s). Puddings, Sweet Sauce for {see Paris Sauce for Sweet Puddings). Puffets, American (for Breakfast).— Cream eight ounces of butter; add eight ounces of sugar and six eggs. Mix a pound and a half of flour with a pint and a half of milk; add the sugar, &c., a small cupful of yeast, and half a pound more flour. Let the mixture rise. Bake in patty-pans and serve hot. PuflB.n.—The size of the common pufiin is not much greater than that of a pigeon. These birds may be found congregating together in large numbers—^favourite breeding-places being covered with puflBlns, old and young, in thou- sands. Their haunts are chiefly unfrequented islands and headlands where there is some depth of soil. The flesh of the young birds is used as food. Pufl&ns are easily captured: the ap- proach of man does not readily frighten them, and many are captured by means of a noose at the end of a rod. This bird was formerly permitted by the Church to be used as food on Lenten days; but its flesh, unless pickled and spiced, is disagreeable, strong, and fishy. Puff Paste (see Paste Pufi, or Feuille- tage). Puff Paste, French.—Take the same quantity of butter as of flour, so that if you use two poimds of the one you must also use two pounds of the other; and so on. Weigh two pounds of very dry flour, and sift it; then lay it on the table, and make a very large hole in the middle; throw in a little pinch of salt, a few small pieces of butter, and three yolks of eggs; use a little cold water to melt the salt; take water enough to make the paste of the same consistency as the butter. In winter you must make the paste very firm, because then the butter is so; in summer you must make the paste very soft, on account of the butter being the same. The reason you are obliged to do so is, that if the paste were not made of the same substance as the butter, the latter, when you turn the paste, would break through. W^hen you have worked the flour lightly, mould it into a large ball, which flatten as quickly as possible; turn it into a spiral direction, and flatten the middle. Lay butter on the table, with a little water, handle it to extract the white liquid, and squeeze it in a clean towel, that no moisture may remain. Lay the ball of butter over the paste, flatten the butter with a cloth, then fold the paste over the butter all round, but in a square form, so as to wrap it well all over. Try whether the paste is firm cmough to prevent the butter from breaking through it. Now powder a little flour over the table and the paste. KolJ the paste as smooth as possible with the rolling-pin as long as you can ; fold it in three, and roll it over once again, taking care always to powder it over with a very little flour, to prevent it sticking to the table or to the rolling-pin. After hiiving spread it well, fold it again in three, l^lake two marks on tlio top with the rolling-pin, to remember tliat it lias ])e(;n rolled twice. Then put it into a plafond trimmed with a little flour : place it on the ground to keep it cool, and leave it there for a little while. Shortly after put the paste on the dresser, and proceed twice more as before; then let it rest again, and give it two turnings more, which makcis six in all. Now give it a long shape, and fold it in two. You may then use it to make a vol- an-vent: when, at the latter end, fold the paste double only, and that is what is called half a turning. Of course you are aware that the paste must have had six turnings and a half before you can make a vol-au-vent, and that you must keep the paste thicker than for other small articles of pastry. Cut the vol-au-vent the size of the dish in which it is to be sent up, and immediately after put it into a plafond; brush it over with yolks of egg, open it all round with the point of the knife, and put it in a very hot oven. Mind that puff paste always requires the oven to be very hot. If you are not careful to keep the oven shut the vol-au-vent will not rise properly. When it is well baked a fine colour, and you are certain that it is done through, take it out of the oven, remove the middle which served as a cover, empty and throw away the paste of the middle which is not baked, and lay the vol-au-vent cleanly on some paper to extract the butter. When you are ready to serve up, dish the vol-au-vent, and fill it with whatever you think proper. With regard to small articles of pastry, spread more puff paste, and cut it with cutters of different shapes; if intended for entrees, brush the paste over with yolks of eggs, but do not glaze it with sugar. By glazing is here meant the sifting of fijacly-powdered sugar over' the pastry when baked and emptied, and using over it a red-hot salamander, or else putting it into a very hot oven for the sugar to melt and glaze. Puff Paste, Household.—Beat out the water from ten ounces of butter. Rub two ounces of this into a pound of flour till it is quite fine, and add a pinch of salt. "NATiisk the white of an egg, and mix with it the juice of a lemon and a small quantity of water. Stir this into the flour to make a paste. RoUit out, and be careful to roll it one way and straight from you. Roll out the remainder of the butter, lay it on the paste, sift a little flour over it and the rolling-pin, fold the paste into three, and roll it out twice. Let it lie in a cool place for some time; an hour wiU do, but twelve hours will be better. Before using it roll it out very thin; it can scarcely be too thin. Bake in a quick oven. Be careful to handle the paste r.s lightly as possible, and to make it in a cool place wMh. cool hands. Puff Paste Patties, or Small Vol- au-Vents.—Make some puff paste. Give it eight turns, and put it in a cool place or on icePUti PUP ( 667 ) for a little while, then roU it out to tho thick- ness of a quarter of an inch. Take two plain or fluted pistry-cutters, one half the size of the other. Dip the larger into hot water, and stamp out as many rounds as are required. Place these on a baking-sheet, and brush them over with egg, then dip the smaller cutter into hot water, and press it about half through the rounds in the centre. Bake in a quick oven, and when they are done enough take out the small rounds of crust from the top with a sharp knife, and scoop out the crumb and the soft part from the inside. Before sending them to tiible fin the inside with any one of the difierent kinds of patty meats. These are com- posed of savoury minces, made of poultry, game, or fish. Lay the little lid on the top, and serve. Time to bake the patties, eighteen to twenty minutes. Puff Paste Kings or Pyramids (a pretty dish for a Juvenile Party).—Roll out some good puff paste to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Stamp it out first in a roimd the size of the inside of the dish upon which the pastry is to be served, and after- wards in rounds, gradually decreasing in size, until one is cut to lay on the top of the pyra- mid. Brush these rings over with egg, and bake them separately on baking-sheets till they are done enough. Lay them one on the top of the other in gradation, spread bright- coloured jam of different colours on the rims, and crown the pyramid with a dried apricot, or any suitable ornament. If liked, three or four small pyramids may be made instead of one large one. Tho roimds may then be formed into rings by stamping a small cutter through the centre, tho holes in the rings may be filled with bright-coloured jam, and the pastry may be covered with sifted sugar. Time to bake the rounds, fifteen to twenty-five minutes, accord- ing to size. Puff Paste Tartlets.—Take half a pound of puff paste and give it eight turns; roU it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Dip a plaia or fluted cutter, an inch and three- quarters in diameter, into hot water, and stamp out as many rounds as will be required. Gather the trimmings of the paste together, and roll it to the thickness of the sixth of an inch. Dip the cutter again in hot water, stamp out again the same number of rounds, and form them into rings, by pressing a smaller cutter, an inch in diameter, quite through them. Moisten the edges of the rounds, and lay the rings upon them to form the rims of the tartlets. Bake in a mode- rate oven, and whilst they are warm fill them with good jam. Place upon this a little orna- ment of pastry, made of the remnants. If the tartlets are wanted hot, put them into the oven for a minute before sending them to table. Thoy are, however, generally served cold. Time to bake, ten to twelve minutes. Sufficient, a dozen for a dish. Puff Puddings.—Beat four ounces of buttor to a crcarn. and mix with it four tablo- spoonfula of flour, tho yolks of four oggs, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a pint of cream or mUk, and a little almond flavouring. A minute or two before the puddings are to be baked, add tho whites of the eggs, beaten to a firm froth. Butter some large patty-pans, and three- parts fill them with the mixtirre. If Uked, a few currants may be sprinkled over the puddings. Bake in a well-heated oven, and serve the pud- dings as soon as they are done enough, with white sugar sifted over them; send wine sauce to table with them. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, if made with milk, Is. 2d. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Puffed Eggs.—Beat four eggs lightly, and mix with them about a pint of cream or of milk. Season with salt and pepper. Butter a mould, and pour in the mixture; cover it, and set it on a plate turned upside down in a saucepan, with boUing water two inches deep. Let the mixture steam until it is set. Turn it upon a hot dish, and pour round it a little good brown gravy. Time to steam, twenty minutes or more. Probable cost, lOd., if made with milk. Sufficient for two or three persons. Puflfe.—Recipes for the following puffs will be found under their respective headings:— Almond Irish Apple Jam Austrian Lady Abbess, Claret Lemon Clifton Of Larks German Parmesan German, Almond Potato Ginger Rice Hasty Spanish Puffs of Larks.—Make half a pound of puff paste, according to the recipe already given. Pluck and draw three or four larks, and brown them equally all over in a stewpan with a little butter. Take them up, drain them, and put into the body of each bird a small lump of fresh butter, one or two bearded oysters, a little pepper and salt, and a table-spoonful of thick cream. Truss each lark firmly, and wrap it in slices of fat bacon. Cover it with the pufi paste, roUed out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and shape it as neatly as possible. Put the puffs side by side on a buttered tin, and bake in a brisk oven for about ten minutes. Probable cost of larks, Is. 6d. per dozen. Sufficient, four or five for a dish. Puits d'Amour .—Make a fine rich pufi paste, and roll it out thin. With tin shapes, made on purpose, cut it out, each size less than another. Lay the sizes in a pyramidical form; then bake in a moderate oven, that the paste may be done sufficiently, but very pale. Lay different coloui-ed sweetmeats on the edges. Pulled Bread (for the Cheese Course).— Take the crust off a newly-baked loaf while it is still warm. Pull it lightly and quickly with thci,fingers of both hands into rough pieces, and bake these in a slow oven until they are lightly browned and crisp. Pulled Turkey, Fowl, or Chicken. —Skin a cold chicken, fowl, or turkey. Take off the fillets from the breasts, and put them into a stewpan with the rest of the white moat and wings, side-bones, and merrythought, with( 668 ) PUM a pint of broth, a large blade of pounded mace, a finoly-mincod Hhallot, the juico of half a lemon, and a roll of the pool, some salt, and a few grains of cayenne ; thicken with flour and butter, and lot it simmer for two or three minutes, till the meat is warm. In the mean- time score the legs and rump, powder them with pepper and salt, broil them nicely brown, and lay them on or round the pulled chicken. Three table-spoonfuls of good creiim, or the yolks of as many oggs, will be a groat improve- ment to this dish. Pulque—This is a beverage much de- lighted m by the Mexicans and inhabitants of some parts of Central and South America. It is made from the juice of different species of agave. The juice is collected by cutting out the flowering stem just when it is 'beginning to grow from the midst of the leaves, and scooping a hole for the juice. The cavity being formed, large quantities of juice are removed daily from it for montlis. WHien fresh, pulque is an agreeable drink, but it is more frequently drunk after fermentation, when its taste is more pleasant. The great drawback is a putrid smeU, but one gets over that in time. Mixed with water and sugar, and allowed to ferment for a few hours, pulque forms a beverage called Tepach. Pulse.—Under this name are ranged the edible seeds of legmninous plants. The most important of all kinds of pulse are peas and beans; after these may be ranked kidney-beans, lentUs, chick-peas, &c. The best kinds of pulse contain a great deal of nutriment. They are not, however, easy of digestion, and are apt to produce flatulence. Pumpkin.—The pimipkin sometimes grows to a great size, as large as two feet in diameter. It is never eaten excepting when cooked. Pumpkin and Rice Soup.—Wash a quarter of a pound of rice, and boil it gently until it is almost soft. Drain it, and put it aside. Pare a small pumpkin, take out the seeds, and slice the whole or half of it. Cut it into slices, and put these in a saucepan, with two large onions, two cloves, four or five sticks of celery, a sprig of parsley, a tea-spoonful of sugar, a little pepper and salt, and two quarts of water. Simmer all gently together until the vegetables are quite soft, then rub them through a colander, and keep back the fibrous portion. Set the puree, with the liquor that has run through the colander with it, again upon the fire, add the rice, and boil gently imtil the latter is tender. Serve verj' hot. The soup wiU be much improved if nicely-flavoured.stock, or the liquor in which meat has been boiled, bo used instead of water. Time, two hours and a half. Probable coat of pumpkins, imcertain. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Pumpkin Pie (a Cornish recipe).—Take a ripe pumpkin, and chip off the rind or skin; halve it, and take out the seed and puffy part in the centre, which throw away. Cut the punrplcin into small thin slices; fill a pie-dish therc\vith; add to it half a tea-spoonful of pimento, and a table-spoonful of sugar, with ft small quantity of w^tey. Covey with a nice light paste, and bake in the ordinary way lumpkin pie is greatly improved by beir)<' eat(;n with clotted cream and sugar. An equal quiintity of apples with the pumpkin will make a still more deUcious pie. Pumpkin, Preserved. — Take a fresh pumpkin. Pare it, halve it, and pick out the seeds, then cut it into thin slices about the size of the palm of one's hand. Weigh these slices, and allow a pound of powdered sugar, the juice of two krge lemons, the peel of one, and lialf a tea-spoonful of ground ginger, to each pound of pumpkin. Lay the slices in layers upon a large dish, sprinkle the sugar between the layers, strain the lemon-juice over the whole, and leave it for two or three days. At the end of that time, turn the whole into a preserving-pan with the lemon-rind thinly sliced over, and allow a breakfast-cupful of water for every three pounds of sugar used. Boil the mixture gently until the slices are tender, turn them into a bowl, and let them remain covered for six or eight days. Throw away the bag con- taining the ginger. Strain off the syrup, ami boil it again until it is thick; pour it at once over the pumpkin. Put the slices of pumpkin into jars, and cover these with paper dipped in the white of an egg. Store in a cool dry place. Time, twelve days. Probable cost, uncertain. Pumpkin Pudding. — Take a large pumpkin, pare it, and remove the seeds. Cut half of it into thin slices, and boil these gently in water until they are quite soft, then rub them through a fine sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Measure the pulp, and with each pint put four oimces of butter, a large tea-spoonful of poimded mace, and a small nutmeg, grated. Stir the mixture briskly for a minute or two, then add the third of a pint of hot milk and four well-beaten eggs. A glass- ful of wine may be added or not. Pour the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. Probable cost, uncertain. It will be suflicient for five or six persons. Pumpkin Pudding (another way).— Boil the pumpkin, and rub it through a sieve, as in the last recipe. With a pint of the pulp put three-quarters of a pint of warm milk, an ounce of butter, a large nutmeg, grated, a pinch of powdered mace, three table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, two table-spoonfuls of picked and dried currants, and three well-beaten eggs. Beat the mixture briskly for two or three minutes. Line a dish with pastry, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Pumpkin Pudding (another way).—Cut a pumpkin into square pieces, and stir the pieces over the fire in a saucepan until they become soft. If they are now found to be too moist, squeeze them in a cloth to get rid of some of the water. Then put the pulp in a stewpan with some butter, and fr>- it. ^^^lon done, mix a spoonful of arrowroot in milk, sweetened with sugar, and simmer the wfeoje( 669 ) until it becomes reduced to a proper con- sistency. Then let it become cold, and thicken with three eggs, beaten up with a small quan- tity of water. Afterwards butter the inside of a stewpan, cover it with bread-crumbs, and put the cooked pumpkin into it. Place the pan over some hot cinders, put the lid on, and throw some embers on it. When the pudding is browned send it to table. Pumpkin Soup.—Take half or a quarter of a raoderatc-sized pumpkin, pare it, remove the seeds, and cut the pimipkin into thin slices. Put these into a stewpan, with as much water or milk as will cover them, and boil gently until they are reduced to pulp. Eub this through a fine sieve, mix with it a pinch of salt and a piece of butter the size of an egg, and stir it over the fire until it boils. Thin it with some boUing milk, which has been sweetened and flavoui ed with lemon-rind, cinnamon, or orange- flower water. It should be of the consistency of thick cream. Put toasted bread, cut into dice, at the bottom of the soup tureen. Moisten the bread-dice with a small quantity of the liquor, let them soak a little while, then poui- the lest of the soup over them, and serve very hot. Or, whisk two fresh eggs thoroughly in the tureen, and pour the soup in over them at the last moment. The liquor ought to have ceased from boiling for a minute or two before it is poured over the eggs. Time, two hours. Pro- bable cost, uncertain. Pumpkin Soup (another way).—Slice a pumpkin, and stew it in butter untU tender, then reduce it to a puree. Add to this as much hot mUk, flavoured with cinnamon or lemon, as may be required to thin it for a soup. Throw in a little salt; and when properly heated, have ready a couple of eggs whisked to froth, put them into the tureen and pour the soup over. Serve immediately. Punch.—Punch is a beverage made of hot water, mixed with wine or spirits, sweetened and flavoured. It was very generally used in the last century, but is only to be met with now on extraordinary and very convivial occasions. It is always considered very insidious, but it rarely disagrees vdth those who partake of it in moderation. It is dangerous chiefly because it does not taste so strong as it is. In addition to the various kinds of punch given below, recipes for the following will be found under their respective headings:— Cambkidoe, Milk Regent's George the Fourth Roman, Iced Gin Royal GrRANITO, IcED ShERHET KOH Harrowoate Shrub (several Iced recipes) Imperial Shkuh Rum Mll-K USQUEBACH Norfolk Verder or Milk Orange Whiskey Oxford Wine Pine Apple YoKK^sHlRE. Puncll, To Make.—The grand secret, or rather art, of making genuine British punch consists in the preparation of a rich and delicate sherbet; this being accomplished, with the addition of the best Jamaica rum or French brandy, and pure hot or cold water, the mix- tiu-e may be too strong or too weak, but cannot possibly prove bad punch. In preparing sherbet for punch, the acids of cream of tartar, tamarinds, and vaiious other prepared vegetable acids, as well as that known as citric acid, are occasionally employed; but perhaps, after all, the juices of limes, lemons, and Seville oranges, expressed from the fresh fruits, when attainable, make the sort of sher- bet which seems most congenial with the nature of good British punch. Procure a couple of ripe, sound, and fresh lemons or limes, and a Seville orange ; rub off the yellow rind of one of the lemons with lumps of fine loaf sugar, putting each lump into the bowl as soon as it is saturated or clogged with the essence or grated rind ; then thinly pare the other lemon and Seville orange, and put these rinds also into the bowl, to which add plenty of sugar; pour a very small quantity of boiling water: and immediately squeeze the juice of the fruit, followed by a little more hot water. Count Rumford recommended that a table-spoonful of rice should be boiled in each quart of water; it imparts a softness almost equal to jeUy. Incorporate the whole well together with a punch ladle; and, putting a little of the sherbet thus composed, try its richness and flavour by the palate. If the fruit be good, a practised punch-maker will find little which requires to be regulated, and that little can soon be adjusted by su])ply- ing the aqueous, saccharine, or acid deficien- cies, so as to produce a luscious and rich- bodied sherbet, fit for the reception of the spirit which is to give it animation. If stram- wg should be found necessary, this is the period for using a lawn sieve, through which a little more hot water may afterwards be passed; and a few parings of the orange or lemon-rind are generally considered as having an agreeable appearance floating on the bowl. The sherbet being thus prepared, to make it into genuine British punch, spirit should be added, in the proportions of a bottle of the best Cognac brandy; the entire strength or weak- ness may be suited to the general inclination of the company for which it is prepared. The above quantity of fruit, with about three- quarters of a pound of sugar, will make sufii- cient sherbet for three quarts of punch. Pine-apple rum and capillaire syi-up, instead of part of the sugar, may be used, if convenient, with considerable advantage to the flavour; though it will prove excellent punch without either of these auxiliaries, or even Seville orange. The same sort of sherbet may, of course, be used for brandy-punch or runi-punch singly; but punch is seldom so made in England : most persons, indeed, mix equal parts of rum and brandy. Arrack-punch, however, is made with that spirit alone, and usually with a simple sherbet of Ume or lemon-juice, with sugar, as the flavour of the Seville orange inti^rfcrcs too much with the peculiar flavour of tlu' arrack, which proves so grateful to most tastes, tliough to many very unpleiisnnt. I'unch may bo im- mediately impregnated with the arrack flavourPUN PUN ( 670 ) by a little of tho flower of Benjamin, When with tho richest shorbot, soinotiintis rendered Htill richer by fruit-jellies, and oven nutmeg, wine is mingled with tho rum and brandy, instead of water, tho liquid is called Punch Eoyal. Tho mixture of a small (juantity of alo or porter, highly recommended by some in making punch, seems only advisable when it is rum- punch, made without any brandy, and must, even then, bo very sparingly introduced. This tirticle, whatever may appear its value, is fur- nished, with regard to its principles, by one of the first practical punch-makers in Europe, who could easily, by dwelling on minute cir- cumstances, have supplied matter for a small volume : the essence of which is, however, ho freely confesses, here sufficiently concentrated for every useful purpose. With regard to the salubrity of punch, when drank in moderation, hot in winter, or cold, and even iced in summer, it affords a grateful beverage, admirably allaying thirst, promoting tho secretions, and conveying animation to tho spirits. If, however, .amid the hilarity excited by the tempting fragrance and luscious taste, which the balmy bowl seldom fails to inspire, it be too freely drank, its powerful com- bination of spirit and acid, instead of proving favourable to the constitution, will infallibly tend to bring on the gout, even sooner than most wines or strong cider, unless happily prevented by using a considerable deal of exer- cise. Punch, like all the prime blessings of life, is excellent and salutary when prudently enjoyed at proper seasons. We must not charge on them our own want of discretion, by which alone they are ever converted to evils. The apparently whimsical name of pimch, like the liquid itself, is of West India origin— the word, in the aboriginal language, signifying simply Jive, being the number of ingredients there used: viz., 1. Acid, or lime, or lemon- juice; 2. Sweetness or sugar; 3. Spirit or rum, (fee; 4. Water; and 5. Spicy flavour, or nutmeg, &c. It is singular, too, that punch, the word for five, consists of just five letters. From the opposite natures of the ingredients, punch has also been called the liquor of con- tradictions. Punch (a la Fran^aise).—Take a litre of rum (rather over a pint) and 750 grammes of broken sugar (about a pound and three-quar- ters), and place these ingredients in a saucepan. Bum the sugar until it becomes candied, brown in colour, and reduced by one-third. Throw in rather more than a pint of boiling tea, with the juice of half a dozen citrons and as B[iany oranges. Drink immediately. Punch, (a la Fran^aiso). Another way.— The following is calculated more especially to produce a ladies' punch. Take rather more than two pounds of sugar, and molt it in a large saucepan over the fire, a good half-tum- blerful of water or tea being poured over to moisten it, with tho juice of two lemons and two oranges. When tho sugar is well molted, pour into tho saucepan a bottle of rum and a bottle of brandy, and as much tea as is needed to modify its strength. After adding the tea, take caro that the punch is sweet enough. Just warm tho punch; do not let it boil. Immediately before serving squeeze the juico of half a dozen oranges through a sieve into the mixture. Punch (a la Regence).—Take the thin rind of two lemons and two Seville oranges. I'ut them uito a bowl, with a small piece of vanilla, four cloves, and an inch of stick cinnamon. Pour over them a hot syrup, made with a pound and a half of refined sugar boiled in a pint of water. Let these ingredients infuse for several hom-s. Mix with them the strained j uice of twelve lemons, and rum and brandy accord- ing to taste. Strain the liquid through a fine napkin. Bottle immediately, and put it in ico imtil it is wanted. Punch (a la Heine).—Rub the rind of two large fresh lemons with three or four large lumps of sugar till the zest is taken off. Squeeze out and strain the juice of six lemons and two oranges, and add three-quarters of a pound of sugar, dissolved in as much water as will mois- ten it, and half a pint of water. Freeze tho mixture. Stir into the ice a glassful of rum and a glassful of brandy, and freeze again. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a solid froth, and beat up ■with them four ounces of pounded sugar. Stir this into the ice and serve. Punch (a la Romaihe, Iced). — Take the juice of two China oranges, and a glassful each of rum and champagne, and mix them with a pint and a half of lemon-water ice. Freeze in the usual way. Beat up half a pound of powdered sugar with the frothed whites of two eggs, add this to the rest, with half a pint of brandy, a bottle of champagne, and a cup of green tea. Stir the mixture briskly into the ice imtil it liquefies. If it is too thick to pour out, add a little water, a little more cham- pagne, or a little syrup. For the pimch to be perfect the quantity of ice miist be proportioned to the liquid. It should be smooth and white, like thick cream, and should be served in cham- pagne glasses. This recipe for making punch a la Romaine has long been a desideratum with amateurs, but, since its invention, it has been in a few hands only. Punch (a la Victoria).—To a pint of clari- fied sugar, mix the juice of half a dozen lemons and two China oranges, with the rind of two lemons rubbed off on a liunp or two of sugar. Strain when the sugar has dissolved, and freeze. Take the mixture out of the ice-pot, add equal quantities of brandy and rum, and beat up the whites of three eggs with a quarter of a pound of sugar to a stiff froth. Llix it gently with the rest, and put again to freeze. Punch, Burnt.—Stir over the fire a pint and a haK of rum, a pint and a half of claret, and three-quarters of a pound of sugiir. When the sugar is melted, and the mixture boils, pour a pint and a half of boiling water over it and the juice of three lemons. This punch may 1)0 drunk eith(!r hot or cold: Lf cold, it should bo allowed to stand covered in the saucoiian till it is cold, and then be poured into detanters. The zest of the lemons should be rubbed off on the sugar before it is put in.PUN ( 671 ) PUN Punch Drops.—Rub a Icu-ge lump of sugar upon the rind of one or two oranges to obtain the flavour, then crush it, and add inore sugitr to make up half a pound. Put this into a sugar boiler, and mix it to a stiif paste, with a small wine-glassful of rum and a tablo-spoonful of lemon-juice, and stir over a gentle fire until it hoUs. Let it fall in drops, the size of a sixpence, upon a slightly ojled baking-sheet. When cold, they can be easily removed with the point of a knife, and should be put on a sieve in a warm place to dry. Punch, English.—Rub the yellow rind of a lemon vnth lump sugar. Put the sugar into the punch-b(«vl, squeeze the lemon-juice to it, add the spirits—^rum and brandy—in such pro- portions as are preferred. Incorporate the spu-its thoroughly with the sugar and lemon before pouring in the boiling water, and keep stirring the whole while this is pouring. Some add madeira or sherry. Punch for Hot Weather.—Put a dozen smaU sprigs of early mint into a large tumbler, and sprinkle over them a table-spoon- ful of white powdered sugar. Fill up a third of the glass with peach brandy and French brandy in equal proportions, and add as much pounded ice as the tumbler will contain. Rub the rim of the tumbler with a slice of fresh pine-apple, and drink the contents as the ice melts. If the brandy is not at hand, a glassful of sherry and a glassful of gin may be sub- stituted for it, and an inch or two of orange- rind may be added as flavouring. Punch, Glasgow (from Lockhart's " Peter's Letters" ).—" The sugar being melted with a little cold water, the artist squeezed about a dozen lemons through a wooden strainer, and then poured in water enough almost to fill the bowl. In this state tbe liquor goes by the name of sherbet, and a few of the connoisseurs in his immediate neighbourhood were requested to give their opinion of it—for in the mixing of the sherbet lies, according to the Glasgow Creed, at least one-half of the whole battle. This being approved of by an audible smack from the lips of the umpires, the rum was added to the beverage, I suppose, in something about the proportion from one to seven. Last of all, the maker cut a few limes, and running each section rapidly round the rim of his bowl, squeezed in enough of this more delicate aciid to flavour the whole composition." Glasgow punch should be made of the coldest spring water, newly drawn from the spring. The acid ingredients mentioned above are enough for a large bowl. Punch, Hot.—In order to make good punch, it is necessary that the sherbet—or mix- ture of sugar, flavoui-ing, acid juice, and water- should be both rich and delicate, and that the ingredients should be thoroughly blended. When the latter point is attained, the spirits and wme can be added, in proportions to suit the taste. The following recipe is a general iavounto :—Rub the rind of a large fresh lemon with two or throe lumps of sugar till all the ycUow f.rirf, has been taken eft'; then iulil more sutfar to make up the weight to foui- ounces. I Put this into the punchbowl, and strain over it the juice of the lemon. Pour then into the punch-bowl a pint of boiling water, and stir the mixture well for five or six minutes. Add a quarter of a pint of rum, the third of a pint of brandy, and stir again. Half a nutmeg, grated, may be added or not. Time to prepare, a few minutes. Sufficient for a quart of punch. Punch, Hot (another way).—Rub two or three lumps of sugar upon the rind of three fresh lemons, or, if preferred, upon two lemons and one Seville orange, until the yellow part is taken off; then add more sugar to make up the weight to six ounces. Put this into the punch- bowl, strain over it the juice of the fruit, and add a pint and a half of boiling water. Stir the mixture until the sugar is dissolved, then add a pint of r\un and a glassful of brandy. A spoonful of noyau will improve the flavour of this punch. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Sufficient for three pints of punch. Punch Icing.—Take some very white and finely-sifted sugar, and mix it to a thick syrup with a little lemon-juice and rum. Before using it, make it hot, and put whatever is iced with it into a cool oven to dry as soon as the icing is spread upon it. Punch in Haste.—Rub the rind of a fresh lemon with a large lump of sugar till the yellow part ,is taken ofi. Crush it to powder, with a quarter of an ounce of citric acid, and pour over it a pint of claiified sjTup. Put a table-spoonful of this flavoured syrup into a pint of water, add a glassful of rum or a glassful of brandy, or a mixture of both, and serve. Punch Jelly.—Rub off the yeUow part of two large fresh lemons with one or two lumps of sugar, then add more sugar to make up the weight to ten ounces. Put this into a bowl, pour over it the strained juice of three lemons and a Seville orange, and put the bowl aside for a while. Put an ounce and a half of best isinglass iuto a very clean saucepan, with a pint of cold water. Stir over the fire tiU the mixture boils, then draw it to the side, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. At the end of twenty minutes, throw a lump of sugar and a tea-spoonful of vinegar into it, and add about a table-spoonful of cold water. Stir lightly, carefully remove the scum, and strain the liquor through a napkia. Put it into a clean saucepan, and add to it the contents of the bowl that was set aside, a quarter of a piut of brandy, and a quarter of a pint of rum. Let aU simmer gently together for foiir minutes, then strain the liquor through a jeUy-bag into the mould. If liked, calf's foot stock can be used, and then half the quantity only of isinglass will be required. Punch Jelly (a French recipe).—Throw the peel of two sound lemons and half an ounce of tea into a syrup nearly boiling; cover it, and whilst it is cooling, run the juice of fiive lemons through a bag. Pass the infusion through a silk sieve, and and mix with it half a pint of good arrack or rum, and one ounce of isinglass clarified. Finish as usual. Punch Jelly, made with Gelatine.— Rub two or thi-ee lumps of sugar upon the rindPUR PUJN ( 672 ) of three lemons till tho yellow part is taken o£E, then add more sugar to make up the quantity to ten ounces. Strain over this the juice of six lemons, and put it into a scrupulously-clean baucepan, with a quarter of a pint of Jamaica rum, a quarter of a pint of brandy, a piece of ciiuianiuu, throe or four cloves, a little grated nutmei,', an ounce and a half of gelatine dissolved in ii pint of water. When the mixture is almost cold, whisk the whites of two oggs and stir them with their crushed shells briskly into the uiixturu. vSt;t i)w pan on tho fire and boil it gently for ten minutes. Lift it from the fire, put it down by the side, and lot it stand untouched for twenty minutes. Strain through a jelly-bag until the jelly is clear and bright, put it into a mould, and let it stand in a cool place till it is firm. Time, twelve hours to set. Probable cost, exclusive of the spirit, Is. per pint. SufiiciGnt for three pints of jelly. Punch Milk.—Cut off the thin yellow part of four fresh lemons and a Seville orange, and be careful not to take any of the white pith of the fruit, or it will make the punch bitter. Pour over this rind a pint of Jamaica rum, and let it stand, closely covered, for twelve hours. Strain the liquor, and mix with it a pint of lemon- juice and two pints of cold water, in which a pound of refined sugar has been dissolved, and add the whites of two eggs, beaten to a froth, three pints more of rum, a grated nutmeg, a pint of madeira, a pint of strong green tea, and a quarter of a pint of maraschino. Mix thoroughly, and pour over all a pint of milk, boUing hot. Let the punch stand a little time, then strain it through a flannel jelly-bag until it is quite bright, and either use it at once, or bottle it to put away. Punch, Poney.—Take a tea-cupfiil of very strong gunpowder tea. Rub the rind of a fresh lemon upon two or three lumps of sugar, and put them into it; add the strained juice of three lemons, a tea-spoonful of essence of cin- namon, a quarter of a grated nutmeg, half a pound of sugar dissolved in a quarter of a pint of water, a bottle of Chablis made hot, a quarter of a pint of brandy, a quarter of-a pint of rum, and a wine-glassful of rack. Mix the punch thoroughly, strain, and serve hot. Time, half an hour to prepare. Sufficient for a little more than a quart of punch. Punch Sauce, for Sweet Puddings. —Hub a large fresh lemon with two or three lumps of sugar till all the yellow part is taken off, then add more sugar to make up the weight to two ounces. Pour over this a glassful of sherry or madeira, and a glassful of brandy. Mix a table-spoonful of flour smoothly with two ounces of fresh butter, and add, gradually, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, the flavoured sugar, &c. Turn the whole into a saucepan, and whisk briskly over a gentle fire until it begins to thicken; serve very hot. The sauce must not reach the point of boiling. If liked, the eggs am be omitted, and the wine, «&:c., can bo mixed with half a pint of melted butter. Time, two or three minutes to boil tho sauce. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine and Immdy, lOd. Suffi- cient for six or seven persons. Punch Souffle.—Boat tlu-ee table-spoon- fuls of flour to a smooth paste with a little orange-flower water, and add thiee ounces of pounded sugar, slightly flavoured with lemon, and three ounces of ratafias, crushed to powder. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, stir in with them the well-beaten yolks of ten eggs. Butter a souffle-dish, fasten round it a high band of buttered paper to keep the souffle from falling over the top as it rises in the oven, and strew bread-crumbs over the inside. Beat up with tho mixture the whites of eleven oggs, which have been whisked to a firm froth, turn it into the dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Be careful to move the soulUe round in tho oven two or three times, that it may be equally baked. Serve tho moment it is done enough, and send a rich custard, flavoured with brandy, to table with it. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. lOd., exclusive of the custard. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Punch, Whiskey. — Make the sherbet according to either of the recipes given for hot punch, and add whiskey only, instead of the usual mixture of spirits. Pup ton, Apple {see Apple Pupton). Puree.—The puree of any vegetable or meat is prepared by simmering till the substance is sufficiently pulpy or soft to be passed through a horse-hair or tammy sieve. In the case of meat, it is sometimes necessary to beat in a pestle and mortar after simmering. The sieve is placed, bottom upwards, over a dish or tin, and with a wooden spoon or puree pressor the substance is worked through, and what passes thi-ough is called a puree. It is sometimes neces- sary to moisten with a Httle liquor, which faci- litates the passing of the puree. The puree of any vegetable stirred into a clear beef stock makes a soup, and gives it its characteristic name. Recipes for the following purees will be found under their respective headings:— Artichoke, Jeku- SAIiEM ' Carrots, Red Celery Chestnuts Eggs Game Green Peas Leveret Peas, Green Potatoes Sorrel Spinach Tomatoes Truffles Turnip, Brown Vegetable Mar- row Soup Woodcock. Puritan's Pudding.—Grate three ounces of stale crumb of bread. Put it into a bowl, with a pinch of salt, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, an ounce of the kernel of a fresh cocoa- nut, finely-grated, two table-spoonfuls of pow- dered and sifted sugar, and an inch of thin lemon-rind. Mix these ingredients well to- gether, then pour over them a pint of milk, which has been bcjiten up with two well-whisked eggs. Let the crumbs soak for two hours or more. Beat the mixture well with a fork, pour it into a dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, half an hoiir. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons.( 673 ) QUA PujI, Take ten pounds of wormwood, six pounds of gentian, two pounds of di-ied rind of orange, half a pound of bruised ginger, two ounces of cloves, and eight ounces of carda- momtims. Put these ingredients in six gallons of water, boil the mixtui-e, then digest for foui-teen or fifteen days, and decant into wine bottles. Add this to warm beer, according to taste. Purl (another way).—Take half a pint of ale, and warm it gently; then add to it one wine-glassful of bitters, or a little spirit. Purl is a favourite early morning beverage with hard drinkers. Purl (another way).—"Warm a pint of ale with a quarter of a pint of milk,_ and add some sugar and a wine-glassful of gin, brandy, or rum. This beverage is now little used, except amongst the lower classes in and about the metropolis. Purslain.—This plant is a native of South America. The young shoots and succulent leaves used to be frequently employed as a cooling ingredient in spring salads. Putrefaction.—The process of putrefac- tion is thus described by Baron Liebig :—"The sulphurised and nitrogenised constituents of- plants and animals are among the most complex organic atoms. From the instant that they, after being separated from the organism, come in contact with the air, they pass into a state of decomposition, which, when once com- menced, continues, even if the air be now ex- cluded. The colourless, fresh-cut surface of a potato, of a turnip, or of an apple, when ex- posed to the air, soon becomes brown. In all such substances the presence of a certain quantity of water, in which the molecules are enabled to move freely on one another, is a con- dition necessary to the production, by tempo- rary contact with air, of a change in form and composition, a resoMng of the original body into new products, which continues uninter- ruptedly till no part of the original compound is left. This process has been distinguished by the name ai putrefaction.''^ Pyramid, Italian (see Italian PjTamid). Pyramids, PuiFiPaste {see Pufi Paste Rings or Pyramids).—A pretty Dish for a Juvenile Party. Psrroligneous Acid has .the remarkable property of preventing the putrefaction of animal substances. It is well known that meat that has been smoked keeps better than that wluch has been dried without smoke; and it is now ascertained that this eifect depends on the pyroligncous acid that rises with the smoke of the wood or turf which are employed in smoking it. When carefully purified and pro- perly diluted with water, pyroligneous acid is used extensively as a substitute for common vinegar in pickling, and even for common use. Q Quail, The. — The quail will keep for fiovfiral days before it is dressed. It may either be drawn before being roasted, or, like the W woodcock, bo roasted without being drawn. As it is rather deficient in flavour; a slice of fat bacon and a vine-leaf are g-enerally tied over it, before putting it to tho firp. Quails, Dr. boran teUs us, are variously said either to have recalled Hercules to life or to have cured him of epUepsy. The Romans, however, rather feared them, as tending to cause epileptic fits. Galen thought so ; Aristotle took a different view; the Greeljs devoured them as readily as though they had Aris- totle's special authorisation, but the Romans were only slowly converted to the same way of thinking. " Quails, in my opinion," says M. Ude, "have no flavour, and from the cir- cumstance of confinement and bad feeding, are never very fat; it is only their raricy that makes them fashionable. They must be served as roast only." THE QUAIL. Quails, Compote of.—Take six or eight quails, according to the size of the dish. Cut the claws off, and emptji" the birds, without making too large an opening. Truss them with the legs inward. Have a dozen pieces of bacon cut in the shape of corks, blanch them in order to draw the salt out, then let them fry in butter till they are of a light brown; next take them out of the stewpan to make room for the quails, which stew till they begin to bo of a light brown also, and then take them out. Make a roux, which moisten with a ladleful of gravy of veal; add a bunch of parsley and gi-een onions, some small white onions (if approved of), mushrooms, &c. As soon as the quails arc done, take them out of the stewpan, and let the bacon, stew tiU thoroughly done. Skim the sauce well, and strain it through a tammy over the quails; then dish the bacon, mushrooms, and smaU onions, and send iqo quite hot and well seasoned. " This dish," says M. IJde, " will not do for an English dinner." Quails, Galantine of. — I^one half a dozen quails. Tliis is a delicate and trouble- some process, and if the cook cannot manage it she had better let it be done by the poulterer. Mince finely the livers of tlie birds, and mixQUE ( 674 ) QUA -with thorn a minced swootbread, two or threo ounces of gmtod Ixum, und a littlo chopped parsley, minced shallot, and popper and salt. Bind the forcemeat together with tho yolk of an egg. Lay tho birds open on the table, skin downwards. Divide tho forcemeat equally amongst them, and spread half of it upon tho birds. Lay vipon each a slice of cold tongue, a spoonful of chopped truffle, if this can bo had, and afterwards the rest of tho force- meat. lloU each bird to an oval shape, and tie it in a piece of old napkin. Lay tho birds side by side, and put with them tho bones and trimmings, a littlo pepper and salt, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, and either a knuckle of veal or a calf's foot. Cover with nicely-flavoured stock, and let tho quails simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Take the saucepan from the fire, and let the birds remain in tho liquor until they are nearly cold. Drain them, take them out of the napkins, and brush them over with glaze. Boil the sauce quickly to a jelly, and strain it. If it is not quite clear, clarify it with white of egg. Boil a pound of rice in a quart of water slightly salted, until it is quite tender, and the liquid is absorbed. Beat well till it is smooth, then press it into a plain round mould. "When it is cold and stiff, turn it upon the centre of a large dish. Brush it over with clarified butter, and rest the quails in an upright position upon it. Garnish the dish with the gravy jeUy, cut into dice, and the galantine will be ready for serving. Any small birds may be served in the same way. Pro- bable cost of quails, when cheap, Is. each. Suf- cient for a moderate-sized supper dish. Quails, Galantine of (another way).— See Galantine of Quails. Quails, Hoast.—Draw the birds or not according to taste. Truss them finnly, and tie over the breasts a vine-leaf covered with a slice of fat bacon. Roast before a clear fire, and baste well. When done enough brush the bacon over with glaze, and serve the birds on a hot dish ; garnish with watercresses. Pour good brown gravy round but not over the quails. If the birds are not drawn before being roasted they should be served on a slice of toast, which has been placed in the pan under them to catch the trails. Time to roast the quails, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, when plentiful, Is. each. Sufficient, two for a dish. Quails, Trussing of.—Pluck, draw, and singe the quail. Cut off the neck close to the back, and the wings at the first pinion. Truss the legs close to the body, and pass a skewer through tlie pinions and thighs. Quaking Pudding.—Scald a quart of (ream ; when almost cold, put to it four well- heaten eggs, a spoonful and a half of flour, some nutmeg, and sugar. Tie the pudding in a buttered cloth, and boil for an hour. Turn it out carefully, lest it should crack. Serve with melted butter, a little wine, and sugar. Quass.—A sort of weak beer, a favourite beverage among the people in Russia, goes under this name. It is produced by fermenting rye-meal in warm water, and is usually bottlt-d in stone bottlos. When it becomes too sour it does service as vinegar. Queen Adelaide's Pudding. — Beat eight ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Mix with it eight ounces of finely-sifted sugar, lialf a pound of diied flour, two ounces of tliiuly- shced candied peel, four ounces of picked and dried currants, and a qujirter of a tea-spoonful of essence of ahnonds or essence of lemon. "\Vliisk tho yolks and whites of six fresh eggs, first separately, and afterwards together. Add them to the other ingredients, and beat the mixture for several minutes. Pour it into a well-buttered mould, cover with buttered paper, and afterwards tie in a cloth, and boil or steam the pudding. Turn it out carefully on a hot dish, and pour wine sauce round but not over it. Time to boil, two hours and a half. Pro- bable cost, 28. Sufficient for five or six per- sons. Queen Cakes.—Beat half a pound of butter to a cream. Add gradually half a pound of loaf sugar, one pound of dried flour, half a pound of picked currants, and a flavouring either of grated lemon-rind, grated nutmeg, or almonds. Beat the yolk and whites of three eggs, first separately, and afterwards together. Mix with them a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, which has been dissolved in a table- spoonful of hot milk, and a small tea-spoonful of tliick cream. Stir this mixture into the cake, and beat thoroughly for several minutes. Butter some small queen-cake tins or patty- pans, half fill them with the batter, and bake in a brisk oven for about twenty minutes. Queen-cake tins are generally made heart- shaped. Probable cost, 'is. 4d. for this quantity. Queen Cakes (another way).—Put half a pound of fine flour into a bowl. MLv with it a small pinch of salt, half a pound of loaf sugar, pounded and sifted, six ounces of currants, picked and dried, and a flavouring of either powdered cinnamon, grated nutmeg, grated lemon-rind, or pounded almonds. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Cut half a pound of fresh butter into small pieces, beat to a cream, and add gradually five well-beaten eggs, two table-spoonfuls of rose-water or brandy, and the strained juice of a lemon. Stir the flour, spice, &c., gradually into this mixture, and beat the batter for several minutes. Butter some queen-cake tins, half fill them with the batter, and bake in a brisk oven. '\\Tien done enough, turn them out, and place them upside down to cool. If liked, these cakes may be coated with icing after they are baked. To do this put the white of an egg into a bowl, and mix gradually Avith it a quarter of a pound or finely-sifted loaf sugar, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, and work these together with a spoon until the paste is white, shining, and thick. Spread a little of this u])on the oakc and put in a cool oven, or in a warm screen, to dry. Time to bake the cakes, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Queen Cakes (another way).—Wash a pound of fresh butter in rose-water. Beat it to a cream, and mix ■«'ith it first the whites ofQUE QUE ( 675 ) ei"-ht eggs which liave been whisked to a solid froth, and afterwards the beaten yolks of the eggs. Add gradually a pound of dried flour, a pound of picked and dried currants, and a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, and beat the mixture well between every addition. Butter the queen-cake tins, or, failing these, some snudl tartlet tins, half All them with the batter, and bake in a brisk oven. Just before the cakes ai-e put into the oven, sift a little finely- powdered sugar over them. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 3s. 8d. Queen Cakes (another way).—Take a pound of powdered sugar, a pound of well-dried flour, a pound of butter, eight eggs, and half a pound of currants, washed and picked; grate a nutmeg, and an equal quantity of mace and cinnamon; work the butter to a cream, put in the sugar, beat the whites of the eggs twenty minutes, and mix them with the butter and sugar; then beat the yolks for half an hour, and put them to the butter. Beat the whole together, and when it is ready for the oven put in the flour, spices, and currants. Sift a little sugar over the cakes, and bake in tins. Queen Mab's Pudding.—Put a pint and a half of new milk or cream into a sauce- pan with any flavouring that may be prefeiTed— either an inch of stick cinnamon, the thin rind of a lemon, vanilla, or eight or nine bitter almonds, blanched or sliced. Simmer the liquor gently until it is pleasantly and rather strongly flavoured, then put with it a pinch of salt, four- ounces of loaf sugar, and an ounce of isinglass or gelatine, and stir until the last is dissolved. Strain the mixture through muslin, and mix with it the well-beaten yolks of five eggs. Stir it again over the fire until it begins to thicken, but on no account allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Stir until it is cool, then mix with it an ounce and a half of candied peel and an ounce and a half of dried cherries—or, if preferred, preserved ginger or preserved pine- apple may be used instead of the cherries, and a little of the juice of the fruit may be stirred in with the pudding. Pour the pudding into an oiled motdd, and let it stand in a cool place, or upon ice, xmtil set. Turn the pudding out very carefully, and pour round it a sauce made of clear syrup flavoured with lemon-rind and coloured with cochineal, or, if preferred, mixed with a small portion of strawberry or currant acid. Time, about an hour to prepare the pudding. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, if made with milk and gelatine. Is. lOd. Queen Mary's Sauce for Roast Mutton.—Put a well-hung joint of mutton down to a clear fire, and baste liberally with the contents of the dripping tin. When it is three-parts roasted, drain off the fat, and put a good-sized dish under the meat. Place in this an anchovy, boned and pounded, a small onion, chopped small, and a little popper; pour over it a wine-glassful of port and a wine-glassful of boiling water, and let the droppings of the meat iall into the liquor. Baste the meat with this sauce, and when it is done enough, serve on a hot dish and pour the gravy under it. Suf- ficient for a joint weighing six or seven pounds. Queen's Biscuits.—Make a soft paste of the following materials :—A pound and a half of flour, the same weight of powdered loaf sugar, the yolks of eighteen eggs, the whites of twenty-four, and a sufficient quantity of crushed coriander seeds; a little yeast may also be added, if desired. Make the paste into biscuits, and bake them on paper, at a moderate heat, till they begin to brown. Queen's Custard. — Sweeten a pint of thick cream with two table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar. Boil it, allow it to cool slightly, then mix with it very gradually the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs. Put the custard into a heated jug, place this in a pan with boiling water, and stir with a wooden spoon till it begins to thicken. Pour it out, mix with it a wine-glassful of maraschino or noyau, and continue stirring it until it is cold. An ounce of almonds, blanched and thinly sliced, may be added or not. The custard is to be stirred over the fire till it begins to thicken. Sufficient for a pint and a half of custard. Probable cost, 3s. Queen's Drops.—Beat half a pound of fresh butter to cream. Add eight ounces of finely-powdered sugar a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, and, gradually, four Avell-beaten eggs. Beat the mixture for five or six minutes, then add lightly eight ounces of dried flour and two ounces of picked and dried cuiTants. Drop the batter from the end of a spoon upon a baking- sheet spread with butter, in small balls the size of a pigeon's egg, and bake in a hot oven. When nearly cold, take the drops off the paper. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Queen's Pudding. — Butter a plain mould or basin rather thickly with butter, flour it well, and stick raisins, slices of candied peel, or dried fruit over the inside in rows. Fill the basin with layers of bread and butter, and put between each layer sugar flavoured with lemon- rind, blanched and sliced almonds, and candied peel. Pour over the whole a pint of milk which has been mixed with four well-beaten eggs. Cover the basin closely, and boil or steam the pudding. Time to boil the pudding, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient, if made in a quart mould, for five or six persons. Queen's Sauce for Boiled Plum Puddings.—Take half a pint of good melted butter, sweeten it, and flavour with powdered cinnamon or grated lemon-rind. Stir into it a glassful of sherry or 'madeira and a glassful of rum shrub. Put the sauce into a tureen, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and it is ready for serving. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Queen's Soup, or Soupe a la Reine. —Skin and clean two fine fowls or three young chickens, carefully removing the dark spongy substance which is inside. Put them into a saucepan, with a bunch of parsley, and pour over them as much good white stock, nicely flavoured, as will cover them. Let them( C7G ) QUE QUE Bimmor f?ont]y for an hour. Tiiko thorn up unci pick olf all tlio white llosh from tho birds. Bliinch and pound a dozen sweet almonds and two bitter ones. Beat them to a paste in a mortar, with a little water to keep them Irom oihuf,'. Soak tho crumb of a penny roll m the broth, and when it is (luite moist, wrmg it in a eloth, to squeeze tlio moisture from It. Chop tiie llesli of the chickens, and pound It to a paste, with tho soaked roll, tho hurd-boilod yolks of two Ggg8» and the pounded aUnonds. Stir tiiis mixture into tho soup, and press the whole through a sieve. Heat it in a clean saucepan, and mix with it a pint and a half of thick cream whicli has been boilec separately. Stir it over tho lire till it boils, and if not sufficiently thick, add a little arrowroot. Many coolcs omit tho yolks of eggs altogetlier, and use arrowroot instead. If °no white stock is at hand, it may be made by putting into a saucepan three or fqur pounds of tho knuckle of veal which has been soaked and broken up, with four ounces of undressed lean ham, three onions, a carrot, a turnip, four or five outer sticks of celery, two sprigs of lemon th}Tne, a bunchof parsley, alargc'bladepfia^cc, half a tea-spoonful of peppercdrlis^, and tljree quarts of cold water. Bring the liofii3r-to the boil j skim carefully till no more scum/rises,. tHcn draw the saucepan to the side, and let it simmer gently and without ceasing until it is reduced to rather less than two quarts. Pour it out, and when it is stiff, clear the fat from the.top, lift it out free from sediment^ and it i^ ready for use. For many years this soup was con- stantly included in the royal bill of fare. Time to boil the chickens, one hour. Probable cost, varjdng with the price of the chickens. Queen's Tea Cakes.—Take the weight of two eggs in fresh butter and beat it to a cream. Mi.x with it half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, which, before being crushed, has been rubbed upon the rind of a large lemon until the yellow part has been taken off, half a pound of dried flour, and a pinch of salt. Mix the diy ingredients thoroughly, and make them into a paste by mi.xing with them the two eggs well beaten, and a little rose-water, or, faihng this, cold water. Roll the paste out to the thickness of half an inch. Cut it out in rounds the size of a saucer, and bake in a moderate oven for from a quarter to half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 3d. for this quantity. Quenelles.—Quenelles are small balls made of deUcatc French forcemeat, composed of panada, calf s udder, and the flesh of veal, poultry, or fish, thoroughly pounded, then seasoned, and moistened with egg. They take their name from the meat of which they are composed. Great patience and care are required in making them, and these must be directed principally to pounding the ingredients thoroughly, fir.st separately, and afterwards together. Quenelles are served either in soups, or, with rich sauce, as a ragout, or they may be dipped in egg and bread-crumlis, fried in hot fat, and served as croquettes. WHicn the force- meat is made, it is always best to test a little piece before poaching or frying the whole of the preparation. To do this, a small ball should be moulded, and thrown into fast-boiling water If, when It IS taken out, tlie queuello ?« light, iH'm, and well seasoned, no alteration will ]„. necessarv. If it is too firm, a little water mav be added, and if not linn enough, the yolk Jf an egg will, in all probabihty, make it of the jiroper consistency. as a Garnish for Poultry — ilie lollowing is a ]jr(;tty and appetising dinh lor dinner or supper:—Stuff a large fowl with veal forcemeat, and roast it. Keep out a small quantity of the forcemeat, and make it up into quenelles, about the size of small walnut.-- 1 each these in gravy, and warm with them ug many slices of tongue as there are quenelles. 1 ut a border of mashed potatoes round a larg^- dish, and place on this, alternately, the ton-'uf and the quenelles. Put the roast fowl in Vi^, middle of the dish, and pour over it and the quenelles a quart of good white stock. Serve very hot. The appearance of the slices of tongue will be further improved if they are brushed over with a little glaze. Quenelles for Turtle Soup.—Take about a quarter of a pound of lean white veal, cut it into long slices, and scrape it with a knife till nothing but the fibre remains. Pound this to a smooth paste, and rub it through a A\Tre sieve upon a plate. Make it into a ball, and take its bul/c, not its weight, in panada (see Panada) and calf's udder. Jilany cooks sub- stitute fresh butter for the udder: when it is used a smaller proportion will be required. Pound these ingredients, and press them through a sieve, first separately and afterwards together; season the forcemeat with salt, pepper, and gi-atcd nutmeg, and add, gradually, the yolks of two and the white of one egg. ' After pounding the ingredients together, pass the whole again through a sieve, and before poach- ing the quenelles, test a little piece of the forcemeat by tlu'owing it into boiling water. If, when it is taken out, it is not sufficiently firm, add the yolk of another egg. [Mould it in balls of any size that may be preferred. Poach these in boiling water until they are sufficiently hard, drain them, when done enough, put them into the tureen, and pour the soup gently over them. The quenelles may be made as smaU as marbles or as large as eggs; the former size is generally preferred for soup. Time to jwach, from six to fifteen minutes, according to size. Probable cost. Is. 3d. for this quantity. Sufficient for a large tureen of soup. Quenelles for White and Clear Soups.—ilclt an ounce of butter in a stew- pan over a gentle fire. Beat it up with a little flour and some thick cream, as much as will make a smooth paste. Add two ounces of soiled macaroni, two ounces of grated parmcsar., and a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Beat the mixture over the fire until it is smooth and firm, and leaves the sides of the s;iucopan with tlio spoon. Mould it into qucnellos with a tea-spoon which has been dijipod in hot water, and poacli these in boiling gravy till Ihoy arc done through. Lift them out with a skimmor, and put them into the tureen with the soup.QUE QUE ( 677 ) Time, thrco minutes to poach the quenelles. tf.utticieut for a small tureen of soup. Quenelles, Forcemeat for.—QucneUe forcemeat is made by mixing meat, poultry, game, or fish with an equal quantity in bulk ot panada and calf's udder: it must be remem- bered that each ingredient must be pounded and passed through a sieve by itself, and after- wai-ds all must be pounded together, and to- gether passed through the sieve. The prepara- tion of the udder is a troublesome and tedious process, besides which the udder cannot always be procured. Therefore fresh butter is fre- quently substituted for it; and when this is the case the following jiroportions may be followed: they will be found to make good forcemeat, whether meat, poultrv, game, or fish is used :— Take half a pound of meat properly prepared, a quarter of a pound of panada (see Panada), and three ounces of fresh butter. Pound these together, with a Uttle salt, cayenne, and mace, if the ])anada is not already seasoned. A little anchovy may be added for fish quenelles, lilix in gi-adually a table-spoonful of good white sauce, and the yolks of two and the white of one egg. Test the forcemeat as directed in the preceding recipes (see Quenelles, &c.), and, if required, add a little more seasoning or the yolk of another egg: keep the preparation in a cool place or upon ice until it is wanted. It wiU keep for a day or two. Quenelles, Forcemeat for (another way).—See Forcemeat for Quenelles. Quenelles, German.—Various recipes are given in this book for the German klossc, which are a kind of quenelles. They are made both sweet and savoury. When sweet, they are served with sugar and sauce ; when savoury, they are either served in soups or as a garnish for dishes, or piled high on a dish with vege- tables. The following are made with flour, and may either be used as a garnish, served with vegetables, or, after being poached, may be dipped into clarified butter, and aftei'wards into egg and bread-crumbs, and fried tUl they are lightly browned, then drained, and served hot on a neatly-folded napkin:—Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a saucepan, with three small cupf uls of milk. "S^'Tien the liquor rises in the pan, stir six ounces of flour quickly into it, add a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and stir the paste briskly till it leaves the sides of the saucepan with the spoon. Turn it out, and add gradually throe whole eggs and a little grated parmesan. Mould the quenelles in the usual way, and let them simmer gently until they are done through. The water or gra\y in which these quenelles are poached should not be allowed to boil at all, or the balls will break. Time to simmer, according to size. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Quenelles, Lobster (for Fish Soups).— Takf! the meat, pith, coral, and spawn of a small hen lobster, and pound it to a paste. Mix with it two tablo-spoonfuls of finoly-gratod broad-crumbs and three ounces of butter. Season the forcemeat with a tea-spoonful of anchovy, a little salt, nutmeg, and cayenne, and moisten with the yolks of two eggs and the white of one. Test a little piece, to be suro that it is properly seasoned and fiim, and if necessary, add the yolk of another egg. ]\Iould the forcemeat into small quenelles, and brown these in hot fat, or poach them in boiling water. They may be served with fish, soup, or, with good gravy poured over them, as a breakfast or supper dish. Time to fry, according to size. Probable cost of lobster, Is. to 2c. Quenelles, Moulding of.— Take a spoon of the size it is wished the quenelles should be, fill it with the forcemeat, and smooth the surface with a knife which has been dipped in hot water. Dip another spoon of the same size into hot water, and with it slip the meat out of the first spoon, put it into a buttered dish, and proceed with another quenelle. When as many are made as are required, slip the balls from the dish into a saucepan of water lightly salted, and lot them boil until firm. Quenelles of Cod, Salmon, &c.— Take the skin from a thick slice of salmon or cod, scrape the flesh with a spoon, and rub it through a wire sieve upon a dish. Pound six ounces of the fish thus prepared, with three ounces of butter, and four ounces of panada; season with salt and cayenne, and then add, gradually, one whole egg, and the yolks of two others. Pound the mixture again, and put it on ice or in a cool place till it is wanted. Any kind of fish forcemeat may be made in the same way. Quenelles of Game.—Take the remains of cold game or poultrj^ carefully remove the skin, bone, and sinew, then mince and pound the meat, and prepare the quenelles according to the recipe ah-eady given for quenelle forcemeat. If this method is con- sidered too troublesome, adopt the following:— IMince a poimd of the meat finely, and pound it in a mortar, with three oimces of butter, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and six or eight button mushrooms chopped small. Soak the crumb of a French roll in gravy, and squeeze the moistiire from it. Put it into a stewpan with as much gra^^ as it will absorb, and stir it over a clear fire till it forms a smooth mass and leaves the side of the saucepan with the spoon. Mix with it the unbeaten yolk of an egg, and set it aside to cool, then pound it with the other ingredients till all are thoroughly blended. Leave the preparation in a cool place or on ice for an hour or two, mould it into baUs, dip these in egg and bread-crumb, and fry in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Drain on blotting-paper, and serve on a hot dish, with good brown sauce or mushroom sauce poured over theto. Time to fry, about ten minutes. Quenelles of Game (another way).— Pick the meat from the remains of cold game, and carefully remove the skin, bone, and sinew. Cut it small, and put half a pound of it into a mortar, with a tea-spocnful of flour, an ounce of butter, half an ounce of fat bacon, and a little salt, pepper, and gxatcd nutmeg. Pound the mixtm-e to a smooth paste, and bind it together Avith the unbeaten yoUc of an egg. Mould into balls in the usual way, nnd ])f)il( 078 ) QUI QTJE thcso goutly in a littlo gravy till thoy uro done through. Drain, and servo piled high on a hot dish, with mushroom sauco poured round them. Time to boil, about a quarter of an hour. Quenelles of Grouse.—Cut the meat from the remains of di-essed grouse, liemove the skin and sinew, and pound the flesh in a mortar until it can be rubbed through a coarse sieve. To every pound of meat add half a pound of bread-crumb, soaked in milk and drained, one ounce of fat bacon, two ounces of butter, half a tea-spoonful of salt, the same of pepper, the eighth of a grated nutmeg, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. When these ingi-edients are well mixed, pound them again all together; then add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a firm froth. Divide t'le mix- ture into small quantities. Foi-m these as nearly as possible of the size and shape of an egg; poach them in boiling stock, drain well, and serve in a dish, with some nicely-flavoured grsLVj, made with the bones and trimmings of the grouse, and thickened with arrowroot. Quenelles, when well made, are considered a delicacy. They should be light and spongy; and it is a good plan to try one ball first before cooking the whole. If not sufficiently firm, add another egg; if too much so, add a few drops of water. Quenelles are sometimes put into buttered cups, boiled, and turned out when done enough. Stewed mushrooms may be sent to table with them. Time, a quarter of an hour to poach. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Quenelles of Rabbit.—Cut the meat from a boiled rabbit, and carefully remove every particle of skin and sinew. Pound it till smooth, and press it through a sieve. Put a calf's udder into a stewpan with as much cold water as will cover it. Let it boil gently, and when it is done enough, take it out and let it cool. Trim away the upper parts, cut it up small, pound it in a mortar, and then press it through a sieve. Chop up six small mushrooms, and put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter the size of an egg, the peel of a quarter of a thinly-sliced lemon, a chopped shallot, a pinch of powdered thyme, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Steam these ingredients over a gentle fire for ten minutes. Soak the crumb of two French rolls in milk. "When quite soft, put them into a napkin, and squeeze the moisture from them. Put them into the stewpan with the seasoning, add a table-spoonful of white sauce, and beat the mixture over a gentle fire until it is quite dry and leaves the saucepan with the spoon. Take it from the fire, and mix with it the yolk of an egg. Put the panada, the calf's udder that has passed through the sieve, and the pounded meat into a cool place, and leave them for an hour. To make the quenelles, take an equal quantity (not weight) of each of the three, pound together with a whole egg, and press the mixture through a sieve. Poach & little piece in boiling water, and if it is properly seasoned, firm, and light, mould the quenelles. Poach them in boiling water, serve on a hot dish, pouring over them good white sauce iiavoured with muslu ooms. I'oach the quenelles till they are firm, which will be in from three to twelve minutes, according to size. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to lOd. per pound. Quenelles, Ragofit of.—Take half a pound of any kind ol' diessed meat, game, or poultry. Cut it small, imd pound it in a mortiir. Mix with it its weight in bread-crumbs, and add a salt-spoonful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoonful of tliin lemon-rind, cut very small, half an anchovy, boned and pounded, a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and half a clove of garlic, if liked. I'ound these in- gredients thoroughly. Mix them up with an ounce of clarified butter, and when cool, bind the mixture together with tlie yolk of an egg. ]\Iake it into balls the size of a walnut; fry these in hot fat, drain them, put them on a hot dish, and pour over them a rich brown gravy. If liked, the quenelles may be poached in boiling water instead of being fried in fat, and white sauce, in which a few mushrooms have been boiled, can be poured on. The juice of a lemon should be squeezed over before the sauce is poured upon them. Time to poach or fry the quenelles, five to ten minutes, or until they are firm. Probable cost, exclusive of the gravy. Is. Sufficient for a small dish. Quince.—The common quiuc3 is a hard and austere fruit; when stewed with sugar, however, it becomes imcommonly pleasant, and in this way is often eaten alone, and often to impart a flavour to apple pies. It is also much used to make a preserve known as Quince THE QUINCE. Marmalade. A delicious beverage, something like cider, is also made from it. The seeds readily impart their mucilage to water, and will convert forty or fifty times their weight an water into a substance thick as syrup. The quince was grown by the ancient Greeks and Romans; in our own day it is cultivated in the South of Europe, in England, and in temperate climates generally. Quinces are peculiar for the strong odour which they exhale: this odour is a sign that they are fit for use. On account of it, the fruit should not be kept closely shutQUI ( 679 ) up in a place where it is likely to be felt un- pleasantly. Quince and Apple Marmalade,— Take a pint of quince juice, prepared as directed in a succeeding recipe {see Quince Juice). Put it into a preserving-pan, with one pound of nicely-flavoured apples, pared, cored, and quar- tered, and simmer gently until the apples are quite soft. Lift the pan from the fire, and stir in three-quarters of a pound of finely-sifted sugar: when this is dissolved, put the pan again upon the fire, and boil the marmalade quickly for twenty minutes, taking care to stir it well, or it will bum. Turn it while hot into glasses or jars, and cover in the usual way. Store in a cool diy place. Time to boil the apples, one hour. Quince Blancmange.—Pare two orthree pounds of quinces without coring them, and throw them into cold water as soon as they are done. Drain them, and put them into a sauce- pan, with as much cold water as will cover them, let them simmer gently until tender, and turn them into a bowl. The next day strain the juice through a jelly-bag, and put it, when clear, into a saucepan, and with each pint put one and a half ounces of isinglass or gelatine, and half a poimd of loaf sugar, or a little more, if that is not enough to puit the taste. Simmer all gently together until the isinglass is dis- solved, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Pour the blancmange out, and stir into it, very gradually, about a pint of thick sweet cream: continue to stir until it is almost cold. Pour it into a mould that has been soaked in cold water, and put it in a cool place, or upon ice, until set. Time, half an hour to boil the quince 'juice with the isinglass. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Quince Cakes. — Wash the quinces without peeling, boil them in just enough water to barely cover them till they are quite soft, and then rub them through a coarse sieve. Mix a pound and a half of pounded sugar with each quart of juice, and make it as hot as pos- sible without boiling it. Spread it out upon shallow dishes, and drj' in a cool oven or before the fire. Cut the fruit into small shapes. Quince Cakes (another way).—Peel half a dozen quinces, remove the cores, and boil the fruit in a pint of the syrup of quinces, and the same quantity of sjTup of raspberries, until it becomes reduced to pulp ; then strain through a coarse sieve. To this pulp add three spoonfuls of loaf sugar, and boil it down till it is ready to candy. Make the pulp into cakes, and dry these on tin plates in a cool oven. Quince Cheese.—Boil the quinces, and rub them to a pulp, as in the last recipe. Weigh this pulp and also an equal weight of sugar. Boil the fruit till it is dry; pound the sugar, stir it, and keep stirring over a gentle fire until the jam is stiff and smooth, and so dry that it leaves the sides of the saucepan with a spoon. Spread it out on shallow dislxcs, or make little paper cases pour the fruit in to the depth of half an inch, and, if necessarj', dry in a cool oven until the fruit is quite stiff. If the cheese has been spread on dishes, cut it into fancy shapes, and store these in a tin box between sheets of writing paper. If paper cases are used they can bo taken off easily if they are dipped for a moment in cold water. Quince Cream.—Take some ripe quinces, roast them, remove the cores, and cut them into thin slices. Boil the quinces in a pint of cream, with ginger, then strain and flavour with loaf sugar. Quince Custard.—Pare the quinces, and simmer them gently till they are tender in as much water as will barely cover them. Pour off the juice, and strain it through a jelly-bag. Boil a pint of it with five oimces of loaf sugar, and mix it very gradually whilst hot with the yolks of ten well-beaten eggs. Pour the custard into a heated jug, put this into a sauce- pan of hot water, and stir over the fire until the custard begins to thicken. Pour it into glasses, and it is ready for serving. Sufficient for a pint and a half of custard. Quince Jelly.—Choose quinces that are ripe and yellow, but quite sound. Wash, but do not peel them, cut them into slices, and put them into a preserving pan. Shake them well down, barely cover them with water, and let them boil gently until they are soft, but they must not be allowed to remain so long as to deepen their colour. Turn them into a jelly-bag, and let the juice drain from them without pressure: filter it two or three times, if necessary, till it is clear and bright. Measure the juice, and boil it quickly for twenty minutes. Take it from the fire, and stir into it, until dissolved, twelve ounces of powdered lump sugar for each pint of juice. Boil it again, and carefully remove the scum ah it rises. Let it boil until it wiU jelly when a little is put upon a plate. Pour it at once into glasses or small moulds. The jelly ought to boil quickly, or the colour vv^ll not be good. The pulp left in the jelly-bag may be boiled with moist sugar for common use; half a pound of sugar will be sufficient for each pound of pulp. Time, twenty minutes to boil the juice by itself; a few minutes to boil it with the sugar, or till it jeUies. Quince Jelly (another way).—Take one quart of quince juice, and add to it one pound of loaf sugar ; boil until it will jelly. Boil it again with a pint of white wine in which an ounce of gum arable has been dissolved, and pour it into pots or glasses. When cold it will set to a solid jelly. Quince Jelly (another way).—Cut thirty- six quinces into small bits, with about two quarts of water; let them boil slowly till the fruit is quite in a mash; keep them covered close, and let about a third boil away, linn the liquor through a jelly-bag, and put to every pint a pound of fine white sugar; put into a preserving pan, and boil till thick. It should be boiled till its consistency is such, that when cold it may turn out of the mould to be used.( 680 ) QUI QUI Quince Juice.—Pare, core, and qimrtor soini- very ripi' quiucos. i'lit thoin into an earthon jar, witli a jjint of cold water for each pound of fruit. Cover tlio jar closely, place it in a saucepan of water, und let the fruit atoam gently until it is broken. Then lift tlie jar out of the water, remove the cover, and leave the fruit untouched until the next day. Turn it into a jelly-bat^-, and strain the juice until it is clear and briglit, when it wiU be ready for use. The pulp may bo boiled with moist sugar for common use. If the quinces are allowed to boil too long their colour will bo spoilt. Quince Juice (another way).—Take some ripe quinces, peel and grate them; then squeeze the juice through a cloth. Ilavo ready some sugar boiled to a syrup, put in the juice, and let it boil till it jellies, which may bo known by putting a spoonful on a plate to cool. The pro- portiou of sugar to be used is half a pound to every pint of juice. Quince Kernels.—The kernels of quinces should be carefully preserved and dried, and when requii'ed will make a soothing poultice for burns and scalds. To prepare it, soak a few in water. They will shortly form a kind of jelly, and this should be applied to the injiued part. Quince Liqueur.—Wash and dry some ripe quinces, and core, but do not peel fhem. Grate them on a coarse grater. Spread the fruit on a large dish, sprinlde powdered and sifted sugar lightly over it, and let it lie for twenty-four hours. Turn the whole into a hair sieve which rests upon two sticks placed across a basin; strain the juice until it is quite clear, lileasiare this, and with each pint of juice put half a pound of refined sugar, and a pint of brandy or whiskey. Let the liqueur stand for a fortnight, shaking it each day. Bottle for use. Quince Marmalade. — Wlien quinces emit their peculiar strong odour it is a sign that they are fit for use. Peel the quinces, core them, slice them into a preserving-pan, and pour over them as much water as will barely cover them. Let them simmer very gently until they are soft, stirring them occa- sionally to keep them from burning to the pan ; then beat them to a pulp with a wooden spoon. Weigh the fruit, and for each pound allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan, with as much water as wiU moisten it, and boil it to a clear syrup. Put in the fruit, and boil it slowly till it is smooth and thick. Stir frequently whilst it is being boiled. The marmalade will be done enough when it will jelly when di-opped upon a plate. Put it, whilst hot, into glasses or jars, and when it is cool, cover in the usual way, with paper dipped in the white of egg. Time, five hours or more. Quince Marmalade (another way).— Pare some quinces that are quite ripe, cut them into quarters, core them, and jiut them into a saucepan ; cover them with the parings; fill tlie saucepan nearly full of spring water, cover it close, and let the quinces .stew over a slow fire till soft and of a pink colour; then pick out all the qumces from the parings; boat them to a pulp in a marble mortar or wooden bowl; put the same weight of fine loaf sugar an there is pul]) into as mudi of the water tliey were stewed in as will dLsaolvo the sugar, Boil and skim well, then put in the pulp of the quinces; boil gently for tlu-ee-quurtera of an hour, stirring all the time, or the niarnmlude will stick to the pan uud buin. Put it in pots, and tie down close. Quince Marmalade (another way).— Take quinces tliat are quite ripe, i)are, cut them into (luarters, taking out the core, and put them into a stcwpan, with spring water enough to cover them. Keep them closely covered, and lot them stew gently till they are quite soft and red, then mash and rub them thi'ough a hair sieve. Put them in a pan over a gentle fire, with as much chtrified sugar as the weight of the quinces. Boil for an hour, stin-ing all the time, to keep the marmalade from sticking. Put it into pots, and tie down when cold. Quince Marmalade, Superior.—Take some ripe quinces, wash them, and put them whole into a preserving-pan, with as much boiling water as will cover them. Let them simmer gently until they are so soft that they can be easily pierced with a pin. Lift them out, peel and core them, put the cores and skins back into the water, and boil xmtil it is considerably reduced, then strain it. Cut the fruit into thin slices. Weigh these with an equal weight of refined sugar. Put them with the sugar into a preserving pan, pour over them the strained liquor, boil the whole slowly over a gentle fire, and stir with a wooden spoon till it is thick and smooth. In order to ascertain whether or not it is done enough put a little every now and then upon a plate, and when it jellies it is done. Put it, whilst hot, into glasses or jars, and cover in the usual way. Time, five horns or more. Quince Paste, for Dessert. — Take some ripe quinces, pare, core, and quarter them, and boil them until they are soft in as much water as will barely cover them. Lift them out, drain them, and rub them through a sieve. Stir the pulp over a clear fire until it forms a dry paste. Weigh it, mix with it its weight in powdered and sifted sugar, and stir it unceasingly over a gentle fire until it is firm, and loaves the sides of the saucepan with the spoon. Press it into shallow pans, and when it is cold stamp it out into.shapes, and,'if neces- sary, dry these in a cool oven until they are entirely free from moisture. Store in tin boxes between sheets of wi-iting paper. The paste may, if liked, be more strongly flavoured by boiling the fruit in quince juice instead of water. Time, four to five hours. Quince Pie.—Lino the edges of a pio-dish with a short paste. Fill the dish with quinces, pared, cored, and quartered, sjmnkle a little sugar on the top, and add a pinch of grated lemon-peel. Moisten the edges, cover the dish with 'jiastry, and bake in a moderate oven. Sift a little powdered sugar over the pie before sending it to table. Time to bake, according to size.QUI QUI ( 681 ) Quince Pudding —Take six or eight large ripe quinces. Tare, core, and qiiarter them, and put tliem into a saucepan, with as much' boiling water as will cover them, and let them simmer gently until soft. Press them through a sieve, sweeten the pulp, and flavour with lemon, cinnamon, or ginger. When it is cool, stir into it a pint of thick cream and the wcU-beaten yolks of three eggs. Line a pie-dish with good puff paste, pour in the prepared quince, and hake in a moderate oven. Sift white sugar thickly over the pudding before sending^it to table. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, 2s, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Quince Snow (for Dessert).—Take some fine fresh quinces, and boil them till tender. Peel, cut them into slices, and mash them. Weigh out an equal quantity of sugar. To every pound of quinces, take the whites of three eggs beat up, and add them one after the other, tui-ning always the same way. After each addition, add also a spoonful of sugar. Continue beating till the whole is white and frothy : the longer it is beaten the better the snow will be. Spread it upon wafer-paper in any shapes you please, and let thr> snow dry in the sun. . ;. . QuinO© Tart.—Put one pound of sugar into a brass pan, pour over it a pint of water, and boil the sugar to a syrup. Slice a pound of quinces into it, and let all boil till it becomes a marmalade, stirring all the time. Next take six ounces of chopped almonds, two ounces of citron, the peel of two lemons cut very thin, or grated together with the juice of the lemons. Let all boil up; cover a baking-plate with wafer-paper, pour it over, and make it smooth. When the tart is baked, beat up the juice of two lemons Avith pounded sugar tUl it is white like ice: cover the tart with it, and let it dry in a cool oven. Quince Wine.—This is made hy mixing one quart of the juice of quinces witii one pound of sugar, and then suffering the liquid to ferment. By adding to the same quantity one pint of the best French brandy and four ounces of sugar, a celebrated liqueur is prepared on the Continent, which used to be greatly prized as a cordial and stomachic when taken in small quantities—say two or three spoonfuls at a time. Quince Wine (another way). — Take twelve quinces, cut them in slices, and boil for a quarter of an hour in a gallon of water. Then add two pounds of lump sugar; ferment, and add one gallon of lemon-wine, and one part of spirit. Quinces, Brandied.—Weigh some ripe quinces, and allow three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar to each pound of fruit. Wash the quinces, put them, without paring them, into a preserving-pan, with as much water as will barely cover them, and let them simmer gently imtil they arc so soft that a pin can be easily stuck into them; drain them, and put them aside. Boil the sugar with as much water as will moisten it, and when bubljles form in it put in the quinces; let them boil up once, and put them aside until the next day. Pour the syrup from them, and put them into wide- mouthed bottles. UoU the syrup until it ia thick and clear, let it get .cold, and mix with it an equal quantity of brandy. I'our this liquor over the fi'uit, tie bladders over the mouths of the bottles, and store in a cool dry place. Quinces, Preserved. — Take some quinces, cut them into small pieces, and boil them in a quai-t of water, to which one spoon- ful of salt and the same quantity of honey has been added, until the water tastes strongly of quinces; then add a quart of white wine vinegar. Now lay the quinces it is wished to preserve at the bottom of an earthenware jar, and pour the above liquor over them. Put into jars, and cover closely. Quinces, Preserved (another way).— Soak the quinces before they are quite ripe in salt and water for twenty-four hours. Then take them out, dip them in a hot pickle of white wine \dnegar, salt, mace, cloves, and bay-leaves boiled together, and then preserve them in a stone jar, covered with vin^gari. Quinces, Preserved Whole. — Pare some ripe quinces, and scoop out the cores without opening the fruit. Put them into boiling water, and let them simmer gently until they are tender without being broken. Drain them, put thetn aside to cool, and boil the liquor with a pound of sugar for every pound of fruit; pour it over the quinces, and let them [ remain until the next day. Add to the syrup [ as much apple jelly as wdll cover the fruit, j Dissolve it with the syrUp, and put the quince's ; into it. Let them boil quickly until they look j clear, then put them into glasses. Put a small I portion of the liquor upon a plate, and if it will ! jelly when cold, it is ready for pouring over ■ the fruit; if not, it must be boiled until it will do 30. If no apple jelly is at hand, it may be I made as follows:'—Take some fine golden pippins or small crab apples, rub them with a soft cloth, and put them, without paring them, into a preserving-pan, with as much water as will barely cover them. Let them simmer gently until the fruit is quite soft. Strain the juice through a jelly-bag, two or three times if necessary, until it is quite clear, and boil it, with a pound of sugar for every pint of liquor, until it will jelly when a little is put upon a plate, it is then ready for use. If liked, quince juice may be used instead of apple jeUy to cover the fruit. To make this, cut up some small quinces without coring or paring them, and boil them in as much water as will cover them until the liquor is strongly flavoured with them. Strain the juice, and boil it,, with a pound of sugar to each pint, until it will jeUy. If when the quinces are being boiled in the jelly they seem likely to break, they must bo lifted one by one carefully out of the syrup, jnit into a jar, and the syrup poured over them, then boiled again the next day. Time, two or three days. Quinces, Ratafia of (u French recipe).— Grate ripe quinces till you come to the core, but be careful there are no pips. Let tlie mass remain for three days ip an earthen pan: squeeze it to extract all the j uice; measure it, andQUI ( G82 ) RAB add to it an equal quantity of brandy. Allow Bi.x ounces of sugiir to eacli quart of the mixture, with some cinnamon and cloves to taste. Lot it infuse for two months, then filter it, and pour it into bottles. This liqueur, when old, is excel- lent. Quin's Sauce (An old-fasliionod fisli sauce).—Put a quarter of a pint of walnut pickle into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pint of port, half a pint of mushroom ketchup, a dozen anchovies, boned and pounded, a dozen sliced shallots, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and two table-spoonfuls of soy. Simmer all gently for ton minutes, strain tlio sauce, and, when cold, bottle for use. Securely corked and stored in a cool place, the sauce will keep for some time. Quin's Sauce (another way).—To a quart of walnut pickle add six anchovies, six bay- leaves, six shallots, three cloves, a blade of mace, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and a dozen peppercorns. Boil the whole until the anchovies are dissolved. Take it off the fire; when cold, add half a pint of red wine, and bottle the sauce, corking the bottles well. Quin's Sauce (another way).—To half a pint of mushroom ketchup add a quarter of a pint of walnut pickle, three anchovies, two cloves of garlic pounded, and as much cayenne pepper as will cover a shilling. Put it into a bottle and shake it well; it is then fit for use. It must be kept in a well-corked bottle. Quin's Sauce (another way).—The fol- lowing is Dr. Kitchiner's recipe for this sauce: — "It was given me," he says, "by a very sagacious sauce-maker." Two wine-glassfuls of port and two of walnut pickle, foui- of mush- room ketchup, half a dozen of anchovies pounded, the like number of eschalots sliced and pounded, a table-spoonful of soy, and half a drachm of cayenne pepper. Let them simmer gently for ten minutes; strain it, and, when cold, put it into bottles well corked and sealed over; it will keep for a considerable time. R Rabbit.—There are two sorts—the tame and the wild. Tame rabbits are the larger of the two, with the flesh white and delicate. Of these the Ostend rabbits are most highly valued. Wild rabbits are considered to possess the finest flavour. Rabbits are highly esteemed, for food, and are valuable because they can be served in so many ways. As the meat is rather dry, bacon is generally served with them. When used for the table, they should be young, and should not have been kept more than a day or two. They have been more thought of of late years than they used to be, probably because in their wild state they are less plentiful than formerly, in consequence of the advance of agriculture, and the employment of light lands for more profit- able purposes than rabbit-warrcn.s. M. Ude gives some additional particulars on this head : —"It is to be observed," ho says, "that waiTon raljbits only ought to be sent up to a good laljlo, tame rabbits in general having no flavour ljut tliat of ca)>l;.ig(.; and you must be particular in using for titblc only young rabbits. Whetlier tliey are so may l^e ascerUined by breaking the jaw between the thumb and finger; if they are old, they resist the pressure. Also by feeling in the joint of tlie paw for a little nut; if it is gone, tlie rabl)it is old and not fit for fine cookery. In such cases use them to make rabbit puddings or pies." THE RABBIT. Rabbit (a la Minute).—Cut a fresh young rabbit into neat joints. Dissolve two or three ounces of butter in a stewpan, put in the pieces of rabbit, and turn them about until they are lightly browned aU over. Pour over them as much stock or water as will cover them, and add a little pepper and salt, a blade of mace, two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and three or four mushrooms if these are to be had. Let all simmer gently together untU the rabbit is done enough, and, ten minutes before it is taken from the fire, thicken the gravy with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Serve very hot. A glassful of sherry may be added to the sauce or not. Time altogether, foiiy minutes. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Rabbit (a la Poulctte).—Cut up a fresh young rabbit into neat joints con 'enicnt for serving. Lay these in a pie-dish, cover with equal parts of milk and water, and let them soak for an hour or two; this will render them juicy and tender. Drain them, put them into a stewpan, pour over them as much soiling white stock or water as will cover them, and add a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea- spoonful of white pepi^er, a bunch of parsley, two small button onions, a blade of mace, and six or eight mushrooms. Let the sauce l>oil iip, then draw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer very gently indeed for half an lOur. Take up the meat, and set it r.side for a short time. Strain the sauce, and boil quickly until it is reduced one-third. Stir into it two table-spoonfuls of thick cream, put in the pieces of rabbit, and let them remain until they are hotBAB ( 683 ) RAB through, but the sauce must not boil after the meat is put in a second time. Arrange the rabbit in a dish, pom- the sauce over it, and gjirnish with parsley and cut lemon. A glassful of light wine may be added to the sauce or not. Time altogether, two hours. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Rabbit (a la Tartars).—A French recipe. —Take a rabbit, and bone it. Then cut it into pieces, which marinade some hours in parsley, mushrooms, chives, and a clove of garlic, all chopped fine, together with pepper, salt, and oil; dip each piece of rabbit in bread-crumbs, broil, sprinkling the pieces with the marinade. Serve in a sauce d la Tartare {see Tartar Sauce). Probable cost, rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Rabbit and Eel, Matelote of .—Take a plump young rabbit, a fine eel, and three or four slices of bacon. Skin, empty, and wash the rabbit, cut it into small joints, and if the head is to be used, split it in halves, and take out the eyes. Skin and empty the eel, and di^ade it into short lengths. Fry the rabbit and eel in hot fat, together with the bacon cut into dice, till all are brightly browned and half cooked; talce them up, set them aside, and in the same fat fry half a dozen button onions or two moderate-sized onions sliced, and a dozen button mushrooms if these are to be had. When these also are browned, put them in a clean saucepan with the fried rabbit and eel, and mix as much flour with the hot fat as is required to make a smooth paste. Moisten this with stock or water to make gravy of the consistency of cream, put into this the fried meat, onions, and mushrooms, and add the liver and heart of the rabbit, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt if required. Simmer all gently together till the rabbit is tenaer. When done enough, pile the rabbit in the centre of a dish, arrange the pieces of eel and the bacon round it, and keep the meat hot. Strain the gra^'y, put a glassful of wine into it, boil it down till it is smooth and thick, and pour it it over the meat. Serve immediately. When mushrooms are not at hand, a tea-spoonful of anchovy and ji spoonful of bruised capers, or three or four gherkins chopped small, may be stirred into the sauce by way of a substitute. This recipe may be used for a rabbit alone, or an eel alone, as well as for the two together. Time, half an hour to simmer*the rabbit, &c. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound; eel, very variable. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Rabbit, Baked.—Skin, draw, and wash thoroughly a young rabbit, and, if convenient, let it lie in milk and water for an hour or two. Drain it, and cut it up into small neat joints convenient for serving. Pepper these lightly, place them in a single layer in a baking-tin, and cover each piece with a rasher of bacon. Put the tin into a modcratoly-heatcd oven, and bake the rabbit until it is done enough. Arrange the rabbit and bacon alter- nately in a circle on a hot dish, and pour the gravy in the tin over them. Serve very hot, with mashed potatoes as an accompaniment. Time to bake, from three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient, one rabbit for two or three persons. Rabbit, Baked (another way).—Take a plurap young rabbit. Skin, empty, and wash it, line the inside with slices of fat bacon, and fill it with good veal forcemeat. Sew it up securely, and truss it firmly, with the hind legs backward, the back legs forward, and the head in an upright position. Lay a slice of fat bacon over the back, and put the rabbit in a deep dripping-tin, then lay three or four lumps of butter or dripping upon it, and place it in a moderate oven. When it is almost done enough, dredge a little flour over it, baste it again, and set it in the oven to brown. Lift it upon a hot dish, remove the skewers, pour a spoonful or two of good brown gravy over it, and send some more to table in a tui-een. Garnish the dish with slices of fat bacon. If liked, red- currant jelly may accompany the baked rabbit. Time to bake, from three-quarters of an hour to one hour; less if the rabbit is small. Pro- bable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Rabbit, Baked, and Macaroni.—Cut a rabbit into joints, or truss it if preferred; butter it well, and lay it in a baking-dish on some slices of ham. Place it in a moderately- heated oven, and let it remain there, basting now and then with more butter. Take a quarter of a pound of Naples macaroni, break it in pieces about two inches in length, and throw these into a stewpan of boiling stock. Let the macaroni simmer tUl tender, then strain it; mix with it one ounce of white sugar, and two ounces of fresh butter, season to taste, and add to the rabbit a table-spoonful of brandy and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Place the macaroni in the dish with the rabbit, bake until the macaroni is of a pleasant brown colour, and send to table in the dish in which the rabbit was baked. Time, the rabbit must have been at least half an hour in the oven before the addition of the macaroni. Rabbit, Baked, with Rice.—Cut up a fat young rabbit into neat joints, and pepper these rather highly. Dissolve three or four ounces of bacon fat or good dripping in a sauce- pan, put in the pieces of rabbit, and let them steam over a gentle fire until they are lightly browned and half dressed. Take them up, drain theni, and put them aside. Wash half a pound of rice, and put it into a saucepan with a quart of nicely-flavoured stock and half a blade of mace. Let it simmer until it is tender and has absorbed the liquor, then let it cool, and stir in -with it a large slice of fresh butter and the yolks of four eggs. Butter a deep dish, lay the pieces of rabbit into it, pour over them a large spoonful of chutnee, and then spread the rice on the top. Lay the beaten yolks of two eggs upon the rice, and bake the preparation in a brisk oven. Serve very hot in the dish in which it was baked. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 3s. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rabbit, Boiled.—This is the usual and one of the most acceptable ways of di-essing( 684 ) BAB BAB raLbitB. Chooso niodoratoly young rabbits, skin, draw, and wasli tlioiu. TrusH them witli Iho heads skew(!rod to the sides, drop them into boiling water, and let them simmer gently until ilono onough. Drain them, and serve either with onion, liver, white, or mushroom sauce, or parsley and butter. The first of these is generally preferred. Hend boiled bacon to table with the boiled rablnts, or garnish the dish with mshers of broiled bacon. The flesh ■ of a boiled rabbit will bo rendered more juicy ' nnd tender if it is soaked in milk and water for a couple of hours before being boiled. Its flavour, too, will be improved if an onion, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, half a dozen peppercorns, and a little salt aro put into the water with it. Time to simmer the 'rabbits, thirty to forty-five minutes, according to age and size. A very young rabbit will bo done enough in twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient, two rabbits for five or six persons. Babbit, Boiled (Dr. Kitchiner's recipe). .—Truss the rabbits short, lay them in a basin of warm water for ten minutes, then put them into plenty of water, and boil them about half an hour; if large ones, three quarters; if very old, an hour; smother them with plenty of white onion sauce, mince the liver, and lay it round the dish, or make liver sauce, and send it up in a boat. Ask those you are going to make liver sauce for, if they like plain liver •sauce, or liver and parsley, or liver and lemon sauce. It will save much trouble to the carver if the" rabbits be cut up in the Idtchen into pieces fit to serve at table, and the head divided, one half laid at each end, and slices of lemon and tho liver chopped very finely laid on the sides of the dish. At all events, cut off the head before you send it to table. We hardly remember that the thing ever lived if we do not sec the head, while it may excite ugly ideas to see it cut up in an attitude imitative of life; besides, for the preservation of the] head the poor animal sometimes suffers a slower deatli. Babbit, Boiled, and Onions. — Take one or two rabbits, skin them, and skewer as for boiling; put them into warm water in order to extract all the blood; when they are very white, boil in boiling water and a little salt. They will take from three-quarters to one hour. Make the sauce as follows :—Peel a dozen white onions, cut off the tops and tails, then cut them into six pieces each, put them to boil in boiling water and a little salt; when nearly done, drain them on a sieve, put them into a clean towel, squeeze out the water, then chop them very fine; put them into a stewpan ■with half a quarter of a jjound of butter, let them fry to drain the water away; then put half a spoonful of flour, mix well together, and moisten with cream or milk, but cream is preferable ; next let this sauce boil doNNTi on a sharp fire, put some salt and pepper to it, and malcc it rather thick. Drain the rabbits, and cover them 7?-th this sauce. Babbit, Boiled, To Carve. — First Hepanito the l<!gs and shoulders; then cut the bark across into tyvo parts. Tlus may readily be accomplished by inserting the knife in the joint, and raising up tho back with the fork. As in the case of the liaie, the back of the rabbit is best worth (jating. Some liver-sauce should always be served with boiled rabbit. BABBrr, BOILED, TO CABVE. Babbit, Boudins of.—Take the white flcsil of a rabbit. Free it from skin and sinew, mince finely, pound weU, and make into a delicate forcemeat, by mixing with each pound of meat two ounces of butter, one ounce of fat bacon, and a dessert-spoonful of flour. Season the forcemeat with salt, pepper, and pounded mace,' flavour with dressed onions or mush- rooms finely minced, and bind it together with one or two yolks of eggs. Beat till it is quite smooth. Spread it on a dish, and form the forcemeat into small sausages. Put these into a stewpan, cover with boiling stock, and let them simmer gently until the forcemeat is set. Drain them, dish them in a circle, pour over them some nicely-flavoured brown sauce, and serve very hot. If liked, two or three pounded potatoes, or a small portion of panada, may be mixed with the forcemeat; if so the flour should be omitted. This is a convenient way of using the remains of cold dressed rabbit. Time, about a quarter of an hour to boil the boudins.: Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. , . Babbit, Boudins of (a la Peine).— Prepare in the same manner as croquettes {see Rabbit, Croquettes of: II. Tide's' way); roU the meat into large boudins, sausage shape, dip into egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them. Serve under them some veloute, with a little glaze of game. For croquettes or boudins d la reine, made of fowls, rabbits, or game, if you should have by you some sweetbreads, they will be a great improvement, as they make them more mellow and delicate. Babbit, BVoiled (a la Maintenon).—Cut up a f icsli young rabbit into neat joints con- venient for sers'ing. Put these into a stfewpan, pour over them as much good stock as will barely cover them, and put \s'ith them a bunch of parsley, one or two sticks of celerj-, two onions, a blade of mace, a sliced carrot, six or eight peppercorns, and half a dozen mushrooms. Let them simmer gently for half an hour. Take them up, drain them, and let them cool. Cut as many pieces of writing-paper as there are pieces of rabbit, butter these, and lay inside each one a piece of fat bacon. Lay the rabbit on this, and sprinkle over it a little white pepper and grated nutmeg. Fold the paper round the meat, and broil the pieces of rabbit over a clmv fire until the bacon has had time to cook suf- ficiently. Serve in the papers. Thicken the( 685 ) BAB BAB gravy with a little brown thickening; and send it to" table in a tureen. Time to broil the rabbit, ten minutes. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for two or three persons. Babbit Cake (a breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish).—Take the white meat from two young rabbits. Put the bones into a saucepan, cover them with cold water, add an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt, and let these ingredients stew gently until the gi-avy is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain, thicken ^vith a little flour and butter, stir one or two spoonfuls of cream into the gravy, and let it boil until it is smooth and of the consistency of custard. Take the weight of the meat in fat bacon, cut this into small pieces, and melt these in a saucepan over a gentle fire. In two or three minutes put the pieces of rabbit into the pan with them, accompanied by a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a' little pepper, and stir all with a wooden spoon until the meat is sufiiciently dressed. Turn the contents Of the saucepan into a mortar with half the quan- tity of panada (sec Panada), pound all together to a smooth paste, and rub this through a hair sieve. Moisten the forcemeat with a small quantity of the sauce made from the bones, and bind it together with the yolks of two or three eggs. Taste the forcemeat, to ascertain whether or not it is pleasantly flavoured, and, if further seasoning is required, pound the mixture again after it is added. A few mushrooms or trufiles cut small may be added if liked. Butter two round moulds of different sizes, and press the forcemeat into these. Cover them, put them into a large pan containing boiling water three or four inches deep, and keep this boiling imtil the forcemeat is sufficiently cooked. Let it get cold. "When wanted, turn the larger cake upon a dish, put the smaller cake on the top of it, and place a ring of clear aspic jelly on the top of aU. Garnish the dish with aspic jelly cut into dice, and, if liked, place a border of rice round the cake. When prettily ornamented it is ready for serving. Time to boil the cakes, half an hour-to an hour and a quarter, ac- cording to size. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Babbit, Cold, To Dress.—Joint the meat, boat up an egg or two with a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt, some parsley minced fine, and some bread-crumbs; dip the meat into the batter, sprinkle with crumbs, have ready some sweet beef-dripping hot in a pan, and fry the meat to a light brown ; thicken a little gravy with flour, put a large spoonful of ketchup to it, ky the fry in a hot dish, pour the gravy round it, not over it, and serve hot; garnish with lumon and toast. Babbit, Croquettes of.—Pick the meat from the remains of roast rabbit, and free it frorn skin and sinew. Mince finely, adding to it a third of its weight in lean ham, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Put the mixture into a stowpan wiili a slice of fresh butter and one or two table-spoonfuls of thick cream or white sauce, and stir over a gentle fire' for five or sii minute's. Tast^e if it be nicely seasoned, and spread it on a dish to-' cool. If liked',' one or two mushrooms or titiflifes can be added t6 the fofeemdirt. Divide the pre-" paration into portions of an equal size, mouiyf-' these into the shape of corks or balls, bruSh'-'- over with oil, roll them in egg and bread-^-' crumbs, and fry in hot fat till they aro crisp'- and lightly browned. Drain them, sprinkliJ'* a little salt over them, pile them on a napkinj" and garnish with parsley. If liked, tomatO'- or piquant sauce can bo sent to table in 'a>' tureen. Time to fry, five to seven minutes. Babbit, Croquettes of (M. Ude's way). Cut the meat of young roasted rabbits into dice, ■ which throw in some bechamel boiled down, add- • ing a little glaze of game. Let this cool, then roll it into whatever shape you please, either into balls, or into the shape of a cork or pear. Fry the croquettes, and send up as other cro- quettes ; garnish with fried parsley in the centre of the dish. It is necessary to obser\-e respect- ing croquettes, or any other ai-ticles made use- of in cookery, that the less you handle: thent»; the better. Put the preparation of the • cro- . quettes in a flat long dish; level it with tho., knife till you have it the thickness required f'; mark with the knife the number of croquettest-" you intend to make. Then take them off the dish, roll them in your hand as little as possible, put them in the cnimbs of bread, and roll the magain in the omelet (eggs beat with a ■ little salt), and make them of equal sizes in a cover of a stewpan till such time as you wish to fry them, and serve very hot. Babbit, Curried.—Take two fresh young rabbits and half a pound of streaky baconi' Giit the bacon into small squares, and divide the rabbit into i^ieces convenient for serving. Fry the bacon in two ounces of butter. As the pieces of bacon brown take them out and lay them on a separate dish; put iii the jpieced ' of rabbit, brown them also, aild Ifft them out:^' then fry in the fat three or four sliced onions ' and two sour apples finely minced. When'' these are soft, rub them patiently through ft ' sieve, and mix the pulp very smoothly -svith a dessert-spoonful of curry paste, a dessert- spoonful of curry powder, half a tea-spoonful of flour, and a pint of stock, or, failing this, a pint of water and half a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat. Put the gravy into a stewpan with the rabbit and ba:cori, and let all simmer very gently together until the rabbit is sufficiently cobked, which it will be when the flesh leaves the bone easily. Pile the rabbit' on a dieh, pour the gravy over, and serve with rice boiled for curry on a separate dish. The flavour of this dish, which is a common one' and a general favourite, may bfe varied in many ways. A little celerj' or a few mushrooms may- be simmered with the gra^^^, or a clove of garHc may be added when the flavouring is liked, or a little fresh cocoa-nut maybe rasped and stewed with it, or a cupful of milk or cream may be added to the sauce. If the apph^s aro not at"^ hand the juice of a lemon may be substituted' for them. Time to stew the rabbit in the curry sauca, two hours. Probable cost, 2s 8d buftcient for four or five persons.BAB BAB ( 686 ) Babbit Curry {see Fowl, Veal, or Rabbit Curry). Babbit en Papillotes (a French recipe). —Tako Homo youug and tender rabbits, cut them into joints, and lot thoin marinade some hours in parsley, mushrooms, chives, and a clove of garlic, all chopped fine, together with pepper, salt, and oil. Cover each piece of rabbit with some of this seasoning and a slice of bacon cut very thin; wrap each separately in well-buttered white paper; broil over a gentle fire, and serve in tlio paper as hot as possible. Probable cost, rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Babbit, Fricandeau of.—Take the fleshy portion of a large fat rabbit—that is, the hind-quarters and the loins cut olf close to the shoulder-blades. Lard the flesh evenly and closely, and lay it in a deep baking-dish. Pour upon it as much nicely-flavoured stock as will cover it, fasten a piece of buttered paper over the dish, and bake the rabbit in a moderate oven until it is quite tender, being careful to baste it frequently, and to add a little more stock if required. Lift the rabbit out of the gravy, and keep it hot. Boil the liquor quickly in which it was baked till it begins to thicken. Have ready a tea-cupful of rich tomato sauce. Spread this on a hot dish. Lay the rabbit upon it, pass a red hot shovel over the larding, to make it crisp, and pour the gravy over all. Serve very hot. Time to bake the fricandeau, two hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Babbit, Fricasseed.—Cut a young rabbit into neat joints, lay it in a stewpan, and cover with good stock. Let the liquid boil, then put with it three onions, three carrots, three turnips, and three sticks of celery, aU sliced; add a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, arid a small piece of sugar, and stew all gently together until the vegetables are quite soft. Lift the vegetables out, and rub them through a sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Stir the puree over the fire with a table-spoonful of the gravy for two or three minutes to make it quite hot. Put the pieces of rabbit on a dish, cover with the puree, and pour the sauce over all. Serve very hot. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Babbit, Fricasseed, Brown.—Skin, empty, and clean a rabbit, preserving the liver and heart. Wash it, and afterwards dry it well in a soft cloth, and cut it into neat joints con- venient for serving. If it is intended to make use of the head, split it open, and take out the eyes. Dissolve a slice of butter and a slice of lard in a saucepan, and fry the pieces of rabbit in the fat. ^Vhen thoy are nicely browned, take them out, and lay them aside. Mince three onions finely, fry them until brown, and put them with the rabbit. Stir a dessert-spoonful of flour into the fat, and beat it with the back of a wooden spoon until it is quite smooth, and of a bright brown colour. Moisten gradually with as much stock or water as is required to make it of the con- sistency of thick cream, and add to it a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, a little salt and pepper, and a clove of garlic, if this 18 liked. Put in the pieces of laljbit, and let all simmer gently together until the rabbit 18 sufficiently dressed. J ust licfore tlie fricassee 18 served, put into it a glassful of claret or port. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 38. Sufficient for four or five personH. Babbit, Fricasseed, White. — Skin, empty, and wasli a nice young rabbit, and afterwards dry it well in a soft cloth. Drain it, and cut it into neat joints convenient for serving. Put it into a stewpan, pour over it as much white stock or water as will barely cover it, and add two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a blade of mace, the peel of half a lemon, and a little salt. Simmer all gently together for three-quarters of an hour, lift out the pieces of rabbit, and put them aside. Mix a dessert-spoonful of flour very smoothly with a tea-cupful of milk or cream, add-a tea-cup- ful of the gravy, and put the liquor into a clean saucepan with a slice of butter rolled in flour. Stir it until it boils, then let it simmer gently mitil it is so thick that it will coat the spoon. Put the pieces of rabbit into this sauce, and let them get quite hot. Add pepper and salt if required, and at the last moment stir the juice of a lemon into the sauce. iVrrange the pieces of rabbit on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with cut lemon. This fri- cassee will be very much improved if a dozen or more blanched mushrooms are simmered -with the gravy ten minutes before it is taken from the fire. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 38. Sufficient for four or five persons. Babbit, Fricasseed, White (another and a superior way).—Prepare a rabbit as in the last recipe. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over the pieces of rabbit, put them into the saucepan, and with them a dozen button onions and half a pint of blanched mush- rooms. Let all simmer gently in the butter for three or four minutes, shaking the sauce- pan frequently, in order to keep the pieces of rabbit from acquiring any colour. Dredge two ounces of flour over them, pour on them half a pint of stock or water, and add a glassful of sherry or madeira, if liked. Let the fricassee boil, then draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for half an hour, or longer if the rabbit is large. Carefully remove the scum and the fat as they rise to the surface. Season the gravy with a little salt and pepper, if required, and add a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of caj'cnne, and a lump of sugar the size of a marble. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a quarter of a pint of cream, take the fricassee from the fire for one minute, then stir a small portion of the gravy into the cream, and after- wards mix it with "the rest. Stir over the fire tiU it is quite hot, but on no account allow it to boil after the eggs are added. At tlie Last moment stir in a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Arrange the pieces of rabbit on a hot dish, place the mushrooms and onions round them, and pour the sauce over all. Garnish with cut lemon. Serve very hot. Time, one hour or more. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for four or five persons.( 687 ) RAB RAB Rabbit, Fried.—Skin, empty, wash, and soak a youug iiibbit, and cut it into neat pieces the size of an egg. Floiu- these well, and fiy in plenty of boiling dripping till they are bi-ightly' browned, moving them about con- stantly that they may be equally dressed. Lay a slice of butter on a hot dish, and stir into this a small shallot finely minced, and a table-spoonful of good sauce, with a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, if tliis is liked. Arrange the pieces of rabbit neatly on a dish, and serve very hot. _ Fried bacon is a suitable accompaniment to this dish. If there is any suspicion that the rabbit is stale, it should be thrown into boiling water, and kept boiling quickly for five or six minutes, then drained, cooled, and cut up as above. Time to fry, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Rabbit, Fried (another way).—Prepare the rabbit as in the preceding recipe. Put three table-spoonfuls of Lucca oil into a sauce- pan with an ounce of butter, and a little pepper, salt, and powdered spice. Let the butter melt, and put in the pieces of rabbit, place the sauce- pan upon a brisk fire, and stir its contents frequently till they are sufficiently dressed. Lift them out, stir an ounce of flour into the hot fat, and heat out any lumps that there may be with the back of a wooden spoon. Moisten this with half a pint of nicely-flavoured stock and a glassful of sherry, let it boil for five minutes, and strain it. Put it back into the saucepan with the rabbit, a shallot finely minced, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. "SVhen the sauce is on the point of boiling, lift out the pieces of rabbit, arrange them neatly on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve very hot. Time, twenty minutes to fry the rabbit. Probable cost, 2s. 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for three or four persons. Rabbit, Fried (another way).—Prepare the rabbit as before, and cut it up into pieces not larger than a hen's egg. Dip these into beaten egg, and afterwards into nicely-seasoned bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Pile them on a hot dish, pour the gravy round them, and serve very hot. The gravy may be prepared as follows:—Wash the liver of the rabbit, and hoil it for five minutes, let it get cold, and mince it finely. Simmer an inch or two of lemon-rind in a quarter of a pint of gravy till it is pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, and thicken with half a tea-spoonful of thicken- ing, or, failing this, Avith a small lump of butter rolled in flour. ^Vhen the sauce is of the proper consistency, stir in the liver and two table-spoonfuls of cream. Let it boil for one minute, and it will be ready for use. If liked, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice may be added just before it is j)Ourod round the rabbits, or the cream may be omitted, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup used instead of it. Time, a quarter of an hour to fry the rabbits. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 3d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Rabbit, Galantine of (a breakfast, luncheon, or sujipcr dish),—Take two plump young rabbits. Cut oflE the heads, entirely remove the bones from both, and fasten slices of fat bacon over one, to cover the outer or skin side of it. Mince the flesh of the other rabbit finely, and with it an equal quantity of fat bacon, and a little pepper and powdered mace. No salt will bo required, as it is pro- bable that the bacon will be sufficiently salted. Lay the boned rabbit flat on a table, spread half the forcemeat upon it, arrange on this some strips of ham, tongue, and bacon, together with a truffle or two or a few mushrooms chopped small, if these are at hand, and spread another layer of forcemeat over all. Sew up the rabbit neatly, as nearly as possible in its original form, fasten it securely that the force- meat, &c., may not escape, and tie it in a white cloth. Lay two or three slices of bacon at the bottom of a saucepan, place the rolled meat upon these, and add the heads and bones of the rabbit and any other bones there mabe, together with two carrots, a large onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a little pepper and salt. Pour over these ingredients as much good stock as will barely cover them, and simmer all very gently together, carefully removing the scum as it rises, until the galantine is done enough, that is, until it can be easily pierced with a skewer. Let the galantine get cold in the liquor in which it was stewed. Lift it out, strain the liquor, boil it down imtil it is so far reduced that it will form a jelly when cold, and clarify with white of egg. Pour this jelly upon plates, that it may set firm, brush- . ing one or two coats of it over the galantine to serve as glaze. Dish the galantine on a white napkin, and garnish with the savoury jelly, cut into dice, cubes, stars, &c. A galantine is always served cold. Time to sirmner, thi-ee or four hours. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Rabbits, Giblottes of—Take two young rabbits to make a giblotte; but, observe, they must be both alike as to quality ; if you put a young one with an old one, the young one will be done to rags, while the other one wiU he scarcely done at all. Skin them, and cut them into pieces. Have ready some pieces of breast of bacon cut into the shape of small corks, which are to be blanched so that they may not be briny. Fry them in the stewpan with a little butter to give them a light brown colour. Take the bacon out of the stewpan, and put the members of the rabbits into it: when made firm, take them out also; throw a good handful of flour with the butter into the stewpan, let it get a little brown ; next moisten with some veal gravy. Let the sauce boil a little, to see whether it is not too thick; if so, you will never be able to skim ofif the fat, and accordingly it will never be of a good colour. When sufficiently stewed, put in the members, bacon, a bunch of parsley and green onions, thyme, bay-leaf, clove, &c. &c.; and when the sauce has boiled for an hour, skim it well, and put the members into another clean stewpan, and drain the sauce through a tammy; then take some turned mushrooms and some small onions, and fry them white in butter; let let them boil for a quarter of an hour in the( 688 ) RAB RAB sauco. When you aro going to send tip to table, lirst disli tho mcinbors, next the small whito onions, and then put the bacon and tho mush- rooms over. Take oft' the fat uud scum, otlicr- wiso there can bo no good cookery; and cover the whole with tho sauce when reduced. Rabbit IQosse.—Minco finely tho white meat of a cold-di-cssed rabbit. Soak an equal quantity of bread in cold milk or water, squeeze it diy, and mix it with the minced meat. Cut one or two slices of fat bacon into small s([uares, and fry them gently. Add tho minced meat, and stir in one or two eggs. Let tho mixture cook a few minutes. Turn it out on a dish, and when cool add two more eggs. Form it into balls tho size of an egg, and be careful to handle them lightly, and to dip the fingers frequently in water while doing so. When wanted drop these gently into boiling water, and boil them until they are set. Lift them out with a skimmer, pile them in the centre of a smp.ll dish, and surround them with fried potatoes. Send any piquant sauce or gravy to table with them. Time to boil, about ten minutes. Rabbit, Larded.—Skin, empty, and wash a fat young rabbit, cut off its head, and divide the body into four equal parts. Lard tho fleshy part of each portion with thin strips of fat bacon, fry the quarters in hot fat till they ai'e lightly browned, and lay them aside. Put about a pint and a half of nicely-flavoured and seasoned stock into a saucepan, thicken ,with a dessert-spoonful of brown thickening, and let it simmer gently until it is smooth and of the consistency of cream. Stir into it a glassful of sherry or madeira, add the rabbit, and let it remain until it is thoroughly hot without boiling. Put the meat on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and garnish with cut lemon and parsle3\ Time, half an hour, exclusive of the time required for making the stock. Probable cost, 2s. 6d., without the wine* Sufficient for three or four persons. Rabbit, Marbled (to be eiten cold- suitable for breakfast, luncheon, or supper).— Take a couple of fine rabbits. Skin, empty, and wash them; take out the livers and kidneys, and fry them in plenty of hot fat till they are tender and darkly coloured, then lay them aside. Put the rabbits into boiling water, and let them remain in it for five minutes. This is to blanch them. Take them up, drain them, put them into a stewpan, pour over' them as much cold water as will cover them, and add an onion stuck with four cloves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a little pepper and salt. Let them simmer gently till tender, and carefully skim the broth. Cut ofp the heads and necks of the rabbits, lift the flesh from the bones in largo neat pieces, and lay these aside. Scrape off the remainder of the meat from the bones, take care of it, and put all the bones into a clean saucepan with tlie rabbit broth and half an ounce of gelatine which has been soaked for an hour in cold water. Put into this a small portion of ham or bacon, and let it simmer till done cnouj^h, then take it out, and let tho ^avy simmer till it is reduced to a pint. Strain the gravy through a jolly-bag, r-arcfally clear it from fat, and if necessary clarify it with whitt; of egfr, .md season it well, llinco the Hcrapin^/s of th,- meat with an equal (juantity of fut bacon, ;uid the weight of the meat in finely-grated bread- crumbs, season tho mixture with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and powdered herbs, Ijind it together with egg, and form it into balls the size of a small nutmeg. Throw tli(;S(; into boiling water till they are set—they will take about ten minutes. Dip a deep mould into cold water, pour into this a small portion of the gravy just befoi;e it jellies, and let it flow round and round until it begins to set. Arrange the pieces of rabT)it in this, together with the ham or bacon cut into sti-ips, the liver and kidney sliced, the forcemeat balls, and one or two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. IJe-careful not to pack the ingredients closely, but to leave room for the jelly to flow in amongst them, and also in placing the pieces to contrast the colours, that the mould may look pretty when it is turned out. Pour the jelly overall,and set the mould in a cool place. When wanted, turn it upon a dish, and it is ready for serAang. Time, four or five hours. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for a large dish. Rabbit, Marinaded and Baked (a German recipe).—Skin, empty, and wash a fine rabbit, and let it lie for three or four hours in a marinade composed of a glassful of port or claret, a glassful of vinegar, a sliced onion, twenty peppercorns, a bay-leaf, and three pounded cloves. Turn and baste it three or four times. Tie slices of fat bacon across its back, fill it or not with veal forcemeat, lay it in a deep earthen dish, and pour the marinade upon it. Lay some large pieces of dripping upon it, bake in a moderate oven until done enough, and baste three or four times with the marinade. Half an hour before it is done enough pour a quarter of a pint of new milk over it, and baste tho rabbit -with this. Place it on a hot dish, take out the skewers, squeeze a little lemon-juice over it, and garnish with slices of lemon. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost of rab- bits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Marinaded and Pried.—Cut the rabbit into neat pieces the si^e of an egg. Lay these in a deep pan ^vith a table spoonful of oil, a table-spoonful of ravigote or tarragon vinegar, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thj-me, a bay-leaf, and a little pepper and salt. Let them remain for throe hours, turning them about at intervals that they may be equally flavoured. Drain them, roll them in flour, and fry till they aro lightly browned. Serve very hot, garnish with fried parelcy, ^ and ^ send tomata sauce, piquant sauco. or maitre d'hotcl sauce to table with them. Time to fry, ton to fifteen minutes. Probable cost," 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit. Marinaded, and Pried in Batter.—Prepare the rabbit, and let it lie m :i marinade as in the la.st recipe. yVhcn making the marinade make at th": same time a batter for fr^-ing as follows:—Work a quarterRAB RAB ( 689 ) of a pint of water and a pinch of s:Jt into fivo ounces of flour. Jlix two table-spoonfuls of oil with the yolks of two eggs, add the mixture to the paste, and beat all together till the batter is quite smooth. It ought to be a little thicker than cream; if necessary a little water may be added to it, but this will depend upon the quality of the flour. A few minutes before the batter is to be used add to it the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. A quarter of an hour before the rabbit is wanted dip each piece into the batter, and fry in hot fat till it is crisp and brightly browned. Serve the pieces on a hot dish, and send tomato, piquant, or maitre d'hotel sauce to table in a turaen. If preferred, the marinaded rabbit can be dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, instead of batter, before being fried. Time to fiy, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Marinaded and Roasted (a German recipe).—Skin, empty, and wash a plumj) young rabbit, and lay it in a deep dish with a glassful of vinegar, a glassful of port, a sliced onion, twenty peppercorns, a bay-leaf, and three pounded cloves. Let the rabbit lie in this marinade for an hour or two, and tui-n and baste it two or three times. Fill it with good veal forcemeat, truss firmly, and baste with the marinade without Aviping it at the last moment before putting it to the fire. Put it down to a clear fire, and baste liberally. When done enough lay it on a hot dish, take out the skewers, squeeze over it the juice of half a lemon, serve very hot, and send brown gravy and red currant jelly to table with it. Time to roast, three-quarters of an hour to one hour; less time if small. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Matelote of (a French recipe). —Take a rabbit, cut it up, and fry it in a little butter. Make a roux, which should be thinned with weak soup and a glassful of white wine. "When the liquid boils, put in the pieces of rabbit, together with a little bacon cut into dice, a bunch of mixed herbs, and some mush- rooms. When about done enough, brown some button onions in butter, moistening with the sauce from the rabbit. Place the rabbit in the centre of the dish, arrange the onions and mush- rooms round it, strain the sauce over, and serve. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Rabbit, Minced.—Take a fat young rabbit, skin, empty, and wash it, and boil it till tender. Lift the flesh from the bones, mince it finely, and season with pepper, salt, gi-ated nutmeg, grated peel, and a little lemon- juice. Put it into a saucepan, and stir in with it six ounces of fresh butter and four well-beaten eggs, and continue to stir for a quarter of an hour. Turn it on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over it, garnish with toasted sippets, and serve very hot. Time to boil the rabbits, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound'. Sufficient for four or five persona. Rabbit, Minced (another way).—Take the meat from the remains of a colu-dressed rabbit, free it from skin and sinew, mince finely, and put it aside. Break the bones into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with half a pound of veal cut into small squtircs, a slice of lean ham, a largo spoonful of bacon-fat or lard, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Move them about over the fire for a minute or two, dredge flour thickly over them, and pour upon them as much milk as will cover them. Let them simmer gently for an hour, stirring them at intervals. Strain the liquor, boil it till it is quite thick, and keep stirring to prevent it burning. Put the minced meat into the sauce, let it get quite liot without boiling, and serve immediately. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, lOd., ex- clusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Minced (M. Tide's recipe).— This is a djsh to be made of the remains of a former dinner. Take the fillets of roasted rabbits, pare the sinews; then make a mince, but hold your knife on a slope, that the thin slices may curl like shavings; put the mince into some reduced veloute or bechamel mixed with some glaze of game; do not forget to pour into the mince a little thick cream to give it a white colour and make it more mellow. You may put the mince either in a bordure, a vol-au- vent, a casserole with rice, a turban, a grenade, a gratin, petits pates, petites casserolettes au ris (little casseroles vsdth rice), &c. &c. Rabbit, Mushroom Sauce for.—Take a pint of young mushrooms, pick, rub, and wash them, and sprinkle them with salt to take off the skin. Put them into a saucepan with a little salt, a blade of mace, a little nutmeg, a pint of cream, and a piece of butter rolled in flour: boil them up, and stir till done, then pour the sauce into the dish with the rabbits. If you cannot get fresh mushrooms, use pickled ones, done white, with a little mushroom pow- der with the cream. Rabbit Pate.—Take two young rabbits, bone them, and cut them in pieces. Take half a pound of fresh pork and half a pound of veal fat; chop these ingredients small, and mix with them a laurel-leaf, a shallot, thyme, and some parsley, all finely shred, and add pe^Dper, salt, and a little powdered cloves. Lay the rabbits and minced meat in a pie-dish Hne'd with slices of fat bacon, pour a wine-glassful of brandy over the whole, and cover the top with slices of bacon. Place the pate in a moderate oven, and let it re- main there for a couple of hours. When done enough, serve the pate in a flat dish garnished round the edges with slices of beet-root sprinkled with vinegar, or i^ickled capsicums can be used instead, if liked. Rabbit Pat^ (a laProven(,'ale).—Take two rabbits, cut them into joints without boning them, and lay them in a saucepan with two carrots, two onions, a clova of garlic, a bunch of herbs, and about a pound of the beUy of pickled pork. Boil in as little water as pos- sible for half an hour, then take the meat out, drain it, place the pork at the bottom of a well-buttered pie-dish, and upon it lay the pieces of rabbit. Poor a glassful of white wineBAB RAB ( 690 ) oyer the whole, and strew over it some Spanish pimento ; liuvo sonio liuttor roiidy, pour it into the dish, and bakt; tho pute in a (|uick ovon fur half an liour. lii'diico tho liquid in which it was dressed, and add tho juico of a lemon ; wlicn tho pate is done enouy:h, place it in anotlier dish, aud servo with tho aauco poured round it. Babbit Patties.—Take tlio white moat from a euld-dressed rabbit. Free it from skin and sinew, niinee it finely with a small por- tion of good suet, and put it aside. Bruise the bones, put iliom into a stewpan with a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and gral ed lemon-rind, and let them simmer until the gi-avy is pleasantly flavoured. Tliicken it witli a little flour and butter, and stew the mince in this till it is qiiito hot. Bako the patties in patty- pans, take them out of the oven, and half fill them with tho hot mince. Put on the covers, and pile them on a napkin. Time, about an hour to simmer the gravy. Probable cost of patties, 2d. each. Sufficient, a dozen for a dish. Babbit Pie.—Take two fine wild rabbits, cut them into joints, and lay them in a little lukewarm water salted, so as to cleanse them from all unnecessary blood. Dry them in a clean cloth, flour them nicely, and season with cayenne and salt; then arrange these joints neatly in a suitable-sized pie-dish; parboil the livers, and beat them in a mortar with their weight of fat bacon, a few bearded oysters, sweet herbs, and parsley chopped fine, a dust of flour, and a few bread-crumbs; with an egg make this up into small balls, and distribute these in the dish with some artichoke bottoms cut into dice. AVith your rabbit place also one pound of fat pork that has been at least a week in. pickle; cut the pork into small pieces, and judiciously place it with the baUs and rabbit. Grate over all half a good-sized nutmeg, and then add half a pint of port wine and the same quantity of water. Cover with a tolerably tliick good crust, and bake an hour and a half or more in f> moderate oven; when nearlv done, place over the crust a buttered paper to prevent its becoming too brown. If time will permit, the rabbits be much better flavoured if the nutmeg and wine are placed over them the night before they are wanted, so as to allow the meat to absorb the flavour. A small piece of tender rump steak placed at the bottom of the dish is also an improvement to the gravy, though a good cook should never be without a 8tock-pot, so as to have gravy at command when needed, either to add to a pie when the baking ifl finished or for serving with poultry or game. Babbit Pie (another way).—Put into the bottom of a baking-dish a few slices of ham or beef; cut the rabbit into as many bits as you like; season each bit with salt, pepper, pounded spices, &c.; put them in a dish as close as pos- sible, add a glassful of broth if you have any; if net, a wino-glassfiil of water and a di-op of white wine; cover this dish quite close with a good crust, beat an egg in a gallipot, and with a paste-brush rub it twice over the paste, and l»ake in a hot oven for an hour and a half, when the pie wiU be ready for serving. Whether hot or cold, this diah is excellent. Kemember tlmt if tli(3 rabbit pie is to be eaten cold it must be nmc.li more liigldy seasoned than when made to be eaten liot. Babbit Pie, Plain.—Be careful to choose a young rabbit. .Skin, empty, and wash it, and cut it into ten or tw(;lve neat joints. If th(! licad is put into the pie, split it into Imlves, and lay the pieces in lukewarm water for half an liour. Drain and dry them, put them into a largo pie-dish, tho inferior joints at the bottom, and put with them three or four slices of fat bacon. Mix a tea-spoonful of salt, lialf a tea-si)oonf ul of white pepper, and half a blade of powdered mace, and spnnkle this powder over tho rabbits; a little minced onion may be added, if liked. Barely cover the rabbits with cold stock or water. Lay a plate on the dish, and bake the rabbits in a modei-ate oven till they are three-parts cooked. Let the dish cool, cover it with pastry in the usual way, ornament it prettily, and make a hole in the centre, brush it over with egg, and bake in a well-heated oven till the pastry is done enough. Serve it either hot or cold. Some cooks slice potatoes thinly, and lay them in the bottom of the dish before they put in the rabbit. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake the pie. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Babbit Pie, Plain (another way).— Prepare the rabbit as before, cut it into neat joints, and lay these in water for an hour, dr\' them well, and season each one with salt and pepper. Cut three-quarters of a pound of bacon into neat squares. Lay the inferior joints of the rabbit at the bottom of a deep dish, put upon them two or three pieces of bacon, and three parts fill the dish with alter- nate layers of rabbit and bacon. Dredge a little flour, and sprinkle a little chopped parsley and a little minced shallot lightly over each layer, and put two bay-leaves on the top. Pour in half a pint of stock or water, cover the pie with pastry in the usual way, brush over with egg, make a hole in tho top, and bake in a well-heated oven. Turn it about, that it may bake equally, and, if necessary, place a piece of paper upon it to keep it from burn- ing. "When done enough, pour into it one or two spoonfuls of nicely-flavoured gravy, and serve hot or cold. Time to bake, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Babbit Pie, Baised.—Take the meat from a fine young rabbit, cut it into small neat pieces, and season nicely with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Cut lialf a pound of fat bacon into dice. Make a raised crust according to the directions already given, and form the pie to any shape that may be wished, being careful that the sides are stiff and finn. Put in the pieces of meat and bacon, pack them tightly, and intersperse amongst them tlio yolks of three or four hard-l)oilod eggs cut into quarters lengthwise. Pour a little tomato sauce over all, or failing this a spoonful or two of good gravy, which will be a jelly when cold. Cover the pie with pastry, brush it o\ er withBAB RAB ( 691 ) O"-", and ornament prettily. Bake in a mode- i-ate oven until it is done enough, that is until a skewer wU pierce to the bottom of it easily. Serve either hot or cold. Time to bake, about an houi- and a half. Probable cost, 33. Sufficient for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Rabbit Pie, Superior.—Cut a young rabbit into neat joints, and lay these in luke- warm water for half an hour, then drain and diy them. Make a quarter of a pound of veal forcemeat into small balls the size of a nutmeg, and lay them aside tiU wanted. If liked the livers of the rabbits may be boiled, minced, and mixed with the forcemeat. Boil three eggs hard, and cut them info quarters lengthwise. Cut half a pound of streaky bacon into strips, and three-quarters of a pound of lean veal into neat pieces an inch square. Make a savoury powder with the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, the thin rind of half a lemon grated or minced very finely, a pinch of cayenne, a tea- spoonful of salt, and a tea-spoonful of pepper. Line the edges of a pic-dish with good pufE paste. Put the veal into the pie, then the rabbit, and lastly the bacon, intersperse the con- tents of the pie with the forcemeat balls and the hard-boiled eggs, and season each layer as it is placed in the dish with the savoury powder. Moisten the whole with stock or water, but do not entirely cover the meat. Wet the edges of the pastry, lay on the cover, trim and ornament it neatly, brush over with egg, and make a slit in the centre with a knife through which the steam can escape. Bake in a moderate oven, and cover the i)ie with buttered paper whilst it is baking, for fear the crust should be burnt. Serve either hot or cold. Two or three sliced truffles or half a dozen mushrooms may be added to the pie if liked, and a glassful of port may be mixed with some good gravy, and poured into the pie through the hole in the top after it is taken out of the oven. If preferred the forcemeat balls instead of being made of veal forcemeat may be made of the livers of the rabbits, parboiled, minced, and beaten in a mortar with six or eight oysters, a spoonful of bread-crumbs-, a seasoning of salt, cayenne, and powdered mace, a pinch of savoury herbs, and the raw yolk of an egg. Time to bake, fuUy two hours. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Rabbit, Pilau of.—Skin, wash, and empty a fat young rabbit, and cut it up into ten or twelve pieces. Rub each one of these with a savoury mixture made by mixing the juice of two large onions with a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, and the juice of a lemon. The onion juice may be obtained by bruising the onions, and draining off the juice. Boil a pound of rice in a quart of stock broth till it is half dressed. Whilst it is simmering melt four ounces of good fat or butter in a saucepan, and in this fry the pieces of rabbit till thoy are lightly broAvncd, and also two sliced onions. Put the moat into a deep oarthon jar. Lay the onions upon it, and cover with the rice. Add four cloves eight peppercorns, a pinch of salt, and one or two inches of thin lemon rind, and pour half a pint of milk over the whole. Tie three or four folds of paper over the top of the jar, and bake in a moderate oven. If required, add a little broth or a little more milk when the rabbit is half done. When the rabbit is sufficiently dressed, pile the rice on a dish, place the pieces of rabbit upon it, and serve very hot. Time to bake, from an hour and a haK to two hours. Pro- bable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rabbit, Piquant.—Skin, draw, and tho- roughly cleanse a fresh young rabbit. Cut it open down all its length, lay it flat upon a table, and skewer it well to keep it in shape. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it, and lay it in an oval pan just large enough to hold it, with five or six ounces of bacon fat, dripping, or butter. Fry it tiU it is three-parts dressed. Take it up, drain it, and let it cool, brush over with oiled butter, and egg and bread-crumb it twice. A little time before it is wanted, put it into a brisk oven, and bake until it is lightly browned. Serve on a hot dish, and send to table with a little piccalilli, or any other suit- able pickle and a sauce prepared as follows ;— Pound three shallots in a mortar, and with them a tea-spoonful of chopped tarragon, and a little pepper, salt, and unmixed mustard. Two or three gherkins, and a little chopped chervil and bur- net, may be added if they are at hand. Beat the raw yolk of an egg quite free from white in a basin, and when it begins to thicken stir in very gradually six table-spoonfuls of salad oil. The oil must be added first in drops, afterwards in tea-spoonfuls, and the sauce must be well beaten between every addition until it is very thick. . Stir in by degrees two table- spoonfuls of vinegar, one table-spoonful of Chili vinegar, and the pounded mixture, and beat it again. Keep the sauce in a cool place till wanted, and serve in a tureen. If tarragon-leaves cannot be had, a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar may be used instead. Time, ten minutes to fry a small rabbit; twenty minutes to bake it. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for two or three persons. Rabbit, Potted.—Empty, skin, and wash two or tnree young fully-growii rabbits. Take off the legs, and pick all the meat from the back. Season with salt, cayenne, and mace, aU finely powdered, and pack the meat closely into a potting-jar. Lay upon it six ounces of fresh butter, and bake gently until done enough. Let it stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours, turn it into small jars, and cover with clarified butter. The livers can be put with the meat, if Hked. The meat can be served in the jars, or small portions can be cut out, laid on a napkin, and garnished with parsley. This is an excellent way of preserving rabbits Avhich are not wanted for immediate use. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Rabbit, Potted (another way).—Take off the legs and shoulders of the rabbits, and also the fleshy parts of the back. Cut off the leg- bones at the first joint, and the shoulder-bones at the blades, but without cutting off the moat. Take also the livers; season the limbs and( 692 ) BAB BAB livers, put plenty of butter over them, and bake gently. Keep thorn three or four days in tho pan after tlioy are done, then stow them liglitly into pots, covering; them with clarified butter. Tho remainder of the rabbits may bo used in any other way. Babbit Pudding.—Skin, empty, and •wash a rabbit, and cut it into ton or twelve pieces. ilako a little gravy by stewing tho hoad, the liver, and a little bacon rind in stock or water, and season this with sidt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Line a buttercHl basin with good suet crust. Lay in the pieces of rabbit (tirst seasoning each one separately, with a little popper, salt, and cayenne), and put with them three or four ounces of bacon cut into strips. Pour over them a tea-cupful of the stock, and be careful to let it cool before using it. Put the cover on the top, press the edges closely together, and tie the pudding in a floured cloth which has been wrung out of boiling water. Put it into fast-boiling water, and let it boil quickly until done enough. Time to boil, three hours. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Babbit Pudding (another way).—Slcin, empty, and wash a rabbit, and cut it into ten or twelve pieces. Put these intb a stewpan -with a little pepper and salt and half a blade of mace. Poui- over them as much boiling water as will cover them, and let them simmer very gently for half an hour. Take them up, and nut in their place the head and liver of the rabbit, with a little bacon rind if it is at hand, and simmer for an hour, till the gravy is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain and skim it, and put it aside to cool. Line the edges of a pie-dish with suet crust. Put in the pieces of rabbit, together with four oimces of fat bacon cut into narrow strips, pour in a cupful of the cooled gravy, lay on the cover, press the edges closely together^ tie the pudding in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil quickly until sufficiently done. Some cooks parboil and mince the liver, mix it with the brains, season the mixture rather highly with salt and cayenne, and sprinkle it over the meat in the pudding. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Babbit, Pupton of,—Take enough rich forcemeat, roll it out, and lay it in a buttered tin dish. Cut slices of bacon exceedingly thin, and place them over the forcemeat. Then take a rabbit, cut it up, season highly, and lay it in the dish, strewing asparagus tops, mushrooms, oysters, and the yolks of hard-boiled eggs; over this lay some more slices of bacon, and on the top place a layer of forcemeat. Bake for an hour in a rather slow oven. When ready, turn the pupton of rabbit into another dish, and pour sauce over it if it is to be sent hot to table. It is quite as good eaten cold. Babbit, Quenelles of.—Cut the meat from a rabbit, free it from skm and sme%y, scrape it with a knife, pound it, and rub it through a wire siovo. Soak the crumb of two French rolls in lukewarm watpr, and when it-is quite soft squeeze it dry in a cloth. Chop three or four mushrooms till small, and put thc?m in a clean saucepan ^vith a shoe of butter, half a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind, hiilf a shallot finely minced, a pinch of powdered thyjiie, a tea-spoonful of diopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Let these steam gently for three or four minutes, mix with them the soaked bread, and stir the mixture over the fire till it ceases to adhere to the stewpan and forms a smooth paste. Place the ingredients in a mortar in tho following proportions :—Six ounces of tho jtoundod rabrjit to three ounces of butter and four ounces of panada. Pound all thoroughly for several minutes, and add a table-spoonful of white sauce, two whole eggs, and the yolk of one. liub the mixture again through a sieve, taste in order to ascertain if it requires further seasoning, and put it on ice or in a cool place. When wanted form the quenelles according to tho directions already given {see Quenelles, To Form), throw them into boiling water, and poach them till the force- meat is set. Serve hot with white sauce or mushroom sauce poured round them. Time to poach the quenelles, about ten minutes. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Babbit, Quenelles of (another way).— "These," says M. Ude, "are made like the generality of quenelles; the only difference is that you take the flesh of rabbits instead of any other meat. The legs in general are used for making the quenelles; the fillets wiU supply another dish, so will the legs occasionally. The bones and the parings are used to liiako the consomme and sauces. As the legs are tougher than the tender fillets, they should be pounded for a longer time and rubbed through a tammy, on account of the nerves and sinews." Babbit, Quenelles of (another way).-— See Quenelles of Kabbit. Babbit, BagOUt of.—Dissolve two ounces of butter in a saucepan, and in this fry three moderate-sized onions cut into shces. Lift these out as they brown, mix three tea- spoonfuls of flour smoothly with the butter, and moisten the mixture very gradually with as much stock or water as wiU make it of the consistency of thick cream. Skin, empty, and wash a young rabbit. Cut it into small neat joints, and lay it in the sauce with five or six rashers of bacon, a bay-leaf, a shce of lemon, and a little pepper and salt. Simmer all gently together till the rabbit is tender. Lay tho pieces on a dish, strain tho sauce over them, and serve very hot. A glassful of wine may be added to the sauce or not. Time, from an hour and a half to two hours to simmer the rabbit. Probable cost, 3s., exclusive of wine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Babbit, Bagoiit of (another ^ay)— Skin, empty, and wash a plump young rabbit, cut it up into ton or twelve pieces, and lay it in a saucepan ^vith a dozen button mushrooms, half a dozen small onions, a b\mch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-loaf. Pour over these ingredients as much ])0iling stock or water as will cover them, and lot them simmer very gently until the rabbit is tender. LiftHAB KAB ( 693 ) out the rabbit, skim and strain the sauce, and thicken with a table-spoonful of brown thickening. Season with salt, pepper, and "■rated nutmeg, and let it boil tiU smooth. Add a glassful of sherry or madeira if liked. Put in the pieces of meat. Lot them get thoroughly hot without allowing the gravy to boil, arrange them neatly in a dish, pour the gravy oyer them, and serve very hot. Garnish the dish with toasted sippets. Time to sunmer the rabbit, from an hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Roast—Take a plump young rabbit. Skin, empty, and wash it; fill the inside with good veal forcemeat, sew it up securely, and truss firmly with the forelegs back, the hind legs forwards, and the head fastened in an upright position with a skewer. The flavour of the rabbit will be improved if the inside is lined with fat bacon before the forcemeat is put in, but this may be omitted. Fasten a slice of fat bacon over the back of the rabbit, put it down to a clear fire, and baste liberally. 'When it is partially roasted, flour well, and baste again. When done enough, take it up, remove the skewers, and serve on a hot dish with a little gravy poured over it, and the rest in a tureen. Serve fried bacon on a separate dish. Rabbit, Roast, and Chestnuts.— Take two dozen fine large chestnuts. Slit each one lightly with a penknife, and throw all into a saucepan .of cold water. Let them boil for a quarter of an hour, drain, and peel them. WhUst the cliestnuts are boiling, skin, wash, and empty a plump young rabbit. Throw the liver into boiling water, let it boil ten minutes, and afterwards mince it finely, and mix with it a tea-spoonful of chopped onion, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, four ounces of fat bacon, a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace, and half the boUed chestnuts. Pound these in- gredients thoroughly in a mortar, and when the forcemeat is well mixed put it inside the rabbit, sew up securely, and truss firmly. Tie three or four slices of fat bacon over it, put it down before a clear fire, baste frequently, and lot it remain until done enough. Eemove the skewers, lay it on a hot dish, pour over it a spoonful or two of the sauce made with the remainder of the chestnuts, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Garnish with sliced lemon. The sauce may be made as follows:— Pound the peeled chestnuts till they are quite smooth, and with them an ounce of butter, and a little pepper and salt. Mix half a pint of good brown gravy gradually with the chestnut paste, and stir over the fire tiU it is quite smooth. Time to roast the rabbit, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Roast (Dr. Kitchiner's recipe). —If tlie fire is clear and sharp, thirty minutes will roast a young and forty a full-grown rabbit. When you lay it down, baste it with butter, and dredge it lightly and carefully with. flour that you may have it fr-^thy and of a fine light brown. While the rabbit"is roasl;ing, boil its liver with some parsley; when tender, . chop them together, and put half the mixture into some melted butter, reserving the other half for garnish, divided into little hillocks. Cut oft' the head and lay hiilf on each side of the dish. A fine, well-grown (but young) waxTcn rabbit, kept some time after it has been killed, and roasted with a stuffing in its belly, eats very like a hare, to the nature of which it approaches. It is nice noui-ishing food when young, but hard and unwliolesome when old. Rabbit, Roast, Plain.—Skin, empty, and wash a plump young rabbit. Truss it firmly, the fore-legs backwards, the back-legs forwards, and the head fixed in an upright position ijy means of a string passing across the shoulders. Tie one or two rashers of fat bacon over the back, put the rabbit down to a clear fire, and baste it well until done enough. Put it on a hot dish, remove the skewers, garnish with slices of fried bacon, and send to table with a sauce prepared as follows:—Cut an ounce of lean ham or bacon into dice. Put these into a stewpan with a small slice of fresh butter, a table-spoon- ful of chopped carrot, a tea-spoonful of chopped onion, an inch or two of celery, a small sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, half a tea-spoonful of i)epper- corns, and a pinch of powdered mace. Stir these ingredients with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire imtil they are well browned. Pom- over them a tea-spoonful of ketchup, a table- spoonful of vinegar, and half a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy. Simmer all gently together for ten minutes, add a quarter of a pint of stock, and a glass of sherry, and simmer again until the sauce is pleasantly flavoured. Add a dessert-spoonful of brown thickening, or failing this a table-spoonful of flour mixed smoothly with a little cold water, and a spoon- ful of sugar browning. Boil a few minutes longer, and serve very hot. Time to roast the rabbit, three-quarters of an hour to one hour ; less if the rabbit be small. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for foui- or five persons. Rabbit, Roast, To Carve.—Proceed in the same way as for hare {sec Hare, Eoast, To Carve). Rabbit, Roasted, Sauce for (a sauce for a roasted rabbit used by King Henry the Eighth).—Take a handful of washed parsley, mince it small, boil it with butter and verjuice upon a chafing-dish, season it with sugar and a little pepper " gross^ beaten;" when it is ready, put in a few crumbs of white bread amongst the other. Let it boil again till it be thick, then lay it in a platter, like the breadth of three fingers, lay on each side one roasted conny (rabbit) or more, and so serve them.—From John Fartridffe's " Treasure of Commodious Conceits and Hidden Secrets." Fourth Udition, l5Si. Rabbit Salad.—Cut the flesh of a roasted rabbit into neat slices, and let these lie in a marinade composed of a table-spoonful of vinegar, the same quantity of salad oil, three or four tarragon leaves, or a little tarragon vinegar, a sliced onion, and a little pepper and salt. Turn the meat over, and baste fre- quently till it is thoroughly impregnated with the flavour of the marinade. Wash and dryRAB ( 694 ) BAB well a cabbiigo lettuce. Shrod it finely, and spread it at the bottom of a dish. Arrange the pieces of rabbit on this, and iutersporso with them the llesh of two anchovies cut into strips, a tea-spoonful of bruiscid capers, some chervil, pimpernel, and tarragon leaves finely shred, a little sliced beet-root, and a hard-boiled egg cut small. Place over these ingi-edients three or four lettuces cut into quarters, and ornament the salad with hard-boiled eggs, beet-root, &c. At the moment of serving the salad, pour over it a quarter of a pint of good mayomiaise sauce, or if preferred send oil, vinegar, and mustard to table separately. Pro- bable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. The pieces of rabbit to lie in the marinade for an hour or two. Rabbit Salad, Simple.—Take two or three thin slices of stale crumb of bread. Toast them on botli sides till brightly browned, let them cool, and divide them into neat squares. Lay on each one of these a slice of cold roast rabbit. Arrange them on a dish alternately, with small salad or a spoonful of washed and dried lettuce finely shred. Sprinkle over all two table-spoonfuls of boiled onion finely minced, two anchovies cut small, and half a tea-spoonful of shred parsley. Garnish the dish with parsley and sliced beetroot, and pour mayonnaise sauce over it at the moment of serving. Rabbit, Sauces for.—Onion sauce, white sauce, white celery sauce, white mushroom sauce, parsley and butter made with milk in- stead of water, and liver sauce are all suitable sauces for boiled rabbit. For roasted rabbit, brown sauce served with currant jelly, brown mushroom sauce, poivrade sauce, and liver sauce are most usually served. Liver sauce for boiled rabbits is made as follows :—lilix a table-spoonful of flour and a little cold milk to a smooth paste. Stir this into a quarter of a pint of boiling milk, and add a quarter of a pint of boiling water. Let this sauce boU gently for five or six minutes, stir "it all the time, and add a slice of fresh butter. Mince finely the liver of the rabbit which has been boiled for twenty minutes. Eub it through a wire sieve, and stir it into the sauce. Add pepper and salt and a spoonful or two of cream if liked, pour the sauce into the tureen, stir a small piece of butter into it, and when this is dissolved, serve immediately. To make liver sauce for roast rabbit:—Wash the liver, throw it into boiling water, and let it boil for twenty minutes, mince finely, and rub it smooth with the back of a wooden spoon. Put it into a quarter of a pint of gravy, and add a tea-spoon- ful of chopped parsley, half a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, a pinch of grated lemon- peel, a small pinch of powdered thyme, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, and serve very hot. Rabbit Sausages. —Skin, empty, and wasli a couple of fresh young rabbits. Cut off the heads, divide the rabbits into joints, and pick the meat from the bones. Bruise the latter, and put them with the heada into a saucepan with as mucli cold water as will barely cover them. Let them simmer gently until the gi-avy is very strong, sliuking the Siiuceijan occiisionally to keep tlio Ijones from burning. Mince the meat finely, and put it aside for a short time. Wasli th(i livers, first carefully removing the gall-ljags, put them in a stewpan with a slice of fresh butter, or if preferred a spoonful or two of water, and let them simmer gently until suHiciently done. Drain them, cut them up into small ]jiecos, and put them with the minced rabliit. Weigh the meat, and with each three pounds put one poimd of fat bacon coarsely chojjped, adding an ounce and a half of salt, a quarter of an ounce of white pepper, two (iloves finely pounded, and a pinch of i)Owdered mace. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and moisten the meat with the gravy strained and seasoned like the rabbits. A quarter of a pint of gravy will be enough for two rabbits, and it should be used while still warm. Fill carefully-prepared skins, and the sausages will be ready for boiling or frying. This preparation is very good put into one large slan, boiled gently until done enough, and served cold. Rabbit Sausages made from Dressed Rabbit.—Pick the meat from the remains of boiled or roasted rabbit, and free it from skin and sinew. Mince finely, mix with it a third of its weight of fat bacon coarsely chopped, and add a spoonful or two of onions which have been boiled till tender in strong gravy. Mix the ingredients thoroughly. Season the mixture with pepper, salt, powdered cloves, and grated nutmeg, and bind it together with the yolk of an egg. Fill carefully-pre- pared skins, and the sausages will be ready for broiling, frying, &c. Rabbit, Scallops of.—Pick the meat from the remains of boiled or roasted rabbit. Mince it finely, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and add a little lemon-juice if liked. Dissolve a small slice of butter in a saucepan, and stir the mince in this over a gentle fire till it is quite hot. Butter some scallop-shells, and cover the inside of the shell with a layer of nicely-seasoned bread-crumbs, or mashed potatoes. Put in a large spoonful of the savoury mince, and sprinkle some more bread-crumbs on the surface. Lay three or four little pieces of butter on the top and head, and brown the mince in a hot oven, or before the fire. Arrange the shells on a neatly-folded napkin, and serve very hot. Time, eight or ten minutes to brown the mince. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient, the contents of one shell for one person. Rabbit (Rare-bit), Scotch.—Take as many slices as will be required of good Stilton, Gloucester, or Cheddar cheese, and if the cheese is not very rich add a little fresh butter or salad- oil. Grate the cheese, and put it into a cheese- toaster with a spoonful of made mustard, a pinch of cayenne, and a small glassful of good porter or ale. Stir the mixture until the cheese is dissolved, serve it upon a dish undt^r which is a tin of boiling water, and serve very hot,BAB ( 695 ) BAB with hot toast either dry or buttered. To prepia-o this tlish properly, a cheese-toaster contaiiiinji: a reservoir for hot water should be used. When this is not at hand the cheese may be dissolved in a saucepan. Time, a few minutes. Babbit, Smothered with Onions.— Skin and empty a rabbit, and remove the eyes. Dr\' it well, and truss it firmly. Put ten or twelve large onions into a saucepan with three quarts of water. When this boils, put in the rabbit, and let all simmer gently together until both rabbit and onions are sufficiently dressed. Take out the onions, mince them, and put them into a clean saucepan with a slice of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of flour, a spoonful of milk, and a tea-spoonful of white pepper. Mix these ingredients thoroughly over a gentle fire to foi-m a puree. Put the rabbit on a hot dish, and remove the skewers ; pour the onion puree over it, and serve very hot. Rabbit smothered with onions is sometimes stuffed with veal force- meat, but this is not common. This dish should always be accompanied with boiled bacon, or boiled pickled pork. Excellent pea soup may be made of the rabbit broth, or if this is not required the rabbit broth will prove a valu- able addition to stock. Time to boil the rabbit, three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a quarter, according to the size. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient, one medium-sized rabbit for three or four persons. Babbit Soup.—Skin and empty a fine rabbit, and lay the liver aside. Cut it into joints, flour the pieces, and fry them lightly; put them in a stewpan with the liver and three pints of good stock made from bones, let them simmer as gently as possible for an hour, or until the rabbit is done enough, carefully re- moving the scum as it rises. Take out the rabbit, cut oft" the best of the meat, lay it in a covered dish, and put it in a c«ol place. Bruise the bones, and put them back into the stock, and with them two onions, a shallot, a carrot, a small bunch of parsley, a pinch of thyme, three or four_ outer sticks of celery, and a little salt and cayenne. Simmer the broth two hours longer. Take out the liver, rub it till smooth with the back of a wooden spoon, moisten with a little of the liquor, and return it to the soup. Just before sending to table add half a glassful of port and a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Cut the pieces of meat into dice, let them get quite hot without boil- ing, and serve immediately. Time, three hours. Probable cost, lOd. per pint. Sufficient for five or six persons. Babbit Soup (M. Tide's recipe).—Take the fillets of four rabbits to make an entree, and with the legs and shoulders make the soup as follows:—Put them into warm water to take out the blood; when quite clean put them into a stewpan with a bundle of parsley and a ladle- ful of good broth; put-all this to simmer over a slow fire ; when done through, moisten with some good l)roth. Season to taste, and let it boil for an hour only: if you let it boil too long the 6oup will be brown. Next take the meat out of the broth, drain it, and lot it cool, then pick all the meat from the bones, and put it into the mortar, with four yolks of eggs boiled hard, and the crumb of a roll soaked in a little broth; pound all this very fine ; rub it through a tammy, moisten with the broth, and when done add a pint of double cream that has boiled; mix all together, and serve. Take particular notice that this soup must be very white; sometimes you give it with vermicelli, some- times with pearl barley, sometimes with rice : on all occasions, each of these articles must be done separately in broth, and put into the soup afterwards. If you have abundance of rabbits, you may also use the fillets, as the soup will then be whiter and better. Babbit Soup, Superior. — Skin and empty two rabbits, and let them lie in lukewarm Avater for an hour. Drain them, and put them into a stewpan -with, two quarts of white stock made from veal bones. Let them simmer gently until they are quite tender. Lift them out, and pick all the best meat from the bones. Bruise the latter, and put them back into the broth with two carrots, two onions, three or four sticks of celery, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, a dozen peppercorns, and a little salt. Let all simmer gently for three hours. At the end of that time, strain the liquor, and let it stand to settle, so that it may be poured off free from sediment. Meantime mince the meat, and pound it till it is perfectly smooth, cover it, and put it aside. Wlien the broth is cold, pour off the clear liquor free from sediment, and boil it. Put the pounded meat into a basin, moisten it very gradually with the warm broth, and rub the paste well with the back of a wooden spoon that it may be free from lumps. Add this thickening to the broth, season pleasantly with additional salt and cayenne, and pass it through a sieve. Put it into a clean saucepan, and when it boils stir into it three-quarters of a pint of cream which has been mixed with a table-spoonful of good arrowroot. Let the soup boil up again, and serve veiy hot. Sippets of toast dipped in cream and fried may be served with the soup. Time, about three- quarters of an hour to an hour and a quarter to boil the rabbits; three hours to boil the liquor. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pint. Sufficient for nine or ten persons. Babbit Soup, White.—A small quantity of good rabbit soup may be made with the inferior parts of the rabbit, that ia the head, neck, and shoulders, leaving the best parts, that is the legs and the back, to be stewed, and served as an entree. Divide the rabbit, and soak the part which is to be used for soup in lukewarm water for half an hour. Cut it into small pieces, and put these into a stewpan with as much stock made from bones and water as will barely cover them. Let them simmer gently until the meat is done enough. Take it up, pick it from the bones, and put these back into the liquor with a carrot, a turnip, aii onion, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thj-me, a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Add a pint and a half of additional stock, and simmer all gently together for two hours. Strain the soup, and leave it to cool. Mince the meat, andRAB RAB ( 696 ) pound it quite smooth. Add to it a slico of stale crumb of broad which has boon soaked iu milk till soft and aftorwarda sfiueezcd dry. Moistou this paste gradually with the strained stock, and let it boil for a quarter of an liour. Add a snuill cupful of cream which has been mixed with a tea-spoonful of ground rice or arrowroot, lot it boil np once more, and servo. Some cooks add the yolk of an cgj^ boiled hard to the pounded mince, and stir this into the soup to enrich it. ^\Tien this is done the soup must not boil after the egg is added. Time, three to four hours. Probable cost, Is. per pint. Sufficient for three or four- persons. Rabbit, Spanish way of Cooking. —A stowpan or cartlienware pipkin is taken, having a tightly-fitting cover, and of sufficient size to hold a couple of rabbits when cut up into sniall pieces ; also four moderate-sized Spanish onions in thin slices. A layer of sliced onion is placed on the bottom of the pan; on it a layer of _ the pieces of rabbit previously sea- soned with salt, pepper, and whatever other seasoning may be desired. This is covered with a second layer of onion, then rabbit, and so on. alternately, until the whole of the rabbit is used up. A few thin slices of raw bacon or ham are put over the last layer of rabbit, and all the remaining pieces of onion are pLaced on the top. The cover is then put on, and the whole stewed at a moderate heat for two hours. A slack oven, a hot plate, or hot hearth, answers admirably. It is needless to say that, as no water may be added, if the pan is placed over the fire the meat is burned and spoiled. At the end of two hours let it be tui-ned out into a dish, and served up immediately, when it wiU Le found to be a tender, succulent, grav;v-teem- ing dish, far diifei'ent from the insipid, dry, stringy, boiled rabbit and onion sauce of the ordinary style. English onions answer very ■well; and should the gravy (of which a con- siderable quantity is px-oduced), requii-e to be slightly thickened, a tea-spoonful of flour should be added to the seasoning which is rubbed over the pieces of rabbit. Rabbit, Stewed.—Cut a plump young rabbit into pieces the size of an egg. Di^dde half a pound of streaky bacon into square pieces, and fty these with an ounce of butter till they turn yellow. Take them up, and put in their place the pieces of rabbit and two onions sliced, and fry these tUl they are lightly l)rowned. Take them up, mix an ounce of butter with the fat, and rub it over the fire with the back of a wooden spoon for two minutes. jMoisten the paste gradually with three-quarters of a. pint of stock or water, and add a bunch of savoury herbs, a little pepper and salt, the rabbit, the bacon, and the onions, and simmer all gently together in a closely- covered saucepan for twenty minutes. Take out the herbs, pile the pieces of rabbit on a dish, pour the sauce over thom, and serve very hot. If liked, a glassful of claret may be added to the sauce. It will be much improved, also, if a dozen mushrooms are boiled in the sauce for the last six or seven minutes. Failing these, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup may be stin'od into it. Time, from an hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five pertvonb. Rabbit Stewed Whole.—Skin, empty, and wash a mbbit, and soak it in lukewarm water for half an houi. ^jrain and dry it, and till it with a forcemeat prepared as follows:— Boil the liver for a quarter of an lioui-. Mince it finely, and mix with it three ounces of finely- shred beef suet, two ounces of grated bread- crumbs, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a tea-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, a little pepper and salt, and a little milk. Sew the rabbit up securely, truss firmly for roasting, and lay three or four slices of fat bacon upon it. Bake in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. Cut two ounces of bacon into dice, and fry these in an ounce of butter with a carrot and two onions till they arc lightly browned. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour over them, and add a pint of stock or water, a dessert-spoon- ful of vinegar, half a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, and a little pepper and salt. Put the rabbit and bacon into this sauce, and let them simmer gently until quite tender. Lay the rabbit on a dish, and keep it hot. Rub the vegetables through a sieve, mLc the i)ulp again with the gravy, let it boil up, pour it over the rabbit, and serve very hot. Time to stew the rabbit, an hour and a haH. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Stuffed and Stewed (a Ger- ma.'i recipe).—Fill a rabbit with good veal force- meal', tie three or four rashers of fat bacon over it, truss it fii-mfy, put it down to a clear fire, and baste till it is lightly browned. Take it up, put it in a stewpan, pour the contents of the diipping-tin over it, add as much new milk as will cover it, and a little pepper and salt if required. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the rabbit simmer very gently until it is done enough. Put it on a hot dish, garnish with sliced lemon, pour a little of the sauce in which it was stewed over it, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Time, three-quarters of an hour to one horn-. Probable cost of rabbii, 7d. to 9d. per j)Oimd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Turban of.—Skin, empty, and wash two or three jilump yoimg rabbits. Pass a- sharp knife down each side of the backbone, put the point underneath and raise the flesh in neat fillets. Cut oft' the legs, take out the bones, and divide the flesh in halves lengtliwisc. Lard all these fillets thickly and evenly with strips of fat bacon. Pick the rest of the meat from the bones, and make it into forcemeat by mincing it finely and mixing with it a third of its weight in fat and lean bacon, a few bread-crumbs, and a little pepper and salt. Bind the mi.xturc together with the yolks of one or two eggs. Make a case of pastry, such as is used for raised pies. To do this, put a poimd of flour into a bowl, make a hollow in the centre, and stir into this half a pint of boiling water in Avhich has been dis- solved four ounces of lard and a pinch of RiH.. Work this first with a spoon, and afterwards with the hand, to a smooth stiff pa.ste. Mould it into a cirnilar case, from two to three inclics liigh, brush it over with, yolk of egg, fill it withBAB BAB ( 697 ) flour, Jind bako in a well-heated oven till it'is firmly set. Let it cool, turn out the flour, and spread the forcemeat aU over the inside. Fill the vacant space evenly and compactly with the meat from the legs. Place the iillets from the back o^■er the top to show the larding, and put a slice of ham between each piece to give the dish a pretty appearance. Wrap the whole meat and case together in a thick fold of oiled paper, and bako in a moderate oven. Remove the paper. Hold a salamander or red-hot shovel over the top of the turban for three or four minutes to crisp the lardons, make a little hole in the centre and poui- into this a little gravy, place the case on a neatly-folded napkin, gar- nish the dish with parsley, &c., and serve very hot. If liked, a few mushrooms may be stewed in gravy, and laid upon and around the turban. The gravy may be made as follows:—Put the bones of "the rabbits into a stewpan with as much stock or water as will cover them, and add an onion stuck with two cloves, three or four outer sticks of celery, a dozen peppercorns, and a little salt. Let all simmer gently together till the gravy is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, and put it back into the saucepan, stir into it a slice of butter rolled in flour, and boil it till it is smooth and thick. Add a quarter of a pint of cream. A spoonful or two of this sauce may be poured into the turban, and the rest sent to table in a tureen. Time to bake, about an hour. Sufficient for a luncheon or supper dish. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Rabbit (Venetian way).—Take thi-eo or more young rabbits; skin and empty them nicely, then cut them into pieces in the following way: —Take ofl: the shoulders, then the head from the neck, divide the back in foui- parts; take off the legs on each side of the saddle, and cut them into two pieces. Have ready half a pottle of mushrooms chopped verj' fine, with parsley and shallots, also chopped fine. Put a small lump of butter into a stewpan with a little rasped bacon; put the sweet herbs on the fire with a little salt, pepper, and allspice; let them stew for-a short time on a slow fire. When sufficiently fried, put in the rabbits, make them get finn with these sweet herbs tiU they are sufficiently done. Take the limbs out from the seasoning, lean the stewpan sideways to skim the fat that comes uppermost, put a spoonful of sauce toumee, or if you have none, add to it a small tea-spoonful of flour, mois- tened with a spoonful or two of consomme, let it boil a few minutes, and make a thickening of the yolks of four eggs; add the juice of a lemon and a little cayenne pepper; stir the sauce well; if it happens to be too thick, make it thinner with a spoonful of broth; keep it quite hot, throw the members into the sauce again, and send up quite hot. This sauce must be rather highly seasoned. Rabbit, (Rare-bit), Welsh—Take a slice of bread about half an inch thick. Cut off the crust, toast it lightly, and butter it. Cut it in halves, and lay upon each half a slice of good Stilton or Cheshire cheese. Put the toasts in a cheese-toaster before a clear fire, and let them rc- niain until the cheese is equally done. Serve the rabbit, or rare-bit, very hot, with pepper, salt, and made mustard. Some cooks toast the cheese partially in a Dutch oven, before laying it on the toast. Time to toast the cheese, a few minutes. The length of time varies with the quality of the cheese. {See also Eare-bit, Welsh, and Cheese, Toasted). Rabbit with Cucumber.—Cut the meat from the remains of a cold roast rabbit into neat strips, and lay it aside. Slice a fine cucumber very thinly. Sprinkle a little salt over it, and lay it between two dishes for an hour. Drain the water from it, pour over it a spoonful or two of vinegar, and let it remain for another hour-. Pour off the vinegar, and put the slices of cucumber into a saucepan with two ounces of fresh butter, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and either an onion or a small bunch of chives. Shake the saucepan over -the fire, till the cucumber is slightly brovmed. Dredge a little flour over it, pour upon it a quarter of a pint of good gravy or stock made from bones, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Take out the herbs, season the sauce with pepper and salt, put in the pieces of rabbit, and. let them get quite hot. The sauce must not boil after the rabbit is put in. Pile the rabbit qn a dish, and pour the sauce over it. Serve very hot. Time, half an hour to simmer the sauce; a few minutes to heat the pieces of rabbit. Rabbit with Curry.—Take two or three rabbits, and cut in pieces the hind-legs, back, and loins. Put these in a stewpan with butter and six ounces of streaky bacon in large dice. Fry over a moderate fire, but do not let the contents of the pan take too much colour: salt, sprinkle with flour, and curry powder. Fry the pieces of rabbit for a few seconds longer, moisten with broth off the fire, put the stewpan again on the fire, and stir the liquid till it is boiling. In five minutes remove the stewpan on a moderate fire to finish cooking the rabbits. Ten minutes before serving, lay the pieces of rabbit in another stewpan, and pass the sauce over; then add to the stew two large onions cut into dice, seasoned and coloured with butter in a frying-pan. Just before serving, thicken the sauce with two yolks of eggs diluted with cream; cook the liaison without permitting the sauce to boil, then send the meat to table, with some rice, boiled Indian fashion, in a separate dish. Rabbit with Herbs.—Skin, empty, and wash a rabbit, and cut it into pieces the size of an egg. If the head is used split it in halves. Fry the pieces in a little hot fat, and turn them about till they are equally and lightly browned. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour over them, and add eight or ten mushrooms chopped small, a shaUot finely minced, a table-spoonful of parsley, a table-spoonful of strained lemon- juice, and a little pepper and salt. Pour over them a quaiier of a pint of good gravy, and let all simmer gently together till tender. Crush the liver of the rabbit (which has been previously boiled for ten minutes), and mix it with the gravy. A glassful of sherry may be added or not. Serve very hot. Time,BAD RAB ( 698 ) altogether, an hour or more. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9il. per pound, Sufficient for four or live persons. Rabbit with Jerusalem Arti- chokes.—Skin, onipty, and wiish a ])luinp j'oung rabbit. Cut it into noat joints, lay these in a saucepan, and barely cover them with boiling stock or water. Lot the liquor boil, draw the saucepan to the side, and lot it simmer gently for twenty minutes. Put into the sauce two pounds of Jerusaleni artichokes pared and sliced, and let all stew gently together till the rabbit is tender. Take out the artichokes, mash thorn, season with salt and cayenne, and add two table-spoonfuls of cream or milk. Beat them with a wooden spoon over the fire till they are quite hot. Lay the pieces of rabbit on a dish, pour the mashed artichokes over them, and serve very hot. Time, alto- gether, tliree-quarters of an hour. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbits, Choosing of.—"VSTien pur- chasing a rabbit see that the animal is fresh and young. If fresh the body will be stiff, the flesh white and dry in appearance, and of a sweet smell. If stale the flesh wiU be slimy and blue, with a tainted odour. If young the claws and the coat will be smooth, the nose sharp pointed, and the ears tender and easily torn; if old the wool will be mixed with grey hairs, and the claws long and rough. Rabbits ought not to be kept more than a day or two after they are killed. In order to distinguish ■wild rabbits from tame ones examine the paws and the tail. "Wild rabbits have hair on their paws, and the under part of the tail is of a reddish colour. Rabbits, Skinning of.—Cut the skin round the first joint of the hind-legs. Pull up the skin a little, and pass a knife along the skin inside the thigh as far as the tail. Afterwards pass the hand under the skin, and it will easily separate from the body. Draw it off towards the head. Cut the first joint off the fore-legs, and pull up the skin. Draw up the ears by passing a skewer between the skin and the head, and take off the skin. Cut the nose and lip, and draw the skin right off. Cut a slit just under the body, take out the inside, leaving the kidneys. Save the liver and heart, and take out the eyes. "Wash the rabbit well inside and out, drain, and wipe it dry. Rabbits, Trussing of.—To truss a rabbit for boiling:—Draw the fore-legs back- wards, and the hind-legs forwards, bring the head round to the side, and fasten it there with a skewer run through it and the body. To truss a rabbit for roasting: —Skewer the head firmly between the shoulders. Draw the legs close to the body, and pass a skewer through them. Rabbits, Wild, Stock Broth from.— Wild rabbits are sometimes used to impart the required gamcy flavour to stock which is to be used for certain soups. This stock is prepared as follows:—Divide a wild rabbit into joints, and cut hfilf a pound of veal into small pieces. Put these in a stewpan with a slice of fresh I butter, and stir them lightly over a slow firo till they uro brown. Pour over them as much water as will cover them, and brin^ the liquor gently to the boil, carefully removing the scum as It rises. Place it by tlic side of the iht:, take off the fat us it is thrown up, and simmer the liquor veiy gently. Add the vegeUljles and seasonings which are suitable for the intended soup, and when the liquor is suf- ficiently flavoured strain it for use. If the rabbit is not too mucli boiled it may be served with white or brown sauce. Racahout.—Racahout is said to be farina prepared from the acorns of the liarbary oak disguised with a little flavouring. The follow- ing is recommended by Cooley in his Jiecipes as an imitation:—Roasted cacao or chocolate nuts, four ounces ; tapioca and potato farina, of each six ounces; white sugar, slightly flavoured with vanilla, half a pound. This preparation, which is very nutritious, is to be used like arrowroot. Rack or Arrack.—This is a spirituous liquor manufactured at different places in the East. " Arrack," says MacCulloch, " is a term applied in most parts of India and the Indian Islands to designate every sort of spirituous hquor; a circumstance which accounts for the discrepancy in the statements as to the materials used in making it and the mode of its manu- facture. The arrack of Goa and Batavia is in high estimation; that of Colombo or Ceylon has been said to be inferior to the former ; but this is doubtful. Goa and Colombo arrack is invariably made from the vegetable juice iod-dtj which flows by incision from the cocoa-nut tree. After the juice is fermented it is distilled and rectified. It usually yields about an eighth part of pure spirit. Batavia or Java arrack is obtained by distillation from molasses and rice, with only a small admixture of toddy. When well prepared, arrack is clear and transparent; generally, however, it is slightly straw-coloured. Its flavour is peculiar; but it differs consider- ably, no doubt, in consequence of the different articles of which it is prepared, and the unequal care taken in its manufacture. In England arrack is seldom used except to give flavour to punch. In the East its consumption is im- mense." Radical Pudding.—Weigh four eggs in the sheU. Take this weight in butter, half melt it, and beat it to a cream. Add the eggs well-beaten, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, two-thirds of the weight of the eggs in flour, and a little lemon or almond flavouring. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, pour the mixture into a buttered mould. Lay a round of buttered paper on the top, tie the mould in a cloth, plunge it into fast-boihng water, and either boil or steam it tiU done. Turn it out carefully, and serve with pudding sauce. Time to boil, a little more than an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons Radish.—To be eaten in perfection, radishes' should be freshly pulled and tender. When preparing them for table wash them thoroughly, and leave about an inch and a half of the stalk. Cut the fibres from the bulbs, and lay them inRAP HAD ( 699 ) cold water for an hour. Serve them in a circle on a plate with the st<xlk end outwards, and a salt-cellar in the centre. Radishes are very commonly added to salads. KADISHIIS. Radish. Drawing.—The time of drawing radishes is by no means indifferent. They eat in the greatest perfection if pulled in the morning, before the sun has attained any power, and laid in a cool damp place until wanted. The bed should have a plenteous watering the morning before that on which they are taken, but none afterwards until subsequent to the drawing. In November, those wanted for winter must be taken up during dry weather and preserved in sand. ""Writers of antiquity," says Soyer, " notice three kinds of radishes : the large, short, and thick; the round ; and the wild. They fancied that, at the end of three years, the seed of this plant produced very good cabbages, which must have been rather vexatious at times to honest gardeners who might have preferred radishes. " The Romans preserved radishes very well by covering them with a paste composed of honey, vinegar, and salt." Radish, Horse.—Wash the horseradish thoroughly, and lay it in cold water for an hour. Scrape it into fine curly shreds with a sharp knife, and use it to garnish various dishes. It is a frequent accompaniment to roast beef and to many kinds of fish. Radish Pods, To Pickle (a simple recipe).—Gather the pods when the seeds within them are fully grown, but soft, i.e., when they are in the condition of green peas. Wash them in salted water, put them into glass bottles or unglazed jars, and pour cold vinegar over them. As the vinegar becomes absorbed, add more, and when the jars are full and the vinegar no longer shrinks, tie down closely, .and store in a dry place. The advantage of pickling the pods in this way is that they can be taken from the garden, and put into the bottles as they become ready for use. If liked, a blade of mace, an ounce of ginger, and half an ounce of pepper may be put with each pint of vinegar. Radish Pods, To Pickle (a superior recipe).—Gather the pods when quite young, and lay them in strong brine for twenty-four hours. Drain the brine from them, boil it, pour it upon them boiling hot, and keep the jar well covered to keep in the steam. When the brine is cold boil it again, and continue this until the pods are green. Drain the pods, put them into glass bottles or unglazed jars, pour over them as much boiling vinegar as will cover them, and when this is cold, boil it a second time, and pour over the pods, which must be well covered with the vinegar. When the pickle is quite cold, tie the jars closely, and store in a cool dry place. A blade of mace, an ounce of whole ginger, and an ounce of pepper may be boUed with each pint of vinegar. Radish Sauce.—Peel and grate the radishes, and mix them with a Httle oil, -vinegar, salt, and pepper. This sauce is an excellent accompaniment to cold meat. If liked, a third of the quantity of radishes in scraped horse- radish, and as much minced beetroot may be mixed with the grated radish. Radish Sauce, Horse (a German recipe).—Take a piece of butter the size of an egg, beat it up with half a table-spoonful of flour, thin it with a cupful of warm broth, place it on the fire to boil, stirring it all the time; stir in two table-spoonfuls of grated horse-radish, let it heat but not boil, add a little salt, and serve. Vinegar may be added if liked. Radish, Varieties of.—The varieties of radish in cultivation are extremely numerous ; they are usually classed, however, under the two well-known heads of long-rooted and tur- nip-rooted radishes, the roots of the former resembling the carrot in shape, those of the latter the turnip. The varieties present marked differences, not only in the form of root but in colour and size. The prevailing colour is red. Some of the darker-coloured turnip-rooted radishes grow to the size of a man's head. The common radish is a native of Asia, from the coasts of the Mediterranean to Japan, and has been cultivated in China, India, and Europe from the most ancient times. Radish, Wholesomeness of the. — The radish is generally considered a pleasant stimulating condiment; it is, however, an article of diet which most dyspeptic patients would do well to avoid. Radish-juice mixed with sugar- candy is a popular and useful German remedy for hoarseness and cough. Raffald's Browning.—Beat to powder four ounces of tine lump sugar; put it into a clean iron frying-pan with one ounce of butter. Set it over a clear fire, and mix itweU together. When it begins to be frothy, the sugar is dissolving; then hold it higher over the fire, and have ready a pint of red wine. When the sugar and butter are of a deep brown, poirr in a little of the wine, stir it thoroughly together, gradually add the rest of the wine, andRAP RAG ( 700 ) koop Btiriing all tho time ; put in half an ounce of allspico, six cloves, four sliullots peeled, two or throo blades of mace, three table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a little salt, and tho rind of a lemon peeled as tliin as pos- sible ; boil up slowly for ton minutes; pour- it into a basin; when cold, take off tho scum very- clean, and bottle for use. This is a pleasant sauce, but the cook must remember it will alter the colour of whatever it is added to. Raffald's Lemon Pickle.— Take a dozen lemons, grate olf the outer rinds very thin, cut them in four quarters, but leave tho bottoms whole ; rub on them equally a pound of bay-salt. Spread them in a largo pewter dish, and lot them dry gradually by the fire till all tho juice is dried into the peels ; then put them into a stone jar with half an ounce of mace, a quarter of an ounce of cloves beaten fine, half an ounce of nutmeg cut in thin slices, two ounces of garlic peeled, a quarter of a pound of mustard-seed bruised a little and tied in a muslin bag; pour a quart of white-wine vinegar upon them, close the pitcher or jar well lip, and let it stand five or six days by the fire; ahiake it well every day, then tie it up as close as possible, and let it stand for three months. When you bottle it, -put the pickle and lemon into a hair sieve, and press them well to get out the liquor; let it stand till next day; then pour off the fine and bottle it; let the rest stand three or four days and it will settle; pour ^ff the fine again and let it settle, tiU you have poured off all you can get fine. It may be put into any white sauce, and will not hurt the colour. It is very good for fish sauce and made dishes, especially of veal; a tea-spoonful is enough for white and two for hrown sauce for a fowl: it is a most useful pickle, and gives a pleasant flavour. Be sure you put it in before you thicken the sauce or put any cream in, lest the sharpness make it curdle. Mrs. Eafifald says in the preface to her " Cookery :"—"I have given no directions for cullis, &c., as I have found by experience that lemon-pickle and browning {Seethe preceding recipe) answer both for beauty and taste (at a trifling ex- pense) better than the most extravagant cullises. Had I known the use and value of these two recipes when I first took upon me the part and duty of a housekeeper, they would have saved me a gi-eat deal of trouble in making gravy, and those I served a great deal of expense." Dr. Kitchiner, in quoting these observations, adds, " We suppose Mrs. liafifald's praise of these two sauces to be well deserved, as they hjive been copied into almost every cookery-book that has been compiled since." Ragout.—strictly speaking, a ragout is a rich, highly-flavoured sauce made with mush- rooms, truffles, sweetbreads, quenelles, stewed vegetables, &c., and used as a garnish for entrees or removes. Thus we have Chipolata ragout, and Toulouse ragout, the recipes for making which will be found under their separate headings. Ordinarily, however, a ragout is simply undor- .stood to mean any highly-flavoured preparation of moat or fish, poultry or game. Ragout Financi6re.—Prepare and cook equal quantities of mushrooms, quenelles, cock's- combs, cock's kernels, scallops of sweetbread and sliced truffles. Lot these ai-ticles bo as nearly as possible of uniform size, put them into a saucepan, and pour over thorn as much good brown sauce as will barely cover them. Add a glassful of light wine, place the sauce- pan on a gentle fire, and let it.s amUinta simmer gently mitil they are thoroughly hot. This ragout is used for garnishing various dishes. Time to heat the ragtmt, three minutes. Ragout of Garlic, Mild.—Garlic is not universally liktjd, probably (nving to its strou" savour and smell. Those wlio are fond of ii, however, are generally very partial to it, and these persons will welcome it simply boiled till tender, without sauce or gravy, and served in the same dish with roast mutton. When thus served, its flavour and smell will be rendered much milder if the water in which it is boiled be changed every five or ten minutes until it is done enough, and the more frequent these changes are the milder the garlic will be. Instead of serving it dry with the mutton, the garlic may be jjut into good brown gravy or white sauce, and i)oured over the meat. Time to boil the garlic, half an hour. Ragout Powder.—Take one ounce of grated lemon-rind, one ounce of ground black pepper, one ounce of dry mustard, half an ounce of grated nutmeg, half an ounce of powdered ginger, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, a quarter of an ounce of powdered mace, and a quarter of an ounce of powdered cloves. Dry these ingredients before a very gentle fire; they must be placed at some distance from it, and dried ver}' slowly, or their flavour will evaporate. Pound them thoroughly in a marble mortar, mix with them two ounces of salt, and pass the powder through a fine hair sieve. Put the powder into small bottles per- fectly dry, cork these down tightly, and store in a dry place. A small portion added to ragouts and sauces will impart an agreeable flavour. RagOllt Powder (another way).—Grate the rinds of two lemons and two Seville oranges. Take a quarter of a pound of truffles, a quarter of a pound of dried mushrooms, a large nutmeg grated, an ounce of powdered mace, an ounce of ground black pepper, and two drachms of cayenne. Dry these ingredients well before a gentle fire, as in the last recipe. Pound them to powder in a marble mortar, mix with them two ounces of salt, pass tlie powder through a sieve, cork it tightly, and bottle for use. Ragouts. — Recipes for the following ragouts will be found under theii" respective headings:— Beef liiVEU, Fat Calf's Head Milanese Chipolata Garnish Mussels Eggs Muttox Fisk.inScalloi*Shells Mutton, Fkencu Fowl Rabbit Gauhc, Mild Sweetbreads Hake Toulouse Hessian Soup, &c. \''eal. Breast op Lamb Steaks. Veal, Cold.BAG ( 701 ) RAI Ragoiits, Forcemeat for {sec Forcemeat for Meat Pies or Kagouts). Ragouts, Gravy for all kinds of.— Take two slices of ham and two pounds of lean veal from the fillet. Cut the meat into six or eight pieces, and put these in a stewpan with half a pint of water. Bring the liquor slowly to the boil, and simmer very gently for lialf an hour, when it will have nearly hoiled away. Turn the meat, put into the saucepan with it an onion stuck with two cloves, a hunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a hay-leaf, half a blade of mace, a carrot cut into two or three pieces, three or four outer sticks of celery, or half a tea-spoonful of celery seed tied in muslin, a little pepper and salt, and three pints of boiling water. Bring the liquor to the boil, draw the saucepan to the side, and simmer all very gently without the lid for two houi-s. Strain the liquor, and put it aside for use. The pieces of meat may be potted and serve as a relish for brealffast or luncheon, or they may be served with a piquant sauce. Sufficient for a quart of gravy. Probable cost, 3s. Time, two hours and a half. Ragouts, Gravy for all kinds of (another way).—The bones and trimmings of meat and poultrj' ought to fm-nish stock for making the sauces required for every-day use in an ordinary household. In a properly managed kitchen no bone otight to be thrown away until it has been stewed so that it is as clean as a piece of ivory. If cooks would only stew the bones thoroughly, they might save their masters many pounds in a year, which are otherwise spent in buying beef and veal for gravy ; and if the cook were clever in flavouring her sauces, six pei'sons out of ten would not discover that the sauce was not made from fresh meat. To make gravy from bones, break up the bones of a leg of mutton or of a piece of beef into small pieces. If these bones are not at hand, piirchase from the butcher two penny- worth of fresh. Wash these with scrupulous care, and cut away any portions that are not agreeable. 'I?ut the bones into a large saucepan, and pour over them five pints of cold water. If a very strong gi'avy is wanted, less water may be used. Bring the liquor slowly to the boil, remove every particle of scum, and let it simmer very gently indeed for five hom-s. Strain it into a bowl, and if con- venient put it aside until the next day. Take away the cake of fat from the top (it may be used for frjdng fish, &c.), pour off the liquor gently, to leave undisturbed any sediment which may have settled at the bottom. Put the stock into a saucepan, and with it vegetables and herbs for flavouring suited to the meat with which it is to be served. For ordinary brown gravy the following will be sufficient:—a large carrot cut into three or four pieces, three or four outer sticks of celery, or half a tea-spoonful of bruised celery seed tied in muslin, an onion stuck with three cloves, a small blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, two tea-spoonfuls of sfilt, and a tea-spoonful of pepper. Simmer all gently for two hours, strain the stock, and put it aside in a cool place. It will keep for a week in cold weather, in hot weather it should be boiled every other day. When it is wanted, take as much of it as is required, mix with it a small portion of Licbig's Extract of Meat, thicken it if necessary with a little brown thickening, and it will bo ready for use. Pro- bable cost, 6d., exclusive of the bones. Sufficient for a quai't of gravy. Time, two days. Raised Pie, French (see French Kaised Pie). Raised Pie, Lancashire {sec Lancashire Raised Pie). Raised Pies.—Raised pies may be made of any size and with almost all kinds of meat, poultiy, or game, the only indispensable requisite being that there shall be no bone in them. They arc usually served cold, and should be rather highly flavoured. The pastry of small pies is generally eaten, but with large pies it is merely used as a case in which to sei've the savoury preparation inside. There is no difficulty in making the pastry for raised pies, but inexperienced cooks are sure to find it diffi- cult to raise the walls of the pie. The process is much easier of accomplishment if a tin mould is used. Instructions are here given both for forming the pie with and without a mould {see Raised Pies, To Form). Raised pies should be baked in a well-heated but by no means brisk oven, and if there is any danger of the pastry being too highly coloured, a buttered paper should be laid over it. In order to ascertain whether or not the pie is done enough run a skewer into the middle of it, and if it is tender throughout it is done. When the appearance of the pie is a considera- tion, it is a good plan to cut the top carefully out, and cover the meat -wnth bright stiff aspic jelly cut into dice. If this is not done, however, a little good bright gravy which will form a jelly when cold should always be poured into the pie through the hole at the top whenever it is taken out of the oven. In summer time it is safer to stiffen this with a little dissolved isinglass. Raised Pies of Game or Poultry.— This recipe may be followed in making raised pies with all kinds of birds, and the quantity of forcemeat used must be proportioned to the size and number of the birds. Mttshrooms and truffles may be added if liked. -(Jut the bird open down the back, and bone it without in- juring the skin; lay it breast downwards upon a table, and season the inside with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Spread upon it a layer of veal forcemeat, and place on this first a layer of slices of veal, and then of slices of ham or tongue. Put a layer of forcemeat over all, and restore the bird to its original shape, making the skin meet where it was cut. Lino the pie with good veal forcemeat half an inch in thickness. Lay the bird upon this, cover with forcemeat and fill the vacant spaces with forcemeat and pieces of ham and veal; place a slice of butter and two bay-leaves on the top, put on the cover, and finish the pie as directed in the following recipes {sec Raised Pies, To Form):—Bake in a moderate oven. WliiM it is baking, stew the bones with a littloRAI RAI ( 702 ) 8ea8onm<? to iniiko gmvy, and if this is not sufficioutly strung to jolly whm cold dissolve a littlo isiny:luss in it. Tour this i^nivy into tho ])ie when it is done, and serve cold. If liked, tho birdniiiy bo jointed, the bones removed, and tho pie filled with alternate layers of forcemeat, i-iune, veal, and ham ; but it must be remembered that tho undermost and ui)permo8t layer should bo composed of forcemeat. It is always an improvement to lard tho fleshy parts of game or poultry with thin slices of bacon. Time, a good-sized pie, made with a large chicken and three or fom- slices of ham and veal, will requii-e from four to five hours' baking. Raised Pies, Paste for {see Paste for Kaised Pies). Raised Pies, Pastry for.—When plain pastry is required, put a pound of flour into a bowl, and mix with it an ounce of salt. Make a hole in the centre, and pour into this four ounces of lard or butter dissolved in boiling water. Work the mixture first with a spoon and afterwards with the hands to a firm smooth paste. AVhen it is well kneaded wrap it in a cloth, and lay it before the fire for a few minutes. This will make it more easy to work. If richer pastry is desired, lay a pound of ■flour on a board, and rub lightly into it with the fingers six ounces of sweet butter. Add a little salt, the yolks and whites of two eggs, and as much water as will make a stiff smooth paste; this will be about the third of a pint. Knead the paste well to make it firm, and it will "be ready for use. This pastry may of course be made richer by putting into the flour a larger proportion of butter, but it must be remembered that the richer the pastry the more difiicult it will be to raise. When a mould is to be used, another ounce or two of butter may be allowed without much fear of disaster. Raised Pies, To Form.—Take as much pastry as it is intended to use for the pie. Cut off as much as wall be wanted for the cover, and form the remainder to the shape of a cone. Flatten the sides with the palms of the hands, and when they are quite smooth squeeze the point down a little, and press the knuckles of BAISED PIE. the left hand into tho middle of the pastry till the inside is hollow. Knead it well with the fingers, and be carefid to have every part of an equal thickness. Fill the pic, roll out the re- mainder of the pastry to the size of tlie top of tho pie, moisten the edges with ahttle egg, and lay on the cover. Press this down securely, and pinch it with pastry pincers. Make a small hole in tho centre of tho pie, and ornament with pastry leaves, chains, or any fanciful designs. Brush all over with egg, and bake m a well-heated oven. Wlion the jjie ia done enough, take it out, and pour in a little good gravy which will jolly when cold. Jfa mould is used, butter it, and line it with goo.d firm pastry. Fill the pie, roll out the cover, moisten the edges of tho jtastry, hiy it on, and press it down securely, so that'the edge of tlie pie may be raised slightly above the cover. Pinch the edges with the jjastry nippers. Make a small hole in tho centre, and ky upon the pio pastry ornaments of any descrijjtion. Brush over with egg, and bake in a well- heated oven. Take the pie out, di'aw out the pin which fastens the side of the mould, and take it out carefully. If it is not sufficiently browned, put it into the oven a quarter of an hour longer. Raised pies should be served on a neatly-folded napkin, and garnished with parsley. Raisin.—Eaisins are simply grapes dried in the sun or in an oven. Those dried in the sun are much the best. There are several kinds : Muscatels, Valencias, Smyrna, and Eleme raisins, and Sultana raisins, which are without stones, and generally used in cookery. When making good cakes and puddings it is well worth while to use good Muscatel raisins, as they are much superior in fiavour to the common ones, and especially as grocers fre- quently sell loose ones which answer excel- lently for the purpose at a cheaper rate than the bimches wluch are to be used for dessert. Raisin and Almond Pudding {see Almond and Raisin Pudding). Raisin Cake.—Beat half a poimdof sweet butter to a cream. Add half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, half a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, three eggs well-beaten—the yolks and whites separately—a table-spoonful of brandy, and as much soda as will lie on a sixpence dissolved in a wine-glassful of hot milk. Beat the mixture till it is quite light. Stone half a j)Ound of Muscatel raisins, and chop them small, roll them in flour, and stir them into the cake. Line a small cake-tin with buttered paper, three-parts fill it with the batter, and bake in a well-heated oven. In order to ascertain when the cake is done enough put a skewer into the middle of it, and if when drawn out it is bright and dry, the cake is done. If preferred, com- moner raisins may of course be xised, but the Muscatels are very much superior to them in flavour and quality. Time to bake, three- quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. Raisin Cheese.—Stone two pounds of raisins, and put them into a saucepan with one pound of sugar, three or four cloves, and half a nutmeg grated. Boil for an hour and a half, then take the pan from the fire, and when the cheese is a little cool pour it into tho dish in which it is to be served. Garnish with thin strips of candied fruit. Time, an lioiir and a half. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons.RAI ( 703 ) BAI ' Raisin Elder Wine .—Crush eight quarts of ripo elderberries in a tub or earthen pan, mix with them five pounds of good moist sugar, and let them lie for twonty-foui- hours. Pick thirty-six pounds of good Malaga raisins from their stalks, stone and cut them small, and pour on them nine gallons of boiling soft water, then stir them well, and leave the vessel closely covered till the day following. Boil the elder- berries and their juice half an hour, slcimming well until quite clear, and strain it on to the raisins, stirring the mixtui-e twenty minutes. In three days after this, strain the liquor well, put it into a ten-gallon cask upon the thin rinds of six lemons and two Seville oranges, and, lea\'ingthebung out, let it ferment; minding to keep the cask filled up as it works out. When it has ceased hissing, put in a quart of brandy, and stop it up for two months; then rack it off into a clean vessel, filter the dregs, and fill the cask again, adding six oimces of sugar-candy and an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a little, water. Secure the bung well, and let it stand ten months; then bottle it, seal the corks, and in six months more commence using it. Raisin Pudding, Baked.—Shred finely six ounces of beef suet, ilix with this three- quarters of a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, the rind of a fresh lemon cut very small, three- quarters of a pound of stoned raisins, and half a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg. Isiix the dry ingredients thoi-oughly, and stir in with them three eggs and as much milk as will make a thick batter. This wiU be about a quarter of a pint. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, and bake in a weU-heated oven. Turn it out, sift powdered sugar over it, and it will be ready for serving. Time to bake, one hour and a quai-ter. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Raisin Pudding, Boiled.—Shred half a pound of beef suet very finely. Mix with this four ounces of flour, two ounces of ground rice, a pinch of salt, four ounces of Demerara sugar, four ounces of stoned raisins, and the gi-ated rind of a small lemon. Mix the dry ingre- dients thoroughly, stii- in with them a quarter of a pint of milk which has been beaten up with one egg and the strained juice of a lemon. Pour the mixture into a plaiu, well-buttered mould, tie it closely down, plunge it into plenty of fast-boiling water, and let it boil quickly until done enough. Turn it out, sift powdered sugar thickly over it, and serve with pudding sauce. Tijne to boil, three hours. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Raisin Pudding (economical).—Shred eight ounces of beef suet very finely, and mix with it one pound of flour, a pinch of salt, a dessert-spoonful of moist sugar, a tea-spoonful of baking powder, the eighth of a nutmeg grated, and ton ounces of stoned raisins. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, and stir in with them as much milk as will make a thick batter. Pour the preparation into a buttered dish, and bake in a well-hcated oven. Turn out the pudding, strew sugar over it, and serve. This pudding may be boiled as well as baked. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Raisin Wine.—March is the best time for making raisin wine. Take eight pounds of fine Smyrna raisins for every gallon of water that is to be used. Pick the large stalks only from the raisins. Put them into a perfectly sound sweet tub, pour the water over them, and press them well down. Cover the tub, and stir the mixture every day for four weeks. Strain the liquor, and squeeze the raisins as dry as possible. Put the wine into a cask, cover up the bung- hole to keep out the dust, and when the hissing sound ceases, bung the hole closely, and leave the wine untouched for twelve months. Draw it off into a clean cask, and filter the di-egs carefully through three or four folds of muslin. Bung it up again, and bottle it at the end of three years. If preferred, the wine may be bottled at the end of a twelvemonth, but it wiU be much improved by keeping. Those who prefer having a little brandy in the wine may put a bottle or more into the cask with the liquor. Good vinegar may be made from rai- sins which have been used for wine. Time, four weeks to stir the liquor before putting it into the cask. Raisin Wine (another way).—Take two hundredweight of raisins with all their stalks, put them into a large hogshead, and fill it up with water; let them steep a fortnight, stirring them every day ; then pour off the liquor, and press the raisins. Put both liquors together into a nice clean vessel that will just hold it, but remember it must be quite f uU; let it stand till it has done hissing or making the least noise, then stop it close, and let it stand six months. Peg it, and if you find it quite clear, rack it off into another vessel. Stop it again close, and let it stand three months longer; then bottle it, and when wanted for use rack it off into a decanter. Raisin Wine (another way). — A raisin wine possessing the fiavour of Fontaigne may be made in the following manner:—Take six pounds of raisins, boU them in six gallons of water, and when perfectly soft rub them through a colander to separate the stones. Add the pulp to the water in which the raisins have been boiled, pour this mixture upon twelve pounds of white sugar, and suffer it to ferment, with the addition of half a pint of yeast, ^^'^len the fermentation has nearly ceased, add to it a quarter of a peck of elder flowers contained in a bag, which should be suspended in the cask, and removed when the wine has acquired the desired flavour. When the wine has become clear, it may be drawn off into bottles. Raisin Wine (another way).—Upon twenty-four pounds of raisins picked from the stalks pour six gallons of boiling water, and add six pounds of sugar; let them macerate about fourteen nights, stirring every day; then pour off the liquor, squeeze out the raisins, and add three-quarters of a pound of finely- powdered super-tartrate of potash. Put the liquor into a cask, reser^^ng a sufficient quan- tity for filling up, and run off the wine when the fermentation has ceased.( 704 ) RAI RAM Raisin Wine Vinegar.—Raisins from which wino lias been made will make oxcoUunt vinegar, and as the stidka are very acid care should bo taken to pick them out, and throw them into thi) cask in which the vinegar is boing made. Take the raisins which have been used to make nine gallons of Avine. Put Avith them the di-egs and stalks, and pour four gallons of hot water over the whole. Cover the tub, and stir its contents occasionally. When no more goodness is to be got out of the fruit, strain the liquor, put it into a cask, and let it stand nine or ten months before it is bottled. Raisin Wine with Cider.—Be sure that the cider is perfectly sound and good, and take five pounds of fine Malaga raisins for each gallon of cider that is to be used. Put the fruit and the cider into a cask, stir it every day for four- days, bung it closely, and leave it un- touched for six months. Draw it off into a clean cask of a suitable size, add a bottle of fine brandy, and bung it again. Bottle at the end of twelve months. Raisin Wine with Cider (a light wine) —Cut thirty poimds of Malaga raisins, take out the stones, put them into a tub, and pour over them five gallons of boiling water; add the rind of ten Seville oranges and their juice ; stir all well ten minutes, and let them infuse ten days, closely covered up,, stirring every day. Press the fruit in a hair bag, and strain the liquor through a fine sieve, put it into a sweet ten-gallon cask, and fill up with strong cider. Stir it twenty minutes, cover the bvmg-hole with a tile, and let it ferment four or five days, filling up the cask as the liquor works out. When it has ceased hissing, dissolve half a pound of sugar- candy and an ounce of isinglass in two quarts of the wine ; pour it into the cask, stir well, and in two hours afterwards add a quart of French brandy. Stop up the bimg, paste paper over it, put sand upon that, and leave it twelve months in a cool cellar. You may then bottle it, seal the corks, and keep it nine or ten months in the bottles. Raisin Wine with Cider (a strong wine).—Take forty pounds of Malaga raisins, pick them from the stalks, cut them in halves, put them into a sweet eighteen- gallon cask, fiU it up with good sound cider, and bung it lightly. After three or four days, secure the bung, and at the end of six months draw off into a tub all that runs clear; press the liquor from the fruit into another vessel, filter this and the lees through a flannel bag, and put the whole into a ten-gallon cask, with two quarts of French brandy, the thin yellow rind of three fresh lemons and four Seville oranges, and half a pound of sugar- candy crushed small. Bung the cask securely; after twelve months, bottle the wine, seal the corks, and keep it for two years. Raisins, Baba with [xce Baba, Sec) Raisins, Varieties of.—The following interesting information about raisins is from " Berwick's Jlonthly Circular "—The muscatels are the most highly esteemed^ and are prepared by cutting the stalk half off that bears the bunch wlion the grapes are fully ripe, jc- movmg all leaves that can shade them, and allownig them thus to dry in the sun. These are culled " raiwins of the sun." Tho bunches are carefully removed, and packed in boxes in layers, with a paper separating each layer. A more common kind called Icxiaa is prepared by collecting tho gi-upos when ripe, and dipping them into a lye made from the ashes produced by burning the branchi^s of the vine. These are mostly from Valentia, as the prewiding kinds are from Malaga—both from Southern Spain. A small black raisin comes from Smyrna, in Asia Minor. It is dry, and gene- rally used for culinary purpcses. Another variety from Turkey in Asia, called Sultanas, is put up in drums, and although small, is de- licious. What we call currants, from the Grecian Islands, are really raisins, and should be so designated. They are small, seedless grapes, growing on the Islands of Zante, Corfu, and Cephalonia, on the western coast of Greece. Eaisins are imported in casks, barrels, boxes, and jars. The finest come in jars and quarter-boxes weighing about twenty- five pounds. Some of the inSerior sorts are brought to us in mats. The muscatels from Malaga fetch fully a third more than any other description of raisins. The Smj-ma black is the cheapest variety. The price depends much on the season and the period of the year. Raisinee.—^This is a rob, or sweetmeat, much thought of in France. Boil new wine, and skim it till only half the quantity remains. Strain it, add apples pared and cut into quarters, and let it simmer gently till the apples are thoroughly mixed with the wine, which will then be found to have a very agreeable acid taste. Cider may be used instead of wine. Raising de Bourgogne (a French recipe).—Press the juice from very ripe grapes, which put into a preserving-pan, and let it boil till it is reduced one-lialf; skim and stii* it all the time that it may not stick to the pan. Peel, quarter, and core some ripe pears, put them into the juice, and let them boil till it is again reduced by a third, when the pears will be done. You must keep stirring all the time. Put them into pots, and let them stand one night in the oven. Ramakin or Cheese Pudding.—Grat<> half a pound of good old Cheshire cheese, and mix a large table-spoonful of flour with it. Stir in gradually a little milk to moisten thf cheese, and afterwards add throe or four well- beaten eggs, and as much milk as will make th(^ batter of the consistency of cream. Half fill a buttered dish with the mixture, place little pieces of butter here and there upon the surface, and bake tho pudding in a brisk oven. When it is well risen and of a golden colour it is done enough. Serve as quicklj'- as possible after it is taken out of the oven, or it will opoil. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty mantes. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. {See also Cheese Pudding, &c.) Ramakins (served with the cheese course).—C4rul(i two ounces each of two kinds of cheese of dillorcnt flavour, such as ParmesanBAM ( 706 > RAM and Gruyfere, Chosliiio and Gloucester. Souk the crumb of a small roll in boiling milk for. ton minutes, strain it, and put it in a mortar with the gi-atod cheese, two ounces of fresh butter, the weU-beaton yolks of two eggs, and a little pepper and sjilt. Pound these ingredients well together, and when smooth add the well whisked whites of the eggs. Make some small paper trays, about an inch deep and three inches squai'e, half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. Serve quickly. A spoonful of light wine may be added to the batter if liked. Time to bake, a quai'ter of an hour. Ramakins (another way).—Put a sauce- pan ou the lii e with the third of a pint of milk, two ounces of fresh butter, and a pinch of salt. Add gi-adually two tea-spoonfuls of flour, beat the mixture till quite smooth, and stir it for five minutes, or until it is quite hot. Take it off the fire, and add two ounces of grated Parmesan, Gruyere, or Cheshire cheese, four well-beaten eggs, and a little pepper and pounded mace. Make some little paper trays about an inch deep and three inches square. Half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a gentle oven. The batter for the ramakins ought to be as thick as cream. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Ramakins, Dutch.—Grate two ounces of Cheshire cheese, and put it in a marble mortar with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a slice of fresh butter. One anchovy may be added if liked. Pound the mixtm-e till quite smooth. Toast a large slice of bread, butter it, and spread the mixture thickly upon it. Cut it into small squares. Bake these in a Dutch oven, or brown them by holding a salamander over them for two or three minutes, and serve very hot, neatly arranged on a folded napkin. Ramakins, German.—Take a pint of new milk, and simmer it in a saucepan, but do not let it boil; by degrees add three hand- fuls of floui-, stimng all the time. When the paste is smooth and without lumps, put in a httle salt, a piece of butter, and a quarter of a poimd of Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, or both mixed—not grated, but cut into small slices. Stir the whole on the fire till the preparation is perfectly mixed. "VNTien it is boiled enough— which may readily be ascertained, as the paste will then easily roll from the saucepan—take it off the fire, beat up three eggs, and stir them in, keeping the paste hot till the moment of serving. Butter a dish that will stand the fire, or a baking-tin, pour in the paste, and set it in a moderate oven. The cake will rise in ten minutes, like a souffle, and be of a fine yellow colour. Serve at once. Ramakins, Fried.—Slice thinly four ounces of rich cheese, and put it into a deli- cately clean saucepan with two ounces of fresh butter. Shake these over a gentle fire till they are melted, let them cool a minute or two, and atir in briskly the whites of three eggs beaten to a firm froth. Put some small squares of bread into tlie frying-pan with a little hot butter, spread the mixture upon the bread, and fry the ramakins for five minutes. Drain them X from the fat, hold a salamander or red-hot iron I over them till they are lightly browned, and serve verj'' hot. ; Ramakins Pastry.—Take any pieces of good pulf-paste left from making pies or tarts, or if these are not at hand make a small quantity of good puff paste. Grate half its weight in Parmesan cheese, roll the pastry out evenly, and sprinkle the cheese lightly over it. Fold it in tliree, and roll it out lightly: repeat this once or twice tmtil the pastry and cheese are well mixed. Stamp the ramakins out with a small pastry cutter of any shape that may be desired, brush them over with yolk of egg, and bake in a brisk oven. Aa soon as they are done enough serve them quickly, neatly arranged on a hot napkin. Although Parmesan cheese is the best for this purpose, any dry white cheese may be used instead. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Ramakins, Pastry {see Pastry Ramakins). Ramakins with Ale or Wine.—Soak the crumb of a French roll in a cupful of boiling cream for a few minutes. Put it in a mortar with four ounces of grated Gloucester, four ounces of grated Cheshire cheese, and foui' ounces of good butter. Pound the mixture well, and beat it thoroughly with the beatei yolks of four eggs, and a wine-glassful of ale or wine. Half fill some small paper trays with the mixture, and bake the ramakins in a gentL^ oven, or in a Dutch oven before the fire. Serve very hot. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Ramazan Cakes (a Turkish recipe).— Take half a pound of rice-flour, and dilute i\. with two glasses of milk; pass the preparation through a sieve into a stewpan. Boil over a moderate fire, stirring all the time. Add sugar to taste, let it reduce for seven or eight minutes, then add a few drops of extract of roses or of jessamine, turn it out on a round baking-sheet, previously moistened with cold water. Let the preparation be nearly an inch in thickness, and smooth its surface. When it is cold, sprinkle it with fine sugar, and divide it into small cakes, lozenge-shaped, round or oblong, according to taste. Ramskin.—This is a sort of cake said to have been invented at Croxteth Hall, the seai of Lord Sefton, from which circumstance it is sometimes called " Sefton Fancy." Take grated cheese of some dry kind, such as Parmesan or the white hard English varieties, incorporated with dough as prepared for fine puflp paste; roll it out, cut it into shapes, glaze with white of egg, and bake for a quarter of an hour. It is usually eaten hot. Ra,mpion.—The root of this plant, which is white and spindle-shaped, used to be much in request for the table under the name of rampion or ramps. The plant is now little cultivated in Britain, but it is still commonly grown in France for the sake of the roots, which are used eithei boiled or as a salad, and of its yoixng leaves, which are also employed as a salad. The escu- lent roots are far more delicate than turnips or radishes; the seeds are ophthalmic. The root, either sliced together with its leaves in salads, or eaten as the radish, as well aa boiledRAS ( 70(5 ) BAB like aspuniyuri, iu most pulutublo whou diuwii young, and oiitun froah from tlio ground. Bare-bit, Welsh.—Brillut Savurin, tlu) famous Fnnuh (ruiiniut, gives tho following rocipo takou from tho papers of M. TroUct, bailiff in Moudon, in tho Canton of Berno: — " Take aa many ogga as you wish, according to tho number of guests, and weigh them; then take a pieeo of choose weighing a third of tho weight of tho eggs, and a slice of butter weighing a sixth; beat the eggs well up in a dtiueepan, after which put in tlie butter and cheese, tho latter either grated or cliopped up very small; place tho saucepan on a good lire, and stir it with a iiat spoon until tho mixture becomes sufficiently thick and soft; add a little salt and a large portion of pepper, and serve it up in a hot dish. Bring out the best wine, and let it go round freely, and wonders will be done." Bare-bit, Welsh (another way).—The following is a cheaper recipe than the above, and the result is in no way inferior :—Cut as much cheese as is necessary into small pieces; add a lump of butter and a little ale ; mix in a Siiucepan on a good fire until it is well amal- gamated ; add popper and salt and a little mustard ; pour out upon a square of toast on a hot dish. A fine glass of beer Avill go with this as pleasantly as Brillat Savarin's wine. Some people add a little beef gravy to the rare-bit when it is simmering in the saucepan, and just a dash of chopped garlic. Bashers, Gardeners'.—Take a saddle of mutton, and cut off the skin that is over the fat without stripping the fillet. Cut the saddle in two, and each of these two pieces into three or four ; braize them like mutton with soubise sauce; do not leave too much fat, and glaze them of a nice colour. The rashers may be served with haricot sauce, or endive or spinach. Baspberries.—The raspberry is a delicious fruit, extensively used in cookery and in the RASPBERRIES. manufacture of various cordials. Though very wholesome and refreshing, it is scarcely so Ijiyhly esteemed as either tlie strawberry or the red currant. There are two kinds of raspberries —the red and tho wliite. The wliite are the rarer of tlie two. Thia fruit is a native of (Jreat Britain, and is often met with iu woods, in low-lying aituationa. To moat tastes it is very grateful aa uatme preaents it, but by the addition of augar it is much improved; tho raspberry is, therefore, irmch (;ateeiried v/ht-.u used for jams and tarts and mn/ie into sweet- meats. " Th(! ancients hardly mention the rasjj- berry-tree, which they jjlaced on a level with the bramble. The Latins called it ' Bramble of Ida,' because it was common on tlutt moun- tain. There can be no doubt, however, tluit the Romans kruj w how to appreciate the rasp- berry-tree so much esteemed in our days." — Soyer. The fruit of the different varieties of raspberry is in season from the end of June or July till October or later. As it ripens it should be timely gathered for immediate use ; becauee when fully ripe it will not keep above two or three days before it moulds, or becomes maggoty and imtit to be used. Baspberries, Bottled (for Winter Tarts, Creams, or Ices).—Pick the raspberries carefully without bruising them, and look into each one to see that no Uttle insects are lurking in the heart of the fruit. Put the raspberries into clean dry wide-mouthed bottles, and cover them with syrup made by boiling till clear three pounds of sugar with a quart of water which has been whisked up with a tea-spoonful of the white of an egg. Cork the bottles down tightly, and tie the corks with string. Place them carefully in a large saucepan with cold water to reach up to their necks. Put the saucepan on the fire, and bring the water to the boiling point. Draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes, lift it down, and let the bottles remain imtouched till the water is cold. Examine the corks, and if necessary tie them down again, cover with wax, and store for use. In order to prevent the bottles cracking in the water, it wiU be a wise precaution to wrap a band of straw round each one. Probable cost of raspberries, 2d. to 6d. per pint. Baspberries, Bottled, without Boil- ing.—Choose freshlj'-gathered and perfectly dry raspberries. Pick and weigh them, and take their weight in finely-powdered white sugar. Bruise them slightly, and fill drj' wnde- necked bottles -svith layers of fruit and sugar in equal quantities. Cork the bottles imme- diately, and cover the corks with bladder which has been moistened with spirits of wine. Store in a very cool, airy situation, or the fruit may ferment. Baspberries, Compote of. — Pick a pint of freshly-gathered and perfectly sound raspberries, or if preferred take half a pint of raspberries and half a pint of red currants. Boil five ounces of loaf sugar in a quarter of a pint of water for ten minutes, put in the picked fruit, and let it simmer gently for six minutes. Lift the raspberries out carefully, and put them into a glass dish. Let tho syrup boil a minute longer, and when it is cold pour it over the fruit. Serve as nn accompaniment to simple milk puddings of various kinds. Time, twenty( 707 ) HAS BAS minutes. Probable cost, 5d. to 8(1. Sufficient for foiu- or five persons. Baspberries, Compote of (a German recipe).—Bruise ii quart of sound raspberries thoroughly, put them into a glass dish, and sprinkle a pound of powdered sugar over them. Let thorn lie in a cool place for a couple of houi-s, then pour over them a qutixt of thin claret, and a quart of cold water. Send sponge- cake or any Ught cake to table with them. Time, two hours. Raspberries, Iced for Dessert. — Take as many fine freslily-gathered raspberries as will be wanted. Whisk the white of an egg, and stir in with it two table-spoonfuls of cold spring water. Dip the raspberries one by one in the liquor, di-ain them, and roll them in finely powdered and sifted sugai-. Lay them on paper to dry, and arrange them prettily with other fruits in a dessert dish. Time to diy, six or eight hours. Probable cost of raspberries, 2d. to 6d. per pint. Raspberries, Prepared for Dessert. —An hour before it is to be used, take up the fruit, examine it, and carefully remove every hull, and every imperfect or decayed portion. Have ready a basin of cold water. Take a small handful of raspberries at a time, and pass them quickly through the water without allow- ing them to remain in it for a second. Put them into the dish in which they are to be served, and sprinkle powdered white sugar plentifully over them. This process wiU freshen the fruit, and not do it any harm. Care should be taken not to touch the fruit after it has been picked until within an hour before it is to be served. Raspberries, Preserved.—Those who grow raspberries in large quantities will do well to gather them before they axe fully ripe, and bottle without boiUng them, according to the recipe already given {see Raspberries Bottled without Boiling). It will be found that iovoc oimces of sugar will 4De sufficient for one of the wide-mouthed bottles ordinarily used. Raspberries, Preserved (a French recipe).—Take four pounds of raspberries picked from the stalks, set. aside at least half, which should be the finest, add to the rest one pound of white currants, and bruise and strain them through a cloth, wringing it so as to extract all the juice. Put the juice into a preserving-pan, and allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to every pound of juice, including the weight of the raspberries left whole. T^et the sugar and juice boil, skimming it, and at the end of twenty minutes put in the rest of the fruit, and let it boil for ten minutes longer. When the pre- serve is boiled enough—it is so if the syrup jellies when a little is put on a plate to cool— take it off the fire, and pot in the usual way. Raspberries, Preserved Whole.— Gather the raspberrifis on a dry day when the Hun is not upon them. Strip off the stalks, weigh the fruit, and allow three pounds of sugar for four pounds of fruit. Boil the sugfir with a very small quantity of water till it is quite clear, put in the raspberries, and simmer tliem gently for five minutes. Lift them out carefully, and drain them. Boil the 8>Tup tiU small beads appear on its surface, put in the raspberries, boH them another five minutes, take them up, and drain them again. Boil the syrup till large bubbles are formed, put in the raspberries a third time, and when taking them out be especially careful, or they will break. Put them at once into perfectly dry jars or glasses, and cover them closely to ex- clude the air. Store in a cool airy place. Raspberries, White, Preserved W^hole.—Pick four pounds of raspberries, perfectly sound and dry, and take their weight in refined sugar. Set aside one pound of the sugar, powder and sift it, and boil the re- mainder to candy height. Put the raspberries very gently into this, and let them boil for five minutes, take them from the fire, and sprinkle the pound of sugar over them. Let them remain until cold, then put them again into the preserving pan with another pound of powdered sugar and a pint of clear white currant juice, and let them boil gently until the fruit is clear. Remove the scum as it rises, and be very careful to take off the raspberries before they fall. Put them with a spoon one by one into jars, boil the syrup till the bubbles are large, pour it over them, and cover the jars in the usual way. Raspberry and Cream Tart.—Roll out a thin puff-paste, lay it in a patty-pan, put in raspberries, and strew finely-powdered loaf- sugar over them. Put on a lid; and when baked enough, cut the lid open, and put in half a pint of cream, the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and a little sugar. Raspberry and Currant Jam.—Take freshly gathered dry fruit, and put a quarter of a pound of raspberries with each pound of red currants. Place the fruit in a perfectly clean preserving pan, with three-quarters of the weight in sugar in small lumps. Stir it occa- sionally until it boils, skim carefully, and boil gently for three-quarters of an hour. Turn it into jars, and cover in the usual way. Store in a dry airy place. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour from the time the jam boils. Raspberry and Currant Jelly.— Strip the stalks from two pounds of juicy red currants and one pound of white currants, and put them into an earthenware jar with a cupful of fresh sound raspberries and a pound of loaf sugar. Put on the cover, place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it simmering gently until the juice flows freely. Pour it off, and strain it through a jelly-bag till it is bright and clear. Put two ounces of isinglass or gelatine with a pint of cold water into a perfectly clean saucepan. Stir this on the fire till it boils, then draw it to the side, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. A few minutes before it is taken off the fire, put in with it a spoonful of cold water, a lump of sugar, and a tea-spoonful of good vinegar. Stir it for a minute, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Strain through a jelly-bag, mix it with the filtered juice, pour it into a mould, and put it in a cold place or upon ice to set. Probable cost, 3s. 6d.( 708 ) BAS Raspberry and Currant Mould.— Soak im ounco and a half of f^nlatiiie in a littlo cold wator for an hour. Strip tho stalks from a pound of raspborrios and a pound of rod cur- rants. Put thoao into a saucopan with half a pint of watur and half a pound of loaf sugar, laco thoin on tho fire, stir thorn froiiuontly to eop them from huvnlng, and lot tliciu boil. Lot thorn boil for four or five niinutos until the sugar is perfectly dissolved, and rub the pulp through a hair sieve. Set the gelatine on tho fire, and let it boil until it is dissolved, mix it with the pulp, and pour the mi.\turo into a mould made open in tho centre. When it is stifi, turn it out upon a glass dish, and fill the centre with whipped cream sweotenod and flavoured; pile tliis high in tho middle, and servo. If necessary, two or three drops of cochineal may be added to the jolly to heighten its colour. Sufficient for a good-sized mould. Probable cost, 2s., exclusive of the cream. Raspberry and Currant Tart {sec Currant and liaspbcrry Tart). Raspberry and Currant Wme.— Pick fifteen quails of ripe red currants from the stalks, pour upon them four gallons of cold river water that has been hoiled, and cover the vessel close until the next day. Then pick twenty quarts of red raspben-ies nicely, pour on them six gallons of cold water, and cover them also closely. Press the juices out of the fruits in a hair hag, and first sti-ain, and then filter each separately into the cask ; stir into it thirty-six pounds of strong, bright moist sugar, and coveiing the bung-hole with a tile, leave it to fennent without yeast. Keep the cask filled up, and when it has ceased hissing, add to it two quarts of French brandy, then stop it up securely at the bung, but leave the vent-peg- out three days, then fasten that in, and set the barrel in a cool ceUar for three months. It must now be racked and returned into the cask, the lees being well filtered, the bung well secured, and left nine months; then bottle it, seal the corks, and keep it in bottle a year longer. Raspberry and Rhubarb Jam (an ex- cellent family preserve). —Choose sound, newly- gathered raspberries and well-grown juicy rhu- barb, and weigh them after the rhubarb has been pared and the raspberries have been stripped from the stalks. Take double the weight of raspberries to that of rhubarb, and allow three pounds of powdered loaf sugar to every four pounds of fruit. Slice the rhubarb, put it into a preserving-pan, and let it simmer gently for a quarter of an hour from the time it begins to boil, stirring it occasionally to keep it from burning to the bottom of the pan. Add the raspberries, and boil them half an hour. Stir in the sugar, and boil the jam until it will set when a Httle is put upon a plate. Pour it immediately into jars, and cover these in the usual way. Keep the jam in a dry airy place. Probable cost, G^d. per lb. Raspberry Biscuits.—Pick and weigh some fine ripe raspberries, put them in an earthen jar, sut this in a pan of boiling water, and keep it boiUng until the juice flows freely. Pass juice and pulp through a sieve, mix with it the weight of tho fruit—before it was put into the oven -in pounded sugar, and boil briskly, boating it well all tlio time until it forms a dry paste, and bo very careful tliat it does not buin. Put it into small moulds about lialf an inch thick ; dry these in a hot screen or a cool oven for twenty-four liours or more, and store for use. Kaspljerry biscuits are used for dessert. Time, about three hours. Proljable cost of raspberries, 2d. to Gd. per pint. Raspberry Blancmange.—Take two pottles of raspberries. Bruise the fruit a little, and place it in a preserving-pan high above a cleai- fire, that the juice may be gently drawn from it. Soak an ounce and a half of gelatine in cold spring water for an hour. Strain the juice from the raspberries, and boil it with half a pound of loaf sugar and the gelatine until the latter is dissolved. Add gradually three- quarters of a pint of cream, and stir this well in. Pour the blancmange into a damp mould, and put it in a cold place until it is set. Turn it out, and serve. Time, altogether, one hour and a half. Raspberry Brandy (sometimes called liaspberry Ratafia).—Strip the stalks from a quart of freshly-gathered ripe raspberries, put them into a bowl, and pour over them two quarts of genuine brandy. Stir the fruit in the liquor, and bruise it well, cover it closely to exclude the air, and let it soak for ten or twelve days. Add half a pound of loaf sugar boiled with two or three table-spoonfuls of water till it is a clear syrup. Stir this well in, strain the hquor thi-ough a jeUy-bag, and bottle it. At the end of a fortnight pour it out gently, filter it, and when bright and clear put it into fresh bottles, cork these closely, and store for use. Or, bruise the fruit a little, and gently draw the juice from it. Add half a pint of good brandv to a quart of the juice, together with a quarter of a pound of sugar boiled to syrup. Strain the liqueur, and bottle closely. A larger pro- portion of sugar may be used if liked. Raspberry Brandy (another way).— Gather the fruit in fine weather, and pick it nicely; measure it, and jiut it into a clean stone jar , fix in the bung, tie leather over it, and set it in a saucepan of hot water on the fire, or on a hot hearth, to boil tiU the juice is all extracted. Strain off the liquor through a fine sieve, and add for each quart of fruit one pound of best loaf sugar roughly broken; boil it ten minutes, skimming all the time. When cold, measure tlie s>Tup, and adding to it the siime quantity of French brandy, mix them well ten minutes at least. Then "filter it clear; fill half pint bottles, corking and sealing them, and keeit the liqueur twelve months. Raspberry Brandy (another way).-5<>c Brandy, Raspberry. Raspberry Cake.—Pick a pint of freshly- gathered ripe raspberries. Put them into a saucepan, sprinkle two table-spoonfuls of sugar over them, and shake the saucepan over a gentle fire until the juice flows. Before tho rasp- berries can fall, lift them out, boil the syrup till it is clear and thick, and jiour it out. Beat to a cream a piece of fresh butter the size of a large egg. Add a table-spoonful of powdonnlHAS ( 709 ) BAS sugar, a tablo-spoonful of grated bread-crumbs, two or three drops of almond flavouring, iind the yolks of two eggs. Beat the mixtuio thoroughly, then add the whites of the eggs whisked to a froth. Lino a tartlet-tin an inch deep with good pastry, cover this -with the raspberries, pour the syrup over them, and spread the mixture on the top. Bake in a brisk oven. "When the pastry is done enough, the cake is ready. Time to bake, half an hour to three-quarters of an houi'. Probable cost, about Is. 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Raspberry Cream.—Pick one pint of raspberries. Bruise them well, and put them into a saucepan with three table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Let them boil quickly till the juice flows freely, and strain it off for use. If fresh fruit cannot be had, dissolve as much raspberry jelly as will make a third of a pint, or mix half a pound of raspberry jam with two table-spoonfuls of water, and strain oH the juice. Soak an ounce of gelatine for an hour, and stir it over the fire with three-quarters of a pint of milk till it is dissolved. When this is cool add the raspberry juice, two table- spoonfuls of brandy, and a little sugar if neces- sary. Whip half a pint of cream, add gelatine and juice, and pour into a mould which has been soaked in cold water, and put in a cool place till it is set. Turn it out carefully just before serving, or, if preferred, serve it in glasses. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the isinglass in the milk. Probable cost, 4s. Raspberry Cream (another way).—Take some ripe raspberries, bruise, and sprinkle a little sugar over them, let them lie for half an hour, and rub them through a hair sieve. Measure the pulp, and mix with it an equal quantity of thick cream and sugar to sweeten it sufficiently. Whip it well with a whisk, and as the froth forms place it on an inverted sieve to drain. When no more can be obtained, slice three or four sponge biscuits, lay them in a glass dish, and spread a little raspberry jam over them. Pour over them the remainder of the cream and the drippings from the whip, and just before the cream is to be served pile the froth on the top. If fresh fruit cannot be had, dissolved raspberry jelly or raspberry jam mixed ^vith a spoonful or two of water and rubbed through a sieve may be used in its place. Time, one hour to whip the cream. Raspberry Cream (another way). — Bruise the fruit as in the last recipe, sprinkle sugar over it, and in half an hour drain oflp the juice._ Measure it, and take the same quantity of thick cream; sweeten and flavour this, and whip it briskly with white of egg {.we Whipped Cream). As the whip forms lay it on a sieve to_ drain. When a sufficient quantity is ob- tained, boat the yolks of the eggs, mix them with the cream which drains from the whip, a nd stir the mixture over the fire till it thickens like custard. Lot it got cold, mix the raspberry juice with it, lay it in a glass dish, and pile the whip on the top. If fresh fruit cannot be had, this cream may be made, like the others, from preserved jelly or jam. The cream should be wlapped till all is us(!d. Raspberry Cream Ice.—Mix a pound of fresh ripe raspberries with the juice of a lemon, half a pound of powdered sugar, and a pint and a half of thick cream, or, if pre- ferred, a pint of cream and half a pint of milk. Beat the mixtui'e in a basin, rub it through a sieve, freeze in the usual way, and leave it in the ice-pail till it is wanted. If more con- venient, raspberry jam or raspberry jelly may be used instead of the fresh fruit, and when this is done very little sugar will be required. A still more agreeable and refreshing ice-cream may be made with two portions of red currants mixed with one portion of raspberries instead of raspberries alone. Raspberry Creams without Milk or Cream.—Dissolve two ounces of raspbeny jelly, stir into this an equal aveight of finely- powdered and sifted sugai-, and add the well- whisked whites of two eggs. Beat the mixtvu-e till it is very thick, and serve in custard glasses. Time, about one hour. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for two ghieses. Raspberry Custard. — Bmise lightly some fieshly-gathered ripe rasjibei-nes, sprinkle a little sugar over them, and heat them gently to draw out the juice. Pom- the juice off, and vdth. a pint of it mix very gradually the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Stir the custard over a gentle fire for a few minutes, pour it out, and ■when it is cool mix with it a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice and a quarter of a pint of thick cream. Serve in glasses. Time, six or seven minutes to heat the custard. Probable cost, 2s. per pint. Sufficient for four or five glassfuls. Raspberry Drops.—Bruise one pound of ripe raspberries, and strain the juice through a sieve. Dissolve a pound of loai sugar with a little water, add the raspberry juice, and boil the syrup to candy height. Drop it at once as evenly and regularly as possible upon paper rubbed over with butter, or upon oiled plates, and dry the drops in a warm place. When hard, take them off with the point of a knife. Raspberry Flummery.—Soak an ounce of isinglass in cold water for an hour. Put a pound of raspberry jam, or, better still, a pound of fresh raspberries, into a preserving-pan with half a pint of white-wine vinegar. Stir the mixtm-e constantly till it boils, let it simmer a few minutes, and rub it through a sieve. Boil tbe isinglass until it is dissolved, mix v^dth it the raspberry pulp and as much sugar as will sweeten it sufficiently. Boil the mixture once more, and pass it through muslin into a mould which has been weU soaked in cold water. Put it in a cold place, and when it is set turn it out carefully. If liked, gelatine may be used in- stead of isinglass. Time, five minutes to boil the fruit with the vinegar. Raspberry Fool.—Put a pint of rasp- berries into ?i saucepan with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and let them stew till tender. Rub them through a sieve with the back of a wooden spoon, and mix with the pulp as much cream or milk as will make it of the consistency of custard. Sen^e cold. When cream is not toHAS RAS f 710 ) 1)0 had, and it is desired Ihiit the iJiopiuulion Bhould ho richer than it would bo if cream only wore used, the yolka of two eggs may he addc'd to throo-quartora of a pint of milk, and stii-red over tho liro until it begins to thicken without boiling. Time, ten minutes to stew the rasp- berries. Probable cost, 28. if made with cream, hiitlieiont for half a dozen persons. Raspberry Fritters.—Bruise some fr(!sh raspberries, sweeten them, and draw olf the juice. Crumble two sponge biscuits, pour over them haK a quarter of a pint of boiling creajn or milk, and leave them in a cool place for half an hour. Beat thoroughly the yolks of four eggs, mix them with the biscuits, and add as much raspberry jidce as will make the batter a bright pink colour. Take the fritters up in a dessert-spoon, lay them carefully in boiling fat, and fry them till they are set. Drain them, lay them on a dish, garnish half of them with sUced almonds, and the other half with sliced candied peel or fruit, and ornament the dish with bright-coloured sweets of any kind. Time to fry, three or four minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Raspberry Gin.—Put two quarts of freshly-gathered ripe raspberries into a stone spirit jar with two pounds of sugar candy and three pints of unsweetened gin. Cork the jar, and shake it well every day for a month. Put it in a cool place, and at the end of twelve months pour it off carefully, filter, and bottle for use. It ought to be bright and clear. Raspberry Ice.—Take a pint of the pressed juice of raspberries, add sugar to taste, and pour it into an ice-form ; set it in the ice- pail, and stir with a silver spoon always one way till it is quite frozen through. Let the ice remain in the ice-pail till wanted. Strawberries, currants, and mulberries may all be treated in this way. Raspberry Icing.—Put the white of an egg into a bowl, stir in with it a pound of pow- dered and sifted sugar and as much raspberry juice as will make a smooth paste. Whip it well till it is thick and Ught, spread it at once over whatever is to be covered with it, and dry in a cool oven. Raspberry Jam.—As raspberries very soon turn mouldy after they are gathered, it is most important that fresh, fruit should be used. Pick the raspberries, put them into a pre- serving-pan, and bruise them with the back of a wooden spoon. Put them on the fire, and let them boil for half an hour from the time when they boil equally all over. Stir in half their weight of roughly-powdered sugar, and when this is melted boil the jam till it will set. Skim carefully after the sugar is added, or it wiU not bo clear. Pour it while hot into small jars. When cold, lay writing-paper dipped in brandy on the top, and cover the jars with tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with white of egg, or with strong gum water. Store in a dry, airy place. Probable cost, 6d. to 9d. per ijound. Raspberry Jam (another way).—When it is not convenient to boil the fruit iin soon as it is gathered, or when perfectly fresh fruit ciuinoL be obtained, raspljorries may be pj csrTvc.d as follows :—Weigh the raspberries, and allow three-quarters of a jwund of sugar for each pound of fruit. Put the fruit and sugar in layers upon a larg(; dish, and let them remain for some hours. When they are U) be boikd, put fruit and sugar together "into a preserving- jjan, stir th« jam tfj keep it from burning, and lot it boil gently until it is done, which may be known by it hanging on the spoon. Itemove the scum as it rises, or the jam will not Ix) clear. Put it into jars, cover and sUjre in the usual way. Probable cost, 6d. to 9d. per pound. Raspberry Jam (another way^.—lilash a quantity of line ripe dry raspberries, strew on them their own weight of loaf sugar, and add half their weight of white-currant juice. Boil them half an hour over a clear slow fire, skim well, and put them into pots or glasses; tie down with brandied papers, and keep tlwim dry. Strew on the sugar as soon as possible after the berries are gathered, and in order to preserve their flavour they must not stand long before they are boiled. Raspberry Jam (superior).—Pick four pounds of freshly-gathered raspberries, and put them into a preserving-pan with one pint of red currant juice. Let them boil for a quarter of an hour, skim well, and add four pounds of loaf sugar. Boil the jam again, and keep it boiling till it will set. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, or the jam will not be bright and clear. Put it into jars; cover in the usual way. Raspberry Jelly.—Pick the stalks from some perfectly ripe and freshly-gathered rasp- berries, and put them into a stone jar. Bruise them slightly, cover the jar, place it in a pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling gently until the juice flows freely. Lay a piece of muslin in a fine hair sieve, and keep pouring off the juice till no more wiU flow. The fruit must not be squeezed, and if the juice is at all thick it should be strained through a jelly bag. Measure the juice, and put it into a preserving-pan with a pound of loaf-sugar (in lumps) to each pint of juice. Stir occasion- ally, skim carefully, and boil gently until it sets when a little is poured upon a plate. Put the jelly into small jars, and when cold cover in the usual way. Store in a dry, airy place. The flavour of this jelly will be improved if one part of red currant juice is used -with two parts of raspberry juice. If the fruit is not drained tiU quite dry, it may bo boiled \y\th. half its weight of sugar to make common jam. Time, about one hour to draw the juice; a few minutes to boil it with the sugar. Prol)a])le cost, 9d. to Is. per poimd. Sufficient, two quarts of raspberries should jaeld about one pint of juice. Raspberry Jelly (another way.)—Take half a pound of fresh, ripe-plucked raspberries, and put them in a basin. Add two t'lblc-spoon- f uls of powdered sugar, crush the fruit, and pour it on a fine sieve held over a china bowl placrd to receive the juice. Add to the raspberry j nice tho j\iire of two oranges, and filter on a sieve or through a glass funnel, with paper ^\•ithout gluo( 711 ) well softened with water and torn up into little hits. "This method of liltoring fruit," says M. Dubois, "is the best and simplest of all." Soak half an ounce of good gelatine, and dis- solve this in water enough to three-parts fill a jelly-mould ; add three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, and then clarify the mixture with two whites of eggs and the juice of a few lemons. When the mixture becomes limpid, add the juice of the raspberries and pour it im- mediately into a jolly-mould embedded in pounded'ice. Let it stand for three-quarters of an hour, and then turn the jelly out on a dish, having previously dipped the mould in warm water. Jelly made with the juice of red fruit, should not be allowed to remain long in a tin mould, for contact with it injures their colour. Raspberry Jelly, Isinglass {see Isin- glass Jelly, Currant and Easpberry). Raspberry Liqueur.—Put a pint of freshly-gathered ripe raspberries into a spirit jar, with a quart of genuine spirit of any kind. Cork closely, and leave it for a month. Boil a pound of sugar in a pint and a half of water tni it is clear syrup. Filter the spirit through a fine hair sieve into a basin, mix it with the syi'up, and bottle for use. Time, one month. Sufiicient for two quarts of liqueur. Raspberry Lozenges. — Boil two or three pounds of raspberries till they are almost dry. Add as much moist or powdered sugar as the fruit weighed to begin with. Stir this in off the fire, and when the fruit and sugar are thoroughly mixed, spread the preparation upon oiled plates, and let it dry either in the sun or before a slow fire. When the surface is dry, stamp the paste into lozenges of any shape or size; expose these again to a gentle heat, and when they are quite dry store them in single layers between sheets of writing-jmper. These lozenges will keep best in tin boxes with closely- fitting lids, and it is most important that they should be stored in a dry place. Time, twenty- four hours or more to dry the lozenges. Raspberry Omelet.—Break three eggs into a basin, and add a tea-spoonful of sugar and two table-spoonfuls of milk or cream. Melt two ounces of butter in an omelet pan. Beat the eggs, &c., tiU they are quite frothy, and keep on beating them till the last moment. When the butter is frothing pour in the mixture, and stir quickly with a spoon, scrap- ing the bottom of the frying-pan all the time till it begins to set. Draw it a little from the fire, and work the omelet into a half-moon shape. Hold it before the fire in a slanting position to make it rise, put a spoonful of raspberry jam in the centre, and serve the omelet immediately. If preferred, the jam may be placed on one half of the omelet, and the other half turned completely over it. Time, three or four minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficiicnt for two persons. Raspberry Paste.—Mash a quart of raspberries, strain one half of the fruit, and put the juice to the other half; boil them a quarter of an hour, put to them a pint of red-currant juice, and let them boil all together till the raspberries are done enough. Then put a pound and a half of double refined sugar into a clean pan vith ks much water as will dissolve it; boil it to a sugar again; then put in the raspberries and juice, scald, and pour them into glasses. Put them into a stove to dry, and turn them when necessary. Raspberry Pudding.—Line a buttered basin with suet paste rolled out to the thickness of half an inch. Fill it with fresh raspberries, or with raspberries and red currants mixed, and sprinkle a little sugar over the top. Cover the pudding with pastry, fold the edges securely over, put the basin into a floured cloth wrung out of boiling water, plunge it into a saucepan with boiling water to cover it, and let it boil quickly until done enough. If it is necessary to add water, let it be boiling. Turn the pudding out carefully, cut a small round from the top that the steam may escape, and serve immediately. In winter time very good puddings may be made with bottled raspbemes. Time to boil a moderate-sized pudding, two hours to two hours and a half. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 6d. Raspberry Pudding, Baked.—Put a pint of fresh raspberries into a pie-dish, and sprinkle a little sugar over them; Beat the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two with a quarter of a pint of milk, add a little sugar, whisk the custard till it froths, and pour it over the fruit. Put it into the oven immediately, and bake till the custard is set. Let it get cold, sift powdered sugar over, and serve. This pudding should not be eaten hot. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. to Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Raspberry Pudding, Rich.—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, add a spoonful of sugar, three table-spoonfuls of cream, the beaten yolks of four eggs, and a table-spoonful of raspberry jam. Line a shallow pie-dish with puii paste. Pour in the mixture, and bake in a well-heated oven till the pastry is done enough. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Raspberry Salad.—Pick the raspbemes, and examine each one for fear any insects should be lurking in the heart of the fruit. Pile them on a dish, and sprinkle a little finely- powdered sugar upon them. Pour over them a few spoonfuls of wine, brandy, liqueur, or even plain cream, and stir the salad when serving it, so that an equal proportion of sauce and sugar may be given to each guest. The salad will be improved if some other fruit, such as white or red currants or strawberries are mixed with the raspberries. Raspberry Sauce.—Raspberry sauce for sweet i^uddings of various kinds may be made in three or four ways, as follows:—Put equal quantities of picked raspberries and red cur- rants into a saucepan with a small portion of sugar, and as much water as will cover the bottom of the pan. Let them simmer gently till they break, then rub them through a sieve. Boil the juice, and serve. Or, beat two eggs in a bowl; mix smoothly with them a tea- ,s])oonful of flour, half a pint of raspberry juice, and two table-spoonfuls of augar. Turn the mixture into a saucepan, and whisk it over theBAS HAS ( 712 ) lire until it bogins to thickon. Sorvo im- mediiitoly. Or, mix half a pint of niHpborrv juico with half a pint of cromn. AVhip tlu- -mxturo till it is light and frothy, and servo at once. Or, put half a pint of raspberries into an earthen jar with three table-spoonfuls 3t cold water. Sot the jar in a pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling till the juico flows freely. Strain it, and mix it smoothly with a table-spoonful of arrowroot which has boon made into a paste with a little cold water. Add a glassful of light wine and a little sugar, and stir the mixture over the fire till it is c.i the point of boiling. Serve immediately. When fresh fruit cannot be obtained for these sauces, raspberry jam boiled and strained may be used instead. Raspberry Sauce (a Danish recipe.)— Take some ra.spberrics, put them in a cloth, and wring them to express the juice; add to the juice sugar, wine, and a little water; set the- mixture on the fire; when it boils add a spoonful of potiito-flcur mixed with cold water, and give it one boil up. Raspberry Sponge.—Soak three-quar- ters of an ounce of gelatine in a little cold water for an hour. Dissolve it, and mix with it a quarter of a pint of raspberry juico made either from jam or from the fresh i'ruit. Add half a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, the strained juice of a lemon, and as much sugar as is agreeable to the palate. Whisk the mixture in one direction until it thickens and looks like sponge, pour it into a damp mould, and turn it cut when it is stiff. Time, half an hour or more to whisk the sponge. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for a quart mould. Raspberry Syrup,— Pick some ripe juicy raspberries, bruise them thoroughly, and let them stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours. Strain off the juice, and boil it with naif-a pound of loaf sugar to each pint of juice. Remove the scum as it rises, and boil the syrup gently for half an hour. Let it cool, and pour it into small dry bottles. Cork these securely with perfectly sound corks, and store for use. Time, half an hour from the time the syrup boils. Probable cost of raspberries, 2d. to 6d. per pint. Raspberry Tart.—Fill a pie-dish with picked raspberries, or, if preferred, with equal portions of raspberries and red currants. Line the edges of the dish with pastry, strew sugar over the top, and cover the fruit with pastrj' ■.•oiled out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Ornament the edges, and bake the tart till the pastry is done enough. When cold sift powdered sugar over the top, and servo. Raspberry tart is not very often served hot. When a superior tart is required, bake tlie tart till the pa.stry is done enough. Take it out of the oven, gently lift up the cover, and pour over the fruit a rich custard made with half a pint of cream which has been beaten up with the yolks of two eggs. Lay the cover again on the dish, and return it to the oven for five minutes. Sift powdered sugar over the top, and serve hot or cold. Time to bake, three- quarters of an hour for a moderate-sized tart. Raspberry Vinegar.—liaspberry vine gar diluted with water makes a most refresliing dnnk in hot weather and in cases of fever or cold. The proportions must be regulated taste. Geiu'ially it will be found thitt a des- 8(;rt-8i)OonfuI is sufficient for u tumbler full of water. Raspberry Vinegar, To Make.-Put two quarts of good wlnte-wine vinegar into a large stone jar with two quarts of picked rasp- bernes. Tie a piece of muslin over the top, and let it stand for a week, stirring every day. Strain the lupior through a fine sieve, and with every pmt i)ut one pound of loaf sugar. Stir thes.' ingredients together, and when the sugar is dis- solved cover the jar. Put it into a saucepan of boihng water, and let it boil gently for an hour, carefully removing the scum as it rises. When cold cork and bottle the vinegar, and seal the corks. Some cooks put a glassful of brandy with each pint of raspberry vinegar. A glazed jar must be avoided, as it will make the vinegar unwholesome. Time, eight days. Raspberry Vinegar (another way).- Take a quantity of very ripe raspberries, and fill a wide-mouthed bottle or stone jar with as many of them as will go in without pressing them; take as much good vinegar as will en- tirely cover them, and pour it over. Let the raspberries infuse for eight days, at the end of which time pour the whole on a tamis, and press the fruit so as to extract all the juice; when the vinegar is perfectly clear and impreg- nated with the fragrance of the fruit, weigh it, and for every pound of liquor take a pound and three-quarters of good lump sugar broken into large pieces; put it into an earthen jar, and pour the vinegar over it, then cork it well, and put it into the bain marie over a very moderate fire; as soon as the sugar is dissolved set it aside, and when the syrup is almost cold bottle it. Raspberry Vinegar (another way).— Fill a jar with raspberries ; pour vinegar over them tiU the jar is full. Let it stand nine days, stirring it every day. Strain it ofi', and to every pint of juice add three-quarters of a pound of white sugar. Boil it as long as any scum rises, and bottle off for use. Raspberry Vinegar, Superior.—Put one pound of picked raspberries into a stone jar or large glass bottle, and pom* over them a quart of white-wine vinegar. Cover them closely, and let them infuse for four days. Drain off the liquor, and pour it over a pound of fresh raspberries; let these infuse for four days, and then repeat the process a third time. When the liquor is poured off, the fruit should each time be laid in a sieve covered with muslin, and the juice should be allowed to drop from it without pressure for-several hours. A considerable quantity maj' thus be preserved. Put the vinegar into an enamelled pan, or, failing this, into a delicately clean bra.ss ])an, and with it a pound of roughly-powdered sugar to each pint of vinegar. Let it boil gently for five minutes, and remove the scum till it ceases to rise. Leave the vinegar until the next day, put it into bottles, and cork lightly. At the end of five days cork closely, and seal theBAT ( 713 ) corks. Store in a dry, cool place. When there is ii garden the raspberries may be gathered and thrown into the vinegar as they ripen, until the requisite quantity has been obtained. Infusion for an additional day or two will not injure the preparation. Time, a fortnight. Probable cost. Is. per pint. Raspberry "Water Ice.—Press out the juice from some fresh raspberries, and with each pint of juice mix a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and half a pound of loaf sugar boiled to a syrup -with a quarter of a pint of water. Put the preparation in a freezing pot, and freeze in the usual way. To obtain the juice of the raspberries, put a pound of fruit into a saucepan with two table-spoonfuls of sugar and two table-spoonfuls of water. Stir the fi-uit till it boils, rub it through a sieve, and it wiU be ready for use. A water-ice made with equal portions of raspberries and red cur- rants is superior in flavour to one made with raspberries alone. Raspberry Whisky.—Take nine quarts of ripe red raspberries, and pick them nicely; boil them twenty minutes with four pounds and a haK of the best loaf sugar, skimming fre- quently ; strain the liquor through a fine sieve, and mix it with a gallon of genuine old whisky and a quarter of a pint of strained lemon-juice. Pour it into a clean stone jar upon one ounce of cloves, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, two nutmegs sliced, and two ounces of sugar- candy broken small. Stir these ingredients well together, put in the bung, and seal the jar. Let the jar stand six months in a dry, warm cellar, then strain the liquor, and filter it through fine flannel till it is perfectly clear and bright. Bottle it, seal the corks, and keep it for twelve months longer that the sweet taste may be lost; it will then be beautifully rich. Raspberry, Wholesomeness of the.— This fruit is subacid and cooling; it allays heat and thirst, and, in cojnmon with other summer fruits, promotes the natural excretions. Rasp- berry sjTup is next to strawberry in dissolving the tartar of the teeth ; and as, like that fruit, it does not undergo the acetous fermentation in the stomach, it is recommended to gouty and rheumatic patients. Both preserved in the form of jam, and combined with vinegar and sugar, forming what is known as raspberrj' vinegar, the raspberry is in great estimation. " In either of these forms," says Dr. Andrew, " when diluted with water, it makes an agreeable beverage in febrile complaints, and is also an excellent tliough expensive addition to sea-stores, as an anti-scorbutic." Raspberry Wine.—Pick some ripe rasp- berries, and bruise them well with the back of a wooden spoon. Let them stand for twenty- four hours, and strain the juice through a flannel bag. Boil the juice, and with every gallon put a pound and a half of loaf sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, let the liquor cool a little, and stir briskly into it the whites of throe or four eggs. Let all boil gently for a quarter of an hour, and carefully remove the froth as it rises. Let it stand till cool, pour it X* very gently into a cask, so as not to disturb the settlings, and add as much yeast as will ferment it. When the fei-mentation begins to decline, tie some flavouring ingredients in a muslin bag, suspend this in the cask for a short time, and taste the liquor frequently, so that the bag may be removed as soon as the wine is pleasantly flavoured. The flavom-ing articles may either be bruised mace, ginger, almonds, orris-root, or odoriferous flowers, such as cowslip or mignonette. When fermentation ceases, put a pint of white wine with each gallon of liquor, close the cask, and in three months it will be ready for use. Raspberry Wine (another way).—Bruise fine ripe raspberries with the back of a wooden spoon, put them into a stone jar, and pour over them an equal quantity of cold spring water. Leave them imtil the next day, strain ofi the liquor, and press the fruit. Dissolve in a small portion of the liquor one pound of loaf sugar for each quart of wine. Stir this into the rest, put the wine into a cask, and stir every day. When fermentation ceases, close the cask. In three months it wiU be ready for use. Raspberry Wine (another way).—Take forty-two quarts of sound ripe red raspberries, gathered in fine weather, pick them, and clear them from the stalks. Put them into a tub, and pour upon them ten gallons of boiling soft water, cover the A^essel up close, and let the raspberries stand until the next day. Then take ofi the scum, press the fruit throiigh a fine sieve, and when the liquid has stood to settle ■ three or four houi's, draw it off clear, and put it into your cask, filter the thick perfectly clear, and add that. Stir in by degrees twenty-five pounds of good moist sugar, and work it with six table-spoonfuls of fresh ale yeast, mixed well with two quarts of the liquor. Put paper and a tile over the bung-hole, keep the cask full, and let it work over. When fermentation has ceased, stop it up for a month, then rack it off into a clean vessel, filter the lees well, and put the wine again into the cask with an ounce of dissolved isinglass and three pints of French brandy. Secure the bung well, and let the wine remain in a cool cellar twelve months; you may then bottle it, and, sealing the corks, keep it until two years old. RatajS.a. — This is the name given to spirituous liquor when flavoured with the kernels of various fruits, like peaches, apricots, and cherries. It should be dropped into any preparation with great care, as, though very delicious when sparingly used, it is poisonous as well as most unpleasant when moderation is not exercised. Small biscuits flavoured with sweet and bitter almonds are named ratafias. Distilled peach or apricot leaves, when cut in the spring, may be used instead of ratafia for flavouring puddings. One way of uiaking ratafia is as follows:— Take the stones from two pounds of morella cherries, and pound them well with one ounce of blanched apricot kernels and a spoonful of brandy. Put them into a large stone jar with a quart of fine brandy, and cover closely. Let the jar re- main for six weeks, and shake it twice a day.BAT RAT? (714) Strain tho liquor through a sieve with blotting- paper laid in it, and add half a pound of white Hugar-candy dissolved in a quarter of a pint of cold water. Taste tho ratatia, and if not suf- ficiently sweet add a little more sugar-candy. Put tho preparation into small bottles, cork these closely, and store for use. If apricot kernels cannot easily bo obtained, blanched bitter almonds may be used instead. Sufficient for nearly thi'ee pints of ratafia. HatafLa (another way).—Blanch and bruise the kernels of 300 apricots, peaches, and necta- rines ; put them into a clean stone jar with a pound of white sugar candy and half a pound of sweet and one ounce of blanched bitter almonds beaten in a stone mortar with orange-flower water; pour on them a gallon of French brandy; cork the jar well, and seal it; let it stand in a warm room two months, shaking it daily; then store it for twelve months; filter it perfectly clear through two or thi-ee thicknesses of muslin, and put into small bottles corked and sealed.— Ratafia, Angelica (see Angelica Eatafia). Ratafia, Anisette.—Bruise two ounces of green aniseed, one ounce of coriander-seed, two pennyweights of cinnamon, and quarter of a di-achm of mace. Put these ingredients into a jar with two quarts of brandy; add twelve ounces of sugar partially dissolved in a very little water; let the whole infuse for a month, then filter through paper, and bottle it. Ratafia, Apricot—Katafia of apricots is prepared in two ways—namely, either by bod- ing the apricots in white wine, adding to the liquor an equal quantity of brandy, with sugar, cinnamon, mace, and the kernels of apricots, infusing the whole for eight or ten days, then straining the Hquor, and putting it up for use; or by infusing the apricots, cut m pieces, in brandy for a day or two, passing it through a straining bag, and then putting in the usual ingredients. Ratafia Biscuits. —Blanch and pound together to a smooth paste three ounces of sweet almonds and two ounces of bitter almonds, and add whilst pounding a dessert- spoonful of brandy and the whites of two eggs beaten to a firm froth; stir m half a pound of loaf sugar powdered and sifted, and beat the mixture tiU it is a firm smooth paste Bake one or two little cakes to test the lightness of the paste, and if they are heavy add gradually the whites of one or two" additional eggs Lay the mixture on writing-paper in rounds the size of a halfpenny, and bake these on tins m a moderate oven till they are hghtly browned. Take them from the paper as soon as cold. Some cooks add a spoonful of flour to the above pre%tion. Or, blanch and pound together to a smooth paste two ounces of sweet Jordan almonds and three-quarters of an ounce of hitter almonds. Add gradually the whites of JlfeggTbeaten to a Irm froth, half a pound of loafsugar powdered and sifted, and half a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water: beat the iSctSre till it is a firm paste. Test the ratafias, S in addition two whites of eggs if required - 7.d balie as before in a moderate oven, lime to bake, twelve to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pound. Ratafia. Blackberry. — Take twenty pounds of blackberries, and mash them with the J uico of twenty oranges and ton lemons. Pound in a mortar hiilf a pound of bitter almonds, half an ounce of nutmeg, two pods of vanilla, an ounce of coriander-seeds, and four sticks of Jamaica pepper. Put this into the ma«h-pan with tho fruit and a quart of syrup. Let the mass bo put into a large well-corkod stone bottle, and stand it near the fire for a fortnight. At the end of that time strain off the liquor, and to each quart add one of French brandy. Lot it stand another fortnight. Then make it clear by running it as often as necessary through a jelly-bag, and bottle for use. Ratafia, Black Currant.—Take twelvr pounds of black currants, and mash them in a deep earthen pan. Pound in a mortar half an ounce of cinnamon, three pods of vanilla cut in bits, an ounce of cardamom-seeds, four sticks of Jamaica pepper, a drachm of mace, a quarter of a pound of bitter almonds, and six apricot kernels. Add these ingredients to the fruit, together with a quart of syrup. Put the whole into a large stone bottle, and let it stand during a fortnight near the fire. Then strain out all the juice through a linen bag, pressing it well out, and with each quart of the juice mix a quart of the best French brandy. Let it stand another fortnight in the same place. Then run it through a jelly-bag until it is clear, and bottle for use. Ratafia, Cacao.—Take one pound of Caracca cacao-nuts, half a pound of West Indian cacao-nuts, both being roasted and bruised, and a gallon of proof spirit. Digest for a fort- night, then filter, and add two pounds and a half of white sugar and half a drachm of tinc- ture of vanilla, or, instead of this, a shred of vaniUa may be infused with the nuts in the spirit. After a month, decant and bottle the ratafia. Ratafia Cake.—Blanch and pound to- gether to a smooth paste six ounces of sweet almonds and two ounces of bitter almonds. Add the whites of two eggs beaten to a sohd froth, and beat in very gradually half a pound of loaf sugar powdered and sifted, half a tea- spoonful of grated lemon-rind, and the yolks of eight eggs. Beat the mixture thoroughly. Add two ounces of fine flour, and the re- maining whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. Butter a mould, half fill it with the mixture, and bake the cake in a slow oven. Let it stand a few minutes, shake it to loosen it, take it out carefully, and set it upon a reversed sieve till cold. .Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 28. Ratafia Cheese-cakes.—Boil a pint ot milk till lukewai-m. Sweeten and flavour it with a dessert-spoonful of sugar and two table-spoonfuls of brandy, then stir into it a table-spoonful of rennet. Let it stand in a cool place till it is tinned to a curd. Beat it well, draw off the whey, and stir into it three- quarters of an ounce of powdered ratJifia bis- cuits, one ounce of dissolved butter, and twoiaAT RAT? ens) well-beaten eggs. Line some patty-pans with good puff paste, pour a spoonful of the mixture into each, and bake the cheese-cakes in a well- heated oven. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, l^d. each. Hatafia, Cherry (a Danish recipe).— Bruise two pounds of black cherries, so that all the kernels may be broken; add a quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds or peach kernels, half an ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of pounded cloves, and one pound of white sugar to the cherries, also half a pint of brandy and a quart of old white ^vine. Let these remain a few days to infuse, stirring fre- quently ; then filter the liqueur and bottle it. For this and several of the following ratafias we are indebted to Amelia von Kochheim's in- teresting " Handbook of foreign Cookery." Ratafia, Coffee.—" This beautiful liqueur," says Robinson, writing in 1848, in his "Whole Art of Making British Wines,'' " is made by in- fusing the following ingredients in a jar:— Best Turkey Coffee, roasted and ground 1 lb. Best Loaf Sugar . . . . 20 oz. Cinnamon and Cloves, beaten, each . ^ „ Nutmeg f „ Sweet Almonds, beaten to a paste . 1 „ Bitter do ^ „ Isinglass, dissolved in a little water . | ,, Proof Spirit of Wine . . .1 gall. Cork up the jar immediately the spirit is added, seal, and tie bladder over it; set the jar in hot water ten hours, then shake well, and set it in the sun for a month. It may then be strained through a fine sieve and filtered until perfectly clear; put it into small bottles, which cork well and seal, and in a month it will be fit for use, though age wUl improve it." Ratafia, Common.—Blanch four ounces of bitter almonds, and chop them very small. Throw them into a mortar with half a grain of ambergris, thi-ee ounces of sugar, and half an ounce of grated nutmeg, then pound all thoroughly together. Put the mixture into a stone jar, pour a quart of good spirit over it, cover closely, and let it remain in a warm place for a fortnight. Filter through a strainer lined with blotting-paper, put the ratafia into small bottles, cork these securely, and store for use. Sufficient for one quart of ratafia. Ratafia Cream.—Boil three or four laurel, nectarine, or peach-leaves in a cupful of cream for three or four minutes. Strain this, and mix with it a pint of thick cream, add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and stir the mixture over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken. Pour it out, let it get cold, and before serving sprinkle some hundreds and thouannda over it! If preferred, milk may be used instead of cream. Or rasp the rind of a lemon and a Seville orange, or, if preferred, two lemons, upon two ounces of sugar. Put this into a bowl, and strain the juice of the fruit upon it. When the sugar is dissolved add a pint of thick cream, a quarter of a pint of ratafia or noveau, and a quarter of a pint of light wine. Whisk the mixture thoroughly, and serve in glasses. Ratafia Cream, Iced. — Blanch two ounces of bitter almonds, and pound them to a smooth paste with a tea-spoonful of rose- water, or water, to prevent them oiling. Add gradually a table-spoonful of powdered loaf sugar, mix the paste with a quarter of a pint of cream, and stir over a gentle fire till pleasantly flavoured. Add another pint of cream, strain the mixture through a jelly-bag, and freeze in the usual way. Time to boil the cream with the almonds, ten minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for a little more than a pint of ice-cream. Ratafia Cream, Moulded.—Hasp the rind of a lemon and a Seville orange, or of two lemons, with four or five good-sized lumps of sugar. Put these into a basin, strain the juice upon them, and stir and crush them till dis- solved. Add a pint of thick cream, a quai-ter of a pint of ratafia, and a quarter of a pint of light wine, or, if preferred, a quarter of a pint of sherry, and the eighth of a pint of brandy, and mix all thoroughly. Dissolve an ounce of isinglass or gelatine in a cupful of milk, stir this into the cream, and whisk well. Cover the inside of an earthenware mould with muslin wrung out of cold water. Arrange upon this some ratafia biscuits which have been dipped in cream, pour the mixture in carefully, and let it stand in a cold place till set. Tui-n it out, and serve. Ratafia, Cura^oa.—infuse one ounce of the zest or peel of bitter almonds cut as thin as possible, a pound and a half of sugar, and a little pinch of Brazil-wood in two quarts of good brandy. At the end of two days filter it, and put it into bottles. Ratafia d'Angelique.—Take one drachm of angelica seeds, four ounces of angelica stalks, one ounce of blanched bitter almonds bruised, and six quarts of brandy or proof spirit. Digest • for ten days, then filter. Add a quart of water and three pounds and a half of white sugar. Mix well, and after a foitnight decant the clear portion through a piece of clean flannel. Ratafia, Q-ooseberry.—Take five quarts of the finest sound ripe gooseberries, a drachm of cinnamon, a drachm of mace, six pounds of pounded lump sugar, and a quarter of a pound of bitter almonds. Place these in two gallons of French brandy. Stop it well, and let it infuse during three months. Then press out the gooseberries, and filter the whole through filtering-paper. Bottle in pint bottles. Ratafia Ice-cream.—Beat the yolk of an egg, and stir into it half a pint of cream and half a cupful of new milk. Sweeten it, and put it into a saucepan over a gentle fire with an ounce of ratafias. Stir until it begins to thicken, pour it out, and when cool add the strained juice of half a lemon. Freeze the pre- paration in the usual way. and when it is set, add a glassful of noyeau, maraschino, or curavoa, and another ounce of crushed ratafias. Time, about ten minutes to thicken the custard. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for one pint of ice-cream. Ratafia, Iced.—Soak an ounce of gelatine in a little water for half an hour. Boat tha(716) yolks of throo og-^s with half a pint of milk ; add tho grated rind of a lemon or of a Sevillo ' orange, four ounces of ratatias, two table- j spoonfuls of sugar, and a glassful of brandy. Stir the mixture over tho fire till it thiukcns, rub it through a fine siovo, and mix with it tho gelatine dissolved in milk, and two or throo ounces of candied fruit cut into thin slices. Add a quarter of a pint of thick cream, and boat the mixture thoroughly. l*ut it in a daujp mould, sot it on ice, and when set turn it out carefully. Time to thicken the custard, ton to Hfteon minutes. SulHcient for rather less than a quart. Probable cost, 'is. Ratafia, Marasquin Rose.—In a quart of spirits of wine infuse for a month thirty black cherry stones, after taking away the pulp, but without washing them; filter this liquid through paper. Clarify two pounds and a half of fine sugar, pour it on the liquor; add to it a quart of water and a pint of rum, shake it all well, and when quite clear put it into bottles. This is a most delicious liqueur. Ratafia, Noyeau.—Put into a large jar six ounces of apricot-kernels cut into small pieces, with three quarts of brandy; let them infuse for three weeks, shaking or stirring them from time to time. Take out the kernels; dis- solve a pound and three-quarters of sugar in a pint of water; mix all together, filter, and bottle it. Ratafla. Or ange-fiower.—For each quart of brandy take three ounces of picked orange- flowers and half a pound of fine pounded sugar; put into a jar alternately a layer of sugar and a layer of flowers; let the last be sugar, cover- ing the flowers well and more thickly than the others; cover the jar close; let it stand to infuse for twelve hours, but not longer, in the cellar; at the end of that time, pour the brandy over, and filter, then bottle the ratafia. Ratafia Pudding, Baked.—Slice four penny sponge cakes, lay them in a buttered dish, pour a glassful of sherry over them, and let them soak for a little while. Spread a large spoonful of good jam upon them, and pour over th(;m half a pint of good custard flavoui-ed with almonds. Let the pudding stand for half an hour, cover the to\) with ratafia biscuits, and pour another half-pint of custard over these. Bake in a moderate oven. The custard may be made with three-quarters of a pint of milk, the yolks of four and the white of one egg, two ounces of almonds blanched and pounded, and a table-spoonful of sugar. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the -wine, Is. 6d. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Ratafia Pudding, Baked (another way). —Crush four ounces of ratafias to powder. Mix with thorn two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and pounded, a pint of cream, the yolks of six and the whites of two eggs, a table-spoonful of sugar, and a glassful of brandy or sherry. Line a dish with puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a well-heatcd oven. Servo hot or cold. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, exclu.sive of tho wine, 3s. I Ratafia Pudding, Boiled.—Boil the ; thin rind of a l(;mon and an inch of stick cin- namon in thi-eo-quarters of a pint of milk till it is pleasantly flavoured. Sweeten it, pour it over a quarter of a pound of grated bread- crumbs, and lot it cool. Add tlio yolks of four oggs, tho whites of two, and, if it is at hand, a tabhi-spoonful of ratafia, or two or three diops of the flavouring, and boat the mixture woU. Butter a plain mould thickly, lay even rows of ratafias or of sweet almonds "blanched and sliced round it, pour the pudding in gently, cover with a round of buttered writing-paper, tie it up, and steam over boiling water Turn the pudding out gently, and send arrowroot sauce, flavoured with ratafia, to table with it. Time to stojim, rather less than one hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for throo or four persons. Ratafia Pudding, Boiled (another way).—Butter a plain round mould thickly, and ornament the inside with even rows of dried cherries. Pour a pint of cream or milk over four penny sponge biscuits and eight ounces of crushed ratafias. Beat the mixture well, add the yolks of six eggs, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, and a glassful of brandy. Lay a round of buttered paper on the top of the mould, tie it up, and boil or steam the pudding. Serve with arrowroot or wine sauce. Time to steam, one hour. Probable cost, if made with milk, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Ratafia Puddings.—Blanch and pound to a smooth paste four ounces of sweet almonds and three or four bitter ones. Add a few drops of water to prevent oiling. Mix with the paste a table-spoonful of sugar, two ounces of fresh butter which has been dissolved in a quarter of a pint of hot milk or cream, a table- spoonful of brandy, and two well-beaten eggs. Butter some small cups, half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a well-heated oven. When done enough, turn the puddings out carefully, sift white sugar thickly over them, and serve with wine sauce. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, ex- clusive of the brandy, lOd., if made with milk. Sufiicient for three or four persons. Ratafia, Quince.—Grate ripe quinces till you come to the core, but be careful that there are no pips ; let the mass remain for thi-ee dnya in an earthen pan; squeeze it to extract all the juice, measure it, and add to it an equal quantity of brandy; allow six ounces of sugar to each quart of the mixture, with some cin- namon and cloves to taste; let it infuse for two montlis, then filter it, and pour it into bottles. This liqueur when old is excellent. Ratafia, Raspberry.—Dissolve tinst two pounds of sugar m a pound and a quarter of raspbeiTy-juice and a quarter of a pound of cherry-juice, then add four quarts of brandy. Lot it stand, and when the liquor is quite clear bottle it. Ratafia, Red.—A fortnight before the ratafia is to be made infuse some bruised cloves in brandy, and use this for flavouiing. A drachm will be sufficient for a quart. Put a quarter of a jiound of small black cherries, bometimcs called brandy cherries, into a largoBAT BAT ( 717 ) bowl with a quarter of a pound of raspberries, a quurter of a pound of strawberries, and a pound and a half of black-heart cherries. Bruisj the fruit well, let it stand twenty-four houi-s, and drain off the j nice. Pleasure the j nice, and with each pint put a quarter of a pound of loaf sugiir boiled to a clear syrup with two table- spoonfuls of water and a quart of flavoured brandy. Filter the liqueur through a jelly-bag, put it into small bottles, and store for use. Batafla, Bed (another way).—Mash to- gether in a tub, or pan, three pounds of black cheiTies, two of ripe red gooseberries, and one of raspberries. Mix with these twenty-four cherry-kernels previously pounded in a mortar with a pint of syrup ; put all into a jar, stop it close, and keep it for twelve hours in a heat of about ninety degrees, Fahrenheit; then press it through a clean napkin, let it stand twelve hours longer; and then add to each quart of juice a pint of good brandy ; next day, strain it through a flannel bag till it is quite clear. Batafla, Bed (another way).—Take thiee poimds and a half of ripe red cherries, two pounds of ripe black cherries, two pounds and a half of ripe red gooseberries, the same quan- tity of red raspberries, and one pound and a half of fine ripe red currants, place the fruit in a deep earthen pan, and mash it well. Pound in a mortar a drachm of cloves, a drachm of mace, half an ounce of cinnamon, two ounces of coriander-seed, two drachms of fennel-seed, two sticks of Jamaica pepper, a dozen apricot- kernels, twenty cherry-kernels, and six bitter almonds. Add these to the mashed fruit, and also two quarts of sjTup. Put the whole into a large stone bottle, well closed, and expose it during a fortnight to the heat of the sun, or place it beside the kitchen fire. Then strain, and squeeze the whole through linen, and add to each quart of juice a quart of the best French brandy. Let it stand for another fortnight in the sun or beside the- fire, then run it through a jelly-bag till it is quite clear, and bottle in pint bottles. Batafla, Bose.—Take a quarter of a pound of roses picked from all the green, pour a pint of warm water over them, let them stand two days; strain them through linen, squeeze them to extract all the liquor; take as much brandy as you have decoction of roses, add half a pound of sugar to each quart, flavour it with a little coriander and cinnamon; let it re- main fifteen days, then filter and bottle it. Batafla Sauce for Sweet Puddings. —Moisten a dessert-spoonful of aiTowroot with a spoonful of cold water, and rub it till smooth. Pour oyer it—stirring all the time—a quarter of a pint of boiling water. Add a table- spoonful of ratafia liqueur and sugar to taste. Boil a minute or two, and serve. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufiicient for six or eight persons. Batafla, Strong.—Take two ounces of apricot and poach kernels, blanch them, and put them into a quart bottle with half an ounce of cloves and a bit of cinnamon; till up the bottle with French brandy. Cork the bottle woU, seal it, and put it in the sun on fine days; in two months, add to the preparation three ounces of white sugar-candy dissolved in a pint of cold water. Then strain off, filter througli paper, and bottle for use. Batatouville.—This is a popular French method of making a savoury dish out of the remains of cold meat. It may be made satis- factorily from two or three kinds of meat which have been dressed at different times; none must be used, however, which is not perfectly sweet. If the cold meat is very lean, procure a little fresh fat meat, such as the thin ends of the ribs of beef. Cut both the dressed and undressed meat into pieces about an inch square, and place them on separate dishes. Melt a slice of good beef dripping in a saucepan, slice two or three onions into this, and when they are lightly browned put in the uncooked meat and brown it. Dredge a little flour over the whole, and stir it until it is without lumps, then pour in gradually as much stock or water as will cover the meat. Add a mixture of any suitable vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and celery, all finely shred, freshly-peeled potatoes halved, quartered, or sliced, or haricot beans which hava been already three-parts cooked, green peas, &c., together with a bay-leaf, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt. Simmer all gently together until the vegetables are tender, put in the dressed meat, and let the preparation simmer gently until the meat is hot and im- pregnated with the flavour of the stew, but it must not boil again. Arrange the meat and vegetables on a hot dish, pour the giavy over, and serve. If liked, the gravy can be thickened with cuny-powder or paste and a portion of ground rice, instead of with flour. When this is done, some rice boiled as for curry should be sent to table on a separate dish. Time, about an hour and a half. Batel-i-COUm.—This is a sweetmeat of Turkish origin, which has recently become common in confectioners' shops under various names, but chiefly under that of " Lumps of Delight." It is made of starch and syrup, and is sometimes coloured. It is imported into this country in the form of small cakes, one or two inches square, and about an inch thick, and evidently cut from a mass. These cakes are sprinkled with powdered sugar to keep them from sticking together in the small boxes in which they are packed. Bations, Army and Navy.—At homo the army ration is three-quarters of a pound of meat and one pound of bread—"best seconds " —if in barracks ; or three-quarters of pound of meat with a pound and a half of bread if in camp. If a grocery ration is also issued, for every such ration three-halfpence are deducted from the pay of the recipient. In cases -w here men are not supplied with rations, an allowance is granted of sixpence a day. Abroad, the ra- tion is one pound of bread, or three-quartei s of biscuit, and one pound of fresh or salt meat, except at certain stations, where, in considera- tion of the climate, a different ration is specially provided. During field operations, the bread ration may be increased, though not above a pound and a half of bread, or one pound of biscuit. The commanding officer may, during( 718 ) RAT EAV active oporations, direct tho issue in addition to the above of wiiu,, spiritH, or any other article ot subsistence equivalent thereto. The stopimf^e for this foreign ration is one penny. When the families of soldiers accompany them abroad, thoy aro allowt^d tho following rations:—the wife (married under regiilaticm), half a ration ; each legitimate child undiu- mvm years of age, a quarter ration; from seven to fourteen, /i third of a ration. The full navy ration is made up of the fol- lowing articles: daily one pound and a quarter of ship biscuit, or one pound and a half of soft bread, one-eighth of a pint of spirit, two ounces of sugar, one ounce of chocolate, quarter of an ounce of tea, one pound of fresh meat, and half a pound of fresh vegetables, when these are procurable; otherwise, one pound of salt pork with a third of a pint of split peas, or one pound of salt beef with nine ounces of flour, three-quarters of an ounce of suet, and one ounce and a half of currants or raisins. On alternate salt beef days, two ounces of pre- served potatoes. Weekly—quarter of a pint of oatmeal, half an ounce of mustard, quarter of an ounce of pepper, and quarter of a pint of vinegar. Rattlesnake.—In some parts of North America the Indians broil rattlesnakes Like eels, and eat them. Their flesh is said to be white and delicate. When the rattlesnake is asleep they fix him to the ground, and by inducing him to fasten his fangs in a piece of leather, they pluck out the poison-fangs by pulling away the leather. They then in safety take off the skin, and broil the flesh. Ravigote Butter for Sauces.—Take two large table-spoonfuls of mixed tarragon, chervil, burnet, chives, and cress. Pick and wash them, and throw them into boiling water for two minutes; press the water from them in a cloth, put them on a plate, and mix with them a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, half a spoonful of chilli vinegar, and a little pepper and salt. When these ingredients are thoroughly blended, turn the whole into a basin, and put it in a cool place till wanted. If all these herbs cannot be procured, good ravigote butter may be made with tarragon and chervil only. Ravigote Sauce for Hare and Venison.—-Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan, and throw into it a moderate-sized onion and carrot chopped small, a tea-spoon- ful of scraped horseradish, a pinch of powdered thyme, a bay-leaf, and a little mace. Stir these ingredients over a gentle fire till the onion is tender. Pour in a table-spoonful of vinegar and half a pint of stock, add a little brown thickening, and skim the sauce well. When it is smooth and of the consistency of custard, dis- solve a table-spoonful of red-currant jelly in it, rub it through a fine sieve, add pepper and salt if required, and serve in a tureen. Time, a few minutes to boil the sauce. Probable cost, lOd. SuflScient for six or eight persons. Ravigote Sauce for Meat and Poiiltry of Various Kinds.—Work an ounce ot flour smoothly into two ounces of butter. Add the strained juice of half a lemon, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Put the paste inUj a saucepan with a quarter of a pint of milk or cream, and stir until it is on the jjoint of boiling. Have ready in a separate saucepan a table-spoonful of tarragon viiu^gur, a table- spoonful of chilli vinegar, a table-spoonful of Worccister sauce, and a table-spoonful of tlie essence of anchovies. Boil this mixture for three or four minutes, mix it with the sauce which has been slightly cooled, and serve. Time, twenty minutes. " Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Ravigote Sauce, Green, for Salads, &C.—Make a quarter of a pint of good white sauce or melted butter, stir into it two table- spoonfuls of ravigote butter [nee Itavigote Butter), and when this is well mixed in add a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a few drops of anchovy. If the ravigote butter or the herbs necessarj- for making it are not at hand, take six table- spoonfuls of good white sauce made with cream or mUk, add a tea-spoonful of chilli vinegar, a tea-spoonful of Reading or Worcester sauce, a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a little salt and pepper. Pick, scald, and mince a table-spoonful of green parsley-leaves, stir them into the sauce, and serve. Ravigote Sauce, Green (another way). —{See Green Ravigote Sauce). Ravioli, Italian.—Make a little firm smooth paste {see the next recipe). RoU it out as thin as thick paper, and sprinkle it with as little flour as possible. Make a forcemeat of fowl, veal, or fish, or take a godiveau; lay it in little heaps at equal distances on half the paste, and cover with the other half. With the fingers press the paste down between the little piles of forcemeat to make it adhere, then cut the whole into squares. Put these side by side in a dish, and boil them in bouillon for five minutes. Serve with grated cheese in a plate. Ravioli, Italian (another way).—Make some nicely-flavoured forcemeat as follows :— Take two ounces of the flesh of roast chicken or game weighed after it has been freed from skin and sinew. Mince it finely, and mix with it a table-spoonful of borage which has been scalded, pounded, and passed through a sieve; failing this, use a table-spoonful of spinach greening. Add an ounce of pounded ham, four cleaned and pounded anchovies, a shallot, three hard and two raw j-olks of eggs, a table-spoonful of grated Parmesan, and a little pepper and grated nut- meg. Mix the ingredients thoroughly. Roll out half a pound of nouiUes paste as thin as possible, cut it into rounds two inches in diameter with a fluted cutter, moisten the edges with water, and laj' a small ball of the force- meat upon each round. Fold the pastry over the forcemeat, and pinch it tightly together. Let the ravioli dry for a short time. Butter a saucepan, lay them in it, pour a little boiling stock over them, and let them simmer until the pastry is done enough. Drain them, lay them on a dish, sprinkle a little grated Parmesan over, and lay little pieces of butt(^r here and there upon them. Put them in a brisk oven for a quarter of an hour, pour a little goodf BAV ( 719 ) BED grtivy round them, and serve very hot. To make the nouilles paste put half a pound of Hour on a paatry-board, make a hole in the centre, break two egga into it, add half an oimce of butter and a pinch of salt, and mix all together to a smooth, firm paste; it is then ready for use. Time to simmer the ravioli, five minutes. Ravioli Soup.—Prepare and poach the ravioli as in the last recipe. Drain them, and put them into a soup tureen. Pour over them two quarts of good strong veal or game stock, add a glassful of madeira, and serve very hot. Send a plateful of grated Parmesan to table with the soup. Time, five minutes to poach the ravioli. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Ray or Maids.—This fish is of the same genus as the skate or thomback. It may be boUed or fried. It should be hung for at least a day before it is dressed, and the wings should be cut into strips, and kept in salt and water for two or three days before they are used. The dressed fish is very good eaten cold with salad sauce. It is at its best from September to February. THK RAT. Ray Soup.—Boil a pound of ray in a quart of fish stock. When it is tender and broken to pieces, strain the liquor through a sieve. Put it back into the saucepan, and let it boil again. Drop into it a spoonful of vermi- celli, and when this is tender draw the saucepan from the fire for a minute, stir into the soup a quarter of a pint of cream which has been' beaten up with the yolk of an egg, and let it simmer a few minutes longer, but on no account let It boil after the egg is added. Heat a l^rench roll m the oven, soak it in a little of the soup until it IS moist throughout, put it into the turoon, pour the soup over it, and servo. The ray is a fish which is very suitable for making soup, as its bones arc delicate, and soon dissolve Time, a few minutes to boil the fish. Probable cost, uncertain, ray being seldom bought • it is however, very inexpensive. Sufficient for fiv.' or SIX persons. Bazor-biU.—This bird, also known under the name of the Black-billed Auk, is very common on the coasts of this country and on all the northern shores of the Atlantic Ocean. Its fiesh is much used in some districts for food, and the eggs, which are about three inches long, are esteemed a delicacy. The razor-bill frequents lofty precipices, from which its eggs are taken by persons who are let down by ropes for the purpose. Reading Sauce.—Take two large earthen jars. Put into one an ounce and a half of bruised shallots and two pints and a half of walnut pickle, set this in a gentle oven, and let it boil until the liquor is reduced to two pints. Put into the other jar a quart of water, three- quarters of a pint of Indian soy, a pounded anchovy, half an ounce of pepper, half an ounce of ginger, and one ounce of mustard-seed, aU bruised; add also half an ounce of cayenne. Set this jar in the oven, and let it boil for an hour. Pour the contents of one jar into the other, stir the mixture weU together, and let it bon for half an hour. Cover closely, and let it stand in a cool place untn the next day. Put into the sauce a quarter of an ounce of dried bay- leaves, and leave it for a week. Strain through a j eUy-bag, put the liquor into small bottles, cork these tightly, and store for use. Time, nine days. Sufficient for two quarts of sauce. Recruits' Pudding.—Pound two oimces of sweet almonds to a smooth paste, and add as much new milk as will make a thick batter. Shred finely a pound of suet, and mix with it a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Add the almond nulk, a pinch of salt, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, the well-whisked yolks of five eggs, the white of one egg, and a table- spoonful of brandy. Tie the mixture in a floured cloth, and boil it, or, if preferred, put the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake it until done enough. Time, two hours and a half to three hours. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Red Beet.—The roots of the red beet are boUed and sliced, and eaten cold, either alone or in salads; they are also much used as a pickle, and form a most beautiful garnish. Sometimes, after being di-ied in thin slices in an oven they are employed in confectionerj', and di-ied and ground they are occasionally turned to account as " a supplement to coffee." Red Beet, Varieties of.—These, ac- cording to Loudon, are numerous, but the prin- cipal are :—large-rooted; long-rooted; dwarf, one of the best; turnip-rooted, an early variety; small red; Castelnaudari, much estdemed in France, and said to have the flavour of a nut; and green-topped, much grown in Scotland. Redbreast.—This beautiful bird, which enliA'ens the dreariness of winter with its song, when almost all other birds are silent, and whose familiar manners and reliance on the generosity of man have been the cause of his protection throughout Britain from the destroy- ing hand of the epicure, is extensively consumed in France, and considered excellent. Red Cabbage.—In form the red or purple cabbage resembles the white ; it has, however.BED BED ( 720 ) a l)ro\vnish-rod or piirplo colour. It is chiefly tjinploycd for pickling, and tho dwarf rod vurioty certainly nuiketi one of the most hoau- tiful pickles that can bo presented at tal)le. Both tho dwarf and large kinds aro sometinios shredded down in winter in salads, like hoet- root. In Germany, sauer kraut is prepared from all or any of the varieties. Red Champagne, British.—Take forty quarts of ripe green gooseberries, crush thoni in a tub, pour on them ten gallons of soft watf^r that has bc^en well boiled and become cold, add tlu-ee pounds of sliced beet-roots that have been boiled twenty minutes without breaking their skins, stir well ton minutes, and leave them to steep four days covered up, stirring well three times daily. Strain the liquor, and filter it through a flannel bag into the cask; add thirty pounds of best loaf sugar in small lumps, two ounces of best ginger bruised, the thin rinds of four lemons, and an ounce of best isinglass dissolved in a quart of the liquor. Leave the bung out till the fermentation has ceased, then add a quart of brandy, put in the bung, and secure it with paper and sand. Keep it in a cool cellar twelve months, then put it into champagne bottles, wii-e the corks, and seal them. It will be in high perfection in six months more, and is an excee(£ingly fine wine. Red Clary Wine.—Pick and stone forty- five pounds of good Malaga raisins, cut them small, and pour on them ten gallons of pure soft -water ; cover the vessel up close, -stirring well for twelve days, strain the liquor from the fruit, and put it into a cask upon a peck of the tops of clary when in flower, leaving the cask open imtil fermentation has ceased. Boil two quarts of the wine with two pounds of purple beet-root peeled and sliced for twenty minutes; strain this, and when cold add to it three pints of French brandy and an oimce of isinglass dissolved ; then add this to the wine, and stop it up for twelve months. It may now be bottled, and if kept six months will be very good. Longer keeping will much improve this excellent wine. Red Clary Wine (another way).—Boil twenty-five pounds of good loaf sugar with ten gallons of river or rain water half an hour, beat up the whites of ten eggs to a froth, add them, continue the boiling half an hour longer, and skim continually until the liquor is perfectly clear, adding three pounds of red beet-root peeled and cut in thick slices. "When the liquor is a beautiful bright red colour, strain it through a fine sieve into a vessel upon nearly a peck of clary- tops in flower, and two ounces of best ginger sliced or bruised well; and when nool enough work it with nearly a pint of yeast three days, stirring it well twice daily, and covering it close. Strain the liquor into the cask, which mn.st be full, that it may work over; and when tho fermentation has entirely subsided, put in an ounce of bitter almonds blanched, a quart of brandy, and an ounce of isinglass or guni iirabic dissolved in a (piaii of the wine. Then atop it up safely, put \sxt sand over the bung, and keep it fifteen months at least, after which bottle it; and in six months more it will be very rich, clear, and strong. Red Cordial Water.—Take three or four thick slices of purjilo beet-root boiled, one ouncp each of carraway and coriandevseed bruised, one ounce of cloves and cinnamon, thrco-quai-tcrs of an ounce each of Jamaica popper and nutmeg bruised, half-an-ounce of thin rind of lemon, twelve ounces of sugar- candy beaten and rolled, two quarts of proof spirit of wine, and three pints of water. Put these ingredients into a stone jar, and fastfjn the cork securely; tie bladder over it, and s< t the jar in hot water for six hours. Kliake it well daily, and keep it for a month in a wai-m room. Then strain and filter it perfectly bright; fill small bottles, cork and seal them. Red Currant.—This fruit is acceptable at the dessert, being of an agreeable acid taste. It is much used for jellies, jams, and wines. Forsyth says it is the most agreeable of all the small fruits, either for the table or the kitchen; and that it continues longer in succession than any other. According to Withering, the juice gives an agreeable acid to punch; and Professor ]\Iartyn says it was a common beverage in Paris in 1763. Its medicinal qualities are similar to those of other sub-acid fruits, allaj'- ing thirst, lessening an increased secretion of the bile, and correcting a putrid and scorbutic state of the fluids. The red currant is a native of the northern parts of Europe, and found in hedges and woods in England. The berries of this shrub in its wild state are red; cultiva- tion has produced white and pale-red berried varieties. Professor Martyn obser\'es that " the cuiTant does not seem to have been known to the ancient Greeks and Pomans, as the Southern nations of Europe have not even an appropriate name to it at this day. The old French name Groseilles d'outre iner pro- claims their having been strangers imported. Our English name of currant is evidentlj' from the similitude of the fruit to that of the Uva corinthica, the small grape of Zante, or the common grocers' corinths or currants." Red Currant Solid.—Dissolve half a pound of red-currant jelly in a pint of cream, and add a little sugar if necessary. Stir in three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass which has been dissolved in a quarter of a pint of water, whisk the mixture for a few minutes, pour it into a damped mould of earthenware— not metal—and set it in a cool place, ^^'^len "wanted, turn it out carefully upon a glass dish, and serve. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Suflicient for ^ quart mould. Red Deer Venison.—In suitable weather rod deer venison should hang three weeks before it is used, and should in all respects be cooked like ordinary venison (which see). The flesh of the red deer is highly prized by some epicures, though others consider it strong and coarse in flavour. This is, of course, a matter of taste, but whatever may be the opinion of sportsmen, ordinary housekeepers will be wise to choose(721 ) BED BED wcU-fod buck venison rather than that of the red deer. BED DEEB. Red-eye or Budd.—This is a common fish in lakes, slow rivers, fens, &c., in England, and .also in many parts of Eiirope. It bears a marked resemblance to the roach, but is shorter and deeper. It is better eating than the roach. The name "rudd" refers to the colour of the fish, which is very rich. Bed Herrings or Bloaters, To Pry. —Split the herrings open, and cut off their heads. Melt a little butter or dripping in a frying-pan, put in the fish, and shake the pan over a clear fire. Serve on a hot dish vsdth a small piece of butter laid on each bloater. Time to fry, five minutes. Probable cost. Id. or l|d. each. Sufficient, one or two for each person. (For other ways of cooking, see Herrings, Red.) Bed Liquor to Colour Cordials, &C.—^Take half a pound of boiled beet-root sliced, half an ounce of Jamaica pepper in powder, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, three oimces of sugar-candy broken small, one pint of pure water, and one pint of proof spirit of wine. Put these ingredients into a stone jar, tie closely over with wet bladder, set it in a pan of hot water for six or seven hours, then let it stand for a week ; strain, and filter. Bottle it, and seal the corks; it wiU keep many months. Bed Mullet.—It is said that this fish was so highly esteemed by the ancient Romans, that on one occasion £234 7s. 6d. was given for three. This high price was not paid on ac- count of their edible value, but to gratify the artistic passion of those who loved to watch the beautiful changing colours of the dying fish {nee Red Mullet, Roman Cookery of). Red mullet is a fish quite dififerent from and much superior to the grey mullet, with which it is sometimes confounded. It is dressed without being gutted, and on this account is sometimes spoken of as the sea-woodcock. It may be hnd all the year round, but it is in perfection only when the roe is forming—that is, during the heat of summer. The best muUot are those which are very red and short, with bright clear eyas and firm flesh. Unlike most fish, thoy are better for being kept a short time. Thoy are seldom RED MULLET. boiled, though they are frequently broiled, baked, and fried. In cleaning them it will be necessary only to scrape them lightly, and to i)ull out the gills, when as much of the inside aa ought to be removed will come away with them. Bed Mullet [see also Mvdlet, Red). Bed Mullet, Baked.—Scrape a good- sized mullet lightly, pull out the gills, and with them the thread-Hke gut. Be careful not to injure the liver. Rub the mullet with lemon- juice, and put it into a shallow dish with a chopped mushroom, a shallot chopped small, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, two or three small slices of carrot, a little pepjaer and salt, and a wine-glassful of light wine. Put the disb in a gentle oven, and bake the mullet until done enough, basting at intervals with butter or salad-oil. Serve on a hot dish, with the sauce from the pan poured over the fish. It will require baking from twenty to thirty minutes. Or, prepare, wash, and dry three mullets. Put them in a shallow dish, and sprinkle over them a moderate-sized onion chopped small, a table-spoonful of cho2jped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Pour a little salad-oil or oiled butter over them, and let them bake gently xmtil done enough. Put into a saucepan a tea-spoonful of salad-oil and a dessert-spoonful of chopped onion. Stir these in- gredients over the fire untU the onions are tender, dredge a Uttle flour over them, add the liquor from the fish, a little chopped parsley, and a glassful of wine. Stir the sauce over the fire until it is so thick that it coats the spoon, and add, if liked, a little cream, and the juice of half a lemon. Serve the fish on a hot dish, with the sauce poured over it. Time to bake, from twenty miautes to thirty minutes. Pro- bable cost of mullet, from 6d. to 3s. each. Bed Mullet, Baked (another way).— Butter a metal pie-dish, lay the fish in it, pour over them about a wine-glassful of flour and water or good broth, lay pieces of butter on them, and baste all the time they are cooking. The gravy wliich comes from them is red; theRED BED ( 722 ) colom- may be heightened by a tea-spoonful of ossonco of shrimps or anchovy, but should not be discoluurod by ketchup, Uoadiuf^, or other black-brown sauce. Servo the lish in the dish in which they were baked. Red Mullet en Papillote.—Take out the gills, wash, wipe the fish caref ally, and Hour it. Take a piece of letter-paper, cut it in the shape of a heart, and oil it. Season with pepper and salt, lay the mullet on one side, and season this also. Fold the paper over, and turn over the edges securely. Broil the fish on a gentle fire untU it is lightly browned on both sides without the paper being at all burnt, and serve it in the paper on a hot dish. It will be excellent ^vithout sauce, but if this is required, melted butter, anchovy sauce, Dutch sauce, or Itiilian sauce may be sent to table with it. Sometimes a little good sauce made as for baked mullet {see the preceding recipe) is spread over the fish inside the paper. Mullet en papillote may be baked as well as broiled. A little sauce may then be made with the liquor which comes from them, mixed with a glassful of wine, a dessert-spoonful of anchovy, and a tea-spoonful of soy, thickened with a little flour, and stirred over the fire till smooth. Time to broU, twenty to thirty minutes. Red Mullet, Filleted and Fried.— Take half a dozen red mullet, scrape them lightly, cut off their heads, cut them open, take out the inside, and carefully preserve the liver. Divide the fish in halves, and lift the flesh from the bones, so that each mullet will make two fiUets. Dry and flour these, and dip them either into egg and seasoned bread-crumbs, or into a little frying-batter. Fry in hot fat, and when they are Ughtly browned on both sides serve on a hot dish, and send a sauce prepared as follows to table with them :—Beat the boiled livers of the fish with the back of a wooden spoon till they are smooth. Drop them into a saucepan containing the third of a pint of thin melted butter made with water in which the livers have been boiled for five or six minutes. Stir the sauce over the fire tiU it is thick, season with pepper and salt, and just before serving add to it a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice and haK a glassful of claret, if liked. Time to fry, ten minutes or more. Red Mullet, Fried.—Melt two ounces of butter in a frying-pan. Put in one good- sized or two small mullet, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them, and season with pepper and salt. Let them fry over a gentle fire until they are done enough, tm-ning them over when half done that they may be equally cooked. Serve on a hot dish, either plain or with melted butter, Dutch sauce, or anchovy sauce. Time to fry the fish, a few minutes. Red Mullet, Marinaded and Broiled. Prepare the mullet in the usual way. Rub each one with a tea-spoonful of lemon-juico and a tea-spoonful of salad-oil, and sprinkle a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg over it. Lay all the fish in a dish, sprinkle over them a table-spoonful of chopped parsley and two shallots finely minced, and let them Uo for three hours. Fold in buttered paper, and broil according to the directions given for lied Mullet en Papillote. Time to broil, twenty to twenty-five nunutes. Red Mullet, Roman Cookery of.— The iloHians Btirvud tlie iiiiiliet with a season- ing of pepper, rue, onions, dates, and mustard, to which they added the flesh of the sea-hog reduced to a pulp, and oil. When the hver alono was to be eaten, it was cooked, and then seasoned with pepper, salt, or a little garum; some oil was added, and hare's or fowl's Hver, and then oil was poured over the whole. " The unbridled and cruel luxury of ancient liome," says Soyer, " required that this fish should bo cooked by a slow tire, on the table and under a glass, that the guests might gloat on its suft'er- ings before they satiated their appetites with its flesh. It is true this barbarous gratification was very expensive, and it was necessary to be very rich to indulge in it, consequently it was decidedly very fashionable, quite natural, and in very best taste." Red Mullet, Sauce for.—Red mullet fried or boiled are very good without sauce. When this is required, however, plain melted butter, Dutch sauce, anchovy sauce, or Italian sauce is the most suitable, or a sauce may be prepared as follows :—Rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs to a paste, and with them two ounces of clarified butter, a salt-spoonful of unmixed mustard, a dessert-spoonful of dried flom', a tea-spoonfui of vinegar or lemon-juice, and a little pepper and salt. Mix with this paste a third of a pint of cold water, put the mixture into a saucepan, and stir over the fire till it boils. Throw in a dessert-spoonful of finely-shred parsley, let the sauce boil once more, and serve. A sauce for baked mullet may be made accord- ing to the directions given in the recipe for Red Mullet, Baked. Red Mullet, Stuffed. — Scrape and wash the fish, ana wipe them quickly. Make a little forcemeat with hard-boiled yolks of eggs, chopped parsley, butter, pepper and salt, and a spoonful of finely-grated bread-criunbs. Fill the mullet with this stuffing, wrap the fish in buttered paper, and broil over a gentle fire. When done enough, remove the paper, and serve the fish on a hot dish with a little melted maitre d'hotel butter imder them, or failing this, with maitre d'hotel sauce in a tureen. Time to broU, twenty to thirty minutes. Red Pears, to Preserve.—Weigh a dozen pears, pare them, and cut them into halves. Take their weight in sugar, and boil it to a clear syrup with half a pint of water to each pound of sugar. Add half a dozen cloves, an inch of stick cinnamon, a few drops of cochineal,.and a glassful of port; put in the pears, and simmer them very gently till they are clear and brightly coloured. Take them out, and put them into glasses. Boil up the syrup, strain it, pour it over the fruit, and cover the glasses in the usual way. Store in a cool dry place. Time, three or four hours. Red Rice Pudding.—Take a pint of the exproHsod juice of rod currants or raspberries, a glassful of wine, and a little sugar. Let theRED ( 723 ) REP liquor boil, then add graduaUy about three ounces of ground rice mixed smoothly with a little t>old water, and stir the preparation until it thickens and leaves the sides of the saucepan. Pour it into a damp mould, and put it aside until cold. Turn it upon a glass dish, and serve with cream or custard. If preferred, groats may be used instead of ground rice. Time to boil the preparation, about ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Red Wine Custard (a Danish recipe).— Mix together in a bowl half a pint of good thick cream, half a pound of white sugar, the juice of three and the grated peel of one lemon, with half a pint of red wine. Let it all remain covered for twelve hours; then beat it well with a whisk till it froths ; let it stand a quar- ter of an hour longer that the froth may be firm, take it off with a slice, and put it into cups or a deep dish. To be eaten with Fancy Biscuits. Reform Chips.—Reform chips are used for garnishing purposes. They have a good appearance when placed in the centre of a dish of cutlets. Take equal quantities of dressed ingredients of different colours, such as pink ham, hard-boiled white of egg, black truffles, red carrots, or green pickles. Cut these into thin shreds about an inch long, make them quite hot, toss them lightly to mix them, and serve. Refreshing Beverage. — Slice two oranges and one lemon, which put into a jug with two ounces of sugar candy over which pour one quart of boiling water; stir it occa- sionally until cold. This drink is both good for invalids and for persons in health, especially in warm weather. Refreshing Drink for the Sick (In- valid Cookery).—Take two ounces of harts- horn shavings and boil them in a quart of water; when the hartshorn shavings are quite dissolved, set the liquid aside to settle. Before it is cold strain it through a tamis upon half a lemon sliced thin, and sugar to taste. Cover, and let it remain till cold, then mix with it a good glassful of Moselle or French wine. Refreshing Drinks.—Very refreshing drinks may be made from fresh fruit when it is in season, and they will be fovmd to be much superior to those which are made from fruit syrup. Pick a quart of fruit, and mash it well in a basin. Pour over it two quarts of cold spring water. Wash some paper in water tni it is reduced to a pulp. Put this into the basin with the fruit, pour the whole into a jelly-bag, and strain off the juice. Add sugar boiled to a syrujj and a little lemon-juice, if liked. Serve the fruit-water in glasses. Cherries, red and white currants, raspberries, and strawberries, are specially suited for these drinks. The cherries should have boiling water poured over them, and should bo allowed to soak for an hour or two. When these fruits are not in season, pour boiling water over three or four baked apples, ■while thf^y are still hot. Strain off the liquor when it is cold, anu sweeten with honey or axoist sugar- It will prove a very welcome beverage. In winter-time slice a lemon and two oranges into a jug. Pour over these a quai-t of boiling water, add a table-spoonful of crushed sugar-candy, and strain the liquor when cold. A considerable variety of refresh- ing drinks will be found under the heading Summer Beverages. Refrigerants.—What are called freezing mixtm-es are such as produce cold by and during the Liquefaction of their solid ingre- dients, and the consequent absorption of heat on which their solid form depended. Such mixtures reduce the temperature of substances immersed in them on the principle of the transfer of heat, which always takes place from hotter to colder bodies when exposed to each other. " The process used by confectioners for pro- ducing cold is by the mixture of ice and common salt, which, both liquefying, absorb so much heat, or, in other words, produce as much cold as will reduce the thermometer from the usual temperature to the zero of Fahrenheit's scale, or even rather below it. If, however, freshly- faUen snow be used instead of ice, then the fluidity is more suddenly produced, and the cold is more intense. " In freezing-mixtures, the substances com- bined have such an affinity for each other that when intimately blended they combine chemi- cally, and in so doing liquefy. The operation should be so arranged that no heat be furnished either by the vessel in which the liquefaction takes place, or from an)' external source. Under such circumstances the heat absorbed during the liquefaction must be furnished by the ma- terials of the freezing-mixture or by the body which it is intended artificially to cool or to freeze. " Many recipes are to be met with for freez- ing-mixtures. One or two examples will suffice here. With equal weights of fresh snow (or pounded ice) and common salt, a temperature of — 4 degrees Fahr. can be maintained for many hours. A mixture of throe-parts cry- stallised chloride of calcium and two parts of snow will produce a depression of temperature sufficient to freeze mercury. If the vessel in which the materials are to be mixed and the chloride be cooled to 32 degrees a temperature of —50 degrees can be produced. The most powerful freezing-mixture is formed by dis- solving solid carbonic acid or solid nitrous oxide in sulphuric ether. For more moderate tem- peratures, certain salts, easily procurable, may be used. Thus, four ounces of nitre and four ounces of sal-ammoniac, both in fine powder, mixed with eight ounces of water, will reduce the thermometer from 60 degrees to 10 degrees. Equal parts of water, of powdered crystallised nitrate of ammonia, and of powdered crystallised carbonate of soda wiU lower the temperature from 50 degrees to — 7 degrees." Even in hot climates ice may be produced under favourable circumstances by evaporation. Near Calcutta this is managed on the open plains by exposing a thin stratum of water to the atmosphere during the fine clear nights of December, January, and February. The pans are composed of porous earthenware, and water is poured in to the depth of about an inch ancj[( 724 ) EE! JELET? a half. A Lirgo number of those vossols are aiTiingod in an oxcuvation in the ground, be- tween thirty and forty foot square, and with a depth of two feet, tlio bottom being covered to tlio depth of ton or twolve inches with tlio stalks of Indian corn or with sugar cancm. Tlioso pans are visited at sunrise, and the ice is 8ei)arated from tlio water, and packed as tiglit as possible in a deep cavity or pit, well screened fi-om the heat. Refrigeration, Food Preserved by. —" Refrigeration as applied to animal sub- slnmcos, with a view to their preservation, is an important subject, though, strictly speaking, a substance temporarily kept from decomposition by being surrounded by a temperature suf- hcicutly low for the purpose, can hardly bo called 'preserved food,' as by this term is generally meant an article preserved in a re- ceptacle, or otherwise, which is not subject to decomposition through atmospheric influences. The first patent for the preservation of food by means of refi-igeration was taken out in 1845; since that time many expedients have been adopted by the use of ice, and by arti- ficial methods of lowering the temperature by evaporation, with a view to the impor- tation of fresh meat from Australia, America, and elsewhere into this country. The object of all the contrivances is the same, namely, to secure a sufficiently low degree of temperature for the preservation of the meat dm-ing the voyage, and to produce it at such a cost as would repay the importers." An eminent dietetic authority who took a deep interest in the preservation of meat re- marks:—"The application of cold is, in my opinion, the most fitting mode of solving the problem, and it should be effected either by inducing the inhabitants of countries where ice is abundant in the cold season, to grow animals for our markets, or by storing large quantities of ice in an economical manner at the ports of other meat-producing coimtries. We need not despair of seeing the time when the whole carcase of an animal will be imported in a state fit to be cut up in oxrr shops for immediate sale, and when the exporters from Australia will supply themselves with'ice for this purpose from the southern hemisphere, or when the pastures of the North American con- tinent will become our chief, as they may be our nearest, sources of supply. Canada oft'ers unbounded facilities for this pui-pose, by reason of its great ice-fields, its pastures, and agricul- tural population, as well as its nearness to this country; and should the present high price of meat continue it will induce commercial men to organise a system, both of feeding animals and of exporting the meat in ice, which may be very profitable to the Canadians." The preservation of food by keeping it at a low temperature is sufficiently well known. In such countries as Russia, where the climate during winter is one long frost, the preservative action of cold is largely taken advantage of. Cattle, poultry., &c., are killed when the frost begins, allowed to become frozen through, and in this conditjon brought to market and sold :it the large winter fairs. Fisli are dealt with Ijx tho ^me fashion, and are kept for months quite fresh and wholesome. Provisions thuB preserved only require the precaution of being gradually tlmwed before use by immersion in cold water. Refrigerating Machines. —The manu- huaure of ice by machinery is one of the most interesting applications of science, and tliis hits now become a practicfil trade. In 1851, M. Kezet, of Itouen, volatilised ether in a closo vessel by exhausting the air from its surface. After the air, the ether-v.-ipour itself was ex- hausted by a pump, then cond(;n)ied by the aid of cold water, and forced back into the same vessel, by which a continujil absorption of caloric from the surrounding bodies was effected, and a continual refrigeration obtained as long as the circulation of ether waa kept up by working the pump. Harrison's ice-making machine and its im- proved form by Mr. Siebe is a particular ap- pUcation of the exhausting air-pump. The working of the process is as foUows:—A quan- tity of sulphuric ether contained in a close vessel surrounded by a current of salt water, is made to pass rapidly into a state of vapour by the action of a large air-pump driven by steam- power, the necessary amount of heat requisite to effect this change in the ether is abstracted from the surrounding salt-water casing, which is thus cooled to a temperature below the freezing point of water, and is then made to circulate through a box containing the water to be frozen in tin moulds arranged on a tra- velling frame, which moves in a direction con- trary to the refrigerating current. The ether- vapour removed at every stroke of the pump is passed over to a condenser, where it reassumes the "liquid form and is returned to the evapora- ting vessel. The machine invented by M. Carre appears to be much more effective. Messrs. Carre and Co.'s ice-making machines are of two kinds, one being continuous and the other intermittent in action; but the principle involved is the same in both cases, viz., the production of cold by the volatilisation of a gas which is easilj' liquefiable, and at the same time in a high degree soluble in water. , Dr. Meidinger, of Baden, has constructed a little apparatus for freezing cream or cooling wine, and which has been very favourablj' re- ceived, as being simple, elegant, and automatic. The freezing mixture consists of finely-poimded ice and a saturated solution of table salt. Since, however, the melting ice necessarily dilutes this solution, a reservoir containing dry salt is introduced in such a manner as to constantly supply the deficiency of salt and keep the solu- tion unaltered upon the point of saturation. For this purpose Dr. iMeidinger advises tlie following arrangement:—In an external cylin- drical vessel, a bad conductor of heat and very much like a water-cooler, an annular perforated vessel is suspended to contain the dry salt above mentioned. A slightly conical metallic cup re- ceives the material to bo acted upon, and fits into the circular opening left for the purpose. The mush of pounded ice and brine is poiired into the outer vessel, up to a certain mark, just enough to rtiake it rise to the very rim as soon as thfl cup containing the cream &o., is elowlyBEF ( 725 ) pressed down. This rising ice mixture enters the reservoir of dry salt, and as long as ice is mt'lting salt will bo dissolved and the cooling action will thus be kept up uninterrupted. No turning is required; the freezing compound, however, should be stirred occasionally, as the poi-tion in immediate contact with the freezing mixture will congeal first. The temperature attained is about 6"—7" below zero, Fahr. Refrigerator, Pood.—The ordinarj' food refrigerator is usually in the form of a chest which has a compartment for ice and one or more compartments for the food. Most of the older forms of refrigerators did not completely separate the ice fi-om the food compartments, and many of them were merely chests with double sides, separated by some non-conducting substance, as chai'coal, in which the ice as well as the articles to be kept cool were placed on shelves indiscriminately. In either case the moisture from the evaporating ice filled the whole apparatus, and caused the contents to begin decaying soon after their removal, and, indeed, prevented their being preserved -long while they were within it. In the presence of moistui'e, particularly when it contains the effluvia from various meats and articles of food, decomposition will go on even at a temperature considerably below the freezing point, and this cannot be secured by the presence of ice. In a dry atmosphere meats may even be preserved without ice. If a current of air is made to circu- late in a chamber surroimding an ice-box, much of the moisture of the air will be condensed upon the box, and there will also be a constant col- lection of impurities contained in the air. To make such a refrigerator efficient, the air must be first dried by passing it through a vessel containing chloride of calcium or some sub- stance which will rapidly absorb moisture. In either case the caloric absorbed by the ice to cool a continuous current causes it to melt rapidly. An efficient method is to place a tight ice-box within a tight meat-box, or surround the latter with an ice-chamber, the meats to be first cooled in the open air. Regent's Pudding.—Grate two ounces of the white meat of a cocoa-nut. Mix with this two ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, two ounces of flour, three ounces of finely-skred beef suet, a table-spoonful of picked and washed currants, a table-spoonful of chopped raisins, and a little sugar. Mix these ingredients tho- roughly, and beat them up with two eggs and half a quarter of a pint of milk. Pour the niixture into a buttered basin, put over it a picfe of buttered writing-paper, and tie it in a cloth. Plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil quickly until done enough. Turn it out carefully, and before sending to table, pour over it a little custard-sauce pleasantly flavoured with vanilla. Time to boil, about three hours. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons. , Regent's Punch.—Take the very thin nnds of two lemouH, two china oranges, and one bitter one. Pour over them half a pound of white sugar-candy which has been boiled to a thin syruj) with water and allo-.vcd to cool Let I the rinds infuse for an hour. Pour over them a pint of cold strong green tea, and add the strained juice of the fruit, a glass of rum, a glass of brandy, a glass of arrack, a glass of pine-apple syrup, two bottles of chatapag-no, and one of seltzer water. Strain the punch through lawn till it is quite clear, bottle immediately, and put it into ice for an hour or two till wanted. Serve in a bowl or jug. If preferred, instead of using pine-apple syrup, a fresh pine-apple may be sliced into the punch. Regent's Sauce for Sweet Puddings. ■—Beat up the yolk of an egg with a quarter of a pint of milk or cream. Add a table-spoon- ful of rum, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and a slight flavouring of essence of vanilla. When thoroughly mixed, serve. Probable cost, if made with milk, 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Regent's Soup.—Take the bones, trim- mings, and remains of cold game. Break them into small pieces, put them into a atewpan, and pour over them two quarts of stocl?: made from meat-bones. Add a large carrot, a large onion, a small turnip, and thi-ee or four heads of celery, all cut up small. Let the soup boil, skim carefully, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for 'two hom-s. Strain, and remove the fat. Wash four ounces of pearl barley, and boil it in a separate saucej.an until it is done enough. Drain, and put aside one- half. Pound the other half with the yolks of three eggs boiled hard, rub the mixture tlu-ough a fine sieve, moisten with a qupjter of a pint of cream, and add it gradually to the soup. Stir the whole over the fire until it is very hot without boiling, add the barley that was put aside, and serve immediately. Time, three hours. Probable cost, exclusive of the price of the game, 6d. per quart. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Regent's Store Sauce.—Infuse six shallots, four clovfi, and an ounce of cayenne in a bottle with a < uart of vinegar for ten days, and shake the bottle every day. Strain the liquor, and mix thoroughly with it a quarter of a pint of soy, a quarter of a pint of mushroom ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovy. Put the sauce into small bottles, cork securely, and store for use. Regimen.—" Diet," says Dr. Reece, " con- sists in that coui-se of eating and drinking which every man employs for the support of life; and varies therefore with cverv in- dividual, in a certain degi-ee accord'.ng to temperament, age, predisposition, &c. In a medical view, it is proper to consider the course of diet which is best suited to each period, without regard to anything ext aneous, and in so doing I shall begin with that of youth. " The diet of children and young people should consist greatly of dilutents, in order to facili- tate the progress of youth. Hence broths and a large proportion of vegetables are the most suitable nourishment. Milk also is a proper part of diet, and it should be used in every form during this stage of life. In point of drink, water is the best, and should be almost the onlvREQ ( 72b ; 3&EL bovorago. Soasoning of all kinds should bo avoided, and nothing should bo taken that can, by stimulating the systom, induce a too early niatuiity before the constitution is ripened for it by yoai-8. " With complete adolescence the quantity of food necessary for the period of growth should be abridged ; but from the active scenes of life in which the body is then engaged, the food should be of a more stimulating nature, and a proper proportion of animal food interposed. The proportion, however, must be regulated by circumstances; thus, those who pursue a seden- tary and studious mode of life should be more sparing in the use of animal food and stimulant drink; for by excess of nourishment to the body the intellects are found proportionally weakened. Those of a firm and vigorous habit possess a strong disposition to inflammatory diseases. Excesses, therefore, should be par- ticularly avoided by them, especially in the case of fermented drink. When the constitu- tion is delicate and irritable, a diet moderately stimulating is the most suitable, with a very sparing use of fermented liquors. The sanguine should confine their diet chiefly to vegetable food, and their drink to water without any im- pregnation. The phlegmatic habit admits a greater latitude in the use of a stimulating diet than any other, and both seasoning and stimu- lating drink will prove less hurtful to such a constitution; the chief point is to guard against corpulency. When a cby habit prevails, young meat, with fruits and fresh vegetables, forms the best regimen ; and in point of drink, good wine, diluted with water, is preferable. " With respect to drink, at all periods of life temperance is necessary; strong liquors are, indeed, best suited to cold climates, and here they are generally used to excess. In warm climates, though their temporary use may be called for at intervals, the practice should not be indulged. " The diet of age, or after fifty-five, should return somewhat to the early periods of life. The proportion of solid meat should be lessened, and the diet recommended for youth adopted; thus broth and liquid food should mostly be used, and all nourishment taken of an easy digestion, with a moderate use of seasoning. The appe- tite is more languid, and the machine requires to be stimulated. Well-fermented liquors, espe- cially wine, are also proper, for the system must be in\'igorated and suppoi-ted, imless the subject be of a full habit, or disposed to apoplexy." If an attention to diet be necessary in health, it is certainly still more so under disease. The following useful tables of diet are given by the .author from whom we have just quoted in his " Medical Guide :"— Low OR Fevek Diet.—Panada, thin gruel, milk with barley-water, arrowroot, jeUy niade with water, plain bread pudding, salep, tapioca, weak chicken or veal broth. Drink : Barley- water, acidulated with lemon or orange-juice, decoction of apples, tamarind water (if the bowels be not disordered), balm, mint, or orange-flower tea. Medium or Convalescent Diet.—Kice, *.moUna or broad pudding, blancmange, thin clarified calf's-foot jolly, flounder or sole, fowl, veal, rabbit, or lamb simj)ly dressed. Lrink : Fresh small Ijeer, weak porter, diluted port, or madeira, or claret. Genehouk or Full Diwr.—Breakfast: Cocott, chocolate, or tea, with bread and butter. iJin- ner: Gravy, soup, or fish, with rabbit, beef, mutton, bimb, veal, or game, and mealy pota- toes mashed, or Jeruiialem artichokes; light pudding. Drink : Cider, perry, or porter, with a glass or two of port, sherry, or madeira, or three gliissex of claret, hock, moselle, &c. Supper : Mutton broth, gruel, or a little meat and bread, with porter or ale. Reindeer.—Dr. Richardson says that when the reindeer is in good condition it is equal, if not superior, in flavour to the finest venison. Sir John Ross declares that the meat of the reindeer killed in August has several inches thick of fat on the haimches. It is most taste- less and insipid when in poor condition. The contents of the stomach of the reindeer are considered a great delicacy by the inhabitants of the Arctic regions. Reindeer Tongue, to Boil.—Soak the tongue in cold water for three hours. Put it in an airy situation till dry, then soak it again, and repeat this process three times. When it is to be dressed scrape it well, put it into a saucepan with as much cold water as will cover it, bring it slowly to the boU, and skim it well. Draw KEINDEKE TOMG0K. the saucepan to the side, and simmer the tongue until it is tender. Son-e on a neatly-folded table-napkin, and garnish the dish with parsley. Time to simmer, three ho\u-s. Sufficient for a small breakfast or luncheon dish. Relishes, or Hors-d'cBuvres.—Thisis the name given to small dishes wliich are handed round after the soup and fish, and are intended to serve as relishes or incentives to the appetite. They consist of anchovies, olives, sardines, oysters, pickled heirings, radishes, oiled salads, shell-fish, and dishes of a like description. Or, if hot, of pasties of all kinds, i-issoles, croquettes, sweetbreads. &c. They are generally served on small oval dishes. Relishing Sauce (for broiled bones, fowls, meat, fisli, &c.).—Put into a stewpan a table- spoonful of chopped onions ynih one of chilh vinegar, one of common vinegar, three of water, two of mushroom ketchup, two of Harvey s Sauce, and one of anchovies ; add to it a pint of melted butter, let it simmer until it adheres to the back of the spoon; add half a tea-spoontu* of sugar; it is then ready for use.( 727 ) Remoulade—French Salad Dress- ing.—This sauce is very much liko an ordi- nary English salad-dressing, and is used in the same way. It is also an excellent accompani- ment to chops or cold meats of various kinds. To make it, boil three eggs till hard. Throw them into cold, water, strip oft the shell and the white of the eggs, and pound the yolks in a mortar, with a dessert-spoonful of mustard and a little salt and cayeime. "When these ingredients are thoroughly blended, and the paste is quite smooth, add, first by drops and afterwards by tea-spoonfuls, three table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and beat the sauce well between every addition. When it is quite thick, add the yolk of a raw egg, and afterwards, very gradually, one table- spoonful of plain or tarragon vinegar. The flavour of this sauce may be varied at pleasure by the addition of a tea-spoonful of Harvey's Sauce, two or three pounded shallots, a very small piece of garlic; or chiUi, cucumber, or shaUot vinegar may be substituted for tarragon vinegar. The proportion of oil and vinegar used may be varied according to taste. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the eggs. Remoulade (another way).—Take the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, about a tea- spoonful of flour of mustard, rubbed up with three or four table-spoonfuls of oil; mix these ingi-edients well, and when they are thoroughly incorporated add two table-spoonfuls of vine- gar, and a little pepper, and other flavouring materials according to taste. Remoulade is much employed in making the salad known as mayonnaise. Remoulade, Green.—Take a handful of chervil, and half the quantity of chives, pim- pernel, and tarragon. Throw them into boiling water for a minute, and afterwards squeeze them in a cloth till dry. Pound them in a mortar, and with them a table-spoonful of made mustard, and a little salt and cayenne or white pepper. Beat this mixtm-e well with the yolk of a raw egg, and add, fiist by drops and after- wards by tea-spoonfuls, three table-spoonfuls of oUve oil and one table-spoonful of %'iuegar. Pass the sauce through a fine sieve, and if it is not sufficiently coloured add a few di-ops of parsley or spinach-juice. If preferred, a shallot, a sprig of parsley, four yoimg onions, and four capers may be pounded and mixed with the oil and vinegar instead of the herbs mentioned above. Remoulade, Indian.—Pound the yolks of three hfird-boilcd eggs, and season the paste with a little salt and a dessert-spoonful of currj'^- paste or powder. Add very gradually, first by drops and afterwards by tea-spoonfuls, three table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and beat the sauce between every addition. When it is quite smooth add one table-spoonful of vinegar, or more if liked. Remoulade is prepared in this way in the West Indies. Remoulade of Cucumbers (an ex- cellent pickle).—Divide the cucumbers into quarters, take off the rind, and remove the seeds. Cut the sections into pieces about an inch and a half long, put th(!m into a largo earthen pan, and sprinkle an ounce of sjilfc over each pound of cuciunbers. Let them soak for foul" hours, drain on a sieve until all the moisture has run away from them, then drj-^ them in the sun for one hour. Make as much remou- lade as will bo required to bind the pieces of cucumber together in the following proportions: —Take a handful each of tarragon, burnet, chives, and chervil. Throw them into boiling water for a minute, and afterwards squeeze them well in a cloth to free them from moisture. Put them into a mortar with, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, four filleted anchovies, a table-spoonful of capers, and a table-spoon- ful of immixed mustard. Pound these ingre- dients until they form a smooth paste and are thoroughly blended, then beat tiiem up with, the yolks of three raw eggs. Add very gradually, first by drops and then by tea-spoonfuls, half a pint of best oUve oU, and afterwards about three table-spoonfuls of either tarragon or chilli vinegar, beating the sauce well between every addition. Rub it through a fine sieve, stir the cucumbers into it, and put the pickle into small bottles. Cover the mouths of the bottles with bladder, and store in a very cool, airy place. Time to prepare, six hours. Probable cost of cucumbers, 6d. each, when in full season. Rennet. — Rennet is the name given to the prepared inner membrane of a calf's, pig's, hare's, fowl's, or turkey's stomach, which is used for turning milk. It may frequently be bought ready dried of the butcher, and then may be kept a long time, if hung in a cool place, and covered to preserve it from dust. When wanted for use, a little piece about two inches square should be soaked in a quarter of a pint of hot water for four hours, and the liquor thus obtained should be stirred into lukewarm milk. Rennet varies so much in strength that it is not easy to say how much will be required. Ordinarily, a table-spoonful of the liquor in which the di-ied rennet has been soaked will turn two quarts of milk. For people living in towns the easiest way of procuring rennet is to buy a bottle of the liquor, which is sold by almost all chemists ready for use. Rennet, however, may be prepared at home, as follows: —Take the stomachs of two or more freshly- knied calves. Cleanse them thoroughly from aU impurities, and rub them inside and out with salt. Pack them closely in a stone jar, strew salt between and over them, and cover them up. A month or more before thej"^ are to be used let them drain a few hours, and dry them by stretching them on sticks. Some farmers pre- pare the rennet as follows :—Empty the stomach of a freshly-kiUed calf, and carefully preserve the coagulated milk it contains. Wash it care- fully, and put the milk into it again with som .' salt. Tie the openings of the stomach witl string to prevent the contents esca]>ing, and ])lace it in an earthenware jar with half a pint of brandy mixed with six ounces of water. Cover the jar closely, place it in a cool situa- tion, and let it remain for one month. At the end of that time filter the liquor through un- sized paper, and preserve it in small well- stoppered bottles. Half a tea-spoonful of this fluid wnll coagulate a pint of milk. Rennet {nee Curd).( 728 ) REN Rennet (other ways).—For the preparation jf r»^>nuot thoro are niany rocipos; the following will bo found ono of the host:—Tako a calf'H stoniach-bag or maw, wash it clean, bait it tho- roughly inside and out, and let it lie for two or throe days. Hang it up to drain f(U' another two or three days, then re-salt it, and put it into a jar covered with paper, pricked with pinholes. It may be used in a few days, but keeping im- [iroves it. When priiparcd for use, a haudf ul of -sweetbriar leaves, of dog-rose leaves, and of lirauiblo-leaves, together with three or four handfuls of salt, ai-e boiled in a gallon of water for a quarter of an hour, and when quite cold the salted maw is added, together with a lemon stuck round with a quarter of an ounce of cloves. There must be enough salt to admit of some remaining always at the bottom undis- turbed, and the steep must be scummed as often as is necessary. " In Essex they practise another plan, which is to take the fourth or last ventricle of a calf, commonly called the bag, and opening it, they take out the curd, picking it well of hairs, which are mixed plentifully with it; then the}'- wash it and put it into the bag again, with a good quantity of salt, and keep it in a well-glazed earthen vessel till they use it, as follows :—If they first make cheese in the beginning of the spring, they boil salt and water together till the water is saturated with salt, and will dissolve no more, and steep the bag, having been first prepared as before, in it; but when they have made cheese (by rennet pre^dously prepared) they steep it altogether in whey well salted by boiling salt in it, and sometimes, to give it a high flavour, they boil spices with it. The aromatics are matters of fancy, and may either be used or omitted; some only prepare a quart of rennet from one stomach, and others a gallon, but the stronger the rennet the less will be required to the milk." Rennet, Gallino.—Gallino rennet is that which is made from the rough coating of the gizzards of fowls or turkeys, and milk coagu- lated with it is more delicate than it would be if common rennet were used. To prepare it, carefully preserve the skin of the gizzards when about to di-ess poultry. Cleanse it thoroughly, and rub it well with salt. Stretch it out, and let it dry. About the same quantity of skin must be soaked as is needed for ordinary rennet, and it should be laid into water the night before it is wanted for use. Rennet, Gallino {see Gallino Rennet). Rennet, Liquid.—Take twelve ounces of fresh rennet, cut small, and three ounces of common salt; knead them together, and leave the mixture at rest in a cool place for five or six weeks; then add eighteen ounces of water and two ounces of good proof spirit or rum. Digest for twenty-four hours; filter the liquid, and colour it with a little burnt sugar. Two or three tea-spoonfuls will curdle a q'lart of milk. Rennet, Substitute for.—It sometimes happens that no rennet sufUciently good for curdling milk can be obtained, hence various plants have been advantageously employed for this purpose. The principal of these are the llowers of the yellow ladies' bedBtraw used in England, and the eardown in Spain. A strong infusion is made of the down of the latter vegetable in the evening, and on tho succeeding morning half a ]jint is poured upon fourteen gallons of new milk, which h thus eifoctually coagulated, and in conaequence pro- duces a delicious cheese. Rennet Whey.—To prepare rennet whey, place a quart of milk in a basin surrounded with boiling water, till the milk is of a blood heat, or a little warmer, and then mix witli it a tea-spoonful of rennet; remove it from tlie warm water, and the milk will soon be com- pletely coagulated; then brake down the curd, and pass the whey through a strainer, which will leave the curd behind. This whey is always rendered somewhat whitish l>y a very smar. 'ind much-divided portion of the caseous part, but as a sick diet drink this does no Mnju: /. The whey, however, if it is wished, may be clarified. Put in a basin the white of an egg, a wine-glassful of the whey, and four or five grains of tartaric acid in powder; whisk these well together with a bunch of peeled twigs or an egg-whisk, and add the remainder of the whey; place the mixtui-e over the fire till it begins to boil. The tartaric acid com- pletes the coagulation of the white part of the milk, which remains; the white of the egg, as it becomes hot, coagulates, and envelops the caseous part. When the whey is clear, pour it off; some filter it through blotting-paper, but this is unnecessary, as it is easy keeping out that part which is imited with the albumen of the egg. Rennett.—" This is the common name, not only in English, but, with slight modifications, in French, German, and other languages, of a class of apple, including many of the most beautiful and pleasant varieties. Thej* are of a very regular and nearly globose shape; their skin has generally a rusty tinge, and often a kind of imctuousness to the touch; their flesh is finely granular, and besides being sweet and agreeably acid, thej'^ have a peciiliar aromatic flavour. They do not keep well." Restorative Broths.—Take one pound of scrag of mutton. Break the bone with a chopper, and put it into a saucepan with three pints of water. Add a little salt, a small onion, a small turnip, a stick of celery, and a table- spoonful of pearl barley. Let the liquor boil, then draw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer for two hours. Skim care- fully, strain, and the broth will be ready for use. The meat may bo 8er\'ed with parsley and butter or caper sauce. Suflicient for one quart of broth. Probable cost, 6d. per pint. Or split a calf's foot, and put it into a saucepan with two pounds of fresh knuckle of veal broken up. Add a large onion, half a small parsnip, a leek, a little s;vlt. and three quarts of cold water. Bring the broth to the boil, skim it, then simmer it gently for four hours. A (juartcr of an hour before it is taken up skim it once more, and throw into it a handful of cher\'il, ten large sorrol-lcaves, and a cabbage lettuce finely shred. Strain the broth, and it isRHO ( 729 ) BES ready for use. !Many invalids prefer to take this hroth cold in the form of a jelly. Time, four hours. Probable cost, 8d. per pint. Suffi- cient for nearly two quarts of broth. Or, take half a pound of lean beef, and half a pound of lean mutton or veal. Cut the meat into small pieces, put these into a jar with a closely- fitting lid, pour a quarter of a pint of cold water over them, and plac^ in a moderately- heated oven for half an hour. Take the meat out, pour over it a pint of water, and put it in the oven again for an hour and a half. Strain it thi'Oiigh muslin, carefully remove every particle of fat, and add salt and pepper to taste. These should be put in sparingly, as an invalid's tastes are often peculiar. Suf- ficient for nearly three-quarters of a pint. Probable cost, 9d. per pint. Time, two horns. Or, cut up a partridge into small pieces with a pound of the roll of the bladebone of beef. Fry these in a little butter till they are lightly and equally browned, then lift them out, and l)ut them into a dish. Cut two ounces of undressed ham into dice. Mix with it the red part of a carrot finely scraped, and five or six sticks of celerj' cut up small. Stir these in a saucepan with a little butter for three or four minutes, add the fried meat, a little salt, a pinch of powdered thyme, and three or four pepper- corns, and pour over all three pints of cold spring water. Bring the liquor slowly to the boil, remove the sciun as it rises, and throw in a spoonful of cold water now and again to assist it in rising. Let it simmer very gently for an hour and a half, poui' it out, and strain for use. Time, two hours. Probable cost, varying with the price of the partridge. Suffi- cient for a little more than a quart of broth. Or, take a chicken and cut it up into small joints. Put it into a saucepan with two pounds of knuckle of veal broken up into small pieces, an onion stuck with three cloves, six pepper- corns, and one pint of cold water. Boil the liquor quickly until it begins to thicken, and be very careful that it does not burn. Pour over this three quarts of cold water, and add two scraped carrots, and five or six sticks of celery, or half a tea-spoonful of bruised celery-seed. Let the broth boil, remove the scum, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer for two hours. Strain through a sieve, and the broth will be ready for use. Time, two hours and a half. Probable cost. Is. per pint. Sufficient for a little more than two quarts. Many physicians are of opinion that Licbig's extract of meat dissolved in a little boiling water forms by itself a most excellent and restorative broth. A small quantity is also a valuable addition to broth made from fresli meat. Restorative Meat Jelly.—Take three or four pounds of the knuckle of veal, the same weight of fresh-killed gravy beef, and one calf's foot; cut the meat from the bones, and chop them in pieces; lay them in the bottom of a f'to\vpan, and put the meat on the top of them ; then add as much cold water as will rise two or throe inches above the meat; let the whole simmer very gently for four hours, taking great care to remove every particle of scum as it rises iii the first boiling. Strain throutrh a fine hair sieve, and the next morning the whole of the fat can be taken off. Revalenta Arabica.—Under this name a preparation has long been sold as an empirical diet for invalids, uncommon restorative pro- perties being attributed to it. It is really nothing but a preparation of the common lentil. Its nutritive value is about on a par with that of good pea-meal, the constituents of 100 parts of each being as follows :— Lentil Meal or Revalenta. Water 12-70 Nitrogenous matter . . . 24*57 Starch 59-43 Fatty matter 1-01 Inorganic matter . . . .2-29 100-00 Fea Meal. Water 12-60 Nitrogenous matter . . . 25-30 Starch 58-38 Fatty matter 1-20 Inorganic matter . . . . 2-52 100-00 Revolution Cake (sometimes called La- fayette Cake).—Take a Savoy or Madeira cake which has been baked in a plain square mould, and cut it into slices a quarter of an inch in thickness. Spread some jam over these, and place five or six slices together, one on the top of the other. Whisk the whites of two eggs thoroughly, add half a poimd of finely-sifted sugar, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice or orange-flower water. Whisk the mixture until quite smooth, spread it evenly over the cake with the back of a spoon, and mark the shape of the pieces in which it is afterwards to be cut. Place the cake in a very cool oven to dry the icing. Two or three drops of cochineal will give it a rose tint. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient, one cake for three or four persons. Rhenish Cream.—Dissolve an ounce of isinglass and four ounces of loaf sugar in a pint of boiUng -water, and let the liquor stand until cold. Add the grated rind of haK a SeviUc \ orange, and one lemon, and the juice of both, j or, if preferred, the rind of two and the juice of I three lemons. Add the yolks of four fresli eggs and half a pint of light -wine, and boiJ gently, stin-ing all the time until it is on the point of boiling; pour it into a damp mould, and let it stand in a cool place till set. The flavour of this cream is often varied by the addition of two ounces of sweet almonds and eight bitter ones, which have been blanched and pounded, then mixed with a cupful of cold water, and allowed to soak for an hour. When this addition is made it will be desirable to add the yolks of two more eggs to the cream. Time to prepare the almonds, an hour and a half. Pro- bable cost, Is. lOd. Sufficient for a quart mould. Rhododendron, Yellow-flowered.— The Rhododendron Chrysantliomum, or yellow- flowered rhododendron, a native of SiberiaRHXT ( 730 ; RHO ini'iisod in hot water, like tea, is UHcd amonp the iSiboriiius as an enlivening beverage. In largo (luantitioa it prodiicoH intoxieation, Homo- times of bo outrageous a kind as to amount to actual deliriuni. A century ago it was used by the natives as a euro for rlieuniatisin, and subsequent trials elsewhere have proved that it is not without advantage. B-hombo, or Rhombus.—The rhomho claimed tlui attention of the discriminating fish caters of Rome by the delicacy of its flesh, and few tish would have been i)reforred to it had it not been feared that it rendered digestion difficult. Some intrepid stomachs, however, greeted this dish -without much re- pugnance when presented to them, fried, and sprinkled with pepper, in the midst of a seasoning in which pepper, cinnamon, coriander, benzoin, wild marjoram, and rue, heightened by a little vinegar, were mixed with dates, honey, cooked wine and oil. This boiling sauce was poured over the rhombo, but not before it had been enriched with garum, which we had almost forgotten—that inevitable brine which the ancient cooking genius placed everywhere, and whose prodigious renown ought to have preserved it from oblivion. Rtiubarb.—Khubarb comes into season in the spring of the year, just as apples are going out, and before fresh fruit comes in. It is therefore a most useful production, and it is •appetising as well as wholesome, and is ex- cellent for purifying the blood. The pai-ts of the plant used are the footstalks, and when these are very young they require only to be wiped with a damp cloth, and afterwards cut into suitable lengths before being cooked. When the stalks are fully grown and thick, the ; sidn should be peeled off. Early forced rhubarb, BHUBARB or champagne rhubarb, as it is called, is cspcciallv prized for its beautiful colour. When rhubarb is grown in the garden this variety may be easily cultivated by placing an empty sugar cask over the plant at the begin- ning of winter. As rhubarb possesses the quality of imbibing the flavour of anything with which it is cooked, and imparting its own flavour very slightly, it is most useful for mixing with other and more ridily-flavourod fruits in making pies and puddings. Rhubarb and Bread Pudding.- JJulter a pie-disli thickly, and c(jv(;r the buttfjm with a layer of bread-crumljs half an inch tliick. Place upon tliis a layer of rhubarb washed and cut into one-inch lengths, and sprinkle some moist sugar over the fruit. Fil) the dish with alternate biyeis of fruit ano bread, and be careful that the sides of the dish are walled with bread-crumbs; let bread form the topmost layer. Lay three or four little pieces of butter here and tln;re on the top of the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven. When time is a consideration the liread may be freed from crust, and laid in the pie-dish in thin slices without being crumbled. Time, half an hour to one hour, according to size. When the rhubarb is soft the pudding is done. Probable cost of rhubarb, od. to 8d. per bundle. Rhubarb and Lemon Jam [*ee Lemon and Klmbarb Jam). Rhubarb and Orange J am.—With a pint of rhubarb skinned, cut small, and shaken down, put three oranges, and three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar. Peel the oranges, and cut half the rind into thin strips, as if it were to be made into marmalade. Pare the white pith from the oranges, and cut them into thin slices, carefully removing the pips. Put the cut-up oranges, the rhubarb, and the requisite quantity of sugar into a preserving-pan, and boil the jam over a moderate fire until a little will jelly when laid on a plate. Remove the scum as it rises, and stir the fruit to keep it from burning. Put the jam into jars, and when it is cold cover in the usual way. Time, three-quarters to one hour from the time the jam boils. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. per pound. Rhubarb, Blanching of.—The advan- tage derived by blanching the stalks of rhubarb for culinary purposes are considerable. " They are twofold, namely, the desirable qualities of improved appearance and flavour, and a sa-vnng in the quantity of sugar necessary to render it agreeable to the palate, since the leaf-stalks, when blanched, are much less harsh than those grown under the full influence of light, in an open situation." Rhubarb may either be blanched by earthing up the roots early in spring, or by using earthen pots or covers, as in blanching seakale. Rhubarb, Compote of. — Champagne or forced rhubarb is much the best for this dish, so far as appearance is concerned. Wipe or wash, but do not peel the rhubarb, and cut it into three-inch lengths. For a pound of fruit boil a quarter of a pint of water with six ounces of loaf sugar for ten minutes, put in the rhubarb, and let it simmer very gently until it is tender without being in the least broken. Lift the pieces out carefully as they become done enough, and lay these in a glass dish. Boil the svrup for a minute or two, and pour it out to cool. Coloiu- with two or tlire(> drops of cochineal, and pour the fi>Tup over the fniit. This dish is an excellent nccompaniment to rice moulds or blancmange, and, owing to its brightRHU RHU ( 731 ) colour, adds greatly to the appearance of the table. When more convenient, the rhubarb may be baked instead of boiled, but equal care should be taken that the rhubarb does not fall to pieces. Time to simmer, ten minutes or more. Probable cost of rhubarb, 5d. to 8d. per bundle. Sufficient, one bundle for three mode- rate-sized dishes. Rhubarb, Compote of (another way). —Cut a pound of rhubarb into pieces half an inch long, and place these in a stewpan with six oimces of powdered sugar and a quarter of a pint of water. Shake the saucepan over a bi-isk fire until the fruit is tender, lift it out carefully, and pile in the centre of a glass dish. Dissolve in the syrup a tea-spoonful of isinglass or gelatine, colour with two or three drops of cochineal, and when it is cold pour it round the fruit. Time to simmer the fruit, ten minutes or more. Probable cost of rhubarb, od. to 8d. per bundle. Rhubarb, Compote of (another way).— The small forced rhubarb (Mitchell's Royal Albert) is by far the best. Cut about half a pound of it into pieces half an inch in length, which put into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar and a wine-glassful of water; set it over a sharp fire, occasionally shaking the stewpan round, and when quite tender pour it into a basin until cold, when it is ready for serving; should the syrup be too thin, add sufficient isinglass to set it, and when cold dress it pyramidicaUy upon the dish. Rhubarb, Compote of (another way).— Boil in a clean preserving-pan five or six ounces of good sugar "with a quarter of a pint of spring water. Cut into inch lengths one pound of fresh rhubarb stalks, and simmer them gently in the s^Tup, skimmmg if necessary. Take rhubarb of the same growth that it may all be sufficiently tender at the jsame time. Time, ten minutes to boil syrup, about half an hour to simmer rhubarb. Rhubarb Flummery.—Soak a quarter of an ounce of isinglass or gelatine in three table-spoonfuls of cold water for an hour. Cut up one pound and a half of rhubarb into small pieces, and simmer tliis in as much cold water as will barely cover it, until it is quite soft. Drain off the juice, put it into a saucepan with the soaked isinglass, and stir until the isinglass is dissolved. Eub the fruit through a sieve, mix the pulp with the isinglass, &c., and add four table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Sweeten according to taste. Stir the flummery over the fire for a few minutes, but do not allow it to boil, pour it into a damped basin, and let it stand in a cool place till set. Turn it out on a glass dish, and send it to table with custard poured round it. Time to boil the rhubarb, fifteen to thirty minutes, according to its age. Probable cost, lOd., if made with gelatine. Rhubarb Fool.—Wash and, if necessarj', peel the rhubarb, and cut it up into small pieces. Put as much an is to be used into a jar which has a closely-fitting lid, with as miich sugar as will be required to sweeten it. Set this jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it boiling until the fruit is quite soft. Rub it through a sieve with the back of a wooden spoon, and mix with the pulp as much cream, milk, or thin cold custard as will make it of the consistency of gruel. Taste it, and if not sufficiently sweet, add a little more sugar. Serve cold in a glass dish. Probable cost, 5d. or 6d. per pint if made with milk. Time, varying with the age of the fruit. Rhubarb Fritters.—Pare five or six rhubarb stalks, and cut them small. Beat a pint of flour to a smooth paste with half a pint of water, add a pinch of salt, a pint of milk, and two well-beaten eggs, then stir the rhu- barb into the batter. Put a large table-spoon- fal of lard or sweet dripping into a thick- bottomed frying-pan. Melt this, and when it is boiling hot, put in the batter by spoonfuls, and keep each spoonful separate. Flatten the tops of the fritters a little, and when one side is brightly browned, turn them over upon the other. When they are done enough drain them, and serve on a hot dish with a little piece of butter, a grate of nutmeg, and a tea- spoonful of sugar over each. Time to fry, three or four minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rhubarb Jam.—Rhubarb jam is most wholesome and useful, but it will not keep for a greart length of time like other preserved fruits. Peel the rhubarb, and cut it up into short lengths. Weigh it, and with each pound of fruit put one pound of sugar, the rind of half a small, lemon, chopped small, and a quar- ter of an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and chopped. Bring the fruit slowly to the boil, stir constantly, and skim carefully, then boil it rather quickly until it will set when a little is put upon a plate. Put it into jars, and when it is cold, tie these down in the usual way. If liked, the almonds may be omitted, and the juice of the lemon may be added to the fruit. Time to boil young rhubarb, about three-quar- ters of an hour. Old rhubarb, one hour to one hour and a half, counting from the time the jam simmers equally all over. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. per pound. Rhubarb Jam (another way).—Take as much rhubarb as is required, and cut it into small pieces; then take a pound of sugar to everj' pound of rhubarb, and let all steep together in a covered jar for three days. Take also as much ginger as will fill a wine-glass, fill up the glass with whiskey, and let it also stand for three days. Add the whiskey flavoured with ginger to the rhubarb, taking care to keep back the sticks of ginger. Boil for forty minutes, put into jars, and cover in the usual way. A wine- glassful of ginger and whiskey' is usually- thought enough to flavour seven pounds of rhubarb, but more or less may be used according to taste. This is a Scotch recipe, and said to be an excellent one. It is to be observed that the latter part of the season is the best time of the year for preserving rhubarb; it does not then contain so much water. Rhubarb Jam to Imitate Pre- served Ginger.—Take some young but( 732 ) RHU RHtT Uuck^ rluiburb, paro it, cut it into two-inch loiigLas, and woigli it. Tlaco it on di.shcH in a «in,'i:lo layer, and over each pound sprinklo tlio R-ratod rind of ono lemon and one pound of powdered loaf sugar, l.et it nMiiain twonty- foiir hours. The next day boil lialf a pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of water for ton minutes, pour into this the syrup from the rhubarb, boil it twenty minutes, and add as m\ ch grated ginger as will make it pluasiintly hot. Put in the pieces of rhubarb, and let them simmer gently until they are tender, without being broken, then lift thom 01'.. with a spoon one by ono, put them in jars, bui] the syrup five minutes longer, and pour it over thom. \Vhen cold, tie the jars down in the usual way, and store in a cool dry place. Time, two days. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. per pound. Rhubarb Mould. — Cut into small lengths as much young rhubarb as will fill a quart measure. Boil this with a pound of loaf sugar, eight bitter almonds, blanched and chopped, and the strained juice and grated rind of half a lemon, and stir it over a brisk fire till it is thick and smooth. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass or gelatine in two table-spoonfuls of boiling water, stir this into the fruit, and pour the whole into a mould which has been soaked in cold water for a time. Put it into a cool place, or upon ice, and when it is quite firni turn it out, and serve with Devonshire or other cream round it. Time to boil the rhubarb, about half an hour. Probable cost, Is., if made with gelatine. Rhubarb Pie.—Peel the rhubarb, and if it is very large divide it into two or three strips, and then into short lengths. Fill the dish as full as it will hold, sprinkle some sugar over it, add a small pinch of salt, and, if liked, mix with the fruit a flavouring of grated lemon- peel and ground ginger, or a little nutmeg, grated. Line the edges of the dish ^ath pastry, moisten' these with water, and lay a cover of pastry over all. Press the edges closely together and ornament them, then sprinkle a spoonful or two of cold water over the pie and dredge a little white sugar upon it; bake the pie in a well-heated oven until the pastry loosens from the dish. Serve either hot or cold. Time to bake, half an hour to one hour, according to size. Rhubarb Pudding.—Butter a basin which will hold a pint and a half, and line it with good suet crust rolled out to the thiclmess of half an inch. Fill it with rhubarb which haa been stewed for a quarter of an hour with a little moist sugar and the rind of half a lc>mon. Cover the pudding with pastry, rolled out to the same thickness as the sides, pinch tlio edges securely, tie the pudding in a cloth, and boil in plenty of water until done enougli. The water must not cease boiling. Turn the pudding out carefully, and cut a small opening in the top, that the steam may escape. Send sweetened melted butter or a jug of cream and sifted sugar to table with it. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cost, lod. Sufiicicnt for five or six per.son8. Rhubarb Sherbet (a wholesome and reir(mJung bevcrag*.).—Take as much young rhuljarb, winch has been cut into short lengths as will measuro half a pint. Boil this in a quart of water for twenty minutes, strain the liquor through muslin, and sweeten with five or six large lumps of sugar, which liiive hc.i-n rubbed ui)on the rind of a small lemon until the flavour has been extracted. Stir the sher- bet till the sugar is dissolved, and serve when quite cold. Probable cost, 2d. par pint. Suf- ficient for a quart of sherbet. Rhubarb Soup.—Take half a dozen sticks of fine young rhubarb, peel them, and cut them into short lengths. Throw these into a quart of good veal or beef stock, and add a moderate-sized onion, two thin slices of bread, and a little salt and pepper. Let the liquor boil, remove the scum as it rises, and simmer the soup gently until the fruit is quite tender. Strain it, and serve with toasted sippets. Time to simmer the soup, about half an hour. Suflicient for five or six persons. Rhubarb Soup, Sweet.—Boil half a pint of cut rhubarb in a quart of water, with the rind of haK a lemon and two or three thin slices of bread, till the liquor is pleasantly flavoured. Strain and sweeten it, add a glassful of light wine and a little cream, and serve. If liked, the yolks of one or two eggs may be used instead of the cream, but the soup must not boil after the eggs are added. Time, about an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rhubarb Tart.—Cut the large stalks from the leaves, strip off the skin, and di%dde the fruit into pieces half an inch long. With a pint of these pieces put half a tea-cupful of water, half a tea-cupful of brown sugar, a small pinch of salt, and a quarter of a nutmeg, grated. Stew the fruit gently until it is quite soft, then beat it with a wooden spoon until it is smooth. Line some small dishes or tartlet-pans with pastry, and spread on this a layer of the stewed fruit a little more than a quarter of an inch deep. Roll out some pastry, brush it ovey with yolk of egg beaten up with a spoonful of milk, and cut it into strips a quarter of an inch wide. Lay these across the tart. Lay a band of pastry round the edge of the dish, trim it evenly, and bake the tart in a well-heated oven. "WTien the pastry loosens from the dish it is done enough. Time to bake, half an hour or more. Rhubarb Turnovers.—Make a little good pastry, and roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Stamp it out in rounds from four to six inches in diameter, and lay upon one-half of the pastry a little yoimg rhubarb cut small or a little stewed rhubarb. Add sugar to taste, and sprinkle a little powdered ginger over the fruit. Turn the pastry over, pinch the edges closely together, and brush the turnovers with white of egg. Sprinkle a little powdered white sugar over them, and bake on tins in a brisk oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. Rhubarb Vol-au-vent. -In the spring of the year this makes a very inviting and( 733 ) RIB B.HU wholesome dish, and its quahtios puniy the blood, which the writer's food has rendered o-ross.' Cut about twelve sticks of rhubarb into fuus-ths of one inch, put it into a stewpan holding about two quai-ts, put over it a quarter of :i pound of sugai", and a table-spoonful ot water, set it on a sharp fire, stirring it; do not let it get brown, or it will spoil and lose its flavour; it will take but a few minutes to do. When tender, put it into a basin to cool; a few minutes before serving, fill the vol-au-vent with it, and serve cold. Rhubarb Wine.—Take fifty pounds of rhubarb, wipe it with a wet cloth, and bruise it well. The easiest way of doing this is to lay it on a clean table, and crush it with a flat-iron. Put it into a tub or bowl, and pour over it ten gallons of cold water; let it remain nine days, stirring two or three times a day. Strain off the liquor, and to each gallon put three pounds of loaf sugar, the juice of a lemon, and half of the rind. Put it in the cask with two ounces of isinglass, and leave it un- stopped for a month, then bung it up, and let it stand in a very cool but not damp place for twelve months, when it will be ready for bottling. A Uttle brandy may be added to the wine, if liked, but it is quite unnecessary. The middle of May is the best time for making rhubarb wine, as the fruit is then fuU of sap. Time, six weeks to prepare. Probable cost, varpng with the price of the rhubarb. A quantity of rhubarb at this time of the yeai ought to be got for very little. Sufficient foi about eighteen gallons of %vine. Rhubarb Wine (another way).—Cut five poimds of rhubarb into short lengths, bruise it, and put it into a bowl Avith a gallon of cold water. Let it stand for five days, and stir it twice a day. Strain off the liquor, and add to it four pounds of loaf sugar. When this is dissolved add the rind of a lemon and half an ounce of isinglass. Let the liquor remain for four or five days, until the fermentation begins to subside. Skim the crust from the surface, draw off the wine, put it into a cask, and in a fortnight bung it down. It will be ready for bottling in six months. If the wine feiment after it is put into the cask, it should be dl•a^vn off into another one. The addition of a little cun-ant-j nice will improve the colour. Rhubarb Wine (another way).—To forty pounds of fresh-cut juicy rhubarb- stalks, sliced but not peeled, put ten gallons of cold soft water, and let them steep two days, closely covered up. Take off the scum, press the juice out of the fruit, strain the liquor through a sieve, and put it to twenty-five pounds of good loaf sugar roughly broken. Stir it well twenty minutes, and when the sugar is dissolved fill your cask, put on the hung lightly, or cover with a tile, and when it has ceased fermenting, add to it three pints of white French brandy, and half a pound of white sugar-candy. 'Then stop it up well with paper pasted over the bung and sand upon that; leave the vent-peg out a day or two only. Let it stand two or throe months, then rack it off. Filter the lees perfectly clear, and return all into the etisk again, adding the thin yellow rinds of four ScviUo oranges, and six ounces of the best barley-sugar, dissolved with an ounce of isinglass in two quarts of the wine. Then stop up the cask again as before, and let it remain a year in a cool cellar; you may then bottle it, using the best corks, and fastening them with wii-e; seal with green wax, and when it has been kept nine months longer it will be excellent. Rhubarb Wine (another way).—Take three ounces of sliced rhubarb, one ounce of cardamon seeds, bruised, half an our.ce of bruised ginger, and a pint and a half of spirit. Digest for three days, and then add of any white wine, two gallons. Riband Blancmange.—Make as much blancmange as is required to fill the moulds. Divide this into as many portions as it is in- tended to have dift'erent colours. Many per- sons will prefer two colours, red and white only, others will wish to have also green, chocolate, and yellow. Put a little of the blancmange an inch deep into an oiled mould. Let it get perfectly cold and mm, then pour in a little of a different colour to the same depth. When this is firm, add a third, and continue until the mould is full. Put the mould in a cold place until wanted, and turn it out care- fully. The rose-colour may be produced by adding two or three drops of cochineal to the blancmange, chocolate - colour with boiled chocolate, green with spinach-juice, yellow with saffron or yolk of egg. The riband will be spoilt unless each colour is allowed to get quite firm before another is poured upon it. Riband Jelly of Two Colours.—Take as much clear, bright calf's-foot or isinglass jelly, properly flavoured, as is required for use. Be careful to use very pale jelly, or the colours will not contrast prettUy. Divide it into two portions, and colour one portion with two or three drops of cochineal. Pour a layer of red an inch deep into a damped mould. Let this get perfectly firm, then add a layer the same depth of pale jelly, and repeat until the mould is full. The moxild should, if possible, be placed upon ice as each layer is added. Unless this can be done the jelly will be a long time getting stiff'. Riband Wafers.—Pub three or four lumps of sugar upon two large fresh lemons until all the yeUow part is taken off. Crush the sugar to powder, and make the weight up to one pound. Mix with this three-quarters of a pound of fine flour, and add gi-aduaUy nine eggs, which have been thoroughly beaten, the yolks and whites first separately and afterwards together. Roll the pastry out tiU it is as thin as a shilling. Stamp it in roimds the size of the top of a tumbler, lay these upon well- buttered tins, and bake in a quick oven. When half baked, take the wafers out, roll them round the finger to the form of a scroll, and return them to the oven to crisp. Time tc bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Ribands, Potato.—Peel four or five large potatoes. Thi'ow them into cold water lor a few minutes, and dry them with a cloth. Cut them round and round into thin strips or( 734 ) BIG BIB ribiuula till tho coiitro ia romihod, uud fry thoin in plenty of boiling fat until thoy aro brightly browned. Drain thoni well, Bprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and Hervo very hot. Time to fry, eight to ten ininuteH. Sullicient for three or four persons. Bibs of Beef, To Carve {nee Beef, Ribs of. To Curve). Bibston Pippin.—The following is tho account of tho Rinston Pippin given in Lindloij's Guide :—" Skin pale yellow, russoty in the crown and round tho stalk, and mottled thinly with dull red on tho sunny side. Flesh palo yellow, firm, ci'isp. Juice saccharine, wjth a pungent, rich, and delicious aromatic flavour. A dessert apple from October to April, but it is generally in its greatest perfection when it has been gathered a month or six weeks. The Ribston pippin may be truly said to be one of the best, and certainly is one of the most popular dessert apples of the present day, as well known as the golden pippin and the non- pariel, and a greater number of trees of it are sold by nurserymen throughout England than of both those sorts put together. It was raised, according to traditionary accounts, from some pips which were brought from Rouen, about the year 1688, and sown in the garden at Ribston Hall, near Kjiaresborough, in the county of York." Ricardo Sauce for Game, &c.—Take any bones of cold roast game tiiat may be left from a previous dressing, chop tnem into small pieces, and dredge a table-spoonful of flour over them. Slice four moderate-sized onionb, and fry them in butter until they are lightly browned without being burnt; put them into a clean saucepan with the bones, half a pint of stock made from bones, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of Liebig's extract of meat, a crust of toasted bread, a glassful of sherry, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the sauce over the fire tiU done enough, rub it through a fine sieve, heat it again, and serve. Time, a quarter of an hour to simmer the sauce. Sufficient for six or eight persons. "SiXQQ,—Rice forms a most useful and valu- able article of farinaceous food. It is light, nourishing, easy of digestion, and cheap- It has a tendency to constipate the bowels, there- fore it is freely given in cases of diarrhoea. In hot countries it is very largely used. Of the varieties of rice, Carolina is the best, largest, and most expensive. Patna rice ii almost as good; the grains are small, long, and white. Patna rice is chiefly used for curries. Madras rice is the cheapest. In this country rice is greatly undervalued as an article of food. In times of scarcity it has been used as a partial substitute for flour. Ground rice is used for puddings, blancmanges, cakes, and custards. Rice should be kept closely covered to keep in- sects from it. Bice (a la Bonne Femme).—Wash six oxmces of rice, throw it into plenty of faat-boiling water, and let it boil quickly for five minutes, then drain, and cool it. Cut four ounces of 'itreaky bacon into dice, and fry these in a little butter until the colour begins to turn. Throw m the rice, dredge pepper lightly over it, and pour upon it a pint and a half of good broth. Lot it boil till tender, stirring occasionally to prevent it burning. Have ready half a pint of hot tomato sauce. Pour out the rice, mix it thoroughly with the sauce, and pile the mixture lightly on a dish in the form of a pyramid. Placic fried sausages round the rice, and servi; very hot. Time to boil the rice, about half an hour. Probalile cost, Is. 6d., exclusive of tho sausages. Sufficient for five or six persons. KICE. Bice (a la Milanaise).—Boil half a pound of rice as for curry, and dry it. Frj' in hot fat over a slow fire till it begins to colour, and guard very carefully against its burning. Mix with it as much grated Parmesan as will flavour it thoroughly, and add cold-dressed fowl, fish, game, or shell-fish, torn into shreds with two forks. Season with pepper and salt, and serve hot. Rice a la Milanaise is sometimes fried in fat till it is lightly coloured, then simmered until tender in as much broth as will cover it, flavoured with Parmesan, and served instead of soup. Bice (a la Soeur).—Wash half a pound of rice in two or three waters. Place it in a large saucepan with plenty of salted water, and boil quickly till tender, and in order to ascertain when this point is reached try the grains occa- sionally with the finger and thumb. Pour off the water, and shake the saucepan over the fire till the rice is dry. Add a slice of fresh butter, and a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and when these ingredients are mixed with the rice put in also the white meat of a dried haddock torn into flakes with two forks, and the whites of three hard-boiled eggs chopped small. Pile this mixture on a hot dish, sprinkle over the top the yolks of the eggs, which have been rubbed through a wire sieve, and mixed -with an equal quantity of grated Parmesan, and put the dish in the oven for a few minut«s till the surface is lightly browned. Serve very hot. Time to boil the rice, ten minutes or more. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bice (i la Turque).—No. 1. Wash half a pound of rice in two oi- three waters. ThrowRIC ( 735 ) RIC it into a saucepan of boiKnf? water, and boil quickly for tivo minutes. Drain and dry it. Slice an onion, and fry in hot fat till it i3 lightly browned. Take it out and fry the rice iu the same butter over a gentle tire, tui-mng it about continually to keep it from burning. When it is lightly coloured, pour over it thi-ee pints of good gravy soup, lightly tinged with sjiffron powder, and let it simmer gently till tender. Add to the soup a slight seasoning of suit and cayenne, a thickening of flour and butter, and as much grated Parmesan as will season it. Boil the whole gently for ten minutes, and serve as hot as possible in a soup tureen. No. 2. Boil and dry the rice as above. Melt a slice of butter in a frying-pan, and fry in this the rice, first colouring it slightly with ground saffron, and seasoning with salt and cayenne. As the rice will burn very easily, it should be fried over a gentle fire, and should be thrown in just as the butter begins to simmer. When it is lightly browned throw in two table-spoon- fuls of raisins, picked and cleaned. Serve very hot. The rice must be boiled until it is tender but unbroken. Rice (a I'ltalienne).—No. 1. Wash half a pound of rice in several waters. Throw it into boiling water, and let it boU until tender. Drain and dry it. Wash and drain a moderate- sized cabbage, and shred it finely. Melt a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, try in this four ounces of streaky bacon cut into dice, and add the shred cabbage, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper and sa).t. A clove of garlic and a sprig of fennel may be also added, if liked. Cover the saucepan closely, and stew the cabbage as gently as possible for three-quarters of an hour. Put in the boiled rice, stew the whole a quarter of an hour longer, and serve the preparation piled high on a hot dish with grated Parmesan or Cheddar cheese sprinkled over the top. No. 2. Boil half a pound of rice, drain and dry it as before. Melt an ounce of butter in a frying-pan, fry in this a moderate-sized onion chopped small, and add the dry rice, the pulp of three baked potatoes, an ounce of grated Parmesan or Cheddar cheese, and a little pepper and salt. When the mixture is thoroughly heated pile it on a hot dish. Lay on the surface some filleted anchovies or sardines, and serve immediately. No. 3. BoU and dry the rice as before. Fry a chopped onion with a spoonful of salad-oil or an ounce of fresh butter till lightly browned. Add two tea- spoonfuls of curry-paste and half a pint of picked shrimps, and stir these over the fire for four or five minutes. Throw in the boiled rice and one ounce of grated Parmesan or Cheddar, and serve the preparation quite hot. No. 4. Boil and dry the rice as before. Fry it in hot fat, and mix with it any remains of fish, meat, or poultry that may be at hand, being careful first to divide these into small pieces. Season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, add a spoonful of Parmesan or other cheese, and serve very hot. Rice, American mode of Cooking. —Take a nice clean stowpan, with a closely- fitting lid. Have ready a clean piece of white cloth, large enough to cover over the toy of the stewpan, and hang down inside neai'ly to, but not in contact with, the bottom, and thus form a sort of sack, into wliich put the rice. Pour over it two cupfuls of water, and then put on the lid of the stewpan so as to hold up the cloth inside and fit tight all round. Put the stewpan on the fire, and the steam generated by the water will cook the rice to perfection. Add more water, but only just enough to keep up the steam. Rice and Almond Mould.—Wash six ounces of best Carolina rice in one or two waters. Drain it and put it into a delicately clean saucepan with a quart of mDk, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, two ounces of sweet almonds, and four bitter ones, which have been blanched and pounded to a smooth paste. Simmer the rice gently until it is quite tender. Beat it for two or three minutes with a wooden spoon, and press it into a damp mould. Let it stand in a cold place for four or five hours. Turn it out carefully, ornament it with bright- coloured jam or jelly of any kind, pour a quarter of a pint of cream or good custard over it, and it is ready for serving. Time to simmer the rice, a little more than an hour. Probable cost, 9d., exclusive of the cream and jam. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice and Apple Cake.—Take half a pound of rice, boil it in milk till tender and in a thick mass, adding sugar, grated lemon-peel, and a cupful of peadi-water, or flavour with two spoonfuls of orange-flower water and one ounce of pounded bitter almonds. Stir the mixture well, that it may not burn. Peel twelve large apples, slice them thin, and stew them in a glassful of wine and a little water, adding some sugar and grated lemon-peel. Let them stew till they become a fine marmalade. When the apples and rice are both cold, take a cake-form, cover it thin with rice, spread the apples over it, spread rice again about the thick- ness of the back of a knife, then apples, and so on, the last layer being rice. Set the cake in the oven for a quarter of an hour, turn it out when cold, and send to table with punch or custard sauce poured over it. Rice and Apple Pudding.—Throw half a pound of nee into boiling water, let it boil for ten minutes, drain, and dry it. Spread half of it on a pudding-cloth, and lay upon it six or eight apples pared, cored, and sliced, the thin rind of half a lemon, and two table-spoon- fuls of sugar. Spread the remainder of the rice over the fruit, draw the cloth loosely over it, and tie it securely. Be careful to allow plenty of room for the rice to swell. Plunge the pud- ding into boiling water, and keep it boiling until done enough. It will be well to put a plate under it to keep it from sticking. Tirm it out carefully, and send to table with a small quantity of sweet sauce poured round the pud- ding, and more in a tureen. Time to boil, an hour and three-quarters to two hours. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Rice and Apples.—Simmer six ounces of rice in a quart of milk till it is tender and has absorbed the liquor. Sweeten it, and flavourRIC RIC ( 736 ) willi yrulwl uuLinof^ or f^ratod Icinon-rind. I'iiro eif^ht or ton Itiryo iipplos, quiirtur nndcoro thorn, aud liiy thimi in a saucepan with tho choppod rind and strainod juico of u largo fresh lemon, four table-spoonfuls of powdorod sugar, and a wine-glassful of water. Tjot tliein sitninor gently until they are tender, then drain theiu on a sieve. They must not be allowed to break. Spread the rice on a dish, aud make it slightly hollow in tho centre. Lay part of tho apples upon it, spread more rice over these, then add more apples, aud repeat until the in- gredients are used, and tho rice has assumed the fonn of a pyramid. Boil the juice which drained from tho apples to a thick syrup, and pour this hot over the whole. Garnish the dish prettily with angelica or with lemon or orange- rind cut into strips and stewed in the syrup. Serve either hot or cold. Time, three-quarters of an horn- to simmer the rice, half an hour to stew the apples. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Rice and Apples (another way).—Boil six ounces of rice in a quart of milk till tender; sweeten and flavour agreeably. Pare six or eight medium-sized apples, scoop out the cores, and fill the cavities with sugar, butter, and lemon-rind. Lay the apples in a thickly- buttered dish, and put the rice round them. Brush the surface with yolk of egg, and sift powdered sugar thickly over it. Place the dish in a brisk oven, and bake the preparation until the apples are tender and the rice is brightly browned. Serve hot or cold. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice and Apples (another way).—-See Apples and Rice. Rice and Apricot Pudding.—Wash one pound of rice. Drain it, and put it into a saucepan with three pints of boiling milk, a slice of fresh butter, and three table-spoonfuls of sugar. Let it simmer gently for an hour. Pour it out, and when it is partially cooled stir into it three weU-beaten eggs. Take a dozen and a half of preserved apricots. Halve them, simmer them in a little thin syrup for five minutes, and drain them. Butter a plain pud- ding mould, and sprinkle bread-crumbs over the butter. Place in the mould a layer of rice an inch thick. Put on this some pieces of apricot, and fill the mould with alternate layers of rice and fruit. Bake the pudding in a moderately- heated oven. When it is done enough, turn it out carefully, and serve with a good custard poured round it. If preferred, other fruits may be used instead of apricots. Pine-apple or apple are especially suitable. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, varying with the price of fruit. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Rice and Apricots {see Apricots, au Riz). Rice and Chicken—Wash half a pound of rice in two or three waters, tlirow it into boiling water, and let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour. Drain it on a sieve. Truss a plump young chicken for boiling. Put it mto a stewpau with tho rico, a slice of butter, a ])in('h of salt, six or (■ight ijciipcrconis, and small onion. Pour in as much veal stock or water as will cov(;r th(! fowl and the rice, cover the saucepan closely, bring tho liquor to the boil, then draw tho saucejian to the side, and let all simmer very gently until the chicken is dono encjugh. Take it up, and keep it hot. Strain the rico, and let it swell for a minute or two on a sieve before tho fire. Strain the gravy, thicken it with a little flour and butter, add a quarter of a pint of cream, and further season- ing if required, then heat it again. Serve the fowl in tho centre of a dish, with the rico neatly arranged round it, a little of the sauce poured over it, and the rest in a tureen. Serve immediately. Time to simmer the "jhicken, half an hour to three-quarters of an hour from the time the stock boils. Probable cost, 58. or more, according to the price of the chicken. Sufficient for four or flve persons. Rice and Chicken (another way).—Boil a chicken and a quarter of a pound of rice as in the preceding recipe. Drain oft' the rice, and beat it thoroughly till quite smooth with a slice of butter, a little pepper, salt, and grated nut- meg, and as much curry-powder as will make it a bright yellow colour. Spread part of the rice on a dish, lay the fowl upon it, and put the rest of the rice round it, leaving the breast uncovered. Make the surface of the rice smooth, and lay upon it a border of hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters lengthwise. Strain the gravy in which the rice was boiled, and serve in a tureen. Rice and Chicken (a la Creole).—Wash half a pound of rice in two or three waters, throw it into boiling water, and boil quickly until it is quite tender. Drain it, and put it on a sieve before the fire to swell. Divide two young chickens into neat joints convenient for serving, sprinkle over these a seasoning made with two crushed cloves, ten powdered peppercorns, and a pinch of ground saffron, and fry in hot fat till they are lightly and equally browned all over. Take them up, and in the same fat fry thirty small onions chopped small. As soon as the onions turn yellow, drain and put them into a saucepan with the fried fowl, and pour over all as much veal stock as will cover them. Let aU simmer gently together until the chicken is done enough. Put the pieces of chicken on a dish, thicken the gravy with a spoonful of brown tliickening, and pour it over them: serve the rice on a separate dish. The rice and the chicken should be stewed at the same time, that they may be suf- ficiently dressed and hot together. Time to simmer the chicken, about forty minutes. Pi-o- bable cost of chickens, 2s. 6d. each when in full season. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Rice and Egg Soup (a Danish recipe). —Make a bouillon, and strain it; set it agam on the fire with a quarter of a poimd of scalded rice ; let it boil till quite tender, then beat up the yolks of four or six eggs, and stir them in. The soup must not boil after the eggs are added. Send to table with toasted bread. Rice and Gooseberry Pudding Gooseberry and Rice Puddmg).BIC ( 737 ) BIO Rice and G-reea Pea Soup (a French recipe). Take ;i suflBcient quantity of rice, and wash it four or five times in moderately warm water. Add some thin stock, and boil for an hour and a half. When the rice is cooked, add, about an hour and a half before serving the soup, some puree of green peas, taking care that they are well mixed, and are neither too thick nor too thin. Rice and Indian Curry.—Wash half a pound of Patna rice in two or three waters. Drain it, and throw it into plenty of cold water, bring it slowly to the boil, keeping the saucepan uncovered, and let it boil gently until the grains are tender when pressed between the thumb and finger, but are still quite distinct from one another. The rice will need to boil about a quarter of an hour. Drain and dry it on a sieve before the fire. Take two pounds of undressed meat of any kind, or of rabbit, chicken, or fish, and cut this up into neat pieces convenient for serving. Slice two large onions, and fry them in butter tiU they are lightly browned without being at aU burnt. Take them up, and fry the meat in the same fat, moving it about to keep it from burning. Mix a dessert-spoonful of curry- paste, a dessert-spoonful of curry-powder, and a tea-spoonful of ground rice very smoothly with a cupful of milk. Fova this over the meat, and add half a pint of good stock made from bones, the fried onions, a little salt, and a clove of gjirlic, if this is liked, but the curry wUl be more generally acceptable if the garlic is omitted. Stir the sauce till it boils, and simmer all gently together till the meat is tender. The time required will vary with the nature of the meat. Put the pieces of meat on a dish. Lift out the pieces of onion, and stir into the curry the juice of half a lemon. Pour the sauce over the meat, and serve. Send the rice to table on a separate dish. It should be arranged that the curry and the rice shall be done enough at the same time. Time, altogether, about two hours. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Rice and Macaroon Pudding.—Wash a quarter of a pound of rice, and boil it in a |)int and a half of milk till it is tender, and has absorbed the liquor. Boil with it the rind of half a lemon or three or four bitter almonds, to tlavour it. Turn it into a basin to cool. Beat three ounces of fresh butter to cream. Mix with this three ounces of powdered sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of four eggs. Stir in the rice, and add the whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. Butter a pudding-mould rather thickly. Put in this a layer of rice, then a layer of macaroons, and repeat imtil the mould ifj full. Lay a buttered paper on the top of the pudding, tie it in a cloth, and steam until done enough. Turn it out carefully, and send raspberry or red-currant sauce to table with the {)udding. About three ounces of macaroons will be required. Time to steam the pudding two hours. Probable cost. Is. 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice and Milk.—Wash a pound of rice, drain it, and simmer in five pints of water till it forms a thick paste. Stir into it a quart Y of milk, add treacle or sugar, with flavouring, or, if preferred, pepper and salt. Boil for a few minutes, and serve hot. Time, five minutes to boil the rice with the milk. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Probable cost, 8d. Rice and Mussels (see Mussels and Rice). Rice and Onion Soup—Brown Soup.— Cut six onions into pieces the size and shape of dice, and fry them in butter tmtil they are nicely browned. Pour over them as much stock as will cover them, and let them simmer gently till tender. Rub them through a sieve, add to the pulp two quarts of good stock, put the whole back into the stewpan, with four ounces of well-washed rice, and simmer all gently together until the rice is tender. Add salt and white pepper, and serve. In boiling the soup be careful first to skim it thoroughly, and, after the fat is removed, to stir the soup frequently. The flavour of this soup may be pleasantly varied by frying four carrots, two turnips, six leeks, and a little root of parsley with the onions. TFhite Soup.—Mix six chopped onions with four ounces of soaked rice. Boil the whole till tender in two quarts of veal or chicken broth: season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of pow- dered mace. When the soup is done enough, stir into it one-third of the quantity of boil- ing milk. Let it boil up, and it will be ready for serving. Time, one hour and a half to two hours. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Rice and Parmesan, Pigeons with {see Pigeons with Rice, &c.). Rice and Pumpkin Soup {f^ee Pumpkin and Rice Soup). Rice and Tapioca Pudding. —Butter a pie-dish, and lay in it a tea-cupful of mixed rice and tapioca, a little more of the former than of the latter. Sprinkle over this two table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar and a little grated nutmeg, and pour over it three pints of cold milk. Place a piece of butter the size of a fourpeimy-piece on the top of the milk, and bake the pudding in a gentle oven. Time to bake, three or four hours. Pro- bable cost, lOd. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Rice and Veal Broth.—Put two povinds of the knuckle of veal into a saucepan, and pour over it two quarts of boiling water; add four ounces of washed rice, half a blade of mace, and a little pepper and salt, and let all simmer as gently as possible from an hour and a half to two hours. Serve the broth in a tureen with part of the meat, and send the rest of the meat to table on a separate dish, with parsley sauce over it. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 28. 4d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Rice and Veal Cutlets.—Take equal parts of cold veal and of rice boiled in milk till it is tender. Pound the ingredients in a mortar, first separately, and afterwards to- gether, season the mixture with pepper and salt, and a verj- small portion of grated nut- meg, and bind it together with yolk of egg. Foi-m it into the shape of smaU cutlets, brusli these over with yolk of egg, and fry in liotRIC (m) mc fat. Serve with piqiiant sauce, and Kond Btewod mushrooms to tahlo on a separate dish. Time to fry, till lightly browned on both sides. I'robablo cost of veal, about Is. 2d. per pound. SulKcient, half a dozen small cutlets for three persona. Rice and Veal Soup {see Veal and llico Soup). Rice and Wheat Bread (ice Broad, Wheat and Uico). Rice, Andalusian.—This dish, which is one very commonly served in Spain and Portugal, is valued as a tonic during the heats of summer, and is also recommended as a preventative of intestinal indisposition: it is peculiar, but the taste for it is an easily acquired one. Warm in a saucepan half a pound of best olive-oil or fresh butter. Throw in half a pound of picked rice, and one pound or one pound and a half of veal or poultry flesh, cut into neat squares. Add haK a pint of tomato sauce, or three or four fresh tomatoes, one or two chopped onions, a table-spoonful of shrea parsley, a pinch of powdered saifron, and a little pepper, salt, and cayenne. In Spain a clove of garlic is always added. Stir these ingredients into the warm oil, and let them stew gently for ten minutes; pour over them a pint of stock or water, cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer gently imtil the rice has absorbed the liquor. Throw the whole into a heated strainer for a minute to drain of£ any oil that may be left, and pile the rice, which will be a bright yellow colour, upon a hot dish. Hold a red-hot shovel or salamander over the top for a minute or two to brown the surface, and send the dish to table with cut lemons, that each guest may squeeze a little juice over his plate. Time, half to three-quarters of an hour to simmer the rice. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice, Apple.—Boil four ounces of rice in milk, with sugar and lemon-peel chopped fine, till it becomes tender. Peel and core six apples, let them simmer in sugar and water with the juice of a lemon till they are so tender that a fork will easily pass through them; then take them off and let them drain. Make in the same syrup reduced, a marmalade with four apples, which is to be mixed with the rice, and the yolks of three eggs. Spread this marmalade on a baking-dish; place the six apples in it in such a manner that the hollow part will be uppermost and even with the rice; bake them in a moderate oven. The moment before serN-ing, fill the centre of the apples with apricot marmalade, or any other preserve you please. Or you may make the foundation entirely of apple mar- malade, filling the apples with preserves when you place them in the dish, and masking the whole with rice. Rice, Apples (Souflle of), in {sec Apples, Souflle of, in Kice). Rice, Apricots with {see Apricots with Rice). Rice Beer.—The practice of brewing beer from rice is rapidly coming into use in Ger- many. The beer is said to bo of a very clear palo colour, and of an extn-mely pleasant mild taste, foaming strongly, and yet retaining well its carbonic acid. Rice Biscuits.—Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a ciciun. Stir into this four ounces of ground rice and two table-spoonfuls of pow- dered loaf sugar. Moisten t)ie mixture with a wc'll-beaten (!gg, roll it out, and stamp it into small rounds with a i>iuitry-cutter. Put these on a baking-dish, and bake in a gentle oven. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Suf- ficient for a dozen small cakes. Probal)le cost, 6d. for this quantity. Rice Blancmange.—Soak three laurtl. leaves or the thin rind of half a lemon in a quart of milk till it is pleasantly flavoured, or, if pre- ferred, drop into the milk a few drops of almond or vanilla flavouring. Mix a quarter of a pound of ground rice smoothly with a portion of the milk, add the rest gradually, together with a slice of fresh butter and a little sugar, and put the whole into a saucepan. Stir it over the fire, and let it boil for about ten minutes, or until it leaves the sides of the pan; turn it into a damp mould, and let it stand in a cold place tilL it is set. Just before it is wanted, turn it upon a glass dish, ornament with bright- coloured jam, or place stewed fruit round it, and if liked, serve a little custard -with it. The appearance of this dish may be varied by put- ting it into five or six small cups instead of into one mould, placing a piece of candied fruit upon the top of each one whea turned out, and pouring custard round the whole. Time, about ten minutes to boil the rice. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of jam and custard. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Blancmange (another way).—See Blancmange, Rice. Rice Blancmange (a German recipe).— Take half a pound of groimd rice and boil it in a quart of milk or cream, adding sugar, lemon- peel, and a stick of cinnamon or a piece of vanilla. When the rice is well boiled take out the spice and lemon-peel; dip a basin or mould into cold water, and pour the rice into it. ^^^len the rice is quite cold, turn it out, and serve with a custard or fruit sauce poured over. Rice, Boiled.—Take a pound of good rice, and wash it well in two separate waters. ^^^len the water is boiling throw in the rico. When the rice is three-i)arts done, drain the water from it in a sieve. Butter the inside of a stcwpan, put the rice into it, close the lid tightly, and put the pan in a warm oven, or by the side of the fire, until the rice is perfectly tender. Prepared thus every grain will be distinct and beautifully white. Serve with curry' or with any other dish. Rice, Boiled (a la Carolina).—Take a suf- ficient quantity of rice, and pick it free from rough grains and foreign substances, then wash it quickly in cold water, and hurry it to the pot before "the grain is at all softened. Aa to the quantity of water to bo used in boiling, there an^ two " modes. One is to put in twice as much water as rice, and .illow it all to beBIG BIG ( 739 ) absorbed by the grain; the other is to put in three or four times as much water, but to pour almost all of it off as soon as the grain changes from its pearly-white colour and gives proof of having softened. In both modes, when this stage of boiling has been attained, the pot is to be withdrawn from the hot fire and set where it will be kept at a low steaming heat imtil the water is all gone. The last process is called "soaking." Properly conducted, the rice comes from the pot perfectly done, of a clear white colour, with each grain Jinn and distinct and swelled to double its original size. Salt, of course, is to be added. Rice prepared in this way should not be stirred much in boiling, or it will become gluey; a large open fork passed through it once or t\vice will be sufficient. This recipe was furnished recently to the JFood Journal by a lady familiar from childhood with all the luxuries of a rice plantation. Bice Boiled for Curry.—Patna rice ought properly to be used for curry, but when it is not at hand Carolina rice will do almost as well. Wash half a pound of rice in two or three waters, drain it, and pick out everj' discoloured grain. Season two quarts of boil- ing water with a little salt, sprinkle the rice into it, and let it boil with the lid of the sauce- pan partly off for thirteen minutes. Drain it on a colander, then put it into a buttered saucepan, cover closely, and let it remain by the side of the fire until each grain is perfectly tender when pressed between the thumb and finger, but still unbroken. Be careful not to stir the rice while it is boiling, and serve on a separate dish. Time, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bice, Boiled, for Curry (another way). —See Curry, to Boil llice for. Bice, Boiled, Plain (Soyer's recipe).— Put two quarts of water into a stewpan, with a tea-spoonful of salt; when boiling, add to it half a pound of rice weU washed ; boil for ten minutes, or till each grain becomes rather soft; drain it into a colander, slightly grease the pot with butter, and put the rice back into it; let it swell slowly for about twenty minutes near the fire, or in a slow oven. Each grain will then swell up, and be weU separated ; it is then ready for use. Bice, Boiled, To Serve as aVegetable with Hot Meat.—Wash half a pint of rice in several waters until the water is clear. Drain it, and put it into a saucepan with a pint of cold water, a pinch of salt, and a piece of butter the size of a pea. Let it boil gently iintil it is tender and quite dry. Serve in a vegetable tureen. Or, wash the rice, and tie it loosely in a cloth, leaving room for it to swell to four times its bulk. Put it into boiling water, and keep it boiling until done enough. Lift it upon a sieve, drain it, untie the string, and shake the rice into a vegetable-dish. Stir with a fork to separate the grains, and add a slice of butter and a little pepper and salt. Time, with the cloth, an hour and a half; with- out the cloth, half an hour. Bice Border (a Danish recipe).—Scald one pound of rice, boil it in two pints of milk till it becomes a stiff cake. While still warm stir in a quarter of a pound of butter, four eggs, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Put it into the oven to bake, setting the dish in sand to prevent its cracking. This may be used round various dishes. It is frequently served with fish stewed, especially lobsters stewed with cauliflower, and has a very pretty effect. A little of the ]obster-butter should be mixed with the rice to givt it a fine red colour. Bice, Border of. — Sweet and savourj' preparations of all kinds are very good served in a border of rice instead of with pastry. This border may be made in a mould, which may be easily procured, as moulds are made on purpose for rice borders, or it may be formed with the hand. The latter is the more difficult process of the two. The rice should be boiled in stock or water, with a seasoning of pepper and salt; or it should be boiled in milk, sweetened and flavoured, according to the nature of the prepa- ration which is to accompany it. For a border of rice served with a fricassee or savoury stew of any kind, wash and drain a pound of rice, and simmer it gently with two ounces of butter, three pints of water, and a little salt, tiU it is quite tender, and has absorbed the liquor. A little onion or a slice of fat bacon may be added if liked. When the rice is done enough, pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste, cover the bot- tom and sides of a buttered mould with this, being carefiU. to leave a thick and compact crust in every part, place a piece of bread in the centre, and cover it with rice. Press it with a spoon, and smooth it, then let it remain until cold. Dip the mould in cold water and turn the rice upon a dish, mark the lid on the top about an inch from the edge, brush the rice over with clarified butter, and bake in a very hot oven until it is brightly browned all over. Take off the cover, now become an upper crust, remove the bread very carefuUj', fill the hollow with the preparation destined for it, lay on the cover, glaze the rice, put it in the oven a minute or two, and serve very hot. Filleted fish, lamb's and sheep's trotters, stewed oysters, sweetbreads, game puree, ragouts of cold meat or fowl, may all be served in this way. For rice which is to be served with jam or fruit of any kind, boil the rice with milk, and when it is tender, beat it up with butter, sugar, and yolks of eggs, then proceed precisely as above. When no mould is used, boil the rice as above, pound it in a mortar, then gather it into a ball: wash the hands in cold water, and mould the rice into a round shape, about four inches high and seven wide. Mark the cover an inch from the end, ornament the outside in any fanciful way, brush over with clarified butter, and bake in a hot oven. When done enough, lift oft' the cover, and scoop out as much rice from the centre as wiU leave the requisite vacant space, taking care to leave the walls firm and compact. Time, about an hour and a half to simmer the rice; half to three-quarters of an hour to colour the border. Bice Bread.—In this country rice is sel- dom made into bread by itself, though it mayHIC RIC ( 740 ) ho by tho following process.—Take enough rice- flour and put it in the kneading trough ; at the same time boil a due proportion of water in a eauldronand throw in a small quantity of ground vice, which must be boiled till the decoction forms a thick viscous substance, wliich is to be poured upon the flour, and tho mass is to be kneaded with a mixture of salt and yeast. Tho dough is then covered with a warm cloth and left to rise. As the foriiumtation proceeds, the dough, which at first was firm, becomes almost fluid, and seems totally incapable of being moulded by the hand. To prevent the inconvenience and loss which would onsuo from its spreading, a tin box is prepared with a handle long enough to reach the end of the oven; a little water is poured into it, and it is then filled with dough, over which are laid some cabbage-leaves and a covering of paper. The box is deposited for a short time in tho heated oven, ana then sud- denly reversed, so that the dough retains its place in the mould, and is converted into a loaf of the same form. The bread is of a fine yellow coloiir, as if it had eggs in it, and is very agreeable to the taste, but it must be eaten while fresh, as it loses much of its flavour on becoming stale. This bread is also useful to put into soups. B>iC8 Bread (another way).—Under the head of "The Rectory Recipe,'' Miss Acton, in her English Bread Book, gives the following, which she had received from " an admirable housekeeper," the wife of a country clergyman: " We have been for some time in the habit of using a portion of rice for our bread. We commenced this plan when flour was very dear, and we think the bread so much improved by the addition that now we seldom omit it. We generally bake two stone (that is to fjay, four gallons, or twenty-eight pounds) of flour; for this quantity we allow two pounds of rice. We first wash the rice, and then soak it for three or four hours in six pints of water. It is next turned, with the whole of the water, into a large tin dish with a cover (a Nottingham jar well tied down would be a good substitute for this), and put it into a tolerably hot oven for two hours, when it will be nicely swollen, and will have absorbed all the water. When it has cooled down sufficiently to be handled easily, we rub it into half the flour, in the same way that we should rub butter or lard into it for pastry, and proceed to make the bread. If we can procure good home-brewed yeast we prefer it to any other, and find a quarter of a pint sufficient for our baking; but we very fre- quently use baker's yeast, which we find we can depend on better than on the brewer's. It is a thin liquid, somewhat resembling beer, of which we are obliged to mix three-quarters of a pint with the dough. We add first to the flour and rice two small handfuls of salt, and then wet them up gradually with ten pints of warm water, reserving the yeast until they are toler- ably well moistened, when we pour it equally well over the mass, and beat it in well with the hand, and knead it about. This dough will be very lithe. We make it about four o'clock in the afternoon, and place it by the fire, or on the top of the oven, where it remains until nine in the evening, when three-quarters of a stone (a gallon and a half) more of flour is kneaded inta it, and it is left to rise until the morning, when tho remaining half-gallon of flour will fit it for the oven. It should bo put into large tins, and allowed to rise to their tops before it is set into tho oven. We divide it into ten loaves, which are baked for two hours. We consider that the rice renders the bread lighter, and prevents the crust of it from becoming hiird, and it materially increases the weight. The four gallons of flour, two pounds of rice, and sixteen gallons of water, produce forty-tvco pounds of excellent bread. " To improve the yeast and ensure its being good, I would recommend that three or four well-boiled potatoes should be smoothly mashed and mixed with as much hot water as will bring them to the consistence of batter, and that a small plateful of warm flour and the yeatst should be gradually added and well beaten to them. This done, the mixture must be plac(;d before the fire, and in two hours, or less, the whole bowl will be in a state of fermentation. Then is the time to lay the bread with it. It is a little additional trouble, but is a certain improvement also. Servants, however, will not often take all this trouble, and mistresses cannot always attend to such matters them- selves. " To give the essence, then, of this recipe: Two poimds of rice soaked in three quarts of water, and afterwards swollen in it for two hours in a moderately hot oven; to be cooled down a little, then worked into a stone (two gallons) of flour; two small handfuls of salt; a quarter of a pint of j'east of home-brewed beer (or three-quarters of a pint of baker's yeast), and five quarts of warm water to be added to them, and well mixed into a little dough. To stand near tho fire, or on the top of the stove oven, from foiir o'clock in the afternoon till nine in the evening; a gallon and a half more of flour worked into it, left iintil the morning; the remaining half-gallon of flour used in kneading and making it ready for the oven. This dough is di%aded into ten loaves, put into large square tins, left until it has risen to their tops, put immediately into a well-heated oven, and baked for two hours. The product of tliis recipe—forty-two pounds of bread. Rice Bread (another way).—^Wash a pound and a half of rice in plenty of water till it is soft. Drain it, mash it well or rub it through a sieve, and mix it whilst still warm with seven pounds of flour. Put the flour into a bowl, sprinkle an ounce of salt round it and make a hole in the centre. Mix four table-spoonfuls of yeast with three-quarters of a pint of milk and water a little more than new milk warm. Pour three-quarters of a pint of milk and water of the same warmth into the bottom of the hole, stir into this, gradually, as much of the flour as will make a thin batter, add the yeast, stir all together, and sprinkle a little flour over the top. Cover the bowl with a cloth, and let it stand for an hour and a half, or until the yeast rises in bubbles. Knead it up well till the dough ceases to stick to the fingers, and letfile it rise again for a couple of hours till it is quite light. Grease some tias, three-parts fill them with the loaves, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, one hour and a half to two hours, according to the size of the loaves. nice Bread (another way).—See Bread, Rice. Rice Bread (other ways).— Rice when made into bread is usually mixed with some other grain. The following modes in which it has been so employed with advantage are given by Webster and Parkes :—1.—The Americans make bread with it in this manner. The rice is thoroughly cleansed by pouring water upon it and stirring it, the water being changed oc- casionally, until all impurities are washed away. The water is then drawn off, and the rice, while yet damp, ia bruised in a mortar; it is then dried and passed through a hair sieve. The flour thus obtained is generally kneaded with a small quantity of Indian-corn meal, and is boiled until it has acquired a thickish consistency; sometimes boiled potatoes are added. The mass is fermented either with leaven or yeast, and the dough is then baked in pans. The bread thus prepared is reputed to be light, whole- some, and agreeable to the palate. 2.—Let a quarter of a pound of rice be boiled until it be (luite soft; leave it to drain on the back part of a sieve, and when cool, mix with it three-quar- ters of a pound of wheat-flour, a spoonful of yeast, and two ounces of salt. Let it stand for three hours to ferment, then knead it very thoroughly, and roll it in as much wheaten flour as will give to the exterior sufficient con- sistency to allow of its being conveniently deposited in the oven. After baking an hour and a quarter it wUl form a loaf of good white bread weighing one pound fourteen ounces. 3.— To one peck of wheat-flour add half a peck of rice-flour; let them be mixed and Imeaded with salt, yeast, and warm water, in the usual manner. Divide the mass, when fermented and duly risen, into eight loaves, and bake them. 4.—Boil a peck of rice till it becomes soft; let it stand all night in a pan; and it will be found ^eatly distended. Let a pecK of potatoes be boiled, skinned, and mashed to a pulp. Knead them while hot with the rice, and a peck of wheat-flour; then add a sufficient quantity of yeast and salt, and leave the dough to ferment; the mass may be divided into loaves, and baked in the usual manner. Rice, Buttered.—"Wash four ounces of rice, drain it, and put it into a saucepan with a pint and a half of milk." Let it simmer gently until the grains are tender. Pour off the thick milk, and put in two ounces of butter, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg, or any other flavouring. Stir the rice until the butter is melted and the rice is equally flavoured, turn it upon a dish, and serve very hot. Time, about one hour. Pro- bable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hice Cake.—The following is a very light nee cuke. Take a quarter of a pound of flour, six ounces of rice-flour, twelve ounces of sugar, twelve egcrs, and the rasiiiniis of two lemons; Koparate the wliites fi-om the yolks oi the eggs, whisk up the whites to a strong froth; then mix in the yolks, poimded sugar, and lemon raspings. "Wliisk this over a slow fire for about half an hour ; when it is quite light and thick take it off the fire, and whisk it till it is quite cold, then stir in the floui- and rice. Bake the cake in paper cases in a moderate heat; put four or five sheets of paper under them, and ice before baking. Bice Cakes^ Plain.—No l.—Rub half a pound of butter mto one pound of flour. Add one pound of groimd rice, a small pinch of salt, three heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder, half a poimd of sugar, one pound of picked and dried currants, and two ounces of candied peel. When the dry ingredients are thoroughly mixed stir in four well-beaten eggs and a tea-cupful of milk. Bake the cake immediately in a well- heated oven. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Time, ac- cording to size. "Wlien a skewer can be pushed to the bottom in the centre of the cake, and be brought out clean and bright, the cake is done enough. No. 2.—Beat four ounces of butter to a cream. Add half a pound of sugar, three beaten eggs stirred in gradually, a quarter of a pound of picked and dried cuiTants, a quarter of a pound of candied peel, half a pound of ground rice, a quarter of a pound of flour. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, bake im- mediately. Probable cost. Is. 5d. No. 3.— Rub six ounces of butter into three-quarters of a pound of rice-flour. Add five ounces of sugar, two table-spoonfuls of currants, a tea- spoonful of candied-peel chopped very small, half a small tea-spoonful of soda dissolved in half a tea-cupful of lukewarm milk, and three eggs well whisked. Beat these ingredients thoroughly for a few minutes, and bake the cake immediately, in a well-heated oven. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Rice Cakes, Rich.—No. l.—Beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Break ten eggs into a separate bowl, and whisk them thoroughly. Mix with them half a pound of powdered sugar flavoured with the rind of two lemons, half a pound of rice-flour, and the creamed butter. Turn 'the mixture into a buttered tin, and bake in a well-heated oven. Probable cost, 28. 6d. No. 2.—Beat first separately, and afterwards together, the yolks and whites of twelve eggs. Add twelve ounces of ground rice, four ounces of flour, one pound of powdered sugar, and any flavouring that may be prefeiTcd. Beat the mixture thoroughly, and bake as before. Pro- bable cost, 2s. No. 3.—Beat four ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Add four ounces of powdered sugar, the yolks of four well-beaten eggs, and gra- dually, four ounces of ground rice and the gi-ated rind of half a lemon.' Whisk the whites of two eggs to a firm froth. Add them to the other ingredients, beat the mixture rapidly for twenty minutes, and bake in a quick oven. If liked, the butter may bo omitted, and the cake will then be particularly suitable for an invalid. These ingredients will make a small cake. Probable cost. Is. Id. No. 4.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs thoroughly, and mix with them one pound and a quarter of powdered sugar. Jlix nine ounces of ground rice with nine ounces of di-ied floui-, add this in small iiiuiiititie.s at aRIG BIC ( 742 ) time to the sugar und oggs, and boat the mixture bctwoeu ovory addition. At least half an hour sliouldhe occupied with putting in the flour aud boating the cako. Add the whites of the oggs beaten to snow, the pool of a lemon finely shrod, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice. Boat the cake a quarter of an hour longer, and bake in a well-heated ovon. Probable cost, Is. 8d. No. 5.—Beat the yolks of twelve eggs and the whites of eight. Add a few drops of almond flavouring, and beat in three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar and one pound of ground rice. Boat the mixture till it is smooth and light, put it into a buttered tin, and bake in a quick oven. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Time, according to size. When a skewer can be pushed to the bottom of the csike in the centre and be brought out clean and dry, the cake is done enough. Bice Cakes, Small.—No. i.—Beat four ounces of fresh butter to cream. Add four ounces of pounded and sifted sugar, four ounces of ground rice, and one or two drops of any flavouring that may be liked. Add, gradually, first the yolks and afterwards the whites of four well-whisked eggs. Beat the mixture to a paste, and bake in a small buttered tin in a well-heated oven. Probable cost. Is. No. 2. —Beat four ounces of butter to cream. Add eight ounces of finely-pounded sugar, eight oimces of ground rice, and the yolks and whites of four well-beaten eggs. Drop the mixture in cakes on a buttered baking-tin, sift sugar over them, and bake in a well- heated oven. Probable cost, Is. 3d. No. 3.— Rub three ounces of butter into half a pound of rice-flour. Moisten the mixture with a little cold water. When it is quite smooth roU it out tin it is very thin, stamp it into small cakes, and bake in a quick oven. No. 4.— The remains of cold boiled rice may be beaten up with milk and eggs, and a little flour to make a batter, then fried in hot fat till they are lightly browned, and served for breakfast. Bice, Canadian.—Canadian rice is the seed of the zizania aqiiatica. It grows on the margins of shallow streams and running waters, and produce an abundance of wholesome fari- naceous grain. It is called in Canada, lake rice, tuscarora or mahnomonee, and is foimd in shallow waters from Florida to the Canadian lakes. It is regularly harvested by the Indians, this work being chiefly performed by their squaws; but it is not gathered in any quantity by the white population, although it is esteemed a great delicacy. It has been tried in this country, and it is likely it would succeed if it should become an object of demand: as it is aquatic, it can be cheaply cultivated. Bice, Casserole of.—Pick the rice well, wash it thoroughly first in lukewarm and next in cold water. Drain it, and throw it into a stewpan of a proper size, that it may swell with case: moisten with, some "pot-top" (fat). The broth must be previously drained through a silk sieve, that the rice may be ktjpt very clean. Mix it with a large quantity of grease some pieces of fat ham—in order to make the rice more mellow, and a little salt. As the rice must swell very much, use a sulJicieut quantity of broth to produce that ett'ect. La\' the rice on a very slow lire, and stir frequently that it may not stick. Taste it to ascertain whether it is well seasoned and done enough . then strain it through a colander, and move it well with a wooden spoon. Take oif the fat that issues from the rice and jxjur it into thi^ mould which you select for the casserole; when all the parts of the latter are well covered with the grease, drain it by turning the mould upside down, then put some rice all round the mould; put a piece of soft bread in the middle, and cover it with rice, squeeze it in equally with your spoon, and let it cool. When the rice has become firm, dip the outside of the mould into boiling water. Have a httle pate brisee, which frame the size of the mould, turn the mould over the paste ; make an open- ing with a knife in the top, and flatten the paste all round with a spoon ; then put it into the oven, which can never be too hot for a casserole, for if the oven is not hot enough the casserole is liable to break; baste with the grease, and when the casserole is become of a fine colour, take it out of the oven; open it gently, then cut the bread into small pieces with a penknife, that you may take it out without injuring the casserole; next remove the rice that sticks round, but do not empty it too much, for fear it shoiild not bear or resist the weight of whatever you intend to throw in. You generally put into these casseroles white and brown ragouts, blanquettes, eminces, fri- cassees of fowls, macaroni, and scollops of fish that have already been sent up to table, &c. &c. Bice Cassolettes.—The rice must be prepared as directed in the recipe, " Rice Casserole of," but must be put into smaller moulds, those called dariole or custard moulds ; and the mould must be buttered all round, or you may use the fat from the rice as above. IVIind that the cassolettes are to be quite cold before you take them out of the mould. The best method of filling up the cassolettes is to take a caiTOt, and cut it a proper large size, to make a hole in the rice; this hole you fill up with a mince of fowl, with bechamel sauce. This mince must be thoroughly cold. When you fiU up the mould with the rice, close it. without aUoNving any of the mince to be mixed with the rice, in which case the cassolettes would break in the dripping when you fry them. To prevent this accident, dip them in beaten egg and crumbs once, and put them into very hot dripping. It is to be observed, that in making cassolettes the rice must be made quite firm ; and that they require some- thing of a white colour to be added ; as a mince with white sauce, a mince of palates and of mushrooms a I'Allemande, or fillets of fish with bechamel sauce, &c. You may likewise give them a light brown colour in the oven, the same as other casseroles of rice, but frjnng is the best and the quickest way. Bice Caudle, or Bice Milk.—Soak two table-spoonfuls o£ whole rice in a cupful of cold water for one houi-. Strain it, and put it( 743 ) BIO BIG into a saucepan with a pint and a half of cold milk. Let it siinmer gently until it is so tender that it will pulp through a sieve. Put the pulp and milk into a clean saucepan, with a small pinch of salt, a little sugar, and a flavouring of lemon-peel, cinnamon, or grated nutmeg. Rice milk may be enriched by the addition of a little piece of butter, one or two beaten eggs, a glassful of wine, or a table-spoon- ful of bi-andy, but these additions should be made after the rice is taken off the fire. Or, mix a table-spoonful of rice smoothly with a little cold milk. Pom- upon this gradually a pint of hot milk, and boil the mixture till it is smooth, stii-ring all the time. 8weeten and flavour according to taste. Time to boil the whole rice, about an houi- and a half; the ground rice, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per pint. Rice Caudle, Savoury. — Soak two table-spoonfuls of rice in a cupful of cold water for an hour. Drain it, and put it in a sauce- pan with three-quarters of a pint of mUk and three-quarters of a pint of good stock. If tiUTiips have been boiled in the stock so much the better. Add half a tea-spoonful of chopped onion and a httle pepper and salt, and boii the rice till it is tender. Pulp it through a sieve, boU it up again, and serve. Be particularly cai-cful tiiat the milk does not boil over, and in order to prevent this stir it if necessary. A little of the fat left on the top of the broth, or a small slice of butter, will help to keep the rice from burning. Time, one hour to one hour and a half. Bice Cheesecakes.—Beat four ounces of butter to cream; add four ounces of pow- dered and sifted loaf sugar, two ounces of ground rice, a pinch of grated orange or lemon- rind, and two well-beaten eggs. Or, simmer a pint of cream with a little mace, cinnamon, lemon, or orange till it is pleasantly flavoured. Add gradually, off the fire, two ounces of ground rice, and stir the preparation again, over the fire, till it is quite smooth. Pom- it into a bowl, and when it is a little cool mix with it six weU- bcaten eggs. Stir it over the fire till it is thick like curd, sweeten, and add to it two ounces of blanched and pounded almonds. Or, beat four ounces of butter to cream ; add tour ounces of pounded and sifted sugar, four ounces of ground rice, the well-beaten yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, and a glassful of brandy. A little lemon, orange, or almond flavouring may be added. Or, wash two ounces of rice, and boil it in plenty of water tiU tender. Drain it and beat it well, then put it into a sauce- pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pint of cream, three table-spoon- fuls of powdered sugar, three eggs well beaten, two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and a little lemon or almond flavouring. Stir the mixture over the fire till it is thick, then let it cool. To make the cheesecakes prepare any of the above mixtures, line some patty-pans with good pastry, three-parts fill them with the preparation, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, lid. to 2d. each. Bice, Chicken Baked in {?ee Chicken Baked in Rice). Bice, Compote of.—Wash a quarter of a pound of rice, and drain it. Put it into a saucepan with a large quantity of boiling water, let it boil very quickly, leave the saucepan uncovered, and boil until the grains are soft when pressed between the thumb and finger, but quite distinct. Drain the rice, and steam it in a clean saucepan near the fire till it is dry. Spread it on a dish, sprinkle powdered sugar and cinnamon plentifully over it, and set it by for an hour. Just before serving squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, and pour upon it equal parts of light wine and water sweetened. Time to boil the rice, about twenty minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Bice Cream.—Mix a large table-spoonful of ground rice very smoothly with a little milk, and add more milk to make the quantity up to half a pint. Pour the mixture into a saucepan, with the yellow part of half a lemon rubbed upon sugar, a quarter of an ounce of isinglass or gelatine, and a little piece of butter, and let it boil gently for five minutes, stirring all the time. Pour it out, and when it is almost cold stu' into it a quarter of a pint of thick cream. Beat the preparation until it begins to stiffen, pour it into a mould, and put it in a cool place to set. Serve with fresh fruit, or with fruit-jelly reduced to syrup. Time, five minutes to boil the cream. Pro- bable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for a pint mould. Bice Cream (another way).—Simmer a pint of milk with a little lemon-rind or cinna- mon till it is pleasantly flavoured. Mix in a bowl two ounces and a half of ground rice smoothly with two table-spoonfuls of cold milk, and add the well-beaten yolks of four and the white of two eggs. Stir the milk when boiling into this, then boil it, and add a little sugar. Pour the rice into a mould, and set it in a cool place until wanted. Turn it out, and serve with fruit or custard. It is better made the day before it is to be used. Time to boil the cream, three minutes. If liked, the eggs can be omitted. Probable cost, lOd. Bice Cream (another way).—-iSee Cream, Rice. Bice, Creamed.—Take half a pound of rice, wash and pick it; parboil and strain; season with pepper and salt; pour over it a quart of soup or of good veal stock ; let it boil two hours and pass it through a tamis. Bice Croquettes.—Prepare the rice as for Gateau of Rice [see Rice, Gateau of). When it has swelled in the cream and is properly seasoned, let it cool; then roll it into cro- quettes the shape of a cork. Next strew over them crumbs of bread (by which is meant that you dip them first into beaten egg and next into crumbs of bread. HoU them several times in the crumbs in what form you please, and mind they are made a fine colour. When you have fried them of a good colour, you may glaze them on one side with pounded sugar, by using the salamander. Send up with fried parsley of a nice colour in the centre.( 744 ) EIC Bioe Croquettes (another way).—Take half a pound oi rice, aua boil it in a ([uart of milk till tender, add four ounces of butter, six yolks of eggs, and throe spoonfuls of sugar; lot those ingredients boil a few minutes, and then leave the uiixturo to get cold. If liked, a spoonful of oralnge-flowor water or grated lemon-peel may bo added. When quite cold, cut the preparation into the shape and size of sausages ; roll these in beaten egg, strew them with bread-crumbs, and bake of a tine brown colour. Rice Croquettes, Fowl, &c. {see Fowl with Rice Croquettes). Rice Croquettes, Plain.— Wash a pound of rice in seTeral waters. Dry it in a cloth, and put it in a saucepan with half a pint of milk, a quart of cold water, and a little salt. Let it simmer gently imtil it is soft, thick, and dry, then spread it on a dish to cool. Form it into balls or corks, dip these into the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and afterwards into bread finely grated, and passed through a coarse sieve. Lay the croquettes in the frying basket, and plunge them into hot fat. Turn them over that they may be equally coloured, and fry them till they are a bright golden brown. Drain them before the fire on a napkin or on blotting-paper, and serve them very hot piled liigh on a dish. Time to fry, five minutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for ten or eleven persons. Rice Croquettes, Savoury.—BoU half a pound of rice till it is thick, soft, and dry, drain it, and, if liked, mix with it when it is taken from the fire a spoonful of grated Parmesan, a pinch of powdered mace, and a little white pepper. Let it get quite cold, then form it into balls, inserting in the centre of each ball a spoonful of any savoury mince, such as turkey, fowl, rabbit, or oysters, stewed for a few minutes in thick white sauce. Cover the mince entirely with the rice, dip the croquettes in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them as before. The rice may be boiled in milk, water, or stock, and seasoned in accordance with the mince which is to be served \yiih. it. If boiled in water a few spoonfuls of rich white sauce stirred into it when it is almost dry enough ^viU greatly improve it. Time to fry, five to seven minutes. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Croquettes, Sweet.-Wash half a pound of Carolina rice, and throw it into boiling water for five minutes. Drain and dry it, and let it cool. Put it into a good-sized saucepan with the thin rind of half a fresh lemon, half a pound of loaf sugar, a small slice of butter, and three pints of milk. Let it simmer gently until the rice is soft, thick, and dry, then spread it on a dish to cool. Beat the yolks of two eggs briskly. Form the rice into the shape of corks about an inch and a half long, or into balls, then dip them first into beaten egg, and afterwards into finely-grated bread-crumbs. Lay them in the frying basket, l)lunge them into very hot fat, and fry them \ ery quickly until they are brightly browned. Drain them, sprinkle white sugar over them, and servo very hot, piling them on a dish in the form of a pyramid. Tlie flavour of th<; croquettes muv be varied by the addition of five or six pounded bitter almonds, or by the hubstitution of a pod of vanilla, broken in lialves, or a little cocoa-nut, pounded, for the lemon-rind. Both lemon-iind and vanilla should bo taken out of the rice when it in left to cool. The croquettes may be enriched abio by the mtroductiou of a spoonful of jam marmalade into the centre of each ball. The jam must bo entirely covered with the rice. It should be remembered that unless the rice is boiled till it is quite thick and dry it will be difficult to form it into croquettes. Time to fry, five to seven minutes. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice, Cultivation of.—The following is the mode of rice culture in Carolina:—It h sowed as soon as it conveniently can be after the vernal equinox, from which period until the middle and even the last of May is the usual time of putting it into the ground. It grows best in low marshy land, and should be sown in furrows twelve inches asunder; it requires to be flooded, and thrives best if six inches under water; the water is occasionally drained off, and turned on again to overflow it, for three or four times. When ripe the straw becomes yellow, and it is either reaped with a sickle, or cut down with a scythe and cradle, some time in the month of September, after which it is raked and bound, got up loose, and threshed or trodden out, and winnowed in the same manner as wheat or barley. Husking it requires a different and particular operation, in a mill made for that purpose. This mill is constructed of two large flat wooden cylinders, formed like miU-stones, with channels or furrows cut therein, diverging in an oblique direction from the centre to the cir- cumference, made of a heavy and exceedingly hard timber, called lightwood, which is the knots of the pitch-pine. This is turned with the hand, like the common hand-mills. After the rice is thus cleared of the husks it is again winnowed, when it is fit for expoilation. " In Europe the cultivation of rice is confined to the most southern regions. It is most extensively carried on in the plains of Lom- bardy, and in Valentia, in Spain. Attempts have been made to cultivate it in more northern parts of Europe, but without success. Marshy situations, where there is always the same abundance of water, ai-e not so suitable to rice, as those in which the supply of water is regulated according to the season and the growth of the plant. "In China rice is generally sown pretty thickly on very wet land, and afterwards transplanted to the land which it is finally to occupy. The plants tiller or spread at the root very much, so that each sends up several or many stalks. The rice grounds arc carefully kept Clear of weeds, although often so wet that a man cannot walk in them without sinking to the knees. In many parts of China, and in other warm countries it is common to obtain two crops of rice in a year."RIO ( 746 ) RIO Rice Cups.—Sweeten a pint of milk, and flavour with cinnamon or lemon-rind. Mix two tiiblf-spoonfuls of ground rice smoothly w ith a little cold milk, add the well-beaten w hites of thiee eggs, and mix in the boiling milk. Stir the preparation over the fire until it is thick and smooth, then pour it into tea-cups which have been soaked in cold water. Turn tlic rice out of these when cold, and pour rttund the little shapes a custard made with the yolks of the eggs. Put a spoonful of bright-coloured jam or jelly upon each mould by way of ornament. If eaten cold, any fruit syrup may be used instead of sauce. Time, three or four minutes to boil the rice. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Rice, Curried.—Slice an onion, fry it in hot fat till soft, and rub it through a sieve. Mix smoothly with the pulp a table-spoonful of cuiTy-powder, a table-spoonful of curry-paste, an oimce of butter, three table-spoonfuls of cream, and a little salt. Have ready half a pound of rice boiled as for curry. Put this into a saucepan with the prepared paste. Mix thoroughly and lightly, and serve very hot, piled high on a dish. In mixing the rice be care- ful to toss it lightly with two forks; to use a spoon would crush it. Macaroni may be curried in the same way. Time, eight or ten minutes to mix and beat the rice. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Custard.—Blanch six bitter almonds, and pound them to paste Avith two table-spoon- fuls of rose-water, or, failing this, with a little water, to keep them from oiling. Mix an ounce of ground rice smoothly with a spoonful of cold milk, and add a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, the almonds, and a little sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire imtil it is lukewarm, then add gradually the yolks of three eggs. Stir the custard again until it begins to thicken, but it must not boil. Serve in cups with blanched and chopped almonds sprinkled on the top. Time to prepare, about half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d., with cream at Is. 6d. per pint. Sufficient for a little more than a pint and a half of custard. Rice Custard (another way).—Take a quart of milk and about one ounce of ground rice. Boil the milk with the ground rice until it thickens, and sweeten with sugar. Beat up four or six eggs, and add these to the prepara- tion when it has cooled a little; add also an ounce of sweet almonds pounded. Stir the custard over the fire till it is nearly boiling. Rice-flour Bread.—Take one pint of rico, and boil it soft ; add a pint of cream, and then three quarts of rice flour. Put the pre- paration to rise in a tin or earthen vessel till it has risen enough. Next divide it into three parts, and bake these like other bread into three large loaves ; or scald the flour, and when it is cold mix half whoat-flour or com. This bread should be raised with leaven in the usual way. {.See also Rice Bread.) Rice-flour Bread (another way).—Take one quart of rice-flour, make it into a stiff pap by wetting it witli hot water: not so hot, how- ever, a.s to make it lumpy. When the flour is Y* well wet, add boiling water, say two or throo quarts; stir continually till it boils; v/hcn it cools, put in half a pint of yeast and a little salt; knead in as much wheat-flour as will make it a proper dough for bread; put it to rise, and when risen add a little more wheat- flour. Let it stand for half an hour in a warm place, then bake. Rice-flour. Bread Adulterated with. —It is assertea that this adulteration is very frequentl)'^ practised. The purpose for which rice-flour is employed is to enable the bread to absorb and retain a larger quantity of water than it would otherwise do, and so cause it to weigh more. This iniquitous purpose is accom- plished through the absorbent power of rice for water. In a loaf adulterated with rice-flour the consumer is cheated of a certain amount of nutritious wheat farina, the place of which is supplied by water. Rice-flour Cakes.—Take a pint of soft- boiled rice and half a pint of milk-and-water ; add to this twelve spoonfuls of rice-flour. Divide the mixture into small cakes, and bake in a quick oven. Rice-flour for Thickening Soups and Sauces.—Mix pounded spices, salt and pepper, or sugar with rice-flour, and make it into a smooth paste by adding gradually as much cold liquor as is needed. Beat with the back of a wooden spoon till no lumps remain, and pour the liquor to be thickened gradually over it, boiling. Return the liquor to the sjiucepan, boil it again, and stir over the fire for ten minutes. Two small table-spoonfuls of rice-flour will thicken a quart of soup. Rice-flour, or Ground Rice, to Make.—Wash any quantity of rice in several waters, drain, and pound it whilst damp to powder in a mortar, dry it, and pass it through a fine sieve. Rice-flour thus made at home, though perhaps superior to that offered for sale, yet involves a good deal of labour and trouble in its preparation. Rice-fl9ur Pufis.—Take a pint of flour, and add to it a tea-spoonful of salt and a pint of boiling water. Beat up four eggs, stir them into the mixture, put from two to three spoon- fuls of lard into a pan, make it boiling hot, and fry as in the case of common fritters. Rice-flour Soup.—Mix a quarter of a pound of rice-flour very smoothly with a cupful of nicely-seasoned veal stock. Pour over it a quart of the same stock boiling hot, and stir the soup over the fire for ten minutes after it boils. A quarter of a pint of cream or milk may bo added, if liked. When the cream is omitted, the addition of a dessert-spoonful of curry- powder and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice will improve this soup to the taste of many. Time, ten minutes to boil after the rice-flour is added. Rice Flummery. — Mix two table- spoonfuls of ground rice to a smootli paste with cold milk, and stir into it a pint of boiling milk which has been sweetened and flavoured with a quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds bl-mchcd and pounded. Boil the mixture, stii-( 746 ) KIC Bid coustuntly until it leaves the bottom of the sHucopiin, thi'n pour it into a mould. Whon it is quite cold and still", turn it out, and stick all over it blanched sweet almonds cut into straws. Pour cream or tliin custiud round the lluiumory, or a aauco made witli wim^, lemon-juice, and suf^ar. If preferred, cinnamon, lemon-rind, or vanilla may be used to flavour the llummery instead of almonds. Time, about U;u minutes to boil the rice. I'robablo cost, exclusive of tlio sauce, 6d. Suflicient for a pint mould. Bice Food, Savoury.—The following recipe we extract from iSoycr's " C!haritable Cookery." The ingredients are si.x pounds of bones, ten quarts of water, throe ounces of salt, bay-leaves, &c., two onions cut thin, half an ounce of sugar, half a pound of vegetables cut small, half a pound of oatmeal, a pound of rice, and two ounces of dripping. " Having saved the bones of the previous day, a very good food may be made thus:—Take six pounds of bones, which break into small pieces, and boil in ten quarts of water for four houi-s, having added thi'ee ounces of salt, a small bunch of thyme, bay-leaf, and savory; put into a stewpan the fat, and two onions cut thin, half a pound of vegetables—as carrots, turnips, celery, &c.—cut very thin, and half an ounce of sugar; put it on the tire for tiftccn minutes, stirring it occasionally, add half a pound of oat- meal, and mbc well, moisten with two gallons of the stock from the bones, add a pound and a quarter of rice previously soaked; boil till tender, and serve." Rice for Curried Oysters aad Similar Dishes.—Wash a quarter of a jiouud of lice in two oi' three waters-. Drain it, thi'ow it into <i saucepan of fast-boiling water, and let it boil quickly for ten minutes. Drain it again, and boil it in thi'ce-quarters of a pint of milk till the grains are tender with- out being broken. Drain, dry it on a sieve, tossing it lightly with two forks, to separate the gi'ains, and serve hot. Time, from ten to fifteen minutes to boil the rice in the milk. Probable cost, 2hd. Sufficient for four or five persons. (See also Rice boiled for Curry.) Bice for a Pilau Pilau, Rice for a). Rice, Fowl Boiled with, {sec Fowl Boiled, &c.). Rice. Fowl Stewed in.—Take a fowl, half boil it in a nujdcrate quantity of water, then put to it a (|uarter of a pound of rice with some mace. Stew the fowl till it beeoiues tender. Some well-seas(jiu;d veal brotli added during the stewing will make the dish more savoury. Take care to stew the fowl till it beconu's tender; it nmst not, however, be too nnich .stewed, or it will full to pieces and lose its foi-m. Rice, Fowl with {mr. Fo^\•l ^^•ith Rice). Rice Fritters.—Boil three ounces of rice in a pint of new milk till it fonns a stiff paste. Sweeten it, flavour with gi-aled lenum-rind, or powdered ciiniamon, mace, or niitinesr, and boat il up witli twfi table-spoonfuls of cream. tw.> eggs, and a spoonful of bnmdy, if liked. liOt the rice get cold, and form it into balk iilxjut im large as nuts; dip theue in egg, roll in bread-crumbs, and fry (juickly. When the balls are nicely browned, pile them on a white doily, strew sifted sugar over them, and nvrvii hot. S(;nd wine sauce to table with them. (Jr, boil three ounces of rice in a ])int of milk to a stiff paste. Sweeten and flavour it, and mix with it two well-beaten eggs, an ounce of fresh butter, and two table- spoonfuls of orange mannabide. Stir it over the tire till the eggs are set, then spread it on a dish to cool. Cut it into narrow strips the length and thickness of a finger, dip these into frying-batter, and fry in hot fat till they aie brightly browned. Powder sugar over them, and serve on a napkin. The batter may be made as follows: —I\Ielt an ounw; of butter in half a quarter of a pint of boiling milk, and cool it by adding an equal quantity of cold water. Stir in gradually four ounces of flour, and beat the mixture till it is smooth. Add the well-whisked white of an egg, and Uhc immediately. Or, mix a quarter of a pound of ground rice smoothly with a pint of milk, and add a pinch of salt and three table-spoon- fuls of sugar. Stir the mixture over the tire till it leaves the saucepan with the spoon, then pour it out, and when cold add two table- spoonfuls of flour, three eggs, and a little flavoui'ing, and beat the mixture till smooth. Pry it in spoonfuls in hot fat. WTien the fritters are nicely bi'owned, drain them on a sieve, and serve on a neatly-folded mipkin, with powdered sugar sifted over them. Time to fry, six or seven minutes. Sufficient foi- five I or six persons. I Rice Froth.—Wash a qutirler of a pouiiu of rice, and boil it in a pint of water until t he liquor is absorbed. Pom- over the rice a quart of milk, and let it boil gently till it is tender. Stir frequently to keep it from burning. Sweeten and flavour -w-ith lemon or almond flavoui-ing. If the flavouring is an essence, it should be dropped upon the sugar; if lemon- rind or almonds are used, they should be boiled with the milk. Put the rice and milk when cold into a glass dish. Beat the whites of three eggs to froth, and mix with them a dessert- spoonful of powdered and sifted sugar. La>- this on the rice, and place on the top in spoon- fuls a quarter of a pound of raspbeny jam. Rice Froth (another way.)—To one-tliinl of a j)0\md of rice allow one quart of new milk, the whites of three eggs, three ounces of loaf sugar finely-pounded, a stick of cinnamon, or eight or ten di'ops of almond fljtvouring, or si.x or eight young lam-el-leave,«, and a quarter of h l)<)und of raspberry jam. Boil the rice in a jiini of water. When the rice is iilj-sorhed. add the milk, and let it go on boiling until quite tender, keejiing it stirred to prevent burning. If cin- namon or laur(>l-leavcs are used, boil thc-m with the milk, iind remove them when the rice is .sufficiently done; if essence of Mlmnnds be used as a flavouring, it may be added with the sugar. When the rice-milk is cold, put it into a glass di.sh or china bowl, beat u]> the whites of the (>gg8 to froth, sweeten lightly. ' cover the rice with it, and sti<!k >)its of r isp-HlC BIC Ih ti y jiun over the top. This is a cheap and an orniiinental dish. Rice, Gatoau of (rice cake).—Prepare the; rice as directed in the recipe, " Kice, Casse- role of," then take some good cream, which first boil to ascertain that it will not curdle; the quantity must be proportionate to the size of the 'mould you intend to use. For a quarter of a pound of rice take a quart of cream, which, however, is not always sufficient; this depends on the rice swelling more or less; if Tiocessiiry, add a little milk to it. When the cream has boiled, take the peel of a lemon, which infuse in the cream for a quarter of an hour; take the peel out before you poiir in the rice, which lay on a very slow fire till it bursts or swells; when well swollen, add a little salt and some sugar, according to your own palate ; the sugar, however, must predominate, the salt being only intended to remedy the insipid taste that is inseparable from sweet entremets. Sugar must entirely predominate in articles for a des- sert, but in entremets it is to be used moderately. "When the rice is done enough, and properly seasoned, break eight eggs, and mix the yolks with the lice; next beat the whites, which pour gently into the preparation; put also a good bit of butter ; then clarifj'^ about a quarter of a jjound of butter, and when it is completely melted pour it into the mould; turn the mould round that the butter may be spread equally on all sides, then turn it upside down for a moment; then put crumbs of bread into the mould, and contrive to have them likewise spread equally all over it; now dip a small j)iece of bread into the butter, sprinkle some • larified butter all round the inside of the mould, ynd put some moie crumbs of bi'ead. Pour the rice into the mould, and put it into the oven, but mind that it must not be tooliot. In an hour the cake will be baked enough. Turn it upside down in the dish, and send to table. You may sometimes put with it preserved (jherries, raisins, currants, &c. Rice Gratine (M. Ude's recipe).—Take two ounces of rice, which wash and pick, &c. Then let it swell in hot milk—as cream, when used for entremets of this sort, would turn to butter. When the rice is well done, pound half a dozen sweet almonds and the same quan- tity of bitter ones; when you have made them into a paste, rub them through a tamis, and mix them with the rice, a little sugar, and a very little salt. Then put the rice into a silver pan or porringer, or silver casserole, and leave it to gratin on a slow fire for three-quarters of an hour or more. Instead of using the lid, only cover the pan with a sheet of paper, to keep out the dust and the steam. Serve hot. If you put a cover to it, the steam will prevent its being gratined. Glaze it with pounded sugar by means of the salamander. If it is properly gratined it is a very good dish for family use. Rice, Ground (see Ground Rice, various recipes, also Rice Flour). . Rice, Ground, and Cranberry Jelly >{»e>! Craiiborry and Ground Rice Jelly). Rice, Ground, Soufflee of.—Mix aii ounce and a half of ground rice with an ounce of butter, an ounce of sugar, a pinch of salt, and a gill of milk. Stir over the tire until w(dl cooked. Cool, add the yolks of three and the whisked whites of four eggs. Steam as usual. {See Soufflees.) Rice Gruel (Invalid Cookery).—Take a spoonful of ground rice, and with it thicken a pint of milk or water. Mix it in the same way as oatmeal gruel; boil with a bit of dried orange-peel or lemon-peel and a bit of cin- namon. Boil for about ten minutes, sweeten with loaf-sugar, and add two glassfuls of port or one of brandy, as may be required. This is a good gruel for bowel complaints, but arrow- root is better. Rice in a Mould.—Wash and diain a large cupful of the best Carolina rice. Put it into a saucepan with a piece of cinnamon, a bay- leaf, or the rind of half a lemon, and pour over it a cupful of cold water. Let it boil, then add two cupfuls of thin cream or good milk, and let the rice simmer gently until it is quite soft. Take out the flavouring ingredients, sweeten the rice, and beat well for three or four minutes. Press it into a damp mould, and let it remain untU cold and stiff. Turn it out, garnish with preserved fruit or jelly of any kind, and pour a little thin custard round it. It is an excellent plan to put the rice, milk, &c., into an earthenware jar, to put this into a pan of boiling water, and steam until done enough. When prepared in this way the rice is less likely to buni and to become discoloured than when boiled in the saucepan, but caie must be taken to keep a plentiful supply of boiling water lound it. It take longer to steam than to boil it. Instead of putting the rice into a plain mould, it may be pressed into a cj'lindrical mould, and the centre may be filled with custard; or it may be made into several little moulds, a little jam may be placed upon each, and custard poured round. The rice is excellent without custard. Probable cost of rice, only when made with milk, 7d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Time, one hoiu- and a half to two hours. Rice, Indian Mode of Boiling.— Wash a pound of rice, pick out the discoloured grains, and soak it for a quarter of an hour" Drain, and put it into a saucepan with as much boiling water as will thoroughly cover it. Cover the saucepan, let the rice boil for six minutes, add a quarter of a pint of milk, and boil two minutes longer. Strain the rice, and return it to the saucepan to dry. Pour over it half an ounce of butter dissolved in a spoonful of the water in which the rice was boiled. In five minutes it will be ready for 8er^•ing. .1 n the East Indies and China the water in which rice is boiled is called congy-wilter, and is prescribed by medical men there as nourishing food for sick persons. It is, in fact, rice gruel. Time, about three-quarters of an hour. Rice Jelly.—Take a quarter of a pound of rice and half a pound of loaf sugar : boil these ingredients in a quart of water, and when they become a gelatinous mass strain off the joUy.( 748 ) BIO BIC Add lomon-juiw or wiuo, and let the jelly cool, then servo. Rice Jelly (another way).—See Jelly, Kice. Rice, Lamb with {stw Lamb with Rice). Rice, Lemon {xee Lemon llice). Rice Meridon.—Kice meridon is on a large scale what the rissole is on a small scah;, namely, a crust enclosing a stuffing or forccnioat, but the preparation is different. Take half a pound of rice, well washed and picked, boil it in a quart of milk for an hour; by this time the rice will have soaked up the milk and become swollen and tender. Care must be taken to keep it stirred, that it may not stick to the saucepan. Now stii" in foui- ounces of butter, six whole eggs, and a little salt; let it remain tn-er the fire till the eggs thicken the whole; it must be stirred all the time; then set it aside to cool; when cold, take a form well buttered and sprinkled with bread-crumbs, which line about an inch with the cold rice; fill the vacant space with a blanquette, a ragout, or a force- meat prepared for fowl or fish rissole; cover the top with a thick layer of rice, and bake. When it has baked a quarter of an hour, and the rice has become nicely browned, gently loosen it with a knife from the form, put a dish on the top, and tm-n it out. Great care must be taken that it does not burst, which will spoil the effect. Serve with a good sauce. Rice Meringue.—Boil half a pound of rice in water till almost tender, drain it, and put it into the saucepan with a pint of milk and a little sugar and flavouring. Let it simmer till it has absorbed all the milk, pour it out, and stir into it the yolks of four well-beaten eggs. Spread it on a buttered dish, beat the whites of the eggs to a firm froth with a table-spoonful of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and lay this neatly and evenly over the surface. Sprinkle a little powdered sugar on the top, and bake in a moderatoly-heated oven till the surface is brightly brosvned. The meringue will be im- proved if any kind of fruit is boiled to pulp, sweetened, and laid in the centre of the dish, the rice being arranged in a wall roimd it, and the white of egg plastered over all. Time to brown the surface, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the fruit. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Milk.—Wash two table-spoonfuls of rice, and simmer it in a quart of milk till tender. Put a piece of butter the size of a pea into it, and stir occasionally to keep it from burning. Rub it through a sieve, sweeten and flavour it, boil up again, and serve. When milk is not plentiful, the rice maj^ be softened in water, and afterwards boiled in a small quantity of milk. This is a very whole- some dish for children. A little finely-shred suet boiled with it will make it more nourish- ing. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour to one hour and a quarter. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Rice Milk (a Spanish recipe).—Take a •pound of rice, wash it, and i)ut it into a stew- pan \vit\\ cold water; half cook, drain it, and complete the cooking in milk. The rice should i be kept on the fire till it is very tender but not m a pulp; at the last moment add sugar to taste. When done enough, place the rice in a deep dish, smooth the surfac<3, and place on the top a buttered paper ; cut out in any open or- namental pattern. Mix cinnamon powder witli a little sugar, and sprinkle this over the paper; remove the jiaper, and the pattern will be found described with sugar on the surface of the rice. Rice-Milk {nee Milk-Rice and Rice Caudle). Rice, Mussels and (an Algerian recipe). —Wash the mussels well; set them on the fire in a stewpan without any water, but with a close-fitting lid. Shake them up from tiuie to time so as to bring them all in turn to the bottom. They will gradually open and give out their liquor, in which, and in the steam from it, they will cook. When they are all well opened and detach easily from the shell, turn them out into a large-holed colander placed over a vessel to catch the liquor which strains, and set aside to settle. Take the mussels out of their shells, rejecting the weed attached to their inside and any little parasitical crabs within them, and put them aside. Boil rice as if for a curry, so as to be as dry as possible when done. To this put a good lump of butter and a few table-spoonfuls of the mussel liquor, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Put in the mussels, beat up all together, mixing with- out breaking them; or heap the warmed-up mussels in the centre of a dish, and surround them with the seasoned rice. Rice, Norfolk {see Norfolk Rice). Rice, Nutritive Properties of.—The seeds of rice contain a much less proportion of nitrogenised compounds than the other cereal grains, and particularly wheat, viz., about seven per cent.; the quantity of fatty matter is also less. Much difference of opinion has prevailed in reference to the value of rice as an aiticle of diet, some persons placing it very high. Analj'sis, however, clearly proves that it is the least nutritious of the cereal grasses. This diflterence of opinion has probably arisen from the fact that rice is seldom eaten by itself, but is partaken of usually with milk, butter, or sugar, the nutritious portions of wiiiih sub- stances have been attributed to the rice itself. The following analy sis of rice is by Bni- connot:— Carolina. Piedxuout. Water . 5-0 7-0 Husk 4-8 4-8 Gluten . 3-6 3-6 Starch . 86 07 83-8 Sugar 0-3 005 Gum 0-7 01 Oil. 013 0-25 Phosphates 0-4 0-4 1000 1000 " Rice," remarks Professor Johnston in his " Cliemistry of Common Lif(>," " is remarkable chiefly for the c'omparatively small proportion of gluten it contains. This docs not exceed seven or eight per cent.—less than half V..e( 749 ) BIO BIG quantity contained in oatmeal. In rice-countries it has often been noticed that the natives devour what to us appear enormous quantities of the grain, and this circumstiince is ascribed to the small proportion it contains of the highly nutritive and necessary gluten. Rice contains also little fat, and hence it is less laxative than the other cereal grains, or rather, it possesses something of a binding nature. It has recently been observed that, when substituted for pota- toes in some of our workhouses—in consequence of the failui-e of the potato—this grain has, lifter a few months, produced scurvy. This may have been owing as much to the effects of sudden change of daet as to an inherent evil property in.the grain itself. Still it suggests, as many other facts do, the utility and whole- someness of a mixed food." Bice Omelet (a Danish recipe).—Take half a pound of rice and boil it till tender in a pint and a half of milk ; boil a stick of vaniUa in half a pint of cream, and stii- it into the warm rice with half a pound of fresh butter. When cool, add the yolks of ten eggs well beaten up, some white sugar, and a very little salt. Last of all, stir in the whites when beaten to snow; bake the omelet rather less than an hour. Bice Panada.—Take one pound of rice, previously washed, and boil it in one gallon of water for an hour; add three-quarters of an ounce of sugar and two ounces of salt; mix with some cold water to make a thin paste, one pound of flour or oatmeal, and half an ounce of curry-powder; add it to the rice, and boil for twenty minutes; then serve. Bice Pancakes.—Boil a quarter of a pound of rice in a pint of milk till it is a smooth stiff paste. Turn it out, and when cool mix with it four eggs well beaten, half a pint of cream, a pinch of salt, and a little sugar and flavouring. Add four ounces of clarified butter, and beat the batter till it is quite smooth. Melt a little dripping or butter in a frying-pan, and fry the pancakes quickly. Sift powdered sugar over them, and send cut lemons or orange mar- malade to table with them. If the batter is not sufliciently thick a little flour may be added to it. This will depend upon the quality of the rice. Time to fry the pancakes, five to seven minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bice Pancakes, Ground. — Mix two tahle-spoonfuls of ground rice smoothly with a pint of milk, and stir the mixture over the fire till it begins to thicken, but do not let it boil. Pour it into a bowl, and mix with it four ounces of fresh butter. When it is cool, sweeten and flavour it, and mix four well- beaton eggs with it. Drop the preparation into hot fat, and fry the pancakes till they are brightly browned. Serve on a white napkin, sift powdered sugar over them, and send wine sauce or cut lemon to table with them. Bice Paste for Savoury Dishes.— Put seasoned cutlets of veal, lamb, chicken, or gaTiie already dressed into a pie-dish, and cover the meat with a layer of rice which has been boiled to a stiff paste in milk, with a little pepper, salt, and onion for seasoning. Brush over with egg, and put it in the oven for a minute or two, to colour the paste lightly. A little egg mixed with the rice will make it adhere better. Bice Paste for Tartlets, &c.—Boil ;i quarter of a pound of ground rice in half a pint of water till the liquor is. absorbed. Squeeze it in a napkin till quite dry, then pound it in a mortar to a paste with a pinch of salt, a beaten egg, and an ounce of fresh butter. Roll it out till vei'y thin, and it will be ready for use. Or rub a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into half a pound of gi-ound rice. Add. a table-spoonful of sifted sugar and a pinch of salt, and make the mixture into a paste with cold water. Roll it out, spread a little more butter iipon it, or not, according to the richness requii-ed. Dredge flour under and over it in rolling, and it will be ready for use. Tartlets made with this pastry should be used the day they are made. Bice Pears.—Take a quarter of a pound of rice, and boil it in milk till quite thick, then stir in a piece of butter and a few grains of salt. Remove the rice from the fire, and put it into a dish to cool; add a spoonful of almonds chopped fine, with a few bitter almonds amongst them, the grated peel of a lemon, sugar to taste, three or four eggs beaten, and one ounce of grated bread-crumbs. Form this mass into the shape of pears, dip them in egg beaten up, strew thickly with bread-crumbs, and bake. Bice, Pears with, {see Pears with Rice). Bice Pie.—Put three large table-spoonfuls of ground rice into a basin, and beat it to a paste with a pint of cold milk. Add two table- spoonfuls of sugar, fovir well-beaten eggs, and any flavouring that may be preferred. Pour a pint of boiling milk over the mixture, stir it well over the fire until the eggs are set, then let it cool. Add a glass of madeira if liked. Line a pie-dish with good pastry, pour in the mixture, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of the wine. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Bice Pie (another way). — Chief ingre- dients : a pint of rice and a fat tender fowl. First boil the fowl in enough water to cook the rice according to the rule given in the re- cipe. Rice, Boiled, a la Carolina [which ncc). When the fowl is done take out the large bones, and cut it into small pieces. Spread a layer of the cooked rice on the bottom of a deep pan, and on it place a layer of the fowl, with butter and eggs mixed, and with black pepper and spices to suit. Alternate these layers until the pan is full, having a layer of rice at the top, on which pour a mixture of butter and egg, and set the whole to " browning " in an oven or on the fire; then serve in the vessel in which it was last cooked. This dish somewhat re- sembles in richness the celebrated pilau of the Turks. The recipe is from the same source as that for Rice, Boiled, h, la Carolina. Bice, Polish "Way of Dressing.— Mince an onion finely, and fry it in butf.T( 760) BIC BIC until it befjins to turn yoUow. Mix with it twu ouncDH of dressod hiuu finuly slirod, and a quiulor of a pound of rico boilod a8 for curry. Stir it lightly ovor tho tire, and soason with cayonn(t and a apoonful of grated rarmeaau or Chi^ddar dieoso. Sorve hot, pilod liigli on a disli. Timu, tiftoen to twonty niinutos aftor tho rico is boilod. Trobahh* cost, 7(1. Sufliciont for four or five persons. Bice, Pork Black Puddings made with {"t'c Pork lUiU'k I'uddiiifrs, icL°. Bice, Portuguese, Sweet.—Wash and drain a quarter of a pound of rice, and boil it in a pint and a quarter of now milk until it is thoroughly tendor but dry and whole. When it is three-parts di-ossed, add a little more milk, if necessary, or in its place substitute a little cream; add also four ounces of powdered loaf sugar. Stir frequently whilst it is boiling, and especially when it begins to thicken, to keep it from burning. Blanch two ounces of sweet almonds and two or three bitter ones, put them in a moderate oven till they are browned through, and pound them to powder. Place the rice on a shallow dish, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of almond-powder, or a tea-si^oon- ful of powdered cinnamon, over the top, and serve the preparation cold; it will keep good for two or three days. This dish may be varied as follows :—When the rice is tender, take it from the fire, and let it cool four or five minutes, then stir in with it three beaten eggs and four table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Stir over the fire till it is on the point of boiling, then pour it out, and let it stand till cold. Put it in a glass dish, and sift almond-pow- der or cinnamon over it as before. Time to boil the rice, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 8d. or Is. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Bice, Potato Potato Rice). Bice, Poularde with {see Poularde with Rice). Bice, Preservation of.—"Rice may be kept a very long period in the rough—I believe a lifetime. After being cleaned, if it be prime rice, and well milled, it will keep a long time in this climate; only, when about to be used (if old), it requires more careful washing to get rid of the must which accumulates upon it. Some planters^—the writer among the number —prefer for table use rice a year old to the new. The grain is superior to anj^ other pro- visions in this respect. If a labourer in the gold diggings or elsewhere takes with him two days' or a week's provisions in rice, and his wallet happens to get wet, he has only to open it to the sun and air, and he will find it soon dries, and is not at all injured for his purpose. Rough rice may remain under water twenty- four hours without injury if dried soon after." Bice Pudding.— It is not generally known that the cheap broken rice is better for puddings than the more expensive article. One table-spoonful of this well washed, the usual (juantity of milk and sugar, and a piiu^h of pounded mace, with a little butter, will make iin excellent rice pudding. Bake very slowly. Bice Pudding Baked. —Wash six ounces of rice, and Ijoil it gently in a littl.- more milk than it will absorb. When it is tendor without being broken, pour it out, and mix with it a pin(;h of mdt, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a tablo-spoonful of finely-shiod suet, or if preferred a slice of butter, and a little grated nutmeg, or any other flavouring. Let th» rice cool, then stir into it one; or two eggs, according to the richness required. it will bo very good without any. Bake the pudding in a moderately-heated oven, and serve with sifted sugar. Time to bake, one hour. l*ro. bable cost. lOd., if made with one egg. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Bice Pudding, Baked, Plain.—Put a small tea-cupful of rice into a dish, sprinkle a little sugar upon it, and add a little gi-uted lemon-rind, or any other flavouring. Pour over it three pints of cold milk, and add a piece of fresh butter the size of a three]jenny- piece. Put it in a very gentle oven, and bake until it is covered with a bright brown skin. A table-spoonful of currants may be added if liked. Time to bake, three hours (unless the oven is very gentle, the pudding will be dry and burnt). Probable cost, 8d. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Bice Pudding, Baked, Small.—Boil a quarter of a pound of rice in a little more than a pint of milk sweetened and flavoured with almonds. When it is soft and thick pour it out, and mix with it three well-beaten eggs. Butter some small cups thickly, and cover the^ inside with candied peel cut into very thin shreds. Half fill them with the rice, and put it in very gently, not to displace the peel. Bake the puddings in a moderate oven. When done enough turn them out, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin, and send cream, custard, or wine sauce to table with them. Time to bake, about forty minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Or boil a table-spoonful of rice in a quarter of a pint of milk till tender, then mix with it a little sugar and flavouring, a pinch of salt, and a slice of butter. Peel, core, and slice a good-sized apple, and stew it to pulp with half a spoonful of water, a small piece of butter, and a little sugar which has been rubbed upon a lemon for a minute or two. Put the apple into a small buttered dish, mix an egg with the rice, and pour it over it. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable co.st, 4d. Siifficient for one person. Bice Pudding, Baked, Baron Brisse's.—Wash half a pound of nee, pu k out the discoloured grains, and swell it gently but thoroughly in as little milk as possiblt>. Turn it into a bowl, and when cool add the lightly-grated rind of a fresh lemon, a pinch of salt, four ounces of powdered sugiir, a slice ot butter, and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs Butter the inside of a copper cake-moidd, and sprinkle as many fincly-grate<l bread-crumbs over it as the butter will hold, shake off those which do not adhere, and brush a little butter lightly over those which do. MTiisk the whites > if the eggs to a firm froth, and at the last momt-nt( 761 ) RIC RIC stir them •rradually into the rice. Pour the mixture gently into the mould, that the crumbs may not be displaced, put it into a very gentle oven, and let it remain until done enough, Turn out carefully, so as not to break the pud- ding. It ought to look like a well-browned cake. Time to bake, one hour or more. Pro- bable co.st, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Pudding, Boiled, Cheap.— Wash a tea-cupful of rice, drain it, and put it into a dry, untioured pudding-cloth. Gather the ends together, and tie it loosely, leaving room for the rice to swell to three times its size. Put it into a saucepan with plenty of fast- boiling water, and keep it boiling until done enough. If it is necessary to add more water, let it be boiling. When done enough turn it upon a dish, and send sweet sauce to table with it. A little may be poured round it in the dish. This pudding" may be pleasantly varied by mi.ving with the rice half a cupful of washed currants, or Sultana raisins, or prunes, or gooseberries, or apples pared, cored, and quartered. It is well to place a plate under the pudding in the saucepan, to keep it from sticking. Time to boil, one hour and three- quarters. Probable cost, plain rice pudding, 2d. Sufficient for five or si.x persons. Rice Pudding, Boiled, Superior.— No. I. Wash a quarter of a pound of rice, and boil it gently in a pint and a half of milk till it is soft and thick. The milk should be sweetened and flavoured pleasantly with lemon or orange-rind, or almond, cocoa-nut, or vanilla. Pour the mixture into a basin, and when cold stir into it a slice of butter, four well-whisked eggs, and a spoonful of brandy—the brandy, however, may be omitted. Pour the pudding into a mould which it will quite fill, lay a buttered paper upon it, tie it in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly until done enough. Serve with sweet sauce, stewed fruit, cream, or jam. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. No. 2. Boil four ounces of rice in water till it is soft and thick. Put it dry into a mortar, and pound well with a slice of fresh butter, five weU- beaten yolks of eggs, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, a pound of picked and washed currants, and a flavouring of lemon, nutmeg, or vanilla. Beat the mixture thoroughly, put it into a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil until done enough. Turn the pudding out ciirefully, and serve with sweet or wine .sauce. Time to boil, one hour and a half. Pro- bable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rice Pudding. Chicken and {nee C'hicken and Kicc Puuding). Rice Pudding, Dutch.—Soak four ounces of rice in varm water half an ho>ir, then drain the water from it, and throw the rice into a stewpan with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and simmer till tender. When cold, mix four whole eggs well beaten, with a slice of butter melted in a tea-cupful of cr(!am (or milk where cream is scarce or dear), add three ounces of sugar, a quarter of a nut- meg, a good piece of lemon-peel, and the rice. Put alight puff paste or grated tops and bottoms in a mould or dish, spread the rice on this, and bake in a quick oven. Rice Pudding, French {see Guteau de Riz). Rice Pudding (French method).—Boil the rice in a quart of new milk till it becomes of the consistency of cream and quite soft, taking care not to stir it from the time it is put on the fire until it thickens. Let it stand to cool until about half an hour before serving. Then beat up the yolks of four eggs, add them to the rice with a little lemon-peel pared very thin, and sweeten with sugar to taste. Set the pudding-dish upon a hot hearth, and brown the top of the pudding with a salamander. This being done, cover the browned top with a thick layer of clarified butter and pounded white sugar. Do it over again with the salamander, until the butter and sugar are quite brown and candied. This pud- ding does not require to be baked—it must be put on the hot hearth and prepared, as directed, in the same dish as it is sent to table in. Some add to the ingredients a little nutmeg or mace. Rice Pudding, German (see German Pudding, Rice). Rice Pudding, Ground. — Beat a quarter of a pound of ground rice gradually to a smooth paste with half a pint of milk. Pour a pint of boiling milk over it, and let it boil for a quarter of an hour, stirring it all the time. When it is nearly cold stir into it three ounces of finely-shred beef suet (or, if preferred, use a slice of butter), two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a little grated nutmeg or lemon-rind for flavouring, and from two to four well-beaten eggs. A table-spoonful of brandy may be added if liked. Pour the rice into a well-buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, 9d., if made with, two eggs. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Pudding, Iced.—Wash six ounces of the best Carolina rice, and pick out the dis- colomed grains. Put it into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil it until the grains are tender without being broken. Drain it, pour over it half a pint of thick cream, and boil it again until it is very soft. Turn it out, beat well, sweeten, and flavour it with lemon, nutmeg, vanilla, or almonds. Put it into a plain mould, and freeze it until it is suf- ficiently firm. Serve it on a neatly-folded nap- kin. Time to boil the rice, about two hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rice Pudding, Rich.—Wash six ounces of rice, and boU it in as much water as will thoroughly cover it for twenty minutes. Dmin it, and beat it up with a pinch of salt, a slice of fresh butter, a quarter of a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of picked and dried currants, a table-spoonful of brandy, a flavouring of nut- meg, cinnamon, or lemon-rind, and four wcll- .beaten eggs. Pour the mi.xturc into a butlerodBIG KIC ( 752 ) dish, and Lako in a modorato ovon. Send Hifted Bugar to table with it. Time to hako, one hour. Pi-obublo cost, Is. 6d. Sutliciont for five or six persons. Rice Pudding, Rich (Soyer's recipe). Put half a pound of washed rice into a stewpan, with three pints of milk, one pint of water, three ounces of sugar, the peel of one lemon, one ounce of fresh butter; boil gently for half an hour, or until the rice is tender; add four eggs well beaten, mix well, and bake quickly for half an hour, and serve. The pudding may be steamed if prefuired. Rice Pudding with Jam.—Wash four ounces of rice, and drain it. Put it into a saucepan with a pint of milk, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Add two ounces of fresh butter, and simmer again imtil it is quite soft. Pour it out, sweeten and flavour with any agreeable flavoui-ing, and beat it up with two well-whisked eggs. Turn it into a plain mould well buttered, and bake in a gentle oven. Turn it out before serving, and garnish with any bright-coloured jam spread round or upon it. Time to bake, half an hour. Pro- bable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four persons. Rice Puddings, Savoury.—No. l. Boil half a pound of rice in a quart of milk till it is tender without being broken. Pour it into a bowl, and mix with it a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of white peijper, a tea-spoonful of dry mustard, three table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, and three eggs. Beat the pudding well, turn it into a buttered dish, and bake in a well-heated oven. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Time to bake, about one hour. Xo. 2. Boil half a pound of rice in a quart of milk till it is tender and has absorbed the liquor. Turn it into a bowl, and wher\ cool mix with it a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, a dessert- spoonful of shred parsley, and two moderate- sized onions which have been boiled till tender and pounded with a slice of fresh butter. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and add three well- beaten eggs. Turn the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to ])akc, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice PuSR:.—Take a pint of rice-flour, and add enough boiling water or milk to make a batter. When cold, add four eggs well beaten, together with a tea-spoonful of salt. Drop this preparation in large spoonfuls into hot fat. Rice, Pyramids of.—Boil as much rice as is required in milk until it is very soft. Beat it well to a smooth paste, and press it into small moulds of a pyramid shape, or, failing these, mould it with a spoon into small pyramids al)Out tliree inches high. Take a little rice out of the centre of these, and fill the empty space with a savouiy mince of any kind. Serve the pyramids on a di.sh, and pour rich brown gi-avy round them. Garnish thv, dish with sippets. Rice Sauce: A Substitute for Bread Sauce.—Wash two ounces of rice, dram it, and simmer until tender in half a pint of milk with a moderate-sized onion, half a dozen peppercorns, and a pinch of salt. Take out the onion and peppercornu, and rub the rice through a sieve; boil it up again vdth a little more milk if it is too thick, and dissolve a small piece of butter in it. A piece of mace or half a dozen allspice may be stewed in the sauce if liked. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Savoury.—No. l. Wash a pound of rice, and put it into a saucepan with three pints of water, a red herring freed from skin and bone and torn into flakes, three ounces of bacon (fat and lean together) cut into dice, a few peijpercorns, and a small sprig of thyme and parsley. Let the water boil, then chuw the saucepan to the side of the tire, and let the rice simmer gently until it is tender and has ab- sorbed the liquor. Turn it upon a dish, and serve hot. Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. No. 2. Wash half a pound of best Carolina rice, throw it into boUing water, and let it boil quickly for ten minutes. Drain it, and put it into a saucepan with half a pint of good gi-avy, two ounces of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of chutney, a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, the thin lind of half a lemon, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea- spoonful of sugar, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and half a tea-spoonful of grated nut- meg. Stir the rice well, and simmer gently until it is tender and has absorbed the liquor. Serve very hot. Time, three-quarters to one hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Savoury (another way).—Boil two eggs lightly, add a little butter to them, and mix them with a plateful of hot boiled rice. Use this preparation with meat or nsh: it will be found pleasant and agreeable food. Rice Savoury (another way).—Wash half a pound of rice, and throw it into fast-boil- ing water for five minutes. Drain it, sim- mer it gently with as much nicely-flavoured stock as wiU cover it, and when it is tender, ^vithout being broken, stir into it a slice of fresh butter. Mince finely the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, and mix with them two ounces of grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese and half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, ilix them with the rice, and serve hot. Time, about half an hour to simmer the rice. Pro- bable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six per- sons. Rice Snowballs.—Wash half a pound of rice, and boil it for half an hour in as nnich milk or water as will cover it. Drain it, and let it stand till cold. Pare six apples of equal size. Scoop out the cores -vsathout breaking the fruit, and put into the empty space a little piece of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a Uttlc grated lemon-rind or some powdered cinnamon. Flour as jnany small cloths as there are apples; spread upon each one as much rice, half an inch thick, as will cover an apple, lay the apple upon it, and tic it loosely but securely. Put the pud- dings into boiling water, and keep them boil- ing until done enough. Turn upon a dish.HIC RIC ( 753 ) and serve sweet sauce, wino sauce, or custard with thcni. I^mc to boil, ono hour. Probable cost, Ud. each pudding. Sufficient for six puddings. Rice Snowballs (another way).—Boil six ounces of rioe in a quart of milk which has been sweetened and flavoured with lemon, almond, vanilla, or cinnamon, according to taste. When the rice is quite tender and has absorbed the milk, turn it out, and beat it well for a few minutes, then press it into small cups, which have been allowed to lie in cold water for some time. Let it remain until cold and stiff, and make a pint of custard flavoured in the same way as the rice. Before serving, turn the rice out of the small moulds upon a glass dish, pour the custard round them, and place upon the top of each ball a spoonful of bright-coloiu'cd jam— apricot and red-currant jam are very suitable. Tinao, about one hour to boil the rice. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the custard, lOd. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Rice Solid.—Beat a quarter of a pound of ground rice to a smooth paste with a little milk, and stir into it as much boiling milk -—or milk and cream if preferred—as will make the quantity up to a quart. Sweeten the mix- ture, and flavour with any acceptable fla- vouring. A spoonful of brandy will improve it. Simmer gently, and continue stiiTing all the time, until it leaves the saucepan. When done enough, let it cool a little, and pour it into a glass dish. Before serving lay upon it a pint of cream which has been whipped to foam. {See Cream, Whipped.) Time to boil the rice, half an hour. Probalsle cost, ex- clusive of the cream, 7d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Soufflee.—Prepare the rice as for Gateau de Riz {see llice, Gateau of), only keep the rice rather more limpid, and put in the whites of two more eggs; that is to saj', in a rice cake you put eight yolks and as many whites, whei-eas in a soufflee you put only six yolks and eight whites, and a little more butter to determine the soufflee. To flavour the soufflee, use either lemon-peel, vanilla, orange, orange- flower, noyeau, maraschino, coflEee, &c. Rice Soufflle (another way).—Wash six table-spoonfuls of rice, and throw it into quickly- boiling water for five minutes. Drain it, and put it into a clean saucepan with a quart of milk, a pinch of salt, four table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, two ounces of butter, and any flavouring that may be liked, such as orange, lemon, vanilla, cofEce, chocolate, orange-flower water, rose-water, or any liqueur. If the rice is not sweet enough to suit the palate, a little more may be added, but it should be remem- bered that the less sugar used the lighter will be the soufflee. Let the rice boil, put the lid on the saucepan, and simmer very slowly until it is tender and has absorbed the milk. Let it cool a little, then add, one at a time, the well- whisked yolks of six eggs. Warm and butter a Houfflee-dish or tin which the firoparation will half fill, or, failing these, use a deep pie-dish or thin earthenware basin. Whisk the whites of the eggB to a firm froth. Mix them lightly with the rice, and bake the soufflee at once after they are added. In order to ascertain whether the soufflee is sufficiently baked, run a straw into the centre of it. If it is set through- out, it is done enough. It should be baked in a quick oven. Sift sugar over the top, tie a hot napkin round the tin, and serve immediately. The success of a soufflee de- pends on the ingredients being well beaten, frothed, and mixed on their being put into the dish; on their being baked immediately after- wards; on the sufficient temperature of the oven; and on the rapid transfer of the soufflee from the oven to the dining-room. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. lOd. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Rice Soufflee made with Ground Rice.—Mix three table-spoonfuls of ground rice to a smooth paste, add gradually as mucli more as will make the quantity up to one pint, and a pinch of butter about the size of a walnut, Stir the mixture over the fire for about a quarter of an hour, or until it thickens, then pour it out, and when it is a little cool add some sugar and any flavouring that may be liked. The less sugar used th(( lighter win be the soufflee. Add, one by one, the well-beaten yolks of five eggs, and just before the soufflee is put into the oven, stir in the whites of six eggs beaten to a firm froth. Proceed according to the directions given in the preceding recipe. Bake the soufflee in a brisk oven, and sex've as quicklj as possible after it is taken out. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, if made with milk, Is. 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Soup.—Take half a quarter of a pound of Carolina rice, picked clean, and washed in two or three diflterent waters tiU no smell or dirt remain. Blanch it in boiUng water, and drain it. Then take some ric;h broth, season it well, throw the rice in and let it boil, but not so as to be too much done, for then it breaks and does not look well. Rice Soup (a Danish recipe).—Take half a pound of rice, pick and scald it, then put it into five pints of boiling water. When it begins to thicken, add the peel of a lemon and a quarter of a pound of raisins. When the soup has boiled enough, beat up the yolks of four eggs in a gill of wine, the juice of two lemons, and white or brown sugar to taste, which stir lightly in. Enough for seven ijersons. Rice Soup, Cream of {see Cream of Rice Soup). Rice Soup, Italian.—Wash four ovmces of rice, drain it, and put it into a saucepan with two ounces of fresh butter, a cupful of stock, and a seasoning of salt and white pepper. Let it simmer gently until it is tender. Cut two large turnips into small pieces, and fry these in butter till they are lightly browned. " Drain the fat from them, and stew them in about a pint of stock. Add the boiled rice, and serve. Send two table-spoonfuls of grated Parniosan to table with the soup. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost, exclusive of the stock, Dd. Sufficient for two or thi-ee persons.BIG RIC ( 764 ) Rice Soup, MEkde with Fresh Meat. —Tako Olio ijourid of tho kuucklo of vual, ono pound of gi-avy-beef, half a pound of loan liani, and any bonus and Irimmin'^a that may bo at hand. Cut tho ham into dico and tho moat into pioc'08 an inch squaro. l)inaolvo a hUco of tieah buttor in a stowpan, put in tho ham, then tho roat of tho moat, and add two airrots, two oniona, each ono stuck with ono clovo, half a ilozon outer sticks of celory, a bunch of awoot horbs, and a blado of mace. Cover tho sauce- pan closely, and lot ita contents steam over a gentle lire until tho gravy tiows from the moat. Pour this gravy out, and shake tho saucepan over tho firo till the moat is brown, pour over it thi-oe pints of boiling water, and lot it stew gently until the liquor is reduced to a qiiart. Skim carefully, strain, and then add it to the gravy. Put into it two ounces of rice which have been boiled in water till tender, draiucid, and dried. Season the soup with pepper and salt, and serve very hot. Time, three hours. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Soup (suitable for children, or sick persons).—Wash four ounces of rice in three or four waters, drain it, and boil it gently with two quarts of beef or veal stock until it is tender without being broken. Season with a little salt and white pepper, and if the stock is already seasoned, be careful that it is not served too salt, owing to evaporation. If clear soup is wanted, the rice can be boiled separately in water until the grains are tender without being broken, then dropped into the clear soup, and allowed to remain a few minutes without simmering, or the rice may be boiled in thin, nicely-fiavoiired stock, strained, and put into the soup-tureen, the clear soup being then poured over it. Time, one hour. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Rice Soup, Superior.—Wash well four ounces of rice, and boil it in two quarts of veal stock till tender, drain it, and put the stock with half the rice back into the stewpan, rub the rest through a fine sieve, then stir it into the soup, and let it boil up. Beat the yolks of three eggs with half a pint of cream, take the soup oft' the fire for two minutes, then add the eggs and cream gradually, and stir the soup unceasingly for thi^ee or four minutes until it is thoroughh^ hot, but it must not boil again or the eggs will curdle. Time, two hours. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Rice Soup, Royal.—Put two fowls ^vith a large knuckle of veal into a stock-pot; fill it with beef stock, skim it, and add a carrot, a turnip, an onion, half a head of celerj-, and two leeks; boil for five hours, take off all the fat carefully, and strain the consomme through a napkin; put half of it into a middle-sized stew- pan with six ounces of Carolina rice washed and blanched, simmer it for two hours, then break it with a wooden spoon, and add the rest of the consomme; whilst boiling, and at the time of serving, put a spoonful into a puree of fowl, prepared in the usual manner, then re- commence this operation twice, pour the puree thus made thin into the tureen, and on it th(> vcuuiindev of the rice by dejfrecs, that it may be well mingled—for if you pour the rico in quickly, you run tho risk of docompoaing or curdling tlio puree of fowl, which ought to bo rendered smooth in mingling the aoup. Rice Soup, White.—Wash a quarter of a pound of beat Carolimt rico in two or three waters, throw it into faat-boiling water, and keep it boiling for five minutes. Drain it on a sieve, and put it into two quarts of nicely- flavoured white stock, also boiling. Let all simmer gently together until the rice is tender. Add tkroo-quartera of a pint of thick cream, season with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, simmer a minute or two longer, and serve. Time, one hour. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Rice. Spanish way of Dressing.— Boil half a pound of rice as for cuny. If liked, broth can be used instead of water." Drv it well, and fry it with a slice of butter till it is lightly browned. Stir into it two large lipe tomatoes, or failing these a table-spoonful of tomato sauce and a spoonful of grated cheese , season the preparation with white pepper. Work it lightly -with two forks, and serve it, pilc^ high in a hot dish, with, slices of ham, bacon, or German sausage round it: failing these, use dried haddock, herring, or smoked salmon in strips. IHme, a few minutes to brown the rice. Probable cost, 7d., exclusive of the meat or fish round the rice. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Stew Soup.—Take four pounds of good ox-cheek. Wash and soak it for twelve hours in cold water, then dry it well, put it into a stewpan with three quarts of water, four onions, a bunch of herbs, a sliced carrot, two or three sticks of celery, and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and cayenne. Simmer the meat gently for two hours, then take it out, cut it into pieces convenient for serving, and return it to the saucepan with six ounces of well- washed rice. Simmer all together till the rice is tender. If liked, this soup may be thickened with a little cuiry powder, or with a little brown thickening, and cow-heels maj' be used instead of ox-cheek in its preparation. Time, four hours. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Rice Stuffing for Sucking Pig.— Rice is frequently used as a stuffing for sucking pig, and also for breast of veal. To prepare it. boil the rice till it is quite tender, and drj* it perfectly. Jlix with it a fourth of its quantity in split peas, also boiled till soft and dried, flavoui- the mixture with pepper and salt and a little finely minced ham, beat it well, and it will be ready for use. Rice Tart.—Wash a smaU tea-cupful of rice, and simmer it \\nth a quart of milk until it is tender. Beat it well, and mix with it a pinch of salt, a little sugar, a flavouring of nutmeg, cinnamon, or lemon, and three egg.*; Line a pie-dish with good pastry, spread thr rice upon it, and bake in a quick orcn. Befv)rc serving, sprinkle the surface with sifted sugar. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Suflicicnt for (iv.> or six persons.( 766 ) BIO BIG Rice Ttirban.—Prepare the rice as in tlie rei'ipe, Kico, Casserole of. Cut some apples into quarters, and stew them in syrup. Take pirticular care that the quarters are kept whole. Dish the rice; put a gallipot in the ci'ntre, to form a vaciincy, into which you are afterwards to pour a vanilla cream. Dress the rice round the gallipot, and level it with the back of a spoon. Next place the apples round .the rice, till you have reached the summit of it, .and put the whole into the oven, but only leave it there time enough to dry up the syrup which sticks round the apples. Next decorate with sweetmeats of different colours, such as greengages, apricots, and cherries , and when you are ready to send up, remove the gallipot, imd fill the vacancy with the vanilla cream. Rice, Varieties of.—"NVhat is known in England as cargo rice is a Bengalese variety, having a reddish cast and rather coarse-looking. The unusual size and sweetness of the grain, however, cause it to be esteemed by the Hindoos above all other kinds. The red rice, sometimes seen in American shipments scattered among the white grains, is not a distinct variety, like that of the Ben- galese, but is the result of careless cultiva- tion. Seeds of the whitest kinds, allowed to fall into the earth at harvest, and to lie there all the winter, will mature the next year into red rice. Its presence is regarded as a blemish. The small variety known as Patna, and remarkable for the slendcrness and whiteness of the grain, is no doubt the best known and most highly esteemed in Europe of all the liastem importations. The Carolina rice, acknowledged to be the best in the world, is cultivated in its greatest perfection at Wacamaw, near Georgetown, .South Carolina, and on the Savannah and Altamalia rivers; but can be produced in equal perfection along the tideways of the Floridas, as well as of Carolina and Georgia. Of the many sub-varieties in favour with American rice-planters the two most highly prized are the white and the golden, so called from the colour of their chaff. Both kinds produce abundant crops, and turn out beautiful grains; but the white is preferred by some planters as being more prolific, and better suited to a highland or semi-highland culture; and the golden is pre- ferred by others as better suited to tide-water culture, and as furnishing more pearly grain. In India the varieties of rice are very nu- merous. Xo less than one hundred and sixty- one are enumerated in Moon's " Catalogue of •Ceylon Plants" as being known in that island. But the finest rice in the world is that raised in North and South Carolina, in the United States, whore the prevalence of swampy lands and a rich vegetable soil renders its cultivation «a8y and very profitable. The rice of Carolina is remarkable for its pure white colour and large size, and it is most valued as an article of food. Rice Waffles.—Boil a quarter of a pint of rice in ;i very little watfT till it is tender. Drain it, and beat it well while hot with an ounce of butter. Add six ounces of flour, the well- beaten yolks of four eggs, and as much milk as will form a batter—a little less than a pint will be required. Beat the whites of the eggs till tirm, and add them to the batter at the last moment. Be sure to beat aU well together, and to make the batter lighter pour it backwards and forwards from a good height for a few minutes. Make the watfie-irons hot, rub them over in every part with dissolved butter, and put a large spoonful of the mixture into them for each cake. Close the iron, and set it over a stove, or over hot coals, turn it over at the end of six or eight minutes, then open it, and if the cake is nicely coloured and leaves the ii'ons easily it is done enough. When pouring in the batter be careful to leave room in the iron for rising. Time to bake the waffles, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, for this quantity. Is. 3d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Rice Waffles (another way).—See Waffles, Kice. Rice-Water.—Put seven pints of water to boil, add to it two ounces of washed rice, two ounces of sugar, and the peel of two-thirds of a lemon; boil gently for three-quarters of an hour; the liquid will reduce'to live pints, strain through a colander, and the lice-water will be ready. The rice may be left in the beverage or made into a pudding, or by the addition of a Little sugar or jam it will be found very good for either childi'en or invalids. Rice, Water.—The water rice {Zizania aquatica) is abundant in Wisconsin and other parts of North America, on the swampy margins of streams in shallow water. A gently-flowing current, where the water is from two to six or eight feet deep, is the most favourable habitat for this plant, which forms an important article of food among the Indian tribes. They obtain it by paddling a canoe among the plants, when, with a hooked stick, they draw the stems OA'er the canoe and beat ofl' the grain. The harvest only lasts for a very few days, as, when ripe, the gi-ain is shaken oflE by the slightest touch, and if the wind should blow hard for a day or two the rice is all lost. It is gathered both " in the milk" and after it is mature. The Indians take it to theii- camp, and put it into pans, when it is roasted until the husks become dry and reddish; they then place it in sacks, and pound it by striking on the outside so as to separate the grain from the husk. It is winnowed, and is then ready for use. Those who have tried it prefer the Zizania to the ordinary rice of com- merce.—Gardener's Chronicle. {See also Rice, Canadian.) Rice Water, for Invalids.—Wash two ounces of rice in several waters, boil it gently for two hours and a half, and stir frequently. Strain it through a fine sieve, and rub through the glutinous part, but not that which is firm. When the liquor is cold it is ready for use. A table-spoonful of raisins is sometimes boiled with the rice. If the water is wanted quickly, boil three ounces of rice for half an hour in a, quart of water.( 766 ) BIO BIN Rice, Wholesomeness of.—" Rico," says Ur. Gmlmm, *' is a nutritious and wholo- bonio vog'utablo. It is ousy of dif>(!stioii wluin takon in conjunction with some condiment, m (cinnamon, nutmug, allspice, and the liko; thcso additions make it moro jialatablo as well as more wholosomo, and obviate its tendency to condne tho bowels. It is almost tlie only food of tho inhabitants of India—a sutticiimt proof of its mild, nutritive, and wholesome pi'opor- ties. Ale should never bo drunk after rice and milk, as it is almost certain of producing colic or some other disorder of the bowels." Kice ^vas held in great esteem by the ancients, they considered it a food very beneficial to the chest; therefore it was recommended in cases of con- sumption and to persons subject to spitting of blood. Rice contains about eighty-five parts of starch in the hundred, and having no stimu- lating matter in it to quicken digestion, remains longer in the stomachs of some persons than other farinaceous food. In India and other Eastei-n countries, where it constitutes the principal food of the inhabitants, it is usually taken with curry-powder, peppers, and other stimulating condiments, .in order to assist di- gestion. Mixed with other food it is whole- some, and well adapted for delicate stomachs. Rice-water is an excellent demulcent drink when there is irritation of the bowels, dy- senterj^ or diarrhoea. Ground rice and milk, flavoured with orange-peel and sweetened, is a valuable article of diet during convalescence. Rice with Pears.—Wash six ounces of rice, and put it into a saucepan with a quart of milk, the thin rind of a lemon, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, and a piece of butter the size of a small nut. Stir the rice till it boils, then draw it from the fire, and let it simmer gently until it is quite tender and has absorbed the milk. Take it from the fii-e, and beat it well for three or four minutes, press it into a damp mould, and set it in a cool place to stiifen. Peel and halve a dozen or more ripe pears. Put these into a saucepan with the strained juice of two lemons, a small cupful of water, and half a pound of sugar. Let them simmer till they are tender without being broken. Lift them out gently, and lay them (jn a dish to cool. Boil the syrup until it is tliick, and, if liked, dissolve in it one or two spoonfuls of apricot marmalade. When the rice is to be served, turn it out of the mould, lay the baked pears round it, pour the syrup over, and garnish the rice prettily with angelica, or with strips of lemon-rind laid over it, or with slices of lemon laid upon it. Many cooks stir into the rice after it has boiled iom woll- beaten eggs and a slice of butter, and beat it over the fire till it is thick, but it will be excellent without these if only the rice is Bimmered till it is dry, and afterwards beaten till it is smooth. Time, two .hours. Probable cost, la. 6d. exclusive of the apricot m.-minlndo. Sufficient for five or six persons. Richmond Eel Pie.-Skin, draw, and cut into two-inch lengths two good-sized oola. wash them in salt and water, and diy thoin in a cloth. Put them into a stewpan with an ounce and a half of butter, two tablo-sixjonfuls of chojjped mushrooms, one table-sjwonful of chopped parsley, one onion, or a small clove of shallot finely slu-ed, a little pepper and salt, a bay-leaf, an iiuli of lomon-rind, a glass of sherry, and as much stock made from bones as will barely cover the eels. Bring the sauce slowly to the boil, skim it, and as it rises in the pan lift out the pieces of eel, and lay them in a pie-dish. Strain the sauce, thicken it witli two ounces of flour kneaded with two ounces of butter, add the juice of a Jemon, and pour it over the eels in the dish. Place on the top the hard-boiled yolks of three or four eggs. Line the edges of the dish with pastry, cover with the same, brush over with egg, ornament the pie, and bake in a well-heated oven. It may be served either hot or cold. Time to bake, about one hour. Probable cost, 4s. to 6s. SuflScient for five or six persons. Richmond Puddings. — Bake three large apples. Scrape out every particle of pulp free from slrin and core, and mix with it two ounces of fresh butter, four ounces of finely- grated bread-cimnbs, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, a little grated nutmeg or rasped lemon- rind, add half a pint of cream or milk, the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. Mix tho- roughly. Butter some cups, half fill them with the mixture, sprinkle a few bread-crumbs over the top, and bake in a well-heated oven. WTien done enough, turn the puddings out carefuUy upon a hot dish, sift powdered sugar over them, and send a light custard to table with them. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, if made with milk. Is. 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Ring Dish for Australian Meat {see illustration accompanying the article on Austra- lian Meat). Rings, Candied, for Garnishing (w* Orange and Lemon Candied Rings for Garni sli- ing). Rings of Pastry, Ornamental.—Roll out some puff paste to the thickness of a quar- ter of an inch. Stamp it out in rounds an inch and a half in diameter, and cut out the centre of these with a smaller cutter, half an inch in diameter. Brush the rings over with beaten egg, shake finclv-powdered sugar over them, and bake them "on a slightly-buttered baking- sheet in a gentle oven till they are lightly browned. Cover with sugar icing, put them in a cool oven or in a screen to dry, and or- nament with dots or folds of bright-coloured jolly. Or blanch some almonds, and chop them small. Put them in a bowl, and beat them up with a little white of egg and powdered sugar; brush the rings with egg, and strew the chopped almonds over them. Bake m a gentle oven, and a minute or two before thev are taken out put a preserved cherry, well drainod from the svrup, in the centre of the ring. A^^len ligli'tly coloured take out tlie rings, and put them" on a wire sieve to cooL Time to bako. about a quaiier of an hour.BIN ( 7«7 ; HIS Bink Cake.—Take threo-quartei-s of a ]iuiiik1 of fresh butter, beat it up, and add to it clir('L'-(iuavti'is of a pound of sugar, one pound of llour, tlie yolks of seven e'^gs and the whites of four beaten to a snow. When these ingio- dients are thoroughly incorporated, butter a sheet of white paper, and spread the paste upon it rather thinly; have ready some almonds blanched and sliced; lay them upon the paste in rows, strewing cm-rants between; strew sifted sugar over the whole. When the cake is baked of a light-brown colour, cut it into squares while warm, in such a way that there will be almonds and currants on each square. Kemove the paper quickly. BisottO.—This is an elegant Italian dish, the principal ingredient of which is rice. Shred onions into a frying-pan with plenty of butter, and fry till the onions become very brown and commimicate their colour to the butter. Run the butter off, and add to this some rich broth, slightly flavoured with saffron; thicken the whole with well-boiled rice, and serve up as a pottage, instead of soup, it the beginning of dinner. Bissables. — Chop ve?i and ham finely together, add a few bread crumbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a little parsiey and lemon-peel or shallot, lilix these ingredients together with the yolks of two eggS well beaten. Roll the pre- paration into shape like a flat sausage, or into the shape of pears, sticking a bit of horse-radish in the ends to represent the stalks; egg over each, and gi-ate bread-crumbs upon them. Fry to a broNvn colour, and serve on crisp fried parsley. Bissoles.—Rissoles are composed of savoury mince of any kind enclosed in pastry and fried. They may be served with gravy, or they may bo sent up dry on a neatly-folded napkin. The latter is the more usual manner. They are chiefly useful as furnishing a convenient and elegant mode of using the remains of cold- dressed meat, game, or tish. Patties if fried instead of baked will become rissoles. Ris- soles should be thoroughly drained from fat either on a sieve or on blotting-paper before being sent to table. The dift'erence between a rissole and a croquette is that a rissole is always fried in pastry, a croquette is egged, breaded, and fried. Bissoles, Beef .—Take one pound of cold- dressed beef. Cut it into thin slices, remove the gristle, and chop the meat finely. Mix with it a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, thiee table-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a blade of mace finely pounded, and a little pepper and salt. Bind the whole together -v^dth a beaten egg. If it is not suflSciently moist with this, add a little meat gravy and a spoon- ful of ketchup. Roll out the trimmings of puff paste to the thicljuess of a florin. Place small balls of mince, two inches from the edge and one inch distant from each other, moisten tlie pastry round the meat with water, and fold it over the balls. Stamp the rissoles out in rounds, and press the edges securely together. Dredge lightly with flour, and then fry in fat, not too hot, till they lue browned. Drain them, and serve on a napldn garnished with parsley. Or prepare the mince as above. Roll out the pastry, and stamp it in rounds two inches in diameter. Place a little ball of meat in the centre, moisten the edges of the pastrj-, draw it up over the meat, and pinch it seciu'ely. Or stamp out an equal number of rounds. Place a little ball of meat upon one round, moisten the edges, and lay another round upon it. Press the edges of the pastry securely to- gether, and flute them with, the back of a knife. Time to fry, five or six minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bissoles (Careme's recipe).—^Take tliree- quarters of a pound of Brioche paste. Roll it out very thin, and place upon it—about two inches from the edge and one inch fi-om each other—small balls about the size of a nutmeg of any savoury mince. Brush the pastry round the mince with beaten egg, fold it over the meat. Press it round each ball, stamp out the rissoles with a pastry-cutter two inches in diameter, taking care to keep the mince- meat ball exactly in the centre of each one. Lay the rissoles on a hot plate for two or three minutes to make them rise, and fry in but- ter or lard, not too hot, till they are brown They wdll become quite round. Drain them from the fat, and serve very hot. Bissoles, Cold Mutton, Chicken, Turkey, Veal, &C.—Prepare the mince, and proceed as in the last recipe, substituting mutton, veal, or poultry, for the beef. With veal and poultry, the weight of a fourth part of the meat in lean ham, tongue, or bacon, may be added to the mince, and the flavouring may be varied to suit the palate. Bissoles, Gravy for (see Gravy for Rissoles). Bissoles of Calves' Brains.—Take two sets of brains; let them soak for some time in warm water; skim them carefully, and boil them a quarter of an hour in salt and water; let them drain; then fry them in four ounces of butter. When they have lost their fluidity, sprinkle them with a spoonful of flour, fry them again a little, and pour over as much broth as will convert them into a thickish fluid; beat up the yoUvs of three eggs and add to it, that it may become firm and thick; season with pepper, salt, and gi-ated nutmeg; and lastly, add two ounces of beef marrow chopped fine, and set it aside to get cold. Roll out puff paste, stamp it in forms with a cutter, rub the edges with j-olk of egg, put a spoonful of this force- meat in the centre; laj' a piece of the same- sized paste over, pinch down the edges in the shape of a haU-moon or any other shape you may fancy ; dip them in egg beat up, sprinkle them thickly with bread-crumbs, find fry them in hot lard. Serve them quite hot; when you take them out of the pan, throw a handful of fresh-picked parsley into the hot lard; stii- it about gently, and when it ceases crackling, take it o;it, at which moment it will be of a fine gi-cen and crisp; sprinkle it M-ith salt, and strew it over the rissoles.BOA BIS ( 768 ) Bissoles, Pancake.—^lako some batter as for paiirakc'ji. It will bo bottor if iiiado two or Ihi'od liours buforc it i.s wantud. Miuco Knoly some cold-drossod vcul, and with it a quarter of its woijjbt in loan ham or tongue. Season with salt, jiopper, grated nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel. i'ry a thin pancake in the usual way. When it is brown on the upi)or side turn it over, and put into the middle of it two table-spoonfuls of tho mineod veal. Fold it over at the ends, and at oaeli side, that the meat may not escape, and fry tho rissoles thus made till they are lightly browned. Drain them from the fat, and serve very hot. Time to fxy tho rissoles with the meat, three or four minutes. Sufficient, five or six for a dish. Pro- bable cost, 4d. each. Bissoles, Bice.—Boil half a pound of rice till soft and dry. Beat it well, and mi.\ with it the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, two table-spoonfuls of good white sauce, and a little peppor, salt, and grated nutmeg. Beat the mixture over the fire till the eggs are set, then turn it upon a dish. "When cold, mould a spoonful of it in a teacup to a hollow round form, put into the centre any kind of sa- voury mince, and cover with the rice. Dip the rissoles in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain them, dish them neatly on a napkin, and serve very hot. Time to beat the rice over the fire with the eggs, five minutes. To fry the rissoles, fiA'e or six minutes. Probable cost, 3d. cMch. Sufficient, eight or ten for a dish. Bissoles, Savoury.-Mince very finely H ny white meat remaining from da-essed poultry, and nibir with it a fourth of its weight in ham or tongue. Season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and add a fourth part of grated bread-crumbs. Bind the mince together with beaten egg. Instead of pastry, make a force- meat as follows :—With four ounces of finely- grated bread-crumbs mix a quarter of an ounce of minced lemon-rind, a quarter of an ounce of powdered savoury herbs, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. With the fingers work into the bread two ounces of sweet butter, and the unbeaten yolk of an egg. The forcemeat ought to be sufficiently firm to roll out on a floured board to the thickness of the third of an inch. Roll out the forcemeat, stamp it into rounds, lay upon one of these a small ball of minced chicken, put another forcemeat round upon it, and repeat until the meat is used. Close the edges securely, dip the i-issoles in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain them from the fat, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Time to fry, five or six minutes. Bissoles, Sweet.—RoU and stamp the pastry in small rounds, as for ordinary rissoles. Lay in the centre a spoonful of jam or marma- lade, put a round of pastry on the top, and ])ro.HS the edges securely. Brush the rissoles over with egg, lay a little ring of pastry on the top of each, ])r"u.sh over with egg again, and bake on a baking-tin in ii well-heated ov(<n. When the pastry ia set, take the rissoles out. sift finely-powdered sugar over them, and re- turn them to the oven for a few miuutoH. Serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient, a dozen for a dish. Biver Crab.—This a genus of crab in- liabitiug fresh water. One species—the grancio of the Italians—is very cijiiimon in the 8<juth of Europe, and is often met with figun-d im Greek medals. In ancient times it was higldy esteemed as an article of food, and it in much thought of even at the i)reseut day, being connnonly eaten in Italy during the sesisoii of Lent. It frequents muddy lakes and slow rivers, and in some it ali.solutely swarms. Itb captors bring it to market tied on strings, care being taken that the cjubs are placed at such distances as to prevent their fighting and mutilating one another. Boach..—The roach is a fish which inhabits shallow and gently-flowing streams. Its flesh is white, but turns red when boiled; and its com- pactness is thought by many to have given rise to the proverb, " As sound as a roach." It is more likely, however, that this is derived from the French roche, or " rock." Roach is in season from September to March. It seldom weighs more than a pound and a half. It is best fried. Boach, Pried.—Wash the fish, dry them thoroughly with a soft cloth, dredge flour lightly over them, and fry them in hot fat till the flesh leaves the bone easily. Draiu. and serve them on a hot dish, garnished wiih parslev. Send anchovy sauce to tible ^vith them." Time to fry, ten minutes. Sufficient, thi-ee or four for a dish. Probable <-n<t. un- certain, roach being .seldom .sold. Boast Meat, Gravy for.—"NVheu the meat is done, lay that end which is least done in a clean hot dish before the fire, then pour all the fat out of your dripping-pan through a haii- sieve into your stone jar, and put it away . then wipe out of your pan any dust or cinders that may be in it ^vith a clean dish-cloth, and for a joint of about ten pounds pour a small-.sized cupful of boiling stock made from trimining.s into yom' dripping-pan, and with this stock, and 5'our basting-ladle rub all the baked brown gravy off the pan—for nearly all the re^l gravy which drops from the meat will be baked to the dripping-pan. When you have rubbed and washed all the brown off the pan, mix it Avell together, and strain it through a fine hair sieve into a butter siiucepan, simmer it gently over the fire till it is quite hot but not to boil , pour it over the meat, and servo it up. You will find it a good nice brown gravy, better than is frequently made with half a pound of gravy-beef. Boast Meat, Gravy for (another way;. —See Gravy for Roast Meat. Boast Meat, Wholesomeness of.— Roasting is an excellent method of rendering food wholesome and nourishing, as without making any great change in the chemical pro- ])erties of meat, it renders it more tender, sapid, and highly flavoured, whilst there is not s./( 769 ) BOA much dissipation of its nutritive juices as in buking, boiling, and some other processes. "Roasting," says Dr. Kitchiner, "preserves the nutritive part of flesh from dissipation in a greater degree than boiling; and it has been remarked by an observant author (Dr. "Willich) that' one pound of roast meat is, in real nourish- ment, equal to two or three pounds of boiled meat.' It ought, however, to be noticed that the fat of meat treated in this way has under- gone some degree of chemical decomposition from its exposure to heat, and is in consequence more oppressive to delicate stomachs, and gene- rally less salutary than boiled meat." By the process of roasting the fibrine is cor- rugated, the albumen coagulated, the fat lique- fied. As the operation proceeds, the sui-face becomes first brown and then scorched; and the tendinous parts are rendered softer and gluey. Care should always be taken that the meat should not be over-done, nor ought it to be under-dressed; for although in such a state it may contain more nutriment, yet it will be less digestible, on account of the density of its texture. This fact has been satisfactorily proved by the exjieriments of Spallanzani; and Mr. Hunter observes, that " boiled and roasted and even putrid meat is easier of digestion than raw." Animal matter loses more by roasting than by boiling: by the latter process mutton loses one-fifth and beef one-fourth; but by roasting, these meats lose about one-third of their weight. In roasting the loss arises from the melting out of the fat, and the evaporating of the water; but the nutritious matter remains condensed in the cooked soUd, whereas in boil- ing the gelatine is partly ab.stracted. Roast are, therefore, more nutritiouR than boiled moats. Roasting. —To roast meat is to cook it by exposing it to the direct heat of the fire, and the object is to preserve the nutritive qualities and retain the juices, while at the same time tlic joint is sufliciently dressed. The first thing to attend to is the fire. This should be made up some time before, so that when the meat is put down to it it may be bright, strong, and clear. Cinders and dust should be thoroughly cleared out at the bottom, some moderate-sized knobly pieces of coal should be packed closely together at the front, and cinders should be mixed with a little damped coal-dust behind. This will help the fire to retain its heat longer, besides throwing the heat forward. One or two pieces of coal should be put on gently every now and then, so doing away with the necessity of making up the fire again while the meat is before it. The grate should be suf- ficiently large to cover the joint, and leave an inch or two at each side. It should be remem- bered that it is impossible to have roast meat in perfection unless the joint has been hung a proper length of time before being laid down to the fins. Whatever apparatus may be used for suspending the joint before the fire, care should bf! taken that it is kept scru])ulously clean, and that the hook is not pushed through the ])rime juicy pfirts of the meat. A screen should be u.sed if po8sil)Ie, as it tends so much to kec]) in the heiit. Tht; excellence of a roust depends to a very great extent upon the amount of basting it receives. The more it is basted, the better it will be. A little extra dripping may be used at first until the fat melts; but when it has once begun to drop freely it should poured off every now and then, the quantity only which is required for basting being retained in the pan. This is to preserve the dripping itself, as it is much better if not allowed to bum. If the joint be very fat, a piece of paper may be fastened over the fat for the first hour. As to the position of the meat before the fire, '' doctors disagree." According to Baron Liebig, who is decidedly an oracle, the same principle ought to be observed in roasting as in boiling, that is, the surface should be hardened at once by placing the meat near the fire, and when the escape of the juices has thus been stopped, the meat should be drawn back and slowly finished. The almost universal custom is to place it some distance from the fire at first, baste it liberally, and when it is half done, and has been gradually weU-heated throughout, draw it nearer. The advantage of the latter plan is that it does not require so much time as the former. Besides which great judgment is necessary, if Liebig's directions are observed, or the meat -will be either sodden or burnt. The escape of the juices may be prevented by the meat being well basted directly it is put down with wanned dripping. The time required for roasting depends so much ujjon circum- stances that no exact rule can be given. The general rule is a quarter of an hour to the pound, and a quarter of an hour over; but it must lie borne in mind that fat meat takes longer than lean; and thick meat, such as legs an d fillets, longei' than thin, such as loins orbreast.v. White meat, such as pork, and the flesh of young animals, such as veal and lamb, should be well dressed; they need twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes over. When meat is just killed, it must be roasted longer than when it has been well kept, and it needs less of the fire in summer than in winter. Beef needs more cooking than mutton. However, it may be known that a joint is nearly done enough when the steam draws freely to the fire; also when the flesh yields readily, and offers no resistance when it is pressed with the fingers. If a joint is suificiently cooked without being properly browned, it should be put nearer to the fire for a few minutes. Some cooks flour the joint, but the plan is not recommended, thorough j iaasting will do aU that is wanted. Just before 1 it is served, a little salt may be sprinkled on it. I A very small quantity of gravy should be put into the dish with it. More can be sent to table in a tureen. Roasting, Dr. Kitchiner's Obser- vations on.—The following practicjil remarks are extracted from the " Cook's Oracle" of this famous goKrmct. In some resijccts they may be .slightly out of date, but in others they are for all time, and deserving of the most careful attention. Let the young cook never forgel that cleanliness is the chief cjirdinal ^^I•tue of the kitchen : the first preparation for roasting is to take care that the spit be properly deaneil with sand and water—nothing else. When it( 760 ) BOA BOA has been woU Bcoured with this, dry it with a (. loan rloth. If spits aro wiped clean as soon as till! meat is drawn from tliom, and wliile tli(!y aro hot, a very little cleaniup will he required. The less the spit is passed through the meat the better ; and before you spit i^ joint it pro- perly, especially necks and loins, that the carv(;r may separate thorn more easily and neatly. Small families have not always the convenience of roasting with a spit, a remark upon roasting with a string may therefore bo necessary. Lot the cook, before she puts down her moat to the fire, pass a strong skewer through each end of tlie joint; by this means, when it is about half done, she can with ease turn the bottom up- wards ; the gravy will then How to the part which has been uppermost, and the whole joint will be deliciously gravy-full. A bottle-jack is a valuable instrument for roasting. A Dutch oven is another very convenient utensil for roasting light joints, or warming them up. Roasting should bo done by the radiant heat of a clear glowing fire, otherwise the meat is, in fact, baked. All your attention in roasting will be thrown away if you do not take care that your meat, especially beef, has been kept long enough to be tender. Make up your fire in time ; let it be propor- tioned to the dinner to be dressed, and about thi-ee or four inches longer at each end than the thing to be roasted—or the ends of the meat caimot be done nice and brown. A cook must be as careful to proportion her fire to the business she has to do as a chemist—the degree of heat sufficient for di'essing the different sorts of food ought to be attended to with the utmost precision. The fire that is but just suf- ficient to receive the noble siiioin will parch up a lighter joint. From half an hour to an hour before you begin to roast, prepare the fire by putting a few coals on, which will be sufficiently lighted by the time you wish to make use of your fire ; between the bars and on the top put small or large coals, according to the bulk of the joint, and the time the fire is required to be strong; after which throw the cinders (wetted) at the back. Never put meat down to a bumt-up tire, if you can possibly avoid it; but should the fire become fierce, place the spit at a con- siderable distance, and allow a little more time. Preserve the fat by covering it with paper, and then tie it on with fine twine—pins and skewers can by no means be allowed; they are so many taps to let out the gravy ; besides, the paper often starts from them and catches fire, to the great injury of the meat. If the thing to be roasted be thin and tender, the fire should be little and brisk; when you have a large joint to roast, make up a sound, strong fire, equally good in every part of the "•rate, or your meat cannot be equally roasted, nor have that uniform colour which constitutes the beautv of good roasting. Give the fire a good stii-ring before you lay the joint down : examine it from time to time Avhile the spit is going round ; keep it clear at tho bottom, and take care there are no smoky coals in the front, which will spoil the look and tusto of the meat, and hinder it from roastmg evenly. When the joint to be roasted is thicker at one end than the other, place the spit slanting, with the thickest part nearest the tire. IJo not put meat too near the fire at first - the larger the joint, the farther it must be kept from the fire. If onco it gets scorched, the out- side will become hard, and aajuire a disagree- able empyreumatic taste; and the fire being prevented from penetrating into it, the meat will appear done before it is more than half done, besides losing the pale brown colour, which is the beauty of roasted meat. From 14 to 10 inches is the usual distance at which meat is put from the grate when first put down : it is extremely difficult to oflier any- thing like an accurate general rule for this, it depends so much upon the size of the fire, and on that of the thing to be roasted. Be very careful to place the dripping-pan at such a distance from the fire as just to catch the drippings—if it is too near, the ashes will fall into it, and spoil the drippings. If it is too far fi'om the fire to catch them, you will not only lose your drippings, but the meat will be blackened and spoiled by the foetid smoke which will arise when the fat falls on the Hve cinders. A large dripping-pan is convenient for several purposes—it should not be less than twenty- eight inches long, and twenty inches wide, and have a covered well at the side from the fire to collect the drippings—this will preserve them in the most delicate state; in a pan of the above size you may set fiied fish and various dishes to keep hot. The time meat will take roasting will vary according to the time it has been kept and the temperature of the weather—the same weight will be twenty minutes or half an hour longer in cold weather than it will be in warm, and if fresh killed than if it has been kept till it is tender. A good meat screen is a great saver of coals. It should be on wheels, have a flat top, and not be less than about three feet and a half wide, and with shelves in it, about one foot deep—it will then answer all the purposes of a large Dutch oven, plate-warmer, hot hearth, &c. Some are made with a door behind; this is con- venient, but the great heat they are exposed to soon shrinks the materials, and the currents of air through the cracks cannot be prevented, so they are better without the door. Everybody knows the advantage of slow boiling—slow roasting is equally important. It is difficult to give any specific rule for time, but if your fire is made as above di- rected, your meat screen sufficiently large to guard'what you are dressing from currents of air, and the meat is not frosted, you cannot do better than follow the old genera) rule of allo-wing rather more than a quarter of an hour to the pound—a little more or less, according to the temperature of the weather, in proportion as the piece is thick or thin, the strength of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and the frequency with which you baste it; the more it is basted the less time it ^vill tjike, as it keeps the meat soft and mellow on the outside, and the fire acts with more force upon it. Reckon the time, not to the hour when dinner is ordered, hut to the moment the roaslaBOA BOA ( 761 ) will bo wanted—supposing there are a dozen people to sip soup and cat fish first; you iniiy allow them fifteen minutes for the former and about as long for the latter, more or less, according to the temptations the bon goAt of these preceding courses has to attract their attention. When the joint is half done, remove the spit and dripping-pan back, and stir up your tire thoroughly, that it may bum clear and bright for the browning; when the steam frora the meat draws towards the fire, it is a sign of its being done enough; but you will be the best judge of that from the time it has been down, the strength of the fire you have used, and the distance your spit has been from it. When the steam begins to arise it is a proof that the whole joint is thoroughly saturated with heat; any imnecessary evaporation is a waste of the best nourishment of the meat. Half an. hour before your meat is done, make some gravy; and just before you take it up, put it nearer the fire to brown it. If you wish to froth it, baste it, and dredge it with flour cai'efully; you cannot do this delicately nice without a very good light; the common fault seems to be using too much flour: the meat should have a fine light varnish of froth, not the appearance of being covered with a paste. Those who are particular about the froth use butter instead of dripping, "and send up what you roast with relish-giving froth," says Dr. King, and present such an agreeable ap- pearance to the eye that the palate may be prepossessed in its favour at fii-st sight, there- fore, have the whole course dished before roasts are taken from the fire. A good cook is as anxiously attentive to the appearance and coloiir of her roasts as a com-t beauty is to her complexion at a birthday ball. If your meat does not brown 80 much or so evenly as you wish, take two ounces of glaze—i.e., portable soup—^put four table-spoonfuls of water, and let it warm and dissolve gradually by the side of the fire. This will be done in about a quarter of an hour; put it on the meat equally aU over with a paste- brush the last thing before it goes to table. Though roasting is one of the most common, and is generally considered one of the most easy and simple processes of cookery, it requires more unremitting attention to perform it per- fectly well than it does to make made dishes. That made dishes are the most difficult l)reparations deserves to be reckoned among tlie culinary vulgar errors; in plain roasting and boiUng it is not easy to repair a mistake once made ; and all the discretion and attention of a stebdy, careful cook must be unremittingly on the alert. Some good housewives order very large joints to be rather underdone, as they can make a better hash or broil. Dkkdgings. 1. Flour mixed with grated bread. 2. Sweet herbs dried and powdered, and mixed with giated bread. 3. Lemon-peel dried and powdered — or orange-peel—mixed with flour. 4. Sugar finely powdered and mixed with Sounded cinnamon, and flour, or finely-grated read. 0. Fennel seeds, corianders, cinnamon, and sugar, finely beaten, and mixed with grated bread or flour. 6. For young pigs, grated bread or flour mixed with beaten nutmeg, ginger, pepper, sugar, and yolks of eggs. 7. Sugar, bread, and salt, mixed. Bastings. 1. Fresh butter. 2. Clarifled suet. 3. Minced sweet herbs, butter, and claret, especially for mutton and lamb. 4. Water and salt. 5. Cream and melted butter, especially for a flayed pig. 6. Yolks of eggs, grated biscuit, and juice of oranges. Our ancestors were very particular in their bastings and dredgings, as will be seen by the following quotation from May's " Accomplished Cook," London, 1665:—"The rarest ways of dressing of all manner of roast meats, either flesh or fowl, by sea or land, and divers ways of breading or dredging meats, to prevent the gravy from too much evaporating." Boasting, Mr. Buckmaster on.—"I believe I am regarded as a sort of heretic on the question of roasting meat. My opinion is that the essential condition of good roasting is constant basting, and this the meat is not likely to have when shut up in an iron box ; and what is not easily done is easily neglected. Make up your fire, not by shooting on a scuttle of coals, but laying on the coals with your hands, using an old glove. Arrange the lumps of coal so that air passes freely into the fire. By this an-angement you may avoid stirring the fire, which should be done as little as possible. Just before putting down the meat (which may be suspended by a piece of worsted, if you have no other arrangements), clear up the fireplace, and throw to the back of the fire all the cinders and a Httle small coal slightly wetted. This wiU prevent waste of fuel, and throw the heat where you want it—in the front. If you havo a meat screen, place it before the fire, so as to get moderately heated before the meat is hung to the fire. Heat reflected from bright metallic surfaces never dries or scorches the meat. Arrange the dripping-pan so that no ashes can faU into it, and just as far below the meat as will enable you to baste it easily. If you have a little dripping or stock, put about a giU into the dripping-pan for basting. Place a news- paper on the floor; this will keep your heai-th clean. There is a right and a wrong way of hanging a piece of meat to roast. The thickest part should hang a trifle below the centre of the tire; and if this can be best done by hanging the shank of a leg of mutton downwards, do so. The time required for roasting will be modi- fled by circumstances; and dijft'erent kinds or qualities of meat require somewhat different treatment. The time usually allowed is from tiftocn to twenty minutes for a poimd. Before removing the meat from the fire, press the lean part with the thumb : if the meat yield easily, or if the meat steam to the fire, it is done. Never sprinkle salt over the meat till about a quarter of an hour before it is ready. Pour( 762 ) BOO ROB iiway tho drippinfj boforo using tho salt, bocauao tat usod for puddings and pios and frying is bottor without salt. You may dredgo a littlo Hour over it, and every pail should bo of a nice pale brown : if any part bo scorched orl)lackenod you have failed in your cooking. Pour oif the dripping, leaving in tho pan the pure gravy free from fat.' Have a gill or half a pint of tho stock or broth, or water, ready; pour it into tho dripping-pan, rinse it round, strain it into the dish, and send it to table as quickly as possible. Some cooks tie a piece of drii)pin^ or buttered paper on the moat." Rob.—Robs are vegetable juices simply inspissated by evaporating most of the water in a vessel over a fire till they acquire the consistence of syrup, which wiU prevent their running into fermentation. The fruits are to bo squeezed in bags to obtain the juices. Sometimes a little sugar is added to make them keep bettor. Kob of elderberries will keep without sugar, and is sometimes employed medicinally. Robert, Sauce.—No. l. Dissolve a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a saucepan, and fry in it two ■ moderate-sized onions finely chopped. When they are lightly coloured, pour over them a wine-glassful of vinegar, and sim- mer for four minutes. Add an oimce of brown thickening, or, failing this, stir in a table-spoon- ful of iiour, half a pint of broth or water, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper, and the same of salt. Stir the sauce over the fire for twenty minutes, then add a table-spoonful of French mustard, a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence. Mix all well together over the fire, and serve. If French mustard cannot be had, English' mustard must be used, but it -wiU not answer the purpose nearly so well. A spoonful of port is sometimes added. No. 2. The following is a more simple recipe than the above. Slice two onions, and fry them in butter till they begin to turn yellow. Pour over them as much brown gravy as will cover them, add a table-spoonful of mustard, a tea-spoonful of salt, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper, and simmer very gently, adding more gravy if necessary till the onions are tender. Rub them through a fine sieve, mix with the pulp some more gravy, say a quarter of a pint, boil once more, and serve. Time to prepare, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Robert, Sauce (M. Tide's way). — Cut some onions into small dice, fry them of a fine brown, moisten them with some Espagnolc (Spanish sauce), or dust them with flour, and moisten with veal gravy. Skim it, that the Sfiuce may look bright; put in a little pepper and salt, and just before you send up mix a spoonful of mustard. Rocambole.—This plant, which is em- ployed much in the same way as garlic and shallots, is a native of Denmark. It has compound bulbs like garlic, but the cloves are smaller. " The cloves," says Loudon, both of the stalk and roots, are used in the manner of garlic or shallot, and nearly for the same purposes. It is considered milder than garlic." Rochelle Salad.—Wash two line heads of celery, and dry iLom perfectly. Cut tlie best stalks into pieces an inch long, and lay these in a salad Ijowl, mixed witli the whites of three hard-boiled eggs, thinly shred. Press the yolks of tho eggs through a wii-e sieve, and the moment before serving poui- over the sulad a quarter of a pint of tartar sauce. Sprinkle over this first the powdered egg-yolks, and afterwards three fine truflies, finely shred. Ornament the salad with anchovy, beetroot, slices of German sausages, or in any suitable manner, and serve. If liked, the truflies may bo omitted, and mayonnaise sauce be substituted for the tartar sauce. Rock.—Under this name flourishes a kind of sweetmeat composed of sugar, and sometimes mixed with almonds and various flavours. The sugar is first of all boiled, then it is poured out on a cold marble slab, and worked up into a rough mass. The name "rock" is also given to another kind of sweetmeat, in which the sugar whilst hot and soft is repeatedly pulled over a smooth iron hook, until it becomes white and porous. This rock is flavoui-ed in various ways. Rock Biscuits.—Break the whites of three eggs into a pan, and stir them together with a whisk till they break. Cut some blanched, but not dried, sweet almonds into long thin slices, and put them, with an ounce of candied orange- peel cut^small, and one oimce of finely-powdered loaf sugar, to the eggs; mix all well up together with a spoon, adding more almonds and sugar to make the preparation hang together if required. Put white wafer-paper on your iron plates, and lay^he mixture on it in biscuits about the size of a half-crown piece, but piled about an inch to an inch and a half high. Bake them, in a slack oven, of a nice light colour. Rock Biscuits, Lemon {see Lemon Rock Biscuits). Rock Biscuits, Red. — Mix up sliced almonds, whites of eggs, and sugar as directed in the recipe. Rock Biscuits, and colour with a little cochineal. Make the preparation into biscuits as already directed, and bake in a very slack oven. The orange-peel may be omitted. Rock, Brighton {see Brighton Rock). Rock Cakes.—No. l. Whisk three whole eggs till light. Mix with them half a pound of powdered sugar, a quarter of a pound of floui", and a table-spoonful of currants.^ Beat all thoroughly together, drop the dough in lumps upon a buttered tin, and with a fork make them look as rough as possible. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven, and when thoy are done enough store them in a tin canister till wanted for use. No. 2. Boat four ounces of butter to cream. Add four ounces of sugar, two woll-whisked eggs, a pound of flour, and a handful of currants, picked and dried. Boat tho mixture thoroughly, and bake in smaU cakes as above. No. 3 (very plain). Rub a littlo buttor or dripping into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of bakingROD ( 763 ) BOC powder, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, two or three grates of nutmeg, and a handful of picked and dried currants. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, add milk or water to make a light dough, and bake immediately in a well-heated oven. No. 4. Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into half a pound of flour, and add four ounces of moist sugar, a few currants, and a tea- spoonful of baking powder. Mix to a stiif paste with an egg and a little milk. Bake as before. Rock Cakes, Almond or Cocoa-nut. —Blanch three-quarters of a pound of sweet and three or four bitter almonds, and cut them in pieces the size of a pea. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a firm froth. Stir in three- quarters of a pound of white and sifted sugar, a tea-spoonful at a time, and add quite as gradually the blanched almonds. Lay a piece of buttered paper on a flat tin, and with a fork drop the mixture in Uttle knobs upon it. Bake in a moderate oven. Half a pound of grated cocoa-nut may be substituted for the almonds. Time, twenty to thirty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Rock Cream.—Take a tea-cupful of good rice and boil it till soft in sweet milk, sweeten with powdered loaf sugar, and pile it up high on a dish. Lay on the rice, here and there, square pieces of currant jelly, or any kind of preserved fruit. Beat up very stilf the whites of four or five eggs, and a little powdered sugar fhivoured with orange-flower water or vanilla; add a tea-spoonful of cream, and drop the pre- paration over the rice, giving it the look of a rock covered with snow. Rock, Dublin.—Take half a pound of sweet almonds. Pick out eight of them, blanch them, cut them into strips, and then throw them into rose or orange-water till wanted. Put the rest of the almonds into a mortar with six bitter ones, and pound them to a paste with a dessert-spoonful of brandy. Add gradually two ounces of powdered sugar and four ounces of sweet butter. Pound the mixture till it looks very white, and set it in a cold place to stiffen. Dip two spoons into cold water, and with these form the paste into pieces the size and shape of an egg. Pile these in a glass dish in a rock-like form, and ornament with strips of angelica, the almonds which were put aside, and a little myrtle. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for a small dish. Rock, Irish {see Irish Rock). Rock or Candy.—Put a pound of loaf sugar into a saucepan with a tea-cupful of water, and stir it until it is dissolved, add a spoonful of vinegar to clear it, and carefully remove the scum. Have ready a shallow tin rubbed over with butter. When the sugar is boiled suf- ficiently, stir into it sliced almonds, chopped cocoa-nut, or Brazil nuts shelled and cut in slices, and pour it into the tin to the thickness of half or a quarter of an inch. If preferred, the nuts, &c., may be left out, and the rock may be .'<imply marked across with a knife when it is almost cold. In order to ascertain when the sugar is done enough, dip a spoon into it, and raise it. If the threads thus formed snap like glass, it ifl ready. Rock, Snowy.—Take a pound of loaf sugar, clirrffy it, and boil it till it reaches the degi-ee of crackled; then add a table-spoonful of vinegar. A few drops of either the essence oi lemon or the oil of peppermint may also be mixed in. When the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, pour the mixture out on a slightly- oiled marble slab; whilst cooling it may be twisted, rolled, moulded, or made up into any shape at pleasure. Rock Sugar, Coloured.—Take a pint of clarified sugar and boil it in a copper or earthenware pan over a clear fire till it reaches the degree of crackled. Remove it from the fire, and mix well into it a table-spoonful of icing, stirring briskly all the time with your skimmer. If no icing is at hand, mix some sifted loaf sugar with the white of an egg till it is quite thick, put in a table-spoonful, and that will answer as well. If the rock is wanted coloured, mix with the icing any of the colour- ings used for confectionery before you put it to the sugar. When the sugar and icing are well mixed, put it into a papered sieve to cool, and when quite cold break it in pieces. Rockling.—A genus of fish of the cod and haddock family. On the British coast several species are found, the largest being never above nineteen or twenty inches long, the smallest—the mackerel Midge—being only about an inch and a quarter. Fishermen do not hold any of the species in great esteem, partly, no doubt, on account of decomposition setting in very soon after they are taken out of the water. When fresh, however, they are well suited for the table. Rocks, Almond. — Take one pound of -sweet almonds, two pounds of loaf sugar, and a pound and a half of sweet almonds cut in slices. Beat the almonds that are not sliced and the sugar together in a mortar, and pass it all through a flour-sieve. Put the whites of seven or eight eggs into a middling-sized pan, and whisk them up to a very strong froth. Stir in sufficient of your almonds and sugar to make it into a moderate stiff paste, adding also your sliced almonds; form it into small heaps with your fingers the required size—mind you do not press the heaps together too tight, but let them be rather loose, especially on the top. Cover some tins with wafer-paper, and lay them on it, about an inch and a half apart. Bake in a cool oA'en, and leave the oven-door open the greater part of the time they are baking ; when they are of a nice pale brown they are done. If managed properly, almond rocks have a pretty appearance. Rocks, Alpha [sec Alpha Rocks). Rocks for Cheese (frequently called Pulled Bread).—Take a half-baked loaf or one that is perfectly new ; tear off the crust, and with two forks pull the crumb into pieces the size of a Brazil nut. Lay these on a tin, put them in a brisk oven, and bake till they are crisp and brown. Serve with the cheese course. Rodon Cake.—Lay two pounds of fine flour on a sheet of paper before the fire, andROE ( 764 ) ROE move it about occasionally until it is quito dry and warm. Mix a small tea-cupful of fresh yoast, or two ounces of German yeast with lialf a pint of lukewarm milk, stir this into a quarter of a pound of the flour, and set it to rise. When it is well risen put the pound and a half of flour remaining into a separate bowl, and mix with it a pinch of salt, six ounces of sifted sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and an ounce of pomided bitter almonds; when these are thoroughly mixed, add twelve well-beaten eggs, and as nmch lukewarm milk as will form a thin dough. This will be about half a pint. Dissolve a Ijound of butter, and stir it in also, then add the sponge dough. Beat all briskly together for twenty minutes, then add four "ounces of picked and dried currants, eight ounces of stoned raisins, and two ounces of almonds cut small. Butter a plain mould rather thickly, sprinkle chopped almonds over it, and shake oif all that will not adhere. HaK All the mould with the dough, set it in a warm place to rise, and then bake in a moderate oven. If liked, lialf the quantity may be used, and then nine eggs will be required. Time to bake, an houi- and a half. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Roe Sauce for Pish.—Take the soft roes of any tish previously boiled or fried, clear away the skin, and bruise them well with the back of a wooden spoon. Mix with them a dessert-spoonful of mixed mustard, a dessert- spoonful of anchovy sauce or walnut pickle, a tea-spoonful of chilli vinegar, and a little pepper and salt. Rub the mixture till smooth, and stir it into half a pint of melted butter. If preferred, a table-spoonful of plain vinegar may be substituted for the chilli vinegar, and a spoonful of ketchup for the anchovy or pickle. Or bruise the boiled roes as before, and beat up with them the yolk of an egg, a spoonful of fennel and another of parsley, both scalded and chopped, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the preparation into melted butter. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Sufl&cient for five or six persons. Roebuck.—^The roebuck or common roe is of a reddish brown colour, and though small is elegant in shape, and nimble. Plainly dressed it is not worth much, but when marinaded, larded, or jugged, it is very good. The roc- buck has been long extinct in England, but is stiU found in the Highlands of Scotland. It is also found generally throughout continental Europe, and some parts of Asia. In Louisiana the roebuck was once very common, and was larger than that of Europe. The flesh has been compared in flavour to mutton. Roebuck, Braised.—Saw the shank and spine bones from a haunch of roebuck, pare away the skin from the upper part of the leg and the loin, and lard these bare portions closely and evenly with strips of bacon about six inches long and a quarter of an inch thick. These lardons may be seasoned with pepper, salt, and powdered herbs. Place the haunch in a braising-pan, pour over it as much stock as will cover it, and add two carrots, three onions, two turnips, four or five outer sticks of ::elery, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, two or three cloves, and half a tca-spoonf;il of peppercorns. Set the braisiero over a gentle flro, lot its contents simmer very softly, and baste frequently till the moat is done enough. Drain it, and put it in the oven for a short time. Strain the liquor, and boil it down till thick. Baste the haunch with this until it has a bright glazed appearance, and serve as hot as possible. Garnish the dish with glazed carrotrt and onions. Time, three to four hours. Pro- bable cost, Is. 4d. to 28. i^er pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Roebuck, Cutlets of.—Divide a neck of roebuck into cutlets, trim them neatly, flatten with a cutlet bat, and season with pepper and salt. Dip the cutlets first into clarified butter, and afterwards into bread-crumbs. Butter the bars of the gridiron, and broil the cutlets over a gentle fire, turning them frequently to pre- serve the gi-avy. Serve with a little piquant sauce poured round them. Time to broil the cutlets, ten to twelve minutes. Roebuck, Haricot of.—A shoulder or a neck of roebuck may be dressed thus. If the neck is chosen, divide it into thick cut- lets ; or if the shoulder, cut the meat off in pieces not larger than an egg. Fry these in butter until browned, take up the meat, mix with the fat as much flour as will make a stiff paste, beat it with the back of a wooden spoon till it is smoothly and lightly coloured, and then moisten it gradually with as much stock as will cover the roebuck. Add pepper and salt, together with thi-ee or four carrots, two turnips, and four onions, cut into neat shapes not larger than a small walnut. Let the liquor boil, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer very softly until done enough. Be very careful to remove the scum and fat as it rises. Strain the sauce into a small stewpan, and boil it down until it is sufficiently thick to coat the spoon. Put with it two table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly and a glass of port. Trim the pieces of meat, and heat them in it, add the vegetables, and serve all on one dish very hot. Time, about two hours. Probable cost, roebuck. Is. 4d. to 28. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Roebuck, Haunch of. Marinaded. —Prepare a marinade sufficiently deep to cover the surface of the haunch, the ingredients being in the following proportions: — With a pint of vinegar put a quart of water, two onions finely minced, four cloves, a blade of mace, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, a little salt, a sliced carrot, three or four sticks of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil all together for half an hour, strain, and put into a pan large enough to hold the roebuck. Saw the shank and spine bones from the haunch, pare away the skin from the upper part of the leg and along the loin, and lard those bare places closely and evenly with tliin strips of bacon. Put the haunch in the mari- nade for a week. Take it up, spit, and roast before a clear fire, being careful to baste con- stantly. Unless this is done the meat will bo very dry. Take it up, brush it over with molted glaze, and serve \ery hot. The dish should( 765 ) ROE ROE be garnished with stowed prunes and fried pota- toes, and a sauce, prepared as follows, should aecomimny it, a little poured over the haunch, and the rest in a tureen:—Cut an ounce of lean ham into dice, and fry it in a little butter with a small carrot, a stick of celery, and an onion, all cut small, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, a quarter of a blade of mace, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Stir these ingre- dients over the fire until they are lightly browned, then add two table-spoonfuls of vinegar and one of ketchup. Let the liquor boil, and put with it half a pint of bro\vn sauce, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract, a wine-glass of sherry, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy. Let the sauce boil carefully, skim off the fat, &c., strain it, and it will be ready for use. Time to roast the haunch, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 4d. to 2s. a pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Roebuck, Jugged.— Cut a breast of roebuck into small chops, fry these with three or four slices of good bacon in butter till they are lightly browned, then pour oflE the liquor, and mix flour with it to make a roux {see Roux). Moisten this with as much good stock as will cover the pieces of roebuck, and add four or five onions with half a dozen cloves stuck in them, three or four inches of thin lemon-rind, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt; a few mushrooms may be added 3 liked. Put all into a stewpan, cover closely that no steam may escape, and when the liquor has boiled, draw the pan to the side, and let its con- tents simmer gently until done enough. Put the meat on a dish, arrange the vegetables round it, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. Time to simmer the meat, about two hours. Probable cost. Is. 4d. to 28. per pound. Roebuck, Minced.—Take the remains of a dressed leg of roebuck. Remove all fat, skin, and gristle; mince the meat finely, and mix it with the remains of the poivrade sauce {see Roebuck, Haunch of, Marinaded). If there is none left, make a little; a pint wiU be sufficient for a pound of mince. Heat aU gently together without allowing the sauce to boil, ands serve garnished with poached eggs. Time to warm the mince, a few minutes. Roebuck, Roast.—Take a leg of roebuck, saw away the shank bones, and pare off about four inches of the top skin. Lard the bare place closely and evenly with thin strips of fat bacon. Wrap the leg in buttered paper, leaving ])oth ends open, put it down before a clear fire, and roast it till done enough. About ten minutes before it is taken down, remove the paper and sprinkle a little salt over the joint. Serve with a paper frill round the knuckle, and send poivrade sauce to table in a tureen. The directions for making this sauce are given with Roebuck, Haunch of, Marinaded. Time to roast a leg weighing five pounds, fifty minutes. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Roes, Herring, in Cases (Ude's way). —Have a paper caso, either round or square its size must be suited to the dish you are going to use—spread some butter over the bottom. Broil eight verj' fresh soft-roed herrings, and when well done take out the roes, and put them, without breaking, into the case. Sprinkle over them a little pepper, salt, rasped bread, and finely-chopped parsley; put a few small bits of butter over them in different places, and bake them in a hot oven. \Vlien they are done, put a little maitre d'hotel sauce into the case, with the juice of a lemon. Send up quite hot, and very firm. This dish can never be properly prepared if you wash the herrings : scale them very well, and wipe them first with a damp cloth, and afterwards with a dry one, then broil them sharply, so as to keep the soft roe very fii-m. The case should be made of strong foolscap paper. Roes, Mackerel, in Cases.—Take six very fresh soft-roed mackerel. Broil them till well done, then take the roes from them, and put them into small cases with parsley chopped fine, a little rasped crust of bread, salt, pepper, and a little butter; then put them into the oven; when they are very hot, send them to table with a little white sharp sauce, and the juice of a lemon. This will only make a small dish: when you want to make it larger, put more soft roes, and use the mackerel for fillets as a fish-dish. Roes, Mackerel, Timballe of (a la Sefton).—Take the soft roes of four large mackerel. Do not wash the fish, for the roes would then turn black and soft. Put the roes in melted butter, without any salt; cover them with the butter, and either bake them in the oven, or let them sweat on a stove. Take care not to break them. When they are done, lay them on a sheet of white paper to drain; dust a little salt over them, and cut them into small dice as neatly as possible. Put these into petits pates, which keep hot, and make the following sauce, which is to be put afterwards into the pates:—Take two spoonfuls of bechamel, add a small bit of butter with pepper and salt. Refine this sauce with some thick cream. Keep it hot, fiU the pates in which the soft roes are, but mind that it is liquid enough to penetrate the roes. Above all, send up quite hot. This entree is much esteemed by the daintiest epicures. If you have a grand dinner, four mackerel will make two dishes without any connoisseur having occasion to find fault, as they will both diflEer in flavour as well as in form and appearance. Observe, that you give the soft roes for pates, and the fillets for a dish of fiUets of mackerel. Roes of Fish for Garnishing.—Take the roes of fresh salmon, cod, or other large fish, wash them well to clear them from fibre, and set them on a tin plate in a cool oven until quite dry. Beat them with a fork to separate the seeds, put these into a bottle, and store in a cool dry place. They will keep good for sonae time. _ A spoonful sprinkled lightly over white fish wiU improve its appearance. Roes, Salted (a substitute for Caviare).— The roes for this purpose should be taken from a fish about to spawn. Wash the roes first in milk and water, and afterwards in cold water, and clear them perfectly from fibre. Drain them thoroughly, and sprinkle a quarter of aROL ( 7fi6 ) ROL pound of salt upon each pound and a half of spawn. Lt)t thoni lie in tho brino for two days, turning thoni over ocoisionally. Lay them on a board placod in front of tho fire, and distant about a yard from it, and let thom roinain f(jr ton or twelve hours till they aro quite dry. Crush thom well with a weight, and press thoni into a perfectly dry jar. Put on each pound and a half of spawn twelve drojjs of spirit of nitre and as much pounded saltpetre as can be piled on a sixpence. Cover tho jar with writing-paper upon which has boon spread a thick coating of cold lard, tie a piece of wash- leather over this, and store the preparation in u warm place. It is used as a relish, and should bo served spread thinly on bread and •lutter or toast. Roes, Smoked.—Those are usually cut into thin slices and eaten on bread and butter as a cold relish, without f m-ther cooking than they have received when bought. They may also be soaked for a few hours in cold water, or very lightly boiled, and then fried in butter or oil. Roll, Forced.—Take a rasped French roll, cut a lid off one end, and scoop out the crumb. Make a ragoiit or hash of pigeon, veal, beef, or sweetbreads, or anything else at hand; fill the roll with it while warm; put on the top ; fasten it with a little white of egg; dip the roll in milk, and fiy in plenty of hot lard or butter. Rolla Cheese (a breakfast or supper dish). —Di\'ide about two pounds of prepared tripe into pieces three inches square, the rough side inwards. Lay on each one of these a narrow strip of the skirts of beef ; cut fat and lean to- gether, and do not entirely cover the tripe with the beef. Season with pepper and salt, and roll the tripe up with the meat in it. Tie the rolls with twine, and sew the edges together. When the rolls ai e all made, drop them into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and let them boil softly imtil a straw will easily penetrate them. Take them up, drain them, lay them side by side in a dish, put a board with a weight upon them to press them, and let them remain until cold. Keep them in a pickle of vinegar and water, and before ser\'ing cut them into thin slices. Rolled Beef.—To make a pickle, pound the following ingredirnts to powder: — Six pounds of common salt, two ounces of saltpetre, eight ounces of mois^t sugar, a table-spoonful of chopped herbs—consisting of thyme, basil, mar- joram, savory, and bay-leaves—a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, half an ounce of cloves, half an ounce of mace, half an oimce of pepper- corns, and a clove of garlic. The latter may be omitted. Take a square piece of tho thin end of the flank of beef, weighing from eight to twelve pounds. Bono and skin it, rub it well in every part with the powder, and turn and rub it every day for throe days. Wash and wipe it dry, and spread upon the inside a layer of good veal forcemeat. Roll the beef in the form of a bolster, bind it tightly, tie it in a cloth, and put it into a saucepan with as much boiling water as will cover it, adding also a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, and a few 8ti(.kB of celery. Let the liquor boil for one minute, skim it, draw tho saucepan to the side of the fire, and lot its contents simmer gently till the beef is done enough. Let it remain in the Uquor until it is partially cooled, take it up without untying the string, put it between two difihes, place a weight upon it, and let it stand till cold. Before serving, brush it over with two coats of liquid glaze, and garnish with parsley. If it is wished that the beef should be served warm, take it when it has been pressed and is almost cold, and warm it again in a litth; of tho liquor in which it was boiled. Skim this carefully, boil it up with a spoonful of brown thickening, stir into it a glass of sherry and any seasoning that may be required, and pour it round the beef. Garnish the dish with glazed carrots. Instead of rubbing the beef with the savoury-powder, it may, if preferred, be ijrepared for boiling as follows :—Bone and skin the beef, and rub into it every day for a week salt mixed with a fourth of its weight in sugar. Wash and dry it, lay it on the table, and strew over the inside a savoury-powder made by mixing together a dozen pounded cloves, half a nutmeg grated, a quarter of an oimce of mace, a pinch of cayenne, two large table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, and a table-spoonful of chopped herbs, consisting of thyme, marj oram, bay-leaves, and basil. Roll the meat in the form of a bolster, bind it tightly, and tie it in a cloth as before. The easiest way of glazing the beef when it is to be served cold, is to procure a quarter of a poimd of glaze from the grocer's, dissolve it by putting it in a jar into boiling water, and when it is melted brush it over the meat. Time to simmer the beef after it has once boiled, half an hour per pound. Sufficient for a handsome and excellent dish. Probable cost, flank of beef, 9d. per pound. Rolled Veal (for breakfast, supper, or luncheon).—Bone a breast of veal, lay it flat on the table, and spread over the inside a layer of good veal forcemeat the third of an inch in thickness. Add in alternate rows a table- spoonful of green pickles, and three hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters lengthwise, and lay over all some slices of lean undressed ham. Roll the veal tightly, and bind securely -with tape.' Put it into a saucepan of stock, let it boil, then draw it to the side, and simmer as gently as possible till tender. Take the veal up, put it on a dish, lay a board with a weight upon it, and let it remain until cold. Take off the tape, fasten the veal with a silver skewer, trim it neatly, and brush over with glaze. Grar- nish the dish with parsley, green pickles, clear jelly cut into dice, &c. Time to simmer the veal, about three hours. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Rolls {see Breakfast Cakes or Rolls). Rolls, Baker's.—No. l. Put three pounds of fine flour into a large bowl, scoop a hole m tho centre not qiiito to the bottom, and put mto this a piece of salcratus, tho size of a bean, dissolved in half a tea-cupful of hot wat^-r, a toa-spoonful of «alt, and a table-apoonful( 767 ) BOL BOL of fresh yeast. Add a little hot milk, and knead the whole to a smooth shining dough. 'I'hrow a cloth over it, and put it into a warm place for two hours. When it is lightly risen, kuead it again thoroughly with the lists, let it rise once more, and divide it into pieces the size of a large turkey's egg. Koll these between the hands to the length of a finger, put them on floured baking-tins, leaving a little distance between them, and brush the tops lightly over w-ith milk. When the tops are brightly browned, break open one of the rolls, and if it is done enough take the rest out of the oven. Serve hot. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, ^d. each. No. 2. Mix a tea- spoonful of salt with two pounds of flour in a bowl. Rub into this a piece of butter the size of an egg, and make a hole in the centre of the flour, not quite to the bottom of the bowl. Pour into this a tea-spoonful of fresh light yeast, with three-quarters of a pint of warm milk and an egg,' add as much flour as will make a thin batter, sprinkle a little flour over it, and leave it in a warm place to rise. In about tlu-ee hours knead it thoroughly with the fists, and divide the dough into rolls. Lay these on a floured baking-tin, let them rise again for ten or fifteen minutes, brush over with milk, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Id. each. No. 3. Stir a sHce of fresh butter into half a pint of new milk imtil it is dissolved. Add half an ounce of sweet German yeast dissolved in a little warm water, and stir the whole into two pounds of flour which have been mixed with half a tea-spoonful of salt. Knead the dough thoroughly with the fists till it is smooth and shining, cover with a cloth, and set it on a warm hearth to rise. Divide it into rolls, lay these on a floured baking-tin, let them rise before the fire for half an hour, and bake in a moderate oven. When rolls are wanted fresh for breakfast, this dough may be kneaded overnight, and left on the hearth till morning. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. No. 4. Put a pint of hot milk into a bowl, and stir into it until dissolved two oimces of butter and two ounces of lard. Add a beaten egg, and let the milk cool, then stir the whole into a pound of flour. Knead it well, and put it into a warm place to rise. When light, add another half-pound of flom-, and let it rise again. Roll it out, stamp it into cakes, lay these in buttered pans, cover them, and let them rise. Whe.n light, prick them, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, l^d. each. Rolls, Bakers', American {see Bakers' Rolls, American). Rolls, Beef (Cold Meat Cooker\').—If cold boiled beef is objected to, it may be'warmed up as follows :—Cut the meat into thin slices of uniform size and shape. Sprinkle over each slice a little pepper and salt, with a pinch of chopped parsley, and a mushroom or an anchovy chopped small. Lay over the season- ing a slice of bacon of the same size as the beef, roll the meat up, and tie it round with thin twint). Fry the rolls in plenty of hot fat, and when thev nn- niccily browned all over. drain, and serve with brown gravj- poured over them. Time, fry till brown. Rolls, Brentford {see Brentford Rolls). Rolls, Cream of Tartar.—Mix a tea- spoonful of cream of tartar and half a tea- spoonful of soda with a pint of fine flour. Add as much milk only as will make the dough firm enough to be rolled out, and handle it as lightly as possible. Roll it out on a weU- floured board, and stamp it in rounds an inch thick. Bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Rolls, Flour and Potato.—Roll and dry one pound of potatoes, mix them with two ounces of sweet cream and half a pint of milk, and rub them thi-ough a wire sieve into a pound and a half of flour. ]Mix a gill of warm milk with a little yeast, and add this to the flour. Make into dough, let it rise before the fire, form into rolls, and bake quickly. Rolls, French.—No. l. Dissolve a quar- ter of an ounce of German yeast in a quarter of a pint of warm milk. Add a well-beaten egg, and stir the whole into a pound of flour into which an ounce of butter has been rubbed. Beat the mixture till it is stiff and smooth, let it rise for an hour, then—without kneading it —drop it in little lumps upon buttered tins, and bake in a well-heated oven. When it is nearly cold gi-ate oft' the outer crust. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. No. 2. Rub four oimces of fresh butter into two pounds of flour until it is as fine as oatmeal. Add half a tea-spoonful of salt, two beaten eggs, two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and as much lukewarm milk as wiU make a soft dough. Dredge a little fiour over this, cover the bowl with a cloth, and put it on the hearth to rise. In about two hours make it into rolls three inches long and an inch thick. Lay these on a baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven. Two or three- minutes before they are done enough, brush them quickly over with milk. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. No. 3. Rub two ounces and a half of butter into one pound of fine flour, add a pinch of salt, the whites of three eggs whisked to a firm froth, and as much lukewarm milk as wiU make a soft dough. Cover the bowl, and set it on the hearth or in a warm place to rise. When it is light, which will be in about an hour, divide it into small rolls, and bake these in a quick oven. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Rolls, French (another way). — Dr. Kitchiner gives the following as the bakers' method of making French rolls in his day:— Put a peck of flour into the kneading-trough, and sift it through the brass wire sieve; tlien rub in three-quai-ters of a pound of butter, and when it is intimately blended with the flour, mix up with it two quarts of warm milk, a quarter of a pound of salt, and a pint of yeast. Let these ingredients bo mixed with the flour and a sufiicient quantity of warm water to knead it into a dough; let it stand two hours to prove, and then be moulded into rolls or bricks, which should be j)laoed on tins and set for an hour in the prover. Place( 768 ) BOL thorn in a brisk ovon for about twenty minutos, ami, when drawn, the rolls are to bo rasped. Rolls, French (another way).—(See also French Kolls. Rolls, Fruit.—Dissolve an ounce and a half of butter and half a tea-spoonful of salt in a pint of boiling milk, and half an ounce of yeast in a table-spoonful of warm water. When the milk is nearly cold, mi.\ with it an egg, add the yeast, and throo-quartors of a pound of flour. Cover it, and put it in a warm place to rise. When light, knead in another half a pound of flour, and let it rise again. Make the pastry into rings by roUing it out in pieces half an inch thick and half an inch wide. Pinch the ends together, Liy the rings on buttered pans, let them rise before the fire for a few minutes, prick them again, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, twelve to fifteen minutes. These rolls are delicious served with stewed fruit and cream. Rolls, Geneva.—No. l. RuB two ounces of butter into a pound of flour till it is as fine as oatmeal; add a pinch of salt, a dessert- spoonful of strong yeast, and as much milk as win make a stifi: dough. This will be about half a pint. Let it rise for an hour, then work in with it two eggs which have been beaten up with as much hot milk as will make them new-milk-warm; knead the dough till it is soft and light. Let it rise half an hour longer, form into it small rolls, and bake these in a quick oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. No. 2. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter and a tea-spoonful of salt in a pint of hot milk. Stir in a pound of flour, and when the batter is lukewarm add a quarter of a pint of fresh yeast. Put the dough in a warm place, and let it rise till light. This will be in three or four hours. Work in another half a pound of flour, and let the dough rise again for an hour or two. Dissolve half a tea-spoonful of soda in a table-spoonful of hot water, knead this into the dough, and form it into small rolls three inches long and one wide. Put these side by side in buttered baking-pans, let them rise before the fire for five or six minutes, prick them, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, fifteen or twenty minutes. Rolls, Ginger.—Take two ounces of good powdered ginger and a little salt, and mix these ingredients well with two pounds of flour. Make the preparation into a firm but perfectly light dough with German or brewer's yeast in the usual way. Divide into six or eight small loaves, and bake. Rolls, Hot.—When hot rolls are sent in from the baker's for breakfast, they should be put into the oven as soon as thoy arrive, because it is seldom well heated in the early morning, and rolls are worth nothiiig when they are half cold. Two minutes before they are to be served, take them out, divide them into three lengthwise, and put some thin slices of good butter between the rolls; press them together, and return them to the oven for one minute. Take them out, spread the butter, divide the rolls into halves, place them on a hot clean dish, and servo immediately. Pro- bable coat. Id. each. Rolls (made from nKcn dough).—No 1 Take a lump of the dough, divide it into si'naii balls the size of an omnge, put these into patty-pans, and set thorn before the fire for ten imnutes to rise. Put them into the oven, and bake them till done enough. When nearlv cold grate off the outer crust. Time to bake fifteen to twenty minutes. No. 2. Take a piece of dough the size of a small loaf. Work into it a slice of butter, lard, or sweet dripping and one egg. Knead it well, and make it into rolls three inches long and an inch thick. Lay these side by side in a buttered dish, and put them into a quick oven. Do not open the oven-door for a quarter of an hour, then brush the tops of the rolls over with milk, bake them five minutes longer and they will be done enough. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Rolls, Meat.—Mince some under-dressed meat—beef, veal, chicken, or turkey—and pound it smoothly with a third of its weight in fresh butter and a liberal seasoning of pepper and salt. Make some good forcemeat, and form it into small roUs about three inches long and half an inch thick. Moisten these with water, and cover with one or two layers of the pounded meat. Fold them in piiff paste, fasten the ends securely, and bake in a well-heated oven. Serve them piled on a neatlj'-folded napkin. The forcemeat may be made as follows : — Mix a quarter of a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind with four otmces of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Add salt and pepper, a pinch of grated nut- meg, and a quarter of an ounce of mixed sweet herbs finely powdered. Break into the mix- ture two ounces of sweet butter, moisten with the yolk of an egg, and work hghtly vrith the fingers till it is well mixed. Time to bake the roUs, twenty minutes. Rolls, Meat (another way).—Pound the meat as above. Form it into rolls, and insert in the centre of each a spoonful of mush- rooms which have been stewed in butter till tender and then drained. Fold the rolls in puff paste, and bake in a well-heated oven until the pastry is done enough. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Rolls, Milk (to be eaten either hot or cold).—Put a pound of fine flour into a bowl. Scoop a hole out of the centre, and sprinkle round the edge a tea-spoonful of salt and two tea-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Dissolve two ounces of butter in half a pint of tepid milk, add an ounce of German yeast, and work tht whole gradually to a stiff paste, adding ;i little more flour if necessarj-. Cover the bowl with a cloth, and put it on the hearth to rise. When it is light, which will be in about three- quarters of an hour, divide it into small balls the size of an orange, rub these between the hands into rolls, brush over with milk or with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Rolls, Milk (anotherway).—iSee Milk Rolls. Rolls, Oyster.—Take two or three square French rolls, cut a slice off the top, and scoop out the greater part of the crumb. Half fill the hollows with finely-minced oysters seasont^d( 769 ) BOL BOM ■with a;yenne, and fill to the top with rich wnite sauce. Lay on tho cover, tie it on with tvnne, and put the rolls in a Dutch oven before' a clear firo until they are brown and quite hot. If liked, the oysters can be stewed before being put into the rolls. Rolls, Polenta. — Polenta is the name under which Italian flour or maize is sold at the foreign warehouses in this country. It is much superior in quality to that which is imported from America, and is harvested with more care; but its consumption here is comparatively small, and it is sold at a price which must, while it is maintained, prevent its general use for bread, of which it makes a pleasant variety when mixed with twice the quantity of wheaten flour. Blend intimately in an earthen pan one pint of the polenta with a quart of the best flour, and rather less than the usual proportion of salt. DUute gradually a dessert-spoonful of solid yeast, or half an ounce of German yeast, with a pint of wai-m new nulk (a few spoonfuls more than this quantity may be required, but it is better not to add it at first), and make the dough up at once. Let it be firm without being hard, as it will become lithe in rising. Leave it covered with a cloth imtil it appears quite Hght; then knead it down thorougWy, and let it again stand to rise. Divide it into large roUs, place them some distance apart on a floured tin, and bake them in a moderate oven from three- quarters of an hour to an hour. The polenta imparts a pleasant flavour to this bread, which eats almost Uke rice-cake, which it may be made to resemble still further by dissolving an ounce of butter ia the milk with which it is mixed. Bolls, Turkish. — Take six ounces of Jordan almonds, a pint and a half of milk, two to three pounds of best flour, and half to three- quarters of an ounce of German yeast. Blanch and pound the almonds to a perfectly smooth paste, moisten them gradually with boiling milk or thin cream, and let them simmer together for a few minutes. Wring—with strong pressure— the milk from the almonds through a tamis or a thick cloth, and employ it like ordinary milk for making the requisite quantity of flour into dough. If liked, the dough may be slightly tinged with saflEron, and sweetened with a little pounded sugar. Bolls, Veal.—Cut thin slices of undressed veal, or, if preferred, take slices of xrnder- dressed meat. Spread on each one a seasoning of minced bacon, chopped parsley, stewed and minced mushrooms, pepper, salt, and pounded mace, together with a few finely-grated bread- crumbs. Roll the meat up, and tie it securely with twine. Put those into a saucepan with as much nicely-flavoured brown gravy as wiU cover them, and then let them simmer gently imtil tender. Put the rolls on a hot dish with the gravy poured over them, and serve very hot. Boly-poly Pudding.—The pastry for this favourite pudding may be made in "three or tf)ur ways, according to the degree of richnoss required. For a superior pudding mix Z a pound of flour with half a pound of very finely-shred suet, freed from skin and fibre. Add a good pinch of salt, an egg, and nearly half a pint of nulk. Roll it out three or four times. For a plainer pudding, mix five or six ounces of suet with a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, and make a paste by stirring in half a pint of water. TNTien suet is objected to, rub six oimces of butter or six ounces of sweet dripping into a pound of flour, and pro- ceed as before. When a smaller quantity still of dripprag is used, the addition of a spoonful of baking-powder will help to make the pastry light. Roll out the pastry to a long thir form, a quarter of an inch thick, and of a width to suit the size of the saucepan in which it is to be boiled. Spread over it a layer of any kind of jam, and be careful that it does not reach the edges of the pastry. Begin at one end, and roll it up to fasten the jam inside, moisten the edges, and press them securely together. Dip a cloth in boiling water, flour it weU, and tie the pudding tightly in it. Plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, at the bottom of which a plate has been laid to keep the pudding from burning, and boil quickly until done enough. If it is necessary to add more water, let it be put in boiling. Marmalade, treacle, sliced lemon and sugar, lemon-juice and sugar, chopped apples and currants, either separately or together, may be used instead of jam for a change. Time to boil the pudding, one hour and a half to two hours, according to the size. Boly-poly Pudding, Apple {see Apple Roly-poly Pudding). Boly-poly Pudding, Jam {see Jam Roly-poly Pudding). Boly - poly Pudding, Lemon {set Lemon Roly-poly Pudding). Boly-poly Pudding, Prune {see Prune Roly-poly Pudding). Boman Granito {see Granite, Roman) Boman Qniocchi.—Put three ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan with half a pint of boUing water and a seasoning of salt, cayenne, and powdered mace. As soon as the water reaches the boiling point stir in very gradually six ounces of fine flour, and beat the batter with a wooden spoon till it is quite smooth and leaves the saucepan in a lump with the spoon; then add the yolks of four eggs, the whites of two, and two table-spoonfula of grated Parmesan. Work the pastrj' briskly for two or three minutes, then roll it into the form of small sausages, and dredge flour upon it to keep it from sticking to the fingers. Throw the roUs into boiling water, and keep them boiling for ten minutes. Drain them, lay them on a dish, pour a little good brown gravy over them, and serve very hot. Time to boU the gniocchi, ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Boman Punch, Iced.—Put two pounds of finely - powdered sugar into a bowl, and strain over it the juice of ten lemons and two sweet orfmges, Add the thin ri^d of a lemon.{ 770 ) ROO ROM and an orange, and lot the infusion remain for one ht)ur. Strain tho syrup through muslin, add gradually the whites of ten eggs beaten to a firm froth, and freeze tlie ])uneh in the usual way, being careful to work it vigorously with the spattle while it is being frozen. A few minutes before serving, mix together a pint of old white Jamaica rum, half a pint of green tea, half a pint of brandy, and a bottle of champagne. Add tho ice, and stir briskly till it dissolves. A pint of pine-apple syrup may be added or not. This punch should bo thick and creamy in appearance. If it is too thick to be poured into glasses, it should be thinned with a little more champagne. Iced Roman punch should be handed round in high glasses be- tween tho first and second courses. Rombo or Fowl in Salad Sauce.— Take a cold roast fowl and bone it, or cut up any remaining from the previous day into suit- able-sized pieces. Make a sauce as follows :— Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, beat them up, and add to them two spoonfuls of oil, a spoonful and a half of vinegar, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a little flour of mustard, to which may be added a tea- spoonful of chopped tarragon and onion. Dip each oicce of fowl separately in this seasoning, and arrange the pieces in a dish garnished with hard-boiled eggs cut in rings, and sprigs of parsley. Rook.—The rook affords a dry and coarse meat. A pie made of young rooks is tolerable; at least, it is the best form for using these birds as food. There is, in the opinion of some, a resemblance between the flavour of the young rook and that of the young pigeon. THE ROOK. Rook Pie.—Rooks require long stewing, or they will not be tender. The breasts are the only parts of the birds which are really worth using, and when the other portions are put into the dish, care should bo taken to cut out tho spine and the flesh ne.'ir it to the width of tliree- quarters of an inch, or the pie will have a hitter tftste.. Man;\' CQokH l«y the birdii in a dish, season them with pepper and salt, put a coarse flour-and-water crust over them, and then bake them for a couple of hours ; the next day they remove tho comnujn crust, lay good pastry over them, and bake the pie in the usual way. Tho following recipe will, however, be found very good :—Take six or eight froshly-killod young rooks. Skin without plucking them, and to do this cut the skin round th(3 first joint of the legs, and draw it over the head. Cut olf the necks, draw the birds, and cut away the legs, backs, and wings. Cut a pound of chuck steak into neat squares, pepper these, and lay them in a pie-dish, pouring over them half a tea-cupful of stock or watei'; cover the dish closely, and bake the meat tUl it is almost done enough. Lay the breasts of the rooks upon the steak, with a small slice of butter upon each. Sprinkle over them a seasoning of salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and pour over them as much atSck or water as will barely cover them. Let them bake gently for half an hour. Let the diah cool, then line the edges with good pastry, cover it with the same, ornament according to taste, make a hole in the centre that the steam may escape, and bake in a brisk oven. When the pastry is done enough, the pie may be served. Time to bake, altogether, two hours and a half. Probable cost, uncertain, rooks being seldom sold. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Rook Pie (another way)—Sldn and draw six young rooks, and cut out the backbones. Season them with pepper and salt, put them in a deep dish with half a pint of water, lay some bits of butter over them, and cover the dish with a tolerably thick crust. Let the pie be well baked. Root Gravy {see Gravy Maigre for Fish: sometimes called Root Gravj'). Roots, Esculent.—These are of two kinds—those used as food, and those which principally answer the purposes of condiment or seasoning. Under the first division may be classed turnips, carrots, parsnips, Jerusalem artichokes, radishes, &c.,many of which, it will be seen, are seldom used solely for aliment, but are rather brought to our tables to quahfy our animal food. Under the second division may be arranged onions, garlic, horseradish, &c. We may add a few observations on the qualities of these several roots. The carrot, from the quantity of saccharine matter which it contains, is very nutritive and slightly laxative; but it also possesses a large proportion of fibrous matter, which in some stomachs prevents the digestion of the root, and it passes through the bowels with but little change. To obviate this effect, it ought to bo very thoroughly boiled, and it should be eaten when yoimg. The turnip is a very excellent vegetable, and, although it has the character of being flatulent, is less hable to disagree with the stomach than the carrot. It ought, how- ever, to be well boiled, and the watery part separated by pressure. Tho parsnip is nutritive and digestive, although many persons dislike it on account of its sweet flavour. The Jorusalem artichoke is agreeable, but watcrj' and flatulent It ought, therefore, never to be eaten withoutBOS ROO a proper accompaniment of salt and pepper. As to radishes, all the vai'ietiea have a pungent and acrid taste, in consequence of a peculiar stimulating matter whicli resides in the cortical part of the root. They may be said to contain little else than water, woody fibre, and acrid matter, and cannot, therefore, be very nutritive. They may act as a stimulant and prove useful, but. they ought never to be eaten when old, as the quantity of inert matter in such a condition is apt to disagree with the stomach. From the consideration of radishes we pass, by an easy transition, to that of onions, &c., for they appear to form the connecting link between alimentary roots and those principally used as condiments. The onion, however, although classed under this latter division, and though it must be considered as valuable on account of its stimulating matter, certainly contains a con- siderable proportion of nourishment. This ap- pears evident in their boiled state, by which process itikiv acrimony is exhaled and a sweet mucilage separated. Sir John Sinclair says that it is a well-known fact that a Highlander, with a few raw onions in his pocket and a crust of bread or some oat-cake, can travel to an almost incredible extent for two or three days together without any other sort of food. The French are fully aware of the quantity of nourishment this plant affords, hence the soup d Voignon is considered by them as the best of all restoratives. As a stimulant to the stomach and bowels, the onion in a raw state is certainly of value, and this is much enhanced by its diuretic properties. The leek, garlic, and shallot are of the same species, and possess qualities of the same nature. Horseradish is a warm and pimgent root, and is highly valuable to the dyspeptic as a stimulant; it is, perhaps, the best of all condiments for the prevention of flatulence. Roots, Essence of (maigre).—Clean three bunches of carrots, two of turnips, six heads of celery, two bunches of white onions, and one of leeks, the whole sliced, and boiled for two minutes in boiling water; cool them afterwards in cold water, then drain, and put them in a stock-pot with ten quarts of boiling water, add an onion with two cloves, a little salt, pepper, nutmeg grated, and butter; simmer them for three hcmrs over a slow fire, skim off all the j butter, and strain the essence through a silk ! sieve. This stock, not being coloured, is adapted for sauces and soups that are to be white, but has less flavour than that described in the preceding recipe. Roots, Macedoine of. —Take some button onions, peel them; some carrots as red as you can get them, and some nice young turnips. Pare off the outer red part of the carrot, having first scraped and cleaned them thoroughly, and cut the parings into bits about the size of peas; do so also with the turnips, but leave the onions whole. Fry the onions and turnips in a good lump of butter and a tea-spoonful of sugar, but the carrots require more dressing, and should be stewed previously in water for about ten or fifteen minutes, when they may be fried with the rest. Toss 1 all tho vegetables well in the butter until they are glazed but not burned. Add a cupful of bechamel maigre and stew, with a proper seasoning of salt and pepper, until the mace- doine has acquired a rather thickish consistency and the sauce is reduced. To thicken, add the yolk of an egg beaten up with two table-spoon- fuls of cream. Stir in the thickening when ready to serve, and when the heat has gone off a little, or it will curdle and spoil the sauce. If not required for a maigre dish, use bechamel made with, meat, but in every other respect proceed as before directed. Time, fifteen minutes to stew the carrots; to fry, five or six minutes. Probable cost of bechamel maigre, per pint, 6d. This dish, is mostly used as a maigre dish. Roots, Pickled.—To pickle roots—such, as beetroots, carrots, salsifis, &c.—slice them, boil them in vinegar for a short time, and flavour with, the usual spices. They should not, of course, be boiled sufiiciently long to destroy their crispness. Roquefort Cheese. — The celebrated cheese of Eovergue, known under the name of Roquefort cheese, was made in the seventeenth century in the following way, according to MarcoreUe :—" The curd employed is made from sheep's milk mixed with a little goat's milk. It is broken as small as possible. When it is taken from the moulds it is bound with a linen band and taken to the drying-room, then to the caves, where it is rubbed with salt on the two flat sides of the surface. The downy substance which subsequently covers the crust is frequently scraped off, after which it is left to ripen on tablets exposed to currents of air which proceed from the interstices of the rocks in which the caves are formed." Rose Brandy, for riavonring Cakes and Puddings.—Fill a bottle with freshly- gathered rose-leaves, and shake them down. Pour brandy over them to cover them, cork the bottle closely, and store the infusion for use. Rose Cream.—Boil a pint of milk, sweeten it, and flavom- with a table-spoonful of rose brandy. Drop into it while boiling the whites of four eggs in separate table-spoonfuls. Turn these over once or twice in the hot milk till they are just set, then lift them carefully out, and put them on a sieve to drain. Make a custard with the yolks of the eggs and the milk, and stir this over the fire till it begins to thicken. An additional pint of milk may be added or not. Put it into a custard-bowl, and when it is cold lay the poached-egg whites upon it. Sprinkle hundreds and thousands over these, or lay upon them candied peel cut into shreds, and then serve. Time to poach the egg-whites, half a minute. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Rose Custard (a French recipe).—Boil a pint of good milk; when it boils up, set it on one side of the fire, and sweeten to taste, adding some essence of rose and a little carmine in powder by way of colouring. Whilst this in- fusion is going on, take the yolks of eighteen or twenty eggs, put them into a deep dish, and with a wooden spoon keep turning them till they are well mixed. To these ingredients add by degrees the milk, keeping it turned lUl( 772 ) BOS BOS the time; then strain the mixture; put it again into the Baucepan, set it on the fire, keep stirring it till it thickens, but on no account allow it to boil, or all will be spoiled. To prevent it, keep stirring it with one hand, holding the other on the handle of the saucepan to remove it in- stantly. Strain the mixture a second time into custard-cups or a deep bowl. "This," says A. von Kochheim, " is a most delicious custai'd, as delicate as celebrated." Rose Drops.—Put a pound of loaf sugar into a saucepan with two ounces of water. Stir it over a slow tiro till it is dissolved, and add a few drops of essence of rose, and three or four drops of cochineal. When the syrup is on the point of simmering, take it from the fire, stir it a few minutes longer, and drop it in small rounds upon an oiled slab or dish. Let the drops cool, then remove them with the point of a knife. Or dry half an ounce of red rose-leaves, pound them to powder, and sift carefully. Mix with them one pound of finely-powdered sugar, and add as much strained lemon-juice as will make a stiff paste. Stir this mixture over a slow fire till it is scalding hot, then drop it in small rounds upon an oiled dish, and set them in a warm place for twenty-four hours. Rose Juice (a German recipe).—"To a pint of honey take two ounces of red and two ounces of white roses, two ounces of the fiowers of sage, and two oimces of the flowers of black- thorn ; pound them weU, and when the honey is clarified, put them in. Boil it imtil it becomes a thick syrup, pour it through a tamis, and put it into glasses. The thick sediment that remains may be also used, adding a spoonful or two of honey to it. Juices may be pressed in like manner from violets, pinks, and corn- flowers." Rose Sauce for Sweet Puddings, &C.—Take a fresh beetroot, peel it, and cut it into small pieces. Put it into a saucepan, pour over it a quart of cold water, and let it boil softly for half an hour. Add the strained juice and thin rind of a fresh lemon, two pounds of loaf sugar, and three or four drops of vanilla. Boil the sauce quickly until it forms a thick rose-coloured syrup, then strain it, and when it is cold mix with it a quarter of a pint of brandy. Bottle and store for use. Time to boil the sjTup, about half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy, Is. 2d. Rose Tea.—Pour a pint of boiling water over an ounce of red rose-leaves. Cover the infusion, and let it remain for ten minutes. Filter it, sweeten it with honey, and drink a glassful cold the first thing in the morning. Time to infuse, ten minutes. Rose tea in some complaints is a useful tonic. Rose-water.—When the buds of the red rose begin to expand into the full-blown flower, their perfume is most perfect, and in that state they should be gathered on a iry morning, the heels cut off, and the loaves only put into a clean cask in layers, with salt spriiJded between them, to preserve them till they are collected in quantity sufficient for distillation. Fill the Btill two-thirds with the petals and salt together, with a little water at the bottom to prevent burning, and have the still put into a water bath; proceed to the distillation with a vory slow fire, and receive the first product in several phials in order to examine it. The first will bo higldy impregnated; and as soon as tlio slightest onipyreuuiatic odour or burnt smell in perceived tlirow away the portion that is contaminated! and stop the distillation. Rose-water should be kept m a cool, dark place, as heat and light speedily cause it to spoil. It is best to put it into a stone jar with a cork, tliat it may bo drawn ofl: without disturbing the sediment, which is apt to be the case if decanted from small bottles. It should be made in small quantities at a time, as it will not keep long. The salted leaves will keep for months, and do as well for distillation as when gathered fresh, and it is to be observed that it is an error to suppose that the salt is of any further use in the distillation than to keep the leaves from spoiling. Perfumed tepid water for finger- glasses may be easily prepared by infusing a few fresh or dried rose-petals, lavender, or any other flower, in the morning for the purpose. Rosemary.—The leaves of the rosemary are infused in some drinks, and the sprigs are employed as a garnish. The plant is evergreen, and highly aromatic. Rosemary and Baked Lamb {see Lamb, Baked, and Rosemary). Rosemary Flowers, To Candy.— Soak a little gum-tragacanth (commonly called gum-dragon) in water, and soak the rosemary flowers in the mucilage thus prepared. Lay them on a sheet of paper, and sprinkle powdered loaf sugar over them. Put them in a warm place, and sprinkle powdered sugar over them frequently till they are covered with candy. Store in a cool dry place. Roses, Tincture of.—Take the leaves of the common rose and place them, without pressing, in an ordinary bottle; pour some good spirits of wine upon them, close the bottle, and set aside till required for use. Common \Tnegar is greatly improved by a very small quantity of the tincture of roses being added to it. Roseneath Puddings.—Take two eggs, and their Aveight in flour, butter, and sugar. Beat the butter to cream, add the sugar, flour, and eggs, and any flavouring that may be pre- ferred. Butter some small cups, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve cold, with almonds sliced and cut into strips stuck into the puddings. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Ross's Mixture for Devilled Meats. —Put a table-spoonful of chutney into a bowl, and work into it with the back of a wooden spoon one ounce and a half of fresh butter, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a dessert-spoonful of mixed mustard, a table-spoonful of Harvey Sauca a table-spoonful of vinegar, and four table- spoonfuls of good cold gravy. Beat the mixture till smooth, dip the meat to be devilled into it, stew it softly till it is warmed through, and serve.EOT ( 778 ) EOXT Roti de Pauvre Homme.—Take a fine pullet or capon, the fattest procurable. Make a forcemeat, consisting of some finely-chopped Bausage-meat, raw veal and lean ham, cock's kidneys and combs, dried artichoke bottoms, mushrooms, truflies, some shred parsley, a little lemon thjTne and sweet basil, one anchovy washed, boned, and chopped fine—the whole chopped and well mixed together, seasoned with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, with a good limip of fresh butter well incorporated with it. With this forcemeat fill the fowl by the vent, which sew up afterwards. Saturate with butter or olive-oil three or four sheets of writing-paper, and carefiiUy dredge the fowl with flour. Envelope the bird in the paper two layers thick, and cover the whole with another layer slightly buttered. Bury the bird thus prepared ia hot wood-ashes until it is cooked, or put it in a range oven, covered with a dish, which must exclude the air from beneath. Roti de Rognons de Veau.—Take kidneys which have been carefully roasted before the fire, chop them up with fat, and mix them with mushrooms cut smaU and fried in butter, and also with parsley, chives, bay-leaves, and thyme. Season with pepper and salt, and make the chopped kidneys into a paste of the proper consistence for forcemeat with the yolks of some raw eggs. Place thick layers of this on slices of fried bread from which the crust has been cut off. Sprinkle bread-crumbs over mixed with raw eggs. Place the slices of bread thus prepared on a dish put over some live cinders, aiui covered with a hot cover. Rotterdam Pudding, Rich.. — Beat four ounces and a half of fine flour to a smooth paste with half a pint of milk, and add four ounces and a half of sugar and a small pinch of salt. Blanch and pound four ounces and a half of sweet almonds, and whilst pounding drop in_ a Uttle cold water to keep them fiom oiling. Put four ounces and a half of butter into a saucepan with half a pint of milk. Let it remain until the butter is melted, then Btir in the paste of flour and mQk, and keep stirring the mixture over the fire until it boils and becomes thick, when it may be poured out to cool. Add the blanched and pounded almonds, then stir in first the well-beaten yolks of nine eggs, and afterwards the whites of the eggs whisked till firm. Beat the pudding briskly for a few minutes, pour it into a buttered basin which it will fiU, tie it in a cloth, and let it boil without ceasing untiL done enough. Turn it out carefully, and send wine sauce to table with it. Time to boil, one hour and a half. I'robable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Roulette, Lobster.—Boil the lobsters, take out the meat, and chop it up; pound the shells with butter, set them on the fire, and add half a pint of water. When it has boiled a quarter of an hour, strain it, set the liquor again on the fire with two ounces of flour a little pounded mace, and a pinch of sugar; add bouillon to it tiU it becomes like thick pap- then stir m the chopped lobster and a little salt • when quite cold, make it into shapes, and pro- ceed as in the next recipe. Roulettes (a Danish recipej.—Take one ounce of grated onion, and brown it in an ounce and a half of butter, together ^vith. two ounces of flour; thin the mixture with half a pint of good stock. Let all boil together till it is smooth, then stir in half a pound of any roasted or boiled meat, finely chopped; add three boned anchovies minced, pounded pepper, salt, a little mace, the juice of half a lemon, and a glassful of white wine. When the preparation is quite cold, cut it into the form of sausages; roU these in Ijread-crumbs, then in egg beaten up, then again in bread and egg, and last of all in bread- crumbs ; fry in plenty of hot lard; garnish with fried parsley, and serve. The above ingredients are enough for about sixteen roulettes. Roulettes, Fish.—Take perch, pike, or cod; boil and pick away aU bone and skin. To every half-pound of picked fish, take one ounce of flour; brown the flour in two ounces of butter, and thin it with milk till it becomes a thickish paste; add the fish to this paste along with a little pounded mace and salt; give it a boil up, set it aside till cold; then cut up, and proceed as directed in the previous recipe. Rout Biscuits.—Three pounds of flour, six ounces of butter, one pound and a quarter of loaf-sugar in powder, half a pint of milk, quarter of an ounce of A'olatUe salts finely powdered, and a little essence of lemon. Put the sugar and volatile salts in the milk, and let them stand for an hour or two, stirring them occasionally. Another method. One pound of sugar, a tea- cupful of milk or water, four ounces of butter, and half an ounce of volatile salts. Put the sugar and milk in a clean saucepan over the fire, let them boil up, and see if aU the sugar is dis- solved; if not, give it another boil or two, and set it aside to cool. It will be ready for usg when cold. Rub the butter in with the flour, make a bay, pour in the sugar, and make the whole into a dough of a inoderate stiffness. In the last method, the volatile salts should be pounded and mixed with the sugar, and sufficient flour should be used to make them of a proper con- sistence, keeping the dough in a loose state until it is nearly of the size required; then work it together; take a part of the dough, mould it in a square piece, and lay it over the impressions or figures carved in a block of wood, and press it in; keep your hand firm on it, that it may retain its place; have a thin knife which is made for this purpose, caUed a toy knife, rub it over a damp cloth, or pass it through flour; lay it flat on the block, and cut off the superfluous dough; take the biscuits out and place them on tins slightly buttered, so as not to touch each other; wash them over lightly with milk, and bake them in a very hot oven. This mixture is the best for persons who are not very expert in cutting them. When made according to the first recipe, the dough is apt to get tough if worked or moulded too much—an error which inexperienced persons are very liable to com- mit. Rout Cakes.—No. l. Beat half a pound of butter to cream, add half a pound ofROU ROY ( 774 ) powdered sugar, one pound of flour, and half a pound of picked and dried currants. Mix tho dry ingredients thoroughly, and make thorn into a stiff paste with three eggs beaten up with a glassful of hrandy and a table-spoonful of rose or orange-flower water. Sprinkle some mixed flour and powdered sugar over a baking- tin, drop the preparation upon it in small knobs, and bake these in a quick oven. No. 2. Beat four ounces of butter to cream, and add four ounces of sugar, six ounces of dried flour, the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, and a flavourmg of grated lemon, pounded almonds, and orange- flower or rose water. Beat the mixture briskly for a few minutes, and pour it into a shallow mould lined with buttered paper. Bake in a well-heated oven. Let it get cold, then cut it with a very sharp knife into small fancy shapes of any kind, and moisten these with white of egg beaten up with powdered white sugar. Crisp them before the tire, and when the icing is set put them in a cool dry place till wanted. Rout Cakes, Almond (Read's recipe).— Take one pound of sweet almonds and one poxmd of loaf sugar; beat yom- almonds and sugar quite fine, and make it into a moderate stiff paste with the yolk of egg (some use one egg and the rest yolk). Make them into any shape your fancy may dictate. Use finely-powdered loaf sugar to dust your board or blocks. In making them, place them on clean tins that are slightly buttered, so as not to touch, or lay a sheet of whitey-brown paper on the tin to put them on. Let them remain in a warm place all night, or a day and a night, before they are baked. Put them in a rather brisk oven; when lightly coloured over, they are done. Ornament them with nonpareils, candied peel, icing, &c., to fancy; make a mucilage of gum arable, and lay it, with a small brush, over the parts where you wish the nonpareils to adhere; this is done after they are baked. If you wish to cut your paste out of blocks, put it in a stewpan over the fire; .keep stirring it with a spoon or spaddle; stir it well to the bottom. When you find the paste does not stick to the sides of the pan, and comes alto- gether, it is done. Let it get cold before you cut it out. When the cakes are made in this way the impressions show much better. ROUX.—Roux is simply a mixture of flour and butter, which, when baked, is used for thickening soups and gravies. It is frequently spoken of as a brown or white thickening; it should be kept in a covered jar, and will remain good for months. A tea-spoonful is generally sufficient to thicken a pint of gravy. Roux, Brown.—Dissolve half a pound of fresh butter, skim it well, let it stand for a minute, and pour it away from the impurities, which will settle to the bottom. Put the clear oily part into a saucepan over a slow fire, and shake into it about seven or eight ounces of fine flour, or as much as will make a thick paste. Stir constantly, and heat the pre- paration slowly and equally until it is very thick and of a bright brown colour. Put it into a jar, and stir a spoonful into soup or gravy as it is needed. A tea-spoonful will thicken half a pint of gravy, lioux may be mixed with hot or cold stock. If cold, stir it over tho fire till it boils; if hot, moisten tlie roux gradually with the stock, and olf the fire to keep it from lumping. Roux, Brown, or Thickening {see Gravy, Brown Roux for Thickening). Roux, Brown, for Immediate Use. —Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan over a slow fire, and when it is dissolved shake into it an ounce and a half of dried flour. iStir with a wooden spoon until it has acquired a light- brown colour; this will take about ten minutes. Remove the roux from the fire for two minutes to cool, add a pint and a half of stock, stir this till it boils up, then draw the saucepan to the side of the tire, and let the sauce simmer till it is smooth and of a proper consistency. Roux, White.—Proceed as above, but be careful to remove the paste from the tire before it has acquired any colour. White roux is used for white sauces. Roux, White {see Gravy, White Roux for Thickening). Rowan.—The fruit of the rowan-tree or mountain-ash, when the bitter has been ex- tracted by soaking it in water, may be made into a preserv'e which used to find favour in some parts of Scotland. Royal Children's Puddings.—Slice a penny loaf, and pour upon it a pint and a haK of boiling milk. Let it stand till soft, then beat it lightly with a fork, and add a heaped table-spoonful of moist sugar, a little grated nutmeg or any other flavouring, and four weU- beaten eggs. Half fill soma small buttered tea-cups with the mixture, and bake the pud- dings in a well-heated oven. If Uked, a slice of butter may be added, but its absence vriU render the puddings more digestible. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Royal Fritters.—Put a pint of new milk into a saucepan over the fire, and as it rises in the pan stir into it half a pint of light wine. Pour it out, and let it stand a few minutes to cool, skim off the curd, and put it into a basin. Beat it well with two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a little grated lemon-rind or any other flavour- ing, three well-whisked eggs, and as much flour as will make a stiff batter. Fry the fritters in the usual way. Drain them well, and serve on a hot dish. Send cut lemons to table with the fritters. Royal Pastry.—Take four ounces of sweet almonds ground or finely pounded, with three or four bitter ones, mix them with a table- spoonful of powdered sugar, and add as much white of egg as will make a smooth paste. Mix an ounce of finely-sifted sugar with half a pound of flour. Rub four ounces of frceh butter into this, and make it into paste by stirring into it the white of an egg beaten up ynih. a little cold water. Roll this pastry- out. spread tho almond paste upon it, and stamp the two together into ftincy shapes of any size.jaOY ( 775 ) RUF Brush over -with white of egg, and sprinkle diopped almonds thickly over the cakes. Shake a little sugar on the top of this. Put the cakes on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. When done, the coating of almonds should be of a Ught- fawn colour. Remove the cakes carefully from the baking-sheet, and pile them in a pyramid upon a napkin. If liked, they can be orna- mented \vith bright-coloured jelly of any kind. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Royal Punch (to be served hot).—Put a quarter of a pound of doubly-refined sugar in large lumps into a bowl, and with it two hmes and a thin slice of fresh lemon. With a bruiser rub the sugar and the fruit well together, then mix thoroughly with two glassfuls of calf's foot jelly in a hot state. Take brandy, rum, arrack, and cura9oa in equal quantities, and stir them into the preparation. When thoroughly mixed, add a pint of boiling gi-een tea, and serve hot. The quantity of spirit must be regulated by taste; half a pint of each will generally be found sufficient. Royal Sauce for Fish.—Beat two raw yolks of eggs with two ounces of fresh butter. Add gradually a tea-spoonful of elder vinegar, a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, a tea-spoon- ful of soy, a pinch of cayenne, and a very small quantity of nutmeg. Pour the mixture into an earthen jar; set this in a small saucepan of boiling water, and keep it boiling, stirring briskly all the time until the sauce begins to thicken and presents a rich smooth appear- ance ; be careful that it does not curdle, which it will quickly do if not taken from the fire as soon as it is smooth and thick. Time, about ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Royal Sauce for Turkeys and Fowls.—Take the breast of a cold roast fowl, free it from skin, and pound it to paste in a mortar with a slice of bread which has been soaked in milk and squeezed dry. Add as much white stock as will make the paste smooth and of the consistency of custard, and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and simmer the sauce over a gentle fire. Let it cool, stir into it the yolks of two eggs which have been beaten up with half a cupful of cream, and stir the sauce again over the fire, but do not allow it to boil after the eggs are added. If liked, this sauce may be flavoured with five or six blanched and pounded almonds. Time altogether, about one hour. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the cold chicken. Sufficient for six or seven per- sons. Royans.—These are fish of the sardine family. They are not unlike sardines, but are smaller, more delicate in taste, and less oily. They should be very fresh. " Roy ans. Broiled (a Bordeaux recipe).— Take the fish, wipe them with a cloth, squeeze firmly the tip of the tail. Sprinkle salt over thorn, and place them on a gridiron to broil over a brisk fire. As soon as the undermost Ride begins to whiten, turn the royans, and two minutes after hotkI them to table. Fresh butter should be served separately. Ruby under Snow.—Wash a quarter of a pint of tapioca, and let it soak for three or four hours in three-quarters of a pint of water, and with it the thin rind and strained juice of half a lemon. Take out the rind, and simmer the tapioca till it is clear, then mix with it six table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly. Let it simmer three or four minutes longer, and pour it into a large dish. When it is quite cold and stitt", pile upon it a little whipped cream, or, if preferred, the whites of two eggs beaten till firm, and sweetened and flavoured with lemon- rind. This is a pretty and wholesome dish for a juvenile party. It should be made the day before it is wanted. If the whites of eggs are used they should be laid on at the last moment. RufTs and Reeves.—These little birds, of which the rufi: is the male and the reeve is the female, take their name from the long feathers which stand round the neck of the male bird, in appearance slightly resembling the rufiis worn by ladies. Ruffs are birds of passage, and are caught in traps, and when fattened on meal and milk are esteemed a great delicacy. They should not be drawn, and should be trussed like woodcook. To prepare them, run a small skewer through the thighs and pinions, lay over the bodies of the birds a slice of fat bacon and a vine-leaf, run them on a lark-spit, and put them down before a clear fire. Baste well with butter, and put a slice of toast in the tin under the birds to receive the drippings from the trail. When done enough, dish them on the same toast with a little brown gravy under them, and more in a tureen. Garnish the dish with watercresses, and send bread sauce to table. Time to roast the birds, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost uncertain, ruffs being seldom offered for sale. Ruflr, Fattening of the.—" The ruff is taken for the table in spring, but young birds taken in autumn are much to be preferred. They are often fattened after being taken, and are fed on bread and milk, with bruised hemp- seed. After being fattened thej^ are sent to market. They feed readily when quite newly caught, and tight desperately for their food, unless supplied in separate dishes, which is therefore the regular practice of the feeders, who find it also advantageous to keep them in darkened apartments. The ruff is gradually becoming scarcer in England, owing to the destruction of its favourite haunts, the fens, by drainage." Ruff or Pope.—This fish spawns in April, and is in season aU the year. Its excellence as a fish for the table excited the enthusiasm of Dr. Kitchiner. The ruff is thus alluded to in Izaak Walton's famous " Complete Angler":—"There is also another fish called a pope, and by some a ruff, a fish that is not known to be in some rivers. He is much like the perch for his shape, and taken to be better than the perch, but will not grow to be bigger than a gudgeon; he is an excellent fish ; no fish that swims is of a pleasanter taste, and he is also excellent to enter a young angler, for he is a gToedy Inter, and they will usually lie abundance of them togi.'ther, in one reserved place where the water is deep and runs quietly; and an easy angler.ti'tra ( 776 ) RUM if he has found where they lie, may catch forty or fifty, or Bometimes twice as many, at a Btfinding." Ruglen Cream.—This is another name sometimcH given to the old-fashionod prepara- tion named Corstorphine, the recipe for making which is given in another portion of this book. It is an open question whether the cream was originally made in Corstorphine, near Edin- h'lrgh, or in the borough of Rutherglen (whence Tvuglen), in Lanarkshire. Hum.—This well-kno^vn and much esteemed Foirituous liquor is imported into this country ivom the West Indies, of which it is one of the Ecaple products. It is obtained by means of fermentation and distillation from molasses, the refuse of the cane-juice, and portions of the cane, after the sugar has been extracted. The flavour and taste peculiar to rum are derived from the essential oils carried over in distil- lation. When the distillation has been care- lessly performed, the spirit contains so large a quantity of the grosser and less volatile part of the oil as to be unfit for use till it has attained a considerable age. When it is well rectified it mellows much sooner. Rum of a brownish transparent colour, smooth oily taste, strong body and consistence, good age, and well kept, is the best. That which is clear and limpid, and has a hot pungent taste, is either too new or mixed with other spirits. Jamaica rum is the first in point of quality ; the Leeward Island rum, as it is called, being always inferior to it in flavour, strength, and value. The price of the latter is usually twenty per cent, below that of the former. We import almost all our rum in puncheons containing from eighty-four to ninety gallons each. It is customary, in some of the West India islands, to put spiced pine-apples in puncheons of rum; this gives the spirit the flavour of the fruit; and hence the designation pine-apple rum. Rum is also produced in and imported from the Mauritius and the East Indies. But that of the latter is more nearly allied to arrack than to genuine nma. Rum is said to be much adiilterated by the retail dealers in England, Bometimes with com spirit; but if done with molasses spirit, the tastes of both are so nearly allied that the cheat is not easily discovered. Rum often has a deep red colour, which is acquired from molasses or caramel added for the purpose, and not from the wood of the casks, as is commonly supposed. Unlike other spirits, rum tends to cause perspiration. It is greatly improved by age, and when very old is often highly prized. At a sale in Carlisle in 1865, rum known to be a hundred and forty years old sold for three guineas a bottle. Rum-and-Milk.—Rum-and-milk, the first thing in the morning or else twice a day, is strongly recommended as of the greatest service in cases of consumption. It is often almost as efficacious as cod-liver oil. It may be taken with bread-and-butter, as a moal, at breakfast and tea, if these times are preferred by the invalid. The usual qnantiticH at each period ire a tumblerful of rich milk, a table-spoonful ot old rum, and a little sugar. Rum Blancmange.—Rub the yellow rmd of two fresh lomonb upon eight good-sized lumps of Bugar. Soak an ouncfi of gelatine in a cupful of milk, and when it is swollen pour upon it a pint of boiling milk or cream, or half milk and half cream. Htir it until the gelatine 18 dissolved, then add the lemon-flavoured sugar and the well-beaten yolks of five or more eggs mixed with an additional half pint of milk or cream. IStir the blancmange over the fire till it is quite hot, let it cool a little, then put with it four table-spoonfubj of rum, and a pinch of saffron dissolved in a table-spoonful of water, and continue stirring till it is abnost cold. Pour it into a damp mould, and put it in a cool place till stiff. Squeeze the strained juice of a lemon over it before sending it to table. Time to prepare, about one hour. Probable cost, if made with milk, Is. 8d., exclusive of the rum. Sufiicient for a quart mould. Rum Cake.—Take the yolks of twelve eggs, beat them up, and add three-quarters of a pint of cream, the same quantity of rum, and sugar to taste; add also the grated peel of a lemon. Butter a form, pour the mixture in, and bake it till it is dry at the top; the cake may be iced or only strewn with sifted sugar, and ornamented with preserved cherries, &c., or whipped cream may be laid on the top. Rum Ice.—Rub the rind of a large fresh lemon upon three or four lumps of sugar till aU the yellow part is taken oif, and add as much sugar as will make up the weight to three- quarters of a pound. Put this into a saucepan with a pint of cold water and a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Stir the syrup over the fire, and when the sugar is dissolved, add gradually the whites of three eggs beaten till firm. Pour the preparation out before it begins to simmer, let it cool, add a quarter of a pint of old Jamaica rum, freeze in the usual way, and serve in glasses. Rum Jelly.—Boil a pound of sugar to a clear syrup. Mix with this two ounces of clarified isinglass or gelatine, and add the juice of a lemon and a wine-glassful of fine old Jamaica rum. Pour the jelly into a damp mould, set it in ice or in a cool place till it is stiff, then turn it out, and serve. Rum Omelette.—Beat three eggs in a bowl, and add a very small pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of finely-powdered sugar, a slice of butter, and a table-spoonful of rum. Fry the omelette in the usual way. Lay it on a hot dish, and pour round it half a tumblerful of rum which has been warmed in a saucepan. Set light to this, and take the omelette to table with the flame rising round it. Sufficient for one or two persons. ^ • Rum Pudding.—Grate three ounces of stale bread-crumbs, and pour over thorn a.s much rum as will moisten them. "\\Tien they are well soaked, be^t thorn up with six ounces of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and first the • yolks, and aftcj-wards the woll-whisked whites, of four eggs. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, and let it steam until done enough. Turn it upon a hot dish, pour half a tumblerful of rum over it, set light to this, and serveBITM ( 777 ) BUM immediately. Time to steam the pudding, one hour. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the rum. Sufficient for three persons. Bujn Shrub.—This is a liqueur of which rum forms the alcoholic base; the other mate- rials are sugar, lime or lemon-juice, and the rind of these fruits added to give flavour. There are many recipes for the manufacture of rum shrub, almost every maker having his own, which he holds to be the best ever invented. Rum Shrub, To Make—To give one method of making rum shrub :—Pour a pint of cold water over the rinds of two or three Seville oranges, and let them infuse for a day or two. Strain the liqueur, and boil it with two pounds of loaf sugar to syrup. Add a pint of strained Seville orange-juice and three pints of Jamaica Txim. Fnter the preparation, and bottle for use. Time, three days. Rumford, Count,on Hasty-pudding. —In regard to the most advantageous method of using Indian com as food, I would strongly recommend, particularly when it is employed for feeding the poor, a dish made of it that is in the highest estimation throughout America, and which is really very good and very nourish- ing. This is called hasty-pudding, and it is made in the following manner: —A quantity of water, proportioned to the quantity of hasty- pudding intended to be made, is put over the fire in an open iron pot or kettle, and, a proper quantity of salt for seasoning the pudding being previously dissolved in the water, Indian meal is stirred into it by little and little, with a wooden spoon with a long handle, while the water goes on to be heated and made to boil; great care being taken to put in the meal by very small quantities, and by sifting it slowly through the fingers of the left hand, and stirring the water about very briskly at the same time with the wooden spoon with the right hand to miY the meal with the water in such a manner as to prevent lumps being formed. The meal should be added so slowly that, when the water is brought to boil, the mass should not be thicker than water-gruel, and half an hour more at least should be employed to add the additional qviantity of meal necessary for bringing the pudding to be of the proper consistence, during which time it should be stirred about continually and kept boiling. The method of determining when the pudding has acquired the proper con- sistency is this:—The wooden spoon used for stirring it being placed in the middle of the kettle, if it falls down more meal may be added, but if the pudding is sufficiently thick and ad- hesive to support it in a vertical position, it is declared to be proof, and no more meal is added. If the boiling, instead of being continued only half an hour, be prolonged to three-quarters of an hour or an hour, the pudding will be con- siderably improved by the prolongation. _ The hasty-pudding, when done, may be eaten in various ways. It may be put, while hot, by spoonfuls into a bowl of milk, and eaten with the mUk with a spoon in lieu of bread; and used in this way it is remarkably palatable. It may likewise be eaten, while hot, with a sauce composed of butter and brown sugar, or butter and molasses, with or without a few diops of vinegar; and however people who have not been accustomed to this American cookery may be prejudiced against it, they will find upon trial that it makes a most excellent dish, and one which never fails to be much liked by those who are accustomed to it. The universal fond- ness of Americans for it proves that it must have some merit; for, in a coimtry which pro- duces all the delicacies of the table in the greatest abundance, it is not to be supposed that a whole nation should have a taste so depraved as to give a decided preference to any particular species of food which has not some- thing to recommend it. The manner in which hasty-pudding is eaten with butter and sugar, or butter and molasses, ' in America, is as follows: —The hasty-pudding being spread out equally upon a plate while hot, an excavation is made in the middle of it with a spoon, into which excavation a piece of butter as large as a nutmeg is put, and upon it a spoon- ful of brown sugar, or, more commonly, of molasses. The butter, being soon melted by the heat of the pudding, mixes with the sugar or molasses, and forms a sauce, which, being confined to the excavation made for it, occupies the middle of the plate. The pudding is then eaten with a spoon, each spoonful of it being dipped into the sauce before it is carried to the mouth, care being had in taking it up to begin at the outside or near the rim of the plate, and to approach the centre by gradual advances, in order not to demolish too soon the excavation which forms the reservoir for the sauce.—"An Essay on Food," by Count Kumford. Rumford's Plain Indian Pudding.— "This pudding," says Count Rumford in his "Essay on Food," "which was allowed by competent judges who tasted it to be as good as they had ever eaten, was composed and prepared in the following manner:—Three pounds of Indian meal (from which the bran had been separated by sifting it in a common hair sieve) were put into a large bowl, and five pints of boiling water were put to it, and the whole well stirred together; three-quarters of a pound of molasses and one ounce of salt were then added to it, and these being well mixed, by stirring them with the other ingredients, the pudding v^as poured into a fit bag, and the bag being tied up (an empty space being left in the bag in tying it, equal to about one-sixth of its contents, for giving room to the pudding to swell), this pudding was put into a kettle of boiling water, and was boiled six hours without intermission; the loss of water in the kettle by evaporation during this time being frequently replaced with boiling water from another kettle. The pud- ding, upon being taken out of the bag, weighed ten pounds and one ounce; and it was found to be perfectly done, not having the smallest remains of that raw taste so £sagreeable to aU palates, and particularly to those who are not used to it, which always predominates in dishes prepared of Indian meal when they are not sufficiently cooked." Rumfustian.—Whisk up the yolks of six eggs until they are well frothed, and put thorn into a quart of strong beer, to wliich is added a pint of gin; boil up a bottle of sherry in a( 778 ) ritm: saucepan with a Btick of cinnamon or nutmeg gTjited, a dozen large lumps of sugar, aud tho rind of a lomon pooled thin. Whon tho wiuo boils, pour it over the alo and gin. Drink hot. Rump Steak.—Hump steak is at its best from September to March, and should be cut from meat that has been hung three or four days to make it tender, though it should not be cut from tho rump until it is required. It is a prime pirt of the meat, and whon good is superior to any other in tenderness and deUcacy of flavour. French cooks almost always prefer steaks from the fillet or inside of the sirloin, but many good judges consider these steaks ai-e insipid and flavourless compared with good rump steak. Rump steak may be cooked in several different ways, the recipes for which will be found under " Beef." As it always fetches a high price, other steak, such as buttock or chuck steak, may be advantageously used for stoNving, or for pies, and if carefully cut will give entire satisfaction. It is worth knowing that many butchers sell the first cut of the rump for 2d. or 3d. less per pound than the other portions, and if this is washed quickly, and dried, it is quite as good as the rest. Probable cost, Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. per pound. Rump Steak, Baked, with Onions. —Take about two poimds of well-hung tender steak, and fry it in hot fat tUl it is lightly and equally browned. Take it up, put it in an earthenware dish which has a closely-fitting lid, and pour over it a pint of stock made from bones. Add two moderate-sized onions which have been boiled till tender, two table-spoonfuls of Harvey's Sauce or walnut ketchup, two cloves, and a little salt and cayenne. Cover the dish, and bake the steak gently tUl done enough. Take it up, lay round it an onion, sliced, divided into lings, and fried; and strain over it the gravy in the baking-dish. Serve ■very hot. Time to bake, two hours. Probable cost, about 3s. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rump Steak, Broiled {see Beef Steak, Rump). Rump Steak, Broiled, Accompani- ments to. — Many epicures prefer broiled steak plain, that is, dredged lightty with pepper before it is broiled, and served on a hot dish with fresh butter under and over it. As a variety to flavour it, half a lemon may be squeezed over the steak, and a table- spooiiul of Harvey's Sauce poured on it, or a little maitre d'hotel or anchovy butter may be rubbed over it as soon as it is done, or fried onion or fried potatoes may be used to garnish the dish, or oyster, mushroom, tomato, or onion sauce may be served in a tureen, or stewed cucumbers may be sent to table separately. Rump Steak, Broiled, with Onion Gravy.—Put two Spanish onions, sliced, into a saucepan with half a table-spoonful of stock or water. Let them stew gently until the water has boiled away and they are a little coloured, then pour over them half a pint of stock and a seasoning of pepper and salt, und simmer till tender. Lift them out of the gravy, mince finely, tliun return them to the gravy. Add a table-spoonful of mushroom- ketchup, and boil tho gravy for five minutes. Put it on a hot dish, lay a broiled steak upon it {see Beef Steak, Rump), and serve hot. Time to make tho gravy, about half an hour. Rump Steak, Neapolitan (excellent).— Take two pounds of tcmclor rump steak an inch and a half thick. Fry it in hot fat until it is brightly and equally browned, take it up, and in the same fat fry two thinly-sliced onions. Put the steak into an earthen dish, lay tho onion upon it, pour over it as much broth as will barely cover it, and add two pickled gherkins finely minced, two sticks of celery, four cloves, a little salt and cayenne, and a glassful of port or claret. Cover the pan closely, and put it in a moderately-heated oven till the steak is half cooked, then add a turnip and a carrot cut in halves. When these are sufficiently cooked, lift out the steak, lay it on a hot dish, strain the gravy over it, cut the carrot and turnip into dice, and sprinkle them upon it. Serve immediately. Time to bake the steak, two hours and a half. Probable cost, 3s. 8d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rump Steak, Piquant Sauce for.— Put a wine-glassful of ale into a small saucepan, with a wine-glassful of claret, a wine-glassful of ketchup or Harvey's Sauce, a tea-spoonful of garlic vinegar, and an ounce of fresh butter. Stir the mixture over the fire till it is tho- roughly heated, and serve poured hot upon the steak. Time, five or six minutes. Rump Steak Pudding.—Cut about two pounds of tender rump steak into pieces an inch and a half square, and season these with a dessert-spoonful of salt and a tea- spoonful of pepper. Line a shallow, thick- rimmed pudding-basin, well buttered, with good suet crust half an inch thick, and leave about an inch of pastry over the edge. Lay in the steak, and add a quarter of a pint of stock, gravy, or water. Cover the meat with a circular piece of pastry, moisten the edge of the pastry that was left over, press it closely, and tie the basin rather loosely in a cloth which has been wrung out of boiling water and floured. Plunge the pudding into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly until done enough. Either serve it in the basin, round which a napkin has been tied, or turn it carefuUy upon a hot dish, after allowing it to stand five minutes. If liked, a circular piece of pastry may be cut out of the top of the pudding and a slice of butter put into it to enrich the gravy. This pudding will be very much im- proved if half a pound of ox kidney cut up small, a dozen and a half of oysters, and six or eight larks, are put into it with the beef. Time to boil, four to five hours. Probable cost, when made with steak only, Ss. lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rump Steak, Savoury.—Cut the rump steak three-quarters of an inch thick, trim it neatly, and brush it over with oil. Broil as already directed in the recipe Beef Steak, Rumn. Have ready two finely-minced shallotfi and tlie( 779 ) RUS BUM strained juice of a lemon. Lay the steak on the dish, pour the juice over, and sprinkle the minced shallot upon it. Serve very hot, with fried potatoes round the dish. Rump Steak, Stewed—No. l. Take a slice of tender rump steak an inch and a half thick. Fry this in hot fat till it is equally and lightly browned. Put it into a saucepan, pour over it as much stock or water as ■will cover it, and add an onion stuck with six cloves, and a little pepper and salt. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents stew as gently as possible for three hours. Take it up, strain the gravy, thicken with flour or roux, and add a spoonful of walnut or mushroom ketch- up, if necessaiy. Serve on a hot dish, and sprinkle over it some pickled cucumber or pickled gherkins finely minced. No. 2. Take a slice of tender rump steak three-quarters of an inch thick. Fry this in butter or hot fat till it is lightly browned, and pour over it as much good gravy or stock as -vviU barely cover it. Add a tea-spoonful of freshly-made mus- tard, a little pepper and salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Let the sauce boil up quickly, then put the pan at the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer as gently as possible for one hour or more. Fry in hot fat till lightly browned twelve button mushrooms, twelve small onions, a carrot, a turnip, and two or three sticks of celery, all cut small. Put these into the saucepan, and let all continue simmer- ing till the vegetables are tender. Thicken the gravy with a spoonful of brown thickening; when it is smooth add a table-spoonful of Wor- cester sauce, a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, the strained juice of a lemon, and a glassful of port or claret. Serve very hot. Probable cost, rump steak. Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. per pound. Rump Steak, Stewed, with Onions. —Take a pound of tender rump steak, and dredge pepper and a little salt over it. Butter a saucepan which has a tightly-fitting lid very thickly ; or, if preferred, rub it over with good beef dripping. Lay the steak in it, add two large Spanish onions thinly sKced, and an ounce of butter or dripping. Cover the saucepan closely, and put it by the side of the fire to steam as gentlj'' as possible for two hoiu's and a half. Take it up, lay the steak upon a dish, put the onions upon it, and serve immediately. It will be found that sufficient moisture has exuded from the onions to make gravy, although no liquor was put into the pan. If tomatoes are used instead of onions, the dripping wiU not be needed. Time, two and a half hours. Rump Steak, Stewed, with Oysters. —Take a slice of rump steak three quarters of an inch thick, weighing about 2|- pounds. Rub this well on both sides with a savoury mixture made of a minced onion, three salt-spoonfuls of salt, as much summer savoury as will lie on a sixpence, and fry it in hot fat till lightly browned. Lay it in a saucepan with three- quarters of a pint of water, and add a clove, two allspice, a blade of mace, and the liquor from two dozen oysters. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the steak simmer gently till it 18 tender. Take out the steak, strain the gravy, and thicken with a little brown thickcnin-' or ! flour and butter. Let it boil till smooth. Put back the steak and the oysters bearded, let them simmer for five minutes, and then serve. They must on no account boil. When expense is a consideration, tinned oysters may be used for this dish instead of fresh ones. Time, one and a half to two hours. Probable cost, rump steak. Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rump Steak, Stewed, with Piquant Sauce.—Take a pound and a half of tender steak an inch thick, and fry this in hot fat till it is lightly and equally browned. Take it up, put it into a saucepan which has been twice rubbed across with garlic, and pour over it a quarter of a pint of good gravy. Add the strained juice of a lemon, a tea-spoonful of grated horseradish, a tea-spoonful of finely minced shaUot, a tea-spoonful of chopped pars- ley, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, half a tea- spoonful of mixed mustard, and a little pepper and salt. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents stew gently for an hour. Peel and mince finely two small mushrooms, and a truffle, if it can be had. If not, use four mushrooms. Simmer them quickly in two table-spoonfuls of vinegar for ten minutes. Add them to the steak, simmer all gently together for half an hour longer, and serve. Time, nearly two hours. Probable cost, rump steak. Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Rump Steak, Stuffed.—Take two pounds of well-hung steak cut in one piece, and three-quarters of an inch thick. Lay it on a table, and spread upon it a quarter of a pint of good veal stuffing. Roll it round, and tic it with twine, fastening the ends securely. Dissolve a table-spoonful of bacon fat in a saucepan, put in the rolled steak, and turn it about till it is equally browned all over. Pour upon it three- quarters of a pint of stock or water, cover the saucepan closely, and let the steak stew gently until tender. Lay the meat in a hot dish, and remove the twine. Thicken the gravy, pour it over the beef, and serve verj- hot. Time to stew the steak, two hom-s. Probable cost, rump steak. Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. per jjound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rump Steaks, Gravy for.—Pour the fat out of the pan, dredge the joan with flour, let it brown a little, and then put into it one ounce of butter; rub and mix the butter and flour well together in the pan, and when it is a little brown reduce it to the thickness of cream, by mixing gradually with it a little boiling water, a table-spoonful of ketchup, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and salt to taste ; keep stirring it well till the sauce boils for a minute or two, and then pour it over the steaks through a sieve. The steaks may be ganiished with a few sprigs of parsley, or with scraped horseradish; they are mostly served up with- out any other sauce than the above, but some families eat them with oyster sauce or mush- room sauce. Rush-Nut (the root of the cypru.i escu- lentus).—This is a favourite article of diet in some parts of Italy. It is not only a substi- tute for the fhoHtiiut, but more delicately and( 780 ) RUS BUS pleasantly tastod tliau that iiut. Some British travoUers have rofusod it, bcilioving it to he deleterious; but wo can assure thoin that thore ifs no necessity for starving wlien a dish of rush- j nut can be procured, and that it is not only I safe, but, when properly prepared, an agreeable article of diet. It might bo introduced into Britain with little trouble. Rusk Cake.—Crush a quarter of a pound of rusks to powder, and pass them through a colander. Boat the yolks of seven eggs till light, and add six ounces of powdered white sugar, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, three j cloves powdered, and three ounces of blanched and pounded almonds. Beat the ingredients briskly together for twenty minutes. Add the powdered rusks, a table-spoonful of strained j lomon-juice, and, lastly, the whites of aU the I eggs -whisked to a firm froth. Beat the mix- ture thoroughly, put it into a buttered mould, and bake immediately. In order to ascertain whether or not the cake is done enough, try it with a skewer in the ordinary way, but do not do this until the cake looks firm, as it will be all tlie nicer if it is not moved about during the baking. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Rusk Pudding.—Take three ounces of thin rusks. Spread a little jam between every two, and press them closely together. Arrange them neatly in a buttered mould, and pour over them a custard made with a pint of milk (or half milk and half cream), the yolks of four eggs, and a little sugar and flavouring. Let the rusks soak for an hour, then steam the pudding, and when done enough serve on a hot dish with wine or arrowroot sauce poured roimd it. Time to steam the pudding, about two houi's. Probable cost, if made with milk, Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rusk Pudding (another way).—Sweeten a pint of milk, and flavour it with lemon- rind or cinnamon. Arrange three or four rusks in a buttered basin, and pour the milk I over them; let them soak for half an houi-. r "Whisk two eggs, and beat them up with the rusks; then add a pinch of salt and a slice of fresh butter. Lay a buttered paper over the iiasin, which must be quite fuU, tie it in a floured cloth, and plunge it into fast-boiling water. Boil it quickly until done enough, ^love it about two or three times during the first half of boiling. When done enough, turn it upon a hot dish, and serve with sweet sauce or wine sauce. If liked, candied peel, stoned raisins, or washed currants may be mixed with the pudding. Time to boil, an hour and a half. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rusks.—No. 1. Put two pounds of flour into a bowl, and mix with it a pinch of salt and six ounces of powdered sugar (if the rusks are intended for cheese the sugar should bo omitted). Dissolve four ounces of butter in half a pint of hot milk. Add six wcll-bcaten eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of yeast, and with this liquor work the flour into a smooth dough. Cover with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. When light knead it, and divide into small cakes the size of an orange. Lay those closely together in a buttered pan and bake in a brisk oven. Wlien done enough," 4 take them out, break them in halves, and I pLico them again in the oven to got crisp | on the other side. Wlien cold keep them I closely packed in tin canisters. Time to bake ■ altogetlier about half an hour. No. 2. Warm I half a pint of milk, and stir into it two table- I spoonfuls of good yeast. Put a pound of flour ■ into a bowl, and mix with it a i>inch of salt and ■ three table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Make I a hollow in the flour, but not so deep as to lay ■ bare the bottom of the bowl, and stir in the ■ yeast and milk to make a thin batter. Shred ■ a quarter of a pound of butter into the flour, ■ cover the bowl, and leave it in a warm place I until the batter rises in bubbles. Work all I lightly together until the dough no longer ™ sticks to the hand, then let it rise again until the surface cracks. Divide the dough into rolls six inches long and two broad, lay these side by side on a buttered tin, and set them before the flre for a few minutes to rise. Bake in a quick oven. When done enough, tear them into halves, and put them again into the oven till they are crisp. A table-spoonful of aniseed may be worked into the rusks, if liked, and they wiU then be good for infants' food. No. 3. Stir two ounces of butter in half a pint of warm milk imtil dissolved, add a table-spoonful of yeast and two weU-beaten eggs. Put a potmd of flour into a bowl, and mix with it a heaped table-spoonful of pow- dered sugar. Make a hole in the centre, pour in the eggs and milk, and beat in as much flour from the side as will make a thin batter. Sprinkle a little flour over this, cover the bowl with a cloth, and leave the preparation to rise until the bubbles show themselves through the flour; this wiU be in about an hour. Knead the whole into a firm dough, divide it into small cakes a little larger than an egg, and let these rise on the baking-tins for another hour. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven, and when cool put them in a warm screen to dry for half an hour. Store in tins in a dry place. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Rusks (another way).—Take four eggs, half a pint each of new milk and wami water, quarter of a pound of melted-butter, quarter of a pound of sugar, and three table-spoonfuls of yeast. I Beat these ingredients together with as much I flour, added gradually, as will make a very light I paste. Let it rise for half an hour before the fire, I then add a little more flour, and form into small I cakes or loaves five or six inches wide; flatten the I cakes, bake them moderately, and when cold cut I them into slices the size of rusks, and put them I into the oven to brown a little. This is a nice I tea-cake to eat hot, or, with carraways, to eat I cold. I Rusks (another way).—Take four poimds I of Hour, six ounces of butter, four ounces of I loaf sugar, and one quart of milk. P'erment I and make into a dough as for buns, weigh it in I ; pieces of one pound, one pound and a half, or I ' two pounds each, and make it into long even I j rolls five or six inches in circumference; let I ^ these be qiiite straight and square at the ends, I place them on buttered tins, so that they may I i;BUS ( 781 ) BUS not touch each other, flatten them a little with your hand, and prove them ; when they are near proof, prick them several times along the top with a fork or small piece of wire, which will prevent the top crust or rind coming off; bake them in a moderate oven. When they are a day or two old cut them crossway into thin slices with a sharp knife, lay them on clean tins close to each other, and put them in a brisk oven; when they are nicely coloured take them out, turn them on the other side, put them in again, and when coloured they are done. Dr. Franklin remarks, in his maritime observations, that this is the true onginal biscuit, so prepared to keep for sea, being twice baked, as its name imports. Rusks, Bread, for Breakfast.—Take some hot roUs, tear them in halves, and put them in a moderate oven to crisp and brown. Serve with cocoa. Busks made with Sour Cream.—Rub five ounces of butter into a pound of flour till it is as fine as oatmeal. Add a pinch of salt, four table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and two ounces of candied peel finely shred. Work this into a smooth lithe dough with two well- beaten eggs and a little more than half a pint of thick sour cream. At the last moment before baking the cakes add half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda mixed with a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar and a tea-spoonful of flour. Divide the dough into two or three cakes, and bake in a moderate oven. When it is done enough, take it out of the oven, tear it in halves, and put it back again to crisp. Of course the cream must not be in the least putrid when it is used. Time to bake, forty to fifty minutes. Busks, Plain.—Cut loaves of bread into slices, and bake them in a slow oven to the proper colour. Busks, bweet.—Take a stale Savoy cake, lemon cake, or pound cake, cut it into slices, and divide these into pieces about two inches square. Place these on a baking-tin, and put them into a cool oven to dry. When they are crisp and brown they are done enough. Store in a tin bo.x in a dry place. Busks, Tea.—Dissolve half a tea-spoonful of saleratus and a tea-spoonful of salt in a spoonful of hot water. Stir in this with a pint of warm milk and half a quarter of a pint of brewer's yeast. Put the liquor into a bowl, and stir into it as much fine flour as will make a soft lithe dough. Knead this thoroughly, cover the bowl with a cloth, and put it in a warm place to rise. It will be light in a couple of hours. Work into the dough two table-spoonfuls of sugar and a quarter of a pound of butter dissolved, but not hot. Flour the hands thoroughly, and make the dough up into small cakes the size of an orange, lay those side by side in a buttered pan, brush the tops over with milk, and bake in a quick oven. Serve hot. Time to bake, half an hour. . Busks with Jam.—Pour a pint of boil- ing milk —sweetenod and flavoured—over five or eix rusks in a pio-dish. Let them soak for ten minutes, then beat them lightly with a fork, and spread upon them a layer of good jam. Pour upon this some custard made with a pint of milk, the yolks of three eggs, and a little sugar and flavouring. Leave the preparation till cold, sift powdered sugar over it, or lay upon it the whites of the eggs beaten to foam, and serve. Time, three quarters of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bussian Cabbage Soup.—This ancient Russian national dish—known as schntchi—en- joys an immense reputation. There are many ways of preparing it. The following is one of the best known:—Take six or eight white cabbages shredded, half a pound of pearl bar- ley, a quarter of a pound of butter, a handful of salt, and two pounds of mutton cut into small pieces, with two quarts of Kvas or broth. The meat, salted for thirty-six hoiu's, is put into a press, cut in small pieces, and not thrown into the pot till the cabbage has boiled. Some artichokes cut into four are added, and when the whole is dished three spoonfuls of thick cream are poured over it. The soup is some- times made with oil instead of butter, and with fish instead of meat, usually during the fasts. Bussian Cakes.—Make a batter by whisking together the yoUcs of five eggs and a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. Add gi'adually three ounces of dried flour, two ounces of blanched and pounded almonds, a drachm of aniseed, and,lastly, the whites of the eggsbeaten to a firm froth. Bake the batter in strong paper cases nearly a foot long and a quarter of a foot wide and deep. When they are suf- ficiently baked, let them get cold, then cut them into thin slices, and put them again into the oven till they are crisp. Bussian Charlotte.—Trim off the ends of eighteen or twenty Savoy biscuits perfectly straight, line the sides of a straight dry mould with them, and take care to join them perfectly, so that the contents of the charlotte cannot escape, then ornament the bottom of the mould with dried fruit or strips of angelica. Soak a quarter of an ounce of gelatine, and dissolve it in a quarter of a pint of milk. Whilst it is cooling whip half a pint of double cream till it is thick. Mix with it a spoonful of sugar, a few drops of flavouring, and the melted gelaWne. Put the mixture into the mould, a small quantity at a time, and let it re- mam in ice until it is firm. When it is wanted, turn it out carefully upon a glass dish, and serve. If the mould cannot easily be turned out, plunge it into hot water for a moment Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Bussian Charlotte (another way).— Take some biscuits a la cuillere. These are made the same as sponge biscuits. Instead of being baked in frames or in a form, they are made into thin cakes about two inches wide and four or five long; they are then baked on wafer-paper, the top being glazed with sugar sifted through a tamis. They should be baked m a very moderate oven. Line a form at the sides and bottom with them, placingRUS RUS ( 782 ) them 80 oloso together that no spaco remains between; till the centre with a whipptnl cream or a fromago; tum the charlotte out into a dish, and send at once to table. It should not be kept long unless on ice. Russian Charlotto with Apples.— Take souie biscuits a la cuillero {nee Uie pre- ceding recipe). Line a form witli them, placing them as close as possible, so tliat they may form a comploto case. Peel and slice a dozen apphjs, and stew them in a little butter. Fill the form with the api)le8, leaving a space in the centre. Fill this space with a mannalado of apricots, cherries, or quinces. Tum out the charlotte on a dish, and serve cold. Russian Jelly. —Take the remains of jelly of any kind, put it in a bowl, and set it in a pan of hot water until dissolved. Put the basin upon ice, and whisk the jelly briskly till it begins to stiffen and form a creamy froth, then pour it at once into a mould set in ice. When it is fii-m turn it out. \VTien convenient, two or three kinds of jelly appropriately fla- voured can be mixed together. Russian niode of Preserving Fruit. —A method of preserving fruit, in extensive use in Russia, consists in moistening quicklime with water containing a little creosote, so as to cause it to fall into powder. The fruit is packed in a wooden box, the bottom of which is filled in to the depth of an inch with the lime. The stratum is covered with a sheet of paper, and the fruit laid upon this, each piece by it- self, so that no one touches another. A sheet of paper is placed on the top of this layer of fruit and then a second layer of lime is sifted in. In this wajf lime, paper, and fruit alternately tiU the box is fiUed. The comers are then filled with finely-powdered charcoal. By covering the box with a tightly-fitting top, the fruit can, it is said, be kept fresh for at least a year. Russian Polony.—Russian polony should be made of hard old Belfast hams, which are easily procured, and from beef, which is to be prepared in the following manner:—Take a small round, or part of a large one, of ox beef (for the udder of the cow cannot be used here); rub it all over with common salt, and scatter more under and over it; so let it lie four days. Then wipe it, and put it into the following pickle, in a deep pan :— Water that has boiled . 1 gallon Common salt . . . 2 lbs. Saltpetre . . . .2 ounces Bay-salt . . . .2 lbs. Let it lie fourteen days more covered with pickle. Take it out and wipe it well; tie string round it, and hang it to smoke for twenty days in a powerful smoke, turning it often ; and when taken from the chimney hang it in a warm dry room three weeks longer to harden. Tako then an equal weight of ham and beef, and cut off all the hard fat, which put aside. Cut up the meat in small pieces, and leave no skinny or fibrous parts in it. Beat each separately in a mortar until verj' fine, and work it into a consistence; being completely mixed, add finely-ground black pepper, and then cut your hard fat up into small squares the eizo of a pea, and mix these generally and iqually throughout the mass. Dissolve gum-dragon so that it is very thick, ; and work it aiuongst the meat until the pnuu'i has l)ecome just soft enough to stuff the skins, which must bo the largest you can get, and taken from large oxen. Great care must be taken in filling them, so tliat the meat may soon bo united into a solid mass, which can only be effected by force ; the skins must then bo well tied up, and hung to dry; they muiit be smoked for a fortnight, and kept three months in a dry closet. Russian Salad.—Cut some carrots, tur- nips, parsnips, and beetroot into strips with a scoop. Add, if liked, other vegetables, such as asparagus, peas, French beans, gherkins, capers, scraped horseradish, &c. &c. Put the vegetables in a salad-dish in layers, season each layer with mayonnaise or Tartar sauce, and gradually di- minish the size of the layers, tiU the salad comes to a point. Ornament Avith a border of aspic jelly, picked prawns, olives, or gherkins, and gamish the surface with small balls of caviare. Russian Sauce.—Dissolve a slice of butter in a small saucepan, and add two ounces of lean undressed ham cut into dice, four minced shal- lots, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a spoonful of chopped parsley, two table-spoonfuls of scraped horseradish^ a dessert-spoonful of sugar, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, a wine-glassful of vinegar, and the same of light wine. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents steam gently for a.quarter of an hour. Add half a pint of good white sauce and the yolks of four eggs. Stir the sauce over the fire tiU it begins to thicken, and strain through a sieve for use. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added, and care must be taken not to put them into it until partially cooled. Time, about forty minutes to prepare the sauce. Russian Sauce (another way).— Take four spoonfuls of grated horseradish; two tea- spoonfuls of made mustard, a salt-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of sugar, and as much vine- gar as will just cover the ingredients. This is a good sauce for all kinds of cold meat, and when added to melted butter makes a good fish sauce. Russian Soup.—Take about two quarts of good broAvn soup nicely flavoured, and pour this, when ready for serving, into the tureen over three ounces of dressed ham finely shred and some small sausages already fried and drained thoroughly from fat. The soup may be made as follows :—Chop two Spanish onions, and mix with them the whole heart of a cabbage finely shred. Fry the mixture in a little butter till the vegetables are lightly browned, dredge two ounces of flour over them, and moisten the paste with about three pints of good stock. Add a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; let the soup boil once, then draw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer for half an hour or more, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Add a glassful "of light wine and a spoonful of coarsoly-shrod tarragon or chervil, and the soup will "be ready for serving. Time, about an liour. Sufficient "for six or eight persons.( 783 ) BYE BUS Bussian Tea.—Take a quart of milk, and Bet it on the tire. Whenever it boils throw in a large tea-spoonful of the best tea ; let it boil some minutes, strain, add sugar to taste, set it again on the fire, and when it boils add a liaison of eggs. This is a highly-approved remedy for a cold. Bussian Zakouski.—"What is in Russia called zakouski," says M. Dubois, in his able " Cosmopolitan Cookery," is nothing but those cold hors d'wuvre which the Russians are ac- customed to take before sitting down to dinner. These dishes are generally composed of sandwiches {canapes) prepared with herrings, smoked salmon, ancho^des, caviare, eggs boiled hard and chopped. But besides these canapes, commonly some soused or pickled fish is served, or craj'fish tails, little tartlets, pickles, ogursis, smoked breast of goose cut into thin slices. "AU these dainties are served on a little table, where also several kinds of liqueurs and little glasses are kept ready; the liqueurs generally being Dantzig brandy, arrack, kiim- mel, and cognac. The zakouskis are partaken of but a few minutes previous to taking dinner, but without sitting down. In the Petersburg hotels the zakouski table is a fixture." Buthven Cake.—Heat three pints of milk, and stir into this, until dissolved, eight ounces of fresh butter. Let the liquor cool, then mix with it a quarter of a stone of flour, six ounces of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, the thin rind of two lemons finely minced, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, a pound of picked and dried currants, six well-beaten eggs, and three large spoonfuls of fresh yeast. Knead the mixture thoroughly to a smooth dough. Cover the bowl with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. It will take about three hours. Put the dough into buttered tins, and bake these in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, an hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. 7d. per cake. Sufficient for two good-sized cakes. Bye.—This species of grain is much more hardy but incalculably less valuable in every respect than wheat. It has been cultivated from time immemorial, and is supposed to be a native of the Caspian Caucasian desert. In Britain it is very little used as an article of food compared with wheat and oats, though in the north of Europe and in Flanders it forms a principal article of human subsistence, but generally mixed with wheat, and sometimes also with barley. The cultivation of rye does not extend so far north as that of barley, but it grows in regions too cold for wheat, and on soils too poor and sandy for any other grain. Its ripening can also be more confidently depended on in cold regions than that of any other grain. But rye, it should be observed, succeeds best, and is most productive, in a climate where wheat ripens. It delights in sandy soil. rj^y® Indian Meal, Bread of.— ' The proportions of rye and corn-meal used," says an American writer, "may be varied according to the taste. If the largest propor- tion of rye is used, make the dough stiff; if the largest proportion of com-meal, make the dough softer. The greater the proportion of cora-meal, the longer the bread requires baking. The best way to mix the dough is to put the corn-meal into a glazed earthen pan, sprinkle salt over it, pour on boUing water, work it till thoroughly wet, and when about milk-warm add the rye-flour with the yeast, and as much more warm, but not hot, water as is required. Work the dough until stiff, but not so stiff as flour dough. Put it then into a deep greased pan, put your hand in warm water, and pat down the top, set it to rise in a warm place by the stove in winter, but in the sun in summer. When it begins to crack on the top, which will be in an hour or an hour and a haK, put in a weU-heated oven. To make the bread two- thirds of corn-meal, take four quarts of sifted corn-meal, sprinkle a table-spoonful of salt over it, and pour over it two quarts of boiling water, as directed above; when lukewarm add two quarts of rye-meal, half a pint of lively yeast mixed in a pint of warm water ; add more water if necessary. Bake two or three hours. This makes a loaf weighing seven or eight pounds." Bye as a Substitute for Coffee.— " Rye," says an old collection of recipes, " will be found a wholesome and economical substitute for coffee. It must first be well cleaned, and boQed till it becomes soft, care being taken that it does not burst, and then put to dry in the sun or in an oven, and afterwards birmt and ground like coffee. To use it, take as much water as it is wished to have cups of coffee, and boil and strain it, adding a third of real coffee ; and the whole will resemble pure coffee from the Indies, and not require so much sugar as the common sort." Bye Batter Cakes.—Mix as much luke- warm milk with a pint of rye-meal as will make a thin batter. Beat this well, add a little salt and a quarter of a pint of home-made yeast. Let the dough rise, then bake the cakes on a griddle. Or take from the risen dough made for rye bread as much as will make a small loaf. Work into this a quarter of a pound of good dripping or butter, make the dough into a flat cake an inch thick, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, twenty minutes or more. Bye Bread.—Late in the evening, pour a quart of warm water into a large bowl, and stir into this as much flour as will make a smooth batter. Cover the bowl with a cloth, set it in a warm place, and let the sponge rise. In the morning, put into another bowl three pounds and a half of rye-flour. Scoop a hoUow in the centre, pour in the sponge, add a spoonful of salt and a small piece of saleratus dissolved in a spoonful of warm water, and knead the dough thoroughly till it no longer sticks to the bowl and the hands. In kneading it, add a little more warm water if necessary. Cover the bowl, and let the dough rise for three hours, or till it is light; make it up into loaves, and bake these in a quick oven. Time to bake, three quarters of an hour to one hour, according to the size of the loaves. Bye Bread (another way).—"Rye," says Miss Acton, in her "English Bread Book,'*( 784 ) BYE SAO "does not seem to be regai-ded with much favour in England, as little ia grown hero, and the imported supplies are very scanty, compared with those of all other giuiu; yet,' from the positive amount of nutriment which it aifords, it stands next in value to wheat, and makes excellent bread in combination with wheat-meal or flour. It ferments easily, is considered by many persons as of pecu- liarly agreeable flavour (to others its sweet- ness is sometimes an objection) ; it keeps well, is wholesome, and economical also. The black bread of Germany and other parts of Europe is composed of rye only gi-ound into coarse meal, and fermented often by means of leaven (or dough left from a previous baking and become slightly sour), which is an un- favourable mode of fabricating it, because rye has a tendency to pass quickly into what is termed the acetous state of fermentation, and requires to be carefully watched and skilfully managed to prevent the bread made of it from acquiring an acid taste. When the /owr of rye is mixed with half or two-thirds as much of wheat-flour, the dough may be prepared in the ordinary manner, rather less time in warm weather being allowed for its rising." Rye-bread in Holland.—In Holland two sorts of rye-bread are eaten, the one hand- made, the other manufactured by machinery. The latter is preferred by the wealthier classes : it is of a dark colour, and has an odour not unUke gingerbread. The working classes, on the other hand, like hand-made rye-bread best, because it is whiter—a popular taste which finds its coun- terpart in this country. There is no real dif- ference in the quality of the rye, but there is in the baking, the hand-made bread being left in the oven for twenty-four hours, while the machine-made is left for twice that time. Rye Drop Cakes.—Mix together a quart of milk, two eggs well beaten, a piece of butter as large as an egg, one tea-spoonful of soda, two tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar, half a cupful of white sugar, and enough rye-meal to make a thick batter. Bake for half an hour. Rye-meal Mush, (an American recipe).— Stir fresh-ground rye gradually into boiling water into which a Uttle salt has been thrown. Let the preparation boil for about an hour. Rye, Nutritive Properties of.—Rye and barley resemble the grain of wheat very much in composition and nutritive quality. They differ from it somewhat in flavour and colour, and do not make so fair and spongy a bread. They are not generally preferred, there- fore, in countries where wheat and other grains thrive and ripen. Two samples of newly-baked wheat and rye bread, made and examined under the same circumstances, were foimd to consist respectively of— Wheaten bread. Rye bread. Water .... 48 48* Gluten .... 5} Starch, &c. . . . 46j 46J 100 100 So that in composition and nutritive quality these two kinds of bread very closely resembled each other, and, except aa concemfl our taste, it IS a matter of indifference whether we live'on the one or the other. Rye bread possesses one quality which is in some respects a valuable one : it retains its freshness and moisture for a longer time than wheaten bread, and can bo kei)t for months without becoming hard, dry, and unpalatable. This arises principally from certain peculiar properties possessed by the variety of gluten which exists in the grain of rye. Rye, Wholesomeness of.—In those unaccustomed to its use, rye is apt to cause an acescent state of the stomach and diairhfjca. The grain is liable to a disease called ergot, which depends on a fungus which attacks and alters the character of the grain. Ergotted or spurred rye is poisonous when it is baked into bread. It causes febrile symptoms, great debility, often paralysis, tumours, abscesses, gangrene, and death. Some of the epidemics which have occasionally nearly depopulated the north of Europe have been traced to the use of the spurred rye. s Sabotiere.—" An apparatus for making ices: it is composed of two principal parts—a pail, which is indented towards the top and covered, and the sabotiere, or inner vessel, slightly conical, which is inserted in the pail, on which it rests by a projecting border or rim; this vessel is closed at the bottom Uke a cup, and open at the top to admit the creams to be iced. The freezing mix- ture is turned into the pail, and the creams to be iced into the inner vessel; its cover is then fastened by the hook, and the vessel is set into the pail among the freezing liquid; then taking the whole by the handle of the sabotiere, an alternate motion of rotation is given to it for about a quarter of an hour, when the cream is sufiiciently frozen." Sack.—The term sack is a corruption of "sec," signifying dry, and was applied in old times to wines made from half-dried grapes. The sack of Shakespeare's day is supposed to have been what we now call sherry. Sack posset was a beverage highly esteemed 300 or 400 years ago, and as some of our readers may like to taste it, we give below a few recipes for its manufacture. Sack Cream.—Beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix with them gradually half a pint of cream and half a pint of lukewarm milk. Add a little sugar, a flavouring of grated lemon- rind, and a glassful of sherrj'. Stir the cream over the fire till it begins to thicken, and be very careful that it does not curdle. Serve it in custard-glasses, with a little powdered cinnamon sprinkled over the top. Send rata- fias or other sweet biscuits to table with the cream. Time, five or six minutes to beat the cream. Probable cost, exclusive of the sherry, Is. 4d. Sufiicient for five or six glasses. Sack Posset (Sir Walter Raleigh's recipe). —Boil together half a pint of sherrv' and half a pint of ale, and add gradually a quart of boilingSAO ( 786 ) SAP cream or milk. Sweeten the mixture well, and flavour with grated nutmeg. Put it into a heated dish, cover it over, and let it stand by the tire two or three hours. Lady Mallet's recipe:—Break eighteen new-laid eggs into a bowl, and carefully remove the specks. Beat the eggs till they are lightly frothed. Boil a quart, of cold and a pint of boiled sack (or sherry) with three-quarters of a pound of sugar and a little grated nutmeg. Skim the liquor carefully, and when it has boiled a few minutes, stir it oif the fire for a minute, then add it gradually to the beaten eggs. Stir the pre- paration over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken, pour it quickly from one vessel to another tUl quite smooth, and then serve. Master Rudstone's recipe :—Take a quart of sherry or brandy, and boU it with a quarter of a pint of ale and three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Skim it well, then mix it gradually with the well-beaten yolks of two and the whites of sixteen eggs. Let the mixture cool till the eggs thicken, then stir in three pints of milk or cream which have been boiled down to a quart. Pour it quickly from one vessel to another till it is quite smooth, and then serve. Sack Whey (for Invalids).—Boil a pint of milk, and as it rises in the pan stir into it three glasses of sherry. Let it boil once more, then di-ain it back, and let it stand till the curd forms. FUter the whey, sweeten, dilute it, or not, with a little water, and serve. Saddle of Mutton. Carving of. — "This joint," says M. Uae, "is by no means an economical one, as no meat from the butcher's shop is so excessively dear, consider- ing the little meat you can cut from it, and the great waste there is in skin, fat, and bone ; and that, above all, it produces no cold meat for future use, and can only be used again in the shape of hash. SA.ODLE OF MCTTON. " The method usually adopted in carving this ioint is contrary to taste and judgment. To have your meat in the grain, pass your knife straight to one side of the chine, as close as possible to the bono; then turn the knife straight from you, and cut the first slice out • then cut slices of lean and fat. By disengaging the slices from the flat bone in this manner, it will have a better appearance, and you will be enabled to assist more guests. "The amateur of tender moat will by turning the saddle upside down, find that the under fillets are most excellent, and worthy to De offered to the first epicure of the day " SafiVon. — SafPron is very largely adul- terated with the petals of other plants, espe- cially with those of the marigold. Salfron is now chiefly imported from the South of Europe, especially Spain. It was formerly much cultivated in this country in the vicinity of Safc-on Walden, in Cambridgeshire. The English saffron is superior to that brought from Spain. Saffron used to be so extensively used in Cornwall that that county consumed more than all the rest of England put together. In the West of England it is still largely used to colour cakes. Saffron Cakes.—Take a quartern of fine flour, and a pound and a half of butter, three ounces of caraway-seeds, six eggs well-beaten, a quarter of an ounce of well-beaten cloves and mace, a little pounded cinnamon, one pound of sugar, a little rose-water and saffron, a pint and a half of yeast, and a quart of milk. Mix these ingredients thus : first boil the milk and butter, then skim off the butter, and mix it with the flour and a little of the milk. Stir the yeast into the rest, and strain it. Mix it with the flour; put in the eggs and spice, rose-water, tincture of saffron, sugar, and eggs. Beat it all well up, and bake in a hoop or pan well-but- tered, in a quick oven. Time to bake, an hour and a half. Saffron Cakes or Buns.—Loaves, cakes, or buns mixed with a little saffron-water will be found both wholesome and palatable. The medicinal quality of saffron is stimulant, and its tendency is to help digestion. It is said to kUl or drive out intestinal worms. To make the saffron-water, infuse a small quantity of saffron in a little water. After a few minutes, strain the liquor, and add a spoonful or two to an ordinary cake. Be sure that it rises well. The cake after baking will retain the taste and smell of the saffron, and wiU have a rich ap- pearance. Saffron Cordial Water (Robinson's recipe) :— Best picked saffron Sifted loaf sugar .... Cinnamon and nutmeg, sliced, each Cloves and pimento, bruised . • Sweet almonds, beaten Bitter do. Caraways Pure water . Proof spirit of wine . Put the above ingredients into a stone iar the almonds beaten with a little of the spirit of wine. Secure the cork, and let the ingredients mfuse in the usual manner. Then strain and filter, clear; bottle, cork, and seal. This should be kept a while to let the strong flavour of the saffron go off. ^.Saffron, Preparation of.—The bulbs of the saffron {Crocus sativus) are planted in rows SIX inches apart, and three from bulb to bulli, m a well-pulverised, not poor, nor a very stifi clay, in the month of July. The flowers are collected in September, and the yellow stigmas and part of the style are picked out, and dried on a kiln, between layers of paper, and under i oz. 4 oz. i oz. ■ 1 oz. 1 oz. \ oz. 1 oz. 1 pint. 1 pint.SAG ( 786 ) SAF tho proBsui-d of a thirk board, to form tho mum into cakus. Two pounds of dried cako is tho average crop of an acre, after tho first planting, and twenty-four pounds for tho two following years. After tho third crop tho roots are taken up, divided, and transplanted. Saffron, Properties of.—Dr. Thomson in his " j\lateria Medica" states that saffron excites tho nerves of the stomach, and is in some degree narcotic; its incautious use has sometimes been attended with dangerous con- sequences. It is sometimes adulterated with safflower and marigolds; but the adulteration is easily detected, for the petals of these ilowers ■will appear distinct from the stigmata of the crocus. tSaffron is said to impart an intoxicating quality to bees. It exorcises a specific in- fluence on the brain and nerves, and when taken in large doses causes immoderate mirth and involuntary laughter. Its exhilarating qualities are so remarkable that it has been supposed to be the"nepenthes" of Homer; and to denote a merry temper it became a proverb —" He has slept in a saifron-bag." It has the singular property, also, of counteracting the intoxication produced by alcoholic liquors, as hops to some extent do. This was known to Plmy, who says it allays the fumes of wine and prevents drunkenness. " It was therefore taken in drink by great wine-bibbers, to enable them to drink largely without intoxication. Its efEects, however," says Professor Johnston, " are very uncertain, and it is now little used in medicine, and stiU less, I believe, for adul- terating beer." Saffron Pudding.—Boil a table-spoonful of real saffron in half a tea-cupful of water until the decided taste and smell peculiar to the flower has been extracted and the liquor has acquired a clear light-yellow tinge. Mince finely three-quarters of a poimd of suet, and mix with it a pinch of salt, half a pound of flour, half a pound of grated bread-crumbs, and a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger. When thoroughly mixed, stir in the safEron-water, three well-beaten eggs, and as much milk or cream as .is required to make a light, smooth dough. Turn this into a floured cloth, tie securely, allowing room for the pudding to swell, plunge it into boiling water, and boil until done enough. Time to boil, three hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for haK a dozen persons. Saffron, Spurious.—The term safron is often applied to the Carthamus tinctorius, a large thistle-like plant, belonging to the order Composite. The root is perennial, but the stem herbaceous. It is said to have been originally brought from the East, but it is now naturalised in many parts of Europe, and is, besides, extensively cultivated. In Spain the flowers are used for colouring soups, olives, and other dishes. The Jews in Poland are remark- ably fond of this spurious saffron, and mix it with their bread and most of their viands. In Germany it is cultivated in a light soil, well pulverieed, and is sown in rows about eighteen inches apart: it is afterwards thinned so as to leave throe or four inches between the plants. Tho pliintH b(jgin to flower in h»ept(imber, and the field is then gone over once every w(;(ik for six or seven weeks, in order to gather the expanded florets, which are dried in a kiln, in the same way as true saftron. Th(; Carthamus 18 occasionally employed in cookery under tho impression that it is the genuine saffron. If too gi-eat quantities are used, it produces a piu-gative efllect. Safift'on Tea (to assist digestion).—Mix a pinch of saffron -with, a quarter of a pmt of hot water. Let it infuse for ten minutes, then add two or three table-spoonfuls of brandy or any other spirit and a lump of sugar. Ser\'e hot or cold. Time, ten minutes. Sage.—Sage is a plant much used in cookery for stuffings and sauces: it is supposed to assist digestion. lied sage is the best, and green sage the next best. August and September are the months for drjdng sage. Sage and Onion Gravy.—Prepare a little more sage and onion stuffing than is re- quired, and rub a portion of it through a sieve. ]\Iix with the pulp as much good stock as wUl make the requisite quantity of gravy, add a spoonful of Harvey's Sauce, let all boil up once, and serve. Sage and Onion Stuffing for Greese, Pork, and Ducks.—Skin ton or twelve onions, and throw them into cold water. "WTien all are peeled, put them with six or eight green sage-leaves into a saucepan of boiling water and let them boil till tender. Pour off the water, mince the onions and sage finely, and beat them well with a piece of butter the size of an egg and a little pepper and salt. Heat the onions again till the butter is dissolved, and serve very hot. If dried sage is used, it must bo pow- dered and mixed with the onions after they are boiled. Time, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Sage and Onion Sttiffing (another way). —See Onion and Sage Stuffing for Geese. &c.SAG ( 787 ) Sage and Onion Stufllng for Geese, Pork, and Ducks (another way).—Peel four large onions, and boil them fpr three minutes ; add about half-a-dozen sage-leaves, and boil all for two minutes longer. Strain off the liquor, and mince finely the onions and sage. Return them to the saucepan with a slice of fresh but- ter, a little pepper and salt, and a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs. Let all simmer gently together, and stir the mixture occasionally, to keep it from burning, for twenty minutes, when the stuffing will be ready for use. A beaten egg may be added if liked. Sage and onion stuffing is generally seasoned rather highly. When it is used for goose, the liver of the bird may be boiled, minced, and mixed with it. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized goose or a couple of ducks. Sage and Thyme.—The leaves of these plants are used fresh and dry, and form the flavouring of those ingredients which are put into the inside of ducks, geese, roast pigs, sausages, and other animal food brought to the table. " They are warm and discussive, and good against crudities of the stomach," accord- ing to an old writer on the subject. Sage Ctieese.—There is a kind of sage cheese which used to be, and perhaps still is, made by a few families in Gloucestershire for their private consumption: it is the most delicious of any of the green cheeses. It is intended for immediate use, and will not keep long. A quantity of young sage-leaves are bruised in a mortar, and the juice is extracted from them: the juice of a quantity of spinach is extracted by the same process and mixed with the sage-juice in equal pi-oportions. Just before the rennet is put to the milk, a quantity of this juice, equal to the colour and flavour intended to be given to the cheese, is mixed with the milk. As the curd is being formed, it is gently broken, and in equal lumps as nearly as possible. The whey is then separated, and the curd put into the vat and submitted to gentle and gradual pressure during seven hours. It is next salted twice a day for three or four days, and afterwards turned every day during five weeks. It is then fit for use. This cheese is very little known, and deserves to be more 80; it may be made anywhere with rich and unsophisticated milk. This is also, or ought to be, a one-meal cheese. Sage Gargle (for sore throat).—Boil a handful of sage-leaves in a pint of water till the liquor is reduced ono-haK. Strain it, let it get cold, then mix with it half a pint of vinegar, and sweeten with honey or sugar. A glassful of port may be added to the gargle, or not. Sage Goose Stufang [see Goose Stuffing, Sage and Onion). Sage, Onion, and Apple Stuffing for Geese, Pork, and Ducks.—Put four apples, four onions, four sage-leaves, and four lemon-thyme leaves into a saucepan with as much water as will cover them. Let them simmer till tender, then pour off the water, and rub them through a sieve. Season the pulp ■with pepper and salt, mix with it as much mashed potato as will make it dry and smooth, and the stuffing wUl be ready for use. If liked, a spoonful of boiled rice may be mixed with the sago and onions instead of the potatoes. Time, an houi- or more. Probable cost, about 4d. Suf- ficient for one goose or two ducks. Sage, Properties of.—Sage once had a high reputation for its medicinal qualities; but at present these do not appear to be mucli thought of. It possesses, however, some as- tringent and aromatic powers ; and a decoc- tion, or sage tea, is of use in cases of debility of the stomach, and in nervous disorders. The broad-leaved balsamic species is the most effi- cacious for its medicinal qualities and as a tea herb. Sage is also introduced into cheese, and we have given above an excellent recipe for the manufacture of sage cheese. Sage Tea.—"The virtues of sage," says Dr. Paris, " have been so extravagantly praised that, like many of our remedies, the plant ia fallen into disuse from the disgust which its panegyrists have excited. I am convinced, however, that in the form of infusion it pos- sesses some power of allaying the irritability of the stomach, and that, on many occasions, it will furnish a salutary Ijeverage." Sage, Varieties of.—The varieties of sage are the common or red, the green, the small- leaved or sage of \'irtue, and the broad-leaved or balsamic. The red is the principal sort in culinary use, having the most agreeable and fullest flavour; the green is next in estimation with the cook; but the small-leaved is generally preferred to those to eat as a raw herb and for decoctions, while the broad-leaved balsamic species is the most efficacious in a medical way, and is also a tea herb. However, any of the sorts may be occasionally used for these alter- nate purposes. Sage, Wholesomeness of.—" The gar- den sage [Salvia officinalis) was formerly in great repute as a sudorific, aromatic, astringent, and antiseptic. It possesses stimulant properties in a high degree, is tonic and stomachic; the odour is strong, aromatic, and agreeable; the taste bitter, pungent, and somewhat resembling camphor, which substance, indeed, is contained in the plant. The leaves are often employed in seasoning dishes, especially in the South of Europe. The Chinese esteem this plant very highly, and use it as a tonic for strengthening the stomach, often giving it the preference to their own tea."— Sage Wine, Green.—Take nine pounds of good honey, and boil them with ten gallons of river or rain-water and the whites of ten eggs well beaten. Boil for one hour, skimming till the liquid is clear; while hot, pour it upon forty pounds of good Malaga raisins picked from the stalks and stoned and cut small, and three pecks of green sage-leaves freshly gathered and shred roughly. Cover the preparation closely, and stir now and again for forty-eight hours. At the end of that time press the "fruit in a hair bag, strain the liquid into a clean vessel, and on the following day draw off what is clear into a cask. Filter the lees, and add them with the rinds of six lemons and four Seville oranges pared thin, and the juice of both strained.( 788 ) SAG SAG Keep tho cask open for four or five days and well filled up; when tho liciuor has done hiMsing, wait a day, then add threo half-pints of brandy and an ounce and a half of host isinglass dis- solved in two quarts of the wine. Secure tho bung carefully, and store in a cool di-y colliir for twelve months; then, if fine, bottle tho wine; if not, rack it olf into a clean vessel, filter the dregs two or three times through a flannel bag, and fill the cask again. Add a pint more brandy and four ounces of sugar-candy; then stop the cask up again, and bottle the wine in three months. If kept for lialf a year this wine will be excellent and higlily flavoured. Sage Wine, Red.—Take throe pecks of red sage-leaves, pick them from the stalks, shred them roughly, and pour over them four gallons of boiling soft water. Cover the vessel closely, and let it stand for one day. Take forty-five pounds of good Malaga raisins, pick them, cut them in halves, take out the stones, and pour over them six gallons of water that has been well boiled and grown hikewarm. Stir well, and cover them up. Then mix the contents of the two vessels, add the rinds of ten lemons, pared very thin, and their juice. Let all infuse for five days, stirring twice daily. Place in a clean ten-gallon cask six ounces of sugar-candy and an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and beaten to a paste together with a spoonful of brandy. Strain the liquor upon them, filling to the bunghole of the cask, which must be tightly covered. Let the liquor work out, keeping the cask full, and on the fermentation ceasing, put in a quart of brandy, and stop up the bunghole for two months. Then rack the liquor into a clean vessel, filter the lees, and return all that is clear into the cask again with six ounces more of sugar-candy, a pint of brandy, and an ounce and a half of isinglass dissolved in two quarts of the wine. Stop the cask effectually, and store for twelve months. At the end of the year bottle the wine, and when it is eighteen months old it will be fit for use. This is an excellent stomachic wine. SAOO. Showing Palm, Flower, and Ripe Fruit. Sago.—The farinaceous food of this name is light, wholesome, and nutritions, and cspocinllv suited for children and invalids. It ib made from tho pith of a tree which grows abundantly m the East Indies. In order to obtain it, the tree is cut down, and the pith extracted from the trunk, reduced to powder, washed, dried, and rubbed into grains for exportation. Sago, Manufacture} of). Large forests of the sago-palm grow in the Moluccas, and one tree will yield from 100 to 800 pounds of sago. Sago and Apple Pudding.—Soak a tea-cupful of largo sago in cold water for an hour, to free it from the earthy taste. Rinse it well, and boil gently till clear in a quart of water. Stir frequently, and add a little moK hot water if necessary. This will depend upon the quality of the sago, which when taken from the fire should be tolerably thin. Half fill a large buttered pie-dish with partially- boiled apples. Sweeten these, and sprinkle over them a little grated lemon-rind or pow- dered cinnamon. Pour the boiled sago over them, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. When the apples are soft the pudding is done enough. Time to boil the sago, about an hour; to bake the pudding, about an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Sago, Beer Soup with {see Beer Soup with Sago). Sago Bread.—One-fourth, or at most one- third, is the best proportion to wheaten bread. Dissolve the sago for three hours in milk-warm water on a hob. Then mix as for common bread. The loaves should be baked in a slack oven for two hours, then allowed to grow stale, when the bread will be found excellent and economical. Sago for Invalids.—Soak a table-spoon- ful of sago for an hour. Rinse it, and boil it gently till clear with a pint of water or milk and water. A little thin lemon-rind, grated nut- meg, cinnamon, or any other flavouring, may be boiled with it, or the sago may be merely sweetened and served with a table-spoonfid of wine or brandy stirred into it at the last moment. If the sago is too thick, a little more water may be added. Time, about three- quarters of an hour to boil the sago. Sufficient for one person. Probable cost, 2d., exclusive of the wine, &c. Sago Gruel.—Take two table-spoonfuls of sago, and place them in a small saucepan; moisten gradually with a little cold water. Set the preparation on a slow fire, and keep stirring till it becomes rather stiff and clear. Add a little grated nutmeg and sugar to, taste; if preferred, half a pat of butter may also be added with the sugar, and a glassful of wine will be an improvement to the gruel. Sago Jelly.—Take one pound of sago and five pints of water. Wash the sago well, then boil it with the water till it is reduced to a transparent jelly. The preparation may be flavoured to taste. Sago, Manufacture of—The following description of the manufacture of this important article of commerce is given by Mr. Simmonds in his " Commercial Products of the Vegetable Kingdom ":—" The tree boin^ cut down, (he r\f crior bark is removed, and the heart or pitUSAG (m) 8AQ of the palm—a soft white spongy and mealy substance—id gathered, and for the purpose of •distant trtinspoi-tation it is put into conical bags made of plantain-leaves, and neatly tied up. In that state it is called by the Malays aaiiffoo tampin, or 'bundles of sago'—each bundle weighs about thirty pounds. On its aiTival at Singapore it is bought by the Chinese mfinufac- turers of sago, and is thus treated :—Upon being carried to the manufactory, the plantain-leaf covering is removed, and the raw sago, inipart- ing a strong acid odour, is bruised, and is put into large tubs of cold spring water, where it undergoes a process of purification by being stirred, suffered to repose, and then re-stirred in newly-introduced water. When well purified thus, it is taken out of the tubs by means of small vessels; and being mixed with a great deal of watei-, the liquid is gently poured upon a large and slightly-inclined trough, about ten inches in height and width, and in the descent towards the depressed end the sago is deposited in the bottom of the trough, whilst the water flows into another large tub, where what may remain of sago is finally deposited. As the strata of deposited sago increases in the trough, small pieces of slate are adjusted to its lower end to prevent the escape of the substance. When by this pouring process the trough becomes quite fuU of sago, it is then removed to make room for "a fresh one, whilst the former one is put out into the air, under cover, for a short time; and on its being well dried, the sago within is cut into square pieces and taken out to be thoroughly diied, under cover, to protect it from the sun. It has then lost the acid smell already noticed, and has become quite wliite. After one day's drying thus, it is taken into what may be called the manufactory—a long shed, open in front and on one side, and closed at the other and in the rear. Here the lumps of sago are broken up, and are reduced to an impalpable flour, which is passed through a sieve. The lumps which are retained by the sieve are put back to be rebruised, whilst that portion which has passed is collected, and is placed in a long cloth bag, the gathered ends of which, like those of a hammock, are attached to a pole, which pole being suspended to a beam of the building by a rope, one end of it is sharply thrown forward with a particular jerk, by moans of which the sago within is speedily granulated very fine, and becomes what is technically termed ' pearled.' It is then taken out and put into iron vessels, called quallies, for the purpose of being dried. These quallies are small elliptical pans, and resemble in form the sugar coppers of the West Indies, and would each hold about five gallons of fluid. They are set a little inclining, and in a range, over a line of furnaces, each one ha^dng its own fire. Before putting in the sago to be dried, a cloth, which contains a small quantity of hog's lard or some oily substance, is hastily passed into the qually, and the sago is equally quickly put into it, and a Chinese labourer who attends it commences stirring it vigorously, and thus continues his labour during the few minutes necessary to expel the moisture contained in the substance. Thus each qually, containing about ten pounds of sago, requires the attendance of a man. The sago, on being taken off the fira is spread out to cool on large tables, after which it is fit to bo packed in boxes, or put into bags for shipment, and is known in commerce under the name of ' pearl sago.' " Sago-Meal.—Sago is sometimes imported into this country in the pulverulent state, in which it can be distinguished from arrowroot only by microscopic examination of its particles. These are uniform and sjjherical, not unequal and ovoid, like those of aiTOwroot. In this state it is known as sago-meal. Sago Milk.—Soak a large table-spoonful of sago in water for an hour, then boil it in fresh water for two or three minutes. Pour the liquor off, and substitute for it a quart of new milk. Boil the sago gently till the milk is reduced to a pint. Sweeten, flavour, and serve. Time, about an hour to boil the sago with the milk. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for one person. Sago Milk (another way).—See Milk, Sago. Sago, Nutritive Properties of.— " The sago palm," says Professor Johnston, "is cultivated in many places, but it is the chief support of the inhabitants of North-western New Guinea and of parts of the coast of Africa. The meal is extracted from the pith by rubbing it to powder, and then washing it with water upon a sieve. It is baked by the natives into a kind of bread or hard cake, by putting it for a few minutes into a hot mould. The exact nutritive value of sago has not been chemically asceitained. It has been stated, however, that two and a half pounds of it are enough for a day's sustenance for a healthy full-grown man. And as each tree, when cut down in its seventh year, yields seven hundred pounds of sago-meal, it has been calculated that a single acre of land planted with three hundred trees—one-seventh to be cut down every year—will maintain four- teen men." The pith of the sago palm made into bread probably contains a sufficient quan- tity of gluten to sustain life; but this is in a great measure washed out in manufacturing the sago of commerce. Sago has been sometimes used, as we have shown elsewhere, as an in- gredient of household bread, in the proportion of one part of sago to about three of wheaten flour. Sago, Portland.—Portland sago derives its name from the island of Portland, where it is manufactured from the roots of the common wake robin {Arum macidatum), which is found there in great abundance. The roots are full of farina, but in their natural state are so acrid that on the juice being applied to the skin it raises blisters. On heat being applied by roasting or boiling, this juice is dissipated, and the roots are rendered perfectly harmless. This being done, they are dried and pounded. They jaeld a starchy matter not unlike the Indian arrowroot; hence Portland sago is sometimes called English arrowroot. Sago Pudding (A German recipe) .—Take four oimces of sago, and boil in a quart of milk. When the sago is quite boiled out, remove it from the fire, and stir in a quarter of a pound of creamed butter, four ounces ofSAG ( 790 ) SAI biacuit-powder, four ounces of augar, the pool of a lonioii griitod, and six or eight eggs beat up. Butter a mould, pour this preparation in, and bake or boil. Send to tal)lo with a wine or raspberry saueo poured over the pudding. Sago Pudding, Baked.—Wash three table-spoonfuls of sago, and soak it for an hour in half a pint of cold water. Meantime put a pint and a half of milk into a saucepan with a little lemon-rind, an inch of stick cinnamon, or an ounce of blanched and pounded almonds, and let it simmer gently till it is pleasantly flavoured. 8train and sweeten; mix with it the soaked sago drained from the water, and simmer gently, stirring frequently till the preparation is thick. Let it cool, then add two well-beaten eggs and a slice of fresh butter, and beat it again for a few minutes. Pour it into a but- tered pie-dish, and bake until the surface is brightly browned. Serve with ■svine sauce. If a superior pudding is required, four eggs may be used instead of two, and the dish may be lined with puff paste before the sago is poured into it. Time to bake the pudding, from three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Sago Pudding, Boiled.—Put a pint of milk into a saucepan with the thin rind of half a lemon, and let it simmer gently until it is pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, mix with it three table-spoonfuls of well-washed sago and two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and then boil the mixture, stirring gently till it is thick and smooth. Let it cool, then add two well-beaten eggs. Turn it into a weU-buttered basin which it will quite fill, lay a buttered paper on the top, and tie a floured cloth securely over it. Plunge it into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water, and keep it boiling till done enough. Move it about occasionally for the first quarter of an hour. Let it stand in the basin a few minutes, then turn it out carefully, and garnish with jelly, or send wine sauce to table with it. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sago Pudding Boiled (superior).—Soak an ounce and a half of sago for an hour. Strain it, and boil it in a pint of milk till it is clear, and to flavour it add an ounce of blanched and poimded almonds, the thin rind of a lemon, or an inch of stick cinnamon. Pour the sago out, remove the flavouring ingredients, and stir till cool. Beat it up with two sponge biscuits crushed to powder, the well-whisked yolks of :five and the whites of two eggs a little sugar, and a glassful of sherry or madeira. Boil the pudding as in the last recipe. Let it stand three or four minutes, turn it out carefully, and serve with wine sauce or with half a pint of any fresh fruit boiled with sugar and water to a rich syrup, and strained over the pudding. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost, Is., ex- clusive of the wine and sauce. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sago Pudding, Red.—Boil in milk two ounces of sago. When it is quite thick, beat into it six eggs, leaving nut three of the whites: add half a pint of cream and two sjjoonfuls of sherry, with nutmeg and sugar according to tusto. Put paste round the dish. w®^^°.^^^°® BoUed Puddings.- Wish a table-spoonful of large sago, and foil it in the third of a pint of water for ten minuU^s. Sweeten it, flavour with a little grated lemon- rind or pounded cinnamon, add the strained juico of a small lemon and a glassful of sherry or madeira, let it boil up once, and serve Time twenty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient lor SIX or eight persons. Sago Soup.—Wash six ounces of sago, and add it gradually to two quarts of nicely- flavoured stock. Let it simmer gently till the sago is quite clear, and put in further seasoning if necessary. Before serving the soup mix with it either the strained juice of a lemon and a glass of light wine, or the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a little cream. Serve very hot. Sago Soup, Red (a Danish recipe).—Boil the sago as in the recipe Sago Soup, White. Instead, however, of beating up eggs and wine in the tureen, put into it preserved raspberries, currants, or cherries. In summer, ripe fruit may be used, which must be boiled with the sago. Add sugar to taste. Sago Soup, Restorative. — Boil two oimces of sago in a pint of mutton, veal, or chicken broth till clear. Serve hot or cold. Sago Soup, White (a Danish recipe).— Take half a pound of pearl sago, and wash it well in cold water; put it into four pints of boiling water along with the rind of a lemon. If liked, four ounces of raisins may afterwards be added. Beat up in the tureen the yolks of four eggs, add white or very pale brown sugar to taste, the juice of two or three lemons, and half a pint of white wine. Pour the soup slowly over this mixture, beating the eggs and wine vigorously all the while. The sago should boil for haK an hour. Sago with Wine Sauce (a German recipe).—Take a quarter of a poimd of sago, and boil it in a pint of water with the peel of a lemon till it is quite boiled out; add a little white wine, sugar, and cinnamon. Stir the preparation till it becomes thin, then let it boil a little longer, and remove the peel and cinna- mon. Pour the sago out to cool in a deep plate; when cold cut it into shapes, and place it in the dish in which it is to appear at table. Pour over it a sauce composed of wine, sugar, cirma- mon, and grated lemon-peel. If preferred, the juice of fruit may be used instead of wine. Sailor's Soup.—Clean a small pike, a tench, a carp, and a middling-sized eel; cut them into small lengths, thi-ow over them a little sea-water to cleanse, and salt them at the same time; an hour after wash and drain thorn on a napkin; then lay each fish separately in a saute-pan containing two onions, two oar- rots, and a pottle of mushrooms sliced, some jjarsley-roots, bay-leaf, basil, thyme, two cloves, a clove of nutmeg, a pinch of piijiper and grated nutmeg, half a pint of Chablis wino, and a ladhiful of oonsommo; lot them simmer for ten minutes, take out tlio lurp, and ten minulo:iSAL ( 791 ) 8AK after drain the remaining fidh on a baking- sheet, and observe that no fragment of the seasoning remains about the fish. Lay them gradually in the tureen, which cover and place in the hot closet; strain the essence of the fish through a sieve; add to it some brovm con- somme prepared as usual; clarify it, and pour it into the tureen while boiling, mingling with it roots dressed in some consomme; the same as in the recipe Sante, Potage de, but without the lettuces and sorrel. Saki.—This is a sort of beer made in Japan, where it is the common alcoholic drink. It is obtained from rice. The liquor is clear and has a peculiar taste, which is seldom agreeable to the European palate. The Japanese usually heat it before drinking, and pour it into flat cups or saucers of lacquered wood. The effect produced by said is a speedy but transient in- toxication. Salad.—A salad well prepared is a charm- ing compound, and, when taken with plenty of oil, very wholesome, attractive, and agreeable; badly prepared it is an abomination. A Spanish proverb says, that four persons are needed to make a good salad—a spendthrift to throw in the oil, a miser to drop in the vinegar, a lawyer to administer the seasoning, and a madman to stir the whole together. Lettuce is generally supposed to form the foundation of a salad, but there are few fresh vegetables that may not be used: and on the Continent every known vegetable is, when plainly dressed, used cold for salads; and cold meat, fish, and game are served in the same way. Amongst the vegetables appropriate for salads may be named asparagus, artichokes, beetroot boiled, basil, celery, chives, cucumbers, chervil, cauli- flowers, dandelion-leaves, endive, French beans, garlic, lettuces of all kinds, lentils, mustard and cress, mint, onions, parsley, potatoes, radishes, shallots, sorrel, tarragon, tomatoes, Windsor beans, and watercress. Though a variety in salads is easily secured, great care is necessary in the preparation of the dish, and three or four rules must be closely observed if the salad is to be a success. First, the vegetables must be young, freshly-cut, in season, and in good con- dition. If possible, they should be gathered early in the morning, or late in the evening, and should be kept in a cool, damp place. Secondly, the vegetables should not be allowed to lie long in water. If withered, they may bo put in for a short time to render them a little crisp, but if fresh, they should be simply rinsed through the water and dried immediately. Thirdly—and this point requires most careful attention—the vegetables must be rendered jt)orfectly dry after washing. The best way of doing this is to drain the salad and shake it first in a colander, or salad-basket, and after- wards in a clean napkin held by the comers and shaken lightly till the salad is dry. Fourthly, cut the salad with a silver knife, or tear it in shreds; do not prepare it until a short time before it is wanted, and on no account mix the salad-dressing with it until the last moment. It is a very usual and excellent plan to pom- tho liquid into the bottom of the bowl, lay the siuvii vegetables upon it, and mix the salsid at table. A wooden fork and spoon are the best for this purpose. Salads may bo garnished in various ways, and afford ample opportunity for the display of artistic taste. Boiled beetroot cut into slices stamped into fancy shapes or cut into treUis-work, sliced cucumbers, olives, hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters or rings, radishes, nasturtium-leaves and flowers, &c., may all be used. When these are arranged tastefully the salad presents a very attractive appearance. Of course the garniture must not entirely hide the salad. Salad Beef.—Cut a pound of cold beef into thin slices; put these into a salad-bowl with half a pound of fresh lettuce or endive dried and shred small, and a quarter of a pound of cold boiled haricot beans. Add, if Uked, a pickled gherkin chopped small, or a spoonful of sliced tarragon-leaves, or chervU, or onion. Season the salad with a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, half a tea-spoon- ful of mixed mustard, two spoonfuls of vinegar, and five spoonfuls of good salad oil. Mix all lightly together with a fork, and serve. The salad ought not to be mixed until it is about to be served. Time, a quarter of an hour U prepare the salad. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Salad, Boiled.—Boil separately equal quantities of French beans and celery or cauli- flower. Drain them, and cut them up small. Put them into a salad-bowl, and sprinkle over them a layer of shred lettuce, endive, or chervil. Pour over the whole a little salad dressing, mix lightly, and serve. Boiled onion and slices of cold meat, fish, or poultry may be added, or not. Salad, Boiled (Dr. Kitchiner's recipe).—• This is best compounded of boiled or baked onions (if Portugal the better), some baked beet- root, cauliflower, or broccoli, and boiled celery and French beans, or any of these articles, with the common salad dressing; added to this, to give it an enticing appearance, and to give some of the crispness and freshness so pleasant in salad, a small quantity of raw endive, or lettuce and chervil, or bumet, strewed on the top; this is by far more wholesome than the raw salad, and is much eaten when put on the table. The above sauce is equally good with cold meat, cold fish, or for cucumbers, celery, radishes, &c. (and all the other vegetables that are sent to table undressed); to the above a little minced onion is generally an acceptable addition. "Salad," adds Dr. Kitchiner, "is a very compound dish with our neighbours the French, who always add to the mixture above black pepper and sometimes savoury spice. The Italians mince the white meat of chickens into this sauce; the Dutch, cold boiled tur- bot, or lobster, or add to it a spoonful of grated Parmesan or old Cheshire cheese, or mince very fine a little tarragon, or chervil, bumet, or young onion, celery, or pickled gherkins, &c. Joan Cromwell's grand salad was composed of equal parts of almonds, raisins, capers, pickled cucumbers, shrimps, and boiled turnips. "This mixture is sometimes made with cicam,( 792 ) BAL oiled butter, or some good joUy of moat (which many prefer to the finest Florence oil), and flavoured with salad mixtiiro, basil, or cross or celery viaof,'ar, horseradish vinegar, cucumber vinegar, and tarragon or clear vinegar, essence of celery, walnut or lemon pickle, or a slice of lemon cut into dice, and essence of anchovy." Salad, Cheap and Good.—Tako one pennyworth of mustard and cress, two penny- worth of watercress, two pennyworth of cooked beetroot, and a fourpenny head of celery; cut the beet into small dice squares; take a glass or Bilver dish, pile the boot into pyramids, do the same with the celery and watercress, and ar- range iill round the dish; heap the mustard into a pile in the centre; boil two eggs hard; take out the yolks, and mix them with a little mashed potato, a table-spoonful of vinegar, half a table-spoonful of Harvey's Sauce, and ketchup, pepper, ajid salt, two spoonfuls of milk, the same of oil, and a salt-spoonful of sugar; pour this over the whole. Salad, Cold Vegetable.-Almost all cold dressed vegetables, such as peas, French beans, haricot beans, artichokes, asparagus, cauliflower, cabbage, and potatoes, may be used as salads. They should simply be cut up, arranged neatly on a dish, beaten up very lightly with a simple salad-dressing, and gar- nished according to taste. Salad Dressing. — Salad dressings are frequently bought of the grocer, and sent to table in the bottle in which they are purchased. Though these creams ai-e many of them very good, epicures in salad always prefer that the salad dressing should be prepared at home. Mayonnaise salad sauce is perhaps to be pre- ferred to any other, and for this a recipe is given {see Salad Sauce, Mayonnaise). A foolish prejudice is felt by many persons against the use of oil in salads, but this is gradually disappearing, as the majority of those who are prevailed upon to overcome it end by being exceedingly partial to what they had before disliked, and they also find that oil tends to prevent the fermentation of the raw vegetable, and is, besides, an antidote to flatu- lency. Seeing, however, that this prejudice still exists, two or three recipes are given of salad dressings without oil as well as with it. It has been already said that the dressing should not be mixed vdth the salad until the last moment. Nevertheless, it may always be prepared some hours before it is wanted, and stored in a cool, airy place. When salads are much used, a good plan is to make sufficient for two or three days' consumption, and to bottle it off for use. No. 1. Put a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a tea- spoonful of mixed mustard, a pinch of cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar into a bowl. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and add, first by drops and afterwards by tea-spoon- fuls, two table-spoonfuls of oil, four table-spoon- fuls of milk, and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Stir the mixture well between every addition. The sauce ought to look like cream. A tea- spoonful of tarragon vinegar may be added, or not. No. 2. Boil an egg till liard, aTid lay it in cold water for a minute. Strip off the shell, and i)ut the yolk into a bowl. Kub it weU with the back of a wooden spoon, and put with it a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a Baltspoonful of powdered sugar, and a pinch of cayenne. Add, first l)y droits and afterwards by salt-spoonfuls, a table-spoonful of oil, six table-spoonfuls of thick cream, and, lastly, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Beat the sauce well between every addition. Mince the whole of the egg, or cut it into rings, with which to garnish the salad. No. 3 (Dr. Kitchener's re- cipe). Boil two eggs for a qmirter of an hour. Lay them in cold water, and in a few minutes strip off the shells, and lay the yolks in a basin. Rub them till smooth with the back of a wooden spoon, and mix with them, very gradually, first a table-spoonful of water or thick cream, and afterwards two table-spoonfuls of oil. When these are well mixed, add a tea-spoonful of salt or powdered sugar, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and, lastly, and very gradually, three table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Put the sauce at the bottom of the bowl, lay the salad on the top, garnish with the whites of the eggs cut into rings, and do not mix the salad till the last moment. No. 4. Mix a salt-spoonful of salt and half a salt-spoonful of pepper with a table-spoonful of oil. When the salt is dis- solved, put in four additional table-spoonfuls of oil, and then pour the sauce over the salad Mix thoroughly, and add a table-spoonful of good vinegar and a table-spoonful of tarragon or cucumber vinegar. Mix again, and serve. No. 5. Rub the hard-boiled yolks of three eggs till smooth, and mix in a salt-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of raw mustard, a salt-spoonful of powdered loaf-sugar, half a salt-spoonful of white pepper, and the well-beaten yolk of a raw egg. Add gradually four table-spoonfuls of thick cream, and two table-spoonfuls of strained lemon-juice. Beat the dressing thoroughly between every addition. No. 6. Beat the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs till smooth. Add a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea- spoonful of powdered sugar, a pinch of cayenne, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and, gradually, two table-spoonfuls of oil, the strained juice of a lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of light wine. No. 7. Rub the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs till smooth with a tea-spoonful of vinegar. Add a tea-spoonful each of mustard, sugar, salt, and pepper, a table-spoonful of clai'et, and a finely-minced shallot or young onion. Beat in, first by drops and afterwards by tea-spoonfuls, four table-spoonfuls of salad oil, and, lastly, add a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a table-spoonful of white-wine vinegar. No. 8. Beat a spoonful of flour with the yolks of three eggs. Add a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, half a salt-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and three table-spoonfuls of water. Cut three ounces of streaky bacon into smaU pieces, and fry these till they begin to turn colour. Pour in the salad mixture, and stir the whole over the fire till the cream is thick and smooth. Pour it out, and continue stirring until cool, and add a little more vinegar and wnfrr if nocpssary. The sauce ought to be ns thick us custard. No. 9 (named Sauce ii la( 793 ) SAL SAL T.owrv). Beat the volk of a raw egp;. Mix with it a pinch of salt, a pinch of white pepper, and, i,Tadually, three tca-spoonfuls of salad oil, a te'a-^spoonful of essence of anchovy, and two tea-spoonfuls of vinegar. Salad Dressing for Fish Salad.— Rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs till smooth. Add a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, a tea-spoonful of sugar, half a tea-spoonful of s;\lt, a pinch of cayenne, a pinch of white pepper, and two sardines from which the skin {ind bones have been removed, or instead of the sardines use a spoonful of bruised capers and a minced shallot. WTien these ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, add very gradually two table-spoonfuls of thick cream, a table- spoonful of tan-agon vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Salad Dressing (Italian).—Take the skin and bones from an anchovy, pound the flesh well, and mix with it a teaspoonful of mixed mustard. Add very gradually four table-spoon- fuls of lucca oil, beat the sauce well, and add two tea-spoonfuls of garlic vinegar, two of chilli vinegar, and four of white-wine vinegar. When the sauce is smooth and thick like cream it is ready for serving. Salad Dressing without OU.—No. i. Mix a tea-spoonful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of white pepper with three table-spoonfuls of thick sour cream. Beat well, and add a table- spoonful of vinegar. If liked, the rind of a fresh lemon may be rubbed upon sugar, and dissolved in the vinegar before it is mixed with the cream. No. 2. Rub the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs till smooth. Add a spoonful of mixed mustard, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of white pepper, half a salt-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and two table-spoonfuls of thick cream. When all these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, add very gradually as much vinegar as wiU make the sauce of the consis- tency of cream. Salad, Every-day.—In warm weather cold meat sent to table with a good salad, and a little cucumber or pickle, often proves more acceptable than the most expensive joint if s^;rved hot. To make the salad, wash one or two lettuces, throw away the outer and decayed leaves, and wash the others, handling them as lightly as possible. Drain them, and dry them perfectly, first by shaking them in a colander or salad-basket, and afterwards by shaking them in a napkin held loosely by the four comers. When the napkin has absorbed all the moisture, shred the lettuce—with a silver knife if possible, liub the salad-bowl three or four times across with a clove of garlic, or with a slice of onion, nnd put in the shred lettuce. Mix thoroughly in the salad-spoon a salt-spoonful of salt, half a fi;ilt-spoonful of pepper, and a mustard-spoonful of mixed mustard. Sprinkle the seasoning over the salad, and work it well in. Pour upon it as much lucca oil as will cover it, and work this in; then add a tahle-spoonful of good vine- gar and, if it can bo had, a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. The salad should not bo mixed till the momtmt of serving. If liked, slircd celery, a head of endive, small salad, watercress, sliced beetroot, sliced cucumber, sining radishes, and chopped grscn onions may be added to the salad. Time: Plenty of time must be given for drying the lettuce per- fectly, as the success of a salad depends in a great measure upon the lettuce being quite dry. Probable cost of moderate-sized salad, 8d. Salad, Flemish.—Cut ofE the heads and tails from two Dutch herrings, and divide them into slices of half an inch thick. Cut the fish slantwise, and place them in their natural posi- tion; add potatoes cut in squares, brussels sprouts, a few green onions, some celery, all boiled, and season with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Any pickled or dried fish may be used instead of herrings. Salad, French.—A French salad, strictly speaking, consists of one kind of salad only, washed, dried perfectly, torn into small pieces, and mixed lightly with salad dressing, If endive, small salad, watercress, &c., are mixed with the different kinds of lettuce, the salad loses its distinctive character as a French salad. Salad, Fruit. — Currants, strawberries, raspberries, peaches, apricots, plums, oranges, pine-apples, &c., may all be served as salads. The large fruit should be pared and sliced, the small fruit picked and arranged in a dish. Powdered sugar should then be sifted thickly over, together with a table-spoonful or two of spirit or any suitable liquor. Salad, German. — Throw a pound of sauer kraut into boiling water, and let it remain for five minutes; drain and cool it. Put the same weight of red pickled cabbage into cold water. Drain it, and shred finely with the sauer kraut. ISIix the two thoroughly, and add one ounce of grated horseradish, one table- spoonful of chopped chervil, and two half-boiled onions finely minced. Just before serving the salad, toss the whole lightly together with six table-spoonfuls of oil, a table-spoonful of vine- gar, and a little pepper and salt. Salad Herbs.—Speaking of plants used as salad. Dr. Lankester remarks:—" First there is the lettuce [Lactuca sativa). This plant is a cul- tivated variety of the wild lettuce [Lactuca virosa). It contains in its juice an active principle, which in large quantities exercises a narcotic influence on the human system. The watercress {Nas- turtium officinale). This plant grows -nnld in ditches and damp places in this country, and is also extensively cultivated in the neighbourhood of London. It contains a large quantity of mineral matter, and in some districts is found to contain iodine. The endive {Cichorium Endivla). This plant is probably a variety of the common chicory {Cichorium Intybus). It is cultivated extensively on the Continent, and its blanched leaves are eaten as a salad. It can be obtained in the winter. It has a slightly bitter taste, and acts as a tonic on the system. Celerj' is the Apium graveolens. When wild this plant con- tains an acrid principle, which is poisonous, but by culture its stalks are blanched, and it then becomes an agreeable and valuable article of food. The garden-cress is the Lcpid'mm sativum. This plant is not a native of Great Britain, but it is easily cultivated and extensively used as an( 794 ) SAL SAL early spring salad. The soods are sown with | those of mustard {iSitiapis »ii/ra imd Hinapis al/m), and the young plants arc both eaten together under the name of ' mustard and cross.' Kod beet, the Jieta vulgaris of botanists. There are two varieties of this plant used as salad. First, a variety called la Carde, which has a small root and large leaves; the latter are oaten in the same way as lettuce. The other variety is called Betterave, in which the roots are largely developed. The roots are boiled and sliced and eaten with vinegar, oil, pepper, and salt. The radish is the Raphanus liaphanistrum. The roots of this plant are oaten uncooked, and, like the family to which they belong, contain a subacrid oil, which gives them an agreeable flavour. They are less digestible than many other plants eaten as salad. Lamb's lettuce, or corn-salad, is the Valer ianella olitoria. This plant is a native of Great Britain, and is often cidtivated for use as a salad. The leaves for this purpose should be cut young or they will have a disagreeable bitter taste. The common sorrel is the Rumex acetosa. The acid taste of this plant depends on the presence of oxalic acid. It is much used as a salad in France. The common dandelion is the Leontodon Taraxacum. This plant, though very common in England, is not much used as a salad. It has, however, when young, the flavour and properties of lettuce, and is exten- sively employed as a salad on the Continent.'' Salad Herbs, Small.—There are certain plants which are employed, chiefly in the seed leaf, or when very young, for the purpose of procuring salads throughout the year, or at times and in. situations when no others can be had. Some of these are also mixed with the larger salad plants to improve their flavour or wholesome qualities. The sort most in use in this country are mustard, cresses, rape, turnip, radish, white cabbage, cabbage-lettuce, &c. Some of these may be procured at all seasons of the year, and are cut when not over a week or ten days old. Being of a warm relish, if allowed to grow too large, so as to run into the rough leaf, they become of a disagreeably strong hot taste. Mustard is remarkable for the rapidity of its growth, and on this account' is frequently sown in the ground, as a small, salad, together with tress. The seeds strewed on wet flannel, and placed in a warm situation, even by the fireside, frequently shoot out their seed-leaves in a day or two—sometimes even in a few hours—a cir- cumstance which is frequently taken advantage of in long voyag'^s. Ships going to the East Indies used to have boxes placed on the deck ■wherein mustard and cress were sowed for the purpose of getting salad on the voyage; and the number of crops thus raised was surprising. The garden-cress stands at the head of the small-salad plants, and is much cultivated for this purpose. It has a very warm but pleasant flavour. By the aid of a little artificial heat, it may be had fresh all through the winter. The variety known as American cress grows wild in Great Britain on moist or watery groimd. It is aromatic and pungent, but rather bitter. It is sometimes cultivated for winter and early spring salad. It occasionally goes under the name of French cress. The wintei cross is also found wild in this country in walei y spots and slow-running streams. In flavour and use it nmch roHembles the last. The water cress has long been highly es- teemed. Jt is found in great abundance on the edges of running streams, preferring clean water to that which is muddy. Care must be taken to distinguish it from the water-parsnip, which often grows with it, and which is poisonous. Burnet, another small-salad herb, is a peren- nial pknt indigenous to Britain, and found in dry, upknd, calcareous soils. It is occasionally cultivated in gardens. The leaves of the bumct are used in salads; when lightly bruised, they smell like cucumber. They have a somewhat warm taste. Rape, a native of Britain, is sometimes grown in gardens, and its leaves are used for salad in the same way as mustard and cress. Salad. Mixture.—Endeavour to have youi- salad herbs as fresh as possible; if you suspect they are not" morning gathered," they will be much refreshed by lying an hour or two in spring-water; then carefully wash and pick them, and trim off all the worm-eaten, slimy, cankered, dry leaves; and, after washing, let them remain a while in the colander to drain; lastly, swing them gently in a clean napkin. When properly picked and cut, arrange them in the salad dish, mix the sauce in a soup plate, and put it into an ingredient bottle, or pour it down the side of the salad dish, and don't stir it up till the mouths are ready for it. If the herbs be young, fresh gathered, trimmed neatly, and drained dry, and the sauce-maker ponders patiently over the following directions, he cannot fail obtaining the fame of being a very accomplished salad-dresser:—BoU a couple of eggs for twelve minutes, and put them in a basin of cold water for a few minutes—the yolks must be quite cold and hard, or they will not incorporate with the ingredients. Kub them through a sieve with a wooden spoon, and mix them with a table-spoonful of water or fine double cream, then add two table-spoonfuls of oil or melted butter; when these are well mixed, add, by degrees, a tea-spoonful of salt or powdered lump sugar, and the same of made mustard; when these are smoothly united, add very gradually three table-spoonfuls of vinegar, rub it with the other ingredients tiU thoroughly incorporated with them; cut up the white of the egg, and garnish the top of the salad with it. Let the sauce remain at the bottom of the bowl, and do not stir up the salad till it is to be eaten. We recommend the eaters to be mindful of the duty of mastication, without the due performance of which all undressed A^egetables are troublesome company for the principal viscera, and some are even dangerously indigestible. Salad Mixture, Quihi.—Rub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs \^nth the back of a wooden spoon till quite smooth, and beat m drop by drop three dessert-spoonfuls of fine salad oil. Add, just as slowly, six dessert-spoon- fuls of Annegar, four of mushroom ketchup, three of ancho^T essence, four salt-sroonfuls of salt, and four of mixed mustard. A spoontui( 796 ) SAX SAL of thick cream mixed with a well-mashed floury potato will greatly improve this salad. "Wash the lettuce, dry it perfectly, shred it finely, and just before it is wanted mix the salad dressing lightly with it. Salad of Herrings.—Soak a couple of herrings in milk for an hour to take out the salt. Bone them, and tear the flesh into flakes. Mix with them half a dozen cold boiled potatoes cut in slices as for potato salad, and add a salt-spoonful of finely-minced onion. IVIix the ingredients thoroughly, and work lightly into them a simple salad dressing of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. This salad should be a little moist, therefore add a spoonful or two of milk to the dressing if it is too dry. If liked, cold meat finely minced, sour apples, and boiled beet- root may be put into it. The di-essing should be added just before the salad is about to be served. Probable cost of hei-rings. Id. to 2d. each. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Salad Oil.—The source of this oil is the olive {Olea curopmd). The plant is cultivated extensively in France, Italy, and Spain. When the fruit is ripe it contains oil in great abun- dance. Between eleven and twelve thousand gallons of this oil are annually imported into this country, principally for consumption as a dressing in salads. It is much more largely used on the Continent, where it takes the place of butter. It is a very wholesome article, and it would be well if people in this country would cultivate a taste for its use, especially in making salads. " In this coimtry," says a weU-known authority, " these very valu- able adj\mcts to our food are rendered ex- ceedingly disagreeable; first, by the want of dr}'ing the plant used; and in the next by its being deluged with vinegar. A salad properly prepared should have the leaves of the plant used dried to such an extent that they will readily absorb the dressing poured over them, which should consist of two-thirds or three- fourths olive oil. I need not also add that the oil should not be rancid; but such is the thorough carelessness with which these articles are put on our tables, that in nine cases out of ten the oil is rancid and unfit for use. This, perhaps, accounts for the flood of vinegar to drown its flavour." Salad, Red Cabbage. — Take a red cabbage with a firm heart and two heads of celery. Shred the best pfirts of both finely, and mix them together. Work them up lightly with a spoonful or two of good salad sauce, garnish the dish with tufts of celery, and then serve. Salad, Roman.—The Romans used salad, and made it in this way:—Cultivated endive was cut small after careful washing and drain- ing, then gravy and oil were poured over it; finely-minced onions were strewed over the whole, then a little vinegar and honey were added, and the salad was sent to table. Salad Sandwiches.—Prepare the bread in the usual way, and have ready some mustard and cross, watercress, aU well washed and dried; put them into a bowl with mayonnaise sauce, and when ready for serving, spread the salad neatly between the bread. Salad Sandwiches (another way).— Take some thin slices of broad. Butter these slightly, and just before they are to be used lay between two of them a little salad, washed, dried, and tossed lightly in mayonnaise sauce. Press the sandwiches closely together, cut them into small neat pieces, and serve. Salad Sauce.—Take the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, a dessert-spoonful of grated Par- mesan cheese, a little made mustard, a dessert- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a large spoonful of ketchup. When well incorporated, add four spoonfuls of salad oil and one spoon- ful of elder vinegar. Beat so as to incorporate the oil with the other ingTedients. This mix- ture must not be pom'ed upon the lettuce or vegetables used in the salad, but be left at the bottom, to be stirred up when wanted. This method preserves the crispness of the lettuce. Observe that the liquid ingi'edients must be proportioned to the quantity of vegetables used. Salad Sauce, Mayonnaise.—Put the yolk of an egg carefully freed from the white into a basin, and with a fork take away th speck. Beat it lightly, add a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper, pour some oil u^Don it, drop by drop at first, and at the same time beat the sauce lightly and quickly. "VSTien it begins to thicken slightly increase the quantity of oil, and continue beating until it forms a thick smooth yellow paste. Add gradually as much white wine vinegar as will suit the palate. The quantity requii-ed will of course vary con- siderably, according to indi-sadual taste. The correct proportion is one tea-spoonful of vine- gar to eight of oil. Keep the sauce in a cool place till wanted. A little tarragon vinegar will greatly improve this excellent sauce. Salad Sauce, Trout in.—Fry two or three trout in the usual way. Lay them on blotting paper to free them from fat, and put them aside till cold. ^Vhcn they are to be used lay them on a dish, pour some thick salad sauce over them, and garnish the dish with shred chervil and chives, or with lettuce hearts cut into quarters. Salad, Stuffed Eggs for.—Remove the skin and bone from three anchovies, pound the flesh in a mortar, and'press it through a sieve. If the anchovies are objected to, substitute for them two ounces of potted ham and two ounces of veal and fat bacon. Boil si.x eggs for a quarter of an hour ; put them into cold water, then strip oflE the shell, and cut them into halves lengthwise. Take out the hard yolks, and put them in a mortar with a third of their bulk in fresh butter, the pounded anchovies, a pinch of powdered mace, and a pinch of cayenne. Pound all to a smooth paste, press the mixture into the eggs in the place where the yolks were, put the halves of the eggs together to make them look whole again, lay them on a dish, and surround them with lettuce-hearts. Send salad cream to table separately. Salad, Swedish.—Take a pickled herring, remove the skin and bones, cut the flesh into dice, and mix with it its btilk in cold-dressed beef, boiled potatoes, and sour juicy apples, allSAL SAL ( 796 ) cut up small. Add four anchovios, previously soaked in milk or water for a short timo, freed from skin and bone, and torn into tlakos, a tablo-spoonful of woU-diainod capi^rs, a taljlo- spoonful of picklod gherkins chopped small, a table-spoonful of chopped tarragon loaves, two table-spoonfuls of chopped chervil, and twenty stoned olives. Mix those ingredients lightly, idd some sjilad dressing of oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, and season the preparation rather highly. If liked, the anchovies may be omitted and a dozen or more of freshly-opened oysters may be laid upon the mixture. Salad Vinegar.—Take three ounces each of shallots, sweet savory, chives, and tarragon. Bruise them in a mortar, put them into a large stone jar, and with them two table-spoonfuls of dried and powdered mint, and the same of balm. Pour over all a gallon of the best vine- gar, cork the bottle securely, and put it in the Bun. At the end of a fortnight strain the vinegar through a filtering bag, put it into small bottles, cork these tightly, and use the vinegar for salads, &c., instead of ordinary vinegar. " Salade " (a pickle for present use).— Almost fill a quart stone jar with equal quan- tities of peeled onions, pared cucumbers, and sour apples, all cut into thin slices. Whilst filling the jar sprinkle in a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful and a half of cayenne, two wine-glassfuls of soy, and two wine-glassfuls of white wine. Fill up the jar with vinegar, cover the pickle with bladder, and store in a cool dry place. The preparation may be used the same day. Salads.—Recipes for the following salads will be found under their respective headings:— Anchovy Moor Game, a la Artichoke Soyer Beans, French Nautese Beetroot Orange Celery Partridge Chicken, Plain Poet's Recipe Chicken, Rich Potato Crab Potatoes en Salade Currant Ptarmigan Egg Rabbit Endive with Winter Rabbit, Simple Salad Raspberry Fish Remoulade, French French Salad Dressing German Remoulade, Green Grouse Remoulade, Indian Grouse a la Soyer Rochelle Hamburg Beef Russian Hop, German Salmagundi Indian Salsify Italian Sauce Kitchiner's Mix- Shikaree ture Sidney Smith's {see Lettuce, German Poet's Recipe) liETTUcE IN Salads Spanish Lobster Strawberry LoiLSTER, German Summer Lobster Salad Turbot Dressing Vegetable Mixture {xee Kit- Vinegar chiner's Salad Watercress Mixture) Wintbb "Our ancestors," says a great culinary autho- rity, " served salads with roasted moat, roasted poultry, &c. 'I'hey had a great many which are no longer in vogue. They ate leeks cooked in the wood-ashes, and seasoned with sitlt and honey; borage, mint, and parsley, with salt and oil; lettuce, fennel, mint, chervil, parsley, and elderflowers, mixed together. They also classed among their salads an agglomeration of feet, heads, cocks' combs, and fowls' livers, cooked, and seasoned with parsley, mint, vine- gar, pepper, and cinnamon. Nettles, and the twigs of rosemary fonned delicious salads for our forefathers; and to these they Bometimes added pickled gherkins." Salads, Wholesomeness of. — For persons of weak digestion, salads as a rule are not suited. When, however, the stomach is equal to the work, they appear generally to exer- cise a beneficial effect on the system, particularly in the case of salads derived from the tribe of the cruciferous plants, to which the watercress, radish, mustard, cress, scurvy-grass, and such- like, belong. " Many persons," says a medical writer, "with whom raw vegetables, such as salads, cucumbers, &c., invariably disagree if eaten ' undressed,' find the addition of the ordinary salad or ' Florence' oil correct the tendency. In this country some individuals have a prejudice against the use of oil. It is difficult to see why it should extend to the beautiful preparation in question." Salads are eaten as a condiment, not as an article of aliment. They are of great use in moderating the excitement of the sj'stem which would be produced by a diet composed altogether of animal food, particularly in hot weather. They are also very effective as anti- scorbutics. One should observe moderation, however, in eating salads, and they should be avoided by dyspeptic patients. Salamander.—This is an instrument which is, after being made red-hot, used to bro\vn any- thing wanting colour. An old iron fire-shovel if heated thoroughly and held over the article to be browned will answer the same purpose. Price, 6s. to 12s. Saleratus. — Saleratus is a carbonate of potash used in cookery to make bread or cakes light. It should be kept in a wooden box with a cover, and no moisture should be allowed to reach it, as very little will spread through and dissolve a large quantity. Saleratus should be powdered and (Mssolved in a little hot water before it is put into the bread. Half a tea- spoonful dissolved in water and added to a pound cake wiU ensure its being light. Sallylunns. — Sallylunns aro served at breakfast or tea, and are generally much liked. They should be put on the table on a hot plate very hot and well buttered. If they are not to be used at once after being baked, it will be well not to overbake them, as they will need to be heated a second time. They are considered very indigestible. They may be made in either of the following ways:—Rub half a pound of butter into two pounds of flour. Add a tea- spoonful of salt, a quarter of a pint of fresh yeast mixed with a pint of lukewarm milk, andSAL SAL ( 797 ) three well-beaten eggs. Cover the pan, and let it rise till light. Make the dough into thick cakes about tive inches in diameter. Bake in a quick oven. Or rub two ounces of butter into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, and pour in very slowly a table-spoonful of fresh yeast which has been mixed with half a pint of warm milk. Beat the batter with a fork or spoon as the milk is poured in, add the yolks of two eggs, and set the dough near the fire to rise. Butter the tins, till them with the dough, and bake in a quick oven. To prepare the sallylunns, make them hot, divide them into three slices, and butter these liberally. If a very rich cake is required, cream may be used instead of uulk. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Sallylunns (Careme's recipe).—Sift twelve ounces of flour, separate a fourth part, in which make a hollow, put in it nearly half an ounce of yeast and a little lukewarm cream; mix the flour gradually with this, and put it into a small stewpan to rise (it should be very soft). When double its first size, form the remaining flour in the requisite manner, and put in the centre a quarter of an ovmce of salt, one oimce of poimded sugar, four yolks of eggs, five ounces of butter made warm only, and a gill of lukewarm cream; stir this mixture, mingling the flour with the liquid until of a soft con- sistence, and beat the paste for some minutes with the palm of the hand; then, if perfect, add the leaven, and work it yet some minutes to render it smooth and elastic; put it into a plain mould six inches wide and five inches high, weU "buttered, and set it in a proper place to ferment; when double its primitive volume, wash the top with egg, and place it in a quick oven for an hotir; when serving, divide it horizontally about the centre, turn the top upside down, and the cake should present the appearance of a honeycomb; throw on it a pinch of salt, and butter it with five ounces of the best butter, putting equal quantities on each; put the top on again, and serve hot. Sallylunns (another way).—Take two pounds of flour, one pint of milk, four eggs, and two spoonfuls of yeast; make a psste of these ingredients, and work until well risen. Then knead into it a pound of butter and a little salt; let it stand an hour, then bake, and rasp the tops. A little pounded sugar may be added to taste to the above ingredients. Salmagundi.—A salmagundi is a sort of vegetable mosaic made with pickled her- ring, cold dressed chicken, salt beef, radishes, endive, olives, &c., all arranged with regard to contrast in colour as well as flavour, and served with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. The fol- lowing is a good recipe for a salmagundi:— Take a large round dish; place in the centre a bunch of fresh endive, and lay round it strips of herring or anchovy, interspersed with neat slices from the breast of a chicken. Put round these a band of hard-boiled yolk of egg chopped small, then one of green parsley, then slices of rod beef or tongue, then the white of the egg, and lastly a garland of sprigs of watercress. Insert trimmed olives, green oapors, radishes, bttrberrios, «fcc., wherever they will be most efliective. Serve with salad sauce. Sometimes the herrings for a salmagundi are opened, and the flesh is taken out without injuring the skin. It is then minced with an equal quantity of cold chicken and grated ham or tongue, seasoned rather highly, and put back into the skins tUl they look plump and of a good shape. Salmagundi (another way).—Take cold fowl, or turkey, or veal, or all together. Chop the meat very small, separating the white from the brown, and putting among the latter the brown part of the veal, if it be roasted. By the brown meat is understood the legs and backs of the poultry. Chop likewise the lean of some cold ham, a few boned anchovies washed, a handful of picked parsley, half a dozen shallots, some pickled gherkins, the yolks and whites separate of six hard-boiled eggs, and some roasted beetroot, after it has become cold. Now butter a basin, and place it with the bottom upwards upon a dish. Lay round this basin a ring of chopped white meat an inch and a half wide and about an inch high; then lay upon this a ring of ham, then a ring of brown meat then one of white of egg, then one of meat, then one of yolk of egg, then one of parsley, then one of anchovies, and so on, until the whole of the materials are consumed and the basin is covered, crowning the whole with a roof of beetroot garnished with a few pickled mushrooms. The sauce must be served up in a sauce-tureen. It is thus made:—Rub up a couple of good tea- spoonfuls of strong mustard from the mustard- pot with three table-spoonfuls of salad oil, some salt, and a little cayenne pepper. When it has become a stiff paste, add gradually one table-spoonful of white-wine vinegar, the juice of three or four lemons, a dessert- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, two table- spoonfuls of raw capers, and a tea-spoonful of soy. Should the sauce not be sufficiently thin, add more lemon-juice or vinegar. Salmis.—A salmis is siTaply a superior ragout of game or wild fowl. It differs from a hash in this, that the hash is made from the remains of dressed game, the salmis from game which has been half dressed for the purpose, and served in rich gravy or sauce. Salmis are favourite dishes with epicures. Salmis, Cold (for suppers, &o.).—Boast a couple of partridges, a pheasant, or any other game. Cut them into neat joints, and with the bones and trimmings make a salmis sauce, ac- cording to the recipe given a little farther on. When this is pleasantly flavoured, mix with it a third of its quantity in very stiff' aspic jeUy. Cover the joints of the birds thickly with this, and let it get cold and stiff' upon them. Pile them high on a dish, and garnish with clear aspic jelly cut into dice. Salmis, Hunter's.—Divide a half-roasted pheasant or partridge into neat joints. Care- fully remove the skui and sinews, and put the pieces into a saucepan. Pour over them a glass- ful of lucca oU, and add a glassful of sherry or madeira, the grated rind and juice of a lemon, and a little salt and cayenne. Let the game he^it slowly over a gentle fire, and when the jointsI ( 798 ) SAL are hot through drain them, and Borvo with fried uipputti. Salmis of Game or Wild Fowl.—rut the birdadown to tho fire iin for ruiistiii^, and take them up when thoy uru Icaa than hall" done Cut them into neat pieces, and rouiovo tlio akin, fat, and smow from the logs, wings, and Lroasts. Place tho joints sido by side in a clean saucepan, cover them, and keep them in a cool place till wanted. Take a quarter of a pound of un- di'essed loan ham, mince it finely, put it into a well-tinned saucepan, and shako it over the lire for thi-ee or four minutes with a slice of fresh butter. Add to it a dozen button-mushrooms, a scraped carrot, a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, three shallots (or more) finely minced, four cloves, two bay-leaves, a blado of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns. Mix these ingredients, and stir them over a gentle fire till the sides of the saucepan appear slightly coloured, dredge a table-spoonful of flour over them, and let it brown a little, then pour in gradually a pint of good veal stock and two glassfuls of sherry. Put in the bruised bodies of the birds, let the sauce boil up, then draw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer gently until the sauce is smooth, thick, and pleasantly flavoured. Carefully remove the scum as it rises. Clear the sauce from fat, strain, pour it over the joints of game in the saucepan, let these heat in it veri/ slowly, and when the liquid is just about to boil, dish them. Pom- the sauce over the game, and garnish the dish with fried sippets. The salmis may be made less expensive by the omission of the mushrooms and wine. When moor fowl or black game are used, care should be taken to remove the bitter spongy substance from the body of the birds, if they have been well hung, or the flavour of the salmis will be spoilt. Time, an hour to an hour and a half to simmer the sauce. Salmis of Partridges, with Truflles. —Truss two or three partridges. Put them into a stewpan with butter and a few trim- mings of fat bacon; add the necks and gizzards, and fry them on a brisk fire for five or six minutes. Withdraw them on a moderate fire, cooking them with live embers on the lid; let them half cool, and cut each of them up into five pieces, trim the skin away, and place them in a stewpan. Fry in butter the livers of the partridges, with two chickens' livers, pound and pass them through a sieve. With the backs and trimmings of the partridges prepare a little gravy. Skim off tho fat, reduce it to half-glaze, and add to it three gills of brown sauce; let the sauce boil up, and remove it back to clarify; skim again, and pass it through a fine sieve. With this sauce dilute gradually the puree of liver, pour it over the pieces of partridge, which warm without allowing to boil, and dish up. On tho other hand, cut some bread croutons of round shape and halt an inch thick, make a circular incision on one side, fry thoin in butter, empty them of the crumb, and fill the void with salpiqon of trufllos cooked, with a little madeira and a little melted glaze. Mask the pfirtridiros with this sauce, and disn the croutons all rouna. Salmis, Plain.—Take a cold-dressed phea- sant or a couple of partridges from which little of tlio flesh has been cut. Divide it into neat joints free from skin, and lay these side by side in a Baucei)an. Put into another saucepan tho well-bruised bones and trimmings of the bird, a sliced onion, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, six or eiglit peppercorm, a glassful of sherry, and an inch of lemon-rind, lioil for two minutes, then add a pint of stock and a spoonful of brown thickening. Simmer all gently together till the sauce is pleasantly flavoured, smooth, and of the consistency of cream. Strain it over the pieces of pheasant, and heat slowly. Warm all gently together till the sauce is on the point of boiling, then lift the jointed bird upon a dish, poui- the sauce over it, garnish with fried sippets, and serve. Time, one hour or more. Sufficient for eix or seven persons. Salmis Sauce.—This is a sauce for salmi of partridges, pheasants, &c. Cut four shallots and a carrot into large dice, some parsley-roots, a few bits of ham, a clove, two or three leaves of mace, the quarter of a bay-leaf, a little thyme, and a small bit of butter, with a few mushrooms. Put the whole into a stewpan over a gentle fire; let it fry till you perceive the stewpan is coloured all round. Then moisten with half a pint of madeira and a very small lump of sugar. Let it reduce to one-half. Put in six spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, and the trim- mings of the partridges. Let them stew for an hour on the corner of the stove. Skim the fat ofl:, taste whether the sauce be seasoned enough; strain it over the members, make it hot without boiling; dish the salmi, and reduce the sauce, which strain through a tamis. Then cover the salmi with the sauce. Salmis Sauce (another way).—Scrape the red part of a carrot, and put the pulp into a saucepan with a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, three or four pieces of bacon or blanched bacon-rind, three shallots chopped fine, and the bruised trimmings of the game to be used for the salmis. Add a sHce of fresh butter, or a table-spoonful of lucca oil, and stir the ingre- dients over the fire till they are lightly browned. Moisten them gradually with half a pint of good brown sauce, and a glassful of sherry and madeira. Stew all gently together till the sauce is very good, skim and strain it, season with pepper and salt, and it will be ready for the game. Time, one hour or more. Sufficient for five or six persons. Salmon.—The salmon, according to Izaak Walton, is the king of fresh-water fish. It is called a river fish, beaiuse it is gene- rally caught in rivers, and the river is .its birth-place; but the sea is its home and its pasture-ground, and to this it must return periodically to renew its strength or die. In fact, it inhabits fresh and salt water alternately, spending its winter in the sea and its summer in the river. Moreover, as the swallow returns to the roof or shed that gave it sliolter, so does tho sjilmon to the gravelly river's bed where it first saw the light. This fact has been repeatedly i.rovcd, anV. involves important consequences J( 799 ) SAL SAIi If all the salmon in a river are caught, the river will be from that time salmonless, unless it can be re-stocked with young salmon, who, after being reared in it, will at the proper age find their way to the sea and return to the river again. Certainly no stranger salmon cruising along the coast will mistake that river's mouth for its own river's mouth. This fact has been already successfully taken advantage of, and salmon have been naturalised in rivers where formerly there were no signs of them. Salmon are never found in warm latitudes. They are distributed over the North of Europe SALMON. and Asia, and are abundant, and even com- paratively cheap, in some parts of North America. The price is kept up, however, by the facility with which the fish is packed in ice, and sent to a distance by rail. The penny-a- pound times, when apprentices and servants refused to eat salmon more than three times a week, are gone for ever. The flesh of the salmon is rich and delicious in flavour. To be eaten in perfection it should be dressed before it has lost a tide. When this is done there will be found between the flakes a white creamy substance which is very highly esteemed. Nevertheless, the fish when in this condition is very indigestible, and it is much more wholesome when it has been kept a day or two. Then the curd undergoes a change, and melts down, and though less delicate in flavour, the fish becomes richer and much more whole- some. The fle.sh of the male fish has the best flavour, and has more curd than the female. Salmon is in season from the beginning of February to the end of August. It is cheapest in July and August. No other fish can be cooked in so many different ways. It requires to be well done; when underdressed it is wholly uneatable. Salmon (k I'Allemande). —Cut the fish into slices two inches thick, leaving a small portion of fish to the head and the tail four mches long ; take away all the blood from the inaide, throw some wilt over the slices very equally, ;uiji iuJf a^hour afterwards turn them. Leavb tuam thiiw for fifteen or twenty minutes. then wash and drain them upon napkins; buttel a fish-strainer, place the slices upon it flat, and cover the greater part of the flesh with slices of lemon cut very thin and the pips taken out; add hero and tliere four large shallots sUced, whole white pepper, and parsley roots cut in fillets. Two hours before serving put the fish into the kettle, and place it over a bed of Live ashes with fire also at the top; thirty or forty minutes after uncover the fish, and observe that it should be firm if done sufiiciently. Take it ofii, uncover, and let it cool. When serving, take away the shallots and a great part of the parsley roots, dish the salmon on a napkin, com- mencing with the head and afterwards putting down the slices according to their size, to form the fish of its original shape, and surround it with small groups of parsley; having dished it, pour into the kettle four spoonfuls of hot con- somme to collect aU the essence of the salmon, which pass through a silk sieve. Let this be well seasoned, and serve it in boats.* Salmon (a I'Amiral — Soyor's recipe).— Truss a small salmon in the form of the letter S, and boil it in the usual way; dish it without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce :— peel four onions, cut them in slices, and put them into a stewpan with six table-spoonfuls of salad oil; fry them a light brown colour, then pour off the oil, and add two glassfuls of port wine, three cloves, one blade of mace, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, one table-spoonful of salt, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, twenty spoonfuls of brown sauce, and six of brown gravy; re- duce it over a sharp fire for a quarter of an hour, rub it through a tamis, and place it again in a stewpan; boil it again a short time, and finish with one ounce of anchovy butter and two spoonfuls of Harvey Sauce; then place a border of mashed potatoes round the fish, upon which dish a border of quenelles of whiting, and upon every other quenelle stick a prawn, pour the sauce over the fish, and a mazarine sauce over the quenelles; serve very hot. To make the sauce a la Mazarine, have all the spawn from two fine hen lobsters; if not sufficient, get some live spawn from the fishmongers', making altogether about two ounces, pound it well in the mortar, and mix it with half a pound of fresh butter; rub it through a hair sieve, place it upon ice till firm, then put it in a stew- pan with the yolks of four eggs, a little pepper, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and four table- spoonfuls of lemon-juice, place it over the fire, and proceed as for Dutch sauce, adding the same quantity of melted butter and also two tea-spoonfuls of essence of anchovy. Pass it through a tamis into a clean stewpan. to make it hot. Salmon (a la Danois — Danish mode).—• Cut the salmon in slices as directed in the recipe Sahnon a I'Allemande, boil it in water with a little salt, and dish it in its original form, as directed in the receipt named; garnish with potatoes plain boiled, and serve in sauce-boats melted butter mixed with anchovy butter. Salmon {h la Genevese).—Divide a mode- rate-sized salmon into three parts. BoU these in the usual way, and when they are done( 800 ) SAL SAL enough scrape the sciiUs from the ealmon, and lay the pifcoa in a lino on a dish about an inch apart from one auothor. Have ready prepared some good gonoveso sauce, pour sonus of this over the tish, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Thti sauce maybe prepared as follows: —Mince finely a quarter of a pound of un- di-essed lean ham. Tut this into a saucepan with the red part of a small can-ot scraped to pulp with a sharp knife, a blade of mace, three cloves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a slice of fresh butter. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents steam very gently for three-quarters of an liour. Dredge a tea- spoonful of fiour over the preparation, rub out the lumps, then moisten the whole very gradually with a pint of good veal stock. Simmer the sauce an hour longer, strain, and skim it, put it into a clean saucepan, add a spoonful of brown thickening, and when it is smooth and thick add two table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice, a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovies, a wine-glassful of good sherry, and a little salt or cayenne. Time to make the sauce, two hours. Or lay a small slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, and when it is dissolved put in with it a moderate- sized onion or two shallots finely minced, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two bay- leaves, a small blade of mace, and a little pepper and salt. Stir these ingredients over a gentle fire for ten minutes, then moisten gradually with half a tumblerful of sherry or madeira, and let them simmer gently for half an hour. Take two slices of salmon a little more than an inch thick. Put them into a separate saucepan, and strain the sauce over them. Stew the fish gently in this, and when it is done enough, which it will be when it will leave the bone easily, pour olf the sauce into another saucepan, leaving only as much as will keep the salmon from burning. Put with the sauce half a pint of strong veal stock, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies, the strained juice of a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of brown thickening. Boil the sauce till it is smooth and thick, and add pepper and salt. Lift the salmon on a hot dish, pom- part of the sauce over it, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Time, an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. Probable cost for this quantity, 4s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Salmon (a la Genevoise —Ude's recipe). —"Take a few shallots, some roots of parsley, a bunch of ditto seasoned with spices, thyme, bav-leaves, and a few carrots. Let the whole be li"-htly fried in a little butter, then moisten with°white wine (madeira in preference) . Let it boil for three-quarters of an hour. When this (called the marinade) is done, dram it through a tamis over the fish, which stew m this seasoning. As soon as the fish is sut- ficiently stewed, drain it, pick it well of all the scales, and return it into the vessel wherein it was boiled with some of the liquor to keep it hot Now reduce some of the marinade with a littie strong gravy or stock, skim all the fat off and then throw in a good piece ot butter kneaded in flour and a httlo essence of an- chovies, all which run over the salmon alter having drained it. Some will have lemon-]uice to it, which is a matter of taste." SElnxoU (a la Gcuiivcjise—another way).— Take a good slice of salmon, and put it in a fish- kettle with shallot, chopped parsley, muehrooms, salt, and spice to taste, and an equal quantity of broth and red wine. Boil the iish, and wher done enough take it out; have ready in a sauce- pan a piece of butter rollt d in two spoonfuls of llour, tliinned with some of the liquor of the tish, let this sauce boil, then pour it over the salmon, and serve. Salmon (a I'lndienne).—Prepare the cut- lets as for Salmon a la Milanaise. Dip them into clariiied butter, and sprinkle over them a savoury mixture, made with a table-8lx>onful of baked flour, a tea-spoonful of curry powder, and a pinch of salt. Fry in plenty of hot fat till the flesh will leave the bone easily, then drain the cutlets on blotting-paper, and serve on a hot dish, with sauce prepared as follows poured over and around them:—Mince four shallots very finely, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar over them, and simmer till tender with a table-spoonful of good vinegar. Pour over them a quarter of a pint of stock, let the sauce boil, add a tea-spoonful of curry paste, a table-spoonful of pickle vinegar, and three table-spoonfuls of mixed Ladian pickles cut into dice. Simmer for a few minutes, and serve. Time to broil the cutlets, fifteen to twenty minutes, according to thickness. Pro- bable cost, sahnon, when plentiful. Is. to Is. 4d. per pound. Salmon ( a la Maitre d'Hotel).—Slice a moderate-sized onion into a dish. Put with it five or six small sprigs of parsley and a little pepper and salt, and pour over these a little good salad oil. Lay side by side in the marinade three slices of salmon one and a half inches thick. Let them remain for half an nour, and turn them over once during that time. Drain them, and broil over a gentle fire. Dish them neatly, garnish with plainly-boiled potatoes and green parsley, and send a Httle maitre d'hotel sauce to table with them. This sauce may be made as follows:—Work an ounce of flour smoothly with two ounces of fresh butter, and add a quarter of a pint of milk, and a httle pepper, salt, and grated nut- meg. Stir the sauce over the fire tUl it is hot and smooth; add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley and the strained juice of half a lemon. When the sauce is on the point of boihng, pour it into the tureen, stir in it until dissolved a smaU piece of fresh butter, and ser^-e. Tune to broil the salmon, about twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost. Is. per pound when in full season. Salmon ( a la Milanaise).—Take three or four slices of salmon, not over thick; spht each one into halves, and take away the skin and bone. Dip the cutlets into sherp". lay them between sheets of buttered or oiled wi-iting-paper which have been rubbed lightly with frc^shly-cut gariic, and t^^^8t the edge^s securely. Broil gently over a clear fire and serve on a hot dish. Send to table with the fish a sauce prepared as foUows:-lake two fil- leted anchovies and put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter, two or throe young onions finely minced, and a tuhle-spoonful of , minced mushroom. Stir these over tlie fire tiU(801) SAIi SAL the onions begin to turn yellow, then dredge over thorn a table-spoonful of flour, pour m a quarter of a pint of stock and add a table- spoonful of chilli vinegar, a spoonful of mixed mustard, a little salt and cayenne, and half a glassful of sherry. Simmer the sauce till it is smooth and thick, stir in two spoonfuls of bruised capers, boil a minute or two longer, and serve. Time to broil the salmon, fifteen to twenty minutes, according to thickness. Salmon (a la Tartare).—Take two slices of salmon out of the middle of a moderate- sized fish, each slice of the thickness of three- quarters of an inch. "Wash the salmon lightly in salted water, and dry it thoroughly. Brush it all over with the best salad oil, season with salt and pepper, and broil it on a gridiron over a gentle fire ; taking care to turn and baste it frequently. When it is done enough, which it wiU be when the flesh leaves the bone on a slight pressure, place it on a cold dish, and pour round it a sauce prepared as follows:— Break the yolk of an egg, well freed from white, into a bowl; remove the speck, add a pinch of salt, and very gradually—first by drops and afterwards by tea-spoonfuls—about four table- spoonfuls of good salad oil. Beat the sauce well between every addition. Afterwards stir in, very gradually, three tea-spoonfuls of good vinegar, a tea-spoonful of chilli, vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and add a table-spoonful of dry mustard, a tea-spoonful of chopped spring onions, and a tea-spoonful of chopped chervil. If liked, three or four gherkins, finely minced, or a tea-spoonful of anchovy, may be added to the sauce, which ought to be of the consistence of thick cream. Grarnish the salmon with capers, gherkins, or olives. If more con- venient, the salmon can be fried and served in the same way; it is, however, best when broiled. To prepare it for frying, mix a table-spoonful of finely-grated bread-crumbs with the tenth part of a nutmeg gi-ated, a small pinch of pepper, and a tea-spoonful of shred parsley. Brush the fish with clarified butter, and sprinkle the seasoned crumbs over it. Fry in plenty of hot fat till done enough. Drain it well, and serve with the same sauce as if it were grilled. This sauce should be made half an hour before the cooking of the fish is commenced, and should be kept in a cool place, or upon ice, till wanted. If preferred, tomato sauce may be used instead of tartar sauce. Time to broil the fish, twenty minutes; to fry it, ten minutes. Probable cost, salmon, Is. per pound when in full season. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Salmon, Anchovy Sauce for {see Anchovy Sauce for Salmon). Salmon and Potato Pie.—Take the remains of cold boiled salmon. Free it from skin and bone, divide it into small pieces, and - season one pound of it with a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a grain of cayenne. Butter a shallow pie-dish, and spread over the bottom a layer of potatoes which have been mashed lightly with a little butter, milk, and the yolk of an egg. Put the pieces of fish on the potato, moisten with any fish sauce that mjiy be left, and cover with another liijci- jiof-ito. vTi.rh the top. of the pie with a fork, and put it in a brisk oven till the surface is brightly browned and the pie is quite hot. Servo it in the dish in which it was baked. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. SuflBcient for four or five persons. Salmon, Baked.—Cut the fish into slices three-quarters of an inch thick. Wash it lightly in salted water, and dry it in a cloth. Take three-quarters of a pint of good melted butter, mix vnth it a pinch of cayenne, a table-spoonful of ketchup, a glassful of port, and one boned anchovy. Stir the sauce over the fire till the anchovy is dissolved, and strain it over the fish. Cover the dish, and put it into a moderately- heated oven. When done enough, serve in a hot dish, with the sauce poured round the salmon. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, salmon, from Is. per pound. Salmon, Baked (another way).—Taken moderate-sized salmon, scale and clean it, and wipe it dry. Rub it well inside and out with a mixture of pepper and salt, and fill it with a little good veal forcemeat. Sew the body up securely with soft cotton to keep in the force- meat. Lay a stand, such as is used to bake meat upon, in a dripping tin large enough to hold the fish; put the salmon upon it, dredge with flour, and put little pieces of butter here and there upon it. Pour a little water into the tin, and bake the fish in a well-heated oven. When the flesh will leave the bone easily, if pressed with the finger, it is done enough. Send boiled potatoes to table with the fish, and serve melted butter, flavoured with lemon-juice, in a tureen. Time to bake a moderate-sized fish, one hour. Probable cost, Is. or more per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Salmon, Baked, with Caper or Tomato Sauce.—Take two slices from the middle of a moderate-sized salmon. Wash them lightly in salted water, and dry them perfectly in a clean cloth. Sprinkle a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg over them, and, if liked, add a shallot or two or three spring onions finely minced. Place the slices of salmon side by side in a baking-dish, lay three ounces of butter in small pieces here and there upon them, and put the dish into a moderately-heated oven. Baste the fish frequently, and when it is done enough drain it, lay it upon a dish, pour a small portion of caper sauce or tomato sauce over it, and send more to table in a tureen. Tomato sauce is par- ticularly to be recommended for salmon dressed in this way. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, salmon, from Is. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Salmon, Boiled.—The middle cut of the salmon is the best. A whole salmon is seldom sent to table unless the party be large. Scrape the scales carefully, cut o£E the fins and gills, and cleanse the fish thoroughly from blood. Put as much cold water into the fish-kettle as will entirely cover the fish, and with it six ounces of salt to each gallon of water. Bring it quickly to the boil, and skim carefully; then put in the fish, and let it simmer gently; boil moderately f.ist, IF it is a ^^nnll fish and thick, until done enough. Take it up as soon as it ia8AL ( 802 ) SAL done, and if it is uot iinincdiatoly wanted lay ii on a lish-drainer, and covor witli hut clotlis. If it is uUowud to lomain iu the water after it is done enouf,'h tlie ilavour will be spoilt; unless it is thorou{,'hly done, it will bo uneatable. Jn order to aaeurtain wlu^tlior it is done enouf,'h, press tlie llesh liyhtly with the linger, and if it loaves the bono easily it is done. (Sorvo on a neatly-folded najjkin, garnish with lemon and parsley, horseradish and fennel, or fennel and red currants, and send shrimp, lobster, parshjy, anchovy, or Dutch sauce to table with it. A dish of sliced cucumbor is usually served with boiled salmon. If ioDster sauce is chosen, the salmon should bo garnished with the coral. Time: experience alone can teach a cook how long to boil fish, as it varies so much in size and thickness ; as a general rule, eight minutes per pound may be allowed for thick salmon, six uiinutes per pound for thin salmon. Pro- bable cost, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound when in full season. Sufficient, one pound and a quarter for three persons. Salmon, Boiled (another way).—Put on a fish-kettle with spring water enough to well cover the salmon you are going to di-ess, or the salmon will neither look nor taste well (boil the liver in a separate saucepan). When the water boils, put in a handful of salt, take off the scima as soon as it rises, lay the fish in gently, draw it back at once, and keep it below boiling point till done. The time required will depend upon the thickness of the piece. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound when plentiful. Salmon, Boiled (a la Marechal).—When the fish is cleaned, strew salt on both sides of it; two hours after, perfectly wash, drain, and lay it upon a fish-strainer well buttered ; put it into the kettle with a good and well-seasoned Mirepoix, moistened with three bottles of cham- pagne. Place it over a quick fire, and when it boils throw the liquor well upon the fish; cover, and put it into a slow oven to simmer. Every twenty minutes see that the boiling is slow and regular, and mask the fish with the Mirepoix; give it an hour and a half's boiling; then take it up, cover it wiLh butter made lukewarm and mixed ^vith eight yolks of eggs passed through a tamis. Strew bread-crumbs mixed with one- fourth of their quantity of Parmesan cheese grated, pressing them on the salmon with the blade of a knife, and scattering drops of butter melted upon them, and give it a fine colour in the oven. Dish without disarranging its surface, and surround it with a Ragout a la Financier with a part of the same served in a sauce- boat. Salmon, Boiled, Plain (M. Soyer's way).—I prefer always dressing this fish in slices from an inch to two inches in thickness, boiling it in plenty of salt and water about twenty minutes; the whole fish may be boiled, or the head and shoulders of a large fish, but they require longer boiling. Salmon eats firmer by not Ijeing put into tho water until boiling. Dress the fish upon a napkin, and serve with lobster sauce, shrimp sauce, or plain melted butter in a boat with fresh sprigs of parsley boiled a few minutes in it. A salmon weighing about ton jpouiids will requiie an hour's gentle boiling; a head and shoulders weighing six pounds half an hour. Salmon, Boiled, To Carve.—For an ordmary-Bized fish, cut through tho fish in the direction of k to u, and then make cross-cuts as shown in tho drnx-tions of c and n, the former cut taking the thick, and the Ldter the thin part of the fish, a poi-tion of which should be given to each person. If the fish is large, it would bo necessary to make one or more cuts parallel with a and n. BOILED SALMON. Salmon Bone, Broiled.—If when a salmon is served the flesh is not taken too closely from the bone, the latter may be cut into pieces three or four inches long, and, lightly broiled over a clear fire, will make a savoury morsel for breakfast. Salt and cayenne t)epper should be strewn over it before it is broiled. Salmon^ Braized.—Take a thick sKce of salmon, weighing a little more than three pounds, wash it in salted water, and dry it in a cloth. Fold it in oiled paper, place it on a drainer over a saucepan of fast-boUing water, and let it steam until done enough. Drain it, and pour over it a sauce prepared as follows :— Bruise a table-spoonful of capers, and stir them into half a pint of good melted butter. Add a tea-spoonful of anchovy, a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, two tea-spoonfuls of soy, and a pinch of cayenne. Simmer the sauce gently for three or four minutes, add a glassful of sherry, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon juice, and serve. Time to steam the salmon, three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, salmon. Is. to Is. 4d. per pound when plentiful. Salmon, Broiled.—Take one or more slices of salmon, not more than half an inch thick. Rub them over with oil, and sprinkle a httle pepper and salt over them. Rub a clean gridiron with fat, make it hot, and place the slices of salmon upon it over a clear fire. Turn the fish every five minutes till it is done onough. basting it occasionally with oil or butter, ^\'hou the flesh leaves the bone easily on slight pres- sure the salmon is done enough. Place it on a dish, and send lobster, shrimp, or caper sauce to table with it. Time to broil, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, stdmon, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound when plentiful. Sufficient, one pound and a (lunrter for three persons. Salmon, Broiled (another way).—Oil each piecie of salmon and wrap it in greased paper; boil gently and turn frequently. Time, fifteen minutes to givc l lio fish a nice pale yellow colour. Serve with Dutch or capei aauco.( 803 ) SAL Salmon Canapes.—Cut some slices of stale bread a quarter of an inch thick. Stamp these with a plain cutter into any fanciful shapes, and fry them in clai'ified butter till they lire lightly browned. "When cold spread anchovy butter over them, and lay on the butter thin slices of smoked salmon. Serve the canapes on a small dish. Salmon Caveach.—Take one or more slices of salmon half an inch thick; broil these according to the directions already given. Let them cool, then put them into an earthen pan, and pour over the fish as much vinegar as will entirely cover it. The vinegar should have been boiled with two heads of shallots, two cloves, a small blade of mace, a quarter of an ounce of whole pepper, and a little salt to each quart. Pour over the top as much oil as will cover the vinegar, and put the salmon aside till wanted. Time, fifteen minutes to broil the salmon. Probable cost of salmon, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound, when plentiful. Salmon. Choosing.—Choose salmon with a small head and tail and thick shoulders. If fresh the body will be firm and stiff, the eyes bright and prominent, the scales bright and silvery, and the smell pleasant {see Salmon, Freshness of). The colour of the salmon changes greatly during the course of its life. In the adult fish, the back and upper part of the head are dark blackish-blue, the abdo- men is glittering white, and the sides are of an intermediate tint. On the body, and espe- cially above the lateral line, a few dark spots are scattered. During the breeding season the male salmon assmnes its most vivid hues, an orange golden tint spreading over the body, and the cheeks being marked with bright orange streaks. The size of the salmon is extremely variable. Some specimens have been caught that weighed sixty pounds, and Mr. YarreU mentions one case where a female salmon was captured about the year 1821, and was remark- able for weighing eighty-three pounds. This great weight was owing more to the depth and thiclmess of the fish than the length. Salmon, Cleaning of.—Begin by cutting out the gills; then open the belly, take out the inside, and wash it lightly; scrape off the scales, and cut the fish in slices, or serve it whole. If the salmon is to be crimped, the scales must be allowed to remain. Sahnon-trout are cleaned in the same way as salmon. Salmon, Collared.—Split a salmon, and take one half for the roll. Cut off the head and tail parts, scale, bone, wash, and dry the- fish perfectly. Into a piece weighing four pounds rub a savoury powder made of two tea-spoon- fuls of salt, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, two drachms of powdered mace, and a pinch of cayenne. RoU the salmon up, and bind it firmly; put it in a fish-kettle, cover it with vinegar and cold water, putting two parts of ■water to one of vinegar, and add two or three bay-loaves and a little pepper and salt. Cover the saucepan, and let the fish simmer gently till it is done enough. Serve cold with anchovy «auce or molted butter; and in order to pre- serve the fish, keep it covered with the liquor in which it was boUed, and pour into this a littlo additional vinegar. Time to boil, about an hour. Probable cost, salmon, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound when in full season. Salmon. Collared (another way).—Take a slice of salmon, cut off a handful of the tail, wash the large piece well, and dry it with a clean cloth; rub it over with the yolks of eggs, and then make a forcemeat with what has been cut off the tail (but take off the skin), and put to it a handful of parboiled oysters, the yolks of three or four eggs boiled hard, six anchovies, a handful of sweet herbs chopped small, a little salt, some cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and grated bread: work these together into a body with the yolks of the eggs, and lay it all over the salmon; roll it up into a collar, and bind it with broad tape : then boU it with salt and vinegar in the water—let the liquor boU before it is put in—let it continue to sinmier gently till done. It will take nearly two hours' boiling; when it is done enough, take it up into a deep pan. When the liquor is cold, put it to the salmon; let it stand till it is wanted for use. Or it may be put into a pot that will just hold it, and clarified butter poured over it. Salmon, Crimped.—Take two slices of crimped salmon, ana place them in a stewpan in two quarts of boiling water, half a pound of salt being added. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes; try the bone in the centre, and if it leaves the flesh easily the fish is done enough. Remove the fish from the fish kettle the instant it is done enough—to allow it to remain longer destroys the aroma. If not ready, cover it over with a wet napkin, and stand it in the hot closet; then dish it on a napkin, and serve either lobster or shrimp ^uce with it. Salmon, Crimped and Boiled.—When salmon can be obtained newly caught, it is ex- cellent crimped and boiled. It may either be crimped whole, or cut into slices two or three inches thick. When it is to be crimped whole, take it when quite fresh, remove the giMs and the inside, opening the fish as little as pos- sible. Crimp it by making deep gashes across the body on both sides with a sharp knife, plunge the fish immediately into very cold water, and let it lie for two hours, changing the water every haK houi-. Or cut the fish into slices three inches thick; lay these in cold water slightly salted, and let them remain for one hour. Boil the salmon according to the directions given for boiled salmon, but remem- ber that less time is required to boil fish after it is crimped than before. Garnish the salmon, and serve with the same sauces as if it were plainly boiled; or the following sauce may be sent to table:—Put four ounces of fresh butter into an earthen jar. Set this in a pan of boiling water, and beat it until dissolved with a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a table- spoonful of strained lemon-juice, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Serve in a tureen. Salmon, Crimped, with Caper Sauce.—M arinade your slices of siilmon in a little olive-oil with salt and pepper. Three- quarters of an hour before you send up, broil(8M) BAIi SAL thorn on a very slow fire on both sides. When thoy are done, take off the skin, and di-ain tliem on a clean towel to draw out all the oil. Dish them, and cover over with the caper sauce. Let it be understood that the gridiron must bo on a slope, with a plafond under the fore-feet to receive the oil, the smoke of which if it fall into the fire would spoil the fish, and fill the kitchen with smoke and a disagreeable odour. Cover the slices with caper sauce. Salmon, Crimped, with Lobster oauce.—balmon should always bo put into bodmg water at first. Cold water would draw out Its colour and taste. It must not, however, be cooked too much. Serve up with lobster eauce. Some like plain parsley and butter with it. Salmon Cromeskys.—Take the remains of dressed salmon, free it from skin and bone, and tear the flesh into flakes. Put it into a saucepan with a small proportion of white sauce, a little pepper and salt, and the yolks of three eggs. A spoonful of minced truffles may be added, or not. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes till the eggs are set, then spread the preparation an inch thick on a plate, and leave it tni cold. Divide it into equal- sized portions, and mould these in the form of corks. When the cromeskys are to be served, dip them separately into fi-jong batter, and fry in hot fat till they are brown and crisp. Drain, serve on a hot dish, and garnish with parsley. The batter may be made as follows : ■—Put five ounces of flour into a bowl. Add a pinch of salt, and mix it smoothly with a quarter of a pint of water. Beat the yolks of two eggs with two table-spoonfuls of oil; stii- the mixture into the batter, and add more water if necessary.. Ten minutes before the batter is ■wanted, add the whites of the eggs whisked to froth. Time to fry the cromeskys, three or four minutes. Salmon Crumbs.—This is a highly- esteemed dish in the North of Ireland. A quantity of cold boiled salmon is diAdded into very small fragments, and mixed with bread- crumbs, an egg or two well whisked, butter, pepper, salt, and a little vinegar; after which it is put in a pudding-dish, and baked in an oven. The proportion of the ingredients is not very definite, but is variously regulated according to taste. Vinegar is often used with this dish. Salmon, Cured or Salted.—Split open and bone the fish. Wipe it with a soft cloth, sprinkle salt over it, and leave it for twenty- four hours. Pour oft the liquor, wipe the fish dry, cut it into pieces of a convenient size, rub these well with pounded saltpetre, and pack closely in a pot, with salt between the layera. If the salt is not dissolved in three or four days make a strong brine, and pour it, when cold, over the fish, which must be kept covered with the liquor. Salmon, Curried.—Cut two moderate- sized onions into slices, and fry them in hot fat tUl they begin to turn yellow. Mix a table- spoonful of curry powder, and a dcsscrt-ppoon- ful of rurry paste very smoothly with a small quantity of good stock. Add more to make the quantity up to a pint, and pour it over the onions. Let all simmer gently for a few minutes, then rub the sauce patiently through a fine hair- sieve, return it to the saucepan, let it boil, and put into it two i)ounds of sahnon which have been divided into small squaie pieces convenient for serving. Skim the fat from the sauce, and simmer the salmon gently until it is done enough, A little garlic or lemon-juice may be added, or not. Serve with rice on a separate dish. The remains of dressed sahnon may be curried, and will need only to simmer in the sauce until they are quite hot. Time to simmer fresh salmon, about half an hour. Probable cost, salmon, when plentiful. Is. to Is. 4d. per pound. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Salmon Cutlets (a la Llaitre d'Hotel).— Cut some slices of salmon in the shape of chops. Put them into a saute-pan with some clarified butter, pepper, and salt, and toss them when dinner-time is come over an equal fire. Drain the butter well, and dish the sUces of sahnon like a crown. Serve with maitre d'hotel sauce. For salmon you must not use any cream, as this fish is already heavy for the stomach; put into a stewpan three spoonfuls of sauce toumee well reduced; add to it a thickening of one egg, and refine the sauce with a quarter of a pound of butter, some salt, a little cayenne, tho juice of half a lemon, and some parsley chopped very fine ; work this sauce very fine, and use it when wanted. You may give this dish with several different sauces, as marechal, Dutch caper, Maintenon, ravigote, &c. &c.— Salmon Cutlets, Broiled. — Salmon cutlets are cut out of the middle or large end of the fish. Clean the fish, scrape off the scales, and cut slices through it half an inch thick. Leave the skin on. Dip the cutlets in clarified butter, sprinkle pepper and salt over them, lay them on a hot gridiron, and broil gently over a clear fire. Turn them over every three or four minutes tiU they are done. Sei-ve on a hot dish, with a little piece of butter upon each cut- let. No sauce is required, but if it is preferred, lobster or crab sauce may be sent to table in a tureen; or a sauce may be prepared as fol- lows :—Take a quarter of a pint of good gra'<^^ Mix with it a tea-spoonful of -vinegar, a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy, half a tea- spoonful of Harvey's Sauce, and a tea-spoonful of finely minced mixed pickles. Boil the sauce, thicken with a little flour, and serve. Time to broil the fish, fifteen to twenty minutes, accord- ing to thickness. Sufficient, two large cutlets for five or six persons. Salmon Cutlets, Broiled en Papil- lotes.—Prepare the cutlets as before. Lay each sUce on half a sheet of buttered or oiled writing-paper, put a similar sheet over it, and twist the edges securely together. Put the cutlets on a hot gridiron, and broil gently over a clear fire. Move thorn occasionally to -.■ keep them from bimiing. They may be served ^ in the papers or not, as preferred. Unless the '. appearance is very good it will be better that the paper should be removed, and this must be done v.ith grrut cnro. Tinio to broil tho j, BJilmon, fifteen to twenty minutes, acconimg ' to tliicknufis.( 805 ) SAL 8At;» Salmon, Cutlets of. Pried wav) —Cut the salmon into slices an men tniCK. Pepper these, and bind a sage-leaf on each. Fry the fillets in hot fat tiU the flesh leaves the bone easily, or broil them on a gridiron over a clear fire. Place on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and serve. Salmon Cutlets, Scotch—Cut in the direction of the width of the fish as many cross- slices of the breadth of a finger as may be required; put them in scalding-hot water, and let them boil ten minutes. "By this very economical proceeding, there is none of that waste which generally results from the dressing of the whole fish at once." Salmon Cutlets with ShaUot Sauce. —Take a large fillet of salmon, remove the skin, then divide it transversely and slantwise into slices; beat these slightly, and pare them in an oval form. Salt them, dip them m oil, and place them on a gridiron previously warmed and rubbed with oiled paper; broil the cutlets on both sides for twelve or fifteen minutes, basting them with oil. Dish them, and send to table with the following sauce poured over them:—Put into a stewpan two table-spoonfuls of chopped shallots and four of good vinegar; set the pan on the fire, and boil till the vinegar is reduced one-half. Eemove the saucepan from the fire, and when its con- tents are about cold add the yolks of four eggs, which beat with a spoon ; add also four spoon- fuls of good oil. Set the preparation on a slow fire, and thicken the sauce, stirring all the time. Eemove it back, and introduce into it by small quantities at a time half a glass- ful of oil alternated with the juice of half a lemon; finish with a little chopped tarragon and parsley. Salmon, Devilled.—Mix a spoonful of mustard with two spoonfuls of lucca oil, one spoonful of essence of anchovy, and a pinch of cayenne. Cut some thin slices of kippered salmon, rub the mixture into them, and lay them on fried toast which has been seasoned rather highly with pepper or cayenne. Put the toast in a hot oven for a few minutes, and serve immediately. If Uked, thin biscuits of any kind may be substituted for the toast. They must be soaked in lucca oil, and toasted till crisp. Salmon, Dried, Kippered, or Salted. —Cut a moderate-sized salmon down the back, empty, scale, and wash it. Rub it inside and out with common salt, and let it hang to drain for twenty-four hours. Mix thoroughly one ounce of pounded saltpetre with two ounces of bay-salt, and one ounce of common sugar. Rub the salmon with this mixture in every part, lay it on a large dish, cover it with salt, and let it lie for two days. Turn it over, and rub it again with common salt, and in twenty-four hours it will be fit for drying. Wipe it well, stretch it open with two sticks, and hang it in a dry cool place ; or if it is to be smoked, hang it in a chimney or smoke-house. It may be used in a few days. Salmon, Dried or Kippered, to Dress.—An excellent relish for breakfast may be made with dried salmon, and it is specially valuable, as it am be used when other fish is not in the market. It may be dressed in two or three ways. No. 1. Wash the salmon in cold water, wipe it with a soft cloth, and lay it on a hot gridiron over a clear fire. The inside of the fish should be placed to the fire first, and it should be turned over when it is half done. Lay it on a hot dish, butter it well, and serve hot. Or cut it into slices, and heat these through in the oven or before the fire. Serve with mustard sauce. No. 2. Soak the salmon in water, to remove some of the salt. Put it in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and let it simmer gently till it is done enough. It must not boil, or the flesh will be hard. Serve with egg sauce. No. 3. Pull the skinoif the salmon, and tear the thick part of the flesh into flakes. Pour boiling water over it, let it stand for three minutes, then drain it, and put it into a sauce- pan with as much milk as will moisten it. Let it simmer very gently for five or six minutes. Dredge a little flour over it, add a slice of fresh butter, stir the mixture for a few minutes, and serve very hot. If liked, newly-mashed potatoes can be mixed with the flaked salmon just before it is sent to table. No. 4. Wash a salted salmon, let it lie in water for twenty- four hours, changing the water several times. Scale it, cut it into four parts, put it into a saucepan, and cover with cold water. When it is half done, change the water, and simmer the salmon till it is tender. Drain it, put it into an earthenware dish, sprinkle cayenne, allspice, cloves, and mace over each piece, cover with vinegar, and let it remain for four or five hours. Serve cold for breakfast or tea. Salmon thus prepared is named Soused Salmon. Salmon, Fillets of.—Fillets of salmon differ from salmon cutlets in this : that in the latter the fish is cut into slices through the bone, but in the former the flesh is raised from the bone by means of a knife slipped along the spine. When the separation is effected, the skin is removed, and the fish is cut into neat pieces of any shape and thickness that may bo desired, though they are not often more than half an inch thick. Almost all the recipes which are given for salmon cutlets apply also to fillets, and vice versd. The time required for broiling, &c., must be regulated by the thickness of the fish. Salmon, Fillets of (a rAmericaine).—. Cut the flesh of the salmon into neat fillets, dip these into beaten eg-g, drain, and roll them in fine bread-crumbs; fry in hot fat till they are lightly browned, put them in blotting-paper to free them from fat, serve on a napkin, and garnish with parsley. Send clear gravy to table with them. Time to fry, eight to fifteen minutes, according to the thickness. Probable cost, salmon, Is. to Is. 6d. per pound when plentiful. Sufficient, two pounds of salmon for four or five persons. Salmon Fillets, Fried.—Cut the fish into neat fillets. Egg and bread-crumb these, and fry them in hot fat till they are done enough. Dish the fillets in a circle, and send tartar sauce, ravigote sauce, aurora sauce, or Indian sauce to table with them. By waySAI. SAI. ( 806 ) of variety, the contro of tho circle may bo filled with oysters, prawns, or shrimps, mixed in Dutch sauce, with a further quantity of sauce in a tureen. Fried fillets of salmon are frequently served without sauce, and with tho juice of a lemon strained over them. Time to fry, ten to fifteen minutes, according to tho thickness of tho fish. Probable cost, salmon, when plentiful, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound. Salmon. Fillets of, Stewed.—Trim a pound of salmon into neat fillets. Dry those, dip them in flour, partially fry them, and put them on a sieve to drain. Dissolve three ounces of butter in a saucepan. Mix smoothly with this a table-spoonful of floui-, and add a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a tea- spoonful of chopped fennel, a pinch of powdered thyme, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the mixtui-e over the fire for four or five minutes, add a glassful of sherry, and put into the sauce the half-fried fillets. Let them simmer gently for ten minutes. Lift the fish out with a slice, and place it on a hot dish. Let the sauce cool for two minutes, then stir into it the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, then whisk it over the fire for a minute till it thickens, and pour it over the fish. Garnish the dish with fried sippets. Time, altogether, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. SuflS-cient for three or four per- sons. Salmon, Fillets of, with Potatoes. —Split and tiim a pound or more of salmon into neat fillets, egg and bread-crumb these, and fry in hot fat till they are done enough. Drain them on a sieve before the fire. Slice some potatoes thinly; blanch them in boiling water, drain and fry them in hot fat tiU they are soft without being browned. Arrange the fillets in a circle on a dish, put the fried potatoes in the centre, and send lobster sauce to table in a tureen. Time to fry the fillets, eight to fifteen minutes, according to thickness. Salmon Forcemeat for Garnishing, &C.—Lift the fiesh from the back bone of a dressed salmon, and take half a pound of it, free from skin and bone; tear it into flakes, and rub it through a sieve. Put the pulp into a mortar, and pound it with five ounces of butter and five ounces of panada, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with a raw egg and a little rich white sauce. Make the forcemeat into cakes, and poach one of these ia boiling water to ascertain whether or not it is of the proper consistency. If too stiff, add a little more sauce or cream. Keep the forcemeat in a cool place till wanted. Salmon, Freshness of.—"Thefreshness of the salmon," says Careme, " may be known by the redness of the gills and brilliancy of the eye, which is of a clear red and transparent. The flesh should be firm, its shape short and round, which constitutes it well made, fat, and of a good quality ; the head short and pointed; the back of a dark blue tint, and covered with red spots; tho belly like silver; small scales compactly placed cover its whole surface, and, when the fish is fresh, are very brilliant, but if not, become dull and clouded-" Salmon Fried in Slices.—Cut four or five thin slices of salmon, cleanse and dry them well, then season, tiour, and dip thorn in egg beaten up and bread-crumbs, Plungo them into hot frying fat. Fry for ten minutes or so; when of a nice colour, drain tho shces, and sprinkle salt over them. Dish on a folded napkin, and send them to table surrounded with halves of lemon. Salmon Fritters.—Take the remains of dressed kippered salmon. Remove tho skin and bone, and tear tho flesh into small flakes. Mix with these an equal quantity of potatoes mashed with plenty of cream. Bind the mix- ture with yolk of egg, make it into small cakes or fritters, and fry in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain them, and serve on a hot dish: garnish with hard-boiled eggs minced and placed round the dish in small mounds, white and yeUow alternately. Send mustard sauce to table in a tureen. Time, five or six minutes to fry the fritters. Salmon Gwilts, or Salmon Peel.— These are the small salmon which run from about five or six to ten pounds. They are very good, and make handsome dishes sent to table crooked in the form of the letter S. Salmon, Herrings, Sprats, Mack- erel, &C. &C., Pickled (Dr. Kitchiner's recipe).—Cut the fish into pieces of a suitable size, do not take off the scales; then make a brine strong enough to bear an egg, in which boil the fish; it must be boiled in only just liquor enough to cover it, and do not overboil it. When the fish is boiled, lay it slantingly to drain off aU the liquor; when cold, pack it close in the kits, and fill them up with equal parts of the liquor the salmon was boiled in (having first well skimmed it) and the best vinegar; let them rest for a day, fill up again, striking the sides of the kit with a cooper's adze until the kit wiU receive no more; then head them down as close as possible. This is in the finest condition when fresh. Salmon is most plentiful about midsummer; the season for it is from February to September. Some sprigs of fresh-gathered young fennel are the accompaniments. The three indispensable marks of the goodness of pickled salmon are —1st, the brightness of the scales, and their sticking fast to the skin; 2ndly, the firmness of the flesh; and, 3rdly, its fine pale red-rose colour—without these it is not fit to eat, and was either stale before it was pickled, or has been kept too long after. The above was given us as the actual practice of those who pickle it for the London market. Pickled salmon warmed by steam, or in its pickle liquor, is a favourite dish at Newcastle. Salmon, How to Cook.—As soon as a salmon is killed it ought to be crimped, by making incisions between the head and the tail, two inches wide and one inch deep. It should then be placed in cold water—well- water if possible—for one hour, and laid in a fish-kettle with as much cold water as will cover it, together with a quarter of a pound of salt and as much vinegar as will make the I water slightly acid. As soon as tho water la( 807 > SAL SAL / scalding hot, but not boiling, tako it off, and pour tho water into a pan, and put it away m a cold place, leaving the fish in tho strainer. Place the strainer -^vith the fish upon it over the pan of hot fish-water, to cool together, where it should remain until the next day, when the fish should be placed again in the fish-kettle with the same water in which it was scalded; and when it is again warmed it is done. It must not boil. When there is more dressed salmon than can be eaten, it is par- ticularly good fried in batter. It should be shghtly sprinkled ^vith salt before the batter is added, and if there is any Granville sauce, a little of it put on the pieces of salmon under the batter is a great improvement.—Food Journal. We find the following account of the perfect mode of cooking salmon in Sir Humphrey Davy's " Salmonia: "—" We must now pre- pare him for the pot. Give him a stunning blow on the head to deprive him of sensation, and then give him a transverse cut just below the gills, and crimp him by cutting to the bone on each side, so as almost to divide him into slices, and now hold him by the tail that he may bleed. There is a small spring, I see, close under that bank, which, I daresay, has the mean temperature of the atmosphere in this climate, and is much under 50°. Place him there, and let him remain for ten minutes, and then carry him to the pot, and let the water and salt boil furiously before you put in a slice, and give time to the. water to recover its heat before you throw in another, and so with the whole fish, and leave the head out, and throw in the thickest pieces first." The rationale of this process of crimping is thus given:—" I conclude that the fat of salmon between the flakes is mixed with much albumen and gelatine, and is extremely liable to decompose, and by keeping it cool the decomposition is retarded, and by the boiling salt and water, which is of a higher tempera- ture than that of common boiling water, the albumen is coagulated and the curdiness pre- served. The crimping, by preventing the irritability of the fibre from being gradually exhau.sted, seems to preserve it so hard and crisp that it breaks under the teeth; and a fresh fish not crimped is generally trout." Salmon crimped in this manner, which pre- serves the natural taste, should have no other sauce than a spoonful of the salt and water in which it has been boiled, with the addition of a little lemon-juice (or, if that cannot be had, vinegar) and pepper. Some persons, however, object to the curdy state of the fish, and prefer it when it has been kept a daj- or two, when the curd has partly softened into oil, which g^ves a richer taste. Salmon, Imperial Fashion (Careme's recipe).—Tho fish being cleaned, throw salt in the inside, and rub some on the outside ; three hours after wash it in several waters, drain and wipe it, and fill the interior with a forcemeat of whitings. Keep tho fish in its first shape, and lay it in a fish-kettle with a. Mirepoix mois- tened with two bottles of champagne wine (the head should be tied) and as much fish stock. When it boils cover it with a large sheet of strong paper, buttered, and let it boil slowly for an hour, then let it cool in its braze ; take it up afterwards on the di-ainer, nearly remove ail the skin from it, and glaze the best side with a light fish glaze, to which you have added some crayfish butter. Slide it carefully on the dish upon a napkin, and surround it with parsley, on which place a row of crayfish; afterwards, with a row of the livers of burbots or carp roes, dressed as usual; when serving, garnish it with eight hatelets of aspics, ornamented with crayfish tails and carp roes; servo in one sauce-boat a white mayonnaise with aspic- jelly, and in the other a ravigote of oil, in which add the flesh of a lemon cut in very thin slices, and the j)ips removed. Serve cold. Salmon, Importance of. — " Salmon fish," Marshall observes, "are copious and constant sources of human food; they rank next to agriculture. They have, indeed, one advantage over every internal product—their increase does not lessen other articles of human subsistence. The salmon does not prey on the product of the soil, nor does it owe its size and nutritive properties to the destruction of its compatriot tribes. It leaves its native river at an early stage of growth, and going, even naturalists know not where, returns of ample size and rich in human nourishment, exposing itself in the narrowest streams, as if Stature intended it as a special boon to man. In everj"- stage of savageness and civilisation, the salmon must have been considered as a valuable bene- faction to this country." Salmon, Kippered.—This is a favourite breakfast dish in Scotland. After taking out the inside of the salmon, scale and split it; then rub the fish with common salt and Jiimaica pepper, and let it drain for twenty-foui hours. Mix together salt, coarse sugar, and a little saltpetre, and rub the fish well once or twice with this. Leave it in a tray to pickle for two days; then wipe and dry it, stretch it on sticks, and suspend it in the smoke of a wood or turf fire to diy. If less smoking is desired, the fish may be dried partly by the heat of a fire and the sun. Kippered salmon is eaten boiled and just warmed through. Salmon, Kippered (another way).—The following article on the method of preparing salmon-kipper in Scotland is quoted by Donovan from the Mirror-:—"All the blood is taken from the fish immediately after it is killed; this is done by cutting the gills. It is then cut up the back on each side the bone, or chine, as it is commonly called; the bone is taken out, but the tail, with two or three inches of the bone, is left; the head is cut ofl:; all the entrails are taken out, but the skin of the belly is left uncut; the fish is then laid, with the skin undermost, on a board, and is well rubbed and covered over with a mixture of equal quantities of common salt and Jamaica pepper. Some of this mixture is carefully spread under the fins, to prevent thorn from corrupting, which they sometimes do, espe- cially if tho weather is warm. A board with a large stone is sometimes laid upon thg fish( 808 ) SAL with a view to mako tho salt ponetrate more ett'ectually. In some places, instead of a Hat l)oaid a shallow wooden trough is used, by which moans tho brine is kept about tho fish ; Boniotimos two or three salmon are kippcnsd together in the same vessel, one being laid upon tho other. The fish, with the board or trough, is set in a cool place for two or tliroo uays; it is then removed from tho board, and again rubbed with salt and pepper, after which it is hang by the tail, and exposed to the rays of the sun or tho heat of the fire. Caro is pre- viously taken to stretch out the fish, by means of small sticks or hooks placed across it from side to side; after it has remained in the heat a few days it is hung up in a dry place until used. Some people, in order to give tho kijjper a peculiar taste, highly relished by not a few, carefully smoke it with peat-reek or the stalk of juniper bushes. This is commonly done by hanging it up so near a chimney in which peats or juniper bushes are burnt as to receive the smoke. There it remains two or three weeks, by which time it generally acquires the required flavour." Salmon, Marinaded—No. i. Cut three moderate-sized onions in slices, and chop into small pieces a turnip, a carrot, and three or four outer sticks of celery. Add two table-spoon- fuls of chopped pai'sley and two bay-leaves. Put these ingredients into a saucepan, with a slice of fresh butter, and stir briskly over a quick fire for eight or ten minutes. Pour over them a pint of vinegar, and add a dessert- spoonfiil of salt, a dozen peppercorns, and a blade of mace. Simmer the pickle for a few minutes, and add three pints of water. Put in two or more thick slices of salmon, and boil them gently until done enough. Leave the fish in the marinade till cold, and serve with a little of the pickle (strained) in the dish with it. No. 2. Cut some slices of salmon an inch and a quarter thick, brush them over with clarified butter, and fry in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Let them get cold, then lay them in an earthen jar. Boil as much vinegar as will cover them for ten minutes with a sliced onion, one or more bay-leaves, a piece of thin lemon-rind, a sprig of tarragon, and a little salt and whole pepper. Let the marinade cool, and strain it over the salmon. A little oil poured over the top will make the salmon keep for some time. Salmon, Matelote of. — Boil in the usual way two or three thick slices from the tail end of a large salmon, or, if liked, boil instead a sinall salmon, trussed in the form of the letter S. When done enough, drain the fish, put it upon a dish without any napkin, and pour over it and around it some sauce prepared as follows : ■—Put three-quarters of a pint of thick brown sauce into a stewpan with eighteen button- onions which have been fried in butter till brown. Lot them boil for ten minutes, and add two glassf uls of claret, a small lump of sugar, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence. Stir the fiance over the fire until it is thick and coats the spoon. After it is taken from the fire, stir a small piece of fresh butter in it until dis- solved. Mushrooms or oysters may be added to this sauce if hked. It ought to bo very savoury. When brown sauce is not at hand, it may bo easily and quickly made by kneading together in a saucepan etjual proportions of butter and flour, stin-ing the mixture quickly over a slow fire till it is lightly browned with- out being at all burnt, and moistening it with stock made from Ijones, or, failing this, with water. Time to make the sauce, half an houi'. Probable cost of salmon, when plentiful, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound. Salmon, Matelote of (another way.— Take two or three sHces of salmon, lay them in a small kettle with a strainer, stew them very gently in a quart of veal gravy and a gill of Harvey's Sauce for twenty minutes; lift out the strainer with the fish, pour oft the gravy into a stewpan, return the st rainer with the fish to keep warm, thicken the gravy with arrow- root, season with pepper and salt, add a quarter of a pint of sherry, a gill of capers, a dozen of pickled gherkins cut in slices; pour the whole back again over the slices of salmon. Let them simmer five minutes, and serve immediately. Salmon, Mayonnaise of.—ilayonnaise of salmon consists of salmon boiled and then allowed to go cold, served vnth. salad and mayonnaise sauce. It is a dish which is very highly esteemed, and one which affords ample scope for the display of the artistic faculty. The salmon may be boiled and dished whole, or it may be divided into flakes two inches long and an inch wide. Instructions for both methods are here given. The salmon may be boiled in the usual way, or for a superkitive dish it may be dressed as follows:—Put a moderate-sized carrot sliced into a saucepan with four shallots, a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of chervil, a bay-leaf, a tea-spoonful of salt, and a slice of fresh butter. Steam the ingredients for four or five minutes, then pour in as much boiling water as will barely cover the fish, and add two glassfuls of light wine. Put in a piece of salmon weighing about five pounds, let it boil up quickly, skim the liquor, then draw the saucepan back a little, and simmer the fish gently till it is done enough; drain it, and leave it till cold. If the salmon is to be served whole, dish it on a napkin, garnish round with small salad and crayfish, and stick prawns and parsley into the salmon with silver skewers. Send mayon- naise sauce to table in a boat. When the salmon is to be broken up, boil it, let it get cold, remove the skin and bone, and divide into neat pieces. Trim these neatlj', and if plainly boiled, season each one with oil, vine- gar, pepper, and salt. Trim and wash two largo lettuces or any other salad. Dry the leaves perfectly by shaking them in a napkin held by the four comers. Shred them finely, put a layer of salad in a bowl, place on this two table-spoonfuls of the sauce, and then part of the salmon, with a little more sauce, and repeat until all the ingredients are used. Ornament the top with slices of fresh cucumber, garnish the base with a border of hard-boiled eggs, prawns, <S:c.,and let a trollis-work of hpetront rest upon tho eggs. Tho decoration of this dish may beSAI. 8Ali ( 809 ) Vioried indefinitely. Make the sauce as follows: —Put the yolk of an egg, freed from white, into a basin, add popper and salt, and stir in very gradually about four ounces of oil. The oil should be dropped in at first, and well beaten between every addition. The success of the sauce depends upon this being done. After every eighth tea-spoonful of oil put in alter- nately a tea-spoonful of plain vinegar and a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. The sauce should, when finished, have the appearance of very thick cream! Taste, and, if necessary, add further seasoning, and, if liked, a spoon- ful of chopped chervil, a spoonful of mus- tard, and a little anchovy. The seasoning ought as a rule to be rather high. Keep the sauce in a cool place till wanted, and do not dish the salmon until a short time before it is re- quired. Probable cost of salmon, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound when plentiful. A mayonnaise by no means to be despised may be made from tinned salmon. When the fish is torn into flakes, three-quarters of a pound of salmon will make a dish sufficient for six persons. Salmon, Mould of (for supper or lun- cheon).—No. 1. Take a slice of dressed salmon weighing about a pound. Fry this in hot fat tUl it is lightly browned, then pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste with its weight in fine bread-crumbs which have been soaked in hot milk for ten minutes. Season the mixture rather highly with salt and pepper and a blade of mace powdered. Bind it together with the yolks of four weU-beaten eggs, press it into a buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven, or steam it as a pudding would be steamed. Turn it out carefully, and garnish the dish with crayfish, parsley, or button-mushrooms. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. No. 2. Butter a mould rather thickly, and fill it with slices of fresh salmon, freed from skin and bone, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Pack the slices as closely as possible, and fill the crevices with butter. Cover the mould closely, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling for an hour. Turn it out carefully, and garnish the dish with parsley. Probable cost, salmon, when plentiful, Is. to Is. 4d. per poimd. Salmon Moulded in Jelly.—Soak an ounce of gelatine in as much cold water as will cover it. When it has absorbed the water, put it into a saucepan with a pint of clear stock pleasantly flavoured. Stir the gelatine over the fire till it dissolves, then pour it out, and let it cool. Whisk the white of an egg with a table-spoonful of cold water and a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Stir this briskly into the jelly, and when scum begins to form leave it untouched, and let it boil for ten minutes. Put it by the side of the fire to settle ten minutes longer, and then strain through a jelly-bag tiU it is clear and bright. Boil a pound and a quarter of salmon in very little water. As soon as it is done enough take it up, and when cold cut it into one-inch squares. Pour a little of the jelly into a mould, and arrange some of the pieces of salmon in this, remembering to put the skin and the pink flesh alternately to the outside of the mould. Let the jelly set, then 'A* put in another layer of salmon; cover this with jelly, and let it also set, and repeat until the mould is full. Turn the jelly out when it ia quite cold. Time, some hours to stifiien the jelly. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for », small breakfast or luncheon dish. Salmon Omelette.—For an omelette made with six eggs, take as much cold dressed salmon, freed from skin and bone, as would equal in bulk three hen's eggs. Tear this into flakes, and heat it gently in a saucepan with any remains there may be of lobster, shrimp, oyster, or anchovy sauce. If no such remains are at hand, a little melted butter must be made for the purpose. Season the ragout delicately with pepper, nutmeg, and lemon- juice, and be careful to let it be very thick. Prepare and fry the omelette in the usual way {see Omelette). Place the hot ragout in the centre, and finish it as in other cases. Work a spoonful of blanched and chopped parsley into a lump of butter. Place this in the centre of a hot dish, put the omelette upon it, and serve immediately. The butter melting beneath the omelette will make the only sauce required. When kippered salmon is used, the flakes of fish may be beaten up with the eggs and fried with the omelette. Time, a few minutes to heat the fish in the sauce. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Salmon on the Banks of the Rhine. —The following recipe is given by M. Dubois in his "Cosmopolitan Cookery:"—" Cook three pounds of good sauer kraut according to the usual rules. Take a good piece of a fresh Rhine salmon, which cut into slices (about thirty of which will be required); beat them slightly, and pare them into scallops. Season and place half of them on a plate. Put the other half into a buttered saute-pan. Boil in white wine about forty middling-sized crayfish; put by six of the finest, removing the tails and shells of the smallest ones to prepare some crayfish butter. At the same time blanch five dozen oysters. Prepare half a poimd of quenelle-forcemeat of pike, which finish with a piece of crayfish butter, and scooping it off with the spoon, mould four dozen middling-sized quenelles. Prepare a little light-brown roux ; dilute it by degrees with the oyster and crayfish liquor, as weU as with a Uttle fish-broth mixed with the trimmings and bones of the pike and salmon. Thicken the sauce, stirring it until boiling; remove it back, and let it simmer for half an hour. Skim off the fat, pass it through a tamis, reduce it, thicken with a liaison of two yolks of eggs, and keep it in the bain-marie. A quarter of an hour before servang, bread-crumb the pickled scallops, and colour them on both sides with clarified butter. Fry the remainder on a sharp fire, drain them of the butter, add tho quenelles and poached oysters, as well as the crayfish tails. Mask these garnishes with the prepared sauce, and keep the ragout hot. When ready to serve, drain aU the moisture off the sauer kraut, thicken with two spoonfuls of sauce, pUe it upon a dish, leaving a hole in the centre, which fill with the ragout of fish, on the top of which sot the six crayfish put by, whole, but(810) SAl. SAL with their tails picklod. Surround the sauer kraut at its huso with the fried scallops, and servo iinmodiatoly." Salmon Peel.—Salmon peel is the name given to an inferior vui-iety of sabnon, which seldom roaches to more than a few poumlH in weight. It should ho drosHod like ordinary mil- mou. On account of its small size it is generally boiled whole, and in the shape of the letter 8. To truss it in this form, pass a packing-needle, threaded with strong twine, through the eyes, and tie it securely under the jaw, afterwards run the needle through the thick part of the tail of the hsh, and tie it tightly. Salmon Pickle, Irish [see Irish Sahnon Pickle). Salmon, Pickled.—A whole sahnon or part of one maj^ be pickled, and wiU form a handsome dish, or, if preferred, the remains of cold boiled salmon may be preserved in this way. Recipes are given for both methods. No. 1. Clean, scale, and boil a moderate-sized salmon in the usual way; drain it, and let it cool. Take equal parts of the water in which it was boiled and of good vinegar: let there be altogether as much liquor as will cover the fish. Put it into a saucepan with a dozen cloves, a blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and a tea-spoon- ful of whole allspice; let it boil; skim it, stir a slice of fresh butter into it until dissolved, and pour it over the fish. Put it in a cool place till wanted. It will keep for some days if required. No. 2. Put a whole fresh salmon or part of one into a large earthen jar, cover with equal parts of vinegar and water, add salt, cloves, peppercorns, and spices, as in the last recipe, and lay one or two bay-leaves on the top of the liquor. Bake the sahnon in a moderate oven. When the flesh leaves the bone easily on being lightly pressed with the finger it is done enough. Leave the salmon in the liquor in which it was baked, and set it in a cool place till wanted. If fresh vinegar is added, and the pickle is boiled every now and then, it will keep good for some time, and may be used again and again for the same purpose. No. 3. Split a salmon open down the backbone, and divide the flesh into pieces about five inches square. Sprinkle salt and pepper over the pieces, and lay them in an earthen pan. Pour as much good vinegar over them as mU cover them, set the lid on the pan, and put in a moderate oven. Bake the fish gently until done enough. Keep it under the pickle until it is wanted, and serve with a small portion of the pickle in the dish with it. Salmon, Pickled (another way).—Cut the salmon across in slices about an inch and a half or two inches thick. Then rub each piece over with the following seasoning:—Pound one ounce each of mace, Jamaica pepper, and cardamom seeds, half an ounce of allspice, and a drachm of cloves ; mix these with half a pound of pounded bay-salt and two grated nut- megs. Add also a little pounded bay-leaf and a very small quantity of dried and powdered mint. Rub this seasoning well into every bit of salmon, then cover each piece with yolk of bttatcn egg, and strew seasoning over it again. Fill a small frying-pan half full of olive oil, and fry one piece of sahnon at a time until it is of a rich yellow-brown colour. As each pieco is fried, put it upon a hair sieve. When all are friod, let them drain until they are quite cold. Then put at the bottom of a stone jar a small branch of fennel and a little sprig of tarragon; upon it a layer of pieces of salmon, on this a bay-leaf, another httle branch of fennel and another little sprig of tarragon, then pieces of salmon, then a bay-leaf; and so on until all the salmon is in. Then fill the jar with vinegar an inch above the fish, and ov(;r this put a thick layer of olive oil. Salmon pickled in this way will keep good for twelve months if required. Salmon, Pickled (Cold Meat Cookeey). —No. 1. Take the remains of dressed salmon. Remove the skin, lift the flesh from the bones, and divide it into neat pieces. Make as much pickle as will cover the fish, composed of equal portions of vinegar and of the hquor in which the fish was boiled, and boil it for ten minutes with salt, pepper, and spices proportionate in quantity to that of the pickle. Let the hquor cool, then pour it over the salmon, and set it in a cool place till wanted. In twelve hours it \\dll be fit for use. Garnish the dish ^vith fennel or bunches of red-currants, or a little lobster coral. No. 2. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a stew- pan. Put into this three moderate-sized onions sHced, a turnip cut into dice, a bunch of pars- ley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf. Stir the ingredients over a gentle fire for four minutes, then pour upon them a pint of water and a pint of vinegar, and add two tea-spoonfuls of salt and one of pepper. Boil the pickle till the onions are tender. Put the dressed fish, freed from skin and bone and di^dded into neat pieces, into a shallow pan, strain the pickle over it, and set it in a cool place till wanted. The pickle may be used again and again if it is boiled up occasionally with a httle fresh vinegar. Salmon Pie.—Take about three pounds of fresh salmon. Remove the skin, raise the flesh from the bones, and divide it into pieces convenient for ser\ang. Season every pieci separately with salt, pepper, and pounded mace. The latter of these must be added sparingly. Shell a pint of shrimps, and pound them with an ounce of butter and a pinch of cayenne. Put the pieces of salmon in a dish, and intersperse the pounded shiimps amongst them. Make some fish gravy by boihng the skin and bones of the fish in water till the hquor will jelly when cold. Fill the dish with this, cover it with good pastrj-, and bake in a well-heated oven. This pie is too rich for deUcate stomachs. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost, 4s., with salmon at Is. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Salmon Pie, Cold, with Truffles.— Cut two pounds of raw salmon into middling- sized squares, lard them with fillets of truffles and anchovies, season with salt and spice; frj- them a few minutes ^vith butter in a stowpan. Then pour over half a glassful of sherry, which must be reduced; remove the stewpan back, add to the fish a pound of peeled raw truffles cut in quarters and seasoned, cover the stowpan, and let all the ingredients cool together ChopSAL SAL very fine ten ounces of lean pork or veal, with, the same quantity of raw pike or eel. Add to this mince a pound of fresh fat bacon, pound the whole together, and pass it through a sieve. Season well the forcemeat with salt and spices, and add to the above the trimmings of truffles, pounded with a little bacon, and passed through a sieve. Prepare a short paste, as in the recipe Salmon Pie, Hot. Butter a cold pie-mould of either round or oval shape, which set on a baking-sheet covered with paper, line it with two-thirds of the paste, and mask the bottom and sides with a thin layer of forcemeat; fill the hollow with the squares of fish, and the truffles and forcemeat mixed, range the preparation in a dome-shape fashion, rising above the rim of the mould, mask it with little slices of bacon, then with a thin round flat made with the remainder of the paste. Cover the pie, pinch, decorate, and give it a nice colour; push it into a moderate oven. Seven or eight minutes afterwards cover it entirely with paper; bake it for two hours; then remove it from the oven, and half an hour after ha\dng been taken out, pour into the hoUow on the top two glassfuls of aspic jelly mixed with a little Madeira. A quarter of an hour after take out the mould, and let the pie cool for twenty-four hours previous to being served. Salmon Pie, Hot.—Make a short paste as follows :—Take a pound of flour and spread it in a circle on a slab, lay in the centre the yolk of an egg, ten ounces of butter, half a glassful of water, and a pinch of salt. Dilute the butter with the liquid, and then intro- duce the flour gradually into it. As soon as a finn paste is obtained, break (iriser) it three times with the palms of both hands, gather it up, and set it on one side for half an hour. Take a round pie-mould, butter the inside well, and set it on a baking-sheet. Then make a quenelle forcemeat with ten or twelve ounces of the flesh of pike. Take about a pound and a half of fresh salmon, remove the * skin and bones, and divide the flesh into squares. Chop one onion, fry it in a stewpan with oil and butter, adding a few spoonfuls of fresh-chopped mushrooms. Whenever their moisture is reduced, add two or three raw chopped truffles and the pieces of salmon. Fry over a sharp fire for a few minutes, season with salt and spices, and moisten with half a glassful of madeira. Let the whole boil for a few minutes, keeping the saucepan covered. Mould two- thirds of the prepared paste into a ball, and roll it out into a thin, circular, flat form. Raise the sides of this paste, pressing it between the fingers so as to form the paste into a sort of bag. Lift the paste carefully, and place it on the mould, covering it well at the bottom and along the sides; cut the paste half an inch above the rim of the mould, and then mask it at the bottom and along the sides with a layer of forcemeat. Above this layer place half of the slices of salmon with some of the fine herbs; mask again with forcemeat, and pile up the rest of the fi.sh in a dome-like shape, rising above the rim of the mould. Cover the pieces of salmon with another layer of forcemeat, and place over ull the rest of the paste rolled out very thin. Fasten the two flats of paste on the edges, pressing the paste so as to render it thinner; cut it regularly, in order to be pinched all round with pastry-pincers. " With the trimmings of the paste," says M. Dubois, to whom we are indebted for the above particulars, " prepare a few imitation leaves, which arrange as a rosace on the dome, on the top of which form a small cavity; cover it with three small rounds of paste of different sizes, placed one above another like a pyramid. Egg the jjie, and push it into a moderate oven; seven or eight minutes later cover it with paper, and bake it for one hour and a half. On taking it out, ha^^ng put it on a dish, remove the mould, and cut the dome all round its centre, bj'- which aperture pour into the pie a little white sauce, reduced with extract prepared with wine, and the trimmings and bones of the pike and sal- mon. Cover the pie, and serve. Salmon, Potted.—Scale and dry a fresh salmon. Slit it down the back, take out the bone, and mix some grated nutmeg, mace, pepper, and salt, and strew it over the fish. Let it lie two or three hours; then lay it in a large pot or pan, put to it half a pound of butter, and bake for an hour. When done, lay it to di-ain; then cut it up, and put the pieces in layers, with the skin uppermost, in pots; place a board over the pots, and lay on it a weight to press the salmon down till cold : then take the board and weight off, and pour clarified butter over. Salmon potted in this way may be sent to table in pieces or cut in slices. Salmon, Potted, (another way).—Both dressed and undressed salmon may be potted. We first give a recipe for potting fresh salmon. Take a piece of salmon weighing about two pounds. Skin and clean it thoroughly; do not wash it, but wipe it with a dry cloth. Cut it into slices, and rub these with salt, then let them drain until dry. Season with a table- spoonful of white pepper, half a salt-spoonful of cayenne, and half a salt-spoonful of powdered mace. Lay the salmon in a jar, cover it with four ounces of butter, and bake in a slow oven. When it is done enough, pour off the gravy —which will be found useful for flavouring purposes—press the salmon into jars, and when cold cover it with butter which has been clarified and is just beginning to set. If liked, a bay-leaf, a finely-minced onion, and one or two anchovies may be laid between the pieces of salmon in the jar. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, salmon, Avhen plentiful. Is. or Is. 4d. per pound. Salmon, Potted (second dressing).— Take the remains of cold salmon. Free it from skin and bone, and then pound it tho- roughly in a mortar. Whilst pounding keep adding clarified butter—a few drops at a time —together with salt, cayenne, powdered mace, and a little ancho\'y. When it is moist, smooth, and pleasantly flavoured, press it into small jars, and pour over it clarified butter to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Put it in a cool place for twelve hours, when it will be ready for use.SAL (812) SAL Salmon, Preserved. — Amongst tho miiny lish prescrvod by tho hoiit process and , put up in tins, salmon is undoubtedly tho best. Henco its enonnous and daily-increasing con- sumption in this country. A few years ago it was put up in considorablo quantities by tho Scotch tirma at Aberdeen, as at certain seasons of the year it could be obtained at a very moderate cost. But the Scotch is now almost supplanted by American salmon, which is put up in California, Oregon, New Brunswick, Salvador, and in other districts where it can often be bought by the preservers at one penny per pound. This salmon in tins is retailed in ordinary shops from eightpence to a shilling per pound, according to the popularity of the "brand" and the position of the firm whose label is attached. There are some brands, however, to be obtained at a much cheaper rate, and at the same time they are quite equal to those for which a higher price is asked. The best way of dealing with tinned salmon is to stand the tins, their tops having been previously cut off, in boiling water till the contents are warmed through, for it must be remembered that the salmon is already thoroughly cooked; or it may be made into " fisli-cakss." Good preserved salmon. yn\l turn out whole, and so excellent is it that it takes a good judge to distinguish between, it and the fresh-cooked fish. It is certainly a very valuable addition to our food supply. Sa.'"moil Pudding.—Take half a pound of cold dressed salmon freed from skin and bone. Tear it into flakes, then pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste. Boil a quarter of a pound of grated crumbs in as much milk as these will absorb. Beat these ingredients till they form a smooth paste, and when cool mix this with the salmon, and add a seasoning of salt and cayenne, a grate or two of nutmeg, and half a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies. Pound thft pudding again until the seasoning is thoroughly incorporated, and add two or more well-whisked eggs. Press the prepara- tion into a thickly-buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven; or, if preferred, roll it into the shape of a roly-poly pudding, dredge it well with flour, and wrap it first in buttered paper and afterwards in a pudding cloth. Fasten the ends, and steam the pudding until done enough. Turn it out carefully, and serve with thin custard sauce flavoured with laurel-leaf. The pudding will be richer if cream is used instead of milk, and if additional eggs are allowed. Time to steam or bake the pudding, a little more than half an hour. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the cold salmon, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Salmon, Raised Pie (to be served cold). —Take two pounds of fresh salmon, and one and a half pounds of whiting forcemeat. Remove the skin and bone from the salmon, cut it into neat slices, and season each slice separately with salt and cayenne. Line the pie-mould with pastry (see Raised Pies), and fill with alternate layers of forcemeat and fish, and let forcemeat form the undermost and uppermost layer. Cover tho pie with pastry, and finish in the usual way. Bake, and when done enough let it get cool, then pour into it through an incision in tho top a licjuid jelly made by boiling the bones and skin of the salmon in water and flavouring it pleasantly with salt, cayenne, and (issence of trufBos. Close tho hole, and serve the pie on a neatly- folded napkin. To make the forcemeat, press one pound of tho flesh of whiting through a sieve. Pound the pulp tiU smooth with ten ounces of panada and ten oun(x;H of butter. Add salt and cayenne, and moisten the pre- paration with tho yolk of an egg and a little rich white sauce. Make it in a cool jjlace. In order to ascertain when the pie is done enough, run a skewer quite to the bottom in the centre. If the meat feels tender, it is done. Salmon, il6cha\iff6 of. — Take the remains of cold boiled salmon; free it from skin and bone, and tear it into flakes with two forks. Bruise the bones, and simmer them gently for half an hour in as much water as wiU cover them. Strain the liquor, and thicken it with a little flour and butter. Boil it till smooth, season with pepper and salt, and add a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies, half a tea-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and a pinch of powdered mace. Mix a pint of shelled shrimps with the flakes of salmon, stir the whole into the sauce, and let it heat gently, hut it must not boil. Serve very hot. Time, about three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Salmon Roe, Pried.—Boil the hard roe of a salmon. When done enough, draw it on a sieve, and let it remain until cold. Cut it into thin slices, dip these in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat tu\ they are lightly and equally browned all over. Garnish witi parsley, and serve with tartar sauce. Salmon Roes, Caviare of.—Wash the roes thoroughly in milk and water, and drain them till dry. Let them lie in salt for two days. A pound of spawn will require two ounces and a half of salt. Take them up, lay them on a board before the fire, and let them remain for some hours. Crush them with a roUer, and with every pound of spawn put eight drops of spirit of nitre and as much pounded saltpetre as win cover a sixpence. Press the preparation into jars, cover the surface with writing-paper, and spread upon them a little cold lard. Tie bladder over the top, and keep in a warm place. Salmon Salad. —Take the remains of broiled salmon, or broil some slices specially for the purpose. Divide these into neat pieces two inches square and half an inch thick. Season, the pieces separately with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Make a Uttle clear aspic j elly, stoned with pepper, salt, vinegar, and chopped ravi- gote fscc Ravigote). Wash some lettuces or any other suitable salad, and drj- thorn per- fectly. Divide the hearts into halves, and with them make a border round a dish. Deco- rate this border ^vith picked prawns, hard-boiled eggs, beetroot, &c. Put a layer of salmon into the centre of the dish, and pour over it a little of the savoury a.spic. When it is se^ put another layer, and let this set again, andSAL (813) Sal repeat the layers, diminishing the cii-cles each time until at last thoy come to a point. Pour a little more jolly over all, place hfilf a hard- boiled egg on this, and fasten in it the heart of a cabbage-lettuce. Keep it in a cool place till wanted. Salmon Salad.—This is an entremet which is recun-ed to on economical principles when there is any salmon left. Let the salmon cool, and cut it nicely into hearts or square lozenges. Decorate these hearts with fillets of anchovies, pickled cucumbers, fine capers, and chopped eggs, to which add a few hearts of lettuce. Then make the sauce as follows:— If you have some jelly, make a kind of mayon- naise. Put three spoonfuls of oil, one spoonful of vinegar, with an equal quantity of jelly, seasoned with pepper, salt, and chopped herbs. Beat all these over ice till they are a white colour, and decorate your salad with this mayonnaise and a few lumps of jelly cut in different shapes. Make no decorations that are liable to tumble down. A plain good salad ^vill be eaten in preference to any other. Grand decorations are merely intended to ornament the centre of the table : what is to be eaten must be plain and good. Above aU things, avoid introducing artificial colours. Nature has supplied you with nasturtium, red and white beetroot, beans of two coloui's (white and green), chervil, tarragon, burnet, &c.; besides, you have white or yellow ome- lettes. Never put any fish into a salad of fowl, for if the fowl tastes of fish, what will you have your salads maigres taste of ? In summer-time you have asparagus, artichoke- bottoms, cauliflowers, &c. Salmon Salad with Jelly.—Take a piece of cold boiled salmon, weighing about two pounds, trim away the bones and skin, and di\'ide the flesh into squares. Place these squares in a dish, season, and baste with oil and vinegar. Have ready a plain border mould em- •bedded in ice; ornament the sides and bottom with gherkins, whites of egg, fillets of anchovy, and capers, always dipping the details in hali- set aspic jeUy. FiU the mould by degrees with cold jelly. Twenty minutes before serving, turn the mould out on to a cold dish, fill half the centre with chopped aspic j elly, and on it place the squares of salmon in layers, alternated with egg mayonnaise sauce. Serve with mayonnaise sauce in a sauce-boat. Salmon, Salted (Norwegian fashion).— In the northern parts of the Continent salmon is salted just like beef and pork. Before cook- ing the salted fish, let it steep in cold water for forty-eight hours: the time may be shorter ,or longer, howsver, according to the size of the piece. Lay it in a stewpan, moisten with plenty of cold water, and bring it to the boil- ing point. Remove it back, keeping the fish covered ; let it stand for ten minutes, then drain the salmon, place it on some boiled but not chopped spinach, pour some melted butter over, and send the fish to table. The spinach and melted butter may be served separately. Salmon, Sauces suitable for. — Shrimps, anchovy, lobster, Dutch, and green parsley sauces may aU be served with boiled salmon. SHced cucumber is frequently served with it, and is generally liked as an accompani- ment. Broiled salmon may have caper, maitre d'hotel, Indian, perigueux, aurora, ravigote, tartar, or Italian sauces. Oyster sauce, too, is sometimes served with salmon. Fennel sauce is now almost obsolete. Salmon, Scalloped (Cold Meat Cook- ery).—Lift the flesh from the remains of dressed salmon, remove the skin and bones, and tear the meat into flakes. Season these rather highly with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Mix with them one-fifth of their weight in flnely- grated bread-crumbs, and moisten them lightly with any cold sauce there may be, or, failing this, with clarified butter. Butter some scal- lop-shells, cover the inside with, finely-grated bread-crumbs, and shake off any that do not adhere. Put in the fish, cover it thickly with, crumbs, lay two or three little pieces on the top, and bake the scallops in a brisk oven till the surface of the crumbs is brightly browned. Serve the fish in the shell, neatly arranged on a hot dish, and covered with a folded napkin. If preferred, lightly-mashed potato may be mixed with the fish instead of bread-crumbs. If scallop-shells are not at hand, deep oyster-sheUs, well cleaned, may be used instead, or even shallow dishes will answer the same purpose. Time to bake the scallops, about a quarter of an hour. Sufficient, three or four scallops for a dish. Salmon, Scotch Mode of Dressing. —The fishermen on the coast of Scotland boil their salmon in strong brine, and serve it with a little of the liquor in which it was boiled. This plan they adopt both when the fish is boiled whole and when it is divided into pieces convenient for serving. Salmon, Smoked (A breakfast relish). —Cut a smoked salmon into thin slices. Wrap these in oiled paper, and broil them on a gridiron over a gentle fire. When they are heated on one side turn them upon the other. Let them get cold, pour a little lucca oil over them, and serve. Time to broil the slices, two minutes. Salmon Soup.—No. l. If the fish is very fresh this soup may be partially made with the liquor in which it has been boiled, though a quart of veal stock made from bones and fla- voured with vegetables will answer the purpose better. Take the remains of the salmon. Lift the flesh from the bones while it is still hot, and remove the skin. Supposing there is a poimd and a haH of salmon, pick out the best pieces, tear them into flakes, and then lay them aside. Put the rest in a mortar along with any re- mains of lobster there may be, especially the coral, a little cream, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, and two hard-boiled egg-yolks. Pound these ingredients to a smooth paste. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a saucepan; mix with this as much flour as it will take, beat it quickly with a wooden spoon till it is smooth and slightly brown, and moisten with a portion of the stock. Stir in the salmon paste, and add as much slock as will make the( 814 ) SAL soup of the consistency of thick cream. Season the soup with pepper, suit, and cayenne; throw in the tiakos of s.'ihnon that were sot aside, hit them got thoroughly hot without hoiling, and servo imuu'diately. No. 2. Take a pound and a half of fresh salmon, liaise the flesh froiu thi! hone, divide it into neat hllotH, and fry ihmo in hot fat till they are done enough. Put a quart of fish or veal stock into a stowpan with the heart of a lettuce finely shred and half a pint of young green peas. Simmer all gently for an hour, then ruh the soup through a fine hair sieve. Put it hack into the stewpan, season with salt and popper, put into it the fried fillets of salmon, and let them sinnner until they are heated through. Add another half pint of peas boiled separately, simmer all together for a few minutes, and serve. Time altogether, two hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pint when salmon is plentiful. Sufficient for five or six persons. Salmon, Soused.—Put say three pounds of cold di-cssed salmon into a deep dish. Put a pint of cold vinegar into a saucepan with half a pint of water. Add an inch of whole ginger, a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, three cloA'es, a blade of mace, a pinch of cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Bring the liquor to the boil; let it boil for ten minutes, pour it out, and let it get cold. Strain it over the salmon, and let it remain in a cool place for several hours. Serve with a little of the pickle in the dish with it. Time to boil the pickle, ten minutes. Probable cost when salmon is plentiful, about 3s. 8d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Salmon, Soused (another way). -—See Salmon, Dried or Kippered, To Dress.—No. 4. Salmon, Spiced.—Take a pound and a half of salmon. Put it in a saucepan with a pint o2 good vinegar and the third of a pint of water, and add an ounce of cinnamon, an ounce of whole black pepper, and a little salt. Boil the salmon in this till it is done enough. Let it get cold; then lay it closely in an earthen pan, pour the pickle and spices over it, and cover it closely to exclude the air. Keep it in a cool place till wanted. Salmon Trout.—Salmon trout, though much resembling salmon in flavour and ap- pearance, are really not of the same species. These fish seldom exceed two to three pounds in weight, and frequently reach only to three- quarters of a pound. Sahnon trout is justly esteemed a gi-cat delicacy, and may be di-essed according to the methods recommended both for salmon and trout, though boiling is the least agreeable method of cooking it. Salmon Trout;, Choosing of.—A.n food the sfilmon trout is m evoi-y respect inferior to the salmon : its flesh is sometimes white, some- times red. When largo, it is white, and is little valued; hut when small, it is generally red, but not always : it is never so red as sal- mon. By examining the inside of the throat through the gills the colour of the throat may be seen. If very red the flesh will prove red; and this is the kind that is most prized. Salmon Trout, Stuffed and Baked. —Take a good-sized trout, weighing two to three pounds. Clean and scale it, handling it as little as possible, and fill it with fish forcemeat. Put it into a baking-dish, and pour a marinade, made witli a spoonful or two oi vinegar boiled with vegetables and spices to flavour it, underneath and round it; lay a good slice of butter broken, into little pieces here and there on the fish, and bake in a moderate oven. Baste frequently with the marinade. When the fish is done enough keep it hot a few minutes. Strain the li(juor in the dish, add some stock to it to make the quantity of sfiuce required, thicken this with flour and butter, season with a little anchovy, the squeeze of a lemon, and a pinch of cayenne. Skin the trout, strain the sauc<i over it, and serve. The forcemeat may be made as follows:—Take two ounces of finely- shred suet and two ounces of grated bread- crumbs ; mix with these a tea-spoonful each of parsley, thyme, and majoram, and add a large pinch of salt, a pinch each of powdered mace, pepper, and lemon-rind. Bind the forcemeat together with the yolk of an egg, and it will be ready for use. Time to bake the trout, twenty to thirty-five minutes, according to size. Suf- ficient for two or three persons. SALMON TRODT Salmon Trout with Truffles.—Tak( a salmon trout weighing about two pounds, and of firm flesh; scale it, and draw it by the gills: wash and wipe it inwardly. Take four fresli peeled truffles, chop them, and pound them in a mortar, adding to them the third of their bulk of softened bread-crumbs and the same quantity of butter. Season with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, and fill the inside of the trout with thi;- preparation. Set the salmon trout on a buttered gratin-dish. Salt, baste with butter, and set it in a moderate oven to bake, basting often with butter. After twelve minutes, pour into the dish a small glassful of white wine and a few spoon- fuls of melted glaze; boil the liquid, and push the dish again into the oven. In a quarter of an hour the trout should be done enough; place it then on another dish. Dilute the fish stock with a Httle white wine, kt it boil, and thicken it with a piece of kneaded butter. Add twoSAIi SAIi ( 816) chopped raw truffles, continue boiling for two minutes longer; draw it back, and finish with a piece of fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, and some chopped parsley. Pour this sauce over the salmon trout, and send it to table. Salmon, Wholesomeness of.—As is the case with other oUy fish, salmon is less digestible than white fish generally for those of weak stomachs. Like other articles of food, too, which contain oil, it should never be eaten in a state of decomposition. It may prove highly injiirious; indeed, death has been the result of partaking of pickled salmon which had become somewhat decomposed. As food, salmon, when in high perfection, is one of the most nutritive and delicious of our fish; but as it is very oily it is rather heating, and with some persons not very digestible ; with most constitutions it requires the addition of condiments, as cayenne pepper and vinegar. It is thought by some that the addition of shrimp, lobster, and other Irich sauces, with which it is usually eaten, increases its indigestibility; but there does not appear to be any distinct know- ledge on this subject, so much depending upon peculiarity of constitution. It requires to be very well boiled, otherwise it is unwholesome; and when in the best condition and season it has a fine curdy matter between the flakes, which is a proof of its perfection, and the flavour is then very much superior; but this is seldom seen except near to the places where it is caught, as it melts away in keeping. Salmon with Caper Sauce.—Take several slices of fresh salmon, and let them marinade five or six hours in oil, salt, pepper, parsley, chives, and shallots, chopped fiiie; wrap the slices of fish in paper with all the marinade, and broU them; take them out of the paper, and send to table with caper sauce. Salmon with Matelot Sauce.—Make a marinade, in which stew the salmon. When it is done, pick o£E the scales carefully. Pour the marinade over the salmon to keep it hot. Then make a matelot sauce in the following manner:—Put a good bit of butter and two spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan, and make a roux. When it begins to colour, throw four or six onions into the roux, and let them melt; keep stirring with a wooden spoon. Then moisten with a bottle of red wine; add a few spoonfuls of the marinade in which you have stewed the salmon, some trimmings of mush- rooms, a bunch of parsley and green onions well seasoned, and a small piece of glaze; season the whole, and put a little sugar to correct the acidity of the wine; skim the grease, and keep the sauce thick. In case it should not be thick enough to mask with, add a small bit of butter Kneaded with flour, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, some essence of anchovies, the juice of a iemon, and some salt and pepper. Drain the fish, and cover it with the sauce, after having strained it through a tamis. Saloop, Decoction of. — Saloop is highly valued for its stimulating and nutritious properties, and a decoction may be made from it, which will form a beverage to be drunk as a substitute for beer or wine at meal-times. Procure the saloop in powder. Boil sugar and water to a thin syrup, and flavour this slightly with lemon-rind. Add a spoonful of the pow- der rubbed to as mooth paste with a little cold water, stir this into the syrup, boil aU together for a few minutes, let the liquor get cold, and serve. A little light wine may be added or not. Saloop is sometimes boiled with milk instead of water. Time to prepare, half an hour. Saloop, Milk {see Milk Saloop). Saloop or Salep.—The preparation known under this xiame consists chiefly of starch. It is obtained from the roots of the common male orchis [Orchis mascula). When boiled it constitutes an agreeable article of diet, and was commonly used in this country before the introduction of tea and coffee. Sassafras chips were frequently introduced into the de- coction for the purpose of giving it a flavour. The roots of the Orchis maculata also yield an inferior sort of salep. Although now almost entirely in disuse in this country, it is stiU em- ployed in Turkey and the East. The salep im- ported from India is in white oval pieces, hard, clear, and pellucid, ^vithout smell, and tasting like tragacanth. It is a light, bland, and nutritious article of diet. Salep is more nutritive than either arrowroot or sago, and consequently is better adapted for the con- valescent than the sick. Saloop Soup (Invalid Cookeky).—The following German^ recipe is given in the "Handbook of Foreign Cookery" of Amelia von JKochheim:—"Into a quart of good beef bouillon stir a table-spoonful of salep mixed in a little cold water; set it on the fire, and let it boil till it begins to thicken. It may be made also with wine or water instead of broth, in which case sugar, lemon, or sweetmeat may be stirred in. This soup is not only nourishing for weak persons, but is particularly recom- mended for children. A tea-spoonful of salep mixed in a little water, and a cupful of boiling milk or broth poured over it, should be given to a chUd daily when first weaned: it wiU be found to strengthen it greatly." Saloop. To Prepare.—Take a dessert- spoonful of the powder of saloop, and add it to a pint of boiling water. Keep stirring till the preparation becomes of the consistence of jelly, then add white wine and sugar to taste. Saloop, To Prepare (another way).— The preparation of saloop has been described in the "Philosophical Transactions" of the Royal Society. A Mr. Moult, making a com- munication to that Royal Society, says: "I send you my method of curing the common orchis root of our own country so as perfectly to resemble what comes to us from Turkey. The best time to gather the roots is when the seed is forming, and the stalk going to fall; for then the new bulb, of which the salep is made, is arrived to its fuU size, and may be known from the old one, whose strength is then spent by the preceding germination, by a white bud rising from the top of it, which is the germ of the plant of the succeeding yoar. This new root, being separated fi-om the stalk,SAL SAL (816 ) is to be washod in water, and a fine thin Hkiii that covers it to bo taken oft" with a BnuiU brush; or, by dipping in hot water, it will come otf with a coarse linen cloth. When a sufficient quantity of the roots is thus cleaned, they are to bo spread on a tin plato, and sot into an oven heated to the degree of a bread- oven, where they are to remain six, eight, or ten minutes, in which time they will have lost their milky whiteness, and have acquired a transparency like that of horn, but without being diminished in size. When they are ar- rived at this state, they may be removed to another room to dry and harden, which will be done in a few days; or they may bo finished in a very slow heat in a few hours. I have tried both ways with success. The orchis suited for the purpose grows spontaneously throughout the whole kingdom. It flourishes best in a dry sandy, barren soil. As the method of cul- tivating this root is so easy, I hope it will encourage the cultivation of so nutritive a vegetable. Its quality of thickening water is to that of fine flour nearly as two and a half to one, with this difference, that the jelly of saloop powder is clear and transparent, whereas that of flour is turbid and white." Dr. Percival, in his " Medical and Experimental Essays," men- tions that a mixture of mucilage of saloop with flour makes an excellent bread. Salpicons.—Salpi9ons are elegant little trifles composed of a mixture of poultry, game, fish, forcemeat, sweetbreads, ham, tongue, or foie gras, together with mushrooms, trufiies, artichokes, &c. The varit)us materials should be cooked separately, cut into dice, and heated in thick brown or white sauce, whichever is most suitable for them. The remains of meat and vegetables are frequently served in this way. Salpi9ons may either be served in a dish, ■with the different iAgredients divided by small sippets into compartments, then covered over •with bread-crumbs, and browned ; or they may be put into little patties, and served on a napkin neatly garnished with parsley. The latter is the more usual method. To prepare these patties, make some good puff paste; stamp it into small roimds with a cutter, two inches in diameter, put these on ice for a few minutes, then brush them over with beaten egg to glaze them. Dip a smaller cutter into hot water, and stamp the rounds through one- third of the thickness of the pastrj'. Bake the patties in a quick oven. When they are done, lift off the cover which was formed by the smaller cutter, and smooth the pastry. Have ready whatever is to form the contentb of the patties. Heat it in sauce, but on no account allow it to boil, or the meat will be hard; fiU the patties, put on the covers again, and serve. In large families, where a number of dishes are constantly prepared, the cost of salpicons consists principally in the trouble they take to prepare. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Salsify.—Salsify, which is the root of a plant sometimes called the "Oyster Plant" and " Purple Goat's Beard," is excellent when cooked. It is not so generally knoAvn as | it deserves to be. It is understood to possess stimulating properties. It may be cooked in various ways: it may be boiled and served with wliito maitro d'hotel, Dutch, onion, or Italian sauce; or it may be fried in batter, or stewed or scalloped, or made into croquettes. When fried, the salsifies are often served round boiled fish, and ruUier resemble fried smelts in taste. 1'he only inconvenience attending the use of salsify is tliat it requires to be boilwi for at least an hour to make it tender, and to re- move a cei-tain bitter flavour which appertains to it unboiled. The leaves of the plant ouglit to bo fresh, and the roots firm and black. To prepare the roots for dressing, cut off the ends of each, and scrape oft' the outer rind till the flesh is reached, which somewhat resembles the parsnip in colour and appearance. Rub them with lemon-juice or vinegar, and throw them into cold water until they are to be dressed. They will be better for lying in this for an hour or two, and will impart to the water a tinge of reddish brown. Exposure to the air in scrapiag or after boiling makes them turn black. The remains of salsify which has been boiled one day may be fried the next. Salsify roots, if left in the ground, will in the spring send up stout green shoots, which will be foimd excellent boiled. They are to be eaten like asparagus. Salsify (a la Creme).—Boil the roots tOl tender, or take the remnants of dressed salsify, and divide them into inch lengths. Dissolve a slice of butter in a saucepan, and work into this as much flour as it will take. When the paste is quite smooth, and before it is at all coloured, moisten with milk or cream, season with salt and cayenne, and stir it over the fire till it coats the spoon. Put in the slices of salsify, let them get hot, and dish in a pyramid form on a hot dish. Add a spoonful of lemon-juice to the sauce, pour it over the roots, and garnish with fxied sippets. Time altogether, one hour and a half. Salsify, Boiled.—The roots are boiled like carrots, or half boiled and grated fine, made into flat small patties, dipped in batter, and fried like oysters, which they strongly resemble ; hence the frequent name for salsify of vegetalale oyster. The yoimg flower-stalks, if cut in the spring of the second year, and dressed like asparagus, are not xmlike the latter, and make an excellent dish. Salsify, Boiled (another way).—Scrape the roots gently, so as to strip them only of the outside peel. Then cut them into pieces of iin equal size, about four inches, and throw them into water with a little vinegar or lemon- juice, to prevent their getting black, ^^'hen you have scraped a sufficient quantity, boil them in water enough for them to swim with ease ; put a httlt salt, a small bit of butter, and the juice of a lemon. They will generally be done in three-quarters of an hoiu-; yet it le better to ascertain the fact by taking a piece out of the water, and trying with a kn^e whether they are done enough, which is the case when the knife penetrates easily. Drain the salsifies, and send them -with whatever sauce you think proper. They are genoraUy served with veloute or French melted butter.SAL ^ (817 ) SAL Salsify, Boiled (M. Soyer's way).—"I do not know," says M. Soyer, " why this vege- table, which is held in such high esteem on the Continent, should be so little esteemed with us. I will here supply their manner of cooking it, and perhaps you ^vill give it a fair trial. Take twelve middling-sized ones, scrape them well till quite white, rub each -mth. lemon, and put it in cold water. Put into a stewpan a quarter of a pound of beef or mutton suet cut in small dice, one onion, a bit of thyme, a bay-leaf, a table-spoonful of salt, and four cloves; put on the fire, and stir for five minutes; add two table-spoonfuls of floui-, and stir well; then add three pints of water. When just boiling, put in your salsify, and simmer till tender. They will take nearly one hour. Dish on toast; sauce over with Dutch, maitre d'hotel, or onion sauce, or a very good demi-glaze, or Italian sauce. Should any remain, they may be made into fritters thus: Put them in a basin, add a little salt, pepper, two spoonfuls of vinegar, half a chopped shallot, and a spoonful of oil; place in the salsify, and let it remain for some hours. When ready to serve, make a small quantity of batter, dip each piece in it, and fry for five minutes in lard or fat; dish up with fried parsley over." Salsify, Boiled, Plain.—Scrape the roots lightly, either cut them into three-inch lengths, or leave them whole, and throw them into water with a little lemon till wanted. Put them into boiling salt and water, and keep them boiling quickly till tender. Drain them, arrange on toast upon a hot dish, and pour over them good melted butter—white sauce, Dutch sauce, maitre d'hotel sauce, onion sauce, or Italian sauce, however, may be used. Sometimes the salsify is boiled in sauce flavoured with ve- getables, herbs, and spices instead of water. Time to boU, about one hour. Probable cost, 'variable. Suflicient, a dozen roots for a dish. Salsify Croquettes.—Wash, scrape, and boil the salsify till perfectly tender. Rub it through a colander or mash it, and mix with the puree a little butter, cream, salt, cayenne, and lemon-juice: beat it till the ingredients are thoroughly mixed and constitute a stilf smooth paste. Place this on ice, and when it is quite cold, shape it into the form of corks. Dip these into clarified butter, or, if preferred, into beaten egg and grated bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are crisp and brown. Lift them up, drain, and serve. Salsify, Fried.—IMake a batter as fol- lows:—Take six spoonfuls of flour, a small pinch of salt, a spoonful of olive oil, and beat the whole with beer enough to make it into batter, but do not make it too liquid. Then beat the whites of two eggs, and when well beaten pour them into the batter, which you must keep stirring gently. Next put the vegetables, that are done beforehand and well drained in a cloth, into the batter; take them out again one by one, and throw them into the dripping. Use a skewer to prevent their sticking together. When fried of a fine colour and crisp, send them up with fried parsley in the centre of the dish, and a little pounded salt sprinkled over the vegetables. Salsify, Fried, or Salsify Fritters. —Boil the salsify till tender, or, if preferred, take the remains of dressed salsify. Drain and dry the roots by pressing them in a soft cloth. Make a little frying batter, dip each root separately into this, throw them into hot fat, and fry them till they are lightly browned. Take them up, drain them on a sieve, an(l serve very hot, piled high on a dish, and garnished with fried parsley. No sauce will be needed for them when dressed in this way. Sometimes the salsify is dipped into egg and bread-cnmibs instead of batter before frying. When batter is used it may be made as follows: —Put three table-spoonfuls of flour into a bowl with a salt-spoonful of salt and an ounce of fresh butter. Add as much lukewarm water as will melt the butter, and beat the whole to a smooth batter. Put it into a cold place, and ten minutes before it is wanted add the weU- whisked white of an egg. The salsify is occa- sionally soaked in vinegar, with a little pepper and salt, before it is fried, but this is not neces- sary. When it has been done, the roots should be thoroughly drained afterwards. Time, one hour to boil the salsify; to be fried till crisp. Salsify in Salad or Aspic.—Take salsi- fies enough to fill a mould of the size of the dish, then boil them in the same way as the others; drain and cut them the length of the mould; dress them like a chartreuse, dip them into a little aspic to stick them together all round the mould, and fill the middle with a salad of small bits of salsifies all the same size; then season with salt, pepper, a little oil, vinegar, and aspic; put in also some parsley chopped very fine; toss the whole, and put it in the mould into ice. At dinner dip a rubber into hot water, rub the mould all round with it, and turn the salad out on the dish to serve up. If you can procure a few French beans very green, they will make the salad appear better; while haricot beans are likewise very useful. Salsify Salad.—Boil the salsify till per- fectly tender, drain it, and cut it into inch lengths. Put it on a dish, and pour over it any simple salad-dressing, or toss it up lightly with on, vinegar, salt, pepper, and chopped ravigote. Garnish as fancy dictates. Time to boil the salsify, one hour. Salsify Sauce.—Scrape and wash two roots of salsify, rub them with lemon, and throw them into cold water tiU wanted. Boil the roots till perfectly tender in lightly-salted water. Drain them, cut them into small pieces, stir them into half a pint of melted butter, simmer a few minutes, and serve. Time, one hour and a quarter. Salsify, Scalloped.—Boil the salsify till tender, and wash it or rub it through a colander. Put it into a bowl, which is placed in a larger one half filled with boiling water. This is to keep the salsify hot. Work into the pulp a little butter and milk, or cream, and season with salt and pepper. Add a pinch of celery salt, if it is at hand. Butter some scallop-shells, cover them with grated bread-crumbs, and fill them with the puree. Lay grated bread over the salsify, and place little pieces of butter hereSAL ( 818) SAI. and there upon «ach scallop. Put them in a hot ovon, and lot thorn remain until the surface is hrightly browned. If scallop-sholls are not at hand, small dishes may be used instead. Time, one hour and a quarter to bake the scjiUops. Salsify, Stewed.—Scrape and wash the roots, and cut them into round slices. Boil thorn in as much water as will barely cover them, and wlien they are tender hft them out with a slice, and pour away all but a quarter of a pint of the liquor. Thicken this with flour and butter, stir half a cupful of cream into it, and season with pepper and salt. Let it sim- mer gently for a few minutes. Put the salsify into a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Time, one hour. Salsifies with Velout6.—Prepare as in the preceding recipe. Only take note that all sauces sent up with vegetables should be refined and thickened with fresh butter. Never forget to add salt and a little cayenne. Salt Butter, Choosing.—When you choose salt butter, taste a piece of the outside next the tub: if that is good and free from rankness, you may be certain the middle is; but the centre is often excellent when the sides are half spoilt; and those who sell it, knowing this, often give you to taste out of the middle. Salt Butter made Fresh. — Put a pound of salt butter in a wooden bowl kept very clean for the purpose, only with a quart of water, and work it well, either with your hand or a wooden spoon, for twenty minutes; then pour away the water, and wash it well in seven or eight different waters. Add a very little fine salt, and make it into pats. Salt Butter, To Make.—The common method of preserving butter is by salting it more or less. Salt is thoroughly worked into the butter, in the proportion of one or two ounces to the pound, according as the butter is required to be kept for a shorter or longer time. Dr. Anderson, in his "Recreations," re- commends another method of curing butter, by which, he says, with ordinary care, it may be kept for years in this climate, or carried to the East Indies, if packed so as not to melt. " Mix two parts of the best salt, one of sugar, and one of saltpetre, and beat them into a fine powder: one ounce of this preparation is suf- ficient for a pound of butter. This should be thoroughly mixed with the butter as soon as it is separated from the whey, and it should then be put into a clean cask. It should be packed very well down, to exclude the air thoroughly; the top should be covered with a sprinkling of salt, and melted butter poured over it to fill up every crevice before the cover is fixed down. Butter cured in this manner does not taste well till it has stood at least a fortnight after being salted ; but after that time it has a rich marrowy taste that no other butter ever acquires, and tastes so little salt that one would imagine it would not keep." Dr. Anderson had seen it perfectly sound when two years old in this climate. Salt, Common, Wholesomeness of. —So far as the health and vigour of the body are concerned, tliis is an article of the firbt importance. All animals require salt. It facili- tates the absorption of water into the systcim. and being a compound of chlorine and sodium, it seems to supply to the body a certain quantity of chlorine essential to the proper performantM) of some of the vital processes. It has a stimu- lant action upon the throat, guUct, and stomach, thereby promoting the secretion of saliva and of the gastric juice, and in this way facilitating digestion. To the digestive functions it is a natural and necessary stimulant, and the daily use of salt conduces much to the preservation of health and strength. Dr. Lankester, in his work " On Food," gives some curious informa- tion regarding the effects of this much-used condiment. " Let us," he observes, " inquire a little into the probable use of salt in our sys- tem. If we take a vessel and divide it into two parts by an animal membrane, such as exists in our own bodies, and then put salt and water on one side and spring water on the other side, so that they may both stand at the same level, in the course of time we shall find that the spring water will go down and the salt water wiL rise and flow over. The pure water, in fact, passes through the membrane, but the salt water will not. Now, this is precisely the relation of the blood to the membranes of the stomach. It is a solution of salt; and if we place in our stomachs pure water, it will pass through the membranes of the stomach just in the same way that it passes through the membrane in the vessel. This, then, appears to be one of the important functions performed by salt. It facilitates the absorption of water into the sys- tem. This wUl also account for the thirst pro- duced by taking excessive quantities of salt or salted food of any kind. ' 'Another action of salt to which physiologists have attached importance is, that it suppUes to the system a certain quantity of chlorine, which is necessary to the perfection of some of the vital processes. Thus, during digestion, a fluid is thrown out of the stomach called gastric juice. This fluid contains free hydrochloric acid, and the chlorine of this compound could be only furnished by the salt taken with the food. " Then salt appears to facilitate certain changes in the system which are beneficial to health, but which are diflicult to explain exactly. The nature of these changes is indicated by such an experiment as the following:—A num- ber of oxen were taken by a great French chemist and experimentalist; he fed one set of them with salt, and another set of the same weight without salt. For a short time there appeared no difference, but at the end of a month the cattle that had the salt were sleek and well-favoured, while the others had rough coats and looked less comfortable; and so it went on for two years, and at the end of that time there was no doubt that the healthier animals were those which had the salt. Then- seemed to bo some improvement in the quality of the blood going on by the action of the salt. The practice of placing pieces of rock-salt in meadows for horses, cows, and sheep to lick, is quite common in tuia country. It is also wellSAL SAL P ( 819 ) known that marshes which have been over- tlowed by suit water give an improved appear- ance to the stock which gnizes in them. " If you take a very small quantity of hydro- chloric acid and salt and put it into water, and then add to it a portion of the white of an egg, and expose it to a temperature of 98", the egg begins to dissolve; but if you put it into wuter without the salt it does not dissolve. From this experiment you see there is this first action of salt in assisting digestion; you may see from this the propriety of adding small quantities of salt to our food. There are some persons who, from a morbid fancy, will not take it; such per- sons are preserved from danger by the cook who puts it into puddings and cooked meats, and the baker who puts it into the bread. " Such, in fact, appears to be the importance of salt in the blood, that a special provision appears to exist for maintaining, within certain, limits, of course, the quantity of salt at a given point. For we find that if we feed our animals either on food containing a large quantity or only a small quantity of salt, that the quantity of salt in the blood remains the same, any excess being thrown off from the system. Of course a long abstinence from salt in food will lead to a diminution in the blood, and ultimately to disease." The craving for salt appears to be universal, with one or two exceptions, noticed by Professor Johnston in the following extract from his "Chemistry of Common Life:"—"The wild buffalo frequents the salt-licks of North-western America; the wild animals in the central parts of Southern Africa are a sure prey to the hunter who conceals himself beside a salt spring; and our domestic cattle run peacefully to the hand that offers them a taste of this delicious luxury. From time immemorial it has been known that without salt man would perish miserably; and among horrible punishments entailing certain death, that of feeding culprits on saltless food is said to have prevailed in barbarous times. Maggots and corruption are spoken of by ancient writers as the distressing symptoms which saltless food engenders; but no ancient or unchemical modern could explain how such sufferings arose. Now we know why the animal craves salt, why it suffers discomfort, and why it ultimately falls into disease, if salt is for a time withheld. Upwards of half the saline matter of the blood (57 per cent.) consists of common salt, and as this is partly discharged every day through the skin and the kidneys, the necessity of continued supplies of it to the healthy body becomes sufficiently obvious. The bile also contains soda as a special and indispensable constituent, and so do all the cartilages of the body. Stint the supply of salt, therefore, and neither will the bile be able properly to assist the digestion nor the cartilages to be built up again as fast as they naturally waste. " And yet, what shows this craving for salt to arise out of a refined species of instinct, similar to that which may have fixed the national food of Ireland, is the fact that neither men nor animals are everywhere eager for or even fond of salt. Mungo Park describes salt as 'the greatest of all luxuries in Central Africa.' But the Damaras, in South-western Africa, never take salt by any chance; and even Eiuupeans travelling in this country never feel the want of it. 'Half of this people,' says Galton, 'live solely on pig-nuts, the most worthless and in- digestible of food, and requiring to be eaten in excessive quantities to afford nourishment enough to support Life.' Their neighbours, the Namaquas, set no store by salt; the Hottentots of Walfisch Bay ' hardly ever take the trouble to collect it;' and even the wild game in the Swakop do not frequent the salt rocks to lick them as they do in America. " In the colds of Siberia also, as in the heats of Africa, a similar disregard of salt sometimes prevails. ' Most of the Russians at Berezov,' says one writer, ' eat their food without a particle of salt, though that condiment can be obtained at a trifling cost: a sufficient quantity of it being always kept at the Government magazine and sold at a moderate price.' " The explanation of these cases, so inconsis- tent with our general experience, is f ovmd in the refined instinct of the body itself. When the food we usually eat conveys a sufficiency of salt into the body, it has no occasion for more. It therefore feels no craving for it, shows no liking to it, and takes no trouble to obtain it. And, doubtless, in the kind of food and drink con- sumed in the Damara country, and by the Russians of Berezov, either more salt than is usual is conveyed into the stomach, or their habits render less salt necessary to them or cause less to be daily removed from their bodies." Salt Fish..—Salt fish requires to be soaked before being dressed, the time being regulated by the hardness and dryness of the fish. The water should be changed two or three times during the process, and the fish should be brushed and washed when it is taken out. For very dry fish thirty-six hours' soaking will be needed, the water being changed at least four times. In ordinary cases twenty-four hours' soaking will be sufficient. It should be re- membered that the fish should be put in to soak Jlesh downwards. Boiled parsnips and egg sauce are the usual accompaniments to salt fish, which is occasionally served also with hard- boiled eggs, chopped small, strewn over it. For a change, the fish may be garnished with eggs cut into quarters and parsley. It should be dished on a neatly-folded napkin placed on a hot dish. Salt Pish (a la Maitre d'Hotel).—Boil the fish in the usual way, free the flesh from skin and bone, and tear it into flakes. Mix a des- sert-spoonful of flour smoothly with two or three ounces of good butter. Stir them in a clean saucepan till the butter is dissolved, then add a pinch of salt and the third of a pint of boiling water. Stir the whole over the fire for a few niinutes, and add a table-spoonful of chilli vinegar and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Let all boil up once. Put the flaked fish into a saucepan, pour the sauce over it, and stir it over a gentle fire till it is quite hot. Turn it upon a hot dish, put round it boiled parsnips or mashed potatoes, and serve. The remains of cold salt fish may be di-essed in this way. Time, a few minutes to heat the fish inSAL ( 820 ) ^ SAL tho sauce. Probable cost, 4d. to lOd. per pound. Sufliciont, ODO pound fur three or four porsons. Salt Pish, Boiled—Soak the fish for twenty-four hours, changing the water three or four times. Brush and wash it well, and if it is still hard soak it in lukewarm water. If very hard and salt, thirty-six hours' soaking will be required. Put it in a saucepan, cover with plenty of cold water, and heat it very gently. Kemove the scum as it rises, and keep the water simmering only till the fish is done enough. It should never be allowed to boil fully. Serve on a hot napkin with egg sauce in a tureen. The egg sauce may be prepared as follows:— Boil three eggs till hard, and cut them into i pieces the size of a pea. Put these into a saucepan with a quarter of a pint of good molted butter already boiling, and stir them over the fire three minutes longer. Serve immediately. Salt fish is generally supplied by the fishmongers in a condition to require very little soaking. Time to simmer the fish, half an hour to one hour, according to its thick- ness—the time to be calculated from the moment when it is almost boiling. Probable cost, 4d. to lOd. per pound. Salt Fish Dressed, B-^chauflfe of.— No. 1. Free the flesh from skin, and tear it into flakes. Beat the remains of boiled parsnips to pulp, moisten them with cream or milk, add butter and flour to thicken, and season with pepper and mixed mustard. Add the flaked fish, and stir the preparation over the fire till it is hot. It must not boil. No. 2. Tear the fish into flakes; mix these with double the quantity of mashed potatoes, add a slice of fresh butter and two or more hard- boiled eggs finely minced. Heat the prepara- tion over a gentle fire, and serve with egg dauce. No. 3. Tear the fish into flakes, and mix it with a hard-boiled egg finely minced. Make a circular wall of mashed potatoes, put the fish into the centre, and heat the whole in a brisk oven. Serve with egg sauce. No. 4. Tear the fish into flakes; put it into a sauce- pan with as much cream thickened with flour and butter as will cover it. Let it heat gently, and serve with egg sauce. No. 6. Tear the fish into flakes, and mix with it double its quantity in mashed potatoes. Moisten the preparation with cream, season with pepper and salt, and bind together with a beaten egg. Make it into small balls. Dip these in beaten egg, roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat. When they are brightly browned, drain them, and serve on a neatly- folded napkin. Salt fish thus prepared may be pressed into a buttered basin, and browned in the oven: after which it should be turned carefully upon a hot dish, and garnished with minced egg and minced beetroot. No. 6. Tear the fish into flakes, and take half the quantity of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Fill a baking-dish with alternate layers of fish and bread-crumbs, season each one with pepper and dry mustard, and upon the uppermost layer (which should consist of crumbs) stick here and there little pieces of fresh butter. Pour into tho dish as much cream or new milk r.B wUl moisten the preparation. Bake in a well-heated oven, and serve. Time to bake, half an hour for a moderate-sized dish. Salt Pish Pie.—Soak and boU the fish, and divide the flesh (freed from skin and bone) into neat squares. Take double its quantity in imrtially-boiled potatoes thinly sliced, together with as many partially-boiled and shced onions as may bo agreeable. Butter a pie-dish thickly, fill it with layers of sliced potato, fish, hard- boiled eggs and onions; season each layer with pepper and dry mustard, itnd place little pieces of fresh butter here and there in the pie. Pour over all a little egg sauce, cover with good pastry, and bake in a well-lieated oven. When the pastry is sufficiently baked the pie will be done enough. If liked, mashed potatoes may be used to cover-the pie inKtead of pastry, and the onions can be omitted altogether. A very good potato pastry may be made with salt fish (see Potato Pastry). Salt in Bread.—In bread-making, salt is always used, not only on account of its fla- vour, to destroy the insipid raw taste of the flour, but because it is thought to make the dough rise better. Salt is used either by mixing it at first with the fiour, or by dis- solving it in the water. A sack of flour made into bread will require, on an average, five pounds of salt. Salt Leg of Mutton.—In hot weather, when there is a danger that mutton wUl not keep, it may be salted to preserve it. In some parts of Scotland this joiat is regularly salted, dried, and smoked, and afterwards boiled. To salt the mutton, pound an ounce of bay-salt with half an ounce of saltpetre. Pub this mixture equally and thoroughly into every part of the joint, and let it lie all night. Drain and wipe it, then salt it well with common or bay- salt. Let it lie for ten days, turning and rub- biag it every day. Hang it to drj^ or boil it from the pickle. Salt, Spiced.—Mix thoroughly half an ounce of grated nutmeg, half an ounce of powdered cloves, a quarter of an ounce of white pepper, and an eighth of an ounce of cayenne. Pound the ingredients, and pass them through a fine sieve. Mix with them a quarter of an ounce of powdered thyme, a quarter of an oimce of powdered bay-leaf, a quarter of an ounce of mixed marjoram and rosemary, and lastly half a pound of dried and powdered salt. Put the preparation in a bottle, stopper it closely, and store in a dry place till wanted. Salt, To Prepare for Table.—Purchase salt in limips, and store it in a dry place. If it is not perfectly dry, put it before the fire to make it so before using it, and then let it cool before putting it into the salt-cellar, or it will harden into a lump. A\Tien wanted for use, rub one lump upon another, and in this way powder the salt, which will be quite fine. Pile the salt in the saltcellar, and smooth the top by pressing it with a knife or table-spoon. Salt. Varieties of.—There arc different kinds ot salt, and different modes of preparing it. For example :—1. Bay-salt, which consists of two kinds, the one prepared by evaporationSAL C 821 ) SAX. from sea-water, the other from salt-springs and lakes. The former method is practised in Hampshire, France, Spain, and Portugal; the latter in the island ot Cape Verd and many- parts of America. 2. Marine or Newcastle salt, which is extracted from sea-water when boiled. 3. Brine or fountain salt, prepared in a similar manner from brine taken from rivers, lakes, &c. 4. White salt—one kind prepared from sea-water, after having been subjected to the sun's heat and exposed to the air; another kind, extracted from sand or stones, impreg- nated with saline particles. 5. Kefined rock salt, boiled from a solution. 6. Salt-upon- salt, procm-ed from an amalgamation of bay and other salts, and much used by the Dutch in preserving herrings. Salt-water Fish, Wholesomeness of.—Salt-water fish are the best of any, as their flesh is more sohd, more agreeable and healthy, less exposed to putrescency, and less viscid. They possess these excellent qualities when fresh; when salted, they have all the properties of salt flesh, and consequently its disadvantages. Those fish which have scales are in general the most easily digested and the best: and of all these the fresh herring appears to deserve the preference. The herring, the whiting, the sole, the cod-fish, the dory, the turbot, and the flounder, are perhaps the most digestible and best of fish. Salmon, mackerel, lobster, and most kinds of sheU-fish, are very ditficult of digestion and unwholesome. Salting Meat.—Full instructions for salt- ing the various joints are given under the different headings, nevertheless it may be useful to present in a concise form general instructions for the process. The meat should always be brought in as soon as the animal is killed, the kernels, sinews, and pipes should be at once removed, and the blood and moisture wiped away. Then, if liked, it may be allowed to hang for a few days in cool weather to become tender; in hot weather it should be im- mediately salted. Exceedingly hot and exceed- ingly cold weather are equally unfavourable for salting meat. A handful of common salt should first be sprinkled over the meat, then it should be allowed to lie on a dish in a cool place for twenty-four hours, and afterwards the brine should be drained from it, the moisture wiped off, and the salting process continued. The great art of salting meat consists in rubbing the salt thoroughly and equally into every part, between the muscles and under the flaps, and into the places from which the kemek were taken; the holes in which the butcher's skewers were pushed ought also to be filled with salt. The meat ought to be turned every day, and rubbed in the brine which flows from it. It ought to be examined too, and if any mouldiness gathers on any portion of it, that part should be cut off, and the place rubbed with salt. The quantity of salt used must be regulated by the weight of the joint, which should be rubbed plentifully in every part with the salt-mixture, and afterwards well covered with it. The salt should be heated and pounded before being used. Bay-salt, though mors expensive, gives a better flavour to meat than common salt, saltpetre reddens it, but makes it hard and dry. As Little should be used as possible. A little sugar makes the meat mellow. An ounce of saltpetre will be sufficient for four pounds of sugar and salt, and one pound of sugar may be put with four pounds of salt. Sometimes a minced onion and a spoonful of poxmded herbs are mixed with the salt—they help to make the meat savoury. Meat which is salted dry will lose in weight, whereas if it is pickled, that is, if it is immersed completely in liquid brine, it will gain slightly in weight, and keep longer. Pickle which is once made can be used again and again if boiled up occasionally, and if fresh salt is put in to make up for loss. The meat should be kept under the pickle, and if necessary a board should be laid upon it to ensure this. The tub, too, in which the meat is cured should be kept covered with a lid or with a blanket folded into two or three thicknesses. Pickle made in the following proportions will be found excellent and very strong. Three pounds of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, half a pound of sugar, and two gallons of water. Boil half an hour, skim, and cool. When the pickle is boiled up with additional salt, it should be carefully skimmed each time, as the portion which would make it spoil will rise in scum, and can be removed. A piece of meat can be kept two or three weeks in this pickle in cool weather. When it has been kept in so long, it should be soaked in water for an hour or two before being dressed or it will be too salt. Pork needs to remain in pickle longer in proportion to its weight than beef. Salting Meat (additional particulars).— The preservation of meat by the process of salt- ing is that which is universally practised in the domestic economy of the British Isles. Long as this method has been known, the mode of its operation has never been clearly explained. Meat preserved by salt, as might be expected, becomes hard and ill-tasted if very long kept. But if it be withdrawn from the salt in a rea- sonable time, and the water entirely removed by drying the meat in the &ir, it will keep with much less injury; and if it be dried in the smoke of burning peat, turf, or wood, the vege- table tar and pyroligneous acid generated by the combustion will not only communicate an agreeable taste, but will considerably assist in its preservation. This mode of preserving is adopted in the case of himg beef, bacon, hams, tongues, and various kinds of fish. Smoked provisions are, however, apt to disagree with some persons, and there are instances known of empyreiraia even proving poisonous. The antiseptic power of salt must appear to be a most fortunate property of that substance, when we consider how great a relish mankind have had for it in all ages. " Can that," says Job, " which is unsavoury be eaten without salt ? or is there any taste in the white of an egg ? " Much better for us would it be to be deprived of all that remains of the tribe of condiments than this one. It should, however, be observed that, according to the experiments of Sir John Pringle, salt, Uke sugar, is only an antiseptic in largo quantities; he found that aSAL ( 822 ) SAL enmW quantity, so far from prevonting, pro- moted putrefaction. From this fact, tho Kuga- cious physician conchulod tliat, un wu use salt at tiihio in siiiall (juautitius only, its use is to help digostioii by its septic power, tho moat being thus softened and disaolved. It is not a matter of indilferenco what kind of salt is employed for curing meat and lisli. Bay-salt is preferred. This is in large crystals —it is obtained by spontaneous evaporation of salt water. The superiority of Dutch cured herrings has been ascribed to tho use of bay- salt. Moat-salters prefer this coarse-grained and evidently impure quality ; and perhaps this very impurity adds to its antiseptic power. Dilferent kinds of salt seem also to diifer in their degree of saltness, as one sugar is sweeter than another. Tho crystals of salt which may be picked from a bottle of real Gorgona ancho- vies is most intensely saline, and the peculiar flavour of this favourite fish seems to be greatly aided by the piquancy of the salt. The fine- grained salt of Cheshire, commonly used in London, penetrates much sooner; and meat salted in London has more taste of the salt in four days than it acquires in Dublin in a week, on account of the coarse grain of the salt manufactured in the latter place. The best mode of salting meat for long keeping is perhaps the following:—For this purpose the meat ought to be of the best pos- sible quality, for as the natural effect of the process is to deteriorate the meat, unless it was originally excellent, a sufiiciently good quality to render it agreeable will not remain. The main object to be kept in view ought to be to extract as much of the animal moisture as possible with the least possible quantity of salt, and therefore with the least injury to the soft- ness of the fibre. To effect this object with beef, select the meat perfectly free from taint; let all the kernels be cut out; sprinkle it all over with fine salt; laj'' it on an inclined plane for about six hours, so that its juices, which the salt will separate and dissolve in, may as much as possible drain off. Let it be be then wiped, well rubbed with baj'^-salt, and placed between two strong boards, with a very heavy weight on the upper one. The combined action of the salt and pressure will cause the extrusion of more juices. In twenty-four hours, let the meat be wiped and rubbed again, and laid under the pressing boards. The same wiping, salting, and pressing are to be re- peated in twenty-four hours more. In this way, the weight being added to every day, the meat may be kept till it is salt enough for the purpose. The time will be shorter or longer, according to the fancy of the consumer; but if the meat is to be kept for store, it must not be left exposed to the air between the boards more than a few days. After being removed from the pressing boards, the pieces must be packed closely in a perfectly tight cask, with salt between and around. Instead of using salt alone, it may be mixed with one-eighth of its weight of saltpetre, to redden tho meat. If there be any advantage in sugar for preventing hardness, the quantity ought to bo larger than what is usually employed; for, as already ob- servedjU sniull quantity promotes putrefaction: the sugar ought not to be under one-third of the weight ol the salt. M. Ude, in liis direc- tions fur iiiakiiig haiiiH, employs equal weights of Bugav and salt; and others use twice as much sugar as salt. In the Journal des ConnaissanccH UntMlles, the following mode of making mutton liams in given, and it niiglit, jjcrluips, be followed with great advantage as a general process for pre- serving meat:—The mutton must be fat. Two ounces of sugar must be mixed with one ounc»; of common salt and half a spoonful of salt- petre. The meat is to be rubbed with this, and then pkced in a tureen. It must be beaUin and turned twice a day during three consecu- tive days, and the scum which ajmes from the meat having been taken oft', it is to be wiped, and again rubbed with the mixture of sugar, salt, and saltpetre, in the same proportions as before. The next day it should be again beaten, and the two operations ought to be repeated alternately during ten days, care being taken to turn the meat each time. It must be exposed to smoke for ten days. Hams thus prepared are generally eaten cold. There can be little doubt that this mode of preserving, if applied generally, would be foimd an excel- lent one; and it will be readily admitted that any process which preserves meat with so small a quantity of salt is valuable. It is a common opinion that salting greatly impairs the nutritiveness of meat; and in proof the fact is adduced that all the juices of the flesh run out and form brine. I believe that the nutritive qualities are scarcely impaired by a few days' salting, notwithstanding the great quantity of gravy-like juice which pours out. But there can be little doubt that the action of long-continued salt is to corrugate and harden the fibre, to render it somewhat less easily digestible, and probably to lessen its nutritiveness. All meats are not rendered equally salt or hard by exposure to the action of salt during the same time. Pork becomes much less salt than beef. For a comparison, I caused a lap of pork and a lap of beef to be salted as nearly as possible in the same ma,nner. They were kept for three months, at the end of which time the pork was just as it ought to be, but the beef was, to my taste, uneatable: it had taken up so much of the salt. It is on this account that pork is preferred for long voyages: it takes up less salt than other meats, and with that smaller portion it keeps as well. I believe there is another reason. Pigs that are pur- chased for sea-store are never fed with the same care, abundance, and cleanHness as those intended for home consumption: bad feeding, filth, and ill-usage are highly detrimental to pigs, their flesh proves soft, rank, and less agreeable. But such pork is liable to a much greater objection—it is less wholesome; it is apt for a few hours to more or less derange the digestive organs, and to produce considerable disturbance in weakly constitutions. Such un- wholesome pork is greatly improved by being kept a month in salt; and that it may be totally cured of all noxious quality, the time should be extended to three months. Bad pork will often make tolerable bacon, but so farSAL SAIT ( 823 ) onlv as saliibritv is concerned. After six months, ordinary' pork, if stiU kept in salt, o-enerally begins to be too salt and to acquire a new flavour not very agreeable, in which that of a bloated herring is sometimes distmguish- *^It is a curious fact, and one which it is useful to be acquainted Avith, that the saltness of meat which has been preserved in brine increases even after the meat has been removed from the brine. Thus if, in winter, a large piece of fresh beef be cut into equal parts of an equal quality, and both are immersed during the same length of time in the same brine, containing more salt than the water can hold dissolved—suppose for fourteen days—one of them, when dressed, will prove sufficiently salt to please many palates. Let the other, taken out of the brine at the same time, be set aside for six weeks, and it will be found on being duly boiled that it has grown by far more salt than the former, although, apparently, they were both exposed to the action of the salt during the same length of time. It should always be borne in mind that the true art of preserving meat by salting is to do so with the smallest quantity of salt that can be made to serve the purpose. Salzgurden.—This is a German pickle made of sour cucumbers. The cucumbers should be chosen half grown, smooth, and seedless. Let them lie in water for twelve hours, then wipe them dry. Get an unglazed earthenware crock, or a perfectly clean small barrel, and lay at the bottom of it a layer of vine- leaves, some cherry-leaves, and two or three walnut-leaves. On the top of these place cucumbers, packing them close, with a leaf or two between them; cover the layer with wild cherry-leaves. Lay down another layer of cucumber, with here and there a sprig of green dill, and half a walnut-leaf. On these place another layer of vine and cherry-leaves, and proceed in this way till the crock or barrel is. full. Prepare a weak brine : say, in the pro- portion of a handful of salt to a gallon of water. Pour this over the cucumbers till all are quite covered. Put on a cover, with a weight on the top, and set the vessel in a warm place for a few days. When bubbles begin to appear on the brine, remove it to a cool and shady situation In three or four weeks the salzgurden will be ready for eating. Some makers of salzgurden add to the brine a cupful of vinegar, or a few spoonfuls of tartaric acid, and sprinkle a few cloves or allspice here and there, with a bay- leaf and some sliced horseradish. Samphire.—The samphire {Crithnmm ma- ritimum) has a poetical interest, and is one of the plants of Shakespeare. The " dangerous trade" of the samphire-gatherer arises from its growing on the sides of steep cliffs; and one of the most ornamental features of the white cliffs of Albion is the dark green patches which this plant produces where it grows. It is gathered for the sake of the pleasant oil which is diffused throughout the pknt, and which renders it an agreeable addition to our food, especially when it is used in the form of pickle. Samphire is jfceraUy gathered where it grows wild, but is sometimes very successfully cultivated m beds of sand, rich earth, and rubbish, occasionally sprinkled with a Httle salt. Samphire is about as wholesome as pickles generally. Samphire, Pickled.—True samphire is now a rare plant. That which ordinarily passes for it is a glasswort common enough in salt marshes and on low muddy shores not often covered by the tide. This glasswort is not aromatic, but is full of soda; and its English name is derived from its having at one time been employed in the manufacture of glass. In country places it is sometimes boiled and eaten as a vegetable, from faith in its healing virtues. To pickle samphire, divide it into sprigs, linse these well, and let them drain in the sun until the leaves begin to droop. Put them into jars, and pour over them hot vinegar slightly salted. Spice must not be introduced, or it will over- power the natural aromatic flavour of the samphire. Glasswort may be pickled in the same way, but for it the vinegar should be stronglj'' flavoured with spice. Samphire, Pickled (another way).—The samphire grows on the rocks all round the coast of Britain. For pickling it must be gathered when green. Soak it for two days in a brine of salt and water. Then put it in a stone jar with some peppercorns and a little allspice. Cover with vinegar, and put the jar in an oven, where it must be well attended to. It must boil only until it is green and crisp ; if it is allowed to become soft it is spoiled. When quite cold, cork and bladder the jar, and put it by for use. Sandboy's Irish Stew.—From a fine neck of mutton cut off the best chops, trim as much of the fat as is necessary, and put them away; soak the remaining part of the neck in cold water, and wash clean; put the whole into a saucepan with just enough water to cover it, and let it simmer gently for three or four hours; strain it into a basin, and when cold skim off the fat. Take a pint of this stock, put it into a saucepan with five or six onions, lay the chops which you had put by over them, put in a dozen Jind a half of ppehid( 824 ) SAN potatoes, and pepper and salt to tasto, and lot the whole sinunor gently for two lioura ; if more potatoes aro required, not to bo done so mucli, put thorn in half an hour boforo serving. It is an improvement to put in a little mush- room ketehup or two dozen oysters. Sand Cake.—Take half a pound of butter and stir it to a cream, then add the yolks of twelve eggs and half a lemon-peel grated. Add to this preparation by degrees a quarter of a pound of fine Hour, a quarter of a pound of potato-flour, and half a pound of sifted sugar. When these ingredients are thoroughly incor- porated add the whites of the eggs whipped to a snow. Stir well, and bake in a moderate oven. The sand cake will be made consider- ably richer by adding half a wine-glassful of rum or brandy and the whole of the grated lemon-peel. Sand Cake (another way).—Take half a pound of fine flour, a quarter of a pound of potiito-flour, half a pound of warmed butter, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, six eggs, and the rind and juice of a lemon. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and bake in a moderate oven. When the cake is three-parts done, draw it gently to the mouth of the oven, and strew the following quickly over it:—Two or three ounces of almonds cut small and mixed with one tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon and two ounces of powdered sugar. Place the cake back in the oven to finish baking, taking care that the almonds on the top do not become too brown. Sand Cake with Marmalade (a Ger- man recipe).—Take one pound of butter, half a pound of almonds blanched and pounded, the grated peel of a lemon, three-quarters of a pound of flour, four table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, and seven eggs. Work these ingre- dients into a paste, roU out, and divide into three round cakes. Between each cake place a layer of any sort of marmalade at hand, and bake slowly; when half baked, pour an icing over the whole, and finish baking. Sandwiches.—Sandwiches, when properly prepared, constitute a convenient, elegant, and palatable dish for suppers or luncheons, but they have fallen into bad repute on account of the careless manner in which they are often made. They are composed of different articles introduced between two thin slices of buttered bread. Amongst those commonly used may be mentioned—dressed chicken, game, beef, veal and ham, tongue, or mutton, potted meats, fish pastes of various kinds, hard-boiled eggs, German and other sausages, forcemeats, pounded cheese, stewed fruits, jellies, &c. Sometimes sliced pickles are sprinkled over the meat, and a suitable seasoning should always be added. Whatever the materials used, it is necessary, in order to make sandwiches properly, that two or three rules be observed :—Ist, what- ever meat, &c., is used, let it be well dressed, freed from skin, gristle, and all unpalatable portions, and it should be cut up into mouthfuls. The last is a most important point, and one not often attended to. 2nd, pare the crust from a stale loaf of bread, cut it into neat slices an eighth of an inoli in thickness, and butter these evenly and thinly with fresli butter. A loaf baked in a tin for the purpose, and called a sandwich loaf, may bo ordered from the baker when it is known two days beforehand that the sandwiches will be wanted, ard. Season the cut-up meat with mustard, salt, pepper, or whatever is required, and lay it between two shces of buttered bread, press it with the hand to make the ingredients adhere, and cut the sandwiches into squares with a sharp knife. To dish them, fold a napkin neatly, and lay it on a dish; put the sandwiches in circles upon it, one lapping half over the other, and garnish with parsley. If not wanted immediately, lay a napkin wrung out of cold water upon the sandwiches to keep them moist. Sandwiches ought, however, to be served when freshly made. Recipes for the following sandwiches will be found under their respective headings :— Aberdeen Hunter's Adelaide Irish American Italian Cheese Jam Chicken and Ham Lemon Egg Liebio's Fish Pastry Ham Potato In former days the term sandwich was applied exclusively to bread with thin slices of ham, tongue, or beef, but of late a great variety of materials have been used. A cele- brated Glasgow confectioner has the credit of making no fewer than a hundred different kinds of sandwiches. Sandwiches in Large Quantities.— "In making a large quantity," says M. Soyer, " a stale quartern loaf should be taken and trimmed free from all crust, and cut into slices the eighth of an inch in thickness, slightly buttered, and then thin slices of meat, nicely trimmed, may be laid on, and covered with another slice of bread, and then cut into eight parts. Should they be cut some time before they are wanted, they ought to be put one over the other, as they thus keep moist; a little mustard and salt may be added to the meat if preferred. Some thin slices of gherkin may be added to the meat." Sandwiches, Superior (for suppers and luncheons).—Cut the flesh of dressed fowl, game, or sheU-fish, into neat pieces. Laj' these upon thin slices of toast, and cover them with suitable sauce made very thick so as to adhere. Mayonnaise sauce may be used for poultrj' and fish, and salmis sauce is suitable for game. Garnish the surface of the sandwiches with white of egg chopped^ small, finely- shred tarragon leaves, and minced pickle or truffle. Dish the sandwiches in a circle, pile small salad or lettuces finely shred in the centre, and place a border of clear aspic jelly cut into dice round the dish. Or mince cold game finely, and stir the mince into a little stiff salmis sauce. Minced mushroom, truflle, or tongue ma^ be added if liked. Set the prepara- tion upon "ice, and when it is stiff put a layer( 820 ) SAN SAN ■between two slices of buttered bread. Seni'e in the usual way. Sangaree.—This is a sort of punch fre- quently drunk in the West Indies. It is com- posed of half madeira and half water, acidulated with lime-juice and sweetened with sugar. Sangaree (American).—Put a quarter of a pint of madeira or port into a large tumbler. Add two or three lumps of sugar and as much hot or cold water as will fill the glass. Grate nutmeg over the preparation, and serve. Sangaree, Danish.—The following is a Danish method of making sangaree. Take three bottles of red wine, and mix with them a pint and a half of water; add a whole nut- meg grated, and cinnamon and sugar to taste. Set the preparation on the fire, and let it boil up; then take it off, and let it stand with the cover on till cold. Strain and bottle. Sangaree, Strong. —The following re- cipe for "The Admiral's Strong Sangaree" is given by Mr. James Eobinson. Put into a stone jar a pint and a half of cherry brandy, a quarter of a pint of lime-juice, three pints of madeira wine, thi-ee quarts of French brandy, three-quarters of a pound of preserved guavas sliced, two ounces each of candied citron and lemon sliced, two ounces of preserved ginger sliced, half an oimce each of cinnamon and cloves beaten fine, one ounce each of nutmeg and Jamaica pepper, two ounces of pistachio nuts blanched and beaten, half an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and beaten, three- quarters of an ounce each of gum arabic and gum dragon dissolved. Beat the almonds and nuts to a paste with a spoonful of orange- fiower water. Make a pleasant mixture of the madeira, lime-juice, and loaf sugar; pour it to the rest, cork and seal the jar, and set it in hot water to infuse the greater part of a day. In twelve hours shake it well, and keep it in a warm temperature six weeks, after which it may be stored. In twelve or fifteen months strain it off, filter it several times until it is beautifully bright, then put it in small bottles, which cork well and seal, and in six months more it will be excellent. Sangaree (West Indian). — Crush four ounces of loaf sugar to powder, and pour upon it a large wine-glassful of lime-juice. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then add a bottle of madeira, half a pint of pure French brandy, and two pints of cold spring water. Grate the fourth part of a small nutmeg over the sangaree, put a large lump of ice into it, and serve. Sponge cake or savoy biscuit is generally served with sangaree. Sanitary Soup. — In his weU-known " Essay on Food " Count Rumlord describes a soup which may be made in time of scarcity a« little cost for the sustenance of the poor thus: " After an experience," he says, «'of more than five years in feeding the poor at Munich, during which time every experiment was made that could be devised, not only with regard to the choice of the articles used as food, but also in respect to their different combinations and proportions, and to the various ways in which I they could be prepared or cooked, it was found that the cheapest, most savoury, and most nourishing food that could be provided was a soup, composed of pearl-barley, peas, potatoes, cuttings of fine wheat bread, vinegar, salt, and water in certain proportions. The method oi preparing this soup is as follows:—The water and the pearl-barley are first put together into the boiler, and made to boil; the peas are then added, and the boiling is continued over a gentle fixe about two hours; the potatoes are then added (having been previously peeled with a knife, or having been boiled, in order to their being more easily deprived of their skins), and the boiling is continued for about one hour more, during which time the contents of the boiler are frequently stirred about with a large wooden spoon or ladle, in order to destroy the texture of the potatoes and to reduce the soup into one uniform mass. When this is done the vinegar and salt are added, and, last of all, at the moment of serving, the cuttings of bread. The soup should never be suffered to boil, or even to stand long before it is served up, after the cuttings of bread are put to it. It will indeed be best never to put the cuttings of br^ad into the boiler at all, but to put them into khe tubs in which the soup is carried from the kitchen into the dining-hall, pouring the soup hot from the boiler upon them, and stirring the whole well together with the iron ladles used for measm-ing out the soup for the poor in the hall. It is of more importance than can be ima- gined that this bread which is mixed with the soup should not be boiled. It is likewise of use that it should be cut as fine or thin as possible ; and if it be dry and hard it will be so much the better. The bread we use at Munich is what is called semel-bread, being small loaves, weighing from two to three ounces; and as we receive the bread in donations from the bakers, it is commonly diy and hard, being that which, not being sold in time, remains on hand, and become stale and unsaleable ; and we have found by experience that this hard and stale bread answers our purpose much better than any other, for it renders mastication necessary, and mastication seems very powerfully to assist in promoting digestion, likewise prolongs the duration of the enjoyment of eating—a matter of great importance indeed, and which has not hitherto been sufficiently attended to." Sant^, Potage de (Oareme's recipe).— Put into a stock-pot two roast fowls (to colour it slightly), a large knuckle of veal (remo^'ing the bony end), and some bones of roast beef, if you have any; add the necessary beef stock (twenty ladlefuls), so that the consomme when reduced may contain about fifteen ladlefuls; remove the scum, after which add the roots and some grains of pepper; boil it slowly five hours, skim off the fat, and take up the meats; then mix in the consomme the white of an egg beaten up with a little cold beef stock to clarify it; after twenty minutes boiling, strain it through a napkin, and again set it to boil, mixing ^dth it the following roots and vegetables: the red part of a large carrot, cut with a root-cutter in columns three-quarters of an inch wide, and each column being divided into slices one-eighthSAP SAB ( 826 ) of an inch in thickness; a largo turnip pre- pared in the siunt! manner; as also two heads of celery and two leeks sliced—these roots should bo blanched—add two small lettuces, a little sorrel and chervil. After an hour's boiling throw in a littlo sugar and three table-spoonfuls of asparagus points bhuiched of a tine green, and throw the soup into a tureen containing small crusts of a French roll rasped, cut round three-quarters of an inch wide, ^vithout the least appofiranco of crimib, and dried in a hot closet. Sapucaia Nut.—This nut is very plenti- ful in the forests of Brazil, where it gi'ows on a lofty tree. The fruit of the tree is wire-shaped and as large as a child's head, and opens with a lid which falls off. In each fruit are a number of seeds or nuts, as in the case of the allied Brazil nut. The flavour is superior to that of the Brazil nut, although, hitherto, the sapucaia nut is much less common in our shops; its form is oval, somewhat pointed at both ends, the ends being sUghtly bent in opposite directions. "Monkeys," says one writer, "are very fond of the sapucaia nut, and are sometimes caught in consequence of thrusting the hand into a capsule, and not being able to withdraw it when filled with a nut, whilst they obstinately keep hold of the expected prize." Saratoga Pudding.—Put a pinch of salt into two table-spoonfuls of flour, add three table-spoonfuls of sugar, and work the whole into a smooth paste by beating it briskly with three fresh eggs. Add gradually a quart of hot milk, pour the batter into a buttered dish, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 9d. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Sardine Butter.—This preparation is very good spread on toast or made into sand- wiches. Take twelve sardines and wash them quickly in cold water. Scrape oflc the skin, remove the bones, and pound the flesh in a marble mortar with a piece of fresh butter, and add butter gradually till the quantity mixed in equals half a pound. Add salt and cayenne pepper to taste, and work the preparation into a smooth paste. If sardines preserved in oil— such as are imported in small bottles and boxes —are used, do not wash the fish: do nothing but scrape off the skin and remove the bones. Press the paste into a jar or into small potting- pans, and store for use. Anchovies may be pre- pared in the same way as sardines. If liked, one may add a little ground mace along with the cayenne pepper. Sardine Fritters—The following recipe for sardine fritters as made in Germany is given in " German National Cookery for Eng- lish Kitchens." " Cut slices of roll or loaf bread into equal-sized shapes. They must be a good half-inch thick, and enough of them to form a ring round the edge of a small dish. Beat two or three eggs, and mix -^vith them rather more than their measure of milk. Soak the bread slices in this, and fry them in butter a delicate pale brown. Lay the slices round the edge of your dish, letting one slice rest on the edge of tbo other. Lay poached eggs in the middle of the diah, and put on thorn the following sauce, which must bo just thick enough to spread Mince the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs quit* small. Chop fine some parsley, a little sprig of taiTagon, and some pimpernel or burnet. ilelt a piece of butter in a stowpan; put in the minced herbs, end stir them a few minutes to soften; then add salt, pejjper, and the minced eggs, with a dessert-spoonful of gravy, the same of lemon-juice or vinegar, a spoonful of capers whole, a littlo oil and mustard, and, if required, a few crumbs to thicken. Stir all together. Put a small tuft on each poached egg, and spread the rest on the wreath of sippets. Take about a dozen of sardines, bone them, and mince them small with a piece of butter and a little cayenne pepper. Divide and spread this on the sippets. Place them to warm for a minute in the oven, and serve directly after the soup." Sardine Mustard.—Take half-a-dozen sardines, remove the bones carefulty, and pound the flesh with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. Mix a shallot, finely minced, with the paste. Add also two table-spoonfuls of mustard mixed with vinegar, or any sort of made mustard, two tablespoonf uls of vinegar, and the same of salad oil, together with salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Work all together till quite smooth. Sardine Salad (a German dish).—Take any cold dressed fish. Free it from skin and bone, and tear it into flakes. Put a layer of it in the centre of a dish, and sprinkle lightly over it a small portion of minced gherkins and bruised capers. Place on this a layer of sliced German sausage, and arrange on the top of the pile sardines split into halves and freed from bone and skin. Cut lettuce-hearts into quar- ters, place these round the salad, and garnish the dish with hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters lengthwise. At the moment of ser%'ing, pour over the salad a sauce prepared as follows:— Take the flesh of three sardines freed from skin and gristle. Rub this in a mortar to a smooth paste with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs; and add a pinch of cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, and two table-spoonfuls each of oil, vinegar, and hght wine. Add the ingredients slowly, and beat the sauce well between every addition. Sardine Sandwiches.—Take as many tinned sardines as will be wanted. Scrape the skin lightly off each fish, split it open, cut off the tail, and remove any bones there may be. Take thin slices of bread from a stale loaf, butter these, and lay the sardines between two of them. Cut away the crust, and press the slices with the hand" to make them adhere. Cut them with a sharp knife into long narrow sandwiches, and serve on a dish covered with a neatly-folded napkin. Garnish with parsley. Sardine Sauce.—Take eight sardines, and remove the bones. Make a butter sauce ready, with water or broth, of the ordinary thickness. In this boil the bones of the fish, a bay-leaf, and a finely-minced shallot, adding some pepper, nutmeg, or mace, and a little leraon-jmce. men the sauce is properiy flavoured, strain it. and add to it the fish chopped snuUl.SAB sAtr ( 827 )• Sardines.—The best are the small sardines caught on the coast of Provence in France. From a thousand to twelve hxmdred fishing smacks are engaged in catching these fish o£E the coast of Brittany from June to the middle of October of each year. The French often cure sardines in red brine, and when thus pre- pared designate them anchoisees or anchovied sardines. These are packed in vessels pre- viously used for holding wine, and exported to the Levant. "When quite fresh sardines are considered excellent: they entirely lose their flavour, and become quite insipid if kept for any length of time. On tiio Mediterranean coasts of Italy and France sardine fishing takes place in the summer months. The fish are cured by washing in salt water, sprinkling with salt, removing the head, gills, &c., washing again, drying in the sun and wind, steeping in boiling olive oil, draining, and packing in small square tin boxes; the boxes are filled up with oil, the Kd is sol- dered on, and the box is exposed for a short time to the action of steam or hot water. These cured sardines are largely exported to various countries, where they are considered a delicacy. The real sardine resembles a small pilchard; but many of the fish cxired as sardines are not genuine: they are either sprats, pilchards, or small herrings. Sardines, Canap^es of. — Take some slices of roll, and cut them neatly into oval or octagon shapes. Toast them slightly, or fry them in oil or butter till they are of a nice yellow colour. Take some sardines, and strip them from the bones. Lay one-half of them aside, and pound the other to a smooth paste with the yolks of three or four hard-boiled eggs and some butter. Add mustard, pepper, chives, minced parsley, tarragon, and a little vinegar. When these ingredients are thoroughly incor- porated, spread the paste over the prepared slices of roll. On the top lay the other half of the sardines, cut into smaU strips; and place on each croquette little slices of pickled gherkins, and here and there a shelled prawn. Sardines, Fresh.—Clean the sardines, and press them gently with a soft cloth till they are quite dry. Broil them on a gridiron over a clear brisk fire, and when they are done enough on one side turn them upon the other. Sprinkle a little salt over them, and serve very hot. _ Time to broil, two minutes each side. Sufficient, six or eight for a small dish. Sardines, Spinach with.—Boil the spinach. Before doing this let it He in water for a little while, and rinse it several times in fresh water. Put it into boiling water with a minced onion and plenty of salt, and let it boil gently, uncovered, for eight or ten minutes. Drain and chop the spinach. Take a few sar- dines, remove the skin and bones, then mince the fish, and stir them among the vegetables. Take a good-sized piece of butter, and melt it in a stowpan, dredge in as much flour as it will absorb, and add a little water or broth, together with salt and pepper. Stir it to a thick sauce, then stir the spinach in. Send to table when quite hot, garnishing the dish ^ith hard-boiled eggs sliced. Sardines, To Serve.—Knives made on purpose to open sardine boxes may be purchased of the dealers. When the fish are to he served, open the box, lift out as many sardines as are needed, wipe them lightly, and arrange them neatly on a small dish. Garnish with chopped parsley and capers, and pour a little fresh salad- oil over them. On no account use the oil which is in the box. Send bread and butter to table with them. Sardonic Salad (see Saxon Salad, some- times called Sardonic Salad). Sassafras.—An agreeable beverage is made in North America by infusing sassafras bark or sassafras wood, and a similar beverage was once very commonly sold at daybreak in the streets of the metropolis, under the name of saloop. A few saloop vendors are still to be seen plying their vocation. The leaves of sassafras con- tain so much mucilage that they are used for thickening soup. Sassafras (Invalid Cookery).—The simple infusion of sassafras is a useful preparation in some complaints, and sassafras tea is often fovmd to be of great service in the case of aged persons suffering from chronic rheumatism. A few chips of the wood are frequently added to common tea. Sassafras is a cheap and agree- able beverage, and when China tea, taken late in the evening, prevents sleep, sassafras may be substituted. Sassafras Cordial.—Take half-a-pound of sassafras chips, two ounces of compound extract of sarsaparilla, one ounce of gum arable dissolved in white wine, one ounce of juniper- berries bruised, two ounces of pistachio nuta blanched and beaten, one ounce of syrup of lemons, two ounces of rosemary leaves shred fine, one ounce of sweet marjoram shred fine, one oimce each of candied lemon and citron, nine ounces of sugar candy beaten fine, twelve ounces of stoned and cut muscatel raisins, three quarts of sherry wine, and two quarts of proof spirit of wine. Beat the nuts with a little of the wine, and put all the above ingre- dients into a jar, which cork and seal. Set the jar in a hot water bath, and let the cordial infuse eight hours every day for a week. Keep it two months; then strain and filter, and use the cordial when wanted. Sassafras cordial is greatly improved by age. Saubaglione.—This deUcious preparation should be put into glasses, and may be served hot or cold. Put three or four yolks of eggs into a chocolate pot with an equal number of glasses of Frontignac or other sweet wine and a few spoonfuls of finely-powdered loaf sugar. Place the mixture on a clear gentle fire, and whisk it to the consistency of thick cream. Pour it out, and serve. It is usual to allow an egg and a glass of wine for each guest. Sauce, Pish and (a Scotch dish).—Take a sufficient number of fresh haddocks, clean them, and cut off the heads, tails, and fins. Boil the latter thoroughly to make stock. When done, strain it, and take the liquid part, adding a little flour mixed with cold water, butter, salt, and somo chopped parsley,SAU SAtT ^ 828 ) and pour it over the fish, which has been pre- viously cut in pieces. Boil the whole till suf- ficiently cooked. The result is said to be much more savoury if the fish aro simply boiled in water. Sauce for Bouilli {see Pot-au-Fou).— When the bouilli or boiled beef which has been stewed in a pot-au-feu is to bo served, a sauce made as follows may be poured over it, or sent to table in a tureen as an accompaniment • - Mince a boiled carrot, and put it into a stow- pan with a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a dozen button onions, two or three pickleJ cucumbera, some pickled walnuts if Hked, and a little pepper, salt, and cayenne. Pour over these ingredients a pint of good stock, simmer all very gently together till the liquor is con- siderably reduced and flavoured pleasantb-. Add thickened brown gravy to make the requisite quantity of sauce, let the preparation boil up, and serve. If more convenient, mushroom ketchup may be substituted for the mushrooms and walnut pickle for the walnuts. Time to prepare, about three-quarters of an hour. Sauce for Freshwater Pish.—Mince half a dozen mushrooms, half a dozen onions, and a clove of garlic. The latter may be omitted. Put the vegetables into a saucepan, pour over them as much stock as will cover them, and simmer gently till the sauce is plea- santly flavoured. Strain the liquor through a jelly-bag, and press vsdth the back of a wooden spoon to obtain as much sauce as possible. Add a glass of claret, boil up once more, and serve. A few drops of anchovy essence may be added or not, as preferred, and the sauce may be thickened with brown thickening. Sauce for Relishing Beef Hot or Cold.—Put two tea-spoonfuls of prepared mustard into a large cup, and mix with it a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and five table-spoonfuls of good vinegar. Stir this preparation briskly for two or three minutes with a wooden or silver fork, then pour it into a tureen in which has been placed a stick of horseradish finely grated; stir the mixture again, and serve. Probable cost of horseradish, 2d. per stick. Suflicient for five or six persons. Sauce Mirepoix, or Essence of Vegetables, for Flavouring. — When stock is already prepared for sauce, and it re- quires flavouring, proceed as follows:—Take a sliced carrot, a sliced onion, two sticks of celery cut small, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thjmie, and a bay-leaf, together with a shallot and an inch or two of raw ham or bacon-rind, if these are at hand. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, and stir the above ingredients briskly in this over a sharp fire until they become brightly browned. Pour over them as much stock as will cover this, and simmer gently. Add pepper and a little spice, if re- quired. A glass of wine may be stirred in or not. When the preparation is pleasantly and rather strongly flavoured, strain it off for use. A larger quantity of this preparation may be made than is needed for present use. If put in a cool place, it will keep for some days in cool weather. Time to simmer the flavourinir twenty to thirty minutes. Sauce, Store, for Cold Meat and G-ame.—Pound the flesh of live anchovies with three cloves of garlic and six shallots. Add half a spoonful of (;ayonne pejjper, Imlf a spoonful of white pepper, three bkdes of mace powdered, one giuted nutmeg, half a lemon sliced, four bay-leaves, and a sprig of basQ, Put the ingredients into a saucepan, pour over them a pint of walnut ketchup, a pint of mush- room ketchup, half a pint of good vinegar, and a quarter of a pint of soy. Simmer all gently together till the flavour of the ingredients is extracted, strain, bottle securely, and store for use. Time to boil, one hour. Sauce, Store, for Cold Meat or Fish.—Slice two cloves of garlic, put them into a quart wine-bottle, and pour over them two table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, two table-spoonfuls of walnut ketchup, with a table- spoonful of soy, and half a pint of chilli vine- gar. Put the bottle on one side, and let it remain for six days, shaking it frequently during the time. On the seventh day fill up the bottle vnth good ordinary vinegar, and in ten days strain it off. Put the sauce into small bottles, cork these closely, and store for use. Sauce, Store, for Fish,Game, Steaks, &C.—Poimd the flesh of six fine anchovies smoothly, and with them six chopped cloves of garlic. If the flavour of garlic is disliked, shallots may be substituted, or they may be omitted. Add half a drachm of bruised cloves and half a drachm of cayenne pepper, put the mixture into a saucepan, pour over it half a pint each of mushroom ketchup, walnut pickle, and soy, and simmer all gently for ten minutes. Strain and bottle the sauce for use. Saucepans.—Under the general name of saucepans are included utensils indispensable in cookery, of different shapes and sizes, and of various kinds. A description of those generally in use will be found in another place. It may be said here, however, that the cook cannot be too careful to keep her saucepans sweet and clean, and to do this she must fill them with water the moment she has finished using them, clean them as soon as possible after- wards, on no account put them away dirty, remember to dry them before the fire a few minutes before putting them away, and keep them in a dry place. A celebrated French cook used to say that a dirty saucepan was sufl&cient to spoil the effect of a whole dinner. Besides being washed, scoured, and rinsed inside each time they are used, saucepans should be made bright outside on the upper rim, and where the fire does not touch them. When tinned saucepans are used, they should be examined constantly, and retinned as soon as ever they begin to redden, as satisfactory cookery cannot be carried on with an insuffi- ciently tinned saucepan. It will not only render whatever is cooked in it unwholesome, but will injure its colour and taste. Saucer Cake.—Mix a quarter of a pound of flour with a quarter of auound of bffi nrrow-SAtJ ( 829 ) 8AU rcx)t. Beat four ounces of butter to cream, add the same weight of powdered sugar, the flour and arrowroot, one ounce of candied peel finely shred, and two well-whisked eggs. Beat the mixture till it is smooth and Hght, put it into a shallow dish lined with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven. If the cake is kept in an air-tight tin, it will keep good for some time. Time to bake, an hour or more. Pro- bable cost, Is. 2d. Saucer Pudding (suitable for a child or invalid).—Mix a tea-spoonful of flour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk, and stir into this as much boiling milk as wiU make up the quantity to a tea-cupful. Let the liquor cool, then add a weU-beaten egg and a little sugar and flavouring. Pour the preparation into a large buttered saucer, and bake in. a weU-heated oven. When done enough, turn the pudding upon a plate, and serve with jam, or with a little sherry if preferred. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 3d. Suf- ficient for one person. Sauces.—The skill and knowledge of a cook is shown in nothing more assuredly than in the way in which she manufactures and chooses sauces. M. Soyer used to say that sauces are to cookery what grammar is to language and the gamut is to music; and another great authority says that "a good sauce ought to call into activity each ramifi- cation of the palatic organs." However this may be, sauce ought certainly to serve either as a relish or a finish to the meat which it ac- companies : it ought, too, to be carefully made, and attractively sent to table. It will be found that in this book the names of the sauces appro- priate to be served with each dish are usually mentioned in the instructions for making it. With regard to sauces in general it should be remembered that hot sauces should be served very hot; that when sauces need to be kept hot they should not be kept boiling, but should be put into a bain-marie, or, failing this, the sauce- pan should be placed in a vessel containing boiling water; that eggs and acids should not be added to sauce until it has cooled for two minutes, and, after they have been added, the sauce should be stirred without ceasing, and should not be allowed to boil; that cream should be boiled before it is mixed with boiling sauce, and that the sauce should be stirred well after it is put in. An enamelled saucepan is the best in which to make sauce. Sauces and G-ravies.—In addition to those given above recipes for the following will be found under their respective headings :— Abmiral's Allemand Almond Almond for Puddings Anchovy Anchovy and Caper Anchovy Butter Anchovy for Beef Anchovy for Salmon Apple, Baked Ai'PLF, for Roast Gooix Arrowroot Arrowroot, Clear Arrowroot to Thicken Sauces Artichoke Artichokes, Jerusa- lem, IN White Sauce Asparagus Aurora Bacon BfecHAMEL, or French White Beef, Boiled, Saucb FOR, Italian Beef Sauce, Piciuant Beef, Stewed, and Celery Sauce Beef, Stewed, and Oyster Sauce Beef with Sauce espagnole Beef, with Wine Sauce Tremblant Blanche Blonde Boar's Head Bordelaise Brawn Bread Bread for Par- tridges Bretonne, for Cold OR Hot Beef Brown Brown Roux or Thickening Butter Butter, Burnt Caper, for Boiled Mutton Caper, for Fish Caper, Substitute for Carp, Sauce for Carrier Carrot Cauliflower Celery Celery, a auiCK way Celery, for Turkeys, Fowls, &c. Celery, with White Sauce Cherokee or Store Cherry Cherry, for Sweet Puddings Chestnut, Brown Chestnut, White Chetney Chicken, WITH Sauce Chicken, Broiled, Mushroom Mushroom Sauce for Chicken, Sauce for Chicken, Sauce for Roast Chicken, White Sauce for Boiled Christopher North's, for Meat and Game Cinnamon Claret Cockle Cocoa-nut Codlings, Sauce for Crab Crab Butter Cream Cress, for Fish and Poultry Cucumber Culms CURA90A Currant, fob. Suck« iNO Pig Currant, for Venison Curry Custard, for Sweet Puddings CUTCHARBE, TO SeRVE WITH KeBOBBED Meat Cutlets, Sauce for Dory, or Caper Duck, Gravy for Dutch Dutch, for Fish Dutch, Green Eels, Sauce for Egg Egg, for Calf's Head Eggs and Sauce Eggs and Sauce Ro- bert Eggs and White Sauce Epicurean escaveeke Fast Day Fenni:l, for Mack- erel Fish Fish, Pink Sauce for Fish, Sauce fob Boiled Fish, without Butter FoAVL, Apicius Sauce FOR Fowl, Broiled, with Mushroom Sauce Fowl, Sauce for Fowl, White Oyster, FOR Fru'it, for Puddings Frukt, Saveet GAMJi, Sauce for Game, Piquant Garlic Garnish, Celery Sauce for General's Genevebe Genoa Genoese German, for Brawn, &c. German Pudding Ginger Gobble, for Fish Goose, Cold, for Gooseberry', for Mackerel Gravy Gravy, Beef, Clear Gravy, Beef, for Poultry and Game Gravy, Beef, Plain Gravy, Bon Vivant's Sauce for Graty, Brown Gravy, Colouring and Flavourlng( 880 ) SAIT SATT g1u.vy, cowheel Gkavy, English, Bkown GUAVY, EsPAGNOLE Gkavy, Esi'aonole, made avithout meat Gkavy, EasENCK of Ham roH Gkavy rou Boiled Meat Gkavy foh Curkied Fksh Gkavy i-ok Cutlets Gkavy fok Ducks Gkavy iok Fish Pies Gkavy pok Fowls, Cheap Gravy roR Game Gravy i'or Goose or Duck Gkavy for Grills and Broils Gravy for Haddock, Baked Gravy for Hare Gravy for Hashes Gravy for Hashes, Cheap Gkavy for Minced Veal Gravy for Patties Gra^tt for Pike Gravy for Rissoles Gravy for Eoast Meat Gravy for Roast Venison Gravy from Liebig's Extract of Meat Gravy in Haste Gravy, Jelly for Gravy, Jugged Gravy, Kidney Gravy, made without meat, for Fowls Gravy Maigre for Fish Gravy, Onion Gravy, Orange Gravy, Piquant, for Hash Gravy, Seasoning for Gravy, Shallot Gravy Soup, with Vermicelli Gravy, Stock for Gkavy, To Clarify Gkavy, To Improve the Flavour and Strength of Gravy, To Keep Gravy, To make Mut- ton LIKE Venison Gravy, Veal, for White Sauce Gkavy, White, for Fish Gravy, White Roux, foh Thickening Graymno, Sauce for Gkeen Dutch. Green, for Ducks Green Mint Gkeen Ravigote Hacheb Haddock, Boiled, WITH Egg Sauce Haddocks in Brown Sauce Ham, for Flavouring Gravies Ham, for Grills and Broils Hanover Hake, Sauok for Hare, Liver Sauce FOR Hare, Wine Sauce FOR Harrogate, for Wild Fowl Hashes, Sauce for Herb Herb, for Flavour- ing Herring, German Herring, Sauce for Hip, German HOLSTEIN, FOR FiSH Horseradish Horseradish, Brown Horseradish, for Cold Roast Beef Horseradish, for Hot Roast Beef Horseradish, Supe- rior Flavouring FOR Horseradish with Apples Horseradish with Cream Horseradish with Eggs Hot, for Broils Household Gravy Indian Indian Pickle Italian Italian, for Boiled Beef Italian (Rousse et Blanche) Italian, White John Dory, Sauce for Kidney Gravy Kitchen Mixed Spice, FOR White Sauce Kitchinek's Store Lamb, Sauce for Lemon and Liver, for Fowls Lemon, for Puddings Lemon, White, for Fowls Liebig's Extract of JIeat, Gkavy from Liver and TjKMOn Liver and Parsley TiivER, FOR Fish Liveu, FOR Roast Hark Lobsteu Lobster, Mock Ijobster, Piuuant Lvonnaise Mackerel or Fennel Mackerel Rob MAiTKE d'Hotel LLvndkam Mango Chutney Marmalade, Orange Mary's Matelote, for Pike Matrimony Mayonnaise Meat Gravy, for Sauce Milanese Milk or Cream Mint Mint, Green Miser's Mogul Morels Mushroom, pgr Chicken Mushroom, Brown Mushroom, Pickled Mushroom, White Mussel Mustard Mutton, Sauce for Naples, for Fish Nasturtium Seed Neapolitan Old Currant, for Sucking Pig, &c. Olive, for Ducks, &c. Onion Onion, Brown Onion, Brown, Pi- quant Onion, German Onion, Soubise Onion, White Onion,White,Common Onion, Young Onions, Burnt, for Gravies Onions, for Season- ing Orange Cream Orange, for Cold Meat Orange, for Ducks, &c. Orange, for Sweet Puddings Okange Gravy, for Teal, &c. OUDE Oyster, Brown Oyster, Mock Oyster, White Pai'illote, for Veal OR Mutton Cutlets Paris, for Sweet Puddings Parsley Parsley and Liver Parsley, Imitation Parsley JiTrE. for Colouring Sauces Partridge, Cold, Sauce for Pike Matelote Pike, Sauces for Pike, White Sauce for Pine-Apple, for Pud- DINGS Piquant Piquant, for Storing Plum, for Puddings AND Sweet Dishes Plum, Simple, for Sweet Puddings Plum-Puddino poivrade poivrade, easily made Poor Man's Poor Man's, for Cold Meat Portuguese, for Fisk poulette Potatoes with Sauce Potatoes with Sauce Piquant Potatoes with White Sauce Poultry, Gravy for Prince's, for Broiled Fish Provencals Prune * Pudding, Careme's Pudding, Sweet Punch, for Sweet Puddings Queen Mary's Queen's, for Boiled Plum Pudding Quin's Rabbit, Mushroom Sauce for Rabbit, Roasted, Sauce for Rabbit, Sauces for Radish Radish, Horse Raffald's Browning Ragouts, Gravies for Raspberry Raspberry', Danish Ratafia, for Sweet Puddings Ravigote Butter, for Sauces Ravigote, for H.iee and Venison Ravigote, Green, for Salads Reading Red Mullet, Sauce FOR Regent's, for Sweet Puddings Regent's Store Relishing Ricardo.forGame, itc Rice Flour, for Thickening Saucks Rick. Sfn«TiTVTE ior Bread Sauuj(831 ) SAU SAIT Roast Meat KOUEKT KOKEKT, Uue's way lioOT GllAVY IvOSE Roux Koux, Brow Houx, White lioYAx, FOK Fish koyal, foh tukkeys Russian Sago Salad Salmi Salmon, Sauces pgr Salsify Shallot Shakp Shikaree Shrimp Sicilian SoumsE Sorrel Spanish Spinach Store Superior SUPRKME Sweet Tarragon Tartar Thickening for Tomato Truffle Turtle Universal Vanilla Custard Vegetable Marrow Veloute Venison Victoria Vinegar "White Wine Worcester Yankee Sauces and Gravies, Dr. KitcMner on.—It is of as much importance that the cook should know how to make a boat of good gravy for her poultry, &c., as that it should be sent up of proper complexion and nicely frothed. A great deal of the elegance of cookery depends upon the accompaniments to each dish being appropriate and well adapted to it. The most homely fare may be made relishing, and the most excellent and independent improved by a well-made sauce—as the most perfect picture may by being well varnished. " It is the duty of a good sauce," says the editor of the Almanack des Gourmajids, "to insinuate itself all round and about the maxillary glands, and imperceptibly awaken into activity each ramification of the organs of taste; if not sufficiently savoury, it cannot produce this effect, and if too piquant, it will paralyse, instead of exciting, those delicious titillations of tongue and vibrations of palate that only the most accomplished philosophers of the mouth can produce on the highly-educated palates of thrice happy grands gourmands." Let your sauces each display a decided character; send up your plain sauces (oyster, lobster, &c.) as pure as possible; they should only taste of the materials from which they take their name. The imagination of most cooks is so incessantly on the hunt for a relish, that they seem to think they cannot make sauce sufficiently savoury without putting into it ever}i,hing that ever was eaten ; and supposing every addition must be an improvement, they frequently overpower the natural flavour of their plain sauces by overloading them with salt and spices, &c. But remember, these will be deteriorated by any addition, save only just salt enough to awaken the palate. The lover of "piquance" and compound flavours may have recourse to " the magazine of taste." On the contrary, of compound sauces, the ingre- dients should be so nicely proiwrtioncd that no one be predominant; so that, from the equal union of the combined flavours, such a fine mellow mixture may bn produced whose very novelty cannot fail of being ucceptabio to the persevering gourmand, if it has not pretcnsiont to a permanent place at his table. An, ingenious cook will form as endless a variety of these compositions as a musician with his seven notes, or a painter with his colours; no part of her business offers so fair and frequent an opportunity to display her abilities. Spices, herbs, &c., are often very absurdly and injudiciously jumbled together. Why have clove and allspice, or mace and nutmeg in the same sauce ?—or marjoram, thyme, and savoury—or onions, leeks, shallots, and garlic ? One will very wT3ll supply the place of the other, and the frugal cook may save something considerable by attending to this, to the advantage of her employers, and her own time and trouble. You might as well, to make soup, order one quart of water from the Thames, another from the New River, a third from Hampstead, and a fourth from Chelsea, with a certain portion of spring and rain- water. To become a perfect mistress of the art of cleverly extracting and combining flavours, besides the gift of a good taste, requires aU the experience and skill of the most accomplished professor, and especially an intimate acquaint- ance with the palate for which she is working. Send your sauces to table as hot as possible. Nothing can be more unsightly than the surface of a sauce in a frozen state, or garnished with grease on the top. The best way to get rid of this is to pass it through a tamis or napkin previously soaked in cold water; the coldiiess of the napkin will coagulate the fat, and only suffer the pure gravy to pass through ; if any particles of fat remain take them off by apply- ing filtering paper as blotting paper is applied to writing. Let your sauces boil up after you put in wine, anchovy, or thickening, that their flavours may be well blended with the other ingredients; and keep in mind that the chej d'ceuvre of cookery is to entertain the mouth without offending the stomach. The cook's judgment must direct her to lessen or increase either of the ingredients according to the taste of those she works for, and will always be on the alert to ascertain what are the favourite accompaniments desired with each dish. When you open a bottle of ketchup, essence of anchovy, &c., throw away the old cork, and stop it closely with a new cork that wiU fit it very tight. Economy in corks is extremely unwise; in order to save a mere trifle in the price of the cork, you run the risk of losing the valuable article it is intended to preserve. It is a vulgar error that a bottle must be well stopped when the cork is forced down even with the mouth of it; it is rather a sign that the cork is too small, and it should be re-drawTi and a larger one put in. Sauces, To Colour.—When spinach- leaves for green colouring cannot be had, take a handful of young parslev-lca^'es stripped from tlie stalks. Wash and dry them, and pound them in a mortar. Put the pulp upon a reversed sieve, and press the juice through it with a wooden spoon. Put the juice kito a small jar, set this in a pan of boiling wafer, iiiid let it simmer gently for three or lour( 882 ) BaTJ 8AXT minutes. (For additional information regard- ing the colouring of sauces, see Colouring.) Sauces, To Thicken.—Sauces may be thickened with roux, brown and white, arrow- root, ground rice, flour, eggs, butter, and mUk, or cream. (For thickening with roux see Roux, or Thickening, Brown.) When eggs are used, the yolks only are needed. The sauce should be allowed to cool for two minutes. The yolks should then be beaten, mixed with a little of the sauce, and added gradually to the rest. The sauce should then be stirred without ceasing until it is quite hot, and it should on no account be allowed to boil. Flour, ground rice, and arrowroot should first be mixed smoothly with a little cold liquor, and to this should be added a little hot liquor. The mixture should then be poured slowly with one hand into the sauce, which should be weU stirred with the other, and it should be allowed to boil until it is so thick that it will coat the spoon. Butter and milk, or cream, though often spoken of as thickening sauces, tend more to enrich than to thicken them. Cream or milk should be boiled before being added to boiling sauce, and butter should always be stirred into the sauce cold the moment before serving, and after the sauce- pan has been taken from the fire. Sauer Kraut.—This preparation is largely used throughout the northern parts of Europe, and especially in Germany. It is served as an accompaniment to smoked meats, boiled ham, bacon, beef, or sausages. The taste for this delicacy is certainly an acquired one, but it is a very general one in some districts. Sauer kraut is considered an excellent antiscorbutic. Take large well-grown cabbages with fine white hearts. Remove the outer leaves and stalks, and shred the cabbages very finely. Cover the bottom of a large pan or tub with cabbage- leaves. Throw in the cabbage as it is shred, and sprinkle salt evenly upon the layers. One handful of salt will be amply sufficient for a large panful of shred cabbage; too much salt will prevent fermentation. Keep pressing the cabbage down closely as it is thrown in. AVhen the vessel is quite full, sprinkle a little salt over the top, and cover it first with cab- bage-leaves and then with a Unen cloth; lay a wooden cover over all, and on this put a heavy weight. Keep the pan in a warm cellar tiU fermentation has begun. This may be known by small white globules forming on the surface. When the moisture dries in a crust over the top the kraut is ready for use. It should be kept in a cool place tiU wanted. Once a week the cabbage-leaves should either be renewed or washed, and the linen cloth should be washed in cold water, and replaced. Some persons put caraway-seeds and juniper-berries amongst the layers, and think the kraut is improved by the addition. If, owing to any cause, after waiting two or three days there is no sign of fermenta- tion, a cold weak brine of salt and water should be poured over the cabbage. The cabbages will be all the better if they are allowed to lio in a cool corner for several days before being used. Time, three weeks to prepare the kraut. It will keijp for a year. Sauer Kraut (another way).—Select sound Bohd cabbages, slice them across, and place the shces m a barrel in layers about four inches high; over each kyer strew a handful of salt and some caraway seeds. Press the whole down tightly, and when the barrel iu fuU place a heavy weight upon the end. After standing a week according to the temperature, the nuih^ wiU begm more or less to ferment; and when the fermentation is over the barrel should be headed up. There is no vinegar used in the preparation. Sauer Kraut (Dr. Kitchiner's recipe).— Pake a dozen hard white cabbages, trim and divide them into quarters, take out all the stalks from the heart of the cabbage, cut it transversely with a knife or chaif-cutter into very small slips. Mix six pounds of salt with four oimces of juniper berries and an ounce oi caraway seed; put the cabbage into a cask, first strewing the bottom with some of the mixture, then a layer of cabbage; take care that the head of the cask slips down within the staves and fits closely to the sides; press the cover down, and lay a large stone on it. Set the cask in a slied or outhouse for three months, it wiU then be coming ready for use. When you use it take care of the stone and cover, scrape aside some of the top, take out what you want, and replace what you scraped off the top, and cover down the cask as closely as before. Put the kraut into a stewpan with a little cold water, simmer it for half an hour, drain in a colander; when done, put the meat you intend to dress into the stew- pan and cover it over with the kraut; put just water enough to stew the meat and give gravy to serve up with it. When you dish up, put the kraut and gravy first into the dish, and lay the meat on them. It may be added that some sauer kraut is so juicy as not to require any water: the fatty materials employed by the Germans to stew with it are generally sufficient. Sauer Kraut, To Cook.—Lay a good- sized piece of butter in a saucepan, and lot it melt. Put in half the sauer kraut, and lay on this the meat to be made ready with it: either ham or bacon smoked and pared, pork, or any sort of sausage. Over all place the other half of the kiaut, pour in a ghissful of white wine, and add a little water occasionally to moisten it. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the contents stew gently tiU the sauer kraut is soft and yellow. When cooked enough, take out the meat. Dredge in a table-spoonful of flour, let the kraut stew half an hour longer, then place the meat again in the saucepan to get quite hot. Stir the kraut now and then with a wooden spoon, and take care that it does not bum. What is left over of the sauer kraut is good warmed up on the following day or a day or two after; it may be served with some other meat. As an accompaniment to smoked meats, roast pork, sausages, &c., sauer kniut may be prepared in the way just described, but without the meat; if so, stir in a thickening of flour and butter before sending to table. It is to bo observed that »uier kraut I'an liardly be cooked loo iiuu-h. It requires at first from two ami a half to tlnec houi-a' stewing.SAU ( 833 ) SAU Sauer Kraut, To Dress (another mode). Take two pounds of kraut, throw it into boiling water, and let it remain for ten minutes. Cool it, and di-aw the water from it. Dissolve a pint of clarified fat in a large stewpan, put in the kraut, pour a quart of stock over it, cover the saucepan closely, and simmer the kraut gently over a slow fire till it is soft and yellow. AVhen it has simmered five or six hours, put with it a bunch of savoury herbs, an onion stuck with two cloves, a pinch of pepper, one pound of pork sausages, half a pound of bacon, and half a pound of German sausage. Boil all gently together, and take out the meat when it is done enough. The sausages will be done first, and the bacon last. Drain the sauer kraut, and pile it on a hot dish. Lay the sausages upon it, then cut the rest of the meat into neat pieces, and arrange them all round. Serve very hot. Sauer Kraut, To Dress (another mode). —Take as mucli kraut as will be required out of the barrel, and wash it lightly first in warm and then in cold water. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, put in half of the kraut, lay upon this the meat which it is to accom- piiny—ham, beef, pork sausages, &c., are those usually served with it—lay the remainder of the kraut on the meat, and pour over it a little stock and a glass of wine if liked. Add stock or water occasionally, as it is required, to moisten the preparation, and stir it every now and then to keep it from burning. Cover closely, and simmer gently over a slow fire until the meat is done enough, and the kraut is soft. Serve the meat on a hot dish with the sauer kraut round it. It can scarcely be boiled too long, and can be warmed up again with fresh meat a second time. Time to boil, not less than three hours at the first boiling. Sufficient, two pounds for four or five persons. Sauer Kraut, To Pickle.—The fol- lowing interesting particulars as to the German practice in regard to the preparation of sauer kraut are drawn from the " German National Cookery." The finest and hardest white cab- bages must be chosen, and the colour will be improved if they are allowed to lie heaped together in a cool corner for several days before being used. The cutting is usually done with an instrument called a kohlhobel (cabbage- plane). Instead of this a large knife wiU do. Throw away the outer leaves of the cabbages, and halve and quarter them. Cut out the stalks and larger ribs of the leaves. Begin at the top of the head to cut them across in very narrow strips. Have ready a well-seasoned oak-barrel, or pickling-tub, or an earthen bread-pan would do. Cover the bottom of the vessel with clean cabbage-leaves, throw in the cabbage as it is cut, sprinkle it with salt, equally dispersed as it is thrown in. Many scatter in a few juniper-berries or caraway- seeds. As the shred cabbage is put into the tub it should be stamped down hard with a club. When ail is packed closo, strew a little salt over the top, cover it with a few cabbage- leaves, and then with a clean linen cloth. Put on it a wooden lid that will fit inside the vessel, and lay on this a heavy stone. Do not put the " kraut-stand " in too cool a place till fermenta- tion has begun; this may be known by small white globules forming on the brine, which ought to appear above the kraut after a day or two. If this is not the case, boil salt and water, let it get cold, and then pour it over. This latter must not be a strong brine. A good handful of salt is enough to allow for a large bucket or firkin of cut cabbage; too much pre- vents fermentation. In a fortnight the cloth on the top must be well washed in cold water, and spread over again. At the same time the leaves on the top must either be well rinsed also or renewed. This washing must be done once every week, whether kraut is taken out or not. In two or three weeks it is pickled enough for use, and wiU keep good for a year. Saunders.—Mince one pound of under- dressed meat of any kind, moisten with two or three spoonfuls of good gravy, and season with pepper and salt. Spread a layer of mashed potatoes on a dish, put the mince upon them, and cover the whole with mashed potatoes. Rough the sui-face of the potatoes with a fork, and bake the preparation in a moderate oven. When it is lightly browned on the top it is done enough. Send to table with it in a tureen a little of the same gravy with which it was moistened. Time to bake, half an hour. Prob- able cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for three or four persons. Sausage.—Sausages are made of fresh meat of any kind finely minced, highly seasoned, and put into skins prepared for the purpose. In the country they are mostly made at home, but in large towns they are generally bought ready- made. When the latter plan is adopted, care should be taken to purchase the sausages of a thoroughly respectable dealer, as the mode of their preparation offers peculiar temptations to the introduction into their composition of unpalatable meat which could not be otherwise used. Sometimes sausages are made without skins; when skins are used they should first be cleansed with scrupulous care. Various kinds of meat are made iato sausages, pork and beef being the most common; the proportion of seasoning used varies with individual taste. As a general rule, half an ounce of salt and a quarter of an ounce of pepper wiU sufficiently season a pound of sausage-meat. Sausage Cakes, Soyer's.—Chop some lean pork very fine, having previously detached all the skin and bone, and to every pound of meat add three-quarters of a pound of fat bacon, half an ounce of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, the quarter of a nutmeg grated, six young green chopped onions, and a little chopped parsley. When the whole is well chopped, put into a mortar and pound well, finishing with three eggs; then have ready a pig's caul, which cut into pieces large enough to fold a piece of the above preparation the size of an egg, which wrap up, keeping to the shape of an egg, but rather flattened, and broil very gently over a moderate fire. Sausage Dumplings.—Take as many sausages as it is intended to make dumplings. Bend each one into a ring, and eew or skewer( 834 ) SAU SAU it in that position. Enc loao it in good suotcrust, ' pinch tho edges securely to prevent leakage, j and tie each dumpling in a separate cloth. When all are finished plunge the dumplings ' into a pan of boiling water, and ])oil (piickly ' until done enough. Turn them out carefully, and serve at once. Brown sauce should he sent to table with them. Sausages dressed in this way are always liked by children. Time to boil the dumplings, lialf to three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 3d. each. Sufficient, one for each person. Sausage, Italian.—Mince two pounds of lean pork with one pound of fat pork. Season tho mixture with salt, mixed spice, coriander- seed, and bruised aniseed. When the ingre- dients are thoroughly blended, moisten the mixture with pig's blood and white wine suf- ficiently to bind it together, but be careful not to render it too moist. Cut some narrow strips from the best part of a calf's head, mix these with the mince, and put the preparation into sausage-skins. Tie the ends securely, plunge the sausages into boiling water, and boil them gently until done enough. Afterwards dry them in a smoke-house, or in a chimney over a wood fire, till they become hard. Time to boil, half an hour. Sausage-meat Cakes.—Make the sau- sage-meat in the usual way, and allow two parts of lean to one of fat. Season nicely, and after mincing the meat pound it lightly in a mortar. Make it up into round cakes; flour these, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned on both sides. Take them up, drain them on a sieve, and serve on a hot dish. Send brown sauce to table with them. If liked, the sausage-cakes can be placed round a dish with mashed potatoes in the centre. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Sausage-meat Cakes (another way).— Take two or more pounds of good sausage-meat. Press it into a buttered dish, and bake in a gentle oven. When done enough, turn it out, and send it to table with a little gravy round it, and more in a tureen. If preferred, the cake may be steamed over boiling water instead of being bakedi Time to bake, one hour or more. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sausage-meat Stuflang.—Take equal weightn ot lean and fat pork. Mince finely, first separately and afterwards together, and mix with them a third of their weight in finely-grated bread-crumbs. Season the mix- ture with pepper, salt, and pounded mace, and bind it together with yolk of egg. When the ingredients are thoroughly blended, the force- meat is ready for use. If liked, a little powdered mace and a small proportion of chopped sage ,can be added to the preparation. Probable cost, one pound of stuffing. Is. Sufficient for a jnoderato-sizcd turkey. Sausage Pie.—Mince separately one pound of loan beef, one pound of sheep's or pig's liver, and half a pound of fat pork. When finely phred, mix the ingredients thoroughly, and add two table-spoonfuls of stale crumb of bread grftted, a teaspoonful of unmixed mustard, a « tea-spoonful of powdered white sugar, and a little pejjper, sfilt, and cayenne. Moi«ten the preparation with two tiilile-H])Oonfula of cold water. Press it into a ljuttejed dish, ky one or two slices of fat bacon on the top, and bake in a gentle oven. Servo hot or cold. Time to bake, about two hours. Probable cost. Is. lOd. Sufficient for five or six pei^ons. Sausage Poison,—It is well known that sausages made or kept under certain unknown conditions are occasionally highly poisonous; and in Germany, where sausages form a staple article of diet, fatal cases of sausage poisoning are by no means rare. The symptoms are slow in appearing: three or four days sometimes elapsing before they manifest themselves. The poison may be described as of the narcotico- irritant character, and is very dangerous. Dr. Taylor in his "Medical Juiisprudence" records the cases of three persons who died from the efi:'ects of liver-sausages, which had been made from an apparently healthy pig, slaughtered only the week before. The inspection threw no light on the cause of death. This case differs from those commonly occurring in Germany, in this respect: that here the sausages were fresh, while the sausages which have proved poisonous in Germany had always been made a long time. Dr. Kemer, a German physician, who has specially studied the subject, believes that the poison is an acid, formed in consequence of a modified process of putrefaction; others regard it as an empyreumatic oil. Sausage Pudding.—Line a moderate- sized pudding-basin with good suet crust; fill it with one pound of fresh pork sausages which have been scalded and have had the skins re- moved, and pour over it a sauce made as fol- lows:—Llince an onion, and fry it with two sage-leaves in butter till the onion begins to turn yellow. Dredge a dessert-spoonful of flour over it, and pour upon it two or three tal spoonfuls of good stock. Stir the sauce o\ct the fire till it boils, season with salt and cayenne, let it cool, and strain it over the sausages. Cover the pudding with the pastry with which the dish was lined. Tie it in a pudding-cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil quickly till the pudding is done enough. Turn it upon a hot dish, and send brown gravy to table with it. Time to boil the pudding, an hour and a half. Probable cost, sausages, Is. per poimd. Sausage Rolls. -Take half a sausage n:t lengthwise for each roll. Enclose the halt m pastry six inches square and an eighth of ^ inch thick Pinch the edges securely, and then bake the roll on a baking sheet in a well-heated oven. They may be serv^ed hot or cold. Or take equal weights of cold dressed chicken and tongue, or cold roast veal and ham. Mince the meat finelv, and season well with salt, cayenne, ' and powdered sweet herbs. The latter may be ' omitted, if liked. Press the mince togetlier, and enclose it in a puff paste, or good pastry that is large enough to contsiin it. Bake in » well-heated oven. These rolls are especially adapted for pic-nic parties. Time to bake, half an liour for fresh meat, fifteen minutes lor cooked meat..% SAU ( 835 ) SAU Sausage Toast (a breakfast dish).—l-ryor bake two ur thrtio saustiges. When douo enough, strip the skin from them, and spread the meat on a slice of brown bread toasted and buttered. Gnite a spoonful of gruytire or Cheshire cheese over the meat, and serve hot. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to fry the sausages. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for one person. Sausages. — Recipes for the following s;ius;iges will be found under their respective headings : — Beef Oxford Bkef, Home-made Oxford, without Bologna Skins Bologna, with Oyster Onions Pork Forcemeat of Sau- Pork, Dressed SAGES Pork, for Eating Fowl cold Frankfort • Pork, without Game Skins Ham, German Poultry and Veal Jewish, or Chorissa Rabbit Liver Rabbit, Made from Liver, Mecklenburg Dressed Rabbit Lobster Sausages and Cab- Marrow bage Mecklenburg Spanish Mecklenburg Liver Veal Mutton Sausages are a convenient method of pre- serving many sorts of meat that would not keep well otherwise for any length of time. The principle of making all sausages is alike, and consists in simply chopping the particular kind of meat employed, and seasoning it with spices and herbs of various kinds, bread-crumbs and eggs, salt, or mustard, or any of these ingi-edionts, mixed in such proportions as are agreeable. Then the whole is enclosed in por- tions of the prepared intestines of a hog, sheep, or calf, very well washed and scraped till thoroughly clean. Amongst the herbs em- ployed are the foUowiag : shallot, onions, leek, sage, thyme, garlic, marjoram, and parsley. For some kinds of sausages, besides meat, anchovies, oysters, and red herring are added. The blood of various animals, as the ox, hog, goose, &c., are used in this way, mixed with oatmeal, crumbs of bread, and seasonings of various kinds. The Germans have acquired a high reputation for the manufacture of sausages, in which smoked meat is generally used. Sausages and Cabbage.—Cut off the outer leaves and the hard stalk from a fine- hearted savoy or cabbage, and carefully cleanse it from aU impurities. Slice it finely, as if it were to be pickled, rinse it well, and put it into a saucepan with as much boiling (unsalted) water as will barely cover it. Let it boil till quite tender, stirring occasionally to keep it from homing to the bottom of the saucepan. Add a little more water if necessary, but be spsiring in putting this in. When the cabbage is tender, there ought to be in the pan as much liquor only as will moisten the vegetable. Lay a pound or more of fresh sausages in the centre of the cooked cabbage, cover the saucepan closely to keep in the heat and vapour, and stew the sausage gently until done enough. Lift it out, lay it on a round of toast in a hot dish, strain the liquor in the pan over it and the toast, and serve the cabbage neatly piled on a separate dish. If there are any remains when the dish is taken from the table, they may be heated again in the same way, and sent to table a second time. Supposing that the cabbage only is left, it may be heated, put on a dish with poached eggs, accompanied by an equal number, of slices of toasted bacon laid upon it. Time to stew the sausages, thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for three or four- per- sons. Sausages, Baked.—As sausages, and especially pork sausages, need to be thoroughly dressed to be wholesome, it is a good plan, when there is time, to bake instead of frying them. Put them in a dripping-tin in a single layer, placing a little fat in the dish with them, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. When they are brown upon one side, turn them upon the other; if they are freshly made they will not need to be pricked. They should be baked very gently. When done enough, lift them out, di'ain them, make brown sauce for them, and serve very hot. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for three persons. Sausages, Boiled.—Put the sausages into boiling water, let them boil up once, then di-aw the saucepan to the side, and let the sausages simmer gently until done enough. Drain them, and serve upon toast. Time to boil the sausages, ten to fifteen minutes, according to size. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sausages, Bologna. —These sausages are generally eaten undressed, and put into large skins. Ox-skins are the most suitable for the pui-pose. Real Bologna sausages can only be bought. To imitate them, take three pounds each of lean beef and lean pork; put the meat into hot water, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Take it up, shred it finely, each kind separately, and mix with it a pound and a half of finely-shred beef suet. Mix the meats thoroughlj'-, season the mixture with fine pep- per, thyme, and ground mace, and pound it to a smooth paste. Fill the prepared skins with it, and in filling them put long thin strips of fat bacon in among the meat. Tie the skins in eight-inch lengths; put the sausages in brine for ten days, then smoke them in the usual way. Rub pepper over the outside, and hang them in a cool, dry place till wanted. They will need only to be cut into slices and arranged neatly on a napkin before being sent to table. Time to smoke the sausages, three or four months. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Sausages, Pried. — Melt a little butter in a frying-pan, and as soon as it is dissolved put in the sausages in a single layer. Dredge flour over them, and fry over a very gentle fire till they are browned, moving them about, that they may be equally coloured all over. Drain the fat from them by laying them on a hair sieve before the fire for a minute or two, and serve them on a toast, or round a mould ofSAU SAU ( 836 ) mashod potatoes. Bond sauce to tahlo in a turoon (.vci; Sausages, Sauce for). As sausagoH, especially when made of pork, need to bo well dressed, care must bo taken to heat them very gradually, so that they may not be burnt outside before they are done enough in the centre. When the oven is moderately heated, they may with advantage be baked instead of fried. Time to fry, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient, a pound of sausages for three persons. Sausages, Pried, with Apples.—Take half a poimd of sausages and six apples. Slice four of the apples into pieces as thick as a five- ghilling piece, and cut the remaining two into quarters. Fry them with tho sausages of a fine light brown, and lay the sausages in the centre of the dish and the apples round. Garnish with the quartered apples. Sausages, Home-made.—Three or four recipes are here given for making sausage-meat. Tastes vary, and tho quantity of seasoning used must vary with them; but the process of manu- facture is always the same. It should be re- membered that though scraps and trimmings of meat may be used for making sausages, they should be perfectly sweet and palatable, and should be carefully freed from skin and sinew, also that the sausages will be Ughter, though not quite so inviting in appearance, if the meat is coarsely rather than finely shred. No. 1. Shred half a pound of sound beef suet, and one pound of lean beef. Mix thoroughly, and pound the mixture in a mortar. Season with salt, pepper, and spices. If skins are not used, the sausages may, if Uked, be dipped in egg and bread-crumbs before being fried or baked. No. 2. Mince finely two pounds of lean pork and one pound of fat bacon. Add a seasoning of two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, two of powdered sage, with a pinch of grated nut- meg and powdered mace; finely-shred shallot may be added, or not. Thoroughly mix the seasoning with the meat; three-parts fill the skins with the mixture, and hang them in a cool place till wanted. No. 3. Mince separately three pounds of lean and two of fat pork. Mix them, and add three table-spoonfuls of powdered sage, two ounces and a half of salt, and one ounce of pepper. Blend the ingredients thoroughly. A small nutmeg grated and a tea-spoonful of powdered mace may be added, or not. No. 4. Cut the crumb of a penny loaf into slices, soak it in water till it is soft, then squeeze it dry in a cloth. Mix it thoroughly with two pounds of lean pork and a pound and a half of fat pork; add pepper, salt, lemon thyme, powdered sage, and grated nutmeg. Half fill the skins with the mixture, and bake or boil the sausages when wanted. They should be used as soon as possible, as tho soaked bread will prevent them keeping. No. 5. Mince separately a pound of beef suet and a pound of lean pork. Mix the ingredients, and pound them thoroughly, and with them two large table-spoonfuls of grated bread-crtunbs. Add a seasoning of salt, pepper, and powdered sago, and bind the mixture together with the volks of two eggs. No. 6. Take half a pound of lean veal, half a pound of pork, fat and lean together, and half a pound of beef suet. Shred all finely, and mix tliuroughly. Add a quarter of a poimd of finely-grated crumb of bread, three sage-leaves chopped small, half a small nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, and four inches of lemon-rind finely shred. A pinch of marjoram and of savory may be added if liked. Put tho meat into skins, or form it into cakes, and dress the sausages in the usual way. Probable cost, sausages, 9d. to 1 s. 3d. per jjound, according to the qufility of the meat used. Sausages, Lyons,—Take six pounds of lean jjork from tlio chine, three pounds of lean veal from the fillet, and three pounds of pork- fat. Mince the lean meat finely, pound it in a mortar till smooth, and cut the fat into dice. Mix thoroughly, and season the whole with ten ounces of salt, a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre, three or four bruised shallots, half an oimce of ground pepper, and a quarter of an ounce of peppercorns. Leave the mixture for twenty- four hours. Procure some sausage-skins, and carefully examine them to see that they are thoroughly cleansed ; press the meat tightly into them, and fasten the ends securely with string. Lay the sausages in an earthen pan with salt, with a small portion of saltpetre under and over them, and let them remain for a week; take them out, and dry them in a smoke-house or in a chimney over a wood fire. BoU three or four bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, and a few sage- leaves in some wine-lees, if procurable. Dip the sausages into this, tie the ends with fresh string, and again dry them. "Wrap them in paper, and store in a dry, cool place till wanted. Sausages, Sauce for.—Lift the sausages from the pan, and put them upon a sieve before a fire to drain. Pour away all the fat except- ing about a table-spoonful, and if the fat in wMch the sausages were fried is at all burnt, dissolve a little fresh butter or fat in a clean saucepan. Stir into this as much flour as will make a smooth paste, rub it briskly over tho fire irntU it is brightly browned, moisten gradually with boiling water or boiling stock till it is as thick as cream, add a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup or walnut pickle, and if necessary a spoonful of browning. Boil the sauce for a few minutes, place the sausages in a dish, and strain the sauce over them. Send mustard to table with them. Time to mal< the sauce, ten to fifteen minutes. The abo\ ingredients will make sufficient sauce for a pound of sausages. Sausages, Savoury.—Take equal quan- tities of fat and lean pork. Kub the meat w. ' with salt, and a little saltpetre, and pepper. ^ ■ lay it in brine, and leave it for six days. Tal> it up, mince it finely, and with it a couple ■ shallots or a little onion, and add pepper an ■ allspice to taste. Put it into large skins, tie both ends, cover with muslin, and hang the sausages up in a smoke-house for ten days or a fortnight. Rub ground ginger over the out^ side, and leave the sausages in a cool place tiu wanted. Boil tho sausages or not, according to taste, cut them into thin slices, and serve them cold. Time to boil, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Id. per pound.SAU SAV ( 837 ) Sausages Stewed with Chestnuts. Taki' one pound of delicato siiusuge-meat, seasoned with salt and cayenne, but without any herbs. Divide it into small round cakes three-(iuarters of an inch thick, and fiy these in hot fat till they are lightly browned on both aides; di-ain theiu on a sieve. Throw half a hundi-ed fine Spanish chestnuts into boiling water, and lot them boil for eight or ten minutes. Dry them, and when nearly cool make a little incision in the outer skin of each nut to keep it from bursting. Roast the nuts, and when they are soft skin "them. Pour the fat in which the sausages were fried into a delicately clean saucepan; then stir a tea-spoonful of flour smoothly into it, and beat the paste over the fire till "it is lightly coloured. Add gradually half a pint of good stock, a small bunch of savoury herbs, and a seasoning of salt^ and cayenne. A glass of wine may be put in or not. Let the sauce boil up once, put in gently the sausages and chestnuts, and simmer all gently together for an hour. Pile the chest- nuts in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the sausages round them, and strain the sauce over all. Serve very hot. Probable cost, sausage- meat. Is. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Sausages, To prepare the Skins for. —A ho^'s or an ox's intestines are used to put sausages into. " They are thus prepared. Empty them, cut them in lengths and lay them for three or four days in salt and water, or weak lime-water. Turn them inside out two or three times, and scrape them well, llinse them well, dry them -with a soft cloth, and they wiU be ready for use. Sausages, Veal.—Take any quantity of lean veal with half its weight in fat pork. Mince the two separately, then mix them, and pound the mixture in a mortar till it is quite smooth. Season with salt, pepper, and pow- dered mace, form it into cakes about three- quarters of an inch thick, flour these well, and fry them in plenty of hot fat. Drain them, and serve very hot. Time to fry, about ten minutes. Probable cost, sausages, Is. Id. per poimd. Saute-pan.—This is a shallow copper ves- sel with two handles, used in French cookery to sautcr, which is a term of art nearly but not quite equivalent to frying: for in this operation the fillets of meat are frequently turned or tossed over, and a small quantity only of fatty matter is employed; hence the term sauter, *\to jump." This process of cookery is some- times called " dry frying." Sautes.—M. Udo makes the following re- mark regarding sautes or dishes fried lightly: —Mind, you must never let the saute be too much done. These dishes are very difficult to make in perfection. When they are too much done they are not eatable. It is this point of perfection in the management of cookery which distinguishes the good from the bad cook. Sayarin Cake.—Put one pound of dried and sifted flour into a pan, and make a hollow in the centre. Dissolve half an ounce of Ger- man yeast in a smaU quantity of warm milk. and set the sponge by pouring this into th« hollow, and beating into it with the fingei-s about a quarter of the flour. Sprinkle flour over the batter thus made, put the basin in a warm place, and let the sponge rise slowly to twice its size. Work into it with a spoon or with the right hand a quarter of a pint of warm milk and two eggs, and add gradually three- quarters of a pound of butter beaten to a cream, half an ounce of salt dissolved in a little warm water, two ounces of powdered sugar, the eighth, of a pint additional milk, and three more eggs. Lastly, add two ounces of candied peel cut small. The additions should be made very graduallj--, the eggs being put in one at a time, and the preparation being beaten well until it leaves the sides of the bowl easily. Butter the inside of a fluted mould rather thickly, and sprinkle a table-spoonful of blanched and chopped almonds on the butter. Beat the paste up again, and half fill the mould with it; let it stand in a warm place till it has risen level with the top of the mould. Tie a broad band of buttered paper round the top of the mould, to keep the paste from rimning over the sides, and bake the cake in a moderate oven. When done enough, turn it out carefully, run a skewer into several parts of it, and pour over and into it a thick syrup flavoured with cura^oa or any other suitable liqueur. Sprinkle powdered sugar over the surface, and send the cake to table warm. Time to bake, one hour or more. Probable cost, 3s., exclusive of the liqueur. Sufficient or five or six persons. Save-all Pudding.—Put any scraps oi bread there may be into a bowl, and over a quarter of a pound of these pour a pint of boil- ing milk. Let the bread soak till soft, thee beat it well wdth a fork till no lumps remain. Add, whilst beating, two eggs, two table- spoonfuls of finely-shred suet, or a slice of sweet butter or dripping, two table-spoonfuls of picked currants, two table-spoonfuls of pow- dered sugar, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated, or any other suitable flavouring. Two apples, pared, cored, and quartered, may be added tc the pudding or not. Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake in a well-heated oven. When the pudding is set and nicely browned on the surface it is done enough. Time to bake, an hour or more. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Saveloy.—Under this name we have a kind of sausage common in the shops of the metro- polis. The saveloy differs from the ordinary pork sausage only in its being made of young salted pork; it is highly seasoned, and a little saltpetre is added to give the meat a red colour. Saveloys.—Take a piece of tender pork, free from skin and gristle, and weighing about two pounds. Salt it with common salt and a little saltpetre. When it has lain in the salt two or three days, mince it finely, and season with a tea-spoonful of pepper and four sage-leaves chopped small. IMix it well with the third of a pound of bread-crumbs. Put the mixture into the skins, tie the ends securely, and bake or boU the saveloys gently \mtil done enough.SAV ( 838 ) SAV 8orvo hot or cold. Tiiuo tcj dross, half iin hour, rrohiiblc cost, Id. or 2d. ouch. Savoury Cake.—Tuko two largo table- spoonfuls ot tino Hour, and mix thorn smoothly with four eggs, adding enough milk to muko the preparation of the consistency of cream. Stir well, and add salt to taste and some finoly- minced chives. Butter a shallow tin or dish, and bake till the cake is of a fine yellow. Savoury Custard for Invalids.—Mix a dessert-spoonful of corn-flour to a smooth paste with a little cold beef-tea, and tlien add gradually as much more beef-tea as will make the quantity up to half a pint. Stir the prepara- tion over the tire till it begins to thicken, pour it out, and serve. If prcfeiTcd, this custard may be made with any good broth instead of beef-tea. Time, five or six minutes to stir the custard over the fire. Sufficient for one person. Savoury Pie.—Butter a pie-dish very thickly, and cover the bottom with a layer of chopped mushrooms. Place upon these two ounces of tapioca which have been soaked for ten minutes in a quarter of a pint of water, and sprinkle over it a moderate-sized onion and two or three sage-leaves chopped small. Add three hard-boiled eggs, also chopped small, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Lay two oimces or more of butter broken into little pieces here and there on the surface, cover the dish with pastry, and bake in a well-heated oven. Wlien the pastry is done the pie will be done enough. Savoury Rice.—Put half a pound of rice into a saucepan with a slice of butter or drip- ping, a seasoning of salt and spice, and three pints of water. Simmer it gently till it is tender, drain it, pile it upon a hot dish, cover the surface with a layer of grated Cheshire cheese, and serve. Or boil half a pound of rice in three pints of water till tender. Season with pepper and salt, add a slice of dripping and two or three onions chopped small, stir the rice over the fire till the onions are tender, and serve in a hot dish. Or break three pounds of meat-bones into small pieces. Put these into a large stewpan, and pour over them five quarts of cold water. Bring the liquor gradually to the boil, skim carefully, draw the saucepan to the side, let its contents simmer gently for four hours, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. A small bunch of savoury herbs may be stewed with the stock for the last hour. Slice an onion, and cut up a quarter of a pound of vegetables, composed of equal portions of carrots, turnips, celery, &c. Fry these in butter, stirring them briskly over the fire till the onions begin to turn yellow, sprinkle over them a quarter of a pound of fine oatmeal, and pour the stock from the bones upon them. Add two ounces cf soaked rice, boil all gently together till this is tender. Season with pepper and salt, and serve. Time, five hours. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Savoury Spirit, for Imparting a flavour of Herbs to Soups, Sauces, &C.—Take one ounce each of dried lemon- thj-me, sweet marjoram, sweet basil, and winter savory. Mix them, and put them into a stone jar with a quarter of an ounce of grated lemon- rmd, a quarter of an ounce of minced shallot and two drachms of l^ruised culery-seed. Pour oyer them a quart of fine proof spirit of any kmd, and lot tliom infuse for ten days. Strain the liquor, bottle closely, and store for use. If liked, vinegar can bo used instead of spirit, but it will not draw out the flavour of the herbs so well. Savoury Spirit for Imparting a flavour of Spice to Soups, Sauces, &C.—Mix thoroughly two ounces of powdered black pepper with one ounce of powdered allspice and half an ounce of grated nutme<'. Put the powdered mixture into a jar, and pour over it a quart of fine proof spirit. Let it infuse for ten days, then strain off the liquor, bottle closely, and store for use. If preferred, the powder may be prepared as follows:— Pound in a mortar a quarter of an ounce of ginger, a quarter of an ounce of grated nutmeg, two drachms of cayenne pepper, half an oimce of ground black pepper, half an ounce of grated lemon-rind, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, an ounce of dry salt, and half an ounce of French mustard. I'roceed as before. Savoury Toasts.—Savoury toasts may be served as relishes at breakfast or luncheon, or they may fill a comer at the dinner-table. They may be varied at pleasure, and if agree- ably flavoured, will constitute appetising trifles at small expense. To prepare them, cut some slices of crumb of bread haK an inch thick, toast them, butter thickly, and spread upon them any highly-seasoned savoury mixture. Put them into the oven to make them hot, and serve. Any cold ragout or stewed vege- tables heated in thick sauce, grated ham or , tongue beaten up over the fire with egg and ! cream till thick, truffles vi' mushrooms stewed in butter, seasoned, and minced, or any similar preparation, may be used to spread upon the toasts. Anchovies pounded may be used in this way also. They are prepared as fol- lows:—Wash and bone the ancho^'ies, mince finely, and pound them to paste in a mortar with a little piece of butter and a moderate quantity of cayenne. Work the whole to a smooth paste, spread it upon the buttered toast, and put it into a Dutch oven till it is quite hot. Savoy Biscuits.—Take twelve parts of sugar, seven parts of flour, and twelve paits of eggs, and add ground lemon-rind by way of flavouring. Bake in the usual way, and Eifler the biscuits have been a few minutes in the oven grate a little sugar over the top of them. 1 Savoy Biscuits, Cold.—Take a little more than half a pound of verj' fine dry flour, one pound of very dry pounded sugar, and fourteen or fifteen eggs, very fresh ; if the eggs are large, fourteen are sufficient. Rasp ovt r the sugar the peel of two lemons or oranges; put that sugar to dry; then have two vessels, one for the whites and one for the yolks; break the eggs one by one, and be particular in smell- ing them, as one bad one will spoil all; put the dry sugar with the yolks, and work them together with two new wooden sjjoons. put also the sugar of lemon; next whip the whites very( 839 ) SAV SAV firm, and, to prevent them turning, put a small j)iuch of ciilcined ulum in powder; when the whites are very firm, take half to mix with the yolks; then put all together, put the floiu- into a hail- sieve, and sift it over the eggs; mix gently with the whites, then butter a mould, and powder it over with tine sugar; put the biscuit into the mould a little at a time. Put some ashes on a baking-dish, and put the mould over this in the oven; the heat must be moderate. About one hour is requisite to bake this biscuit, and it must not be moved till it is quite done. Savoy Biscuits, Hot.—Take a dozen fresh eggs, break them into a vessel, which is to be put into another contaruing some water nearly boiling. With these eggs mix a pound of superfine pounded sugar. Beat them well in the vessel which stands in the hot water. When you perceive that the eggs are no longer soft, put three-quarters of a pound of flour into a silk sieve not very closely woven; mix the flour well with the eggs, which is done by shaking the sieve, then add about two spoon- fuls of orange-flower water. If you only use lemon, put in a spoonful of cold water. Rub a mould over with butter; powder some sugar round, fill that mould with the preparation, powder some sugar over it, and bake in an oven moderately hot. Ascertaiu with a little skewer whether the middle part is sufficiently baked before you take it out of the oven. If the biscuit is not very large, it will be done in three-quarters of an hour. Biscuits, like other pastries of a large size, require the oven not to be too hot, and therefore they must be kept in a longer time. Savoy Biscuits, or Ladies' Fingers. —These biscuits are used for making a number of fancy dishes. They contaiu a good deal of nourishment, and are excellent for the young and weakly when soaked in beef-tea or mUk. To make them, break six eggs, and separate the whites from the yolks. Beat the yolks well, and whilst beating strew in six ounces of powdered and sifted sugar which has been rubbed upon the rind of a lemon before being broken. Beat the mixture till smooth, and add gradually three-quarters of a pound of dry flour and the whites of the eggs beaten to a soHd froth. Bake the biscuits in fluted tius sold for the purpose, lined with buttered paper; or, if these are not at hand, draw the paste in straight lines upon thick paper, or make little cases with but- tered wi-iting-paper. The biscuits should be made in the shape of a finger, three-quarters of an inch wide, and about four inches long. Bake in a quick oven. When putting the biscuits away, lay them in couples back to back. If preferred, a tea-spoonful of rose or orange-flower water may be used instead of lemon-juice to flavour the biscuits. Time to bake, eight minutes. Pjoba- ble cost. Is. 8d. per pound. Or whisk twelve eggs thoroughly with three table-spoonfuls of water, and add very gradually one pound of powdered and sifted sugar. Beat the mixture tiU it is as smooth and thick as cream, then stir into it one pound of diied and sifted flour. Mould it into long cakes, and bake in a slow oven. Savoy Cabbage.—The savoy is a large close-hearted cabbage, seasonable in winter. It may be dressed according to the instructions I already given for boiling cabbages. A savoy I cabbage will need to boil thirty minutes or i more, according to is size. I Savoy Cabbage (a la Creme). — Slice ' a savoy into thin strips, and in doing so remove ' the stalk entirely. Wash and drain it, and boil ' it in the usual way till tender. Turn it into a ' colander, press the water from it, and after- wards mince it slightly. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a clean saucepan, put in the . savoy, season with pepper and salt, and stir I it over the fire for a few minutes till it is dry. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour over it, and add very gradually a quarter of a pint of thick , cream. Serve very hot. Time, thirty to forty I minutes to boil the savoy. Probable cost, 2d. I to 4d. each. Sufficient, a moderate-sized savoy for four persons. ' Savoy Cabbage, Stewed.—Take one I moderate-sized savoy—or two cabbages. Cut ■ it into thin sKces as if it were going to be ' pickled, and place it in a stewpan in which a shce of fresh butter has been ali-eady dissolved. ' Let it simmer gently for two hours. Take up the savoy, thicken the quantity of liquor which ' has run from it with flour, add pepper and ' salt, and serve very hot. A savoy or cabbage prepared in this way is much superior to one that is plainly boiled. Time to stew, two ' hours. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. each. Suf- ' ficient, one moderate-sized savoy for three or ' four persons. Savoy Cake.—Weigh seven large fresh eggs, and take their weight in dried flour, and a little more than half their weight in sifted sugar. Break the eggs, and separate the yolks from the whites. Beat the former in a bowl, and add the sugar to them very gi-adually, together with a little grated lemon-rind, a I spoonful of orange-flower or rose-water, or any ' other suitable flavouring. Add the flour a little at a time, and continue to beat the mixture for twenty minutes. Butter a mould, sprinkle powdered sugar upon the butter, and shake off all that will not adhere. Tie a strip of buttered i paper round the top of the mould to keep the preparation from rolling down the sides whilst it is being baked. Pour in the cake, and three- parts fill the mould with it. When done enough let it stand a few minutes, then shake it well to loosen it, and turn it out carefully. This cake is very good cut into slices, and made into jam sandwiches. Time to bake, an hour and a quarter or a little more. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Savoy Cakes.—Take one pound of fine sifted sugar, add the yolks of ten eggs—keeping the whites in a separate pan—and jet the eggs and sugar, if in summer, in cold water ; if there is any ice, set the pan upon it, as it will enable the eggs to be beaten finer; then beat the yolks and sugar well with a wooden spoon for twenty minutes, and put in the grated rind of a lemon. Beat up the whites with a whisk until they become quite stiff and white as snow. Stir them into the batter by degrees, then add throe-SAX SAV ( 840 ) quarters of a pound of woll-driod flour. Put all in a mould in a slack oven to bake. Savoy Pudding.—liub six oimeos of stale savoy ciiko to crumbs, and pour upon those a quarter of u pint of boiling milk. Let them soak for half an hour, then beat the mixture with a fork till smooth, and add four ounces of fresh butter, four ounces of finoly-shrod candied peel, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and two table-spoon- fuls of brandy. Beat the mixture for some minutes, put it into a cool place for an horn-, and beat it up again. Put it into a buttered dish, and bake in a brisk oven. Whisk the whites of the eggs till firm, sweeten them, and flavour them pleasantly. Put them on the pudding, iuid place this in the oven a few minutes longer. When the eggs are set the pudding is ready for serving. Time to bake the pudding, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 9d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Savoy Soup. — Boil a moderate-sized savoy in the usutU way till tender. Put it into a colander, and press the water from it, then turn it into a clean stewpan, pour over it as much beef, veal, or chicken broth as will tho- roughly cover it, place the Kd on the stew- pan, and let its contents simmer gently for an hour. Dissolve four ounces of sweet butter in a separate saucepan, and stir as much flour into this as will make a smooth paste. Beat the mixture briskly over the fire until it is lightly coloured without being at all burnt, slice two onions into it, and fry them lightly. Moisten the paste with a little of the boiling soup, add it gTadually to the rest, and boil the whole a few minutes longer. Skim the soup carefully, and mix with it a quart of boiling milk. If liked, a few crackers may be soaked in the milk before it is added to the soup. Serve very hot. Time, two hours. Probable cost, 9d. per quart. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Savoy Sponge.—Beat the yolks of three eggs lightly, and with them four ounces of powdered sugar and a small pinch of salt. Stir in two ounces of corn-flour, and beat the mixture again till it is quite smooth. Add the whites of the eggs whisked to froth; pour the preparation into a buttered mould, the inside of which has been lightly covered with powdered sugar. Flavour the cake with any suitable fla- vouring, and bake in a moderate oven. When done enough, turn it out carefully. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Savoy, Varieties of.—The savoy is dis- tinguished from the other close or hearted cabbages by its wrinkled leaves, and from the Brussels sprouts by its cabbaging in large full heads. The latter is considered a sub-variety. The varieties of savoy are—the large green; the chou le pi ^ gros, tardif des vert us, or German savoy, a superior variety, very distinct from the common large green; the yellow; the dwarf; and the globe. Loudon gives the following estimate of the value of the different sorts: —" The green savoy is the least hardy, and must be used first. The London market is generally supplied with it through the month of November, and until the plants are injured by frost. The dwarf savoy is hiirdi(-r than the precedmg, bearing well the attack of the lir»t wmter frosts, hy which the deliutcy of its flavour IB materially improved; and from its small size it is bettor adapted to the tables of pnvato families. Wlien tlie whole class is cul- tivated, this must 1)0 considered the second sort in succession. The best plants grow close to the ground, not exceeding one foot in height. The yellow savoy, by its hardiness, enables us to contmue the use of savoys till mid-winter. It does not yield to any of the otheru in good- ness, and by many persons it is preferred, being considered as much sweeter than any other kind." Savoys, Dry. — Whisk the whites of fifteen eggs to a firm froth, and sprinkle a pound of powdered sugar into this with the left hand, at the same time beating it lightly with the right. Add eight ounces of dried flour, and flavour the preparation with grated lemon-rind or orange-flower water. Pour the inixture into a shallow paper case, and bake in a moderate oven. Wlien done enough let the biscuit cool, and with a sharp knife cut it into thin slices. Dry these in a screen or in a cool oven till they are lightly browned, then put them aside till wanted. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, 3s. Saxon Pudding. — According to high authority this is one of the best puddings of Germany. Boil a gUl of milk, put into a stew- pan half a pound of flour. Gradually dilute the flour with the milk, so as to obtain a fine smooth paste. Add four ounces of butter and salt to taste. Place the saucepan on a moderate fire, stir the preparation till it begins to thicken, then take it off the fire, but continue still working it. When the paste is smooth, place it again on the fire, working it still, and gradually introduce into it the yolks of ten eggs, four oimces of oranged sugar, four ounces of butter, and a little salt. When the prepara- tion is frothy, introduce seven or eight whipped whites of eggs. Pour the preparation into a dome or a cylinder mould which has been buttered and glazed ■with sugar and potato-flour. Set the mould in a stewpan with boiling water reaching to half its height. Bake in a slack oven for forty minutes. Saxon Salad (sometimes called Sardonic Salad).—Take two Dutch herrings, soak them in water, boil, cut them first into thin slices and then into narrow strips. Cut up cold meat in the same way, also some sour juicy apples, and a little pickled beetroot. Mix well, and season with pepper and a small onion minced very fine. Moisten the salad with oil, vinegar, and milk or cream in equal parts. Saxony Sauce (a German recipe).—Place a piece of butter in a casserole, together with a table-spoonful of flour, to tliicken tiU almost baked. Then add a sufficient quantity of water in which fish was boiled, a shallot minced, some pale vinegar, a little white wine, and a good tea-spoonful of mustard. Stir these ingredients until the preparation boils well. Before send- ing to table, add some very tliin slices of lemon and a piece of cold butter to make the sauce oily.( S41 ) SCA SCH Scad —This fish, sometimes called the horse-muckorel, is common on the south- western shores of England, but is compara- tively rare in the north. Sometimes it appears in immense shoals, pursuing the fry ot her- rings, or similar prey, and the multitudes have sometimes been so numerous and so crowded to"-ether that overloaded nets have been torn in pieces: the fish might have been lifted out ot the sea in bucketfuls. The flavour of the scad is not unlike that of the mackerel. When fi-csh, it is not much liked, but it is often salted, and in that state is in demand as an ai-ticle of food. Scald Cream—Provincially, cream raised by heat, or clouted cream. Scalloped Fish.—The remains of any description of diessed fish and shell-fish may be served in this way : mackerel and herrings are the least suitable for the purpose. Take the skin and bone from the fish, and tear the flesh into flakes. Mix with it a third of its weight in finely-grated bread-crumbs, or in well-mashed potatoes, and season the mixture rather highly with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg. Moisten slightly with the remains of sauce served with the fish, or, lacking this, with a little clarified butter. Butter some scallop shells, or some small shallow dishes, and line the inside with grated bread-crumbs. Put in the mixture, cover the surface with bread-crumbs, lay little pieces of butter here and there on the top, and bake in a well-heated oven or in a Dutch oven before the fire until the surface is brightly browned; serve very hot. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Scallops. — The scallop is a sheU-fish somewhat larger than an oyster, and some- what resembling it in shape. It is something like a crab in taste. It may be served in two or three ways, and is generally highly esteemed where it is known. The scallop may enter appropriately into any fish pie, though it shoiild be boiled previously. It is best when scalloped. The deep shells of the scallop should be carefully preserved after they are used, and will be usefiil when it is wished to " scallop " the remains of dressed fish of any kind. Scallops, Scalloped.—Procure the scal- lops when alive and as fresh as possible. Open them, loosen them from the shell, trim away the beards and the black portion, leaving the yellow and white parts of the fish. Wash them, m two or three waters, and drain them. Scour and rinse the deeper shells, dry them, and butter thickly. ]\Iince the scallops, and mix with them a third of their bulk in grated bread-crumbs, a liberal allowance of pepper and salt, and a little chopped parsley. A large table-spoonful of chopped parsley will be suf- ficient for a dozen scallops. Sprinkle a few bread-crumbs over the inside of the shell, and Hhake off those that do nc^ adhere. Put in the minced fish, cover the surface with bread- crumbs, and lay little pieces of butter here and there on the top. Put the shells in a well-heated oven or in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and let them remain until the contents are heated 2„* throughout and brown on the surface. Sc-rve the scallops very hot in the shells on a neatly- folded napldn. A Httle vinegar should be sent to table with them, and four shells will he vo- quired for every dozen scaUops. ihe sheas should be carefully preserved, and may be used again and again for scaUoped fish ot any kind Time to bake the scallops, halt an hour. Probable cost, when plentiful, Is. per dozen. Sufiicient, one dozen for fom- persons. Scallops, Stewed.-Procure the scallops alive and quite fresh. Open the shell like an oyster, trim away the beard and the black parts. Wash the scaUops in two or tluec waters, then put them into a saucepan, pour over them as much water as wiU cover them, and boil them gently till tender. Take them up, thicken the Uquor with flour and butter, and season it with pepper, salt, and vinegar : serve the fish on a hot dish with a little of the sauce poured over. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost, when plentiful. Is. per dozen. Sufficient, a dozen for three or four persons. Scaltheen.—In Ireland, before the days of Father Matthew, there used to be a favourite beverage, termed scaltheen, made by brewing whisky and butter together. Few could con- coct it properly, for if the whisky and butter were done too much or too little the compound had a harsh or burnt taste, very disagreeable, and totally different from the soft creamy flavour required. Schabzeiger Cheese.—This is a German cheese flavoured by the addition of the plant known in this country as melilot. ■ It finds admii-ers in England. Schodoh Pudding.—The following re- cipe for German pudding with schodoh (chau- deau) is given by a trustworthy authority:— Take two quarts of grated bread-crumbs, pour over them as much cream as will wet them; beat six ounces of butter in a deep pan to cream, to which add six eggs, one at a time every five minutes; to this add four ounces of sugar, two ounces of almonds blanched and chopped fine, two ounces of preserved lemon, also chopped, four ounces of currants, and four ounces of stoned raisins, and lastly, the bread- crumbs ; beat and mix all well together; butter a pudding-cloth or shape, strew it with flour, and boil it two hours over a moderate fire. A quarter of an hour before it is wanted, take the pudding off the fire. In the meantime, prepare the schodoh as follows :—Have ready the yolks of twelve eggs beat up, to which add six spoonfuls of pounded sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a pint of Austrian wine; set it on the fire, and beat it with a whisk till the whole thickens and forms a fine bubbling sauce. When it has reached this point, remove it, as by remaining longer it will curdle, to prevent which it is best to put the saucepan into cold water and keep beating the preparation all the time; lift the pudding out, put it into a deep dish, and pour the schodoh over it. The pud- ding may be made by substituting six ounces of marrow chopped fine instead of butter. The sjhodoh may also be poured into cups, and eaten separately.SCO ( 842 ) SGH Schpeischlitz, German. — This dish may bo umdu oithor swcot or siivoury. If pro- feri'od swoet, tho poppt;r and pursloy in tho following recipo may bo oniittod. Tut throo- quartors of a pint of inilk into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of buttor, a tea-spoonful of sugar, and a littlo pepper and salt. When tlio milk rises in tho pan, stir quickly into it six ounces of maize tlour, and continue stirring over the fire until it forms a smooth com- pact mass, and loaves the sides of tho saucepan with tho spoon. Remove it from the fire, and work gradually into it a table-spoonful of chopped ptu-sley, and three fresh eggs. Mould the forcemeat into the form of quenelles with two tea-spoons which have been dipped into hot water, throw tho quenollos into boiling milk slightly salted, and poach them until the batter is set. Drain them, cover with fried crumbs, and serve immediately. Send jam to table with sweet schpeischlitz, and grated gi'uyere or parmesan with savoury schpeischlitz. Time to poach the schpeischlitz, ten minutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Scones.—Put as much barley-meal as will be required into a bowl, add a pinch of salt, and stir in cold water to make a stiff paste. Roll this out into round cakes a quarter of an inch thick, and bake on a girdle. SpUt the cakes open, butter them well, and serve hot. A little buttor may be rubbed into the meal if liked. Richer scones may be made by dissoh-ing an ounce of fresh butter in a pint of hot milk, and stirring this into as much flour as will make a stiff dough. When it is not convenient to bake the scones on a girdle, a thick frying-pan may be used instead. Time to bake the scones, about four minutes. Scones, Soda.—Dissolve half a salt-spoon- ful of carbonate of soda and five ounces of fresh butter or lard in a quarter of a pint of warm water or milk: put ten ounces of flour into a bowl, add a pinch of salt, and stir in the liquor to make a stiff dough. Roll this out into a round cake a quarter of an inch thick, mark this into eight portions, and bake on a girdle or in a thick frjing-pan. Split the scones, butter them well, and serve very hot. Time, to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. ScorOj To.—To score fish or vegetables is to make incisions on them with a sharp knife, thus facilitating the cooking. Scorzonera.—The roots of thie plant are sugary and well flavoured ; they may be boiled and served like parsnips, or treated like salsify. The coarse outer rind must be scraped off, and the roots soaked in cold water for a few hours to extract the bitter flavour. Scotch Broth (Genuine Scotch Recipe).— Take about three pounds of fresh beef. The shin or hock, or the thick flank, or any similar piece, will answer excellently. Procure also a tea-cupful of pearl barley, a cabbage, three leeks, one large turnip, one large carrot, and a quarter of a peck of peas, fresh or dried. When there is any difliculty in procuring the peas, they are frequently omitted. If dried peas are used, they must be soaked overnight. Put tho barley nito a Blewpun with six quarts of cold water. Whilst this is heating prepare tho vogetablcb. Shred the cabbage finely and cut the looks and turnip into small dice, and throw them into cold water till tliey are wanted, iiofore using, drain them. Chjanse the carrot, then scrape or grate it to pulp; and do not put any cold water upon it after it is grated, as tliat would cause it to lose its flavour. When the water boils, put into it all the vegetables, with tho beef and a little pepper and salt, and sim- mer the broth very gently till the beef is tender. If the meat is done enough before it is needed, it should bo taken out for awhile and put back in time to heat again. Particular care should bo taken to skim the broth carefully. Serve the beef on a separate dish, and send the broth with the vegetables and barley to table in a tureen. Excellent broth may be made with mutton or lamb, as well as beef. It is excellent the second day. Time to simmer the broth, about four hours. Probable cost, 3s. 4d. Suf- ficient for six or eight persons. Scotch Broth (M. Tide's recipe).—Take some of the worst cutlets of the neck, trim them, but not too finely; put them by, and with the trimmings make the soup in the following manner:—Put into a stewpan th(.' mutton trimmings, some scrag ditto, and a knuckle of veal; moisten this with good boiHng broth; then season the broth with a bunch of celery, leeks, parsley, one large onion with two cloves, a few slices of turnip cut into dice, and one or two carrots, also cut in dice. Let this broth boil gently three hours; season it with salt, and skim off the fat. When it becomes of a good flavour, drain it over the chops, which you must put in a small stew- pan, large enough, however, to contain the soup. Have some barley that has been boiled a long time; wash it well, and put it with the turnips and carrots and chops to boil one hour. Skim again before sending to table. No bread is used with this soup. Celery cut in dice with the tuiTups gives additional flavour; you can sometimes add, just at dinner-time, a. little parsley chopped very fine just as you serve up. Scotch Cake.—Beat three-quarters of a pound of butter to cream, add a pound of pow- dered and sifted sugar, one pound of dried flour, one table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a quarter of a pint of milk. Roll out the dough to the thickness of the third of an inch, cut it into cakes, and bake these in a well-heated oven. When the cakes are lightly and equally coloured they are done enough. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost. Is. lOd. for this quantity. Scotch Dishes.—Recipes for the vnriou.s national dishes of Scotland will be found under their respective headings. On this and the succeeding page, however, we have given a few additional examples of Caledonian cookery. Scotch Kale.— Like all other greens, Scotch kale should be procured as fresh as possible. Cut awav the outer and decavod leaves and the stalks, ^yash the kale with scrupulous care, and drain it. Put it into( 843 ) SCO SCO • boiling water slightly salted, and let it boil quii kly until done enough. Take it up, drain it thoroughly, and serve very hot. Whilst the kale is boiling, the sjiucepan should be left uncovered. Time to boU, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pound. Scotch Oatmeal Brose.—Brose is a Scotch food made from oatmeal, and is perhaps the food most quickly cooked of any used by civilised men. The process is as follows :—Put a handful of oatmeal into a good-sized basin, add a large pinch of salt, pour about a pint of boiling water over it, stir with the handle of a spoon, when the meal will form little lumps. Do not break the lumps, but pour in half a pint of either sweet milk or buttermilk, and thfe cooking will be complete. Eat immediately after cooking. Some add a piece of butter, but the brose is more wholesome without it; indeed, all preparations of oatmeal are more wholesome without the addition of any fatty substance, the oatmeal having quite enough of the heat-producing element in itself. This is a common breakfast among Scotch ploughmen in some districts. It cannot be recommended to sedentary persons. Scotch Oatmeal Cakes. —For oaten cakes, take some meal, mix with it a little salt and melted suet and sufficient water to work it into a thick dough, roll out into a cake as thin as possible, divide into quarters, and spread out on the "girdle" (a flat circular piece of iron about eighteen inches in diameter, suspended over the fire), and bake each side in turn. The | cakes must then be toasted before the fire till ' they are curled and crisp. They must be crisp j and brittle to be palatable. Scotch Oatmeal Cakes (another way). —Oat-cake, or bannocks, should be made from meal as fine as can be got, and as newly ground as possible. The meal should be saturated ^vith lukewarm water, and as much salt as can be lifted between the finger and thumb for each cake; stir about well, and squeeze through , the fingers, adding dry meal until the mass is i of the consistency of dough (all this should be j done in a basin); then spread some dry meal , on the " bake-board," flatten the dough with the knuckles of both hands until nearly the size wanted; smooth and finish with a rolling- pin. Crimp with the thumb all round the edge, but do not cut it in any way. It is now ready for the girdle. Now for the "firing," which is of as much importance as the " baking." The fire must be clear, and free from smoke; as a precaution, throw some salt on. The girdle should be of malleable iron, and a quarter of an inch thick, with a bow handle. Heat till salt crackles on it, brush it clean, and put on the bannock. Give it an occasional turn while on its flat, so that it may be equally done. Take it off with the spurtle—an instrument made of thin flat iron, shaped like a hoart, with a handle—to see if well browned. If the bannocks are to be " scoudered" do them on the other side the same way; but they are much hotter to have the other side done br!foro the fire on the toaster, this will give them a beautiful curl, and make them nice and j crisp. Then you will have real Scotch oatmeal bannocks. Scotch Oatmeal Cakea (another way). —The following directions are given by one writer us the result of some experience and study :—1. Let the oatmeal be of mediiun size in the grain. If coarse oatmeal be used, the cakes will not bear kneading out to the proper thinness, but will break in pieces; if the finest be used, the cakes will be tough, not crisp, as- they ought to be. 2. Use cold water only in making the dough. If hot or lukewarm water be used, the cakes will also be tough, and quite wanting in the peculiar sweetness that cakes made with cold water have. The use of fine oatmeal and hot water certainly makes the work easier to the person making the cakesy and also produces a better-looking article, but just as surely makes the cakes much less- pleasant to eat. 3. Use no fat, nor carbonate of soda, nor anything but oatmeal, cold water,, and just as much salt as is used in the making of bread from flour. Fat and carbonate of soda both cause the cakes to be shorter; but both, especially the former, have a great tendency to produce heartburn and other un.- pleasant residts in the eater. Cakes properly- made do not require any such devices to make them very pleasant eating. 4. Knead up the dough as quickly as possible, and make no more dough at a time than is enough for one cake, which cut into three or four sections for convenience of handling. If the dough is made in a lump for a number of cakes, those that are baked last will not be so crisp and sweet as the first baked. The size of the cake will be detennined by the diameter of the hot-plate on girdle on which it is to be baked, but cakes of small diameter are more easily made by per- sons unaccustomed to the work. 5. Make the cakes thin—as little over an eighth of an inch as possible. If rolled out thicker than that they will not have the nice crispness that a good oat-cake always has. 6. Bake the ono side on the hot-plate over the fire just as much as will serve to stiffen the cake sufficiently ta bear its own weight when set on edge in the toaster before the fire. The more the baking is done before the fire the bettor. Lastly, do not eat them hot, and keep them until used in a perfectly dry and, if possible, rather warm place. Scotch Oatmeal Porridge.—Oatmeal porridge is made of oatmeal, water, and salf only; no sweet milk, buttermilk, nor butter being used in the preparation of the food, although all of these articles may be used as relishes with it. It is best made from meal of medium coarseness. The water must be boiling- when the meal is stirred in, and it must be stirred in carefully and gradually, and not thrown in all at once, and the stirring must be continued during the time of boiling, which should not be less than fifteen minutes, and is much better boiled longer. If longer boiled, the grain of the meal gets softer, and of course the porridge gets thicker. Porridge is more palatable when a plate or other flat dish is us.-d for It than when it is put into a bowl or basm. When a plate is used the moistureSCO ( 844 ) SEA evaponites more quickly and equably than it does froui a bowl, aud the porridge can be eaten sooner after cooking, and the aoonor it is eaten the plcasanter it tastes. Scotch Soup.—Take four pounds of the shin of beef or knuckle of veal. Put it into a stewpau, pour over it as much cold water as will cover it, add four ounces of pearl barley, and let all sinurier gently together for an hour. Remove the scum carefully as it rises, and when no more appears, throw in a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, half a dozen outer sticks of celery, two onions, two large turnips cut into dice, and a little popper and salt. Add gradually another quart of water, and simmer the soup again until the vegetables are tender. Take up the meat, and serve it on a separate dish. Serve the soup without straining and as hot as possible. A fowl is occasionally stewed in the soup, and served with it. Time, about two and a half hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Scrap.—Scraps are the little pieces of leaf or flead left undjssolved when the inner fat of a pig is melted down for lard. If carefully prepared, these pieces may be used for making common cakes for nursery use; if burnt they axe good for nothing. The best way of melt- ing the fat is to cut it up and put it in a jar, and then place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, which should be kept boiling imtil the fat is dissolved. In covmtry places scraps are utilised by economical housekeepers, and served with baked potatoes and mustard sauce as a relish for breakfast or supper. Scrap Cakes.—Take the scraps which remain after melting down a pound of leaf or flead. Put these into a bowl, slice them, and rub them into three-quarters of a poimd of flour. Add a pinch of salt, four ounces of picked and diied currants, two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, half an ounce of candied peel finely minced, and a little grated nutmeg. Ilix the ingredients thoroughly, and moisten them with as much cold water as will make a hght paste. EoU this out, stamp it into round cakes, and bake these in a quick oven. A spoonful of baking-powder may be added or not. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the scraps, 6d. Screw, Bottle-jack and {see Bottle-jack and Screw). Scurvy Grass. — This is found wild in Bome marshy districts of our country, but probably it was first introduced into our gar- dens from Holland, where it grows very plenti- fully. The leaves of this plant are exceedingly pungent, therefore the best way of eating them 13 between bread and butter, as by this means they are rendered less offensive to the palate, and their whole virtues, which are very con- siderable, arc taken into the stomach. Sea Bass.—Bass is a name given to several kinds of fish, aU of which are excellent for food. Sometimes a kind of perch is thus named. In North America the name denotes a striped fish of good size, and which often weighs as much as fifteen pounds; while the sea bass is a striped fish with a large head, which grows to two or throe pounds weight, and which is never found in fresh water. All these varieties tawte well, aud may either be boiled or fried like other fish. Sea Beet.—The sea beet is a plant growing on many parts of our coasts. It belongs to the same natural family as the spinach, and is probably the original form of the cultivated beet and mangold-wurzel. The leaves are large, and when boiled resemble spiimch in flavour. The plant grows naturally on clialk, but is much improved by being grown in garden- ground. If pknted in rich soil the leaves are finer, and the flavour is scarcely distinguishable from that of spinach. A regular supply can also be obtained until late in the season by gathering the leaves in succession as they gi ow. In many parts of Ireland they are collected by the poor, and eaten as food. Sea Bindweed. — The sea bindweed is common on our sea coasts, where the natives often gather the young shoots, and pickle them in the same way as samphire. Before being pickled they have a salt, bitterish taste. Sea Bream.—This fish, which grows to the length of sixteen to twenty inches, though handsome in appearance, is not very higlily esteemed. It is best when boiled. {See Bkeah.) SEA BREAU, Sea Dragon {Vives).—The sea dragon is a fish seldom eaten in England, but in France it is often sent to table. It is broiled, and served up with butter of anchovies, maitre d'hntel sauce, or provemjale sauce. Towards the gills, it should be observed, there is a venomous bone. Sea Holly.—This is a plant foimd upon the sea coasts of many parts of England. It is a perennial, with a long, tough, creeping root, wMch sends forth several roundish, bluish prickly leaves, standing on long footstalks, and mostly lodged on the ground. The roots have a pleasant, sweetish taste, mixed with a slight degree of warmth and acrimony. They are candied and eaten for disorders of the lungs.SEA SEA ( 846 ) Sea Kale.—Sea kale is a plant somewhat resembling asparagus, and it is thus named because it is found in its wild state in districts near the sea. It varies in price, according as it is plentiful or otherwise. It is very whole- some, and easily digested, and is generally highly esteemed: notwithstanding this, its in- troduction to public notice was a matter of tliiiiculty. Its cultivation—and that very re- stricted and local—dates from little more than a hundred years ago, though from time imme- morial the inhabitants of various parts of the coast have been in the habit of searching for it when blanched by the di-ifted sand, and cut- ting oflE the white shoots close to the crown of the plant. {See Sea Kale, History of.) It is the blanching process which makes sea kale SEA KALE. 80 delicate. TJnblanched it is worthless. Per- sons ignorant of the proper mode of doing this by earthing up the plants and covering them with pots, when they came into pos- session of gardens where it had been planted, have been known to root it up, and throw it away, because they tasted only its full-grown leaves, and found them unpalatable. It is the action of light which imparts its strong and bitter taste to sea kale, as well as its glaucous- green and reddish-purple colouring. Conse- quently, sea kale after it is cut should be kept m a dark place till wanted. If exposed in an open situation, it will in two or three days acquire a decided tinge, which injures both its appearance and flavour. Sea kale is amongst the earhost of vegetables. It may frequently be procured m January, and is in fuU season Irom ± ebruary to June. Sea Kale {see also Kale, Sea). Sea Kale, Boiled.—When fresh and delicately cooked, sea kale resembles and will serve as a substitute for asparagus. Carefully wa.sh and brush the sea kale to remove the sand and gnt, cut out the black part of the roots, and tie the shoots in small bundles. 2]!JmT 1^, into plenty of boiling water slightly salted, and keep them boiling quickly until tender. Take them up, drain thL. untie the bunches, and servo the kale on toast, with all the heads in one direction, and with plain melted butter or white sauce poured over it, or, if preferred, without the toast, and dry. If required to be served on toast, the latter may be soaked in the water in which the kale was cooked, that is provided the liquor remains colourless; otherwise it will impart a bitter taste to the toast. Time—the better the kale is, the quicker it will be done; if young and fresh, it wiU be done enough in from twenty to thirty minutes ; if stale and discoloured, it will need from forty to fifty minutes. If there is any suspicion that the kale is stale, the water should be poured ofi: when it is half done, and fresh water substituted. Probable cost when plentiful, lOd. to Is. per basket. Sufficient, twelve heads for three or four persons. Sea Kale, Choosing of.—Sea kale should be dressed as soon as possible after it is cut. When fresh, it is white in colour and crisp. If it has acquired a dark tinge, and is limp to the touch, it is stale and comparatively worthless. After it is purchased it should be kept covered up, and in a dark place, till wanted. . Sea Kale, Cultivation of.—The follow- ing are Mr. Loudon's observations on the use of sea-kale :—" The young spring shoots and the stalks of the unfolding leaves, blanched by rising through the natural ground in a wild state, or by earthing up in gardens, are the parts used; and when boiled and dressed like asparagus are not inferior to that vegetable. They form also an excellent ingrecSent in soups. Sometimes the ribs of the large leaves are peeled and dressed as asparagus, after the plant has ceased to send up young growths. By forcing, sea-kale may be had in perfection from November till May, a period including aU the dead months of the year. It is remarked by Nicol, that vegetables are seldom improved by forcing, but that sea-kale forms an exception, the forced shoots produced at mid-winter being • more crisp and delicate in fluvour than those produced in the natural way in April or May. Sir George Mackenzie observes, ' that sea-kale cannot easily be overdone in cooking, and that after being well boiled it should be thoroughly drained, and then suffered to remain a few minutes before the fire, that a farther portion of moisture may be exhaled.' From four to six heads, according to the size, tied together like asparagus, make a dish; and Maher says a blanching pot which contains three plants will afford a dish twice in a season. Hence, from sixty to a hundred pots will suffice for forcing sea-kale for a large family." Sea Kale, History of.—Sea kale grows wild m many parts of Europe, and w-as" only about a centurj-- ago introduced as an article of diet. Its cultivation is conducted on a very liniited scale, though in some parts of Scotland it IS m common use, and held in high estima- tion. It is stated by a writer in the first volume of "Notes and Queries," fourth series, that a gardener in the employ of a gentleman at Stoke Fleming, cultivated some plants he tound growing wild on the beach at" Slapton. ihey were so appreciated by his master thatSEA SEA ( 846 ) aevoriil roots were sent as presonts to Mr. •Southcoto's frionds at Bath; this was about 177.0. When once known and talked of in Bath, it soon boeauio popular throuf^h that part of England. This writer states that sua kale was lirst sold to the public at Exotor market at the price of two shillings and sixpence per root. In the same volnmo it is stated that the Rov. John Fremon, who was vicar of Sidbury, near Sid- mouth, between 1707—13, was the first poi'son that sent sea kale to the London market; but it appears to have been little appreciated. About the middle of last century, Mr. Giles Templeman, of Dorchester, sent some roots to ■Covent Garden Market; but the plant was then so little known that, the labels having been ilefaccd in the carriage to London, the contents of the parcel were put aside as being some sort of " poisonous root or other." Dr. Lettsom, in his horticultural sketch of his residence at Grove Hill, Camber well, 1794, mentions this esculent amongst others grown by him, and expresses some surprise that a vegetable so useful and productive and easy of cultivation ■should be so rarely met with in the gardens a,bout London. Cturtis, in his pamphlet on the cultui'e of sea kale, published 1822, states that Sir Wilham Jones, of Chelsea, says he saw bundles of this vegetable exposed for sale in the market at Chichester in 1753. "I have lefirned from different persons," says Curtis, " that attempts have been made at various times to introduce sea kale into the London markets, but ineffectually. A few years since I renewed the attempt myself, and though it was not attended with all the success I would wish, I flatter myself it has been the means of making the plant so generally known, that in future the markets of the first city of the world will be duly supplied with this most desirable article." The sea kale is not much cul- tivated on the Continent. Valmount de Bomare calls it " Chou marin sauvage d'Angleterre" and so condemned the plant as only fit for the coarser tastes of the inhabitants of colder climates; but in the present day it is seen in the markets of Paris and other French towns. As to its excellence as a food, persons differ, as they do in all matters of taste; some preferring it even to asparagus, to which it is related in point of flavour, others regarding it as little superior to cabbage. In its sensible effects on the human body it comes nearer to the cabbage tribe than asparagus. It is stated to be a most desirable vegetable for sedentary persons, or such as have weak stomachs, being remarkably light and easy of digestion, and abounding in alkali rather than acids. Sea Kale, Stewed.—Wash the sea kale, and tie it in bundles. Boil it in salted water for a quarter of an hour, then drain it, and put it into a saucepan with as much brown gravy as will cover it. Stew gently till tender. _ Lay it in a hot dish, stir a little lemon-juice into the sauce, and pour it over. White sauce or poivrade sauce may, if preferred, bo served with sea kale instead of brown sauce. Time to boil, twenty minutes or more, according to condi- tion. Probable cost, sea kale when plentiful, lOd. to Is. per basket. Sea Kale, Wholesomeness of.—Sea kale is very wholesoino and eaaily digcritod, ;aid is thus well adapted for weak stoiiiachs. Sea Pea.—The sea pea giows wild upon our sea coawts, where its roots penetrat<j to a considerable doptli, and also spread in various directions for several feet just under the sui- face. The peas have a bitterish disagreeublo taste, and therefore, whilst more pleasant food is to be obtained, these are rejected; but in times of scarcity they have been the means of preserving thousands of families from perishing, the delicacy of flavour at such times weighing little against the demands of a keen appetite. Both Howe and Camden relate that in the year 1555, being a year of great dearth, the people collected large quantities of these peas in Suffolk, upon a barren path, where even grass would not grow; and as they never had ob- served any such plant as this there in the time of their fulness, when the eye is careless, they attributed their springing up then to miracu- I lous agency—a miracle to keep the poor from ! starving—though in all probability they liad ! been growing in the same locality for centuries. ! Sea Pheasant {see Pintail, or Sea Phea- i sant). I Sea Pie.—A sea pie is strictly speaking a I pie made of scraps; and thus made, it answei-s 1 sufiiciently well for an economical family din- I ner ; nevertheless, it is much better when made ' with fresh meat. Take as much dressed meat j as will be required, or for a superior pie take a • blanched and jointed chicken and a few slices , of salt beef. Make pastry in the proportion of : haK a poimd of butter, or di-ipping, or shred ! suet, to one of flour. Line a buttered pudding- ' dish with pastry; put in a layer of meat sea- I soned with pepper and finely-shred onion, then I a layer of pastry, and fill the dish with alternate I layers of meat and pastry. Pour stock or cold water into the dish, cover closely, and bake, stew, or steam the pie gently until done enough. I Turn it out carefully, and serve very hot. This I pie will burn quickly if neglected. Time, a I moderate-sized pie, three to four hours. Suf- j ficient for six or eight persons. ! Sea Pie (another way).—Take some im- i cooked meat cut in slices, and put it in a sauce- pan; peel some onions and swedes (or turnips, I if preferred to swedes), cut them in slices, and I put them in with the meat, and sufiicient water barely to cover the whole, then season plea- santly with salt and pepper. Potatoes may also be added. Stew gently till the crust is readv. Make a stiff paste of suet or dripping ; roll it to the size of the saucepan. Lay it on tlie I meat, put the lid on the pan, and simmer gently for an hour and a half. Serve meat and vege- ! tables on a dish, lay the crust on them, and ! pour the gravy over all. Sea-water in Cookery.—It was stated at a meeting in 1871 of the Academy of Sciences at Paris that while excellent bread can bo made with sea-water, forming, by the way, a good tonic, soup or broth made -wnth sea-water is entirely uneatable. It would appear that the ' chloride of magnesium in the sea-water is raised( 847 ) SEA SEA to a temperature, during the process of baking, .sufficiently hijjh to effect its destruction, and thereby cause its peculiar taste to disappear, which is not the case when merely boiled, as •for soup. If, however, cane sugar be added to the soup, a compound is said to be formed ot the sugar with the chlorides, which has not the disagreeable tiuite of the latter. Seaweeds used as Articles of Diet. Amongst seaweeds, which have been used as articles of diet, none is better known than the Chrondrus crispus, which, under the name of •carrageen moss, Irish moss, and pearl moss, has been long eaten in Europe. It is recommended as a medicine, but it has no bitter principle, and probably is less tonic than the lichen. Sea- weeds have occasionally been resorted to by the 3)Oorer inhabitants of the seashores of Europe, more especially in Ireland, when the ordinary <5om or potato crop has failed. They, however, contain but little nutriment, and any one livmg on nothing else would soon starve. Laver-weed is a peculiar kind of seaweed. Gosse, in his handbook to South Wales, describes it as one ■of the edible curiosities of the Gower Coast. Women attend the Swansea market, and sell it in small round pats at Id. and 2d. each. Gosse says that the weed makes an excellent ingre- dient in sauce for mutton. It is obtained close to low-water mark. To prepare it, wash it well in sea-water to free it from sand, then boil it for twelve hours, and season with salt. In winter it is only necessary to boil it for two hours. The weed grows rapidly, except in winter, and is renewed every other spring- tide. It is also used in some parts of Scot- land on the coast, where it is called sloke or slokum. Seal.—To the Esquimaux the seal is of as much importance as bread to a European. Its flesh forms their most usual food; its fat is partly dressed for eating, and partly consumed in their lamps; the liver when fried is esteemed, even among sailors, as an agreeable dish. Seasoning.—The art of seasoning dishes can only be acquired by experience. Accurate directions cannot possibly be given, because tastes differ so widely, and that which is agreeable to one may be insipid to another, and too highly seasoned for a third. A cook should endeavour to ascertain the taste of those she serves, and should adapt the seasoning to meet their requirements. She should add the Beasoning in small quantities, as she can easily put in more if needed, but cannot remove what is already there. All solid ingredients—as herbs, spices, and vegetables—need the action of heat to bring out their flavour. Liquid flavourings, on the contrary—such as wines, essences, and vinegars —diffuse themselves quickly through any pre- paration into which they are introduced, and, more than this, are frequently lost through being added at too early a period. It is well, therefore, not to put them in till the dish is about to lae served. The cook will find it to her advantage to have already prepared an aromatic seasoning of herbs and spices. This should be kept in a closely-stoppered bottle, and after a little has been used, it should bo closely stoppered again (see Herbs and Spices, Aromatic, Seasoning ot, and Herbs, Aromatic, Powdered). A good deal of iudgment is needed in using salt and pepper. Judiciously used, salt helps to bring out other flavours, and there is scarcely aiiy_ mixture sweet or savoury which will not be improved by the addition of a little salt. Extravagantly used it will overpower every other flavour, and entirely spoil a dish. A soup or stew should be slightly salted at first. It should be salted to a certain extent to remove a raw taste which would otherwise be found; and it should not be sufficiently salted, because as the liquor boils away the salt flavour wiU increase. Generally speaking, it will be conceded that herbs impart a more delicate flavour than spices, and also that old vegetables impart a stronger flavour than young ones. Whatever flavourings are used they should not be per- mitted to overpower the taste of the article which forms the basis of a dish. Ketchups and store sauces should be sparingly adminis- tered, as also should be cayenne pepper, and garlic, and all articles which possess a decided and peculiar zest. All those who have any experience in cookery know very well that the success of a dish depends to a great extent upon the seasoning. Any person, therefore, who desires to excel in the art should bring to the study of it ob- servation, thought, intelligence, judgment, and care, a keen palate, and a steady hand, for these qualifications are all necessary to one who desii'es in preparing food to make it not only wholesome and nourishing, but palatable and pleasant, and perfect of its kind. Seasoning for Forcemeat and Game and Meat Pies.—Take two ounces of dried thyme, an ounce of marjoram, an ounce of rosemary, and two ounces of bay- leaves. Pound these in a mortar, and pass the powder through a hair sieve. Pound separately two ounces of cloves, two ounces of black pepper, and one ounce of cayenne, mix these with the powdered herbs, and add four ounces of grated nutmeg. Weigh the powder, and add to it four times its weight in dried salt. Put it into small bottles, cork these securely, and put them in a dry place till wanted. When mixed with salt in this proportion, one ounce of seasoning will flavour three pounds of force- meat. Seasonings, Every-Day.—The ingre- dients used for these seasonings should be powdered separately, then mixed together, pre- served in dry bottles well stoppered, and stored in a cool dry place. They may be pre- pared during an hour of leisure, and will be found most convenient for flavouring purposes. No. 1. Mixed Spice for flavouring Soups and Gravies.—Take two pounds of black pepper one pound of ginger, half a pound of grated nutmeg, half a pound of allspice, half a pound of cinnamon, one ounce of cloves, and three pounds of dry salt. No. 2. Seasoning of Herbs for Soup, Si-c.—Two ounces of thyme, two ounces of sweet marjoram, two ounces of parsley, two ounces of winter savory, one ounce of sweet{ 848 ) SEE SED basil, and ono ounce of thin lemon-rind. No. 3. i^picc fur liagoilts.—Hulf a pound of mustard, )ialf a pound of black peppor, half a pound of t;:ratod lemon-rind, two oimcos of cayenne, ono ounce of ginger, ono ounce of allspice, half an ounce of grated nutmeg, and one pound of diy Siilt. No. 4. Kidtlors Sweet Spice for Jlavotiring rastry.—Two ounces of cloves, two ounces of cinnamon, two ounces of mace, two ounces of uutmog, and two ounces of sugar. No. 6. M'ued Spice fur flavouring Sausages.—Five pounds of black pepper, two pounds and a half of ginger, ono pound of nutmegs, one pound of cloves, half a pound of aniseed, and half a pound of coriandor-seod. Sedentary, Diet for the.—The follow- ing observations on this subject are drawn from the valuable Fi-ench work by Tissot on " The Health of Men of Letters." Daily observation proves the force of the mind's action on the .stomach; and this every man has an oppor- tunity of experiencing in himself; for the more intensely any man thinks, and the more strongly he excites the reflecting powers of his mind, the more slowly and with the greater difficulty does he digest what he eats; and, on the other hand, the freer a man's mind is from reflection, the more readily and the better he digests. The diet of those of studious and sedentary habits ia therefore a subject of the utmost importance. To enumerate all the various aliments which should be chosen and all those that should be avoided vs^ould be tedious, but we may men- tion the principal. All fat viscid aliments and all aliments hardened either by nature or art are hurtful. The ancients condemned all sorts of pulse, and Pythagorus strictly forbade his disciples to eat beans, as these possess an extra- ordinary flatulency, highly destructive to the tranquillity of mind necessary to the investiga- tion of truth. The tender flesh of all young animals is of great service—except that of swine and geese—not when boiled in copious broth, for then they are deprived of their nutritious juices, but when roasted or boiled in a small quantity of water. Such roots are wholesome as consist of a light flour, not without a mix- ture of salt or sugar; and the same is to to be said of soft herbs which are neither too acid nor too emollient. Nor should the several sorts of seeds be neglected; nor ripe fruits, concerning the use of which a caution should be observed; for they relax, dissolve, cause acidity, and thereby are the less fit for the sedentary. But it is to be observed that amongst the most severe disorders of the studious and sedentary are reckoned the stag- nation, the thickening, and the hardening of the bile, which defects are best remedied by fruits that swell with saponaceous juices, as strawberries, raspberries, gooseberries, peaches, grapes, pears, and other fruits of the like nature, which studious, sedentary men cannot well do without, especially in summer. Care should be taken to prevent their being detri- mental by eating them when the stomach iS empty cither with or without bread, and long before and long after having drunk wine; for ivhus they neither disturb the digestion of the otliiir aliments, nor, being hardened with wine, prove more difficult of digestion themselves. Eggs properly boiled are very good. Well- baked bread and pr(j])arationB of bread are also of service. Milk is whol(;some provided it does not grow acid on the stomach. Chocolate de- serves to be recommended, for it soon repairs and restores the strength ; it should not, how- ever, bo used to excess. Various dishcw which may bo made out of the aliments ahead}- men- tioned by judicious and prudent mixture are very wholesome, but it is better to use only simple food either raw or boiled. lielaxed fibres sometimes require a gentle stimulus, therefore a mild seasoning is not to be disap- jn-oved of, as salt, sugar, cinruimon, nutmegs, and such agreeable aromatics as are geperally cultivated—thyme and sweet marjoram, for example; but those are to be avoided which stimulate with a sharp salt or oil that nature can scarcely overcome. There are other helps to digestion, and the chief of these is exact mas- tication, which greatly forwards the work of the stomach; this is highly recommended by physicians; but slighted by others, verj"^ foolishly, and greatly to their own prejudice. Digestion is performed slowly by the studious and the sedentary, therefore fresh aliments should sel- dom be given them. To make three meals a day, one somewhat considerable, and the other two rather slight, will be sufficient. The example of Julius Caesar, who was very mode- rate in eating, is very properly proposed to the learned, as is likewise that of the illustrious Cornaro, who restored his ruined health by a regular diet alone; and eating but the fourth part of the quantity of victuals eaten by his fellow-citizens, lived to an advanced age, vigo- rous and cheerful. A regular diet is capable of effecting everything; studious men, how- ever, whilst they take care of their health, ought not to forget that a man who is well should not so confine himself to rules as not to break through them when he thinks proper; for a constant habit is real slavery ; and many learned and studious men have been knovra who were so scrupulous with regard to their hours of eating and going to bed, that their minds seemed to be chained to their bodies^ which is the most shameful sort of servitude. Seed Biscuits.—No. l. Beat four ounces of fresh butter to cream, add a pinch of salt, four ounces of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, one poimd of flour, and a tea-spoonful of cara- way-seeds. Mix the dry ingi'cdients thoroughly, and stir into them three well-beatcn eggs. Eoll out the pastry, cut it into fancy biscuits of any shape, prick these with a fork, and bake in a weU-heatcd oven. If hked, one egg, a httle milk, and a tea-spoonful of baking-powder may be used. No. 2. Rub half a pound of butter into a pound of flour, add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a tea-spoonful of caraway-seeds, and a dessert-spoonful of saleratus dissolved m a little milk. Knead the dough tiU it foims a bght smooth paste, roll it out, stamp it into shapes, and bake in a well-heated oven. ^o. ^- ^^"'^ one pound of butter into three pounds of flour, add a pinch of salt, an ounce of ciraway-secas, and three-quarters of a pound of powdered, sugar. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly,SEE ( 849 ) SEE work into them three-quarters of a pint of boiling milk, and knead the dough till it is smooth. Eoll it out, cut it into rounds or squiires, prick it with a fork, and bake in a gentle oven.' Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Seed Buns.—Put four pounds of dried and sifted flour into a bowl, and mix with it a piuch of salt and one pound of Demerara sugar. Make a hollow in the centre, and pour into this a quarter of a pint of good yeast beaten up with a pint of lukewarm milk, and as much flour as will make a light batter. Cover the bowl, and leave it in a warm place for two hours. At the end of that time knead it well, and work into it a pound of butter dissolved till it will run, but not hot, and as much warm milk as will make a soft dough. Cover the bowl again, and let the dough rise for an hour, when it will be ready for making up into buns. It is a good plan to di\'ide it, and make one portion into plain buns, another into currant buns, and a third into seed buns. For seed buns, take a pound of the plain dough, work into it half an ounce of caraway-seed, and form it into little balls. Put these into buttered patty-pans, and let them rise before the fire for a few minutes. Brush them over with white of egg or with milk, and sprinkle a little powdered sugar over the top. Bake in a weU- heated oven. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. Seed Cake, Family, made from Dough..—No. 1. Take a quartern of dough left from making bread. If procxired from the baker's, set it in a basin, covered with a cloth, before the fire to rise. I3eat half a pound of butter or drippiag to cream ; work this into the dough, and add three-quarters of a pound of moist sugar, an ounce of caraway-seeds, and a well-beaton egg. Knead the dough well; put it into one large or two moderate-sized buttered baking-tins, let it stand before the fire to rise, and bake in a weU-heated oven. Time, about two hours for one cake. Probable cost, if made with dripping, about 4d. per pound. No. 2. Take a quartern of dough. Spread it out on a pastry-board, and slice half a pound of lard, butter, or dripping over it. Sprinkle on it a heaped tea-spoonful of baking powder, add eight ounces of moist sugar, two ounces of caraway-seeds, and two ounces of finely-shred candied peel. Ejiead the dough till the in- gredients are thoroughly blended. Set it before the fire to rise for a short time, put it into greased tins, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, one to two hours, ac- cording to the size of the cakes. No. 3. Take a quartern of dough. Spread it on a fioured pastry-board, slice half a pound of fresh butter upon it, and work this in, together with a tea-spoonful of siilt, half an ounce of caraway- seeds, half a pound of good moist sugar, and six eggs put in singly. When the ingre- dients are thoroughly blended, put the dough into two or more well-buttered tins, and place thorn before the fire for a short time. When the dough is light, put the cakes in a well-hcated oven, and bake until they are done enough. No. 4. Put two pounds of flour into a bowl, and mix with it half a tea-spoonful of salt, eight ounces of powdered sugar, two table- spoonftds of caraway-seeds, and a quarter of a pint of fresh yeast. Knead the dough tho- roughly, and work into it half a pound of butter which has been dissolved in half a pint of milk. Throw a cloth over the bowl, and set it in a warm place to rise. Pour it into a buttered mould, and bake in a well-heated oven. Spices may be added to these cakes, if hked. Time to bake, about one hour. Seed Cake, Irish {see Irish Seed Cake). Seed Cake, Rich.—Take a pound and a quarter of flour, well dried, one pound of butter, one pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, eight eggs, and two ounces of caraway-seeds, one grated nutmeg, and its weight in cinnamon. Beat, the butter to a cream, put in the sugar, beat the whites of the eggs and the yolks- separately, then mix them with the butter and sugar. Beat in the floui', spice, and seed,, a short time before placing it in the oven. Bake in a quick oven. Time, two hours ta bake. Seed Cake, Superior.—No. i. Beat half a pound oH butter to cream. Work into it half a pound oC powdered and sifted sugar, a pinch of salt, and, gradually, the well-beaten yolks of six eggs with the whites of four whisked till firm. Add three-quarters of a pound of dried and sifted flour, one ounce of caraway-seeds, and half a grated nutmeg. Put the mixture into a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Suf- ficient for a moderate-sized cake. No. 2. Beat half a pound of butter to cream. Shake half a pound of flour into it, and add a pinch of salt, six ounces of powdered sugar, half a grated nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of caraway-seeds. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Whisk three eggs with a table-spoonful of brandy,, and with this work the mixture to a smooth, paste. Pour it into a well-buttered tin, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, one hour or more. No. 3. Rub six ounces of butter to cream; add six ounces of good moist sugar, three-quarters of a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, and a small tea-spoonful of caraway- seeds. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, and add three weU-beaten eggs and as much milk as wiU make the mixture soft and smooth. Put it into a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. No. 4. Beat three-quarters of a pound o£ butter to cream; add an equal weight of pow- dered and sifted sugar, and, very gi-adually,. eight eggs, the whites and yolks having been whisked separately. Dredge slowly in tlii-ee- quarters of a pound of dried flour, beat the- mixture well, and work into it ten ounces of mixed candied peel finely shred, two ounces of blanched sweet almonds chopped small, two- table-spoonfuls of brandy, and two tablo-spoon- fuls of rose-water. Line a baking-tin with biittcred paper, and three-parts fill it with the mixture. Smooth the surface with a knife, and( 850 ) SEE SEM -sprinkle comtits over tho top. Bako in a jiioderutoly-hoatod ovon. Time to bake, throe- <iuarters of an hour to one hour. Probable tost, 3s. No. 6. Beat half a pound of fresh butter to cream, and mix with it very gradually a quarter of a pint of orange or rose-water. Add a pound of powdered sugar, twelve ounces of dried flour, three ounces of ground rice, two .ounces of sweet almonds, and two ounces of blanched and pounded bitter almonds, an ounce of carawav-seeds, and nine well-l)caton eggs. The ingredients should be added slowly, and tho mixture beaten between every addition. Line a buttered cake-tin with oiled or but- tered paper, thi-ee-parts till it with tho mixture, and then bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, about an hour- and a half. Probable ■ cost of these cakes, from lOd. to Is. 6d. per pound. Seed Cakes, Cheap.—No. i. RuTj six ounces of sweet dripping into a pound of floui-, add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of mixed spice, a table-spoonful of caraway-seeds, and six ounces of sugar. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Put a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda into half a pint of milk, and set it in the oven till the soda is dissolved. Let the milk cool a little, and when it is lukewarm add a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and stir it into the cake. Beat the cake well, put it into a but- tered hoop, and bake in a moderately-heated •oven. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost, 4d. per pound. Sufficient for a moderate-sized cake. No. 2. Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into three pounds of fiour; add half a tea-spoonful of salt, three heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking powder, two tea-spoonfuls of mixed ..spice, two ounces of caraway-seeds, a pinch of powdered mace or grated nutmeg, eight ounces of sugar, and two ounces of candied peel cliopped small. Mix the dry ingredients tho- roughly. Beat them to a paste with a pint of milk, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, 5d. per pound. Suf- ficient for two moderate-sized cakes. No. 3. Rub six ounces of butter into a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, six ounces of moist . sugar, and two table-spoonftils of caraway- seeds. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Dissolve a small dessert-spoonful of carbonate of soda in a table-spoonful of nulk. Add this to as much milk as will make up half a pint altogether, stir the milk to two well-beaten eggs, and afterwards beat the whole into the cake. Put the mixture into a buttered tin, . and bake in a moderately-heated oven. A Httle spice and candied peel can be added, if approved. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for a moderate- sized cake. No. 4. Rub six ounces of butter into three-quarters of a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, five ounces of the best moist sugar, and a dessert-spoonful of caraway- seed. Dissolve half a small tea-spoonful of soda in a tea-spoonful of hot milk. Beat this up with two eggs already well whisked, and stir the whole into the cake. Put the mixture into a buttered tin, and bake in a . moderately-heated oven. Time to bake, from thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Seidlitz Water, Bottled.—Take a suf- ficient number of soda-water bottles, and fill them with clear water; tlien add tlio follov\ ing ingredients, and cork and wii e the bottles im- mediately :—Two draclnns of Uoehelle salts, tliirty-five grains of bicarbonate of soda, and eleven drops of sulphuric acid. Seir Pish.—This fish inhabits the seas of the East Indies, and is one of the most valuable products of these parts. In size and form it closely resembles tho salmon ; its flesh also is similar in point of firmness and flavour. The colour of the flesh is white. Semolina.—Semolina, or Semoule, or Soujee, is simply a nourishing and wholesome preparation of wheat-flour. It may be made into puddings or used for thickening soups, and is specially suitable for the use of children and sick people. It may be purchased of grocers or Italian warehousemen. Semolina Cup-Puddings.—Put three ounces of semolina into a bowl, and pour over it as much milk as will cover it. Let it soak for half an hour, drain it, and put it into a saucepan with a pint and a half of boiling milk, three table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a slice of fresh butter, and a salt-spoonful of gi-ated lemon-rind. Stu- it over the fire without ceasing for about a quarter of an hour. Pom- it out, let it cool a little, and beat briskly into it four weU-whisked eggs. Pour the mixture into buttered cups, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn the puddings upon a dish, and pour sweet sauce round them before scrv'ing. Time to bake, ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Semolina Pudding.—Take a pint and a half of milk, when boiling drop into it three table-spoonfuls of semolina, and stir all to- gether for about fifteen minutes ; throw in two ounces of butter, and three oimces and a half of sifted sugar, with the grated rind of a lemon. Whilst the semolina still remains hot, beat gradually and briskly into it four eggs. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Semolina Pudding, Baked.—Flavour a pint and a half of milk with almonds or lemon-rind. Put it into a saucepan, let it boil up, and drop into it when boiling, three table- spoonfuls of semolina, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a slice of fresh butter. Stir the mixture over the fire till it thickens a little. Pour it out, let it cool, and add gradually four well-beaten eggs. Line a pie-dish half way down with good pastry, butter the bottom, pour in the mixture, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. If a plain pudding is required, two eggs only need be used. Serve stewed fnnt or wine sauce with the pudding. Time to bake, about half an hour, or till set. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Semolina Pudding, French (f« Gatefl." de Semoule).(851 ) 8EM SHA Semolina Pudding, Steamed.—Take a nint of inilk, and fiavom- it with pounded bitter almonds. Strain, and put it into a saucepan, and mix vith it three ounces of semolina, six or eight nitafias, a pinch of salt, three table- spoonfuls of sugar, and a good slice of butter. .Stir the mixture over the fire till it thickens j and leaves the sides of the saucepan. Pour it out, let it cool, and stir briskly into it six well- whisked eggs. Butter a plain mould rather thickly, fill it with the preparation, cover it closely, and steam until done enough. Let it stand two or three minutes. Turn the pudding out carefully, pour stewed fruit or sweet sauce round it, and send a little more to table on a separate dish. The saucepan must be closely covered, and a continuous supply of steam kept round the pudding, that it may be thoroughly cooked. Time to steam, one hour. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Semolina Soup.—Take any kind of nicely-flavoui-ed stock, and let it boil. Drop into it as much semolina as will thicken it, and keep stirring for fear it should burn. Let it simmer gently until done enough, and serve verj' hot. Time to simmer, ten minutes. From one to two ounces of semolina will thicken a quart of stock. Service Berries.—These are the fruit of the wild service-tree, very common in the hedges and fields of some parts of England. They are at present little known, but were in considerable use formerly. The country people in some places gather the bunches of beiTies, and hang them up in the air till they undergo an incipient putrefaction, in which state they possess a peculiar acid, astringent taste, and are considered as having cathartic properties. When mellowed by frost they have been used as food. Seville Orang'e.—The Seville orange is of the same species as the sweet orange, but so bitter in taste that it is unfit to eat in its raw state. It is chiefly used for making marmalade {see Orange Marmalade) and wine, and the rind is used for flavouring purposes. It seldom comes into the market before the end of February. Seville Orange Cakes. — Divide the oranges in halves, and take out the pips, of which there are a good many small ones. Scrape the pulp and juice into a bowl, and boil the rinds until they are so tender that a fork will pierce them easily. Dry them, and weigh them, and allow two pounds of powdered sugar to one pound of orange-rind. Pound them to paste in a mortar, and add, very gradually, the juice, the pulp, and the powdered sugar. Mix all together, and when the pre- paration is thick and yellow, drop it upon tins, and dry these in a cool oven. Time, about two hours to boil the rind. Probable cost, Seville oranges, Is. per dozen when plentiful. SevUle Orange Cardinal.—A few days before the cardinal is wanted peel three bitter oranges, slice them very thin, and pour a bottle of wine over them; then strain the preparation through a tamis, and add to the juice two bottles of wine and two or three pounds of sugar : keep sturing all the time till the sugar is completely melted. Seville Orange Cordial "Water.— Take one handful of young green fir-tree tops, two handfuls of watercresses, the same of scurvy-grass, one pound of burdock roots scraped and sliced, the tliin rinds of twelve Seville oranges, the juice of the same, and five gallons of newly-brewed ale-wort. Beat the herbs in a mortar, and infuse all while the wort is fermenting with the yeast. When done working, stop it up, and drink occasionally when fine. Seville Orange Paste {see Orange, Seville, Paste for Dessert). Shad.—Shad is a salt-water fish, not very highly esteemed. It is in season from the end of March till May, and may be broiled, fried, baked, boiled, or salted. When plentiful it is cheap, but it varies very much in price. The French value this fish highly. They often have it stewed in light wine, and served covered with bechamel. SHAD. Shad, Broiled.—No. l. Scale a fish, cut off its head, empty and wash it carefully, split it open down the sides of the backbone, and, if liked, divide each fiUet into pieces two or three inches wide. Wipe these pieces with a soft cloth, dip them in oil, and broil them gently until done enough. Remember to lay the inner part of the flesh to the fire first, and when one side is done turn it upon the other. Work j a tea-spoonful of salt and a tea-spoonful of pepper into four ounces of butter with the ' point of a sharp knife. Lay the paste on a hot dish, and turn the broiled fish two or three times in it. Put the dish-cover over it, and keep it in a hot place till wanted. No. 2. Clean, empty, and dry a fish weighing about two pounds, and score it across the back. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it, pour upon it as much oil as will cover it, and let it lie until it is well soaked. Broil it over a clear steady fire, and when one side is done turn it upon the other. Drain it, serve on a hot dish, and send oil and vinegar, or caper sauce, soiTelSHA SHA ( 852 ) sauce, or raaitre d'hotol butter, to tuMe with it. Tiuio, half an hour to Boak the fish, and about eighteen minutes to broii each side. Cost, vai-iable. Shad, French way of Cooking.— "This tish," siiys M. Udo, " is hold in high esti- mation in Fi-anco, and especially in Paiis. Tt must be scaled, emptied, and washed nicely. Next it is to bo steeped in a little oil with pepper and salt. It is necessary to split it, that the salt may penetrate. Broil it on both sides over a slow fire. It will be done in the coiu-so of one houi\ When done, let it be served with caper sauce, or with son-ol." Shad, Pried.—Scale the fish, lift the flesh from the bones, and divide it into pieces con- venient for serving. Preserve the roe to fry with it. Wash the pieces, wipe them dry with a soft cloth, and dip each one separately in flour. Put them into boiling hot fat, and fry them gently imtil done enough. Drain them, and serve them upon a hot dish. Fry the roe, and garnish the fish with it. Serve with caper or maitre d'hotel sauce. Time to fry, ten minutes or more, according to thickness. Shad, Planked, American.—Scale and empty the fish, cut off the head, and split it open from head to tail. Spread it on a board, and fasten it down with pegs or skewers to keep it in position. Put it before a clear fire, and rest the lower end of the plank in a tub containing salt and water. Toast the fish, and keep basting it well with the liquor; when it is almost cooked baste it with butter. Serve on a hot dish, garnish with pickled walnuts, and send melted butter flavoured with walnut ketchup to table in a tureen. Shad, Potted.—Clean the shad, take off the head, tail, and fins, and cut it in pieces to suit the jar in which it is to be potted. Pound, first separately and afterwards together, two blades of mace, two tea-spoonfuls of allspice, and a tea-spoonful of cloves. Sprinkle a little pepper, salt, and cayeime over the pieces of fish, pack them in layers in a jar, and di-edge a little of the seasoning over each layer. When the jar is ftdl cover the whole with vinegar, put the lid on the jar, or if it is necessary to tie a covering of paper or cloth over it, lay a piece of dough upon this to prevent the steam escaping. Put the jar in a moderate oven, and bake untU done enough. Keep the potted fish covered with the liquor tUl wanted. It wiU make a good breakfast relish. Herrings may be potted in the same way. Time to bake, about three hoirrs. Shad, Stuffed and Baked.—Wash, empty, and scale a shad, and fill the mside with veal or oyster forcemeat, or with a force- meat prepared as follows -.—Moisten two slices of crumb of bread with hot water, press the water from it, and beat it up with a sUce of butter, three or four sage-leaves chopped small, and a little pepper and salt. Sew up the body of the fish with soft cotton, and dredge it weU with flour. Lay it upon a trivet m a dnpping- pan, seasoning it with pepper and salt; lay I little pieces of butter here and there upon it, and pour a pint of wat(;r round it to bastft it with. Bake in a quick oven, and basto frequently, and if neccHsary add a httle more water. Mix a heaped tea-spoonful of flour to I a smooth paste with a little water, work into it a sUce of fresh butter, and mix with it liulf a I pint of the gravy in the pan. Put it into a saucepan, stir it till it thickens, and add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Put tlu; lish on a hot dish, strain the sauce over it, garnish with parsley and lemon, and send mashed potatoes to table with it. Time to bake, one hour. Shad^ Stuffed and Broiled.—Scale a shad weighing about two pounds, empty and clean it carefully, opening it as little as pos- sible in doing so. Fill it with veal or oyster forcemeat; sew up the body of the fish with soft cotton that the forcemeat may not escape. Wrap it in a sheet of paper that has been dipped in oil, and broil over a clear, gentle fire. Serve with caper sauce or with oil and vinegar. Time to broil, about an hour. Shaddock Orange.—This plant was brought from the East Indies to the West, where it is now much cultivated. It sometimes produces fruit larger than a man's head, but they are of a harsh flavour and pale colour when compared with those of India, the flesh of which is sweet and of a deep gold colour. When several sorts of orange are presented at I the dessert it makes a striking addition to the I variety. The juice is of a sub-acid sweetness, and excellent for quenching thirst, and the fruit, from the thickness of its skin, will keep longer in sea-voyages than any of the other species of citrm. Shallot.—The shallot, or eschalot, is a kind of onion—the mildest cultivated—used for seasoning soups and made dishes, and for flavouring sauces and salads. The shallot has a bulbous root, made up of a number of smaller bulbs, called cloves. It ought to be taken up in the autumn, and be hung in nets in a cool airy place. Wlien properly dried, it will keep till spring. It is stronger in taste than the onion, but does not leave so strong an odour on the palate, and for this reason is often em- ployed instead of the onion, both in cooking and for eating in a raw state. It is planted during October or November, or early in spring, say in February, March, or the beginning of April. Shallots are in the best condition during July, August, and September. Shallot for Venison. — Strip off the skin from some fine shallots—about a pint in quantity—boil them in salted water for five minutes, then throw off the first water, and add more boiling water to them. If the sauce is desired very mild, change the water until quite done, and throw in salt enough to flavour. Drain them thoroughly. Serve in good melted butter or gravj^ This sauce is often sei-ved as an accompaniment to venison when the true flavour of the meat is not relished. Time, about fifteen minutes to boU. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for this quantity. Shallot Gravy {see Gravj-, Shallot).SHA ( 863 ) SHA Shallot Gravy, for Broiled Cutlets, —Peel and mince half a dozen sliallots. Put them into a saucepan with a wine-glassful of vinegar, a pinch of salt, and a little coarse pepper, and let them boil very gently for five minutes. Pour over them a quai-ter of a pint of bro\vn gravy, add a small lump of sugar, let the sauce boil again until the gravy is pleasantly flavoured, and strain it into a tureen. If liked, a clove and a little piece of mace may be boiled with the shallot. Time, altogether, twelve to fifteen minutes. Shallot Pickle.—Shallot pickle is pre- pared in the same way as garlic pickle, that is to say, as follows:—Steep one quarter of a pound of ginger in strong salt and water for five days. At the end of that time cut it into slices, and di-y it in the sun; put it into a large stone jar with a gallon of the best white-wine vinegar. Peel one pound of garlic or shallot, salt it well, and let it stand in the salt for thi-ee days. Wipe it, and dry it in the sun, then put it into the pickle. Add also to the pickle a quarter of a pound of long pepper steeped in salt and water and well dried, one pound of bruised mustard-seed, and a quarter of a pound of tur- meric. Shake these ingredients well in the jar, and add anything that it is desirable to pickle as it comes into season, salting and drying it pre- viously in the sun. When completed, the pickle should be kept for a year or two. When that time has expired, it will be found to be excellent. The flavour of shallots may be obtained by placing them in a bottle of cold vinegar : in a month they will be foimd to have imparted their flavoiu- to the vinegar. Shallot Sauce, for Boiled Mutton, Poultry, Chops, and Steaks. — Mince foui" shallots, lay them on the comer of a napkin, pour cold water over them, and press them with a cloth till dry. Put them into a Sciucepan with a quarter of a pint of stock, add & little pepper and salt, and let them simmer gently till they are tender. Mix with them a quarter of a pint of good melted butter, and stir the sauce again over the fire, but do not •allow it to boil up. Add a dessert-spoonful of chilli vinegar, and serve. Time, altogether, a quarter of an hour. Shallot Sauce, for Tripe, &c.—Skin and mince twelve shallots, and add, if liked, a little piece of garlic the size of a pea. This addition, however, is sometimes objected to. Put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh "butter, and also a tea-spoonful of finely-grated horseradish, a table-spoonful of strained lemon- juice, and a little salt, cayenne, and mixed mus- tard. Stir these ingredients quickly over a brisk fire for five minutes; add gradually a quarter of a pint of milk, and simmer the sauce a few minutes longer. Lift the saucepan from the fire, and let its contents cool for two minutes. Stir into the sauce the yolk of an egg beaten up with a quarter of a pint of cream or milk, and whisk it over the fire for a minute or two, but on no account allow it to boil; serve very hot. Time, altogether, a quarter of an hour. Shallot Sauce, Mild.—Pare four or six shallots, and throw them into boiling water slightly salted. Let them boil five minutes; di-ain them, and boil them again in fresh boiling water: repeat this until the shallots are tender. Drain them, mince them, and stir them into a pint of good melted butter or white sauce. Let all simmer together a few minutes longer, and serve. Some cooks put an inch of lemon-rind with the shallots. Time to boil the shallots, about a quarter of an hour. Shallot Vinegar.—Take four ounces of shallots that are fully ripe without being at all acrid. Skin and mince them, put them into a bottle, and pour over them a quart of best pickling vinegar. Let them infuse for ten days, shaking the bottle every day. Strain the vinegar, filter it, bottle in small bottles, cork these securely, and store for use. This j)re- paration will prove most valuable for flavouring soups, sauces, hashes, &c. It will keep for a long time. Time, ten days to infuse. Shallots are in season during the months of July, August, I and September. Shallot Vinegar (another way).—Skin five or six ounces of shallots, and put them into I a jar with a quart of good vinegar ; keep the jar closely corked for three weeks, then strain for use. If a stronger flavour be desired, use more shallots. Garlic vinegar is made in the same way, only using half the quantity of garlic to one quart of vinegar. Time, from two to three weeks. Shallot Wine.—Shallot wine is a pre- paration largely used and highly esteemed. When an acid taste is not requii-ed, and, con- sequently, when shallot vinegar would be objected to, shallot wine wiU flavour a hash or ragout with onion most pleasantly, and the wine extracts the flavour of shallots even better than vinegar does. Skin, mince, and bruise four ounces of shallots; put them into a bottle with a pint of sherry, and let them infuse ten days or a fortnight; straia the Hquor, and bottle for use. When a very strong flavouring is desired, pour the pint of sherry over three ounces of shallots; let them infuse ten days; pour off the liquor, and put it into a clean bottle with three ounces of fresh shallots, skinned and bruised. Infuse ten days longer, strain, and bottle for use. Time, ten days or more. Shallot Wine.—Put four ounces of shallots, after having peeled and bruised them, into a bottle, add a pint of sherry ; look at the wine in about a fortnight, and if sufficiently flavoured strain it off; but if not, add two ovmces more shallots to the wine, and half a tea-spoonful of cayeime. Shake the bottle occasionally, but let it rest three or four days before straining, so that the wine may be a good colour and not thick. This wine is very useful in all large culinary establishments, as it imparts an agreeable flavour without any acidity. Time to prepare, from ten to twenty days. Probable cost, 8d. without wine. Shallots, Pickled.—Take as much vino- gar as will 1)0 required to cover the shallots, and boil it with spices in the following propor- tions. To each quart of vinegar put a small blade of mace, two cloves, four allspice, two grains of cayenne, a salt-spoonful of black peppercorns, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Strain( 864 ) SHE it, and let it got cold. Divido and skin tho tthiiUots; put tht;m into porfoctly di-y luid sound pickling jiirs, und intcrsporse tuuongHt them the spices taken from tlie vinegar. I'our the vinegar over thorn, and lot theni bo eutirelj- covered with it. Store for uso. The pickle nuiy bo used in two months. Time to boil tlie vinegiir und spices, tlu'ce minutes. Sharp Sauce, for Cutlets, Boiled Beef, Boiled Mutton, &c.—Wkin and mince four sluillots, und put them into a sauce- pan with a slice of fresh butter and four table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Stir these over tho fire till the vinegar is reduced and tho butter looks clear. Mix one ounce of flour smoothly into it, and keep stirring over a brisk fire until the paste is, slightly coloured without being at all burnt. Add gradually a pint of broth, and let the sauce simmer for twenty minutes. Stir in a table-spoonful of minced gherkins, a table-spoonful of blanched and chopped pars- ley, and a little pepper and salt, if required. Boil, skim, and serve v^y hot. A little brown- ing should be added if necessary. Time, altogether, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Suflicient for six or eight persons. Sheep's Brains (a la Maitre d'Hotel).— Proceed just as in the recipe Sheep's Brains, Matelote of, with the croutons (crusts) glazed and stuck in the dish; and at dinner-time, as soon as you have dished up the brains, take three spoonfuls of bechamel, a good bit of fresh butter, a little salt and cayenne, some parsley chopped and blanched, and the juice of half a lemon; then work the sauce over the fire to render it very hot, and serve quickly. Sheep's Brains (a la Maitre d'Hotel). Another way.—Prepare and parboil the brains ; then lay them in. the bottom of a wide stew- pan, each brain resting upon a slice of bacon. Add a small bunch of parsley, a small onion, one clove, some salt, a chilli, a couple of slices of lemon, and a quarter of a pint of broth, and cover the whole with a layer of bacon. Cover the stewpan, and let its con- tents stew slowly for half an horn- without being uncovered. Let the brains now stand a couple of hours in the stewpan by the side of the fire, merely that they may acquire the flavour of the ingredients in the stewpan; but they must neither boil nor simmer, nor in any- wise approach ebullition. Have some triangular slices of bread ready fried to garnish the dish with. Drain the brains from the fat, place them upon a dish with the sippets, and pour over them the following sauce:—Into a small stewpan put two oimces of butter; when it boils sprinkle in half a table-spoonful of flour. Stir into this half a pint of broth, and put in with it a bunch of parsley and a very small bit of lemon-peel. When the sauce is reduced and of proper consistence, season it with salt and a little cayenne. Strain the sauce, and put it again into the stewpan, adding a little lemon-juice and some chopped parsley. Give it a few boils, and pour it quite hot over the brains. Sheep's Brains and Tongue.—Take the brains out of the head without breaking them, soak them in salted water for an liour, skin them, and pick away tho fibres. Tlirow thom into boiling water, put the tongue, already boiled with tho head, with tliem. Let tho brains boil quickly for a quart(,r of an hour; take t)iom out, mince them, and biut them up with three table-spoonfuls of the liquor in which tliey were boiled, three table- spoonfuls of cream, a table-spoonful of blanched and chopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Boil the brains with half a tea-spoonful of white thickening; or, failing this, with u small piece of butter rolled in flour. Skin the I tongue, put it in the centre of a small dish, I pom- tho brains round it, and serve verj' hot. I Time, altogether, thirty to forty minutes. Pro- bable cost, sheeps' heads, lOd. to Is. each. ' Sufficient for one or two persons. I Sheep's Brains (en ]\Iat(,lote).—Prepare the brains as for Sheep's Brains a la ilaitre d'Hotel, the almost only difference being in the sauce poured upon them, which is thus made :— Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan. When it has done boiling, stir into it half a table-spoonful of flour. Stir the butter and flour till smooth, and let it fry gently until it has acquired a rich brown colour, of reddish hue. Next add by degrees a pint of white ' wine, madeira, or sherry, and half a pint of well-flavoured and rich broth, but without any fat. Put in also a bunch of herbs so tied up that it may easily be taken out before the sauce is used. This bunch is to consist of parsley, green onions, half a bay-leaf, a very small bit of thjTne, and a clove of garlic. Let the sauce reduce; then throw in a few morels, small mushrooms, and small bleached onions. Season with salt, black pepper, and cayenne, ^^^len the sauce is on the point of being done, put into it a couple of ounces of truflles cut into slices and fried on both sides in butter. Give them a couple of boils, and the sauce is ready. Meanwhile, make some balls of the stuffing as indicated for the Ox-palates au Gratin, and fry them in butter of a nice brown, taking care that they be thoroughly done. WTien the brains are arranged in the dish with the sippets, garnish with these forcemeat balls, and with some crawfish; then pour the sauce over them, and ! serve up immediately. Sheep's Brains, Matelote of.—Take I eight unbroken sheep's brains. Put them into a large vessel with some lukewarm water; I take off the skin, and let them disgorge for I two hours. When they are become quite ' white, blanch them in boiling water, vinegar, and salt; and when they arc very fii-m put I them in cold water, after which place some I layers of bacon round a stewpan big enough to hold all the eight brains; add a small I onion with one clove, a small bundle of pars- ley weU-seasonod, and some salt, and cover with some layers of bacon and a round of pa])cr: a little broth is required, and a few slic(!S of lemon to keep them very wliite. Twenty minutes wQl suffice to boil them, but they must be boiled two hours or more before dinner to acquire a flavour; then at dinner you must have ready some croutons, oi- small crusts of bread, in quantity equal to the brains.SHE ( 855 ) SHE stick them in the dish alternately to leave room to put the brains in the spaces ; mask them •with the sauce of matelotes, mushrooms, and small onions, &c. This matelote is the same sauce as the financiere, only reduce a little madeira wine in a small stewpan, and put to it a mushroom, a small glazed onion, a small quenelle, tSrc, and put the ragoiit into the middle, and the sauce over the brains. Sheep's Brains, Roasted or Baked. —Four or six brains will be required for a dish. Prepare the brains as for stewing, and procure as many slices of bacon as there are brains. After they have been boiled and thrown into cold water, drain and dry them perfectly; brush over with oil, and roll them in highly- seasoned bread-crumbs. Put them on the bacon before the fire in a Dutch oven, or bake in a well-heated oven, turning them about that they may be equally cooked, and basting them occa- sionally. When they are nicely browned, take them up. Lay the slices of bacon on toast, put the brains upon them, and send sharp sauce or tomato sauce to table in a tureen. Time to bake, thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Sheep's Brains, Scalloped.—Soak the biiiins in cold salted water for an hour. Ke- move the skin, and pick away the fibres. Put them into boiling water in which vinegar and salt have been mixed, and let them boil quickly for ten minutes. Throw them into cold water for a few minutes, and drain them. Cut them into small pieces, and mix with them an onion or shallot finely minced, a few parsley leaves scalded and chopped small, a few drops of vinegar and anchovy essence, and a little pepper and salt. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, throw in the brains, and shake the saucepan over the fire until they are done enough without being browned. Cleanse the scallop-shells, or small scallop-dishes which sen-e the same purpose, butter the inside rather thickly, and cover them with a layer of bread- crumbs. Distribute the minced brains and the gravy amongst them, and cover all with a layer of crumbs. Brown the surface in a quick oven or before the fire, and serve very hot. This favourite mode of cookery may be advanta- geously applied to cold meat, vegetables, mush- rooms, fish, and shell-fish. Time to bake the scalloped brains, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient, one set of brains for two scallop-shells. Sheep's Brains, Stewed (a good I reakfast or sidodish).—Take four or six fresh brains, soak them in salt and water for an hour, remove the slrin, pick off the fibres, and put them into boiling water into which was put when cold a dessert-spoonful of salt and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Let the brains boil quickly for ten minutes. Take them up without breaking them, and put them into cold water. Take as many thin slices of bacon as there arc brains. Put them into a saucepan, lay the brains upon them, pour over them as much stock or broth as will cover them, and add a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, three young onions, two cloves, an inch or two of thin lemon-rind, and a little salt and. cayenne. Cover the saucepan closely, and let- its contents simmer gently until done enough. Put the pieces of bacon on a dish, and lay the brains upon them. iStrain the liquor, thicken it with flour and butter, stir a table-spoonful of lemon-juice into it, and pour it over the meat. Garnish with sippets, and serve very hot. If liked, a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence and a glassful of claret may be added to the sauce. Time to boil the brains the second time, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Sheep's Feet {see Sheep's Trotters). Sheep's Harslet, Hashed.—Take the liver, heart, and lights of a sheep, and wash them well in several waters. Boil them gently till tender in salted water, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Llince them finely, season with pepper and salt, and add a seasoning of powdered herbs, if liked. Moisten the mince with stock, thicken with brown thickening, and stir it over the fire till it is quite hot. Serve on a hot dish, and send potatoes and boiled carrots to table with it. A few pickles may be served with it, if desired. Time to stew the meat, an hour and a half, or till tender. Probable cost, variable, but inexpensive. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Sheep's Head.—Sheep's head has so little meat belonging to it, either inside or out, that it seems to many persons as though it were scarcely worth the trouble it gives. Never- theless it constitutes good nourishing food at a moderate expense, and when it is liked at all it is very much liked. Several recipes are here given for preparing it. It is one of the ancient national dishes of Scotland, and to dwellers north of the Tweed is almost always welcome, not only on account of its intrinsic excellence, but also because of the associations which belong to it. The village of Duddingston, near Edinburgh, was long celebrated for this dish. A sheep's head may be stewed with or without the trotters and the pluck; nourishing and wholesome broth may be made from it; it may be hashed, curried, or served as a ragout, or it may be made into a pie. When sauces are required for it, those usually served with cow- heel or boiled mutton are the best adapted foi- it. Some cooks prefer the head of a ram to that- of a wether, though it needs longer boiling. Sheep's Head, Baked.—Split the head in halves, take out the brains, and soak the head in lukewarm water for an hour. Drain it, put the halves together, and keep them in position by tj-ing string round them. Lay the head in a dripping-tin, put raw potatoes pared, and cut into halves round it, lay little pieces- of butter here and there upon it, and bake in a moderate oven. Baste frequently, and turn the potatoes about that they may be equally done. When done enough, serve the head on a dish, put the potatoes round it, pour the gra-vy in the pa.n over all, and serve as hot as possible. The brains and tongue may be served on a separate dish {see Sheep's Brains and Tongue), Time to bake the head, about one hour and »( Soli ) SHE SHE half. Probable cost, Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. Suf- ficient for two or thi-oe persons. Sheep's Head^ Baked, with Mashed Potatoes.—This 18 an inoxponsive and wholo- sonio dish. Clean the head thoroughly, and lot it soak in hilcuwarin water for a couple of hours .to_ got rid of the blood. Put it into a stowpan with a carrot, a turnip, two onions, and a look, all cut into dice, and add a bunch of pai-Bloy, a sprig of thyme, and a sprig of marjoram, all tied together, a little pepper and salt, a small lump of sugar, and two ounces of peai-1 barley. Pour two quarts of water into the pan, and dimmer all gently together for a couple of hours. Skim tlie liquor carefully, and stir the ■soup occasionally to keep the barley from burn- ing to the bottom of the pan. Take a pint- basinful of well-washed potatoes, and spread ihem on a dish in a small mound about two inches deep. Take up the head, drain it, place it upon the potatoes, and sprinkle over it two table-spoonfuls of nicely-seasonodbread-crumbs. Lay little pieces of butter or dripping here and there upon it, and bake in a quick oven till both the head and the potatoes are brightly browned. Take the bunch of herbs from the soup, skim it carefully, boil it up once more, and serve in a tureen. Time to bake the head, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Sheep's Head Boiled with Vegeta- bles.—Clean the head, split it, take out the brains, and soak it in lukewarm water. Tie the halves together with string, put the head into a saucepan, and pour over it as much cold water as will cover it. Bring this to the boil, skim careflilly, and let all simmer gently together for an hour. Throw into the hquor two turnips, two carrots, two onions, two parsnips, a small bunch of parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Mix four ounces of oatmeal smoothly with a little of the liquor, stir it into the rest, let it boU, then cover the saucepan closely, and simmer aU gently together until done enough. Take up the head, and remove the tongue, which should be served Avith the brains on a separate dish {see Sheep's Brains and Tongue). Put the head on a dish, place the vegetables round it, and serve hot. The broth may be used for soup. Time, about two hours and a half. Pro- bable cost, sheep's head. Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Sheep's Head Broth (a Scottish recipe). —Take a large fat young head and a " gang " of trotters, all carefully singed. Wash and scrape them well, and let them soak in cold water for an hour or two. Take out the eyes, split the head into halves, and remove the brains. Shorten the jaw-bones where there is no flesh, and cut out the gristle inside the nose. Prepare the trotters for dressing (see Sheep's Trotters), wash and brush both head and feet once more, and leave them in water till wanted. Put the two halves of the head together, and tie a string round it to keep the brains and the tongue in their proper places. Lay it in a saucepan with a pound or two of the scrag end of a neck of mutton, a largo cupful of barley, and about half a pint of dried peaa which have been soaked in cold water. Pour over all a gallon of water, and add a little salt; boil the contents of tJio stew- pan very gontly, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. When the head has boiled an hour, put in the trotters, and at the end of two hours add two caiTots, two turnips, and two onioua, all sliced togeth(;r, with a few sticks of celery, if liked. Boil the head three hours or three houi-s and a half longer, and remember tliat tlie more slowly it is boiled the better will be Ijroth, head, and soup. Serve the head on a dish with the trotters round it, and garnish with boiled caiTots and turnips. Serve the sou]> in a tureen. Sometimes the brains are not put inside the head, but are thrown into the broth when it is boiling, simmered for a quarter of an hour, and then served on a separate dish, with brown sauce poured over them. If the sheeps' tongues are not wanted immediately, let them cool in the broth. When they are to be served, warm them up in the same, cut them in halves without separating them, and lay them open on a dish. Send piquante sauce to table with them. Time, five to six hours to simmer the sheep's head. Probable cost, from Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. each. Sufficient, one head for two or three persons. Sheep's Head Broth (an English recipe). —Skin the head, spUt it in halves, and remove the brains. Soak the head in water, and wash it well. Put it into a stewpan with half a pound of pearl barley, pour a gallon of water over it, and let it simmer gently for an hour. Care- fully remove the scimi as it rises. Throw in a small handful of salt, with two turnips, two carrots, and two onions, and simmer all gently till the flesh of the head is tender. Lift it out, serve it on a dish, and garnish with turnips and carrots. Serve the soup separately in a tureen. If liked, the brains can be made into forcemeat-balls, fried, and served in the soup. To make these, clear the brains of fibre, throw them into boiling water, and boil them for ten minutes. Pound them well with a spoonful of bread-crumbs, a spoonful of flour, a tea-spoonful of finely-shred parsley, a little grated lemon- peel, a shce of butter, and pepper and salt. Bind the mixture together with the yolks of two eggs, form it into small cakes, and fry these in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Drain them, and add them to the soup. Time, four hours and a half. Probable cost, sheep's head. Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. Sufficient, one head for two or three persons. Sheep's Head Curried.—Clean a sheep's head thoroughly, remove the brains, and boil tin tender. Cut the meat from the bones, divide it into neat slices, skin the tongue, and slice it also. Put the pieces in a saucepan, moisten with the liquor in which the head was boiled, and cover the pan until the gravy is made. Mince two onions, and frj' them in a little butter, stirring them briskly over the firo till they are soft. If the acid flavour is liked, a sour apple may be minced and fried with Iheni. Mix a toa-spoonfid of curry-powder and a toa- spoonful of curry-paste smoothly with a littli^ milk, add three-quarters of a pint of the broth in which the head was boiled, and pour the liquor over the onions. Let them sinunor ;i few minutes, then rub the whole tlirougn aSHE ( 857 ) SHE sieve. "Wash the brains, free them from fibre, tie them in muslin, and lot them boil for a quarter of au hour. Beat them smoothly, mix with thom a table-spoonful of floirr and three table-spoonfuls of new milk, and stir them into the curry sauce. Stir the mixture gently till it boils, sti-ain it over the meat, add a_ little salt, and simmer the curry for a few minutes without lotting it boil. Serve on a hot dish, and send rice boiled for curry to table with the sheep's head. Time, three hours and a half. Probable cost, 2s. SujQBlcient for two or three persons. Sheep's Head Fish.—A fish that goes under this name is plentiful in the latter part of summer on some parts of the coast of North America. It is highly esteemed for the table. Its weight is sometimes as much as fourteen or fifteen pounds. A very large fish is sometimes sold in New York for a price equal to four or five pounds sterHng. Sheep's Head for Invalids.—Wash and clean a sheep's head thoroughly, split it in halves, take out the brains, soak it ia luke- warm -water for an hour or two, dry it, and j)ut it into a stewpan with two pounds of lean beef. Pour three pints of cold water into the pan, and add a small turnip, half a lettuce or endive, a small lump of sugar, a spoonful of made mustard, and a little pepper and salt. Let all simmer gently together for two hours, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Cut the meat from the cheeks in neat pieces, small enough to be put into the mouth without being cut, lay these aside, and cover them to keep them moist. Put the bones and trimmings of the head back into the soup, and stir into it a table-spoonful of fine oatmeal which has been beaten to a smooth paste with a cupful of cold water. Simmer the soup for two hours longer, and strain it. Skim away the fat, put the pieces of meat back into the soup, and stir it over the fire till it is quite hot without boiling. A glassful of port may be thrown into the soup before serving. The tongue and the brains may be served separately. Time, four hours and a half. Probable cost, sheep's head. Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. Sufficient for about a pint and a half of soup. *v,^5®®P'^ Head, Gallimawfried-Split the head, remove the brains, and soak it in lukev?arm water for an hour. Wash and soak the liver and heart, and cut the pipes out of the latter. Dry the meat thoroughly, put it mto a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs and two large onions; cover with cold water, let the liquor boil, skim carefuUy, and simmer gently for three hours. Take up the heart and liver, cut these into small pieces, and mmce them finely. Put the mince into a saucepan, dredge flour thickly over it, and stir it well over the fire with a table-spoonful of any good store sauce, two table-spoonfuls of cream, a slice of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and grated lemon-rind, and as much of the liquor in which it was boiled as wiU moisten it. Put the head in the centre of a hot dish, lay the minco round it, and garnish with toasted sippets. I'he appearance of the dish wiU bo improved if the head is egged, breaded, and browned bef^^re being put on the dish. The brains and tongue may be served on a separate dish. Or the tongue may be served with the head, and the brains may be cleaned, boiled in vinegar and water with a little salt, cut in slices, and placed between the halves of the head {see Sheep's Brains and Tongue). If not objected to, part of the lights may be boiled and minced with the heart and liver. Time, three hours. Probable cost, 2s. lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Sheep's Head, Hashed. —Wash the head, split it in halves, and soak it in luke- warm water. Clear the brains from fibre, and leave them in cold water till wanted. Put the head and the tongue into a saucepan with two onions and a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with cold water, let this boil, skim it, and draw the pan to the side of the fixe that the head may simmer gently until done enough. Take it up, cut it into neat slices, flour and pepper these, and put them into a clean saucepan with the two onions that were boiled with them finely minced. Mix a dessert-spoonful of flom- to a smooth paste with a little cold water, and stir into it half a pint of the liquor in which the head was boiled. Add a large spoonful of any good store sauce and salt and pepper if required. Pour the sauce over the slices of meat, add a spoonful of minced parsley and a spoonful of brown thickening, and let all simmer gently, without boiling, for half an hour. Serve the hash on a hot dish, and garnish with toasted sippets. Tie the brains in muslin, and boil them for a quarter of an hour. Mince them, and beat them up with a table-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley, half a cupful of milk, and haK a cupful of the Hquor in which the head was boiled. Boil them for a few minutes, thicken with flour and butter, and season with pepper and salt. Keep the tongue hot until the last moment. Skin it, lay it in the centre of a dish, pour the brains round, and serve hot. Time, altogether, three hours and a half to four hours. Probable cost, sheep's heads. Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Sheep's Head Pie (a breakfast or luncheon dish).—Scald, clean, and boil in the usual way a sheep's head and a gang of trotters. Cut off the meat in neat pieces, and pack these closely in a pie-dish; season with pepper, salt, and finely-minced onion; lay little pieces of butter here and there upon them, and pour over them a little of the liquor in which the head and feet were boiled. Cover the dish with pastry, and bake the pie tiU it is done enough. Let it get cold, take off the crust, and serve it cut into thin slices like bra-mi. Garnish with parsley. Time to bake, one hour. Sheep's Head Soup.—Take two sheep's heads, wash, split, and 8o<ik them in lukewarm water, remove the brains, and put them into a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, two can-ots, a turnip, two onions, a leek, three or four sticks of celery, a small lump of sugar, a spoonful of mixed mustard, and a little pepper and salt. Pour two quarts of water over all,SHE SHE ( 868 ) bring the liquor to tho Loil, skim it carefully, draw Iho pan to the side of the tire, uud let its contents simmer gently for two hours. Wash the brains, cloar them from fibre, boil thein for a quarter of an hour, and beat them till smooth, and put with them a slice of fresh butter, two table-spoonfuls of line oatmeal, two tablo- Bpoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and a tea- spoonful of tarragon vinegar. 8tir tho mixture into the soup, and let it simmer again for two hours, ykiu tho tongues, and cut them and the meat from tho head into neat mouthfuls. Let them heat again in the soup, add a glassful of light wine, and serve. Time, four hours and a half. Probable cost, sheep's heads. Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. each. Sufficient for six or eight per- sons. Sheep's Head, Stuffed and Roasted. —Instead of skinning the head, scald and scrape it till the wool is removed, then spUt it in halves. Take out the brains whole and the tongue. Cleanse the former from fibre, wash the latter well, and place both in a saucepan. Cover them with cold water mixed with a large spoonful of vinegar, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Take out the eyes, cut away the gristle from the nose, shorten the jaw-bones where there is no fiesh, and soak the head in lukewarm water. Make a little good veal forcemeat, and add to it an onion finely shred and the tongue and brains minced. Bind the forcemeat together with yolk of egg, put it into the head, fasten the two halves securely with string, and roast before a clear tire. Baste liberally, and send brown sauce and red-currant jelly to table with the sheep's head. Time to roast, two hours. Probable cost, sheep's heads. Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. each. Suf- ficient for three persons. Sheep's Head, Tongue, and Trot- ters, Puddings of.—The remains of sheep's head, tongue, and trotters may be made into a pudding with suet crust, and boiled in the usual way. Two or three sliced walnuts may be put in with the meat. Sheep's Hearts.—Soak the hearts in water, and wash them thoroughly. Cut away the pipes, and trim them neatly. Fill them with good veal forcemeat, and skewer thin slices of fat bacon round them. Eoast before a clear fire, and baste liberally. Thicken a quarter of a pint of stock with a tea-spoonful of ground rice, flavour the sauce with ketchup, season with pepper and salt, and add a glass of wine if Uked. Serve the hearts on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and send red-currant jelly to table with them. The stuffing may be made with the ingredients in the following pro- portions. Shred a quarter of a pound of beef suet very finely. Mix with it two ounces of finoly-grated bread-crumbs, a dcsscrt-sjwonful of chopped parsley, a finely-minced shallot, a tea-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, the hard- boiled yolk of an egg, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. iSIix the dry ingredients thoroughly, moisten them with a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and bind them together with the yolk of a raw egg. This quantity of stuffing will be sufficient for two hearts. If Uked, the strips of bacon can be left off, and tho hearts tied round with oiled paper, which should be removed about twenty ininutes before the heart is taken up, that it iriay brown. Time to roast the heart, about llaee-quarters of an houj-. Probable cost, lOd. each. Sufficient, two heaitti for throe persons. Sheep's Hearts (another way).—Prepare a seasoning as for a duck, viz., onions, sage, bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt. 'lake one heart, or more if required; fill well with the seasoning, and fasten up the aperture witli a small iron skewer or needle and thread. Place two or three lumps of sugar, or a Httle brown sugar, in the bottom of a stewpan with a few drops of water; when this is dissolved into a brown or burnt-looking colouring, add a little more water, with a good-sized lump of butter or dripping. Put in the hearts, burning them tni they are a rich brown ; add enough stock to nearly cover them, with a flavouring of a little sauce, pepper, salt, and vinegar, which will give a piquancy. Stew slowly for two hours. Sheep's Hearts [see Hearts, Sheep's). Sheep's Hearts, Baked.—Prepare and stuff the hearts as for roasting, and skewer thin slices of fat bacon over them. Put them with the broad end downwards in a dripping-tin, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, pour a pint of broth round them, and bake in a well-heated oven. Baste frequently. Take up the hearts, and keep them hot. Skim and strain the gi-avy, boil it quickly tiU it is reduced one- half, thicken with a spoonful of brown thicken- ing, and flavour with store sauce. Place the hearts on a dish, strain the sauce over, and serve. Send red-currant jelly to table as an accom- paniment. If liked, an onion can be stewed in the gra^^ with the hearts. Time to bake, two hours. Probable cost, sheep's hearts, lOd. each. Sufficient, two hearts for three persons. Sheep's Hearts, Baked (another way). —Stuflf the hearts as before, cover with bacon, put them into boiling water, and siromer gently xmtil done enough. Take them up, let them cool, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and cover each one with good pastrj-. Brush them over with yolk of egg, and sprinkle vermicelli loosely upon them. Bake in a well-heated oven. "When the pastry is done enough, serve the hearts on a hot dish, and send brown gravy to table in a tureen. Time to boil the hearts, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. each. Suf- ficient, two for three persons. Sheep's Kidneys.—Unless sheep's kid- neys can be served qmte hot they are not worth eating. Sheep's Kidneys, Broned.-Cut the kidneys in half the long way. bkm tliem, score them a Uttle, sprinkle salt and cayenne over them, dip them in clarified butter, and run a skewer through them to keep them from curiing on the gridiron. Broil over a clear fire. Take out the skewers, and serve the kidneys on a hot dish with the hollow pait uppermost. Garnish the dish with parel<-y. Time to broil tho kidneys, eight to twelve minutes, according to size. Probable cosUSHE SHE ( 859 ) 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient, three or four for a dish (see Mutton Kidneys). Sheep's Kidneys, Broiled (superior). —Broil the kidneys as before. Lay them on a dish with the hoUow part uppermost, and put in the centre of each a tea-spoonful of savoury butter prepared as follows:—Put two oimces of fresh butter into a plate, and work into it with a silver or wooden spoon a dessert-spoon- ful of finely-chopped parsley, half a tea-spoon- ful of green onions chopped small, the juice of half a lemon, and a little pepper and salt. Serve immediately. If preferred, a tea-spoon- ful of tartar sauce {see Tartar Sauce) may be put into the hollow of the kidney, and Harvey's or Worcester Sauce may be served with it. i Time to broil the kidneys, eight to twelve minutes. Probable cost, kidneys 4d. to 6d. each, j Sheep's Kidneys, BroHed (M. Ude's ' recipe).—Take some kidneys that have been kept for a while, cut them in two, and remove the thin skin that covers them, use a small skewer to keep them open, in imitation of two shells; powder them over with a little pepper and salt, dip them into a little melted butter, and broil them just as you are going to serve up. Broil the side that j'^ou have cut open ' first; when you broil the other side, the whole of the gravy issues to the upper part. Mind when you take them off the fire that the gravj' does not drop off. Have some parsley chopped very fine and mixed with fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, pepper, and salt ; put a little of that mixture over each kidney, and send up to table in a hot dish. N.B.—Kidneys are an excellent breakfast for sportsmen, but are seldom sent up for dinner. They must be eaten directly, as they lose their goodness by waiting. They have also the disadvantage of being uneatable if they are too much done; and he who cannot eat meat underdone should not have them at his table. Sheep's Kidneys, Stewed.—Skin and halve half a dozen sheep's kidneys, and cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Fry these in butter tiU they are lightly browned, dredge a little flour over them, pour in a glassful of sherrj', and add a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a finely-minced shallot, three or four mushrooms chopped small, a tea-spoon- ful of lemon-juice, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the preparation over the fire for five or six minutes, and serve very hot. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, kidneys, 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sheep's Kidneys with Champagne. —Take six or twelve kidneys, according to the quantity that you wish to dress; remove the skins, and mince them the thickness and size of a halfpenny ; have a little bit of lean bacon cut in small squares ; fry them in an omelet-pan with a very small bit of butter; when the bacon is of a good colour, put in the kidneys, taking care to move the pan frequently to fry them equally; when they are done, strew over them a little salt and pepper, some parsley chopped very fine, a very small bit of shallot, well chopped also, and pour over all a little flour-, stir up with a wooden spoon, then moisten with a glassful of white champagne or chablis (neither madeira nor sherry), which should be very hot, but do not let it boil, otherwise the kidneys will not be eatable; add a little lemon and a little cayenne, and observe that such dishes should be well seasoned. Serve the kidneys first in the dish with a hollow spoon, and let the sauce have one boil to cook the flour ; mind that the sauce be judi- ciously thick to add to the meat, but not too thick. Sheep's Liver (a la Fran9aise). — Cut some slices of Ever half an inch thick, and lay them neatly in a stewpan slightly buttered; sprinkle pepper and salt over the upper sides. Slice two ounces of fat bacon as finely as possible, chop a tea-spoonful of parsley and a small shallot very fine, and spread them evenly over the liver; cover the stewpan closely, and set it on a fire so moderate that it will di-aw out all the juices without simmering — the least approach to this hardens the liver and spoils it. If the range is too hot, set the stewpan on an iron stand. When the liver has thus stood for an hour and a half it will be done. Take it up, put it on a hot dish, and cover it closely whilst you boil the bacon and the gravy together for two minutes : then pour over the liver, and serve immediately. Liver cooked in this manner is digestible, and can be eaten by persons who could not venture to do so when it is fried. Sheep's Liver, Fried.—Soak the liver,. and cut it in slices the third of an inch thick. Dry each slice thoroughly with a soft cloth, flour it well, and sprinkle pepper and salt with- a little chopped parsley over it. Heat a little dripping in the frying-pan, put in the Hver,. and fry it very gently till tender. Turn it occasionally, that it may be equally cooked. When done enough, lift it upon a hot dish, and pour off the fat from the frying-pan. Mix a table-spoonful of flour smoothly with a little cold water, add half a pint of boiling stock or water, and pour the mixture into the pan. Stir Tariskly till it boils, and add a Uttle browning, a spoonful of store sauce, and a little pepper and salt. Let it boil a minute or two, then strain it over the Hver in the dish. Serve very hot. If liked, a large onion may be sliced and fried with the liver and laid upon it in the dish. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound of liver for two or three persons. Sheep's Mince.—Wash and soak a sheep's heart and liver. Cleanse them tho- roughly, plunge them into boiling water, and simmer gently about half an hour. Take them up, let them cool, and mince finely. Dissolve a small lump of butter in a saucepan, work into it a little flour to make a smooth paste, stir it briskly over the fire until it is lightly browned. Mix with it as much of the liquor in which the liver and heart were boiled as will make sauce of the consistence of thick cream. Add pepper and salt and a dessert-spoonful of chopped onion. Put in the mince, and simmer aU gently- together imtil done enough. Stir in a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup or any good store sauce, and serve very hot. The remains-C 860 ) SHE SHE of sheep's heart and liver may bo served in ^ihis way. Time to simmer the niiuce, about half an hour. Probable coat, Is. (id. Sufficient for thieo or four persons. Sheep's Tails.—Tluow the tails into boiling water fur tiftoon minutes. Drain thorn, and put thom into a stewpan with as much boiling stock as will cover them. Lot the stock boil, skim carefully, and put into it a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three onions, a pinch of mixed spice, and a Uttlo popper and salt. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the tails simmer gently for three or four hours. When done enough, drain and bono them, and press them between two dishes till cold. Let the gravy cool, remove the fat from the top, strain it, and boil it quickly till it is considerably reduced. Cut the ends off the tails, and simmer them in the reduced gravy till they are heated throughout. Dish them in a circle, and put into the centre sorrel, or onion, or lentil, or haricot, or pease puree {see Puree), or brown cucumber sauce, and send brown gravy or tomato sauce to table with them. French cooks, instead of stewing the tails in stock, would braize them with shces of bacon, and equal quantities of mirepoix {see Mirepoix) and veal stock. Time to stew the tails, four hours. Probable cost \mcertain, sheep's tails being seldom sold. Sufficient, three or four for a dish. Sheep's Tails and Kidneys.—Blanch, trim, and stew the tails, as before, in as much stock as will cover them, and stew with them a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a small bunch of sweet herbs. When the tails are don# enough, take them up, and place them in a circle on a hot dish; put in the centre an equal number of broiled kidneys, and serve in a tureen a sauce prepared as follows:—Strain the gravy in which the tails were stewed, thicken with flour and butter, boil it till it is thick enough to coat the spoon, and stir into it Ihe juice of half a lemon. Tune, three or four hours to stew the tails. Sheep's Ta.ils, Broiled.—Blanch, stew, press, and trim the tails as before. When qmte cold, brush them over with oil or beaten egg, and dip them in bread-crumbs. Let them lie a few minutes, then egg and bread-cnmab them again. Broil them over a clear fire, or fry them until they are brightly browned, dish them in a circle, and serve with ravigote or Valois sauce, or with a sauce made with the stock in which they were stewed, thickened with brown thickening, and fiavourcd with lemon-juice. Sheep's tails and sheep's tongues (an equal quantity of each) may be stewed and l)roiled together. The tongues will require to be skinned and split in halves. Time, four hours to stew the tails, a few minutes to broil them. Sheep's Tails with Pur6e of Green Peas.—Lay the tails in water to disgorge the blood; then blanch them, and braize them in an old braize ; otherwise they are to be sea- soned with carrots, onions, spices, &c. When done, drain and glaze them. Put the puree of gi-eon peas under them; do the same if you use puree of sorrel. Sheep's Tails with Rice.—Put three or lour sheep's tails into boiling water, and let them boil for a quarter of an hour. 1 ake thcin up, and lay them side by side in a stewjwn, with slices of bacon under and over them. Put with them a sliced onion, a scraped carrot, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a Ijay-loaf, two cloves, and a dozen peppercorns; pour upon them as much stock as wiU barely cover them. Put the lid on the saucepan, and stow the tails very gently until done enough. Boil separately in nicely-flavoured stock a quarter of a pound of well-washed rice. Put half of this at the bottom of a dish, lay the tails upon it, and cover them with the other half. Strain the gravy, thicken with brown thickening, add a little s.it if required, and send it to table in a tureen. Time to simmer the tails, four hours. Sheep's Tongues (au Gratin).—Sheep's tongues may be bought at the tripe shop either fresh or partially boiled. If fresh, they will need to be soaked in salt and water for a couple of hours, and then boiled for two hours. If partially boiled, they will not require to be boUed more than half or three-quarters of an hour, or they may be eaten cold. Boil three or four tongues in as much stock as will co^er them, and add a bunch of sweet herbs, a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a Httle salt and pepper. When the skin wiU peel off, take them up and skin them. Make as much good veal forcemeat as will cover the bottom of the dish on which the tongues are to be served, llix a little minced bacon with this, and moisten with the raw yolks of two eggs and a little of the hot liquor in which the tongues are boUed. Make it hot, spread it on a hot dish, drain oif any particles of fat that may float on the surface, and lay the sheep's tongues, boiled, skinned, and spUt in halves, on the forcemeat. Strain the gravy, pour a little of it over the tongues, and sex've the rest in a tmreen. Some- times the forcemeat is soaked in the Liquor and rubbed through a hair sieve, and the tongues are gently stewed in the sauce for half an hour, then served on a hot dish with the sauce over and round them. Time to boil the tongues, two hours. Probable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Sheep's Tongues (au Gratin). Another way.—Cut as many bits of bread in the shape of cock's-combs as you have tongues. Take some fine forcemeat. Erect a little dome in the centre of the dish, and dress the tongues in the said forcemeat, leaving, how- ever, room enough between to place one of the toasts; then put the dish into the oven. A^'hcn the forcemeat and tongues are done, take them out of the oven, and drain all the grease : tliey must be covered with bacon in order that they may not get dry (unless a mould may be pro- cured to close hermetically); then put the toasts, or croutons, fried of a fine brown colour, between each tongue, and the sauce with a thick essence. Mind that the tongues must l)e glazed and braized before with whatever sauto they were served.SHE SHE ( 861 ) Sheep's Tongues, Broiled. — Soak three or four sheep's tongues in brine for a couple of hours, and boil them till the skin ■w-ill peel off. Skin them, split them in halves lengthwise, put them into a stewpan, and pom- over them as much stock as will barely cover them. Simmer with them an onion, a carrot, three or four heads of celery, a bunch of parsley, and a few mushrooms. Add pepper and salt if required. When they are quite tender (they will be so in about half an hour), take them "up and drain them, boil the gravy quickly for a few minutes, brush the tongues with it, and sprinkle seasoned bread-crumbs thickly over them. Broil over a clear fire, and when one side is done turn them upon the other. Serve on a hot dish : mix the strained juice of half a lemon with the sauce, and pour it over the tongues. Time to broil the tongues, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Sheep's Tongues, Broiled (another way).—Soak four tongues in salt and water for two hours, and boil them gently in stock till the skin wUl peel off easily. Skin them, let them get cold, and split them in halves length- wise. Make a savoury mixture thus:—Chop six mushrooms, and mix with them three ounces of lean ham cut into dice, a salt-spoonful of grated lemon-rind, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thyme, and a little salt and cayenne; a little piece of garlic may be added rE liked. Sprinkle this mixture on the inside of the tongues, put them in their original position, cover with oiled papers, and broil over a gentle ftre. If the papers are at aU unsightly in appearance, remove them. If not, serve the tongues in the papers. Time to broil, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, tongues, 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Sheep's Tongues, Cured.—Put fresh tongues into a pickle such as is used for beef and ox-tongues, and let them remain for fo\ir days. Take them up, wash them, put them into boiling water, and simmer gently irutil done enough. Skin them, let them get cold, split them in halves without dividing them, and serve cold for breakfast. Mustard or tartar sauce may be served with them. If there is no beef pickle at hand, wash the tongues, and rub into each one a talale-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of sugar, and a tea- spoonful of vinegar. Turn and rub them with the pickle every day for four days, then pro- ceed as before. Time to boil the tongues, two hours. Probable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient, one tongue for one person. Sheep's Tongues, Larded and B,oasted.—Soak and boil four tongues as for broiling. Skin them, and lard the upper portion evenly with thin strips of fat bacon. Wrap each tongue separately in a sheet of oiled paper, tie them to a spit, and roast them before a clear fire. When done enough, arrange them on a hot dish, garnish with cut lemon, and send good brown gravy to table in a tureen. Time roast the tongues, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient, three or foiu: tongues for a diah. Sheep's Tongues, Stewed.—Soak three- sheep's tongues in salt and water for two hours^ boil them in stock tiU the skin wiU peel off easily, and skin them. Let them get cold,, then cut them into slices the third of an inch thick. Take haK a pint of thick brown sauce nicely seasoned and flavoured. Dip the slices into this, and arrange them in a circle on a dish. Sprinkle finely-grated bread-crumbs- thickly over them, pour a Uttle oiled butter upon them, and brown them in the oven or before the fire. Pour the sauce into the centre- of the circle, and garnish the dish with toasted, sippets. If brown gravy is not at hand, it may be made as follows:—Put half a pint of stock made from bones into a saucepan with a mode- rate-sized onion or two shallots, a scraped; carrot, a bunch of parsley, a clove, and three or four outer sticks of celery. Simmer all. gently together for an hour. Strain the gravy, add pepper and salt if required, thicken it with a little brown thickening, stir a glass of port into it, and it will be ready for use. Time to- boil the tongues, two hours. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient for four or fiv& persons. Sheep's Tongues with Cabbage Lettuces.—The tongues are first of all to be braized. Take a dozen and a half of good cabbage-lettuces, wash them very clean, and blanch them. When they are cold, and you have squeezed all the water out of them, open them in two, take off the stalks, powder a little salt and pepper over them; then shut them, and give them a good form; place them in a stewpan, surrounded with layers of bacon; moisten them with a little braize, or anything to give them a good taste ; otherwise take the pot-top, with a little broth and salt. When the lettuces are quite done, drain them, and. squeeze them in a cloth to extract the grease. Dish them in rosettes, first a tongue, then a lettuce, and so on successively. Put a large tongue in the centre to improve the look of the rosette. Another time cut the tongues in two, and dish them miroton way—that is, one half of a tongue, and lettuce, alternately. In this case, put a jardiniere in the centre, and cover both the tongues and the lettuce with Spanish sauce. Sheep's Tongues, with Turnips. —Take eight tongues of an equal size; let them disgorge in a little water and flour, and next blanch them. When thoroughly blanched, put them in a stewpan to braize. In case you should have a braize of beef, or of mutton, or any others, they will aU equally answer the purpose for sheep's tongues; when they are done, peel them, and cut them in two. Dish them miroton way, and cover with the sauce of the haricot, the turnips of course being put in the middle. It is customary in French cookery to call anything made yrith turnips haricot. Sheep's Trotters, or Sheep's Feet. —Sheep's trotters may generally be obtained at the tripe shops cleaned and partially boiled. When it is necessary to clean them at home, remove the wool from the hoofs, singe awaySHE SHE ( 862 ) the hairs, and put the trotters iuto boiling water for five luiuutos. Clean and scrape them well, and cut an inch off the end of the foot, including the hoofs, and carefully remove a dark eiu-ly-looking substance which grows between the divisions of the hoof. Sheep's trotters are usually sold in sets or gangs, they are wholesome and noui-ishing, and good jelly may bo made from them. They should be kept soaking in cold water two or three hours before they are to bo boiled. The liquor in which they are boiled will make excellent stock or jelly. Sheep's Trotters [see Mutton Trotters). Sheep's Trotters (a la Poulette).—Take twelve feet, ali-eady scalded and cleaned. Boil them quickly for a quarter of an hour, then remove the large bone from each by holding the foot in the left hand, and giving the bone a sharp jerk with the right. Shred four ■ounces of suet, and put it into a saucepan with two sliced onions, a scraped can-ot, a sprig of thjTne, and a bay-leaf. Stir these ingredients over a brisk fire for five minutes, then beat in two table-spoonfuls of flour, and when this is smooth add gradually five pints of water or stock. Stir the liquor till it boils, put in the *'eet, and let them simmer tUl quite tender. Take them up, and drain them on a sieve. Put rour ounces of butter on a plate, and work •.smoothly into it with the point of a knife a tea-spoonful of flour, a tea-spoonful of salt, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Heat a gill of milk in a saucepan. Stir the butter in this till it is melted, and add the yolks of two eggs which have been beaten up with a cupful of milk or ■cream. Stir the sauce over the fire, and as it thickens add a table-spoonful of strained lemon- juice. It must on no account boil after the •eggs are added. Heat the trotters in the sauce, put them on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Garnish the dish with fried sippets. If liked, a few mushrooms or a little chopped parsley can be put into the sauce. Time to boil the trotters, three hours and a ialf. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sheep's Trotters, Broiled.—BoU the trotters as before {see Sheep's Trotters, &. la Poulette). When tender, take out the bones, and let them get cold. Cut them into neat slices, dip them in clarified butter, then into finely-grated bread-crumbs, and broil over a ^lear fire. Serve with sharp sauce. Time, three hours and a half to boil the trotters. Sheep's Trotters, Jelly from—Jelly made from sheep's trotters is wholesome, nourishing, and inexpensive; it is particularly suited for invalids and children. Put four " gang" of sheep's trotters into cold water, and let them soak for four hours. Cleanse per- fectly, and put them into a stewpan with a pound of lean beef, a crust of bread toasted all ■over to a bright brown, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyrne, a small onion, a blade of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of pepporcoms. Pour upon them two quarts of cold watci-, ;md let the liquor simmer gently by the side of the fire for SIX or eight hours, or until it is considerably reduced, and will stiften wlum cold. Pour it off, strain it through a jelly-bag, and put it in a cool place to stiffen. Time, eight hours. Sheep's Trotters, Marinaded.—Boil a gang of trotters according to the directions already given {see Sheep's Trotters, a la Poulette). Drain them, let them get cold, and cut them up into neat pieces convenient for serving. Put them into a basin, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and pour upon them two table-spoonfuls of vinegar and one of oil. Move them about, turn them occasionally, and let them lie in this marinade for an hour. Half an hour before they are to be served, drain the pieces from the pickle, dip them separately in frying-batter, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly and equally browned all over. If preferred, instead of being dipped in batter and fried, they may be roUed in bread-crumbs and giUled. Dish them on a napkin, and send tomato sauce or sauce piquant to table with them. The frying batter may be made as follows:—Put five ounces of flour into a bowl, and beat it up with a pinch of salt and a quai-ter of a pint of water. Break two eggs, and separate the whites from the yolks. Beat the latter with two tab.e-spoonfuls of lucca oil, stir the mixture into the flour, and beat it till it is smooth and thick. Ten minutes before the batter is wanted, whisk the whites of the eggs, and add them to it. It should be as thick as cream. A spoonfnl or two of water may be added if required. This batter is better if made an hour or two before it is to be used. Time to boil the trotters, three hours and a half; to fry the pieces, about ten minutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for a small dish. Sheep's Trotters, Pate of.—Take a coarse earthen pate-dish which has a closely- fitting cover. Procure three "gang" of sheep's trotters already cleaned and parboiled, and cut each one into three pieces. Boil till tender, and pack them closely in the pate-dish, and, to season them, sprinkle between the layers a little pepper, salt, and powdered spice, to- gether with a moderate proportion of minced onion, chopped parsley, powdered thyme, biiy- leaves, and cloves. Place the cover on the dish, and in order to prevent the escape of the steam, fasten it down with a coarse paste made of flour and water. Put the ]i£lte in a gentle oven for five or six hours, or if it can be done let it be put in a baker's oven after the bread is drawn, and remain there all night. If gently cooked the feet will be reduced to jolly, and will constitute an excellent dish, which may be served hot or cold. If the oven is too much heated, the feet will be burnt up, dry, and good for nothing. Time to bake, five or six hours. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Sheep's Trotters, Simple way of Serving.—Stew the trotters gcutly for three or four hours till the bones will come out. They may either be boiled in water, or in a sauce made according to the directions already given in Shoo]i's Trotters a la Poulette. Wh(>n tender diain them, let them get cold, cut themSHE ( 863 ) SHE in slices, and serve as they are on a dish. Oamish with parsley, and send oil and vinegar to table with them. Sheep's Trotters, Stuffed. — Take some sheep's trotters, as in the recipe Sheep's Trotters, a la I'oulette, and stew them in the same manner, but do not let them be •overdone, as they are to be stuffed with a forcemeat, which could not be done in. the latter case. Introduce forcemeat for quenelles in the room of the bones. "When the trotters are well stuffed, put them between layers of bacon, and moisten them with a poele. Stew them for half an hour only, on account of the forcemeat. Drain them, and cover with a «auce well seasoned, either white or brown, according to taste. As they are to be served whole, when you bone them, mind you do not injure the skin, for they would not hold the forcemeat that you must put in. Observe that this dish is excellent, as well for the taste as for health. It is particularly good for weak stomachs. The sheep's trotters are very good likewise, when they have been done as above, fried in the following way:—When they are cold, add some of the sauce to them all round; then dip them in crumbs of bread, and in an omelet and crumbs again; fry them of a good colour, and serve under tomato sauce. Sheep's Trotters with Cucumber.— Take two "gang" of sheep's trotters, and boil them till tender. Let them get cold, and divide each one into three pieces. Boil them again to make them hot. Take the skin oflE one large or two small cucumbers. Cut it into dice, and put it into a basin with a table-spoonful of salt and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Let it lie for an hour, drain it, and put it into a saucepan -with two ounces of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, a bunch of parsley, two or three young onions, a pinch of grated nutmeg, a pinch of cayenne, and, if liked, a piece of garlic the size of a pea. Simmer these ingredients very gently for about half an hour. Pour off the butter, and in its place put a spoonful or two of white sauce, or, failing this, of broth thickened with flour. Simmer a few minutes longer, add the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a quarter of a pint of milk or cream, and stir the sauce tiU it thickens, but on no account allow it to boil. Add a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, put the trotters on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Time to make the sauce, one hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Shell Fish, Buisson or Thicket of (a pretty supper dish).—Four lobsters, a pint of crayfish, and a pint of prawns are needed for this dish. Take a stale loaf of bread, trim away the crust, and cut the crumb to a square block. Hang a lobster on each side of this, with the tail resting on the top of the block and the head in the dish; cover the empty spaces with parsley, and lay crayfish and prawns upon the parsley. Put prawns and parsley round the buisson, and fasten three or four crayfish on the top of it with silver skewers. Shell-Fish, Edible.—The chief of these is the oyster—full particulars regarding which will be foimd under the heading Oyster. It may be observed here that oysters are more diges- tible uncooked than cooked, and more palatable with lemon-juice than vinegar. Both humanity and good taste dictate that they should be eaten as quickly as possible after they are opened. The Scallop {Pecten mazimus) is an edible shell-fish not to be despised. Broiled and stuffed with forcemeat, and served in its own shells, it not only forms an ornament to the table, but a pleasing variety among the fish. I Every one knows the sheU of this fish, which used to be worn on the hat or coat of pilgrims I as a mark that they had crossed the sea for the purpose of pajdng their devotions in the Holy Land. Scallops lie at the bottom of deep water in beds, from which they are dredged up. The Mussel [Mytilus edulis) is another of the mollusca that furnish a quota of food for the population of these islands. It is not often met with on the tables of the rich, but it is to be seen in the London markets and in the I streets where people partake of such luxuries on foot. It was estimated by Professor Forbes that no less than four himdi-ed thousand mus- sels were consumed annually in Edinburgh. They are not so easily digested as oysters, an(? are generally cooked before being eaten. At times the common mussel is poisonous This poisonous effect has been attributed to the presence of copper, and in some instances this metal has been detected in the fish which have caused symptoms of poisoning; in other cases, however, chemistry can give no further expla- nation of the catastrophe than that " it is pro- bable that there is an animal poison present." The symptoms produced by mussel-poisoning are described by Dr. Taylor as uneasiness and sense of weight at the pit of the stomach, numb- ness of the extremities, heat and constriction in the mouth and throat, thirst, cramps; or with swelling of the eyelids, heat and itching of the skin, with nettle-rash eruption; also vomiting and diarrhoea, with colic. Emetics, followed by sal volatile or stimulants, would be appro- priate treatment. Before using mussels, let them lie for some hoiu-s in cold water. Scatter in the water a table-spoonful of oatmeal; put them into a saucepan without water, and when the shells are well opened the mussels are done. Serve hot; eat with vinegar and pepper and bread and butter. A side-dish of mussels may be made in this way:—Remove the shells, fry the fish in butter mixed with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Serve witli lemon and brown bread and butter. "Another bivalve," says Dr. Lancaster, " sometimes eaten by the inhabitants of our coasts is the Razor-Fish {Solcn maximus). This creature would be interesting enough to us if it were not eaten, on account of its long, slightly-curved, and tnmcatcd shells, which resemble the blade of a razor. It is not un- common on our sandj^ shores, where it lives buried in the sand. It is not difficult to find, as above the spot into which it has retired it leaves an impression of two holes united, something like a keyhole. It is, however, alniost( 864 ) SHE SHE useloss to attempt to dig thorn up, thoy back away from you so skilfully. After many vain ettorts to secure one of those creatui-os alive, 1 mentioned my failures to tlie late Profossor Edward Forbes. ' Oh,' he said, with a wag- gish smile, ' all you have to do is to put a little salt over their holes, and they will come out.'_ I remembered the story of putting salt on birds' tails ; and although I resolved secretly to follow my friend's plan, it was so simple I had not the corn-age to tell him that I would. I had, however, no sooner got to the seaside than I quietly stole to the pantry, and pocketed some salt, and then went alone at low tide to the sandy shore. As soon as I espied a hole I looked round, for I almost fancied I heard my friend chuckle over my shoulder; however, nobody was there, and down went a pinch of salt over the hole. What I now beheld almost staggered me. Was it the ghost of some razor-fish whose head I had chopped ofE in digging that now rose before me to arraign me for my malice, or was it a real live razor-fish that now raised its long shell at least half out of the sand ? I grasped it, fully expecting it would vanish, but I found I had won my prize, j It was a real solid specimen of the species Solen ^ maximus that I had in my hand. I soon had a number of others, which were all carried home in triumph. Of course, there were more than were required for the purposes of science, and at the suggestion of a Scotch friend the animals , not wanted were made into soup. When the j Boup was brought to table, our Scotch friend vowed it particularly fine, and ate a basincful with I at least twenty razor-fish in it. One table- spoonful satisfied the ladies, whilst I and an English friend declared — against our con- sciences, I do verUy believe—that we had never eaten anything so excellent. I counted the number of the creatures I was able to swallow; it amounted to exactly three. After a tumbler of whisky and water—taken, of course, medi- cinally—arrangements were made for a dredge in the morning. The Scotchman was up at five, but I and my English friend could not make our appearance. Nightmare and other symptoms of indigestion had fairly upset us, and unfitted us for anything so ticklish as a dredging excursion. Now, I do not wish to say anything against razor-fish as an article of diet, but, from what I have told, they would seem to possess an amount of resistance to the ordinary digestive activity of the stomach that would make it highly desirable to ensure, before taking them, such a digestion as a Highlander fresh from his mountain-wilds is known to possess." Another favoxirite bivalve is the Cockle. This shell-fish is very abundant on most parts of our coast, especially where there is sand, and upon the banks of estuaries. It is highly esteemed both by rich and poor, and' by some is preferred to the oyster. It is equall^' good raw or cooked. It may be boiled or roasted, eaten alone, or as sauce to other fish. It may be eaten with im- punity in almost any numbers, and has not imfrequently staved off the pressure of starva- tion amongst the poor of our coasts. By culture it attains to an immense size. "One of our neglected edible shell-fish is the Limpet {Patella vulgaru). It is very abundant on aU our coasts wherever there are rocks, and it can be easily procured by the aid of a strong knit'o. It is a tough morsel, but nutritiuiiii withal. The people of Ireland think it a delicacy, and a considerable consumption of limpets as articles of food occurs thi'oughout the country. Next come Periwinkles {Liltorina litioria), " pinpatches," as they are called on the coaat of Suffolk. On the banks of some of our estuaries they occur in myriads. They are looked upon as a poor man's luxury, but may be recommended to the notice of everybody. They should be bought alive, boiled, and whikt hot the creatures should be picked out of the shell with a pin, and eaten with vinegar and pepper. They are digestible and nutritious, and by no means to be despised. The Clam is a great favourite in the United States. The business of digging clams is en- gaged in by a large number of persons on the North-American coasts. There are two varie- ties— the hard-shelled and the soft-sheUed. They are eaten largely in spring, when they are in the best condition. Clams are much prized by persons residing at a distance from the sea-coast, and they are frequently sent into the interior, where they meet with a ready sale, as they can be sold at a very low price. Sherbet is a favourite beverage in the East, universally used among wealthy Moham- medans, to whom the use of wine is forbidden by the Koran. It consists of water, the juice of lemon, orange, or other fruits, with sugar, flavoured further with honey, spices, and even perfumes. Its pleasant acidity blended with sweetness renders it well calculated to assuage thirst in a warm climate. The poorer classes, who cannot afford to have it so rich, drink water prepared with a little sugar and fruit juice. In India this is carried about in goats' skins for sale. Sherbet Cream.—Beat the yolks of three fresh eggs, and mix them with two pints of cream. Add a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water, or rose water, and stir the cream without ceasing over a gentle fire imtil it begins to thicken. Pour it out at once, sweeten, and stir it till cold. Freeze in the usual way. Time,, about a quarter of an hour to boU the cream. Sufficient for two pints and a quarter. Sherbet for Punch.—The quaKty of punch depends in a great measure upon the way in which the sherbet is mixed. Tho different flavouring ingredients ought to be blended thoroughly before the spirit or wine is- put in, and unless this is done the punch will lose in delicacy of flavour. The quantity of wine and spirit used will, of course, vary accord- ing to taste. Generally two lemons and half a pound of sugar will be sufficient for four quarts of punch. To make the sherbet, rub half a pound of fine sugar in lumps upon two largo fresh lemons until all the yellow part is tjiken off. Remove the white bitter skin of tho lemons, throw away the pips, and cut the pulp into slices with a silver knife. Put these upon the sugar, and bruise aU well together with R wooden spoon. If the lemons are veiy acid, a( 865 ) SHE SHE little of the juice may be set aside. When the pulp and sugai- are well rubbed together, pour a little boiling water over them, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Let the syrup cool, strain it, and add wine and spirit till the punch is of the requisite strength. Sometimes the rind and juice of a Seville orange are used to make the sherbet as well as the two lemons. Sherbet, Ice.—Take half a pound of re- fined sugar in lumps; rub these upon the rind of three lemons until the yellow part is rubbed off. Put the sugar into a bowl, and strain over it the juice of two oranges and of the lemons. Add a pint of cold spring water, and stir the mixture until the sugar is quite dissolved. Freeze in the usual way, and serve in glasses. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for a pint and a half of ice. Sherbet, Lemon.—Rub one pound and a half of loaf sugar upon nine fresh lemons until the yellow part is taken off. Put the sugar into a bowl,. squeeze upon it the juice of the lemons, and add a quart of water. Stir the Uquor till the sugar is dissolved, strain, and freeze as for ice cream. Sherbet, Lemon (another way).—See Lemon Sherbet. Sherbet, Persian (see Persian Sherbet —a refreshing summer beverage). Sherbet Powder.—Rub half a pound of loaf sugar upon the rind of a lemon tiU the yellow part is taken off. Crush the sugar to powder, and mix intimately with it four ounces of tartaric acid and four ounces of bicarbonate of soda. Rub the mixture through a fine sieve; put it into a dry bottle, and keep it well corked until wanted. If liked, forty or fifty drops of essence of lemon may be used instead of the lemon-rind. The powder must be taken up with a dry tea-spoon. Sufficient for one pound of sherbet. A tea-spoonful of this powder stirred into a tumbler of water will make a refre^ng summer drink. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Sherbet, Rich.—Grate the thin rinds of fresh lemons with lumps of loaf sugar, and press the juice and pulp out into a bowl, re- jecting the seeds. Crush the sugar, rubbing and blending the ingredients with a silver spoon. Then add calf's-feet jelly, newly made, and madeira wine, with any spirit you please. Stir a long while, and after the sherbet has stood two or three hours, filter it until beauti- fully clear. Sherbet, Rhubarb (a pleasant summer beverage).—Take six or eight sticks of ripe red rhubarb. Wash it well, and without skinning it cut it up into short lengths. Put it into a saucepan with a quart of water, and let it boil till the flavour is extracted. Rub the rind of a fresh lemon upon three ounces of fine sugar in lumps. Stir this into the liquor until dissolved. Let the sherbet stand in a cool place fi.ve or six hours, filter through muslin, and it will be ready for use. Time to boil, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. 2 e Sherbet, Strawberry.—Pick a pound of ripe strawberries, and bruise them well in a bowl. Mix with them the strained juice of a lemon and a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and pour upon them three pints of cold spring water. Let them soak for four hours. Powder a pound of white sugar, and put it into another bowl. Squeeze the strawberry liquor into this through muslin, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Strain it again, and set it on ice till wanted. Serve in glasses. Time, four hours and a half. Probable cost of straw- berries, 4d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Sherbet, Turkish (a wholesome and refreshing beverage).—Boil two pounds of loaf sugar with a pint and a half of water to a clear syrup. Skim carefuUy, and pour it into a bowl. When cold, stir into it a pint and a half of strained lemon-juice and cme quart of white veal stock, clear and strong. Serve in glasses. Sherry {see Wines). Sherry and Hops Cordial (see Hops and Sherry Cordial). Sherry, British (Robinson's- recipe).— Mix well eleven gallons of river water with, thirty-five pounds of strong moist sugar, the whites of twelve eggs well beaten, a.nd six pounds of honey, and boil them slowly, nearly two hours, skimming until the liquor is clear and bright. Pour it boiling hot upon a peck of the young shoots and buds of the sweetbriar, the thin peels of ten Seville oranges and their juice, and ten ounces of gum arable. Stir it well half an hoiir, and when at the proper temperature work it with fresh yeast, and let it remain four or five days; then strain it into the cask upon two quarts of the pure juice of Lisbon grapes, ten ounces of sugar-candy broken small, and an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and beaten fine. Keep the bung out as long as the fer- mentation continues, and the vessel completely filled, and when it is quiet take the scum off the surface, add three pints of French brandy, and stop it up safely for two years or more; then bottle it^ and keep it eighteen months longer, when it wiH be excellent. Sherry Cobbler.—Take half a tumblerful of ice rasped into fine shavings. Add two mode- rate-sized lumps of sugar which have been rubbed upon the yellow part of half a lemon, then crushed to powder, and two glassfuls of sherry. Stir all briskly together, or pass the mixture quickly from one glass to another, and drink the liquor through a straw or glass tube. When time is a consideration, the cobbler can be flavoured by mixing with the ice a quarter of a lemon, or a quarter of an orange cut into small pieces, and adding a spoonful of powdered sugar. By way of variety, a cupful of straw- berries or raspberrios and a table-spoonful of cura9oa, may be substituted for the lemon. Sherry Cream {see Cream, Sherry). Sherry, GranitO (see Granito Sherry). Sherry, Wholesomeness of. — This •wine is free from tlie astriugency of port, andSHO ( 866 ) SHI generally agrees better with persons of weak digestion. To bo good it should be free from acid, or nearly so. Shikaree Sauce, for Ducks and Wild Fowl.—Mix a tea-spooiiful of cuyemio with a table-spoouful of powdered white sugar. I'ut the mixture into a small saucepan, and pour over it two glassfuls of iimshroom ketchup, two glassfuls of claret, and the strained juice of a large fresh lemon. Stir the liquor over the fire till the sugar is dissolved and it is quite hot. Serve immediately. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Short Bread {see Bread, Short). Short Bread, Scotch.—No. l. Mix two pounds of flour with four ounces of moist sugar, two ounces of candied citron, chopped small, and two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and sliced. Eub one pound of butter into the flom-, melt another half pound of butter, and with this work up the flour to a smooth paste. If a plainer cake is wanted, less butter may be used. Sometimes the whole of the butter is melted, and then the bread is more easily made. RoU out the pastry to the thickness of an inch, and in a large oval shape, pinch the edges evenly, prick the surface with a fork or skewer, and sprinkle large comfits over the top. Cut the oval across, thus making two cakes, and place these on paper rubbed with flour, and then upon tins. Bake in a moderate oven. When the bread is lightly browned, it is done enough. It should be remembered that the less the bread is kneaded the shorter it will be. No. 2: Eub three-quarters of a pound of fresh imsalted butter into half a pound of flour ; add a quarter of a pound of ground rice, four table- spoonfuls of moist sugar, two ounces of candied citron, finely minced, and an ounce of sweet almonds, blanched and chopped small. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, work the whole into a smooth paste with the yolks of two small eggs. EoU the pastry out to the thickness of half an inch, divide it into four squares, pinch the edges neatly, prick the sur- face with a " dabber" or fork, sprinkle comfits and sliced citron on the top, and bake as above. Time to bake the bread, half to three-quarters of an hour. Short-bread, Scotch (another way).— Put two pounds of butter in some warm place overnight whore it will gradually become soft without at the same time melting. Take two quarterns of flour, and mix with it haK a pound of loaf sugar in powder, and lemon-peel and blanched sweet almonds (in quantities accord- ing to taste) cut very fine; add all these to the butter, and knead the whole till it appears like dough; then add a table-spoonful or two of yeast; again knead it, and roll out into cakes of the proper size and thickness. Ornament the edges with candiod-lemon and comfits, having previously pricked the cakes with a fork. Short Cakes. — Ordinary short cakes are simply made of pastry, sweetened with sugar, rolled out to the thickness of three- quarters of an inch, cut into pieces of any con- veniont size, baked, and served hot. These are frecjuently nutdo in economical households of pastry that is left after making pies and tarts. Superior short cak(is may be made as follows No. 1. Rub half a pound of fresh butter into a pound of fiour; add a pinch of salt, four table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a beaten egg, and as much milk as will make a smooth paste. Roll out the pastry to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, stamp it into fancy shapes, and bake these on tins till crisp and lightly coloui-ed. No. 2. Put a pint of flom- into a basin, and scoop a hollow place out of the centre. Dissolve a little more than half a tea-spoonful of soda in a tea-spoonful of boihng water. Stir this into half a pint of thick sour milk, and beat it well with a pinch of salt and three ounces of creamed butter. Pour this mixture into the hollow, and stir it with the flour to form a smooth paste. Eoll it out on a floured board to the thickness of the third of an inch, stamp into fancy shapes, and bake these on tins in a brisk oven. No. 3. Eub six ounces of fresh butter into a pound of ground rice; add a pinch of salt and as much cold water as will make a smooth paste. RoU this out, stamp it into cakes, and bake in a brisk oven. No. 4. Dis- solve half a pound of fresh butter in a pint of milk. Stir in as much flour as wHl make a smooth, light paste. Roll this out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, cut it into large round cakes, and bake these in a frjang- pan over a clear fire. Serve hot. A pinch of salt should be mixed with the flour. Time, ten minutes to bake the small cakes. Short Crust, a Substitute for Puff Paste.—When puff paste cannot be had, pastry made according to any of the following recipes may be used instead. It should be made in a cool place and should be handled very lightly. A moderately-heated oven will be required for baking it. No. 1. Rub three ounces of fresh butter into a pound of flour till it is as fine as possible; add a pinch of salt and two table-spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar, and make a smooth paste with two eggs beaten up with milk or cream. RoU out thin. No. 2. Rub three ounces of butter into a pound of flour; add a pinch of salt and a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, and beat the whole to a smooth paste with a quarter of a pint of boiling cream. No. 3. Rub eight ounces of butter into a pound of flour, and add a pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and £i8 much milk as will make a firm smooth paste. If a richer crust is required, ten ounces of butter may be used. {See also Paste, Short). Shprt Paste Cake.—Put a pound of fine flour into a basin; scoop out a hollow in the centre of it, and put into this ten ounces of fresh butter, a pinch of salt, a dessert-spoonful of powdered sugar, and a quarter of a pint of water. Work all together with the fingers, and when necessary add another quarter of a pint of water. To make a smooth, firm paste, gather this together into a hunp, and leave it in a cool place for a couple of hours. Eoll it out to an oblong shape, an inch and a quarter thick( 867 ) SHB Score the edges with a knife, and mark it on the top in any fanciful pattern. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Shred Pie for Christmas.—Two cen- turies ago every well-to-do family partook of a shred pie, a most learned mixture of neats' tongues, chickens, eggs, sugar, raisins, &c. This pie was made at the season of Christmas only, and no modem dish is similar to it. The following is a well-tried and much-approved recipe, which has been handed down in the same family for generations:—"A pound of suet chopjied fine, a pound of raisins stoned, a poimd of ciu-rants cleaned dry, a pound of apples chopped fine, two or three eggs, all- spice beat very fine, and sugar to taste, a little salt, and as much brandy or wine as you like." A small piece of citron in each pie is an im- provement. Shrewsbury Buckwheat Cakes.— Mix a tea-cupful of good brewer's yeast with three pints of warm water; add half a tea- spoonful of salt, and stir in as much buckwheat meal as will make a thick batter. Cover the bowl, and set it in a warm place to rise. When it is so light that bubbles appear on the surface, butter a frying-pan and bake the cakes in it, like pancakes, over a clear fire. A ladleful of the batter wiU be sufficient for each cake. Butter the cakes while hot, and serve them piled high in the centre of a hot plate, each one with the right side up. The batter will need to rise three or four hours. Shrewsbury Cakes.—Sift one pound of powdered sugar into two pounds of flour; add a grated nutmeg, or a little powdered cinnamon, and an ounce of caraway-seeds. lifix aU tho- roughly, then beat in two eggs, the whites and yolks separately, and as much dissolved butter as will form a stiff paste. About eight ounces of butter wiU be enough. Eoli the pastry out to the thickness of the eighth of an inch, cut it into round cakes, prick these, and bake on floured tins in a quick oven. If liked, a few currants can be used instead of seeds. Time to bake the cakes, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Shrewsbury Cakes (another way).— Take one part of sifted sugar and three parts of flour, and to every pound of sugar add one grated nutmeg and three eggs. Mix well, and form these ingredients into a dough with melted butter and a little rose-water. 'Bake in the usual way. Shrewsbury Cakes (another way).— Take two pounds of flour, one pound of powdered sugar, and half a pound of butter Add to these ingredients four eggg, a little rose- water, and a quarter of a pint of cream. Beat them to a firm paste, roll the paste out thin cut it into cakes, and bake in a quick oven. Shrewsbury Cakes (another way.)— Mix half a pound of butter, woll beaten like a cream, and the same weight of flour, one ess SIX o.mce.i .,f l^eateu and sifted loaf sugar, and half an ounce of caraway-seeds. Form these ingredients into a paste, roll out thin, and lay the cakes in sheets of tins. Bake in a slow oven. Shrewsbury Cakes (another way).— Take one pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of Lisbon sugar, and two eggs. Mix tkese ingredients, and form them into a paste with a glassful of white wine. Roll out then, and cut into cakes with a wine-glass. Shrimp.—There are several varieties of shrimps, and amongst these the best known are the brown shrimp and the red shrimp. The brown shrimp is the more highly flavoured of the two. It keeps close to the shore, and even affects brackish waters. It is mostly caught by fishermen or women, who wade into the sea, and push a shrimp-net before them. The red shrimp, or rather the pale-pink shrimp, rarely attains to such a size as the brown shrimp does; it is slimmer in its proportions, and more delicate in flavour. It never enters brackish waters, but keeps well out to sea. It THE SHRIMP. is sometimes called the Yarmouth shrimp, from having been accidentally discovered in Great Yarmouth Roads by some boats employed in recovering lost anchors by a process called " sweeping." Two boats, at a certain distance from each other, proceed up and down the Roads, having a loose rope suspended between them, at the middle of which is fastened a large fish-basket or "swiU," partly laden with stones to sink it. By these means the place of the anchor at the bottom of the sea is ascertained, and it is then raised and brought to land. In particular states of the tide, it was found that the swill, when brought to the surface, was filled with an imusual species of shrimp. The hint was taken immediately, and the red shrimp fishery established. Shrimps form a common reUsh at the break- fast or tea table. When freshly boiled, they are excellent; stale, they are indigestible. Boiled shrimps which are clammy to the touch and exhale a pungent smeU, are not fresh, and should be discarded as comparatively worthless. « 'i^^ thought," says Dr. Doran, "that the prawn or shrimp was somehow necessary to the production of soles, acting, it was beheved, as a sort of nurse or foster-parent to the spawn. But this I suppose to be about as true as that soles always swim in pairs with three-pennyworth of shrimps behind them,' ready for sauce." Shrimp and Asparagus Sauce.-^ lake twenty-five asparagus, and cut them into short pieces; then boil them tiU tender in a( 868 ) SHB SHR Httlo wciik broth. Boil half a pint of Hhrimi)s, sepamtu the tish from the tihells, pound the latter, and set thorn on the fire with a piece of butter for a few minutes. Then strain tlirougli a tamis.. Add a spoonful of Hour to tlic shrimp-butter, and thin it with the liquor in which the asparagus was boiled; sot it on the lire with a httlo grated nutmeg, salt, and a piece of butter. Wlien it boils, put in the shrimps and asparagus, give them a boil up, and servo with boiled fowl, fricassee of chicken or veal, &c. Lobsters may bo dressed in the same way. Shrimp Butter, for Sauces, &c.—The shells of shi-imps which are to be potted, or served in any other way, may be utiUsed for tlavouring butter to be used for making fish sauce, and for garnishing dishes. The butter will not keep good more than a few hours. Put the shells of about two hundred and fifty shi'imps in a mortar, pound them as finely as possible, and mix with them two ounces of butter. Put the mixture into a jar, set this in a pan of hot water, and let it remain for an hour. Press it through a cloth, and put it into cold water. Lift it from the liquor, drain it, and press it through a silk sieve; work a slice of fresh butter in with it, and it will be ready for use. Shrimp Canapees.—Cut some slices of stale crumb of bread the third part of an inch thick. Stamp these out with a plain round or oval cutter about two inches in diameter, and fry the rounds in butter till they are lightly browned. Let them get cold, then spread a little shrimp butter upon them. Ornament them by placing picked shrimps upon them, and place them in a circle on a dish overlapping each other. Put a little parsley in the centre, and serve. Shrimp Cromesquis, or Kromeskies. —Divide some shelled shrimps iato small pieces, put them into a clean saucepan, with a small portion of white sauce, the yolks of two or three eggs, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Stir the mixture over the fire for three or four minutes to set the eggs, then spread it an inch thick upon a plate, and leave it to get cold and stifP. Divide it into portions of an equal size, and form these to the shape of corks or balls. Boil half a pound of bacon for twenty minutes; let it get cold, then cut it into very thin slices of a size to cover the shrimp balls. Wrap the balls in the bacon, and, if not immediately wanted, leave them in a cool place. Dip them in frying batter, and fry them in hot lard tUl they are crisp. Drain them from the fat, and serve immediately. Garnish the dish with parsley. Shrimp Forcemeat. - Mix shelled shrimps with an equal quantity of grated bread-crumbs, and season the mixture with salt, cayenne, and poimded mace. Pound it in a mortar, soften with fresh butter, and bind together with yolk of egg. Forcemeat thus made is very excellent for filling any kind of freshwater fish, but is especially suited for pike and eel. Shrimp Patties, or Vol-au-Vents, or Bouch6es.—Prepare tlie orusts of the patties, and bake them in the usual way. Pick the shrimps, and cut the tails in two pieces. Put tlu) heads and shells into a saucepan, with a small quantity of water, and boil them gently for a quarter of an hour to extract the flavour. Tliicken the liquor with arrowroot, egg yolks, or Hour, till it is of the consistency of cream, and with this sauce moisten the shrimps' talk a little. Season the ragout with salt, if neces- sary, cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg or scraped horseradish, or two or three pounded anchovies; or leave it without seasoning. For many tastes the natural flavour of the shrimps will siu-pass all others. Take the patties or the vol-au-vent fresh from the oven, or if they are cold, heat them, then fill them with the pre- paration, after making it hot, without boihng it. A glassful of white wine may be added if liked. Send the patties to table on a neatly- folded napkin. Sometimes shrimp patties are served with bread-crumbs sprinkled over them, and without the pastry covers. Time, a minute or two to heat the patties. Shrimp Pie.—Take as many shrimps as will almost fiU the dish, pick them, and season with cayenne, pounded mace, a little salt, and vinegar or lemon pickle. A small propor- tion of essence of anchovies may be added, if liked. Butter a pie-dish rather thickly, and line the edges with puff paste. Put in the shrimps, pour over them a glassful of hght wine and a small cupful of rich gravy, cover the dish with puff paste, and bake in a well-heated oven. For a maigre dish the gravy must be omitted. Time to bake a moderate-sized pie, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost of shrimps, 2d. to 4d. per pint. Shrimp Pie (another way).—Pick three pints of shrimps from the shells. Mix with them two or three anchovies, washed, boned, and shred very fine, some shred parsley, two chopped shallots, and a handful of verj' small bleached mushrooms. ■ Butter well the bottom of a pie-dish with good fi-esh butter, and put the shrimps into it, seasoning them with a little black pepper and some cayenne; if not salt enough add a little, making allowance, however, for the salt of the anchovies, for if too salt the pie will be worthless. Place over the shrimps several Imnps of fresh butter, amoimting in all to a quarter of a pound, also two hard-boilod eggs, shelled and cut into quarters. Pour into the dish a good glassful of sherry, and also a good glassful of broth, in which has been pre- viously mixed a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of soy. Put a good substantial crust over the pie, and bake m a quick oven. Shrimp Pudding (a Danish recipe).— This is made in the same way as spmach pud- ding {see Spinach Pudding), only instead ot using spinach take a pint of picked shnmps. Chop the shrimps smaU before mixing them with the bread and eggs. This pudding is eaten with shrimp and asparagus sauce. Shrimp Pudding (for Break-fast or Lun- cheon).—Take freshly-boiled shrimps, shellSHR SHR ( 869 ) thorn, put them into a pi^-dish, and season according to the directions given for Shrimps, Potted Whole, allowing an ounce and a half of butter for a pint of shrimps. Bake in a slow oven till the butter is melted; then let the shi-imps get cold, mince them with a sharp knife, and potmd them to a smooth paste with the butter in which they were baked. Press them into very small cups, and when wanted heat them in a gentle oven; turn them out upon a dish, and pour rich white sauce round them. If liked, the sauce can be coloured brightly with lobster coral. Shrimp Salad.—Shell a quart of freshly- boiled shrunps, and pile them in the centre of a dish. Boil three eggs hard, and mince the whites and yolks separately. Sprinkle the whites round the shrimps, place a single row of green capers next, and then the chopped yolks. Surround the whole with lettuces cut into quarters and with water-cresses, and garnish the dish with gherkins and boiled beet-root, or Uttle pieces of pickled red cabbage. Send salad sauce to table in a boat. Shrimi) Sandwich..—Put a layer of potted shi'imps between two pieces of white bread and butter, and after pressing the sand- wich gently down, cut it with a sharp knife neatly round the edges. It is usual, before closing in, to spread a little made mustard over the meat. Shrimp Sauce, for Trout, Turbot, Soles, Sahnon, &c.—No. l. Work two ounces of butter—or more or less, accord- mg to taste—and a table-spoonful of flour to a smooth paste with a wooden spoon. Add a cupful of boiling water and a little pepper and grated nutmeg, and stir the sauce on the fire till it is on the point of boiling, lake it off the fire, add a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, a pinch of cayenne, and salt to taste. Throw in a third of a pint of shrimps freed from the shells; let them heat three or tour minutes on the fire in the sauce tiU' they axe tender, but on no account let them boil, as It wiU make them hard. Serve in a boat If Weed, an ounce of shrimp butter {see Shrimp Butter) may be dissolved in the sauce, or a tea- spoontnl of anchovy essence may be added to it. No. 2. Take a cupful of melted butter, made partly of milk and partly of water. Stir into it a pinch of cayenne, a pinch of pounded mace, and a quarter of a pmt of freshly picked shrimps. Let .hem heat over the fire for three or four mmutes, without boiling, and serve imme- diately. A little cream makes a delicate addition. Time, three minutes to simmer the sauce. Probable cost, shrimps, 2d. to 4d. per pint. Sufficient for six or seven persons. . Shrimp Sauce (M. Tide's recipe).—Put into a stewpan a ((uarter of a pound of fresh butter, a tea-spoouful of Hour, a small glassful of water, some salt and pepper, and a spoonful of the essence of anchovies; put this on the stove As soon as the sauce is thick take it off, and put in the .shrimps, after having washed them well. Never neglect to season sauces; without sea- soning the best cookery is good for nothing. Shrimp Sauce (another way).—Take half a pint of shrimps, picked and washed very clean, and place them in a stewpan with a spoonful of anchovy sauce, and half a pint of melted butter. Simmer for five minutes, and squeeze in half a lemon. Shrimp Sauce (superior).—No. 1. Take a pint of shrimps which have been boiled in plain salt and water, without spice or flavom-- ing of any kind. Pick them, and in doing so, throw the heads and shells into one dish and the flesh into another. Boil the heads and shells gently in two table-spoonfuls of water till the flavour is extracted. Strain the liquor through a sieve, let it stand to settle, then pour it off clear, and free from sediment. Make a breakfast-cupful of melted butter; stir the liquor into it and the shrimps, and shake the sauce over the fire for three or four minutes till the shrimps are hot and tender, but they must not boil, or they will be hard. No seasoning will be required, and the sauce will be sufficiently coloured without anchovy. No. 2. Take the third of a pint of picked shrimps. Pound half of them in a mortar till smooth, and mix with them half a cupful of thick cream, sweet and fresh. Work two ounces of fi-esh butter and a table-spoonful of flour to a smooth paste with a wooden spoon. Add a cupful of boUing water, and stir the sauce over the fire for seven or eight minutes. Put in the shrimps, and when they are hot and tender, put in the cream, and serve immediately. Time to simmer, three or four minutes. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Probable cost, shrimps, 2d. to 4d. per pint. Shrimp Soup {see Eel Soup, Brown). Shrimp and Tomato Soup.—Boil a pint of shrimps in salted water, £b,voured with a bunch of sweet herbs and a large slice of lemon. Drain, cool, and shell the fish, and preserve a quarter of a pint of the liquor in which they were boiled. Slice a dozen laxge ripe tomatoes, and stir them over the fire, with four sliced onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a slice of fresh butter, for three or four minutes. A clove of garlic may be added, if liked; and if there is difficulty in procuring- the tomatoes, a smaller number must be made to answer. Pour over them as much stock as will cover them, and let them stew gently till quite tender. Kub them through a sieve and mix with them half a tumblerful of the liquor m which the shrimps were boiled, and a little more stock, if necessary. Season the souii with cayenne, and let it boil, stiiring it well till It begms to thicken. A few minutes before serving, throw the picked shi-imps into the soup. Time, two hours. Sufficient for five or SIX persons. Shrimps and Asparagus (a Danish re- cipe).—Scrape twenty-fave asjmragus of middle size, cut them into pieces about an inch lone boil them m half a pint of water and a littk salt. When tender, drain them. Pick a pint of boiled shrimps, pound the shells with a little butter, set It on the fire to brown ; by dofrrees,' pour over it half a pint of hot w;te? orThS bouillon, and lastly, the water in which theSHB ( 870 ) 8HB asparagus have been boiled. When it has boilod rather loss than hiilf an hour, strain it; Bet it on the firo again with an ounco of Hour mixed in a littlo butter, and thinned with Horao of the wann liquor; when smooth, add it to the sauce ; lot it boil, and then put in the picked shrimps tmd aspai-agus, together with a tea- spoonful of pounded sugar, a little salt, and, if liked, grated nutmeg; give it a boil up. Put it into the centre of a dish upon thin slices of toasted broad, or lay fish roulettes round the dish. Lobsters and crabs may bo di-essod in like manner with a rice border round, and stowed cauliflower mixed with the lobsters. Shrimps and Prawns, Clioosing of. —These fish, when in perfection, afford a pleasant scent, are very firm, and their tails turn stiffly inwards. They have a bright colour, when fresh; but their tails grow limp, the brightness of their colour goes off, and they become pale and clammy, when stale. Shrimps, Boiled.—Shrimps under-boiled are very indigestible; over-boiled they are taste- less and unwholesome. The time which they take to boil depends upon the size. When they change colour, taste them, in order to ascertain whether or not they are sufficiently dressed. Shrimps are generally boiled in plain salt and water. M. Soyer recommends that a sprig of lemon thyme, a sprig of mint, and a bay-leaf should be boiled with them ; this is a matter of taste. Put from five to six oimces of salt in a gallon of water. Bring it to the boil, skim carefully, and when it is boiling quickly throw in the shrimps; or, better still, put them in a wire basket with a handle, place them in the water, and when done enough, lift them out. Drain the water well from them, and spread them out on a clean cloth to cool. Sometimes dwellers on the sea coast recommend that shrimps should be boiled in sea water; but their flavour is not then so good as when they are boiled in the usual way. Time to boil the shrimps, five to seven minutes, according to size. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per pint. Shrimps, Buttered.—Pick a pint of fresh shrimps, and put them into a saucepan, with three-quarters of a pint of good stock and a spoonful of brown thickening, or, if preferred, with the same quantity of white sauce. Add a seasoning of salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and simmer aU gently together till the shrimps are hot and tender. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with toasted sippets. Time to simmer the shrimps, three minutes. Probable cost, shrimps, 2d. to 4d. per pint. Sufficient for three or four persons. Shrimps, Buttered.—FoUow the recipe for Prawns, Buttered. Shrimps (en Coquilles).—Take some co- quilles, or small silver shells, or failing these, BomesmaU shallow dishes. Butter them thickly; fill them with shrimps which have been cut up smaU, and stirred into thick white sauce flavoured with shrimp butter, bpnnkle fried and seasoned bread-crumbs over them, and heat them in the oven or before the lire. Serve the coquilloB oii a hot dish, and garnish with parsley. Time, a few minutes to heat the propaiatioa. Shrimps, Forcemeat of {nee Forcemeat of Klirimps). Shrimps for Flavouring Fish Soups. —Shrimps pounded to paHte ana preHK(,d through a sieve may be added to almost all kinds of fish soup, and will greatly improve the flavour. Shrimp butter to answer the same purpose may be made of the shells of shiimps {see Shrimp Butter). Shrimps, Lobsters, and Crabs may all be prepared the same way. Boil them ac- cording to size over a brisk fire, with a handful of salt in the water, pepper, vinegar, parsley, bay-leaves, thyme, and chives. While boihng put a red-hot poker several times into the water to give them a fine colour; when done, let them remain in the liquor till cold, then take them out, drain them, and rub them with a little butter or oil; break the claws and spUt them through the Ijack. Shrimps. Potted. — Shell a quart of freshly-boUed shiimps. Throw the shells into a mortar with a little bruised lobster spawn, two ounces of butter, a tea-spoonful of ancho^'y essence, a pinch of grated nutmeg or pounded mace, and a pinch of cayenne. Pound it well, then put the mixture into a jar. Set this in a pan of boOing water, and stir it over the fire till it is quite hot. Rub it through a sieve, mix the tails of the shrimps with the pulp, and let all get hot together. Press the mixture into small pots, and let it get cold. Melt a Uttle butter, and as soon as it begins to set, pour it over the preparation to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and keep the jars in a cool place till wanted. If more convenient, the lobster spawn may be omitted. Shrimps are generally potted in this way, but their delicate flavour is, I perhaps, better preserved when they are potted whole. Time to heat the seasoning, about ten minutes. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per pint. Shrimps, Potted (another way).—Boil the shrimps in plenty of salt and water. When cold, shell them, and season with white pepper, salt, and pounded mace and nutmeg. Then press them into the pots. Place them during ten minutes in a gentle oven; let them cool, and when cold pour over them clarified butter. Shrimps Potted Whole.—Put a pint of freshly-boiled and shelled shrimps mto a dish, and sprinkle over them half a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put an ounce of butter in httle pieces here and there upon them, and place the dish in a moderate oven till the butter is melted. Let the shrimps get cold. Press them into jars, and pour upon them but^ter which has been melted, and is just begimimg to set. Keep the jars in a cool place tiU wanted. Time to bake the shrimps, ten minutes. Shrimps, Stewed.-Shell as many freshly- boiled shrimps as will measure a pint when ' shelled. Bruise the hciids and shells, and boil them gentlv in a quarter of a pint of hght wnnc, a quarter of a pint of water, and a tea-8}K)onful of vinegar, with a seaeoniug of sail, cayenne,SIB SHB (871) and mace. Strain the liquor, and let it stand a few minutes. ' Then pour it oS, freed from sediment, put it baek into the saucepan, and thicken it with flour and butter. Put in the fish, and simmer them till they are thoroughly heated. They must not boil, or they will be hard. Toast a slice of bread, cut it into small squares, lay it on a dish, and pour upon it the fish and sauce. Ser^e hot. Time to boU. the shells, twenty minutes. Shrimps, To Shell.—It may seem trifling, to those who know how to do it, to say anything about shelling shrimps; but when there is a right way and a wrong way, it is surely worth while to practise the former. When shrimps are boiled alive, the muscle contracts, and folds the tail beneath the body; when the tail remains extended after boiUng, it is because the slirimp was dead, and it will bo found soft and worth- less. There is a difference in the shape of the dif- ferent species of shrimps. The tail of the brown shrimp is quite rounded at the bend, like that of the lobster, whereas the tail of the red shrimp and the prawn presents a sort of knee or angle. To shell a brown shrimp, take the head between the right finger and thumb, with the left finger and thumb-nail raise on each side the shell of the tail nearest tha head; pinch the taU, and the shell will come away entire. At Honfleur, and other pai-ts of the Norman coast, the finest brown shrimps are picked out to be sent to table as plates of hors d'ceuvres, while the small ones are shelled, to make patties and vol-au-vents, by women who perform their task with incredible rapidity. Comfortably seated on a low, rush- bottomed chair, with their feet kept warai in a small tub or keeler, the sheUed shrimps fly from their fingers to the basin which receives them almost as if they were discharged in a stream by machinery. To peel red shrimps and prawns, take the head between the thumb and second finger of the right hand; take the tip of the tail between the left finger and thumb; with the nail of the right forefinger raise the section of the shell which forms the knee or bend ; pinch the tail, and the naked flesh will be left attached to the head. Shrimps will not shell easily if they are at all stale. Shropshire Pudding. — Take half a pound of stale brown bread, and grate it finely. Mix with the crumbs half a pound of finely-shred beef-suet, six table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, ha,lf a nutmeg grated, the strained juice and minced rind of a fresh lemon, and the well- beaten yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. A spoonful of brandy may be added or not. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, and turn the mixture into a buttered mould. Tie it in a cloth, plunge it into fast boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly until done enough. A little melted butter, sweetened and flavoured with brandy, may be sent to table with it. Time to boil, four hours. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Shrub, Brandy.—Cut oif in thin strips tho rind of a large fresh lemon, and put these in a bottle, with the strained juice of two lemons and two pints of best brandy. Cork the bottle closely, and let it stand in a cool place for four days. Strain it, and mix with it one pint and a half of sheiTy or Marsala, three-quarters of a poimd of clarified loaf sugar, and as much grated nutmeg as will stand on a threepenny piece. Filter the preparation, and it will be ready for iise. Very good milk punch may be made of the dregs which remain after the shrub is poured off. To make it, pour upon the drega three times the quantity of warm but not boil- ing nulk. Stir the preparation briskly for a few minutes, then leave it in a cool place for thi-ee days. Pour off the clear liquor, and strain the thick part through a tamis. Time, four days. Sufficient for half a gallon of shi'ub. Shrub, Lemon or Orange. —Take two lemons and six Seville oranges, or, if pre- ferred, take eight sweet oranges. Gi-ate off the rinds, and squeeze out the juice, then with each quart of juice put three pounds of powdered loaf sugar. Stir the sugar till it is dissolved, and put two quarts of best Jamaica rum with each quart of juice. Put the mixture into a cask, and shake it three times a day for three weeks. Let it stand in a cool place till clear. Filter, and bottle for use. Shrub, Orange or Lemon {see Orange or Lemon Shrub). Shrub, Rum.—Put a pint of lemon- juice to five pints of best Jamaica rum. With each quart of the mixture put one pound and a half of clarified loaf sugar. Strain, and bottle for use. If Uked, the whole or part of the lemon-rind can be infused in the juice to flavoui- it. Shrub, White Currant.—Bruise the currants, and put them on a sieve covered with muslin, that the juice may run from them. Dis- solve in each quart of juice half a pound of powdered loaf sugar, add a pint of rum, and bottle for use. Shrub, Whisky.—BoU four pounds of Demerara sugar to clear syrup with a pint of water. Skim carefully, and let it get cold; then mix with it the strained juice of four pounds of lemons, one pound and a half of Seville oranges, half a pint of porter, and a gallon of whisky. Put it into a jar, and shake it every day for a fortnight. Let it stand till clear, strain it off, and bottle for use. Time, a month to clear the shrub. Siberian Crabs, Preserved. — For preserving, the Siberian crabs should be gathered Ijefore they are fully ripe, as their fine acidity and agreeable texture are then in perfection; when mellow, they are mealy and juiceless. Fill the jars with them in order to judge what quantity will suffice, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and barely scald them ; the moment one of the skins begins to crack, take them off the fire, pour them into a stone colander, peel them (this operation is easily performed, for the peel will curl up as fine, tough, and thin as gold-beater's-skin); then, having made a thin syrup, put the fruit into the jars and pour it hot upon them, push down the apples as thoy rise to the surface in order to insure their all coming hi c^ontact with( 872) SIC SIB the flyrup, and set them away uncovered. On the following day pour thorn all out into a colander, place the syrup in the saucepan with more sugar, so as to insure a thick syru]), boil and skini it, and again return it hot over tho fruit; continue to keep tho mouths of tho jars open, and the next day, if they are soft enough, ajid the syrup appears sufficiently thick and clear, tie them over with bladder. In a week, look at them, and if any mould or fermentation begin to show, roboil the syrup as before directed. For puddings and pies the Siberian crab cannot be excelled. These apples require neither peeling nor coring, and if used before they become meUow, are juicy and brisk in flavour; the core remains entire, and imparts a unique and most delicious flavour; they are less ti-ouble also than most other fruits from their being dressed whole. Siberian Crabs, To Preserve "Whole. —No. 1. Boil an inch of cinnamon, thi-ee or four cloves, and a small piece of whole ginger in a pint of water till it is pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, and make it into syrup by boUing with it for a quarter of an horn* a pound of loaf sugar, and let it stand till cold. Put it into a pan, with a pint of Siberian crabs, which have been well wiped with a cloth and pricked with a needle about the stalks, and let all get hot together. Take the preparation off the fire, let it get cold, then heat it again, and repeat this pro- cess three times. When the crabs look clear, lift them out, put them into jars, and pour the syi-up over them. Put brandy papers over the top, and cover the fruit in the usual way. If more convenient, the syrup may be boiled on three successive days. No. 2. Take the crabs with an inch or more of stalk, wash them well, and prick them in three or four places round the stalk. Put them into a pan, and pour upon them as much boiling water as will barely cover them. When cold, drain them from the liquor, then boil the liquor with a pound of refined sugar to every pint. When it is thick and clear, pour it upon the crabs, and let them stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours. Put fruit and syrup into a pan, and make both scalding hot. Lift out the fruit, boil up the juice, and pour it upon the crabs. Repeat this process till the fruit looks clear, and be careful in these later boUings to let the syrup get quite cold before it is poured upon the fruit. Put the jam carefully into jars, and cover in the usual way. Time, five or six days. Probable cost, uncertain—Siberian crabs being seldom sold. Siberian Crabs {see Crab Apples, Siberian). Sicilian Biscuits.—Pound half a stick of vanilla, and work it up thoroughly with six ounces of powdered and sifted sugar and two ■well-beaten eggs. Put the mixture into a copper saucepan, and stir it briskly over a gentle fire until it is warm. Pour it out, and continue stirring until cold. Add five ounces of flour, and mix all thoroughly together. Fill a biscuit-forcer with tho batter, and press it out in fancy shapes upon a baking-sheet. Cover the surface of the biscuits with finely- nowdered su!?ar. and bake in a gentle oven. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 4d. per pound. Sicilian Sauce, for Fowls, Turkeys. &0.—Cut four ounces of loan liam into (Uct^ and simmer gently in a quarter of a pint of water till it is reduced to liaLf the quantitj. Strain, stir it into a quarter of a pint oi strong stock, then simmer it again with a slice of lemon-rind and pulp, together half an iucli thick, half a tea-spoonful of coriander-6e(;d, and a pinch of powdered mace. At the end of eight or ten minutes add a stick of celer}-, a pinch of cayenne, and a clove of garlic. If the flavour is objected to, the latter article 'jan ha omitted, and a shallot or a small onion sub- stituted for it. Simmer all gently together for twenty minutes. Thicken the sauce with flour and butter, add a glassful of light wine, and lot tho sauce boil till it coats the spoon. Time altogether, one hour and three-quarters. Suf- ficient for a good-sized fowl. Sick, Cooking for the.—On this subject we have extracted tlie following observations, which cannot be too widely read, from MisH Florence Nightingale's " Notes on Nm-sing:"— " I will mention one or two of the most common errors among those in charge of sick respecting sick diet. One is the belief that beef-tea is the most nourishing of all articles. Now just try and boil down a pound of beef into beef-tea; evaporate your beef-tea, and see what is left of your beef. You wiU find that there is barely a tea-spoonful of solid nourish- ment to half a pint of water in beef-tea. It is quite true that by mincing the beef and then stewing it you can get a larger quantity of solid in the Liquor ; but then it is not beef-tea, and there are many patients who could not take it. There is a certain nourishing quahty in beef-tea—we do not know what—as there is in tea; it may safely be given in almost any in- fiammatory disease, but is little to be depended upon with the healthy or convalescent where much nourishment is required. Again, it is an ever-ready saw that an egg is equivalent to a pound of meat, whereas it is not so at all. Also, it is seldom noticed with how many patients, particularly of nervous or bilious temperament, eggs disagree. AH puddings made with eggs are distasteful to them in con- sequence. An egg whipped up with wine is often the only form in which they can take this kind of noiurishment. Again, if the patient is able to eat meat, it is supposed that to give him meat is the only thing needful for his recovery: whereas scorbutic sores have beeu actually known to appear among sick persons living in the midst of plenty in England, which could be traced to no other source than this, viz., that the nurse, depending on meat alone, had allowed the patient to be witliout vegetables for a considerable time, these latter being so badly cooked that ho always left them untouched. Arrowroot is another grand de- pendence of tho nurse. To mix the patient's wine in, being, as it is, quickly prepared, it is all very well; but it is nothing but starch and water. Flour is both more nutritive, and less liable to ferment, and is preferable whfrc\er it can be used.( 873 ) SIO SIC "Again, milk and the preparations of milk arc a most important iirticles of food for the sick. Butter is the lightest kind of animal fat, and though it wants some of the things which there ai-e in milk, yet it is most valuable both in itself and in enabling the patient to eat more bread. Flour, oats, groats, rice, barley, and their kind, are, as wo have already said, prefer- able in all their preparations to all the prepara- tions of arrowroot, sago, tapioca, and their kind. Cream, in many long chronic diseases, is quite irreplaceable by any other article what- ever. It seems to act in the same manner as beef-tea, and to most people it is much easier of digestion than milk; in fact, it seldom dis- agrees. Cheese is not so usually digestible by the sick, but it has great nourishment in it; and I have seen sick, and not a few either, whose cra^ang for cheese showed how much it was needed by them. " But if fresh milk is so valuable a food for the sick, the least change or sourness in it makes it of all articles, perhaps, the most in- jm-ious; diarrhoea is a common result of fresh milk allowed to become at all sour. The nurse, therefore, ought to exercise her utmost care in this. Buttermilk, a totally different thing, is often very useful, especially in fevers. " Almost all patients in England, young and old, male and female, rich and poor, hospital and private, dislike sweet things ; and while I have never knr wn a person take to sweets when he was ill who disliked them when he was well, I have known many fond of them when in health who in sickness would leave off every- thing sweet, even to sugar in tea; sweet pud- dings, sweet drinks are their aversion; the furred tongue almost always likes what is sharp or pungent. Scorbutic patients are an exception ; they often crave for sweetmeats and jams. "Jelly is another article of diet in great favour with nurses and friends of the sick. Even if it could be eaten solid it would not nourish; but it is simply the height of folly to take an eighth of an ounce of gelatine, and make it into a certain bulk by dissolving it in water, and then give it to the sick, as if the mere bidk represented nourishment. It is now known that jelly does not nourish, that it has a tendency to produce diarrhoea, and to trust to it to repair the waste of a diseased constitution is simply to starve the sick under pretence of feeding them. If one hundred spoonfuls of jeUy were given in the course of the day, you would have given one spoonful of gelatine, which spoonful has no nutritive power what- ever. "f)r. Christian says 'that everj- one wiU be stnick with the readiness with which certain clfisses of patients will often take dilnted meat- juice or beef tea repeatedly when they refuse all other kinds of food. This is particularly remarkable in cases of gastric fever, in which,' he says, 'little or nothing else besides beef tea or dUuted meat-juice has been taken for weeks or even months, and yet a pint of beef tea contains ficarcely a quarter of an ounce of anything but water.' " A small quantity of beef tea added to other ai-ticlcs of food malce^j them more nourishintr. 2 c* * " The reason why beef tea shouldbe nourishin g and jelly not so to the sick is a secret yet un- discovered, but it clearly shows that observation of the sick is the only clue to the best dietary. "Again, the nourishing power of milk and of the preparations from milk is very much underrated; there is nearly as much nourish- ment in half a pint of milk as there is in a quarter of a pound of meat. But this is not the whole question, or nearly the whole. The main question is what the patient's stomach can derive nourishment from, and of this the patient's stomach is the sole judge. Chemistry cannot tell this. The patient's stomach must be its own chemist. The diet which will keep the healthy man healthy will kill the sick one. The same beef which is most nutritive of all meat, and which nourishes the healthy man, is the least nourishing of all food to the sick man, whose half-dead stomach can assimilate no part of it, that is, make no food out of it. On a diet of beef tea, healthy men, on the other hand, speedily lose their strength. "I have known patients live for many months without touching bread, because they could not eat baker's bread. These were country patients. Home-made bread or brown bread is an important article of diet for many patients. The use of aperients may be entirely superseded by it. Oat-cake is another. " To watch for the opinions, then, which the patient's stomach gives, rather than to read books about foods, is the business of all those who have to settle what the patient is to eat— perhaps the most important thing to be pro- vided for him after the air he is to breathe. " A good deal too much against tea is said by wise people, and a great deal too much of tea is given to the sick by foolish people. When you see the natural and almost universal crav- ing in English sick for their tea, you cannot but feel that Nature knows what she is about. But a little tea or coffee restores them quite as much as a great deal; and a great deal of tea, and especially of coffee, impairs the little power of digestion they have. Yet a nurse, because she sees how one or two cups of tea or coffee restores her patient, thinks that three or four cups will do twice as much. This is not the case at all; it is, however, certain that there is nothing yet discovered which is a substitute to the English patient for his cup of tea ; he can take it when he can take nothing else, and ho often cannot take anything else if he has it not. I should be very glad if any of the abusers of tea would point out what to give to an English patient after a sleepless night instead of tea. If you give it at five or six o'clock in the morning, he may even sometimes fall asleep after it, and get perhaps his only two or three hours' sleep duiing the twenty- four. At the same time, you never should give tea or coffee to the sick, as a rule, after five o'clock in the afternoon. Sleeplessness in the early night is from excitement generally, and is increased by tea or coffee; sleeplessness which continues to the early morning is from exhaustion often, and is relieved by tea. The only English patients I have ever known refuse tea. have been typhus cases, and the first sign of their getting better was their craving againSIO ( 874 ) BIO for tea. In goncnil, Iho dr^- and dirty toriguo alwnyB prt'lurs tea to coffoo, and will qiiito decline milk, unloHS with tea. CoH'oe is a bettor restorative than tea, but a greater im- pairor of the digestion. Let the patient's taste decide. You will say that in cases of great thirst the patient's craving decides that it will drink a great deed of tea, and that you cannot help it. But in those cases be sure that the patient requires dilutents for quite other pm-poses than quenching the tliirst; ho wants a great deal of some drink, not only of tea, and the doctor will order what he is to have- barley-water or lemonade, or soda-water and milk, as the case may bo. " It is often recommended to persons about to go through great fatigue, either from the kind of work, or from their being not in a state fit for it, to eat a piece of bread before they go. I wish the recommenders would themselves try the experiment of taking a piece of bread instead of a cup of tea or coffee as a refresher. They would find it very poor comfort. When men have to set out fasting on fatigue duty, when a arses have to go fasting in to their patients, it is a hot restorative they want, and ought to have, before they go, and not a cold bit of bread and butter. If they can take a bit of bread with the hot cup of tea, so much the better, but not instead of it. The fact that there is more noui-ishment in brea.d than in almost anything else has probably induced the mistake. That it is a mistake there is no doubt. '' Englishmen and women who have nr. ier- gcne great fatigue, such as taking a long jour- ney without stopping, or sitting up for several nights in succession, almost always say that they can do it best upon a cup of tea. It is also the best refreshment before going out to a long day's work. " Cocoa is often recommended to the sick instead of tea or coft'ee. But, independently of the fact that English sick verj' generally dis- like cocoa, it has quite a different effect from tea or coffee. It is an oUy, starchy nut, having no restorative power at all, but simply increasing fat; it is pure mockery of the sick, therefore, to call it a substitute for tea. For any refresh- ment it is possessed of, you might just as weU offer them chestnuts instead of tea. " An almost universal error among nurses is in the bulk of the food, and especially the drinks, they offer to their patients. Suppose a patient were ordered four ounces of brandy during the day; how is he to take this if you make it into four pints by diluting it ? The same with tea and beef tea, with arrowroot, milk, &c. You have not increased the nourishment, you have not increased the renovating power of these ai-ticlcs by increasing their bulk—you have very likely diminished both by giving the patient's digestion more to do, and most likely of aU, the patient will leave half of what he has been ordered to take, because he cannot swallow the bulk with which you have been pleased to invest it. It requires very nice observation and care (and meets with hardly any) to determine what will be too thick or strong for the patient to take, while giving him no more than the bulk which he is able to swallcv." Various recipes for Invalid Cookeky will be found in oui- pages under their resijcctive headings; but, for conveuience sake, we have lidded to these remarks of Miss Nightiugalo a collection of recipes drauTi, for tlie most part, from the " Medical Guide" of Dr. Keece and the well-known cookery-book of Mrs. Kimdell :— Apple Water. — Cut two large apples into slices, and pour a quart of boiling water on them, or on roasted apples; strain in two or three hours, and sweeten slightly. Arrowroot Jelly.—Put into a saucepan half a pint of water, a glassful of shc.rry or a spoonful of brandy, gratiid nutmeg, and fine sugar; boU once up, then mix it by degrees into a des- sert-spoonful of arrowroot previously nibl^ed smooth with two spoonfuls of cold water ; then return the whole into the saucepan, stir and boil it three minutes. Arrowroot Ptulding.—Take z table-spoonful of arrowroot and half a pint of milk, a table-spoon- ful of which add cold to the arrowroot, stirring it till it is well mixed, then boil the remainder of the half-pint of milk, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and while it is boiling hot, add it by degrees to the arrowroot, then boil the whole (stirring it all the time) till it becomes thickened, and have ready the yolks and whites of six eggs beaten together, which stir into it. Put all into a buttered basin, and cover with paper. Then steam it for half an hour. A pudding may be made in the same way, and baked in a dish with a light crust round, and flavoured with any approved ingredient. Barley Gruel.—Wash four ounces of pearl- barley, boil it in two quarts of water with a stick of cinnamon till reduced to a quart; strain, and return it to the saucepan with sugar and three-quarters of a pint of port wine. Heat up, and use as wanted. Barley Water.—Wash a handful of common barley, then simmer it gently in three pints of water with a bit of lemon-peel. This is less apt to nauseate than the pearl barley of the following recipe; but the other is a very pleasant drirdj. Barley Water (another way).—Boil an ounce of pearl barley a few minutes to cleanse, then put on it a quart of water; simmer an hour; when half done put into it a bit of fresh lemon- peel and one bit of sugar. If likely to be too thick, you may put another quarter of a pint of water. Beef, Mutton, and Veal Broth. — Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one poimd of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, and ten peppercorns, into a nice tin sjiucepan with five quarts of water; simmer to three quarts; and clear from the fat when cold. Add one onion if approved. Soup and broth made of dift'erent kinds of meats are more supporting as well as better flavoured. To remove the fat, take it off when cold as clean as possible; Mnd if there be still any remaining, lay a bit oi .dean blot- ting-paper or cap-paper on the brodi \yh'en in the basin, and it will take up eveiy particle. Beef Tea.—in small pieces two pounds weight of fresh lean hoef; add three pints of cold water; when on the eve of boiling, care- fiUly remove the scum; the moment it boils add a pint of cold water; then let it boil upSIC SIC ( 876 ) again, and remove the scum as bcfuie. If by this time it is not perfectly clear, the same quantity of water may be added a second time, which will cause more scum to rise. The same remarks apply to all other broths and gravies, which wiU always be transparent and finely flavoured if the same rule be observed. Beef tea should be allowed to simmer not less than three-quarters of an hour, and not more than one hour, from the time it is last skimmed. Bread Pudding, Light.—Vom: some boiling-hot milk on a few thin slices of white bread or the crumb of Fi-ench rolls; when cold beat up one whole egg and the yolks of two others, mix them well with the bread, adding a small por- tion of grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, and as much white powdered sugar as will make it palatable. A few picked currants may be sometimes added. Put the preparation into a pudding-basin shghtly rubbed over with butter, and cover the top with a piece of buttered paper; then place the basin in a saucepan containing boiling water, and let the pudding steam for half an hour or more, according to its size. Broth, Clear.—The following is a clear broth that will keep long. Put the mouse round of beef, a knuckle-bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton into a deep pan, and cover close with a dish or coarse crust; bake till the beef is done enough for eating with only as much water as will cover. When cold, cover it close in a cool place. When to be used give what flavour may be approved. Broth for Invalids.—This may be made in the same way as restorative meat jelly {see Meat Jelly, Restorative), with an old fowl cut in pieces -svith its own weight in gravy beef. It must only, however, be allowed to simmer two hours. Broth, Quickly Made.—Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, and take oft" the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small tin saucepan that has a cover with three-quarters of a pint of water, the meat being first beaten and cut in thin bits; put a bit of thyme and parsley, and, if approved, a slice of onion. Let it boil very quickly, skim it nicely; take off the cover if Ukely to be too weak, else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the whole process. Cahes'-Feet Broth.—Boil two feet in three quarts of water to half; strain, and set it by. When to be used take off the fat, put a large tea-cupful of the jelly into a saucepan with half a glassful of sweet wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and beat it up till it is ready to boil; then take a little of it, and beat by degrees to the yolk of an egg, and adding a bit of butter the size of a nutmeg, stir it all together, but do not let it boil. Grate a bit of fresh lemon into it. Calves'.Feet Broth (another way).—Boil two calves' feet, two ounces each of veal and beef the bottom of a penny loaf, two or three blades of inace, half a nutmeg sliced, and a little salt in throe quarts of water to three pints; strain, and take off the fat. Calves Feet Boil two calves' feet in four quarts of water for five hours, then strain tho liquor through a hair sieve, and the next day take off all the fat. Whisk the whites and shells of throe eggs in a stewpan, then put in the jelly, and Mfld a small piece of cinnamon. the thin peel of two lemons and the juice of tliree, with about six or seven ounces of loaf sugar. Put the stewpan on a brisk fire, and whisk its contents till on the eve of boiling, then remove the stewpan, cover it closely, and let it remain near the fire for fifteen minutes, taking care not to allow the jelly to boil. Pass it through the bag in the usual way. If wine be tised, it will be better to add it the moment before the jelly is passed through the bag. Caudle.—Make a fine smooth gruel of half- grits; strain it when boiled well, stir it at times tiU cold. When to be used add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with nutmeg. Some like a spoonful of brandy besides the wine; others like lemon-juice. Caudle (another way).—Boil up half a pint of fine gruel with a bit of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, the same of white wine, one of capillaire, a bit of lemon-peel and nutmeg. Caudle (another way).—Into a pint of fine gruel, not ihick, put, while it is boiling hot, the yolk of an egg beaten with sugar and mixed with a large spoonful of cold water, a glassful of wine, and nutmeg. Mix by degrees. This is very agreeable and nourishing. Chicken Broth and Veal Broth.—These are prepared in the same way as beef tea, and may be made of any strength desired by adding more or less water. Chicken and veal broth do not require so much skimming as beef tea. Chicken Broth.—Put the body and legs of the fowl that chicken-panada was made of, after taking off the skin and rump, into the water it was boiled in with one blade of mace, one slice of onion, and ten peppercorns. Simmer till the broth be of a pleasant flavour. If there is not water enough, add a little. Beat a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds with a tea-spoonful of water, fine, boil it in the broth, strain, and when cold remove the fat. Chicken, Minced.—Take the breast of a cold roast chiclfen, and mince it finely. Add half a tea-spoonful of fine flour, together with five or six table-spoonfuls of broth. Season with a pinch of salt. If broth is not at hand, sub- stitute new milk. Chicken or Fowl, To Extract the Essence of.— Proceed in the same way as in the recipe Veal, To Extract the Essence of, taking care to chop the bones in pieces, and lay them in the bottom of the jar, placing the meat on the top of them. Take care that the water in the saucepan does not get into the jar when boiling. " The pure essence of meat thus extracted is invaluable for weak stomachs and where con- siderable nutriment is required in a concentrated form. It is also light, and easy of digestion, compared with more glutinous preparations. A single table-spoonful of the essence can be taken by an invalid, and would afford as much sustenance as a quarter-pint of broth." Chicken Prt'«rtrfa._Take the breast of a cold chicken, and pound it in a mortar to a ver\- fine paste, then put it into a small stewpan, and add to it, gradually, as much boiling-hot broth as will make it of the required consistencv. Season with a little salt. Place the stewpan on the fire, stir tho contents, but do not let them boil.SIC ( 876 ) SIC Chicken Fanada.—Boil the chicken till fibout throo parts ready, in a quart of water, take oif the skin, cut the white meat olt' when cold, and put it into a marble mortar; pound it to a paste ' with a little of the water it was boiled in. | ISeason with a little salt, a grate of nutmej^, and the least bit of lemon-peel. Hoil gently for a few minutes to the consistency liked; ' it should be such as can bo drunk, although tolerably thick. Chicken tvith Sauce.—Prepare the chicken as in the recipe Chicken with Sippets. Serve it up with a delicate sauce made by stirring the yolks of two fresh eggs with a spoonful of water, and then adding them to the gravy of the chicken while hot, but which must not be allowed to boil. Chicken dressed in this way forms an agreeable repast for an invaUd, and is very light for the stomach, and easy of digestion. Chicken tvith Sippets.—Take a small chicken trussed for boiling, and let it soak in a pan of cold water for half an hour. Put it into a small stewpan just large enough to hold it; put in half a pint of cold water, and when it boils cover the saucepan closely, and let it simmer very gently for twenty or twenty-five minutes, according to its size. Dish up the chickens in a very hot covered dish, put half a dozen sippets of bread round the bottom, and then strain the broth from the chicken through a fine lawn sieve into the dish, taking care to prevent any fat" passing through. Add a little salt, if ap- proved. ^el Broth.—Clean half a pound of small eels, and set them on with three pints of water, some parsley, one slice of onion, a few peppercorns; let them simmer till the eels are broken and the broth good; add salt, and strain it ofi:. The above should make three half-pints of broth. Egg Wine.—Beat an egg, mix with it a spoonful of cold water. Set on the fire a glassful of white wine, half a glassful of water, sugar, and nutmeg; when it boils, pour off a little of it to the egg by degrees, till the whole be in, stirring it well; then return the whole into the saucepan, put it on a gentle fire, stir it one way for not more than a minute; for if it boils, or the egg be stale, it will curdle. Serve with toast. Egg wine may be made as above without warming the egg, and it is then lighter on the stomach, though not so pleasant to the taste. Eggs.—An egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and mixed with a basin of milk, makes a breakfast more supporting than tea solely. An egg divided, and the yolk and white beaten •.(■parately, then mixed with a glassful of -wine, wiU afford two very wholesome draughts, and prove lighter than when taken together. Gloucester Jelly. — Take rice, sago, pearl barley, hartshorn shavings, and eringo-root, each an ounce; simmer with three pints of water to one, and strain it. When cold it vnW be a jelly; which give, dissolved in wine, milk, or broth, in change Avith other nourish- ment. . Isinglass Jelly.—Put one ounce of ismglnss into a stewpan" with a pint of cold water, the thin rind of a fresh lemon, and four ounces of loaf sugar; the half of the white of an egg beaten on a i)lato may be added. Put the stewpan on the tire, and occasionally stir its contents. The moment they boil place the stewpan at the corner of the fire, and let the jelly siuimer very gently for fifteen minutes; then strain through a fine lawn sieve. This jelly may be fiavoured with lemon-juice, maraschino, or noyeau. Lemonade. —Peel the thin rind of one or two fresh lemons without any of the white part; put the peel into a jug, and pour over it a pint of boiling water ; add four ounces of loaf sugar, and cover the jug closely to keep in the steam. Let it stand till cold, and then add the juice of the lemons ; strain through a fine piece of muslin into a clean jug or decanter. Lemon- Water. — Put two slices of lemon thinly pared into a tea-pot, a little bit of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boUing water, and stop it closely for two hours. Light Puddings of Vermicelli, Semolina, Tapioca, Mice, Ground Rice, S;c.—Whatever sub- stance is used, it must first be boiled tender in milk, then proceeded wth as for the other puddings {see Bread Pudding, Light, &c.), always taking care that the substance employed is of a thick consistence before the eggs, &c., are added. All light puddings, either of bread, sponge cake, vermicelli, &c., may be flavoured in various ways by using vanilla, orange- flowers, cinnamon, almond, or any other ap- proved flavours. Macaroni with Broth.—Take a small quantity of real Italian macaroni, and boil it in water tin it is just tender. Drain the water off on a hair sieve, then put the macaroni into a stewpan with some of the broth, and let it simmer for five or six minutes; season with a little salt, if preferred. Meat Jelly, Restorative.—Take two or three pounds of the knuckle of veal, the same weight of fresh-killed gravy beef, and one caK's foot, cut the meat from the bones, and chop them in pieces; lay them in the bottom of a stewpan, and put the meat on the top of them; then add as much cold water as will rise two or three inches above the meat; let the whole simmer gently for four hours, taking great care to remove every particle of scum as it rises in the first boiling. Strain through a fine hair sieve, and the next morning the whole of the fat can be taken off. Mutton Broth.—This is best made with the scrag-ends of the necks chopped in pieces, then well washed and soaked in wai-m water to di-aw out the blood, and allowed to simmer for two hours. Mutton Broth (another way).—This is a very supporting broth against any kind of weakness. Boil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large handful of chervil, in two quarts of water to one. Take off part of the fat. Any.other herbs or roots may be added. Take habE a pint four times a day. Orange Jelli/.—'Uso only half a pint of water to one ounce "of isinglass, and proceed as in the recipe Isinglass Jolly. Then rub the rinds of one lemon and of two oranges on a piece of loaf I sugar, which must bf scraped off into a basin-SIC ( 877 ) SIL in which tho jtiice of the lemon and the juice of five or six oranges must be squeezed. Then iidd the melted isinglass, and mix well together. Strain through a fine sieve. Orangeade.—Take the thin peel of two oranges find of one lemon; add the water and sugar the same as for lemonade; when cold, add the juice of one lemon and of four or five oranges, and strain off. Orgeat.—Beat two ounces of almonds with a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water and a bitter almond or two; then pour a quart of milk and water to the paste. Sweeten with sugar or capillaire. Fanada (made in five minutes).—Set a little water on the fire Avith a glassful of white wine, some sugar, and a scrape of nutmeg and lemon- peel; meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread. The moment the mixture boils up, keep it stiU on the fire, put the crumbs in, and let it boil as fast as it can. When of a proper thickness to drink, take it off. Pork Jelly, Br. Ratcliff's Restorative.—Take a leg of well-fed pork just as cut up, beat it, and break the bone. Set it over a gentle fire with three gallons of water, and simmer to one. Let half an ounce each of mace and nutmeg stew in it. Strain through a fine sieve. When cold, take off the fat. Give a chocolate-cupful the first and last thing and at noon, adding salt to taste. Shank Jelly.—Soak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, then brush and scour them very clean. Lay them in a saucepan with thi-ee blades of mace, an onion, twenty Jamaica and thirty or forty black peppers, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a crust of bread made very brown by toasting. Pour three quarts of water to them, and set them on a hot hearth close-covered ; lot them simmer as gently as possible for five hours, then strain it off, and put it in a cold place. This may have the addition of a pound of beef, if approved, for flavouring. It is a remarkably good thing for people who are weak. Sippets.—On an extremely hot plate put two or three sippets of bread, and pour over them some gravy from beef, mutton, or veal, if there is no butter in the dish. Sprinkle a little salt over. Sponge-Cake Pudding.—Pour boiling milk on six penny sponge cakes, and follow the same directions as for the bread pudding {see Bread Pudding, Light), sometimes adding a few mus- catel raisins. Half a wine-glassful of sherry, or a table-spoonful of good brandy may also be added, if approved. Tapioca Jelly.—Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on to wash it two or three times, then soak it in fresh water five or six hours, and simmer it in tho same until it becomes quite clear; then put lemon-juice, wine, and sugar. The peel should have been boiled in it. It thickens very much. Tench Broth.—Make in the same,way as eel broth. They are both very nutritious and light of digestion. Toast and Water.—Toast slowly a thin piece of bread till extremely brown and hard, but not the least black ; then plunge it into a jugful of QOld water, and cover it over an hour before using. It should be of a fine brown colour before drinking it. Veal Broth (very nourishing).—Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal with very little meat to it, an old fowl, and four shank- bones of mutton extremely well soaked and bruised, three blades of mace, ten peppercorns, an onion, a large bit of bread, and three quarts of water into a stewpot that covers close, and simmer in the slowest manner after it has boUed up and been skimmed; or bake it; strain, and take off the fat. Salt as wanted. It will requii'e four hours. Veal, To Extract the Essence of.—Take two pounds of the loan part of the leg of veal, and cut it in pieces, without any of the fat. Wash the meat in cold water, and put it in a white glazed jar or stone jar just large enough to hold the pieces. Add only two table-spoonfuls of water. Cover the jar down closefy, and lay it in a saucepan containing boiling water, which must continue to boil on a slow fire for two hours. At the end of that time all the j uice or gravy will be extracted, and may be strained off for use. Vermicelli, Italian Paste, and Bice.—These are all to be prepared in the same way as ma- caroni {see Macaroni -with Broth). In this way light and nutritious diet will be furnished for an invalid, which will often be retained on the stomach when a more solid substance would be rejected. Water Gruel.—Put a large spoonful of oat- meal by degrees into a pint of water, and when smooth boil it. Water-Gruel (another way).—Rub smooth a large spoonful of oatmeal with two of water, and pour it into a pint of water boUing on the fire; stir it well, and boil quickly, but take care that it does not boil over. In a quarter of an hour strain it ofiF, and add salt and a bit of butter when eaten. Stir until the butter be incorporated. Whey.—That of cheese is a very wholesome drink, especially when the cows are in fresh herbage. White Broths with Vermicelli.—Light and delicate white broths may be produced by stir- ring the yolks of two or three fresh eggs with two table-spoonfuls of cold water, which must then be poured into the hot broth, gently stir- ring it all the time, without allowing the broth to boU after the eggs are put in, or they will be curdled. Silver JeUy.—If properly made, this jelly will be perfectly clear and colourless. Put an ounce and a half of the best Russian isinglass into a saucepan, and pour over it a pint of cold water. Cover the pan closely, place it on a gentle fire, and let it remain until the isinglaas is dissolved; then pour it out till cool. Rub the rind of two fresh lemons with three or four large lumps of sugar tiU the yellow part is taken off. Add sugar to make up the weight to three-quarters of a pound; put this into a bowl, and pour upon it half a pint of strained lemon-juice. Put the dissolved isinglass into a saucepan, and beat briskly into it the sugar and lemon-juice, together with the crushed shells and well-whisked whites of four eggs. PlaceSIP ( 878 ) SIM it on a geutlo firo, and as soon as it begiuH to heat, diBcoiitimio stirring it, and leave it quite atill. Let it boil gently for five minutes; add half a puit of marasehino, and siunui'r three oi- four minutes longer. Take the saueepan from the lire, and let the pre^jaratiuu remain un- touched for a quarter of an liuur; then strain it through a jolly-bag till it is quite clear. Tut it into a mould which has been soaked till the last moment in cold water, and hiy it in a cool place to set. Time, ten minutes to boil the jelly. Probable cost, exclusive of the maras- chmo, 3s. Sufidcient for about three pints of jeUy. Simnel Cakes.—" It is an old custom," says l)r. Chiimbers, in his " Book of Days," " in Shropshire and Herefordshire, and espe- cially at iShrewsbury, to make during Lent and Easter, and also at Christmas, a sort of i-ich and expensive cakes, which are called Simnel Cakes. They ai-e raised cakes, the crust of ■which is made of fine flour and water, with sufficient saffron to give it a deep yellow colour, and the interior is filled with the materials of a very rich plum cake, with plenty of candied lemon-peel and other good things. They are made up very stiff, tied up in a cloth, and boiled for several hours, after which they are brushed over with egg, and then baked. When ready for sale, the crust is as hard as if made of wood — a circumstance which has given rise to various stories of the manner in which they have at times been treated by persons to whom they were sent as presents, and who had never seen one before : one ordering his Simnel to be boiled to soften it, and a lady taking hers for a footstool. They are made of different sizes, and, as may be sup- posed from the ingredients, are rather expensive, some large ones selling for as much as half a guinea, or even, we believe, a guinea, while smaller ones may be had for half-a-crown. " The usage of these cakes is evidently one of great antiquity. It appears from one of the epigrams of the poet Herrick that, at the beginning of the seventeenth century, it was the custom at Gloucester for young people to carry Siinnels to theii- mothers on Mid-Lent or Mothering Sunday. It appears also from some other writers of this age, that these Simnels, like the modem ones, were boiled as well as baked." Simple Cakes.—Rub four oimces of fresh butter into half a pound of biscuit flour. Add a pinch of salt, three table-spoonfuls of finely- sifted sugar, and a well-beaten fresh egg. Roll the pastry out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, stamp it into fancy cakes with a cutter, and bake these upon tins in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, aibout twenty minutes. Simple Soup.—Cut into very small pieces half a pound of turnips, half a poimd of cari'ots, quarter of a pound of onions, three or four sticks of celery, and a lettuce. Put these ingredients into a saucepan which has a very closely-fitting lid with four ounces of dissolved butter, and add a bunch of sweet herbs, if liked. Cover the saucepan, and steam its contents over a gentle fire for twenty minutes. Pour upon the vege- tables three pints of stock made from bones; let this boil, and carefully remove the scum as it nses. Add ii pint of freshly-shelled green peas, and snnuier all gently together for thiee hours. Rub the preparation througli a sieve, Ijoil it up once uiore, add pepper and salt, and serve. Tmie, foui' hours. Probable cost, 8d. per piui. SuUieient for eight or nine persons. Simple Soup (anotlier way).—Take three quarts of good gravy. Put it into a saucepan with two cariots, tkree or four turnips, thrci- or four potatoes, some celery, lettuce, endive, parsley, and a piece of butter, with a Uttle flour. Stew till the vegetables become quite tender, so as to permit them to be rubbed through a sieve, after which let them be put to the soup. Stew again for about a quarter of an hour, and season to taste. If too strong, add a little water. Singe, To (term used in cookery).—To singe poultry or game is to bum off the hairs which remain after the bird is plucked. The most usual way of doing this is to pass a piece of lighted writing-paper over the body of the bird till the desired end is attained. The best way is to pass the plucked bird over a Ughted spirit-lamp. When performing the operation care should be taken not to blacken the bird. Singhara, or Water Nuts.—The large seeds of Trapa bicornis, a native of China, and of Trapa bispinosa and natans, species indi- genous to India, are sweet and eatable, and the aquatic plants which furnish them are hence an extensive article of cultivation. In Cashmere and other parts of the East they are common food, and are known under the name of Singhara nuts. From 90,000 to 120,000 loads of this nut are yielded annually by the lake of Ooler alone. The nut abounds in fecula. In China the kemel is used as an article of food, being ro.asted or boiled like the potato. Sippets for Garnishing Dishes.— Ordinary sippets are simply made by cutting stale bread into slices the third of an inch thick, toasting these on both sides to a bright brown, cutting them into small three-cornered pieces, and placing them round the dish. "^Tien properly made, they are fried in hot fat imtil brown and crisp, instead of being toasted, and are then drained and dried for use. In order to make them stick to the dish, make a paste with the whisked white of an egg beaten up with a little flour; brush the under part of the sippet with the paste, and stick it on the dish. If the latter is very hot, the sippets will not adhere. Sippets for Invalids.—Cut a slice of stale bread. Toast it on both sides to a bright brown colour; cut it into small shapes, and lay these side bj' side on a dish. Pour upon them as much strong beef, mutton, or veal gravy, perfectly freed from fat, as they will absorb. Sprinkle a little salt over, and sen'c. Sip- pets thus simply prepared are often enjoyed by invalids who cmnot partiike of fresh meat. Sippets, Superlative.—Cut slices Uie third of an inch thick from a stale loaf. Tnin away the crust, lay the br&id on a dish, and( 879 ) SIR / pour upon it as much cream or good milk as it will absorb. Let it soak for an hour, then Uike it up cfu-efuUy, and fry it in hot fat till it is lightly bro\\Tied. Drain, and servo hot. Or cut the crumb of a stale loaf into slices as thin as a sixpence; stamp these into fancy shapes, and fry in hot fat till ci-isp. Sippets thus made are useful for making borders to dishes, and may be fixed in position with a paste made with white of egg and flour. j Sirloin of Beef.—Choose, in the first , place, a well-covered sirloin, not weighing more than twenty or twenty-four pounds—a , large piece is never well roasted; the time | which it requires causes the outside to be too i much done, while the middle remains quite raw. The meat must be covered for one hour only with paper, to prevent its taking too much colour. It is necessary to observe that for large pieces the fire must not be too sharp, or the meat will be burned before it is warm through. Just before you take it ofi: the spit spread some fine salt over it, and send it up very hot with gravy only. This joint is often spoiled for the next day's use by an injudicious mode of carving. If you object to the outside cut, take the brown off, and help yourself to the next; by thus cutting it only on one side, you preserve the gravy in the meat, and the goodly appearance likewise; by cutting it, on the contrary, down the middle of the joint, all the gravy runs out, and it remains diy and void of substance, besides exhibiting a most unseemly aspect when brought to table a second time. Sirloin of Beef, Roasted.—The prin- cipal observation and. direction required with regard to this article is, that it is of all the parts the most delicate ; and when the piece is very big the fire must be more moderate, as it is a long time before the middle becomes warm. If tlie fire is sharp, the meat wiU be burnt on the outside and quite raw in the middle. Another necessary obsei'vation is, that when you put the spit too low, the meat loses a great deal of the heat, receiving it only from the top : to keep down the colour, it is better to cover it with a few sheets of white paper, and uncover it only when the meat is nearly done. Take care, however, not to cover the meat too closely —merely paper the part that faces the fire— otherwise the beef will not be roasted, but broiled. Sirloin of Beef, To Carve (see Beef, Sirloin of, To Carve). Skate.—The skate is a fish of the ray tribe, excellent and wholesome. It may generally be had at a comparatively low price, and perhaps on this account is not so highly esteemed as it ought to be. It is more highly valued in France than in England. The young skate are called "maids," and their flesh is tender and delicate. Skate improves with being kept a day or two, and should always be skinned however it is dressed. The fin or wing is the part generally used. Thp liver is much prized. In cool weather the skate is improved by being kept a couple of days, and is still fiu-ther improved by crimj^ing, though it should be remembered that it \/ill not keep so well when this is done. Skate is unwholesome out of season. It is in season in autumn and winter. Skate (a la Sainte Menehould). —Cut the skate into neat pieces, and simmer it in white sauce till done enough. Lay the fish on a dish, sprinkle seasoned bread-crumbs *over it and a little grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese. Put it in a brisk oven, or before the fire, till the surface is brightly browned, and serve hot. Skate (au beurre noir—an excellent dish). —Take about two pounds of white skate, wash SKATE. it, and boil it in water with salt and a little vinegar ; five minutes before it is done enough, put the liver in with it, and boil it also. Take up the fish, skin it on both sides, lay it on a hot dish, and keep it hot for a few minutes. Dis- solve six ounces of fresli butter in a saucepan, and stir it over a brisk fire till it is brown without being burnt. Throw about fifty leaves of picked parsley into it, and when these are crisp pour the butter over the fish. Put a large wine-glassful of common vinegar into the saucepan with a httle pepper and salt. Let it boil for half a minute, pour it all over the fish, and serve very hot. Time altogether, about half an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Skate, Black Butter for Boiled.— Place about six ounces of good fresh butter in a small stewpan; put it on the fire to melt, and then allow it to fritter so as to acquire a light- brown coloirr; then take it off the stove, skim it, and pass it quickly through a sieve into a stew- pan containing four table-spoonfuls of French vinegar, a dessert-spoonful of chopped capers, ditto Harvey's Sauce and mushroom ketchup, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, and sufficient pepper and salt to season the sauce. Boil the whole well together, and use it for boiled skate or boiled mackerel. "With whatever kind of fish this sauce is served, fried parsley foiTns an indispensable adjunct. Skate, Boiled. —Let the skate hang a couple of days, then skin it, ajid cut it into pieces about four inches square—some cut out of the thick part, and some out of the thin. Tic the pieces with string to preserve the shape, and put first the thick pieces, and a couple of minutes afterwards the thin pieces, into a kettle ynth boiling water which has been prepared for the fish by the addition of a handful of salt, twoSKA SKA ( 880 ) taWc-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a aliced onion, to a gallon of watur. Boil tho tiah gontly until done enough. Tho timo rtKjuirud will diipund upon tho thicknosH. Tho livor, which is liighly priziid, should ho hoilod Boparatuly, and soi vod at tho side, or flnoly chopped and mixed with ptu'sloy and huttor. Good n\oltod huttor Ha- voured with lemon-juice, caper sauce, Bhriuij) sauce, o^' anc:hovy sauce, may all ho served with Bkate, or there may bo a sauce prepared as follows:—Dissolve four ounces of butter in a small saucepan, and stir in with it a tea-spoon- ful of chopped paraley and a table-spoonful of \-inogar. Simmer three minutes, and serve. Time to boil the skato, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per lb. Skate, Boiled in Stock.—Skin a skate, and cut it into square pieces. Take as much stock in which fish has been boiled, or veal stock, as Avill cover the fish, and simmer it gently for an hour with the trimmings of the fish, the shell of a lobster or crab thoroughly cleansed, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two or three sliced onions. Strain and thicken the stock with brown thickening, and add pepper and salt, a little ketchup and soy, and a glass of claret. Put in the skate, and boil it until done enough. Serve it with the sauce poured over. Time to boil the skate, fifteen to twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, 4d. to 6d. per pound. Skate, Choosing of. — Skate varies in quality more than most fish. The best is broad and thick, prickly on the back, with the brown side brown and healthy-looking, and the under side of a delicate creamy whiteness. Large fish ctre firmer and altogether more profitable than small fish, ha%dng more flesh in proportion to the quantity of gristle. The upper skin should be removed, and it should be stripped ofE from the middle outwards. If skate has a strange smell, unlike the ordinary smell of fish, it should be discarded as dangerous. " Skate," says Dr. Kitchener, " is a very good fish when it is in good season, but no fish so bad when it is otherwise. Those persons who hke it firm and dry should have it crimped, but those who like it tender should have it plain, and ate not earlier than the second day; and, if cold weather, three or four days old it is better; it cannot be kept too long if perfectly sweet. Skate, if young, eats very fine crimped and fried." Skate, Crimped.—Skin the skate on both sides, cut it in stnps the length of tho fish and an inch broad, roU each length round the finger, and tie it with thread. Lay the rolled strips for an hour or two in salted water mixed with a table-spoonful of vinegar, or in cold spring water. Fish to be crimped should be taken as soon as possible after it is dead. The inhuman practice of crimping it while alive cannot be too strongly deprecated. Crimped skate is generally sold cut in sbces, rolled and tied with string, and with a little piece of tho liver in each roU. Put the fish into fast- boiling salted water, and boil it gently until done enough. Take it up, drain it, remove the string, and serve on a napkin with one of the sauces recommended for boUed skato in a tureen, or without a napkin and with the sauce poured over it. 'J'inie, fift(!cn to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per jjound. Skate. Curried.—Curried skate requires to be cooked very carefully, or it will drop to pieces. Boil two pounds of skiite with a little of tho Uver; diain it well, afid put it on a diisii. Whilst it is boihng, shco two onions and a good-sized apple, and fry them in a httle butter till soft. Rub them patiently through a sieve, and mix smoothly with the pulp a tea-spoonful of cmry powder, a dessert-spoonful of curry paste, a tea-spoonful of ground rice, and about a pint of stock. Boil the sauce, and stir it fre- quently. When it is thick and smooth pour it upon the fish in the dish, and send rice boiled for curry to table in a separate dish. Time, about twenty minutes to boil the fish. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per lb. Skate, Dressed, To Re-dress.—Pick the flesh from the bones, mince finely, and mix with it its bulk in finely-grated bread- crumbs. Add a seasoning of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; moisten the preparation with butter, and mix in a little chopped parsley. Beat it till smooth, bind it together with yolk of egg, and form it into the shape of corks or balls. Fry these in hot fat, drain them, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Time to frj', ten minutes. Skate, Fried.—Cut the skate into square pieces; let these He in cold water v.'ith. a Uttle vinegar or lemon-juice, a sprig of parsley, and a few peppercorns, for an hour; drain, dry, and flour them, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot dripping till they are hghtly browned. Send brown sauce, tomato, piquant, or caper sauce to table with them. Time, eight to ten minutes, according to thick- ness. If skate is too much done it is spoiled. Skate, Fried (another way).—When the fish are very small, pickle them in vinegar, salt, pepper, a sliced onion, some parsley, and lemon-juice, for about an hour. Next drain them, and dip them into an omelet, and then into flour. Then fry them in hot dripping, and send them up either with or without sauce. When skate is boiled with marinade, the skin must remain while boiling, otherwise the colour of the marinade will dye the fish; take off the skin after it is done, and dress it in the dish immediately. Skate, Fried, To Eat Cold—Put the skate into boiling water, and boil it for five minutes; take it up, drain and dry it, and dip it into egg and bread-crumbs. Fry it slowly in hot fat,let it get cold, and serve garnished with parsley. Send mustard, pepper, and vinegar to table "with it. Skate, Marinaded.—Remove the skin on both sides, and divide the fish into slices two or three inches long and an inch broad. Lay these in a dish, pour vinegar over them, and add a little pepper and salt, a bunch of parsley, and a sliced onion. Let the fish soak for some hours; when wanted, drain the pieces, dip them in flour, and fry them in hot dripping.till they arc brightly browned. Send them to UibloSKA ( 881 ) in fi hot dish, gamishod with fried parsley. Send caper sauce to table with them. Probable cost, 4 J. to 6d. per pound. Skate, Plain Boiled. — Take off the akin. Boil it in suit and water, and send it up on a clean cloth with shiimp sauce, or any- other sauce, in a boat. Skate, Sauces for.— The following sauces may all be served with skate:—White sauce, melted butter, onion sauce, parsley sauce, shrimp sauce, anchovy sauce, tomato sauce, piquant sauce, and liver sauce. Well- made black butter sauce is excellent with skate. {See Skate with Black Butter.) Caper sauce is, perhaps, the sauce most usually served. Skate Soup.—The bones of skate are so delicate and gristly that they can easily be con- verted to jelly; consequently, good nourishing soup may be made of this fish. Clean two pounds of skate, and hang it in the open air for a day ;* cut it into small neat fillets, and put the trimmings and the head into a saucepan with two quarts of fish stock or water. Let it sim- mer gently for an hour, and carefully remove the scum as it rises; then add an onion, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, and a few sticks of celery, and simmer all gently together till the liquor is reduced to one quart. When this point is reached, the soup may be finished in two ways: either thicken the sauce with a little brown thickening, add the fillets, simmer them tiU done enough, and flavour the soup with a dessert-spoonful of ketchup, a glass of sherry, and pepper and salt if required; or drop two ounces of vermicelli into the soup, and when it is done enough, which it will be in a few minutes, mix with the soup a quarter of a pint of cream beaten up with the yolk of an egg, stir it over the fire for eight or ten n^^nutes, but on no account allow it to boil, and serve very hot. When the soup is finished in the latter of these two ways, it is well to boil all the skate in the stock, and thus dispense with the fillets. Time, two hours and a half. Probable cost, Is. 4d. pe> pint. Sufiicient for six or eight persons. Skate Soup (a maigre soup).—Take four pounds of skate, and boil them in four quarts of water tiU the water is reduced one-half; then add six onions, some turnips, celery, carrots, sweet herbs, and parsley. When boiled enough, strain, and thicken with butter rolled in flour. Fry the inside of a roll, chop up some of the fish with a little parsley and butter, and add these to the soup before serving. Two or thi-ee anchovies, some anchovy sauce, or a red her- ring may be boiled in this soup without de- stroying its meagre character. Skate, Stewed.—Skin the skate on both sides, and cut it into neat pieces ; fry these in hot fat till they are nicely browned ; take them up, drain them, and lay "them aside. Put the head, skin, and trinmiings into a saucepan with two pints of water, an onion, and a little pepper and salt. Let the gravy simmer gently till it is strong, then strain it; put it back into the saucepan, thicken with brown thickening, and add half a dozen chives or a moderate-sized onion finely minced, two table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, a table-spoonful of chiUi vinegar, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a table-spoonful of Harvey's Sauce. Let the sauce boil till it is thick enough to coat the spoon; heat the fish in it, and serve. Time, five or six minutes to heat the fish. Skate, Teased.—Take the dried wing oi a moderate-sized skate, skin it, and cut it into slips about the size of a finger. Put it into water which has been boiled with a little salt and vinegar, and let it boil until done enough. Take it up, put it into a moderately-heated oven, and let it remain until it is quite tender. Draw out the bones, put the flesh into a soft cloth, and rub it between the palms of the hands until it is broken up and looks like wool. Dissolve six ounces of fresh butter in a sauce- pan, put in the skate, add pepper and salt, and stir the fish over a gentle fire till it is heated throughout. Send egg sauce, parsnips, and mashed potatoes to table with it. Time alto- gether, about an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Skate, To Clean and Prepare.—Wash the fish, and rub them over with salt. Rinse them, cut ofl: the tails, and pare the fins all round. Hang them in a cool airy situatior". They will keep three or four days in cool weather. Skate with Black Butter.—Fry some parsley very green. Dish the skate accord- ing to taste. For a first-course dish you must either cut it into the shape of kites or rounds. Put the fried parsley in the middle of the dish, and the butter under the fish. Beurre noire is made in an omelet-pan. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into the pan, and let it become very brown without burning ; skim oflE the froth; add to it salt, pepper, and vinegar, and pour this over the fish, and the fried parsley into the centre. This dish does not look well, but it is relishing when well done. Skate with Black Butter Sauce (excellent).—Take about two pounds of white skate. Wash it well, and put it into a saucepan with as much cold water as wiU barely cover it, a cupful of vinegar, a sliced onion, a bunch of parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Bring the liquor gently to the boil, skim it, then draw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer gently for ten minutes. Five minutes before the skate is done enough put in the liver, and boil it also. Take up the skate, drain and trim it, and skin it on both sides. Put it on a dish, sprinkle a little salt and pepper on it, place the liver on the side, and garnish with fried parsley. Have ready prepared a little brown butter sauce; pour this over the fish, and servi; immediately. The sauce may be made as fol- lows :—Put four ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan, and stir it over a sharp fire till it is brown without being burnt. Add two table- spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, two table-spoon- fuls of Harvey's Sauce, a table-spoonful of bruised capers, a quarter of a pint of brown sauce, and half a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies. Simmer all gently for five minutes, and serve. Time altogether, about three-quar- ters of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, skate, 4d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persona.SMA 8B.A ( 882 ) Skate with Caper Sauce.—Take two or tliri'o piouc'8 of wliiti^ akiito. lioll tlium up, and tie tlioiu with sti ing; then put them into faat-boiliiiy; water with salt and a little viuegar, and boil them gently until done enough. i<"ive niinutea before they are done put in the hver, and boil it with them. Take up tlie liah, drain it, anil put it on a hot diah. Make throe- quartera of a pint of good melted butter in a saucepan; stir into it while boihng two table- spoonfuls of bruised capers, pour the sauce over the tiah, and aerve hot. Time to boil the tish, twenty minutea. Probable coat, 4d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Skate, with Caper Sauce (another way).—Boil the skate in a vessel with water, viiiegar, salt, pepper, a sliced onion, parsley, green onions, bay-leaves, and tliyme. Wlien done, pick it neatly, and remove it into another clean vessel; pour over it some of the liquor in which it has been boiling, then drain it, and send it up to table, either entire or in pieces, with caper sauce in a tureen, or poured over the fish if preferi-ed. Skate .with Liver Sauce.—Boil the skate, as in recipe Skate with Black Butter Sauce. Skim it, serve on a hot dish with- out a napkin, and pour over it a sauce pre- pared as follows:—Boil the liver of the skate for five minutes, drain it, and bruise it in a mortar. Moisten with a little of the liquor, and rub it tlu'ough a sieve. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan over a brisk fire, and stir into it three or four mushrooms chopped small, a small bunch of parsley picked and finely shred, and a clove of garlic minced (the latter may be omitted, and a shallot or a small onion may be substituted for it). Dredge a table-spoonful of flour over these ingredients, and add the prepared liver, the flesh of an an- chovy, a table-spoonful of bruised capers, and half a pint of stock made from bones. Stir the sauce over the fire for a few minutes, add a little more thickening if necessary, and pour it upon the fish. Time altogether, three-quar- ters of an hour. Skirret. — This is a perennial plant, a native of China, known in this country since 1548. The root is composed of fleshy tubers about the size of the little finger, and joined together at the crown or head. They used to be much esteemed in cookery. In the northern districts of Scotland the plant is cul- tivated under the name of "crummock." The tubers, when boiled, are served with butter. They were declared by Worlidge,in 1682, to be " the sweetest, whitest, and most pleasant of roots." Skirrets come the nearest to parsnips of any of the esculent roots, both for flavour and nutritive quality. They are rather sweeter than the parsnip, and therefore to some few palates are not altogether so agreeable. Skirts, Beef, To Stew with Kidneys. —An ox kidney, or a pig'a kidneys, may be used for this diah. Take equal weights of kidney and beef skirts. Cut the kidneys into slices. Skin the skirts, and divide them into small square pieces. Fry both in beef dripping till they are equally and liglitly browned. Drain them, and put tliem into a saucepan with as much stock as will cover them, a finely-minced onion, and a little pepper and salt. Siiiuner all very gently together till the meat is ten(i(,r. Thicken the giavy with a little brown thickening; add a table-spoonful of any good store sauce, and serve. Two or tliree slices of bread, fried till crisp in the same fat as the meat, tlutn cut into sippets, and put roimd the dish, will be a gi-eat improvement. Time, one hour to simuier the meat. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sleeping Cup.—Boil half a dozen cloves, half a dozen coriander-seeds, and half an inch of stick cinnamon in half a pint of water till the liquor is pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, put it into a tumbler, and stir briskly into it a quarter of a pint of fine old Jamaica rum. Add sugar to taste, and serve. Sloe, or Sloe-Thorn.—The leaves of the sloe are used for adulterating tea. The fruit, which is very austere, is much employed on the continent of Europe for making a preserve, and also in some places for making a kind of tea. The juice is much used to impart roughness to port wine, and in the fabrication of spurious port. Sloe Wine. — Procure sloes which are sound and ripe. Look them carefully over, and reject all that are bruised and decayed. Pick off the stalks, put the sloes into a large pan, and pour a gallon of boiling water upon every gallon of sloes. Let th6m soak for five days, stirring them well every day. Put four poimds of good loaf sugar to each gallon of liquor, and when it is dissolved, put the whole into a cask with a pint of spirit to each gallon and a half of liquor. If the wine is allowed to remain in the cask for a considerable length of time it will become almost equal to port. Time to keep the wine in the cask, at least twelve months. Sly Bread, or Bread Fritters (an economical and excellent sweet dish).—Beat three eggs without frothing them ; sweeten and flavour them with lemon-rind, rose or orange-flower water, or any other flavouring, and add a table-spoonful of good brandy or rum. Cut some stale crumb of bread into slices the third of an inch thick, stamp them into small fancy shapes with a cutter, put them into the mixture, and let them soak till they have absorbed as much of the egg as possible. Lift them up carefully with a slice, and fry them in hot fat jiist as piincakes or fritters are fried. Pile them on a dish, sprinkle powdered white sugar thickly over them, and serve yery hot. Few persons at first sight would suspect the composition of this dish, which is simple and good. It may be varied by taking slices of common cake with ctin-ants and raisins instead of bread; or, if liked, the bread may first be soaked in milk, and afterwards dipped in the egg batter. Time to fiy, about five minutes. Small Birds, Broiled.—Pick the birds carefully so as not to tear the skin. Split them open down the back, flatten them, lay them on a clean gridiron which has been heated and rubbed with mutton suet, the inside to the fire. Place the pan rather high above the fire. WhenSMA ( 888 ) tbey are neaxly done thi-ough turn them, and let them remain until the outside is brightly browned. Put them on a hot dish, butter them, sprinkle pepper and salt upon them, and serve quickly. A Fi-ench cook would sprinkle pepper and salt upon them, ajid brush them over with butter, before laying them on the gridiron. Small Birds, Fried.—When the birds Ciinnot conveniently be broiled, they may be fiied as follows:—Pluck the birds carefully, split them open, and flatten them ; sprinkle salt and pepper upon them, and roU them in bread- raspings. Dissolve a small slice of fresh butter in a frying-pan; when it is hot, lay the birds in it, and fry them nicely. Put them on a hot dish. Add a table-spoonful of boiling water to the gravy in the pan, let it boil up once, strain it into the dish, and serve very hot. Smelts.—The smelt is a small delicately- flavoured fish, highly esteemed, which, when perfectly fresh and good, possesses an odour, said by some to resemble that of a violet, by others that of a freshly-cut cucumber. It loses this perfume about twelve hours after it is SMELT. taken. It may be dressed in various ways, of which frying is the most usual; it should never be quite plainly boiled, though the recipe for boiling smelts for invalids will be found excel- lent. Smelts are much used to garnish large fish, such as turbot or cod, but they may also be served alone. When fresh, the gills arc red and the eyes bright and full; the body, too, is of a silvery hue. They are in season from October to May. They should be handled as little as possible; should not be washed, but wiped with a soft cloth ; and in drawing them the gills should be pulled gently out, and the inside with them, as the fish must not be opened. The roe should be left inside. When split and dried smelts are called spar- lings. Smelts. Baked (au Gratin). —Take a dozen smelts, clean and dry them, and trim a'/ay the fins. Butter a pie-dish thickly, and STrinkle on the bottom finely-grated bread- cr mbs seasoned with popper and salt, finely- chopped parsley, and shallot. Put the smelts in the dish in a row, sprinkle seasoned bread- crumbs on the top, and pour upon the fish a glassful of sheiTy, a little Harvey's Sauce, or a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, and half a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy. Place little pieces of butter here and there on the fish, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done enough, serve the smelts quite hot in the dish in which they were baked. Time, a quarter of an hour to bake the smelts. Probable cost. Is. to 2s. per dozen. Sufficient for five or six persons. Smelts, Boiled, for Invalids.—Take a couple of large smelts, draw them carefully, and wipe them gently with a soft cloth; put a quarter of a pint of water into a saucepan with a pinch of salt, a small lump of sugar, and about fifty picked parsley-leaves. When the water boils put in the smelts, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Take them up carefully on a slice, lay them on a dish, and pour the liquor in which they were boiled over them. Be watchful that the fish does not bum to the bottom of the saucepan. If liked, the gravy may be thickened with half a tea-spoonful of arrowroot, to be put with it when the sauce has simmered three minutes. Time to simmer the fish, five minutes, or longer if the smelts are unusually large. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for one person. Smelts, Broiled. — Draw carefully and wipe a couple of large smelts, flour them weU, and lay them on a gridiron over a gentle fire. When half done turn them carefully upon the other side. When they are done enough put them on a hot dish, sprinkle a little salt upon them, and serve immediately. A cut lemon or a little sauce may be sent to table with them, if preferred. Time, five or six minutes. Probable cost, about 2d. each. Sufficient for one person. Smelts, Choosing of.—If smelts be fresh, they will be very firm, will have a pecu- liarly strong smell, greatly resembling that of a pared cucumber, and will be of a fine silver hue. Smelts, Fried. —Draw and wipe the smelts, trim off the fins, soak them in milk, and flour them well; or, if preferred, flour them, and then dip them in beaten egg and bread-rasp- ings. Fry in hot fat till they are crisp and brown. Take them up carefully with a slice, di-ain them on blotting-paper, sprinkle a little salt over them, and serve on a napkin on a dish. Put half a lemon at each end of the dish, and garnish with fried parsley. If liked, the lemon may be omitted, and shrimp or Tartare sauce may be served with the smelts. Time to fry the smelts, three to five minutes. Probable cost. Is. to 2s. per dozen. Sufficient, a dozen for five or six persons. Smelts, Fried (another way).—Smelts are usually fried. Clean and empty them, wipe them dry, and dip them into an omelet of two eggs, and into crumbs of bread mixed with flour. Fry them of a fine colour, and send them to table garnished with fried parsley Smelts may be prepared au gratin like soles.SNI ( 884 ) SMI Smith's Gingerbread, Mrs. (see Gin- gerbmid, Mrw. Siuitli's). Smoked Beef, American. —Put tho Leof in brino, and turn tind rub it ovory day for ton days, llfuig it in a chimney over a saw- dust fire or a smothered wood fire, and let it remain for a fortnight, liub it over in every part witli black popper, and hang it in a cool, dry, airy situation. When once it has been cut keep it covered with thick paper. When it is to bo served, pare olf the outside skin and Bhave it into thin chips. If very salt, soak it in boiling water for a few minutes. With half a pound of beef dissolve a small slice of butter or lard in a frying-pan, stii- in tho beef, pepper it weU, and when it begins to fizz dredge a large tea-spoonful of flour upon it. Pour over it a quarter of a pint of boiling stock or water; stir until the sauce thickens, and serve very hot. If preferred, two or three ft^esh eggs may be broken into the pan with the beef and gravy, and the whole stirred briskly until the eggs are set. Ordinarily-smoked beef is cut into thin chips and served without f ui-ther dressing. Smoked Meat, Hash of.—Take some carrots, and cut them into long strips or little dice; stew them till quite soft in broth with salt and butter. Brown a little flour in butter, lund drain the broth from the carrots into it. Add to the preparation a little vinegar, sugar, and pepper; stir and boU it till it forms a creamy sauce. Take remains of smoked meat, and cut it into small dice or slices; add this to the carrot, pour in the sauce, stir the hash well, and let it stew for a quarter of an hour. If hked, a minced onion may be stewed with the carrots. This dish should he served with potatoes or klosse. Snail, Edible.—The edible snail of the South of Europe is found in the chalk and oolite districts of the South of England, where it is said to have been introduced from the Continent in the seventeenth century. This, however, is very doubtful. It has a shell about two inches in diameter and two inches in height, whitish or pale tawny, with four darker bands, often not very distinct. By the ancient Eomans it was much esteemed as an article of food: they fattened their snails in enclosures made for the purpose, and fed them daintily on meal and boiled wine. It is stiU in much esteem for the table in various parts of Europe, and is occa- sionally used in England. The common garden snail is probably as good eating as the edible snaU, though it is not so large. "The glassmen of Newcastle," we are told, " once a year have a snail-feast. They generally collect the snails themselves in the fields and hedges the Sunday before the feast- day." Snapdragon.—This is a Christmas dish of very easy preparation, cand the central feature of a favourite Christmas sport. It is common in England, but in Scotland seems to bo com- paratively unknown. " A quantity of raisins are deposited in a large dish or bowl (the broader and shallower this is the better), a?id brandy or gome other spirit is poured over the fnn't and ignited. The bystanders now endeavour by turns to grasp a raisin by plunging their hands througli tho flamoH; and as this is somewhat of an arduous feat, requiring both courage and rapidity of action, a considerable amount of laughter is evoked at the expense of the unsuc- ccssful competitors." Snipe.—The snipe is a migratory bird. Like woodcock, snipes, after being plucked and singed and the head skinned, are not emptied, but are roasted with everything in them as they succumbed to fate. The thigh is more highly esteemed than any other part. They are in THE SNIPE. season from November to February, but are most abundant and fattest in frosty weather. They frequent marshy meadows, and, during frost, the edges of rushy hills, and feed oil woi-ms and insects. The snipe is decidedly in- ferior to the woodcock. Mr. Galton ad\a8es that, when rank birds are shot, they should be skinned, not plucked, as much of the rankness lies in the skin: if unskinned, they should be buried for some hours, because the earth absorbs the oil that makes them rank. The breast and wings are the least objectionable parts, and, if there is abundance of food, should alone be cooked. Snipe Pie (a Danish recipe).—Parboil the birds m bouiUon and a little white wine, seasoned with a grated onion, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; make a forcemeat of three pounds of beef, which scrape flne, likewise a quarter of a poimd of fat pork; pound and mix it well to- gether with a little butter and the crumb of two roUs soaked in bouiUon; make rather thinner than for soup-baUs; season it with grated onion, "pounded pepper, allspice, cloves, mushrooms, and gherkins chopped fine; and thin it with some of the broth in which the snipes were parboiled. Line a dish this forcemeat; put in the birds with a little of the soup and a small piece of butter; cover with a thick layer of forcemeat; bake an hour and a half. Serve with a sauce as follows:—Half a pint of soup, a gill of white viine, a Uttle water, and a piece of butter roUed in flour, stirred tUl smooth; when it begins to boil, slice in pickled gherkins or lemon. It may bo mmli' in theSNI ( 885 ) SNI same way with young ducks or pigeons, and eaten hot or cold. Snipes (a la Minute).—Pluck three snipes Ciirefully, and truss them for roasting. Dis- solve two ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan, lay the snipes in it side by side and breast downwai-ds, and add two finely-minced shal- lots, or small onions, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Move the saucepan about over a sharp fire till the bii-ds are lightly browned, pour over them as much good stock and sherry mixed as will barely cover them, and add the strained juice of half a lemon and a small piece of crust of bread finely grated. Simmer all gently together till the birds are done enough. Lift them out, and put them on a hot dish. Dissolve half a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract in the sauce, stir it over the fire for a minute, and pour it over the birds. Serve immediately. Time, seven to ten miautes to fry the birds; seven to ten minutes to stew them. Probable cost of snipes, very variable. Sufficient for thi'ee or four persons. Snipes, Choosing of.—Snipes, like wood- cocks, when old have the feet hard and thick ; when these are soft and tender the birds are both yoimg and fresh killed. When the bills become moist and the throats muddy, they have been too long killed. Snipes, Cooked (German fashion).— Pluck the birds, skin the head, and remove the eyes. Singe them, and cut off the claws; twist the legs, disjointing them, and so bring the feet close to the thighs, and put the long beak through these as a skewer. The position will indicate how the breast may be kept thrown up by passing twine round the joints and lower part of the body, to tie at the back. Put them in a stewpan just large enough to hold them with butter enough to keep them basted, turn- ing as they are done on one side till they are tinged all over. About twenty minutes by a brisk heat wiU cook them. Toast slices of bread, pour on these the butter they were cooked in, and serve the birds on them. Dressed in this way, they are not drawn before the trussing. Snipes, Gravy for {see Orange Gravy for Tciil, Widgeons, Snipes, Woodcocks, &c.). Snipes, Potted (a good breakfast dish— to be eaten cold).—Take some freshly-kiUed snipes, pluck them carefully, cut off the legs and wings, take away the gizzard, but leave the trail untouched. Cover the bottom and sides of an ordinary potting-pan with thin slices of fat bacon. Place the snipes in this in layers until the dish is almost full, and carefully season each layer with salt and pepper. Pour in as much clarified butter as will cover the birds, and lay over the surface of the pan a paste of flour and water, or, if the lid is put on, lay a border of paste round the edge of it to keep in the steam. When the pastry only is used, a little slit should bo made in the middle of it with a knife to prevent accidents. Bake the pie in a moderate oven. When done enough, let it get quite cold before serving. Time to bake a moderate-sized pie, about an hour and a quarter. Snipes, Pudding of.—An exceUcnt pud- ding may bo made with snipes and woodcock, as well as with small wild fowl of various kinds. Pluck and singe a brace of snipes, and divide them into halves. Take away the gizzards with the point of a knife, and leave the trails untouched. Season the birds with salt and cayenne. Line a pudding-basin with suet crust. Lay in it a slice of rump steak seasoned with pepper and salt only, put in the snipes, and place upon them another slice of rump steak. Pour upon the meat a quarter of a pint of good beef gravy, cover with pastry, press the edges together with the finger and thumb, and steam or boO. the pudding till done enough. Turn it out carefully, and ser^'e verj' hot. A few slices of truffle may be added to the pudding or not. Time to boil the pudding, two hours and a half. Sufficient for four or five persons. Snipes, Pudding of, Superior.—Take four or six fresh snipes, pluck them, and cut them in halves. Take away the gizzards with the point of a knife, but put the trails aside till wanted. Season the birds with salt and black pepper; a few drops of lemon-juice may bo sprinkled over them or not. Cut a Spanish onion into dice, put it into a saucepan which has been rubbed quickly round with garlic, and fry it in butter till it begins to turn yellow. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour upon it, and add a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, a table- spoonful of minced parsley, and a pinch of aromatic powdered herbs {see Herbs, Aro- matic, Powdered). Stir these ingredients over the fire, and moisten them with half a pint of wine, or with stock flavoured with wine. Boil aU for ten minutes, add the trails, and rub the sauce through a sieve. Line a pudding-basin with thin suet crust, put in the birds, pour the sauce over them, and add three or four sliced truffles if liked. Cover the pudding -wdth pastry, press the edges closely together, and boil or steam it in the usual way. Turn out carefully, and serve. Time to boil the pudding, two hours and a half. Sufficient, six birds for a good-sized pudding. Snipes, Raised Pie, Hot.—Take four snipes, pluck and singe them, and cut them in two lengthwise. Carefully remove the gizzards with the point of a knife, put the trails aside till wanted, and season the birds with salt and cayenne. Fry the birds' in a saucepan with a little clarified butter tiU they are set; they will take about ten minutes. Drain them, and put them in a cool place till wanted. Make a little forcemeat as follows:—Cut four ounces of calf's liver and four ounces of fat bacon into dice. Melt the bacon in a saute-pan over a brisk fire, add the Uver, and season the mixture with salt, popper, and a pinch of aromatic powdered herbs. When the bacon and liver are cooked, put them aside till cold, then pound them till smooth in a inortfir, add, whilst pounding, the trails of the birds, and press the paste thi-ough a sieve. Butter a moderate-sized pie-mould, line it evenly with crust {see Paste for Raised( 886 ) SNI SNI Pies), iiiid imt a layer of the forcomoat in the bottom of the mould, taking care to loavo it hollow in the centre. Tut half the jjieces of snipo in a circle upon the forconicat, and place a little biill of forcemoa' between them to ko(!p them in position. Spread a layer of forcemeat upon them, put in the rest of the birds, and put a layer of forcemeat over all. KU the hollow in the centre of the pic with bread which has been covered with fat bacon, put the pastry- cover on the top, pinch the edges of the pie securely, brush it over with egg, and bake in the oven. When done enough, take off the cover, remove the bread, and fill its place with scalloped truffles. Pour a little good brown sauce over all, pile truffles on the top, and serve. The brown sauce may be made as directed in Snipe Pudding, Superior. Snipes, Roasted.—Pluck the birds very carefully so as not to tear the tender skin, and singe and truss without drawing them [sue Snipes, To Truss). Hang the birds feet do\\'n- wards to a spit, put them to a clear fire, and baste frequently with butter or dripping. When they have been down five minutes, put under them slices of the crumb of bread toasted and buttered on both sides. This toast is intended to catch the droppings of the trail, and is con- sidered by epicures a greater delicacy than the bird itself. A slice should be allowed for each snipe. After the toast is put under the birds, a dish should be held under them when they are basted. When they are done enough, which will be when the steam draws to the fire, flour and brown them. Take them up, dish them with a slice of toast under each, and serve without any sauce in the dish with them. If liked, a slice of lemon may accompany the birds, or a little plain melted butter may be sent to table in a tureen. Snipes should be served very hot, or they will be comparatively worthless. They should not be over roasted; indeed, it is said that some epicures consider they are in perfection when they have been simply carried through a hot kitchen. The thigh is the best part. Garnish the dish with watercresses. Some cooks tie slices of bacon round the birds before roasting them. Time to roast, twenty to twenty-five minutes; five minutes less if liked underdone. Probable cost, 2s. to 3s. per brace. Sufficient, four snipes for a dish. Snipes, Roasted (another way).—Pluck, singe, and draw the snipes, remove the giz- zards, and carefully preserve the trails. Truss the birds, cover them with thin slices of fat bacon, and tie these on securely with twine. Put them down before a clear fire. Take a slice of the crumb of bread for each bird, and toast and butter it on both sides. Chop the trail, spread it on the toast, and put the slices in a brisk oven. Take the birds up, and dish them on the slices of toast in a hot dish. T'ime to roast, twenty to twenty-five minutes. Snipes, Roasted, with TrTiffles.— Pluck, truss, and roast the snipes in the usual way with slicec of buttered toast under them. "When done enough, take them up, and put inside each bird one or two truflies which have been stowed in brown sauce. Send the Bauce which remains to table in a tureen, and serve very hot. Snipes, Salmi of.—Take the remains of cold dressed snipes, and cut off the mt-at in neat slices. Bruise the bones and trimmings m a mortar, and put them into a stew]>an with two shallots, two cloves, a slice of lean un- dressed ham, a carrot, a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, half a dozen peppercorns, and a pint of stock. Let these ingredients stew gently together for an hour; strain the sauce, and return it to the saucepan with a slice of fresh butter rolled in flour, and half a tumblerful of claret or madeira, and any remains of toast covered with trail that there may be. Simmer the sauce again until it coats the spoon. Put the slices of snipe into a clean saucepan, strain the sauce over them, and heat them gently oy the side of the fire without allowing them to boil. Put the meat on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve very hot. Garnish the dish with fried sippets. Time, an hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the birds. Sufficient for three or four persons. Snipes, Superlative. — Prepare some forcemeat as follows:—Take three ounces of fat bacon and three ounces of fowl's liver, and cut both into pieces an inch square. Frj- the bacon over a sharp fire, move it about con- stantly, and in three or four minutes add the liver. When this is half done, mince it finely with the bacon, season the mixture -with a little pr^nared seasoning {see Herbs, Aromatic, Powderea), add a httle salt and half a clove of gai'lic if liked, and pound all in a mortar to a smooth, compact mass. Press it through a wire sieve, and keep it in a cool "place if not wanted immediately. Roll out one-half of it with a little flour, form it into a sort of thick band, and arrange it in a circle at the bottom of a dish. Take four partially-roasted snipes, split them open down the back, and spread forcemeat, a quarter of an inch thick, over the inside of each. Lay the birds in the centre of the dish, and cover them lightly with forcemeat. Smooth them with the flat part of a knife which has been dipped in hot water, and put the dish into a quick oven. Wipe away the fat which has come from the forcemeat, pour truffle sauce over the snipes, and serve. Time, twenty-five minutes to bake the entree. Probable cost of snipes, very variable. Sufficient for three persons. Snipes, to Truss. — Handle the birds lightly, pluck them carefully so as not to tear the skin, and pick them entirely, neck and head. Do not draw them, but wipe them with a clean soft cloth. Twist the joints of the logs to bring the feet back upon the thighs, and press the logs close to the body. Turn the head under the wing, and pass the bill through the thighs and body. Tie a string round the legs and breast to keep the legs straight, and pass it also round the head and the tip of the bill. Hang the birdp to the spit with tlio feet downwardis.swo ( 887 ) SNO Snow,—Recipes for the following snows will be found under their respective head- ings :— Apple Apple with Sponge- cake Egos as Snow Lemon Pancakes Potato Quince Rock, Snowy RunY UNDER Snow. Snow, Apple.—This is a Danish dish for dessert. Take twenty large apples, and bake them till tender enough to draw oflf the peel; rub them thi-ough a tamis ; add sugtir to taste, pounded cinnamon, and grated lemon-peel. Keep stirring always the same way for a quarter of an hour; beat up the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, add it, and still keep stirring. Fix a hoop on a sheet of paper, butter it, and pour the snow in; bake in a very cool oven. Apple snow may be iced. Snowball Fritters.—Break three fresh eggs into a bowl, take out the specks, and beat them weU. Mix with them three-quarters of a pint of sour cream, and add gradually as much flour as will make a batter so stiff that a fork will stand upright in it. Stir into this a quarter of a pint of beer, and add a table- spoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt, and a few cardamom seeds. Make half a pound of butter or fat boiling hot in a saute-pan, drop the batter into this from the end of a spoon, and fry the snowballs till they are lightly set. Drain them on a sieve covered with blotting- jmper, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Sift powdered sugar thickly over them. The fat in which the fritters were fried should be clarified, and may be used for a similar purpose again and again. Time to fry, four or five minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Snowballs (a German recipe).—Take a pint and a half of milk, and set it on the fire. When it boils, throw in a few grated bitter almonds, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and two ounces of sugar. Continue stirring, and pour in eight or nine spoonfuls of flour mixed in a little milk, and keep stin-ing till it has become a stiff mass which falls from the spoon and saucepan. Take out the preparation, and have ready seven or eight eggs beat up, which add to the paste. Work all well together, butter a baking-tin, and with a spoon drop the paste on it in little balls, which will greatly swell in the baking. Put them in a moderately- heated oven, and when done strew them thickly with sugar. Snowballs, Apple {see Apple Snow- balls). Snowballs, Orange {see Orange Snow- halls). Snowballs, Kice. —No. l. Wash half a pound of rice in two or three waters and pick out all imperfect grains. Throw it into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and boil quickly for ten minutes; drain, and cool it. Pare five or six large baking apples, and carefully scoop the core without dividing them. Put into the hollow of each a little grated lemon- tind or cinnamon and sugar. Divide the rice into as many portions as there are apples, and spread each portion in a circular form on a separate cloth. Lay the fruit in the centre, and tie the cloth to cover the apple with the rice. Put the puddings into boiling water, and keep them boiling quickly until done enough. Turn the snowballs upon a hot dish, strew i)ow- dered sugar thickly over them, and send melted butter to table with them. If liked, oranges, skinned and cleared from the thick white skin, may be substituted for the apples. Time to boil, an hour and a half. Probable cost of snowballs. Id. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. No. 2. Wash and pick half a pound of rice; drain it, and put it into a saucepan, with a pinch of salt and about a quart of water. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer gently until the water is absorbed. Dip some small moulds or tea-cups into cold water for a moment; press the boiled rice into them, then turn them in shapes upon a dish, sift jjowdered sugar thickly over them, and send wine sauce or melted butter to table in a tureen. Time to boil, about an hour. Probable cost, 6d., ex- clusive of wine. Sufficient for four persons. Snowballs, Rice (anotherway).—See Rice Snowballs. Snow Cake.—Beat four ounces of freSh butter to cream; then add gradually four ounces of powdered sugar, a pinch of salt, half a pound of arrowroot, and any flavouring that may be liked—lemon, almond, or vanilla. Whisk the whites of three eggs to snow, stir them into the mixture, and beat it again till it is light and white. Butter a shallow mould oi tin with raised edges, pour in the batter, and bake in a gentle oven. It should not be allowed to acquire any colour. When done enough, let it cool a little, then with a sharji knife divide it into pieces about two inches square. Keep it in a cool, diy place. Time tc bake, about an hour and a quarter. Probable cost, varying with the quality of the arrowroot. Sufficient for a small cake. Snow Cheese.—Blanch an ounce and a haK of sweet almonds, pound them in a mor- tar, and add a table-spoonful of ratafia and two table-spoonfuls of rose-water. Stir the paste into a quart of thick cream, and add the strained juice of three lemons and as much white sugar as will sweeten the cream plea- santly. "V\Tiisk the mixture till it begins to thicken, then pour it into a mould, and set it in a cool place. In twelve hours it wiU be ready for turning out. Snow Cocoa-nut (to serve with moulded jeUy and jam).—Break up a cocoa-nut, pare off the brown skin, and throw the pieces of white meat into cold water for a short time. Gra te these on a coarse grater, and pile the snow lightly in a glass dish. Snow Custard (a German recipe).—Take a pint of milk, a pint of cream, quarter of a pound of white sugar, and a stick of cinnamon, and set them on the fire; when the prepara- tion begins to Ijoil, pour in the yolks of ten eggs which have been beaten up in"a few spoon- f Ills of cold milk; keep it well stirred all the time tin it begins again to boil • +.hen take outSOD ( 888 ) SNO tho cinnamon, and stir in tho whites, which must also have boon beaton up ; turn it quickly all tho time, that it may not run ovor; when it has assumed a thickish appearance, put it into a dish garnished with ratafia cakes and pastry alternately. Snowdon Pudding.—Shred four ounces of beef suet very finely, and mix with it a pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, ono ounce of sago, throe ounces of orange marmalade, half a pound of grated bread- crumbs, three well-beaten eggs, and a dessert- spoonful of brandy. Beat the ingredients to- gether till the mixture is quite smooth, liutter a mould thickly, dredge a Httle flour upon it, and stick into it even rows of raisins. Put tho pudding into it very gently, and in table- spoonfuls, not to disturb the raisins, lay a round of oiled or buttered paper on the surface, and tie tho pudding in a cloth. Boil or steam it till done. Let it stand a few minutes after it is taken up before turning it out. Send wine sauce to table with it. If liked, two table- spoonfuls of apricot jam may be substituted for the marmalade, and a table-spoonful of ground lice for the sago. Time to boil the pudding, about an hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Soda Biscuits.—No. 1. Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour, and add a pinch of salt and six table-spoonfuls of pow- dered sugar. Whisk two eggs, and stir them into the flour; add a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in a spoonful of hot milk, and beat the mixture till it is smooth and light. Roll the pastry out to the thickness of haK an inch, stamp it into fancy shapes, and bake im- mediately in a quick oven. No. 2. Dissolve six ounces of butter, six ounces of sugar, a pinch of salt, and a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda in a pint of warm milk, and stir into the liquor as much flour as will form a stiff dough. Knead the pastry till it is smooth and light, and roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Stamp it in rounds and bake immediately. No. 3. Beat the yolk of an egg, mix it with a pound of flour, and add a pinch of salt. Dis- solve a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda in a table-spoonful of warm milk; stir this into the flour, with additional milk, to make a stiff dough. Knead well, beat with a roUing-pin, and roU the dough out very thin. Stamp it into fancy biscuits, and bake these in a modei-ate oven. When the biscuits are crisp they will be suf- ficiently baked. Time to bake the biscuits, twelve to twentj' minutes. Soda Bread.—Mix thoroughly equal parts of tartaric acid and carbonate of soda, and put the mixture aside to be used as required. Dis- solve a tea-spoonful of tho powder and a pinch of salt in a breakfast-cupful of milk, and stir the liquor into a pound of flour. Knead the dough till it is smooth and light, put it into a tin, and bake tho loaf in a brisk oven. Some- times sour milk or buttermilk is used instead of sweet milk, and then a smaller proportion of tartaric acid is required. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, 3d. for a loaf this size. Soda Bread (another way).—See Bread, Soda. Soda Cake.—No. l. Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour; then add a pinch of salt, a quarter of u pound of stoned raisins, or half a pound of picked and dried currants, half a pound of powdered sugar, and a quarter of a giated nutmeg. Mix the diy ingredients thoroughly. Dissoh'o a tea-spooiiful of carboiLito of soda in a tea- cupful of warm milk. Whisk tlu'ee fresh eggs, and mix them with the milk. lieat all well together for a few minutes. Butter the tins, and Une them witli oiled pai)er. Pour in tlie mixture, and bake the (^kes in a well-heat(-d, steady oven. If a richer cjike is required, the quantity of butter should be increased. As a variety, a quarter of a j^ound of candied peel or one ounce of pounded sweet almonfls may be substituted for the currants, but then a little more soda will be needed. It should be remem- bered that the cake should be put into the oven immediately after the soda is added, and that it should be thoroughly baked. When done enough, turn it out carefully, and let it rest in a slanting position on the edge of a basin till cool. If liked, the batter can be sjiread h:ilf an inch deep in a shallow pan, then cut into squares when done enough. If this plan is adopted, the cake will be baked in twenty minutes. Time to bake, one large cake, one hour and three-quarters; two small cakes, one hour each. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Soda Cake (another way).—Rub half a pound of sweet butter into a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, haK a pound of picked and dried currants, a quarter of a grated nutmeg, three ounces of finely-shi'ed candied peel (lemon, orange, or citron), and two well-beaten eggs. Dissolve a small tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda in the third of a pint of lukewarm milk. Beat the ingredients well together, and bake the cake as quickly as possible after the soda is put in. Turn the dough into a buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about an hour and three-quarters. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Soda Cakes, Economical. — No. l. Rub six ounces of good beef dripping into a pound of flour; add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoon- ful of mixed spice, a table-spoonful of caraway, seeds, and six ounces of moist sugar. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Add a tea-spoonful of vinegar and a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in habf a pint of lukewarm milk. Bake in a moderate oven. Probable cost, 4d. per pound. No. 2. Rub eight ounces of good beef dripping into two pounds of flour; add a salt-spoonful of salt, six table-sjioonfuls of sugar, six ounces of picked and diicd cun-ants, a httle nutmeg or spice, three eggs, and a ]iint of lukewarm milk, in which a tca-s]ioonful of carbonate of soda has been dissolved. ISIix thoroughly, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, one hour or more, according to the size of the cakes. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Soda Cakes (another way).—Take six ounces of butler, and mix with it one pound of flour; work it into small crumbs. ISlix wath this half a pound of sugar, half a pint of boilingSOD SOXi fhilk, three eggs, a little grated nutmeg, and eight ounces of currants. Beat the whole well and lightly together ; then strew over it a very- small tea-spoonful of finely-powdered carbon- ate of soda. Beat the cake again for three or four minutes, and then bake it from one hour to an hour and a half. Soda Cream {see Cream, Soda). Soda Scones.—Make a stiff paste with a pound of flour, a quarter of an ounce of car- bonate of soda, and as much buttermilk as is required. Roll this out to the thickness of half an inch, cut it into small three-cornered pieces, and bake these on a girdle over a clear fire. When done enough, cut the scones open, butter them with fresh butter, and serve hot. If more convenient, milk a day old may be substituted for the buttermilk. Soda Water {see Summer Beverages). Soda Water, Bottled.—Take a sufficient number of soda-water bottles, and fill them with clear water; fit corks to them, then set them down. Lift them one by one, and add half a drachm of carbonate of soda and ten or twelve drops of sulphuric acid. Cork and wire the bottles immediately. Soda water should always be kept in a cool place, with the necks of the bottles downwards. Soda Water, Milk and.—Heat nearly to boiling a tea-cupful of milk, and dissolve in it a tea-spoonful of refined sugar; put it into a large tumbler, and pour over it two- thirds of a bottle of soda water. This is an excellent mode of taking milk when the stomach is charged with acid, and consequently apt to feel oppressed by milk alone. Sole.—The sole holds a prominent position amongst flat fish, being second to the turbot THE SOLE. only in excellence. It is highly esteemed, and deservedly so, as its flesh is firm and delicate. It is caught in groat abundance all the year round, and may therefore be almost always obf-rr- i in cr')..fl condition. Solos are best ' ' Dal-hei they maybe kept until the second day without being materially spoiled. In fishing towns they may frequently be bought alive, then killed, and fried immediately. They are then in perfection. The skin of the back is sometimes black and sometimes white, the colour varying with the nature of the ground on which the fish feeds. Soles vary in size, from the little fish called tongues or slips to large fish weighing eight or nine pounds per pair. Those in roe are rather insipid in flavour. They are best fiUeted. Very large fish may be boiled and served like turbot, which they somewhat resemble in flavour. Soles may be served in a variety of ways, but are best when fried. To prepare them, scale and gut them, and take the skin off the back; wash them well, and be careful to take out the roe; wash it, and return it to its place, pressing it down upon the bone; trim the fins neatly, dr\' the fish perfectly, wrap it in a soft cloth, and leave it in a cool place to stiffen till wanted. When practicable, soles should be cleaned a couple of hours before they are dressed. Sole (a la Colbert^.—Take a thick sole^ scale it, draw off the dark skin, and clean it; with a sharp knife loosen the flesh from the bone on one side, without taking it off; make an incision on both sides of the bone down the length of the fish, and with the handle of a knife break it in one or two places, so that when the fish is done enough the bone may be removed without spoiling the appearance of the fish. Replace the flesh on the bone where it has been disturbed; egg and bread-crumb the fish, let it stand an hour, and then fry in the usual way {see Sole, Fried). When done enough, carefully remove the back bone, and in the cavity thus made place a little maitre d'hotel butter. Serve the fish on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and send a cut lemon, or, if pre- ferred, plain melted butter or maitre d'hotel sauce to table with it. The maitre d'hotel butter may be made as follows:—Wash a hand- ful of picked parsley-leaves, chop them finely, put them in the comer of a napkm, dip them in cold water, and wring them dry. This second washing wiU decrease the raw taste of the parsley. Put it in a basin, and with it a piece of fresh butter the size of an egg, a Little pepper and salt, and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Mix the butter and parsley with the point of a knife till smooth and creamy, when it will be I ready for use. It must not be melted, or it i would turn oily. Time, about twenty minutes to fry a thick fish. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Sole (a la Maitre d'Hotel) .—Have two or three soles filleted; stew the heads and bones in about half a pint^of water, place the fillets of the soles in a flat cotelette-pan in about a wine-glassful of this water, simmer two and a half minutes each side; turn the remainder of the water into sauce, by putting two ounces of butter, a little cayenne and salt and chopped parsley, thickening with arrowroot; add a tea-spoon- ful of shallot vinegar, or the squeeze of half a lemon, pour over, and serve. Sole (a la Meuni&re).—Clean, skin, and emptv a fine fresh sole cut awai- the tins andSOL ( S90 ) gills, and with a sliarp knifo mako four gashes right across it on both sidos. Rub into thoso a littlo salt and chopped onion ; dip the sole in flour, !md bnjil it over a clear but gcjutlu fire. Ljiy it on a hot dish, rub it well on both sides witli a slice of fresh butter which has been mixed with the juice of a lemon and a little caycime, put it in a brisk oven for a minute or two, and servo very hot. Time, ten to fifteen minutes, according to thickness. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Sole (a la Miromcsnil).—Take three soles, scale them on both sides, and empty them iui;ely without injuring the flesh. Make an incision on the black side. Fry them without dipping them into flour. When they are done, drain them on a clean cloth, open the place whore you have made the incision, cut the bone near the head and tail, and draw it out. Let the fish cool. Make a steward's sauce cold; that is to say, mix a lump of butter with some parsley chopped very fine, pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon. Divide the butter into three equal parts, and put one part into the opening of each sole; close the opening, and make the whole stick by means of the yolk of an egg; put a few crumbs of bread at the joint. iJeat two eggs, then dip the soles into them, and next into crumbs of bread, equally on all sides. When dinner-time is come, fry the soles in hot dripping. They are done as soon' as they are coloured. The sauce is found in the sole itself. This is what we call in France an entree bourgeoise — a city dish. Sole (an Gratin).—This dish is much liked, but as only one sole can be cooked at a time, the guests should not exceed four, unless the fish be a large one. The French have an oblong inetal dish, mostly in silver, for the purpose, so that the sole may be served in the dish in which it is cooked. Grease the bottom of the dish with butter to prevent the fish sticking, chop some parsley and a shallot, spread lightly, add some salt and pepper, a little wine or brandy, lay the sole upon it, spread over the same things on the top of the sole, and some lumps of butter, with some button mushrooms, or a table-spoonful of ketchup and a little of any gravy that may be at hand; rasp over some bread-crumbs, and cook the fish gently in the oven. Time, from ten to fifteen minutes, ac- cording to the thickness. Sole (au Gratin—another way).—Prepare and wash the soles as in the recipe Soles with Water Souchet, and rub the dish with a little butter; spread over it parsley, shallot, and mushroom (each chopped), salt, pepper, «fec.; lay the soles over tliis, and on the top of them spread some fine raspings of crust of bread, and parsley chopped, &c., as tmder. Put several small bits of butter over the soles, a glassful of white wine, a tea-spoonful of each of the following articles—essence of anchovies, cavice, chilli vinegar, and Harvej^'s Sauce: and when the soles have been in the oven ten minutes or more, mix with the spoon the sauce that you baste the fish with. Mind, the sauce must be short, as it is called au gralin. This is a very palatable dish. Sole, Baked.—Take a thick and ve ry fresh sole, scale, skin, and trim it, wipe it dry with a soft cloth, and if convenient lot it lie folded in thia in a cool place for an hour or more before dressing. Season lightly with salt and pepjior, flour well, and, if liked, egg and bread-crumb the sole twice. Lay it in a buttered baking-dish, put little pieces of butter here and there upon it, and bake in a moderate oven. Shako the dish occasionally to keep the fish from sticking to the bottom. When done enough, lay it on a reversed sieve before the fire for a few minutes to drain the fat from it. Put it on a hot dish, covered with a nap- kin, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Send melted butter flavoured with anchovy sauce and chilli vinegar to table in a tureen; or make sauce by mixing the gi-avy which flows from the fish with a little lemon-juice, a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovies, and a spoonful of stock. A glassful of wine is sometimes added to sauce thus made, but it is scarcely necessary. If more than one sole is to be baked, it should be remembered that they must be done in single layers, that is, they must not be laid one upon the top of another. Time to bake the sole, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per pair. Suffi- cient, one good-sized sole for three persons. Sole, Baked (au Gratin).—Choose a thick sole as fresh as possible. Cleanse it, remove the gills, scale it, and strip off the dark skin by cutting it at the tail end and drawing it over the head. Wash it well, and wipe it dry; trim away the fins, and with a sharp knife make an incision a quarter of an inch deep down each side of the back-bone on the skinned side. Butter a baking-dish rather thickly, and lay the sole in it. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it, and a few fine bread-raspings, and add about a dozen mushrooms chopped small, a small handful of picked, washed, and chopped parsley-leaves, and one finely-minced shallot. Cover the surface of the sole thickly with fine raspings, and moisten the fish with a glassful of French white wine, a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence, and a table-spoonful of mushroom-juice or ketchup. Put the dish in the oven till the sole is done enough. If the dish in which the fish was baked is suitable, serve the fish in it; if not, lift the fish carefully with a fish slice, lay it on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Another table-spoonful of wine may be added to the sauce. If the surface of the fish is not sufficiently coloitred, a salamander or red-hot shovel may be held over it for a few minutes. When expense is a consideration, a glassful of cider or poiTy will be found an excellent sub- stitute for the light wine. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes, according to the size of the sole. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 6d. for a good- sized sole. Sufficient for three persons. Sole, Baked (en Matelote Normande).— This dish very much resembles Sole, Nor- mande proper. Prepare a stuffing as follows: —Mince finely and separately a dozen mush- rooms, a small handful of picked and washed parsley-leaves, and one shallot. Mix those in- gredients together, put them into a saucepan, and fry them with two ounces of fresh buttc r,SOL ^891 ) SOL H little pepper and salt, and a small pinch of powdcrod spico. IStii- the mixture over the fire for live or six minutes, take it ofl:' the fii'e, beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix them with the herbs; stir them over the tire again for about half a minute, and spread the forcemeat on a plate to cool. Cleanse and trim a fi-osh thick sole. Remove the bone carefully so as not to deform the fish, and put the cold forcemeat in the cavity thus prepared. Lay the sole in a buttered dish or saucepan, season with salt and pepper, and moisten with a glassful of French white wine or cider {see Sole, Normande)—a wine-glassful ^vill be enough for one sole. Cover the fish with buttered white paper, to prevent its acquiring any colour, and bake until done enough. Watch it carefully whilst it is baking, as if it is too much done it will be good for nothing. Serve on a hot dish. If liked, tomato or shrimp sauce may be sent to table with the fish. Time to bake the sole, according to size. Probable cost, Is. or Is. 6d. for one thick sole. Sole, Baked, with Pine Herbs.—Take a thick sole, perfectly fresh. Cleanse, scale, and skin it, and carefully remove the back-bone without spoiling the appearance of the fish. Mince separately a shallot and a small hand- ful of picked and washed parsley-leaves. Mix these ingredients, and fry them with a tea- spoonful of powdered sweet herbs in two ounces of butter for five or six minutes. Thi-ow in two table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs and the well- beaten yolks of two eggs; shake all quickly together for half a minute, and turn the force- meat out to cool. Put it in the place of the bone inside the fish. Put the fish in a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle pepper and salt over it, dredge flour upon it, place little pieces of butter here and there upon it, and add the juice of a lemon and a quarter of a pint of water. Lay the fish in a hot dish, strain the sauce over it, and garnish with cut lemon and parsley. If additional sauce is required, put an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour into a saucepan. Stir these over the fire for two minutes, then add three-quarters of a pint of water and a little pepper and salt. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, pom- the liquor from the sole into it, and stir into it a table-spoonful of the fried herbs which were used for stufling the fish, made and preserved for the purpose. Take the sauce off the fire, stir into it until dissolved a slice of fresh butter, and it will be ready for use. Time to bake the sole, ten to fiifteen mmutes, according to size. Probable cost. Is. or Is. 6d. for one large sole. Sufficient for throe or four persons. Sole, Baked, with Fine Herbs (another way).—Cleanse, scale, trim, and skin a sole. Lay it in a buttered baking-dish, season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle a dozen chopped mushrooms, a finely-minced shallot, and a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley over it. Cover with thick white sauce, and bake in a moderate oven When done enough, lift the sole upon a hot flish with a fish-slice; add the juice of half a lemon to the sauce, and stir into it until dis- solved a slice of frouh butter; pour it over the fash, and serve. Time to bake, according to size. Probable cost, one thick sole, from la. to Is. 6d. Suflicient for three persons. Sole, Baked, with Wine Sauce.— Cleanse, scale, skin, trim, and diy a thick sole, and with a sharp knife make an incision down each side of the back-bone. Season with pepper and salt, put it into a baking-dish thickly buttered, and pour upon it half a jjint of French white wine, or, where economy is a consideration, a pint of cider or perry. Bake the fish in a moderate oven. When done enough, stii' the liquor into half a pint of good melted butter, let it boil up, and add a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley. Take the sauce ofl: the fire, and stir into it until dissolved an ounce of fresh butter. Lift the fish carefully -\vith a fish-slice upon a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. IHme to bake, about fifteen minutes, according to size. Probable cost, a large sole, Is. or Is. 6d. Sufficient for three persons. Sole, Boiled.—The flesh of a boiled sole is tender and delicate, and somewhat resembles tm'bot in flavoui-. It is particularly suited for invalids and convalescents. Choose the fish fresh, and very thick—a sole for boiling should weigh at least two pounds. Scale and clean it, remove the fins and gUls, but do not take off the brown skin. Put it into plenty of cold water with a table-spoonful of salt and a table- spoonful of vinegar; let the liquor boil, skim carefully, then draw the pan to the side, and let its contents simmer very gently till the fish is done enough. When this point is reached, the flesh will shrink from the bone. In taking up the sole, set the fish-drainer across the kettle for a minute, then lay the fish on a dish, covered with a warm napkin. The white side must be uppermost. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon, and send melted butter, or shrimp, an- chovy, caper, lobster, or oyster sauce to table in a tureen. Some cooks plunge the fish into boiling water, and boil it gently until done enough, but it is more usual to put it into cold water. Time to boU the fish, according to size. A good-sized fish will take seven or eight minutes from the time the water boils. Sole, Buttered.—Clean, scale, skin, and dry the fish. Rub a tin dish quickly with a clove of garHc freshly cut, lay the soles in it, and dredge flour upon them. Put little pieces of butter here and there upon them, allowing three ounces cf butter for each moderate-sized sole, and bake them until done enough in a moderate oven. Lay them on a hot dish, pour the butter over, and sprinkle on them a tea- spoonful of finely-minced parsley. Serve very hot. Time to bake, about twenty minutes, ac- cording to size. Probable cost, soles. Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per pair. Sole, Choosing of.—Soles should be chosen thick, firm, and fresh, with the under part of a delicate cream-colour. The colour as well as the smell, is a test of freshness. Medium-sized fish are the best. Sole, Cold.—Divide the cold fish into fil- lets. Put a lump of clarified fat or butter into the saucepan. When melted, dredge in half a table-spoonful of flour, and let it fry till brownSOL SOL ( 892 ) Then put in an onion cut in quarters. When those quarters are brown, add a bunch of herbs and, gradually, a cupful of broth or water, half a wino-glaasf ul of viuegar, aud a Little ketchup. Let tho sauce stew very gently till the onion is melted; then season with pepper and salt. Let it simmer a quarter of an hour longer. Put in tho lish with a pickled gherkin or two cut into small bits, or in preference a few capers. Lot the whole simmer together for ten minutes, and if the sauce is not thick enough, add a little butter roUed in flour. Sole Croquettes.—Take the remains of cold di-essed sole, lift the flesh from the bones, and tear it into flakes with two forks; then put it into a saucepan with a small proportion of white sauce, the yolks of three eggs, and a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt. A quarter of a tea-spoonful of chopped onion may be added if liked, or the saucepan can be rubbed with a freshly-cut onion. Stir the mixture over tho fire for a few minutes tiU the eggs are set, spread it on a dish, and leave it in a cool place till it is firm and cold. Divide the croquette- meat into equal-sized parts, and roll these to the shape of corks or balls. Dip them in an egg which has been beaten up with a tea-spoonful of oil and a little salt and pepper, roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat till they are crisp and lightly coloured. Drain them from the fat, sprinkle a little salt upon them, and serve on a dish covered with a napkin. Gar- nish with fried parsley. Time to fry the cro- quettes, about ten minutes. Probable cost of croquettes made with a pound of sole, 8d., exclusive of the cold fish. Suflicient for four or five persons. Sole, Croquettes of.—The remains of any kind of firm fish which have been left from a previous day's dinner may with advantage be made into croquettes, although sturgeon and soles are better suited for this purpose than any other fish. It must be remembered, however, that the of tener a fish is presented to the fire the more impalatable it becomes. With regard to the croquette of soles, reduce the sauce, cut the soles into small dice, and throw them into it, season them well, and put the whole prepara- tion into ice. When cold cut them into equal parts on a dish. Roll them either round or oval, but never into pears. Dip them into an omelet of two eggs, put a little salt, and then dip them into crumbs of bread, fry them a good colour, and serve them up with crisp fried green parsley in the centre. Sole, Curried.—Fillet two soles, and cut each fillet slantwise into four or five pieces. If more convenient, instead of filleting the soles, skin and clean them, cut off the fins and gills, and cut each fish into three or four pieces, leaving the bones in. Rub the fish with curry- powder, and dredge a little flour upon it, then fry it in hot fat for two or three minutes, but do not cook it sufiiciently. Have ready as much warm curry sauce as will barely cover the fish. Lay the fried slices of sole carefully in this, and let them boil gently tiU they are done enough, but not overdone. Serve the curry on a hot dish, and send rice boiled for curry to table separately. The curry sauce may be made as foUows:—Mince two onions and one sour apple, and fry them in hot fat, moving them about briskly till they are soft. Rub them through a sieve, and mix with the pulp a tea- spoonful of curry paste, a tea-spoonf id of cuny powder, and a tea-spoonful of ground rice. Add gradually about three-quarters of a pint of stock, and boil tho sauce till it is thick and smooth. Time to simmer tho sole in the sauce, about ten minutes. Probable cost, with a pair of soles at Is. 6d., 2s. 3d. Suflicient for five or six persons. Sole, Cutlets of.—When soles are so large that they cannot conveniently be fried whole, they may be divided into cutlets. To do this, skin and clean the sole, and cut it crosswise through the bone into pieces about an inch wide. Fry these in the usual way. When done enough, dish them in a circle on a hot dish, with one piece resting upon another, and put fried parsley in the centre. Time to fry, according to the thickness of t)ie fish Probable cost, soles. Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per pair. Sufiicient, one moderate-sized pair for three or four persons. Sole, Filleted. — If desired, the fish- monger wiU fillet the sole. If this has to be done at home, proceed as foUows:—Take a large sole, and cut off closely the head, tail, and fins. Remove both the skins by cutting them at the tail, and drawing them over the head. Lay the fish flat on the table, and with a sharp knife make a deep incision close to the back- bone the whole length of the fish. Insert the knife to the head between the fin-bones and the fillet, just by the head, pass it imder the flesh from head to tail, and thus raise it, and remove it in one piece. In this way take ofl: the four fillets, cut each one across, and trim the ends neatly. Season them with pepper and salt, floui- the fillets, and dip them in egg and bread-rasp- ings ; let them lie an hour, then fry them in hot fat till they are hghtly browned. Drain them well, and dish them in a circle, with one fillet resting upon another. Send parsley, shrimp, tomato, Italian, ravigote, or Dutch sauce to table with them. If liked, the fillets may be rolled and tied with thin twine before being egged and breaded. Time, about three minutes to fry the fillets. Probable cost, one large sole. Is. 6d. Sufiicient for four persons. Sole, Filleted (a la Tartare).—Fillet a large fresh sole in the usual way. Cut the pieces across, flour them, and dip them in egg and bread-crumbs. Let them lie in a cool place for an hour, and fry thenl in hot fat till they are of a bright-bro^vn colour. Drain them on a sieve before the fire for two or throe minutes to free them perfectly from fat, and dish them in a circle on a cold dish, with one piece overlapping the other. About an horn- before the fish is to be served, prepare the sauce, and set it in a cool place till wanted. Servo in the centre of the circle. Tho .sauce may be made as follows:—Put tho yolk of an egg. freed from the speck, into a bowl. Add a pinch of salt and a pmch of pepper, and stir in by drops about four oimces of good lucca oil. Beat theSOL ( 893 ) SOI. sauce thoroughly between every addition, for the success of the sauce depends upon this being done, and with every eighth tea-spoonful put in a toa-spoonful of tai-ragon vinegar and a tea-spoonful of chilli vinegar. When the sauce is thick and smooth like cream, stir in a table-spoonful of dry mustard, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, and a table-spoonful of chopped ravigote, chervil, and tarragon. Taste the seasoning, add a little salt and cayenne, if required, and serve. Time to fry the fillets, about three minutes. Probable cost, one lai-ge sole. Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sole, Filleted (a I'ltaUenne).—Fillet a large fresh sole in the usual way, and divide each fillet into halves by cutting it across. Season the pieces with pepper and salt, and rub them over with cut lemon. Rub two ounces of butter into eight ounces of biscuit flour. Add a pinch of salt, and make a stiff paste by mixing with the flour the yolk of an egg which has been beaten up with the eighth of a pint of cold water. Roll this paste out very thin, and cut it into pieces of a size and shape that wiU entirely cover the filleted fish. Wrap each piece of fish in the paste, press the edges closely, and fry the fillets in hot fat over a slow fire till they are brightly browned. Drain them from the fat, and serve on a dish in a circle, with one fillet overlapping the other. Pour cold Tartar sauce {see Soles, Filleted, a la Tartare) into the centre, and serve. Time to fry the fillets, about half an hour. Probable cost, one large sole. Is. or Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sole, Filleted and Marinaded, or Sole a la Horley. Divide the fiUets of a large sole into fingers, an inch wide. Put them into a dish, season with pepper and salt, and put with them a small finely-minced onion, a table-spoonful of picked and washed parsley, and a little oil and vinegar. Let the fish lie in this marinade for an hour, and turn it over occasionally, that it may be equally impreg- nated with the flavour. IMake a little frying- battcr as follows:—Put four ounces of flour into a bowl, and stir into it a pincli of salt and a giU of lukewarm water. Beat the yolks of two eggs with two table-spoonfuls of oil, and add the mixture to the flour, &c. The batter ought to be a little thicker than cream. A few minutes before the batter is wanted, whisk the whites of the eggs, and add them to it. Drain the fillets on a clean cloth, and dip each piece separately into the batter, with which it should be covered entirely, but not too thickly. Fry the fillets in boiling fat, and move them about tiU they are equally browned. Drain them from the fat, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Send maitre d'hotel, tomato, Dutch, shrimp, or white sauce to table in a tureen. Time to fry the fillets, about a quarter of an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Sole, Filleted and Rolled.—Take a large sole and half a jjint of freshly-boiled and picked shrimps. Pound the shrimps with a third of their bulk in fresh butter, two table- Bpoonfidfl of fine bread-crumbs, and a high seasoning of mace and cayenne. Fillet the sole, and divide the pounded shiimps into four portions. Spread a portion upon each fillet, r&ll it up from the tail to the head, and tie it with twine. Lay the rolls in a thickly-buttered baking-dish, sprinkle bread-crumbs thickly over them, pour clarified butter upon them, and add a wine-glassful of clear stock and half a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy. Bake the soles in a moderate oven. When done enough, take up the soles, mix a little lemon-juice with the sauce, and strain it over the fish. Time to bake, ten to twelve minutes. Probable cost, one large sole, Is. 6d. or more. Sufficient for four persons. Sole, Filleted and served with Mussels.—Fillet a large fresh sole, divide the fillets into halves, rub them with a freshly- cut lemon, and let them stand in a cool place for an hour. Wash and brush a quart of mussels; put them into a saucepan without any liquor, and put with them a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of grated lemon-rind, half a blade of mace, two allspice, half a bay-leaf, and, if liked, a piece of garlic the size of a pea. Lay a clean cloth upon the fish, and shake the pan over the fire till the shells open. Turn them out, beard them, and take out the moss and a small crab which may be inside, and strain the liquor. Put the filleted soles into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter, and add a small glassful of madeira and an equal quantity of the strained liquor. Let them boil up once, then draw the saucepan to the side, and simmer very gently until done enough. Put in the mussels and the remainder of the liquor; simmer the preparation for two minutes. Lay the soles on a dish, put the mussels upon them, and keep them hot till the sauce is ready. Let the sauce cool for half a minute, stir quickly into it the yolk of an egg beaten up with two table-spoon- fuls of thick cream, and when it is smooth pour it over the fish. Serve immediately. Time to simmer the soles, about ten minutes. Probable cost, one large sole. Is. 6d. to 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sole, Filleted, with White Sauce. —Fillet a large sole, and season the fillets with a little pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, grated lemon-i-ind, and finely-minced shallot. Put them into a saucepan, pour over them four ounces of clarified butter, and let them simmer ten minutes. Add the strained j uice of a lemon and a glass of light wine; simmer five minutes longer, and serve the fish with good white sauce poured over it. Time to simmer the fish, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, one large sole. Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sole, Fillets of (S, I'Aurore).—Take up the fillets of four soles; skin them on both sides. _ Have ready forcemeat quenelles, made of whitings, with the spawn of lobsters put in, to make it look red. Spread this forcemeat over each fillet, then roll them in the same manner as the paupiettes {see Sole, Paupiettcs of Fillets of). Next skewer them with silver skewers, three to each skewer; dust a little pepper and salt over them. Season the force- meat rather high. Lay the skewered fillets inSOL ( 894 ) SOL a baking-pan, cover thorn with layers of hacon, and bake thorn. Whon thoy are dono, take off the skewers, pare the forcemeat that has pro- truded, and dish them neatly. Witli a part of the pounded lobsters' spawn which you have kept aside mix two spoonfuls of sauce tournoe deprived of all fat, and a good lump of fresh butter; drain the whole thi-ough a tamis, that it may be fine. Add to it a little essence of anchovies, with pepper, salt, and lemon- juice. Keep the sauco very hot, and cover the fillets with it. Observe—all the bacon must bo taken oif Sole, Fillets of (au Gratin).—Take four ounces of mushrooms, four ounces of parsley, and two ounces of shallot. Peel the mush- rooms and the shallot, and wash the parsley, then mince the ingredients separately. Put half an ounce of butter into a saucepan with the minced shallot, a pinch of pepper, and a pinch of salt. Stir this briskly over the fire for five minutes, add the parsley and the mushrooms, and stir the mixture for five minutes longer; then poirr it out. Butter a tin or silver baking- pan rather thickly, lay the herbs in it, place upon them a sole, neatly filleted and trimmed, and cover the fillets with finely-grated bread- crumbs. Put little pieces of butter here and there upon the fish, moisten it with a glassful of light wine, a tea-spoonful of anchovy, and a tea- spoonful of ketchup. Bake the sole imtil done enough. Serve it very hot in the dish in which it was cooked. If the smface is not sufficiently browned, hold a salamander or red-hot shovel over it for three or four minutes. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sole, Fillets of. Baked, with Sweet Herbs.—Fillet a large sole, and divide the fillets into halves. Rub these with a freshly- cut lemon, and leave them in a cool place for an hour or two. Prepare some savoury crumbs as follows:—Mix two ounces of finely-powdered bread-crumbs with a little pepper and salt, a pinch of grated nutmeg, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs. Dip the fillets first into clarified butter, then into the crumbs, and when the butter is set dip them in beaten egg and into the crumbs a second time. Butter a baking-dish thickly, place the soles in it, lay two ounces of butter here and there upon them in little pieces, and bake the fish in a brisk oven. Send shrimp, anchovy, or caper sauce to table in a tureen. If the flavour is liked, the dish in which the soles are baked can be rubbed quickly with garlic before the soles are put into it. Time to bake the fillets, eight or ten minutes. Pro- bable cost of one large sole, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Sole, Fillets of (Turkish fashion).—Take off and saute the fillets as directed before. Have some rice swelled and made soft in good consomme ; mix it with a few spoonfuls of good bechamel, to put in the centre of the dish : this rice must be thick, in order thjit it may be di.shod in a pyramid. To mask or cover the soles, take three spoonfuls of bctihamfil mixed with a quarter of a pound of butter, a tea- spoonful of cavico, and a little salt and pepper. Work this sauco well, and cover the fillets only. The rice is to fonn the centre of the disli. Sole, FiUets of, Vol-au-Vent of. —This is a dish of a former day's reuatiuh. Pare the skin; cut the solos into round pieces of the size of half a crown. Then liave a cream sauce, or else foui- spoonf ubj of bechamel mixed with a quarter of a ]jound of butter, and a httle salt and i)epper. Lot the sauce be made hot, without boiling; put the soles into it, and then the whole mixed into a vol-au-vent. The sauce must be kept rather thick, for fear of making the crust soft. Sole for a Convalescent.—Take one fillet of a large fresh sole, sprinkle a little pepper and salt upon it, and put it into a sauce- pan with four table-spoonfuls of cold water. Bring the liquor gently to the boil, skim it, and simmer very gently till the fish is done enough. Take up the sole with an egg-slice, and place it on a hot dish. Stir the weU-beaten yolk of a new-laid egg into the water, and whisk the sauce over the fire till it begins to thicken. Pour it over the fish, and serve im- mediately. Time to simmer the sole, eight to ten minutes. Probable cost, one large sole, Is. 6d. Sufficient for one person. Sole, Fricasseed.—Take a pair of large soles and one small one; clean, skin, and fry all three, and drain them on a sieve before the fire to free them from fat. Raise the flesh of the small sole from the bones, tear it into flakes, and mix with it an equal quantity of finely- grated bread-crumbs, a tea-spoonful of picked and chopped parsley, a pinch of grated lemon- rind, and a little pepper and salt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and with the fingers work into the mixture two oimces of fresh butter and one egg. Make it up into small balls, and fry these in hot fat. Put half a pint of good stock into a saucepan, thicken it with brown thickening, and add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice and a glassful of port or claret. Season with salt and cayenne, if required. Let it boil till it is thick and smooth, lay the soles and the balls into it, and simmer all gently together tiU the fish is heated thi-oughout. Lift the soles upon a dish, place the balls round them, pour the sauce over all, garnish vrith cut lemon and parsley, and serve very hot. Time to simmer the fish in the gravj', three or four minutes. Probable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sole, Fried.—Choose a sole weighing from three-quarters of a pound to a pound. Scrape thoroughly, cut off the fins and gills, wash the fish well, and wipe it dry; tnke off the dark skin, by cutting it at the tail and drawing it over the heiid. The rocs may cither be taken out, or left in and fined with the fish. Dry the solo thoroughly, flour it, and brush it over on both sides with well-beaten yolk of egg; shake very finely-grated crumbs of bread all over, and leave it in a cool place for an hour, if time will pennit. Put into a frying- pan as much good dripping as will, when molted, cover the fish, men it is quite hot—( 895 ) SOIi that is, when it ceases hissing and is stiU—im- mediately put the fish into it. men it is brovv-n on one side, turn it upon the other by means of a strong fork stuck firmly into tbe head of the fish. When done enough, which point is generally reached when a thick smoke rises from it, place it on a hot cloth, and put it in the front of the tire to drain the fat from it. The cook should on no account omit to do this, as greasy fish is exceedingly unplea- sant. Place a warm napkin over a fish-drainer on a dish, lay the sole upon it, and garnish with fried parsley. Send melted butter or shrimp sauce to table in a tureen. The inex- perienced cook will find it to her advantage to use very fine bread-raspings, or crusts of bread dried and hro%vned in the oven and finely pounded, instead of bread-crumbs. By using these she will ensure the good appearance of the fish. It should he remembered that fat which has been used for frying fish can be used, for that purpose onltj, again and again, if immediately after being used it is cooled a little, then poured through a metal strainer to free it from crumbs, and make it pure and clean, and put aside in a cool place for future use. Great care must be taken to prevent it burning, and fresh fat may be added when necessary. Sometimes, when a sole is held up to the light, though it is fresh, a dark streak may be seen by the side of the roe. This arises from the fish having been so closely packed with the others after it was caught, that it was literally smothered to death. In cases like this the roe should be removed before the fish is fried. When eggs are scarce or expensive, a thin batter of flour and water may be used instead of egg and bread-crumbs. Time to fry a moderate-sized sole with plenty of fat, ten minutes. Probable cost, soles. Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per pair. Sufficient, one pair of soles for three or four persons. Sole, Fried in Oil (to be eaten cold).— Clean, scale, skin, empty, trim, and dry a moderate-sized sole, and brush it over with beaten egg. Put six table-spoonfuls of best lucca oil in a saute-pan, let it get quite hot, then put in the fish. Let it remain for five minutes, turn it over, and then leave it in five minutes longer. Drain it well, put it aside, and serve cold. Time to fry the sole, ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. or Is. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Sole, Grenade of.—When there are any remains of dressed fish they may be used with a large fresh sole as foUows :—Lift the dressed fish from the bone, and tear it into flakes. Mix with it a third of its bulk in finely-grated bread-crumbs, and add half an anchovy freed from bone and finely pounded, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a little pepper and salt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, work in with the finger two ounces of fresh butter, and add one raw egg to bind the forcemeat together. Clean, scale, and skin the sole, split it open, and carefully remove the bone. In its place spread the force- meat, put the two halves of the sole together again, and fasten them in their position with four small skewers. Put the fish into a wcll- buttorcd baking-dish, pour a cupful of stock round it, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. When done enough, take it up, strain the gravy, and flavour it with a spoonful of the liquor in which gherkins have been pickled, and a spoonful of caper vinegar. Make it hot, pour it round the fish, and serve. Some- times the inside of the sole thus prepared is larded in alternate rows with gherkins and truffles cut into thin strips. Time to bake the sole, about half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for three or fom- persons. Sole in Cream (a delicate and delicious (iish).—Take a pair of moderate-sized soles, scale and skin tnem, and clean them with scrupulous care. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them simmer gently for two minutes. Take them up, drain them, and put them into a clean saucepan. Pour over them as much sweet cream as wiU barely cover them, add a little salt and cayenne, a pinch of pounded mace, and an inch or two of lemon- rind, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Take them up with a slice, and place them upon a hot dish. Thicken the cream with a little arrowroot, stir a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice into it, and pour it over the fish. It may seem unnecessary that the soles should be boiled for a minute or two in water before they are -put into the cream, but it will be found that if this is not done the sauce wiU have a slightly unpleasant fishy flavour. Time to simmer the fish, eight to ten minutes. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, soles, Is. 6d. to 2s. per pair. Sole, Normande.—Choose a thick sole, scale and clean it, and draw off the dark skin by cutting it through at the tail end and drawing it over the head. Butter thickly a dish that will stand the fire, and strew over it some very thin slices of onions. A silver dish is the most suitable for the purpose, as the fish should be served in the dish in which it was baked. Season the sole with salt and pepper, and lay it on the onion; sprinkle a little chopped parsley on the surface, and moisten the fish well with French white wine. Put it in a gentle oven, and bake it until done enough. Take a dozen fine bright-yellow mussels, cleanse and scrape them, boil them in the usual way, beard and drain them, and lay them on the sole. Make a quarter of a pint of rich white sauce, mix with this the gravy from the sole and a little of that in which the mussels were cooked. Reduce the sauce till it coats the spoon; pour a little of it upon the sole over the mussels, and put the dish again in the oven for a few minutes to make it quite hot, but be careful not to colour the sauce at all. Serve very hot, and send the sauce which remains to table in a tureen. For a superlative dish, oysters and mushrooms may be laid upon the sole, as well as mussels, and the liquor from the oysters may be added to the sauce. Also fried smelts, cray- fish, and fried croutons of bread may be used to garnish the dish. When preparing the fish for baking, it should be remembered that cider and perry replace French wine so well that it is almost needless to employ the latter, ex- cepting when money is very plentiful. Grand cooks would use champagne, sauteme or other801. ( 896 ) SOL expensive white wiuoa. The Nonnuns use the best sparkling cider—" Sillerio de Normandie." Time to bake the solo, half to three-quarters of ;in hour, according to size. Probable cost, one thick sole, Is. iSuHicient for throe persons. Sole, Paupiettes of Fillets of.—The fai-co or forcemeat must be iTiado of whiting {see Whiting Forcemeat). Fillet a pair of soles, trim them evenly, and season them with pepper and salt. Keep the skin on the white side of the sole, but remember to scrape it well. Spread a little forcemeat on the fillets on the white side, and roll them round to make the paupiettes. Butter a piece of paper large enough to contain two or three; roll them in that paper, and do the same for the others; then put them into the oven, bake them ten or twelve minutes, and drain and make them all equal: place them in a circle on a hot dish, and garnish prettily. Serve them with the same sauce as for whitings, or white sharp sauce. Sole Pie.—Take a pair of moderate-sized soles, or, if preferred, the remains of fried or boiled soles. Lift the flesh from the bones, and place it in layers in a buttered pie-dish. Be- tween each layer put a dozen fresh or tinned oysters and the liquor; season the fish with pepper, salt, and pounded mace, and lay little pieces of butter here and there upon the top. A dozen oysters will be sufl&cient for a pound of sole. Cover the dish with good pufl: paste, and bake in a moderate oven. When done enough, pour into it, thi-ough a strainer put into the hole at the top, as much white sauce as will moisten it. This sauce may be prepared as follows:—Make stock by boiling the fish-bones in as much water as will cover them. Strain the liquor, mix with it an equal quantity of cream, thicken with flour, and season it. The remains of cold cod may be made into a pie in the same way. When the pastry is baked the pie is done enough. Probable cost, soles, Is. 6d. to 28. per pair. Sole, Roulettes of.—Choose fine fish : remove the heads, fins, and tails. Strip them from the bone. Cut small oblong fillets; lay these in r marinade of salt, pepper, lemon- juice, and a grate of nutmeg for half an hour. Roll the fillets egg-shaped, and bind them with thread. Pack closely together in a stewpan with a little water or broth, adding some butter and lemon-juice. Cover them closely, and stew gently till done enough. Serve the roulettes in their own sauce, or glaze them brown and serve as ragoiit. Sole, Sauce for.—Mix a table-spoonful of dried flour with a good slice of fresh butter. Pour half a pint of boiling water upon the mixture, stir it well, and let it boil for ten minutes. Add a tea-spoonful of tarragon vino- gar and a tea-spoonful of chilli vinegar. A tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy may be added if liksd. Serve immediately. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for a pair of soles. Sole, Small Patties of.—Make small vol-au-vent cases in the usual way. Bake them, take off the covers, and fill them with a savoury preparation made by cutting the flesh of a cold fried sole into dice, and wanning it in thick Allemand sauce. Put the covers on the top, and serve on a dish covered with a napkin. Sole, Stewed (a maigre dish).—Skin, scale, and clean a large solo, and put it into a saucepan with an onion stuck with two cloves, fifteen black p(jpiJ(;i-c(;nis, and as many berries of allspice. Pour upon it as much boiling water as will cover it, and let it simmer gently until done enough. Take the fish up carefully with a slice, lay it on a hot dish, and keep it hot for a few minutes. Thicken the sauce with Hour and butter, and—supposing there is half a pint—stir into it half a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, two table-spoonfuls of claret, and a pinch of cayenne. Let it boil till thick and smooth, strain it over the fish, garnish with toasted sippets, and serve very hot. Time to stew the sole, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for two persons. Sole, Stewed, (another way).—Clean, skin, and scale a pair of soles, and then stew them as before with as much boiling water as will cover them, an onion stuck with two cloves, fifteen peppercorns, and fifteen berries of all- spice. Let them simmer for a quarter of an hour. Put into a separate saucepan half a pint of milk or cream, the thin rind of a small lemon, a little salt and cayenne, and a thickening of flour and butter. Strain into this sauce half the liquor in which the fish was boiled, lift the soles into it, and let them simmer in it ten minutes. Lift the soles into a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with toasted sip- pets, and serve. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, if milk be used, 2s. to 2s. 6d., accord- ing to the size of the soles. A pair of mode- rate-sized soles are enough for four or five persons. Sole, Stuffed and Baked (a Portu. guese recipe).—Make a little forcemeat as fol- lows :—Mince very finely six ounces of lean veal or beef thoroughly freed from skin and fat. Mix with it two ounces of finely-grated bresid- crumbs which have been soaked in milk and squeezed dry, and two oimces of shred suet, butter, or fat bacon that has been slightly fried. Pound the ingredients in a mortar with one fillet of an anchovy, a table-spoonful of picked and chopped parsley, a small onion, and a fla- vouring of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Bind the mixture together with the yolk of an egg. Clean, skin, and fillet a large fresh sole. Squeeze a little lemon-juice upon the fillets, spread the forcemeat upon them, roll them roimd, and tie them with tyrine. Put the roUs in a buttered dish, brush over with beaten egg, strew bread-crumbs over them, and put into the dish imder them a cupful of gravy mixed with what remains of the egg, a tea- spoonful of caper vinegar, a filleted anchovj', and a tea-spoonful of shred parsley. Cover the dish tightly, and bake the rolls in a gentle oven. When done enough, put the rolls into a hot dish, strain the gravy over, and garnish with fried parsley. Sometimes the rolls are dipped in French frjnng-batter, and fried till crisp, then baked afterwards. Time( 897 ) SOB SOL to bake the fish, about ten minutes. Probable cost, one large sole. Is. or Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or live persons. Sole, with Mushrooms. — Clean, but do not skin, a pair of moderate-sized fresh soles. Lay them in a saucepan, cover with equal quantities of milk and water, and add an ounce of butter and a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Bring them gently to the point of boUiiig, draw them back a little, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Take them up, drain them, put them on a hot dish, and pour over them three-quarters of a pint of white mushroom sauce {see Mushroom Sauce, White). Time to simmer the soles, six or seven minutes after the liquor boils. Probable cost, 2s. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Sole with Water Souchet. — Take some fine fi'esh soles, scale the white side, and take the skin from the black side. Empty out aU the intestines, and wash the fish thoroughly in several waters. When the soles are quite clean, boil them in water souchet, which should be prepared as foUows :—Take some roots of parsley, and cut them into slices about the eighth of an inch thick and an inch in length. Put these roots into some water with a bunch of parsley, green onions, and a little salt; let them stew for an hour, then stew the soles in this water. When the fish are done enough, have ready some parsley leaves without the stalks which have been blanched separately in salt and water. Drain the soles, and take care that the parsley roots are preserved. Put the fish into a tureen with some of the liquor in which they have been stewed, and which you should strain through a silk sieve. Throw in the parsley roots and leaves, and serve up the water souchet without any bread in it; but in a separate plate send to table a few slices of rj'e- bread and butter. This broth must be as salt as the salt sea. Solid Cream.—Take half a pint of double cream, or cream which has stood for twenty- four hours before being skimmed. Sweeten it with an ounce of sugar and flavour pleasantly. Whisk it with an ordinary whisk in a cool place till it begins to thicken, then stop in- stantly. If the whisking is kept up too long the cream will curdle. It will be twice its original bulk. Solid Raspberry.—Dissolve half a pint of raspberry jolly, or rub a pint of the fruit through a sieve; add 2 ozs. of powdered sugar and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Stir the mixture till it is almost cool, then add three- quarters of an ounce of isinglass or gelatine which has been dissolved in a tea-cupfid of water, and stir it again for a few minutes Mix hghtly with half a pint of solid cream (see last recipe) and turn into a damp mould. Care must be taken to use an earthenware, not a metal mould, or the colour of the solid will be spoilt. Time, about twelve hours to set the solid Probable cost, Ss. Sufficient for a quart mould. Solid Ratafia.—Crumble six ounces of macaroons and two ounces of ratafia cakes, put Jiriii iiito a l)owl, iuiil pour upon them a pint of boiling cream sweetened and flavoured with lemon-rind. Stir the mixture till it is almost cool, and the biscuits are dissolved, then add half an ounce of isinglass or gelatine which has been dissolved in a tea-cupful of milk. Stir the cream till it is cold, pour it into damp moulds, and leave it in a cool place tiU firm. Turn it upon a glass dish, and serve in the same. Time, about twelve hours to set the solid. Probable cost, about Ss. Sufficient for a quart mould. Solid Syllabub.—Rub five or six lumps of sugar upon the lind of two large fresh lemons till the yellow part is taken off, then add a little more sugar to make up the weight to half a pound. Crush this to powder, put it into a bowl, and strain upon it the juice of the lemons. Add a pint of sherry or raisin wine, and a pint of double cream, that is, cream that has stood Jor twenty-four hours. Whisk the mixture tUl it is a solid froth, and lay it on a muslin sieve. Leave it for twelve hours, then serve in glasses. Time to froth the syllabub, an hour or more. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Somersetshire Frumenty.—This fru- menty may be served hot or cold. Bruise a quart of wheat thoroughly, put it into a stone jar, pour a quart of water upon it, and bako in a gentle oven till it is soft. Put a quart o± new milk into a bowl, and pulp into it as much wheat as will make it of the consistency of very thick cream. Stir into it sugar and nutmeg to sweeten and flavour it pleasantly, and add two table-spoonfuls of picked currants. Stir the mixture over the fire till the currants are soft. Eemove it from the fire, and add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with two table-spoonfuls of milk, then stir it again over the fire for a few minutes, but do not let it boil. Serve in a deep dish. Time to bake the wheat, about four hours. Somersetshire Syllabub.—Put a pint of port and a pint of sherry into a large china bowl, together with six ounces of powdered sugar and half a grated nutmeg. Milk into the bowl until it is fuU, or, if preferred, milk into another vessel. Strain the milk, and while it is still warm pour it from a good height upon the wine. In twenty minutes cover it with clotted cream, and gjixnish with nonpareil comfits. A true Somersetshire syl- labub can be prepared only with milk warm and fresh from the cow. Sufficient for a large syllabub. Sop, Sweet and Sour.—The sweet sop is a tropical fruit of about the size of an arti- choke ; the pulp is said when properlv ripe to have a taste somewhat like clotted cream and sugar. The plant seems to have been originally a native of South America, but it is now very widely distributed throughout the tropics. The sour sop is the fruit of a tree somewhat similar in size. The fruits are very abimdant, and the negroes eat large quantities of them. Sorbet of Kirschenwasser. — Make some ice as follows:—Mix thoroughly a pint of syrup at 36», and a pint of chablis. Strain the mixtlire through silk into a freezing-puu.SOR SOB ( 898 ) and frooze in tho usual way. When frozen, fla- vour it with tlu-ee tiiLlo-apoonfulti of kirschou- wasser. Put tho Horbot into gluHBOH, and Horvo it at dinnor with tho roaHta. Sorbet of Rum.—Make the ice as before, but boioro i'rcu/iii^' mix with the BOrbet a quarter of a pint of straiut^d Iciuon-juice. When frozen, flavoui- with tlueo table-apoonfiilH of lino old Jamaica ruin, and servo it in glaHses with the roasts. Sorrel. — >Sorrol is an acid-leaved root lai-gely used on the Continent to make soups, sauces, and salads. Where the taste for it luis been acquired, it is considered a pleasant ac- companiment to young meat. Sometimes, when soiTcl alone is considered too acid, a mixture of equal pai'ts of spinach and sorrel is served. Sorrel grows wild, and may be liad for the plucking, and gathered thus is very good; nevertheless, as the flavour of cultivated son-el is much superior to that of wild sorrel, every garden should contain a few plants. The most useful vai-iety is the broad-leaved sorrel, which is easily propagated either by seed or division of the root. This root, like that of rhubarb, will stand almost any amount of ill-usage. The seed is very small, and must be only slightly covered with earth. The young plants may be thinned to from three to six inches apart; but if they are left crowded no great harm will be done, as they must eventually be transplanted. Spring-sown soiTel may be gathered the next autumn; during the following season it wiU afford several cuttings. Sorrel and Eggs {see Eggs and Sorrel). Sorrel for Garmshing Meat.—Pick three pounds of fresh green sorrel, wash it in several waters, and di-ain it thoroughly. Put it into a good-sized saucepan with a tea-spoon- ful of salt and a quart of boiling water, and let it boil quicldy till tender, turning occasionally to prevent the lower leaves burning to the bottom of the pan. Drain it well, then chop it till very small. Work an ounce of flom- into an ounce and a half of butter, and stir the mixture quickly over the fire for three minutes. Put in the sox-rel, and add, a little at a time, half a pint of strong stock. Stir the sorrel over the fire for fully twenty minutes. Beat two eggs with three table-spoonfuls of milk, stir this quickly into the sorrel, and in four or five minutes it Avill bo ready for serving. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the sorrel. Sorrel Fried in Batter.-Make a small quantity of frying-batter {see Batter for Frying Vegfitaijles). This will be better if made an hour or two before it is wanted. Take the middle leaves only of the sorrel, wash them in two or three waters, drain and dry them well, and trim them neatly. Dip them in tliu batter, and fry them in hot fat till crisp and brown. Serve ou a hot dish, garnished with parsley. Time to fiy, three or four minutes. Sorrel, Lamb Ragout with {see Lamb Ragout with Sorrel). Sorrel, Pur6e of (to serve with cutlets, }pa.st veal, &c.).—Wash half a peck of fresh green sorrel in several waters; pick away the stalks, and boil it witli hidf a pint of water till tender, then drain it tliorouglily. .Slice two Lugo onieuH, and fry them in butter tj^l they turu yellow ; di-edge a little Hour ujjon theui, and add half a pint of giavy, a small lumj) of sugar, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the sorrel over a gcintlcj lire for twenty minutes, and afterwitrds rub it patiently through a hair sieve. It may be s<jrved in the centre of a dish, with cutl(;ts round it, or as an accompaniment to roast veal. Limb, or mutton. I'ime to boil the soiTcil, a quai-t(jr of an hour. Suilicient for three or four peisons. Sorrel, Pur^e of (another way).—Wash and pick some sorr(;l and some cos or (atbbage- lettuces, and put them into a stewjjan with a little water: keep stirring with a spoon to pre- vent its buiTiing; when melted lay it in a hair sieve to di-ain; then put it on the table, and chop it well with some trimmings of mushrooms. When chopped fine, put it into a stewpan with a little butter and a few small pieces of good ham; let it fry a long time on the fire, in order to drain the water it contains. When it has become qmte dry, mix it with four spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, or more if a large quantity is required, and let it stew for a long time over a small stove. After it has been constantly boil- ing for an hour, rub it through a tamis. If it should happen to be too thick, dilute it with a little consomme or stock broth, or Spanish sauce. If too acid, put in a little glaze and sugar. Always put cabbage-lettuce with the sorrel, to correct its acidity. When you make puree of sorrel, put a spoonful of flour to thicken the sauce, and dilute with veal gravy, and then proceed as before. If you have no gravy of veal or of beef, two spoonfuls of broth and a small bit of glaze will answer the same purpose. Sorrel Salad.—Take a quart of fresh green sorrel; pick the leaves from the stalks, but on no account cut them; wash them well, and drain and dry them thoroughly. Pile them in a salad-bowl, and send any simple salad sauce to table with them. Sorrel Sauce.—Pick the stalks and large fibres from a quart of fresh green sorrel, wash it in several watei-s, di-ain it, and put it into an enamelled saucepan with a shce of fresh butter, and stew it gently till tender. Stir it well to keep it from burning. Drain it, and rub it through a coarse hair sieve, season with pepper and salt, and add half a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, the juice of half a lemon, if the sauce is for roast veal; or a spoonful or two of thick brown sauce, if it is for roast nionl; or a little cream, if wanted white for fowls. Serve when hot. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Sorrel Sauce (another way).—Take a few handfuls of sorrel leaves, wash them, and choj) them small, adding a few chives or half a sinall onion. Put them with a piece of butter m a small casserole, cover it, and leave it to steam. Add enough broth or water thickened with a table-spoonful of flour. Boil the till the Porrel softens. Add a grate of nutmeg and salt.( 899 ) SOU SOB Sorrel Soup.—Take two or three handfuls of fresh gi'een sorrel; pick tlio loaves from the stems, wash them in several watoi's, di-ain them, aiul put them into a stewpan with a slice of frosli butter. No liquor is requii'ed. Steam the leaves gently till quite tender. Dredge a little flour upon them, beat f-at all the lumps, and add about a quart of either white stock or water. Simmer for ten minutes. Whisk two eggs lightly. Just before the soup is wanted put a little of the soup to the eggs, add the rest gradually, make hot again, but do not boil after the eggs are added. This is an acid soup. Sorrel Soup (a German recipe).—Take a good quantity of sorrel-leaves, pick them from the stems, and wash them well. Then put them into a stewpan to steam with a piece of butter— no water is needed. Stir constantly, and dredge in a table-spoonful or two of flour, unless the soup is to be clear. Add enough soup, already seasoned and flavoured. Serve with dice of toasted bread or sippets. Sorrel, Stewed (a la Fran9ai8e).—Take a peck of sorrel, fresh and green; pick off the stems, and wash the leaves in several waters; put them into a stewpan with a pint of boiling water in which a table-spoonful of salt has been dissolved, and let them boil quickly till tender. Some cooks put a shred lettuce and a little chervil into the saucepan with them. Drain the water from the sorrel, and rub it through a wire sieve. Put it into a saucepan, and mix with it two ounces of butter, a dessert- spoonful of flour, and a little pepper. Stir it over the fire till it boils. Cool, then add three spoonfuls of cream, or the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and serve with hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. Time to boil the sorrel, a quarter of an hour. Sufiicient for six or seven persons. Sorrel, Stewed (for fricandeaux, roasts, &c.).—Wash half a peck of picked sorrel-leaves in several waters, drain them on a sieve, and put them into an unglazed earthen jar in a veiy slow oven, and let them stew gently until quite tender. Mix an ounce of butter or a little salad-oil with them, add a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, and beat the leaves till smooth. Serve immediately. Souari, Swarrow, or Butter Nuts are l)rought from Dcmorara, and are highly esteemed on account of their pleasant flavour. They are obtained from a tree belonging to the walnut family called Caryocar butyrosum. Soubise Cutlets {see Mutton Cutlets a la Sou])i.se). Soubise Sauce (for roast mutton, boiled veal, and cutlets).—Peel four large onions, and cut them into thin slices ; sprinkle a little pepper and salt upon them, together with a small quantity of grated nutmeg; put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter, and steam gently till they are soft. They must not bo allowed to acquire any colour. Dredge a table-spoonful of (lour upon them, put a freshly, boiled mealy potato with them, and add half a pint of milk, or a quarter of a pint of white ytock, and a quarter of a pint of cream. Stir the sauce over the fire till it is quite smooth, rub itthi-ough a coarse sieve, pressing the onion strongly, that none may remain behind; and, before serving, heat again without allov.'ing it to boil. Time, about an hour. Probable cost, 8d., if made with milk. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Soubise Sauce (another way).—Peel a pound of onions, cut them into small dice, throw them into boiling water, and boil them quickly for five minutes. Drain them, and steam them sgftly with a sHce of butter tiU they are soft. I Stir into them as much white sauce as wiU make them of the consistency of thick cream. Press the sauce through a sieve, heat it again without allowing it to boil, and serve. Time, altogether, about an hour. Probable cost, 8.d. to Is. if made with milk. Sufficient for five or six persons. Soubise Sauce (another way).—Take a dozen white onions. After having peeled and washed them, cut them into halves, take off the tops and bottoms, mince them as fine as possible, and blanch them to make them taste sweeter and take off the green colour. Then let them melt on a small stove with a little butter. When they are thoroughly done, and no kind of moisture is left, mix four spoonfuls of be- chamel. Season them well, rub the puree through a tamis, and keep the sauce hot, but without boiling. You must also put a small lump of sugar with the sauce if necessaiy. When you have the oven hot, put in the onions hermetically closed in a small stewpan, and let I them simmer for one hour with a small bit of ham. This method gives a better flavour. Soubise Sauce, Brown.—Peel and wash twelve onions clean, then mince them, and fry them in a stewpan with a little butter till very brown. Moisten with some Spanish sauce, if you have any ; if not, sprinkle with two spoon- fuls of flour mixed ^vith some veal or beef gravy. Skim the fat, season well with salt and pepper, and then strain the pm-ee through an old tamis, for these sort of purees would destroy new ones, and wiU always leave the taste of onions. Soubise Sauce, Mutton Cutlets with..—Take a neck of mutton, and cut oft' the chops one by one without flattening them ; cut off some of the flat bone at the extremity of the chops. Put them into a stewpan with all the parings of the onions to make the soubise. Season the whole well with carrots, a bimch of parsley, green onions, salt, and a very small quantity of spice, &c.; throw in four or five spoonfuls of good broth to braize them. WhpM done, drain them, and let them cool. Strain the liquor through a silk sieve. Then reduce it co a gla/e. _ Next pare the chops nicely, and put them with the glaze. This being "completed, dish them miroton way, and pour the soubise or onion sauce into the middle. Some persons take two nocks of mutton, out two bones to each chop, lard them with bacon, and braize them as above; but mutton, being in general fat, is better without being lardi^d. With r&jjard to the two bones, you must tukt( 900 ) SOU sou caro not to lot them bo too tliick; if thoy uro too thick you canuot dish thoiii w(!ll. Soubise Sauce, Mutton Cutlets with (another aud a bultor way).—Cut tho mutton chops a littlo thicker than when you wiah to broU them. Faro them nicely, aud put them into a stewpiin, where they inay all lie tlat. Put an onion or two, a few can-ota, a little salt, a bundle of parsley and ^reon onions seasoned, four or hvo spoonfuls of good consomme, aud sweat tho wholo till it is entirely done. Then take out the roots, put in a little glaze, and reduce over a large lire. When entirely boiled down to a glaze, fciko them olf the tire for a few minutes, let the cutlets settle in tho glaze, take out the trimmings and vegetables, turn over the cutlets in the glaze, and take out the grease or fat, lay them on a cover to drain the fat, and serve up before they can get dry. This method is preferable to the other. You must not in either case lai'd your chops with bacon. These cutlets may be served up with all sorts of puree of vegetables.— Soubise Sauce, Onion Onion Soubise Sauce). Souffle.—Recipes for the following souffles will be found under theii- respective head- ings:— Apple Apples in Rice Apricot Arrowroot Cheese Fondue Corn-flour Souffle Pudding Fruit Gooseberry Ground Rice Lemon Macaroon Omelet Potato Potato-Flouk Rice Ginger Souffle Pudding Rice, Ground. Souffld, Bread.—Take some milk, and boil it with a little cream, giving the prepara- tion any taste you please. Scoop out carefully the soft part of two or three rolls, rub the bread through a sieve, soak in the flavoured milk, and proceed as for potato souffle {see Souffle, Potato, au Citron, and Souffle, Orange-flower). Souffle, Carrot. —Make a thick puree of can-ots, but instead of broth use water, in which put a little sugar, half a spoonful of flour, a little salt, and a good bit of butter; let all this boil till very thick, then add the yolks of four eggs, and mix all well together. The moment you are ready to send up, beat the whites of the eggs, which throw in with tho rest, and put into the oven for a proper time in the vessel which you wish to use. This souffle is not in great favour, but it is good. Souffld, Coffee.—Melt two ounces of flour in a stowpan, then add gradually and mix in smoothly six ounces of flour, a pinch of salt, half a pint of strong coflEee, and half a pint of cream. When the mixture leaves the sides of the pan, cool, and add off the fire the yolks of six eggs and ten ounces of sugar. "Whisk the whites of nine eggs till 6rm, stir them hghtly but thoroughly into the preparation, and finish as directed in Souffles. Souffld Dish. —niufltrfltions representing an urnumuutal and a plain soullle dish arej^jven in connection with the article Apricot Souffle (which see). Scuffle, Omelet.—Bieak two eggs, put tlio wliites into one pan and tho yolks into anollier; rasp a littlo lemon po(il or orange- llowers, beat the yolks wi.il, add a little sugar and Bait, aud next beat the wliitcs well to snow, and uiix them with the yolks lightly. Then put a lump of butter into an omelet-ijan on the lire ; when tho butter is meltfd, pour th(! omelet into the pan; hold it over a slow lire tor two minutes, or until tlie underside is set, then put the omelet-pan into a very liot oven for about three minutes. When it is firin in the centre and lightly coloured it is sufficiently cooked. If left in the oven too long it will be tough and leathery. To this you may give whatever flavour you think proper, but the plainer the better when served very hot and very high ; you may add to it some a])ricot jam. Loo&en the edges of the omelet with a knife, turn it upside down on a hot dish, put a little jam made hot on it, fold it quickly half over, sift white sugar thickly on it, and serve imme- diately. Souffle, Orange-flower.—Dilute a little flour with half cream and half milk; set this on the fire to boil; when the flour is done, put a little salt, a little sugar, and a small quantity of pounded orange-flowers; mix well, and then add a good bit of butter, the yolks of four eggs, and mix the whole well. Next beat the six whites and mix them with the rest; then bake the souffle in the usual way, and when it is baked enough, glaze it, and send it up. Souffle, Potato.—This dish has the double advantage of being excellent and economical. Take as many large potatoes as you expect guests for dinner. As the potatoes are to look well when cut, wash them well, and select the best shaped ; put them into the oven, and when done, cut them in half, so that the halves will stand, scoop out the inside with a spoon, and put it in a stewpan with two or three spoonfuls of double cream, a small bit of butter, a little salt, some sugar, a little lemon-peel rasped on sugar, three yolks of eggs, adding off the fire four frothed whites. Put this mixture into the hollow potatoes, placing them in rather a hot oven. The taste may sometimes be varied with lemon, orange-flower water, &c. This is a pretty dish. Apple souffle may be prepared in the same way, excepting that the apples must not be baked previously to being filled wjith the ingredients, but merely' cored and the interior scooped out, as above directed. Souffle, Potato (au Citron).—Bake a dozen potatoes in the oven ; when they are well done, open them, scoop out the most floury part, and mix it with half a pint of cream that has boiled and in which you have infused the peel of a lemon; to this add a little sugar, a large bit of butter, and a little sjilt-the taste of the sugar, however, must predominate: yet observe that the less sugar you use the lighter tlie souffles will bo. Now break six eggs, throw the yolks of four only into the potatoes, beat the six whit(;s, which pour gently with UieSOt3 sou ( 901 ) above preparation into a souffl6-disli, add to it an ounce of fresh butter, and put it into the oven, which must not bo too hot. When the souffle is done enough, powder a little sugar over it, and use the salamander. Souffles must be served up the moment they are ready, for they are liable to sink. Souffle, PouletS (a la Creme) - This dish is to be made of the remnants of roasted chickens; take o£E the white tlesh, nunce it very small, and pound it in a mortar with a little bechamel, a good lump of fresh butter, and salt aild -pepper; with this mix the yolks of four eggs. Strain the whole thi-ough a tamis, or a hair sieve; then beat the whites of live eggs tiU made into a single body; mix these with the former preparation, and put the whole in the dish to rise, or in a croutade that has been raised like the crust of a pate chaud (hot pasty). It wiU he done in a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, according to the quantity. It is to be observed, that if the oven is too hot, the outside of the souffle will be burnt, although the inside is not done enough. This, therefore, must be carefully attended to. Souffle, Simple.—Sweeten and flavour a quarter of a pint of milk Avith lemon or vanilla, boil it, and stir into it quickly, when boiling, a table-spoonful of flour which has been smoothly mixed with another quarter of a pint of milk. Add a slice of fresh butter, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir the batter care- fully till it thickens, then pour it into a basin. When nearly cold, add a dessert-spoonful of brandy and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Butter a cake-tin or deep pie-dish which the batter will only half fill, and put it in the oven till hot. Beat the whites of three eggs to a firm froth, and stir them briskly into the batter. Spread a layer of jam at the bottom of the dish, pour in the batter, and bake in a moderate oven. When the souffle has risen high, and is nicely browned and firm throughout, it is done enough. Serve with the utmost expedition, or it will be spoiled. Time to bake the souffle, about twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Souffles.—A properly-made souffle is light in appearance, delicate in flavour, as well as nourishing and easily digested. It is a little difficult to make; nevertheless, if the inexpe- rienced cook will follow closely the instructions here given, and be careful to allow the best in- gredients only to enter into its composition, she wiU soon acquire sufficient dexterity in making it to remove all fear of failure. AH kinds of farinaceous substances may enter into the com- position of souffles, but the process of their manufacture is always the same. They are in perfection only when served light and high, just as they come out of the oven, before thf;y have had time to sink below the original level. In order to ensure this, the careful cook will hold a salamander or red-hot shovel over the souffle till it roaches the dining-room door. More important, however, than this is, that she should have everything that she ■will -^"qiiir*' in readiness, as delay at the critical moment may spoil everything. A souffle should be cooked in a souffle-tin, which fits into a silver-plated ornamental dish, m which it can be sent to table. When this is not at hand, a plain round or oval cake-tm or thin basin, or a deep pie-dish may be used with a high band of buttered writing-paper fastened inside the rim, to prevent the batter falling over the sides of the dish. A properly-foldmg case of frilled writing-paper should be prepared, into which it may be quickly dropped when taken from the oven. As the ingredients, with then proportions, are given under each recipe, it will only be necessary here to describe the general process of manufacture. Always remembei that the number of whites of eggs should ex- ceed the number of yolks of eggs. Do not add the whites of the eggs until the last moment, and be careful that they are whisked separately to a very stiff froth, and then are stirred hghtly into the souffle. The success of the dish > de- pends in a great measure upon this part of the business'being done thoroughly. Butter the tin, already lined with oiled writing-paper, and put it in the oven till very hot. Pour m the batter quickly, and place it in a moderate oven. The dish ought not to be more than half full. Move it about occasionally, that it may be equally baked. When it has risen to a good height, is brightly coloured, and quite set in the centre, it is done enough, and should be served immediately. Souffles may be very gently steamed instead of being baked. They are generally handed round after the removes of the second course. As they are very good also for ordinary dinners, the inexperienced cook will find it well worth her while to perfect herself by practice in the art of making them. (.See Principles of Cookery, page iv.) Soup.—There is no part of cookery which is so imperfectly understood by ordinary cooks as the preparation of soup. Amongst the wealthy it is considered a necessity, and, as a matter of course, forms part of the dinner. Amongst the middle classes it is more usually served than it used to be, and is, year by year, increasingly appreciated; but amongst the lower classes it is all but scorned; and mis- tresses of small households will testify that the maid-of-all-work, who when at home is half starved instead of being properly fed, will con- sider herself most hardly used if part of the provision of the day's dinner consists of a por- tion of wholesome soup. This opinion is, of course, a sign of ignorance. Soup is both nourishing and wholesome, and it may also be prepared economically. With attention and a little trouble, it may be made from very inex- pensive materials, and, considering that when soup has been served smaller inroads are made into the joint, the frugal housekeeper wh > has once calculated the difference in cost of a dinner consisting of economicaUy-made soup, meat, and vegetables, and one of meat and vegetables only, will never object to the intro- duction of soup at her table on account of the expense. Soup may be made of a large variety of different articles, including meat of uU lands, bones, game, poultrj', fish, shell-fish, all kinds of vegetables, herbs, and farinaceous articles,sou ( 902 ) SOTT milk, oggB, &c. &c. Tho biisis of all soup is stock. Instructions in making this will bo found in its propor place, and it will, therefore, not bo considered here. The reader will also find most valuable hints for making stock md soups in tho ai-ticle on the Puincii-les of CooKEiiY. Directions for making various soups will be found under their various headings, novertholess it may bo found useful if a few rules of universal application are hero given as an assistance in tlioir manufacture. There are thi-eo kinds of soups—clear soup, thick soup, and piireos. A piu-eo is made by rubbing the ingredients of which it is composed tlirough a tamis or sieve. A thick soup is stock thickened by the addition of viu'ious thickening ingre- dients. These soups are best suited to the winter season. Clear soup is thin and bright, and adapted for use in the summer months. In making soup it is most important that every culinary article used should be perfectly clean. The inside of the covers of saucepans, the rims, and the handles, pai-ticularly require attention. The lid of the saucepan should never be re- moved over a smoky fire. Th« meat used should be freshly-killed, and should be as lean as it can be procui-ed; it should never be washed. The bones should be broken up into small pieces. Cold water should be put upon fresh meat and bones; boiling water (a small quantity at a time) upon meat or vegetables that have been fried or browned. As it is very important that no fatty particles should be left to float on the surface of the soup, this should be made, if possible, the day before it is wanted, so that the fat can be removed after it has gone cold. If the soup has been thickened with white or brown roux it should be simmered by the side of the fire imtil it has thrown up the fat which the liquor still contains. Soup should be sim- mered very softly till it is done enough. A large fii-e and quick boiling are the great enemies of good soup. In flavouring soup the | cook should be careful to add the seasoning ingredients in moderation and gradually, es- pecially such things as garlic, onions, shallots, spices, herbs, salt, and cayenne. An overdose of salt has spoilt many a dish of soup, while a deficiency thereof has again and again nullified the effect of the most delicate combination of flavoiirs. As a general rule, two ounces of salt will siifiice for a gallon of soup stewed with large quantities of vegetables; an ounce and a haU only will be needed if the vegetables are omitted, or if a small quantity only is used. It should be remembered that salt and all season- ings can be added when they cannot be taken out. For flavouring purposes, Aromatic Sea- soning of Herbs and Spices, and Herb-powder for Flavouring Soups, will be found of great use. Whatever ingredients are added to soup, whether farinaceous articles, such as rice, vermicelli, macaroni, &c., or vegetables, all shoidd bo partially boiled in plain water before they are put into the liquor. This will ensure their being perfectly clean and bright. The flavour of rich brown soups will bo brought out better if a small piece of sugar be added to it. This must not bo used for white soups. Cream or milk when put with soups should be boiled separately, strained, and added boiling. If, instead of cream, milk and the yolk of an egg aro used, tlie egg must on no account be boiled in the liquor. Either it must be mixed tlio- roughly with a little of the soup wliich lias cooled for a minute, then ]je stirred into the rest; or, bett(jr still, it must be put iut<j tlie soup-tureen, a spoonful of the soup mixed with the milk stin-ed into it, and tlie lest added gradually. If soups are to be kejjt ioi a day or two, they should be boil(;d uj) every day, or every other dfiy, according to the state of tho weather, put into freshly-scalded di'y earthen- ware pans, and kept in a cool place. A piece of gauze may be thrown over the pan to keep out dust and flies. Soup should never be kept in metal vessels, and it should jb atin-ed and well skiumied with a wooden spoon. It should always be served as hot as possible. Soup, Cheshire.—The following is a very old Cheshire recipe for a good and inexpensive soup. It dates back as far as the sixteenth century. Put a hock of beef into a gallon of cold water, simmer it gently for six hours, taking care that it is well skimmed. Put in some thyme, sweet marjoram, and celery, all tied in a bunch, as also a couple of onions cut fine. Skim off all the fat, and season with pepper and salt and a little ketchup. By omitting the above seasoning, this soup may be turned into all kinds of soups, by adding the vegetables to give the flavour required. Soup Flavouring, Onions for {sec Onions, Coloured, for Soup Flavouring). Soup for Children, Liebig's—This preparation, which is hardly entitled to the name of soup, as the word is generally under- stood in this coimtry, is made in the following manner:—Take one oimce (one large table- spoonful) of seconds flour, and mix it smoothly and carefully with ten ounces of cold skimmed milk until the whole is smooth; add seven and a half grains of bicarbonate of potash dissolved in a tea-spoonful of water (if sixty grains of the potash be dissolved in one ounce of water, one tea-spoonful must be used at a time), and then heat it gently till it reaches the boiling point, and keep it boiling for five minutes. Stir tho preparation well whilst it is being heated; add to the whole one ounce (one large dessert- spoonful) of malt flour (malt ground in a coffee- mill, and sieved) mixed with two ounces of water, and stir it well. Cover the pan, and let it stand for half an hour in water which is nearly boiling, so as to keep the soup waiin; then strain through a fine sieve, and bottle it. This quantity is enough for a diiy's supply for a child under two years of age. A quart of milk should be added to the soup. Soup, Macaroni, Grain Balls for.—■ Roll out some macaroni paste very thm, cut it into small sqiuircs tlry and stiff enough to be rubbed through a grater. Soup Tablets.—In the following recipe we have desciibed how to make the souji tablets which were so much used by the German amy during the Franco-German war. Take eleven parts by weight of good suet, melt it m an iron pan, and make it very hot, so as to bwonio bro^vn; add, while keeping tho fat stirred,( 903 ) SOtr SOU" eighteen parts of rye-meal, and continue heat- ing and stirring, so as to make the mass brown; add then foui- pju'ts of diied salt and two parts of coarsely pulverised airaway-seeds. The mix- ture is then poured into tin pans somewhat like those used for making chocolate into cakes. The cakes have the appearance of chocolate, and are chiefly intended for the use of boldiers when in the field. A quantity of about an ounce of this preparation is sufficient to yield, when boiled with some water, a ration of good soup, and in case of need, the cakes being agreeable to the taste, may be eaten raw. Soup Without Stock.—Cut a good-sized cabbage, put it in a stewpan with some carrots, onions, celery, and the bono of a leg of mutton or rib of beef from which all the meat has been taken. Add a quart of water, and let all simmer together for five hours. Then strain the soup, and take oft" any fat which may still float on it. Pick out the best pieces of cabbage, put them into the soup, season with pepper and salt, make quite hot, and serve. Soups and Broths. — Recipes for the following soups and broths will be found under their respective headings :• Almond Apple AitTicHOKE, Jerusa- lem Asparagus Asparagus, Allemand Barley Beef, Roast, and Boiled Turkey Beef, Shin of Beer Beer, with Caraway- Seeds Beer, with Milk Beer, with Sago Beetroot Bouille a Baisse Bread-crusts grilled for Soup ■ Bread Fried for Broth, Strengthen- ing Brown Cabrage Calf's-foot Broth Calf's-foot Soup Calf's Head Calf's Head, Mock Turtle Carrot Carrot, Maigre Cauliflower Celery Chantilly Cheese, without Meat Cherry Chestnut Chicken Broth Chicken Soup Clam Clear Clear, from Bones Clear, from Jd'nES-it i\Ieat Cock-a-Leekie Cocoa-nut Codling Conger Eel Cottage Cottage, Baked Crab Crayfish Cream of Rice Cressy Duck-Giblet Eel Eel, Brown Ei:L, White Egg, Barley Family Fish Fish, Brown Fish CiuENELLBS Fish Stock Fish, White Fish, with Potatoes Fisherman's Forcemeat Balls for Mock Turtle Forcemeat for Fish, Soups, &c. Friar's Chicken Fru iTjSoup OF Cheese- gourd Fruit, Spring Game Garburb German German Asparagus German Broth, or Winter Hotch- potch GiBLET GiBLET, Duck GiBLET, German Goose Gravy, Brown, from Gravy, White, fob Fish Green Corn Green Pea Green Pea, Early Spring Green Pea, Maigre Greening for Grouse Guinea Fowl Haddock Hake Hare Hare, Jugged Hare, Mock Hare, Superior Herb Hessian Hessian and Ragout Hotch-potch Hotch-potch, Mutton Hotch-potch, O.X.-TAIL Hotch-potch, Scotch Hotch-potch, Winter Hunter's Imperial Indian Mulliga- tawny Invalid's Irish, or Balnamoon Skink Italian Macaroni Italian Potage Jardiniere Julienne Kale Brose Kidney Leeks Leeks, or Cock-a- Leekie Leeks and Potato, Maigre Lentil Liebig's Extract Liebig's, for Chil- dren Liver Klosse, for Lobster Lobster and Prawn Lobster with Milk LORNE Macaroni Macaroni Soup, Italian Marrow Dumplings Meg Mekilees Mervexlle Milk Milk, .German Mock Turtle Mock Turtle, Force- meat Balls for Monastery Wine Moor Game Mullagatawny mullagatawny, Calf's Head Mullagatawny, Fowl Mullagatawny, Rabbit Mullagatawny, "Ve- getable Mussel Mutton Broth Mutton Broth (In- valid Cookery) Mutton Bhoth, Mo(... Mutton Broth Nou- rishing Mutton Broth, Quickly Made Mutton Broth, Scotch Mutton Hotch-potch Neat's Foot Nettle Tops NoUILLES Onion Onion, Brown Onion, Maigre Onions, Burnt for Onions, Coloured fob Ox Cheek Ox Tail, Clear Ox Tail, Thick Oyster Oyster, Economical Oyster, Rich Palestine Panada PyVN cakes Pankail Parmesan and Soup Parsnips Partridges Peas Peas, Green Peas, Green, Econo- mical Peas, Green, with- out Meat Peas, Nutritive Pro- perties OF Peas, Quickly and Easily Made Peas Soup, To Fla- vour Pheasant Pigeon Poor Man's Poor Man s, Dr. Kitchiner's Portable Potage A la Colberv Potage a la Conde Potage a la Crecy Potage a la Reine Potage > la Xavier Potage Bisque Pot;i.(^'3 de Veau Potato Potato A la Cr^me Potato and Leek pot-au-feu PoT-Au-FEu, Analysis OF the PoT-Au-FEu, au Bain Marie PoT-Au-FEU, House- HOM>sou PllAWN riUNCE'8 PltOVENfAL PoTAUE PUUSSIAN PUMI'KIN Uu ken's UUENELLES, POK TuiiTLE Soup Quenelles, foh White and Cleaii Sour Rabbit, Supehiok Rahiiit, Ude's Kabbit, White . Eabiuts, Wild, Stock Bkotii riioM Ravioli Ray Regent's i'^ESTORATIVE BllOTHS Rhubarb Rhubarb, Sweet Rice and Egg, Danish Rice and Green Pea, French Rii B AND Onion Rice and Pumpkin Pice and Veal BuorH HiCE AND Veal Soup Rice-klour Rice-FLOUR, fob Thickening Rice, (A Danish Re- cipe) Rice, Italian- Rice, Cream of Rice, made from Fresh Meat RiCB FOR Childiikn Rice, Si i-kiuoh Rick, White Rice, Royal Rice Stew Roots, Essence of Russian Cabbage Russian Sago Salmon Sant<c, Potaoe de Scotch Broth Scotch Kale Semolina Sheep's Head Shrimp and Tomato Skate Sorrel Spanish Spanish Chestnut Spinach Spring Stock Superlative Tapioca Tongue Tomato Thchi, or Russian Turkey Turnip Turtle Unground Corn Veal Vegetable Vegetable Marrow Venison Vermicelli White Soups and Broths, Dr. Kitchiner on.—The cook must pay particular attention to her stewpans, soup-kettles, &c., which should be examined every time they are used. The prudent housewife will carefully examine the coi I'lition of them herself at least once a month. Their covers also must he kept perfectly clean and veil tinned, and the stewpans not only on the inside but about a couple of inches on the outside; many mischiefs arise from their getting out of repair, and if not kept nicely tinned all your good work will be in vain, the broths and soups wiU. look green and dirty, taste bitter and poisonous, and will be spoiled both' for the eye and palate, and your credit will be lost. The health and even life of the family depends upon this, and the cook may be sure her employers had rather pay the tinman's bill than the doctor's; therefore attention to this cannot fail to engage the regard of the mistress. If a servant has the misfortime to scorch or blister the tinning of her jmn—which will sometimes happen to the most careful cook —I advise her by all means immediately to acquaint her employers, who wiU thank her cor- dially for mentioning an accident, and censure her deservedly if she conceal it. Take care to be properly provided with sieves and tamis cloth, spoons and ladles; make it a rule without an exception never to use them till they are well cleaned and thoroughly dried, nor any stewpans, &c., without first washing them out with boiling watnr, and nibblMf f liom well with a dry cloth and a little bran, to d>-.u, them fr(jm grcusc;, sand, &c., or any bad smcii tlioy may have got since they were last used: never neglect this. Though w(; do not supposf.- (jur cook to be such a naughty iilut as to wilfully negle(-t hei broth-pots, &c., yet we may recommend lier to wash them immediately, and take caio they are thoroughly dried at the firo before they are put by, and to keep them in a dry place, for damp will rust and destroy them very soon- attend to tliis the first moment you can sijare after the dinner is sent up. Never put by any soup, gravy, &c., in metal utensils; in which never keej) anj'thing longer than is absolutely necessary for the purposes of cookery—the acid, vegetables, fat. Sec, em- ployed in making soups, ice, are capable of dissolving such utensils, therefore stone or earthen vessels should be used for this purpose. Stewpans, soup-pots, and preserving-pans, with thick and round bottoms (such as sauce- pans are made with) will wear twice as long, and are cleaned with half the trouble, as those whose sides are soldered to the bottom, of which sand and grease get into the joined part, and cooks say that it is next to an impossibility to dislodge it, even if their nails are as long as Nebuchadnezzar's. Take care that the lids fit as close as pos- sible, that the broth, soup, and sauces, &c., may not waste by evaporation. They are good for nothing imless they fit tight enough to keep the steam in and the smoke out. Stewpans and saucepans should be always bright on the upper rim, where the fire does not bum them; but to scour them all over is not only giving the cook needless trouble, but wearing out the vessels. Cultivate habits of regularity, cleanliness, «S:c., in all your business, which you wUl then get through easily and comfortably; I do not mean the restless spirit of Jlolidusta, " the tidy one," who is anon, anon, sir, frisking about in a whirlpool of bustle and confusion, and is always dirty—under pretence of being always cleaning. Lean juicy beef, mutton, or veal, form the basis of broth; procure those pieces which af- ford the richest succulence, and as fresh killed as possible. Stale meat will make broth grouty and bad tasted, and fat meat is wasted. This only ap- plies to those broths which arc required to be I)erfectly clear. Fat !ind clarified drip])ings may be so combined with vegetable mucilage as to afford, at the small cost of one penny per quart, a nourishing and palatable soup, fidly adequate to satisfy appetite and support strength —this will open a new source to those benevo- lent housekeepers who arc disposed to relieve the poor ; will show the industrious classes how much they have it in their power to assist themselves, and rescue them from being objects of charity, dependent on the precarious bounty of others, by teaching thorn how they maj- ob- tain a cheap, abimdant, siilubrious, and agree- able aliment for themselves and families. This soup has the advantage of being veiy easily and very soon made, with no more fuel( 906 ) sou than is necessary to warm a room.; those who have not tasted it cannot imagine what a salu- brious, savomy, and satisfying meal is pro- duced by the judicious combination of cheap homely ingredients. The following are the chief broth-herbs, soup- roots, and seasoning's:— Scotch BAiaEY Parsley Peakl Bakley Common Thyme Flouk Lemon Thyme Oatmeal Orange Thyme Bread Knotted Marjoram Rasping Sage Peas Mint Beans Winter Savory ElCE Sweet Basil Vermicelli Bay-leaves Macaroni Tomato Isinglass Tat.ragon Potato Mucilage Chervil Mushrooms Burnet Champignons Allsi ice Cinnamon Carrots Ginger Beetroots Nutmeg Turnips Clove Garlic Mace Shallots Black Pepper Onions Lemon-peel Leeks White Pepper Cucumber Lemon-juice Celery Seville Obange- • Celery Seed JUICB Cress Seed Essence of Anchovy. The above materials, wine and mushroom ketchup, combined in various proportions, will make an endless variety of excellent broths and soups, quite as pleasant to the palate,, and as useful and agreeable to tne stomach, as con- suming pheasants and partridges, and the long list of inflammatory, piquant, and rare and costly articles recommended by some people whose elaborately compounded soups are like their made dishes, in which, though variety is aimed at, everything has the same taste, and nothing its own. The general fault of our English soups seems to be the employment of an excess of spice, and too small a portion of roots and herbs. " Point de legumes, point de cuisini^re," is a favourite culinary adage of the French kitchen, and deserves to be so; a better soup may be made with a coonle of pounds of meat and plenty of vegetables than our com- mon cooks will make you with four times that quantity of meat ; all for want of knowing the uses of soup-roots, and sweet and savoury herbs. Besides the ingredients I have enumerated, many indiscriminately cram into almost every dish (in such inordinate quantities one would suppose they were working for the asbestos palate of an Indian fire-eater), anchovies, garlic, bay-leaves, and that hot fiery spice, cayenne pepper; this, which the French caU (not undeservedly) piment enrage, has some- how or other undoubtedly acquired a character for being very wholesome, whilst the milder peppers and spices are cried down, as destroying the sensibility of the palate and stomach, &c., and being the source of a thousand miflchiefs. 2 J)* We should just as soon recommend alcohol aa being less intoxicating tlian ■wine. The best thing that has been said in praise of peppers is, "that with all kinds of vege- tables, as also with soups (especially vege- table soups) and fish, either black or cayenne pepper may be talcen freely; they are the most useful stimulants to old stomachs, _ and often supersede the cravings for strong drinks, or diminish the quantity otherwise required." A certain portiom of condiment is occasionally serviceable to excite and keep up the languid action of feeble and advanced life; we must increase the stimulus of our aliment as the inirritabiLity of our system increases. We leave those who love these things to use them as they like; their flavours can be very ex- temporaneously produced by chilli-juice, or essence of cayenne, shallot wine, and essence of anchovy. There is no French dinner without soup, which is regarded as an indispensable overture; it is commonly followed by " le coup d'apres" a glass of pure wine, which they consider so wholesome after soup, that their proverb says, the physician thereby loses a fee. Whether the glass of wine be so much more advantageous for the patient than it is for his doctor, we know not, but believe it an excellent plan to begin the banquet with a basin of good soup, which, by moderating the appetite for solid animal food, is certainly a salutiferous custom. We again caution the cook to avoid over- seasoning, especially with predominant flavours, which, however agreeable they may be to some, are extremely disagreeable to others. Cavice, coratch, anchovy, curry-powder, savoury ragout powder, soup-herb powder, browning, ketchups, pickle-Hquor, beer, wine, sweet herbs, and savoury spice, are very convenient auxiliaries to finidi soups, &c. The proportion of wine (formerly sack, then clai-et, now madeira or port) should not exceed a large wine-glassful to a quart of soup. This is as much as can be admitted without the vinous flavour becoming remarkably predomi- nant, though not only much larger quantities of wine (of which claret is incomparably the best, because it contains less spirit and more flavour, and English palates are less acquainted with it), but even veritable eau de vie is ordered in mcny books, and used by, many— especially tavern—cooks. So much are their soups overloaded with relish, that if you will eat enough of thee, they wiU certainly make you intoxicated, they don't make you sick. All this frequent - irises from an old cook mea- suring the excitt oUity of the eaters' palate by his own, which may be so blunted by inces- sant tasting, that to awaken it requires wine instead of water, and cayenne and garlic foi' black pepper and onion. Old cooks are as fond of spice as children are of sugar, and season soup which is intended to constitute the principal part of a meal as highly as sauce of which only a spoonfiil may be relish enough for a plate of insipid viands. How- ever, we fancy these large quantities of wine, &c., are oftener ordered in cookery books than used in the kitchen— practical cooks havo the health of their omployufc. too much at heart,SOU sou ( 906 ) and love " sauce d la langue " too well to over- wino their soupH, &c. Tniflles and morula arc also sot down as a part of most recipos. Those in their green state have a very rich high flavour, and are delicious additions to some dishes, or sent up as a stow by themselves when they are fresh and fine; but in this state they are not served up half a dozen times in a year at the first tables in the kingdom. When dried they become mere "chips in pottfigo," and serve only to soak up good gravy—from which they take up more taste than they give. The art of composing a rich soup is so to proportion the several ingredients oiqie to another that no particular taste bo stronger than the rest, but to produce such a fine har- monious relish that the whole is delightful. This requires that judicious combination of the materials which constitute the chef d^oeu/vre of culinary science. In the first place, take care that the roots and herbs be perfectly well cleaned ; proportion the water to the quantity of meat and other ingredients—generally a pound of meat to a quart of water for soups, and double that quantity for gravies. If they stew gently, little more water need be put in at first than is expected at the end—for when the pot is covered quite close, and the fire gentle, very little is wasted. Gentle stewing is incomparably the best—the meat is more tender and the soup better flavoured. It is of the first importance that the cover of a soup-kettle should fit very close, or the broth will evaporate before you are aware of it. The most essential parts are soon evaporated by quick boiling, without any benefit, except to fatten the fortunate cook who inhales them. An evident proof that these exhalations possess the most restorative qualities is, that the cook, who in general is the least eater, is as gene- rally the fattest person in the family—from con- tinually being surrounded by the quintessence of all the food she dresses, whereof she sends to her master only the fibres and calcinations, who is consequently thin, gouty, and the victim of diseases arising from insufficient nourish- ment. It is not only the fibres of the meat which nourish us, but the juices they contain, and these are not only extracted, but exhaled, if it be boiled fast in an open vessel. A suc- culent soup can never be made but in a well- closed vessel, which preserves the nutritive parts by preventing their dissipation. This is a fact of which every intelligent person will soon perceive the importance. Place your soup-pot over a moderate fire, •which will make the water hot without causing it to boil, for at least half an hour. If the water boils immediately, it will not penetrate the meat and cleanse it from the clotted blood and other matters which ought to go off in scum; the meat will be hardened all over by violent heat, will shrink up as if it were scorched, and give hardly any gravy. On the contrary, by keeping the water a certain time heating without boil- ing, the meat swells, becomes tender, its fibres are dilated, and it yields a quantity of scum, which must be taken oflt as soon as it appears. It is not till after a good half hour's hot infusion that we may mend the tire and make the pot boil; still continue to remove the scum, and when no more appears, put in the vege- tables, &c., and a little sjdt. These will cause inoro scum to rise, which must be taken off iumiediately, then cover the pot very closely, and place it at a proper distance from the fire, where it will boil very gently, and equally, and by no means fast. By quick and strong boiling the voLitile and finest parts of the ingredients are evaporated, and fly ofl:" with the steam, and the wjarser parts are rendered soluble; so you lose the good and get the bad. Soups will generally take from three to six hours. Prepare your broths and soups the evening before you want them. This wiU give you more time to attend to the rest of your dinner the next day; and when the soup is cold the fat may be much more easily and completely removed from the surface of it; when you de- cant it, take care not to disturb the settlings at the bottom of the vessel, which are so fine that they will escape through a sieve, or even through a tamis, which is the best strainer. The soups appear smoother and finer, and it is much easier cleaned than any sieve. If you strain it while it is hot, pass it through a clean tamis or napkin previously soaked in cold water—the coldness of this wiU coagulate the fat, and only suffer the pure broth to pass through. The full flavour of the ingredients can only be extracted by very long and slow simmering, during which take care to prevent evaporation by covering the pot as close as possible. The best stew-pot is a " digester." Clear soups must be perfectly transparent, thickened soups about the consistence of rich cream; and remember that thickened soups require nearly double the quantity of seasoning. The piquance of spice, &c., is as much blunted by the flour and butter as the spirit of rum is by the addition of sugar and acid ; so they are less salubrious, without being more savour}', from the additional quantity of spice, &c., that is smuggled into the stomach. To thicken and give body to soups and sauces the following materials are used—they must be gi-adually mixed with the soup till thoroughly incorporated with it, and it should have at least half an hour's gentle simmering after; if it is at all lumpy, pass it through a tamis or a fine sieve—bread-raspings, bread, isinglass, potato-mucilage, fat-skimmings and flour, or flour and butter, or flour, barley, rice, or oatmeal and water rubbed well together. To their very rich gravies, &c., the French add the white meat of partridges, pigeons, or fowls, pounded to a pulp and rubbed through a sieve; a piece of beef which has been boiled to make broth pounded in like manner witli a bit of butter and flour, and gradually incorpoi-ated with the gravy or soup, will be found a siitisfac- tory substitute fur tliese more expensive articles. Moat from which broth has been made, and all its juic(^ has been extr\cted, is then excel- lently well prepared foi potting, and is qu te as good or better than that which has been baked tiU it is dry ; indeed, if it be pounded and sea- soned in the usual manner it will be an elegant( 907 ) SO"W sou and savoury luncheon or supper, and costs nothing hut the trouble of preparing it, which is very little, tind a relish is procured for sand- wiches, &c., of what has heretofore been by the poorest housekeeper considered the perquisite of the cat. Keep some spare broth, lest yoMx soup-liquor waste in boiling and get too thick, and for gravy for your made dishes, various sauces, &c., for many of which it is a much better basis than melted butter. The soup of mock-turtle and the other thickened soups will supply you with a thick gravy sauce for poultry, fish, ragouts, &c., and by a little management of this sort you may generally contrive to have plenty of good gravies and good sauces with very little trouble or expense. If soup is too thin or too weak, take oflE the cover of your soup-pot and let it boil till some of the watery part of it has evaporated, or else add some of the thickening materials we have before mentioned; and have at hand some plain browning. This simple preparation is much better than the compounds bearing that name, as it colours sauce or soup without much inter- fering vntb. its flavour, and is a much better way of colouring them than burning the surface of the meat. When soups and gravies are kept from day to day in hot weather they should be warmed up every day, and put into fresh-scalded tureens or pans, and placed in a cool cellar; in tem- perate weather every other day may be enough. We hope we have now put the conunon cook into possession of the whole arcana of soup- making, without much trouble to herself, or expense to her employers; it need not be said in future that an Englishman only knows how to make soup in his stomach, by swilling down a large quantity of ale or porter, to quench the thirst occasioned by the meat he eats. John BuU may now make his soup secundum artem, and save his principal viscera a great deal of trouble. I conclude these remarks with observing that some persons imagine that soup tends to relax the stomach. So far from being prejudicial, we consider the moderate use of such liquid nourish- ment to be highly salutary. Does not our food and drink, even though cold, become in a few minutes a kind of warm soup in the stomach ? and therefore soup, if not eaten too hot, or in too great a quantity, and of proper quality, is attended with great advantages, especially to those who drink but little. Warm fluids, in the form of soup, unite with our juices much sooner and better than those that are cold and raw; on this account restora- tive soup is the best food for those who are en- feebled by disease or dissipation; and for old people, whose teeth and digestive organs are unpaired— " Half subtilised to chyle—the liquid food Readiest obeys th' a-ssimilating powers." After catching cold, in nervous headaches, colics, indigestion, and different kinds of cramps and spasms in the stomach, warm broth IS of excellent servicie. After intemperate feasting, to give the atomach a holiday for a day or two by a diet on mutton broth or vege- table soup, &c., is the best way to restore its tone. The stretching any power to its utmost extent weakens it. If the stomach be every day obliged to do as much as it f:an, it will every day be able to do less. A wise traveUei will never force his horse to perform as much as he can in one day upon a long journey. Soups, Forcemeat for {see Forcemeat for Fish, Soujds, or Stews). Soups, Greening for {see Greening for j Soups). Soups, Herb-powder for Flavour- ing.—As it is not always possible to obtain fresh herbs, the cook wiU find it a convenience to have the following herbs powdered, stored, and ready to use in fiavouring. For this pur- pose the recipe for the Aromatic Seasoning of Herbs and Spices will also be found useful; but those who object to the fiavour of spices, and prefer that of herbs only, will find that the following recipe will suit them best:—The herbs should be procured fresh, dried in a warm but not too hot oven, pounded in a mortar, and passed through a wire sieve. The powder should then be put into smaU bottles, stoppered closely, and kept in a dry place. It will retain its flavour for several months. The proportions are as follows:—Two ounces of sweet marjoram, two I ounces of winter savory, two ounces of dried I parsley, two ounces of lemon-thyme, a quarter of an ounce of bay-leaves, a quarter of an ounce of celery-seed, an ounce of sweet basU, and an oimce of lemon-peel. Soups, Onions Burnt for {see Onions Bm-nt lor Soups and Gravies). Sour Sauce for Fish.—Heat a quarter of a pint of good vinegar, stir into it half a tea- spoonftil of made mustard, a little pepper, and a slice of fresh butter. Serve when the butter is dissolved. Souse Pudding.—Take two eggs, with their weight in flour and sugar. Wlbisk the eggs with the sugar, and when the puddings are about to be put into the oven, add the flour. Beat the mixture till it is light, frothy, and perfectly smooth, put it into small buttered cups, and bake these in a moderate oven. When done enough, turn the puddings out carefully, sift sugar over them, and serve. A little fla- vouring will be an agreeable addition. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Sowens.—Sowens is one of the national dishes of Scotland, made from the husk of the oat (called in Scotland seeds). These seeds con- tain a good deal of farinaceous matter after they are separated from the oatmeal, and this matter is converted into a very nourishing and palatable article of food. In some of the northern towns of Scotland thin sowens are drunk on New Year's Day morning, while " but- tered sowens wi' fragrant lunt" is in rural districts the supper for Hallow-Eve. This dish is known in England, Wales, and Ireland as " flummery." It is ver>- good eaten cold, and will turn out iu a shape, making a kind of oat- meal jolly. To prepare it, soak any quantity of oatmeal seedc in a tub or large jar, and poursow I ( 008 ) SOY upon it twice its bulk in lukuwiu-ui water. Leave it for throe or four dayH in a warm place till it tiu-ns sour. Pass the whole through a sieve, and squeeze the seeds, moistening them with a little of the liquor, to get all the goodness out of them. Lot the liquor thus obtained stand till the starchy matter it contains sinks to the bottom; then pour it off, and add fresh cold water. When the soweus are wanted, pour oif the water, and mix as much of the starcliy sediment with water as will thin it; put a little salt into it, and boil it, stirring briskly all the time till it thickens. Pour it into a deep bowl, and serve with wine, beer, or millc. Soweus thus made wiU keep good for a week or more in winter. If a little that has turned sour be nuxed with that which is to be freshly made, it will facilitate its preparation. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to thicken the sowens. Sowens, English. — Markham, in his "English Housewife" (1653), describes a food called wash-brew, eaten in England, made of the very small oatmeal, by frequent steeping of it, and then boiling it into a jelly, to be eaten with honey, milk, wine, or ale, according to taste. " I have," says he, " seen them of sickly and dainty stomachs which have eaten great quantities thereof, beyond the proportion of ordinary meats." "The Scotsman," remarks Dr. Chambers, commenting on this passage, " can be at no loss to recognise in this description the sowens of his native land, a dish formerly prevalent among the peasantry, but now com- paratively little known. To illustrate Mark- ham's remark as to the quantity of this mess that could be eaten, the writer may adduce a fact related to him by his grandmother, who was the wife of an extensive store-farmer in Peebleshire, from 1768 to 1780. A new plough- man had been hired for the farm. On the first evening, coming home just after the sowens had been prepared, but when no person was present in the kitchen, he began vsdth one of the cogs or "bowls, went on to another, and in a little time had despatched the very last of the series; after which he coolly remarked to the maid, at that moment entering the house, ' Lass, I wish you would to-morrow night make my sowens all in one dish, and not in drippocks and drappocks that way!'" Soy.—This is a kind of sauce prepared in China and Japan from a small bean, the pro- duce of Dolichos soja. It is used with fish and other articles of diet. In choosing soy, see that it is of a good flavour, not too salt nor too sweet, of a good thick consistence, a brown colour, and clear. When shaken in a glass, it should leave a coat on the surface of a bright yellowish-brown colour; if it do not, it is an inferior sort, and should be rejected. Chinese soy is considered inferior to that of Japan. Soy, Chinese Preparation of.—Equal quantities of beans ana wheat are boiled to- gether, and then tritiiratcd between stones, water being added occasionally. The mass is cooked in a pan, and cut into thin slices, which are kept covered with straw for about twenty days. When completely fermented, the separate slifps hfiving become moulrly, they are washed with w uter, placed in a vessel, and their weight of water and salt added. In this condition they are kept for a number of days, and are finally again triturated between stones. Soy, Chinese (another way).—Thirty-flvo pounds of the shelled puhio are washed in cold water, and boiled in water enough to cover them uiitil they are suUiciently tender, which is ascer- tained by squeezing tliem between the finger and thumb. This requires only a few minutes to efiect. They are then drained in a sieve, but, whilst still wet, are mixed with a portion of meal made of the same pulse, ground, and which an Anglo-Indian, if he were here to see it, would immediately pronounce to be " ground gram," In this meal they are stirred until the surface of each bean is covered. The mass is now laid upon mats to the thickness of about two inches, and the beans are left to dry imtil the sui'face of the mass begins to appear mouldy. They are then dried by gradual heat in slow stoves, until they can bear the stroke of a maUet, when they are rubbed with the hand or with a hard brush to free them from the meal. Earthen pans, ready prepared, now receive them in equal portions, and a pickle is made witli twenty pounds of salt dissolved in five times its weight of water, which is equally divided among the pans. These are now carefuUy covered, and kept, during six weeks or more, in a place where the temperature is nearly 100" Fahren- heit. When at length the soluble part of the beans—the part that constitutes the soy—is extracted, this being ascertained by the dark brown colour of the liquid in the pans, the liquid is poured off, and boiled down to the proper consistence. This, however, is not effected until after repeated boilings, during which a quantity of moist sugar, ginger, mace, and black pepper are added in quantities according to the taste of the manufacturers, each having his own peculiar ideas of flavour- ing, which constitutes the difference between the several manufactories. After the last boil- ing, the soy is allowed to stand a few days, then strained, and put into flasks for sale. Soy, Japanese.—The beans are first washed, then boiled with water enough to cover them until they are tender. They are then mashed in a mortar and mixed with their weight of coarse barley-meal. This mixture, being closely covered, is then placed in a warm situ- ation, and left to ferment. When the mass is sufficiently fermented, a weight of salt, equal to that of the beans originally, is dissolved in five times its weight of water, and added to the fermented mass, and is strongly stirred in it. The whole being well covered, it remains in this state during three months, being daily agitated and beaten dirring two hours, after which it is again covered. It is then strained through cotton cloth, which is well pressed until everj"^ drop of liquid has passed through. The soy is now put into wooden tubs, when age fines it. After a time, when it is suflScicntly clear, it is racked off, and put into smaller wooden vessels for sale. Meanwhile, more water is poured upon the mass that remains after the straining, and soy of an inferior kind is made. Though there is no spice, nor other seasoning but salt, in tbo Japanese soy, it is far( 900 ) SPA SPA preferable to that of Cliina, and is free from the sweet treacly flavour which distinguishes the latter. Spanish Busts.—Rub half a pound of fresh butter into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, a little grated nutmeg and pow- dered cinnamon, and also six table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and work them into a paste with four well-beaten eggs. Drop the mixture in knobs upon a floured tin, and bake these until done enough. When half-baked, brush the surface with milk. If liked, half a pound of currants may be added to the buns, and then an additional egg or a little milk will be required. Time to bake the buns, about twenty minutes. Spanish. Buns (another way).—Rub half a pound of fresh butter into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and the eighth of a nutmeg grated. Beat four eggs thoroughly, and work them into the nuxture with two table-spoonfuls of rose- water and as much mUk as wiU form a thick batter. Knead into this a quarter of a pint of yeast, cover the bowl, and leave the dough on the hearth all night. The next morning knead it again, and let it rise a second time. Butter some shallow tins, fill them three-parts full, and bake the buns in a moderate oven. When done enough, let them get cold, sift powdered sugar upon them, and -with a sharp knife cut them into squares. Spanish Cakes.—Blanch four ounces of sweet almonds and six or seven bitter ones, and pound them to paste with orange-flower water. Mix with them six ounces of powdered and sifted sugar, half a pound of dried flour, and a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon. Break six eggs, free them from specks, and whisk them thoroughly. Put them into a chocolate mill, and add gTadually the dry ingredients, together with two table-spoonfuls of rose- water and two table-spoonfuls of light wine. Mill the mixtm-e between every addition, and for some time after all additions have been made, and tiU the batter is very light. Butter a pan, and bake the cake in a slow oven. Probable cost, 2s. for a cake this size. Spanish Cakes (another way).—Rub six ounces of butter into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, and half a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon! Work the mixture into a paste with two well- beaten eggs, roll it out the third of an inch thick, stamp it into fancy shapes, and bake these in a moderate oven. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Spanish Cakes (another way). —Put half a pint of water, a pinch of salt, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and two table- spoonfuls of sifted sugar into a delicately clean saucepan over a gentle fire. Stir the mixture until it begins to boil, then draw it from the hro, and dredge into it five ounces of dried flour. Stir it briskly till it forms a soft, firm paste. Add any kind of flavouring, imd work in —one at a time—throe well-beatfm eggs. Form the paste into balls the size of a ^^■t^lnx^t, brush these over with beaten egg, and sprinkle upon them chopped almonds which have been shaken in a small portion of the white of one of the eggs mixed with pounded sugar. Bake the cakes in a slow, steady oven, and when they are lightly coloured, they are done enough. If liked, a spoonful of jam maybe introduced into the centre of the cakes before they are sent to table. Spanish Chestnut Soup.—Take fifty large Spanish chestnuts. Throw them into a pan of warm water, and when this is hot enough to bum the fijagers take the nuts out, peel and scrape them, and throw each one as it is done into- a pan of cold water. When all are ready, wipe the chestnuts, cover them with good stock, and let them simmer gently tUl they break when touched with a spoon or fork. Drain and crush them, mix with them a quart of stock, and rub the soup through a fine sieve. Add as much salt, cayenne, and mace as will flavour it pleasantly. Boil it up again, mix with it ofE the fire a quarter of a pint of boiling cream, and serve immediately. If its sweetness is not objected to, the whole or part of the stock in which the chestnuts were boiled may be added to the soup. If brown soup is preferred instead of white, the chestnuts, after being scalded, peeled, and scraped, may be steamed with two ounces of butter, a sliced onion, half an ounce of loaf sugar, and a little pepper and salt. When tender, they should be drained and crushed, mixed with a quart of good brown gravy, and then boiled and rubbed through a fine sieve reversed. The puree, when made hot, will be ready for serving. Time to boil the chestnuts, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Spanish Cream—Boil half an ounce of ismgiass m a quarter of a pint of milk till it is dissolved. When nearly cold, strain it through muslin, and mix with it a custard made of a quarter of a pint of milk, half a pmt of double cream, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, any flavouring that may be pre- ferred, and an ounce of white sugar. Stir it untU nearly cold, pour it into a damp mould, and put it in a cool place till set. When wanted for use, dip it into hot water for half a mmute, shake it well to loosen the edo-es place the dish upon the mould, and turn it°out quickly. Care must be taken that the custara docs not curdle. Sufficient for a pint and a half of cream. Probable cost, if made with cream, 2s. Spanish Ham.— The following is a Spanish cook's recipe for boiling a Spanish ham:—"Put the ham into cold water to soak for sixteen or eighteen hours; scrape and trim it well, putting it into cold water to simmer. Add to the water a tea-cupful of vinegar and a large tea-cupful of brown sugar; simmer five hours. _ A pint of sherry wine put into the water instead of the vinegar improves the fla- vour of the ham." Spanish Ham (another way).—Soak the ham in cold water for a couple of days before cooking it. Take it up, scrape it well, trim it neatly, put it mto a stewpan, with as much coldSPA (910) water as will cover it, and let it Loil gently for an hotu\ Clean and cut into small pieces a couple of carrots, two onions, and two shallots, and fry them in a little butter with a couple of bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, a bunch of parsley, and a head of celery. Stir these in- gredients over tho firo until they are slightly coloured. Pour upon them as much boiling stock, or, failing this, boiling water, as will cover tho ham, and add three or four cloves, half a blade of mace, and a dozen peppercorns. A glassful of light wine may be added, or not. Simmer the ham in tho liquor thus prepared till it is done enough, and let it remain in it till cold. Take it up, trim it in the usual way, and either brush it over with liquid glaze or cover it with bread-raspings. Spanish hams are of three sorts—Bayonne, Montauches, and Grenada hams. Time to simmer the ham in the stock, about four hours. Cost, varying \vith the size, weight, and condition of the market. Spanish Olla.—The Spanish OUa, as communicated by Don Felix Antonio de Al- varado, a native of the city of Seville, in Spain, is made as follows:—"The true olla which they make in Spain is composed of several sorts of meat, as beef, mutton, veal, and bacon; then put in also the ears and feet of a hog, a pullet, with some sausages; moreover, they put in coleworts, turnips, and Spanish peas, which they call garvanqos. It must all be boiled together for four hours to be a true olla. 'Tis reported of the Marquis Chapin (Ciappoini?) Vitello, an Italian, who was one of the best soldiers that nation ever bred, that he had so great a liking to this sort of olla when he was in Spain, that he never cared to dine at home, but walking about the streets, if he smelt in any citizen's house this sort of victuals, he went in there, and sat down at his table to dine with him. Before he went out, he ordered his steward to pay the charge of the whole dinner." Spanish Omelet.—Mince finely as much fat and lean ham as will fill a small tea-cup, and add two finely-minced button - onions. Beat six eggs, stir the ham, «&:c., into them, and fry the omelet in the usual way. A true Spanish omelet would be made with garlic, instead of onion, but this would be too strong for ordinary palates. Spanish Onions {see Onions, Spanish). Spanish Onions, To Pickle.—Choose moderate-sized and perfectly sound Spamsh onions. Skin them, and cut them into thm slices, put them in layers into wide-mouthed bottles, and sprinkle upon each layer a little salt and cayenne. When the jar is almost full, pour cold vinegar into it to cover the onions, tie bladder over the mouth of the bottles, and store the pickle in a cool, dry place. If liked, the jar may be filled with alternate layers oi sliced onion and sliced boiled beetroot, i^nd then three or four drops of cochineal may bo added to the vinegar, to improve the look ot the pickle. For another mode of pickluig Spanish onions, see Onions, Spamsh, Pickled. Time, the pickle may be used in three or four weeks. Probable cost, onions, Id. or I Jd. each. Spanish Pudding.—Cut half a dozen penny sponge cakes into thin slices h.ngthwise. Butter a pie-dish rather thickly, sift powdered sugar on the butter, and line the inside of the dish (3veuly and neatly with tho slices. Proas them with tlie hand to keep them in position. Afterwards till the dish with alternate layers of sliced sponge cake and apricot jam, and jxjur into it as much sherry or inarsala as the cakes will absorb. Beat four eggs briskly, pour them over the cakes, and bake the pudding in a slow oven. When it is set, take it out, let it cool, and turn it out carefully. Have ready the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth, pile them on the pudding, and sprinkle a little powdered sugar with the froth. Put it in the oven to set the egg, and serve the pudding with custard-sauce poured round it. Time to bake the pudding, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, Is. 6d. Sufiicient for half a dozen persons. Spanish Puffs.—Put half a pint of water or milk into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a pinch of salt, a little sugar, and as much grated nutmeg or lemon-peel as will flavour the liquor pleasantly. Stir it till it boils, mix in gradually and smoothly four table-spoonfuls of flour, and beat the mixture over the fire for about three minutes. Take it off the fire, and stir in, one at a time, the yolka of six and the whites of four eggs. Let the batter cool, form it into small balls the size of a walnut, and fry these in plenty of boiling fat tni they burst. Whilst they are being fried, move them carefully about, that they may be equally cooked. Drain them, dust powdered sugar upon them, dish them on a napkin, and serve immediately. Send some wine-sauce to table with them. If liked, puffs thus made can be flavoured with a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, and may be thus converted into ginger puffs. Spanish Rice.—Boil half a pound of rice as for curry, then toss it lightly over a slow fire with a spoonful of salad-oil tiU it is a. bright-yellow colour. Unless great care is taken the rice will bum. Free two large ripe tomatoes from the seeds and juice, and after- wards stir them in with the rice, add a season- ing of black pepper and grated Parmesan, and serve the rice piled on a hot dish. Garnish the rice with thin slices of ham, German sausage, or dried and smoked fish. If ripe tomatoes cannot be procured, a table-spoonful of tomato sauce may be used instead. Spanish Salad.—Put into the centre of a dish some cold dressed French beans, and at the moment of serving stir them up lightly with a little mayonnaise sauce or salad cream of any kind. Garnish the beans with three or four ripe tomatoes cut in slices and ar- ranged in a circle, one slice overlapping another. If preferred, and more convenient, cold dressed Windsor beans, haricot beans, or green peas, or a mixture of all or any of theae, may be used instead of French beans. Spanish Sauce (called also Espagnol Sauce and Brown Sauce).—If a large quantity of sauce is required, butter ?, corjper stewpan8PA (911) SPA that is capable of holding three or four gallons of sauce, or, if prefoiTed, lay flattened pieces of beof suet at the bottom of the stewpan. Place thick slices of onion upon the suet, or thin shoes of lean ham on the butter, and on these put thick slices of beef or veal and any bones and trimmings of meat or poultry that may be at hand. A little lean ham, a knuckle-bone of ham, some bacon-rind scalded and scraped, or the carcase of a cold roast rabbit or fowl, wUl very much imijrove the flavour of the sauce. Pour in as much stock made from bones, or water, as will barely cover the surface of the meat. Cover the saucepan, set it on a brisk fire, and let it boil quickly till it turns to glaze or thin gum. As soon as this point is reached, slacken the heat of the fire, and let the sauce remain gently simmering until it becomes thick and sticky, and, without being at all burnt, has acquired a bright brown colour. Fill up the stewpan with cold stock or water (allowing a quart of water for a pound and a half of meat and bones). Let it boil, skim carefully, and add two or three carrots, a bundle of outer sticks of celery, a small piece of mace, a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, a dozen peppei-coms, and a little salt. Simmer all gently together for three hours. Keep skimming the sauce as required, and strain it off for use. Let it get cold, then remove every particle of fat from it. When wanted, boil the quantity needed, thicken with roux or brown thickening, and let it boU tiH it is of the consistency of cream, carefully re- moving the fat as it is thrown up. Pass it through a fine sieve, and it will be ready for use. A glassful of sherry or madeira may be added if liked. When any quantity of brown sauce is wanted, it should be made the day before it is to be used. In cool weather it wiU keep for four or five days. It should be looked at every day, and boiled up if necessary. Time, four to five hours. Probable cost, 28. per pint. Spanish Sauce, Highly Flavoured. —Dissolve a thick shce of fresh butter in a saucepan, and throw into it a quarter of a pound of lean ham cut into dice, four sliced shallots, a dozen mushrooms cleaned a»d cut small, a bimch of parsley, a sprig of thjone, a bay-leaf, a dozen peppercorns, half a blade of mace, and three cloves. Stir these ingredients over a gentle fire till a red tinge appears round the inside of the SJiucepan. Add gradually a pint of clear stock, and simmer the sauce gently for three-quarters of an hour. Carefully remove the scum as it rises. Strain the sauce, add cayenne and salt if necessary, and thicken with a little brown thickening. Let it simmer again, that it may throw up the fat, and carefully remove this till no more appears. A few minutes before the sauce is to be served stir into it a wine-glassful of sherry or madeira. Time, altogether, about an hour and a quarter. Probable cost, 28. per pint. Spanish Sauce made from Bones.— Tako the bone of a log of mutton or of a piece of beef weighing six o. seven pounds. Break it into small pieces, and put these into a stewpan with a large onion stuck with throe cloves, a sliced carrot, half a dozen outer sticks of celery (or, if this is not at hand, as much bruised celery- seed as win lie on a threepenny-piece), a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a couple of leeks (if they can be had), half a dozen peppercorns, and a little salt. Pour over these ingredients three quarts of cold water. Let the liquor boU, skim carefully, and simmer gently for four hours, or until it is reduced to two quarts. Strain it, and when it is cold take away any fat there may be on the top. When Spanish sauce is wanted, take as much of this stock as wiU make the requisite quantity; make it hot, and dissolve a little Liebig's Extract of Meat in it—a quarter of a tea-spoonful will be suflficient for a pint. Thicken with brown thickening, let it simmer by the side of the fire till it has thrown up the grease, strain through a sieve, and serve. When brown thickening is not at hand, a substitute may be made as follows :—Eoiead together in a saucepan equal proportions of butter and flour. Stir this paste quickly over a slow fire for three minutes tiU it is brightly coloured without being at all burnt. Moisten it with the stock, let the sauce simmer gently to throw up the grease, and when it is smooth and thick it will be ready for serving. Time, five hours. Probable cost, 3d. per pint. Spanish Sauce (M. Tide's way).—Besides some slices of ham, put into a stewpan some sUces of veal. Moisten the same as for the cuUis; sweat them in the Kke manner; let aU the glaze go to the bottom, and when of a nice red colour moisten with a few spoonfuls of stock-broth liquor to detach the glaze; then pour in the cuUis. Let the whole boU for half an hour to remove all the fat. Strain it through a clean tamis. Eemember always to put some mushrooms, with a bunch of parsley and green onions, into these sauces. It is neces- sary to observe to the professors of cookery that the flavour proceeds from the seasoning, and if the necessary articles are neglected to be put to a nicety into the sauces, the flavour will be deficient. Mind that the sauce or broth when kept too long on the fire loses the proper taste, and acquires instead a strong and dis- agreeable one. Spanish Sauce, Quickly made.—Peel an onion, split it in halves, stick a clove in each half, and put these into a saucepan with a bunch of parsley, a tea-spoonful of gelatine, half a dozen celery-seeds, and a pinch of dried tar- ragon, if it is at hand. Boil all gently together with a pint of water tiU the gelatine is dissolved, strain off the liquor, and stir into it a tea-spoon- ful of Liebig's Extract of Meat; add as much salt as will be necessarj' to bring out the flavour. Thicken the gravy with a small piece of brown thickening. If this is not at hand, mix together smaU equal portions of flour and butter, stir the paste quickly over a brisk fire tiU it is brightly coloured, moisten with the stock, boil tiU smooth, and serve. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 4d. Spanish Sauce, To make a small quantity of.—Butter a stewpan, and lay in the bottom of it a couple of slices of l(»n ham and a pound of lean beef or veal, or half a poundSPA ( 912 ) SPE of each cut into small pieces. Pour upon the meat as much stock or water as will bai-uly cover its surface, luid boil it until it becomes thick like gum. Check the heat of the tiro a little, and sinmier the preparation until it is brightly coloured, taking care that it does not bum. Add gradually a pint of stock or water, and put into the saucepan with the liquor a sliced uirrot, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, half a bay-loaf, an onion stuck with two cloves, two shallots, a quarter of a blade of mace, and four or five peppercorns. Simmer the sauce for about an hour, or till it is strong and agreeably flavoured, strain it, and let it stand till cold. When wanted, remove the cake of fat from the top, heat the sauce, thicken with a spoonful of brown thickening, and simmer till it is of the consistency of cream. Remove the fat as it is thrown up, add a glassful of sherry or madeira, and serve. Time, altogether, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 2s. per pint. Spanish Sauce with Game—This is the same as Spanish Sauce (M. Ude's way), except that in this are introduced the loins and trimmings of either young or old partridges, pheasants, rabbits, &c., that this sauce may taste of game. Put them to sweat. Remem- ber that such sauces, if kept too long on the fire, lose their savour and the game flavour. This method may be thus shortened :—Prepare a small consomme of game by skinning a couple or more of pai-tridges ; fillet them, and take the back, legs, and bones, and put them into a stowpan with a little broth to sweat gently in the stove for one hour; when done, reduce it to glaze; then, by putting a small bit of that glaze in either sauce, it will save time an.d expense, and will answer much better to give it the taste of game. Spanish Sausages, or Chorissas.— Take equal weights of fat and lean pork taken from the prime parts of the animal; mince this finely, and season strongly with garlic and cayenne. Pour over it as much dry sherry as will cover it, and let it stand in a cool place for three or four days till it has absorbed the liquor. Put the meat into large skins, and moisten with the liquor that remains. Tie the sausages in links, and hang them in a cool, dry place. They will keep for six or eight months. When wanted, drop the sausages into hot water, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Serve them with rice boiled as for cuiTy. Time to boil the sausages, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. per poimd. Spanish Soup.—Take a piece of the shin of beef weighing about four pounds, and one pound of the knuckle of ham. Break the bones into small pieces with a cleaver, and tie the meat with string to keep it in shape. Put it into a large pot, and pour over it a gallon of cold water. Bring the liquor gently to the point of boiling, remove the scum carefully, and, before it fully boils, throw half a tea-spoonful of coLl water into it once or twice, to assist the scuin in rising. Add a little pepper, draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer gently and steadily for two hours and a half. Blanch a table-spoonful of rice, throw it into the soup, and boil it an hour longer. Half an hour before the soup is to be served, put into it a pmt of Brussels sjirouts and an onion thinly shced. If preferred, other vegetables may be added to or substituted for the sprouts. They nmst bo bknched and stewed in the soup long enough to cook them, and no longer. Remove the bones from the soup, take up the meat, put it on a dish, garnish with the sprouts, and serve very hot. Send the soup to table in a tureen. ]f the ham has not wuuie the broth sufiiciently salt, a little mon; salt should be added. Time, three hours" and a half from the time the water boils. Probable cost, 4s. Gd. Sufiicient for seven or eight persons. Spanish Soup (another way).—Butter a large stewpan thic-kly; place in it, in an even layer, two large onions cut in slices, four ounces of lean ham cut into dice, and two pounds of freshly-killed juicy beef cut into pieces two inches square. Add any bones and trimmings of meat or poultry that may be at hand, or if an old pheasant, partridge, or hen can be pro- cured at a small expense, truss it for boiling, brown it in a saucepan with a httle butter, and lay it upon the meat. Pour over these ingredients as much stock as will barely cover them, and boil quickly till it begins to thicken and look like gum. Slacken the heat of the fire, and let the saucepan renuiin on it till this gum has become a bright-brown colour; pour upon it two quarts of stock or water, and add a large carrot, a bimch of parsley, a sprig of thjTne, a bay-leaf, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, half a blade of mace, and two cloves. Let the liquor boU, skim carefully, and simmer gently till it is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, and when cold remove the fat from the surface. Prepare about a pint and a half of mixed vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, leeks, celery, and Spanish peas. Let these be cut into strips or shapes of an equal size, and partially boU them in plain water. Boil the soup, throw the vegetables into it, and let them remain until done enough. About twenty minutes before the soup is to be served, put into it some small pork sausages, and when these are done enough, serve them with the vegetables in the tureen with the soup. Time, two hours to simmer the stock. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per piut. Spatzen (sparrows or batter flakes; a German recipe).—Stir flour into cold water and milk, with a little salt, to make a thick batter; beat it well with a wooden spoon. Drop little flakes or buttons into boihng water. This is easiest done by putting some of the batter on a trencher or flat plate, and flaking it quickly off into the pot with a knife dipped con- stantly in the water. Boil them five minutes; they will swim on the top when done. Strain and dish them. Have ready a piece of butter melted in a stewpan, and a handful of crumbs in it, crisped brown. Pour this over the spatzen, and serve while they are light and hot. A piece of butter may be stirred in as they are dished. If preferred richer, use an egg or two, and milk alone for the batter. Speaker's Pudding.—Butter a plan mould thickly, dredge flom- upon it, and iirran^( 913 ) SFE SFI some raisinB in even rounds on the inside; line it wth thin strips of crumb of bread which have been dried before the fire and well but- tered. After lining, fill the mould with al- ternate layers of raisins, sugar, and strips of bread, and let the topmost layer be of bread. Mix the well-beaten yolks of four eggs with a pint of milk, add sugar and flavouring, and pour the custai-d upon the bread. Let it soak for two hours. Bake or steam the pudding, and when done enough turn it out carefully upon a hot dish, and send sweet sauce to table with it. Time to bake the pudding, about an houi- ; to steiun it, an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 4d. SuflBicient for five or six persons. Spearmint. — This species of mint is employed in salads and sauces, as well as di'ied for soups in winter. There are two varieties —the broad and the narrow-leaved; both are equally good. Spice Biscuits, Almond" {see Ahnond Spice Biscuits). Spice Cakes. —These are the French gateaux d'epice; they are made of the follow- ing ingredients:—Treacle, one pint, the very freshest butter,_ half a pound, powdered gin- ger, an ounce, powdered cinnamon, an ounce, powdered allspice, a quarter of an ounce, coriander seeds and small cardamom seeds pounded, each a quarter of an ounce, candied lemon-peel chopped very fine, two ounces, tincture of vanUla, six drops, flour, as much as necessary. These ingredients are to be thus manipulated: the treacle being set over the fire, the butter is to be added, and, suc- cessively, all the other ingredients, except the flour. Let them, when well mixed, take a single boil, stirring all the while, then set them to cool. When cold, mix in with a wooden spoon as much flour as will convert the whole into a pretty stiff paste. Butter a tin baking- dish, and lay on it with the spoon the paste in bits of the size and shape necessary to form the small cakes or nuts. Set the baking-dish in the oven. You may ascertain when these cakes are done by taking one out of the oven, and letting it cool. If, when cold, it is hard, they are done enough. These are considered the ne plus ultra of French gingerbread-nuts. Spice, Mixed, for Seasoning Sauces, Stews, &C.—Take two dozen allspice, the i-ind of three lemons, a quarter of an ounce of mace, twelve cloves, and two nutmegs. Powder the ingredients, first separately, and after- wards together, and mix with them a salt- spoonful of cayenne and three ounces of white pepper. Put the powder into a perfectly dry ancT sound bottle, cork closely, and store in a dry place till wanted. It will retain its flavour for months. Spice, Mixed (another way),—Take three quarters of an ounce of ground allspice, three- quarters of an ounce of ground black pepper, three-quarters of an ounce of grated nutmeg, an ounce and a half of ground ginger, a dozen cloves powdered, and nine oimces of salt." Mix these ingredients thoroughly, put the powder into a (fij', closely-stoppered bottle, and keep it corked for use. Spice, Mixed, for White Sauce (see Kitchen Mixed Spice, &c.). Spice Nuts (a German recipe). — Take f om- eggs and beat them up; stir in a pound of sifted sugar, half an ounce of powdered cinna- mon, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cloves, and the peel of a lemon cut very fine. Stir these ingredients together for a quarter of an hour, then add by degrees a pound of flour and two ounces of candied peel. When this is well mixed, drop the preparation on buttered tins in small lumps. Bake in a moderate oven. Spices.—Under this head are ranged those vegetable products which are fragrant to the smeU and pungent to the palate. "All the substances classed as spices are the product of tropical climates only; none of ouj native plants, and no plants that come to maturity in the open air in this climate, possess sufficient aromatic flavour to be reckoned amongthe spices. The most valuable of these natural productions were originally found in the islands situated in the Indian Ocean, called the Spice Islands or Moluccas, and were probably conveyed from them in the most distant ages." The chief spices are pepper, cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, mace, ginger, allspice, &c. Spices, Wholesomeness of.—On the use of foreign spices we may quote Dr. Paris, in his work "On Diet." "These are not," he says, " intended by Nature for the inhabitants of temperate climes: they are heating and highly stimulant. I am, however, not anxious to give more weight to this objection than it deserves. Man is no longer the child of Nature, nor the passive inhabitant of any particular region; he ranges over every part of the globe, and elicits nourishment from the productions of every climate. It may be, therefore, necessary that he should accompany the ingestion of foreign aliment with foreign condiment. Na- ture is very kind in favouring the growth of those productions which are most likely to answer our local wants. Those climates, for instance, which engender endemic diseases are in general congenial to the growth of the plants which operate as antidotes to them. But if we go to the East for tea, there is no reason why we should not go to the West for sugar. The dyspeptic invalid, however, should be cautious in their use, for they may afford temporary benefit at the expense of permanent mischief. It has been well said that the best quality of spices is to stimulate the appetite, and their worst to destroy, by insensible degrees, the tone of the stomach. The intrinsic good- ness of meats should always be suspected when they require spicy seasoning to compensate for their natural want of sapidity." Spinach.—Spinach is a vegetable of an agreeable taste, light, and wholesome. It con- tains, however, very little nourishment. It should be washed in two or three waters, then drained on a sieve instead of being dried in a cloth, as it is ver>'- delicate, and needs to bo gently handled. It is generally boiled, and served with meat as a puree, or with cream or gravy; pr it maybe pressed into a moiUd, s^ni( 914 ) SPI BPI served in a shapo with poachod eggs laid upon it. It is to bo hud during tlu; spring and autunm. Turnip-tops, dandoliou leaves, boet- root-topB, and oven nettles, are sonietiuies served as a substitute fur it. Spinach, Boiled (common English method).—-Take two pailfuls of spinach, young and freshly-gathered. Pick away the stalks, Wash the leaves in several waters, Hft them out with the hands that the sand or grit may remain at the bottom, and drain them on a sieve. Put them into a saucepan with a good sprinkling of salt and the water which clings to the leaves, and let them boil until tender. Take the spinach up, drain it, and press it well; chop it small, and put it into a clean saucepan with a little pepper and salt and a slice of fresh butter. Stir it well for five minutes. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with fried sippets. Time to boil the spinach, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Spinach. Cream.—Break the yolks of four eggs in a bowl, and free them from specks. Beat them weU, and stir into them the third of a pint of hot milk and half a pint of thick cream. Sweeten the mixture, and put it into a saucepan with half a stick of cinnamon. Stir it over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken; add half a quarter of a pint of spinach juice, and stir it again till it is equally coloured. Slice some sponge biscuits, put them into a glass dish, pour the cream upon them, and lay thin strips of candied fruit on the siuTface. Serve cold. If preferred, macaroons or preserved oranges may be substituted for the sponge biscuits, or the cream may be served in custard glasses. To prepare tlie spinach juice, sec Spinach, Green, for Colouring. Time, a few minutes to simmer the custard. Probable cost, about 38. Sufficient for a moderate-sized sup- per-dish. Spinach, Croustades of. —Cut some bread into the shape of hearts, and slit tliem all round, then fry them in butter. Arrange the hearts in the form of a rosette. Nejtt cut a round of bread, which slit in the same way, and place it in the centre over th<; pointnof the hearts. Fry them till they an; of a fim- bj own, then cut out thcj interior, tjike out all the crumb, and fiU the space left with spimich, either with cream or con8omm6. Spinach, Dandelion-leaves dressed like.—When spinach is out of wjason, dande- lion leaves may be suljstituted for it. The young leaves only should ha used, and they may bo boiled and served just like spinach. As they shrink very much m boiling, a large quantity will be required for a moderate-sized dish. Turnip-tops, beetroot-to])8, and even young nettles, as we have remarked ekewhere, may all be used as substitutes for spinach. Spinach, Dressed.—Pick the leaves from the stem, wash them well, and throw them intfj a large saucepan, and salt them. If old, the spinach must have a little boiling water with it. Boil fast for ten minutes, then strain on the back of a sieve or colander ; press the spinach in a napkin, and squeeze out all the water that remains. Put the spinach into a stewpan with a little butter, pepper and salt, and about ten minutes before serving place it on the stove to be made hot; add about half a cupful of cream, pile the spinach on the dish, and send to table. " When spinach," says M. Ude, " is dressed to put under meat, whether fricandeau or sweet- bread, &c., it must be more highly seasoned than when dressed for entremets, and a little more liquid, as it is like sauce. Spinach is often used in sweet dishes to dye the almonds or make the green colour of the marbled biscuit. Pound in the mortar some of the spinach, and squeeze the juice out of it by pressing it through a towel; put the liquor into a small stewpan, and place the stewpan in a hot water bath to poach. When the green is settled at the bottom of the stewpan, drain it through a silk sieve, and use it for almonds, or whatever else requires green." " Spinach, English."—Garden patience is known in Germany as English spinach. It was formerly much cultivated in this country, but is now neglected. Spinach, French mode of Dressing. —Prepare the spinach exactly as in Spinach with Gravy. When it has been boiled, di*ained, soaked in cold water, squeezed dry, and chopped small, dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan, and stir the spinach in it over the fire tiU it is hot and dry. Add to it gradually two or three spoonfuls of boiling cream. Add a dessert-spoonful of powdered sugar and a little salt, and stir the mixture over the fire till the moisture is absorbed; then serve the spinach very hot. Garnish the dish with fried sippets, or freshly-baked pieces of puff paste cut into fancy shapes. Time, ten minutes to boil the spinach. Probable cost, spinach, 3d. to 6d. i)er pound. Spinach Fritters.—Take spinach and boil it thorouglily, drain it well, mincv, and add some grated bread, nutmeg, ginger, and cinna- mon, all pounded. Add as much cream oi yolks and whites of eggs as will make thf preparation of the consistence of batter; sovlgSPI ( 916 ) a few currants, and mix them in. Drop the batter into a frying-pan on boiling lard ; when the fritters rise, take them out, drain, and send to table. Spinacli, Green, for Colouring Soups, Sweet Dishes, &c.—Wash any quantity of spinach, and put it with the mois- ture stiU clinging to it into a moi-tar, and pound it to pulp. Press it through a sieve, or squeeze it in a cloth to obtain as much juice as possible from it. Pour the juice into a jar, and set this into a pan of water on the point of boiling, and let it simmer till the juice is set. Take it when thus finished, and laj' it on a sieve, to drain the water from it. Place it in a covered basin, and keep it in a cool place till wanted. If soup is to be coloured, mix a little greening with a little boiling stock, and add the remainder. If sweet dishes are in question, mix a little of the prepared juice with finely- powdered sugar, and add this to the ingredients. Time to poach the juice, three or four minutes. Spinacli, German Mode of Cook- ing.—" Spinach," says the compilerof " German National Cookery," " requires to lie in water a little while, and to be several times rinsed in fresh water. Put it into boiling water with salt; give it eight or ten minutes gentle boiling uncovered. If its earthy flavour is objected to, throw it into plenty of cold water when boiled enough, then drain, and press it dry; chop it fine. Make butter hot, throw it into some grated bread-crumbs, then add the spinach. Or make a thick butter-sauce, and stir the spinach into this to get thoroughly hot. Serve garnished with either cutlets, sausages, hai-d- boiled eggs sliced, and sippets of buttered toast, or poached eggs. If the f uU flavour of the spinach is liked, simply wash it well, clear it of the large stems, and drain it. Put a piece of butter in a saucepan, and when melted put in the spinach; cover, and as it shrinks put in more. Let it cook in its own juice. Sprinkle salt over as you put it in. Spinach in Consomme. — Take par- ticular care when the spinach is picked that no stalks or weeds are left amongst it. The least oversight may cause the spinach to be good for nothing, in spite of whatever trouble you may take in cooking it. It should be washed several times in a great quantity of water. Then boil some water in a vessel large enough for the spinach to float with ease. Put a great deal of salt that it may preserve its green colour, and press it down frequently with a wooden spoon that it may be done equally. When it has boiled a few times, try whether it can be squeezed easily between your two fingers; then, without loss of time, put it into a colander to drain the hot water. Next put it into a great quantity of cold water to keep it green. When it is quite cold make it into balls, and squeeze it well till quite dry. Then spread it on the table with your knife to ascertain that no im- proper substance is left among it. Chop it very line; put a good piece of butter into a stewpan, and lay the spinach over the butter. Let it dry over a gentle fire, and then dredge it with a spoouful of flour. Moisten with a few spoonfuls of consomme, and let it stew briskly that it may not tm-n yellow. Make it rich with a smaU bit of glaze. If you intend to send it up as an entree with a ham or a tongue, &c., you must mix a few spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, and let it be well seasoned. Some people Uke nutmeg; in that case you may grate a httle into it. Spinach thus prepared may be used with a fricandeau, sweetbreads of veal, and breasts of veal or of mutton. Spinach, Lamb Cutlets and {see Lamb Cutlets and Spinach). Spinach Omelet.—Beat a large table- spoonful of flour smoothly with four table- spoonfuls of cold milk; add two ounces of but- ter melted, a seasoning of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and the yolks of four well- beaten eggs. Wash thoroughly and afterwards shred finely a quarter of a pound of spinach, a quarter of a pound of beet, half an ounce of parsley, a quarter of an ounce of lemon-thyme, and a quarter of an ounce of leeks. Mix the chopped vegetables together, and stir them into the soup. Butter a pie-dish thickly just before the omelet is to be baked; whisk the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, stir them into the preparation, turn it into a butter dish, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons. Spinach, Ox Tail Stewed with {see Ox Tail Stewed with Green Peas or Spinach). Spinach, Plainly Dressed.—Pick the leaves from the stalks, and wash the spinach in several waters to free it from sand and grit. Put it into a large saucepan with as much water only as will keep it from burning ; add a small spoonful of salt, and turn it frequently tiU it is quite tender. Drain it on a colander, squeeze it dry, chop it small, and add pepper and salt. Put it when thus chopped again into the colander, place this over the fire upon a saucepan of boiling water with a small lump of butter, and turn the vegetable about that the steam passing through the holes of the colander may dry the vegetable. When hot and quite dry, serve immediately. Sometimes fried sippets of bread are put round the spinach, or bread fried and cut into dice is sprinkled upon it. Time to boil the spinach, ten minutes or more, according to the age of the leaves. _ Probable cost, 3d. to 6d. per poimd. Sufficient, two pounds for four or five persons. Spinach Pudding,—Take six good table- spoonfuls of spinach when boiled, pressed, and chopped (or, it may be, spinach dressed the pre- vious day); add the same quantity of bread- crumbs soaked in milk and drained, a little salt, grated nutmeg, or mace, and four eggs beaten up; mix all well together; butter a pud- dmg-mould, and boil one hour and a half. Spmach pudding is eaten with melted butter or shrimp sauce. Spinach Pp^e of, with Butter.— 1 ick the stalks from three pounds of spinach, and wash it in two or three waters. Lift it out of the water with the fingers that the sandSPI SPI may settle at the bottom, and put it into a saucepan with as much boiUng water slightly salted as will keep it from burning. Keep it boiling till it is tender, and press it xmdor the water occasionally with a wooden spoon. Drain it well; carefully pick away any stalks or fibi'o that may still remain in it, and rub it tlirough a coarse sieve. I'ut the pulp into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter and a little pepper and salt, and stii- it briskly over the lire till it is quite hot. Add a spoonful or two of sauce, and lot it remain on the tiro, siining all the time, for five minutes. Serve very hot, and garnish with fi-ied sippets, or pile it in the centre of a dijh, and place lamb or mutton cutlets on end round it, the long bones inclining towards each other. Time to boil the spinach, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Spinach Sauce, for Boiled Fowls, &C.—Wash the spinach in two or three waters. Pick the leaves from' the stalks, drain it, and stew it with as much water only as will keep it fi-om burning. Squeeze the moisture from it, and beat it with a wooden spoon tiU smooth. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, piit in the spinach, and stir it till it is quite hot and dry. Add pepper and salt and as much boiling milk as will make the sauce of the con- sistency of thick cream. Stir till smooth, and serve very hot. Time to boil the spinach, about ten minutes. Spinach Soup.—Wash some freshly- gathered young spiaach leaves. Shred finely as many as will fill a large basin, and put with them a lettuce, also finely shred, and two or three leaves of sorrel. Throw them into boiling water, and let them boil quickly for five or six minutes. Drain them, put them into plenty of cold water to preserve the colour, and squeeze the moisture from them. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a saucepan. Mix it smoothly with a heaped table-spoonful of flour; add the vege- tables gradually, and when they are roughly blended with the water and floiu-, pour in, Httle by little, two quarts of boiling water or vege- table stock. Boil all gently together for a quarter of an hour. Put in, o£E the fire, a gill of boiling milk or cream, and pepper and salt, if required, and serve very hot. Time, about an hour. Spinach Soup (another way).—Prepare the spinach as recommended in the article Spinach, Dressed; boil it for about six or seven minutes, press the water out, put it in a stewpan with some butter, a little flour, a small onion, and two or three sprigs of parsley. Fry on the gtove for a short time, then add a little good stock, and let the soup simmer slowly for about twenty minutes. Pass it through a fine hair sieve, put it back into the stewpan, add a small pat of butter, a piece of glaze, and a little sugar and salt. Let the soup boU, then serve with small croutons of fried bread. Spinach Soup (a la Fran9aise).—Make as much clear stock as will be needed, and put it boiling hot into the tureen. Have ready some spinach bbiled in the usual way. Press this tiU quite drj', season with pepper and sfilt, }in(l i^iake it into balls j/he size of a wahiut. Gently and carefully slip these into the golden colour(!d stock. Tht; contrasting eolours in the soup will have a very good ajipearance. Spinach Soup (a maigre soup).—Tak.- ch(,pi).,.d spinach to fill a large liowl, a lettuce and two leaves of sorrel; fry th<;ni in butter until browned, put them in a saucepan with three pints of boiling water, also an onion stuck round with cloves, a very stale French roll sliced, and some bLanched and shred pistachio kernels. Let all simmer together. Beat up the yolks of eight eggs with a little wine and the juice of a lemon, and add to the broth when strained. Serve with a toasted French roll in the centre of the dish, and garnish with poached egg and scalded spinach. Spinach Soup (a maigre soup—another way).—Put six oimces of butter in a stewpan; when browned, throw in three sliced onions, three heads of celery, two handf uls of spinach, some cabbage, thi-ee turnips, three cabbage- lettuces, a bunch of parsley, a little water, and season with white pepper and salt to taste. Stew all together gently for half an hour, then add two quarts of water. Simmer till the rooti-: are tender, when any portion, or the wh'olc, may be taken out. Put in the crust of a French roll, and serve. Spinach, To Serve.—This vegetable must be washed thoroughly in several waters to free it from grit. To do this lift it out of the water in both hands a small quantity at a time. The stalk must be pulled from each leaf before boiling. Put the prepared spinach into an empty saucepan, sprinkle a little salt over it, and stir it constantly to prevent burning. Boi 1 the spinach till it becomes tender. Place the boiled spinach on a colander or sieve, press it, chop it on a clean board, put it into a sauce- pan, add butter and broth—taking care, how- ever, not to thin it too much with the broth— and taste whether it is salt enough. Stir it over the fire till the liquid is absorbed, pile on a hot dish, and serve. Half an oimce of butter and one table-spoonful of cream or broth, will be enough for one pound of spinach. If cream a day old is to be obtained, we may finally in- corporate a little flour with it, and add the whole to the spinach. To embellish this dish, cut milk bread into slices, forming the crust into points, fry in butter till yellow, prepare poached eggs, and serve the spinach, placing round it first an egg and then a crust alter- nately, sprinkling bread-crumbs over the vege- table itself. Spinach with Cream.—Boil and drain two pounds of spinach in the usual way. Press it between two plates to free it thoroughly from moisture, and heat it in a clean saucepan with a little pepper and salt and a small lump of butter. When it is dry, add very gradually two table-spoonfuls of boiling cream, and siin- mei it gently for five minutes. Serve very hot. If liked, gravy may be substituted for the cream. Time to boil the spinach, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Spinach with Cream (another way)— Blancli and |)n ])are it in the usual way, only uw;(91?) cream instead of broth. Boil the cream before you throw it over tho spinach. If it should curdle, the cream only is lost, whereas otherwise you would lose the spinach, butter, and all. Spinach with cream requires a little sugar and nutmeg. It is needless to repeat that a little salt is also requisite, as there can be no good seasoning without it. You must always have fried toasts of bread roimd the spinach when you send it up to table. Spinach with Eggs.—Wash the spinach i;i several waters. Pick off all the stalks, reject the decayed and discoloured leaves, and boil the spinach with as much slightly-salted water as wdl keep it from burning. Leave the saucepan uneovered. Press the spinach under the water ocfasionnlly, and let it boil till tender. Put it into a colander, and press the moisture from it with the back of a plate. Mince it finely, then put it into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter and a little pepper and salt, and stir it well till it is hot and dry. Put it on a hot dish, smooth it with the blade of a knife, and mark it in squares. Place as many poached eggs as there are guests on the top of the spinach, or, if preferred, put them round it, each egg on a piece of buttered toast. Serve the whole very hot. If a superior dish is required, the spinach, after being boiled till tender, may be rubbed through a -wire sieve, and the pulp heated with a slice of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of thick cream, and a little pepper and salt. To poach the eggs, proceed as follows:—Break the eggs carefully into separate cups. Have ready a small omelet-pan with as much boiling water in it as will cover the eggs. Throw into this a tea-spoonful of vinegar and a pinch of salt. Slip the eggs gently into the water one at a time. As soon ao one sets, put in another, and boil them gently imtil done enough. When the yolks are covered with a thin fihny vcU, and the whites are firm, lift the eggs out vnth a slice, di-ain them for a moment, and place them on the spinach. Time to boil the spinach, ten to fifteen minutes. Spinach with Gravy.—Take three pounds of spmach. Pick the leaves from the stalks, and wash them weU in several waters, dram them, throw them into a saucepan with plenty of sUghtly-salted boiUng water, and let them boil for five minutes. Press the spinach, and throw it mto cold water for half an hour to preserve the colour. Take it out of the water a little at a time, make it into smaU balls, press the moisture thoroughly from it, spread It on a dish pick out any stalks or straws that may have been inadvertently left in it, and chop It small. Mix an ounce of butter smoothlv m a saucepan with an ounce of flour, add a pmch of salt, and stir the mixture over the fire lor three m.mites. Put in the spinach, and stir It tor five minutes. Pour in a quarter of a pint ot stock, and when this is thoroughly blended with the vegetable add, a httlo at a time, half a pint more: stir the spinach again for five mmutos Lift it from the fire, stir into it tlu dissolved an ounce of fresh butter, and serve very hot. Garnish the dish with triangular gieces of crumb of bread haH an inch tS Spinach when thus diseased wiU constitute enjoyable accompaniment to veal or boUedi mutton. With roast meat it is best when aerved plain. Time, altogether, about an hour. Probable cost of spinach, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Spinach with Gravy (another way).— Prepare the spinach exactly as in the foregoing recipe. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan, put in the spinach, and stir it till the butter has dried away. Add a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of sugar, and as much grated nutmeg as will cover a sixpence. Stir it again, and moisten with two table-ispoonf uls of highly-seasoned veal broth and a tea-spoonf ul of chilli vinegar. Stir it over the fire till the liquid is absorbed, and serve very hot. Time, altogether, about an hour. Probable cost of spinach, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Spirit of Lemon-peel.—When fresh lemons cannot be procured, mix two ounces of rectified sphits of wine with one drachm of essential oil of lemons. Put the preparation into a small bottle, and keep it closely stoppered till wanted. The flavour of fresh lemon-peel inay be imparted to any dish by the addition of three or four drops of this mixture. One to two table-spoonfuls of it will also convert a tiunblerful of water into lemonade. Spirits.—These alcoholic drinks diifer from wines and beers in the fact that they are distilled from some form of fermented liquor. We may obtain the alcohol from beer or wine, or from any substance containing sugar which is fer- mented. As an illustration of the sources from which alcohol may be obtained, Loudon, in his " Encyclopasdia of Gardening," tells the story of aoi Irish gardener who was always drunk, yet no one ever knew where he got the means to indulge his propensity. It was not till he was watched with great perseverance that the source of hi» mebnety was discovered. It was found that he had mgeniously contrived to make a small still out of two watering-pots attached by their spouts. Into one of these he introduced a mash ot fermentmg carrots, from which, by the aid of heat from an oil lamp, he was enabled to obtam a coarse imitation of his beloved potheen Alcohol then, under the form of distilled spmts, may be obtained from any saccharine substance m a state of fermentation. Araka is manufactured in Tartary from fermented mares' milk, anka from cows' milk. Aqua ardipnte is procured m Mexico from the sweet juice of the American sloe. In the East Indies, Arrack is made from fermenting rice or pabn sago. Fer- menting Machaleb cherries are the source of the German Kirschwasser. Maraschino is made from mamiska cherries in Dalmatia. From rice wme a Chmeg ^^.^.^^ Whow-choo, is distiUed. In short, there hardly exists a race of men who have not acquired the art of distilling^ alcohol ^,7^/ T r^f*-^'' the fermentation of sugar In Bntam, we are more particularly ac- quamted with brandy, gin, whisky, and rum. Brandy is produced by the distillation of wine alone, and not ±rom any other fermented liquor; any spu:its ma-'e from other liquors than whie are mxproperv termed brandy. Brandy^s(918 ) SPO SPI prepared in all the wine countries of Europe, but particularly in l*Vauco, where, however, the localitiua of the best Frouclx bruiuly are ex- tromolj' limited. The j,Tapo8 most proper for wines are not the best suited for brandy. The general mode of preparing brandy is oxtromiily simple, being nothing more tlian a well-regu- lated distillation of wine in suitable vessels. At the commencement of the vintage, the manufacturers collect all the grapes tliat are not fit for good-wine, ferment their juices, and distil them for brandy ; they also use for this pui-pose all wines that have failed in the making —although, if they have become at all acid, the brandy is tainted. The spu-it next in importance is Gin. "This word is a corruption of Geneva, as that is of the French word genievre, or juniper. Gin is also called Hollands. Geneva, however, is not gin, but a kind of liquor made from the berries of the juniper, which contain as much as thirty- four per cent, of sugar, and may be easily fer- mented. Gin was first made in Holland, and was brought into this country as Hollands gin. It is distilled from com malt, and various sub- stances are added to it to give it flavour. The most common substances of this kind are juni- per berries, but a variety of substances are added to suit the taste of the customer, so that no two gins are alike. In this comitry every gin distiller uses his own ingredients, whilst the retailer of gin has also his particular recipes for rendering his gin profitable or palatable, or both. Sometimes injurious substances are added to gin to make it taste strong, as sul- phuric acid and sulphate of zinc; these, how- ever, are adulterations. The substances used for flavouring gin are numerous enough. Thus we find enumerated bitter almonds, turpentine, creosote, lemon, cardamoms, caraways, • cassia, garlic, Canada balsam, horseradish, cayenne pepper, and grains of paradise. None of these things are poisonous, and probably all of them assist in determining the action of the alcohol of the gin as a diuretic. Gin does not usually contain so much alcohol as brandy—not more than eight ounces to the pint being found i a the best gins. Sugar is added by many distillers, but others do not add this ingredient. Gin, as it is retailed, always contains sugar, and not frequently more than four ounces of alcohol to the pint. It is consequently a weaker spirit generally than brandy, and so far is perhaps less injurious when taken raw. The practice, how- ever, of taking any kind of raw spirits is a very hazardous proceeding, and cannot be habitually indulged in without danger."—Dr. Lankester. Whisky is a spirit produced by :?i8tillation from grain, roots, and other materials. The best is obtained from barley after it has been malted, though that which goes imdor the name of raw grain whisky, made from wheat, oats, rye, Indian com, rice, &c., after being kept for two or three years, almost as good. Whisky is also manufactured from potatoes, beetroot, beans, molaa.so.s, sugar, &o.,malt b(!ing sometimes added to a small extent._ Tliis spnit used to be made almost solely in Scotland, Ireland, and the United States; but distilleries now, however, are nnmerouH in England, France, Germany, Holland, and veden. The foreign spirit iB, as a rule, coarse in quality, and only suited for fortifying wines. Wliiiiky has frequently a slight smoky flavour, supposed to be owing to the way in which it is prepared. The whisky ordinarily sold in Engbind is more free from ilavouring ingredients than any other form of distilled spirit. " Rum," says Dr. Lankester, in his valuable work " On Food," " is less generally consumed in England than the other spirit; but from the fact of its being supplied by the Government to our soldiers and sailors, large quantities are entered for consumption in Great Britain. It is principally made in the West Indies, and our supplies are almost wholly drawn from Janiaica, where it is manufactured from the fermented scum of the sugar boilers and molasses. A fla- vour is often given to it by the addition of slices of pine-apple. It is usually sold much above proof, so that a pint of rum will con- tain fifteen ounces of alcohol. It kas a peculiai- odour, which is due to butyric ether. Like brandy, it improves by keeping, and probably develops the same class of bouquets as wine. The action of the alcohol of rum is of course the same as that of other fermented liquors; but Dr. Edward Smith has pointed out a curious fact in its action on the system, and that is, that it increases the quantity of carbonic acid thrown out from the limgs. This may be due to the butyric ether. Whether this suggestion be correct or not, it is a curious fact, resulting from Dr. Smith's experiments, that whilst other alcoholic drinks decrease the expiration of car- bonic acid, rum sho\ild increase it." Spit, Cradle {see Cradle Spit). Sponge Biscuits.—Break four fresh eggs, and put the yolks and whites into separate bowls. Take out the specks, beat the yolks thoroughly, and add gradually, beating the mixture briskly, half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, a dessert-spoonful of orange- flower water, a quarter of a pound of flour, and lastly the whites of the eggs whisked to a froth. Make some biscuit tins hot. Grease them with butter, and while hot sift powdered sugar over them. Three-parts fill them with the batter, and sprinkle sugar over them before putting them into the oven, which must be very brisk. \yTien done enough turn them out of the tins, and lay them on a sieve. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Sponge Cake (a German recipe).—Take half a pound of sifted sugar and the yolks of ten eggs; stir these ingredients for a quarter of an hour. Add six ounces of butter beaten to a cream, half a pound of fine flour, and the grated peel of a lemon and its juice. When these are thoroughly stirred in, add the whites of the ten eggs whipped to a snow. Stir all well together. Then take one or two moulds and butler them. Fill the moulds three-parts full, strew thm shces of ahnonds and some coarsely-powdered sugar on the top, and bake the cakes m a mode- rate oven. SDOnee Cake (another way).—Boil three quarters of a pound of :.lie finest loaf sugar pounded in a quarter or a pint of waterSPO SPO ■( 919 ) containing a lai^ Bpoonfal of orange-flower water. Have ready the yolks of seven eggs and the whites of five beaten separately and then mixed, whisk them weU, and as you do so pour into them the hot syrup. Stand the basin over a saucepan of boiling water, draw it back and whip the mixture for twenty minutes. Stir in lightly o£E the fire half a pound of dried and sifted flour. Add a little finelj'-shred lemon-peel, and put the batter into the baking-pan, which must be greased and sugared as in the last recipe. This cake may be made without the orange-flower water. Sponge Cake, Almond, Superior.— Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, thiow them into cold water as they are done, dry them well, and pound smoothly, sprinkling the whole of three eggs upon them during the pro- cess. Work thoroughly with them a spoonful of grated lemon-rind, a poimd of powdered sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of fifteen eggs. Take the remaining whites of the eggs (making altogether fifteen, inclusive of those which were mixed with the almond-paste), whisk these to a firm froth, and stir them into the cake. Dredge into it a quarter of a pound of dried flour, and beat it briskly for a few minutes. Butter a mould, sift powdered sugar into it, pour the batter in till it is half fuU, and bake immediately. Let the cake stand a few minutes, turn it out carefully, and put it on a sieve. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, 28. Sponge Cake, Almond (another way).— See Almond Sponge Cake. Sponge Cake Pudding.—Take three or four stale sponge biscuits, or an equal quantity of stale sponge cake, cut it into slices, put these into a thickly-buttered dish, and pour upon them a pint and a half of boiling milk which has been sweetened and flavoured with a table-spoonful of brandy and with lemon or almond flavouring. Cover the dish with a plate, and let the pudding soak for an hour. Beat it up with a fork, stir into it three or four weU-beaten eggs, pour some clarified fresh butter upon the top, sift powdered sugar on the surface, and bake the pudding in a gentle oven. If liked, cream may be used instead of milk. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Sponge Cake, Vanilla {see Vanilla Sponge Cake). Sponge Cakes, Cocoa-nut {see Cocoa- nut Sponge Cakes). Sponge Cakes, Iced. — Make some sponge batter in the usual way, and bake it in a moderate oven in a largo flat «iko an inch thick. When done enough take it out, let it get cold, and with a sharp knife cut it into lancy shapes of any size and form. Put these on a baking sheet, spi oad jam over them, and place (m this a coating of icing a quarter of an inch thi<;k. Put th(!m in a screen or in a wann situation till the icing is firmly set, and use them for dessert, &c. The icing may be prepared as follows ;—Break the whites of two eggs into a bowl, stir into them sufficient fine sugar to make a stiffish paste, and beat the mixture briskly with a wooden spoon. Add every now and then one or two drops of lemon-juice. When ready, cover the icing with a wet cloth till wanted. Sponge Cakes (safe general rule for making all sizes).—Take any number of fresh eggs, with their weight in sugar, haK their weight in flour, and any flavouring that may be chosen. Break the eggs, put the yolks and the whites into separate bowls, and take away the specks. Beat the yolks and the sugar together, add the flour, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. _ Beat the mixture thoroughly, put the batter into a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a brisk oven. Sponge Cakes, Small.—No. i. Take eight eggs, with their weight in powdered sugar, and the weight of four of them in dried and sifted fiour. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar and whatever flavouring is ap- proved for a quarter of an hour, stir in the flour lightly and gradually, and when it is smoothly mixed add the whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. Butter the tins, half fill them with the batter, sift pow- dered sugar over them, and bake in a quick oven. Take them out of the tins before they are cold, place them upside down on a sieve, and let them remain for an hour. Place them in a closely-covered tin canister to re- main tiQ wanted. The cakes must not be allowed to acquire much colour. No. 2. Break five eggs, and put the yolks and the whites into separate bowls. Beat the yolks with half a pound of sugar till the mixture is light and smooth, add the whites whisked to a firm froth, four ounces of dried and sifted flour, and the grated rind and strained juice of one lemon. Put into tins, and bake as before. No. 3. Break two eggs into a bowl. Beat them till light and frothy, add a tea-cupful of powdered sugar, and, gradually, a tea-cupful of dried flour. Put the batter into tins, and bake the cakes in a brisk oven. Time to bake, from ten to fifteen minutes. Sponge Cakes (various recipes).—No. 1. Break seven eggs, and put the whites and the yolks iuto separate bowls. Take out the specks, and beat the yolks of the eggs, add half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of half a lemon, six ounces of dried flour, and lastly the whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. Grease a hot tin with butter free from moisture. Wliile still warm, sift sugar upon it, pour in the batter, and bake the cake in a moderate oven. Time to to bake, three-quarters of an hoiu- to one hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d. for a cake this size. No. 2. Bruise half a pound of vanilla, tie it in muslin, and simmer it gently with a pound of loaf sugar tUl the sjTup is clear and pleasantly flavoured. Strain it through a jelly-bag, and stir it til] cool. Beat the whites of three oggs to a firm froth, stir them into the syrup, add the well- beaten yolks of six eggs, and lastly six ounces of dried flour. When the batter is'thoroughly mixed, pour it int-; p, well-oiled mould, and bak?( 020 ) SPO the cakos imiuoJiatoly in a woll-lujutciU oven. If likud, th(3 Hyrup can be flavoured with lemon- rind iustcad of vanilla. Time to baku, about an liour. No. 3. Take throo i^gyH and thuir weight in Hour, and four eggs and their wtiight in sugar. Put the yolks of the seven eggs and the sugar into a saucepan, and boat thorn over a gentle lire till they aro ncw-niilk-warm. Pour them into a biisin, and put with them a table- spoonful of brandy and any flavouring that may bo preferred. Stu- them well together, and dredge the floiu- in very gradually, beating the mixture all the time. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a solid froth, stir them into the bat- ter, and beat it again for a quarter of an hour. Butter a mould, sprinkle powdered sugar upon it, pour in the cake, and put it immediately into a well-heated oven. Time to bake, about one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sponge Cakes with Apple Snow.— Cut four or live stale penny sponge cakes into thin slices ; lay these on a glass dish, and pour over them half a pint of good custard or cream favoured with a little brandy. Bake half a dozen large apples in a well-heated oven tiU they break and are soft. Scrape the pulp away from the sldn and cores, weigh it, and a quarter of an hour before it is wanted beat up with half a pound of it the strained juice of a lemon, as much powdered sugar as will sweeten it pleasantly—the quantity needed wiU depend upon the quality of the apples—and the well- whisked whites of two eggs. Beat the apple- mixture with a whisk tiU it looks light and frothy, and has the appearance of snow, pUe it on the custaxd, and serve immedia tely. Time, two houi's to soak the sponge cakes in the custard. Probable cost, Is. 6d. if the custard be made with milk. Sufficient for a small supper dish. Sponge, Orange {see Orange Sponge). Sponge, Savoy.—Break six eggs, and put the yolks and whites into separate bowls. Beat the yolks lightly, and then add a pinch of salt, half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, and a little flavouring. Beat these ingredients together briskly w^th a wooden spoon for a quarter of an hour. Add a quarter of a pound of corn-flour, and, lastly, stir in lightly the whites of the eggs whisked to a firin fiftth. Pour the batter gently into a mould which has been buttered and covered with sifted sugar, and bake the cake in a moderate oven. Turn it out carefully, and put it on a sieve till cold. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, about Is. Sprats.—This is a very common fish on many parts of the British coas*., and elsewhere in the northern parts of the Atlantic. It is smaller than the herring, being only about six inches long when iuU-grown. It strongly re- sembles the herring, however, though it is easily distinguished "by the serrated belly, and by the position of the fins, the ventral fins beginning immediately beneath the first ray of the dorsal fin, and not beneath the middle of it, aa in the herring and pilchard. ;^other easUy-pbscrved distinction is the waotot RxUlary bmrstotho ventral fins, whieli both the huxing- tuid pil- chard have. The dentition is also different. Notwithstanding aU this, an old opinion has often been put forward, and urged with some pertinacity on jiubUc attention, tliat the sprat is the young of the herring, which, therefore, it is injurious to a more important fishery to cap tiue." The Firth of Perth produces sprats- caUed "garvies" hi Scotliind—so abundantlj- that they are sold in Edinbiugh and Glasgow by measui-e, and cheaper than any other kind of fish. Sprats are wholesome, and of a good flavour. They may be smoked, dried, potted, or fried, but they are best when broiled, as they are of a very oily nature. They are in season during the winter. They should be chosen as fresh as possible. This may be known by the brightness of their eyes and their silvery look. Though many persons eat them with salt alone, it will be found that their flavour is improved by the addition of a squeeze of lemon-juice and a pinch of cayenne. Sprats, Baked.—Clean the sprats, cut off the heads, draw them at the gills, and dry them with a soft doth. Put them into a dish, and cover \rith equal quantities of vinegar and water. Add a little seasoning in the pro- portion of a bay-leaf, a small onion, two or three allspice, a little salt, and a quarter of an ounce of whole pepper with each pint of the liquor. Cover the dish closely, and bake the sprats tiU done enough in a gentle oven. When they are cold, take off the cover, pour cold vinegar over them, and tie them up. They will keep for a week or two. Time to bake, half to three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Id. per poimd. Sprats, Broiled.—Clean the sprats, dry them well, and draw them at the gills. Dip them lightly in flour, fasten them in rows on small skewers run through the heads, and broil them on a closely-barred gridiron over a slow fire. When they are done upon one side, turn them on the other. Serve them on a very hot dish. They are generally served dry, but if liked a Uttle lemon-juice may be squeezed over them at the last moment. Time to broil the sprats, four or five minutes. Probable cost. Id. or 2d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for three personsl Sprats, Dried.—Dried sprats are some- times eaten plain, but they are very dry and salt. If Uked, they may be sUghtly broiled, but perhaps the best way of serving them is to put thein in a basin, pour boiling -water upon them; then in a few minutes skin them, and serve them very hot. Sprats, Fried.-'Clean the sprats, dry them well, draw them at the gills, dredge them with flour, and run a smaU skewer through tho heads of about a dozen of them. Fry them on tho skewer in plenty of hot fat, and when they are nicely browned Uft them on a hot dish covered with blotting-paper, and put them before the firo tiU the fat has drained from them. Fold a hot plate in a warm napkm; lay this on a hot dish, draw the skewer from the( 921. ;^prat3, place them upon it, and guniidh. tho lihh. w ith pirslcy and lemon. Serve as hot as pos- sible. Sometimes the sprats are dipped in egg .md bread-crumbs before being fried. Time to fry, two to three minutes. Sufficient for one or tv>-o persons. Sprats, IVied.—It has been said that if sprats were as scarce as smelts they would be as much esteenxed. Wash them clean, dry in a cloth, powder with flour or fine bread or bis- cuit-crumbs ; then fry in boiling grease, drain on a sieve before the fire, and serve very hot. Sprats, Pickled.—Take a quarter of a peck of sprats as fresh as they can be obtained. Clean them, cut ofi: the heads, and in doing so draw them and put them into strong brine for an hour. Drain and dry them, and put them in layers into a pickling jar. Between each layer sprinkle salt and saltpetre, and let this be also sprinkled under the first layer and over the hist. When the jar is full, press the fish down lightly, and cover the jar closely. The fish may be used in three or four months. The salt may bo mixed in the following proportions: —Half a pound of salt, half a pound of bay- salt, a table-spoonful of white sugar, an ounce of saltpetre, and a pinch of cochineal. Dry the salt, crush and pound it thoroughly, and mix it with the other ingredients, and it will be ready for use. When wanted, the pickled sprats may be fried in butter, and served on buttered toasts, or they may be freed from skin and bone, pounded to paste, and covered with clarified butter. Sprats, Pickled (another way).—Take a number of small sprats, cut off the heads, and wash the bodies well. Strew a quantity of salt over them, and let them lie in a pan all night. Take them out next day, and wipe them well. Then put in a stone jar, or in an ii-on saucepan, a quantity of vinegar in proportion to the quan- tity of sprats. If the vinegar is in a stone jar, put it into an oven to boil; if in an ii-on vessel, place it over the fire. Put into the vinegar a bunch of parsley-root, some tarragon leaves, a sprig of thyme, one of marjoram, an onion stuck with cloves, and four or five shallots. Let the vinegar boil with these herbs, then strain it into another stone jar, and let it get cold. Meanwhile, have ready some wide- mouthed pickle or anchovy bottles. Put a layer of sprats at the bottom of each bottle, then a bay-leaf, then a pinch of salt, a grain or two of allspice, and a few peppercorns; then another layer of sprats; and so on until the bottles are full. Then fill them with the vinegar when it is quite cold. Cork the bottles, put bladder over the corks, and sealing wax upon the bladder. In six months they will be fit for use. Smelts pickled in the same way are admirable. Sprats, Stewed.—Clean and wipe the sprats, cut off the heads, draw out *tho gut, and place them in even layers in a mode- rate-sized saucepan. Between each layer put a pinch of salt, three peppercorns, and three allspice. Barely cover the fish with vine- gar, and let them simmer very gently without boiling until done enough. Time to simmer, one hour. Probable cost. Id. or 2d. per pound. Spring-Herbs Soup (excellent for puri- fying the blood).—Shred finely a handful o2 young dandelion-leaves, and the same quan- tity of chervil and purslain, together with five or six sorrel-leaves and two cabbage lettuces. Wash them well, then drain them, and steam them in a closely-covered saucepan with a little pepper and salt and an ounce of fresh butter. In ten minutes dredge a table-spoonful of flour upon them, and add a pint and a half of white stock. Let the soup simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, and keep stirring it during aU the time. Strain into it half a pint of boiling milk, and add a tea-^spoonful of powdered white sugar. Put the yolks of two eggs into the soup-tureen. Boat them with a spoonful of the soup, which, though thoroughly hot, must not be quite boiling; add the rest of the soup gradually, and serve immediately. If pre- ferred, cream may be used instead of milk. Time, about an hour, exclusive of the time consumed in preparing the stock. Sufficient for four or five persons. Spring Salad.—Take young and freshly- cut spring vegetables, such as lettuces, young radishes, mustard and cress, and a few spring onions, if liked. If they are clean and free from insects, look them carefully over, and wipe them with a cloth, or if necessary plunge them into cold water for a moment, but on no account let them remain in it longer than is necessary to cleanse them. If they have been washed, dry them perfectly. The best way of doing this is to let them drain for a little time, then put a small quantity at a time into a dry napkin; shake this by the foui- comers till aU the moisture is expelled. The goodness of a salad depends to a great extent upon the vege- tables being perfectly dry. Tear them into small pieces with the hands; arrange them in the salad-bowl, so that the light and dark greens shall contrast prettily. Put the radishes and onions round, and garnish the dish with parsley or nastui-tium leaves, beetroot, hard- boiled egg, &c. Send any good salad-sauce {see Salad, Mayonnaise Sauce for) to table in a boat, and stir it briskly into the salad at the moment of serving. If it should be preferred, the salad-sauce may be dispensed with, and the salad prepared as foUows :—For a moderate- sized salad-bowl of salad, mix in the salad-spoon a spoonful of mustard, a spoonful of salt, and half a spoonful of pepper, and stir into these a table-spoonful of vinegar, and if liked a few drops of tarragon vinegar may be added. Work these lightly but thoroughly into the salad, then put in four table-spoonfuls of best lucca oil, and stir the salad again for a few minutes. Serve immediately. Spring Salad (another way).—The fol- lowing is an old-English spring salad of 1682 :— I' There is a sort of salad commonly gathered in the spring, consisting of divers young buds and sprouts both of trees and herbs, the "which being gathered discreetly with nothing but what is very young and tender, and so that no one thing exceed the other, but there may be a fine agreement in their relishing, so it will be very acceptable to many: Violets, small sprouts of bumet, young leaves of primroses and flowers,( 922 ) mints, aorrel, budb of gooueborrieH, roses, bar- berrios, flowors of bui-ago, bugloss, cowpagles, and ai'chiingol." Spring Soup.—Tako a mixture of any or all kinds of early vogutables, such as young turnips and carrots, spring onions, mustard and cross, cauliflowora, lettuce, green peas, aspara- gus-tops, &c. A very small bunch of i)arsley and a little chervil, and three or four leaves of sorrel finely shred may be added if liked. Half a pound of mixed vegetables will bo sufficient for a quart of stock. With small vegetable-scoops cut the vegetables into fancy shapes of about the same size, or into thin shreds about an inch long. Throw those into boiling water, and let them remain for a minute or two. Drain them, and put them into another saucepan with as much boiling clear stock (see Clear Soup, Excellent) as is required. Let the soup boil gently till the vegetables are done enough. Taste in order to ascertain whether further seasoning is required, and serve very hot. In boiling the vegetables, it should be remembered that some will need to boil longer than others, and therefore they must not all be put in together. Time, altogether, about an hour and a half. Sufficient, a quart of soup for five or six persons. Probable cost, varying with the ingredients. Spring Soup, Early.—Take a knuckle of veal chopped in pieces, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, a quart of whole white peas, two or three turnips, a leek, and a little celery. Cut these into small pieces, and put to them four quarts of soft water. Boil till the meat has parted with all its juices and the peas have become soft. Then take out the meat and vegetabl^is, and pulp the peas through a sieve. Season with pepper and salt to taste. Take a bunch of asparagus cut small to re- semble green-peas, the hearts of two or three cabbage-lettuces, and some green mint chopped fine. Stew these in the soup till the vege- tables become tender, taking care to keep them of a good colour and not to permit them to remain too long upon the fire. Shotdd the soup prove too thick, put to it some good broth, and if too thin, add a little flour and water. Should it not appear sufficiently green, pound a handful of spinach, and put the juice, when properly strained, into the soup, but it must not be boiled, for that would destroy the green colour of the spinach. Observe that when as- paragus is meant to resemble green peas, care must be taken not to subject it to too much heat, it being a vegetable that soon becomes soft and loses its colour. A considerable degree of attention is required on the part of the cook, in regard to the management of the asparagus. Spring Soup (M. Ude's recipe).—Take carrots, turnips, heads of celery, and small onions cut into the shape of olives; blanch them in winter, but in summer fry them with a little butter, and put them to boU in clear broth with a little sugar. Put the soup in the comer of the stove to skim away all the butter. Have ready the green tops of aspas^agus, and French beans cut into lozenges which have been boiled separately in water very green ; put them into the soup when you send it up. with slices of crust of bread cut the size of a penny and soaked separately in a little broth; if you have any peas, y(,u" may put in some hkewise to boU with the soup. Spring Soup of Early Cabbages.- iuku tlie iKjurts of two wliite spriiig culjbages well washed, place tliem for a few ininuteB m boiling water; take out the cabbages, put them into cold water, drain th(;m, cut lliem in quarters and remove the stalks, tie ea<;li quarter with a piece of thread, put them in some savoury stock, simmer till done enough, lay them in a tureen, and pour the soup over them. Spring Soup of Hop-tops.—Early in spring gather some hop-tops; tie them up in small bundles, let them soak in fresh water, and boil them in some good stock slightly thickened with lentils or peas and flavoured with onions, herbs, pepper, and salt. Simmer the vegetables till tender; then place some sippets in a tureen, lay the bundles of hop-tops upon them, and pour the potage over all. Spring Soup, Thick.—Soak half a pint of green spht peas, then boil them till tender in as much stock made from bones as will cover them, and with them two young carrots and two turnips, five or six spring onions, a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a small leek, and a few outer sticks of celery, if these can be had. When the peas and vegetables are quite tender, rub them through a sieve. Add additional stock to make the puree as thick as custard ; and if it is not a good colour, add spinach-juice to make it green (see Spinach Greening). Cut 'a small bunch of asparagus- tops into the shape of peas. Boil these sepa- rately in a little water with the heart of a finety-shred young cabbage, and three or four leaves of mint. Be careful to keep these vege- tables a good colour. A few minutes before the soup is to be served throw them into it. If they can be procured, freshly-picked peas can be used instead of the dried spht peas. Time to boil the soup, one and a half to two hours. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. BRUSSKLS SPROtTTS. Sprouts, Brussels (fcc Brussels Sprouts).SPB ( 928 ) Spruce Beer.—Dissolve sixteen pounds of troiiclo in eight gallons of water. Strain the Uquor into a cask, and add eight gallons of cold water and six table-spoonfuls of the essence of spruce. AVhen the liquor is new-milk-wai-m, stir briskly into it half a pint of good fresh yeast. Leave it in a wai-m place for a day or two until fei-mentation ceases, then bung it up closely. The following day it may be bottled, and can be used in a week. Sometimes the beer is flavoured by boiling for this quantity a tea-cupful of bruised ginger, a tea-spoonful of allspice, and thi-ee ounces of hops in a small quantity of the liquor, and adding this to the rest. When the outer sprigs of the spruce fir can be obtained, they may be boiled for a few minutes in a little of the liquor, and this decoction may be used instead of the essence. A pound of the sprigs will be equivalent to a pound and a half of the essence. Spruce Beer (another way).—This_ is made by adding the essence of spruce (which see) to water in which sugar or treacle has been dissolved in the proportion of about four ounces of essence of spruce to ten pounds of sugar, or three quarts of treacle, and ten or eleven gallons of water, and with about half a pint of yeast. For flavouring, various spices are added. " A similar beverage," says a writer in " Chambers' Encyclopaedia," " is made largely in the north of Europe from the buds of the Norway spruce, and is known as Black Beer, that of Danzig being the most famous. The antiscorbutic beer of the Russian army pharmacopoeia is made by mixing spruce tops and fresh, horseradish- root with common beer; ginger and Calamus aromaticm being added for flavouring, and, after fermentation, a little cream of tartar, tincture of mustard, and proof spirit. Spruce Beer Powders. — Take two tumblers, and pour into each as much cold water as wUl fiU them about a third. Stir into one glass eight grains of the essence of spruce, one grain of essence of lemon, one scruple of bicarbonate of soda, and one drachm of loaf sugar. In the other glass dissolve half a drachm of tartaric acid. Pour the contents of the one glass into the other, and drink the liquor during eiforvescence. If these powders are prepared beforehand, the mixture should be packed in papers of one colour and the tartaric acid in papers of a different one. Spruce, Essence of.—Essence of spruce is obtained by boiling the green tops of the black spruce in water, and then concentrating the decoction by another boiling without the spruce tops. The young shoots of this fir, like most others pf its family, are coated with a resinous exudation, which, is dissolved in the water. Squab Pie.—This is a favourite popular dish m the west of England. It is generally made of mutton, though in the midland coun- ties beef and fat bacon arc sometimes used. Take a deep dish, and fill it with layers of mutton chops, apples cut as for other pies, and finely-shred onions. Season the layers with pepper and salt, and sweeten the apples with Bugar. Cover the pie with a thick crust, and bake in a weU-heated oven. Time to bake, two to three hours, according to size. Squab Pie (another way).—*S'<?e Devon- shii-e Squab Pie. Squeak, Bubble and {see Bubble and Squeak). Staffordshire Syllabub.—Put a pint of cider into a bowl with a glassful of brandy, four table-spoonfuls of sugar, and half a grated nut- meg. Fill the bowl with frothed new nulk, or with milk heated tiU it is ncw-nulk-warm. Pour this into the syllabub from a teapot held high above it. Stale Bread.—Stale bread will taste com- paratively fresh and new if it be put into a cool oven till it is heated gently through. It will take about an hour. Stale Cake.—If a sweet sake becomes stale, it may be freshened by the following pro- cess :—Put it into a box with a closely-litting lid, place this before the fire, but not so near as to scorch the wood of the box, and turn it round occasionally. If the cake is large, cut it into thin slices before heating it. It wiU be ready for use ia about an hour. Star-Gazy Pie (a favourite Cornish dish).—This pic is thus named because the heads of the fish arc usually placed mouth uppermost in the centre of the lid of the crust, as pigeon's legs are in a pigeon pie, and there- fore the fish are supposed to be gazing at the sky or the stars. Take as many fresh herrings or mackerel as will till a moderate-sized dish. Scale, empty, and open them, and remove the bones. Lay them flat on the table, season the inside of each with salt, cayenne, and chopped parsley, and roll it up neatly. Butter the pie- dish, and spiinkle upon it a thick layer of finely-grated bread-crumbs, lay in some of the fish, and fill the dish with alternate layers of fish and bread-crumbs. Cover the contents of the pie with a few slices of fat bacon or the fat of a ready-dressed ham, and pour over aU six eggs beaten up with two table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, or, if preferred, half a quaiter of a pint of cream. Cover the dish with a good crust, and bake the pie in a well-heated oven. Arrange the heads of the fish in the centre of the pastry; when the pie is baked put a piece of parsley into the mouth of each fish, and serve. Time, one hour to an hour and half. Steaming.—This is a process of cookery which is particularly adapted to very deli- cate preparations. It is sometimes carried on upon a large scale, and then an apparatus for the special purpose is provided. In ordinary kitchens, and for overy-day dishes, a kitchen steamer wiU be aU that is required. The article of food which is to be steamed should be prepared as for boiling. It should then be placed in a steamer, which has a closely-fitting lid, over a saucepan friU of boiling water, and this water should be kept boiling, and should bo replenished as it boils away. "When any delicate preparation is to be steamed, the cook should on no account boil anything strong and highly flavoured in the vessel under it. For( 024 ) mMtiinco, liquor coutaixiiiig vogotablos muBt not bo boiled uudor a puddiny, or tho Uavour of the latter will bo ontiroly spoilt. If a proper steamer Bhould not bo at hand, a sulwtituto may bo improviH(!d for Btcaming puddini^w, 6iii., aa follows :—Turn a plato upside down in a sauce- pan, and surround it with about three inches of fast-boiling water. Place the mould con- taining tho pudding on the plate, cover tlio tiiiucepan closely, and Iceep the water gently l)oiling round it. Lay a round of oiled paper on tlu! top of the mould. Sterz Meal {see Meal, Sterz). Stew, Bachelor's (we Beef, Bachelor's Stew). Stew, English (see English Stew) Stewing.—This is a mode of cookery much favoured by French cooks. It is wholesome and excellent, as well aa most economical, not only on accoimt of the small quantity of fuel which is required to keep up the gentle simmer- ing, which alone is needed, but also because food cooked in this way, even if coarse and hard in itself, may often be rendered tender, delicious, and palatable. Inexperienced cooks too often confound stewing wit^i boiling, and thus they convert meat or poultry that would be excel- lent and delicate if properly dressed into some- thing dry, hard, and indigestible. It should be understood that when we speak of stewing anything we simply mean simmering it gently in a saucepan which has a closely-fitting lid over a gentle fire. Stewing is best done over a stove. At times when the old-fashioned kitchen range is in use, however, the cook should place her stewpan on a trivet high above the fire, and watch it constantly, in order that she may move it nearer to the flame, or fui-ther from it, as occasion requires. The ebullition, though very gentle, should be continuous. Sometimes meat to be stewed is put into a jar with a closely-fitting lid, and this is placed in a sauce- pan of fast-boiUng water. Then the gravy extracted is really the juice of the meat. The greatest cleanliness should be observed in aU vessels which are to be used for stewing. Enamelled saucepans are excellent, because they can be so easily and thoroughly cleansed. Well-tinned copper ones are, however, the best for the purpose, though well-tinned iron ones wiU. answer for ordinary cookery. The cook, however, should be particularly careful that the tinning of copper vessels is in good condition, for if it is at all worn away, the preparation stewed in it may become poisonous, and most lamentable consequences may ensue. Stewing, Mr. Buckmaster on.— Stewing is a gradual simmering. It may be done in a saucepan over the fire, or in a stone jar which will stand the fire, with a lid fitting •steam-tight. The common red iar is not to be recommended ; it docs not stand the heat, and tho glaze, which is a composition of lead, often gives way in the presence of salt. Stone jars are preferable to metal saucepans ; they can bo easily cleaned, and they retain the heat bettor. For stewing, select lean meat, free from blood. The quantity of water should be about a quart to a pound of meat; but this liquor will be very rich, and it can easily bo reduced if necessary with warm water. Add about a tea- spoonful of Sfilt to a quart of water—I think salt is best added towai-dH tho end of the. c(joking, as the tendency is to harden the meat. Warn when boihjd with salt pork will njmair. hard throughout the cooking. Bring tho water gradually to tho boil, remove all the scum, ami let tho contents simmer till the flavour of the meat is absorbed in the liquor. Remove all the fat, which can bo eaten with bre;id, or used for puddings or frying. All and every kind of meat wiU do for a stew. They may be used together or separately, according to taste or convenience. The better the meat, the l^ettcr the stew; but by careful stewing the coarsest and roughest parts will become soft, tender, and easily digested, which would not be possible by any other method of coolting. AU the gristly parts —the feet, shanks, knuckles—should be stewed. There is no other way of cooking these parts to advantage. They require time, and this is often the difficulty and objection; but what is there to prevent a woman, when the family are all sitting round the fire in the evening, think- ing about to-morrow's dinner ? The fire which warms the children will also cook their dinner. The great vice of most women, not only among the poor, but among the middle classes, is that they never think of cooking till they feel hungry. Trimmings of all kinds of meat can sometimes be purchased cheaply. A woman who has but little to spend should watch her opportunities. Sheep's feet, the shank-bones of legs of mutton, and pieces of bone and gristle, are often thrown away as useless. We used formerly to send ox tails to the tan-yard, and even now much goes there which could be turned into good food. Twopence or three- pence spent in the purchase of bones—although containing little meat, they contain 30 per cent, of gelatine, and may be made to jneld excellent food; large bones should be broken into small pieces, and allowed to simmer till every piece of bone is white and dry. I have said nothing about flavouring or thickening, or adding vegetables. As a rule, all vegetables except potatoes may be cut into slices and cooked in the stew; or, if preferred, they may be cooked separately, and added afterwards. Carrots, tur- nips, parsnips, swedes, cabbages, leeks, onions, celery, beetroot, vegetable-marrow—any or aU of these may be used in a stew. Stews, Forcemeat for {see Forcemeat for Fish, Soups, or Stews). Stews, Onions for Garnishing {see Onions, Brown, for Garnishing Stews). Stilton Cheese {see Cheese, Stilton). Stock. — Stock is the basis of all meat- sauces, soups, and purees. It is really the juio; of meat extracted by long and gentle simmer- ing, and in making it, it should be remembered that the object to be aimed at is to draw tho goodness out of the materials into tho liquor. It may be prepared in various ways, richly and Gxpensively, or economically, and recipes for all modes are given in this work. All general stock, or stock which is to be _ uscil for miscellaneous purpose?', should he simply( 925 ) 9TO STO made, that is, all flavouring ingredients should be omitted entirely until its use is decided upon. The stock will then keep longer than it would do if vegetables, herbs, and spices were boiled in it, besides which the flavom-ing can be adapted to its special piirpose. To ensui'e its keeping, stock should bo boiled and skimmed every day in summer, and every other day in winter. The pan and the lid used in making it should be scrupulously clean. A tinned iron pan is the best for the purpose. Those who need to practise economy will do well to procure a digester, which is a kind of stock-pot made with the object of retaining the goodness of the materials, and preventing its escape in steam. When ready, stock should be poui'ed into an earthenware pan, and left imcovered until it is cold. It should on no account be allowed to cool in a metal pan. Before being used, every particle of fat which has settled on the surface should be removed, and the liquor should be poured off free from sediment. A few years ago it was customary for cooks to make stock with fresh meat only, the rule being a pound of meat to a pint of stock. Altered prices have necessitated the adoption of more economical methods, and now excellent stock is constantly made with the bones and trinmiings of meat and poultry, with the addition or not of a Uttle fresh meat, or a portion of Liebig's Extract of Meat. In a house where meat is regularly used, a good cook will never be without a Httle stock. Broken renmants of all kinds will find their way to the stock-pot, and will not be thrown away imtil, by gentle stewing, they have been made to yield to the utmost whatever of fla- vour and of goodness they possessed. When fresh meat is used it is better for being freshly IciUed. The liquor in which fresh meat has been boiled should always be used as stock. {Soe Principles of Cookery, xxv.) Stock, Browning for. — There are various ways of browning stock. The best of all is to let it boU to a glaze when making it, and then to let it colour itseK over the fire. Stock made from bones cannot be thus coloured, and it is therefore necessary to impart a brown look to it by other means. The addition of Liebig's Extract answers the purpose slightly, but not always sufficiently. Burnt onions and colouring-balls may be bought, which ai'e manufactured expressly for this end, but they often impart an unpleasant flavour to the soup. Brown thickening may be used when it is wished that the stock should be thickened as well as browned, though it must be remembered that after St is added the stock must simmer by the side of the fire, that it may throw up the fat, which should be removed. Liquid browning, which can be bottled and used as required, may be made as follows:—Put a quarter of a pint of moist sugar into a stewpan. and let it remain over a gentle fire till it is melted. Keep stirring it with a wooden spoon till it is almost black, then pour upon it a pint of water, and let it remain until dissolved. Three or four drops will colour a pint of stock. Stock, Clarifying.—When from some ^C'ltnt the stock i.s not as (;l(;ar uiui brij^ht us it should be, proceed as follows:—For a quart of stock whisk the white of an egg with a quarter of a pint of water. Stir this briskly into the stock when it is just warm, let it boil, and carefully remove the scimi as it rises. Draw it back, and keep it boiling gently for half an hour, continuing to skim it when possible. Let it stand for a quarter of an hour to settle, and strain it through a jeUy-bag. If three or four ounces of lean meat are minced and pounded to pulp, and mixed with the white of egg before it is put in, the stock will bt. enriched as weU as cleared. Stock-flsh.—This is the commercial term used to denote salted and dried cod and other fish of the same family, particularly hake, ling, and torsk. The fish is cured as soon as possible after being caught. It is first split up from head to tail, and thoroughly cleaned by plentiful washings with salt water; a piece of the backbone is then cut away, and after the superfluous water has been drained off, the fish are laid in long vats, covered with salt, and kept down by means of heavy weights. After a time they are taken out, washed and brushed, and laid out, exposed to the action of sun and air, on rocks or on a sandy beach. They are afterwards piled up into little heaps, and when they have acquired a fine whitish appearance, known as the bloom, they are considered ready for the market. The quantity of stock-fish cured on the southern coasts of Britain is in- considerable, but it is otherwise in the north. The cod, ling, and hake fisheries of Scotland rank next in importance to its herring fishery. Stock for Aspic Jelly (economical).— Put a pint of stock into a saucepan. Add two ounces of gelatine, a bay-leaf, a small sprig of thyme, three cloves, three shallots, and a quarter of a blade of mace, and stir the liquor over the fire tiU the gelatine is dissolved. Pour it out, and let it become almost cold. Whisk the white of an egg with a quarter of a pint of water. Add the crushed shell of the egg, and a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Put the stock again in the saucepan, and stir the mix- ture briskly into it over the fire till it boils. Let it boil for ten minutes and then settle for ten minutes. Strain through a jelly-bag into a large shallow dish, and when cold and stiff the jelly will be fit for use. Time, altogether, about an hour. Stock for Jelly (see Calf's Foot Stock for JeUy). Stock for Soup {see Mutton Stock for Soup). Stock freed from Pat.—Let the stock get cold, then carefully take from it the coatinp- of fat which lies on the top. If it is still greasy,' put it into a saucepan, simmer gently by the side of the fire, and carefully skim off the fat as it rises until no more appears. If after it is put into the tureen bubbles of fat appear on the surface, remove as much as possible by skim- ming, and take off what remains by laying a piece of blotting-paper or, failing this, of com- mon brown paper, lightly on the top, so that the; grease may adhere to it.( 926 ) STO STOi Stock, x^ame.—Take the remainB of roast game of any kind, and break tlu'in up into small pieces. Butter a saueeiiaii, and lino tlio bottom of it with thin slices of lijaa liam. I'laee tlio pieces of f^amo upon this, ahnoat cover them with stock made from bones or, failing' this, witli wattir, and boil the liquor qui(;kly over a brisk lire till it is reduced to glaze. Draw it back a littlis and lot it colour; tlien add as much additional stock as it will bear, together with carrots, turnips, onions, celery, cloves, and salt, as required. Let it sinnner gently until it is done enough, and strain it off for use. The remains of game will make excel- lent stock, smd it would be very extravagant to use game for this pui-pose without fii'st taking off the best of the moat. When, however, a bird is too old and tough to be dressed in the ordinary way, it may be placed in the stock- pot, but its flavour will he best brought out if it is partially roasted before being stewed. Stock, General.—Take one pound of shin of beef, cut it into pieces the size of a wal- nut, and put these into a dehcately clean stew- pan with two-pennyworth of bones broken up small and five pints of cold spring water. If there are trimmings of meat or poultry in the house they may be thrown into the pot, as also a little bacon-rind which has been first scalded and scraped. Bring the contents of the pan slowly to the boil, carefully remove the scum as it rises, and throw in a spoonful of cold water now and then to assist it in doing so. An onion with a clove stuck into it, a turnip, a carrot, two leeks, a few outer sticks of celery, a salt-spoonful of whole pepper, and a little salt may be added if hked. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer very gently. Keep the saucepan closely covered, excepting when it is necessary to take off the lid for the piirpose of skimming. Strain the soup into an earthenware pan, and remove the fat when it forms on the surface. Time to simmer the stock, four hours. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Suf- ficient for two quarts of stock. Stock made from Bones.—Take the bones of a leg of mutton or of a piece of beef weighing seven or eight pounds before cooking, or if these are not at hand, take two penny- worth of fresh bones. Break them up into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with three quarts of cold water. Bring the liquor gently to the boil, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Draw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer gently for five or six hours. Pour it into an earthenware jar, and the next day remove the fat from the top, and pour it back free from sediment. Put with it a largo carrot, a handful of fresh parsley, a large onion into which two or three cloves have been stuck, a few outer sticks of celerj% or about as much celery-seed as will he on a throfix'.nny-piece, a turnij), if young, a couple o* leeks, if thoy can be obtained, a lump of sugar, and a little salt and cayenne. Sim- mer the soup again, and if necessary add cold water, a little at a time, to keep up the quantity to two quarts. Simmer all gently toircthor .in hour and a half longer; strain :'ie liquor oil: again, and stir in with it tt good i-ja- spoonful of extract of moat. If it is necessary to (•hirify tlie Bt(jck, do not put in the extritct until the stock Jws been made clear. If expe- dition is desired, the vegetables and the bones may be boiled altogether. Time, five liours tlie first day, (jiie hour and a half the next. Suf- ficient for two quarts of stock. Stock made from Cow-heel.—Excel- lent stock for soup may be made by boiling a cow-heel and two pcjunda of shin of beef in water. The meat may he convertf.'d into mock potted head—a reUshing dish for breakfctst or supper. Cleanse a cow-heel, and put it into a stewpan with two pounds of shin of beef, not cut up, and three quarts of water. Add a large carrot, a turnip, an onion stuck with thri > cloves, six peppercorns, six allspice, a bunch oi herbs, a blade of mace, and a slice of lemon- rind. Bring the liquor slowly to the boil, and simmer gently two hours. If the meat is to be made into brawn, take it out at this point, and let the heel simmer alone imtil the stock is sufficiently strong. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, and when the stock is done enough, pour it into an earthenware pan, and use as required. To make the mock potted head, cut both the beef and the cow-heel into small pieces. Soak half a packet of gelatine in cold stock for twenty minutes; dissolve it in a pint of boihng stoclf, add the pieces of meat, and pour the whole into an oiled mould to remain until cold. Potted head made in this way may be garnished according to taste. One or two hard-boiled eggs, some slices of beet- root, and a little chopped parsley, if placed tastefully in the jelly at the bottom of the mould, win greatly improve its appearance. Time, five or six hours to boil the cow-heel. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for two quarts of stock and one shape of brawn. Stock, Meat.—Meat from which stock has been made, if simmered gently tUl it is tender only, and not so long as to reduce it to rags, may be served as a stew, with part of the stock thickened for grsivy. Or good potted meat may be made of it {see Beef, Potted). Stock-pot.—The best stock-pots are those made of well-tinned iron or copper, as they are most easily cleaned, and in making stock clean- liness is of the utmost importance. Into the stock-pot should be thrown all the bones and trinimings of meat and poultry, either dressed or undressed. In an economiadly-conducted household nothing wiU be thi-own away until all the goodness has been extracted from it. Stock, Qtlickly made.—Take an onion, peel it, spUt it in halves, and stick t\vo cloves into it; put it into a saucepan with a pint and a half of water, a bimch of fresh green parsley- leaves, a tea-spoonful of gelatine, and a httle salt and cayenne. A stick or two of celen- or a few celery-seeds, or a very small pinch of dnod tarragon may be added, if they are at hand, as they will greatly assist the flavour of the stock. Boil the liquor till the gelatine is dissolved, strain it into a bowl, and press the onion and parsley so as to get as much of the goodnof^s out of them as possible. If the gelatine was good, the slock will be briglit uud claax. Stjr< 927 ) STO STO into it until dissolved a tea-spoonful of extract of moat, and it will be ready for use. It may be served as it is, as cleai- soup, or a little macaroni or vermicelli may Le added to it, though they should bo boiled separately, or the soup will not bo clear; or a few vegetables cut as for Julienne soup may be put in {see Vegetables, Dried), or a few fresh tarragon-leaves may be finely shred and thrown in. Probable cost, plain, 3d. Sufficient for thi-ee or four persons. Stock, Rich and Strong.—Take two pounds of the shin of beef and two pounds of knuckle of veal; cut the meat into small pieces, and break up the bones. Butter a saucepan, line it with slices of lean ham or bacon, lay the pieces of meat upon it; add the bones and any trimmings of meat or poultry that may be at hand. An old hen or the carcase of a rabbit or roasted chicken will be valuable additions. Pour in a pint of water, cover the saucepan, and boil it quickly, stirring it frequently till it is reduced to glaze. Let this brown gently or not, as requii'ed, pour in three quarts of cold water, and when this boils add a large onion stuck with two cloves, a few sticks of celery, a large carrot, a young turnip, half a blade of mace, a bunch of savoury herbs, a few pepper- corns, and a little salt. Remove the scum carefully as it rises, and add a spoonful of cold water occasionally to assist it in doing so; simmer the stock gently for four hours; strain it into an earthenware pan, and when it is quite cold, carefully remove the fat from the top. Time to simmer the stock, three to four hours. Stock, Second. — Meat and vegetables boiled a second time with fresh liquor, &c., is " second stock," This stock is stiffer than " first stock," and is used for braizing. It may be boiled down again to make glaze or portable soup, which will be of great use, either to enrich soups or sauces, or to improve the ap- pearance of various joints (see Glaze). If liked, half the original quantity of vegetables and seasoning may be added to the liquor. To make it, boil the stock very gently for live or six hours. Strain it through a hair sieve into an earthenware pan. When it is cold, carefully remove the fat from the top, and pour it off gently, not to disturb the settlings, into a well-tinned saucepan. Keep the sauce- pan uncovered over a brisk fire, skim the liquor when necessary, and boil it quickly till it begins to thicken. Reduce the heat of the fire, and boil the stock gently till it looks like thin treacle. Be very careful that it does not bum, and when it has boiled until a little taken out in a .si)Oon will when cold set into a stiff jolly, ^strain it into small jars, perfectly dried, to the thickness of an inch and a half, and let it remain in a cool place till wanted. If properly made, it will keep six mouths. If, after a few days, it does not appear sufliciently hard, put the jar containing it into a large saucepan of boiling water, and keep tliis water boiling rapidly round it until the glaze has evaporated suffit^if^ntly. It must hot be put into the saucejjan again, as it will be in great danger of burning or of acquiring an unpleaHant flavour. Time, two days to make the glaze. Stock, Superior Clear Brown, for Soups and Sauces, made from Fresh Meat.—Take three pounds and a half of the shin of beef or knuckle of veal and a quarter of a pound of lean ham. Cut the meat into pieces the size of an egg, and break the bones into small pieces. Butter the bottom of the stewpan, lay in it the ham, then the veal, and add the bones and any trimmings of meat or poultry that may be at hand. Pour in aa much water as will cover the meat. Cover the pan, put it on a brisk fire, and boil its contents quickly, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon till the bottom of the pan is covered with a thick white glaze. Tkrow some cinders on the fire to lower the temperatm-e, and let the pan remain on it until the glaze becomes a bright brown colour without being at all burnt. Poiir in four quarts of cold stock or water, bring the Liquor to the point of boiling, then di-aw it to the side, and simmer gently, skim- ming with scrupulous care for two hours if veal is used, and for four hom-s if beef is used. Strain through a fine sieve into an earthenware pan, and when the stock is cold remove the grease. If flavouring is wanted, a turnip, a carrot, two onions, each with one clove stuck in it, half a leek, a few sticks of celery, a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thjTne, may be stewed in the liquor. Add pepper and salt as required; the quantity of salt needed will dep6nd upon the quality of the ham. Probable cost, 3s. Stock, To Keep Good.—In cold weather stock will keep for several days. In hot weather it should be boiled every day. It should always be poured into an earthenware bowl, and when nearly cold, put into a cool larder. It should on no account be allowed to remain in the stewpan all night. Stock, Wliit6> ^or White Soups and Sauces.—Take three pounds of the knuckle of veal and a qi^arter of a pound of lean ham. Cut the meat into small pieces, break up the bones, and add any trimmings of meat or poultry that may be at hand, with a little pepper and a small pinch of salt. The carcase of a fowl or rabbit wUl be a valuable ad/^tion. Put the meat into the stewpan, and poulf tipon it four quarts of cold water. Bring the liquor to the boil, di-aw it to the side, slrim carefully, and let it simmer gently for three hours. Strain it into an earthenware pan tUl wanted. If liked, a carrot, a turnip, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a amaU piece of mace may be added. Stock with Fried Bread.—Cut a slice of stale crumb of bread into dice; moisten these with stock, put a slice of dripping on them, and fry over a slow fire tiU they are brown and crisp. Lay them in a dish, and place upon them one or two slii-ca of the cnimb of bread which have been soaked in stock and drained. Sei-ve nicely-flavoured stock in a tureen with the bread thus prepared. This dish is specially suited for children and in- valids. Stone Cream.—Put a little apricot, plum, or cherry jam into a glass dish. Grate upon it the rind of a lemon, and add the straiTiod iuire. Pour over it as much liquid blancniaujie uwulySTB ( 92S ) STO cold H8 will cover it. Sorvo the croam when stiff and cold, and ornamout tho Hurfaco with a littlo pink suH:ar, knobs of nid-ciirrant jolly, or strips of prosorvod fruit, or blandiod almonds. Tho blancniani^o may ho mudo with isingUss, gelatiuo, or fino arrowroot. Stone-fruit, Wholesomeness of.— Stone-fruit, gonomlly speaking, is loss digestible when eaten raw than the otlier descriptions of fruit; to healthy persons, however, when ripe, and consumed in moderation, it is not injurious. Plums have acquired a chsiracter for aiusing disorder and diarrh(xia which they scarcely deserve. Undoubtedly with some persons they disagree, and indeed, with all, if they are eaten iimnoderately or in bad condition; but that they, or fruits generally, are the cause of the regular autumnal or British cholera, is a fallacy which has been established in the popular mind in consequence of the season at which plums are ripe, the "plum-season" being coincident with that at which people in this country, who have been exposed to the effects of the sum- mer's heat are most liable to that outbreak of accumxdated bile which is known as bowel complaint, or English, or British, or summer cholera. Store-rooms and Stores.—A clean, tidy, well-arranged store-room is one sign of a good methodical housekeeper. Where stores are put away anyhow, and taken out at any time and in any quantity, we have good grounds for supposing that disorder and ex- travagance prevail. A store-room ought to be large, airy, cool, and dry. Such a room is not always to be had, but even if a closet has to be put up with, it may be kept clean. Shelves should be arranged round the walls, hooks fastened to the edges of the shelves. The driest and coolest part of the room should be kept for jams, jellies, and pickles. All the jars should be distinctly labelled at the front, so that they will not all need to be taken down every time a particular jar is wanted. Biscuits or cakes should be kept in closely-covered tin boxes; lemons should be hung in nets. Soap should be bought in large quantities, and cut up in convenient-sized pieces, so that it may be dry before it is used. Coffee, when roasted, should be kept in small quantities; if unroastod, it wiU improve with keeping. Stores should on no account be left in the papers in which they were sent from the grocer's, but should be put into tin canisters or earthenware jars closely covered, and each jar, like the jam, shoxild be labelled. Stores should be given out regularly, either daUy or weekly. In order to check their consumption, the housekeeper will do well to keep in the store-room a memorandum-book with a pencil fastened to it, and in this book she should enter the date on which all stores were brought in or taken out. By means of these memoranda she can compare one week's outgo with another, and immediately discover any extravagance. A hammer, a few nails, a little gum, a ball of string, a few sheets of foolscap, and a pair of scissors, shcjuld always be kept'm the store-room. Store Sauce Kitchinor's Store Sauce). Store Sauce or Cherokee (««« Cherokee or Ktoro Sauce). Store Sauces.—Miuiy varieties of exctij- I lent store sauces iriay be IxiUght of tlie gi-oc(!r and Italian warehousemun, and will prove (jf great value in colouring and flavouring soup.s, sauces, and stews. As, liowcvor, they are generally very strong, they should be added tc any preparation with care. As they can be bo easily procui-ed, it is advisable to keep on hand a small quantity only of them, for they certainly deteriorate in quality witli keening. The bottles containing them should be tigJitly stoi)pered, and kept in a dry ]>lace. Tho .;toi-e sauces most likely to be needed are mushrocn and walnut ketchup, essence of anchovies, chilli, cucmnber, shallot, and tairagon vinegar, and Harvey or Worcester Sauce. Stout.—Stout is only a stronger form of porter. It is extensively brewed in London, Dubhn, and elsewhere. Good di-aught stout contains an ounce and a half of alcohol in the pint. Stranger's Cake, or Polly's Cake.— Rub half a pound of butter or sweet dripjjing into a poimd of flour. Add a small salt-spoon- ful of salt, three heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking- powder, a pound of groimd rice, half a pound of moist sugar, a pound of picked currants or sultanas, and two ounces of candied peel. A little spice may be added if approved. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Mix the cake with four well-whisked eggs and a cupful of milk. Bake immediately in a moderate oven. Time to bake, two hours and a half or more. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. for a cake this size. Strasburg Fowl Pie, Mock {see Fowl Pie, Mock Strasburg). Strasburg Goose.—The Strasburg goose is an animal that has to submit, for the sake of the luxuries of mankind, to a very peculiar operation. It is tied down to a board, and put in front of a fire, which appears very cruel; but it does not hinder the animal from getting fat. It is fed with barley-meal, and it thus takes in much more starch than is necessary to maintain its heat, and the consequence is, the starch is converted into fat and deposited in greatest abundance in the liver. The goose is then killed, the liver is taken out, and these distended livers are the precious niorceaux con- tained in the pdte d^foie gras (which see). Strawberries. — This dsUcious smnmer fruit is known both in Europe and America. It belongs to temperate and rather cold chmates. It may be eaten fresh, or made into preserves. It derives its name from the practice of putting straw under the berries to keep them clean whilst they ripen. Ripe strawberries may be kept for two or three days by puttinsr them on ice, or keeping them in a cool dark place. Strawberries and Cream.—Procure the fruit when it is freshly gathered and just ripe. If it is not to bo eaten immodiatcly, keep it in a cool place till wanted; but tho freslu^r it is the better. Pick the strawberries, and remove every imperfect and unsound berry. Do not wash thorn unless it is absolutelySTB STR ( 929 ) nocessar}'. If, however, they are dusty or not qiiito fresh, they may be cleansed and freshened by taking them in handfuls and passing them quickly through a basin of cold water. They should not be allowed to remain in it one instant. If the strawberries have been gathered in rainy weather, it is very desirable that this cleansing process should be performed. Straw- berries are very delicious served with thick cream (Devonshire cream is the best) and finely- powdered sugar. These accompaniments should be sent to table separately, as if the sugar is put upon them, even for a short time, it will draw out their juice and change their colour. STRAWBERRIES. 1. Keen's Seedling. 2. British Queen. 3. Dr. Hogg. (Two-thirds the natural size.) Strawberries, Bottled. — Gather the strawberries in dry weather when they are ripe, but not over-ripe. Pick them without bruising them, and put them into perfectly dry wide-mouthed bottles. Shake them down, and fill the bottles with clear sjTup made by boil- ing three-quarters of a pound of refined sugar with half a pint of water. Cork the bottles tightly, and tie them down with string. "Wrap straw round them to keep them from being broken, and put them into a large stewpan with cold water up to their necks. Let the water be made to boil, then draw the pan to the side, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes. Take the pan off the fire, and leave the bottles untouched till they are cold. Kefit the corks, tie them down again, if neces- sary wax them over, and store for use. Time to simmer, ten minutes. Strawberries, Bottled, for Flavour- ing Purposes.—Gather the fruit in dry weather, pick it from the bolls, discard any bruised or unsound berries, and weigh it with an equal weight of finely-powdered sugar. Fill perfectly dry wide-mouthed bottles with alter- nate layers of fruit and sugar, and shake them gently to mix them. Cork the bottles closely, and cover the corks with bladder which has been cleaned, dried, and moistened with spirit on the side which is to be next the cork. Store in a cool dry place. The strawberries should bo perfectly fresh when they are thus preserved 2 £ Strawberries, Compote of.—Take a pint of freshly-gathered ripe strawberries. Pick them, and put them into a bowl. Pour over them a Little clear syrup which has been made by boiling a quarter of a pint of water with five ounces of sugar for ten minutes. Cover the bowl containing them with a plate, and let them stand for an hour or more. Drain off the syrup; boil it for a few minutes, skim it, and strain it over the strawberries piled in the centre of a compote-dish. The flavour of this dish will be greatly improved if a wine-glassful of red- currant juice is added to the syrup. "When it is at hand, a glass of maraschino may also be added with advantage. For a superlative dish, the syrup, after being flavoured with maraschino or kii-schenwasser, may be set in ice till it is almost frozen, and in this condition poured over the fruit. Time to soak the strawberries, one hour. Probable cost, strawberries, 4d. to 8d. per pound. Strawberries, Indian.—This plant is a native of the Himalaya mountains, and grows luxuriantly, and produces fruit in abundance in Britain, if only protected from severe frosts. The flowers of the Indian strawberry are yellow, not white, and the fi'uit is very beautiful, not hanging down as in the case of other straw* berries, but growing with its apex upwards. It is not, however, of a very tempting quality. Strawberries, Preserved.—The fruit must be gathered in very dry weather, when there has been no rain for at least two days. Take equal weights of loaf sugar broken into pieces and picked fruit. Barely cover the sugar with cold water, and add a pinch of cream of tartar. Melt the sugar, put it on the fire, and boil it until a little of it which has been dropped from the end of a spoon into some very cold water can be rolled into a soft ball, which is not at all sticky. "When the sugar has reached this condition put the straw- berries into it, cover the pan, and leave it for an hour. Place it on a quick fire, boil it for two minutes, skim it well, and it is done. There is another method of preserving straw- berries or raspberries which is very much approved. Pick the fruit, and press it with a wooden spoon through a coarse sieve. Weigh it, and allow a pound of sugar to every pound of pulp. Boil the sugar, and as soon as it has attained the fourth degree {see Sugar, Boiled) mix the pulp with it. Let it stand for five minutes, stir it over the fire till it boils, and it is done. If liked, the sugar, instead of being boiled, may be crushed to powder and incor- porated with the pulp, which must then be put into bottles, and boiled as in Straw- berries, Bottled. There is another mode of preserving them whole, by placing them, when they are fresh-gathered, into glass pickle- bottles, strewing their weight of sifted sugar over as they are put in, and filling up the bottles with either boiling-hot malaga wine or boiling sweet malmsey. This is the most expensive, though the least troublesome. {See next recipe.) Strawberries Preserved in "Wine.— Take the fruit when perfectly ripe and fresh; pick it, and put it immediately into dry wide-STB ( 930 ) STB mouthed bottles. Sprinkle amongst it four ounces of powdered sugar with each pound of fruit, and lot the bottles be filled to the neck. Pour in good sherry or madeira to cover the fruit. Cork the bottles securely, wax them down, and store in a cool dry place. Strawberries, Preserved Whole.— Take perfectly sound ripe stniwljcrrics which have been gathered in dry weather; pick and weigh them. Put them in layers on a large dish, and sprinkle finely-powdered sugar between the layers—a pound of sugar will be required for every pound of fruit. Let them stand all night. Next day put the whole gently into a clean pre- serNnng-pan. Let it boil; shake the pan to keep the strawben'ies from burning, and pass a spoon round the edges; but be careful not to crush the fruit. Remove the scum as it rises, and boil the fruit gently for a quarter of an hour. Drain the juice from the berries, and boil it separately for half an hour. If liked, a pint of red-currant juice boiled to syrup with half a pound of sugar may be added for each pound of strawberries, and this will greatly improve the flavour of the preparation. Pour the boil- ing juice upon the fruit, put both again into the pan, and boil the mixture for a quarter of an hour, or till the juice will set when a little is put upon a plate. Put the preserved fruit into jars, cover in the usual way, and store in a cool place. Strawberries preserved thus are very good served in glasses, mixed with cream. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. per pound. Strawberries, Preserved Whole {another way).—Pick and weigh the berries, iind put them in layers on a dish with finely- powdered sugar interspersed amongst them, using a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Leave them until the next day, put them gently into a preserving-pan, and when the juice is just about to boil turn all into a colander, and .drain off the juice. Let it boil, then pour it upon the fruit, and leave it until the next day. Put it again on the fire, let it reach the point of boiling once more, and again pour it out. Drain it, let it get cold, then pour it on the fruit, and repeat this process for four or five days. Put the fruit into jars, cover these, and store for use. A pint of red-currant iuice for six pounds of fruit, boiled to syrup with half a pound of sugar, and added to the juice during the last boiling, will greatly im- prove the flavour of this preparation. Time, five days. Strawberries, Wholesomeness of.— The strawberry must be ranked amongst the most wholesome productions of the vegetable kingdom. It is recorded of Fontenelle that he ascribed his longevity to them, in consequence of their having regularly cooled a fever which he had every spring; and that he used to say, »' If I can but reach the season of strawberries. Boerhaave regarded their continual use as one of the principal remedies in cases of obstruction iind viscidity, and in putrid disorders. Hoff- man furnishes instances of obstinate disorders cured by them, even consumption, and Linnfcus Bays that by eating plentifully of them he kept himself free from gout. Strawberry Acid.—Dissolve five ounces of tartaric acid in two quarts of cold spring water, and pour this into an eailhonware pan over twelve pounds of picktid ripe strawbemes Leave them until the n(;xt day, then strain ofi the liquor without bruising the fruit. Put a pound and a half of powdered and sifted loaf sugar with each pint of clear liquor, stir it ' until dissolved, and bottle for use. Itaspberry I acid may be made in the same way. Time, I two days. Strawberries, 4d. to 8d. per pound. I Strawberry, Alpine. — Unlike other kinds of strawberries, th(; Alpine strawberry j has a tall stem and erect manner of growth. I The fruit, which is either red or white, is not I very large, but is produced in great abundance, I and is to be had long after other kinds are out of season. Strawberry and Custard Pudding. —Take four ounces of finely-grated bread- crumbs. Place four table-siioonfuls of straw- berry jam in a buttered pie-dish, cover this j with the bread-crumbs, and add some good nicely-flavoured custard made with a pint of I milk, two eggs, and a little sugar. Stir the custard over the fire till it begins to thicken, : pour it gradually upon the bread-crumbs, and bake the pudding in a moderately-heated oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Strawberry Blancmange. — Take a quart of clear stiff blancmange made with isinglass or gelatine. Sweeten this, and stir into it the juice which has been drawn from a quart of fresh strawberries. Mix the ingre- dients thoroughly, put the blancmange into a damp mould, and leave it in a cool place till set. Turn it upon a glass dish, and serve. To draw the juice from the strawberries, pick them, spread them on a large flat dish, and sprinkle over them about six table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Let them stand for six or eight hours, and pour away for use the syrup which has flowed from them. Strawberry Cardinal.—Hull a quart of ripe, finely-flavoured strawberries, and discard all berries that are unsound or bruised. Sprinkle upon them a poxmd of powdered and sifted sugar, and pour over them half a bottle of Rhine wine. Cover closely, and let them stand in a cool place for half an hour. Just before they are to be served, pour over them the remainder of the wine, with another bottle, either of moselle or of the same wine. Add a bottle of seltzer, and serve. If liked, the liquor may be strained and bottled for use. Strawberry Cheesecakes. — Take a ' quarter of a pint of ripe, finely-flavoured straw- I berries, measured after the stalks have been picked from them. Bruise them thoroughly I with a wooden spoon in a basin, and mix ^^^th ' them a heaped table-spoonful of powdered sugar I and two well-beaten eggs. Line some patty- i pans with good pastry, three-parts fiU them with the mixture, and bake in a well-hcated oven. If fresh fruit cannot be had, strawberry jelly may be used instead, and then no sugar will be required. Time to bake, ten minutes.STR STB ( 931 ) Strawberry Cream.—Pick the stalks from 11 pint of strawberries, sprinkle a tea-cup- ful of powdered sugar over them, bruise them well with a wooden spoon, and rub them through a fine hair sieve till all the juice has been taken from them. Dissolve an ounce and a half of isinglass or gelatine in three-quarters of a pint of new milk, add a pint of thick cream and the strawberry-juice. The cream should be whipped with a whisk before being used {see Cream, Whipped). Pour the cream into a damp mould and set it in a cool place till stiff. A few drops of prepared cochineal may be added to improve the colour. If liked, the juice may be drawn from the fruit over the fire or in the oven. When fresh fruit cannot be obtained, half a pint of strawberry jam dissolved in two table-spoonfuls of water and strained may be used instead. Time, five minutes to simmer the cream. Strawberry Cream Ice (a la Musco- vite).—Pick the strawberries, bruise them with a wooden spoon, and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Take one pint of the juice tlms obtained, and stir into it until dissolved five ounces of powdered sugar. Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in very little water, and add this to the juice. Let the basin containing the juice stand upon rough ice, and stir its contents without stopping \mtil they begin to set. Whip a pint of cream, and mix it lightly with the iced strawberry-juice. Put the whole into an hermetically-closing ice-mould. Put a little butter round the opening to keep out the water, and place it in the ice-pail with pounded ice and bay-salt round it at least three inches thick. Let it remain until it is thoroughly frozen. When it is to be served, plunge the mould for one instant into a basin of hot water, turn it upside down upon a glass dish, when the ice will in all probability come out in a shape. If however it will not come out, dip it quickly into hot water. Time to freeze, about two hours. Strawberry Drops.—Weigh two ounces of strawberry puree—that is the thick juice of strawberries that have been rubbed through a fine hair sieve with eight ounces of coarsely- sifted white sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon till it has become liquid and is on the point of simmering. Take it off the fire, stir it briskly for a few minutes, then lot the drops fall slowly out of the pan upon a baking-sheet. When cold, remove them with the pomt of a sharp knife, and put them in a warm placa to drj'. Strawberry Fool.—Take a quart of picked strawberries, ripe and finely-flavoured; put thorn into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of white sugar ; cover them closely, and let them stew gently for ten minutes, stirring the fruit now and again to keep it from burn- ing. Hub it through a fine hair-sieve with a woodon spoon, and when it is cold stir into it as much new milk as will make it of the consis- tency of custard. Serve quite cold. If cream is not to be had, and a rich dish is required, the yolks of two eggs may be mixed with the milk, and the custard may bo stirred over tho fire till it is on the point of boiling. Time, ten minutes to boil the fruit. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Probable cost. Is., made with milk only. Strawberry Glacis.—Take a sponge cake two or three days old, and cut it into squares, rounds, and diamonds. Boil a pound ' of sugar with a pint of water to a clear syrup, j Boil and skim this, and keep trying whether it I is done enough by di-opping a small portion of it at a time into a basin of cold water placed by the side of the stove for the pxirpose. If the sugar snaps when dropped into the water, and then remains hard, it is ready for the strawberry- juice, which should be added in such a quantity as to bring the syrup to 38". Take the syrup from the fire, let it cool, and beat it with a wooden spoon till it is quite smooth. Stick the pieces of sponge biscuit one by one on the point of a skewer, dip them into the icing, and place them on a sieve to drain. When all are done, put them in a cool oven for a minute or two to dry. Let them cool, and they will be ready for use. Strawberry Hydropathic Pudding. —Although instructions are given for making this pudding with strawberries only, any other fruit, or any mixture of fruits, may be made into a pudding in the same way. Take a basin the size that the pudding should be. Put at the bottom a round piece of stale crumb ol bread about the size of a five-shilling piece. Place round this, in an upright position, and about an inch apart from one another, fingers of bread, three or four inches long, according to the depth of the basin. Pick some strawberries, and boil them with a spoonful or two of water and as much sugar as wiU be required to sweeten them pleasantly until thej- are reduced to pulp. Put the hot fruit gently into the basin with a spoon, so as to disturb the bread as little as possible; cover the surface of the fruit with little odds and ends of bread cut up into small dice, and press the pudding by putting a plate upon it with a weight on the top. Leave it in a cold place for three or four hours, or all night if convenient. When wanted, remove the weight and the plate, turn the pudding upon a dish, and serve. It will come out in a shape. A little custard or cream served with it will be a great improvement. The pudding derives its name from the fact that, thus made, it is served at one or two hydropathic establishments where the patients are not allowed to partake of pastry. Time, about a quarter of an hour to boil the straw^berries. Strawberry Ice and Vanilla Ice in one mould.—Flavour three-quarters of a pint of cream with half a stick of vanilla, by boiling them gently together for a short time; sweeten the cream, mix with it the well-whisked yolks of three eggs, and stir the mixture over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken. Strain it into a bowl. Rub ripe strawberries through a sieve, and take half a pint of the juice. Tho- I roughly mix with this half a pint of syrup at I 35°, and freeze the two creams in the usual way. Put an ice-mould in ice for a short time. Placo [ in the middle of it a piece of cardboard, cut so aa to fit the mould, and to divide it into two equal I parte. Put tho vanilla ice at one side of theSTR ( 932 ) STB division, and the strawberry ice at the other. Draw out the soparatinf^ cardboard, close the mould, and Biu'round it with ice till it is fj'ozftn. When wanted, plunge it into hot wator for an instant, turn it upside down on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Sufficient for a quart of ice. Strawberry Ice Cream.— Pick the hulls olf a pound of fresh, ripe, tinely-llavourod strawberries, sprinkle haH a pound of powdered sugar over them, bruise them well with a wooden spoon, and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the juice thus obtained a pint of thick cream, the juice of a lemon, and a few drops of cochineal. Freeze and mould in the usual way. Probable cost, strawberries, 4d. to 8d. per pound. Strawberry Ice made with Jam — Although strawberry ices may be made with jam for convenience, they will not equal in flavour those made with fresh fruit. Take half a pound of strawberry jam; mix with it a pint of cream, or milk and cream mixed, and the strained juice of a lemon. Rub the mixture through a fine sieve into the freezing-pot, and freeze in the usual way. Put it into a mould, set it again in ice, and let it remain until wanted. Strawberry Isinglass Jelly.—Pick a quart of ripe red strawberries, put them into a bowl, and pour upon them a clear s3Tnip made by boUing three-quarters of a pound of refined sugar with a pint of water for a quarter of an hour. Cover the dish, and leave the fruit to soak all night. Put two ounces and a haK of isinglass into a saucepan with a pint of water which has been beaten up with half the white of an egg. Stir the mixture, and heat it gently tni the isinglass is dissolved, carefullj^ re- moving the scum tUl it ceases to rise. Strain the liquor through three or four folds of muslin, and when it is lukewarm, mix with it the syrup which has been drained from the strawberries, half a tea-cupful of red-cuiTant juice, and the strained juice of a fresh lemon. JVIix the ingredients thoroughly, put the jelly into a damp mould, and set it in a cool place or upon ice till it is set. If preferred, gela- tine may be substituted for the isinglass, and the. jelly will then be less expensive. The appearance of the mould will be improved if two or three spoonfuls of jelly are first poured into the mould, allowed to stiffen, then orna- mented with large ripe strawberries, and the mould filled with jelly and strawberries alter- nately. Time, eight or nine hours to set the jelly. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for two moderate-sized moulds. Strawberry Jam. — Gather the fruit after two or three days of diy weather, when it is fully ripe, but not over-ripe, or it will be flavour- less, and may be tainted with bitterness and the elements of decay. Pick the bei-ries, and discard all that are at all unsound. "Weigh the strawberries, and take three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar for each pound of fruit. Put a layer of berries into the preserving-pan, then a layer of sugar, and repeat until the pan is a Uttlo less than three-parts full. Set it at the Bide of, but not upon, the fire, and keep stirring gently to prevent burning ; but be careful not to crush the fruit. Very carefully remove tlio scum as it rises, and let the jam boil gently until a little put upon a jdate will set, or be stili'. Take the pan from the fire, let its contents cool for a few minutes, then pour the jam into jars. Cover in the usual way. The flavour of strawberry jam depends a great deal upon the season. When the summer is cold, wet, and sunless, it is difficult to make jam with the real perfume of the fruit, although it may be made to keej) by long boiUng and an extra allowance of sugar. Time to boil, three quar- ters of an hour or more. Probable cost, straw- berries, 4d. to 8d. per pound. The fruit can generally be bought cheaper by the peck. Strawberry Jam (another way].—Pick the strawberries, carefully look out and discard all that are unsound, and weigh the fruit. lioil it, stirring occasionally to keep it from burn- ing, for half an hour, then mix in thoroughly, off the Jire, half a pound of loaf sugar broken into small pieces for each original pound of fruit. Boil the jam quickly half an hour longer, or till it will set, and put it into jars in the usual way. Time to boil the fruit, half an hour with the sugar, and half an hour without the sugar. Strawberry Jam, Superior.—Straw- berry jam, although very deUcious, is, if any- thing, too luscious. If made according to the following recipe, this fault will be corrected. Take the juice of three pints of ripe white or even red currants. Put this into a preserving-pan, and throw in four pounds of freshly-gathered ripe strawbeiTies which have been picked and carefully looked over. Let the fruit boil, remo-\-e the scum, and add four pounds of refined loaf sugar. Bod the jam quicklj- until done enough. Put it into jars, and cover these in the usual manner. Time to boil the jam, from thirty to forty minutes. Strawberry Jelly. — Take quite fresh fruit which has been gathered in drj- weather. Pick the stalks from it, put it into a preserving- pan (an enamelled one is the best for the pur- pose), and place it by the side of a clear fire that the juice may be drawn gently from it. As soon as this flows freely, simmer it until the berries appear to collapse, but on no account allow the juice to remain on the fire till it thickens. Pour the fruit upon a well-scalded but dry sieve, and let the juice drain thoroughly from it; strain it through three or four thick- nesses of muslin, and weigh it. Boil quickly for twenty minutes, and stir frequently. Take the pan from the fire, and then add very gradually fourteen ounces of coarsely-pounded loaf sugar for each pound of fi-uit. Let one portion be dissolved before another is added, men all the sugar is dissolved, put the pan again on the fire, and boil the jelly untU a little put upon a plate will stiffen. Pour the jelly into small jars, cover these in the usual way, and store in a cool dry place. Time to boil the jelly with the sugar, a quarter of an hour or more, according to the quality of the fruit. Probable cost, strawberries, from 4d. to 8d. per pound; less if bought by the peck.( 933 ) STB STU Strawberry Salad—Take equal portions of strawberries and red and white cui-rants. Pick them, place them in layers, and pile them on a dish. Sprinkle powdered sugar over them, ^ind poxir thick cream upon them. The cream and sugar should not be poured on the fruit till the last moment. If liked, other fruits, such as gooseberries, cherries, raspberries, &c., may be introduced into the salad. Strawberry Solid. — Dissolve three quarters of an ounce of isinglass by boiling it in a quarter of a pint of water. Press a pint of strawberries through a sieve and add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice and a little sugar. Add three quarters of a pint of cream and the dissolved isinglass when cool. Mix thoroughly. Pour the solid into a damp earthenware mould, as metal would spoil its colour, and when it is stiff it will be ready for use. If fresh strawberries are not at hand, jam may be used instead, but it will need to be rubbed through a line sieve to keep out the seeds. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for .six or eight persons. Time, about an hour to prepare. Strawberry Vinegar.—This vinegar is excellent for flavouring sweet sauces, also a .spoonful or two put into a tumblerful of cold water forms a refreshing summer drink. Gather the fruit in dry weather, when it is fully ripe and finely flavoured. Let it be quite fresh. Pick and weigh it, and put it into stone jars or wide-mouthed glass bottles, and over each pound j)oiiT a quart of best white-w ine vinegar. Cover the jars closely, and let the strawberries infuse in the vinegar for three days. Drain it off, and put it upon fresh fruit. Let this stand three •days, and repeat the operation a third time. Drain off the Kquor closely, and let it run through a canvas bag dipped in vinegar. jMeasure it, and stir into it until almost dis- solved a pound of sugar broken up small for <>ach pint of vinegar. Put it over a clear fire in an enamelled (not a metal) saucepan, and let it boil gently for five minutes. Pour it out, let it stand twelve minutes, skim it thoroughly, and bottle for use. Time, ten days. Probable •cost. Is. 6d. per pint. Strawberry Water (a refreshing summer •drink).—Take half a pound of finely-flavoured strawberries. Bruise them well in a basin with a wooden spoon, and mix with them four table- spoonfuls of finely-powdered sugar and a quarter of a pint of cold water. Rub them through a fine sieve, ^nd filter what passes through the «ieve till it is clear and bright. "Wash the dregs in the sieve with a little cold water to prevent waste. Add the strained juice of half a lemon and a pint of cold water to the liquor, and put it in ice or in a cool place till wanted. Time, about an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 3d. per pint. Sufficient for about a quart of water. Strawberry Water Ice.—Pick a pound of ripe Btrawborrios, and bruise them well with half a pound of red currants. Pour upon them a pint of clarified sugar, and add two or three <irops of cochineal if liked. Rub the whole through a hair-sieve into a basin, and freeze in the usual way. Strawberry Wine.—A simple method of making strawberry wine is to add a little straw- berry-juice to good flavourless currant wine. To make it from fresh fruit, bruise three gallons of strawberries, and pour upon them three gallons of water. Let them infuse twenty-four hours. Strain the liquor through a canvas bag, and add eight pounds of lump sugar, two gallons of cider, one ovmce of powdered red tartar, and the thin rind of a fresh lemon. When putting the wine into the cask a little brandy may be added if liked. Stuffing.—Stuffing is but a homely name for forcemeat, for the preparation of which ' various recipes are given under their appro- ■ priate headings. In making forcemeat great care should be taken that the ingredients arc equally and smoothly mixed, that no one par- ticular herb or spice overpowers the fla- vour of the rest; and that the seasoning is suited to the dish it is intended to accompany Forcemeats should be of such a consistency that they can be cut through with a knife, yet they should neither be heavy nor dry. When the ' are made up into balls these should never be larger than a small nutmeg. When intended for soups or ragouts, they should be cooked before being added to the dish. They will need to be fried tUl brown for brown sauce, and boiled for three minutes for white sauce. Stuffing, Alexandre Dumas' .—Stuffing prepared in the following way was originally in- tended for turkey (to "avoid spending forty or fifty francs on truffles"), but it is equally suited to hare. Mince together veal, chicken, and partridge flesh, if these are to be had, in small and equal portions, and add four oimccs of sausage-meat. Boil from fifteen to twenty fine Lyons chestnuts till tender in salt and water. A stick of celery may be simmered with. them. When the chestnuts are done enough, crush them, and mix them with the mincemeat. I'ut a clove of garlic and a handful of fresh green parsley-leaves inside the hare, fill it with the stuffing, and sew up securely. Stuffing for Hare, Meg Dod's.— Grate the crumb of a stale penny loaf, and soak it in port or claret. Mix with it four ounces of beef suet chopped small, a tea-spoon- ful of finely-shred parsley, a small pinch of minced shallot, a tea-spooniul of grated lemon- rind, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and a little salt and cayenne. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, and bind them together with yolk of egg. Put the forcemeat into the hare, and sew it up closely. If the liver is in a sound state, it may be parboiled, chopped, and mixed with the forcemeat. In the original recipe it was recommended that a boned anchovy should be added to this preparation. This may be in- troduced or omitted, according to taste. Stuffings, Forcemeat, Dr. Kitchinei on.—Forcemeat is considered an indis])en8able accompaniment to most made dishes, and when composed with good taste gives additional spirit and reUsh to even that " Sovereign of Savouri- nesa"—turtle soup. It is also sent up in patties( 934 ) STU STTJ and for stuffing of veal, game, poultry, &c. The ingredients should bo so proportioned thut ni) flavour prodoniinatos. To give the same stuffing for voal, hare, &c., argues a poverty of invention; with a little contrivance you may make as great a variety as you have dishes. The poignancy of forcemeat should be pro- portioned to the savourinoss of the viands to which it is intended to give an additional zest. Some dishes require a very del:':..i.oiy ilavourcd forcemeat—for others it must be full and highly B ^asoned. What would be piquante in a turkey would be insipid with turtle. Tastes are so different, and the praise the cook receives will depend so much on her pleasing the palate of those she works for, that all her sagacity must bo on the alert to produce the flavours to which her employers are partial. Most people have an acquired and peculiar taste in stuffings, &c., and what exactly pleases one seldom is precisely what another considers the most agreeable, and after all the contrivance of a painstaking palatician to combine her " haul ffouts'^ in the most exquisite proportions, the very dish one likoa the best is acid or insipid to the rest. Sturgeon.—The sturgeon is a large fish somewhat resembling the shark in form. Its body is more or less covered with rows of bony spikes. In the north of Europe, and in some of the States of North America it is caught in abundance, but it is seldom met with in English rivers. It is said that those who have THE STURGrEON. the good fortune to capture it are bound to send their prize to the reigning sovereign, as the sturgeon is regarded as a royal fish. The flesh of the sturgeon is agreeable and whole- some, and looks something like veal. It was so highly esteemed in ancient days that it was crowned before being brought to table, and a band of music marched before it. Its roe is converted into caviare, a favourite Russian delicacy, and from its air-bladder fine ismglass IS prepared. It is occasionally to be met with in the London market, and generally fetches a Kood price; indeed, it is so rare, and costs so muchf that when it is obtained it is generaUy dressed regardless of expense. The sterlet, though the smallest, is the most highly-prized species of sturgeon. Its flesh is delicious, and its caviare is reserved exclusively for the Rus- sian court. Price, when for sale, from 7s. 6d per pound. Sturgeon (a la Cardinal).—Take a]>out two pounds of sturgeon. Cleanse thoroughly, and skin it. Bind it into shape firmly with tape, and lay in a saucejjan, and with it an onion stuck with four cloves, a little piece of mace, a sliced carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a glass of vinegar, and as much water as will cover the fish. Let all boil gently until the sturgeon is done. Lay it on a dish, poiu- lobster sauce over it, and serve. A few prawns and green parsley may be used as a garnish. The time required to boil sturgeon will vary accord- ing to the size and age of the fish from which the piece was taken—from three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, from Is. 6d. per poimd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Sturgeon (a la Proven<,'ale).—Take a slice of sturgeon cut from the middle of the fish, lard it all over with thin strips of ham, or even of eel, and brown it by putting it in a stew- pan with a large slice of butter, a spoonful of powdered sweet herbs, half a clove of garlic, and a httle pepper and salt. Lay two or three bay-leaves on the top of the fish, and pour a Uttle stock round. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the contents simmer over a gentle fire till they are done enough. Serve the fish on a hot dish, and send its own gravy, melted butter, brown sauce, anchovy sauce, or any similar sauce, to table with it. Time, according to the age and size of the fish. Sturgeon (a la Russe).—Take a piece of sturgeon weighing about two pounds. Cleanse thoroughly, scale it, remove the spikes, and lay it in salt and water for ten or twelve hours. An hour before it is wanted rub it well with vinegar, and let it lie with a little vinegar poured round it. Put it into a fish-kettle with as much boiling water as ■vs'ill cover it, and add two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and an ounce of bay-salt. Let it boil gentlv till done enough, take it up, flour it well, put it before a brisk fire, and baste it with butter till it is well browned. Put it on a dish, and pour over it. or serve separately in a tureen, a sauce prepared as follows:—Bone and skin two anchovies, and put them into a saucepan with a glass of white wine, a button onion, an inch of lemon-rind, and a cupful of stock. Boil all gently together for a minute or two. Strain the sauce, thicken it with flour and butter, stir two table-spoon- fuls of thick cream into it, and serve. Sturgeon (M. Ude's way).—Boil the stur- geon in salt and water. When it is done, dram, and mask or cover it with the foUowing sauce :- Reduce in a small stewpan four spoonfuls ol elder vinegar, men it is half reduced, put in six spoonfuls of vcloutc, or rather a quantitv proportionate to the size of the fish, and half a spoonful of cavicc ; thicken the sauce with three yolks of eggs, and add a quarter of a pound of butter and some salt and pepper. Work this sauce well; drain the fish, and cover( 936 ) STU it with the sauce. In order to keep it thick and white, mix with it a little thick cream. Sturgeon, Baked.—Take a small stur- geon, skm and cloanao it thoroughly, and_ re- move the inside. Lay it in a large baking- dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over it, together with a little pepper and salt. Moisten with a tumblerful of white wine; lay some little pieces of butter here and there upon the fish, and bake in a moderate oven. Baste frequently. When it is nicely browned, serve the sturgeon on a hot dish with its own sauce poured round it. Time to bake, about an hour. Sturgeon, Baked (another way).—Split the sturgeon. Make a marinade either with wine or vinegar, and pour it into a vessel large enough to contain the fish, which cover with buttered paper to prevent its getting too high a colour. Baste frequently with the marinade. When the sturgeon is done, have the sauce made as in the recipe Sturgeon, Roasted, and use it to mask the fish. Put the marinade in the dish with the sturgeon, but you may put skewers across the dish to prevent the fish from touching the liquid. If the fish is boiled in the liquid it will be thready, and not 80 palatable. Baste the fish with the marinade. Sturgeon, Baked (a la Reine).—This is an expensive though a superior dish. Take a piece of sturgeon weighing about four pounds, cleanse thoroughly, skin it, roU, and bind it firmly with tape; put it into a saucepan with a glassful of vinegar and as much water as will cover it, and add a carrot, an onion, a little salt and pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let it simmer gently until done enough. Drain it, and let it cool. Prepare as much forcemeat of whiting as will entirely cover the surface of the sturgeon {see Quenelles of Cod, Salmon, &c.). Lay this on the fish, and smooth it with the blade of a knife dipped in hot water. Orna- ment with pink tongue, black truffles, and pickled gherkins cut into fancy shapes. Roll it in buttered paper, and fasten securely. Put it into a baking-dish, pour under it about a pint of the liquor in which it was boiled, and bake it, basting occasionally with its liquor, in a gentle oven. Place it on a dish, garnish with prawns and tufts of green parsley, and pour over or serve with it a little well-made luvigote sauce. Time to bake the sturgeon, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. ' Probable cost, sturgeon, from Is. 6d. per pound. Sturgeon, Blanquette of (a la Pay- sanne).—When you have some roasted sturgeon returned, keep it to make a blanquette. Pare some round pieces nicely the size of half a crown, and put them into a sauce a blan- quette, to which add a little chopped parsley and the juice of a lemon. This blanquette is sent to table like all others in a vol-au- vent, or a casserole, with rice, &c. Sturgeon, Blanquette of, with Peas. —If you have any sturgeon left that is still very fresh, make a blanquetLC with peas, which, not requiring to be highly seasoned, will admit only of fish which is extremely sweet. After having simmered the peas as they are always prepared for the second course, take three spoonfuls of sauce toumee, and reduce it with four spoonfuls of the peas, adding a very small bit of sugar. When your sauce is very thick, put to it a thickening of two yolks of eggs, then put the sturgeon to it, and serve either in a vol-au-vent, or in a border of potatoes. Ob- serve that in this dish the seasoning must be very mild. Sturgeon, Boiled. — Cut the fish into thin slices like veal cutlets, rub them over with a little butter and give a sprinkling of pepper. Serve very hot with lemon garnish. Take great care to cut off the skin before the fish is boiled, as the oil in the skin if burnt imparts a very rank flavour. Sturgeon, Choosing of.—The flesh of this fish is partly white with a few blue veins, the grain even, the skin tender, good- coloured, and soft. All the veins and gristles should be blue ; for when they are brown and yellow, and the skin harsh, tough, and dry, the fish is not good. It has a pleasant smell when in perfection, but a very disagreeable one when bad. It should also cut firm, without crum- bling. The females are as full of roe as a carp. Sturgeon, Croquettes of.—Sturgeon is a fish absolutely resembling veal, and when fresh is as white as very fine veal; when red, nothing can be done with it. If there is any re- turned of a very good white, but not sufficient to make a croquette, make it into small timballes. Cut the sturgeon into dice, and put them into a sauce similar to that mentioned in Timballes of Turbot (see Turbot.) After having cut enough fish into dice to make the croquettes, take a bechamel and some mushrooms cut into dice, to which add a small lump of butter, salt, &c., and put the fish into that sauce. Let them cool, and then dip them into crumbs of bread, as described for other croquettes. Fry them of a good colour, and serve some fried parsley in the centre of the dish. Sturgeon Cutlets. — Cut the sturgeon into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Wash these, dry them in a cloth, flour them, and dip them into egg and seasoned bread-crumbs. Fry in hot fat until they are nicely browned on both sides, drain them, and serve with piquant or tomato sauce. Time to fry, ten to fifteen minutes. Sturgeon, Presh^, Grilled. —Cut the sturgeon into slices an inch thick. Dry these and dip them into egg and seasoned bread- crumbs, and fasten them in papers saturated with butter, or simply brush them over with salad-oil, and sprinkle salt and pepper upon them. Broil them over a clear fire until they are sufficiently cooked on both sides. Serve with melted butter, oyster, or anchovy sauce, or with piquant sauce to which a few drops of essence of anchovy and a small piece of butter have been added. Time to grill, about fifteen minutes, the time varying with the size and age of the fish. Sturgeon, Fried.—Cut the fish into slices, and fry in the usual manner; then potir( 936 ) STU STTJ of? the fat, and put a little flour and boiling water into the pan. Pour this into a stewpan, and add to it Bome sweet herbs and an onion, and season with pepper and suit. Let the fish stew till quite tender; then strain the sauce, and serve it poured round the fish, adding first a little lemon-juice. Sturgeon. Roasted.--Take a piece of sturgeon cut from the middle of a good-sized fish. Cleanse thoroughly and skin it, season with salt and pepper, and tie thin slices of fat bacon round it. Take a piece of writing- paper largo enough to cover the fish entirely. Butter it thickly, and spread over it sliced carrots and onions with a small quantity of powdered sweet herbs, and wrap the fish in it. Tie two more sheets of buttered paper upon it, bind securely with tape, and put the stur- geon in a cradle-spit, or tie it to an ordinary spit, and roast before a clear fire. When done enough take it down, pour a little matelote sauce over it, and send more to table in a tureen. The sauce may be made as follows:— Put half a pint of good brown sauce into a saucepan with eighteen fried button onions, the same number of small mushrooms, and a glassful of claret. Boil all gently together for ten minutes. Add a pinch of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, a small lump of sugar, and a few drops of essence of anchovy. When the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, take the sauce off the fire, stir into it xmtil dissolved a small lump of butter, and it will be ready for serving. Time to roast the fish, according to age and size. Sturgeon, Boasted (another way).—Split the sturgeon; make a marinade with white wine, with which baste the fish. Next take some of the marinade and reduce it with four large spoonfuls of good Spanish sauce. When the sauce is of a good consistency, put in it about half a pound of fresh butter kneaded with a little flour, salt, cayenne pepper, the juice of a lemon, and a spoonful of essence of anchovies. If you have no Spanish sauce, make a little thickening with flour and butter, and moisten with the marinade, having added to it a little glaze. Sturgeon, Roasted Whole.—If it can be procured, take a small sturgeon whole. Remove the spikes, empty it, and cleanse it thoroughly; then soak it in salt and water for ten or twelve hours. Put it in a cradle-spit, and roast it before a clear fire; baste con- stantly until it is half-dressed. Be very careful that the surface of the fish is not burnt, or it will be entirely spoiled. Cover with seasoned bread-crumbs, and continue roasting, basting it frequently, for half an hour. Serve with crab or anchovy sauce. This is a good dish for a dinner-party. Time to roast, about an hour. Sturgeon, Sauce for.—If broiled or fried, any piquant sauce or any of the sauces which usually accompany salmon may be served with sturgeon. When stewed (which is the most usual mode of dressing it), the liquor in which it was simmered may be strained, thickened, and either poured over it or served in a tureen. Sturgeon, Stewed.—Take two pounds of sturgoou cut into slices an inch thick. Soak these in strong vinegar for five minutes, drain them, dry them in a cloLh, dip them in flour, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned on both sides. Take as much good nicely-flavoured veal stock as will ]>arely cover the fish, throw into it a largo glassful of madeira, cover the saucepan closely, and simmer the fish gently for an hour. Put the slices on a dish, thi-ow a spoonful of capers upon them, pour the sauce round them, and serve. Time to fry the shoes, ten minutes; to simmer them, one hour. Sturgeon, Stewed (another way).—Dip the shoes of fish in vinegar, then dry them, dredge them with flour, and broQ or fry them. Next lay them in a stewpan with some good broth, and let them stew gently till quite ten- der ; thicken with butter or cream, half a glass- ful of wine, and a spoonful of spy, ketchup, or Harvey's Sauce; throw capers over the top, and serve up garnished with slices of lemon. Sturgeon Stewed and Garnished with Sole.—Take a piece of sturgeon cut from the middle of a good-sized fish. Clean and scale it, and soak it in salt and water for ten or twelve hours. Drain, and cover it with thin shoes of fat bacon. Put it into the fish-kettle, and almost cover it with nicely- flavoured stock. Add a glassful of claret, and simmer it gently until done enough. FiUet five or six soles. Spread a thin layer of fish forcemeat on the skinned side of each fillet, roU it, tie twine round it, and put the fiUets side by side in a buttered baking-dish. Pour round them as much stock as will almost cover them, and bake them in a moderate oven. When the sturgeon is done enough, drain it, place it on a hot dish, put the rolled fillets of sole round it, and pour over them a small portion of the hquor, strained and thickened, in which the fish was boiled. A small stewed mushroom may be placed on each roU. If preferred, the soles may be omitted altogether, and the sturgeon, being cooked as above, may be served on a hot dish, and simply garnished with parsley and cut lemon. Caper sauce and plaLnly-boUed potatoes may then be served as accompaniments. Sturgeon, Stuffed and Roasted.— Take the tail end of a moderate-sized sturgeon; cleanse thoroughly, then bone and skin it. Fill it with good veal forcemeat, roll it in buttered paper, and bind it securely with tape. Place it in a cradle-spit, put it down before a clear fire, and baste hberally whilst it is roasting. When it is done enough, serve on a hot dish with plain melted butter, brown gravy, or a sauce prepared as follows:—Put into a small saucepan a glassful of sherry, a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and a few drops of essence of anchovy. Let the sauce boil up; then serve. Time to roast, about an hour. Sturgeon, Various ways of Cook- ing.—" Sturgeon, fresh," says Dr. Kit(>.hincr, " is esteemed a good fish by many; hut, I believe, only because it does not come plenti- ful enough to be common, and to the cater of fish it makes a change. A piece stewed, withSTTB ( 937 ) SUB some good gravy, is the best way of dressing ; or cut in slices and fried, as you would a veal cutlet, it eats very well. Sturgeon pickled makes a handsome winter dish for a second course." Suedoise of Apples, or Apple Hedgehog Apple Hedgehog). Suedoise of Peaches.—Boil six ounces of refined sugar in half a pint of water till it is a clear syrup. Put into this half a dozen fine ripe peaches which have been merely wiped with a soft cloth, and let them simmer very o-ently for six or eight minutes. Lift them out , carefully, pare them, split them in halves, and , let them soak for a while in half the syrup, j Into the other half throw two pounds of ripe , peaches which have been pared and split in halves, j and boil them till they form a smooth dry pulp. Add as much sugar as they require to sweeten i them pleasantly, and also a table-spoonful of , strained lemon-juice to bring out the flavour. Spread a layer of this pulp at the bottom of a , dish, arrange the peaches upon it, leaving out ^ three or four of the halves, and fill all the • empty spaces with the pulp. Stick half a j blanched peach-kernel in each peach, and pour over all the reduced syrup. Garnish the dish with a border of macaroons or ratafias, or even of candied peel stamped in fancy shapes. Pile ; the unused halves of peaches on the top of the dish, and serve. When peaches are expensive, the fruit pulp may be made of apples instead of peaches. Time to simmer the whole peaches, six to eight minutes; to boil the fruit to pulp, j from three-quarters of an hour to one hour, j Probable cost, peaches, very variable. Suf- i ficient for half a dozen persons. | Suet, Beef, for Pie-crust {see Beef Suet €or Pie-crust). Suet Crust {see Crust, Suet, for Puddings). Suet Dumpling, Plain.—It cannot be too strongly insisted upon, and mothers of families cannot be too fully persuaded that •a certain quantity of fat taken with food is absolutely necessary to health. Those who do not take it are particularly liable to con- sumption, and this is specially the case with young pcojile who are growing rapidly. To these anxious friends administer fat as a medicine in the shape of cod-liver oil, but it matters Uttle in what shape fat is taken, the effect on the system of dripping, butter, or oil being exactly the same-. Unfortunately, though one man can lead a horse to water, a hundred cannot make him drink, and it is useless to set before delicate, perhaps fanciful, persons things j from which, however nourishing and whole- { some, they turn away with dislike and loathing, j There are families in which every scrap of fat which is served to its members seated at table j is left on the plate and thrown to the cat or j into the dust-bin. This ought not to be. It ' <loes not often happen, indeed, in households ! where the members of the families are employed out of doors, but it does when their occupations are sedentary. We have no right to say an unkind word about " daintiness " if those who are confined all day long in a close in-door atmoaphere have not the sharp-set appetite of 2 E* the ploughman who hears the smgmg of the lark, and feels the freshness of the breeze from misty daybreak to ruddy sunset. Still, wo would urge those who think they can take no meat but lean to use the fat under some disguise. They akeady take it in many shapes uncon- sciously, and without thinking of it, as m broth, milk, and butter, and even in meat which they call and consider lean. The housewife, at any rate, ought to be thoroughly convinced of the o-reat impoiiance of aU kinds of fat m family dishes. She ought to see that none is wasted, to procure all she can at an economical rate, to buy not one ounce less than the usual quantity of good wholesome fat with the meat, and then so to employ it that her family shall be cheated, as it were, into taking, almost without knowing it, what is essential for their bodily welfare. One of the easiest ways of doing this is to serve fat in puddings, and amongst pud- dings of the kind one of the most excellent is suet dumpling. This is wholesome, excellent, and cheap; it may be made more or less sub- stantial, its flavour may be varied according to taste, and it can be eaten as a savoury or a sweet dish. For plain suet dumpling, the best suet is the kidney-fat of beef or veal, which can be bought separately in small quantities, and at a moderate, though, unfortunately, a gradually- increasing price. To make the dumplings, clear the suet from skin and fibre, chop it fine, and to a pound of flour put from a quarter to half a pound of chopped suet. Before putting in the suet, however, mix with the flour a pinch of salt, and, if liked, a small pinch of pepper, and if a small quantity only of suet is used, add a tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Add cold water to make the mixture into a tolerably stiff dough. Divide this into balls about the size of a large orange. Flour them well. Tie each one separately and securely in a cloth which has been wrung out of boiling water and floured, and be careful to leave the dumplings room to swell. Throw them into fast-boiling water, and keep them boiling quickly until done enough. Turn them out of the cloth, and serve immediately. Jam, sugar, treacle, sweet sauce, or salt and meat-gravy may all be served with them. WTien the dumplings are to be served with the meat they may be thrown without cloth into the liquor in which the meat is boiled, and allowed to remain until done enough. Time to boil the dumplings, half to three-quarters of an hour, according to size. Probable cost, suet, lOd. per pound. SuflBcient, one dumpling for each person. Suet Dumplings, Excellent.—Shred finely six ounces of suet freed from skin and fibre. Add to it a tea-spoonful of salt, six ounces of flour, and two ounces of bread-crumbs. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Break two eggs into a bowl, whisk them well, mix with them six table-spoonfuls of milk, and stir all well together. Divide the mixture into five or six dumplings, tie these separately into cloths lightly dredged with flour, and boil them quickly until done enough. If any of these dump- lings are left, they may be cut into slices, fried in butter, and served a second time. Time to boil, three quarters of an hour to one hour,( 938 ) SUE SUE according to size. Probablo coat, lOd. Sufficient for lour or five persons. Suet Dumplings. Sweet.—Prepare the suet duiuplin'4- as in tlui last recipe. Before putting the sin;t into the Hour, take the neces- SJiry quantity of salt, and mix with it a tahle- spoonful of sugar, a pinch of grated nutnuig or spice, and any flavouring ingredients that may be chosen. Mi.x: all thoroughly together, make the mixture into dough, divide it into balls, and boil as before. A few currants may bo added if liked, and instead of sugar a spoon- ful of treacle may be dissolved in the water. Time to boil the dumplings, half an hour to three-quarters of an hour, according to size. Dumplings made with one pound of flour and half a pound of suet will be sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 8d. Suet, Milk {see Milk Suet). Suet Paste for Boiled Puddings {see Paste, Suet, &c.). Suet Pastry, Common.—Suet pastry is especially suited for boiled fruit or meat pud- dings. To make it, put a pound of flour into a bowl, add a pinch of salt and from six to eight ounces of good suet which has been finely shred and freed entirely from skin and fibre. The suet should be well rubbed into the flour. ]\Iake a hole in the centre of the mixture, and pour in a small tea-cupful of water. Stir this in lightly with a knife, and if necessary add more water. Work the whole to a stiff paste, roll it out two or three times, and let it stand a few minutes before using it. If a small quantity only of suet is used, a tea-spoonful of baking- powder may be added, and this will help to make the pastry light. Suet Pastry, Rich (for meat pies, &c.). —If the following directions are attended to, suet may be used instead of butter for making puff paste for meat pies which are to be served hot. If they are to be eaten when cold, butter had better be used. The difference in the ex- pense between suet and good butter is con- siderable, and bad butter will spoil anything. Take some dry veal or beef-kidney suet. Free it entirely from skin and fibre, chop it small, then pound it in a mortar, and whilst pounding keep adding a tea-spoonful of salad-oil till the suet looks like butter. If oil is not at hand, fresh butter may be used instead. Two ounces will be sufficient for half a pound of suet. Pro- ceed as for puff paste {see Paste, Puff, or Feuille- tage). Suet, lOd. per pound. Suet Pudding {see Kentish Suet Pudding). Suet Pudding (another way). — Chop eight ounces of suet finely. Mix with it an cqTial weight of finely-grated bread-crumbs, ;ind add a pinch of salt, four table-spoonfuls of sugar, and the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon, and two eggs. Mix thoroughly. Tie the mixture in a cloth, leaving room for the pudding to swell, and boil quickly till done enough. Time to boil, four hours. Probable fost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Suet Pudding (another way).—Chop small four ounces of suet free from skin and ] fibre. Add u pinch of salt, a little grated , ■ ginger, and half a jmiind of iiour. WTiisk i two eggs with a quart('r of a pint of milk. Stir this into the mixture till it is smooth I and light. Tie the pudding in a floured cloth, lioing careful to leave it room to swell, and boil ([uickiy till done enough. Serve witli sweet or wine sauce. Time to boil, about two hours. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Suet Pudding, Dr. Kitchiner's.— Shred finely seven ounces of good kidney suet. Put this into a bowl, and mix with it half a tea-spoonful of salt, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, half a tea- spoonful of thin lemon-rind chopped small, four ounces of flour, and three ounces of bread- crumbs. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Whisk two fresh eggs till they are light and frothy, add gradually a quarter of a pint of milk, and stir the liquor into the pudding. Let it stand half an hour. Put it in one xum]> into a well-floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil quickly until done enough. Serve with sweet or wine sauce. Time to boil, three hours. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Suet Pudding, Fruit {see Fruit Suet Pudding). Suet Pudding, Plain.—An excellent plain suet pudding may be made by following the instructions already given for making suet dumplings, then boiling the preparation whole instead of dividing it into dumplings. A pud- ding thus made will be excellent if served with the joint, and with plenty of gravy ; or it may be sent to table separately, having had a jai of jam emptied upon it at the last moment. Time to boil the pudding, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Suet Pudding, Plain (served with sugar and lemon-juice).—^Kub two ounces of finely- shred suet into a pound of flour. Add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and just before the water or milk is added mix in two tea-spoonfuls of baking powder. Add water to make a tolei-ablj- light paste ; then put the pudding in a floured cloth, and boil it till done enough. This pud- ding is also very good with gravy. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost, 5d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Suet, to Clarify for Frying.—Chop the suet roughly, free it from skin and fibre, and melt it in a Dutch oven before a clear fire. Pour the fat off frequently as it melts, for fear it should burn; or put the minced suet into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water, and keep it boiling until it is dissolved. Pour the liquor into a basin, and when it is cold take the cake of fat from the top. Melt it again, strain it through muslin, keep back the sediment, and the fat will be fit for use. Clarified suet is ex- cellent for making plain pastry, and also for basting and frying purposes. Suet, to Keep for Months.—Take firm but perfectlv sweet suet. Free it entirely from skin and fibre, and put it in a saucepan over a very gentle fire. Let it melt gradually. Pour it into a pan of cold water. When it ia cold andstrp sua ( 939 ) hard, wipe it dry with a soft cloth, wrap it in paper, put it in a linen bag, and hang it in a cool dry place. Scrape it when it is wanted for use. Fresh suet will keep for several days if it is chopped fine with all the veiny pieces re- moved, then put into a jar entirely covered with flour, and kept in a cool place. Suffolk-bang Cheese.—There are cases in which dairy-fai'mcrs skim the milk before they begin to make cheese. TheSe cheeses are remarkable for their hardness, because caseine, independently of the butter, is an exceedingly liard substance; and these cheeses are sometimes brought into the market, and they are so hard that they are the subject of many a joke. Of such are the Suffolk-bang cheeses made by frugal housewives in that county, who first take the butter and send it to market, and then make their cheese. It is said of it in derision that " dogs bark at it, pigs gTunt at it, but neither of them can bite it." Suffolk Buns.—Rub four ounces of lard into a pound of floui-; add a spoonful of salt, two tea-spoonfuls of baking powder, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, and three table- spoonfuls of currants or caraway-seeds. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly; whisk two eggs and stir them into the mixture, to make a smooth firm paste. A little milk may be added if necessary. Roll the paste out to the thickness of an inch. Stamp it in rounds, and bake these on tins in a gentle oven. If preferred, ground rice and butter may be used instead of flour and lard. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Suffolk Dumplings.—^lix some bread dough lightly with millc instead of water; let it rise before the fire for an hour. Have ready a saucepan of fast-boiling water. Divide the dough into balls the size of an orange, throw them into the water, and boil them quickly until done enough. When a fork stuck to the centre of them comes out quite clean they are done enough. Serve at once. When eating the dumplings do not cut them with a knife, but tear them apart with a fork and spoon. Send butter and sugar, and lemon-juice, or treacle, to table with them. Time to boil, twenty minutes. Sufiicient, allow one for each person. Suffolk Dumplings {see Hard or Suffolk Dumplings). Sugar, Barley.-Tkke any quantity of clarified sugar in that state that on dipping the finger into the pan the sugar which adheres to it will break with a slight noise; this is called crackling. When the sugar is near this, put in .two or three drops of lemon-juice or a little vinegar to prevent its graining. When it has come to the crack, take it off instantly, and dip the pan into cold water to prevent its burning; let it stand a little, and then pour it on a marble which must have been previously rubbed with oil. Cut the sugar into small pieces, when it will be ready for use. One drop of citron will flavour a considerable quantity. Sugar Biscuits.—No. I. Beat a pound of fresh butter to cream. Add a pound of dow- dered and sifted sugar and a pound of dried flour, and any flavouring that may be preferred. Make the mixture into paste by stirring milk or cream into it; roll it out very thin, stamp it into rounds or squares; prick these with a fork, and bake on buttered tins in a well-heated oven. No. 2. Take four eggs, with an equal weight of finely-pounded sugar and half the weight of dried flour. Break the eggs, and put the yolks and the whites into separate bowls. Beat the yolks and the sugar together for half an hour; add the flour with any flavouring that may be chosen, and when the mixture is quite smooth add the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Drop the biscuits in knobs upon sheets of buttered paper, sift sugar upon them, and bake in a quick oven. No. 3. Put half a pint of milk into a bowl, and stir into it as much flour as will form a thick batter. Add a spoonful of salt and a gill of yeast, and set the sponge on the hearth to rise. This should be done in the evening. Next morning dissolve without heating two ounces of butter. Add this to the sponge, and knead in as much flour as will form a dough and a little powdered white sugar. Let the dough rise before the fire till it is quite light; divide it into biscuits, handling it as lightly as possible, and put these into buttered tins. Let them rise again for a short time, and bake them in a brisk oven. When they are done enough, brush them over with a syrup of sugar and water, and sift powdered sugar upon them. Sugar Boiled from Syrup to Cara- mel.—There are several degrees in boiling sugar from clarified syrup to caramel. The process requires not only care but an experience which can, perhaps, only be expected from a confectioner. Recipes are given for boiling sugar to the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth degrees. These are the principal gradations, and they are further divided by professional persons. When great nicety is required, the condition of the sugar can be best ascertained by a saccharometer, which is an instrument con- structed for the purpose of determining the exact condition of preparations of this nature. The finest sugar only should be used in confec- tionery. It is reaUy the most economical, as common sugar wastes much more when it is being clarified. Suffar, to Clarify.—Break the sugar into large lumps, and put it into a delicately-clean pre- serving-pan. Allow a pint of water to each pound if it is for syrup; if for candying less than half that quantity will be sufficient. The white of one egg will also be required for twelve pounds of sugar if it is refined; for six pounds if it is coarse. Beat the white of egg lightly; stir it into the water, and pour the mixture upon the sugar. Let it stand until dissolved; then stir it well, and put it upon a gentle fire. Do not disturb it after the ^cum begins to form. Let it boil for five minutes; take it from the fire, let it stand for two minutes, and carefully remove all the scum. Set it on the fire again, and when it is about to boil up throw in a little cold water, which has been reserved for the purpose from the quantity originally measured. Boil till the scum forms again; draw it from the fire, let it settle, then skim it as before, and repeat this operation till( 940 ) sua sua the syrup is quite dear. If it is not properly cleared it will rise over the pan wlien it is boiled to a height. 8traiii the syrup through muslin, and it will bo fit for use or for fm-ther boiling. To prevent waste, the scuin should bo laid on a sieve, and any syrup that runs from it should be boiled up again. First Degree, named Candied Sugar.—Take the sugar clai-itied as above, and put it again on the fire. Let it boil till smooth. Dip the hand quickly in and out of cold water to keep it from being burnt; take from the skimmer a drop of the syrup, press it quickly, draw it apart, and if it forms a brittle thread it has attained the fii'st degree. Second Degree, named Souffle, or Blown Sugar. —Boil the candied sugar still longer. Dip in the skimmer, \fiake off the sugar, and blow strongly thi-ou^ the holes of the skimmer. A\'Tien the sugar forms into bubbles it has attained the second degree. Third Degree, named Feathered Sugar.—Boil the blown sugar still longer. Dip the skimmer again in the pan, shake off the sugar, then give it a quick toss. If it flies off hke down or feathers it has attained the third degree. Fourth Degree, named Crackling Sugar.—Boil the feathered sugar a short time longer. Dip a si.ick in the sugar, and plunge it instantly into cold water. If the sugar that hangs to the stick becomes instantly hard the sugar has attained the fourth degree. In making this experiment the cook must be careful that the water in which she tries the sugar is perfectly cold. If it is not she may be misled. If the sugar is intended for barley-sugar, a little grated lemon or essence of lemon should now be added, and the sugar should be poured upon a broad dish; and when the edges begin to harden it should be divided into strips and twisted. If there is any fear that the sugar will grain or return again to powder a little lemon-juice may be added. Fifth Degree, named Caramel.—Boil the sugar until when a Kttle is put into cold water it hardens instantly and snaps like glass. Squeeze in a little lemon-juice; let the sugar remain one minute longer on the fire, then, if it is wanted for sugar spinning, set the pan in another of cold water, and the caramel will be ready for use. Care should be taken ihat the fire is not very fierce when the sugar is being boiled, for if it flames up at the sides of the pan it may burn and spoil the sugar. Spun sugar is a pretty ornament for sweetmeats, and may be made of sugar thus prepared. Moulds of a suitable size and form should be oiled with almond oil, and then with a fork the sugar should be spread over them in fine threads of chain or network. These moulds will look very pretty if placed upon an iced cake, and they can be used several times if they are carefully handled. One way of performing this really difficult operation is to tie two forks together with the prongs out- wards, dip them lightly in the sugar, take them out, and shake them backwards and forwards over the oiled moulds or whatever else is to be covered. The manufacture of spun sugar belongs rather to the skill of the confectioner, however, than to that of the cook. Sugar Browning, for Colourina Soups, Sauces, and Made Dishes.-^ When sauces and made-dislics need to bo thickened as well as browned, roux or Ijrown thickening should be used. When the cxAont only is required, it may often be eufiiciently imparted by means of a little claret or mush- room ketchup, or by frying the meat and onions used till they are a light-brown colour, or by stewing onion-skins or burnt onions in the sauce. Some cooks adopt the slovenly and dan- gerous practice of melting a knob of sugar in an iron spoon, and adding this to the prepara- tion; but this plan is almost ceilain to give to the sauce a bitter, burnt taste. Sugar brown- ing is a convenient preparation, which will give to the sauce the requisite brown colour, and if it be carefully made there will be no fear that it will impart an unpleasant taste. To make it, proceed as follows :—Take a quarter of a pound of good brown sugar; put it into a delicately-clean saucepan, and stir it without ceasing over a gentle fire till it melts and begins to acquire a little colour. Draw it back, and let it bake slowlj*, still stirring, until it is almost black without being at all biuTit. Pour a quart of water upon it, let it boil gently until dissolved, skim it, strain through muslin, put the preparation when cold into small bottles, stop- per closely, and it wiU be fit for use. If hked, this browning may be slightly flavoured by the addition of ketchup, cloves, onions, pepper, and salt; but it is more likely to be generally useful if it is quite plain. Time to prepare, about an hour. Sufficient, a few di-ops will colour a pint of gravy. Sugar, Burnt, or Caramel {see Caramel or Burnt Sugar). Sugar Cakes.—Rub haK a poimd of fre,sh butter to cream; then add half a pound of powdered sugar, three well-whisked eggs, one pound of flour, and as much milk as will form a dough. The milk and flour should be added alternately. Roll the pastrj' out, cut it in small round cakes, and bake these on a floiured tin in a moderate oven. Sugar, Clarified, for Fresh-water Ices.—Break two pounds of refined sugar into small pieces, and put these into a saucepan with two pints of cold water. Let the sugar dissolve, then add a tea-spoonful of white of egg lightly beaten. As the scum rises take it off, and keep the sugar boiling until the scimi ceases to rise. When it is quite clear, strain it through muslin, and it wiU be fit for use. If liked, it may be put into a bottle and closely stoppered. It will keep for some time. Time to boil, ten minutes. Sugar, Coloured.—Crush some lump sugar coarsely. Drop a little prepared cochineal upon the palms of the hands, and rub the sugar between them tiU it is equally coloured. Put it in a warm place, and when dry it wiU be ready for use. Spinach-juice may be used to colour the sugar green, and an infusion of saffron to colour it yellow. Chocolate will impart a brown tint, and a little indigo a blue tint. Pink sugar- candy is very pretty for ornamenting cakes and aweet dishes.SUQ ( 941 ) SDG Sugar, Devices in.—To ma" a these take any quantity of powdored loaf su^jar, make it into a paste witli muoUage, and mould it to tiiste. Sugar. Fish Preserved -with.— A method aaopted in Portugal for preser\ing fish consists in removing the \'iscera and sprinkling sugar over the interior, keeping the fish in a horizontal position, so that the air may pene- trate as much as possible. It is said that fish preserved in this way can be kept fresh for a long time, the savour being as perfect as if recently caught. Salmon thus treated before salting and smoking possess a much more agreeable taste, a table-spoonful of sugar being sufficient for a five-pound fish. Sugar Icings and Glazings, for Cakes, &C.—Take two pounds of icing sugar in a bowl. Throw in the whites of two, or if necessary three eggs. The whites must not be whisked, but thrown on as they are. Beat the mixture well with a wooden spoon. Add a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, a few drops at a time. When a smooth paste which will not run is produced, the icing is ready. It should be spread evenly over the cake, which has been already baked and allowed to cool, with hands which have been well wetted with cold water. It may be coloured, if liked, with cochi- neal, &c. If it is wished to ornament the cake with an ice beading, put a little of the icing into a small piece of white paper twisted into the form of a white sugar-bag. Squeeze this so that the sugar will come out through the hole at the bottom in a thin stream, and with this form any suitable devices on the cake. To impart to pastry a clear glaze which resembles barley-sugar, dip the surface of the pastry into liquid caramel {see Sugar, Boiled from Syrup to Caramel), or sift powdered and dry white sugar thickly upon it, and melt it by holding a salamander or red-hot shovel close to it. This glaze needs to be carefully preserved from damp. The icing must be dried in a cool oven. Sugar Paste, for Tarts, &c.—Rub four ounces of fresh butter into a pound of flour; add a little salt and three ounces of sugar. Work the whole into a smooth paste with an egg and a little water. Use as required. Sugar, Pink, for Ornamenting Sweet Dishes {see Pink Sugar). Sugar Roly-poly.—Make a good suet ciust; roll it out as is usual in making roly- poly pudding, and instead of jam spread brown sugar upon it. Finish in title usual way, or send melted butter sweetened with sugar and flavoured with vinegar or lemon-juice to table with it. Sugar, Small Ornaments of.—Soak a little gum tragacanth in water. Make it into a paste by mixing double refined powdered sugar upon it. Colour this with cochineal, spinach- juice, yolk of egg, chocolate, or indigo, &c., to give it the desired tinge, and mould it to any shape. Pretty ornaments may be thus made for cakes and sweet dishes. Sugar, Varieties of. —The sugar met with in commerce is usually of four kinds— brown, or muscovado sugar, clayed sugar, re- fined or loaf sugar, and sugar candy. The dif- ference between one sort of sugar and another depends altogether on the diiferent -mode in which it is prepared. 1. Brown, or Muscovado Sugar.—The plants or canes being crushed in a mill, the juice having passed through a strainer is collected in the clarifier, where it is fiLrst exposed to the action of a gentle fire, after being " tempered" (mixed \vith alkali) for the purpose of facili- tating the separation of the Hquor from its impurities. It is then conveyed into the large evaporating copper, and successively into two others, each of smaller size, the superintending boiler freeing it, during the process, from the scum and feculent matters which rise to the surface. The syrup then reaches the last cop- per vessel, called the " striking tache," where it is boiled tiU sufficiently concentrated to be capable of granulating in the cooler, whence it is transferred with the least possible delay to prevent charring. Here it soon ceases to be a liquid, and when fuUy crystallised is put into hogsheads (called "potting") placed on their ends in the curing-house, with several aper- tures in their bottoms, through which the molasses drain into a cistern below. In this state they remain till properly cured, when the casks are filled up and prepared for shipment. 2. Clayed Sugar is prepared by taking the juice, as in the case of muscovado sugar, when boiled to a proper consistency, and pouring it into conical pots with the apex downwards. These pots have a hole at the lower extremity, through which the molasses or syrup is allowed to drain. After this draining has continued for some time a stratum of moistened clay is spread over the surface of the pots, the moisture of which, percolating through the mass, is found to contribute powerfully to its purification. 3. Refined Sugar may be prepared from mus- covado or clayed sugar by re-dissolving the sugar in water, and after boiling it with some purifying substance, pouring it as before into conical pots, which are again covered with moistened clay. A repetition of this process produces double-refined sugar; but a variety of improved processes are now resorted to. 4. Sugar Candy. — Solutions of brown or clayed sugar boiled until they become thick, and then removed into a hot room, formed upon sticks or strings put into the vessels for that purpose into crj'stals or candy. Sugar Vinegar.—Put eight pounds of the coarsest and cheapest moist sugar into five gallons of water. Stir the liquor well, boil it, skimming carefully till the scum ceases to rise. Pour it into a cask, and when it is luke- warm put into it a thick piece of toast well- covered with fresh yeast. Leave it open for four or five days, then paste a piece of paper over the bung-hole, and prick it in three or four places with a pin. Keep it in a warm dry place till it is ready, then draw it off, and bottle it. Before bottUng it, boil it a quarter of a minute, as this wiU keep it from becoming thick and cloudy. The vessels containii^g the vinegar should not be quite filled, nor should the vinegar be kept entirely from the air. IfSUM sua ( 942 ) this viuegiir ia inado in March or April, it will be ready for bottling in September. Sugar Vinegar (another way).—To every gallon of water add two pounda of brown sugar and little yeast. Have it oxpoaed to the sun for six months in a vosaol slightly stopped. Sugar Vinegar, Strong.—Put a gallon of water into a stewpan with seven pounds of coarse moist sugar, atir it for a minute or two, then boil it for half an hour, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Pour it out, and when it is new-milk-warm, or from si.xty to sixty-five degrees Fahrenheit, put into it a thick piece of toast well covered with fresh yeast. Let it stand for two days, and stir frequently. Put it into a cask, paste a piece of paper over the bung-hole, and put it in a wai-m dry place. Let it stand till ready, then bottle for use. This strong vinegar wiU be found excellent for all purposes. Sugar, Wholesomeness of.—Sugar is nutritious, antiseptic, and laxative. In mode- rate quantities it is wholesome, but from its tendency to ferment it is apt in some consti- tutions to produce flatulency, heat, and thirst. It should not be made too free with by those who wish to preserve their teeth white and sound. Sughlio, Italian.— This preparation is simply stock which has been made of wine instead of water. It is appropriately seasoned with herbs and spices, and various delicacies, such as fowls, game, macaroni, &c., are cooked in it. If the meat of which the stock is made be taken up before it is too much dressed, it will of itself form an excellent dish. Sultana Haisins.—Sultana raisins hardly possess sufficient flavour to be used alone in puddings or cakes, but they are excellent when mixed with other kinds, such as valencias or muscatels. They are very convenient because they are stoneless, though they have a good many little stalks about them which need to be carefully picked out before the raisins are used. Summer Beverages.—Recipes for va- rious summer beverages will be found under their respective headings. We give here how- ever, a few additional recipes. Aerated Beverages.—These may be enjoyed in every household by the employment of a gazogene. This is a portable apparatus for aerating water and other liquids. It is to be obtained in many different forms, but in all the principle is the same. In one c(jmpartment powders are placed for generating carbonic acid gas, in another is the liquid to be aerated. The two compartments communicate with each other by a suitable tube, and a second tube furnished with a spring tap affords a means of exit for the aerated liquid. By means of the gazogene water, wine, ale, &c., may in a few minutes be rendered brisk and piquant by means of carbonic acid. By the employment of fruit syrups manufactured from English and foreign fruits, the most delicious aerated sum- mer beverages may be produced. ".Bomirt."—This a pleasant drink common in I Italy. It is made by blanching about two ounces of sweet almonds, and rubbing them down to a smooth pulp in a moitar with an equal weight of sugar; to this a single bitter almond should be added, and also rubbed down to a paste. One quart of water should be gradually added in a fine stream to this pulp, an assistant keeping the pestle continually rolling to insui-e perfect admixture. This is peculiarly grateful and delicate in taste. Cheese or Milk Whey.—Th.\% is an excellent drink in summer-time. So also is buttermilk, especially when the cows feed on good fresh herbage. In northern countries, buttermilk is kept till it becomes sour, and separates into a curd or whey, which possesses considerable acidity, but notwithstanding is exceedingly wholesome, and forms a refreshing beverage. In the North it is a common drink with la- bourers. Cider Cup.—Take two bottles of cider, two glassfuls of sherrj', and one of hqueur. Add the juice of one lemon and half of the peel cut thin, two table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, I and the white of an egg beaten to a froth and I poured over the mixture. Ice well. Cool Tankard.—Put into a quart of mild ale I a wine-glassful of white wine, the same of brandy and capillaire, the juice of a lemon, and j a little piece of the rind. Add a sprig of borage or balm, a bit of toasted bread, and nutmeg grated on the top. Cooling Drink.—Dissolve six table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar in a tumblerful of water, pour it into a large jug with a bottle of claret; stir, and add one bottle of champagne and two of soda water, and ice well. Cranberry Brink.—Put a tea-cupful of cran- berries into a cupful of water, and mash them. Boil, in the meantime, two quarts of water with one large spoonful of oatmeal and a bit of lemon-peel; add the cranberries, and sugar (but not too much, otherwise the fine sharpness of the fruit will be destroyed), a quarter of a pint i of white wine, or less, according to taste; boil for half an hour, and strain. Curds and Whey (a cheap method).—Add six grains of citric acid to a wine-glassful of milk, and the result will be a pleasant acidulous whey and a fine curd. Curds and Whey (Italian method). — Take several of the rough coats that line the gizzards ! of turkeys and fowls, cleanse from the dirt, rub well with salt, and hang them up to dry; when required for use, break off some of the skin, pour boiling water on, digest for eight or nine hours, and use the same as rennet. Fruit Beverages.—These maybe manufactured from nearly all the fruits which can be made into jams. The jam is to be prepared as usual, and a small portion, say about two ounces, stirred in a quart of water. For summer use the following jams or pulps are specially re- freshing:—Tamarinds (very much used in Italy, especially in conjunction with effervescent waters), black-currant jelly, raspberry jam, vinegar, or syrup, apple jelly, and quince jam. Oingcr Beer (Dr. Kitchiner's recipe).—To eleven gallons of water put ten pounds of loaf sugar, half a pound of bruised ginger, the rind I of four lemons, and the whites of four eggs( 943 ) SUM SUM beaten ir.to a strong froth; mix them all well together while cold, and put the preparation into a copper. As soon as it boils, skim it well, and then pour it into a cooler, and put to it two ounces of cream of tartar and the inside of six lemons sliced and the pips taken out. When it is nearly cold, put into a cloth four table- spoonfuls of yeast, and pour the liquor in upon it. When done working, bung it up, and let it stand a fortnight; then bottle it oft', and it will be fit for drinking in about ten days. Ginger Beer (other ways).—Take a poimd and a half of common brown sugar or treacle, a gallon and a half of water, an ounce of ground ginger, and a lemon if liked. Boil, and then add yeast. 2. Dissolve four ounces of candied ginger in two gallons and a quarter of boiling water, add two pounds of sugar, one ounce of powdered citric acid, when nearly cold, and two table-spoonfuls of yeast. Lemonade.—This favourite beverage is easily made and extremely refreshing. To make a quart, take two lemons or more, according to taste, pare thinly off a little of the rind, or rub lumps of sugar upon it. Squeeze out the juice of the fruit, and mix it with two ounces of white sugar, including what has been rubbed upon the lemons. Add boiling hot water, and when cool enough strain the liquor. Dilute the preparation with water to the strength required. Should lemons not be in season, syrup of lemons may be used, or crystallised citric acid and sugar, adding a few drops of the essence of lemon. Lemonade, like all similar drinks, is rendered much more refreshing by being iced. Lemonade (au lait).—Take half a pint of lemon- juice, the same of white wine, three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, and a quart of boiling N. ater. jMix, and when cold add a pint of boil- ing milk. Let it stand twelve hours, then pour through a jelly-bag. This makes two quarts ; about seven lemons will produce half a pint of juice. Lemonade (Soyer's recipe).—Thinly peel the third part of a lemon, which put into a basin with two table-spoonfuls of sugar. Roll the lemon with your hand upon the table to soften it; cut it in two lengthwise, squeeze the juice over the peel, &c., stir round for a minute with a spoon to form a sort of syrup, pour over a pint of water, mix well, and remove the pips; it will then be ready for use. If a very large lemon and full of juice and very fresh, you may make a pint and a half to a quart, adding sugar and peel in proportion to the increase of water. The juice only of the lemon and sugar will make lemonade, but it will then be deprived of the aroma which the rind contains, the said rind being generally thrown away. Mint Jukp,—Put about a dozen of the young sprigs of mint into a tumbler. Add a table- spoonful of white sugar, half a wine-glassful of peach, and the same of common brandy, then fill up the tumbler with pounded ice. Nectar.—This is a very simple and pleasant drink, and generally liked. Dissolve two pounds of loaf sugar in three quarts of hot water. When cool, add quite half an ounce of tartaric or, preferably, citric acid, and a tea- :ipoonful of fresh essence of lemon. Colour according to fancy with burnt sugar, strain, and bottle. This preparation will keep two or three weeks, and is the better for being made a few days before it is wanted. Orangeade.—Squeeze out the juice of an orange, pour boiling water on a little of the peel, and cover it close. Boil water and sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it. AVhen all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup with as much more water as will make a rich drink. Strain through a jelly-bag, and ice. Orgeat.—Blanch and pound three-quarters of a pound of sweet-almonds and thirty bitter ones with a table-spoonful of water. Stir in by degrees two pints of water and three pints of milk, and strain the whole through a cloth. Dissolve half a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of water, boil, skim well, and mix with the almond water, adding two table-spoonfuls of orange- flower water and a tea-cupful of good brandy. Quince Syrup.—Grate quinces, pass the pulp through a sieve, then set it before the fire for the juice to settle and clarify; strain, and add a pound of sugar (boiled down) to every four ounces of juice; remove from the fire, and when cold bottle for use. A table-spoonful of this syrup will flavour a pint of water. Raspberry Vinegar.—This is made by squeez- ing the juice of three quarts of raspberries into a quart of vinegar, and then simmering the vinegai" for about a quarter of an hour with two pounds of sugar in an earthen pipkin not glazed with lead. When cold it is to be corked; and a small spoonful of this in a glassful of I water makes a very cooling and refreshing drink. (For other ways see Raspberry Vinegar.) Sherry Cobbler. —Take some very fine and clean ice, break it into small pieces, fill a tumbler to within an inch of the top with it, put a table-spoonful of plain syrup, capillaire, or anj' other flavour—some prefer strawberry—add the quarter of the zest of a lemon and a few drops of the juice. Fill with sherry, stir it up, and let it stand for five or six minutes. Sip gently through a straw. Sodaic Fouders.—Take five drachms of citric or tartaric acid, pound it fine, and divide it into twelve parts, folding each in white paper. Take six drachms of carbonate of soda, pound it fine, and fold it in blue paper. Half fill two half- pint tumblers with water; stir into one a powder from the white paper, in the other one from the blue; when the powders are quite dis- solved pour one to the other, and perfect soda water will be instantaneously produced in its utmost perfection. Supreme Nectar.—Put into a nine-gallon cask six pounds of moist sugar, five ounces of bruised ginger, four oimces of cream of tartar, four lemons, eight ounces of yeast, and seven gallons of boiling water. Work two or three days, strain, add brandy one pint, bung very close, and in fourteen days bottle and wire down. Tamarind Drink.—Boil three pints of water with an ounce and a half of tamarinds, three ounces of currants, and two ounces of stoned raisins, till about a third has evaporated. Strain, add a bit of lemon-peel, which is to bo removed in half an hour, then cool. Vinegar and Water.—'' It is commonly known that cold water is dangerous when used bySUP ( 944 ) SUM persons heated with labour or by any Bevero oxorciso; and yet it is necessary to supply the vaste and exhaustion of perspiration in some way or other. When spirits or wine are added in small quantities to the water it may be used, 0V3I1 if cold, with little danger; but severe labour or oxorciso excites a danger of fever, and that fever is increased by spirits or fermented liquor of any kind. On this account, Dr. Rush, in one of his publications, recommends that labourers in the fields, particularly at har- vest-time, should allay their thirst by water con- taining a snail quantity of vinegar: about a tea-spoonful to half a pint of water, which would Jiave tho desired effect without stimu- lating or increasing the heat of the body; and he states that those labourers who have used this beverage have found themselves more refreshed and less exhausted at night than when they drank water with spirits. This is not a modern practice merely ; for the Romans used vinegar to mix with water for the drink of their soldiers." Summer Diet,—With change of weather all sensible people change their diet. In sum- mer fish should replace meat both at breakfast and luncheon, while fresh salads and well- cooked fruit should be taken instead of indi- gestible pastry and innutritions confections. Milk and water may be taken by children and young people up to eighteen years of age, or, for those who prefer it, the milk may be combined with some natural mineral water. No more powerful stimulant should be taken than claret or sherry by those who feel they must have something more than water, while they who are wise will adopt the most simjile form of diet, and avoid all unnatural ex- tremes. Summer Fruit Salad.—Take one or two kinds of freshly-gathered finely-flavoured fruit. Pick it, put it into a glass dish, and stir into it a dessert-spoonful of sherry, a dessert- spoonful of water, and three table-spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar to each pint of fruit. Let it remain in a cool place for an hour or two, and serve with cream instead of a tart. Summer Pudding. — Beat five table- spoonfuls of flour smoothly with a quarter of a pint of milk. Add gradually three-quarters of a pint of boiling milk, and boil the mixture, stirring it all the time, for five minutes. Pour it out, and let it become partially cool, then add two fresh eggs and half a tea-cupful of sugar. Beat the batter briskly for a few minutes, and stir in a tea-cupful of fresh summer fruit of any kind. Put the mixture into a buttered bowl, tie it securely in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly till done enough. Turn it out, and serve immediately. Send sweet sauce or pow- dered sugar to table with it. Time to boil, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Summer Pickle i^ee Pickle, Summer, for Present Use). Summer Vegetable Salad.—Take half a pound of raw articlioko bottoms, half a pound of fresb cucumber, and the heart of a firm fresh lettuce. Divide into tbin slices, the cucumber having of course been peeled befoie it was cut, and sprinkle a littlr salt over the vegetables. Cover tlie dish, and let it remain untouched for two hours. Drain oft^ the liquor, and add four table-spoonfuls of pickM rod cabbage, or six or eight rod I'/idislies cut up small. Pour some good salad-sauce over all, toss the vegetables lightly together, and serve. Half an ounce of mixed chervil-leaves mixed with the salud will improve its flavour. Superior Sauce for Flavouring Stews, &C.—Take one table-Hpoonl ul ol finely-grated horseradish, mix witli it a table- spoonful of curry-powder, a salt-spoonful of cayenne, the grated rind of a fresh lemon, a tea-spoonful of ground ginger, a tea-spoonful of mustard-seed, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, a salt-spoonful of celery, half a dozen pickled walnuts, and an ounce of garlic. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and pour upon them a quart of ketchup, a pint of port, half a pint of soy, the strained juice of three lemons, and a table-spoonful of essence of anchovy. Bottle the mixture, cork closely, and store in a warm place. Shake the bottle occasionally and also before using the sauce. It may be used at the end of a week or two, but will improve with, age. Superlative Soup (Dr. Kitchiner's).— Take four pounds of the shin of beef, and cut it into six pieces. Fry a large onion cut small in dripping, add the pieces of meat, and shake the pan to keep them from burning. Dredge upon them gradually six ounces of flour, and stir all weU together for five minutes- Pour in gradually three quarts of boiling water. Let the liquor boil, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Add salt and pepper and a tea-spoonful of ground aUspice. Draw the pan to the side, and simmer its contents gently for three hours and a half. Take the meat out, and serve it on a dish separately, with di-essed vegetables. Serve the soup in a' tureen. Time, three hours and a half to simmer the liquor. Supper Dish, French {see French Supper Dish). Supper or Luncheon, Apples for.— Peel the apples, leaving an inch of the stalks. Put them in a saucepan, cover them with cold water, and let them simmer gently till they are tender throughout. Take them up before they are broken, put them on a dish, sprinkle pow- dered sugar thickly upon them, and serve hot or cold. Cream or milk may be eaten with them. Suppers.-The modern practice of dining late has all but put an end to the hot heavj- suppers which were once so much in vogue. Now-a-days supper partakes more of the nature of a light refreshment than of a solid meal, and though, when a large party has been given, substantial viands need to be provided, they are usually served cold. This aftords an excellent, opportunity for the display of good taste and ingenuity, and with these and a moderate share of bright glass and china, and snowy napcry. a supper-table may be laid out handsomely at a comparatively trifling cost. Nothing so nSUP SUP ( 945 ) improves the appearance of a supper-table as | plenty of flowers. AVhen these can be had, they should be placed not only in the centre of the table, but here and there upon it. A small vase may be placed before each guest. A supper-room should be brilliantly lighted. The table should be covered with a white cloth. The most orna- mental dishes should be placed in the centre, with the smaller ones surrounding them. The colours and flavours of the various-dishes should contrast (care being taken that there are not too many white dishes), and the table should be neither overcrowded nor too much broken up. The dishes exactly opposite each other should correspond in shape and size. As it is impor- tant that the eye should be pleased as well as the palate, particular attention should be paid to the garniture of the dishes. Ai'ticles that wiU allow of it should be glazed and orna- mented with artificial flowers, &c. Melted lard, thinned with a little salad-oil, may_ be used for decorating hams and tongues; raised i pies should be covered with clear aspic jelly i cut into dice, and everything should be lightly j and gracefully arranged. Bright parsley, : scraped horseradish, cut lemon, red beetroot, ' nard-boiled eggs, &c., will aU be needed for jfirniture. Sweet dishes may be ornamented ' with crackers. Precise instructions cannot of i course be given as to the details of a supper-table, j as these must be regulated by the means of the host, the resources of the establishment, the size of the room, and the length and shape of the table. A list of articles suitable for supper : may, however, be useful, and we subjoin one. ! Roast game or poultry, cold meats of various kinds, hams, tongues, galantines, raised pies, boiled fowls, oyster patties, sandwiches, collared ' eels, lobster salads, mayonnaise of salmon, &c. ' To these may be added sweet dishes, such as i creams, jellies, custards, trifles, blancmanges, ! cakes, tarts, putfs, j)reserved or dried fruits, rice, sago, &c., in various forms, compotes of fniit, fancy pastry, dishes of fresh fruit, bon- bons. "When the supper is a standing one, as a m itter of convenience, and to facihtate opera- tions, game and poultry should be cut up, meat sliced, and everj-thing placed so that it may be served with as Uttle trouble as possible. Some- ' times a plate of hot soup is served to each guest at the commencement of supper, and proves a welcome refreshment. I Suppers, Wholesomeness of.—In the time oi Elizabeth, the nobility and gentry , were accustomed to dine at eleven, to sup be- tween five and six, and go to lied at ten. It is therefore evident that any argument in favour of this meal, founded upon the healthy condition of cur ancestors, must be fallacious. By supper, in modern times, we understand a late meal just before bedtime. But as sleep is not favourable to every stage of digestion, it is very questionable whether retiring to rest with a full stomach can, under any circumstances, be salutary. During the first part of the process, or that of chymification, a person so situated may perhaps sleep quietly, unless indeed the morbid distention of the stomach should impede respiration and occasion distress; but when tlu! food has passod out of the stomach, and the processes of chylifi- cation and sanguification have been established, the natural propensity of the body is for ac- tivity, and the invaUd awakes at this period and remains in a feverish state for some hours. Upon this general principle, then, sup- pers are to be avoided; that is to say, hearty suppers which require the active powers of the stomach for their digestion. The same objection cannot be urged against a light re- past, which is generally useful to dyspeptics; and it has been truly and facetiously observed that "some invalids need not put on their nightcaps if they do not first bribe their sto- machs to good behaviour." An egg lightly boiled, or a piece of dry toast, with a small quantity of white-wine negus, wiU often secure a tranquil night, which would otherwise be passed with restlessness. Amongst the intel- lectual part of the community there has ever existed a very strong predilection in favour of suppers; the labour of the day has been per- formed ; tho hour is sacred to conviviality, and the period is one which is not likely to be interrupted by the calls of business. To those in health some indulgence may occasionally be allowed; but the physician should be cautious how he gives his sanction to their wholesome- ness. The hilarity which is felt at this period of the day must not be received as a signal for repairing to the banquet, but aa an indication of the sanguification of the previous meal.—Dr. Paris. " Much," saj-B Dr. Spenser Thomson, " has been said respecting the wholesomeness of eating suppers—much depends on circum- stances. Generally speaking, animal food once a day is sufiicient for most; if, therefore, an individual for whom it is enough, after a suf- ficiently good meat-dinner, adds a superfluous meat-supper shortly before retiring to rest, there can be little wonder if he pays the penalty in sleep disturbed by dreams and nightmai-e, and by a furred tongue and unrefreshing waking in the morning. This is especially tho case if the superfluity is indulged in after a dinner made in the latter part of the day. If dinner is early, if much exercise is taken be- tween that and the evening meal, and if supper is not eaten at too late an hour, many persons can take with benefit a moderate proportion of animal food. It certainly is better not to eat a meal heavy, either in quantity or quality, before a period of inactivity and sleep so prolonged as that of the night; but there is no doubt that much of the bad character of supper as a meal has arisen from its being so often one of super- fluity. Those to whom suppers are most in- jurious are the plethoric, or such as suffer from head symptoms. Some persons, however, especially dyspeptic invalids, do themselves harm by abstaining from suppers of every kind, even after the principal meal has been taken early in the day. They do this under the idea that all suppers are bad, and suffer in conse- quence from uneasy sensations in the stomach during the night and from a sense of exhaustion in the morning, both of which may be pre- vented by a moderate supper of light food, such as is generally found to agree best; many a, dyspeptic will find his morning meal better digested after a light supper than -(vithout."SWE SUP ( 946 ) Supreme Sauce.—Supreme sauce IB very iiighly esteouitid, yet cooks do not always agree iiB to the mode of preparing it. Two methods are hero given:—No. 1. Take half a pint of stock which has heen made with veal and chicken-hones. Thicken this with white roux, and stir it until it is smooth and coats the spoon. Take equal portions of parsley, cross, and tarragon-leaves. Put these into scalding water for two minutes; then dniin and mince them finely. Stir a dessert-spoonful of the chopped herbs into the sauce, and add salt and white pepper. Care- fully add a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon- juice to the sauce before serving. No. 2. Put the bones of a dressed chicken into a sauce- pan with an onion, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Pour upon them a pint of good veal stock, and simmer this till it is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, thicken it with white roux, and boil it till the sauce coats the spoon. Pour it out, stir into it a small sUce of fresh butter until dissolved, and add a flavour- ing of milk of almonds. This sauce is generally- poured over the fish or meat with which it is served. Susie's Pudding {see Aunt Susie's Pudding). Sussex Pudding.—Mix ingredients as for ordinary suet pudding. Make it into a stifl paste with cold water, and knead it well. Roll it to the shape of a bolster, tie it in a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil •quickly for an hour. Take it up, cut it into slices the third of an inch thick, and put these into the dripping-tin under a roasting joint. ^Vhen they are slightly browned and soaked with dripping, serve them with the meat. Time to soak in the dripping, about twenty minutes. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 2d. Swan.—Two or three hundred years ago the swan was looked upon as an elegant fashionable dish. Now swans are but seldom dressed for the table, though their flesh is said to be both tender and delicious. Occasionally at special dinners a swan makes part of the bill of fare, and is always highly appreciated. The young birds or cygnets only are chosen. If any feel inclined to experiment upon this un- usual dish, they will find, in addition to the following recipe, full directions given under the heading Cygnet. Swan, Potted.—Skin the swan, and take out all the bones; cut the flesh into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar. Pound also with it some clean fat bacon, adding a little at a time. Beat this up with the flesh of the swan, so as to incorporate the two like an amalgam. When the mass has assumed a light flesh-colour, no more bacon need be added. Continue to beat the meat until it is of the consistence of dough. .Season it with salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, all finely powdered and well mixed and beaten up with it. Put the mass now into a baking-pan with a good glassful of port wine and the same quantity of water; cover the top with two pounds of cold fresh butter. Cover the pan with a coarse paste of flour and water. Bake it in an oven heated as for bread. When it is done, take off the crust, turn out the meat into a dish, gently squeeze out the moisture, and put it into pots. When cold pour over it clarified butter. Swans' Eggs {see Eggs, Swans'). Swedish Salad.—Take a couple of pickled herrings, cut off the heads and tails, remove the bones, and divide the flesh into dice. Mix with those two apples, peeled and sliced, two large boiled potatoes cut into dice, an equal quantity of cold roast beef, and a little sliced beetroot. Add a table-spoonful of shced gherkine, a table-spoonful of capers, a table-spoonful of shred tarragon-leaves, two table-spoonfuls of chopped chervil, and a hard-boiled egg finely minced. Season the salad rather highly with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. Put the whole in a salad-bowl and serve. A dozen or more freshly- opened oysters may, if liked, te laid upon the top of the salad, and various additions may be made to it. Picked shrimps, filleted anchovies, dressed Brussels sprouts, olives, curled celery, and green onions may all be introduced at discretion, and any other kind of dried or pickled fish may be used instead of herrings, if preferred. Sweet and Ornamental Dislies.—As a little experience is necessary before sweet and ornamental dishes can be successfully manu- factured, the housekeeper should take into consideration the question whether, where one or two dishes only are occasionally required, it is not better worth her while to purchase them at the confectioner's than to attempt making them at home. An inefficient cook might quickly waste over failures ingredients the cost of which would move than pay for the purchase of ready-made dishes. WTien these prepara- tions are frequently used, however, there is no doubt that it is much more economical to pre- pare them at home, and many ladies, and young ladies especially, would do well to acquire the art (for it is nothing less) of pre- I paring deUcacies which would, if successful, reflect much credit on their taste and skill. The general rule is, half an ounce of gelatine to a pint of liquid, nevertheless isinglass and gelatine vary so much in strength and quality, that experiment alone can determine the exact quantity which should be used. If the jellies or creams are to be put into one large mould, the preparation will need to be stiffer than if they are to be put into two or three small moulds, and it is always well to test a small quantity, by putting it into a cup or glass, to see if it will become stiff enough to turn out in a shape. If it does not do so, a little more isinglass should be added. When convenient it is always well to set the moulds in ice till they are wanted. Moulds in which creams or jellies are to be set should always be damped before the preparation is put into them. Metal moulds will spoil the appearance of red jellies, therefore earthenware ones are much to be preferred. Sweetbread Kromeskies. — Prepare the sweetbreads as for croquettes {sec bweet- breads. Croquettes of). Let the preparation get quite cold, then divide it into equal portions, rolled to the shape of a cork. Place each oneSWE SWE ( ^'^7 ) ot these upon cold boiled fat bacon which has been cut into thin slices of a size that will j ust envelop the mince. Set these on a dish in a cool place tiU wanted. Dip them separately into frying batter, and fry them in hot fat till they cU'e crisp and lightly browned. Drain them on a wire sieve covered with paper, pile them on a napkin, then garnish with fried parsley, and serve immediately. Time to fry the kromeskies, three or four minutes. Sweetbreads. — Sweetbreads should be chosen as fresh as possible, as they very quickly spoil. There are two sorts—heart sweetbreads and throat sweetbreads. The heart sweet- breads are the best, and also the most expensive. In whatever way sweetbreads are dressed, they should first be soaked in lukewarm water for a couple of hours. They should then be put into boiling water and simmered gently for five or ten minutes, according to size, and when taken up they should be laid in cold water. Sweetbreads vary considerably in price, accord- ing to the time of the year. They are quite as frequently employed as ingredients in sundry made dishes, such as vol-au-vents, ragouts, &c., as served alone, and as they do not possess a very decided natural flavour they need to be accompanied by a highly-seasoned sauce, or they will taste rather insipid. They are in full season from May to August. Sweetbreads {k la Dauphine). — Take two perfectly fresh sweetbreads. Let them soak well in water for two hours, changing the water occasionally. Put them into boiling water, and let them simmer gently until they are firm without being hard. Put them in cold water for a few minutes, dry them, and lard them evenly with thin strips of fat bacon. Take a small stewpan which has belonging to it a lid to hold live embers. Butter the in- side, and put into it a large carrot sliced and a moderate-sized onion. Lay one or two slices of bacon on the vegetables, then put in the sweetbreads, together with half a pint of strong brown gravy. Sprinkle a little salt over them, and stew with a gentle fire under them and plenty of heat on the top. Baste frequently with the gravy until the sweetbreads are lightly browned. Add more gravy as it is necessary. Trim the sweetbreads neatly, put them on a dish with the bacon under them, strain the gravy upon them, and send dressed sorrel or endive or tomato sauce to table with them. Time to stew the sweetbreads, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 5a. each. SuSicient for a small dish. Sweetbreads (a la Maitre d' H8tel).— Soak, blanch, cool, and trim the sweetbreads in the usual way. Lay them in a saucepan, and barely cover them with good veal gravj. TiOt them stew gently until done enough. Lay them on a hot dish, and have the sauce ready prepared to pour over them. This sauce may be made as follows :—Take half a pint of good melted butter. Let it simmer a few minutes, and skim it well, then stir into it a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, the strained juice of a small lemon, and a little salt and cayenne. Take the sauce from the fire, let it cool a minute, stir into it until dissolved a small piece of fresh butter, and it will be ready for use. Time to simmer the sweetbread, three-quarters of an hour. SuflBcient, a fine large sweetbread for two persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to Ss. Sweetbreads and Palates, Pie of.— Take an equal number of sweetbreads and palates, and prepare them both in the usual way {see Sweetbreads and Ox Palates). Let them stew till tender in good brown gravy, and lay them in a dish. Let the sauce cool a little, stir into it the well-pounded yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and pour it upon the meat. Cover the dish with good pastry, and bake in a well-heated oven. When the pastry is done enough the pie will be ready for serving. Sweetbreads and Palates Stewed.— Prepare both palates and sweetbreads in the usual way. Cut them into moderate - sized pieces, dredge flour upon them, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Put them into a saucepan, and pour upon them as much of the liquor in which they are stewed as will barely cover them. Thicken the sauce with brown thickening, season with pepper, salt, grated lemon-rind and nutmeg, and add a glassful of sherry or madeira. Put the meat in a dish, and pour the sauce over it. If liked, a dessert-spoonful of vinegar or strained lemon- juice may be added at the last moment. Time to stew, about half an hour. Sweetbreads (au Gratin). Second dress- ing.—Take the remains of sweetbreads which have been stewed in white or brown sauce. Put them in a pie-dish, pour the cold sauce ovei- them, and cover the surface with finely-grated bread-crumbs. Lay little pieces of butter here and there on the top, and put the dish in a bi-isk oven. When it is hot throughout it is done enough. If the top is not brightly browned, a salamander or red-hot shovel may be held over it to make it so. Sweetbreads, Baked.—Soak the sweet- breads well in water for two hours, and change the water once or twice during the time. Throw them into boiling water, and let them simmer gently for five minutes or more, till they are firm and round, but not hard. Take them up, drain them, and throw them into cold water to cool. Brush them over in every part with beaten egg, roll them in bread-crumbs, sprinkle clarified butter upon them, and bread-crumb them again. Put them in a baking-tin with about two ounces of butter, and bake in a weU-heated oven; baste them till they are done enough and brightly browned. Take as many slices of hot toast as there are sweetbreads. Put them in a dish, lay the sweetbreads upon them, pour brown gravy round, but not over them, and serve immediately. Time to bake from half to three-quarters of an hour, accord- ing to size. Probable cost of sweetbreads. Is. 6d. to 6s. each. Sweetbreads, Broiled.—Take moderate I sized sweetbreads and prepare them in the usual way. Stew them in good stock till they I are done enough. Then drain them, and presf 1 them between two dishes till cold. Split themEWE ( ) SWE in halves and trim them neatly; brush thorn over with butter, and broil thorn over a clear i but very gentle fire. Have a plato with clariliod butter upon it near the gridiron, and keep dipping the sweetbreads in it, turning them frequently. When they are brightly browned all over they are done enough. Dish the slices in a circle, and send brown sauce flavoured with lemon-juice to table in a tureen. Time to stew the sweetbreads, about half an hour. Sweetbreads, Browned.—Soak, blanch, and stew the sweetbreads in as much good and nicely-flavoured stock as wiU barely cover them. AVhen they have simmered about half an hour, take them up, and put them into a round saucepan just large enough to hold them with a good slico of fresh butter which is melted and just beginning to brown. Turn the sweetbreads over and over till they are equally and brightly browned in every part. Keep them hot by the side of the stove. Thicken the stock in which they were boiled Avith brown thickening. Flavour with mush- room ketchup and lemon-juice, and add a table-spoonful of light wine. Place the sweet- "breads on a dish, pour the sauce over, and ganush with toasted sippets, brain cakes, force- meat balls, or any little adjuncts which are suitable, and can be easily procured. Probable cost of sweetbreads, Is. 6d. to 58. Sweetbreads, Cold, To Re-dress — Cut the cold sweetbreads into neat pieces. Stew them gently in strong brown gravy till they are quite hot thi-oughout; place them on a dish, pour the gravy over them, and garnish with fried sippets. Sweetbreads, Cotelettes of.—Procure the sweetbreads as fresh as possible. Soak them for an hour. Throw them into boiling water for five minutes, let them cool, then simmer them in rich, well-seasoned gravy. Leave them in the liquor till cold. Cut them into pieces an inch square, put them on skewers alternately with a little piece of bacon or a piece of ready-dressed calf's udder, all being made as nearly as possible of the same shape and size. Dip them twice into egg and bread- crumbs. Pat them into shape with a knife, and fry in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Send white or brown Italian sauce to table in a tureen. Sometimes bearded oysters are put upon the skewers with the sweetbreads and bacon. Time, half an hour to simmer the sweetbreads. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 5s. each. Sweetbreads, Croquettes of.—Take a cold dressed sweetbread, cut it into quarter- inch dice, and mix with it its bulk in mush- rooms which have been cut in the same way. Stir both together over a gentle fire in_ some very thick white sauce, and pour the mixture upon a dish. When quite cold, divide the mixture into portions of an equal size, roll these to the shape of balls or corks, dip them in oo-c beaten up with pepper, salt, and oil, and roU them in bread-crumbs. Fry in hot fat tiU they are crisp and Hghtly browned, drain them thoroughly, serve on a hot napkin and garnish with parsley. Tune, ten minutes to frj' the croquettes. Sweetbreads, Croquettes of (another way).—Take a cold drosiicd sweetbread, cut it up into small pieces, and mix with it liulf its weight in finely-grated bread-crumbs. Season the mixture with salt, cayenne, grated lemon- rind, and grated nutmeg. Put it into a sauce- pan with as much cream or milk as will moisten the crumbs, and stir briskly over a clear fiie for ten minutes. Spread the preparation on a dish, and let it get quite cold. Form it into equal- sized portions, roll these to the shape of corks or balls, dij) them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are biightly browned. Drain them before the fire, and sei-ve as before. Time, ten minutes to fry the cro- quettes. Sweetbreads, Cutlets of.—Soak and blanch two or more fine fresh sweetbreads in the usual way. Let them simmer in nicely- flavoured stock for half an hour, and let them cool in the liquor. Drain and dry them in a cloth, and cut them into slices an inch and a quarter across. Dip them into beaten egg and seasoned bread-crumbs, then into clarified butter, and again into bread-crumbs. Pat them into shape, and fry them in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Drain them, pile them on a dish, and pour round, but not upon them, good brown gravy flavoured with mushroom and lemon- juice, or with a glassful of white wine, or white sauce may be served with them. If liked the cutlets may be placed upon a little piece of fried bread of the same shape and size as they are, or slices may be cut from a dressed tongue, and these may be egged, breaded, and fried like the slices of sweetbread. When the latter plan is- adopted, the sweetbread cutlets should be laid upon the slices of tongue. Time to frj- the cutlets, three or four minutes. Sweetbreads, Cutlets of, Pricaa- geed.—Prepare and fry the cutlets according to the directions that have been already given. Thicken a small quantity of nicely-seasoned gravy with roirx or brown thickening. Flavour it with mushroom ketchup and lemon-juice, and add a table-spoonful of sheny or madeira. Put in the fried slices, let them simmer gently for a few minutes, and serve altogether on a dish. Sweetbreads, Fried.—Soak the sweet- breads for an hour, plunge them into boiling water for five minutes, and throw them into cold water till cool. Cut them in slices, egg and bread-crumb them, dip them in clanfied butter, bread them again, and fry in plenty of hot fat tiU they are brightly brownc^d on both sides. Drain them, and then dish on toast, pouring cucumber sauce or maitre d'hotel sauce upon them. Time to fr>' the slices, about ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to 5s. each. Sweetbreads, Fried, Simple Me- thod.—Soak, blanch, and cool the sweet- breads. Dry them, cut them in slices, and dredge flour" upon them. Fry them m hot fat till they are nicely browned, and pour good nicely-flavoured bro^vn gravy over them, i his is one of the most simple methods of dressing( 949 ) SWE SWE flvreetbreads. ^ces. Time, ten minutes to fry the Sweetbreads, Larded (a la Financiere). —Soak four sweetbreads, boil thorn quickly till they are firm but not at all hard, cool them, then lai'd them evenly and thickly with thin strips of fat bacon. Butter a baking-dish, and spread a layer of sliced carrots, onions, and celery at the bottom. Lay the sweetbreads upon the vegetables, and pour round them as much stock as will barely come up to the lard- ing. Put them in a sharp oven, and bake imtil done enough, basting them frequently with the liquor. When they are done enough, and the smi'ace is brightly browned, dish them as follows:—Put a croustade in a dish, and fill it with Toulouse or financiere ragout. Place the sweetbreads against the sides of the crous- tade, and garnish the dish as prettily as possible. If hked, Toulouse ragout may be used for the croustade instead of financiere ragoiit, and then the dish becomes Sweetbread a la Toulouse The croustade may be made as follows :—Tak( an oval loaf one day old. Cut off the rounc top, and scoop out the crumb of the loaf leaving three-quarters of an inch of bread al roimd, and at the bottom. Pare away the crus and dip the case into oiled butter. Put it ii the oven till it begins to harden, then agaii dip it in butter, and place it again in the over till it acquires a Little colour, when it will be ready for use. Time to bake the sweetbreads, about half an hour. Sweetbreads, Minced, in Paper Cases.—Take some cold di-esssed sweetbreads, and cut them into dice. Take an equal <iuantity of mushrooms and cut them up also. Stew the mushrooms in butter, and add a slice ■of fat bacon, the sweetbreads, and a little parsley, pepper, and salt. One or two shal- lots may be added if liked. Simmer over a gentle fire till the mushrooms are done enough. Drain off the fat, take out the parsley, and place the preparation in small paper cases which have been thoroughly oiled. Sprinkle a pinch of savoury herbs on the top, and covej each one with finely-grated bread-crumbs Put the cases in the oven for a moment tha they may be thoroughly heated, squeeze int( each a few drops of lemon-juice, add a spoonfu -of rich gravy, and serve very hot. Dish th( mmced sweetbreads on a napkin. Time t( simmer the mixture, about a quarter of ai hour. Sweetbreads, Patties of .—Cold dressec sweetbread, if cut into quarter-inch dice an( prepared according to the directions alread> given for making sweetbread croquettes, may b( used for filling small patties or vol-au-ven cases. They should be put into the oven for i minute or two to make them quite hot, anc served on a hot napkin. This mince may als( be enclosed m a circular piece of pastry of th( me of a crown piece, and fried in hot fat til the pastry la sufliciently cooked. They shouh tnen be dramed and piled on a napkin. Sweetbreads, Pie of.—Take two oi more fresh sweetbreads. Soak, blanch, anc cool them, then cut each one into three pieces and simmer them in white stock with about two dozen mushrooms. Let them simmer for a quarter of an hour. Lay them in a dish, put the mushrooms among them, and also six or eight veal forcemeat balls, the green tops of a quarter of a hundred sticks of asparagus, and the hard-boiled yolks of three or four eggs. Thicken the gravy with white thickening, add pepper and salt if required, and pour it over the meat. Lay slices of fat bacon on the top of the meat, cover all with good pastry, and bake the pie in a moderately-heated oven. Time, according to size. Probable cost of sweet- breads, Is. 6d. to 5s. each.SWE SWE ( 950 ) aiiartcrs of an hoiu', according to size. I'roh- ablo cost, Is. Gd. to os. each. Suliiciont for a niodoratc-sizcd dish. Sweetbreads, Vol-au-Vent of.—Soak two largo tiuo 8\v( ctl)rcads in water for a couple of hours. Boil thorn quickly for ton niinutos, and tlu-ow them into cold water. When cool, dry theiu perfectly, cut them into small pieces, and dredge flour upon them. Melt two ounc(3S of butter in a saucepan, put in the pieces of sweetbread, and add the tliird of a pint of white stock, the strained juice of a lemon, two table- spoonfuls of sherry or madeii'a, a bunch of and a tew Bticks of celery, and fry these vegetables in hot fat till tliey are hghtly browned. Drain away the fat, put the sweet- breads upon the vegetables, and add as much stock as will barely cover them, together with a little salt and cayenne, a small lump of sugar, the thin rind of lialf a lemon, as much gi-ated nutmeg as will he on a threepeniay-piece, a small blade of mace, four allspice, and lialf a wine-glassful of brandy. Let tlie sauce boil quickly, skim carefully, and then simmer the sweetbreads till done enough. Take them up, put a little piece of fresh butter on each, and place them in the oven to keep them hot. Put into the gravy a dozen small mushrooms which have been skinned and cleaned, and add a tea- spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a little brown thickening. Put the sweetbreads again into the sauce, and let them simmer for ten or fifteen minutes. Serve on a hot dish with the sauce poured round them. Time to simmer the sweetbreads, half to three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sweetbreads with Truffles.—Prepare the sweetbreads in the usual manner, flour them, and bake in a gentle oven till they are lightly browned. Baste frequently. Whilst they are baking, prepare the sauce to be served with them as follows :—Peel half a dozen truffles, and cut them into slices about the third of an inch thick. Put these in a saucepan with a large wine-glassful of marsala, the strained juice of a lemon, and a httle salt and cayenne. Let them simmer gently a few minutes, then add a quarter of a pint of good stock. Thicken the gravy with brown thickening, and let it boil till smooth. Put in the sweetbreads, let them simmer twenty minutes longer, and serve verj,- hot. Time, altogether, one hour. Probable cost of sweetbreads, Is. 6d. to 5s. each. Sweet Creams.—A variety of rich and dehcate preparations are included under this denomination. In all, cream is the principal article which enters into their composition. These dishes generally take their distinctive name from the flavouring ingredients, and it is imder these headings that they must be looked for. Sweet Herbs.—The sweet herbs most frequently used in cookery are parsley, thyme, marjoram, sage, basil, savory, and mint. When they are not stored for use they may be pur- chased of the herbalist or greengrocer, or they may be bought dried and in bottles of the grocer or Italian warehouseman. When it is recommended that a bunch of sweet herbs is to be used, it is to be understood that a handful of parsley, a sprig of thj-me, and a bay-leaf are to be taken. To these a bunch of sweet marjoram and a little piece of garlic about the size of a pea may be added, men these ingredients are to be stewed in soups or sauces they should be tied securely in a bunch with the parsley outside. When thus fastened together they are often spoken of as a fagot or a bouquet garni. ^ A properly-made fagot is about three inches long. Sweet Herbs, Omelet of. - Prepare the omelet in the usual way. {See Omelet,* SWE ( 951 ) SWI and Pkinciples of Cookeky, page iv.) Be- fore frying it, stir into it a very small quantity of chopped sweet herbs. Parsley, chervil, and chives are the herbs most frequently chosen. Onions or shallots, thyme, and sage, may be introduced if liked. Sweet Jellies. — These preparations, though elegant in appearance, and when nicely flavoured delicious to the taste, are not really so nourishing as they were at one time thought to be. Calf's-foot jelly is good, certainly, but isinglass and gelatine do not possess much value in the sick room. These jelHes constitute, however, pretty ornamental dishes, which are useful, and exceedingly convenient. No diffi- culty need be experienced in making jelly clear and bright, if the instructions given in Calf's Foot Jelly, and Isinglass, and Gelatine Jelly, are closely followed. Sweet Jelly.—Soak an ounce of best gelatine in water for an hour. Drain it, and pour upon it half a pint of boiling water, then stir it until dissolved. Add the juice and peel of two lemons, and six ounces of loaf sugar, together with a large wine-glassful of wine or any approved liqueur, and as much cold water as will make up the quantity to one quart. Beat the whites of two eggs to froth. Briskly stir them with the crushed shells of the eggs into the liqueur, which should be almost cold. Bring it slowly to the boil, and let it simmer gently without touching it for ten minutes. Take it off the fire, and let it stand to settle for ten minutes, then strain it through a jelly-bag till it is quite clear and bright. When it is again cool, put it into one or more moulds, and let it stand in a cool place till it is stiff. When it is wanted, plunge it for a single instant into boiling water, turn it upon a glass dish, and serve. Time, eight or ten hours will be needed to stiffen the jelly if it is not set upon ice. Probable cost, Is. 2d., exclusive of the wine or liqueur. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Sweetmeats, Brown.—Take the remains of any kind of candied preparation. Pound it well, and pass it through a sieve. Mix with it beaten eggs to form a stiff paste, and flavour this with any suitable flavouring. Work a little flour into the paste. Koll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, stamp it into shapes, place these on white paper, and bake in a gentle oven till they are stiff. Time to bake, about half an hour. Sweet Patties.—Sweet patties may be made of various ingredients, and in a variety of ways {see Patties, Preparation of). The mince to fill them will be excellent if made as fol- lows :—Take the meat of a boiled calf's-foot one which has been stowed down for stock may be utilised in this way—drain it well, mince it finely, and mix with it a table-spoonful of finely-shrcd suet, three apples, pared, cored, and chopped small, a spoonful of candied peel chopped small, the pounded yolks of two hard- boiled eggs, the strained juice of a lemon, and a little of the grated rind: sugar to taste, and add n small glassful of wine. Put this mince into pastry, and bake the patties in the usual way. Sweet Pickles Pickles, Sweet, Ameri- can). Sweet Sauce for Puddings.-Take half a pint of good melted butler made witli milk, sweeten it, and flavour with cinnamon, grated nutmeg, or bitter almonds. Serve very hot. Two table-spoonfuls of cream stirred into the sauce at the last moment will help to enrich it. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Sweet Sauce for Venison.—Dissolve two table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and stir into it a glassful of port or claret. Do not let the sauce boil. Or stir two or three good- sized lumps of sugar into a quarter of a pint of venison gravy until dissolved. Add a large glassful of port or claret, and serve. Sweet Spice, Pastrycook's.—This is made by mixing together two parts of sugar, one part of cassia, one part of nutmeg, one jjart of mace, and the same of cloves. Swiss Apple Pudding {see Apple, Switss, Pudding). Swiss Cocoa-nut Pudding.—Shred a quarter of a pound of beef suet very finely. Mix with it a quarter of a pound of finely-gi'ated bread-crumbs, and add two ounces of grated cocoa-nut, six ounces of strawberry or any other jam, and a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. Beat two eggs with the milk of the cocoa-nut, or three table-spoonfuls of milk. Pour this liquor over the pudding, and let it stand .to soak for an hour. Butter a mould thickly. Beat the pudding till the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, and put it into the mould. Tie it in a cloth, plunge it into fast- boiling water, and boil quickly until done enough. Turn it out, sift powdered sugar thickly upon it, and serve. Time to boil, three hours and a half. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Swiss Condensed Cream {see Milk, Condensed Swiss Cream.—Crumble a quarter of a pound of macaroons and two or three penny sponge cakes, or use a mixture of macaroons and ratafias. Lay the crumbs in a glass dish. Pour over them a glassful of sherry, and spread a spoonful or two of jam upon them. If a plain dish is required, the sherry or the jam, or both, may be omitted. Simmer the thin rind of half a lemon, or a little piece of vanilla, in half a cupful of milk till it is pleasantly flavoured. Add a pint of cream and as much sugar as wiU sweeten it pleasantly. Mix a table-spoonful of corn-flour smoothly with a little cold milk, and add this gi-adually to the rest. Stir the mixture over a gentle fire till it boils; pour it out, and stir it again till it is almost cold. Add the juice of a lemon, and pour the cream over the cakes in the dish. Ornament the top with bright-coloured jelly or jam, or with strips of angelica. If liked, two table-spoonfuls of arrowroot may be substituted for the corn-flour, or a table-spoonful of flour even may be used The cream should stand ii>SYL SWI ( 962 ) ft ocol place thi-eo or four hours before it is wanted. Swiss Milk {see Cream). Swiss Pudding, Plain.—Take half a dozen laryo bakinj^ upplcH, pared, cored, and •uicod, and half a pound of iinoly-grated broad- ' crumbs. Butter a pie-dish, and cover the | bottom -with a layer of bread-crumbs. Add a I layer of sliced apples, and spi-inkle over these a little grated nutmeg or lemon-rind, and a largo ' spoonful of moist sugar. Fill the dish with ' aitcruatc layers of bread-crumbs and apples, and , let crumbs form the uppermost as we.U as the ; lowest layer. Place httlo pieces of butter hero and there on the top of the pudding, and pour half a cupful of water and the juice of the lemon upon it. Bako in a moderate oven. When the surface of che pudding is brightly browned, and the apples have fallen, it is done enough. Serve with finely-powdered sugar. If liked, six ounces of beef suet may be substi- tuted for the butter, and the ingredients may be mixed thoroughly, put into a buttered mould, j and boiled instead of being baked. Time to I bake, about two hours, less or more according to the quality of the apples; to boil, four hours. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Swiss Trifle.—Crumble a quarter of a pound of macaroons, and a quarter of a pound of ratafias, and put them into a glass dish. Pour a glassful of brandy upon them, and let them i soak for a while. Sweeten a pint of cream, and flavour with lemon-rind or any suitable flavouring. Put it into a saucepan, and stir into it a table-spoonful of ground rice which has been mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Let it boil gently tiU it begins to thicken, and stir it all the time. Pour it out, and when it is almost cold add the strained juice of two lemons. Pour the mixture upon the cakes. Stick blanched almonds into it, and let it stand an hour or two before it is used. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the milk with the rice. Probable cost, exclusive of the "brandy, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sydney Smith's Recipe for Salad {see Poet's Recipe for Salad). Syllabubs.—Soak the thin rind of a fresh lemon in a pint of sherry or madeira, and let it remain all night. Sweeten it well, and add three table-spoonfuls of brandy, a pint and a half of rich cream beaten up with the white of an egg, and the juice of the lemon. Beat the mixture to froth. As it rises place it in the glasses, pile it as high as possible, and place it in a cool place. In a little time the syllabubs will get firm, and settle into a highly-flavoured preparation covered with snowy froth. If liked, melted red-currant or black-currant jelly may be mixed with half the cream before it is whipped, and this will make the syllabubs contrast in colour. Syllabubs should be made the day before they are wanted. Syllabubs, Birthday {see Birthday Syllabubs). Syllabubs, Common.—Put four ounces of pounded sugar into a bowl, and add the rind of a loiuou, a grutod nutmeg, liuJf u pint of sweet wijic, and lialf a piut of sherry. Mix all thoroughly till the sugar is dissolved. Pour in with a tea-pot or spouted jug held at a good height a piut and a lialf of warm milk. Serve the syllabub cold. A little pounded cinnamon and clouted cream may be kid on the top. Sometimes cider is used instead of wine, and then a little brandy should certainly be added. Syllabubs, Devonshire (lee Devonshire Syllabubs). Syllabubs, Everlasting (wt-Everlasting Syllabubs). Syllabubs Ln Glasses.—Put a qiiartei of a pound of sugar into a small punch-bowl, and pour upon it the strained juice of a large fresh lemon. Stir the mixture briskly, and add a tumblerful of port, a tumblerful of sherry, and half a tumblerful of brandy. Add half a nutmeg grated, place the bowl under the cow, and fill it till it froths high in the bowl. In serving put a little curd into each glass, fill it with whey, and place a spoonful of thick cream on the top. Syllabubs, Large.—Put half a pound of powdered white sugar into a bowl, and strain upon it the juice of two lemons. Add the grated rind of one lemon, a glassful of madeira, a glass- ful of sweet wine, a little powdered cinnamon^ and as much ratafia as will flavour the mixture pleasantly. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. Add a quart of cream, and whisk the prepara- tion to a froth. Lay some macaroons in the bottom of a dish. As the froth rises pile it upon the biscuits. Keep it in a cool place. This syllabub ought to be made a couple of daj's before it is wanted. It will keep five or six days. Syllabubs, Lemon {see Lemon Sylla- bubs). Syllabubs, London {see London Sylla- bubs). Syllabubs, Simple.—Take a pint of cream, and put to it the whites of thi-ee eggs well beaten, add the juice of one lemon, three spoonfuls of wine, grated lemon-peel, and sugar according to taste. Have the glasses ready with a little wine in each of them ; whisk the cream, and as the f rotli rises fill the glasses. Syllabubs, Solid.—Take one quart of cream, one quart of white wine, the juice of two lemons, the grated peel of a lemon, and sugar to taste. Mix these ingredients, mill them to a froth, then take off the scum as it rises, and place it to drain on a hair sieve. Half fill the glasses with the scum, and heap the froth on it. Syllabubs that will keep a week or ten days.—Put the grated rind and stramed juice of three lemons upon a pound of powdered sugar. Add a pint and a half of good wine, and a quart of thick cream. A little brandy may be added or not. Whisk the mixture patiently one way till it is well frothed. As the froth rises, take it off gently, and pQe it in glasses. Sprinkle some hundreds and thousandsSYL SYR ( 953 ) on the top, and keep the syllabubs in a cool place. Syllabubs under the Cow.—Take a largo china bowl—a punch bowl is the most suitiible for the purpose—put into it half a pound of lump sugar, the strained juice of a lemon, a pint of sherry, a glassful of brandy, and three-quarters of a pint of cream beaten up with white of egg. Stir the mixture briskly for a minute or two, and put a dozen ratafias into it. Take it to the dairjTnaid, and let her milk the cow into the bowl until it is quite full. Put it away, and let it remain untouched till the following day. Grate a little nutmeg on the top, and serve. Syllabubs, Whipped.—Rub a lump of loaf sugar on the outside of a lemon, put to it half a pint of thick cream, and sweeten to taste. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and add a glassful of madeira wine or French brandy. Mill it to a froth with a chocolate mill, take oflE the froth as it rises, and lay it in a hair sieve. Fill one half of the glass with red wine, then lay the froth as high as possible; but take care that it is well drained in the sieve, otherwise it will mix with the wine, and the syllabub be spoiled. Syrup and Wine Sauce for Rich Sweet Puddings.—Take a quai-ter of a pint of good melted butter. Stir into this half a quarter of a pint of dissolved red-currant jelly and half a quarter of a pint of poii. Stir the sauce over the five till it is on the point of boihng, and pour it upon and around the pudding. Syrup Clarified for Jellies.—Put two pounds of refined sugar into a well-tinned saucepan with a quart of water. When the sugar is dissolved, stir in briskly the white of an egg beaten up with a spoonful of cold water. Beat the syrup thoroughly, let it boil, and remove the scum as it rises. Strain it through a sieve, and it will be fit for use. Syrup Clarified for Jelly (another way).—See Jelly, Syrup Clarified for. Syrup Clarified for Keeping.—Allow half a pmt of water to a pound of refined loaf sugar, and the white of an egg to four pounds of sugar. Break up the sugar, and pour the water upon it. Stir it until (Ussolved. Beat the white of egg, and stir it into the syrup while it is still cold. Let it heat gradually, removing the scum as it rises. When per- fectly clear, strain it into a napkin, and keep it in closely-stoppered bottles for use. This syrup will keep for some weeks. If less sugar were used than the quantity named the syrup would ferment. Syrup Clarified with Isinglass.— Allow half a pint of water to each poimd of sugar, and a quarter of an ounce of Russian isinglass to six pounds of sugar. Pour the water over the sugar, and let it stand till dis- solved. Dissolve the isinglass in boiling water, and add it to the syrup. Let the mixture cool, then put it on the fire, and as the scum rises remove it. When quite clear it will be ready for use. Syrup thus prepared may be us('d for preserving fruit. Syrup, Custard and {see Custard and Syrup). Syrup for Competes.—The quantity of sugar used in preparing syrup for compotes must vary with the nature of the fruit. Very acid fruit will of course need more sugar than luscious fruit. For a good many kinds of fruit half a pound of sugar may be boiled in three- quarters of a pint of water. Syrup thus made is not intended to keep. To make it, dissolve the sugar in the water, and boil it till clear. Remove the scum as it rises. Time to boil, about a quarter of an hour. Syrup for Compotes (another way).— See Compotes, Syrup for. Syrup for Liqueurs.—Put a pint of water in a preserving-pan over the fire. Wlien it boils, drop gradually into it half a pound of sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, let it boil up, .sldm it, and pour it out. When cold it will be fit for use. Syrup of Apples (a Gorman recipe).—Peel a dozen tine rennets, cut them into slices as thin as possible, put them into a jar with a pound and a half of sugar and six spoonfuls of water; put the lid on, and place it in a bain-marie for ' two hours, keeping the water always boiling: j be careful from time to time to move the ji:r, I but do not take it out of the water, because by j coming into the cold air it might crack. When it has boiled two hours let the fire go out, and leave the jar in the bain-marie till nearly cold. AVhen the juice is almost cold, flavour it with, lemon-juice, adding a spoonful of essence of lemon, a spoonful of essence of cinnamor., orange-flower water, or anything you please to flavour it with. If it is not quite clear, let it stand for two or three hours more, then poui' it gently into bottles, taking great care not to disturb the sediment at the bottom. Syrup of Barberries.—Boil a quart of water, throw into it a pound of very ripe bar- berries picked from the stalks; after boiling up a few times let them infuse till the following j day; then boil two pounds and a half of sugar I to pearling; set the barberries again on the fire, and after boiling them up three or four times strain them ; add the juice to the sugar, and put the whole on the fire. Skim the preparar tion the whole time of boiling, which must be about twenty minutes. When done bottle it. This sjTup seldom ferments. Syrup of Cowslips.—Upon every gallon of cowslip flowers with their white part cut off pour a quart of boiling water. Put the pan containing them over a very slow fire, where it must simmer gently during six hours. Let it stand till next day, then replace it over a good fire until it reaches the boiling point, but before ebullition commences remove it from the fire. Squeeze out the flowers as hard as you possibly can, and add the same quantity of fresh flowers. Make the preparation boil; but the moment ebullition begins, replace it on the skiw I fire, and let it simmer again for six hours.SYR SYR ( ) Again let it stand till next day, when having heated it as before, but without boiling, Btjuoeze out the llowors while hot, and to every pint of the expressed juice add two pounds of sugar dissolved by standing the pan in boiling water. '• Now set it on the fire, and stir it until the scum I rises; then remove it from the tire, and skim it; repeat this until no more scum rises. Let it now have a single boil, and run it through a \ jolly-bag. When quite cold, bottle it in pint bottles. Syrup of Mulberries (a French recipe). —Gather and pick the fruit before it is quite ripe, that the juice may have a little acidity. Reduce to powder an equal weight of sugar, and place it together with the fruit in a pre- serving-pan ; do not mash the fruit, or it wQl make the juice thick. Set the pan over a very moderate fire; the heat will soon burst the fruit, and by this means the juice will be quite clear. When the sugar is dissolved it will require a few boilings to make the syrup. Strain it through a horsehair sieve without pressing the fruit. The mulberries will remain in the sieve, and the syrup will not need to be clarified. Syrup of Orgeat.—Blanch a pound of sweet and two ounces of bitter almonds; rub them in a mortar to a smooth paste, adding now and then half a table-spoonful of cold water to prevent them from oiling. Mix the paste gradually with three pints of cold water; strain it through a cotton bag, squeezing the bag well to get out all the goodness of the almonds. Mix with this emulsion a quarter of a pint of orange-flower water. Now make a gallon of clarified syrup, pass it through a jelly-bag, set it on the fire, and boil it up. \Vhen approaching to a proper consistence, stir in the emulsion gradually so as to check the bpiling a little. Let it now continue to boil until it is done enough. Put it to cool. Bottle the syrup while still warm, agitating it before you pour it into the bottles. liCt it stand till quite cold before you cork it. To make it keep better, pour a little drop of olive oil on the top of each bottle, which must be quite full, allow- ing not more than half an inch of space between the cork and the liquid. When a bottle is opened, the oil is to removed with a bit of cotton. For another way, see Orgeat Syrup. Syrup of Raspberry. — Mash your raspberries a little immediately after thej' are gathered. Put them into a stone jar with half a pint of the best white-wine vinegar to each pound. Let them stand in a cold cellar during two days. Run the liquor through a hair-sieve, but without forcing through any of the rasp- berry-pulp, and to every pint put a pound and three-quarters of sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, clarify it with white of egg, only heating but not boiling it; then put it on again to boil over a clear brisk fire; skim it as it boils up ; let it boil ten minutes, then stir it till it is quite cold. By mixing a couple of table-spoon- : fuls of this syrup in half a tumbler of water, | and stirring in as much carbonate of soda as j will cover a shilling, the famous effervescent j raspberryade is formed. The pulp of the rasp- i berries may be converted into raapbeiTy jam, the slight flavour of vinegar forming an "agree- able variety. In Germany salad oil is some- times poured on the top of raspberry Byrup before corking : it is said to insuie its keeping for any length of time. For another way of making syrup of raspberry, see liaspberry Syrup. Syrups.—In addition to the above, recipes for the lollowing syrups will be found under tlieii- respective headings: — Almond Gkoseilleh Apricot Jelly, Sykup Clahi- Bauherry fieu for Blackberry Le.mon' Cherries Preserved Lemonade IN Syrup Maraschino Compotes, Syrup for Mulberry Currant Orange Ginger Orange-peel Okanoks in Syrup. Syrups, Fruit.—Some rules for prepar- ing fruit syrups, given by a German expert, are perhaps worth a trial by our readers. To have fruit-juices fit for preservation, it is necessary, in the first place, to select fully-ripe and un- decayed fruit, and after mashing the fruit it should receive an addition of five to ten per cent, of sugar, and then be left to undergo a slight fermentation. The juice after filtration becomes perfectly clear, and is much improved in flavoirr and colour. Raspberries, whortle- berries, currants, cherries, &c., may be thus treated, but the delicate flavour of the straw- berry requires some modification of the process. In this, two pounds of carefully-picked straw- berries—the wild strawberry of the wood is the best—are put into a glass jar with two and a half pounds of white powdered sugar, amd occasionally shaken. The sugar extracts the juice, and the berries shrivel to a dry pulp, and after filtering the syrup is ready for use. Heating must be carefully avoided, as it would at once destroy the fragrance of the fruit. As to cherries, the so-called morella is recom- mended—and by leaving the cracked stones in the pulp, a flavour like that of bitter almonds will be imparted. To make syrup of the fruit- juices prepared as above indicated, our author advises us never to make use of anj' metallic vessels or spoons, and always to take best refined loaf-sugar in lumps, five parts of jviico to eight parts of sugar constituting a good proportion. The lumps of sugar are moistened with just enough water to cause them to dissolve readily, when the remaining juice is added, and the whole is to be rapidly heated to boiling, which, however, must only be con- tinued for a few minutes. With good sugar no skimming is necessary, and filtering through flannel or other woollen cloth wetted in water containing a few drops of sulphuric acid, and weU wrung, will make the sjTup perfectly clear. It is best to fill the preserve jar with the sjTup when cold, but if it has been done when hot, the vessel must be filled up after cooling, as the vapour condenses on the portion of the vessel left empty, and, running down, dilutes the upper stratum of the syrup, and thus makes it more liable to spoil.TAB TAD ( 965 ) T Table Beer, or Small Ale (Dr. Kitchiner's .recipe).—To make four eighteen- gallon barrels, or seventy-two gallons, begin at night: have the water boiling by nine o'clock. For the quantity of three bushels, draw off into the mash-tub eighteen gallons of boiling water, and let it stand till it comes down to l)etween 160° and 170° of heat, or till you can see your face well in it; then pour in the malt, having one person to stir it all the time it is pouring in; continue to stir it for five or six minutes; let it stand about half an hour, then add thirty-three gaUons of water from 170° to 190° : cover up at about ten o'clock, and let it .stand till six next morning, then draw it off. If the first part is not quite bright, return it into the masb-tub. "When the whole is drawn off, put thirty-three gallons of nearly-boiHng water, mash for some minutes, cover it up, and let it stand for one hour. The third mash the .same. When the third mash is in the mash- tub, clean the copper, and make it nearly dry, then take the first wort and part of the second (if the copper is sufficiently large), add the hops, and boil for about a quarter of an hour (I reckon from the time it absolutely boils). Draw off one-half, or one-third, according to the quantity, and fill up with the remainder of the wort; let this boil nearly an hour, draw off a part, and continue to fill up till the whole is boiled. This is much less trouble than to make two or three separate boilings. Put your oeer to cool as fast as you draw it off from the copper. When you can get it down to 50° or 60°, you may put it together : the mash-tub having been cleared of the grains, and well washed, will make a good working tun. Let it stand till you find it about 60° or 65°, when you may add the yeast. About a quart of good fresh yeast ' wll be sufficient; if not quite fresh, three ))int8. The best way to add the yeast is to put it into a wooden bowl, and stir it well with a whisk; add, as you stir it, about a handful of flour : let some of the yeast from the bowl run over into the beer, and let it swim quite full. Cover up; keep the room from 50° to 60°. WTien the head begins to fall, which may be from twenty-four to even sixty hours, skim off the yeast, stir it well, add about a double hand- ful of salt with a little flour before you stir it up, and then barrel. It will work in the barrels from two to ten days, according to the weather and other circumstances. As it works the barrels must be filled up twice a day with some of the beer you have left, or if you are short in your brewing from any you have in tap. When it has nearly done working, which you may know from the yeast appearing wet or frothy, add two or three handfuls of the old hops to each barrel; stir them well, and let them stand for about twelve hours; bung down, and in about twelve or fifteen days you ought to have beer as bright as wine. The hops shoiild be soaked the night before in three or four gallons of cold water, and the sugar melted in an iron saucepan and put into the copper about a quarter of an hour before- you draw it oft". It is customary with some to make one sort of beer only—if you make ale and table beer you generally rob one or the other. Five bushels of malt and ten or twelve pounds of sugar will make seventy-two gallons of excellent ale; about one pound of hops to each bushel of malt is the usual quantity; but for beer to be kept during the summer half a pound to the bushel will not be found too much. Table Beer (another way).—On three bushels of malt pour thirteen gallons of hot water. Cover it up for half an hour, then mash; let it stand two hours and a half, and then draw off the h'quor. Again add to the malt another thirteen gallons of water, and pro- ceed as before. A final mashing with a third thirteen gallons of hot water will complete this part of the operation. Now take a pound and a half of hops, and let them boil an hour with about a pailful of wort obtained as above. Strain off the liquid, and add to the rest. When sufficiently cool add about one quart of yeast. Now place the wort in the fermenting tun; when it has ceased to work, cover the bunghole with paper for three days, then bung down, close. Tablet, Cinnamoil {see Cinnamon Tablet). Tablets, Sugar, Flavoured.—Clarify a pound of sugar. To do this, break it up into small pieces, and pour over it a quarter of a pint of water which has been beaten up with a tea-spoonful of white of egg. Let it stand until the sugar is dissolved, then put it on the fire, and when it boils throw in another quarter of a pint of water, and let it boil up again without stirring. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, let the syrup settle, and carefully remove the scum. In order to avoid waste, put this scum upon an inverted sieve; a small portion of clear syrup will drain from it, which may be put with the rest. Flavour the syrup with three drops of oil of cinnamon, the grated peel of two lemons, or a quarter of an ounce of ground ginger. Return it to the preserving- pan, and boil it to candy height, or until it rises high in the pan, and has sufficient firmness to make a thread when taken between the thumb and finger, which have been previously dipped in cold water. Pour it on a large flat dish or well-oiled slab, and mark it quickly into squares, into which it may be broken when cold. If liked, essence of peppermint, or essence of cloves may be used for flavouring. Tadcaster Pudding. — Shred eight ounces of suet very finely, and mix it with a pound of flour; or, if preferred, rub six ounces of butter or good beef dripping into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, two heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder, four ounces of well-washed currants, four ounces of chopped and stoned raisins, two ounces of moist sugar, and half a nutmeg grated. Mix the dry in- gredients together thoroughly. Dissolve a dessert-spoonful of treacle in about three- quarters of a pint of milk, and stir this into the pudding to make a stiff batter. Pour theTAN ( 956 ) TAM mixture into a thickly-buttered baking-dish, jmd lot it bo from two to throo inches in thick- ness, liukti in a moderate oven. When the pudding is done enough, let it stand for a couple of minutes, then turn it out on a hot ■'iiah. Time to bake, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. Id. 8uliicient for half a dozen persons. Tamara, Italian.—Take one ounce of coriander-seed, one ounce of cinnamon, one ounce of cloves, half an ounce of fenncl-sced, half an ounce of aniseed; beat these ingredients to a powder, and use in the same way as curry powder. Tamarind.—This is the fruit—or rather the pod—of a tree indigenous to the East and West Indies. It thrives also in Egypt, Arabia, and Palestine. In these countries it is some- times used as an article of food in the form of confectionery, and it is highly thought of on account of its pleasant acid taste and cooUng properties. The pod consists of two parts: the outer is fleshy, and the inner as thin as parch- ment. Between these two there is a space of about a quarter of an inch, which is occupied by a soft pulp of a tart but agreeable taste. The pods are gathered when quite ripe, freed from the shelly fragments, and placed in a cask in layers; boiling syrup is then poiired over them till the cask is full. The syrUp pervades every TAMARINDS part, even to the bottom. WTien cold the casks are headed down and sent to market. The more refined mode of preparation, however, is to clarify the juice of the fruit with the white of egg, and form it with sugar into a clear, trans- parent syrup : this and the fruit supplies an agreeable and cooling beverage. Tamarind-juice.—Mix a quarter of a pint of tamarind-juice with half a pint of cold spring water. This will make a refreshing drink in hot weather or for a sick person. Tamis.—A tamis is a worsted cloth made on purpose for straining sauces. The best way of using it (says Dr. Kitchiner) is for two people to twist it contrary ways. This is a better way of straining sauce than passing it llirough a sieve, and refines it much more completely. Tangerine Oranges, Frosted.—Divide some tangerine oruugea into (juarters. IIuvo ready some thin wooden skewers four or five inches long, a skewer for each piece of oran-'e and put them in the point of each quarter^of orange about half-way through. Lay one end of the skewers upon a sieve bo that the fruit can hang outside without touching anything and let it dry for two or three hours. Make an icing by boiling a pound of sugar with a pmt of water to a clear syrup, and when it is smooth and clear add a Uttle of the juice and grated rind of the orange to flavour it agreeably. When the sugar rises like large beads in the pan, take a little quickly from the top with the finger, and plunge it at once into cold water. If it comes easily off the finger the sugar is ready for use, and must not be boiled longer, or it will be discoloured. Dip the pieces of oranges in the icing, and afterwards let them drain from the sieve imtil cold. Remove the skewers, and serve the iced fruit in a compote- dish. Time, about three hours. Sufiicient, six oranges for a moderate-sized dish. Tankard Cup.—Make a slice of toast, put it in a large goblet, and grate over it the eighth of a nutmeg. Add two inches of thin lemon-rind, and squeeze upon it the juice of half a lemon. Mix a pint of nuld ale with a table-spoonful of brandy, a table-spoonful of white wine, and a table-spoonful of capillaire. Pour the mixture over the toast, and it will be ready to serve. A sprig of mint or borage may be put into the mixture for a minute, or not. Tansy, Apple {see Apple Tansy). Tansy Pudding. — This is an old- fashionea dish seldom to be met with at modern tables. Pound a handful of green tansy with three or four young spinach-leaves, and squeeze out the juice. Pour a pint of boiling milk over a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, and let it stand until cool. Add two ounces of butter, a glassful of brandy, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of the tansy- juice. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, then add four well-beaten eggs. Pour the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake in a well- heated oven. Serve very hot, and sift pow- dered sugar thickly over the top of the pudding. A superior tansy pudding may be made by flavouring the milk with pounded almonds, and Uning the edges of the dish with puif paste before putting in the mixture. At old- fashioned tables the ordinary batter pudding may occasionally be seen coloured and flavoured with tansy-j uice. Tansy-leaves have a peculiar bitter taste, and are said to act as a tonic. Time to bake, about throe-quarters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 3d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for three or four persons. Tansy Pudding (another w,iy).—Blanch and pound a quarter of a pound of Jordan al- monds ; put thorn into a stewpan, add a gill of the sjTup of roses, tho crumb of a Frrnch roll, some grated nutmeg, half a glassful of brandy.TAP ( 957 ) TAP two table-spoonfuls of taasy-juice, three ounces of fresh butter, and some slices of citron. 1 our over it a pint and a half of boihng cream or milk, sweeten, and when cold mix it; add the juice of a lemon and eight eggs beaten. It may bo either boiled or baked. Tapioca.—Tapioca is procured from a plant which grows in British Guiana, and is known to botanists by the name of Jatropha, or Manihot Janipha. The tapioca is procured from the root of the plant which, oddly enough, contains hydrocyanic acid; and it is said that the native Indians poison their ari-ows fi'om the juice of the root before they begin preparing the tapioca. The native cassava is also prepared from the same plant. Tapioca is a wholesome and nutritious farinaceous food very easy of di- gestion. It is used for puddings, for thicken- ing soups and sauces, and it is also simply boiled in milk or water as a food for invalids. When mixed with other flour it will make very good bread. It should be bought of a respect- able dealer, as a spui-ious kind is sometimes offered for sale made of gum and potato-flour. The jar in the store-cupboard which contains tapioca should be kept closely covered, or in- sects will get into it. TAPIOCA. Tapioca and Apple Pudding.—Wash a tea-cupful of tapioca, and soak it for an hour in a quart of cold water. Put it into a sauce- pan, set it on the fire, let it boil, then simmer it gently until it is smooth and clear, stirring it frequently to keep it from getting into lumps. Half fill a moderate-sized pie-dish with cooking apples, pared, cored, and cut into thin slices. Bake these in a moderate oven until they are slightly softened, then sweeten the tapioca, flavour it in any way that may be agree- able, and pour it over the fruit. Bake the pudding until the apples have fallen. Any other fruit may be substituted for apples, such as strawberries, red currants, raspberries, &c. The pudding may be served hot, or in summer- time may be made with fresh fruit, turned out in a mould, and when cold oaten with milk or cream. Time, about one hour to bake the pudding. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tapioca and Tomatoes.—Soak a table- spoonful of tapioca in water for a couple of hours, set it to boil, adding a little more water till quite done to the consistency of porridge. Add pepper, salt, and a little fresh butter. Cut two tomatoes in half, remove pips and watery substance, sprinkle with a little pepper and salt. Fill each haU-tomato with the tapioca, sprinkle the top with grated parmesan and baked bread-crumbs, put them into the oven for twenty minutes, and serve. Tapioca Cake.—Tapioca is an article that swells very much, and which requires a long time to be done thoroughly. If you boil it over too brisk a fire, it will become tough; if over a very slow fire, it wiU be as mellow as marrow, and then it is extremely pleasant to the palate. Boil a pint of cream and a pint of milk wdth a little sugar and very little salt. Then add the peel of half a lemon; but if the taste of orange-flowers, roses, or vaniUa, &c., should be more agreeable, use them in preference, ac- cording to taste. Put a quai-ter of a pound of tapioca into the cream, and let it boil over a very slow fire ; when it is done throw in a piece of butter, and break the yolks of six eggs, which, beat up with it, and let them do over the stove. When you send up the first course, beat the whites of the eggs, pour them gently over the rest, and set the whole in a moderate oven. If you wish to make a cake, sprinkle a mould twice over with clarified butter and crumbs of bread : mix with the preparation some dried cherrie* and currants, and proceed as you would do for a souffle. AVTien done turn the mould upside- down in a dish, and send up hot Tapioca Custard. — Wash two table- spoonfuls of tapioca, and boU it gently in a pint of nulk until it is quite soft, stirring it frequently to keep it from getting into lumps. Add a piece of butter the size of a walnut and two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and when these^ are thoroughly mixed draw the saucepan on one side that the preparation may cool a little. Beat four fresh eggs in a bowl, mix gradually with them part of the tapioca, then pour them into the remainder in the saucepan, and stir all over the fire until the custard is on the point of boiling. Turn it out, flavour with vanilla, ratafia, almond, or any other flavouring, and when it is cold put it into a glass dish. Just before serving, crush an ounce of macaroons to powder, and sprinkle them over the surface, or if preferred sift a little powdered cinnamon over the top. Time to simmer the tapioca, i about two hours. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient I for four or five persons. Tapioca for Invalids.—Wash a table- spoonful of tapioca, and soak it in a pint of water or milk and water for half an hour. Let it boil, then simmer it gently until it is quite clear, and stir it frequently to keep it from getting into lumps. Sweeten it slightly, and flavour with brandy or wine if agreeable, if not, with cinnamon or orange or lemon-rind. If it is too thick add a little more water. Veal, mutton, or chicken broth may be BubstitutedTAB ( 058 ) TAP ^or tho water or milk and water. Time to simmer, about three-quarters of an hour. Suf- ficient for one invalid. Tapioca, Grating.—Drop ton oimcos of tapioca into a stowpan with a quart of boiling milk. Add a slice of butter, a pinch of salt, sugar to taste, and tlie grated rind of a lemon. Boil, then simmer very gently, stirring all the time till tender. Pour tho tapioca out, and when cool mix four eggs with it. If the eggs are added when the mixture is too hot it will curdle. Turn into a plain mould, which has been buttered and lined with bread-crumbs. Bake in a gentle oven till brown on the top. Turn out and serve. Tapioca is an excellent and wholesome production, and very useful in families : it may be used in any sort of entremets, fiuch as gateau de tapioca, souffle, pudding, pot- age, &e., prepared in the same manner as rice. Tapioca Jelly.—Wash a quai-tei' of a pound of tapioca, and soak it in a pint of water for .some hours. Put it into a saucepan over .the tire with another pint of cold water and the thin rind of a lemon or an orange, and let it sinmier gently until quite clear and thick, and keep adding at intervals small quantities of boiling water to make up half a pint. Remove the lemon-rind, pour out the tapioca, sweeten it, add as much lemon-juice as is agreeable, and a little brandy or wine if liked. Pour the prepared tapioca into small ■damp moulds, and turn it out when cold and stiff. Tapioca jelly is very good eaten with preserved fruit and cream or milk. Time to isimmer, about one hour. Probable cost, 5d., •exclusive of the wine or brandy. SuflBcient for five or six persons. Tapioca Jelly (another way).—Take one pound of tapioca and six pints of water. Let the tapioca soak in the water all night; in the morning boil until quite clear and of a proper .consistence, then fiavoiir to taste. Tapioca Pudding, Baked. — Wash four table-spoonfuls of tapioca in water, then let it boil with a quart of milk and the thin rind of a lemon or an orange, or an inch of ■cinnamon. Pour it into a basin, let it get cold, sweeten it, and take out the peel. Beat it up with three eggs and an ounce of butter. Pour it into a buttered dish, and bake the pudding in a well-heated oven. The edge of the dish may be lined with puff paste or not. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. SuflBcient for five or six persons. Tapioca Pudding, Boiled.—Wash two iable-spooufuls of tapioca, and let it soak in a pint of milk for an hour. Put it into a sauce- pan with an ounce of butter, a table-spoonful of sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon or an orange, or any flavouring that may be preferred. Let it boil, then stir it over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour. Pour it out, remove the rind, and let the tapioca cool. Stir in with it the yolks of four and the whites of two well-beaten eggs. Pour tho pudding into a buttered mould, and boil or steam it until done enough. Let it stand in the mould for some minutes after it is taken up before turning it out. It will be necessary to handle it very I carefully, or it will break. Sift powdered I sugar thickly over it, and send a dish of cream I to table with it. The apjjearance of the pud- 1 ding will be improved if it is garnished with any kind of bright-coloured jelly or jam. Time to boil, an liour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Tapioca Pudding, French. — Take two ounces of tapioca, and boil it in half a pint of water until it begins to melt, then add half a pint of milk by degrees, and boil until the tapioca becomes very thick; add a well-boaton egg, sugar, and flavouring to taste, and bake gently for three-quarters of an hour. This preparation of tapioca is superior to any other, is nourishing, and suitable for delicate children. Tapioca Pudding, Simple. — Wash and drain a tea-cupful "of tapioca, and put it into a buttered baking-dish large enough to hold about three pints.. Sprinkle over it a table-spoonful of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a little nutmeg, cinnamon, or lemon-peel, and fill the dish with cold milk. Put in a piece of butter the size of a small nut, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. When the sur- face of the pudding is covered with a brightly- browned skin it is done enough. Send sugar to table with the pudding. Time to bake, about two hours. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Tapioca Soup.—Take as much properly- seasoned clear cold stock as may be required, I and put it into the stewpan with an ounce of i well-washed tapioca to each pint of stock, j Bring the preparation gradually to the point of boiling, then simmer it gently until tender, I and stir it frequently to keep it from getting , into lumps. A white soup may be made by using veal stock, and adding a little boiling cream or milk to the soup just before serving. Time to simmer the tapioca, an hour or more from the time the soup boils. Probable cost, varying with the quality of the stock. Suf- ficient, a quart of soup for four or five persons. Tapioca Soup (another way).—Large- grained tapioca is the best for soup. Take as much tapioca as may be required, and soak it in cold water for a quarter of an hour. Drain it, and put it into a stewpan with as much cold stock as will cover it; let it boil, and after- wards simmer it gently until it is quite cleiir and tender. Stir the rest of the stock, already flavoured, into it, let it boil up, and serve immediately. Time to simmer the tapioca, from three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Suf- ficient—an ounce of tapioca will thicken a pint of soup. Taro.—This is the South Sea Islanders' " staff of life." The taro plant is a species of arum, called by some botanists Jritiit rsculctituin though this is a vac:ue distinction, since there are others of this genus that produce edible roots. It is in its large tuberous root that the value of the taro lies: this root varies in size, according to the ground in which it grows. U is usually of several pounds" weight, though some roots are so large as with difficulty to bo squeeze 1 into a three-quart pot. In shape theTAB ( 959 ) TAB tai-o root is something like an oblong turnip or l eetroot, teiininating abruptly, as if the smaller end had been cut off. The taro roots when raw are poisonous, and they are prepared for eating by two iiistinct processes. One is by the ordinary method of boiling as potatoes are boiled, with the addition of salt thrown into the water. After being boiled, the root, now pos- sessing a fine white mealy appearance, is eaten as li yam or sweet potato. The more general practice, however, is to mash or pulverise the taro into a floury substance, and afterwards, mixing it with water, make batter cakes of it, to be frittered in lard. When thus prepared, the taro may be easily mistaken for pancakes made of the best flour. Tarragon Sauce for Boiled Fowls. I — Take a small bunch of tarragon, and put it I into a saucepan with a pint of nicely-seasoned ' white stock and the white of an egg which has been beaten up with two table-spoonfuls of cold water and a table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Whisk all thoroughly over the fire until the broth boils, then draw it to the side, let it simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, and afterwards let it stand to settle for another quarter of an hour. Strain through a jelly- bag, and when clear, reduce the sauce by quick boiling until it is rich and good. Time, a quarter of an hoiu* to boil, and a quarter of an hour to settle. Tarragon Vinegar for Salads and various Sauces.—Gather the tarragon on a dry day, just before the plant begins to bloom. This will be late in July, or in the early part of August. Pick the leaves from the stalks, and with them fill wide-mouthed glass bottles up to the neck, and in doing so bruise the leaves slightly that their flavour may more easily escape. Cover with best vinegar, tie bladder over the mouths of the bottles, and then let the leaves infuse six weeks or two months. Pour off the liquid, strain through muslin till it is quite clear, put it into small bottles, and cork down securely. Store in a dry place. Time, about two months. Tarragon "Vinegar (another w&j).—See Elder-flower and Tarragon Vinegar. Tart, Fruit (English way).—Spread some puff paste over the table with a rolling-pin ; cut a piece the size of the dish, and out of the trim- mings cut some strips; brush the edge of the dish with dorure, and stick the strips on it: then put the fruit into the dish with some sugar and a little water ; roll the paste on the rolling-pin, and lay it over the fruit. Before you put the paste on, brush the strips with some dorure (egg- wash, or water) to make it stick. When you have trimmed the dish all roimd, brush some white of egg over the tart, and sift some sugar over it: then dip the paste-brush into water, and shake it over the tart. Bake it properly, and serve up cold. Apples, however, are an exception, as thoy are bettor hot. Instead of brushing the tart with white of egg only, you may use yolk and white beaten together, which 18 called dorure, and should be borne in mind. When this has been done, take a small knife and ornament the paste with figures according to your fancy; then put the tart in the oven, and if it begins to have too much colour cover it with paper. When done, spread over it some fine sugar through a sieve, replace it in the oven to dry the sugar, and with the red salamander glaze the tart of a bright colour. You must prepare all kinds of fruit in the same way: use sometimes the paste for tarts, but in that case no strips are absolutely necessary. Tart, My Lady's.—Make a little pastry with six ounces of flour, a pinch of salt, three ounces of fresh butter, and as much cold water or milk as will make a smooth firm paste. Roll it out lightly two or three times, and the last time roll it to the thickness of a little less than an inch. Stamp it out with a fluted cutter the size of the dish in which it is to be served, and lay it on a floured baking-tin. Roll the trim- mings of the pastry to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and stamp this out in rounds the size of the flutings of the larger cutter. Moisten the edges slightly, lay the rounds upon the border of the tart, and press them upon the inner side, so that the outer edge may have a flak}'- appearance. Lastly, make a circular incision a quarter of an inch deep almost close to the border, and bake the tart in a moderate oven. When it is done enough take out the part which has been marked with a sharp knife, carefully scrape away tlie soft crummy centre, and fill the tart with good jam of any kind, or with oysters or lobstcr-s prepared as for a vol-au-vent. Put the tart into the oven again for a minute, and serve it hot or cold. It may be ornamented according to fancy. If filled with sweetmeat, a few blanched and sliced almonds may be strewn over it, or the rounds of the border may be glazed with beaten egg. At Christmas-time the tart may be filled with hot mincemeat instead of jam. Time to bake, twenty-five to thirty minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the interior, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tart with Sugar Icing.—The appear- ance of tarts made in the orcGnary way, and with all kinds of fruit, is very much improved by icing them. In order to do this proceed as follows:—Line the edges of the dish with good crust, fill it with fruit and a little sugar, lay on the cover, press down the edges, and trim them neatly. Make a small hole at each side for the steam to escape, then before putting the tart in the oven, brush it over with cold water, and sift white sugar thickly upon it. Or, when the tart is nearly baked, take it out, brush it over with white of egg whisked to froth; sift white sugar on this and sprinkle a little water on the top. If necessarj', lay a sheet of writing-paper over it to keep it from acquiring too much colour. Time to bake, half an hour for a moderate-sized tart. Tartar Mustard.—Put a table-spoonful of the best Durham mustard into a cup with a pinch of salt and a pinch of cayenne, and 'nib it down to a smooth paste, using horse- radish vinegar instead of water. Be careful to mix no more than wiU be required for one( 960 ) TAR TAR day's use, as the preparation ia better when freshly luude. Tartar Sauce.—Put the yolk of an egg quite free from white into a basin, and beat it for a minute or two with a pinch of salt, u pipch of pepper, and a table-spoonful of dry mustard. Stir into this, first in drojjs and afterwards in tea-spoonfuls, four tiibk;-spooufuls of jjui-o salad oil, and bo careful to beat the sauce for a minute or two between every addition, as its excellence depends in a great measure upon this being done. After each six tca-spoonfuls of oil put in a tea-spoonful of vinegar. Wash and mince finely three shallots, six small ghci-kins, and a table-spoonful of mixed chervil and tarragon. Put tliese into the sauce with a pinch of cayenne. Mix thoroughly, and serve. If the sauce is not immediately wanted, it should bo kept in a cool place. Time to mix the sauce, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tartar Sauce (another way).—Wash and mince finely four sliallots. Put them into a mor- tar with a tea-spoonful of chopped tarragon or cherWl (or both), a tea-spoonful of dry mustard, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs. Pound these ingredients until quite smooth. Put them into a bowl, and mix with them very gradually three table-spoonfuls of pure salad- oil. The oil should be put in first in drops, and afterwards in tea-spoonfuls, and the sauce should be well beaten between each addition. If this point is carefully attended to, there will be no danger of the sauce curdling. When the oil is thoroughly incorporated, add three dessert-spoonfuls of best vinegar and one of chilli vinegar. Serve in a tureen. Tartlet-tins {see illustration accompany- ing the article on Almond Cheesecakes). Tartlets. — Tartlets may be made with puff paste, almond paste, or any sweet pastry. They are made as follows :—Butter some patty- pans, and line them with pastry rolled out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Trim them neatly, put a little crust of bread into each tartlet—or what wiU answer the same purpose, which is to keep the pastry from puff- ing up in the centre—prick two or three holes in the bottom of the tart: bake in a quick oven, ^\'^len they are two-thirds baked, take the tartlets out of the oven, remove the bread, and in its place put a spoonful of jam or mar- malade. Eetum them to the oven, and bake until done enough. Let them get cold before serving, ornament prettily, and send them to table piled high on a dish covered with a white napkin. Some cooks put the jam into the tartlet before it is baked at all, but this spoils both the taste and the appearance. Time to bake the tartlets, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, about Id. each. Sufficient, half a ])0und of pastry will make a moderate-sized dish of tartlets. Tartlets (another way).—Roll out the pastry to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Stamp it out in an even number of rounds of uniform size, and make half of these into rings by pressing a small cutter quite through the centre of thorn. Moisten the edges of the rounds, ])laco the rings upon them, and press them tightly together. Put the tartlets on a , baking-tin, and bake them in a w-11-heated oven. j As soon as they are done enougli, take them out of the oven, and before they are cool fill tliem witli jam or marmalade. Lay a pastry ornament or a spoonful of whipped cream on the top, and they are ready for serving. Time to bake, about twelve minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. Tartlets, Orange.—Make some rich puff paste, with wliich Ime some mince-pie tins. Put some orange marmalade into each, and squeeze fresh Seville orange-juice over them. Bake for a quarter of an hour, and strew pounded sugar over. The tartlets are good hot or oold. Tartlets, Pastry Cream for Gkir- nishlng {^ec Pastry Cream). Tartlets, To Ornament. — The usual w^ay of ornamenting tartlets is to lay upon them pastry leaves, flowers, or other devices. These may be made of the trimmings of the pastry, and should be baked separately in a slow oven. Sometimes a tea-spoonful of whipped cream is substituted for the pastry. Ornaments for tartlets are made also of almond pastry prepared as follows :—Pound and sift two ounces of loaf sugar, and mix with it two ounces of dried flour and an ounce of almonds pounded till smooth. Make this mixture into a stiff paste with the white of an egg well whisked with a table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Beat the paste, and roll it out as thin as possible. Stamp it into leaves, stars, flowers, half-crescents, or any other fancy shapes, and bake these in a slow oven tiU they are firm without being coloured. When cold they are ready for use. These ornaments may be kept between sheets of writing-paper in a tin box to be used when wanted. Tarts.—Recipes for the following tarts wiU. be found under their respective headings : — Apple, Creamed Custard Apple Damson Apple, Economical French Plum Apple, Open Fruit, Cream for Apple, Plain Fruit, Preserved Apple, Rich Gooseberry Apple, Young Jam Apricot, Green Jam, Open Black Currant Jelly Custard Cherry Lemon Chocolate TiiTTLE Ladies' Craxrerry Monitors' Cream Paste, Short, for Crust for Fruit Paste, Transparent, Currant and Rasp- Plum [fob berry Raspberry Tarts, Icing for.—Beat the whites of two eggs to a froth, and when the tart is nearly done cover the crust by means of a paste-brush with some of the white, then sprinkle over it some finely-powdered loaf sugar. Wash the( 961 ) TAR TEA brush and splash the sugar very gently with water until it is cUssolved. Put the tart again into the oven for five minutes. Tarts, Paste for.-Take a pound and a half of nour, a pound and a quarter ot fresh butter, a large pinch of salt, four yo^lvS e^'s, and half a glassful of water. Mix this paste as lightly as possible without hancUing it too much; spread it over the dresser with a rollin<--pin, and then fold it in three, as you do puff paste; roll it out, and fold it up again. Do this four times running: this is what is called four-turned. Use this paste either tor tourte of entrees, for pies of meat or fruit, or when it may be wanted. {See also Puff Paste.) tain the same organic constituents, although in different proportions :— 100 parts of Tea con- tain 15 18 3 a trace 26-25 0-75 4 20 5 100 parts of Cotfeo contain 12 1-75 13 9 . 6.5 a trace 4 0-002 12 35 6-7 THE TEA PLANT. ipea.—Doctors disagree as to whether the constant use of tea is beneficial or otherwise in its effects upon the human frame. There can be little doubt, however, that when partaken of too freely it acts injuriously upon the nervous system; yet, when taken in moderation, it is exhilarating, strengthening, and refreshing. Tastes differ as to the superiority of the flavour of the different kinds of tea. Some like all black, eome all green, and some a mixture of the two. For mixed tea the usual proportion is four parts of black tea to one of green. Green tea is more exhilarating than black, and it has a tendency to produce excitement and wakeful- ness. When taken \ery strong it is exceedingly pernicious. Amongst the black teas may be mentioned Bohea, Congo, Souchong, Assam, and Pekoe. Amongst the green teas, Twankay, Hyson-skin, Young Hyson, Hyson, Imperial, and Gunpowder. {See Tea, Varieties of.) Some- times two or three kinds of tea are mixed together—a finely-flavoured one with an in- expensive one—and then cheapness can bo combined with superiority of flavour. The following is a favourite and inexpensive mix- ture of black teas :—One pound of Moning Congo, a quarter of a pound of Assam, and a quarter of a pound of Orange Pekoe. Tea and Coffee, Analysis of.—The following analys(!S of tea and coffee are in- teresting, as showing how nearly they con- 2 p Water . Theine . Caseinc . Gum ^ Sugar . ^ Starch . Tannin . _ . Aromatic oil . Fat Fibre Mineral substances Tea Biscuits.—Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter and a largo pinch of salt in a pint of warm milk. Stir this into a pound of flour, and make the paste into a stiff dough by knead- ing it well with a table-spoonful of brewer's yeast. Put the dough into a bowl, cover it with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. When quite light, roll it out very thin, stamp it into fancy shapes, and bake in a moderate oven. Tea biscuits should be eaten cold, and a little butter or marmalade should be sent to table with them. Time to bake, ten to twenty minutes, according to size. Probable cost for this quantity, 8d. Sufficient for a dish. Tea Cakes {see Queen's Tea Cakes). Tea Cakes, Baker's, To Toast.—Cut the tea cake across into three or four slices, according to thickness. Toast and butter theso on both sides, and lay them one upon another in a hot dish. Cut them into quarters, and serve as hot as possible. They will retain their heat much longer if kept in a covered plate over a basin of boiling water. Tea Cakes, Boyal.—Take the weight of a large egg in fresh butter. Beat it to a cream, and mix with it four ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, four ounces of best flour, a small pinch of salt, and the grated peel of half a lemon. Beat the egg with a little rose or orange-flower water, and with this knead the mixture to a smooth paste. Roll it out, cut it into small rounds, and bake these upon floured tins in a weU-heated oven. Time to bake, fifteen to thirty minutes, according to the size of the cakes. Probable cost, about 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for one or two persons. Tea Cakes, Yorkshire (excellent).— Rub six ounces of butter into two piounds of fine flour; add a pinch of salt, two eggs well beaten, a pint of milk, and an ounce of German yeast. Knead the mixture well, put it into a bowl, cover with a cloth, and set on the hearth to rise. When it is quite light, and the surface has cracked, divide it into ten cakes, and roll these out lightly to the size of a saucer. Let them rise before the fire a few minutes, and bake in a quick oven. They must not be turned over in the oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. each. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons. Tea Cakes, Yorkshire, Plain.—Rub one ounce of butter and one ounce and a half of lard into two pounds of the best flour. Jlix rather less than an ounce of German yeast withTEA TEA ( 962 ) hiilf a pint of warm water. Scoop a hollow in tlio centre of the Hour, and pour tho dissolved yeast into it. Mix a littlo of tho flour with this to make a thin batter, and place tho bowl before tho firo for an hour that the yeast may rise. Beat an egg thoroughly with two table- spoonfuls of warm milk. Stir this into tho batter, add a salt-spoonful of salt, and knead all thoroughly together, adding as much warm milk as is required to make a smooth dougH. Gash the surface lightly with a knife, cover the bowl which contains it with a cloth, and let the dough rise until it is quite light. Divide it into ten pieces, and roll these into cakes tho size of a saucer. Prick these with a fork, put them on a baking-tin before the lire for a few minutes to rise, and bake them lightly in a well-heated oven. They must on no account be turned over in baking. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, Id. or 1 Jd. each. Suf- ficient for ten cakes. Tea Cakes, Yorkshire, To Serve.— No Yorkshire tea-table would be regarded as properly furnished unless it boasted a goodly show of hot and cold tea cakes. When served cold, the tea cakes are simply cut into fingers, buttered liberally, and piled crosswise upon a plate, \^^len served hot, they are heated in the oven, cut through the centre, spread with plenty of fresh butter, cut into quarters, restored to their original shape, and served as hot as possible. Or they may be cut through the centre, toasted, buttered liberally, and served very hot. They should be sent in one or two at a time, as they will spoil if allowed to stand. Tea, Choosing and Keeping of.— Tea should be chosen by the agreeableness of its odour, and as whole as possible, so that its leaf may be easily examined. In keeping it the greatest care should be taken not to expose it to the air, which destroys the flavour. Tea, Cold.—The value of cold tea as a beverage is not sufiiciently known. Literary men and others accustomed to a sedentary occu- pation would find one or two cups of cold tea taken without either milk or sugar to be as stimulating as the same quantity of sherry, whilst there would be no fear of the drowsiness or diminution of the working power which might arise from imbibing either wine or spirit. The taste for cold tea is an easily-acquired one, and worth cultivating by those who require an occasional and hannlcss stimulant. Tea, Consolidated.—Extracts, essences, and concentrated essences are to be met with in a hundred shapes, and amongst recent in- ventions we have consolidated tea. This pro- duction is made up in neat little tablets, each divided into so many different portions, thus showing at a glance the exact quantity required for use. As the tea will preserve its properties luider any change of climate, and is much less in bulk than that in ordinary use, it is likely to be held in high favour by travellers and officers of the army and navy. Tea Cream.—Boil a pint of cream and a pint of milk, into which throw a little salt and some sugar—the latter must, _ however, predominate. When the cream boils, throw two or three spoonfuls of good green tea into it, put in ten yolks of very fresh eggs, and proceed as usual upon the lire till the cream becomes thick, tlien ]jut in the isinglass, Sec, pass it through a tainis, and put it in the mould, and then to tho ice. If your mould is small, eiglit eggs are suflicient. Tea, Herb.—The following proportions are reconuneinli.-d by a well-known herbalist: —Agrimony, balm, toraientil, wild marjoram, of each one ounce ; red roses, cowslip flowers, black-cuiTant leaves, of each a quarter of an ounce. Cut small and mix. A heaped table- spoonful is enough for two persons, made as China tea, with sugar and cream, or milk if approved. Tho following substitute for tea is also recommended :—Hawthorn leaves dried, ten parts; sage and balm, one part. Mix well together, and use as above. Tea Made Overnight.-When tea is wanted for a very early breakfast, make it overnight, and pour it away from the tea-leaves before it gets cold. If this is done one need not fear that it will fciste bitter, as cold tea generally does when it is wanned up, for it acquires this taste with long standing on the tea-leaves. In the morning it will simply need to be warmed until it is sufficiently hot to drink —that is, until it has reached a temperature of 140° Fahr., or nine degrees above an average night temperature of 50"; whereas if the tea had to be freshly made it would be necessarj- to bring the water to boiling point—that is, to 212°, and this would take some minutes longer. Tea, Spirituous Syrup of.—Pour a quarter of a pint of boiling water on three ounces (avoirdupois weight) of fine young hyson. Let it stand an hour, then add to it a pint of brandy or proof spirit; let it steep for ten days, shaking it up every day; strain it, and sweeten with clarified sjTup. A spoonful or two of this in a tumbler of water is a verj' refreshing beverage. Tea, To Make.—^A silver or metal teapot is better than an earthenware one for drawing out the flavour and strength of the tea. The amount of tea used must depend upon the quantity required. The old-fashioned allowance is a very sensible one, that is, one large tea- spoonful for each of the company, and one for the teapot. Before making the tea, pour half a pint of boiling water into the teapot, and let it stand for two minutes. Pour it out, and immediately put in the tea. Close the lid, and let it remain for a minute to heat, then pour upon it half a pint of boiHng water. Let it stand for three minutes, add sufficient boiling water to fill the teapot, and the tea will be ready for use. Be careful not to di-ain all the liquor from tho pot so long as it is necessary to continue to add Iwiling water, or the tea will be very weak; and if it is desirable to add a little fresh tea, lot it be brewed separatclv in a teacup before it is added to that which is already made, as ils strength will not be drawn out if it is put upon the old leaves. Perhaps it is unnccessarj' to say that unless tho water is really boihng when it is put upon tho tea there will be no good tea.' Unless tbo kettle boilinir be, rilling tlie teapot spoils the tea.( 963 ) TEA TEA Green tea requires to stand a minute or two longer than black tea. Tea, To make (Debuisson's method).— Put the tea into a kettle with cold water. Cover it close, set it on the fire, and make it very nearly but not quite boil; then take it from the fire. When the leaves sink it is ready. Tea, To Make (Dr. Trusler's method).— This was to make a very strong infusion by pouring boiling water upon the tea, and let it stand twenty minutes, putting into each cup no more than was necessary to fill it about one- third full; then each cup was filled with hot water from an urn or kettle : thus the tea was always hot and equally strong to the end. Tea, Varieties of.—These are very nu- merous. The following are those chiefly met with in the shops of Great Britain : — Green Teas.—Chinese (1): Gunpowder sorts, viz., Shanghai, Ping-Suey or pin's-head, Moyune, Imperial MojTino, and Canton; (2), Hyson sorts, viz., Shanghai, Shanghai young, IVIoyune, Moyune young, Canton young, and Twankay or Imperial Hyson. Japanese: Gun- powder and Young Hyson. Java: Gunpowder. Black Teas.— Chinese (1): Congo sorts, viz., Canton, Foo-chow-foo, Hung-muey, Oopack, Kaisow, and Oonam; (2), Pekoe sorts, \\z., plain Orange, Foo-chow, scented Orange, Can- ton scented Orange, flowery Pekoe, Oolong, and Souchong. Assam: Congo, Orange-pekoe and Souchong. Java: Congo and Imperial. The latter sort is made up in small balls about as big as a pea, and is rather rare. Tea, Weak Green (a refreshing bever- age).—Weak green tea with a little sugar and lemon-juice in it, and no milk, is a most re- freshing drink in cases of fever. It may be taken either cold or hot, but the latter way is to be preferred. Tea, Wholescmeness of. — The fol- lowing rcma.rks on tliis subject by Dr. Gra- ham are well worthy of attention :—" Tea is well known to have a very marked and irri- tating eflfect on the nervous system in some persons, and it is drank in this country far too often and too strong. It forms a refreshing anti-spasmodic beverage, but should not be taken either strong or very hot; the addition of milk renders it more wholesome, that of sugar less so. Individuals of a rigid and solid fibre arc more benefited by it than those of an opposite habit; but no one should take more than two tea-cupfuls morning and evening. I cannot think it equal to cocoa or thin chocolate for common use; and it is very probable that some of our indigenous plants would yield a more wholesome and equally as palatable an infusion as the tea-leaf of China. With some persons no kind of China tea agrees, and then an infusion of agrimony or some other native plant should be substituted for it. I may state on very respectable authority that the first leaves of whoi-tlcberrj^ properly gathered and dried in the shade, cannot be distinguished from real teas. Sage (the Totncntosa or Balsamic Sage) and Balm {Melissa Hortensis or Garden Balm) arc likewise excellent substitutes for tea, more especially in the case of debility in the stomach and nervous system. It is certain that all green tea is exceedingly pernicious, having a strong tendency to injure the stomach and bowels and the whole nervous system. Medi- cinally, tea is of much service in typhus and bilious fevers, cramp of the stomach, flatulency, and to relieve the sensations of oppression and weight at the pit of the stomach so frequently accompanying indigestion and bilious com- plaints. It is, however, worthy of particular notice from the dyspeptic, that few things will injure him more than immoderate indulgence in this or any other warm slop.- " Tea being an article of daily and universal consumption, I would beg the reader's attention to the following rules in using it:—1. Care- fully avoid the high-priced and high-flavoured teas—more especially if green—which gene- rally owe theii- flavour to pernicious ingredients, and abound most with those active principles whence the noxious effects of the article arise. 2. Take with it a good proportion of milk, as a coiTective to any possible noxious qualities present. 3. Let the quantity of tea used at each infusion be very moderate. 4. Make the infusion properly, with water soft and other- wise of a good quality, and in a boiling state. 5. Tea is a bevei'age better adapted for the evening than the morning, and therefore less of it should be taken at the latter than the former period. The first meal we take in the morning to recruit the body, after the loss it has sus- tained during a long fast through the night, and to prepare it for the labours of the succeed- ing hours of the day, should be in some measure substantial, consisting of a large proportion of solid aliment. Indeed, except when drank soon after a hearty dinner, bread and biscuit should always be taken with tea." On the good results following from tea- drinking there is also something to be said: " Physicians now consider that the theine and aromatic oil of tea not only act as sedatives generally on the nervous system, but also exert a conservative action on the different structures of the body, checking any disposition to too rapid a change in them, and consequent ex- haustion. Not only so ; but as the daily re- moval of worn-out materials from the body, through the kidneys and other channels, is essential to health, tea and coffee are regarded as helpful to this process, when taken in moderate quantities. Tea likewise contains potash, peroxide of iron, soda, and several other salts which are most important to the human system. Liebig, the German chemist, says, ' We have, therefore, in tea a beverage which contams the active constituents of the most powerful mineral springs.' " Teal. —The flesh of this beautiful and dchcate little water-fowl is highly prized. It IS considered to bo better flavoured after the frost has set in, and is in season from the end of September to February. It may be served accordmg to any of the recipes given for wild duck,_ though less time will be required to cook it. Teal, Filleted.—A handsome dish may bo made by half roasting the birds, then taking them down, dividing them into neat joints^TEA C 9ti4 ) TEN and stowing thcso for ciglit or ten niinutoa in half a pint of good brown gravy rather liiglily seasoned and fiavoiuuid willi port or lemon- juice. When siillieiently dressed tlie birds should bo neatly dished upon toast, and sliould have the gravy strained over thcni. A little mushroom saueo should be sent to table in a tureen. Three or four birds will be required for tliis entree. Time, half an hour. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. TEAL. Teal, Gravy for.—Clean the giblets and put them into a stowpan with a pound of lean beef cut small, or instead of it a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat, a moderate-sized onion chopped small, half a tea-spoonful of sugar browning, two or three pej)percorns, three cloves, a blade of mace, a sprig of parsley, three inches of thin lemon-rind, and a pint and a half of lukewarm water. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer gently until the gravy is good, then strain and cool it, and skim the fat from the top. Put it back into the saucepan with a dessert-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, a table-spoonful of port, and a little salt. Boil up once more, and serve. Or put half a pint of good gravy into a saucepan with a small onion finely minced and a roll of orange or lemon-peel. Let the sauce boil a few minutes, then strain it, season with salt and cayenne, and add the juice of a lerton or Seville orange. Simmer a few minutes longer; put with it a glassful of port or claret, and send it to table very hot. A sliced lemon without the rind is usually sent to table with roast teaL Teal Pudding.—Take three teal and a pound of tender rump steak. Divide the birds into neat joints, and season them well with salt and cayenne. Cut up the steak into pieces an inch square, season them, and dredge them lightly with flour. Line a .shallow, thick-rimmed pudding-basin with good suet pastry rolled out to the thickness of half an inch, and leave an inch of crust to overlap the edge. Tlaco in the basin a layer of steak and a layer of jointed teal, and repeat until the dish is full. Four in a quarter of a pint of beef gravy. Ikloi.sten tho edges of tlie pastry, lay the cover on tlie top, press tlio crustB closely together, and turn over the overlapping pastry tliat tlie giavy may not escape. 'I'io tlie pudding in a floured eJotli, plunge it into boiling water, and kcej) it boiling quickly until done enough, 'lake it up, let it stand a few minutes, and either turn it out upon a hot dish, or serve in the basin in which it was boiled, with a napkin ]jinned round it. Time to boil, two houi-s. Sulficient for six or seven persons. Teal, Roasted. — Carefully pluck and draw the birds, and truss them like wild duck. Flour them well, and put them down before a brisk fire. Do not baste them for the first two or three minutes, as this will lielp to keep the gravy in; afterwards baste them liberally. Wlien the birds are nicely browned, and the steam draws to tlie fire, they may be served. Put them on a hot dish, and serve with a little brown gravy round them: send a little more gravy to table in a tureen. Sprinkle a pinch of cayenne on the breast, and squeeze a little lemon-juice upon it at the moment of serving. Send a cut lemon to table with the birds. A very good hash may be made of the remains of teal. Time to roast, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, uncertain, teal being seldom offered for sale. Sufiicient, two for a dish. Teal, Stewed.—Pluck, singe, and empty the birds, and truss them securely. Preserve the hearts, livers, and gizzards. Dredge the teal with flour, put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter, let tliem brown equally all over, and take care of the gravy which comes from them. Let them get cold, and if con- venient keep them until the next day. Carve them in such a way that the wings and the legs shall be taken off, each with a portion of breast adhering to it. Break the bodies of the birds into small pieces, and stew them gently with the livers, hearts, and gizzards, in as much water or stock as will cover them, till the gravy is quite strong. Strain it, season with salt and cayenne, thicken with a little brown thicken- ing, and add a glassful of claret, and, if liked, a little lemon or Seville orange-juice. As soon as it begins to boil, put into it the fleshy portion of the birds, and let them simmer until they are thoi'oughly heated, but the gravy must not boil after they are added. Cut shces of stale crumb of bread suflicientlj- large for a leg and a wing to lis on. Fry these till they are lightly browned, drain them, arrange them on a hot dish, place en each one a leg and a %ying, and pour the saucs over them. Garnish with green parsley and sliced lemon. Time, one hour and a half to make the gravy. Sufiicient, one teal for two persons. Teetotaller's Ciiristmas Pudding {sec Christmas I'udaing). Ten to One Pie {see Potato Pie " Ten to One"). Tench.—The tench is more of a pond than a river iish, and is frequently met with in standing waters. It is best for the table when taken from the river. Though a much smaller fish than the carp (for it seldom weighs moreTEN ( 965 ) TEN" than four or five pounds), yet it resembles the latter fish in its fondness for muddy situations, which imparts an unpleasant flavour to the flesh. In order to free it from this it is often turned for a few days into clear water, and this removes all unpleasantness. Naturally its flesh is much richer and more delicious than that of the carp. It is in season from October to June. TENCH. Tench, Baked.—Clean and scale the tench very carefully, and remove the gills, as they are always muddy. Rub the fish with lemon-juice, and let it lie for an hour; then put it into a tin, sprinkle over it two shallots finely minced, and pour over it four ounces of clari- fied butter or dripping. Cover with oiled paper, and let it bake gently until done enough. Baste frequently. Serve on a hot dish, and pour over it a sauce prepared as foUows:—Mix a table-spoonful of dried flour smoothly with three ounces of butter, and pour in a quarter of a pmt of boiling water; add gradually the third of a pmt of milk or cream. Let the sauce boil up, then stir into it four moderate-sized gherkins finely minced and a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and it will be ready for use. Serve very hot. Time to bake, according to the size and thickness of the fish. Probable cost, un- certam, tench being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for two persons. .1,'^^^°^' BoUed.—Scale, draw, and clean the fash carefully, and remove the gills Take care of the melt or roe. Lift the back-bone, and rub in a little salt; then lay the tench m cold salted water for an hour or more, and afterwards nnse it in fresh water. Put it into a saucepan with as much boiling salted water as will coyer it, and let it simmer till done enough. Dish the fish on a napkin, garnish with curled parsley and slices of lemon, and send melted butter or maitre d'hOtel sauce to table in a tureen. Time to boil, fifteen to twenty minutes for a moderate-sized tench JffSwt ^^'^'^^ ^^^"^ wS""^^' with Pine Herbs.- Wdbh, clean, unddraw three or four tench, and lay them in boihng water for three minutes; then scale them carefully from head to tail. Lay them on a dish, and sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt, an onion, a finely-minced shallot, a table-spoonful of parsley chojjped small, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Pour over the fish as much oil as wiU cover them, and let them lie for an hour or two. Wrap each fish separately with the herbs, &c., in two thicknesses of writing-paper which has been dipped in the oil in which the fish was placed, and broil over a clear fire. When they are done enough, take off the paper, and serve on a hot dish, pouring piquant sauce over them. Time to broil, five to ten minutes, according to size. Tench, Choosing of.—Barbel are easily mistaken for tench, and are sometimes sold as that fish. It is worth ^'hile observing, there- fore, that tench spawn in July, so if any fish be sold for tench in March or April, and proves to be full of spawn, it cannot be tench, but is a cheat upon the purchaser, and must be barbel. Tench is in season all the year, but is most valued in the six winter months. Tench, Fried.—Scale, draw, and clean the fish with gxeat care, and remove the gills. Dry them well, and flour them, then put them into boiling fat, and when they are brown on one side turn them upon the other. Drain them on soft paper before the fire, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish with crisped parsley, and send a little sauce to table with them in su. tureen. Time to fry, six to twelve minutes,, according to size. Tench, Fried (another way). —After having scaled and emptied the tench, split the back of the fish, but take care not to touch the belly, for if you do it will divide. Let it pickle ■ for three hours in vinegar, salt, pepper, stalks of parsley, and onions. Then drain it, and dip it into flour. Fry of a fine colour and quite firm. The dripping must be very hot. This you try_ with a drop of water, which, being- thrown into the dripping, occasions a noise if it IS m a proper state. Send it up to table on a. cloth with fried parsley all round; if you have • a soft roe, fry it likewise, and serve it in the^ middle. Tench Pie. ~ Butter a pie-dish rather thickly, and line the edges with a good crust. 1. ^^j^"® tench, season with pepper and salt and grate a httle nutmeg over it. Place small lumps of butter here and there upon it and pour over it a little claret and water. Cover the dish with crust, and bake the pie in a well- heated oven. Have ready a little nicely-seasoned strong gravy, and when the pie is done enough pour It m through the hole at the top. A good pie may be made with tench and eels. The fish should be cut into convenient-sized pieces, and placed m layers in the dish with a little pepper and salt chopped parsley, and an anchovv cut small between each layer. Time to bake, about an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Tench, Sauces for.—Tench maybe served with melted butter, anchovy sauce, parsley sauce, poulette sauce, or with a wh te^ sauce prepared as follows:-Rub a large lump of butter to a smooth paste with a tea-spoonful of Aaa a table-spoonful of water, and stir flour.THI TEN ( 966 ) the mixturo ovor tho fire for two ininutcH. rour iu II qiuirtor of a pint of thick croiim, or, failing croain, use milk. Have a iilletod an- chovy finely mincud. 8tir tho Banco ovor tlio fire until it is on tho point of boiling, add a table-spoonful of Indian soy, pour it into a tureen, stir for a minute or two, put with it a littlo popper and salt and a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Tench, Stewed.—Take about two pounds of tench; clean, scale, and di-aw tlio fisli care- fully, and remove tho gills. Put six ounces of good dripping or butter into a atowpan with a musliroom chopped small, a sliced carrot, a finely-minced onion, a turnip, a bunch of pars- ley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, tho thin rind ' of half a lemon, and two or three cloves. Stir those ovor a clear tiro for six or eight minutes, then di-edge over them a table-spoonful of flour, and pour in half a pint of stock or water and the strained juice of two lemons. Put in the tench, and let it boil, then add half a tumbler- ful of claret, a table-spoonful of Worcester sauce, a little salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer very gently until done enough. Take the fish up, place it on a hot dish, and put it in the oven until the sauce is ready. Strain the sauce, skim carefully, pour it over the fish, and serve immediately with some toasted sippets, the roe fried, a little horseradish, and lemon. Time to simmer, half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain, tench being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for two or three persons. Tench, Stewed (another way).— Take three or four moderate-sized tench; clean, scale, and draw them, and cut them into convenient- sized pieces. Put them in a stewpan with three or four large mushrooms chopped small, a dozen button onions, a blade of mace, two anchovies, a shallot, a tea-si^oonful of mixed parsley, a pinch of thyme, and a little pepper and salt. Pour over them as much nicely- flavoured stock as will cover them, add a glass- ful of port or claret, and simmer the fish gently for half an hour. Open a dozen oysters, beard them, and preserve their liquor; dip them for an instant into cold water; put them into a saucepan for a few minutes with the liquor, and let them heat gently for three or four minutes, till they look plump. Tench, Stewed (another way).—Put them into a bowl, and leave a little of their liquor upon them to keep them moist. Strain the gravy from the tench, place the fish on a hot dish, and keep it hot. Thicken the gravy with a little flour, and let it boil. Put tho oysters and their liquor into it, but on no account allow it to boil after they are added. Pour the sauce over tho fi.sh, and serve hot. Garnish Avith fried sippets. Time, three-quar- ters of an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Tench, Stewed, with Poulette Sauce.—Take about two jiounds of tench; draw and clean tho fish canjfully, and remove the gills. Put it into boiling water for throe minutes, then remove the scales, and cut tho fish I into conveniont-si/x'd pieces. Mix two ounces ot butter and one ounce and a half of flour over a clear fire until quite sinootli. Add as niuoli common I'rencli wine or cider as will cover the fish, and let it Ijoil for eiglit or ten minutes. 1 ut with it a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a l)ay-leaf, a moderate-sized onion, and a httlo pepper and salt. Add the fish, and let It stew gently over a slow fire until done enough. Strain tho sauce, and mix part of it with the well-beaten yolks of three eggs in a basin, and pour it to the remainder. Stir it over a gentle fire until it is very hot without boiling, and add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Arrange the slices of tench upon a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and sen'e very hot. The dish may bo garnished with the fried roc, toasted sippets, and a little parsley and horseradish. Time to simmer the fish, about twenty minutes. Suflicieut for two or three persons. Tewahdiddle, Dr. Eitchiner's.—Dr. Kitchiner recommends this preparation as one of tho pleasantest of beverages. Grate a little nutmeg into a pint of table beer, and add a small roll of thin lemon-rind, a little grated ginger, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a table-spoonful of brandy. Stir the beverage until tho sugar is dissolved, and drink it at once. Thickening.—Sauces and soups may be thickened in various ways, and the difi^erent pro- cesses are spoken of in the professional nomen- clature as liaisons; thus we have liaisons of roux and liaisons of eggs. Soups are thickened also with vegetables, and with farinaceous sub- stances, such as sago and tapioca, and when these are used, they are generally boiled with the liquor, according to the directions given in each recipe. In ordinary domestic cookery, however, the word "thickening" is generally understood as specially denoting the brown or white thickening for sauces, made of flour and butter, and called by the French roux; and as these preparations, though casj'' to make, require both time and care, detailed directions are here given for making them. Common cooks are accustomed to dispense with this prope'rly-prepared roux, and to thicken their sauces with a hastilj^-mado paste of flour, and to colour them with bm-nt sugar; the conse- quence is their sauces often taste cither musty, gruelly, or burnt. Those who have not hitherto done so, would find it to their advantage to avail themselves of the first leisure hour they have at their disposal, to make a quantity of the true browm thickening, and then to put it aside to be used when required: it is as easy to make a large quantity as a small. The roux will keep for throe or four months, and the sauces thickened with it are rich and brown in appearance. Thickening, Brown.—Take a pound of flour. Spread it on a newspaper or large dish, and dry it thoroughly before tho fire, and afterwards sift it carefully. Put a pound of fresh butter into a stowpan over a gentle fire, and melt it very gradually. Skim carefullj-, and afterwards pour off the portion that looks like clear oil, and leave untouched tho white( 967 ) THI THI thick substance which -will have settled at the bottom. Pour the clear oiled butter into a clean stewpan, mix the dried and sifted Hour thoroughly and gradually with it, and beat it over a gentle fire with a wooden spoon until it fonns a thick mass. Continue to stir it patiently until it is lightly coloured. Draw it to the side of the fire, and throw in with it a slice of onion for flavouring, and do not cease to stir the mixture until it no longer bubbles. Take out the onion, pour the roux into an earthen jar, and let it get cold. It then will be ready for use. When wanted for thickening, mix the voux. with the sauce, and stir it tiU it boils. The sauce only attains its proper con- sistency after it has been stiiTed and boiled. This thickening may be mixed with either hot or cold liquor. If cold, stir it over the fire till it boils. If hot, moisten the i-oux gradually, and ofE the fire, with the sauce, then pour it into the remainder, and stir it over the fire till it boils. In order to cleanse sauce that has been thickened, that is, to remove the fat which has not become thoroughly incorporated with the gravy, di'aw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and throw in a small quantity of lukewarm water. The fat, &c., will rise to the surface, and may be removed with a spoon. Time to brown the roux, about an hour. A dessert- spoonful will thicken a pint of gravy. Thickening, Brown (M. Ude's way).— Put into a stewpan a piece of butter propor- tionate to the quantity of thickening intended to be prepared. Melt it gently; take out the buttermilk, then put flour enough to make a paste. Fry it on a slow fire, and then put it again over very red ashes till it be of a nice colour. Observe, this is to be obtained only by slow degrees. When of a light brown pour it into an earthen pan, and preserve for use. It will keep a long time. Thickening of Egg.—Boil the sauce, and take it ofE the fire for two minutes that it may partially cool. Beat the yolks of the eggs, and mix them with a spoonful of cold broth or water and a small portion of the hot sauce, Stir them briskly to the remainder of the sauce, and continue stirring over the fire until it is very hot. It must not boil or it wiU curdle. Thickening of Farinaceous Sub- stances.— Occasionally arrowroot, ground rice, or flour without butter, is used to thicken soups and sauces. In this case put the thicken- ing substance into a basin, moisten gradually with a little cold stock, water, or milk, and beat it with the back of a spoon until no lumps are to bo found in it. With one hand pour this batter into the soup or sauce, which should bo boiling quickly at the time, and with the other stir it briskly. Let it boil for a few minutes, and it wiU be ready for serving. Invalids and persons of delicate taste often object strongly to butter in their sauces. Thickening, Quickly made (for immo- mcdiate use).—When it is wished to thicken sauces, and brown thickening is not at hand, dissolve half an ounce of butter, and then mix smoothly with it a table-spoonful of flour. Stir it quickly over a gentle fire with a wooden spoon for thi-ee minutes, moisten gradually with a pint of stock or broth, let it boil three or four minutes, season properly, and it will be ready for use. Sufficient for a pint of sauce. Thickening, Simple, for ordinary- Brown Soup.—Put a breakfast-cupful of stock into a saucepan with a quarter of an ounce of sage, a quarter of an ounce of chopped onion, a quarter of an ounce of grated lemon-peel, and two ounces of celery. Let these simmer gently for half an hour, strain the liquor, and rub the herbs through a fine sieve. Dissolve six ounces of butter, and incorporate with it, gradually and thoroughly, six ounces of dried flour. Stir it quickly over a gentle fire till it is lightly browned. Moisten the mixture with the liquor from the herbs, and it will be ready for the soup, which ought to boil for an hour after it is added. Suitable seasoning Avill of course be required in addition. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Sufiicient for five quarts of soup. Thickening, White, for Sauces.— In making white thickening for sauces, foUow exactly the directions given for making Brown Thickening, remembering only that the mixture must not be allowed to colour. In order to prevent this it must be baked over a very gentle fire, and it must not remain on the fire so long as in the former case. When done enough it must be turned into an earthen jar, and set aside for use. White thickening is used for thickening white sauces. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Sufiicient, a dessert-spoonful will thicken a pint of gravy. Thickening with Blood (occasionally used with poultiy and game, especially hare). —Be careful not to use the blood until it is cool. Boil whatever sauce is to be thickened with it, then take it off the fire for two minutes. Mix the blood gradually with a small portion of this in a basin separately, and afterwards add it to the rest. Stir the sauce over the fire until it is very hot. It must not boil after the blood is added, or it will curdle. Thickening with Butter or Butter and Cream.—Although it is usual to speak of thickening sauce or soup with butter or butter and cream, these articles do not by them- selves serve to thicken the liquor, but only to make it smooth and rich. A little cold butter added at the last moment to sauce greatly improves its flavour; but it should be remem- bered that it must not be put in until the sauce is poured into the tureen in which it is to be served, and that then it should be stirred until it is dissolved. In the same way, butter or a mixture of butter and cream may be added to soups. Thistle-heads with Marrow.—Pro- ceed as recommended in the recipe Thistle-heads with Spanish Sauce. Take a few pieces of beef marrow, all of a size, which put in warm water to draw out all the blood. Wlien thoroughly disgorged, blanch and stew them in water with a little salt and a few slices of lemon to keep them white. When done, drain in a clean towel, and put them into the essence, which IS some Espagnole reduced. Drain the fat, and do not forget to add a little sugar, which iaTHY ( 968 ) THI requisite in all dishes of cardons, as it improves thorn greatly, cardons being not unfrequently bitter. Thistle Heads with Spanish Sauce. —"This dish," says M. IJde, " requires gmit attention and no i'liuU sliaro of skill in the art of cooking. It is not much relished in England, but in Fninco it is held in the highest estima- tion. It is always ono of those selected to try the skill of a cook. " Select a few heads, or cardons, all very white. Cut each loaf into strips six inches long, with the exception, however, of those that are hollow, which are tough and thready. Beard them of their prickles, and blanch them by putting the thickest leaves into boiling water. After boiling them a few minutes, put in the leaves of the heart; turn the middle stalks into the shape of large olives, and blanch them likewise. Then try a piece in cold water, to see whether the slime which is on the surface will come off by rubbing. If so, take them off the fire immediately, and throw them into cold water, as they are done enough; or you may cool the boiling water by pouring in cold water till you are able to bear your hand in it to rub off all the slime. This being done, wash them clean, and throw the cardons into a blanc, boil them once, and leave them in the blanc. jlind not to let them be too much done. You must ascertain when they are done by thrusting in the point of your knife, and if it enters easily they are done enough. Whenever you wish to use them, drain a sufficient quantity. Pare both extremities, and mask them in a stew- pan with four spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, four spoonfuls of consomme, a little salt, and a little sugar. Let them boil over a sharp fire that they may not be done too much ; and be sure to skim off all the fat. Dish them nicely. Strain the sauce through a tamis before you mask them. Send them up to table quite hot, with a cover over them to prevent their getting dry. The cardons mix very wxU with eggs, and when you have any returned from table they will warm up again very wo]l, if you are particular in taking them off to put them immediately into the larder: in case they are too much done, use them to make Ics ceufs broiiilles (poached eggs), whicii you should make only when you have cardons left from the parlour. This is a capital entremet, and may be selected as one of the finest efforts of cookery." Thornback.—This fish is a species of skate. It grows to the length of two feet, and its flesh is considered excellent food. It is in the highest perfection during the autumn and winter months. It is very common on the English and Irish coasts. The parts which may be called the wings of tho_ thornback should be cut in strips and laid in salt and water for a day or two to take away the raw coarse taste which belongs to them when freshly dressed. Thornback, Boiled.- Take a thomback of tolerable size, clean it with Bcrupulous care, and skin it. Lay the part usually eaten in the fish-kettle, cover it with cold water, and add two ounces of salt and a table-sj)Oonful of vinegar to two (juails of wat(.T. Ilring Iho liquor to thj boil, skim it well, and let it boil gently until tlie flesh will part easily from the bone, which is a sign that it is sufliciently dressed. Lift the fish out carefully and drain it. Servo on a disli covered with u hot nap- kin, and garnish with green ])arsley and sliced lemon. Send melted butter or anchovy sjiuce to table in a tureen. If liked, the fins of the fish may be fried separately. Time to boil, ac- cording to size. THORNBACK. Thornback, Fried.—Clean and skin the fish, cut the part which is usually eaten into slices about an inch thick, and dr)^ them with a soft cloth. Dredge them with flour, and let them lie for half an hour or more. Frj' them in hot fat until they are brightly browned, and when they are done upon one side turn them upon the other. Drain them on blotting-paper to clear them from fat, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish with parsley. If preferred, the slices may be dipped in egg and bread-crumbs instead of being floured before they are fried. Time to fr)-, ten to twelve minutes. Probable cost, variable, but generally inexpensive. Thrush. — The thrush was perhaps the most popular bird at delicate tables in ancient Greece. They were not given to young people for fear their exquisite flavour might give birth to premature greediness; but when a girl married she was sure of a brace of thrushes for her own special eating on her wedding-day. In Home the birds were still more popular: patrician ladies reared thousands of thrushes yearly for the market, and men ruined them- selves in providing dishes comijosed of these birds for their guests. Thyme.—Thyme is a herb much valued on account of its strong, pungent, aromatic odour and taste. Three varieties are used in cookery — common thyme, lemon thyme, and orange thyme. Lemon thyme and common thyme should be dried at the end of July and during August. Orange th>-me is ready a little earlier, and may be dried in June and J uly. Although thymo is most valuable for flavouring whenTIM TIM ( 969 ) judiciously used, it is apt to impart a bitter tiiste to any preparation to which it is added in too large quantities. THTJIE. Timbale for Macaroni, &c. — The paste for a hot timbale should be a little more delicate than for a cold pie; therefore put more butter into it. Take a pound of flour, a little more than half a pound of butter, two yolks of eggs, and a pinch of salt. Work this with half a glassful of water, making the jjaste as smooth as possible ; proceed then as follows :— Butter a plain mould all over well, decorate the bottom a little and the sides by using some of the same paste and adding some pounded sugar; the paste will take a browner colour, and will add to the appearance of the tim- bales. Spread the paste over a dresser, cut a piece the size of the bottom of the mould (using the mould to measure with), and cover the bottom of the mould and all the decorations without disturbing them; water the ornamented paste as above, then stick the other paste lightly over, and cut a bit to put all round over the decorated parts. Roll a little paste also to stick the whole together round the bottom, then fill the mould with beef suet chopped fine, and make a cover to it of the same length; put this into the oven for an hour, and when done empty it for use. It may be used for macaroni, fricassee, blanquettes of every kind, &c. &c. Timbale of Macaroni.—Put half a pound of the best tape macaroni in a stewpan with three pints of boiling water and a little pepper and salt. Let it simmer gently for twenty minutes, then drain it, put it back with half a pint of broth, and let it simmer until it will divide easily without being too soft. Cut it into short lengths of uniform size, and cover the inside of a thickly-buttered mould with it quite closely and neatly. Spread over the macaroni a little good forcemeat seasoned suitably to whatever is to constitute the con- tents of the timbale, and afterwards fill up the mould with a highly-seasoned mince of game or poultry. Moisten with good sauce, cover over the preparation, and let it simmer gently until done 2 F* enough. If liked, three or four small timtales may be made instead of one large one, and their appearance may be varied by placing a truffle in the centre of the mould so that it will be at the top when the timbale is turned out. These small timbales have a pretty appearance. A suitable sauce should be sent to table with them. Minced game of all kinds, minced sweet- breads, and minced ox palates are suitable for the interior of timbales. Time to simmer, nearly an hour. Probable cost, varying with the con- tents. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Timbale, Veal and Ham.—Make two pounds of good short pastry, such as would be suitable for meat pies, and with two-thirds of this line a well-buttered plain round mould. Cut three pounds of the fiUet of veal into pieces an inch square, and make three-quarters of a pound of good veal forcemeat. Fill the pie ! with alternate layers of the veal, thin rashers I of fat bacon, the forcemeat and dressed ham, I and season each layer separately and rather ' highly. Roll out the remainder of the paste, and cover the timbale. Press it down, and trim neatly. Roll out the trimmings, and stamp out leaves or any fancy shapes, and with them ' ornament the surface. Brush it over with yolk of egg, and bake in a well-heated oven. About twenty minutes before the timbale is done, take ii out, and pour in through the hole at the top a little nicely-seasoned dissolved aspic jelly made of the bones and trimmings of the veal stewed down with a cow-heel. The veal will be much improved if it is larded with the bacon instead of having the latter simply laid upon it. If it should be preferred, any kind of nicely-sea- soned fricassee may be used instead of the veal and ham. Time to bake, from two to three hours. Probable cost, 7s. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Timbales.—Timbales are Frencli dishes, so named from timbale, a metal cup, because they are generally made in plain moulds, cither round or oval. They are excellent and pretty, but difficult to make, as they require both care and practice to make them properly. They rather resemble our raised pies. The outer case may be constructed of short paste, macaroni, rice, or other substances, and they may be filled with any nicely-flavoured fricassee of fowl or game, or with fruit and sweetmeats. Two or three simple recipes are given here, which may be varied according to taste. Timbales of Rice with Fruit.—Wash a quarter of a pound of best Carolina rice, drain [ it on a hair sieve, and put it in a clean sauce- pan with a pint of cold new milk, a pinch of salt, and three or four large lumps of sugar -svhich have been rubbed upon the rind of a fresh lemon or a SeviUe orange to extract the flavour. Put the saucepan at the side of the fire that the rice may swell very slowly and gradually ; then stir it well, put it on the fire, add a lump of butter the size of a walnut, and let the rice boil gently until it has absorbed all the milk and IS so tender that it can be crushed to a smooth paste with the back of a wooden spoon. Unless it is nllowed to boil very gently and tiU it is quite dry it will not answer theTIM TIN ( 970 ) urpose. Have ready some Binall buttered cups, eat the rice well, press it into tlio cups wliile it is still warm, iiud let it reuuiia in thorn until quite cold. Boil the strained juice of a large fresh lemon witli a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar to a clear syrup, and slice into this six apples peeled and cored. Let them simmer gently imtil reduced to pulp, take them off the lire for a minute or two, and stir gradually into them the well-beaten yolks of four eggs. Beat them over the lire for two minutes, then let them cool. Turn the rice out of the moulds. If it is found to bo at all difficult to do this, set the cups in hot water for a minute or two, again reverse them on a baking-tin, and with the point of a sharp knife carefully scoop out a hollow ill the centre of each. Fill this with the pre- pared apples, and brush the timbalcs all over with the white of egg whisked to a froth and mixed with powdered and sifted sugar. Pour as much of this icing as is left upon the fruit, and bake the timbales in a well-heated oven. Serve very hot. Time to bake the timbales, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 3d. each. SuflScient for a small dish. Timbales, SmaU (for aU sorts of Entrees). —Butter eighteen dariole-monlds thoroughly, spread some trimmings of puff paste on the dresser, cut with a cutter a round of paste large enough to fill the mould, have a bit of paste of the same form as the inside of the mould, but not so large; put the round piece over the latter, let it faU all round, and then introduce this into the mould. Press equally everywhere with your finger to keep the paste the same thickness, cut off all the paste that is above the rim, fill the mould with trimmings of paste, and put on a false cover to prevent the border of the paste from taking a bad colour. A dozen is always sufficient, except when the dishes are very large. Bake them of a good colour; when done, empty all the inside, and garnish with whatever you may think proper. For pates au Jus (with, gravy), fill the inside with godiveau, and bake them with false covers. "When done, take off the cover, and open them with a knife to let in a spoonful of Espagnole sauce, then cover them with small covers made of puff paste that you have been particular to make of the proper size and a good colour, and serve up very hot. It is almost needless to say that the same paste and the same pre- paration will serve for a dozen different sorts, such as salpicon, soft roe of mackerel, lobster, flweetbrcad, fat liver and truffles, soft roc of cod, turbot, sole, &c. Timbales, Small (for Fruit, Jelly, or Cream).—Weigh tliree large fresh eggs, and then take their weight in flour and half their weight in powdered sugar. Break the eggs, and separate the yolks and the whites. Beat the yolks in a basin, and add to them first the sugar and afterwards the flour. When they are thoroughly mixed, and just before the timbales are to be baked, add the woU-whisked whites of the eggs, and a tea-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Drop the paste in small lumps upon a buttered balcing-tin, and hollow these in the centre like a cup. Bake them in a slow oven, and when they are done enough, trim tlu'in to a neat shape. Kocj) them in a dr\-, warm place until wanted; and when they are to bo served fill them with fruit, jelly, or flavoured cream. Time to bake, half au hour. Vro)>uhh cost, without the contents, 2d. each. Sufficient for a small dish. Tinned Meats, Australian.—'J'he fol- lowmg original n.'cipos (one hundred in num- ber) are the result of several years' exiierience in the use of Australian meats. Against these considerable prejudice exists, owing, to a great extent, to the fact that few know how to cook them properly. If the recipes here given, how- ever, are followed, it will be found easy, even for a cook of moderate abilities, to pr(;pare from Australian meats a succession of tasty as w<-ll as digestible and nourishing dishes. (Jn p. 977 the names of the various recipes will be found in alphabetical order, so that any particular one may be referred to with ease. 1. Soup with Fokcemeat Balls. Boil half a pound of the lean of Australian mutton or beef in two quarts of water for half an hour with two ounces of chopped carrots, one ounce of chopped onions, a little celery, a blade of mace, using pepper and salt to season. Have ready forcemeat balls made of equal ])arts of finely-chopped meat, bacon, bread- crumbs, flour, and an egg to bind the mixture together. EoU into balls an inch in diameter, fry in a little Australian fat; strain the soup; brown it whilst at boiling point; place the balls in a tureen, and pour the soup on them. 2. Beef Tea. Turn out a tin of Australian beef. Take a tea-cupful of the clear jelly without a particle of fat, melt in the oven, season with pepper and salt, and brown with a few drops of colouring. Toast a thin sUce of bread crisply, cut into dice, and serve in the tin or on a small plate. 3. Mutton Bhoth. Take the required quantity of jelly from a shape of mutton, add a pint of boiling water, season with pepper and salt; thicken with one tea-spoonful of corn-flour, add a pinch of nut- meg, and serve with dried toast. 4. Soup, Julienne. Proceed as for Soup with Forcemeat Balls {see No. 1), but instead of forcemeat balls prepare carrots, turnips, and parsnips, by scraping, peel- ing, and washing them; cut them in thin slices, and again into thin strips; boU until tender in the soup, which must first be strained; brown, and thicken with a table-spoonful of corn-flom-. In summer, any kind of vegetable may be added —lettuce or French beans, <S:c. 5. Soup, Pea. Prepare the stock as for Soup with Forcemeat Balls {see No. 1), and thicken with a quarter of a pound of S>nnington's Prepared Pea Powder. Cut toasted bread into dice, fry crisply in Aus- tralian fat, place in the tureen, and pour the soup on it. 6. Irish Stew. Boil six onions sliced in a quart of water with six large potatoes peeled and cut in lialf: pepper and salt pretty freely, men boiled tender, but not broken, thicken the gravy withTIN TIN (971) flour and brown it; then take small pieces about tbree inches square and one inch thick of Australian mutton, pepi>er and salt them, and turn them over and over until well covered in tlour; fry in a Uttle fat, place in the centre of the dish, put the potatoes round and a few over the meat, poui- over the gravy, and serve. A few light dumplings, made with one tea- spoonful of baking powder to a pound of flour, may be served with the stew. 7. Mutton, Hauicot of. Fry pieces of Austi-alian mutton as directed in recipe No. 6, and place in a dish in the centre. Have ready some boiled caiTots, cut them in slices, and fry after the meat; then make a gravy with a little stock, coloured, seasoned, and thickened, which poui- over the carrots in the stewpan. Boil up over the fire, and pour round the meat. 8. Mutton, Curried. Boil one pound of pickled pork in a quart of ■water for three-quarters of an hour with four small onions and a sprig of thyme; then cut into neat sUces the pork and two pounds of Australian mutton : lay the whole in a stewpan. Eeducn the liquor in which the pork was boiled one-half, skim free from fat, mix with it one tea-spoonful of curry powder, pulp the onions with a table-spoonful of flour, slice one sharp apple very thin, and also one tomato, boil ten minutes, put into the currj', stir gently to mix it well without breaking the meat too much, and serve with a rim of boiled rice. 9. Mutton, Dry Curried. Fry a sliced onion till brown in Australian fat; cut Austrahan mutton across the graiu in small dice, mix it with the fried onion, and fry both till hot through, sturing as little as pos- sible ; sprinkle over lightly half a tea-spoonful of curry powder, salt and pepper to taste, mix well together, pour over two table-spoonfuls of milk or cream, stir till dry, and serve. 10. Beei' (auDiable). Cut inch-thick slices, across the grain, of beef, cover them with the following mixture, and fry :—One spoonful of made mustard, ditto chutnee, ditto anchovy, double the quantity of salad oU, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. II- Pudding, Roll. Make a crust of one pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, half a pound of rolled and rubbed suet, one tea-spoonful of baking powder, and water sufficient to make it into not too stiff a paste. EoU it out half an inch thick, and spread over it a layer of minced Australian seasoned with popper and salt, one shallot finely minced, and a quarter of a pound of minced ham or bacon, all mixed thoroughly together. Let this be spread on the paste half an inch thick, then roll up as for a jam roll, tie in a wetted and floured cloth, and boil one hour I and a half ; turn out, garnish with parsley, and serve thick brown gravy over the pudding. 12. Pudding (au Gratin). Mix well together one pound of flour, half a pound of bread-crumbs, one tea-spoonful of baking powder, one pound of mincod Australian, a quarter of a pound of chopped ham or good bacon, pepper, salt, and nutmeg to season, a quarter of a pound of rolled and rubbed suet, two eggs well beaten, and half a pint of milk. Have ready a buttered pudding-basin, pour in the mixtui'e, cover with a wetted and floured cloth, tie down tightly, and boil one hour and a quarter. Serve with rich brown gravy round it. 13. Pudding, Boiled. Make a crust as for No. 11; roll out half an inch thick, line a buttered basin, and put in it small pieces of cross-grain-cut mutton, over the first layer sprinkle pepper and salt, and put thinly-sliced boiled potatoes; repeat alternately until you have fiUed the basin, then pour in a mixture made of a tea-cupful of water or stock, a tea-spoonful of Harvey Sauce, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of chutnee, and a little colouring. Cover up with crust, tie down with a floured cloth, and boil an hour and a half. Serve with a boat of brown gravy. 14. Pudding, Forcemeat. Soak a pound of bread in milk; beat it up smooth with half a pound of forcemeat, the yolks of two eggs, and seasoning if required. When ready to bake, stir in the whites of tho eggs beaten well. Bake in a greased pie-dish half an hour. 15. Forcemeat. Cut a pound of fresh pork into thin slices. Mix two ounces of fine bread-crumbs with a tea-spoonful of salt, half ditto of pepper, and ditto of dried and rubbed sage; pour over the meat a tea-cupful of good gravy made from Australian meat. When you have thoroughly mixed the pork and the seasoning, add one pound of Australian mince; mix all well to- gether, and use as required. 16. Forcemeat Balls. Flour your hands: take a table-spoonful of forcemeat, roU into balls, fry in Australian fat about seven minutes. Serve on a napkin with a garnish of parsley and a little good thick brown gravy in a boat. 17. Sausages. Fill small skins with forcemeat highly sea- soned, prick and fry in Australian fat. Serve on buttered toast dipped in hot broth. 18. Pudding, Sausage. Prepare a crust as for No. 11; fill with skinned sausages, pour in half a tea-cupful of good gravy, lay on the top some slices of good bacon fried, cover all with crust; tie, and boil an hour and a half. 19. Sausages, Bologna. Take equal quantities of fat and lean bacon, veal, pork, and beef suet, and double the quan- tity of Australian beef; chop fine in a mincing machine, season with pepper and salt and dried sage rubbed. Have ready a well-washed skin, fill and prick, boil an hour, and lay on straw to dry. These sausages may be smoked like hams. 20. Toad-in-a-Hole Forcemeat. If you have more than will fill a skin of No 19, put a layer in a greased pie-dish, then a layer of beaten-up bread soaked for an hoiw in milk, and so on till the pie-dish is nearly full; pour over it a batter made of five ounces( 972 ) TIN TIN of flour, four tablo-spooiifuls of cold wiitor, a small piuch uf salt, a pint of new milk, and two eggs well-beatou. liuko in a modoratoly hot ovon. 21. Toad in a Hole. Pour tlio batter No. 20 over layers of Aus- tralian mutton and very thin slices of crumb of broad placed alternately in a buttered pie- dish and seasoned. Bake for an hour, and serve with a boat of good gravy. 22. PuDuiNQ, Beef and Kidney. Prepare a crust as for No. 11; lino a greased basin with it, and place in it alternate layers of sUces of beef cut an inch thick and well seasoned, and of thinly-sliced kidneys (ox kidneys do very well for this purpose, they are larger and cheaper), a httle linely-minced shallot, and a tea-cupful of good gravy. "When the dish is full, cover with crust, and boil an hour and a half. Serve some brown gravy with the pudding. 23. Beef Fkied with Suet Dumplings. Cut some nice tidy pieces of beef across the i grain, flour them well, i)epper and salt them, and then fry in Australian fat till of a nice brown; place in a hot dish, and put it in the oven to keep hot till you have the dumplings ready. Eoli up a table-spoonful of paste (see'No. 11} in well-floured hands, and drop into a fiercely- boiling saucepan of water; as they rise, take them out, and lay them round the meat in the dish, pour a little thick brown gravy over, and serve. 24. Mutton Fried with Suet Pudding. Fry mutton in slices as the beef is done in No. 23. Cut a boiled suet pudding made as the crust in No. 11 into slices, fry lightly—if just boiled and hot it will only require a short time to fry—lay it round the meat, pour gravy over, and serve. 25. Mutton with Sausages. Prepare the meat as in the two foregoing recipes. Fry some sausages cut in short lengths and pricked in Australian fat, place them on the meat, and serve with brown gravy poured over. 26. Mutton with Bacon. Prepare the meat as before; and place on each piece a nicely-fried piece of bacon. Pom- over it the following sauce:—First prepare of chopped gherkins, capers, and shallots, one table-spoonful each ; put in a pan with a little pepper and one wine-glassful of vinegar; let it boil four minutes, then add rather more than half a pint of good stock, a table-spoonful of flour, a little colouring, a piece of batter the size of a nut, and one tea-spoonful of anchovy; boil, and stir well. 27. Beef fried in Batter. Cut some tidy pieces of beef an inch thick, flour well, and dip in a batter made according to No. 20. Have ready some boiling fat in a frying-pan, lay in the pieces of meat gently, so as not to break them ; fry a light brown, and serve with a boat of gravy. 28. Beep with Savoury Pudding. ■ Fry tho beof as in recipe No. 23, and place round the dish in. neat slices the following savoury pudding :—Pour boiling milk on some bread rubbed line, add four large table-Ki>oon- fuls of fine oatmeal, two well beaten eggs, pepper and salt, a httle onion choi)pod fine', dried and rubbed sago and sweet marjoram,' half a tea-spoonful of each. The compound should be as stUf as thick l>atter. Beat all well together, and bake m a diipping-jjan an inch thick, cut up like Yorkshire pudding, and serve with good gravy. 29. Beep (au Fromage). Mince finely a pound of Australian beof, sea- son it with pepper and salt, nutmeg, and a chopped shallot; boil some macaroni tender in broth, lay the mince in a pie-dish, cover with the macaroni, pour on it a tea-cupful of the broth, pepper it, and grate two ounces of cheese over it. Bake a quarter of an hour in a hot oven. 30. Beef (au Macaroni). Mince as in Beef au Fromage. Lay the meat in a shallow pie-dish, boil some macaroni in broth with a sliallot; when tender, lay it over the meat, pour on it a tea-cupful of the broth, cover with a plate, and heat it through in the oven. 31. Beef (au Gratin). Mince two pounds of beef, mix with it half a pound of minced bacon, season the whole with pepper and salt and nutmeg; lay it in a shallow dish, spread grated bread-crumbs over it half an inch thick, bake half an hour, and serve, putting the dish in another before sending to table. 32. Meat with Potato Cover. Mince some Australian mutton, season with pepper and salt, mix with it a tea-cupful of broth, and put it in a shallow dish. Boil some mealy potatoes, mash them, beat them up with an egg, a bit of butter, and a little milk; spread this mixture smoothly over the meat, and bake till of a golden brown. 33. Potato Pie. Put into a pie-dish alternate layers of sliced meat and sliced potatoes, pepper and salt it (a few button mushrooms are a great addition); pour in a tea-cupful of thickened gravy, cover it with mashed potatoes as for No. 32 ; mark it over with a three-pronged fork, and bake half an hour in a brisk oven. 34. Potato Wall. Mash some potatoes as for No. 32 ; pile them round the inside of a meat-dish, raised up three inches high and two and a half inches thick. Smooth the surface of the wall with a knife, and brush over with the yolk of an ogg beaten; fill up the hollow inside with a well-seasoned mince, and bake half an hour. 35. Potato Rissoles. Have ready well-seasoned mince mixed with a fourth of its own weight in bread-crumbs, roll a piece into a ball, cover it with mashed potato prepared as in No. 32; floiir well, and fry a nice brown colour in Austrahan fat. 36. Rice Rlssoler. Take a tea-cupful of well-washed rice, leave it to soak twenty minutes in cold water; stiumTIN TIN ( 973 ) the water off, and add three tea-cupfuls of cold ■water to the rice with a little salt; set it on the lire, and by the time it boils the rice will j bo nearly dressed. Pour the contents of the j saucepan into a colander, set it on a saucepan on a stove for ten or fifteen minutes, covering well witli a clean cloth—this will absorb the steam and leave the rice drj-- and whole. Take some mince prepared as in No. 35, roll into balls, and cover with the rice mixed with a well-beaten egg; flour, and fry a very light brown. Serve on a napkin with parsley. 37. EissoLEs. Prepare the mince as for No. 35, flour the balls, and fry in boiling fat. Serve with good thick gravy. 38. RiSSOLETTE. Prepare mince as for No. 35, adding a small quantity of chopped suet, a chopped onion, and two eggs; mix well together. Add one tea- cupful of stock, and pour into a greased pie- dish. Bake till crisp outside, turn on to a flat dish, and serve with gravy in a boat. 39. Mince ox Toast. Prepare the mince as for No. 35, season with a little anchovy, half a tea-spoonful of chutnee, a pinch of sage, and a little cream. Stir it in a stewpan over the fire with a dessert-spoonful of corn-flour, and put it when quite hot on to buttered toast in small squares of four inches. 40. Open Mince Tart. Prepare mince as in No. 39. Make a short paste, line a flat dish as for an open jam tart, the edge well raised, and fill it with the mince. Cut out of the paste a few leaves or other orna- I ments. Bake separately, and when the tart is baked and ready for sending to table, put the leaves on it regularly. 41. Mince in Scallops. Butter half a dozen scallop-shells, fiU them ■with the mince No. 39, strew them with bread- crumbs thickly. Bake, and serve on a napkin. 42. Mince -with Poached Eggs. Line a flat dish with mince No. 39; poach half a dozen eggs, place them regularly on the mince, fry a few strips of bacon, and put them round just before serving. 1 43. Mince and Spinach. | Put a border of mince No. 39 round a flat j meat-dish, and fill the centre ■with spinach boiled without water, chopped fine, peppered i and salted, and with which two table-spoonfuls of cream have been mixed. Serve very hot. 44. Omelet -with Mince. Make an omelet thus:—Put half an ounce of butter into the pan, pour gently in two eggs well beaten with a table-spoonful of milk, a little chopped parsley, a little chopped shallot, pepper and salt; do not stir for half a minute, then stir all up together, and in two minutes it will be done. Slide on to a dish, and fold double, first ])lacing on half a small quantity j of mince No. 39 made quite hot. Garnish with parsley, and ser\-e. 45. Hachis au pots. Cut some neat slices of mutton, place on a ' dish, pepper and salt, cover with another dish, | and heat thoroughly in the oven. Have ready- some peas—those that are rather old will do—let them be well stewed with pepper and salt in Australian broth. When done, mix two table- spoonfuls of corn-flour with them, a table- spoonful of any hot sauce, a leaf of mint dried and rubbed, some colouring; stir till thick, pour round the meat, and serve. 46. Mince -vn ith Hakd-boiled Eggs. Prepare mince No. 39, place it round a flat dish; boil three eggs ten minutes, sheU and halve them. Have ready some nice white sauce, lay the half eggs on the mince at regu- lar distances, and pour over the white sauce, having previously filled the hollow of the dish ■with a rocky pile of mashed potato. 47. Fhitadella -with White Sauce. Fry some well-seasoned and well-floured pieces of mutton, breaking as little as possible. Place in a flat dish, and cover with a nice white sauce. Put slices of pickled beetroot over, and serve. 48. Fritadellas. Prepare mince No. 39; roll into balls, fry, and place on a flat dish, pour some good white sauce overj and serve with a garnish of parsley, and place some small balls of mashed potato {see No. 32) fried alternately round. 49. Fried Meats. Either mutton or beef is very good cut into thick slices, peppered and salted, and well floured. Break an egg, beat it up, and mix with two ounces of bread-crumbs on a flat plate; cover the pieces of meat with it, and fry in boiling fat a nice brown. Lay in a dish, cut some cold boiled potatoes in thin slices, and fry them after the meat till of a light bro^vvn. Lay them lightly over the meat, and serve. 50. Breast of Mutton (a I'Australienne). Bone a breast of mutton, flatten it out ■well, lay over it mince made of Australian mutton weU seasoned, roll it up very tightly, and tie securely with tape. Bake in a quick oven, and serve, after untying it, -with this sauce: —Cut up into very small square pieces an ounce of lean ham or bacon, the same quantity of caiTot, celery, and onion, a bay-leaf, a little thyme, twenty peppercorns, and a bit of mace. Fry these the size of a walnut in fat till the whole gets well browned; add a wine-glassful of vinegar, half a wine-glassful of ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of ancho^v'y. When this has boiled to half its quantity add one pint of melted butter coloured brown, two table- spoonfuls of stock, and a wine-glassful of sherry. Boil gently, remove the grease, and strain. 51. Bubble and Squeak. Prepare some mince {see No. 31); put it into a round basin, and then into the oven to keep warm. Boil some cabbage tender, chop it up, and stir over the fire in a stewpan ■\vith an ounce of butter and pepper and salt till well heated. Then turn out the mer.t on to a dish, lay the cabbage round it half way up the sliapc of meat, place some strips of boiled bacon all round that part of the meat that is left un- covered, and serve.( 974 ) TIN TIN 62. BoUILLAllAISSE. Divide two Portugal onions in quarters, and having shrod these, fry thorn in a stcwpan with two tablo-spoonfula of oil, then add two tea- spoouf uls of popper, a little suit, and a quart of water. Boil live minutes, and add some Aus- tralian hoof cut in dice, lleat well through, and servo very hot. 53. Beep Collops. Cut small slices about two inches across, and fry in fat on both sides. Shake a little llour in, add a dozen oysters, a littlo Harvey, lemon- juice, pepper, and one tea-spoonful of anchovy. Simmer over the tire ten minutes, and dish up. Mushrooms, olives, or gherkins may be used instead of oysters, and a little sherry may be added in this case. 64. Collops (a la Sauce Robert). Prepare the collops as in No. 53, and erve them with this sauce :—Chop two onions very fine, fry till of a light brown, add a wine-glass- ful of vinegar and a good pinch of pepper. Boil together five minutes; then add one table- spoonful of flour, two of corn-flour, half a pint of water, and a bit of butter. Stir over the fire for twenty minutes, add one table-spoonful of French mustard, one table-spoonful of Har- vey Sauce, one tea-spoonful of anchovy. Mix well over the fire, and serve. 55. Ragout de Milan. Cut into inch lengths by half an inch square the following, ready cooked, viz., macaroni, beef, ham, tongue, mutton, chicken, game, or veal. Prepare in equal lots as much as is wanted, put it in a 8te^vpan with a little good white sauce, about one ounce of grated cheese, and a little pepper and nutmeg. Toss over the fire till quite hot, and serve. 56. Capilotade op Beef or Mutton. Cut up in neat slices beef or mutton, flour and pepper and salt them, put aside on a plate; then chop fine about two table-spoonfuls of pic- cahlli and two table-spoonfuls of its liquor. Put in a stewpan with a wine-glassful of ket- chup, reduce by boiling to half, then add the meat, a glass of sherry, and a gill of gravy. Boil gently five minutes, and serve. 57. Beep and Haricot Beans. Prepare the meat as in No. 56; prepare the beans as follows:—Shell a pint of the large white sort (they should he in water all night), put them in sufficient water to cover them with an ounce of Australian fat. Let them boil till quite tender (they will take three hours); rub through a wire sieve—they should be very thick —season nicely, add one ounce of butter, and return to the stewpan. Stir till hot, and serve round the beef. 58. MiROTON OF Beef. Cut six onions into thin slices, fry in two ounces of fat till brown; add one table-spoonful of flour, nearly one pint of water, and ketchup; pepper and salt to season; stir over the fire to boil ten minutes, and pour over the beef dished up in slices; strew raspings over it, bake a quarter of an hour, ancT serve hot. A spoonful of chutneewill be found a great improvement. 59. Mutton with Tkench Beans. Prepare some mutton as in recipe No. 23; lay it in a flat dish. lioil French beans till tender, strain the water oft", and stir thorn in tlie pan in whidi the meat has been fried witli one ounce of butter, pepper and salt, lialf a pint of thiclcenod brown gravy. Pour round the meat, and serve. 60. Smoking Chimney, This recipe requires a tin shape, ■with a tin lid fitting to the top, through which a fun- nel like a cottage chimney rises. Cut beef or mutton in dice, stir over the fire with a Uible- spoonful of Harvey Sauce, four table-spoonfuls of gravy, a boiled and cut-up onion, and two table-spoonfuls of flour, one ounce of butter, a few cooked mushrooms, and pepper and salt to season. Put this in the lower part of the tin. On the lid place a layer of mashed potato raised hke a cottage roof; the steam from below will rise through the funnel, and give the effect of a smoking chimney. 61. Beef with Sheep's Liver. Cut up thick slices of beef and thin shces of liver, pepper and salt both, and flour them well. Put the liver into a dripping-pan with equal shoes of good bacon and a pint of water; cover them with very thin shces of onion; let them cook thoroughly, stirring them every five minutes, and flouring them well each time. When the liver is thoroughly done put in the beef; stir about gently to give it the flavour of the gravy, and when quite hot serve. 62. Sheep's Heart, Stuffed. Prepare some forcemeat as in recipe No. 15 ; stuff the hearts with it—not too full, or the stuf- fing wUl burst out. Brush the hearts over with milk, and roll in flour. Fry them in a httle fat and turn them about on all sides till nicely browned; put in a stewpan with a pint of well- seasoned stock. Let them simmer one hour and a half, or till tender; drain away the gravy, skim it, and boil it sharj^ly till reduced to one- half, thicken with a little flour (a glassful of claret is an improvement), pour over the hearts, and serve very hot. The hearts are better placed on a layer of Austrahan mince made very hot and savoury. 63. Beef and Kidneys. Fry beef in shces and kidneys in very thin slices, lay them alternately one over the other; pour over them a rich browTi gravy, and serve with fried bacon laid over them at intervals. 64. Beef and Tomato Sauce. Put in a stewpan six shced shallots, a bay-leaf, a little thyme, and a wine-glassful of ^•inegar. Boil gently for five minutes; add a quarter of a pound of tomato pulp, one ounce of butter, one tea-spoonful of anchovy. Stir till it has boiled a few minutes longer. ' Strain through a "coarse tin strainer over shces of fried beef, and serve. 65. Veoetahle ^Marrow, Stuffed. Take out the seeds of a small custard marrow, fill the hollow with forcemeat No. 15; tie the marrow in a cloth, boil till tender, peel it care- fully, and servo with good brown gravy. 66. Stuffed Cucumber. Take out the seeds of a cucumber, fill it aa inTIN ( 975 ) TIN No. 65, and boil till tender; peel it carefully, and pout over it this sauce:—Chop an onion fine, fry it in fat in a small frying-jmn, add a wine-glassful of vinegar, pepper and salt, and a little stock; boil five minutes, and add a little mushroom-ketchup. 67. Mince and Kalecannon. Mix equal proportions of weU-boUed, well- seasoned, and weU-mashed cabbage and pota- toes. Have ready a dish in which is a border of very hot minSe {see No. 35); pile the kalecannon ia the centre, mark with a three-pronged fork, and serve very hot. 68. Mutton with Onion Sauce. Stew some nicely-cut pieces of well-seasoned mutton in a very little water till quite hot through; put into the same pan two tea-cup- f uls of well-prepared onion sauce; then stir aU together, and serve. 69. Mutton with Celery Sauce. Thoroughly cleanse four heads of celery, slice them very thin, and put them in a stewpan with nutmeg, pepper, and salt to taste; add two ounces of butter and a sliced onion; cover, and set on the stove to stew very gently without colouring. When tender, add four ounces of flour and one pint of milk; stir again over the fire till the sauce has boiled twenty minutes; rub through a colander, and pour over nicely- fried mutton laid in a dish. 70. Beef and Ham Rissoles. Mince equal parts of beef and bread, half the quantity of ham, and a fourth part of finely- chopped suet. Add pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a well-beaten egg; mix all well together, and roll into balls ; flour well, and fry in boiling fat. Serve with thick brown gravy. 71. Shape with Macaroni. Boil some macaroni tender, cut it u,p into quarter of an inch lengths, stick them, hole out- wards, thickly all over a well-buttered plain round-topped basin; fiU the basin with mince No. 35, cover with a floured cloth, and boil half an hour; turn out, and serve with or ' without brown gravy. 72. Mutton Pie (a I'lrlandais). Cut nice pieces of mutton, lay them in a pie- dish, and season well. Take some stock, put in it six onions and eight potatoes, put the fid on, and set it to stew gently for half an hour; lift them into the pie-dish, boil the gravy down to the quantity required to fill the pie. Cover it with potato paste as in No. 32, and bake half an hour. Serve with a boat of gravy. 73. Mutton Pie with Apples. Proceed as for the above, and add to each layer of meat a layer of apples peeled and sliced; mix into the gravy some tomato sauce, cover with a pie-crust, bake half an hour or till the crust is done, and serve. 74. Mutton Pies (a la Windsor). Cut a pound of mutton into small pieces, season with chopped mushrooms, parsley, shal- lots, pepper and salt, and a little brown gravy, Ktir gently together; raise small pic-shapes with })ot-watcr crust, fill with the mixture, cover, and bake till the crust is done thorouglily. The following will be found a good method for making the crust:—Put one pound of flour in a basin, make a hollow, put half an ounce of salt and half a pint of boiling water in which four ounces of lard, butter, or Australian fat has been melted, pour it on boiling; mix together into a firm paste, kneading well, put in small lumps on a paste-board to cool. When just nicely warm take a lump and work it into the shape of pork pies—some people find it easier to work it up round a floured pot or wooden mould. 75. Small Pies Raised. Prepare a sufficient quantity of mince No. 31 to fiU the number of pies you require to make, also some hot-water crust (No. 74); raise small shapes the size of a threepenny veal pie, fill with the mince, cover, and bake till the crust is done. 76. Raised Pie. Cut into dice equal parts of ham, beef, and bacon, season well, and fill a raised pie-shape. Bake well, and when baked pour into the pie through a funnel a little melted jelly from the Australian meat well seasoned. Let the pie get cold before cutting it. 77. Patties. Prepare mince No. 31. Make some light paste, line patty pans, fill—but not too full— with mince, wet the edges and cover with paste, brush over with a beaten-up yolk of egg, and bake in a quick oven till the crust is done; pile up on a hot dish on a napkin, and garnish with smaU crisp bite of parsley. 78. Sausage Rolls. Make some light paste, roll out thin (about a quarter of an inch thick), cut into pieces five inches square, wet the edges, lay a skinned sausage in it just close enough to leave half an inch of paste beyond the sausage; fold over and pinch the edges neatly together, brush over with yolk of egg well beaten, and bake. 79. Baked Pie. Make two pounds of short paste, line a but- tered oblong tin mould, fill the pie with alter- nate layers of beef, mutton, bacon, and sliced apples, season between each layer with pepper and salt, chopped onion (boiled), and chopped sage-leaves; pour over it a Little good gra\y, cover with paste, cut it evenly round, mark it round with the paste - nippers, and after brushing over with egg bake till the crust is quite done. 80. German Fritters. To three-quarters of a pound of flour add two of butter dissolved in half a pint of beer (this should not be used till tepid), one tea- spoonful of salt, the beaten yolks of two eggs; mix together, pouring the beer in by degrees. Work well, set aside for an hour or so, and when about to add the whites whipped to a froth, fry as omelettes, and lay mince No. 31 or force- meat No. 16 in them ; fold over, and serve four or five on a dish, side by side, with a garnish of parsley. 81. Vol-AU-Vent. Ma,ke some ver^- light puff paste. Line a well-buttered fluted dish or tin, fill with the following mixture cooked over the fire tillTIN TIN ( 973 ) moro than half done:—Half a pound of mincod bouf, half a pound of luinced liani, two hard- boiled eggs cut up small, and half a pound of any kind of game meat or rabbit cut lino. Season highly ; stir over tlio fire with a gill of good cream and one ounce of butter till nearly cooked; then add a little lemon-j uico and nutmeg and a tea-spoonful of anchovy. Bake covered with greased paper till halJ- done. 82. Rice (Turkish Fashion). Boil the rice as in recipe No. 3G. Fry the rice with butter, cayenne, and saffron powder ; season with salt, and throw in a handful of cleansed Smyrna raisins. Put this rice as a border to the cui-ry prepared as in No. 8. 83. EiCK (Polish Fashion). Cut an onion into very thin slices, and fry in a. pan with butter, then add two ounces of cooked ham cut in shreds and si.K ounces of Austrahan meat cut in dice. Take the rice as prepared in No. 36, season with a pinch of jcayenne pepper and a table-spoonful of grated cheese. Stir all together lightly over the fire, and serve quite hot. 84. EiCE (llilanese Fashion). Fry the rice {see No. 36) in a pan with butter, season with grated cheese ; add six ounces of Australian meat cut in dice, half a pint of boiled and picked shrimps (lobster or crab will do), season, and serve hot with a tea-spoonful of anchovy stirred in. 85. Rice (Spanish Fashion). Fry the rice {see No. 36) till of a golden colour in oil, using only just enough to fry it; then add either a large table-spoonful of prepared tomato sauce or two large ripe red tomatoes squeezed free from seeds and watery juice through a wire sieve. Season with Spanish sauce, pepper, and grated cheese. Pile up lightly in a hot dish, and garnish round with curry No. 8. 86. FiiA>-GiPANE OF Mutton*. Steam some good mealy potatoes, skin them, mash them till smooth, put them into a sauce- pan with three eggs. Stir all together till cool enough to make them up with the hand. Take the marrow from a beef-bone, cut it up as suet, take a quarter of a pound of mutton cut into tiny dice, a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, season it well, and pour in two table-spoonfuls of cream, mix well together; flour, the hands, and roll a small bit of the frangipane into a ball, hollow it with the flat part of a spoon, fill it with the mince, close it up, flour well, and when you have enough for a small dish fry them till light brown, or bake in quick oven. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. 87. Cakes of Meat. Prepare some mince ; to each table-spoonful of mince add one tea-spoonful of bread-crumbs, enough egg to bind them, a little finely-chopped parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. Take a bit of the mince in floured hands, roll it in a ball, then flatten it into a cake, dip in egg and seasoned hread-cnimbs, and bake in a quick oven. Serve with a little good gravy and fried bacon in strips. 88. Gateau de Bceuf. Take two pounds at least of beef, one of Lam, mince them up fine, and season well. Tak(; aa ox foot, and boil till the foot separates. Take it out, and cut ofi: all the meat, and mince and season it. Lay it in a round tin that has been wetted -with vinegar, boil up the liquor, and ]x»ur it over till quite full and well soaked into the meat. When cold torn out, and it will eat like brawn. 89. Madkas Curky.' Take two large onions, and slice and fry them. Fry the meat you mean to curry, cut into small dice, in the same pan, first taking out the onions; stir into it a pint of good gravy well seasoned, two table-spoonfuls of curry powder, and a little salt; add it to the meat, and stew gently twenty minutes. When nearly done add the juice of a lemon, and serve up with boiled rice No. 36. 90. Vinaoaret of Beef. Cut small thin slices of boiled beef, put them in a salad-bowl with sliced beetroot, quarters of hard-boiled eggs, and cold kidney potatoes; season with pepper and salt, thi-ee table-spoon- fuls of salad oil, two of vinegar, chopped shallot and j^arslej'; mix and pour over. Serve for lunch or made-up dinner. 91. Gateau Australien. Take a pie-dish, and butter it; cut hard- boiled eggs in shces, lay them round the sides of the dish and at the bottom. Then put slices of beef and mutton, and ham and bacon, and spread sliced pickles over each layer, with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; pour over it some good rich -well-seasoned gravy in which one ounce of gelatine has been dissolved ; let it stand tiU cold, turn out, and garnish with parsley. 92. TiMBALE DE MaCARONI. Boil some macaroni in water and one ounce of butter; when it has boiled a few minutes strain off the water, and return it to the stew- pan with half a pint of stock ; boil slowly on a stove till tender. Then add to it some diced mutton well seasoned, and a little grated cheese; make all hot together, then set to cool. Butter a mould, well sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and line with common puff paste ; put in the meat and macaroni quite cold, cover with paste, and bake in a rather slow oven. "WTien done, turn it out of the mould, cut off the top, and pour white sauce over and in the dish. 93. Carrole de Ris. Boil the rice {see No. 3G), put it into a pan -with a good slice of ham and an onion, and stew it over a gentle fire till tender. Have ready a mould lined with very thin slices of bacon. Mix the yolks of thi-ee eggs with the rice, and then line the bacon with It about half an inch thick. Put into it a ragout of either beef or mutton or Australian rabbit. Fill up the mould, and cover close with rice. Bake it in the oven an hour, turn it on to a dish, and send it to table with gravy or curry sauce. 94. Sliced Beef with Matonnaisb Savcb. Lay trimly-cut slices of beef on a meat-dish with a little very finely-scraped horseradish here and there over it.' Spread over it thin( 977 ) TIN ^IN slices of cold boiled^ beetroot. Pour over a mayonnaiso sauce made thus :—Take a basin, place therein three yolks of eggs, a little pepper and sjilt, and stir quickly with a wooden spoon. \\'ork into it by slow degrees half a pint of salad oil and half a gill of tarragon vinegar. If it is well made it should be firm and creamy. This quantity is enough for a very large dish. 95. Lauded Beef. Turn out a shape of beef with a larding- needlo, put Strips of fat bacon through from side to side. Serve when cold with gariush of parsley. 96. Sliced Beef and Cucumber. Lay thin slices of mutton or beef in a meat- dish, cut very thin slices of cucumber, and if wished a few sliced onions or shallots. Mix equal parts of oil and vinegar; shake them in. the bottle. When well mi.\ed put the cu- cumber into a basin, pour the oil and vinegar over, stii- till the cucumber is well covered with it, pepper, and pour it over the beef. 97. Gehmax Salad. Put in a salad-bowl a pound of beef cut in dice, also one finely-chopped onion, two ounces of red cabbage pickle, a pickled walnut chopped, two gherkins chopped, three ounces of boiled beetroot sliced and cold, two large white let- tuces, a little endive cut very fine, a little tarragon, chervil, a leaf or two of dandelion, half a dozen of sorrel, two large potatoes boiled and cut in slices cold, two sliced hard-boiled eggs, three table-spoonfuls of oil, six table- spoonfuls of vinegar, a tea-spoonful of sugar, two tea-spoonfuls of mustard, and a pint of claret or Khenish wine. Mix all well together, and decorate the top with a few shapes cut in beetroot. 98. MuTTOX AND Pickles. Turn out a 41b. shape of Australian mutton. Gai-nish the dish round with slices of red beet- root and little heaps of red cabbage pickle. 99. Cold Shape. Take two pounds of beef or mutton. Melt one ounce of Nelson's Gelatine, and add to it a tea-cupful of brown gravy or stock. Cut a hard-boiled egg into round slices, and line the bottom of a mould with it. Chop up some slices of fat bacon, season with pepper, salt, and a very little allspice ; add this to the meat with a little more liquid; place all in a stew- pan, and finish cooking. When done pour the whole into the mould and let it get quite cold. Dip in hot water the next day, and it will slide out at once. Garnish with a border of parsley. 100. Spiced Beef. Turn out a shape of beef of six pounds' weight. To answer properly it should be a firm good shape with plenty of jelly round. It must be cut in rounds three inches thick— this will make three rounds. Lay them in a dish three inches deep, cover them with this mixture:—One ounce of popper, one ounce of salt, half an ounce of nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of allspice. Melt all the jelly, put the rounds back intact into their own tin, one over the other. To accomplish this you must press each round down separately with a piece of '•wood that just fits inside the tin. When it is all firmly pressed in, pour (by degrees to let it soak in) aU round the edge the melted jolly well seasoned. Let the shape stand to get cold. If it will not turn out easily, dip it in hot water. The following are the names of the foregoing recipes arranged in alphabetical order for easy reference:— Australien, Giteau, 91 Baked Pie, 79 Balls, Forcemeat, 16 Beef and Ham Ris- soles, 70 Beef and Haricot Beans, 57 Beef and Kidney Pud- ding, 22 Beef and Kidneys, 63 Beef and Tomato Sauce, 64 Beef (au Diablo), 10 Beef (au Fromage), 29 Beef (au Gratin), 31 Beef (au Macaroni), 30 Beef Collops, 53 Beef Fried in Batter, 27 Beef Fried with Suet Dumplings, 23 Beef, Gateau of, 88 Beef, Larded, 95 Beef, Miroton of, 58 Beef, Spiced, 100 Beef, Sliced and Cu- cumber, 96 Beef, Sliced, with Mayonnaise Sauce, 94 Beef Tea, 2 Beef, Vinagaret of, 90 Beef yvith. Savoury Pudding, 28 Beef with Sheep's Liver, 61 Boiled Pudding, 13 Bologna Sausages, 19 Bouillabaisse, 52 Breast of Mutton (a. I'Australienne), 50 Broth, Mutton, 3 Bubble and Squeak, 51 Cakes of Meat, 87 Capilotade of Beef or Mutton, 56 Carrole de Riz, 93 Chimney, Smoking, 60 Cold Shape, 99 Collops (a la Sauce Robert), 54 Collops, ]3eef, 53 Cucumber, Stuffed, 66 Curried ]\Iutton, 8 Curried IMutton, Dry, 9 Curry, Madras, 89 Forcemeat, 15 Forcemeat Balls, 16 Forcemeat Pudding, 14 Forcemeat, Toad in a Hole, 20 Frangipane of Mutton, 86 Fried INIeats, 49 Fritadella with White Sauce, 47 Fritadcllas, 48 Fritters, Geiinan, 80 Gateau, Australien, 91 Gateau of Beef, 88 German Fritters, 80 Gennan Salad, 97 Ham Rissoles, Beef and, 70 Haricot Beans, Beef and, 57 Haricot of Mutton, 7 Irish Stew, 6 Kidney Pudding, Beef and, 22 Kidneys, Beef and, 63 Larded Beef, 95 Meat, Cakes of, 87 Meat with Potato Cover, 32 Meats, Fried, 49 Mince and Spinach, 43 Mince in Sciillops, 41 Mince, Omelet and, 44 Mince on Toast, 39 Mince Tart, Open, 40 ]\Iince with Hard- boiled Eggs, 46 ISIince with Kale, cannon, 67 Mince with Poached Eggs, 42 Mutton and Pickles, 98 Mutton, Breast of (a I'Australienne), 50 Mutton I5roth, 3 Mutton, Curried, 8 Mutton,Dry Curried, 9 Mutton, Frangipane of, 86 IMutton Fi-ied with Suet Pudding, 24 Mutton, Haricot of, 7 Mutton I'io (a 1'Irian- dais), 72 Mutton-Pie with Ap- ples, 73 Mutton-Pics (a la Windsor), 74 Mutton with Bacon, 26 Mutton with Celery Sauce, 69 Mutton with French Beans, 69 Mutton with Onion Sauce, 68TOA ( 978 ) TIP Mutton witli Sausages, 25 Omolot and J[iuce, 44 Peas, Hacliis with, 45 Patties, 77 Pea Soup, 5 Pie, Baked, 79 Pie, Potatoe, 33 Pie, liaised, 76 Pies, Mutton, 72, 74 Pies, Small liaised, 75 Polish Kiee, 83 Potato Cover, Meat with, 32 Potato Pie, 33 " Potato Kissoles, 35 Potato Wall, 34 Pudding (au Gratin), 12 Pudding, Boiled, 13 Pudding, Forcemeat, 14 Pudding, Koll, 11 Pudding, Sausage, 18 Eagout de Milan, 65 Eaised Pie, 76 Eice, Carrole of, 93 Eice Eissoles, 36 Eice, Milanese, 84 Eice, Polish, 83 Eice, Spanish, 85 Eice (Turkish Fashion), 82 Eissoles, 37; Potato, 35 Eissoles, Eice, 36 Eissolette, 38 Eoll Pudding, 11 Salad, German, 97 Sausage Pudding, 18 Sausage Eolls, 78 Sausages, 17 Sausages, Bologna, 19 Shapo with Maeai-oui, 71 Sheep's Heart, Stuffed, 62 Sheojj's Liver, Beef with, 61 Smoking Chimney, 60 Soup, Julienne, 4 Soup, Pea, 5 Soup with Forcemeat Balls, 1 Squeak, Bubble and, 61 Stew, Irish, 6 Stuffed Cucumber, 66 Suet Pudding, Mutton Fried with, 24 Tart, Open Mince, 40 Timbale de Macaroni, 92 Toad in a Hole, 21 Toad in a Hole Force- meat, 20 Tomato Sauce, Beef and, 64 Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed, 65 Vol-au-Vent, 81 Wall, Potato, 34 White Sauce, Frita- della with, 47 Tipsy Bread.—Take a stale roll. Pare off the crust, and cut it into rounds a quarter of an inch thick. Spread a little jam on each side of these, and pile them one uj^on the other in the centre of a glass dish. Sift powdered sugar thickly over them, and pour upon them as much sherry as they will absorb. Blanch two or three ounces of sweet almonds, cut them into shreds, and stick them all over the surface of the bread. Pour a good custard round them, and set the dish aside until wanted. Tipsy bread should be made two or three hours before it is wanted. TIPSY CAKE, Tipsy Cake.—Take a moulded sponge or savoury cake three or four days old. Cut it quite level at the bottom, so that it wiU stand firmly on the dish, pierce it in several places with a skewer or knitting needle, and pour over it as much sweet wine mixed with two wine-glassfuls of Ijrandy a# it will absorb* Take up tlio liquor that IIuwh into th(! dish, and pour It over again and again until tJi(; cake is quite soaked. Blanch two ouncos of sweet alnionds, split them into spikes, and stick them all over tlie cake. Pour round it a rich cold boiled custard, and it will be ready for serving. Some- times the juice of half a lemon is mixed with the wine and brandy. Tiino, two liours to soak the cake. PnjLable cost, exclusive of the wine and brandy, 28., if the custard m made with milk. Sufficient for a dish. ^ Tipsy Cake (simple, for children).—Take a dozen small stale sponge cakes, spread a little jam on each, and arrange them in a pile in the centre of a deep glass dish. Pour over them as much raisin wine as they will absorb, and keep putting it over them till they are soaked. Pour round them a pint of nicely-flavoured cold cus- tard, and ornament tlie dish with dried fruits cut in slices. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for a dish. Tiverton Pudding. — Beat four eggs till they are very light. Mix smoothly with them three dessert-spoonfuls of fine flour, and add a table-spoonful of sugar, as much grated nutmeg and ginger as will together stand on a sixpence, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Bring a pint of milk to the point of boiling, pour it upon the mixture, and stir it briskly for a minute or two. Wring a pudding-cloth out of boiling water. Flour it well, and tie the pudding in it. Plunge it at once into boiling water, and let it boil quickl)'^ until done enough. Serve with sweet or wine sauce. Time to boU, about an hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Toad in the Hole.—Mix a pinch of salt with four large table-spoonfuls of flour. Beat this to a smooth paste with two well-beaten eggs, and add two-thirds of a pint of milk. The milk should be added very graduaUj', and the pudding should be well beaten so that there are no lumps, and it should be of the consistency of very thick cream. Cut a pound and a half of beefsteak and one or two sheep's kidne)'S, or a quarter of a pound of ox kidney, into pieces convenient for ser^^ng. Lay them at the bottom of a hot buttered dish, and pour the batter over them. Bake in a brisk oven. The batter will be better if it is made an hour or two before it is wanted, but it should be beaten up again at the last moment before it is poured over the meat. Mutton chops, sausages, or a stuffed fowl may be sub- stituted for the steak and kidney, or a few mushrooms or oysters may be put ^vith the meat, or even a small quantity of minced shallot. The remains of cold meat also may be served in this way, and will be found to be very good, though, of course, not so good as when fresh meat only is used. Some cooks fry the meat lightly, to brown it a liltle, before putting it into the di.sh. Time to bake, from one hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost, if made with steak, 28. lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Toast, Anchovy {sec Anchovy Toast).TOA TOA ( 979 ) Toast and Water.—Toast a small slice of stiile bread (crusty bread is the best) till it is brightly browned all over "vsithout being in the least burnt. Pour over it a quart of boil- ing water, and let it stand till cold. Filter it, and put it into a decanter. If the toast-water is quickly wanted, just cover the bread with boiling water, and when that is cold, add as much cold filtered water as will fiU the jug. Toast-water should be quite cold before it is presented to an invalid, as it is by no means an agreeable beverage when taken lukewarm or hot. Time to soak, half an hour. TOASTING FORKS. Toast, Buttered.—Toast which is to be buttered should be cut from a loaf one or two days old, in slices about the third of an inch thick. Cut off the crust, and toast the bread before a clear bright fire. When it is equally and lightly coloured on one side turn it to do the other. Place little pieces of butter here and there upon it, put it before the fire for a minute or two till the butter is soft, then spread it upon the toast, taking care not to press heavily upon the bread, or the toast will be heavy. Cut each slice separately into strips an inch and a half broad, and pile these on a hot dish. If one or two slices are cut thi-ough together, the butter will sink from the upper piece to the lower. Some cooks hold the toasted bread over a bowl of boiling water for a minute before buttering it. This is to soften it, that it may take the butter more readily. Buttered toast should be prepared at the last moment, and served very hot. Toast, Buttered (another way). — Sec Buttered Toast. Toast, Buttered, and Cheese.—Crush half a pound of old Cheshire cheese in a mortar, and pound with it a piece of butter the size of a walnut, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a small tea-spoonful of mustard. Take a slice of bread halt' an incli thick, cut off the crust, and toast it on both sides. Spread the cheese- paste upon it, lay it upon a dish, and put it in a Dutch oven before a clear fire until the paste is melted. Servo very hot. Time to melt the cheese, about three or four minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for two persons. Toast Dry —Bo careful to have a clear bright fire, and 'see that the bars are quite clean. Cut as many slices as may be required from a leaf of bread two days old. These slices should be very tliin—less than a quarter of an inch thick. Cut off the crust, and warm the bread on both sides for one minute before toasting it; then put it on the toastmg-fork, hold it a little distance from the fire, move it about till it is lightly and equally toasted, and when it is done upon one side turn it to do the other. Dry toast should be coloured gradually, as its perfection consists in its being crisp and dry without being very dark and brown or in the least burnt. It should be made a few minutes only before it is wanted, as it soon becomes heavy. It should never be placedon a dish or table, but bo put at once in the toast-rack, or, if this is not at hand, two slices should be made to lean one against another. It is almost unnecessary to add that toast should never be made with new bread. Toast, Egg {see Egg Toast). Toast for Soup.—Cut a slice of thin bread, toast it lightly on both sides, and cut it into dice not larger than a quarter of an inch square. Threw these into a frying-pan with hot fat, and turn them about till they are quite crisp. Lift them out with an egg-slice, and put them on an inverted sieve before the fire for a minute or two to drain them from the fat. Serve them on a separate dish. Time to fry the dice, about a minute. Toast, German {see German Toast). Toast, Ox Tongue {see Ox Tongue Toast—a breakfast relish). Toast, Savoury.—Scale and bono two or three anchovies without washing them. Beat them to a paste, and add a pinch of cayenne or a little dry mustard and a small lump of butter. Toast a slice of brown bread, and butter it well. Spread the savoury paste upon it, and push it into the oven, or let it stand before the fire for a minute or two till it is very hot. Serve immediately. If liked, the yolk of an egg and a table-spoonful of cream may be mixed with the pounded anchovies, and the paste may be stirred over the fire for a short time till it is very hot without boiling. Toast, To prepare, for Koast Game.—Toast a slice of bread the third of an inch thick till it is brightly browned on both sides. Cut off the crust, hold it over a bowl of boiling water for a minute to imbibe the steam, and butter it well. Soak it in the dripping in the pan under the birds, and when these are ready, serve them upon it. Toasts, Hamburg. — When a small quantity only of any savoury fricassee is left, it may bo warmed up as follows:—Mince the meat finely, and put with it any seasoning that may be required. Mix it with the sauce, and stir it over a gentle fire until it is thick. Draw it away from the fire for a minute, and mix with it thb yolk of an egg well beaten. Stir it over the fire again till it is hot ntliout letting it boil. Turn it upon a dish, and let it get( 980 ) t TOM TOD cold. Take one or two slicea of bread a quart(?r of an iiieh t\wk. Toast them ou botli sides, and cut tliuiu into tlireo-coruerod pieces. .Spread tho savoury minco thickly upon tliem, and cover the surface with a luird-hoiled egg chojiped small. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over tliein, and put them in a brisk oven for a minute or two till they arc quite liot. Arruugo them neatly on a dish, and garnish with parsley. Time altogether, about one hour. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the fricassee. Toddy, American.—Take the thin rind of two large lemons, and put it in a bowl with half a pound of sifted sugar and a pint of cold water, and let it soak imtil tho liquor is plea- siintly flavoured. Take out the rind, and in its place put a small quantity of fruit—three or four large ripe strawberries, a slice of pine-apple, or a mellow peach peeled and sliced will answer excellently. Ten minutes before the toddy is served add a pint of best rum and a quarter of a pound of ice. Toffee.—IMclt three ounces of fresh butter in a small brass saucepan over a clear, bright fire. As soon as it is dissolved, stir into it one pound of good brown sugar, and keep stirring until it is done enough. In order to ascertain when this point is reached, let a cup of cold water be placed close at hand, and keep drop- ping a little of the toffee into it. When the toffee thus dropped hardens immediately, and breaks between the teeth without sticking to them it is done, and must be poured out at once or it will bum. The flavour of this toffee may be pleasantly varied by stirring into it a tea- spoonful of slightly moistened j)Owdered ginger, or the grated rind of a small lemon. Pour the toft'ee upon a buttered dish, and put it in a cool place to set. Time to boil, fifteen to twenty- five minutes. Probable cost, this quantity, 8d. Toffee, Almond.—Melt five ounces of fresh butter in a small brass saucepan over a clear fire, and when it is dissolved stir into it a pound of good brown sugar, and let the mixture boU for a quarter of an hour. Have ready pre- pared two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched, halved, and dried. Throw them into the toffee, and let it boil after they are added until it hardens instantly when dropped into cold water, and breaks between the teeth without sticking to them. When this point is reached, turn the toffee out immediately or it will bum. Pour it upon buttered dishes. Or blanch an ounce of sweet almonds, divide them into strips, and dry them thoroughly in a cool oven or before the fire. Boil a pound of sugar in half a pint of water till it is dissolved, then throw in an ounce of butter. Boil the toft'ee until it hardens instantly when dropped into cold water. Pour it on a buttered dish or oiled slab, and add the sliced almonds after the toftee is poured upon the dish. When nearly cold, mark it out in squares with the back of a knife. Time, fifteen to thirty minutes. Toffee, Almond (another way). —/See Almond Toffy. Toffee, Everton (see Everton Toffee). Tomato.—The tomato or love apple is a fruit much valued in cookery for sauces, soups, gravies, and keteaiuj). It is about the size of a potato. It comes into season in April, and continues until frost sets in. It possesses a very peculiar flavour, and when liked at all is generally very highly esteemed. When fresh truit 18 not in season, tinned tomatoes may be used. Tho large tomatoes are the best for stewing and for sauces, and the small ones for pickling. TOMATOES. Tomato (an Gratin).—Cut half a dozen tomatoes in halves, remove the pips, and fill the inside with a mixture of bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt, in due proportions. Place a smaU piece of butter on each half tomato, and lay them then close together in a well-buttered tin. Bake in a slow oven for about half an hour, then serve. They may be eaten hot or cold. Tomato Beef. — Take three pounds of lean beef, cut into large steaks; lay it in the stewpan -with seven or eight nice ripe tomatoes, a spoonful of water, and a finely-chopped onion. Stew slowly for one hour and a half. Add salt, pepper, cloves, and just before dishing, a piece of butter as large as an egg, and half a gill of ketchup. Tomato Ketchup.—A small glassful of tomato ketchup stirred into half a pint of melted butter or gi-avy may be used instead of tomato sauce. Take two quarts of small ripe tomatoes, cut them into slices, lay them in a deep pan, and sprinkle amongst them four ounces of salt. Let them lie for twenty-four liours. Pour the juice from them, and boil it with four ounces of shallots and a dozen and a half small capsicums. Press the tomatoes through a sieve> stir the pulp into the juice, and let it boil half an hour longer. Pour the ketchup into wai-m bottles whilst it is warm. Cork securely, and seal the corks. Time, two days. Tomato Ketchup (another way).—Take any quantity of very ripe tomatoes, and cut them into slices. Put a layer into a deep jar, sprinkle a little salt over it, add another layer and a little more salt, and repeat this until tho tomatoes are all used. The quantity of salt required will bo about two ounces of salt( 981 ) TOM TOM for a quart of tomatoes. Put the jai' in a warm place, and stir the fruit every now and then for three days. At the end of tliat time press the tomatoes through a sieve. Measure the juice, and boil it with a quarter of an ounce of black pepper, eiglit cloves, a blade of mace, a tea- spoonful of powdered ginger, and lialf an ounce of allspice to each quart of juice. Pour it while warm into wai-m bottles, and when it is quite cold cork up securely. At the end of three months boil it again, adding fresh spice ac- cording to taste. Cork it uj) again, and store for use. Time to boU the juice with the spice, a quarter of an hour. Tomato Ketchup (another way).—Boil one bushel of good tomatoes until soft, then squeeze through a fine -wire sieve. Add half a gallon of Adnegar, a few ounces of salt, two ounces of cloves, a quarter of a pound of all- spice, an ounce and a half of cayenne pepper, three table-spoonfuls of black pepper, and five heads of garlic skinned and separated. Mix and boil three hours or until reduced one-half, and bottle without straining. The garlic may bo omitted. Tomato Marmalade.—Weigh the fruit, and take as many ounces of sugar as there are pounds of tomatoes. Put this sugar into a preserving-pan, place it upon a gentle fire, and stir until it melts and acquires a light- brown colour. Throw into it three or four onions finely minced, allowing one small onion for each pound of tomatoes. When these are slightly browned, put into the pan the tomatoes cut into quarters, and add a slight seasoning of pepper, salt, powdered mace, and grated nut- meg. Boil all together till the tomatoes are reduced to pulp, strain the juice through a sieve, and boil it quickly until it will jelly when a small portion is poured upon a plate. Put the marmalade into jars, and cover with double layers of very thick paper. Time, two and a half to three hours. Tomato Omelet.—Take four ripe toma- toes, peel them, and chop them small. Beat a large table-spoonful of flour to a smooth paste with a little milk. Add six well-beaten eggs, a little pepper and salt, and the tomatoes. Fry the omelet in the usual way, and fold it over if liked, but do not turn it. Time to fry, five or six minutes. Probable cost, about lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons. Tomato Puree (for roast beef, mutton, pork, (fee).—Take a dozen ripe tomatoes, slice off the stalks and the part that adheres to them, squeeze out the pips, break them into pieces, and put them into a stcwpan with three or four spoonfuls of good brown gra-vy and a little salt and cayenne. Let them boil; put with thorn an onion, a bunch of jmrslcy, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf, and simmer them very gently until they are quite soft. Take out the herbs, and rub the tomatoes through a fine hair sieve. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a sauce- pan, and mix a tea-.spoonful of flour smoothly with it. Add a spoonful or two of gravy and the tomato jiulp, and stir the puree over the fire for five or six minutes. Servo very hot. Time to stew the tomatoes, about an'hour. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tomato Purde (for veal cutlets, calfs head, &c.).—Simmer the tomatoes in good gi-avy till soft, as in the last recipe. Take out the herbs, and rub them through a sieve. Mix an ounce of clarified butter with a tea-spoonful of flour to a smooth paste ; add gradually two or three spoonfuls of thick cream and the tomato pulp. Stir the puree over the fire for a few minutes, and serve very hot. Time to stew the tomatoes, about an hour. Probable cost, toma- toes, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tomato Sauce for present use (to serve with cutlets, roast meats, &c.).—Take a dozen ripe tomatoes, cut them in halves, and press the seeds and the watery part from them. Put them in a stewpan with a quarter of a pint of gravy or strong broth and a quarter of a salt- spoonful of cayenne. Let them stew softly until they are melted. Press them through a fine sieve, and put the pulp back into the stewpan with half a tea-spoonful of salt. Let it simmer gently for a few minutes, and ser^^e very hot. If hked, a blade of mace, two or three shallots, and two cloves may be stewed with the tomatoes, but most lovers of tomatoes prefer that they should retain, their distinctive character, and consider that tomato sauce is spoilt if it is fla- voured with other ingredients. Tomatoes varj" so much in size and juiciness that it is difficult to give the exact quantity of liquor required for them. It should be remembered, however, that the sauce should be of the consistency of thick cream, and that if it is too thick a little more gravy should be added: if too thin, it should be boiled down very quickly for a short time. Time to simmer the tomatoes, about an hour. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Sufficient I for six or eight persons. Tomato Sauce (another way).—Melt in a stewpan a dozen or two ripe tomatoes (which, before putting into the stewpan, cut in two, and squeeze the juice and the seeds out). Then put two shallots, one onion, with a few bits of ham, a clove, a little thyme, a bay-leaf, a few leaves of mace, and when melted rub them through a tamis. Mix a few spoonfuls of good Espagnole and a little salt and pepper with this puree. Boil it for twenty minutes, and serve. Tomato 'Sauce (another way).—When gravy or stock is not at hand, tomatoes may be sliced and stewed with a little butter, cayenne, and salt. If dressed in this way, they should be pulped through a sieve just as if they had been simmered in gravy, and a little vinegar may be added to them if liked. Tornato Sauce (another way).—Halve a dozen ripe tomatoes, squeeze out the seeds, and put them into a jar or saucepan with a dessert- spoonful of lean ham cut into dice, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a large pinch of cayenne, a quiirter of a pint of good gravy, or two or three ounces of butter, and either three sliced shallots or a dozen button mushrooms cleaned and cut into small pieces. Stir them over a gentle fire until they are quite soft, then pressTOM ( 982 ) TOM them tlirough a sieve, add a little Kilt, and put the aauco af^aiii upon the tiro till it is very hot. Servo it iii a tureen. Tiuio to simmer the tomatoes, about an hour. Prohahlo cost, toma- toes, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Sullicieut for six or eig-lit persons. Tomato Sauce, Mock.—Put a pint of : ■water, a dcssert-spounful of vinog-ar, a good ! pinch of siilt, and a largo lump of sugar into a 1 saucepan, and let it boil. Throw into it tho red { part only of four large carrots, and let them boil until quite soft. Take them up with an egg-slice, and rub them through a sieve. Put the im\]) into a preserving-pan with three table- spoonfuls of ale, a quarter of a pint of vinegar, ; a sour apple, half a dozen shallots pared and minced finely, a pinch of salt and cayenne, and as much mustard and powdered mace as will lie on a sixpence. Stir this mixture over a gentle fire for nearly half an hour. Let \t get cold, put it into bottles, and cork down securely. It will keep for three or four weeks. Or boil a dozen sour apples, pared and cored, till tender. Rub them through a sieve, colour the pulp with tm-meric, stir a little vinegar into it to give it an acid taste, and flavour with salt and cayenne. Tomato Store Sauce.—Take a dozen ripe tomatoes, put them in an earthen jar, and set them in a cool oven until they are quite soft. Take off the skins and stalks, mix with the tomatoes the Uquor that flowed from them ■when baked, and add a dessert-spoonful of salt, a dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger, a pinch of cayenne, and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, put the sauce into dry wide-mouthed bottles, and store in a cool dry place. Examine and taste it at the end of a week or a fortnight, and if it does not seem as if it would keep, boil it again ■with a little more cayenne and ginger. This sauce will keep for a long time. It wiU not be properly flavoui'ed till ten days or a fortnight after it is made, though it may be used at once. Some cooks add a head of garhc to the other ingredients, but this is not generally liked. Time, four or five hours. Tomato Store Sauce (another -way).— Put as many tomatoes as are agreeable into an earthen jar, set them in a slow oven, and let them bake gently until quite soft. Rub them through a fine sieve, and weigh the pulp. With every pound put an ounce of white pepper, an ounce of salt, half an oimce of cayenne, half an ounce of minced shallot or onion, and a quart of strong vinegar. Boil the whole till it is as thick as cream, let it get cool, put it into dry wide-mouthed bottles, cork closely, and store in a cool dry place. Half an ounce of garlic may be added or not to the other ingredients. Time, about four or five hours. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Tomato Store Sauce (another way).— Take two dozen tomatoes, and bake them in a slow oven till quite soft. Rub them through a sieve, and weigh them. Put a pint of vinegar into a saucepan with one ounce of minced shallots, half an ounce of salt, half an ounce of white pepper, and six capsicums—a small quan- tity of cayenne may be substituted for these. Lot the vuiogar boil for eight or ten minutes- it will bo sulHcient for two pounds of pulp. Mix the vinegar and tlio Umuiues togetlier, and add tho juice tliat flowed from the fruit in l)aking and tlio strained juice of a small lemon. Put tlio mixture again into the saucepan, and stir it over a gentle tire till it is as thick as cream. Turn it out, and let it get cold. Put it into dry wide-mouthed bottles, and cork these down securely. Half an ounce of bruised garlic may bo added or not. Time, four or five hours. Tomato Store Sauce (another way).— Gather tho tomatoes on a dry day, when they are quite ripe and red. Lay them in an earthen jar, put them into a cool oven, and let them remain all night, or until they are quite soft without being broken. Skin them, and rub them through a sieve. With every pint of pulp put half an ounce of bruised shallots, a quarter of an ounce of bruised garhc, a little salt, and half a pint of chiUi vinegar, or half a pint of white-wine vinegar, and a httle cayenne. Boil these ingredients together until the onions are soft. Hub the whole again through a sieve, add the juice of a lemon, and boil it again for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Put it into small dry bottles, and cork and seal these securelj\ The juice which flows from the fruit in baking must be added to the sauce. Time, ten or twelve hours. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Tomato Store Sauce (excellent).—Cut four pounds of tomatoes into slices, and put them into a saucepan with two large onions sHced, one pound of Demerara sugar, a quarter of a pound of salt, two oimces of peppercorns, haH a tea-spoonful of cayenne, half an ounce of cloves, and six ounces of allspice. Pour a pint of vinegar over the ingredients, and let them boil gently for two hours. Stir frequently to keep them from burning. Rub them through a fine sieve, and as soon as the pulp is cold bottle it securely. Store in a cool dry place. Time, two hours. Tomato Soup.—Slice two large onions into a saucepan, with two turnips, two carrots, and five or six outer sticks of celery. Put with these four ounces of lean ham cut into dice, and two ounces of fresh butter, and steam them ovBr a gentle fire for half an hour. Pour over them two quarts of stock or Hquor in which meat has been boiled, and add six or eight ripe tomatoes. Let all simmer gently together for a couple of hours. Rub the vegetables through a sieve, and boil them again with the liquor for a few minutes, add pepper and salt to taste, and serve very hot. Send bread toasted and cut in dice to table on a separate dish. A httle tomato pulp may be added to any vegetable soup when the flavour is liked. Time, three to four hoiira. Probable cost, 6d. to lOd. per pint. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Tomatoes (au Gratin).—Dissolve an ounco of fresh butter in a stewpan, and mix half an oimce of flour smoothly with it. Stir it with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire for two minutes, then add verv gradually three-quarters of a pint of good stock. Let it boil gently tiU it isTOM ( 983 ) TOM reduced to rather less than half a pint. Put in with it a table-spoonful of chopped onion, three table-spoonfuls of finely-slu-ed parsley, and a little pepper and salt, and boil it quickly for ten minutes. Take eight or ten large ripe tomatoes. Slice off the stalks and the part that adheres to them, and make a round hole in the top the size of a shilling. Scoop out the seeds thi'ough this, and fiU their place with the prepared sauce. Set them carefully in a baking-tin, the stalk end uppermost, with two oimces of butter, and sprinkle bread-crumbs lightly over them. Put them in a brisk oven, and bake them for ten minutes. Serve very hot. Time to make the stuffing, about one hour. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Tomatoes, Australian Meat and {see Australian Meat, &c.). Tomatoes, Baked.—Slice the stalks from six or eight ripe tomatoes with the green part that adheres to them. Season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle bread-crumbs thickly over them. Divide about two ounces of fresh butter into little pieces, and place these here and there upon them. Bake in a moderate oven. Serve on a hot dish as an accompaniment to roast moat of all kinds. If liked, the toma- toes may be cut into slices, or into halves, in- stead of being baked whole, and they will not then require so much time for baking. Time to bake, from twenty to thirty minutes—till they are quite soft without breaking. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, toma- toes, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Tomatoes, Baked (another way).—Take five or six largo ripe tomatoes, plimge them for one minute into boiling water, take them out, remove the thin skin, divide them in halves, and squeeze out the seeds. Mix a salt- spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg, into two ounces of fresh butter. Arrange the tomatoes in a single layer on a baking-dish, the cut side uppermost; put an equal portion of the seasoned butter on each, and bake in a brisk oven. When done enough pour the juice of a lemon over them, lay them upon hot buttered toast, and pour over them the gravy which is in the dish with them. Serve very hot. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Tomatoes for Garnish {see Garnish, Tomatoes for). Tomatoes, Fowl Braised with {see Fowl Braised with Tomatoes). Tomatoes, Pickled.—This pickle is very good with roast meat, cold or hot. Take two dozen small ripe tomatoes ; prick each one in two or three places, carefully preserve the juice that flows from them, and keep it in a covered vessel until wanted. Put the tomatoes in layers in a deep earthen jar, and sprinkle a little salt between each layer. Cover the pan, and let the tomatoes remain undisturbed for three days. At the end of that time wash them well from the brine and dry them care- fully. Put them into jars, and cover tliem with vinegar which has been boiled and allowed to get cold. Add the juice which flowed from the fruit in the first instance, and cover the jars closely. The pickle will be ready for use in about a fortnight. The following spices should be boiled with the vinegar for this quantity of tomatoes:—Half an ounce of pepper, half an ounce of cloves, and a heaped table-spoonful of mustard-seed. Sometimes minced onions or minced celery, or both, are put into the jars with the tomatoes. Time, four days. Tomatoes Preserved.—Cut the toma- toes into pieces, and simmer them gently over j a slow fire till they are reduced to a pulp. ! Squeeze the juice from this pulp, boil it until I it is as thick as cream, and then pour it into '. small bottles. Place these in a large boiler j with cold water up to their necks. Bring the I water to the boil, and let it boil for a quarter of j an hour, then lift the bottles from the fire, and i let them remain in the water till it is cold. Cork securely, and wax the corks. Store in a I cool, diy place. Time to boil, a quarter of an I hour. ! Tomatoes, Roast.—Take six or eight small ripe tomatoes. Slice off the stalks and the parts that adhere to them. Put them in a Dutch oven, place them before the fire, and roast them until done enough. Serve on a hot dish as an accompaniment to roast meat. If it is more convenient they may be placed at the edge of the dripping-tin I instead of in the Dutch oven, but care must I be taken that the fat from the joint does not I fall upon them. Time to roast, twelve to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tomatoes, Stewed.—Take six or eight ripe red tomatoes. Eemove the stalks, sHce the fruit, and put the slices into a lined sauce- pan. Season with pepper and salt, and place about two ounces of butter divided into little pieces here and there amongst them. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer the tomatoes gently until they are quite tender. Stir them ! two or three times, and serve on a hot dish as j an accompaniment to roast meat. A spoon- j ful or two of vinegar will be an improvement, j Time to stew the tomatoes, about twenty i minutes. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 6d. I per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tomatoes, Stewed (Portuguese way). —Slice half a dozen ripe tomatoes, season with pepper and salt, and put little pieces of butter here and there upon them. Mince two onions finely, sprinkle them over the tomatoes, cover the saucepan closely, and steam tliem for a quarter of an hour. Afterwards pour a quarter of a pint of good brown gravy over them, stir frequently, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Have ready a quarter of a pound of freshly-boiled rice. Stir this in with the tomatoes, and mix the ingredients thoroughly. Turn the whole upon a hot dish, and send a little more brown sauce to table in a tureen. Time, about one hour to stew the tomatoes. Probable cost, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons.( 984 ) TOM TON Tomatoos, Stowed Whole. —Take six or lu-ht npo tuiniitoos of lucdium size. Kemovo tho stalks, and arraii-^o tho fruit in a stowpan m a single layer. Pour over them as much Kood brown gravy as will roach to half tlioir height, stew thoui gently until they are done enough, and turn them over carefully once or twice that they may ho equally cooked. Thicken tho gravy with alittlo Hour and butter, season with popper and salt, and let it boil two or throo minutes after tho thickening is added. Servo the tomatoes very hot with tho sauce round them.. Time to stew, twenty to twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tomatoes, Stuffed.—Choose half a dozen large tomatoos of uniform size. Slice off the stalks and the green parts round them, and scoop out the pips without breaking the sides of _ the fruit. Make a stuffing as follows :— Mince two ounces of fat bacon, and put it into a stewpan with half a dozen mushrooms chopped small, a handful of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, three or four shallots, all chopped, and a little pepper and salt. Stir this mixture over a gentle fire for five minutes, then bind it together with the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Fill the tomatoes with this stuffing, set them side by side in a saute-pan, and pour in salad oil to the height of a quarter of an inch. Sprinkle bread-raspings lightly over the toma- toes, and place them on a brisk fire, holding a red-hot shovel over them, or bake them in a quick oven. Serve on a hot dish, and pour some good brown sauce round them. Time to fry the tomatoes, from ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Tomatoes, Stuffed (another way).— Take six or eight ripe red tomatoes of equal size. Cut off the tops and the green parts round them, and scoop out the insides. Press the pulp through a sieve, and mix with it a little salt and cayenne, two ounces of butter broken into little pieces, and two heaped table- spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Half a dozen finely-minced stewed mushrooms may be added or not. Fill the tomatoes with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven, or fry them in oil until done enough. Before serving, brown them by holding a salamander or hot iron over them for a minute. Send brown gravy to table in the dish with them. Any good forcemeat that is liked may be used to stuff tomatoes. Tho remains of game or poultry minced finely, mixed with herbs and bread-crumbs, seasoned, and bound together with yolk of egg wiU answer excellently. Time to bake the tomatoes, ten to twelve minutes; to fry them, eight minutes. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tongue.—In choosing a tongue, take one which is plump and smooth-skinned, as that is a sign that it is young and tender; and also endeavour to ascertain how long it has been dried or pickled, so as to know whether or not it will require long soaking before being dressed. If very hard and dry, it wiU bo necessary to soak it at least twelve hours in plenty of water; if fresh from tho pickle, two or three hours' soaking will bo sufficient. Horse tongues are frecpicntly sold as ox tonguc.-s to inexperienced purclia.sers. 'J'lio former nuiy bo known by a spoon-like cxi)an8ion at the end. Tongue and Chicken with Cauli- flowers {hvc (Jliicken and Tongue), Tongue, Baked.—Take a tongue fresh from tlie ])i(-kl.', was^li and soak it, and put it in a dish just large enough for it. Put little pieces of butter here and there upon it, cover with a. common crust of Hour and water, and bake in a moderate oven until it is quite tender, llemove the furred coating or skin, and fasten the tongue down to a piece of board by stick- ing one or two strong skewers through the root and one through the tip so as to hold tho tongue in an erect and elegant form until it is quite cold. If to be eaten cold, glaze it, trim the root, put a paper frilling round it to hide its unsightlincss, and serve garnished with pars- ley. If to be eaten hot, serve the tongue on a hot dish with brussels sprouts, cauliflower, or other vegetables round it. Time to bake, three or four hours, according to size. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for a luncheon, supper, or breakfast dish. Tongue, Beef.—If dried, a salted tongue must be soaked for some hours before it is dressed. It must then be put into cold water and gently brought to the boiling point; then, after the surface of the water has been cleared from scum, the saucepan must be removed from the fire only so far as to reduce the boiling to a gentle simmering. If dried, a tongue will require quite four hours' boiling; if simply salted, only three hours. "WTiilst hot, the outer skin of the tongue must be peeled off, and it may be sent to table either glazed or plain. The usual accompaniment to boiled tongue is boiled turnips. Tongue, Beef, with Sauce Hachce. —Take a fresh tongue ; let it disgorge, blanch it to remove any tripey taste it may retain ; then stew it in a good braize. A\Tien done enough, flay it, cut it in two, spread it open, and cover it over thickly -with sauce hachee. Tongue, Boiled.—If the tongue is dried, soak it for twelve hours; if taken fresh from the pickle, an hour or two will be sufficient. Put the tongue into cold water, and let it come slowlj' to the boil. Remove the scum care- fully, and simmer the tongue gently until done enough. Its flavour will be improved if two or three large carrots and a large bunch of savoury herbs be added to the liquor after the scum is removed. When the tongue is quite tender, so that it can be easily probed -with a small skewer, and so that the skin can bo easily peeled off, take it up, remove the skin, and if it is to be eaten cold pass a large carving fork through the root end, and by means of this fasten it on a board. Pass another and smaller fork through the tip, and d:-aw the tongue straight before fixing it in the board. I^et it remain untouched until quite cold, trim neatly, glaze it, and then wrap a nicely-cut frill of tissue paper round the root, which is a littloTON ( 985 ) TON uiiiiightiy. Garnish the dish with parsley. If the tougue is to be eaten hot, take off the skin, wrap it in a sheet of oiled paper, and put in a little boiling liquor for a quarter of an hour before dishing it, to make it quite hot. Garnish the dish with brussels sprouts, cauliflowers, di-essed spinach, or any other vegetables, and send tomato or piquant sauce to table with it. Time : a large smoked tongue, four hours and a half; a small smoked tongue, two and a half to three hours; a large unsmoked tongue, three hours and a half; a small one, two to two houi-s and a half. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for a breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish. Tongue, Carving of.—Begin to take slices, not too thin, from the middle of the tongue, and afterwards cut slices from each side, being careful not to cut quite through the tongue. The extreme tip is usually left and used for grating. A little of the fat should be put upon each plate. "When the tongue is rolled, it should be cut in very thin slices horizontally. Tongue, Dresden (A German recipe).— Procure a fresh bullock's tongue, wash well, and wipe it quite dry. Put a large piece of butter into a stewpan, which must be deep enough to close well. Dredge in some flour; place the tongue in the stewpan; let it brown nicely on one side, then turn it. AVhen nicely browned all over, season it well; add a pint and a half of water. Cover close, and let it simmer—not boil—three hours and a half. Add more water if the gravy wastes much. There must be enough left to serve with the tongue, which is eaten hot with potatoes, but it is equally good cold. Garnish and serve with slices of lemon. Tongue, Fresh Ox.—Put the tongue on the fire in cold water, simmer slowly till tender, and then remove the skin. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan ; dust in a table- spoonful of flour and as much grated bread as the butter will take up, and brown. Mince small a few rashers of bacon, do the same with an onion, and add them to the sauce with the juice of a lemon and a slice of its peel. Thin the sauce with a little broth or water in which the tongue was boiled. Lay in the tongue, sprinkle with salt, cover, and let it simmer slowly for an hour. Tongue, Hungarian. — Put a fresh tongue on the fire with just cold water enough to cover it, and with it a carrot, an onion, a bay-leaf, a couple of slices of lemon, some black pepper, salt, and a little garlic. Let it simmer gently for about two hours till quite tender. Skin and trim it. Either serve it whole or cut in slices, and arranged in a ring with the following thick sauce in the centre: —Strain the liquor which the tongue was cooked in (this should be reduced in the simmering to a mere gravy); brown a large table-spoonful of flour in a good-sized piece of butter; braize two or three cloves of garlic, and let them steam a little while in the browning; then add the strained gravy by degrees, stirring it quite smooth. Add a little lemon-juice or vinegar', and, whether it be served whole or sliced, the sauce must be dished with the tongue. If garlic is objected to, make a thick sauce o£ grated horseradish, a carrot bruised fine, sorrel, capers, and a little wine. Garnish with lemon slices and parsley. Tongue, Miroton of, with Turnips. —Stew the tongue as in the recipe Tongue, Beef, with Sauce Hachee; _ then let it cool, cut it into scallops, dish it miroton fashion, and place the dish covered at the mouth of the oven. A short time before sending it to table, glaze it with a light glaze, and pour into the centre some brown haricot sauce. Tongue, Pickled or Salted.—Tongues are generally bought ready pickled, but as some cooks like to prepare their own tongues, two or three methods are here given. Of these the simplest is the following:—Trim the root, and leave a little of the fat; place the tongue in a deep dish, cover with salt, and let it lie until the next day. Pour off the slime that will have come from it, and rub it weU with a mixture made of half a pound of common salt, half a pound of moist sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Turn and rub it every day for a week, renew the pickle, and turn and rub it every day for another week, when it will be ready for use. Or, trim the root, put the tongue in a deep pan, cover with salt, and let it lie for twenty-four hours. Drain off the slime, and rub it with a mixture made as follows :—Take three pounds of common salt, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, three ouncesi of saltpetre, with a quarter of an ounce each of cloves, mace, and pepper, two table-spoon- fuls of mixed herbs finely chopped—thj-me, marjoram, bay-leaves, winter savory, and basiL Pound these ingredients in a mortar, and mix them thoroughly. Rub this mixture into the tongue, and turn and rub it every day for twelve days or a fortnight, when it will be ready for use. Or let the tongue lie in salt for twenty-four hours as above. Rub into it a mixture made with half a pound of common salt, half an ounce of bay-salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, and a quarter of a pound of moist sugar. Turn and rub it every day for three weeks for a small tongue, four weeks for a large one. Or make a pickle by boiling a pound of salt, a pound of moist sugar, two ounces of saltpetre, and three ounces of sal prunella m a gallon of water for twenty minutes. Let the brine get cold, then put the tongue mto it, and let it lie for a fortnight, and lay a smaU board on the top to keep the meat under the liquor. This pickle may bo used several times if it is boiled occasionally. Tongues are always best when used straight out of the pickle. When this is not convenient, however, they should be taken out, rubbed dry, hung up to keep, and smoked, if liked. Tongue, Potted.-Tako the remains of a cold boi ed tongue. Romove all the hard 1 ""-f * ^'"^^l pieces, and after- wards pound It to a smooth paste; season w th cayenne, and beat with it one-fourth of Its weight in clanficd butter. Press it into( 986 ) TON TON small jars, cover it about a quarter of an inch deep with clarifiod huttor, multod drip])ing, or melted suet, aud let it staud three or four hours before it is used. A sniaUur proportion of butter will bo required if a little of the fat of the tongue is used instead of loan only, but the butter must not bo entirely dispensed with. Some cooks season the meat by degrees with a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and us much grated nutmeg as will cover a throe- penny piece to each pound of tongue. Potted tongue is excellent when pounded with its weight in well-dressed cold chicken, cold veal, or cold partridge. Time—the tongue to be pounded till reduced to a perfectly smooth paste. Tongue, Roasted. — Parboil a tongue that has been salted about ten days; roast, baste with red wine, and frost it at last with butter. Serve with a rich gravy and sweet sauce. Tongue, Rolled,—Take a large ox- tongue. If drj', soak it in plenty of cold water before dressing it; if fresh from the pickle, soak it for two or three hours only. Put it into a large stewpan with plenty of cold water and a bunch of savoury herbs; bring it slowly to the boil, remove the scum as it rises, and simmer gently until tender. Take off the skin—which will come off easily if the tongue is sufficiently di'essed—trim the roots, remove the bones, and press the tongue, fat inwards, into a round tin just large enough to hold it. Put a dish yvith. a weight upon it, and let it remain until cold. Turn it out, glaze it, or tie a napkin neatly round it, and garnish with tufts of parsley. Time, a large smoked tongue, four hours and a half; a small smoked tongue, three hours; a large unsmoked tongue, three hours and a half; a small one, two hours to two hours and a half. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for a breakfast, supper, or lun- cheon dish. Tongue Soup.—Take the liquor in which a tongue has been boiled. Strain and skim it, and put it into a stewpan with the trimmings of the tongue, and any bones or trimmings of fowl or veal that may be at hand, or, faihng these, two pennyworth of fresh bones. Bring it to the boil, and skim carefully, then let it simmer gently for three or four hours. At the end of that time put with it a large carrot, a turnip, an onion, five or six outer sticks of celery, and.a large pinch of cayenne, and let it simmer an hour longer. Strain it, and let it get cool, so that the fat may be entirely removed. Put it again upon the fire, and when it boils throw into it a large carrot and a large turnip, cut into dice, and two table-spoonfuls of the thin end of a dried tongue finely grated. Serve with toasted sippets. Time, three or four hours to boil the liquor with the bones. Probable cost, 2d. per quart, exclusive of the tongue. Sufficient, a quart for four people. Tongue, Sour (A German recipe).—Take a fresh tongue, and steep it for from two to four days in a pickle composed of a wine-glass- ful of vinegar, two or three slices of lemon, and either an onion, shallot, or garlic sliced, six cloves, two bay-lcives, and a tea-spoonful of black pepper. When about to diess it, wipe the tongue dry. Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a stewpan, sprinkle in a good handful of bread-crumbs, and diodge in llour to brown. Mince a couple of rashers of bacon, and add them. Strain in the pickle. Add enough water or broth to thin the sauce moderately. Lay in the tongue, and simmer it till quite tender. Should the sauce not bo piquant enough, add vinegar or lemon-juice, a glassful of claret, and a little cayemie. When the tongue is peeled, pom- over it a little of the sauce, and serve the rest in a tureen. Tongue, Stewed.—Wash a tongue, and trim away the coarser pai-ts of the root. Rub it well with common salt and a small quantity of saltpetre, let it lie for a week, and turn and rub it every da}'. Boil in the usual way until it is tender. Pull off the skin, and put the tongue again into the ste%vi)an with part of the sti-ained liquor in which it was boiled, a pint of strong stock, a bunch of sweet hei'bs, two bay- leaves, and five or six outer sticks of celery. Let it simmer gentlj' for an hour. Lift out the herbs and the celery, and season the gravy with a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a Httle salt if necessary, two pounded cloves, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a table-spoonful of lemon or walnuc pickle, and a glassful of white wine, and thicken with flour and butter. Serve the tongue on a hot dish. Pour the sauce over it, and send stewed mushrooms to table with it. If any gravy is left, it may be used advantageously for stews. Time, one hour to stew the tongue after it is peeled. Probable cost, tongue, 4s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tongue, Stewed (another way).—Sim- mer the tongue for two hours in just enough water to cover it; peel it, and return it to the water, adding some pepper, mace, and cloves tied up in a piece of muslin. Cut some turnips and capers very small, slice some carrots, and add these also to the liquor vnth. half a pint of beef gravy, a wine-glassful of white wine, and a bimch of sweet herbs. Stew all together very gently for an hour and a half longer; take out the spice and sweet herbs, and thicken the gravy vnth flour worked into a small piece of butter. Tongue, To Serve a Cut.—A pretty dish may be made from a tongue which has been cut into and partially used. Cut the tongue into thin round slices, and arrange them in a circle round a dish, each piece overlapping the next. Ganiish the sides with a border of chopped parsley. If liked, the slices may be lightly glazed. Some cooks warm the slices in a iittle nicely-flavoured brown sauce, and serve them hot with the sauce poured over them. Tongue with Aspic Jelly.—Boil a tongue in the usual way. and either roll it, or fix it on a board till quite cold. Take a pint of the liquor in which it was boiled, perfectly free from fat and sediment, and juit it into a stewpan with a small sprig of thj-me, threoTOW ( 987 ) TRA Bhallots, a bay-leaf, a small piece of mace, thi-ee cloves, and two ounces of gelatine. Stir it until the latter is dissolved, then lift it to the side of the hie, and let it cool. Whisk the whites of two eggs with a cupful of cold water and a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Stir this into the liquor, and when it is very hot leave it to boil, and let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour without being touched. Lift it from the hre, and let it stand to settle for for ten minutes longer, then strain it through a jelly-bag till clear. Glaze the tongue, put it on its dish, and ornament with the jelly cut into cubes. Time to make the aspic, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, aspic. Is. 6d. Sufficient for one tongue. Tongues, Glazed.—The appearance of cold boiled tongue is very greatly improved by glazing. Glaze may either be made at home {see Glaze)—which is rather a difficult operation, as it may be so easily burnt—or it may bo bought in skins. In either case, take a small portion and put it into a jelly-pot, set this in a pan with a small quantity of boiling water, and keep the water boiling until the glaze is dissolved. Brush the tongue all over with the glaze, or, rather, lay the glaze lightly and equally on the tongue with a brush, and when one coat is dry, put on a second, and a third if necessary; but, genei'ally speaking, two coats will be found sufficient. Tongues, Pickle for {see Pickle for Beef, Pork, and Tongues). Tongues, Pickle for (another way).— Sec Pickle for Tongues. Tongues, Roots of.—As the roots of a tongue generally have an unsightly appearance, they may be tiimmed o£E, and either potted according to the directions given above, or made into pea soup as follows :—Put the trim- mings of the tongue into a ste\vpan with some roast beef bones or fresh bones, a quart of split peas (which have been soaked for six or eight hours in cold water), and three quarts of the liquor in which meat has been boiled. Failing this, use cold water. Add two or three onions, a sprig of thyme or marjoram, a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, and five or six outer sticks of celery. Let the liquor boil, slcim carefully, and afterwards simmer gently until the peas are tender, stirring frequently to keep them from sticking to the bottom. Press the whole thro ugh a sieve, working it with the back of a wooden spoon, put it back into the pan, and let it boil again for about a quarter of an hour ; add salt and pepper, and it will be ready for serving. Care must bo taken that the peas are not put into salted liquor, or they will not easily be- come tender. Time to simmer the peas and the meat, about three hours, according to the quality of the peas. Probalale cost, exclusive of the roots, 3d. a quart. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Tongues, Sheep's.—Wash half a dozen sheep's tongues, put tlicm into a saucepan with as much boiling stock as will cover them, and let them simmer gently until tender. Take off the skin, and trim the tongues in halves. Dish them in a circle, the roots in the centre, and pour into the centre mashed turnips, green peas, or a little onion sauce. Time to simmer, one liour or more. Probable cost, about 4d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tongues, Sheep's, Salted.—Wash half a dozen sheep's tongues, and rub into each one a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, a table-spoonful of salt, and a few di-ops of strong vinegar or lemon-juice. Let them lie for five days. Put them into a saucepan with as much boiling water as will cover them. Let them boil, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer them gently until tender. Take off the skin, trim the root neatly, and split the tongues in halves. Arrange them in a circle round a dish, and garnish with parsley. Time to sim- mer, about an hour. Probable cost, 4d, each. Sufficient for a Jbreakfast or supper dish. Tottenham Mufans.—Beat three eggs till they are lightly frothed, and stir them into a quart of flour properly salted. Add as much lukewarm milk as wall make a thick batter, and stir in a table-spoonful of clarified butter and a quarter of a pint of good fresh yeast. Cover the bowl containing the dough, and let it re- main in a warm place tiU it is lightly risen. Take it out by spoonfuls, and drop it on a floured board. Let these remain for a quarter of an hour, then put them into muffin hoops and bake them. When one side is slightly brown turn them upon the other. Time to rise, about an hour. Probable cost, {i. each. Sufficient, one or two for each person. Toulouse Ragout (for garnishing large or small dishes).—Cook separately equal quan- tities of the following ingredients, as many as may be required for the dish it is intended to garnish:—Button mushrooms, cockscombs, sliced truffles, quenelles, and scalloi^s of sweet- bread. Pour over these as much nicely-flavoured white sauce as will cover them, and when they are quite hot the garnish will be ready for use. Time to simmer the whole together, thi-ee minutes. Town Pudding.—Shred six ounces of suet very finely, and free it from skin. Mix with it a small pinch of salt, six ounces of moist sugar, half a pound of chopped apples (weighed after being pared and cored), half a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and half a tea- spoonful of finely-cut lemon-rind. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and press them very tightly into a buttered basin Avhich they will (luite flu. Tie a floured cloth over the pud- ding, and boil it four hours. It will not require any moisture. Turn it out carefully, and send sweet sauce or wine sauce to table with it. Time to boil, four hours. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Transparent Dessert Cakes.—Take a large cake (almost any kind will do), cut it into slices about the third of an inch thick, and stamp these into any fancy shapes, such as diamonds, squares, hearts, stars, rounds, &c. Spread a little good jam over them, having previously hollowed the surface a little to keep the jam from running over the sides. Boil half a pound of refined loaf sugar with half a pint of water to the second degree. When thisTRA ( 980 ) point is reached, take it from the fire and set the bottom of the saucepan in a basin of cold water: as soon as the sugar begins to tliicken beat it from the middle against the side of the pan for a minute or two, and add very gradually half a quarter of a pint of maraschino or cura(,'oa and two or throe spoonfuls of clear syrup. Spread a little of this preparation over tho jam upon tho cakes, and as each cake is masked lay it on a drainer in a dish, and wlion this is full place it in an open screen for a few minutes to dry. In order to ascertain when the sugar has reached the second degree, skim it carefully, dip a perforated spoon into it, and blow the sugar off into the pan. When it has boiled long enougli, large bubbles will form on the holes of tho skimmer. Transparent Paste for Tarts, &c. {see Paste, Transparent). Transparent Pie Crust.—Take throe quarters of a pound of sweet fresh butter, break it into little pieces, and put it into a jar until it is quite melted without being oiled. Let it cool, and mix with it a well-beaten fresh egg and one pound of dried and sifted flour. Roll the paste very thin, line the tartlet tins as quickly as possible, and bake the tarts in a well-heated os'cn. Just before jjutting them in brush them over with cold water, and sift a little powdered sugar over them. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. lOd. for this quantity. Sufficient for two dishes of tarts. Transparent Pudding,—Whisk eight eggs thoroughly. Put them into a saucepan with half a poimd of powdered .sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, and any flavouring that may be preferred, either grated lemon-rind, grated nutmeg, or almond flavouring. If fresh lemon-rind is used, a little lemon-juice may be added as well. Stir the mixture over tho fire until it thickens, then pour it out to cool. Line the edges of a buttered baking-dish with good pastry, pour in the mixture, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. It may be served either cold or hot. A little powdered sugar should be sifted over the pudding before sending it to table. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Treacle Beer.—Boil three-quarters of a pound of hops in eighteen gallons of water. Add seven pounds of good treacle, and stir the liquid until the treacle is dissolved. Strain the beer, and when it is cool ferment with half a pound of yeast. In winter time it will be found an improvement to boil a little cayenne with the hops. Treacle-Beer (another way).—One gallon of boiling water to two pounds of treacle, with half a pint of yeast: put these into a cask, and cover tho whole close over: in three days it will be ready for use. If the beer is intended for keeping, put in a small quantity of malt and hops, and when it liua done working stop it up. Treacle Cheesecakes.—Line a buttered plate or large t:'.rtlet-tin witli good short ci-ust, and then fill it with a mixture prepared as follows : Stir a table-s])oonful of flour into four table-spoonfuls of good treacle, and when tho I)reparation is quite smooth add as much pow- dered ginger as will lie on a fourpenny-piece. Ornament the cheesecakes by htyiug twists of pastry acro.ss the top, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Treacle Parkin.—Put four ounces of butter witli three-quarters of a pound of best treacle into a jar, and place this near the fire until the butter is dissolved, then stir in four ounces of moist sugar. Mix a pound of oat- meal with half a pound of flour, three-quarters of an ounce of powdered ginger, and a quarter of an ounce of caraway-seeds. Stir the treacle, &c., into the oatmeal, and make the mixture into a firm paste with a little flour. HoU it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and bake in buttered tartlet-tins in a moderate oven. If liked, the caraway-seeds may be omitted, and a little sliced candied-peel added when tho parkin is rolled on the table. Keep the parkin in tins carefully excluded from the air. Or rub one pound of butter into four- pounds of oatmeal, add half a pound of sugar, two ounces of ground ginger, and as much warm treacle as will make a tolerably stiff batter. A cupful of milk ma}' be added if liked. Put the batter into buttered baking-tins, or small tartlet-tins, and bake in a moderate oven. In order to ascertain when it is done enough, put a skewer into the centre, and if this comes out dry and clean the parkin is ready. A little sliced candied-peel or a few caraway-seeds may be added if approved. Time to bake, according to size: the parkin should be done rather slowlj-, or the outside will be burnt before the inner part is done enough. Treacle Posset.—Boil half a pint of new milk, and as it is rising in the pan stir into it two table-spoonfuls of treacle. Boil until the curd separates, then drain it off, and boil the posset again. Treacle posset should be taken the last thing before going to bed. It is an excellent thing for promoting perspiration. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost, 2d. Suf- ficient for one person. Treacle Pudding.—Make some good crust with suet or dripping, and roll it out to the thickness of a third of an inch. Butter a pudding-basin, and line it with the pastry. Put a layer of pastry at the bottom, then a laver of treacle, and repeat until the basin i; full. Put a cover on the top, moisten the edges, and pinch them closely together. Wring a pudding-cloth out of boiling water, flour it well, and tie it securely over the basin. Plunge the pudding into as much boiling water as will cover it, and boil quickly and without ceasing until it is done enough. Turn it out on a hot dish, and serve very hot. If liked, a little lemon-juice, grated lemon-peel, and fine bread-crumbs may be sprinkled over each layer of treacle. Time to boil, three hours for a moderate-sized pudding. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, Is.( 98S ) TRE TBI Treacle Pudding (another way).—Make some good tinu suet pastry, roll it out to the third of an inch in thickness, and longer than it is hroad. Spread treacle all over it within half an inch of the edge. Wet the edges, roll up the pudding into the form of a bolster, and fasten the ends securely. Wring a pudding- cloth out of boiling water, flour it well, fold it round the pudding, and tie the ends firmly. Plunge the pudding into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly until done enough. If liked, a table-spoonful of flour and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of ground ginger may be mixed with every four table-spoonfuls of treacle, or a little grated lemon-rind, the jmce of a lemon, and a few bread-crumbs may be sprinlded over the treacle. When the pudding is done enough, let it cool a minute or two, turn it out carefully, serve on a hot dish, and send melted butter to table with it. Time to boil, one hour and a half, or morg, according to the size. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Treacle Toffee.—Rub the saucepan with butter, and pour in as much treacle as may be wanted. Let it boil gently until a small por- tion will break between the teeth after being thro'wn into cold water. "Wlien the toffee has reached this point it should be taken at once off the fire, or it will ver}"^ quickly acquire a burnt taste. Pom- it upon a buttered dish, and when it is cool roll it into sticks, and fold it in clean white paper. The toffee may, if liked, be fla- voured with essence of peppermint, or almond, or lemon flavouring, and it is said that a little cayenne pepper thrown into treacle toffee is an excellent cure for a cough. Trifle.—This is a compound of syllabub and sweetmeats. Line the bottom of a glass trifle- dish with sponge biscuits stuck with blanched almonds; moisten them with sweet wine, or with sherry and sugar. Over those lay a dozen ratafia cakes dipped in noyeau. Intersperse with these some thin slices of citron and orange- peel, and distribute over these pieces of apricot and raspberry jam with currant jeUy. Pour over these a few spoonfuls of the liquor of the syllabub. The next layer should consist of tartlet crdam of about the thiclmess of an inch, over which grate some nutmeg, and strew a little powdered cinnamon, together with a small quantity of lemon-peel, and some powdered loaf-sugar. Lastly, take the whipped froth from the sieve, and put it on the top as abundantly as the dish will contain. To give it a pleasing appearance, strew various coloured comfits over the froth. The tartlet cream to form one of the layers may be made as follows: —Mix together half a pint of cream and the same quantity of milk; put into it a piece of fresh lemon or Seville orange-peel, and a little cinnamon, and sweeten with loaf sugar. Let these ingredients boil about ten minutes. Have ready prepared in another pan the yolks of six eggs woU-bcatcn up with a heaped tea-spoon- ful of fine flour; to these gradually strain the boiled ingredients, and then whisk them well together over a gentle fire, so that they may acquire the proper consistence without curdling. If you are f)eficient of cream, milk only may be employed, but in that case a little more fioui will be required. Trifle (another way).—The whipped cream which is laid over the top of a trifle should be made the day before it is wanted, as then it will be much firmer. Rub the rind of a large fresh lemon with two or three lumps of sugar till all the yellow part is taken off, then add a little more sugar to make up the quantity to three ounces, and crush it to powder. "VN'ai-m a pint of cream, and stir the sugar in this till it is dis- solved. Add a glassful of sherry, a tea-spoonful of the juice of the lemon, a table-spoonful of brandy, and the whites of two eggs, which have been whisked separately to a firm froth. IMill or whip the mixture in a cool place, and as the froth rises take it off, and place it on an inverted sieve to drain. Continue whisldng until the whole of the cream is frothed, and set the sieve in a cool place, or upon ice, with a dish under it. The next day put four sponge biscuits, a quarter of a pound of macaroons, and a quarter of a pound of ratafias at the bottom of a trifle-dish, and pour over them a large wine- glassful of sherrj', and another of brandy, or if preferred use two parts wine and one part spirit, and let the biscuits soak tiU they have absorbed all the liquor. Grate a little lemon- rind upon the cakes, and spread over them a layer of good jam, then cover them with a pint of nicely-flavoured rich cold custard. Pile the vs'hipped cream lightly over the top as high as possible, and then garnish the dish with pink comfits, bright-coloured jelly, or flowers. Time, about one hour and a half to whip the cream. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine and sijirit, 4s. 6d., if the custard be made with milk. Suf- ficient for one trifle. Trifle (another way.)—Whip a pint of cream the day before it is wanted, according to the directions given in the last recipe; as the froth rises lay it on a reversed sieve to drain. Take two dozen finger biscuits; spread a little raspberry jam on the flat side of twelve of them, and press the other twelve upon it. Arrange these round a triflc-dish, put a quarter of a pound of macaroni, a quarter of a pound of ratafias, and four penny sponge cakes at the bottom of the dish; pour over them a glassful of sherry or madeira and a glassful of brandy, and let them soak till they have absorbed all the liquor. Pour a pint of rich cold custard over the soaked biscuits, and pile the whipped cream on the top. The custard may be made with a pint of milk, the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs, a heaped table-spoonful of powdered sugar, a table-spoonful of brandy, and any flavouring that may be preferred. Time, twenty-four hours to drain the whipped cream; two hours to soak the biscuits; ten minutes to thicken the custard. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine and spirit, 4s. lOd. Sufficient for one centre dish. Trifle, An Elegant.—Make a whip the day before the tnflc is wanted, as no whip is solid unless it has stood for some hours. It should be made with a quart of thick cream, nearly all of the nnd of two lemons, a glassful of sherry, and three table-spoonfula of sugar. Whisk the[ 990 ) TRI TEI mixture briskly, and ns tho froth forms lay it on an iuvorlod aiovo to drain, i'ut u quarter of a pound of ratafias, a quarter of a pound of maca- roni, and tlirco or four spoiig'O biscuits at the bottom of a trille-dish, and pour over them a pint of nicoly-flavourod li([uid calf's-foot jelly, and set this in a cool place to stilfen. Dis- Bolve a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a little water, and jmt with it a pint of thick cream, the grated nnd of half a lemon, and a heaped table-spoonful of sugar. When this cool, pour it over the jelly, and as it begins to sot ornament with bright-coloured jam and macaroni soaked in wine. Pile the whipped ex-cam high on tho top, and the trifle will bo ready for serving. Probable cost, Ts., exclusive of the wine and brandy. Sufficient for one centre dish. Trifle, Apple.—Make a whip the day before the trifle is wanted, as for other trifles, using a pint of cream, two ounces of sugar, a glassful of sherry, and the white of an egg. Lay the froth on an inverted sieve, and leave it in a cool place. Peel, core, and slice a dozen fine apples, and put them into a saucepan with two table-spoonfuls of sugar and two of water, and let them simmer gently until quite soft. Press them thi'ough a sieve, and mix with the pulp the grated rind of half a lemon and a table- spoonful of brandy—but the brandy may be omitted. Make a thin custard with half a pint of cream,half a pint of milk, and a little sugar, and stii' the mixture over the iire until it begins to thicken, but do not let it boil. Lay the pulped apples at the bottom of the trifle-dish; when the custard is cool pour it over them, pile the whipped cream high on the top, and the trifle will be ready for serving. It may be ornamented with stripes of bright apple jelly. When it is not convenient to make the whipped cream, an inexpensive and simple substitute may be made as follows :—Whisk the whites only of three eggs to a firm froth; sweeten and flavour them, drop them in large spoonfuls into boiling water for a quarter of a minute, and turn them lightly over in the water that they may be set all round. Let them drain two or three minutes, and pile them over the custard. The appearance of the dish may be varied by slightly colouring half the whisked eggs with cochineal. Time, about half an hour to stew the apples. Probable cost, 3s. 6d., if cream be used. Sufficient for a small trifle-dish. Trifle, Gooseberry.—Wash a pint of green gooseberries, and stew them gentty with a little water until they break; press them through a sieve, throw away the skins, and sweeten the pulp agreeably. Slake a thin custard, as recommended for apple trifle, and when it begins to thicken, pour it out and let it cool. Mix it with the fruit pulp, lay it on the trifle-dish, and pile whipped cream on the top, as for other trifles. Time, about half an hour to simmer the gooseberries. Probable cost, 3s. 6d., ix made with cream. Sufficient fo:; a trifle-dish. Trifle, Gooseberry (another way).— Prepare the gooseberry-pulp as in the last re- cipe. Cut four or five rather stale penny sponge cakes into slices, lay them in a deep glass dish pour over them a wine-glassful of brandy and a wine-glassful of slierry, and let them soak till they liave absorbed the liquor. Spread tlie gooseberry-pulp upon them, and cover Ihe fruit witli the following preparation:—Sweeten a piut of now milk, and fiavour with lemon- rind or any other agreeable flavouring. Mix two table-spoonfuls of Oswego very smoothly witli a quarter of a pint of cold milk; add three well-beaten eggs, and then mix all thoroughly. Make the flavoured milk hot without letting'it boil, and stii- it into the rest. Tui-n the mixtur(; into a saucepan, and beat it over a gentle fiio until it begins to thicken. Pour it out to cool, and stir frequently. When cold, spread it over the fruit. This dish should be made two or three hom-s before it is wanted. Time, hah an hour- to boil the gooseberries; about half an hour to make the Oswego. Probable cost, exclusive of V. brandy and wine, Is. 8d. Suf- ficient for five cir six persons. Trifle, Ground Rice.—Sweeten a quart of milk, and flavour with lemon or any other suitable flavouring. Put it into a saucepan, and stir into it five heaped table-spoonfuls of groimd rice which has been mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Let the mixture boll gently for five or six minutes, stirring all the time, and pour it into a basin imtil it is slightlj'^ cooled. Place a jelly-pot in the middle of a glass dish, pour the ground rice round it, and let it get cold and stiff. Just before serving the rice, remove the jelly-pot, and in its place put half a pint of good cold custard. Stick blanched and sUced ahnonds all over the trifle, and garnish with bright fruit jelly. If liked, the appearance of the dish may be varied by poui-ing the rice into a glass dish, and when it is cold and stiff cutting it out into the shape of a star, a diamond, or any other shape, then removing the spare rice and filling the spaces it occupied with custard. Time, four or five hours to stiffen. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Trifle, Lord Mayor's {see Lord Mayor's Trifle). Trifle, Swiss.—Take two ounces each of macaroons and ratafias ; crumble them, put them at the bottom of a glass dish, and then pour over them two table-spoonfuls of brandy. Soak the thin rind of a fresh lemon and a quarter of an inch of stick cinnamon in a pint of cream until the flavour is drawn out. Lift them out, sweeten the cream, and stir into it a thin batter made of four tea-spoonfuls of groimd rice, or, if preferred, fine flour mi.xed smoothly with a Uttle cold milk. Stir this mixture over a gentle fire until it boils, and continue to simmer it, stirring uncefismgly for four minutes. Pour it out, let it get cold, then add gradually the strained juice of two fresh lemons. Spread the custard over tlic biscuits, and stick blanched and shccd iilmond? over the surface. This trifle should be made some hours before it is wanted. Time, tour minutes to stir the custard over the fire after it has boiled. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons.TBI TBI ( 991 ) Trifles, Savoury.—Any kind of cold meat, game, tish, or shell-fish may be elegantly served as foUows:—Mince the meat, season it, and warm it in a little sauce, as if it were to be used for vol-au-vents or patties. Make some paper cases by pressing a round of thick writing-paper into a circular wooden box to take the shape. Lightly oil these cases inside and out, fill them with the savoury mince, and put them into a brisk oven for a minute or two to make them hot. Sprinkle a few bread- crumbs over the top, and send the trifles to table neatly arranged on a napkin. They wiU make a pretty corner dish. Time to heat the mince-in the cases, two or three minutes. Trinity College Pudding.—Mince four ounces of cold boiled tongue very finely, and mix with it eight ounces of finely-shred suet, eight ounces of grated bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of stoned raisins, a quarter of a pound of picked and dried cm-rants, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, two ounces of shred candied peel, a small table-spoonful of flour, and a little salt and mixed spice. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and make them into a paste by stirring in with them the well- beaten yolks of four eggs, the white of one, and a glassful of brandy. Tui-n the pudding into a buttered shape which it will quite fill, cover it with a cloth, plunge it into boihng water, snd boil quickly until done enough. Turn it out carefully before serving. Time to boil, about three hours. Probable cost. Is. lOd., ex- clusive of the brandy. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Tripe.—Tripe is usually prepared for dress- ing before being offered for sale. It should be perfectly fresh, thoroughly cleansed, thick, fat, and as white as possible. The honeycomb is generally preferred. If entirely undressed it requires to be most carefully cleaned and to be gently boiled for sixteen hours or more before it cai} be used. It may be cooked in various ways, the most usual of which is to boil it till tender and serve with onion sauce. Tripe (a la Lyonnaise).—When there is any tripe remaining from the previous day, it may be sent to table again prepared as follows:— Take a pound of cold boiled tripe, dry it well, and cut it in pieces an inch square. Dissolve two ounces of butter in an omelet-pan, slice a large onion into this, and fry it over a gentle fire imtil it is tender. Put the pieces of tripe with it, and also a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a table-spoonful of vinegar, and a little pepper and salt. Heat all gently together for a minute, and serve immediately. Time, five or six minutes to fry the tripe and onions. Probable cost, tripe, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for two or three persons. Tripe, Baked.—Take a pound of fresh drossca white tripe. Wash it in cold water, and cut into neat squares. Slice half a dozen onion.s, and fry them lightly in butter. Put them into an earthen baking-dish which has a closely-fitting lid, lay the tripe upon them, and Bprinklo over it a largo table-spoonful of flour and a little pepper and salt. Cover the whole with milk, put on the lid, and bake the tripe in a moderate oven. AVhen done enougii, skun the fat from the top, and serve the tripe on a hot dish. Some cooks substitute cider for the milk, and also put a table-spoonful of Indian chutnce with the meat before baking it lime to bake, about an hour and a half Probable cost, tripe, 8d. per pound. Sufiacient for two or three persons. Tripe, Beef Beef Tripe). Tripe Boiled.—Take two pounds of per- fectly clean dressed tripe. If there be time, soak it in milk for some hours before boiling, and if it should happen that the milk turns sour, the acidity which the tripe will thus acquii-e will improve it rather than otherwise. If the tripe cannot be soaked, wash it in cold water, then cut it into pieces about three inches long and two broad. Put it into a saucepan, and cover with equal parts of cold milk and water. Let it boil, then add eight moderate- sized white onions, a table-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns. Cover the pan closely, and simmer the tripe gently until tender. lift out the onions, mince them finely, and press them through a coarse sieve. Mix with them as much melted butter made with milk instead of water as will make a thick sauce, and serve the tripe on a hot dish with the sauce poured over it, or, if preferred, the sauce may be served separately in a tureen. Some cooks flavour the sauce with mustard and a httle vinegar. Time to boil, about two hours. Probable cost, tripe, 8d. per lb. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Tripe, Curried.—Mince finely three or four large onions, put them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, and fry them until they are tender. Eub them through a sieve, and mix smoothly with the pulp a table-spoonful of ground rice and a table-spoonful of curry paste. Add graduallj^ a pint of stock, and stir the sauce over the fire untU it boils. Take two pounds of tripe already boiled till tender ; put it into the sauce with a little more stock, let it boil gently for an hour, and remove the scum carefully as it rises. Serve on a hot dish, and send rice boiled as for curry to table with it. Time to simmer the tripe, one hour. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tripe, Eggs a la.—Make a little roux with flour and butter; frj-- a few chopped onions cut square in the same stewpan before the roux is made brown. Moisten with some good boil- ing milk, with pepper and salt. Let the flour and onions be weU. done, and keep the sauce rather thick. Next have ten eggs boiled hard, cut them in quarters or in round sUces, and put them into the sauce. Stir gently that the yolk may not separate from Sie white, and serve up. Tripe for Invalids.—Take half a pound of fresh-dressed tripe. Wash it, cut it into squares, and remove almost all the fat. Cut up half a pound of lean beef in the same way, and put both into a stewpan with half a pint of cold water, half a spoonful of mustPcrd, a small lump of sugar, and a little salt. Bring the liquor to the boil, skim carefully, then di-aw( 992 ) TRI TRI tho saucepan to the sido, and lut its contents simmor gently for throo liours. Mix u tea- spoonful of corn-Hour to a sniootli paste with about a table-spoonful of cold water. Stir tliis into the sauce, and b(jil it gently for a few minutes. Tut the meat on a hut disli, pour tiie sauce over it, and serve. Time to simmer the tripe, throo hours. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sutlicient for one poi'son. Tripe, French way of Dressing.— Take one pound and a iialt of fresh wliite tripe. ■Out it into convenient-sized jneces, put it into a stewpan with as much strong veal broth as will cover it, and let it simmer gently for four hours. Put two table-spoonfuls of chopped niushrooma into a stewpan with a table-spoon- i'ul of chopped parsley, one sliallot hnely minced, half a bay-leaf, and a little popper and salt. Pour over these a quarter of a pint of good white sauce, and stir the mixture over a gentle fire until tho vegetables are tender. Add as much veal broth as will make the sauce of the consistency of melted butter, and boil it gently until it is verj' smooth. Serve the tripe in a deep dish with the sauce poured over it. - Time to stew the tripe, four hours. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Tripe, Fricasseed.—Take about two pounds 01 fresh tripe as sold by the vendors; cu.t it into pieces three inches long and two broad, wash it in cold water, and dry it in a cloth. Put it into a stewpan, cover with equal parts of milk and water, add two onions and a bunch of parsley, and simmer gently for an hour. Rub an ounce of butter smoothly with a little flour, moisten with a quarter of a pint of cream, and stir it into the sauce. Add the thin rind of half a lemon, a little pepper and salt, and the eighth part of a grated nutmeg; then simmer for another hour. Put the tripe into a hot dish, take the sauce from the fire, stir a lump of fresh butter into it until it is dissolved, and pour it over the tripe. In stewing the tripe be careful that it does not "burn to the bottom of the pan. A dish of boiled rice is a suitable accompaniment to tripe pre- pared in this way. Time to stew, two hours. Probable cost, tripe, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tripe, Fried.—The remains of cold boiled tripe are required for this dish. If fresh tripe is used, it should be first boiled till tender in water mixed with a fourth part of vinegar, and then allowed to cool. Make a little frying- batter as follows:—Mix three-quarters of a pound of flour with a tea-spoonful of salt, and beat it till smooth with two ounces of olive oil or oiled butter, a little more than half a pint of lukewarm water and three eggs. The water should be added gradually, and the batter should be well beaten, and afterwards set aside for an hour or two before being used. Dry the tripe, and cut it into neat squares. Dip the pieces separately into the batter, and fry them in plenty of hot fat till they are lightly browned. The batter should be thick enough to coat the tripe. Serve the tripe on a hot dish, and sprinkle over it fried onions which have been sliced and divided into rings. Or serve it cn a luipkin, garnish with fried parsley, and send tomato or picpmnt sauce to table in a turo(!n, or a sauce prepared uH follows:—Mince a dozen shallots finely, and put tlienr into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a small walnut, tlio strained juice of a lemon, a tea-spoonful of scraped horseradish, a tea-spoonful of fresh mustard, and a little suit and cayenne. Stir these ingredients over a brisk Ore for three or four minutes, then jiour over them nearly half a pint of new milk, and boil the sauce for five minutes. Beat the yolk of a fresh egg for a minute or two, and mix with it two table- spoonfuls of thick cream. Lift the sjiuce from the fire for a minute, and stir in the mixture, then put it on the fire once more, and stir it again until it is on the point of boiling. Pour it into a tureen, and it will be read)' for serving. Time, two hours to boil the tripe; fifteen to I twenty minutes to fry it. Probable cost, tiipe, 8d. per pound. Tripe (German mode of preparing).—Take a sufficient quantity of tripe, blanch and boil it till tender; then cut two or three onions small, and steam them till they are soft in a good piece of butter. Mix a thickening of milk and flour or milk and bread-rnmibs to make a thick sauce. Add a sprig of marjoram, a little nutmeg, some white pepper, salt, and some chopped parsley. Stir the preparation till it boils thick and smooth. Cut the tripe into long narrow strips, and simmer it a short time in the sauce. Tripe, Grilled.—Clean the tripe, simmer it very geutly in nicely-flavoured stock, and boil with it an onion stuck with two cloves, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt. When it is quite tender take it up, drain it, and cut it into pieces two inches square. Take equal quantities of minced parsley and chives, add a little pepper and salt, and make the mixtiure into a paste with a little oiled butter or diipping and lemon-juice. Dip the pieces of tripe into this batter, cover them with bread-crumbs, and broil over a clear fire. Send piquant sauce to table with them. Time to broil, tiU lightly browned. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound of tripe for two or three persons. Tripe, Irish {see Irish Tripe). Tripe, Normandy Way of Dressing. —Clean, scald, and scrape one pound and a half of tripe repeatedly, cut it into neat squares, and put it into a stewpan with a large carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, three ounces of bacon cut into dice, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and six or eight pepper- corns. Add one or two ounces of fat, and coyer the whole with cider, white ^^nne, or, failmg these, cold spring water. Let the tripe sinnncr very gently till it is quite tender. Place it on a dish, and pour the strained sauce over it. Time, about two hours. Tripe Pie.—Tripe which is to be used for a pie should be stewed, and allowed to jelly in the liquor in which it was boiled. Line the inside of a pic-dish with good pastry. Put a slice of tender steak or a little undressed hamtro TBI ( 993 ) at the bottom of the dish, and place upon this the tripe with the jellied gmvy adhering to it. Season with pepper and salt, place little pieces of butter here and there on the meat, and pour in two or three spoonfuls of good brown gravy. Cover the dish with a good crust, and bake the pie in a well-heated oven. When the pastry is sufficiently cooked it is done enough. Time to bake, according to size. Probable cost, tripe, 8d. per pound. Tripe, Roasted.—Take about a poimd and a half of tripe, wash, and boil it in mUk and water for an hour. Cut it into two oblong pieces of equiil size, spread on the fat side of one piece some good veal forcemeat, and lay upon it the other piece the fat side inwards. Koll and skewer the tripe securely, and tie it round with thin string. Fasten it on the spit, put it down before a clear fire, dredge with flour, and baste liberally. When done enough, serve on a hot dish, and garnish with sliced lemon. Send melted butter to table in a tureen. Time to roast, half an hour or more. Probable cost, tripe, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for three or foui- persons. Tripe Stewed in its own Jelly (Bir- mingham way).—Take some clean, fat, white tripe. Throw it into boiling water for ten minutes, drain and dry it, and cut it into pieces. Roll these up neatly, and tie them round with thin string. Put them into an earthen jar which has a closely-fitting lid, and put with them a knuckle of veal or a calf's foot, and a little salt and pepper. Place the lid on the jar, and put it in a large pan of boiling water, keep it boiling, and add more water when required. When done enough, lift out the jar without dis- turbing the contents, and put it in a cool place. The tripe should remain in its own jelly until wanted, when it may be taken out and dressed in various ways. It will keep for three or four days. Time to stew, eight hours or more. Probable cost, tripe, 8d. per pound. Tripe Stewed with Bacon. —Take two pounds of fresh white tripe, half a pound of bacon, and a calf's foot. Cut the tripe into pieces three inches square, and scald these in boiling water for five minutes. Bone the foot, scald it for ten minutes, and cut it into six or eight pieces. Divide the bacon also into pieces convenient for serving. Put the meat into a stewpan with a large bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, three large onions, two cloves, and a little pepper and salt, and pour in as much broth as will cover the whole. A glassful of brandy may be added or not. Cover the saucepan closely, let its contents boil, then draw it to the side, and let them simmer very gently until the meat is done enough. Take out the herbs, skim the sauce carefully, and serve the stewed meat in a tureen with the sauce poured over it. Send it to table as hot as possible. Time to stew, three hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for five or six persons. Trotters, Sheep's.—Take six or eight sheep's feet. Reinovo the wool, and singe them, then throw them into faat-boiling water, let thom bf>il quickly for five minutes, dxiiin them, 2 u and let them cool. Take the foot firmly in the left hand, give the bone a jerk with the right hand, and draw it out. Cut the hoof from the end of the foot, and put the feet into cold water. Let them boil, then simmer them aa gently as possible untU they are quite tender. Fill them with good veal forcemeat, and bind the feet with packthread to keep them in shape. Put them into a stewpan with as much of the liquor in which they were boiled as will cover them, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil them gently for half an hour, lift them out, and lay them on a dish. Strain the sauce, boil it down to glaze, and brush this over the feet. The trotters may be accompanied by tomato sauce, Robert sauce, or piquant sauce, and any stewed vegetables, or they may be eaten cold with oil and vinegar. Time to boil the trotters, three or four hours. Sufficient, three or four for a small dish. Trotters, Sheep's (another way),—^See also Mutton Trotters. Trotters, Sheep's, Fried.-Stuff and stew the trotters as above. Make a frying- batter as follows :—Mix a pinch of salt witli five ounces of flour, and mix smoothly with thir a quarter of a pint of water. Beat the yolks of two eggs with two table-spoonfuls of olive oil or oUed butter, and add the mixtui'e to the batter. Put it in a cool place for an hour or two, and a few minutes before it is wanted stir in the well-whisked whites of the eggs. Dip the trotters into the batter, and then fry in plenty of hot fat till they are lightly browned. Serve on a hot dish, and send tomato or Robert sauce to table with them. Time to fry, a few minutes. Sufficient, three or four for a small dish. Trotters, Sheep's, Marinaded.—Bone and boil the trotters till tender, according to the dii-ections already given, and press them between two dishes till cold. Cut them into neat slices, and lay them in a marinade made with two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, a table- spoonful of oil, and a little pepper and salt. Let them lie in this for an hour, place them on a sieve, and drain for twenty minutes. Dip the pieces separately in batter, and fry them as in the last recipe. Time to boil, three hours and a half; to fry, a few minutes. Trout.—There are two or three kinds of trout—common trout, sea trout, and white trout. The sea trout reaches a good size, but the white trout never does. River trout is a most de- hcicus fish, highly esteemed by epicures. It is seldom met with of a large size, and those are most debcate m flavour which weigh from three quarters of a pound to one pound. The female fish IS considered better than the male. It may be known by its body being deeper and its head smaller than the other. Trout may be dressed m various ways, amongst which bailing is the last to be recommended, as it is then rather msipid in flavour. It is in season from May to September, and is m perfection in June. Trout (Ji la Genovese)._Take two moderate- sized trout clean carefully, and wipe them dry Dissolve a quarter of a poimd of fresh butter m a stewpan, and put with it a smallTEO TRO ( 994 ) onion stuck with a clove, a small hunch of parsley, and a sprig of tliynu\ a salt-spoouful of salt, and half a salt-spoonful of whito pepper. Mix thoroughly, and add half a pint of Khcrry or madeira. iSimmor the trout very gently till the eyes start. I'our off tlio liquor, leaving only sullieient to ke(;p the fish moist, thicken with flour and butter, let it boil up, then servo tho fish on a hot dish with part of the sauce poured over it and tho rest in a tureen. If this dish is considered too extravagant, the fish may bo boiled in stock flavoured with sherry, then thickened with flour and butter, and flavoiu-ed with the strained juice of a lemon, a tea-spoon- ful of anchovy essence, and a little salt and cayenne. Time, ten minutes or more, accord- ing to size. Probable cost—very uncertain. Sufficient for two or three persons. TEO0T. Trout (a I'Aurore).—Take two moderate- sized trout, empty them, remove the gills and fins, scrape off the scales, then wash carefully, and wipe them dry. Put into the kettle as much water as will cover the fish, and with each quart put a table-spoonful of salt and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Put the trout into the water when it is boiling, and boil gently: when the eyes start they are done enough. Lift them out carefully, drain them, place them in a hot dish, and cover en- tirely with a sauce prepared as foUows:— Beat the yolks of throe eggs thoroughly, and mix with them a quarter of a pint of white sauce, an ounce of grated parmesan, a tea- spoonful of chilli vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence. Stir the sauce over a gentle fire until it begins to thicken ; it is then ready. Boil two eggs till hard, mince them finely, mix a table-spoonful of grated parmesan with them and sprinkle the mixture over the fish, i ut it in the oven for about a quarter of an hour till it is hot through, brown the surface with a salamander or red-hot shovel, then pour a little shrimp, tomato, or lol)ster sauce round the tisn, and serve it very hot. Time, trout weighing about a pound, ten or twelve minu es to boil, \arffe trout, twenty minutes. Probable coat, un- certoin. Sufficient for thice or four persons. Trout, Baked.—Clean and dry the fish, and season tliem inside and out with a little salt and cayenne and a pinch of powdered mace if liked. I'ut them in a baking-dish, and lay little pieces of butter here aii(l there upon them, liaste occasionally with the liquor tliat colleds in the i)an. Baked trout rniiy be served liot or cold. If served liot, the fish gravy should be mixed with a Uttle good melted butter, and sent to table in a tureen. When it is a convenience, several trout may be baked together. They should be put into the dish in layers, and a little seasoning, chopped parsley, and butter should be placed between each layer. Time, according to size. The trout are done enough when the flesh leaves the bone easily. Trout, Baked (another way). — Wa«h, empty, and dry three or four small trout, split them open, and remove the bones. Lay three or four thin slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a baking-dish, lay the trout upon these, skin uppei-most, and sprinkle a little pepper, 8<ilt, grated nutmeg, and chopped parsley over them. Bake in a quick oven, and serve very hot. Time to bake, haK an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Trout, Baked (M. Tide's recipe).—Having emptied and scaled the trout, put a well-sea- soned stuffing inside, then turn it round with its tail fixed in its mouth. Put the fish in a small quantity of marinade, so that it may not burn in the oven. Baste fi-equently, and let it be made a fine colour. When it is done reduce the liquor in which the trout has been baked, put in a good lump of fresh butter kneaded with flour, with a little essence of anchovies, a few fine capers, salt, and pepper, if the sauce is not sufficiently seasoned ; but be careful when you use anchovies not to use too much salt. Then squeeze the juice of a lemon, drain the fish, send it up to table with the sauce under it, but without covering the fish. Trout, Boiled.—Clean, empty, and dry the fish, and put them into fast-boiling water, to each quart of which a dessert-spoonful of salt and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar have been added. Eemove the scum as it rises, and boil the fish until the eyes start. Drain it, and lift it out carefully not to break the skin, serve on a hot napkin or fish-paper, and gamish ■\\dth parsley or lemon. Send melted butter, shrimp sauce, anchovy sauce, or Dutch sauce to table in a tureen. The great angler, Tsaak Walton, recommends that trout should be boiled in a mixture of beer, vinegar, and water, in which the rind of a lemon, and a little rosemarv, thjTiie, winter savory, and horseradish had been boiled. Time, a trout weighing one pound, from t(^n to twelve minutes' boiling; two pounds, fifteen minutes; three pounds, twenty minutes. Trout, Boiled Plain (^I- T'de's recipe) —After having emptied, scaled, and wa.shed the fish, have some boiling water rciu which put the trout with a good handf ul oi sjilt only, but no vinegar, as it spoils the colour of the' fish. Whon it is done, dram it well, and serve it up on a clean cloth garnished with parsley. Send up lobster sauce separately in aTRO ( 995 ) TRO boat, or Dutch sauce. The length of time it should boil is left to the judgment of the cook ; the si/e detoi-mines the time. But keep in mind that when the fish remains long in the water it loses its flavour and quality ; for this reason take care to boU it precisely at the time it is wanted. Trout, Broiled.—Choose some moderate- sized trout; empty, wash, and drj^ thera, then spHt the fish down the back, and, without injuring it, spread it open on a dish. Season with salt and cayenne, and a little lemon- juice, and brush it well all over with oil or clarified butter. Broil it over a clear fire, turning and basting it with butter every now and then. Serve on a hot dish, and send parsley, mushroom, or piquant sauce to table in a tureen. Some cooks split the trout open, rub them all over with salt, let them lie two or three hours, then hang them up till wanted, or for eight or ten hours before boiling them. Time to broU, five minutes or more, according to size. Trout, Choosing of.—The female fish is considerea the best. It may be known by its head being smaller and its body deeper than that of the male. When trout is fresh, the skin is most beautiful in appearance, silvery and golden tints intermingling, the eyes are bright, the gills red, and the body firm. The most deUcate trout are those which weigh I about a pound. The fish is in season from May to September. Trout, Collared.—"Wash, empty, and dry the trout. Cut off the heads, split them open, and take out the bones. Sprinkle a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace over the in- side, roll each fish separately, and tie it round with a little cotton. Lay the fish side by side in a baking-dish, pour over them equal parts of beer and vinegar sufficient to cover them, and put two or three bay-leaves, and a dozen peppercorns or more into the liquor. Tie a sheet of buttered paper over the dish, and bake the trout in a moderate oven. When they are half done, turn them over that they may be equally cooked all through, and baste them once or twice with the liquor. Time to bake, one hour. Trout. Filleted.—Clean and dry the trout, and raise the flesh from the bones by passing a sharp knife close to the spine. Divide the flesh into neat pieces convenient for serving, dip these into beaten egg, and after- wards roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain on blotting-paper before the fire for five or six minutes, and then serve on a hot dish. Garnish the dish with shrimps, prawns, pars- ley, or lemon, and send shrimp sauce, anchovy sauce, tomato sauce, or tartar sauce to table in a tureen. Time to fry, about eiglit or ton minutes. Trout, Fried. —-Empty, clean, and dry the fish thoroughly, cut ofl; the fins and gills, but leave the heads on. Rub them over with flour, and fry them in plenty of hot fat. When they are brown on one side, turn them carefully apon the otlior. Lift them out, and fli-ain thciu on blotting-paper before the fire. Serve on a hot napkin, garnish with parsley, and send plain melted butter or any other suitable sauce to table with them. If liked, the flour may be dusted off, and the trout may afterwards be dipped in beaten egg, covered with bread- crumbs, and fried as before. This is a favourite way of dressing trout. Time to fry, six to ten minutes, according to size. Sufficient, three or four trout for a dish. Trout in Jelly. —Wash the fish carefully, and form them into rings with their tails in their mouths. Boil water with a little vine- gar, salt, a shaUot, or clove of garlic, and any approved seasoning. Set it aside to cool, and when cold lay in the fish, and sinmaer for a few minutes after the water has just come to the boil. Lift the fish out carefully, drain them, and baste with clear fish jelly. When the fish basting has set lay on another, until the fish are nicely coated. Arrange and garnish to taste. Trout, Pickled.—Take the remains of cold boiled or stewed trout. Remove the skin and bones, divide the flesh into neat pieces, put these into a deep dish, and strain over them a pickle prepared as follows:—Mince three, moderate-sized onions, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of an egg, a chopped turnip, a bunch of parsley, a I sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a dessert-spoonful of salt, and a tea-spoonful of white pepper. Stir these ingredients over a gentle fire for five minutes; pour over them a pint of vinegar and a pint of boiling water. Let the liquor boil for twenty minutes, and it will be ready for use. Trout thus pickled will keep three or four days, and the same pickle may be used three or four times if it is freshly boiled when required. Trout, Potted.—Take six or eight mode- rate-sized fresh fish; scrape them, empty them, cut ofl: the fins and heads, split them open, and remove the back-bone. Mix three tea-spoonfuls of salt with an equal quantity of white pepper and a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, or half a grated nutmeg. Rub a portion of thjs seasoning into the insides of the fish, close them, and place them in layers head to tail in a deep baking-dish, put little pieces of butter between the layers and on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. As soon as they are done enough, drain off the liquor in the paii, and lay the trout full-length in a potting-jar. When cold, cover them a quarter of an inch, thick with clarified butter which is just begin- ning to stiffen, and set them in a cool place till wanted. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Trout, Potted (another way).—-See Grilse or Trout, To Pot. Trout, Potted (another way).—Take six or eight fresh trout, cut off the heads, fins, and tails, empty them, split them open, and bone them. Lay them, backs uppermost, in a dish, a,nd press them together. Tie the following spices in muslin :—Half a tea-spoonful of pep- percorns, a tea-spoonful of ginger, three salt- spoonfuls of s;ilt, two b;iv-l(>aves, two cloves, three allspice, and a pinch of cayenne. Lay tliia.TBO TBO ( 996 ) bag upon the fish, with half a pound or more of good butter broken into pieces. Cover the dish closely, and put it into a gentle oven. Wh/ju the fish are done enough, lift out the bag of seasoning, and set the trout in a cool airy place till wanted. Time to bake, an houi- and a half. Trout, Salmon.—This, called also the sea trout, appears to form a connecting-link between the salmon and the common trout. It, like the salmon, frequents both the sea and rivers, ascending the latter to spawn. It is for the most part found in the rivers of moun- tainous countries, and is common in Wales and the lake district of England. It seldom exceeds a foot in length, and is a very delicious fish. Trout, Sauces for.—Any of the follow- ing sauces may be served with boiled trout: —Plain melted butter, anchovy sauce, shrimp stiuce, parsley sauce, Dutch sauce, ravigote sauce, or a sauce prepared thus:—Boil half a pint of melted butter with two table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Mix the yolk of an egg with another table-spoonful of cream, and stir the thickening into the sauce, first letting it cool for one minute; add the juice of a lemon and a pinch of salt, and stir the sauce over the fire until it is on the point of boiling. Lift it off, and stir into it an oimce of fresh butter until it is dissolved. Serve the sauce in a tureen or poured over the fish. Or bone and skin an anchovy, and pound the flesh in a mortar with a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tablcj- spoonf ul of chopped chives, or a minced shallot, a table-spoonful of capers, a dessert-spoonful of flour, and a piece of butter the size of an egg. When the mixture is quite smooth, stir it into a pint of the liquor in which the fish was boUed. Let it boil a minute or two, and send it to table in a tm-een. Fried trout is very good served cold and accompanied by salad sauce. Trout, Souchet.—Clean and empty five or six small trout, and dry them well. Cut four parsley roots into strips an inch long and very narrow, and boiL these in a pint and a half of water, together with a tea-spoonful of salt and a tea-spoonful of finely-scraped horseradish. In five minutes throw in a handful of small sprigs of parsley. Let the water boil up again, put in the trout, draw the pan back imme- diately, and simmer the fish gently until done enough. Serve the fish in a deep dish with the water, parsley, &c., and send slices of thin brown bread and butter to table with it. Time to boil the fish, ten or twelve minutes. Pro- bable cost, uncertain, trout being seldom offered for sale. Suflicient for five or six persons. Trout, Stewed.—Take two moderate- sized trout, empty, wash, and dry them well. Put them in a stewpan, and pour over them as much stock as will barely cover them, and a glassful of port or claret, then add a small onion finely minced, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-loaf, two cloves, a pinch of powdered mace, and a little pepper and salt. Let them simmer very gently until the fish are done enough. Lift them out carefully, and put them on a hot diah. Strain the gravy. thicken it with a tea-spoonful of brown thicken- ing or with a little flour and butter, stir it over the fire till it coats the spoon, pour it over the fish, and servo very hot. Time to stew the fisli, half an hour to three-quarters, according to size. Sufficient for two peraona. Trout, Stewed (another way).—Empty, clean, and dry one large, or two moderate-sized, trout, and partially fry it in hot butter till it is lightly browned. Pour over it as much good stock as will barely cover it, and add a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, a roll of thin lemon-rind, a finely-minced shiillot, and a little jjepper and salt. Let it simmer very gently until done enough. Place it on a hot dish, thicken the gravy with a tea-spoonful of brown thicken- ing, boil it till of the proper consistency, and strain it over the fish. A glassful of port or claret or a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice may be added or not. Time to simmer the fish, half an hour to three-quarters, according to size. Suflicient for two persons. Trout Stewed in Wine. — Empty, clean, and diy two or three fresh trout; put them in a stewpan, pom- over them equal parts of good gravy and either claret, port, or madeira, and add a moderate-sized onion, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, six allspice, two cloves, and a little salt. Let them simmer gently until done enough. Take them up carefully, strain the gravy, thicken it with brown thickening, and flavom- with a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice or chilli vinegar, a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence, and a des- sert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Strain the sauce over the flsh, and serve very hot. Time to simmer, half an hour to three-quarters, according to the thickness of the fish. Suf- ficient for a small dish. Trout, Wayside Inn.—Clean and empty the trout, dry them, and boil them imtil done enough. Lift them out carefully so as not to break them, put them upon a hot dish without a napkin, and cover them entirely with rich melted butter. Sprinkle a table-spoonful of chopped gherkins over the sauce, and garnish the dish with parsley and sliced lemon. Time to simmer the fish, ten to twenty minutes, according to size. Trout, with Genoese Sauce.—Empty, clean, and dry two moderate-sized fresh trout, and put them into a kettle of boiling water with a table-spoonful of salt and a table- spoonful of vinegar. Boil the fish gently until they are done enough, then lift them up carefully, and pom- over them some sauce pre- pared as follows:—Thicken a pint of good stock Avith a dessert-spoonful of brown thickening, and boil it till it is smooth and coats the spoon. Put with it a glassful of claret or port, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, the eighth of a nutmeg gi-atcd, a small lump of sugar, and pepper and salt if required. Stir the sauce over the fire for five or six minutes, take it ofi^, aiul stir into it a piece of fi-esh butter the size of a walnut until it is dissolved. Pour the saurc over Iho trout, and servo inunediaUny.( 997 ) TBU TBir Time to boil, according to size. The fish is done enough when the eyes start. Sufficient for two persons. Half this quantity of sauce may be made, but the proportion sliould be maintained. Truffle.—The truffle is a kind of mushroom without roots, which is found at a considerable depth underground, principally in oak forests. As there is no appearance on the surface to indicate their presence underneath, pigs and dogs are employed to find them out, and when they begin to scratch the ground the men who are with them dig until they are found. There are three kinds—black, red, and white, and the difference arises from the different degrees of ripeness to which the truffle has attained. The black being the ripest are the best. Truffles grow on the Con- tinent much more abundantly than they do in England. Pcrigord, in the South of France, is TRTJPFLES. quite" celebrated for them. They are seldom eaten alone, but are used for flavouring pies, ragouts, and sauces, for stuffing poultry, and for garnishing dishes. When good they have an agreeable aroma, and are light and elastic. They are best when fresh, and lose much of their flavour when preserved. They are almost extravagantly esteemed by epicures, and are very expensive. The passion for truffles is an acquired one; it requires an education to un- derstand them properly, but those who have acquired the taste regard the truffle as the best of edible substances. Yet irreverent no\aces make light of them, and compare them to turnips flavoured with tar, and young people . seldom care for them. They are in season from I October to January, though bottled truffles i maybe bought at the Italian warehouses at any time. I'robable cost, fresh truffles, 6s. to 18s per pound; bottled truffles, Is. lOd. for a small itottle. Truffle Puree.—Wash, brush, and peel half a pound of fresh truffles. Pound them with an ounce of butter and press thorn through a hair sieve. Put them into a stewpan with half a pint of good brown sauce, and let them boil for ton minutes. Just before serving the puree, dissolve an ounce of glaze and an ounce of butter in the puree, and, if obtainable, add to it two table-spoonfuls of essence of truffles. Time to boil, ten minutes. Truffle Sauce. — Clean and peel four truffles, and cut them into squares of a quarter of an inch eaoh way. Put them into a stewpan with half a pint of good brown sauce, and stir over a gentle fire for ten minutes. Add a glassful of sherry, and, if liked, a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and serve. Time, ten minutes to boil the sauce. Probable cost, fresh truffles, from 6s. to 18s. a pound ; bottled truffles. Is. lOd. for a small bottle. Sufficient for four or five persons. Truffle Sauce (another way).—Wash half a dozen truffles, and peel them, slice them, and lay them in a stewpan with one or two shallots or a little onion and parsley, a piece of butter, some salt, and a glassful of wine. Let the truffles stew closely covered till reduced and soft, then add enough gravy and water or broth, some flour thickening, and a little grated gin- ger. Boil the sauce again for ten minutes, and skim off the fat. Truffle Sauce (another way).—Take half a pound of well-cleaned and peeled truffles. Put them into a stewpan with as much brown gravy as will cover them, and put with them a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, a shallot, and an ounce of butter. Let them simmer very gently until tender, and when they are half done put a glassful of sherry into the sauco. Take them out, drain them, and cut them into thin slices. Strain the gravy, thicken it with a little brown thickening, heat the slices in the sauce, and serve very hot. Time to boil th« truffles, about one hour. Truffled Butter {see Butter, Truffled). Truffles (a la Serviette) .—Wash the truffles in several waters, brush them thoroughly to free them from earth and grit, and drain them. Line a stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon, put in the truffles, cover wdth rich veal gravy, and add a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, five or six cloves, a bunch of small onions, and three or four sticks of celery, with a glassful of wine or not. Simmer the truffles gently until done enough, and let them get cold m the Uquor. When wanted for table heat them agam, drain them well, and dish them in a folded napkin. Truffles a la Serviette are usually sent to table with a little cold butter on a separate dish, and without sauce. Time to simmer half to three-quarters of an hour. Truffles (a la Serviette—another way).— Wash the truffles in several waters, and brush them thoroughly. Wrap them separately in buttered paper, and bake them in a hot oven or toast them before the fire in a Dutch oven turning them frequently that they may be equally cooked. Eemove the paper, y^-ipe the truffles, and serve them on a neatly-folded white table-napkin. Time to bake, one hour. Truffles (a I'ltalienne). —Cleanse well, dry, and pare ten truffles, and cut them into thm sbces. Put them into a small frying-pan with an ounce of fresh butter, a minood shnllnt a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and ft littleTBU ( 998 ) pepper and salt. Stir over a gentle firo till they are done enough, wliich will bo in about ton minutes, then pour otf part of the butter, and add an ounce of fresh butter, two tublo- spoonfuls of thick brown gravy, with a httio cayenne, and the juice of half a lonion. Ktir the mixture over the lire until it is on tho point of boiling, and serve very hot. Time, altogether, about twenty minutes. TruflELes (a I'ltalienno — another way). Cleanse thoroughly, dry, and pare eight trulUes, cut them into thin slices, and put them into a baking-dish with a quarter of a pint of Lucwi oil, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thyme, another of powdered mace, and a little pepper and salt. Let them bake gently nearly an hour, squeeze the strained juice of half a lemon over them, and servo very hot. If liked, a clove of garlic may be minced and put with them. Time to bake, one hour. Truffles aux Champagne. — On the subject of truffles prepared in this way, the late Alexandre Dumas' " Dictionnaire Gastrono- mique " waxes enthusiastic. " What," he says, " can be more exhilarating, more divine, than truffles aux Champagne i' Take a pound of truffles, pour a bottle of Ai mousseux into a saucepan; throw in the truffles, together with a little salt, and let them boil in the wine for half an hour; then serve them hot on a snow- white napkin. Who could resist the power of this composition, which charms the palate and tickles the fancy ? How its enchanting aroma caresses, flatters, and rejoices I " Truffles, Bottled.—Soak the truffles for an hour or two in fresh water, wash them well in several waters, brush them until they are quite clean, and pare them. Put them into wide-mouthed and perfectly dry bottles, and put in each bottle a sprig of thyme, a large pinch of salt, and a table-spoonful of cold water. Cork the hottles closely, and tie them down secxirely. Wrap a wisp of hay round them to keep them from cracking, put them side by side in a large stewpan, and pour in sufficient cold water to reach up to their necks. Bring the liquor to the boil, then draw the saucepan to the side, and keep it simmering gently for half an hour. Let the bottles remain untouched till they are cold, wax the corks, and store the truffles in a cool place. As English truffles are much cheaper than French ones, it is good economy to bottle them when they are in season for future use. Care should be taken to 1 smell them before bottling, and to reject any that are in tho least musty. They are best in December and January. Time to boil the truffles, half an hour. Truffles, Buisson of.—Choose as many largo round truffles as may be required, cleanse them thoroughly, stew them as for Truffles b. la Serviette, and let them cool m the liquor. Take a stale quartern loaf, cut off the crust and carve the crumb to an oval shape. Place this ui)on a white napkin on a dish, cover with parsley, and stick about a do^en of the truffles aU round it with silver skewera, PUe the rest on the top, and serve. Time to stow the truffles, nearly an hour. Truffles, Capon Roasted with {m Capon roasted with Truffles). Truffles for Garnish.—Truffles which are to ho used for garniKliing various dishes may either be cleaned, pared, and boiled whole, then left to cool in their liquor, or they may be cut up into slices before being boiled. It sliould bo reiiiemlwned that tlie licjuor in which tliey are boiled will be excellent for sauce, and th!),t if well cleaned the parings may be stewed to flavour sauces. Many cooks boil the truffles whole, and afterwards cut them up into dif- ferent shapes before using them for garnisliing. Time to boil moderate-sized truffles for garnish, about a quarter of an houi'. Truffles for Garnish (another way).— See Garnish, Truffles for. Truffles, French.—In Piedmont, white truffles are met with. The best truffles of France come from Perigord and Upper Pro- vence. About the month of January they have theu" highest perfume. Those from Bugey ' have also a high flavour, but cannot be preserved. Those of Burgunay and Dauphiny are of in- ferior quality. They are hard and deficient in farinaceous matter. Truffles, Ortolans Stewed with (see Ortolans Stewed with Truffles). Truffles, Partridges Braised with (see Partridges Braised with Truffles). Truffles, Potted.—Wash, brush, peel, and slice si-x. ounces of fresh truffles. Dissolve a pound of fresh butter; skim it carefully, pour it into a basin, and let it stand two or three minutes, then pour the pure oiled part away from the thick milky substance which will have settled at the bottom. Put the sliced truffles into a delicately-clean stewpan, and pour the butter gently over them. Let it stand until it is set, then put the saucepan on a slow fire, and stew the truffles very gently until they are tender. Lift them into' dry preserving jars, cover them with the butter, and store them in a cool and perfectly dry place. They will keep for months, and will be a most acceptable addition to the breakfast or luncheon table. The butter which remains after the truffles are thoroughly covered, so as to exclude the air, may be potted separately, and may be used for flavouring sauces and various d(!licate pre- parations. Time to stew the truffles, twenty minutes, or more. Truffles, Preserved. — Keep them in well-corked bottles in salad-oil. Truffles, Shoulder of Lamb with {sec Lamb, Shoulder of, with Truflles). Truffles Stewed in Champagne.— Take ten or twelve largo truflles, soak them for a couple of hours, rinse them in several waters, and scrub them thoroughly. Lfiv a thin slice of fat bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, put in tho truffles, and add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a little grated nutmeg, and, if liked, a carrot, a turnip, a bunch of green onions, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thj-me, a bay-leaf, two orTBir ( 999 ) TUB three cloves, and a blade of mace. Half cover the trufHes vnth good veal stock, let them simmer half an houi-, then add a bottle of dry champagne, and simmer for another half hour, keeping them very closely covered. They may either be drained, dried, and sei-ved cold in a silver dish, or on a dish covered with a nap- kin, with the sauce served cold in a tureen, or they may be heated and served hot, with the liquor, strained and considerably reduced, poured over them. Time to stew the truffles, one hour. Truffles, Stuffing of, for Sucking Pig (f^e Pig, Sucking, Stuffing of Truffles for). Truffles, Timbale of.—Line a plain round mould with good puff paste. Take six or eight large fresh truffles; wash and brush them thoroughly, and cut them into thin slices. Put them into a small frying-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, shake them over a brisk fire, and be careful not to break them. Drain them, and put them into the mould, place the cover on the top, make a hole in the centre for the steam to escape, and bake in a hot oven. When the pastry is done enough, make up the hole, and turn the timbale on a dish. Make an opening in the top, and pour in a small quantity of good gravy, then lay a slice of truffle in the opening, and serve. Time to fry the sliced truffle, five or six minutes. Truffles, To Prepare for Use.—Soak the truffles for one or two hours in cold water, or if necessary in lukewarm water, to loosen the earth from them. Rinse them well several times, and brush them carefully, until they are delicately clean. Dry them in a soft cloth, and pare them very thinly. The parings of truffles should be used for flavouring purposes. Truffles, with Eggs.—Take a large truffle, clean and pare it, cut it into small pieces, and simmer it in a little butter over a gentle fire for five or six minutes. Drain it, and put it into a clean stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, half a dozen fresh eggs, two table-spoonfuls of thick cream, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Stir this mixture with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire until it begins to thicken, then draw it to the side, and beat it until the eggs set without being at aU hard. Put the preparation on a hot dish, and garnish with sippets. Time, altogether, ten or fifteen minutes. Tschi, or Russian Soup.—Take a pound of nicely-flavoured sausage meat. Make it into small balls, and fry these until they are slightly browned all over. Drain them from the fat, put them into a soup tureen, and pour orver them three pints of boiling soup prepared as follows:—Mince two large onions finely,and mix them with a small cabbage finely 'sliced. Put the whole into a stewpan with a piece of fresh butter the size of a large egg, and turn the vegetables about over a gentle fire until they are nicely browned. Sprinkle over them two ourices of flour, and moisten the whole with Uiree pints of nicely-flavoured stock. Stir the soup over the fire until it boils, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and lot it simmer gently for half an hour, skimming care- fully the whole of the time. Just before serving, put into it a table-spoonful of finely-minced lean ham, a glassful of light wine, and three or four tarragon-leaves finely shred. Serve very hot. Sufficient for five or six persons. Time, half an hour to simmer the soup after it has boiled. Tunbridge Cakes.—Rub two ounces of fresh butter into half a pound of dried and sifted flour. Add a pinch of salt, four ounces of powdered white sugar, two ounces of caraway- seeds, and as much water as will be required to make a stiff paste. Roll this out very thin, stamp it into small rounds, prick the surface lightly with a fork, and bake the cakes in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, fifteen to thirty minutes, according to size. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Tunbridge Puddings. — Boil a pint of new milk, and as it rises in the pan stir into it gradually as much flour as will make a thick batter. Beat it until quite smooth, pour it out, and when cold add three well-beaten eggs, a table-spoonful of sugar, and two or three drops of almond ratafia or any other flavouring. Throw the batter in spoonfuls on a large floured plate, dredge the surface well with flour, and drop the puddings into hot lard or clarified fat. Fry them till they are lightly and equally browned, and serve on a hot dish with white sugar sifted thickly over them. Time to fry, until brown. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. TDNNT FISH. Tunny.—Tunny is a kind of fish slightly resembhng the mackerel: it is caught in the Mediterranean, and sent to other parts preserved in oil. The flesh is delicate and highly esteemed, somewhat resembling veal To serve it, cut it in thin slices, and arrange these m rows overlapping each other. Put httle heaps of chopped parsley and capers round the dish, pour a little fresh salad oil over the fash, and serve. Turbot.—The turbot is the most hi'^hlv esteemed of aU flat fish. Its flesh is white.(1000 ) TUB TUB rich, and golatinouB. It is an oxponsive fish, and sold by size instead of wcif^ht. It will koop for a day or oven two if lightly salted. The thick part of the lins and the f^elatinous skin are the parts of the fish most relished liy epicm-os. Tho thick sUccs from the middle of the back aro the best parts. In preparing a turbot for dressing great care is necessary. First empty the lish, and cleanse the inside. Rub a littlo salt over the outside, as this will help to remove the slime, then wash the tui-bot in several waters. Dry it with a cloth, and rub it all over with a cut lemon to make it white._ On no accoimt cut off tho fins. Make an incision down the thickest part of tho middle of the back, that is the dark side of the lish, in order to keep the skin on the white side from cracking. Any unsightly red spots on the under side may be removed by rubbing them with salt and lemon-juice. A turbot is usually served the white side uppermost. Some cooks have an idea that the best slices are to be found on the dark side, and therefore serve it back upwards. When this is done the fish is usually garnished. Turbot is at the best from April to September. Moderate-sized fish are the best. Turbot (a la Bechamel). — This is a favourite method of dressing the remains of boiled turbot. Remove the flesh from the bones while it is still warm if possible, divide it into convenient-sized pieces, and take away all the skin. Put a pint of milk or cream, or equal parts of either milk and white stock or milk and cream, into a stewpan with a strip of thin lemon-rind, a finely-minced shallot, six peppercorns, and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Let it boil for ten minutes, then strain and thicken it with a large table-spoonful of flour mixed smoothly with a little cream, or butter. Stir the sauce over a gentle fire for five minutes, put in the slices of fish, and when they are quite hot turn the whole preparation upon a hot dish. A few oysters may be added to the sauce if liked, and if milk only is used, the sauce may be made richer by adding the yolks of two eggs mixed with a little cream. If this is done, care must be taken not to let the sauce boil after the eggs are added. Garnish the dish with sliced lemon and parsley, or with potato croquettes or toasted sippets. Time, three or four minutes to heat the fish in the sauce. Sufficient, a pound of cold turbot and the third of a pint of sauce for two persons. Turbot (a la Creme).—Take the flesh from the remains of a boiled turbot, free it from bones and skin, and divide it into neat pieces, season with a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, pour on it the grated juice of a lemon, and let it lie for an hour. Simmer half a pint of new milk with a strip of lemon-rind and a bay-leaf till it is pleasantly flavoured. Strain it over the fish, and lot it heat gently. Beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix them smoothly with a table-spoonful of flour and half a pint of thick cream. Stir this carefully into tho sauce, let it got quite hot, but on no account allow it to boil. Servo immediately. Time, a few minutes to heat tho fish in the sauce. Sufficient, a pound of fish for one or two persons. Turbot (i\ la Creme Gratin6).—Make tho fish hot in some good cream sauce, according to the last recipe. Arrange it neatly in a dish m layers, first a little fish, then a little sauce, and lot sauce be the uppermost layer. Strew seasoned crumbs and grated parmesan lightly over tho whole, jmur over this two or three tablo-spoonfuls of very thick croam, and put tho dish iuto tho oven to get quite hot. Urown the surface with a salamander or red-hot fire shovel, and serve very hot. Time, altogether, half an hour or more. Turbot (a la Creme d'Anchois).—BoU a moderate-yized turbot in the usual way, and place it carefully on a hot dish without a napkin. Flavour a pint of rich melted butter with one or two tea-spoonfuls of the essence of ancho\-ies, and add the eighth of a pint of thick cream. Mix the sauce over the fire, and when it is nearly boiling pour it over the fish. Sprinkle a table-spoonful of chopped capers or gherkins upon the surface, garnish the dish with a border of new potatoes, and serve very hot. Time, a few minutes to heat the sauce. Suf- ficient, this quantity of sauce for a moderate- sized fish. Turbot and Lobster Sauce.—Choose a very white and fine-skinned turbot three- quarters of an hour before dinner, or an hour if the turbot is very large, put it into boiling water and salt with lemon sUces over it; start it very quick ; when it begins to boil, draw the pan on the side of the fire. If the turbot boils too fast, it will be wooUy. "^Tien you have ascertained with your knife that it is quite done, serve with green parsley on the broken places, and put round the dish some horse- radish scraped fine; serve the lobster sauce separately in a boat. Make an aperture in the back of the turbot, and it will be the sooner done. Turbot, Baked.—Empty, wash, and drj- a moderate-sized turbot. Rub the inside of the dish in which it is to be baked with butter, and sprinkle upon it a little pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, and finely-chopped parsley. Place the turbot upon this, and sprinkle a littlo more seasoning on the upper part of the fish. Put two or throe ounces of butter broken in httle pieces here and there upon it, dredge it well with flour, and add two glii-^sfuls of light wme. and, if it is at hand, one or two tablc-spoonfnls of oyster-broth or mushroom-juice. Bake tho( 1001 ) TUB f.ph in n moderate oven, and when it is done fuough lift it carefully upon tho dish on wliich it is to bo served, keep it hot, aud prepare the sfiuce as follows:—Pour the hquor from the baking-dish into a saucepan, thicken with a httle flour and butter, stir over the fire for a minute or two, and then serA'e in a tureen. The sauce may bo varied by the addition of a little essence of anchovy, nutmeg, cayenne, and lemon-juice; or a little white sauce may be added, or a dozen mushrooms,' or a dozen scalded and bearded oysters. Garnish the turbot with scraped horseradish and sUced lemon or fried bread or green parsley. Time to balce the turbot, twenty to thirty minutes, according to size. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient, a moderate-sized turbot for five or six persons. TUKBOT KETTLE. Turboty Boiled.—Empty the fish, wash it inside with scrupulous nicety, then remove the scales and gills, and trim the fins, but do not cut them off, as the gelatinous parts about them are esteemed a great delicacy. Rub a little salt all over the outside of the fish—this will make the slime come off more easily, and do away with the necessity for soaking the fish. AVash it until it is as clean as possible. Dry it, and rub it with a cut lemon or a little vinegar. Draw a sharp knife just through the skin in the thickest part of the middle of the back on the dark side of the fish. This is to keep the skin from cracking on the white side. Put as much cold water as will be required to cover the fish into a turbot-kettle, and dissolve in this a little salt in the proportion.' of six ounces of salt to a gallon of water. Bring the water to the boil and remove the scum as it rises. Lay the turbot on the fish-drainer the white side up, lower it into the boiling water, draw it back at once, and simmer the fish very gently until it is done enough. As soon as this point is reached, take it up, drain the water from it, and shp it, the white side up, upon a hot dish covered with a napkin or fish-paper. Garnish with parsley, cut lemon, and scraped horseradish, and if it should happen unfor- tunately that the fish is at all cracked, lay two or three little pieces of parsley upon it, so as to cover the crack. Plain melted butter, shrimp sauce, anchovy sauce, Dutch sauce, and lobster sauce may all be served with boiled turbot. When lobster sauce is used, a little of tho spawn may be rubbed through a sieve and sprinkled over the fish. Some cooks have an idea that the best parts of the fish lie in the back, therefore they dish tlie turbot with the dark side uppermost. However this may be, the turbot looks best with the white side on the top.^ It is impossible to give the exact time for boiling, as turbot varies much in thickness as wfll as in size. When the flesh appears to 2 o* shrink from the bone it is done, and it should be carefully watched, as if it boils too long it will be broken and spoilt. Time, a moderate- sized tui-bot, fifteen to twenty minutes to simmer gently from the time tho water boils; large, twenty to thirty-five minutes. Probable cost, uncertain. Turbot, Broiled.—Clean a small turbot, and di-y it well. Lay it on a dish, sprinkle a little pepper and salt on it, and pour over it four table-spoonfuls of oil and two of vinegar or lemon-juice. When it is to be dressed place it in a double gridiron, and broU it over a slow clear fire. Turn it every five or six minutes, and on each occasion brush it over with the marinade in the dish. When it is done enough —that is, when the flesh will leave the bone easily—put it upon a hot dish, and pour over it some good white sauce, or oyster sauce, or mussel sauce. Garnish with parsley and prawns. Time to broil, about half an hour. Turbot, Broiled (another way).—ISIari- nade the turbot in sweet oil, salt, pepper, &c., and broil it on a slow fire : it cannot be suf- ficiently done in this way in less than an hour. When you serve, cover with caper sauce, which is to be made as follows:—Make some melted butter with a Little glaze in it; when melted, throw in some essence of anchovies, a few capers, and a drop of vinegar. Then give a good seasoning, and pour the sauce over the fish. Turbot, Broiled, with Caper Sauce. —Take a small fish emptied and washed, make an incision in the back down to the bone ; then ■svipe it quite dry ; next lay it in a dish to steep in salt, pepper, and sweet oil; put in verj'- little oil, as it requires only sufficient to prevent it from drying. Half an hour, or even three- quarters of an hour, before dinner-time, broil the fish over a slow fire on both sides, and serve up with caper sauce. Turbot, Carving of .—Bun the fish-knife down from a to b, quite through the bone {see Fig. p. 1000); then cut slices in the direction of the dotted lines c e and c d. Turbot, Choosing of.—A middle-sized fish is the best. Turbot ought to be thick and of a cream-coloured white. If of a bluish tint and thin it is not good. The flesh ought to feel springy under pressure from the finger. Some- times turbot is slightly disfigured by having two or three red spots on the under side, and may be bought at a cheaper rate in consequence. These spots often disappear when they are rubbed \vith salt and lemon. Turbot is at its best from April to September. Turbot, Cold, To Serve a Second Time.—Turbot is so delicious and so ex- pensive that none of it should be wasted. The cold remains may he served in various ways, the different recipes for which are here given. They may be warmed in white sauce {see Turbot a la Bechamel and a la Creme), served with bread- crumbs {see Turbot a la Creme Gratine); they may be made into salad {see Turbot Salad), or curried, or pickled, or scalloped, or made into croquettes, or into a turbot pie, or into patties or vol-au-vents, or cut into neat pieces, andTUB TUR ( 1002 ) dervod cold with shrimp chutnoy. Tho follow- | ing is a simple and excellent recipe for di-essiufj; cold tui'bot a second time:—Remove tho skin and the bones, and divide the flesh into neat pieces convenient for servinf^. Warm any cold sauce that may be loft, and stir in with it a fourth of its quantity in milk or cream, and add a few di'ops of anchovy essence and a little pepper and salt. Put tho pieces of fish into tlie sauce, and lot them heat through, but do not lot them boil. Serve tho fish very hot. Time, three or four minutes to heat the fish. Turbot, Cold, with Shrimp Chut- ney.—Lift the llesh from the bones, free it from skin, and divide it into neat pieces. Lay it on a dish, garnish with green parsley, and send the following preparation to table with it: —Shell a pint of fresh shrimps, mince them finely, pound them to a smooth paste, and season with cayenne and a little salt if re- quired. Itlix with them lucca oil and best vinegar, enough to make a smooth paste. Tho proper proportions are one spoonful of vinegar to two of oil) but in regard to this individual taste must be consulted. The chutney when finished should be of the consistency of thick boiled custard. A little finely-minced shallot may be added or not. Turbot, Cooking of.—With a celebrated gastronomic philosopher, the turbot is the king of fish, especially in Lent, as it is then of most majestic size. You may serve up salmon with as much ornament as you will, but a turbot asks for nothing but aristocratic sim- plicity. On the day after he makes liis first appearance, it is quite another affair. It may be then disguised; and the best manner of ejBEecting this is to dress him a la Bechamel, a preparation thus called from the Marquis de Bechamel, who, in the reign of Louis XIV. for ever immortalised himself by this one ragout. Turbot Croquettes.—Take the remains of cold turbot; free the flesh from skin and bone, mince finely, season with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg, and add an equal weight of bread-crumbs moistened with very thick white sauce—or, failing this, hot milk—a little chopped parsley, and enough butter to form a smooth paste. Form the mixture into small balls or cones. Dip these first into beaten egg, and afterwards into bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly and equally browned aU over. Drain them from the fat, and serve neatly arranged on a napkin. Garnish the dish with parsley, and send good fish sauce to table in a tureen. Time to fry the croquettes, five or six minutes. Turbot, Curried.—Peel and mince finely a large onion, and fry it in butter till it is quite tender. Rub it through a sieve, and mix smoothly with the pulp a tea-spoonful of ground rice, a table-spoonful of curry-paste or powder, the strained juice of a lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of good stock, and simmer the sauce very gently for ten or twelve minutes. Add a little salt if necessarj', and two table- spoonfuls of thick cream. Put in about a pound of cold-drcsscd turbot, already freed from skin and bone, and divided into pieces an inch square. Let tho fish get quite hot, and serve tho curry on a hot dish, with a wall of boiled rice round it. Time, altogether, half an hour. Turbot Fillets.—A small turbot may bo used fur this purpose, or if a turbot is larger than is required for immediate use, it may \h) cut in halves, one half may be fiUeted, and tho other half dressed in a difl'erent way. Clean and dry the. fish, and raise the flesh from the bones with a sharp knife. Take ofl: the dark skin, but leave the white skin untouched. Divide tho meat into neat pieces the size and shape of small cutlets, and either fry, stew, or bake them. To fry them, dip them into beaten egg and bread-crumbs, fry in hot fat tiU they are lightly browned, drain them, serve neatly arranged like cutlets on a folded napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. To bake them, put a pound of the filleted meat, arranged in, a single layer, into a baking- dish with two ounces of sweet butter, a little pepper and salt, and the strained juice of a lemon. Put them in a brisk oven, baste well with the liquor, and bake until done enough. Dish them as before. To stew them, remove all the skin from the fish, dredge the fillets with, some flour, and fry them till they are lightly browned. Put them into the stewpan, and pour over them as much nicely-seasoned stock as will cover them. Let them stew gently imtil done enough. Lift them out of the sauce with a fish-slice, lay them on a hot dish, and keep them warm. Skim the gravy, thicken with a spoonful of brown thickening, add a spoonful of mushroom ketchup and a glassful of light wine, let it boil up, and strain it over the fish. Serve very hot. Time to frj' the fillets, five or six minutes; to bake them, about twenty minutes; to stew them, ten to fifteen minutes. Turbot, Fillets of (au Gratin).—Take the remains of dressed fish. Free it from skin and bone, and divide it into small neat fillets. Mince three or four button mushrooms finely, mix with them a table-spoonful of chopped parslpy and half a shaUot finely minced. Season with pepper and salt, and fry them over a gentle fire till they are soft. Spread them at the bottom of a small thickly-buttered silver—or, faiUng this, tin—^baking-dish, lay the pieces of fish upon them, and cover with a thick layer of finely-grated bread- crumbs. Stick little pieces of butter here and there on the top, moisten the fish with a Uttle light wine, and bake in a brisk oven. If ne- cessary, brown the surface by holding a red- hot shovel over it, or putting it before the fire for a minute or two, and just before sending the dish to table squeeze the juice of a lemon over the fish. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Turbot, Patties or Vol-au-vents of. —Lino some patty-pans with good puff-paste, or make some small vol-au-vents aocordmg to the direct .ons aheadv given {see Puff-Paste, Vol-au-vents of). Bake them, and while still hot fill them with the foUowing preparation: —Take tho white meat of the turbot freed from skin and bone, mince it finely, and( 1003 ) Ttm TTTB season with pepper and salt. Put into a stewpan two or thi-ee tablo-spoonfuls of thick cream, the quantity to bo regulated by that of the fish. Thicken the cream by boiHng it with a shco of butter rolled in flour, and when it is quite hot put the minced fish into it that it may heat also. It should be remembered that the seasoned mince should be of a good con- sistency, or it will soak through the pastry. Fill the hot patties or the hot vol-au-vents with the hot mince, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Time, a few minutes to prepare the mince. Turbot, Pickled.—Take the remains of a dressed turbot; lift the flesh from the bones in large pieces, and put these in a deep dish. Put the bones and tiimmings into a saucepan with a pint of water, and add an onion stuck with two cloves, a small turnip and carrot, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay- leaf. Simmer these gently for half an hour, then add a glassful of sherry, or, if preferred, a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Let the liquor cool, and strain it over the fish. Serve quite cold. Time to boil the pickle, half an hour. Turbot Pie.—Take the remains of cold turbot, free the white flesh from skin and bone, tear it into flakes, and season with pepper, salt, and a small portion of powdered mace. Spread it at the bottom of a thickly-buttered baking-dish, and pour over it any sauce that was left with it, either melted butter, white sauce, oyster sauce, or any other kind. If there is no cold sauce, put two or three ounces of clarified butter over the fish. Mash some potatoes with hot milk and a little butter, and spread a layer of these fully an inch and a half deep over the fish. Rough the top with a fork, and heat the pie in a brisk oven. If it is not nicely browned on the top, put it in front of a clear fire for a few minutes before sending it to table, or hold a salamander or a red-hot fire-shovel over it. Sei-ve very hot. Time to bake the pie, about half an hour. Turbot, Roe of. — Handle the roe as lightly as possible. Blanch and cut it into slices. Put it into a buttered dish, bake it imtil done enough, and keep it well basted during the process. Put it on a hot dish, and pour over it as much nicely-flavoured white sauce as will cover it. Garnish the dish with parsley and sliced lemon, and serve very hot. Time to bake the roe, fifteen to twenty-five minutes. Sufficient for a small dish. Turbot Salad.—The remains of dressed turbot will make a most delicious salad. Lift the flesh from the bones, free it from skin and bone, and divide it into pieces an inch and a half square. Season these slightly with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar, cover the dish on which they are, and leave them in a cool place tiU wanted. Wa.sh two large fresh lettuces or any suitable salad. Dry them perfectly by putting them in small quantities at a time into a clean cloth, then taking this up loosely by the four comers .and shaking the moisture from the loaves. Cut them into neat pieces half an inch broad, and leave them in an airy place till wanted. I3eat the raw yolks of two fieah eggs for two or thi-oc minutes, and mix with them a spoonful of mixed mustai'd, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a little white pepper. Add first by drops and afterwards by tea-spoonfuls four table-spoonfuls of lucca oil, and beat the sauce well for a minute between every addition. Afterwards stii- in gradually a tea-spoonful of good French vinegar and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Add more oil and vinegar in the same proportions until the sauce is of the consistency of thick boiled custard. Leave it in a cool place till wanted. Arrange the salad just before it is to be sent to table. First put a layer of lettuce lightly at the bottom of the dish. Put some turbot upon it, and repeat until the materials are used. Garnish the dish in any way that may be preferred with hard- boiled eggs, sliced cucumber, beetroot, olives, filleted anchovies, &c. Pour the sauce over at the last moment, and in arranging the salad pour a small quantity of sauce over each layer of fish. Time, half an hour to prepare the sauce. It is better for being made an hour or two before it is wanted. Turbot, Sauce for.—Tmbot may be served with plain melted butter, lobster sauce, Dutch sauce, parsley sauce, white sauce, shrimp sauce, muscle sauce, or Italian sauce. It is very good eaten cold with sliced cucumber and salad sauce. The great French cook Caremo never sent any other sauce than melted butter to table with turbot. Turbot, Scalloped.—Take the remains of cold turbot, Uft the flesh from the bones, and remove the skin. Weigh the white meat, and for each pound allow six ounces of grated bread-crumbs seasoned with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg. Cut the fish into small pieces, season with salt and pepper, and mix with it either a table-spoonfiil of cold sauce or two ounces of clarified butter. Butter some scaUop-sheUs rather thickly. Place a layer of seasoned crumbs at the bottom of each, then lay in the fish, and sprinkle more crumbs thickly on the top. Lay little pieces of butter here and there on the surface, and put the shells in a brisk oven. When they are quite hot lift them out, and serve the fish in the shells neatly arranged on a folded napkin. If scallop-shells are not at hand, a small baking- dish may be used instead. If preferred, the same quantity of mashed potatoes may be used instead of the bread-crumbs. Time to bako the fish in the shells, a quarter of an hour. Turbot, Stewed.—Take a small turbot, clean it perfectly, dry it well, and cut it into thin slices. Make a sauce of thin melted butter boiled up with a little salt and cayenne, a filleted anchovy, a dessert-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, a tea-spoonful of walnut pickle, and a glassful of claret. Fry the slices of fish in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain them, and put them into the sauce. Let thera simmer gently for five minutes. Take them up carefully with a fish-slice so as not to break them, lay them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and servo immediately. Garnish with sliced lemon. Time to fry the fish, five minutes; to simmer it in the sauce, five miuutea.TTTR ( 1004 ) Tlirbot, Timbales of (Ma Vt niiienno). —This in a dish mado of tho romains of turbot. It requires but littlo of tho Hesh of tho lish. Cut whatever Ih left of the turbot into dice m small as possible. To niako the sauce, take throe spoonfuls of liot bechamel, to which add a good lump of butter, salt, fine white pepper, a little parsley chopped very fine and well squeezed in a towel that it may not give a green colour to the sauco; then add a little oavice. Keep stir- ring your sauce, wliich is generally called working it. The IVench term is vanner— taking up the sauce in a spoon, and pouring it perpendicularly into the stewpan, repeat- ing the operation frequently and verj' quick to make the sauce transparent. When it is mellow, and of a good taste, throw in the turbot which you have cut into dice, keep it hot, and when ready for sending to table gar- nish the little timbulea with the turbot. Let them lay for a moment in the oven, and serve hot. Turesicus.—Take part of a cold boiled leg of mutton, mince it very fine, mix it with rice, season very lightly with black pepper, add salt, and make it into balls the size of a small egg. Tie each ball separately in a cabbage-leaf, boil it about half an hour, and serve at once very hot. Turin Cakes. — Blanch two ounces of sweet almonds and four bitter ones, and pound them to a paste with the white of an egg. Beat the yolks of five fresh eggs, and work in with them gradually the almond paste and eight ounces of powdered white sugar. When these ingredients are well beaten, add an ounce of potato-flour, two ounces of fine flour, and the well-whisked whites of the eggs. Pour the preparation into buttered and sugared tartlet- tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about half an hour, according to size. Probable cost, Is. 2d. for this quantity. Turkey.—The turkey is highly esteemed and usually commands a high price, especially at Christmas, when most extravagant prices are often demanded and obtained for large, well-fed birds. Turkeys are in season from September to March, and are at their best in December and January. If the weather is suitable, they should be hung fully a week before being dressed. In very cold weather, care must be taken that they are not frozen in hanging, and if this is the case, they should be brought into a warm place for some hours before being cooked, or they will be spoilt. The hen bird is considered the best. Brillat Savarin says:—" The turkey is the largest, and if not the most delicate, at least the most savoury, of domestic poultry. It enjoys the singular advantage of assembling round it every class of society. When our farmers and wne- growers regale themselves on a winter's even- ing, what do we see roasting before tho kitchen fire, close to which the white-clothed table is set P A turkey. When the useful tradesman, or the hard-worked artist, invites a few friends to an occasional treat, what dish is he expected to set before them P A nice roast turkey stuffed with sausage meat and Lyons chestnuts. And in our highest gastronomical society, when politics are obliged to give way to dissertations on mutters oi taste, wJuit is desired, what in awuitcd, what is looked out for at the Be(x»nd course p A trulii(;d turkey. In my 'Secret Memoirs,' I liiid sundry notes recording that on inany occasions its restorative juice has illumined diplomatic faces of the highest emi- nence." Turkey, Blanquette of.—Cut the meat from the remains of a dressed turkey into neat slices, cover these with a cloth, and set them in a cool place till wanted. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan with two ounces of lean ham or a piece of bacon-rind, a small onion finely-minced, a blade of mace, and as much cold stock or water as will cover them. Let all simmer gently together for half an hour or more. fStrain the liquor, and put it back into the saucepan with haLE a gill of thick cream, half a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Let the sauce simmer for ten minutes, put' in the slices of turkey, let them heat for two or three minutes, then add gi-adually the well-beaten yolk of an egg, and be careful to mix a little of the sauce with the egg in a basin before putting it to the rest. Stir gently for a few minutes till the sauce is set, but on no account allow it to boil after the egg is added. Serve the preparation on a hot dish with toasted sippets round it. Time, altogether, about an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold turkey, 9d. Sufiicient, with a pound of meat, for two or three persons. Turkey, Boiled.—There is an old pro- verb which says that turkey boiled is turkey spoiled, but in this couplet there is more rhyme than reason, as a boiled turkey forms a dainty dish most acceptable to persons with dehcate stomachs, who fear the richness of the roasted bii'd, and also presents an agreeable change to those who during the Christmas festivities are tired of having roasted turkey constantly set before them. A boiled turkey is prepared as follows:—Take a plump hen turkey which has himg for five or six days (weather permitting), pluck, singe, and draw it, fiU it with veal or oyster forcemeat, or with chestnuts, truss it for boiling, and remember" to draw the legs into the body, and bind it securely with tape. Dredge flour over it, put it into an oval pan with warm water just sufficient to cover it, and put with it a tea-spoonful of salt, a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a dozen pepper- corns, a few sticks of celery, and a bunch of parsley. Bring it slowly to the boil, skim tho liquor carefully, and let it simmer very genth until the turkey is tender. Take it up, drain it for a moment, serve on a hot dish, pour a little melted butter or white sauce over it, as all the company may not prefer oyster sauce, and send parsley and butter, celery sauce, oyster sauce, chestnut sauce, Dutch sauce, or even good melted butter flavoured with horse- radish, to table with it. A small ham boiled, a red tongue, or even a good cheek of bacon are all suitable accompaniments to boiled turkey, and the dish containing it may be garnished with bacon and sliced tongue, or with sliced lemon and parsley, forcemeat balls,TTJK ( 1005 ) TVn or barben-ies. Many cooks wrap the turkey in a tluiu-ed cloth before putting it in to boil, but this spoils the stock, and wiU be rendered unnecessary if tlie scum is carefully removed as it rises. Time to simmer gently—a tui'key weighing ten pounds, two liours from the time the water reaches the boiling point; fifteen pounds, two hours and v. half. Probable cost, 68. to 128., excepting at Christmas. Turkey, Boiled, and Stuffed with Tongue.—Take a smaU boiled pickled tongue. Cut oh' the root entirely, leaving only a small portion of the fat. Pluck, draw, singe, and bone a turkey, and cut off the legs, but not the wings. Nearly till the inside with good veal forcemeat, push the tongue into the centre of the stuffing, and sew the skin over the back securely. Truss the bird firmly, and restore it as nearly as possible to its original shape. Cover the breast with thin slices of fat bacon, tie the bird in a clean white cloth, and boil it according to the directions given in the last recipe, being careful to simmer it very gently, for fear the skin should break. Serve it hot or cold with white or celery sauce, and in carving cut slices across the breast, so that turkey, tongue, and forcemeat may be served together. If this dish is intended for supper, let the turkey stand in a cool place for an hour or two, then pour over it some good white sauce luke- warm, ornament with cut lemon, truffle, &c., and garnish the dish with aspic jelly, lemon, and parsley. Turkey, Boning of.—Boning poultry is a difficult business for the inexperienced, and generally speaking is best left to the poulterer. Written instructions for its accomplishment are almost valueless, and the knowledge gained from them is worth very little compared to that which may be derived from once watching an experienced cook perform the operation. Tur- keys are usually boned without the skin being cut up the back. To do this the joints are loosened inside the bird, the flesh raised with a short sharp-pointed knife, and the bones drawn out gradually, the flesh being laid back, until the body is turned inside out, when the boning may be easily finished. When a turkey has been boned, the legs and wings are generally drawn into the body of the bird, and care must be taken to simmer and then to cool the bird very gently, for fear the skin should burst. Turkey, Braised.—An old turkey is never so good as a young one. When, however, a young one cannot be obtained, the old one will be more likely to give satisfaction if it is braised than if it is roasted. Pluck and singe the bird, cut off the neck and legs, empty it, and save the heart, liver, and gizzard. Cut the neck into three pieces, clean and scald the legs and the gizzard, and peel oflE the outer scaly skin from the legs and the thick inner skin from the gizzard. Cover the bird with thin slices of unsmoked fat bacon, and tie it round with twine to keep it in shape. Put three or four slices of bacon into a braising-pan, lay the turkey on these, and put in with it the giblets and trimmings of the turkey, and a calf's foot cut in two, or two sheep's trotters, together with four onions stuck with thi'ce cloves, three carrots, a parsnip, two bay-leaves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a little salt and pepper, and half a clove of garlic, if liked. Some cooks add one or two glassf uls of wine and a glassful of brandy, but these are unnecessary. Lay two or three slices of bacon over the tur- key, and almost cover it with good stock. Put the lid on the stewpan, and simmer its contents veri/ gently from four to six hours, according to the size of the bird. If an ordinary stewpan is used instead of a proper braising-pan, which will hold ombers in the lid, turn the turkey over when it is half done. Braised turkey may be served either hot or cold. If it is to be eaten hot, lay it upon the dish, surround it with the best of vegetables stewed in it, or with a chipolata garnish prepared separately, and pour over it a small portion of the gravy freed from fat, and thickened with brown thickening. If it is to be served cold, let it remaia in the gravy in which it was stewed for half an hour after taking it from the fire. Strain the liquor, and boU till it is reduced to two-thirds its original quantity, so that it will form a jelly when cold. Strain this, and free it entirely from fat. If necessary, clear it with white of egg, according to the directions given for clarifying jelly. Brush two coats of this jell}'- over the turkey, then let the rest get cold and stiff; cut it into dice, stai's, strips, or other devices, and use it for garnishing the dish. Time to braise the turkey, according to size. Probable cost, un- certain. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. Turkey, Carving of.—The breast of a turkey is so large, that slices taken neatly from it and from the wings generally suffice for aU TURKEY, EOAST, TO CARVE. the company. They should be taken from each side alternately, begiiming close to the wings, and a little forcemeat and a small portion of liver should be served to each guest. When it is necessary for the legs to be used, they should be separated from the body with a sharp knife and cut in slices, but it should be remembered that they, with the gizzard, will make an ex- cellent devil. Turkey, Choosing of.—A hen turkey is the best, and it should be young and plump. If young, the legs will be black and smooth. If fresh, the eyes will be bright and the feet supple. The length of the spur will show whether or not a cock turkey is young. Tur- keys are in season from September to February, and are at their best at Christmas. They should be hung at least a week in suitable weather, but if there ia any four that thoy are frozen, they( 1006 ) TUH should bo kept in a warm kitchen for some hours before being dreased. It is generally uuder- Btood that a moderate-sized turkey is more likely to be tender than a very lai-ge one. Turkey, Cold, to Fry—Divide the re- mains of a cold turkey into neat joints con- venient for serving. Dip these into beaten egg, and afterwards into seasoned bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Arrange them neatly on a dish, and pour over them a little good gravy made as follows:— Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan with as much stock or water as will cover them, a bunch of parsley, one or two sticks of celery, and a little pepper and salt. Let them simmer gently for an hour, pour out the liquor, strain and skim it. Mince two ounces of lean ham finely, and brown them gently in a little butter. Dredge some flour over them, and pour to them the strained gravy fx'om the bones. Stew the gravy gently imtil it is wanted, skim well, and serve very hot. Garnish the dish with toasted sippets and sliced lemon. Time, one hour and a half to make the gravy, five or six minutes to fry the joints of turkey. Turkey, Devil of. Dry.—The legs, back, gizzard, and rump of cold-dressed tur- key may be used for this dish. Score the meat along and across at regular distances, three- quarters of an inch apart, and thi-ee-quarters of an inch deep. Eub into the gashes a well- mixed seasoning made of a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a salt-spoonful of salt, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of cayenne, and the strained juice of a lemon, and cover with freshly-made mus- tard. Brush the pieces of meat over with butter or oil, and broil over a clear fixe till they are brown and crisp without being at all burnt, and turn them over that they may be equally done on both sides. Send to table on a hot dish with little pieces of butter upon them. Dry toast may be served as an accompaniment. The devil will be all the more savoury if it is prepared some hours before it is broiled. If Uked, half a clove of garlic may be minced and mixed with the seasoning, or the following in- gredients may be used for flavouring instead of those given above :—Half a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of curry-powder, half a salt- spoonful of cayenne, and a heaped salt-spoon- ful of mushroom or truffle-powder. Time, five minutes to prepare the devil, seven to ten minutes to broil it. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, evclusive of the meat, about 3d. Turkey, Devil of, with Sauce.— Devilled turkey prepared as above may be sent to table with sauce Robert, grill sauce, poivrade FEuce, curry sauce, thick melted butter flavoured with anchovy or ketchup, or with a sauce pre- pared as follows :—Mince four shallots or four young onions very finely, and put them into a small stewpan with as much good vinegar as will moisten them. Let them simmer gently tiU they are soft, then add a wine-glassful of strong gravy, a pinch of cayenne, half a glassful of wine, and a small nut of anchovy butter, or if this is not at hand, use six or eight drops of the essence of anchovy, and stir a small lump of butter into the same after it is strained and put into the tureen. Boil the sauce two or three minutes longer, and serve. If liked, the savoury joints may be stewed in as much stock as will barely cover them, and served on a hot dish with the sauce poured over them, and garnished with hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters length- ways, and arranged round the dish alternately with toasted sippets. Time to stew the legs, «S:c., nearly half an hour. Probable cost, vary- ing with the sauce. Sufficient for four or five persons. Turkey, Drawing of.—Lay the bird on its breast, push back the skin of the neck, and cut the neck itself off close to the body, but leave the skin long that it may be securely turned over. Remove the windpipe, and loosen the inside of the throat with the finger. Make an incision under the tail an inch and a half long, with the fingers remove the crop and the intestines, and be particularly careful not to break the gall-bladder, which is fastened to the liver, nor to let any of the gall touch the bird, as it will impart a bitter taste which cannot afterwards be removed. Wash the inside with a soft rag, pour water through it, and dry it carefully. Turkey, Dressed to Eat Cold.—Cold turkey makes a very useful dish for suppers, luncheons, collations, &c. It may either be stewed or roasted, and may be dished whole and glazed, when it will form a handsome dish; or it may be cut into pieces convenient for serving, when two dishes at least may be made of it. If it is to be roasted, stuff it with sausage-meat, truss it firmly, and roast in the usual way. Let it get cold, then lay two coats of dissolved glaze lightly and evenly upon it with a brush, and remember that one coat must dry perfectly before another is put on. When it is not convenient to prepare this glaze at home, it may be bought at the Italian ware- houses, and a quarter of a pound will be more than sufficient for a good-sized turkey. Garnish the turkey as prettily as possible with parsley, cut lemon, real or artificial camellias, aspic jeUy, beetroot, or any other devices; ornament the dish with parsley and cut lemon, and fill the empty spaces in the centre of the dish with clear aspic jelly cut small. If the turkey is to be stewed, bone it if practicable, fill it with forcemeat, and lard the breast evenly with bacon. Truss the bird firmly, and lay it in a stewpan just large enough to hold it, with two shallots, a small onion stuck with one clove, a bunch of parsley, half a blade of mace, a dozen peppcrcoms, and a clove of garlic if the flavour is liked. Cover the bird with white stock, and let it simmer very gently until it is half done; then add two glassfuls of sherry, and simmer again until done enough. Lift it upon a dish, and let it cool. Strain the gravy, and boil it again until it is so much reduced that it will jelly. Strain it once more, and, if necessary, clear with white of egg, according to the directions given fcr clarifjing jelly. Glaze the turkey with tliis, and serve on a napkin gamislicd with parslev, cut lemon, beetroot, &c. If the turkey is to be cut up into pieces convenient for serving, divide it while the bird( 10G7 ) TUB, TUR is warm. Lay the pieces neatly on the dishes, and allot to each dish an equal share of white and brown meat, small pieces of stuffing, and of liver. Cut the heart, neck, and gizzard into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with any trimmings that there may be, the gravy that dropped from the bird when it was roasted, and a calf's foot or a little piece of the knuckle of veal, so as to form a stock that wiU jelly when cold. Let all simmer gently to- gether for three or four hours; strain the stock, skim the fat from the top, put it into a clean saucepan, and mix smoothly with it as much flour as will form a paste. Stir this quickly over the fire for two or three minutes tiU it is lightly browned; add the strained stock gradually, some pepper and salt, and also a little claret, ketchup, or any other flavouring. Pour some of this sauce over the pieces of turkey in each dish, so that they shaU be lightly covered with it. Let them cool and stiffen before removing them. Garnish with fresh parsley before serving. The thighs of the turkey are sometimes reserved for broiling. Time* two hours to stew a good-sized turkey. Probable cost, uncertain. Turkey, Forcemeat for.—Shred very finely four ounces of beef suet or beef marrow; add four ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a quarter of an ounce of mixed savoury herbs, of which two-thirds should be parsley and the remainder sweet marjoram or lemon thyme, a quarter of an ounce of fresh lemon-rind finely grated, and a little nutmeg, pepper, salt, and cayenne. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and bind them together with the yolks and white of two eggs. A large turkey will require double the quantity of forcemeat which the above ingredients will make, and many cooks use equal weights of sausage-meat and force- meat well mixed together. Or shred finely four ounces of beef suet, and add four ounces of grated bread-crumbs, four ounces of lean undressed veal, a quarter of an ounce of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thyme, a shallot finely minced, and a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Pound the ingredients thoroughly, and bind the mixture together with the unbeaten yolk of an egg. Or mix the above ingredients, and add a dozen bearded oysters finely minced, and a fiUeted anchovy, or two ounces of dressed lean ham or tongue finely grated. Tinned oysters may be used instead of fresh ones. Oyster sauce should be used with this forcemeat, which is suitable for a boiled turkey. Time, twenty minutes to prepare. Turkey, Forcemeat of Chestnuts for.—Mince finely a pound of fat, unsmoked bacon and three-quarters of a pound of lean, undressed veal. Season the mince with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and pound it in a mortar tiU smooth. lloast and peel three dozen chestnuts, and put them into the body of the bird with the forcemeat. Or roast a pint of chestnuts gently, and peel them; weigh them, and simmer half a pound of them for twenty minutes in as much veal gr"vy as will tx)ver them. Drain them, and let them cool, thee pound them in a mortar with four ounces of fresh butter, three ounces of grated bread- crumbs, a pinch of grated lemon-rind, a smaller one of powdered mace, and a little pepper, salt, and cayenne. Bind the mixture together with the unbeaten yolks of three eggs. Turkey, Galantine of. —This dish, though rather troublesome to prepare, is an excellent one for a supper or collation. Pluck, draw, and singe a plump hen turkey ; cut it in two down the breast, cut ofiE the wings and neck, and bone it carefuUy without injuring the skin, first removing the back-bone. Re- move some of the flesh from the inside of the turkey and from the legs, especially all the . sinews. Lay the turkey fiat on the table, skin downwards, and truss the legs inside. Spread on it a layer of veal forcemeat an inch deep, then put a layer of the meat cut from the turkey, and on this some strips of cooked lean ham and fat bacon, lean veal, boiled tongue, with three or four sliced truffles, if obtainable. The meat and the truffles must be laid on in such a way that the colours will contrast. Put another layer of forcemeat on the top, and season the whole with pepper and salt. Turn the skin over, roll the turkey in the form of a large sausage, and sew it up securely that the contents may not escape. Lay thin slices of fat bacon round it, and tie it in a cloth. Put it into a stewpan, cover with nicely-seasoned stock, and let it simmer gently for four hours. Two or three onions stuck with cloves, a bay- leaf, three sliced carrots, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme may be stewed in the stock with the turkey. Put the bones of the turkey into a separate stewpan with a few spoonfuls of stock, and let them simmer gently for an hour. Strain the liquor, stir a wine-glassful of white wine into it, and pour this broth into the pan containing the turkey. When the galantine is sufficiently dressed, lift it from the fire, and let it remain in the liquor for an hour. Tie it in a fresh cloth, and lay it on a dish; put a weight upon it so that it may be pressed and stiQ retain its shape, and let it remain until cold. Remove the cloth, clear it from fat, and brush two coats of glaze over it. Ornament with aspic jelly, beetroot, and eggs cut into various shapes, or with truffles, &c., stuck into it with silver skewers. Time, four hours to simmer the galantine. Sufficient for a large supper-dish. Turkey Giblets, Fricasseed.—Take one set of turkey giblets; these comprehend the wings, the feet, the gizzard, the liver, the head, and the neck. Clean them all carefully, skin and trim the feet, skin the gizzard and divide it into quarters, cut the neck into four pieces, and the wings and legs each into two pieces; skin, split, and clean the head, and slice the liver. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and put in the giblets, with the exception of the liver, together with a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, another of basil, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a Httle pepper and salt. Fry these ingredients gently till they are lightly browned. Pour over them a pint of stock, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Lift them out, skim and strain the gravy, and tliicken it with aTUB TXTJEl ( 1008 ) toa-spoonful of brown thickening. Put in the giblets onco more with the Uver, and Hiinnicr all goutly for tun niinutos. Arrungo tliu gihlots noiitly in tho contro of a dish, pour the gntvy over thoni, and servo very hot. Any kind of vegetables may accompany this dish. Time, one hour and a half to simmer tho giblots. Suilicient for throe or four persons. Turkey Giblets with Turnips and Potatoes.—Prepare the giblets as above. Take half a pound of streaky bacon, and cut it into convenient-sized pieces. Fry ihese in a littlo butter till they are lightly browned. Lift them out, then put in the giblets, and fry them in the same butter. Pooi- gravy over them, and simmer gently as in the last recipe. Cut three or four large turnips to tho shape of corks, and peel six or eight button onions. Put them into boiling water for five minutes, di'ain and diy them, fry them in one ounce of butter till they are lightly browned, and put them aside. Peel a dozen small potatoes, and trim them neatly. Skim, strain, and thicken the gravy in which the giblets are stewed, and put in with the bacon fried vegetables, soon enough for them to be sufficiently dressed at the same time as the meat. They will require from fifteen minutes to half an hour, according to age and size. Arrange the giblets neatly in the centre of a hot dish, put the vegetables round them, pour the gravy over, and serve very hot. The wings only of turkeys are often stewed in this way. Time, one hour and a half. Sufficient for three or four persons. Turkey, Hashed,—Cut the remains of a cold di-essed turkey into neat slices, dredge a little flour over them, put them into a stewpan, pour over them any sauce that may be left, and add a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, if requu-ed. Shake the pan over the fire until its contents are quite hot, but do not allow them to boil. Draw it to the side of the fire, and let the hash simmer gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Cut the forcemeat-balls into slices, and warm these in the oven or before the fire. Arrange the turkey neatly on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and garnish with alternate slices of forcemeat and toasted sippets. A spoonful of pickled walnuts, pickled mushrooms, kernelled olives, or minced gherkins, simmered in the sauce, will pleasantly vary the flavour of the hash. When there is no sauce left from tho previous day, a little may be made as follo\ys :— Put the skin, bones, and trimmings of the turkey into a saucepan with a pint of stock or water, a shallot, a spoonful of parsley, four or five cloves, and two or three sUccd mushrooms. Simmer the sauce gently for half an hour, strain it, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and thicken >vith the crushed liver of the turkey and a little brown thickening, before sending to table, a spoonful of lemon- juice may be added or not. Time, half an hour, exclusive of the sauce. Turkey, Marinaded and Broiled.— Parboil a young turkey, and when cold cut it into neat joints. Bone these, and restore them to their original form. Lay them in a marinade made with four tulile-spoonful.'i of vinegar, four table-spoonfuls of water, two table-spoonfuls of oil, three finely-minced shallots, two tea-spoon- fuls of salt, and one of pepper. Let them ho in this twelve liours, and turn them over two or three times tliat they may bo equally seasoned. Drain them, dip them twice in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and broil over a clear tire. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with cut lemon and parsley. Send to table with them a sauce prepared as follows:—Boil two eggs for ten minutes; put them in cold water for five minutes, and^ afterwards put the yolks into a mortar with four finely-minced sliallots, a tea- spoonful of chopjjed tarragun-leaves, a tear spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of dry mustard, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Pound the ingredients to a smooth paste, and then add very gradually, first by di-ops and afterwards by tea-spoonfuls, thi'ce table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, two of best vinegar, and one of chilli vinegar. Beat the sauce for a minute or two between every addition, and send it to table in a tm-een. Time to broil the joints, about a quarter of an hour. Px-obable cost, tm-key, 68. or Ss. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turkey, Minced.—When a turkey has been so far used that neat sUces cannot be cut from it to make a hash, the remains may be minced as follows:—Cut ofE the meat, free it from skin, bone, and sinew, and mince it finely. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and put it into a stewpan with sufficient white sauce to moisten it. Let it simmer gently without boiling till it is quite hot, stirring all the time. Turn it upon a hot dish, and garnish with poached eggs and toasted sippets placed alternately. When the white sauce is not at hand, a httle may be made as follows :—Put a quarter of a pint of stock into a saucepan wdth a thin strip of lemon-rind. Let it simmer gentlj a few moments till it is pleasantly flavoured with the lemon. Strain, and add gradually a dessert-spoonful of flour which has been smoothly mixed with three or four table-spoon- fuls of milk or cream. Stir the sauce gently over the fixe for a few minutes till it is quite thick, and add pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg if required, and after it is taken from the fire stir half an ounce of fresh butter into it imtil dissolved. Time, a few miuutes to heat tho mince. Turkey, Old, The Best Way of Dressing.—Stuff the turkey with veal force- meat, and truss it for boiling. Cut a pound of lean bacon into dice, and fry these in a quarter of a pound of butter over a clear fire tiU tliey are lightly browned. Put in the turkey, breast downwards. Cover the saucepan closely, and let it steam gently for an hour. Lift it out, dredge two table-spoonfuls of flour into tho butter, and stir it briskly witli the back of a wooden spoon till it forms a smooth jiaste. Add gradually tliree or four pints of boihng stock, put in the turkey, and with it four or five large; carrots sliced, four turnips, a dozen button onions, a largo bunch of pareley, two bay- leaves, three or four sprigs of thj-me, and a little pepper and stilt. Let all simmer gently together for four liours. Lift Iho turkey out. and ke.jj) it \ti. V:it the vegetables and s.iuoeTUB TUR ( 1009 ) into a clean saucepan, place this by the side of the tire, and carefully remove the grease, &c., as it rises to the surface. When no more appesirs, boil the ssiuce quickly for a few niiuutes. Servo the turkey on a hot dish. Arrange the vegetables round it, and pour the sauce over. Garnish the dish with small boiled potatoes or with roasted chestnuts. Time to di-ess the turkey, five hours. Turkey Patties.—Make some patties or small vol-au-vents of good puff paste, and bake them separately. Whsn they are baked enough, take them out of the oven, and three- parts fiU them with a hot savoury mixture prepared as follows:—Mince a little of the white meat of a cold dressed turkey very finely, and add a small proportion of grated ham. Stew this gently for a minute or two in as much melted butter or good gravy as will barely cover it, add a spoonful of thick cream, and season the preparation with a little grated lemon-rind, white pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Care should be taken that the mince is made very thick, and that the patties are not filled so full that the gravy will run over. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare the mince. Probable cost, patties, 2d. each, exclu- sive of the cold meat. Sufficient, eight or ten for a dish. Turkey Pinions, Stewed. — "Remove the large wing-bone from the pinions, and fold the skin over at the end. Fry the wings in a little butter till they are Hghtly browned, dredge some flour over, barely cover them with stock, and add a bunch of parsley, a small onion stuck with one clove, and a little pepper and salt. A glassful of claret may be put into the stock if Uked. Let all simmer gently together for an horn-, then add half a dozen small onions fried in butter, and four or five mushrooms chopped small. Just before serving the stew, mince a tea-spoonful of capers finely, and stir it into the sauce. Put the pinions into the centre of a dish, pour the sauce over and round them, and garnish with toasted sippets. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of the pinions. Sufficient, one set of pinions for one or two persons. Turkey Pinions, Stewed (another way). —Prepare the pinions as in the preceding re- cipe. Fi-y them in butter or bacon-fat till they are lightly browned, then pour some nicely- flavoured white stock over them, and simmer gently until done enough. Lay them between two dishes, and let them remain until cold. Strain the gravy, and free it entirely from fat. Boil quickly until it is so much reduced that it will jelly when cold. When the pinions are to be served, warm them in the gravy, and let the gravy simmer again imtil it is quite thick. Put the pinions on a dish, lightly cover them with the gravy, and send the rest to table in a tureen. This dish may be sent to table with sorrel, or with a purde of chestnuts or lentils. Time, an hour and a half to stew the pinions. Sufficient, one set of pinions for one or two persons. Turkey, Plucking of.—When plucking aturkoy, or poultry of any kind, be car( fnl to pull out the feathers in the direction in which they lie. If this point is not attended to, the skin may be torn and the appearance of the bird spoiled. After the bird is plucked, singe off the hairs with a lighted paper. Turkey, Potted.—Take a small turkey weighing about five pounds; pluck, singe, draw, and bone it, and cut off the neck and legs. Lay it skin downwards on a table, season with pepper, salt, and powdered mace, spread a layer of forcemeat aU over it, and roll it round. Choose a potting-pan of a suitable size for the turkey. Place a layer of forcemeat at the bottom, put in the bird, and cover with forcemeat. Lay three or four thin slices of I fat bacon and a bay-leaf on the top. Cover 1 the pan, and place it in a large saucepan with j boiling water two inches deep, and add more j boiling water as this evaporates to keep it to i the same depth. Put it into the oven, and let i it cook gently until done enough. In order to i ascertain when this point is reached, push a trussing-needle right through the body of the ' bird, and when it enters easily the turkey may ! be taken out. Let it get cold, and cover the ' surface with a layer of good dripping or laid. Set it in a cool place for several hours, and it will i be ready for use. The forcemeat may be made { as follows:—Cut the meat in slices, free from I skin and sinew, from the legs of the bird. Put ', with it half a pound of lean veal and a pound ! of fat bacon. Mince all finely together, and pound the mixture till it is quite smooth, and ; whilst pounding keep adding pepper, salt, and i spice until it is pleasantly flavoured. The [ quantity of salt must be regulated by the quality of the bacon. Time to bake, three hours. Turkey, Potted (another way).—Cut the flesh from a cold roast turkey, and free it from skin and sinew. Weigh it, mince finely, and pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste with one-fourth of its weight in grated tongue or ham, an equal weight of fresh butter, and whilst poimding the meat keep adding salt, pepper, and powdered mace in small quantities at a time till it is pleasantly and rather highly seasoned. WTien the meat is quite smooth, press it into small pots, and cover with clarified butter a quarter of an inch deep. Store in a cool place. Time, thi-ee-quarters of an hour or more to prepare. Turkey Poult, Cold, To Re-dress. —The remains of a turkey poult may be minced, made into patties, croquettes, &c., or, indeed, dressed up in various ways very much like the larger bird. The following wiU be found to be the most satisfactory way of serving it a second time:—Cut the meat into neat pieces free fi-om skin, bone, and sinew. Put the trimmings into a saucepan with a pint of white stock, a small bunch of parsley, a finely-minced shallot, and six mushrooms chopped small. Add pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and simmer the sauce till it is plea- santly flavoured and partly reduced. Strain it, thicken with a little white roux or with flour and butter, and add an equal quantity of new milk or cream. Stir it over the fire till it( 1010 ) TUR TUR boils, put ill thv sHlos of meat, mid let them Bimnier until thoy are quito hot; but the sauce must not boil alior tlioy are added. Put the meat on a hot diah, pour the sauce over, and garnish the dish with sliced lemon and parsley. Time; iu>out an hour and a quarter to make the sauce; four or five minutes to heat the meiit. Probable cost, if milk bo used, 8d., exclusive of the cold turkey poult. Turkey Poult, To Roast—The turkey ^oult or young turkey is an excellent substitute for the fully-grown bird, as it is most easily obtained in summer and autumn, when the largo turkeys are out of season. The young ones may be said to be in season whenever they are large enough to be used. They may be roasted in the same way as a fully-grown bird. It is not usual to till them with forcemeat, though some epicures, regardless of expense, are partial to them when stuffed with truffles, and served with perigueux sauce. Tongue, bacon, or sausages are generally sent to table with them. Tui-key poults are trussed with the head tucked under the wing, and the legs twisted under like a duck. Unlike the grown bird, the feet may be left on, though the claws must be cut off. A turkey poult should be put down to a clear fire, liberally basted, and when done enough should be served on a dish garnished with watercress. Brown gravy and bread sauce should be sent to table with it. Time to roast, three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half, according to size. Turkey Poult, Truffled. - Fill the body of the bird with nicely-seasoned veal forcemeat, and add as many truffles as it may be wished to use, first cutting them into balls the size of a walnut. The trimmings of the truffles may be used to make sauce, or they may be minced and mixed with the forcemeat. Lard the breast of the bird, or, if this is not practicable, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, truss firmly, and put it down before a clear fire. Baste liberally, and serve truffle sauce or bread sauce with it. Time to roast, one hour or more, according to size. Turkey, Pulled.—Take the remains of a dressed turkej'. Cut off the legs, and score the meat in them and the gizzard at regular dis- tances. Season highly, as for devilled turkey, and set them aside. Remove the skin from the body, and pull the white meat from the bones in long flakes with a fork. Put the bones and trimmings of the turkey into a stew- pan with a pinch of powdered mace, a finely- minced shallot, the rind and strained juice of half a lemon, a pint of stock, and a little pepper and salt. Let them simmer gently till the gravy is strong and pleasantly flavoured; strain and skim it, thicken with white thickening or with a little flour and butter, and add a q>iarter of a pint of milk or cream. Let the gravy boil a few minutes, then put in the moat, and let it simmer again until the latter is quite hot, but do not let the gravy boil after the meat is added. WhUe the meat is simmering take the legs and gizzard already seasoned, dip them in clarified butter, and broil over a clear lire till they are lightly browned without being burnt. Put the pulled turkey with the aauce into the centre of a hot dish, lay tlie legs upon it, and serve very hot. The legs of the turkey should be turned every minute whilst they are being broiled. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold turkey, if milk is used. Sufficient for three or four persons. Turkey Rissoles.—Take the remains of cold-dressed turkey. Cut ofl: the meat, free it from skin and sinew, and weigh it. Mince finely, and with a pound of meat put a quarter of a jjound of grated tongue or lean ham, and a quai-ter of a pound of finely-grated bread- crumbs. Add two ounces of clarified butter or two ounces of fat bacon finely minced, a boiled onion chopped small, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, and bind them together with the yolk of an egg. lloU out some puft' paste very thin, stamp it out in rounds, and lay a spoonful of meat on each round. Moisten the edges of the pastry, and draw them together at the top of the meat to form a ball. Dip these in beaten egg, and fry in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Drain on a sieve before the fire for a few minutes to free them from fat, and serve piled on a neatly-folded napkin. Time, five or six minutes to fry the rissoles. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the cold turkey. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turkey, Roast.—There are several me- thods of preparing a turkey for roasting. The bird may be simply trussed like a fowl, and roasted without being stuffed at all, and will be found excellent, the pure flavour of the bird being then presented unmixed with any taste that does not belong to it. When dressed in this way it should be served on a dish garnished with watercresses, and no other sauce than its own gravy should accompany it. The usual way of serving roast turkey, however, is to stuff it either with veal forcemeat, chestnuts, or sausage-meat, and to send it to table accom- panied by a string of sausages, bread sauce, and brown gravy, or chestnut sauce. Force- meat flavoured ■with oysters or mushrooms, and the accompanying sauces are more suitable for boiled- than roast turkey. Pluck, draw, singe, and truss the turkey. Tie a buttered paper over the breast, and hang the bird before a clear fire. Baste frequently whilst it is being roasted. Unless this point is attended to the meat wiU be di-y and tasteless. A quarter of an hour before the bird is taken down, remove the paper, dredge a little flour over the breast, and baste it well with cold butter. This will make the froth stronger than if hot dripping is used. Let it bro^n. brightly. Garnish with lemon and sausages, or forcemeat balls. Servo very hot. Time for a small turkey, an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half; for a moderate-sized turkey weighing ten pounds, about two hours; twelve to fourteen pounds, about two hours and a half. Probable cost, moderate-sized turkey, Ss. to Hs., excepting at Christmas. Turkey, Roast (another way).—Take a well-kept but perfectly sweet young hen turkey. Pluck, draw, and singe it caiefuUy,( 1011 ) TUB TITE wipe the outside with a damp cloth, wash j the inside, and dry it well. Fill with onion forcemeat, truss securely for roasting, and put it down to a clear tiro. Baste liberally, and when it is done en jugh dish it, and pour over it some tomato or truffle sauce. Serve very hot. The onion stuffing may be made as fol- lows :—Skin half a dozen large onions, throw them into boiling water, and boil them for a quarter of an hour. Drain and mince them, and put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, three moderate-sized truffles thinly sliced, the crumb of two stale roUs which have been soaked in milk and afterwards squeezed tiU dry, a table-spoonful of shred parsley, the yolks of three eggs, and a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Beat these ingredients thoroughly over a gentle fire until they form a smooth compact mass, and the forcemeat -svill be ready for use. Time to roast small turkey, an hour and a half; large turkey, two hours and a half. Probable cost, 88. to 14s., but more expensive at Christmas. Sufficient, a moderate-sized turkey for six or seven persons. Turkey, Rolled.—Cut a young turkey down the middle into two parts, remove the bones without injuring the skin, lay the pieces flat on the table—skin downwards—and spread over each a layer of good veal forcemeat three- quarters of an inch thick. Roll them up like a sausage, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, and tie this on with twine. Lay the rolls in a stewpan, cover with stock, and put with them a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two carrots, two onions in which two cloves have been stuck, a parsnip, half a small blade of mace, and a little pepper and salt. Let them simmer gently until they are done enough, and skim the liquor carefully. When the bird is half- cooked a glassful of wine may be added to the liquor. Rolled turkey may be eaten hot or cold. If it is to be eaten hot, put the rolls on a hot dish, remove the twine, strain and thicken the sauce, pour part of it over the meat, and send the rest to table in a tureen. If it is to be eaten cold, let the roUs lie in the liquor for half an hour after they are taken from the fire, and when the meat is cold brush over with two ooats of glaze. Time to simmer the rolls, one hour and a half. Turkey, Sauces for.—Brown gravy and bread sauce are the usual accompaniments to roast turkey. Oyster sauce, celerj- sauce, to- mato sauce, mushroom, chestnut, and truffle sauce, are all suitable accompaniments. Sau- sages are generally put round the bird, and gar- nish with sliced lemon. Ham, tongue, bacon, or pickled pork is sent to table with both roast and boiled turkey. With boiled turkey, celery sauce, j oyster sauce, bread sauce, or white sauce should be served. The nature of the sauce should, of course, be regulated by that of the forcemeat. Turkey Soup, Economical.—Take the bones and trimmings of a turkey, after the meat has been made into patties, or "rissoles, minced, pulled, or devilled, break them into small pieces, put thorn into a stewpan with any forcemeat or sauce that may be left, and pour over them two quarts of stock. Bring this slowly to the boil, skim carefully, and add a little salt and pepper, a few sticks of celery, an onion, and a carrot. Let these simmer gently till the bones are quite clean. Strain the soup, and free it from fat. Add further seasoning if liked, and either thicken the soup with two ounces of ground rice or arro^v^oot made into a paste with a little stock and boilec" up in the soup, or, it a clear soup is preferred, clarify according to the directions given for clarifying soup. Drop a little vermicelli, or macaroni, or turned vege- tables into it, let them boil a few minutes, and then serve. The clarifying process will not be necessary if the soup has been gently simmered, thoroughly skimmed, and well strained. If no stock from bones, &c., is at hand, a little may be made by boiling two pounds of the inferior parts of beef in five pints of water for two or three hours, and in this case the bones of the turkey may be stewed with the beef. Or half a pound only of fresh beef may be used, with a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat dis- solved in the liquor. Time, four hours. Turkey Soup, Superior.—Take the re- mains of a cold boiled or roast turkey, cut ofi the meat, mince it finely, pound till smooth, and put it aside till wanted. Break up the body of the bird into small pieces, put these into a stewpan with two quarts of nicely- flavoured white stock, and let them simmer gently for one hour and a half. Strain the gravy, let it cool, skim off the fat, and season with salt and cayenne. Cut a quarter of a pound of stale crumb of bread into thin slices, soak these for a few minutes in as much of the stock as they will absorb, let them simmer a few minutes, and afterwards squeeze the pulp in a cloth till it is quite dry. ]\Iix this tho- roughly with the flesh of the turkey which was put aside, add the soup gradually and srrioothly to the paste, and rub the whole through a fine sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Let it boil once more, add salt and cayenne as re- quired, and just before serving add a pint of boiling cream or milk. If the soup is not sufficiently thick, it may be made so by adding an ounce of arrowroot or ground rice made into a smooth batter -with a little cold milk and boiled in it before the cream is added. The soup ought to be of the consistency of thick cream. If no white stock is at hand, a little may be made as foUows:—Divide two pounds of the scrag-end of a neck of veal, or a calf's foot weU cleaned, or a knuckle-bone of veal, into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with five pints of cold water, a slice of lean ham, a carrot, a turnip, three onions, a blade of mace, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, a few outer sticks of celery, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme. Let all simmer gently for three hours. Strain the soup, let it go cold, remove the fat, add a little salt, and it wiU be ready for use. If there be any liquor in which mutton, veal, rab- bits, or chickens have been boiled, it may be stewed with the flavouring ingredients, without any moat. Time, four hours to make the stock, throe hours to make the soup. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Turkey, Stewed.—A small turkey should be chosen lor this dish. Stuff the bird, andTUB ( 1012 ) truss it for roasting. Dissolve two ounces of l)Utt«r in a stewpan just laryo enough to hold the bird, and add two large slices of fat bacon cut into dice. Lay the bird iu this, put it over a clear lire, and when it is briglitly browned on one side, turn it ui)on the other. Lift it out, drain it, and i)ut it into another stewpan, with a bunch of piu\sley, a largo blade of mace, and a clove of gtu-lic or not, as preferred. Cover the bird with good stock, add a little popper and salt, and let it simmer gently until it is half- cooked. Put in a glassful of sherry, and lot it remain until done euougli. Take it up, and put it on !i dish in a hot oven, that it may retain its heat for a few minutes. Strain and skim tho gravy, thicken with a little brown thickening, and lot it boil a minute or two. Pour a little of it round the turkey, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Oyster sauce is an excellent ac- companiment to this dish, and a boned and pounded anchovy and a small shallot may be advantageously added to the forcemeat with which the turkey is stufEed. Time to stew the tui-key, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 6s. to 12s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turkey Stuffed with Chestnuts.— Take as many sound chestnuts as will com- pletely fill the body of the bird. Make a small gash with a sharp knife in the outer slrin to keep them from bursting, throw them into plenty of fast-boiling water, and let them boil until soft. Drain and dry them, and peel o£E the outer and the inner skin, look them over carefully, and reject any decayed or mouldy nuts. Fill the turkey's crop with good veal forcemeat, after- wards fill the body of the bird with the boiled chestnuts and the hver, and sew it up securely. Put it down to roast, and baste liberally. Serve on a hot dish, and send b^o^vn gravy and either bread sauce or onion sauce to table with it. The brown sauce may be made with the turkey giblets as follows :—Mince the heart and gizzard, and let them simmer gently for an hour or more. Skim the liquor, strain it, thicken with a Uttle brown thickening, and season with pepper and salt. Add a glassful of claret and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, let it boil a minute or two, and it will he ready for serving. Time to roast the turkey, an hour and a half to two hours and a half, according to size. Turkey Stuffed with Chicken.— Bone a young chicken without injuring the skin. Draw the legs and wings inside, fill the body with freshly-made nicely-seasoned sausage- meat, and make it round and compact in form. Put it inside a boned turkey; fill all the empty spaces with sausage-meat, and truss the turkey firmly, restoring it as nearly as possible to its original form. Cover with buttered paper, and put it down before a clear fire, though at some distance from it. Baste liberally, and roast very slowly, or the outside of the turkey will be done enough before the heat has penetrated to the interior of the chicken. This dish is a great favouiite with many of the English residents in Calcutta. It may be served hot or cold with the usual sauces, and in carving the turkey slices should be cut across the breast, so that each guest may have a sliare of turkey, chicken, and forcemeat. Tunc, two or three hours, according to the size of the birds. Turkey Stuffed with Mushroom Forcemeat.—Take six or eiglit small mush- rouius, peel them, put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter, and let them sinuner gently for seven or eight minutes. Drain tho liquor from them, and let them cool; then mince tiiem, and mix tlieiti with a quarU.-r of apound of finely-grated bn.-itd-crunibs. Add a slight seasoning of salt, cayenne, grated nut- meg, and grated lemon-rinil, but be careful that the mushroom flavour in not overjjowerod. Work an ounce of fresh Ijutter into the force- meat, bind it together with the j'olk of an egg, and add as much of the butter in which the mushrooms were stewed as it will take without being made too moist. Pound the mixture thoroughly, and it will be ready for use. FiU the tm-key with it, boil or roast it, and send mushroom sauce to table with it. Double this quantity of forcemeat will be required for a larffe turkey. Time, one hour to prepare the forcemeat. Turkey Stuffed with Sausage-meat. —Take a well-kept turkey weighing about eight pounds. Bone it according to the dii-ections previously given, and draw out all the bones excepting those of the wings. Take about three pounds of fine sausage-meat, and one pound of veal forcemeat. If liked, sausage- meat only may be used, and in this case some minced herbs should be mixed with the season- ing. The sausage-meat should be rich with fat, and moistened with a little cold stock or water. Fill the empty places where the bones have been and the body of the bii-d with the sausage-meat. Draw the turkey to its original form, tie both ends of the bird and the ends of the legs securely, truss the bird firmly, and plump it well {see Turkey, Trussed for Roast- ing). Flour it, tie it to the spit, instead of sticking the hook into it, and let it be well supported by leaving a string tied once or twice round the body, as the stuffing wiU make the bird heavy. Put it down to a clear fire, but at sonie distance from it, and baste libenilly until done enough. When this point is reached the steam will draw towards the fire. Flour and baste the bird again for a few minutes, take it up, send it to table on a hot dish, gar- nishing with sausage and forcemeat balls. Bread sauce may be served with the turkey, together with a little gravy made of the bones of the bird stewed down with stock, and a little seasoning. The appearance of the dish wiQ be improved if the breast is evenly larded. A roasted turkey is very good stuffed with sausage-meat without being boned. Time to roast the turkey, nearly two hours. Probable cost, turkey, 6s. to 12s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turkey, To Bone, {see Fowl, To Bone, without opening). Turkey, Truflaed.—There is no dish more highly esteemed than a truffled turkey. The easiest and perhaps in the end the most satisfactory way of getting one is to procure( 1013 ) TUR it from France, through a first-class poulterer, ready fattened, stuffed with truffles, and ready for the spit. It will be all the better for the winter's journey, asbiids so stuffed are always kept for several days after to allow the per- fume of the truffles to penetrate the flesh. The cost of a turkey thus prepared will vary from one to five guineas, exclusive of the carriage. When once obtained, a truffled turkey is easily dressed, as it simply requires to be roasted, plentifully basted, and served with its own gravy only, for though bread sauce and onion sauce aie occasionally served with it, properly speaking no rival flavour ought to approach the truffle. Fine fresh truffles are, however, so expensive, that mushrooms or chestnuts are often substituted for them, pounded with bacon in exactly the same way, and a turkey thus prepared will prove to most people quite as acceptable as if really truffled. When it is preferred, however, that the turkey should be stuffed with truffles at home, procure a young, pliunp, freshly-killed hen turkey. Take a pound and a half of truffles for a moderate-sized bird, and two pounds for a large one. Smell them, and reject any that are mouldy. Wash them carefully, and scrub with a soft brush till not a particle of earth or grit remains upon them. Cut about a pound of the truffles into balls an inch and a half in diameter. Pound the rest with the trimmings to a smooth paste, adding an equal weight of fat bacon. The bacon should be rasped and pounded separately, then mixed with the pounded truffles, and the forcemeat seasoned with salt and pepper only. When the force- meat is quite smooth mix the \\'hole truffles ■with it, and put the preparation into the body of the turkey. Let it hang for five or six days after it is stuffed, and when it is to be roasted, lay a slice of fat bacon upon the breast, and a piece of buttered paper over that, and baste liberally whilst it is before the fire. If it is wished that truffle sauce should accompany this dish, a few truffles may be put aside for the purpose. Truffle sauce is made as follows:—Mince four truffles finely, put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter, and shake them over the fire for ten minutes. Add half a pint of brovra sauce, a little pepper and salt, and a glassful I of sherry; let these ingredients simmer for a quarter of an hour, skim off the fat, and serve. Time, roast the turkey the usual time. Turkey Truflaed Economically.— Take a freshly-killed phimp young turkey. If large, half a pound of fine fresh truffles will be required for it, if small, a quarter or a third of a pound will be sufficient. Wash and scrub the truffles carefully as in the preceding recipe, drain and dry them, and cut them into thin slices with- out peeling them. Boil or roast some fine sound chestnuts; the quantity must be regulated by the size of the turkey, There must be sufficient with the truffles to fill the body of the bird. Before boiling them, make a little cut in the outer skin of each nut to keep it from bursting. When all are done, throw them into slightly- saltfd water, and let them boil quickly until tender: they will take from half an hour to an hour. Skin them, mix the sliced truffles with them; then fill the body of the bird with the mixture, and let the turkey hang for two or three days in a cool airy situation. On the day that it is to be dressed fill the crop of the bird with good veal forcemeat, truss it firmly, tie a buttered paper over the breast, and roast it before a clear fire. Hang it at first some distance from it, and baste liberally. A turkey prepared as above will be sufficiently flavoured with truffles to satisfy most people, indeed, all but those who are excessively fond of truffles. If liked, bread sauce or onion sauce may be sent to table with this dish, .but generally a truffled turkey is served with its own gravy only. Time, an hour and a half to two hom-s and a half, according to size. Turkey Trussed for Boiling.—Pluck, singe, and draw the bird, and be particularly careful not to break the gall-bladder, which ad- heres to the liver, for if any of the gall touches the bird it will impart a bitter taste to it. Cut off the head and neck, and leave sufficient skin to turn and sew over the back. After the force- meat is put into the breast, cut off the legs at the first joint, draw the upper legs into the body, and make a slit for the stumps to go in. Break and flatten the breast-bone, and also break the back-bone, that the bird may lie flat on the dish. Truss firmly, to make it look as plump and round as possible. Tui-n the pinions with the points over the back, and fasten liver (freed from gall) under one pinion, and the gizzard (washed and skinned) under the other. Skewer the apron over the nose, and pass string firmly round the body, fasten it to the skewers, and tie it ia the middle of the back. Turkey Trussed for Roasting.— Pluck and singe the bird, and in drawing it preserve the liver and gizzard. Be particularly careful not to break the gall-bag, which adheres to the liver, as if any of the gall touches the bird no amount of washing will remove the bitter taste which it wiU impart. Cut off the feet, and draw out the strings or sinews from the thighs—there are five or six in each leg. Place three or four folds of cloth on the high breast-bone, and break and fiatten it with a rolHng-pin to make the bird look plump. Cut off the head and neck close to the body, and before doing so push back the skin of the neck so that sufficient may be left on to turn over the back. Hold the legs in boiling water for a minute or two, and afterwards peel off the rough dirty skin. Fill the breast with forcemeat, and sew the neck over the back. Press the legs close to the breast, and pass a skewer through them and the body. Turn the points of the wings over the back, skewer them through the body, and put the liver under one pinion and the gizzard under the other. Cut a slit in the apron, and put the nose through. Pass a string over the back of the bird, put it firmly round the skewers, and tie it in the middle. Tie a buttered paper over the breast, and be very careful to truss the bird firmly. The liver of the turkey must be freed from gaU and covered with a buttered paper, or it'will be dry and hard. _ The gizzard must be carefully cleansed—as it contains stones—skinned an"d washed, seasoned with pepper and salt, and,( 1014 ) TTJB TTJH like the livor, guarded from tho licat by but- torud paper. Turkey, Trussing and Carving of (Dr. Kitchiuor'a obscrviitions).—Tho rules for cutting up a pheasant are in all roHpectB ap- plicable to a turkey; whether roasted or boiled, it is trussed and sent to table like a fowl. In trussing it, throe skewers should bo placed so as to admit tho spit between them and tho back of it: these keep it firm on tho spit, and prevent the great weight of tho stufiing, &c., from making it turn irregular while at the fire. One skewer should bo passed through the legs ; one in tho middle, which confines the wings; and tho other under the wings, near tho end of the merry-thought. Tho best parts of a tur- key are the white ones—the breast, wings, and neck-bones. The neck must be taken away, and the hollow part under the breast stuffed with forcemeat, which is to be cut in thin slices in the direction from the rump to tho neck, and a slice given with each piece of turkey. The breast is the only part usually cut up ; if more is wanted, take off one or both wings, a leg, &c. The gizzard and rump are favourites with some epicures. It is called a devil when well peppered, salted, and broiled: many people score it with a knife before it is peppered and salted. If you wish a turkey, especially a very large one, to be tender, never dress it till at least four or five days (in cold weather, eight or ten) after it has been killed. " No man who understands good living will say, on such a day I will eat that turkey—but will hang it up by four of the large tail-feathers, and when, on paying his morning visit to the larder, he finds it lying upon a cloth prepared to receive it when it falls, that day let it be cooked." Turkey with Celery Sauce.—Truss it nicely, wrap it up in layers of bacon; then boil it in water with a little salt, butter, and lemon- juice. Drain it, and cover over with celery sauce. Turkey with Chipolata Garnish.— Pluck, draw, and singe a plump turkey, stuff and roast in the usual way. Put it on a dish, and garnish with chipolata garnish [see Chipo- lata Garnish). Pour a little brown sauce over it, and send some more to table in a tureen. A good deal of taste is required to garnish this dish. Chipolata garnish is worth nothing un- less it is tastefully arranged. Turkey with Truffles.—Take a nice fat turkey the moment it has been killed; empty it, and put plenty of salt inside the body to draw the blood out. Then let it cool, and prepare some truffles in the following manner: take two or throe pounds, peel them, and smeU whether they are all of a good flavour, and not musked. Pick out the smallest from amongst them, and chop them very fine. Take some fat white bacon, and rasp it, so as to obtain the fat only, without any of the sinews. When you have rasped a sufiBcient quantity to fill the body of the turkey, put the chopped truffles into the mortar, pound them with the rasped bacon, season weU with salt, pejjper, spices, &c., then mix this with largo truffles, and put all in the turkey. Let tho turkey remain thus for two or thre(i days to iuiquire the flavour of the trulllcs; sow the Ijird up as soon as you have finished it, and when you want it roasted, put it on the spit, cfjvered witli bacon on tho l}r(;a8t and a few slieets of white paper, and take great care when you open the paper tliat you do not loosen the truflies. Serve with a clear Kpauish sauce. This dish is one of the best possible if it is well seasoned and roasted. It is scarcely necessary to observe that tho carver nmst serve the inside with t)ie fillet, as that is one of the best parts of the dish. Turkey's Eggs {see Eggs, Turkey's). Turkeys, Torcemeat for {nee Force- meat for Turkeys ; Oysters for Forcemeat for Boiled Fowls or Turkeys; and Forcemeat for Turkeys, Roast). Turkish Pilau.—A pilau, as really served in Turkey and Ai-abia, consists simply of rice boiled as for curry so that the grains are kept entire, mixed with a little butter, and seasoned with pepper and salt, then laid upon a dish, and the stewed meat placed upon it. For Western use, a pilau is very good prepared as follows :— Roast a rabbit, a chicken, or two or three pounds of mutton; when the meat is sufficiently cooked cut it into neat pieces convenient for serving, and p'lt these aside until wanted. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan with two ounces of lean ham cut into dice, or a little blanched bacon-rind, a sprig of thjine, an onion stuck with two cloves, a small carrot, half a dozen peppercorns, and a pint of stock or water. Simmer the liquor gently, and skim carefully until it is pleasantly flavoured and considerably reduced. Add some salt if required. Wash one pound of Patna rice, throw it into boiling water for five minutes, drain it, dry it in a cloth, put it into a clean saucepan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and stir it about over a gentle fire until it is lightly and equally coloured. Pour over it a pint and a half of stock, and let it simmer verj' gentlj^ until it has entirely absorbed the liquor, and is quite tender and dry without the grains being broken. Throw in a Kttle salt and white pepper and a tea-spoonful of curry-powder, and stir lightly with a fork to separate the grains. Pile it at once high on a dish, and place upon it the shces of meat which, a few minutes pre-vaously, have been heated but not boiled in the sauce made from the bones, &c. If a fowl has been used for the pilau, a table-spoonful of stewed sultana raisins may be placed on the top before serving. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to boil the rice. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turnip.—This excellent vegetable is ex- tensively used in cooker}', either alone and boiled whole, mashed in stews, or to flavour soups and sauces. There are many varieties of the turnip. The best are small, finely-grained, juicy, smooth, and sotmd "V\Ticn turnips are used for flavouring soups and sauces, it should be remembered that tho liquor in which they are boiled will not keep very long, and also that turnips boiled with onions will correct tht- verj- strong flavour of the latter. The peel ofTUR ( 1015 ) tiie turnip, if thoroughly washed, will flavour soup and sauco as Avell as the vegetable itself. Turnips ai-e in season from May till February. They may bo had all the year round, but in spring they are only useful for flavouring. Turnip and Potato Soup.—Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and fry in it two large onions sliced till they are brightly browned. Pour over them two quarts of stock made from bones or from the Liquor in which meat has been boiled, and add half a dozen sliced turnips, half a dozen mealy potatoes, and three or four crusts of bread, together with a bay- leaf and a few sticks of celery if liked. Sim- mer all gently together tiU the vegetables are quite soft, rub the soup through a fine sieve, and season with pepper and salt. Let it boil up once more, and serve very hot. Serve toasted sippets on a separate dish. This soup i is not likely to keep good more than a day or | two. Time, two hours and a half. Probable \ cost, 3d. per pint, exclusive of the stock. Suf- j ficient for ten or twelve persons. Turnip Broth.—This is made with about i a dozen turnips peeled and cut into slices, j Blanch them for a short time in water, and i drain them; put them with a knuckle of veal, a ■ small piece of beef, and the half of a hen into a stewpan; and pour some rich boiling broth over the whole. Let the whole stew for about two hours; then strain it through a double silk sieve, and use it with rice, vermicelli, &c. &c. Turnip-greens, To Boil {see Greens, Turnip, Boiled). Turnip Radishes, To Boil.—Radishes are generally eaten raw with salads, &c. The small white turnip radishes are, however, some- times boiled and served as a vegetable, and the ordinary long radishes, when young, may be tied in bunches, boiled till tender and served like asparagus on toast. They are good with j either boiled or roast meat. To boil turnip j radishes proceed as follows :—Take the radishes [ when young and freshly pulled. Wash them ; well, trim them neatly, leaving about an inch j of the stalks, and lay them in cold water for half an hour. Drain them, and throw them into plenty of boiling water slightly salted. Let them boil gently till tender. Drain them, and serve in a tureen with melted butter poured over them. Time to boil, fifteen to twenty-five minutes. Probable cost. Id. or 2d. per bunch. Sufficient, one bunch for one or two persons. Turnip Soup.—Wash and pare half a dozen turnips, and let them lie in cold water for a quarter of an hour. Drain them, and cut them up small. Put them into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh butter and three ounces of lean ham cut into dice, and stir them about over a gentle fire for two or three minutes. Add two or three onions and one or two sticks of celery, and pour over them a pint of stock made from bones. Let them simmer gently till they are quite soft, dredge two handfuls of flour over them, and beat them briskly with a wooden spoon till they are quite smooth. Moisten gradually with two pints of stock, and stir th« soup over the fire till it boils. Rub it through a fine hair sieve, let it boil up again, add salt, pepper, and powdered mace, and half a pint of boiling cream, and it will bo ready for serving. If liked, a bay-loaf and two or three cloves may be stewed with the other ingredients, and the floui- may be omitted, and a little ground rice or arrowroot substituted for it. Send toasted sippets to table on a separate dish. Time, two hours and a half, exclusive of the stock. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Probable cost, 4d. per pint, exclusive of the stock. Turnip-Tops.—Turnip-tops are frequently used as greens. When freshly cut they are very good, and they have a slightly bitter taste which recommends them to many. Trim off the decayed leaves and stems, and wash the greens in several waters. Drain them, and throw them into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water slightly salted. Keep the sauce- pan uncovered, and let them boil quickly till they are quite tender. When done enough, put them into a colander, and squeeze the water gently from them. Turn them into a hot vege- table-dish, pepper them lightly, and spread a little butter on them; cut the surface across both ways with a knife, and serve. If any of these greens are left, they may be served up again after being finely chopped with butter and salt, and heated in a saucepan. Time to boil, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost —generally very cheap—Id. or 2d. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds for three or four persons. Turnip-Tops (see Cabbage, Turnip-Tops, and Greens). Turnips.—These are seldom served whole, but after being boiled are mashed before being sent to table. When stringy they must be passed through a coarse sieve. In order to mash them, press the water weU from them, add enough butter, salt, and pepper, with a little powdered white sugar, which greatly improves their flavour. A little flour mixed with the butter renders the turnips less watery when mashed. Turnips, Boiled.—Turnips should only be served whole when they are very young, and then they should be covered with white sauce. When they have reached any size they shoTild be mi,shed. Pare the turnips, and wadi them; if verj' young a little of the green top may be left on; if very large they should be divided into halves or even quarters. Throw them into slightly-salted water, and let them boil gently till tender. Drain, and serve them. Time to boil, old turnips, three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half; young turnips, fifteen to twenty-five minutes. Probable cost' 5d. to 7d. per bunch. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turnips, Boiled and Served -with Sauce.—Boil the turnips as in the last recipe. Put them in a tureen, grate a little nutmeg over them, and cover with good melted butter. If preferred, omit the nutmeg, and stir a spoon- ful of freshly-mixed mustard into the sauce before pouring it over the vegetables. Turnips served in this way may bo sliced, cut into dice.TUB TUB ( 1016 ) or turned into any fanciful shapes before being boiletl. Time to boil, twenty minuteH to an hour and a half, according to age and size. Probable cost, 6d. per bunch. Sutticiont for fivo or six persons. Turnips, Brown Pur6e of.—Instead of blanching the turnips, sweat thoni on a slow tire in a little biitter. Talat care tbey do not burn. When they are well done, moisten with three spoonfuls of sauce tourneo and one spoon- ful of veal gravy. Give them a good season- ing, rub them through a tamis, and send up with fried toasts of broad. Never omit putting in a small lump of sugar before you serve up, to overcome the bitter taste of the turnips. Such entremets are not much ap- proved of in England, bat in winter, and in the country, you very often have no choice for second courses. Turnips, Duck, Braised, with, {see Duck, Braised, with Turnips). Turnips, for Garnish.—Very effective- looking tlowers for garnishing cold dishes such as roast turkeys, tongues, &c., may be made with turnips. Skill in making these can only be acquired by practice, and in order to attain it the best plan would be to procure a small sound turnip, a sharp penknife, a little liquid cochineal, a paint brush, and a real camellia, or any other suitable flower, as a pattern. Cut and shape the turnip, and endeavour to imitate the real flower as closely as possible. Paint the edges of the leaves a rosy tint with the cochineal, push in a little piece of stick for a stalk, and fasten two or three bay-leaves round the flower. Turnips for Garnish (another way). —When turnips are to be used for garnishing dishes they may be prepared either white or coloured. Pare the thick skin from them, wash and drain them, and either cut them into slices of uniform size, or turn them to any shape that may be desired. Throw them into boiling water, let them boil quickly for five minutes, then drain and dry them. If white turnip garnish is required, put the blanched turnips into a saucepan, cover with boiling stock, add a small lump of sugar and a little salt and cayenne, and let them simmer gently until they are tender without being broken. Let them remain in the stock till they are wanted. If brown turnip garnish is to be used, prepare the turnips, and blanch them as before. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a frying-pan, throw in the turnips, and shake them over a gentle fire till they are lightly browned. Drain them, and if not sufficiently tender, stew them for a few minutes longer before serving. Time, about ten minutes to colour the turnips, twenty minutes to stew them. Probable cost, turnips, 6d. to 7d. per bunch. Turnips, Fried. —Boil three or four turnips till they are three-parts dressed. Take them up, drain"them, cut them into slices, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly broNvned and quite tender. Drain them, and serve with fried or boiled cutlets. Or peel them and cut them into very thin slices. Let them lie in i cold water for an hour, and drain them. Dis- ^ solve a slice of butter in a stewpan, and in this steam a table-spoonful of chopped onion for live minutes. Put in the shces of tui-nip, sprinkle a little popper and salt over, and let them steam till they are soft. A spoonful or two of water may be added if there is any fear that th(y will l)urn. Turnips, Giblets with {nee GilAets with Turnips). Turnips, Glaces.—Select a few fine turnips; turn, in the shape of pears, a sufficient number to cover or to lill the dish; stew them in a little broth with a little sugar, which reduce to glaze, and add to it a little glaze. AVhen equally glazed, dish them; take a spoon- j ful of Spanish sauce to detach the glaze that I remains in the stewpan, with a small bit of I butter twice as big as a walnut, which work with the sauce. Pour the sauce over the turnips after you have given it a good sea- soning. Turnips, Glazed, with Gravj^.—Pare four or five large turnips, wash and drain them, and cut them into slices of uniform size, or turn them into a ball or pear shape. Dissolve in a deep saucepan as much fresh butter as will cover the bottom of the pan, throw in the tur- j nips, and fry till they are brightly browned. Drain the butter from them, and pour over as much good stock as will cover them. Let I them simmer gently until they are nearly tender. Remove the lid, put the saucepan over a quick fire, and let the sauce boil quickly until it begins to thicken. Take the turnips up, being careful not to break them, arrange I neatly on a dish, and pour the gravy over them. I Time, about twenty minutes to simmer the I turnips. Probable cost, turnips, 5d. to 7d. per bunch. Sufficient for four or five persons. Turnips, Glazed, with White or Brown Sauce.—Take five or six small, 1 sound, white turnips. Peel and wash them, I and turn them to the size and shape of to}^- marbles. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a deep pan, and sprinkle an ounce of pounded ' sugar into it. Put in the turnips, and fry [ till they are covered with glaze. Pour over them a quarter of a pint of good white or brown sauce, and let them simmer gently until tender. Season with pepper and salt. Arrange the turnips in a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. Turnips, Large, Stuflfed.—Boil whole four or five large turnips. Take them up, dram them, cut a slice from the top, and scoop out the middle. Beat the pulp which has been taken out with a little butter, flour, pepper, salt, and cream, and add the yolk of an egg. Fill the empty spaces with the mixture, put the tops on againli and brush them over with beaten egg. Brown them in a brisk oven, or before the fire, and serve very hot. Time to boil, from three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Turnips, Mashed.—Wash and imre the turnips, and throw them into cold water asTUR ( 1017 ) TUB they are done. Drain, and throw them into a aaucepjin with slightly-salted boiling water. Keop them covered, and let them boil till tender. Drain them by placing them in a bowl and pressing a plate upon them to squeeze out tlie moisture. Mash well, find carefully remove any stringy portions there may be among them. If necessary, pass them through a colander. Mix with them a little pepper and Siilt, a slice of butter, and a table-spoonful or two of cream or milk. Stir the pulp over the fire until it is hot and quite dry. Serve very hot. Time to boil, three-quarters of an horn- to an hoiu- and a half. Probable cost, 5d. to 7d. per bunch. Snfficipnt, one bimch for five or six persons. Turnips, Puree of.—Pare and wash half a dozen large sound turnips, and split them into halves, or even into quarters. Boil them till they are very tender, and press the water thoroughly from them. Pass them thi-ough a hair sieve, and put them back into the sauce- pan. Dredge a small quantity of flour over them, and add a little white pepper and salt, a slice of butter, half a tea-spoonful of white sugar, and a quarter of a pint of cream or milk. Stir them over the fire until they are quite dry and stiff. Serve the puree in the centre of a dish, and aiTange cutlets, &c., neatly round it. Some cooks add a little gi-ated nutmeg or a little powdered ginger to turnip puree. Time to simmer with the cream, about ten minutes; to boil, from three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half, according to age and size. Probable cost, 6d. per bunch. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turnips, Stewed (a la Fran9aise).—Peel and wash half a dozen tm-nips, and boil them in salted water till tender. Take them up, drain them, and in the water in which they have been boiled simmer gently a cupful of bread-crumbs for five or six minutes. Wash the turnips, and put them into another saucepan with the boiled bread and a little butter and pepper. Stir over a gentle fire till they are quite hot, and mi.x with them the yolk of an egg beaten up with two table-spoonfuls of milk. Let them stew gently a minute or two longer, and serve very hot. Turnips prepared thus are very good as an accompaniment to boiled mutton, veal, or poultry. Time, three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half to boil the turnips. Probable cost, 5d. to 7d. per bunch. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turnips Stewed in Gravy.—Pare and wash the turnips, and cut them into small square I)i(^ccs, or turn them to the shape of balls or pears. Put them into a saucepan, pour over thorn as much boiling gravy as will cover them, and add a little salt and pepper and a small lump of sugar. Let them simmer gently until they are tender. Put them in a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve very hot. Time to stew, three-quarters of an hour or more, according to age. Probable cost, 6d. per bunch. Turnips, White Puree of.—If you want to make a very wliite ])ureo, you must mince the turnips, blanch thorn in boiling water, and drain and sweat them over a very I slow fire in a little butter to prevent their getting brown. When they are done enough, add two or three spoonfuls of bechamel, strain them like a puree through a tamis, reduce, and serve surrounded with fried toasts of bread. If they are for entremets, the puree must be thicker; if for garnishing entrees, richer and more tasty. Turnips with White Sauce.—Prepare the turnips as before, stew them in graAy, and when they are quite tender lift them out with- out breaking them, drain them, and put them in a tureen. Have a tea-spoonful of arrowroot already mixed smoothly with a quarter of a pint of cream or milk. Mix the sauce gradually with this, put it back into the saucepan, and let it boil. Take it from the fire for a few minutes, stir half an ounce of cold butter into it: when this is dissolved pour the sauce over the turnips, and serve very hot. Time to stew the turnips, three-quarters of an hour or more, ac- cording to age and size. Probable cost, tur- nips, 5d. to 7d. per bimch. Sufficient, halt' a bunch of turnips for foui- or five persons. Turnips with White Sauce (another way).—Cut them in the shape of pears or balls; boil them in salt and water and butter, and when done enough di-ain them and serve with a white sauce, to which you may add a little mustard if approved of. Turnips, Young.—Wash and peel a dozen young turnips, and put them into a saucepan with a pint of milk; add a little pepper and salt, and let them simmer gently. When they are half-dressed, put with them half an ounce of butter rolled in dour. Serve very hot. Time to simmer the turnips, about half an hour. Turnips, Young, Stewed in Butter. —Take two pounds of mild young turnips, cut them into small squares, or turn them to any shape that may be preferred. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan sufficiently large to hold the vegetables in a single layer. Put in the turnips, and simmer them very gently until they are tender without being broken. A few minutes before they are done enough, sprinkle a little salt and white pepper over'them. Put them in the centre of a dish, and arrange fried or broiled cutlets neatly round them. Time, three-quarters of an hour to an hour to stew the turnips. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turnovers.—Make some good pastry, roll it out to the thickness of a quai-ter of an inch, and stamp it in rounds from four to seven inches in diameter, lay fresh fruit and sugar, or jam, on one half of the pastry, moisten the edges, and turn the other half right over. Press the edges closely, ornament them in any way, and brush the turnovers with white of egg. Sprinkle a little powdered sugar over them, and bake on tins in a brisk oven. Serve on a dish covered with a neatly-folded napkin. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. Sufficient, one pound of pastry will make two dozen turnovers. Turnovers (another way).—iSee also Yvvit Pasties or Turnovers.TUB TUR ( 1018 ) Turtle.—Tho turtle, or boh tortoise, is fo\ind in most of tho soaa of warm climates. Tlio green turtle is the variety used for making tho celebrated turtle soup which forms such a iiol(!d feature of muuicipal frasts, iuiudrods of quarts being served every yeiu- at the Lord Mayor's dinner. This soup is so e.xponsivo, and also so ditHeult to prepare, that it is seldom made in private houses; if it is wanted, it is bought TURTLE. ready-made, the cost being a guinea a quart. The turtles from -which soup is made in England are sent alive from the West Indies. They vary in weight from 30 pounds to 600 pounds, and in price from Is. to 2s. per pound, according to the state of the market. Many cooks use the tinned turtle instead of the live turtle. A small tin may be had for 8s. or 10s., with which six or eight quarts may be made. The most convenient way of making a small quantity of turtle soup is to use di'ied turtle, which may be bought of any respectable Italian warehouseman, at a cost of about 10s. per pound. The recipe for making it is given on p. 1020, Turtle Pish..—Take equal quantities of fresh ling, haddock, or codling and of skate, cut the fish into neat slices, wash and clean them, and fry them in hot fat tiU they are lightly browned. Drain them, and stew them in good gravy thickened with flour and butter, and seasoned rather highly with salt and cayenne. Add the meat of a lobster and a dozen or more oysters with their liquor. A little wine may be added or not. Serve the preparation in a soup tureen. A couple of cods' sounds, stewed in spinach-juice till they are coloured gi-cen, and afterwards cut into neat squares and put into the gravy, may be added to the prepara- tion, as an imitation of the green fat of the turtle. Timo altogether, about three-quarters of an hour. Turtle, Mrs. Glasse's Recipe for Dressing.—Dressing a turtle in the West- India way is thus described by Mrs. Glassc: — Take the turtle out of the water the night before you intend to dress it, and lay it on its back; in the uiorniug cut its throat, and let it bleed well; then cut off the finn, scald, scale, and trim them with the head; then raisij tho under shell (the calipee) clean off, leaving to it as much meat as you conveniently can; then take from tho back shell all the nu'ut and entrails except the momieur, which is the fat, and looks green—that must be bak(.d to and with tho shell. Wash all clean with siilt and water, and cut it into pieces of a moderate size, taking from it the bones, and put them with the fins and head into a soup pot with a gallon of water, some salt, and two blades of mace. When it boils, skim it clean, then put in a bunch of thyme, parsley, savory, and young onions, and your veal part, except about one pound and a half, which must be made force- meat of, as for IScotch collops, adding a little cayenne pepper. When the veal has boiled in the soup about an hour, take it out, cut in t)ieces, and put it to the other part. The intes- tines (reckoned the best part) must be split open, scraped, and cleaned, and cut in pieces two inches long. The paunch or maw must be scalded and skinned, and cut as the other parts the size you think proper; then put them with the other parts, except the liver, with half a pound of fresh butter, a few shallots, a bunch of thyme, parsley, and a little savory; season with salt, white pepper, mace, three or four beaten cloves, and a little cayenne pepper; let them stew about half an hour over a clear fire, and put in a pint and a half of madeira wine and as much broth as will cover it, and let it stew till tender. It will take five hours doing. "When almost done, skim it, and thicken it with some flour mixed with veal broth, about the thickness of a fricassee. Let your forcemeat balls be fried about the size of a walnut, and stewed half an hour with the rest. If any eggs, let them be boiled and cleaned as you do knots of pullets' eggs; and if none, get twelve or fourteen yolks of hard eggs. Then put the stew into the back shell (which is the calipash), with the eggs all over, and put it into the oven to brown, or do it with a sala- mander. The calipee must be slashed in several places, and moderately seasoned with pieces of butter, mixed with chopped th^-me, parsley, yoimg onions, salt, white pepper, beaten mace, and a little cayenne pepper; put a piece on each slash, and then some over, and a dust of flour; then bake it in a tin or iron dripping-pan in a brisk oven. The back shell (or calipash) must be seasoned as the calipee, and baked in a diipping-pan, set upright with four brickbats or anything else. An hour and a half will bake it, which must be done before the stew is put in. The fins, when boiled very tender, to be taken out of the soup, and put into a stewpan, with some good yeal gravy, not high-coloured, a little madeira wine, seasoned and thickened as the ciilipash, and serv ed in a dish by itself. Tho lights, heart, and liver mav be done in the same way, only a little higher seasoned ; or tho lights and heart might bo stewed with tho calipash, and taken out before you put it in tho shell, with sonu; sauce, adding a little more seasoning, and dish by itself. The veal part may be made fricandeaux or Scotch collops of. Tlu^ liver should never bo stewed witli the C4ilipash, but always dressed( 1019 ) TUB TUB by itself, after the manner you like; except you sopai-ato the lights and heart from the wilipash, and then always servo them together in one dish. Take care to strain the soup, and servo it in a tureen or china bowl. The whole is placed on the table in dishes arranged as follows:— Calipee. Lights, &c. I Soup. I Fins. Calipash. N.B.—In the West Indies they sometimes souse the fins and eat them cold, omit the liver, and only send to table the calipee, calipash, and soup. The foregoing description applies to a turtle of about sixty pounds weight. Turtle Sauce (to serve with calf's head). —Thicken a pint of beef or veal gravy with a tea-spoonful of brown thickening, and flavour it with two table-spoonfuls of turtle store sauce and half a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovy. Let it boil, and it will be ready for serving. If the store sauce is not at hand, mince a shallot finely, and put it into the thickened gravy with "half a tea-spoonful of essence of auchovy, three or four leaves of fresh basil, the strained juice and thinly-cut rind of half a lemon, a pinch of cayenne, and a glassful of sherry. Simmer the sauce gently for a few minutes till it is pleasantly flavoured, strain thi-ough a fine sieve, and it wiU be ready for serving. Time to simmer the sauce, five or six minutes. Sufficient for eight or nine people. Turtle Soup.—Before making turtle soup it is necessary to have several large pans and plenty of hot water ready for use. Take a turtle weighing about fifty pounds. Cut off the head, hang it up by the hind fins, and let it di-aiu aU night. Cut off the fins at the joints, and divide the calipash or upper shell from the calipee or lower shoU by pressing hea\'ily upon it and cutting round it about the depth of two inches. Let the water, &c., di-ain from it, and remove and throw away the intestines, caref uUy preserving, however, any fat that may be near them. Cut the flesh off along the spine, and let the knife slope towards the bones for fear of breaking the gall, which must on no account be allowed to touch the flesh, and which should be thrown quite away as soon as it is found. Cut oft' all the flesh from the members and let them drain. In cutting up the turtle remember to keep the green fat separate from the rest that its colour may be preserved. It is most highly prized by epicures. Throw the heart, lights, liver, and kidney into cold water. Put the calipash and calipee, the hc«,d and the feet, into a large vessel of boiling water, and let them simmer gently for a few minutes until the tins can bo peeled and the shoU scraped. Boil the back and the breast a little longer till the bones can be taken out. Cut out the soft moat, divide it into pieces an inch square, and place these in a single layer between two dishes to cool. Put the heart, liver, lights, and kidneys with the bones into a fresh saucepan, pour over them the stock in which the moat was blanched, and let thorn stow gentlv for throe hours. Afterwards pour the liquor off and let it cool. Take a large clean saucepan. Put into it two pounds of lean ham cut small, twelve pounds of leg of veal broken up, and over these the tins, the head, and the inside flesh of the tmile. Pour over them some good stock, and let them simmer gently imtil the sauce is very much reduced. Push a skewer into the thick part of the meat, and when blood no longer exudes from the flesh add the liquor which was poured off, and sim- mer all gently together until the meat is tender. Take it out, and set it aside. When the liquor from the bones is put into the stock the follow- ing ingredients may also be added.—Two large handfuls of parsley, a large bunch of mixed sweet herbs—thyme, marjoram, basil, and savory, an onion stuck with four cloves, three bay-leaves, and halt" a dozen mushrooms if ob- tainable. Simmer the soup till it is pleasantly flavoured, strain it, set it aside, or, if preferred, rub the vegetables through a sieve. Dissolve half a pound of butter in a stewpan. Mix four table-spoonfuls of flour smoothly with it, and beat it quickly with the back of a wooden spoon over the fire until it is brightly browned. Add the liquor gradually, and let the soup boU. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and carefully remove the fat, oil, and white scum which rise to the surface. Put the pieces of meat, which were put aside to cool, into the soup, let them simmer gently for an hour, and continue to remove the scum as it rises. Take four table-spoonfuls of parsley, four table- spoonfuls of minced shallot, one table-spoonful each of thyme, marjoram, savory, and sweet basil, a whole nutmeg grated, a blade of mace, a dozen allspice, four cloves, a table-spoonful of pepper and salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Put these seasoning ingredients into a delicately- clean saucepan with four ounces of fresh butter, and let them simmer gently until the butter is dissolved, add a small lump of sugar, a pint or two of good madeira, and a little stock, and sinuner them gently for an hour. Rub them through a fine sieve, and add the seasoning liquor to the soup. Let it boil again until no more scum rises. Put the quenelles, which are used as substitutes for turtles' eggs, into the soup ten minutes before serving, and add the strained juice of one or two lemons just before sending the soup to table. When once turtle soup is made it should not be boiled in order to heat it, as this gives it a strong taste, but it should be warmed in a bain marie. To make the quenelles for the soup, see Turtle Soup, Forcemeat Quenelles for. Time, several hours. Turtle soup should always be made the day before it is wanted. Probable cost, £1 Is. per quart. Sufficient, one quart for six or seven persons. Turtle Soup, Forcemeat Quenelles for.—Take a quarter of a pound of bread- crumbs, soak them in milk for a short time, and afterwards wring them in a cloth to squeeze the moistiu'e from them. Take a quarter of a pound of lean veal from the filUst, scrape it into pieces with a knifo, pound it in a marble mortar till it is quite smooth, arid rub it through a sieve. Mix it with the bri^ad-crumlis, and add Imlf an ounce of butter, a s.ilt-spoou-TUB ( 1020 ) TUB fill of Bait, a pinch of cayenne, a tea-spoonful of chopped paraley, and half a nutmeg grated. I'ound thcao iugredieutH together till tlioy are thoroughly niixod and quite smooth, then add the yolks of tliree eggs boiled hard and tlio yolks of two raw eggs. Dredge a little Hour on the table, and roll out the preparation. Make it into balls the size of a small nutmeg, throw these into boiling water slightly salted, and lot them boil till they are hard. Drain them on a sieve, and put them into the soup a few minutes before serving. They are supposed to repre- sent the eggs of the turtle. Time to boil, six minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. for this quan- tity. Sufficient, one forcemeat ball for each guest. Turtle Soup from Dried Turtle riesh..—Three or four days before the soup is wanted, buy a quarter of a pound of dried turtle tiesh. Soak it in lukewai-m water thi-ee days and three nights. Change the water every twelve hours, and if a slightly unpleasant odour firises from the flesh, rub it lightly over with salt. Whilst the soaking process is going on keep the basin containing the tui'tle in a warm place, and during the night let it stand in a cool oven. For the last twelve hours let the ■water in which it is soaked be of a good warmth. When the meat has been soaked till it has lost its gluey appearance, and is swollen and comparatively soft, cut it into neat pieces two inches square, and boil it gently for twelve hours in strong stock prepared as follows:—Put a slice of lean, undi-essed ham into a gallon saucepan with a pound and a half of gravy beef, a pound and a half of knuckle of veal, two onions, each one with three cloves stuclc into it, a head of celery, a small turnip and carrot, as much parsley as will fill a teacup, three tea-spoonfiUs of dried marjoram, three tea-spoonfuls of dried basil, one or two mush- rooms if they are at hand, half a tea-spoonful of lemon thyme, half a salt-spoonful of penny- royal, a small tea-spoonful of salt, and a small pinch of cayenne. If any chicken bones or pieces of cold roast meat are at hand they may be added to the rest. Fill the saucepan with cold water, simmer the soup very gently for twelve hours, and remove the scum as it rises. The soup must on no account be left in the saucepan all night; but if the simmering is not finished at night, the soup must be poured out into a basin, set in a cool place, and put on the fire again next day. When the soup has been reduced to two quarts, strain carefully, and remove the fat with scrupulous care. Get a pound and a half of fresh eels, cut them into pieces two inches long, and boil these in the stock. When they are tender, lift them out of the stock, and again strain it by passing it through a jelly-bag two or three times; if necessarj', clear it with white of egg. When it is clear put in the pieces of turtle flesh, and boil them gently till they are as tender as well- di-essed calf's head. At the last moment add a claret-glassful of good madeira or good golden sherry. Pour the soup into the tureen, add a few drops of lomon-juicc, and it will be ready for serving. If it is necessary to clarify the soup, whisk the white of an egg with a cupful of cold water. Stir this liriskly into the soup \yhon it is just warm, let it boil, and gently lift ott" the scum as it rises. Draw the saucepan to the side, and let the soup simmer gently for lialf an hour. Let it stand a quailer of an hour to settle, and strain thr(jugh a jeUy-bag. If th(! soup has been gently simiiK.red and care- fully skimmed, it will most Hkely need only to be passed two or three times through a jelly-bag. If thick soup is prefen-ed to clear soup, moisten a table-spoonful of brown thickcuiiig with a small portion of the soup. When it is quite smooth, pour it into the saucepan, and stir till it boils. When this thickening is used, it will be ne- cessary to let the saucepan stand by the side of the fire with the lid on for a short time, tliat the fat may rise to the surface and be removed. The eels which are stewed in the stock may be served as eel souchet, and will make a good dish. As the pieces of eel are taken out of the soup, throw them into a pan of boiling water for one minute. Lay them into a dish with as much boiling water as wiU cover them, put with them one or two sprigs of fresh parsley, and send brown bread and butter to table with them. Time, four or five days to prepare the soup. Probable cost, turtle flesh, lOs. per pound. Sufiicient for three pints of soup. Turtle Soup from Tinned Tiirtle.— When the tui'tle is not sent alive to its desti- nation, it is killed as soon as it is caught, put into tins hermetically sealed, and then used for making soup. In this case the stock should be prepared and seasoned as for turtle soup, and the tinned meat, which is in a jelly, should be cut up and stewed in the stock. Turtle soup thus prepared requires to be seasoned rather highly, and a few mushrooms or truffles should be used in the flavouring, in order to take away the taste of the tin. Probable cost, 7s. 6d. Sufficient for flve or six quarts of soup. Turtle Soup, Mock—Put into a large pan or jar a knuckle of veal, two well-cleaned cow-heels, two onions, a few cloves, a little all- spice, mace, and some sweet herbs, cover all with two and a half quarts of water, and set it in a hot oven for three hours. Then remove it, and when cold take off the fat very nicely; take away the bones and coarse parts, and when required put the remainder on the fire to warm with a table-spoonful of moist sugar, two of walnut, and one of mushroom ketchup ; add to these ingredients the jelly of the meat. When it is quite hot, put in the forcemeat balls, and add a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Turtle Soup, Mock (another way).-- Take half a calf^s head, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, two table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, a little minced lemon th^-me, a little sweet marjoram and basil, two onions, a few chopped mush- rooms, two shallots, two tablo-spoonfuls of flour, one do/.cn and a half forcemeat bal s about the size of a nutmeg, cayenne and s;ill to suit your taste, the juice of one lemon a Seville orjinge, one dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar, and three quarts of best stock. Turtle Soup, Mock (another way).- Takc half a calf's head wth the ekin on,TXJB TUB ( 1021 ) Kemove the brains, and lay them aside; wash the head in several waters, and let it soak in cold spring water for an hour. Put it into a stewpan, cover with cold water, let it boil gently for an houi-, and carefiilly remove the scum as it rises. Cut the meat from the bones, and divide it with the tongue into small neat squares of about an inch. Let these cool, put them into a saucepan, cover with two quarts of stock, and let them boil gently until they are tender without being overdone. Melt four ounces of butter in a saucepan, and put in three ounces of lean, imdressed ham cut into dice, a sliced carrot, two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a table-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, of which two-fifths shall be sweet marjoram, two-fifths basil, and one-fifth thyme, two chopped onions, and one or two chopped mushrooms when they are to be had. Stir these over the fire for two or three minutes, then pour over them a pint of stock, and let them simmer gently for two hours. Moisten two table-spoonfuls of flour with a little cold stock, and add this to the seasoning stock. Let it boil; add the remainder of the stock, and rub the soup through a fine hair sieve. Put it back into the saucepan with the pieces of mea*, boil aU gently together for a few minutes, add a glassful of wine, a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and salt and pepper if required. Have the forcemeat balls ready prepared, put them into the tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve very hot. Time, six or seven hours. Probable cost, calf's head, uncertain. Sufiicient for a dozen persons or more. Turtle Soup, Mock (another way).—See Calf's Head, Mock Turtle Soup of; and also Mock Turtle Soup. Turtle Soup, Mock, Brain Balls for.—Wash the brains in two or three waters, and free them from skin and fibre. Throw them into boiling water, and let them boU for ten minutes. Take them up, and ]3ut them into cold water for a minute or two. Afterwai'ds drain them, and pound them in a mortar with a tea-spoonful of chopped sage, or a little savory, or lemon thyme, and pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Bind the mixture together with the yolk of an egg, make it up into small balls the size of a child's marble, dip these twice into beaten egg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat till they are brightly brownojd. Drain them, and add them to the soup. Time, two or three minutes to fry the balls. Probable cost, 4d. for this quantity, exclusive of the trains. Sufficient, one brain ball to each guest. Turtle Soup, Mock, Clear.—Prepare, soak, and parboil the head as in last recipe but one. Cut the meat into neat squares, and set it aside, simmer the herbs and vegetables in a pint of stock for two hourH, and afterwards strain it through a tamis; the flour must of course be omitted. Add it to the rest of the stock, and clarify this by stirring into it when cool the whites of two eggs mixed with a little water, whisking it over the fire till it boils, boiling gently for half an hour, letting it stand to settlo for a q^uartcr of an hour, then straining it through a jelly-bag till it is clear. Put the pieces of call's head into the soup, boil them gently till tender, add a glassful of good wine and a little lemon-juice, and serve very hot. A few quenelles should be served with the soup. Time, six or seven hours. Turtle Soup, Mock, Curry Balls for.—liub a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a handful of finely-grated bread- crimibs, and add the yolk of an egg boiled hard. Pound the mixture in a mortar to a smooth paste, season with curry powder, and make it up into small balls the size of a nutmeg. Throw these into boiling water till firm, diuin and serve them in the soup. Time to boil, two minutes. Probable cost, 3d. for this quantity. Sufficient, at least one ball should be served to each guest. Turtle Soup, Mock (easy way of making a small quantity). — Take some stock made from bones or the liquor in which meat has been boiled. Boil it with fresh vegetables, herbs, and spices till it is pleasantly flavoured, and strain carefully. Procure a tin of mock turtle soup. Boil this up with a Uttle more than an equal quantity of the flavoured stock. When it is quite hot throw a claret-giassful of madeira or good sherry into it, and serve very hot with one or two cut lemons on a dish. The mixture of the stock made from fresh vegetables with the preserved soup will correct the shght taste of the tin which is the only objection which can be urged against it, and when a small quantity only of soup is required it will save time, trouble, and expense to make it in this way, rather than to prepare it at home. When there is no stock in the house, the vegetables and seasoning may be boiled in water, but of coiirse the soup -ndll not be so good as if stock were used. "Time, one hour to flavour the stock. Probable cost, a tin of. mock turtle, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turtle Soup, Mock, Egg Balls for.— Bon f oiir eggs till they are hard. Put them into cold water, and when they are cold pound the yolks in a mortar with a tea-spoonful of flour, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a tea- spoonful of salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Moisten the mixture with the yolk of a raw egg. Form it into balls the size of a small nutmeg, throw these into boiHng water, let them boil for two minutes, drain them on a sieve, and sei-ve in the soup. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient, one egg ball should be served to each guest. Turtle Soup, Mock (made with calf's head).—This soup should be prepared the day before it is wanted. Take half a calf's head, fresh and with the skin on. Remove the brains, wash the head in several waters, and after- wards let it soak in cold water for an hour. Put it in a stewpan, pour over it a gallon of cold stock made from bones, and let it sim- mer very gently for an hour. As the scum rises remove it carefuUv. Take up the head, and let it get partly cold; then cut the meat from the bones, and c^ivide it and the tongue into pieces an inch and a quarter square. Be careful that the skin, which is a most valuable( 1022 ) TUB TUB part, is cut up with tho fat. Lay thuao piucoB to got cold botwcou two dishes, the bottom ono I of which should bo laid upsido down. Dissolvo ' an ouiK-o of frosh butter in ii stowpan. Cut a large onion into slices, and fry these in the butter till thoy are brightly browned. I'our over them tho stock in which the head was l)oilcd, add tho bones and trimmings, and simmer the soup, carefully removing the scum until no more rises. Put in with it some outer sticks of celery, a carrot, a turnip, an onion stuck with foiu- cloves, a handful of parsley, a sprig of inai-joram, basil, and savory, a very small sprig of lemon thyme, one or two sage- leaves, half a quarter of an ounce of allspice, tho thin rind of half a lemon, and a little salt and pepper if required. Sinuner gently for an hour and a half, and strain the soup through a tamis. Dissolve thi-ee ounces of butter in a clean saucepan, and mix three ounces of flour smoothly with it. Stir over a brisk fire till it is brightly browned, and moisten by adding, very gradually, a pint of the stoek. Let it simmer gently for half an hour, then add the thickening to the soup. Put the pieces of head into the stewpan, and let them simmer gently until the meat is quite tender, but it must not be overdone. It will need from half an horn- to an hour. Add a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, half a tea-spooniul of essence of an- chovy, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a claret-glassful of good madeira or sherry. Have ready prepared quenelles or forcemeat balls, as for turtle soup, brain balls, or egg balls. Put them into the tureen, pour the soup over, and serve very hot. Time, eight to nine hours. Probable cost, calf's head varies in price from 2s. 6d. to 6s. or 8s., according to the time of year: it is most expensive at Christmas. Sufficient for two quarts of soup. Turtle Soup, Mock (made with cow heel).—"Wash, scald, and thoroughly cleanse a cow heel, split it in halves, and put it into a large stewpan with three-pennyworth of fresh bones broken into small pieces, six ounces of lean imdressed ham, or a large piece of bacon- rind, three onions, three carrots, a turnip, a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two bay- loaves, two cloves, six allspice, eight pepper- corns, a pinch of cayenne, three sage-leaves, half a dozen outer sticks of celery, and a tea- spoonful of sugar. Pour over these ingredients a gallon of cold water. Bring the Uquor to the boil, skim carefully, and simmer gently for six hours. Take out the cow heel, remove the boneS; and press the meat between two dishes. Let the soup simmer another horn- with the bones and trimmings; strain it, pour it out, let it stand until cold, and remove the fat from the top. Cut the meat into neat squares, and dredge a little flour over them. Fry in hot fat till they are lightly and equally browned, then drain them on a sieve. Dissolve four ounces of butter in a frying-pan, and stir into this three table-spoonfuls of flour, a tea- spoonful of curry-powder, and a tea-spoonful of dry mustard. Beat this mixture with the back of a wooden spoon, moisten with half a pint of poup, and add a tea-spoonful of ancho\7^ sauco. Boil for tvvcTity minutes, strain, and mix it with tho rest of the stcjck. Put in tlio ijieces of I meat, and simmer them gently till tlioy are heated tlirough ; add a glasnf ul of sherry or madeira, a dessert - spoonful of lemon-juice, ]jut some quenelles into the tureen; jjour the soup over, and serve inmtiediatoly. Tim<;, eight hours. Probable cost, cow heels, 4d. to 8d. each. Suflicient for a dozen pei-sons or more. Turtle Soup, Mock (made with pig's head).—lake half u pig's head, scald it thoroughly, and put it into a saucejian with tlu-ee quarts of good, nicely-flavoui-ed stock made from bones. Lot it simmer gently for an hour and a half; take it up, let it partially cool, cut the meat into neat squares, and lay these between two dishes, the bottom one being placed upside down to keep the meat from curling. Put the bones and trimmings of the head back into the saucepan, and let them simmer an hour longer with a couple of bay- leaves, and a little more seasoning, should the stock require it, and be very careful to remove the scum as it rises. Pour out the soup, let it remain until the next day, and then take the cake of fat from the top. Thicken with brown thickening, and after it has boiled let it simmer by the side of the fire, and as the fat is thrown up, remove it. When no more rises, put in the pieces of meat. Let them boil gently till tender, add a glassful of sherry and a pinch of cayenne, and serve very hot. Mock turtle soup made with pig's head is frequently objected to, because it so frequently tastes greasy. Con- sequently great care should be taken to get rid of the fat. This can only be done by making the soup the day before it is wanted, so that it can be poured out, and when cold the cake of fat can be taken from the top. As even after this a great deal of fat may be held in solution in the soup, the liquor should be boiled again in a covered saucepan, and afterwards simmered gently by the side of the fire, and the fat re- moved as it is throvm up. The stock for this soup may be made as follows :—Procure three- pennyworth of fresh bones. Wash them well, and break them into small pieces. Put them into a large saucepan, and pour over them four quarts of cold water. Add a large carrot, a turnip, three onions (one of them stuck ^^•ith three cloves), a handful of parsley, four allspice, half a blade of mace, a sprig of marjoram and basil, a very small sprig of lemon thj-me, eight peppercorns, half a dozen outer sticks of celery, and a little salt. Bring the liquor to the boil, skim carefully, di-aw it to the side, and let it simmer gently for five hours. Stmin it, and it will be ready for the pig's head. Quenelles should be served in the soup. Time, eight or nine hours. Probable cost, pig's head, 6d. per pound. Sufficient for a dozen people. Turtle Soup, Quenelles for {set Quenelles for Turtle Soup). Turtle Soup, To Heat—When turtle soup is bought already prepared from tho con- fectioner, wliich is the plan usually adopted m private houses, it should bo heated as follows :— Cover closely the jar containing tho soup, put it into a pan of bollinc: wntor, and lot tho poup l)oil gentlv until it is quite hot: turn it into( 1023 ) TUB- HDD a tureon, stir into it a clarct-glassful of good madeira or shony, and servo immediately. A spoonful of lemon-juico may be added if liked, and if it is not put into the soup, a dish con- taining one or two lemons cut in halves may be served with the soup, so that the juice may be added at the discretion of the guests. Turtle Store Sauce (for flavouring liashes, stews, and sauces).—Put an ounce and a half of very thinly-peeled lemon-iind, half an ounce of good curry powder, and a quarter of an ounce of cayenne into a large bottle, and poui' over them a small tumblerful of basil wine, half the quantity of mushroom ketchup, six table-spoonfuls of shallot wine, and four table- spoonfuls of essence of anchovy. Add two drachms of concrete lemon acid, cover the bottle to keep out the dust, and let the ingredients infuse for eight or ten days. Strain and filter the liquor, then bottle it: it will prove useful for flavouring purposes. Time, ten days. Sufiicient, two table-spoonfuls of this essence will flavour a pint of sauce. Twelfth. Cake.—A twelfth cake, or any important cake, if made at home, will require care, attention, and good materials. If these are given, and the following recipe attended to, the result can scarcely fail to be satisfactory, and a considerable saving may be effected, compared with what the same cake would have cost if bought at a confectioner's. Before beginning to mix the cake all the ingredients should be pre- pared, the flour dried and sifted, the currants washed, dried, and picked, the nutmegs grated, the spices pounded, the candied fruit cut into thin sHces, the almonds bruised with orange- flower or rose water, but not to a paste, the sugar sifted, and the eggs thoroughly whisked, yolks and whites separately. Care should be taken to make the cake and to keep the fruit in a warm place, and, unless the weather is very warm, to whisk the eggs in a pan set in another containing hot water. To make the cake, put two pounds of fresh butter into a large bowl, and beat it with the hand to a smooth cream: then add two pounds of powdered sugar, a large nutmeg grated, and a quarter of an ounce each of powdered cinnamon, powdered mace, pow- dered ginger, and powdered allspice. Beat the mixture for ten minutes, add gradually twenty eggs, and beat the cake for twenty minutes. Work in two pounds of flour, four pounds of currants, half a pound of bruised almonds, half a pound each of candied orange, candied lemon, and candied citron, and, last of all, a claret- glassful of brandy, and beat the cake lightly between every addition. Line a baking-hoop with doubled paper well buttered, pour in the mixture, and be careful that it docs no more than three-parts fill it, that there may be room for the cake to rise. Cover the top with paper, set the tin on an inverted plate in the oven to keep it from ljuming at the bottom, and bake in a slow but well-heated oven. When it is nearly cold, cover it as smoothly as possible with sugar- icing three-quarters of an inch thick {.see Frost or Icing for Cakes). Ornament with fancy articles of any kind, with a high ornament in the centre: those mny frequently bo hired of the confectioner. In order to sieceitain whether the cake is done enough, plunge a bright knife into the centre of it, and if it comes out bright and clear the cake is done. A cake of this de- scription will, if properly made, and kept in a cool dry place, keep for twelve months. If cut too soon it -will crumble and fall to pieces. It will be at its best when it has been kept four months. Time to bake, four hours and a half. Probable cost, 12s. for this quantity. Twelfth Cake (another way). — The following is an old recipe:—Seven pounds of fine flour, two pounds and a half of the freshest butter, seven pounds of currants pre- pared as before directed, two large nutmegs grated, half an ounce of mace and a quarter of an ounce of cloves pounded to fine pow- der, a pound of sifted lump sugar, the yolks of sixteen and the whites of twelve eggs, and a pint and a half of the very best distiller's yeast. Warm as much cream as vdll wet this mass, and add as much sweet malmsey or mountain wine as will give it the consistence of batter. Beat, not too fine, a pound of sweet almonds bleached; rub them with some of the sweet wine and orange-flower water; then add, and beat also, haK a pound each of candied lemon, citron, and orange-peel. Let the whole be well mixed, and put the cake into a hoop with a thick paste of flour and water under it in order to preserve the bottom from scorching. Ice it the moment it is drawn from the oven. Twelfth Cake, Lady Caroline Lamb's.—Quarter of a peck of pure flour care- fully dried, three pounds of currants, a quarter of a pound of raisins, haK a pound of refined sugar, quarter of a pound of sweet and half an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and sliced, two ounces of orange and two ounces of candied • lemon-peel, and spices according to taste. Mix all thoroughly; then take one pint of cream, and put to it three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter washed first in pure and afterwards in rose-water; place in a gentle heat. Beat up the white and yolks, separately, of six eggs, and the yolks only of six more. Add to them a little rose-water, two table-spoonfuls of carda- mom brandy, half a glassful of old Ehenish, hock, or champagne, quarter of a pint of fresh yeast, and a little fine salt. Mix the liquids together, strain them, add the dry materials warm, and mix the whole into a light smooth batter. Place it before a fire for twenty minutes to rise, butter your hoop, and use what flour is necessary to make the cake sufficiently stiff. Set it in the oven with some sheets of brown paper well floured to prevent its burn- ing. In about a couple of hours it will be done. Ice it in the usual manner, and stick any ornaments you choose upon the icing before it is dry. u Udderj Beef.—Beef udder may be gently simmered m broth or water, then sliced, and served with onion or tomato sauce. If liked, it may be put in salt for a couple of days before being boiled. Salted udder should be e^iten cold, and vinegar and oil shotild be sent to table with it.( 1024 ) trsQ Udder, Calf's, for Forcemeat.—Put tho uddor into a saucoijan with aa much broth or water as will cover it. Lot it boil geutly till it is thoroughly done. When cold trim away the upper ptuis, and pound it ta a mortar till it ciin be passed through a sieve. The pulp will then bo ready for putting into French forcemeat. Butter may always be substituted for udder iu making forcemeat. Udder, Fresh Neat's Tongue and.— Those may be roasted together. When ready for serving, put half a pint of gravy into a saucepan, with the juice of a Seville orange, a glassful of claret, two lumps of sugar, and a piece of butter; toss these ingredients over tho tire, and serve with the tongue and udder. Garnish vfith slices of lemon. The udder should be stuck with cloves, and both it and tho tongue should be continually basted. Unfermented Bread.—Fermented bread is sometimes considered imwholesome. Those who are of this opinion may make their bread as follows:—Mix one ounce of bicarbonate of soda with eight pounds of flour. Stir one ounce of hydrochloric acid with four pints of warm water. Stir the liquor into the flour briskly, and with a wooden spoon, till the in- gredients are thoroughly blended; divide the dough into loaves, and bake these immediately in a brisk oven. It will need to bake as long as bread usually does. Unground Corn Soup (a German re- cipe).—Take a breakfast-cuptul of wheat, and put it into a stewpan with two ounces of butter. Stir till the butter is melted. Add water, and let all simmer till the com is quite soft. Season with salt and pepper, adding parsley, chervil, or any other herb, flnely minced. Place yolks of eggs in the tureen, grate in a little nutmeg, and pour in the boiling soup. United States Pudding.—Boil three- quarters of a pint of new milk with thi-ee ounces of fresh butter and half a tea-cupful of sugar. Stir in six oimces of Oswego, pour the pudding into a bowl, and beat it briskly for some minutes. When it is almost cold, mix with it first the yolks, and afterwards the weU- whisked whites of four eggs. Butter a pudding- basin, and fiU it with alternate layers of the corn-flour paste thus prepared and Jam, and let paste constitute the uppermost and undermost layers. Lay a round of oiled paper on the top of the pudding, and steam it over fast-boiling water tiU done enough. If pref ei-red, the pudding may be baked in a brisk oven, instead of being steamed. Serve with wine or brandy sauce in a tureen. Time to steam the pudding, one hour ; to bake it, three-quarters of an hour. Universal Store Sauces for Flavour- ing Gravies, &C.—Put two table-spoonfuls of port into a bottle with the same quantity of lemon pickle, chilli vinegar, mushroom and walnut pickle, and one table-spoonful of essence of anchovies. Shake the mixture, and it will be ready for use. If preferred, shallot vinegar may be used instead of lemon pickle. Another excellent store sauce for flavouring gravies may be made as follows: — Puc half a pint of ketchup into a bottle with a table-spoonful of port, a tea-spoonful of shallot vinegar, a quarter of an ounce of powdered allspice, one ounce of salt, and a little pepper and cayenne. Put the bottle in a warm place for some hours ; keep it for a week, then strain and bottle for use. University Pork Sausages. —To a couple of pounds of lean pork, young, white, and delicate, put three quarters of a pound of mmced beef suet—the pork must first be chopped very fine. Add three dessert-spoon- fuls of bread which has been dipped in port wine, dried, and grated fine. Work it together with the yolks of three eggs smoothly beaten; season with pepper and salt and dried sage—a very little cayenne may be introduced, and a vert/ small piece of garlic. Work the whole well together in a mortar until it forms a paste; it may then be put into wide skins, or pressed down into jars for future use. It is cut into square pieces, dredged with flour, fried in fresh butter, and sent to table on a toast as a breakfast dish. Upton Pudding. — Butter a pie-dish thickly, and put into it a tea-cupful of large- grained sago. Add two table-spoonfuls of sugar and a little grated lemon or nutmeg. Nearly fill the dish with boiling water (milk is better if it is to be had). Pare and core two large apples, and slice them into the pudding ; place a lump of butter upon it, and bake in a gentle oven. This pudding may be eaten cold or hot. Time to bake the pudding, about two hours. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Usquebach, Irish.—This was origi- nally a liqueur—a compound spirit made with spices. Among other recipes for its manufac- ture is the following:—Take of nutmegs, cloves, and cinnamon each two ounces; of the seeds of anise, caraway, and coriander, each four ounces; sliced liquorice, half a pound. Bruise the seeds and spices, and put them, together with the Liquorice, into a still with eleven gallons of proof spirits and two gallons of water. Distil with a pretty fresh fire till the " faints " begin to rise. As soon as the liquor comes, over, fix some saffron to the end of the worm, that the liqueur may pass through it and extract its tincture. Soften the whole with sugar. Usquebach, Irish (another way).—Di- gest the following ingredients for a fortnight in five gallons of French brandy—nutmegs, cassia, cinnamon, angeHca-root, hay-satfron, rhubarb, of each one ovmce; mace, cloves, lesser cardamom-seeds, of each two drachms; liquorice-root, three ounces; coriander-seeds, aniseed, turmeric-root, caraway-seeds, of each one ounce. Usquebach (Meg Dod's recipe).—To two quarts of the best brandy, or wliisky without a smoky or any peculiar flavour, put a pound of stoned raisins, half an ounce of nutmegs, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same quan- tity of cardamoms, all bruised in a mortar; the riiid of a Seville orange rubbed off on lumps of sugai-, a little tincture of safEron, and half i! pound of brown sugar-rundy. Shake the( 1026 ) VAN infiision every day for a fortnight, and filter it for uso. Not a di'op of water must be put to this cordiiil. It is sometimes tinged of a pale green with the juiee of spinach instead of the saffii'on tint being imparted to it. Utensils, Kitchen {sec Appendix). Uxbridge Plnm Pudding (excellent). —Shi-ed a half-pound of suet very finely, mix with it half a pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of mashed potatoes, half a pound of grated carrots, thi-ee-quarters of a pound of picked and di-ied cui-rants, two oimces of minced candied peel, and a little gxated nutmeg. Mix the ingredients thoroughly. Press them into a buttered basin or mould which they will quite fill, cover the mould with a saucer, and tie it tightly in a cloth. Plimge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly untU done enough. A quarter of an hour before the pudding is wanted take it up, and before turning it out of the basin put it into the oven. This will remove any moisture it may have acquired in boiling, and cause it to turn out better. Send brandy or wine sauce to table with it. Time to boil the pudding, fuUy six hours. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. V Vacherin for Sweet Creams.—Take half a poimd of sweet almonds and half a pound of white sugar. Blanch, peel, and poimd the almonds, add the sugar, and moisten the mix- ture to a stifl: paste with white of egg. Sprinkle some powdered sugar on a pastry-board, and roll the almond paste upon it a quarter of an inch thick. Take a plain mould about six inches in diameter, line the sides with a band of paste one and a half inches deep, and join the ends securely together with white of egg. Stamp out a round of the paste a little larger than the bottom of the mould. Bake both in a gentle oven. When the paste is dry take it out of the oven, remove the band from the mould, and stick it upon the round. Put the case again in the oven, let it remain till it be- comes slightly coloirred, then let it get quite cold. When wanted, fill it with any nicely- flavoured whipped cream, piling the cream as high as possible. Valentia Wine.—Put a quart of mm and a quart of unsweetened gin into a jar. Add three quarts of cold water, three pints of boiling milk, one poimd and a half of loaf sugar broken into small pieces, the thin rind and strained juice of nine lemons, six cloves, an inch of stick cinnamon, an inch of whole ginger, one large nutmeg grated, and a pennyworth of saffron tied in muslin. Stir the mixture briskly for a few minutes, cover closely, and let it remain mitouched for three hours. Pass it through a jelly-bag till it is quite clear, and bottle for use. This wine may be used at once. Vanilla.—Vanilla is a flavourer used to impart an agreeable odour to creams, ices, cus- tards, coifoe, &c. It may be bought by weight, but the essence is the form in which it ii, 2a generally used. Vanilla - scented sugar also has recently been introduced into the market. VANILLA. {Vanilla Aromatica.) Showing Flower and Aromatic Seed-Capsules. Vanilla and Currant Bombe.—Take equal quantities of vanilla cream ice and red currant water-ice. Line a bombe mould with currant water-ice an inch thick. Fill the centre with vanilla cream ice, close the mould, and put it in ice till it is firmly set. Turn it out just before it is wanted, and cut it in slices convenient for serving. Dish these on a napkin. Vanilla Cream.—Soak an ounce of gela- tine in cold water for half an hour. Break a pod of vaniUa into small pieces, and soak these in a pint of boiling milk till the latter is pleasantly and rather strongly fiavoured. Add six ounces of powdered sugar and the well- beaten yolks of four or six eggs. Put this custard into a jug, set it in a saucepan of water, and stir it until it begins to thicken, but it must not boil. Drain and add the gelatine, stirring the custard off the fire; the heat of the custard wiU dissolve it. Pour the cream into an oiled mould, and set it in a cool place till stiff. If liked, this cream may be enriched by the addition of a pint of whipped cream, which should be stirred lightly in when the custard and gelatine are cool. When this addition is made, two additional eggs and another half-ounce of gelatine will be required. The essence, instead of the pod of vanilla, may be used to flavoirr the cream. Time, about ten minutes to thicken the custard. Probable cost, if made without cream. Is. lOd. Sufficient for nearly a quart of cream. Vanilla Cream {see Cream, Vanilla). Vanilla, Cream Whipped with {see Cream Whipped with Vanilla). Vanilla Custard.—Cut half a pod of vanilla in pieces, and let it soak for an hour in a pint of milk or cream. Stir four table-spoon- fuls of sugar into it, and when this is dissolved add the well-beaten yolks of two, four, or six eggs. Put the custard in a bowl, and set this over a saucepan of boiling water. Keeo■^AIT ( 1026 ; VEA Btirrinf? one way till it befrins to thicken, but it nmtit not boil. Stii- occasionally till it is cold, and servo in a glass dish or in custard cups. Whisk the whites of tho eggs to a firm froth, Jind pile this on tho custard at the moment of serving. Sift a little white sugar upon the custard, and it will be ready for tho table. If liked, essence of vauiUa may be used instead of tho pod. Probable cost, if made Avith milk, Is. to Is. 6d. Sufficient for a little more than a pint of custard. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to make tho custard. Vanilla Custard Pudding.—Flavour a pint of milk by soaking a quarter of a pod of vanilla in it for some time. Boil the milk, and pour it v.'hilst boiling on four eggs which havo been lightly beaten in a basin. Strain the custard, let it cool, and add sugar to taste; three good-sized lumps will be enough. Pour the pudding into a buttered mould. Lay an oiled paper on the top, put it in a stewpan with water to reach half-way up the mould, and steam gently until done enough. Let it stand a few minutes after it is taken up before turn- ing it out. Put it on a dish, garnish with pre- served fruit, and pour dissolved fruit jelly round it. If liked, the pudding may be baked instead of being steamed, and essence of vanilla may be used instead of the pod. Time to set the pudding, half an hour. Probable cost, Is., without the sauce. Sufficient for five or six persons. Vanilla Custard Sauce for Sweet Puddings.—Beat an egg, and stir half a pint of milk into it. Add sugar to taste and six or seven drops of vanilla flavouring. The quantity should be regulated by the strength of the pre- paration. Put the mixture into a saucepan over a gentle fire, and stir one way till it begins to thicken, but it must not boil. Serve in a txireen wdth any'kind of dry, boiled pudding. Time, about eight minutes to thicken the custard. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 4d. Vanilla Ice Cream.—Pound half a stick of vanUla, and mix with it half a pound of sugar. Rub it through a hair sieve, and add half a pint of milk and the yolks of two eggs. Simmer the mixture over a slow fire for ten minutes, stirring briskly all the time. When cool, add a pint of cream and a small pinch of salt. Freeze and mould in the usual way. Time, ten minutes to simmer the custard. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for a quart of ice cream. Vanilla Lozenges.—Mix four ounces of powdered vanilla with an oimcc and a quarter of powdered white sugar. Add as much gum tragacanth as will make a stiff paste. Fonn the mixture into lozenges. Or put half a pound of coarse sugar into a small sugar-boiler with an ounce of water and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Stir tho mixture with a wooden spoon over a gentle lire till it has become liquid and is on the point of simmering. Take it off the fire, stir it a few minutes longer, and drop it upon slightly-oiled baking-sheets. Let the drops get cold, then remove them with the point of a sharp knife. VaniUa Sauce for Sweet Puddings. —Boil a ((uarter of un inch of vaiulla and a table-spoonful of sugar in a quarter of a pint of water for ten minutes. JSIix a dosseil- spoonf ul of arrowroot to a smooth paste with a spoonful of cold water. Strain the boiling syrup upon it, and stir the sauce till it is smooth. Add half a wine-glassful of brandy, u.nd servo. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Time, ten minutes to boil the sauce. Vanilla Souflae.—Take three ounces of di-ied Hour. IMix it to a smooth jjaste with two or three table-spoonfuls of cold milk, and add additional milk to make up the quantity to three-quarters of a pint. Stir in two table- spoonfuls of sugar, a small pinch of salt, and a few drops of vanilla essence. The quantity must be regulated by the strength of the essence. Stir the milk briskly over the fire till it leaves the sides of the pan. Strain it into a bowl, and when it is cool add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs. Beat the whites of six eggs to a firm froth, mix them lightly with the batter, and half fill a buttered dish with the mixture. Put it into a moderately-heated oven, and turn it about occasionally, that it may be equally baked. When done enough, sift powdered sugar upon it, and serve at once, or it win be spoUed. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Vanilla Sponge Cake.—Cut half a stick of vanilla into small pieces, tie it in muslin, and put it into a saucepan with one gill of water and twelve ounces of refined sugar. Let it simmer to a clear sjTTip, then take out the bag of flavouring, and stir the sjTup into six eggs lightly beaten. Put the basin into a saucepan of boiling water over the fire Draw the pan back and beat the batter briskly and continuously till thick and light. Stir in ofiE the fire half a pound of flour, turn the batter into prepared moulds, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, half an hour or more. Vauxhall Nectar.—This old-fashioned liqueur may be successfully imitated by dis- solving one scruple of flowers of Benjamin (otherwise known as flowers of benzoin, and benzoic acid) in a pint of good rum. The liqueur may be used immediately. Veal.—Veal is best when the animal is from two to three months old. The flesh of the bull calf is the most suitalilc for joints, being of a firmer grain. That of the cow calf is the best for made-dishes. The fillet of the cow calf is generally preferred, because it has the udder. 'J'ho finest calves have the smallest kidneys, and when the veal is good these arc well covered with fat. "Veal, like all yoimg meat, has a tendency to turn very quickly. It is both un- palatable and most unwholesome when it is at all tainted, and it cannot be recovered, as brown meats sometimes are, by the use of charcoal. Tliereforc it ought not to be kept more than two davs in siuumor and four in winter. If eaten quite fresh it is apt to be a little tough. To assist it in keeping, the pipe should be re- moved from the loin as soon as the veal conj( sVEA VEA ( 1027 ) from the butcher. The skirt also should be taken at once from the breast, the inside scraped and wiped, and dredged with flour. If there is any danger of the veal becoming tainted, wash "it, and put it into boiling water for ten minutes. Tltrngo it into cold water till cool, wipe it dry, and put it into the coolest place that can be found. Although veal can be ob- tained all the yccir roimd, it is best from May to September. No meat is more generally use- ful for making soups and gravies than veal. The flesh is rather indigestible. The head, CALF, JOINTING OF. kidneys, and sweetbreads, are considered great delicacies. The feet contain a good deal of nourishment. Veal is cut up as follows :— 1. The Loin. 2. The Chump, which consists of the rump and the hock bone. 3. Fillet. 4. Hind-knuckle. 5. Fore-knuckle. 6. Neck. 7 The Breast. 8. The Shoulder. To these joints must be added the head, which is highly esteemed, and the pluck, which includes the liver, lights, heart, sweetbreads, of which one is called the throat sweetbread, and is the largest of the two; the other the wind-pipe sweetbread. The pluck also includes the nut, moit, skirt, and throat. The udder or firm white fat of the fillet is used by French cooks for forcemeats. Veal should "be thoroughly done. When undcr-drossed it is unwholesome, and should be avoided. Veal (i la Bourgeoise).—Take about three pounds of the fillet, loin, or neck of veal. Cut it into neat pieces, and fry these in a little butter till they are brightly browned on both sides. Add two slices of lean bacon, three caiTota, three onions (each with a clove stuck in it), a large bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and pepper and salt to taste. Pour over all as much boiling stock or water as will barely cover the ingredients, and simmer all together very gently until the meat is done enough. Take it out, skim the sauce, strain it, and boil quickly to reduce it; then add a spoonful of Bugar browning to colovu- it, and if liked a little ! tomato sauce and ketchup to impart flavour. Put the meat on a dish, trim the carrots to a neat shape and place them round it, pour a part of the gravy over the veal, and serve the rest in a tureen. A pint of fresh green peas and two pounds or more of new potatoes should be cooked separately, and served -vith. the veal. If liked, the veal, instead of being cut up into pieces, may be evenly larded in the grain of the meat with strips of fat bacon, and dressed whole. If a calf's foot is boiled wdth the veal it will much improve the gra.Yj. Time tr simmer the veal, two hours if it is cut up, three hours if in one piece. Probable cost, 48. to 5s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Veal, Cold (a la Bourgeoise).—Prepare the veal the day before it is wanted, according to the directions in the preceding recipe. Turn it out into a bowl, pour the gravy over, and let it get cold. VVhen wanted, turn the whole upon a dish, and serve with the gravy set to jelly round it. Veal (a la Chartreuse). — Line a plain roimd or oval mould with thin slices of fat bacon. Spread a layer of veal forcemeat upon this, and fill the mould with a rich fricassee of veal. Lay dressed turnips and carrots, cut into appropriate shapes, round the edge of the mould, cover with pastry, and steam it over boiling water. Turn it out upon a dish, and serve very hot. Time to steam the chartreuse, about an hour. Veal and Fowl, Blanching of.—Veal of every part is to be made firm by means of boiling-hot water, and we also lay the flesh of any kind of fowl required to be rendered firm in hot water, allowing it to remain undistui-bod at a short distance from the fire, plunging it afterwards into cold water. Especially veal intended for cooking, or previously cut up into proper pieces for a fricassee, is kept for a quarter of an hour in boiling water at a distance fi'om the fire, and then removed and washed in cold water. A leg or breast of veal must be set on the fire with cold water to draw it a little; it must not, however, boil, as that would ex- tract too much of its goodness. Eemove it from the fire, cover it over, and let it stand a quarter of an hour ; after which it will be found to have become perfectly drawn and whitened. Take it out, lay it in cold water, wash it, and dry it with a clean cloth. Veal and Ham Patties.—Line patty- pans with puif paste in the usual way, bake them, and fiU them with a mixture prepared as follows:—Mince finely six oiinces of dressed lean veal and three ounces of dressed ham. Put a quarter of a pint of cream and a quarter of a pint of white stock into a saucepan; thicken this sauce with white roux or with a smaU piece of butter rolled in flour, and simmer till it is smooth and coats the spoon. Add a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, and a flavouring of grated nutmeg and lemon-rind, together with a little lemon-juice. Put in the minced meat, and simmer gently, stirring all the time, till it is quite hot—but it must not l)oil, or it will be hard. Time, ten or fifteen minutes to heat the mince.VEA ( 1028 ) VEA Veal and Ham Pie,—Tako from a pound and a half lo two pounds of vual cutluta or of nii'O loan voal from any part. Cut those into nuat square piouos about tho sizu of a walnut, i'ut a layer at tho bottom of a pio-disli, and .sprinkle upon the meat a little pepper and salt, a pinch of grated lemon-rind, anotlier of pow- dered mace, and another of minced savoury herbs. Lay upon these tiavouring ingredients two or throe slices of ham or streaky bacon, and repeat the alternate layers until the dish is full. Let ham constitute the uppermost layer. Tho yolks of three eggs boiled hard iind cut into slices m;iy be interspersed with the meat. Pour half a pint of stock u])on the meat. Line the edges of the dish with good pastry, cover with tho same, ornament the sur- face, brush it over with yolk of egg, and bake in a well-heated oven. When done enough, pour a little boiling gravy into the pie, and serve. This pie may be enriched by the addition of a little forcemeat, or a few oysters or mushrooms, or a sweetbread, but it will be found excellent Avithout them. If liked, a gravy prepared as follows may be poured upon the meat instead of stock:—Take a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, a minced shallot, and a tea-spoon- ful of parsley. Fry these in a little butter over a gentle fire. Add half a pint of stock or water, a small piece of brown thickening, a little pepper and salt, and a spoonful of ketchuj). Stu- the sauce till it boils, add a few drops of lemon-juice, strain it, and it will be ready for use. Time to bake the pie, an hour and a half or more according to size. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 3s. 6d., plainly made. Veal and Ham, To Press {see Ham and Veal, To Press). Veal and Macaroni Pudding.—Take as much veal (free from bone) as will about three-parts fill the pudding-basin it is intended to use. When fortune is favom'able, half a poimd of bacon, the veal kidney or part of it, the sweetbread, or a few oysters or mushrooms, may be added to the veal. Cut the meat into small neat pieces, and season with ]Depper and salt. Break into one-inch lengths as much macaroni as will fiU the vacant space in the pudding-basin, and soak these in lukewarm water for half an hour. Line the pudding- basin with good suet pastry. Fill it with layers of meat and macaroni, and sprinkle grated lemon and powdered mace between the layers. Add half a tea-cupful of stock or w^ater for gravy and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice. Lay a pastry cover on the top of the pud- ding, tie the pudding in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling (juickly until done enough. Take it up, untie the cloth, and run a sharp skewer into the pudding, in order to ascertain whether or not the meat is tender. If not, it will re- quire longer boiling. If it is done enough, turn it out carefully upon a hot dish, and serve iinmcdiately. Time to boil a pudding made w ith a poimd and a half of veal, about two hours. Probable cost, varying with tlie nature of the contents. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Veal and Rico Soup.—Tako about four pounds of the knuckle of veal, lij'uak up tho bones, and put them wiUi the meat into a small stock-pot with a gallon of stock made from bones, or water and any trimmings of meat or l)Oultry that may be at hand. 'I'he knuckle- bone of a ham or a little scalded and scraped bacon-rind will be a great improvement. Lot the liquor boil, skim well, and tlnow into it two carrots, a turnip, two onicjns, each stuck with one clove, a few sticks of celery or a little celery-seed, and pep])er and Siilt. Simmer the stock very gently indeed for tlrree hours. Take out the meat, and put it aside till wanted. Sti'ain the licpioi', and pour it into a smaller saucepan with half a pound of lialf-boiled rice. Let it simmer until the rice is quite tender. Cut the veal into pieces convenient for serving, let them become hot in the liquor. Pour the soup, with the rice and veal, into a tureen, and serve very hot. Time, four hours. Piobable cost, knuckle of veal, 6d. to 7d. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Veal, Bachelor's Stew of.—In order to di-ess veal successfully in this way there should be at hand a small saucepan with a very closely-fitting lid. Take a shoe of veal from the fillet, about two inches tliick, and weighing from two to thi-ee pounds. Dis- solve a slice of fresh butter in the sauce- pan and brown the cutlet in this on both sides. Dredge it with pepper, and place upon it a little piece of lean ham, together with two or three sliced caiTots, some sticks of celcrj', a few onions or peas, or any other suitable flavouring ingredients, together with salt and cayenne, a spoonful of ketchup, and a tea- cupful of boiling stock or water. Cover the saucepan verj^ closely, and let its contents simmer as gently as possible till done enough. Place the veal on a hot dish, garnish with the vegetables, thicken the gi'avy, pour it over the meat, and serve very hot. Time to simmer, an hour and three-quarters. Probable cost, with two pounds of veal, 3s. Sufficient for two or three persons. Veal, Blanquette of, Made from Cold Dressed Meat.—Take from two to three pounds of cold dressed veal. Cut it into neat slices, and trim away the brown outside. Put these slices into a dish, cover them over, and keep them in a cool place till wanted. Mince the bro-svn part, and put it into a sauce- pan with a good-sized onion chopped small, a stick of celerj', a bunch of parsley, a Httle pepper and salt, and a pint of stock made from bones. Let all simmer gently together for half an horn-. Strain the gmyy, and put it again into the saucepan with a pinch of pounded mace, the strained juice of half a lemon, and the shoes of veal. Let it simmer a minute or two. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a bowl. Mix a small quantity of the warm gravy with them, and add them gradually to the rest. Stir the sauce tm it is smooth and tliick, but it must not boil or it wiU curdle. This dish is excellent with green peas as an accompaniment. Tmie, altogether, about an hour. Probable cost, exciusiv(> of the cold meat, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons.( 1029 ) VEA VEA Veal, Blanquette of, Made from I Fresh Meat. — Tuke from two to tlu-ee pouuds of the breast of veal. Cut it into pieces the size of a walnut, put these into a small saucepan, and pour upon them as much boiling stock or water as will cover them. Let the liquor boil up, and skim it. Thi-ow into it two onions each stuck with a clove, two carrots, and a large bunch of sweet herbs. Add a little pepper and salt. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer the meat gently for an hour. Drain it, and put it aside for a short time. Strain the gravy, thicken with white thicken- ing, and let it boil, stirring occasionally till it coats the spoon. Let it cool a minute, then beat the yolks of two eggs in a bowl, mix with them a spoonful of the gxavy, and add the rest gradually. Put the pieces of veal into a small saucepan, strain the gravy upon them, and let them remain in it gently simmering until they are heated through, but the sauce must not boil or it will curdle. Add a table-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley. Mix and serve. Time to simmer the veal, about an hour. Probable cost, breast of veal, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Veal, Blanquette of, with Cucum- bers.—Cut some cold veal into neat pieces about the size of a walnut and a quarter of an inch thick. Pare and quarter a large cucum- ber, and cut it into lengths of half an inch. Sprinkle a little salt upon these, and cover theiii with vinegar. Let them remain for half an hour. Drain them well, and dry them with a soft cloth. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a bright stewpan, and add a jjinch of gxated nutmeg and a small piece of sugar. Put in the slices of cucumbcn , and let them simmer gently tiU tender. Drain off the butter, pour | some white sauce upon the cucumber, add i the pieces of veal, and let all simmer gently together till the meat is quite hot. Place the veal on a dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish the dish with sippets. The white sauce should be made with nicely-seasoned veal stock made from the veal bones, and thickened with white thickening. It will be improved by stewing onions and mushrooms in it to flavour it, but it will be very good withoiit them. A little lemon-juice may be stirred in at the last /noment. Time to stew the cucumber in the butter, about half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, about Is. 6d. Veal, Blanquette of, with Mush- rooms. — Cut some cold dressed veal into pieces about an inch square and a quarter of an inch thick. Take a quarter of the bulk of the meat in button mushrooms, clean these with a piece of flannel and a little salt, and simrnfT them very gently with a slice of fresh butter till they are done enough. Put the pieces of veal in a saucepan, lay the stewed mushroooms upon them, and pour over all a little niccly-soasonnd veal stock thickened with a little piece of white thickening. Heat the preparation gently till it is on the point of boiling. Beat one or two eggs in a bowl, stir a spoonful of sauce into them, and add them gi-adually to tlio rest. Shake the sauce over the fire for a minute, hut do not let it boil, or it will curdle. Add a table-spoonful of lemon- juice, and serve. If Hked, the blanquette may be piled in the centre of a dish with a border of pastry round it. Time to sinuner the mush- rooms, ten to fifteen minutes. Veal, Blanquette of, with Mush- rooms (another way).—Take from one to two pounds of cold dressed veal, and mince it finely. Chop an onion, and fry it in butter till it begins to turn yellow. Stir in with it a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and beat it with a spoonful of floui- to a smooth paste. Moisten this with stock to make it of the consistency of cream, and add a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms and a little pepper and salt. Simmer the sauce for about ten minutes, add the minced veal, and simmer it again imtil the meat is heated throughout, but it must not boil, or it wiU harden. If liked, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs and the strained juice of half a'lemon may be added to the sauce. Time, altogether, about an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Veal, Boiled.—Generally speaking, veal plainly boiled is regarded as too insipid to he much relished. Still, for an occasional change, the joints wliich would otherwise be roasted may be boiled. Bacon, or sausage, or boiled tongue should be served with boiled veal; and parsley and butter, onion, oyster, celery, or any piquant sauce should accompany it. Par- ticular attention is necessary in boiling veal, as it is so easily discoloured, and then has a very bad appearance. It should be put into a delicately-clean saucepan, with boiling milk and water to cover it, boiled for two or three minutes, then drawn back, and simmered gently until done enough. As the scum rises it should be removed with scrupulous care. Veal from which gravy has been made may, if not too much boiled, be served in this way. Veal, Braised.—Take ahout three pounds of veal—the middle of the loin or the best end of the neck will be the most suitable for the purpose. Cut the hones short, and chop off the chine bone close to the meat. Take a smaU bright saucepan, and rub the bottom quickly three or four times across with a clove of garlic. Lay two or three thin slices of lean bacon or ham in the bottom of the saucepan, and place the veal upon these. Add a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a tea-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, a lump of sugar, a small blade of mace, a pinch of grated nutmeg, a little pepper, and salt if the bacon is not already sufficiently salted. Place thin slices of fat bacon upon tli'e veal, and pour upon it half a pint of cold stock or of water. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer it as gently as possible till done enough. Take up the veal, put it on a hot dish, and place it in the oven for a short time to keep hot. Skim the gravy, and rub it with the ham, vegetables, &c., thi-ough a fine hair sieve. Lot it boil up, stir a wine-glassful of madeira into it, pour it upon the veal, and serve very hot. If a superlative dish is re- quired, before dressing the veal off, cut tlio skin of the veal, but not too closely. SpreadVEA VEA ( 1030 ) two ounces of butter on the moat, and lav on tho buttor thi-oe frosli trufHos which have boon cleanod and cut into thin slices. Place tho skni in its original jiosition, and sew it on with coiu-so twine. I'loceed as before. Priibable cost, voal, lid. por pound. Suflicient for six or seven persons. Veal, Braised, with Truffles.—Take about four pounds of veal from tlie middle of tho loin. Saw off tlie chine-bone, cut tho bones short, and take off tho skin an eighth of an inch thick. Spread on this two ounces of butter and throe fresh truffles which have been cleaned and thinly sliced. Restore tho skin to its original position, and sew it on securely with twine. Butter a stewpan, and cover the bottom with a thin slice of ham. Put the veal on this, and place round it the bones and trimmings, a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a mushroom chopped small, a lump of sugar, a small blade of mace, a pinch of grated nutmeg, a grain of coriander-seed and a piece of garlic the size of a split pea. These two last ingredients may be omitted. Pour over all half a pint of stock or water, cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer very gently till done enough. Skim the liquor, and baste the meat with it frequently. Take up the veal, and put it in the oven to keep hot. Skim the fat from the gravy, and rub it with the' vegetables, &c., through a fine sieve. Let it boil, and if liked add a glassful of sherry or madeira. Put the veal on a dish, pour the gravy over, and serve very hot. Time to simmer the veal, two hours and a half. Probable cost, veal. Is. per pound. Veal, Breast of.—A breast of veal consists of two portions, the best end and the brisket end. The brisket is generally Id. or 2d. per pound cheaper than the best end. Breast of veal may be bought whole or in parts. A whole one weighs from nine to twelve poimds. Veal, Breast of (a la Chipolata).—Bone, roll, braise, and dish the veal according to the directions given in Veal, Breast of, Rolled and Braised. Place round it a chipolata ragout (see Chipolata Garnish), omitting any of the ingre- dients that are difficult to procure. A little bacon should be served with the veal, either in the garnish or on a separate dish. Veal, Breast of (a la Marengo).—This is an imitation of the famous fricasseed Chicken, a la Marengo. Cut up a portion of the breast of veal into neat pieces convenient for serving. Fry these in butter or fat till they are lightly browned, and put into the pan with them a little grated ham, a large onion thinly sliced, and a little pepper and salt. Pour upon them as much stock or water as will barely cover them. Simmer all gently together tiU the veal is done enough, then add half a dozen or more stowed mushrooms. Thicken the sauce with a small piece of brown thickening, and throw into it at the moment of serving a little finely- chopped parsley. Put the veal into a dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with toasted sippets. Time to simmer tho veal, about two hours. Probable cost, breast of veal, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Veal, Breast of, Boiled.—If the sweet- bread IS to be boiled with tho veal, let it soak in water for a couple of hours, then skewer it to tho veal. l>ut this into a saucepan, with boiling water to cover it, let it boil once more, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Add a handful of parsley, a tea-spoonful of pepper- corns, a blade of mace, and a little salt. Draw it back, and then simmer gently until done enough. Servo on a hot dish, and pour a little good onion sauce or jjarsley sauce over it. Send boiled bacon to table on a separate dish. The sweetbread may, of course, be dressed separately. Time to simmer tho veal, about one hour and a half. Veal, Breast of. Broiled.—Three parts roast a portion of the breast of veal. Take it up, score it across in oven lines, and fili these -with salt and cayenne and a few powdered herbs. Broil the veal over a clear fire, and tm-n it over from one side to the other till it is done enough. Serve on a hot dish, with piquant sauce jjoured over it. Veal, Breast of, Collared.—Bone the veal, remove the gristle and tendons, and to flatten it beat it gently with a rolling-pin. Spread upon it a little pepper, salt, and poimded mace, together with some parsley, thyme and marjoram, and two or three shallots, all finely chopped. Lay upon the herbs some thick shoes of fine ham, together with two calves' tongues, boUed, skinned, and shced. Roll the veal tightly, and bind it with tape. Put it into a saucepan with as much stock or water as will cover it, and let it simmer gently tin it is quite tender throughout. Take it up, and put it in press till cold. If Uked, the flesh of two boiled pigs' or calves' feet may be put upon the ham, and to improve the ajDpearance of the veal some hard-boiled yolks of eggs and a little shced beetroot may be interspersed with the seasoning. Time to simmer the veal, about four hours. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. Probable cost, 14s. to 16s. Veal, Breast of. Collared (another way).—Bone a breast of veal. Lay it on the table, and sisread on it a thick layer of nicely seasoned oyster forcemeat {see Oysters, Force- meat of). Roll the veal as tightly as possible, and bind it -wath tape. Put it into boiling water, let it boil up once, skim the Hquor carefully, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer as gently as possible till the veal is tender. Put the bones into a separate saucepan with a moderate-sized onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt. Let them simmer till the liquor is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, thicken with white thickening or with a little flour and butter, and stir into it two or three table-spoonfuls of thick cream. If milk has to be used instead of cream the yolk of an egg may be beaten up with it. Serve the meat on a hot di.sh with the sauce poured over. This dish may be garnished with forcemeat-balls, and with the sweetbread cut into slices, egged and broad-crnmbod, and fried; or a little parsley and sliced lemon may be used in.flcad. The moat is somotimos baked instead of boiled, and then a little weak stockVEA ( 1031 ) VEA should be put into the pan with it, and it should bo basted frequently. If it is preserved in pickle it will keep good for some time. Time to simmer the veal, three to four hours. Probable cost, veal, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Veal, Breast of, Ragoiit of—Take off the under bone, and put the veal into a stewpan with as much boiling stock as will cover it. Let the liquor boil up, then add a large carrot sliced, three onions, a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, the thin rind of a lemon, and a little pepper and salt. Skim the gravy, and simmer it gently until the veal is quite tender. Thicken the gravy till it is of the consistency of sauce, and stir into it the strained juice of a small lemon and a glassful of sherry or madeira. Put the veal into a dish, pour the gravy over it, and garnish with savoury forcemeat-balls and cut lemon. Time to simmer the veal, about two hours. Probable cost, veal, 9d. to lOd.per pound. Veal, Breast of, B,agout of (another way).—Take about four pounds of the breast of veal. Divide this into pieces convenient for serving, and fry them to a light brown in hot fat. Drain them, put them into a stewpan, cover with stock made from bones, and put with them a large onion stuck with two cloves, half a blade of mace, a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a small roll of thin lemon-rind, five or six bruised allspice, and a little pepper and salt. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer very gently till the veal is tender. Strain a pint of the gravy, or more if required, into a separate saucepan, and put the first one by the side of the fire that the meat may keep hot. Thicken the gravy with brown thicken- ing, and fiavour with a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, a dessert-spoonful of ketchup, and half a wine-glass of light wine. Taste it, add a little more pepper and salt if required, and let it boil up once. Put the veal into a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. A little fried bacon should accompany this dish, and forcemeat balls may be added or not. Time to simmer the veal, one hour and a half, or two hours if thick. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Probable cost, veal, 9d. to lOd. per pound. TEAL, BREAST jf, IMASTED, TO i w Veal, Breast of. Roasted—If the sweet- bread is retained, skewer it to the back. Cover the joint with the caul, or, wanting this, with a piece of buttered paper. Put it down to a clear fire at a moderate distance from it, and baste liberally till done enough. When it has been down about an hour and a half, remove the caul, flour the joint, and let it brown. Serve on a hot dish with meltud butter poured over. Garnish with a cut lem(m, and send boiled bacon to V".ble with it. If liked, forcemeat balls may bo served with the veal, and mushroom sauce sent to table with it. Time to roast the breast, two to two and a half hours, or twenty minutes to the pound. Probable cost, veal, 9d. or lOd. per pound. Veal, Breast of. Roasted, To Carve. —The breast of veal should bo first separated into two parts—it rightly consists of twp-— the rib-bones and the gristly brisket. This is done by cutting in the direction of the lines 1, 2. The gristly part being divided into parts in the direction 3, 4, may be offered to those who prefer it—in a breast of veal stewed these are particularly tender and inviting. The ribs are to be separated in the direction 5, 6; and with a part of the breast, a slice of the sweetbread cut across the middle. Veal, Breast of, RoUed.—Trim a breast of veal, and remove all the bones and tendons. If requested, the butcher will perform this opera- tion, which should be done the day before the veal is to be dressed, so that the bones may be stewed for gravy (see Veal, Gravy for). Spread a thin layer of forcemeat over the inside of the breast, roll it up very tightly, and bind it firmly with tape. Tie it in a cloth. Put a plate at the bottom of the stewpan, lay the veal into it, and cover with cold water. Bring the liqixor to the boU, skim it, and simmer gently for three hours. When done enough, take oft' the cloth, put the veal on a dish, pour the gravy over, garnish with cut lemon, fried bacon, and force- meat balls, and it will be ready for serving. If liked, two pounded anchovies, a little blanched and chopped parsley, and the boiled livers of two fowls may be added to the gravy. Veal thus prepared may be baked or roasted as well as boiled. Time, three houi's from the time the water boils. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Probable cost, veal, lOd. per pound. Veal, Breast of, Rolled and Braised. —Bone a breast of veal, spread forcemeat upon it, and roU it as in the last recipe. Bind securely with tape, and lay slices of fat bacon aU round it. Lay it in a stewpan just large enough to contain it, and add a carrot, an onion stuck with cloves, a few peppercorns, half a blade of mace, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour over it from half to three-quarters of a pint of stock, cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer very gently over a slow fire for three hours. Baste frequently ynth its liquor. Take up the veal, lay it on a dish, and put it in the oven. Strain the liquor, and boil quickly till it begins to thicken. Brush the veal over with it two or three times, then place it on a dish, garnish with forcemeat balls, rashers of bacon, or dressed vegetables, and send it to table with any of the foUowiag sauces:—White sauce, Italian sauce, melted butter, parsley sauce, mushroom sauce, &c. Time to simmer the veal, three hours. Veal, Breast of. Stewed in White Sauce.—Take a piece of the breast of veal weighing about three pounds, and cut it into neat pieces convenient for serving. Put these into a stewpan with a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-loaf, two shallots, or f om- young( 1032 ) VEA VEA onions, tho thin rind of half a lemon, a blade of mttco, imd a little 8ult uud wliite pepper. Pour upon tho uioiit a pint of stouk or wator, lot tho liquor boil, skim carot'ully, tlion draw it to the Bido, and simmer as gently as possiLlo till done enough. Take up tho moat, and place it in tho oven to keep hot. Strain tho gravy, put it back into tho saucepan, and stir into it the yolks of two eggs whii h have been beaten up with a quarter of a pint of milk or cream. Stir this sauce over tho iire for a minute or two till it begins to thicken, then pour it over tho veal, and serve very hot. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added, or it will ciirdlo. If liked, the moat maybe left whole instead of being I'ut up. Those wlio like the flavour may rub the dtowpan across five or six times with freshly- cut garlic before putting in the meat. Time to simmer the veal, one hour and a half, or two hom-s if thick. Probable cost, veal, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Veal, Breast of, Stewed Plainly — Take out the long bones and the gristle, and trim a .breast of veal neatly. Put it into a atewpan, and cover with boiling stock made from bones. Let the liquor boil, skim care- fuUj', and simmer very gently tintil the veal is tender. Drain and dish it, garnish the dish with forcemeat balls, and pour a little good gi'avy round it. The liquor in which it is stewed, unless thoroughly cleared from the fat, will be too rich to serve with it. A little bacon should accompany this dish. Time to stew the veal, two to two and a half hours. Probable cost, veal, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Veal, Breast of. Stewed with Green Peas.—Take two pounds of the breast of veal. Cut these into pieces convenient for serving, dredge them with flour, and sprinkle upon them a little pepper, salt, and white sugar. Fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain them, and put them into a saucepan with as much boiling stock made from bones as will barely cover them. Let them simmer very gently till done enough. Baste the meat frequently with the gravy, and skim this well to clear it from fat. About a quarter of an hour before the veal is to be served, throw into the hquor about a quart of freshly-shelled young peas. Let them simmer until tender. Serve very hot. Time to simmer the veal, two hours. Probable cost, about 3s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Veal, Breast of. Stewed with Oysters.—Talce a piece of the breast of veal weighing about two pounds. Put it into a sauce- pan with a large onion stuck with a clove, half a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, half an inch of stick cinnamon, and a little popper and salt. Pour over it the liquor from a tin of oysters, and add a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, with a little stock if required. Simmer tho veal as gently as possible for two hours, and skim it well. Strain tho liquor, put with it a quarter of a pint of milk or cream mixed with the yolks of two eggs, and stir the sauce till it thickens. Make the oysters hot by putting them into the oven in the dish in which tho veal is to he served. Pour the sauce u])on thom, pLice tho veal in the (;entre of the dish, and servo very hot. Fresh oysters may of course bo used instead of tinned ouoh, and tlioy will be superior, but more expensive. Time to simmer the veal, two hours. IVobablo cost, if made with milk, 'is. lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Veal, Breast of, Stuffed and Roasted.—Take a breast of veal weighing about eight jwunfis. Itaise the thick part with the fingers, and force into the vacant place an much veal stuffing as possible. 13ring the edg(;8 of tho meat together, and sew them with twine, or fasten them with skewers, that the force- meat may not escape. Put the veal down at a moderate distance from a clear tire. Baste it liberally. When done enough take it up, pour melted butter over, and send fried rashers of bacon to table with it. Time to roast the veal, one hour and three-quarters. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Veal, Breast of. Stuffed and Stewed. —Take a breast of veal, raise the flesh, and HIl the space with good veal forcemeat. Bring the edges together, and sew them securely with a httle piece of musHn over them that the force- meat may not escape. Put the meat down before a clear fire, dredge it with flour, and baste tUl it is equally and brightly browned all over. Take it up, and put it into a stew- pan with about a cupful of stock made from bones. Put the contents of the dripping-tin into it, throw a handful of the forcemeat in to flavour the sauce, cover the stewpan closely, and let the veal simmmer gently till done enough. Take it up, if necessary thicken the gravy with a little brown thickening, pour it over the veal, and serve very hot. Garnish the dish with fried rashers of bacon, forcemeat balls, and cut lemon. Time, about half an hour to brown the veal; two hours or more to stew it. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, lOd. per i^ound. Veal, Breast of. Stuffed and Stewed (another way).—Stuff the breast of veal as before. Line a ste^vpan with slices of bacon, put in the veal, and add two onions, each stuck with one clove, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper. Lay slices of bacon on the top of the veal, and pour upon it about half a pint or more of stock made from bones. Cover the saucepan closely, and lot its contents sim- mer gently until done enough. Take up the veal, strain the gravy, skim it well, thicken with a Httle brown thickening, stir the juice of haK a lemon into it, and pour it over the meat. A glassful of light ^^^ne may be added or not. Garnish the dish with slices of lemon, forcemeat balls, and fried bacon, or send bacon to table on a separate dish. Time to stow the veal, three hours. Probable cost, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Veal, Breast of, with Spring Vege- tables.—Bone, roll, and l>rai.se th." veal ac- cording to the directions already given for Voal, Breast of. Rolled and Braised. >AniiUt it( 1033 ) VEA VEA is in tho stcwpan pit^paro and cook separately young vegetables, such as young turnips, car- rots, onions, new potatoes, beans, and green peas. When wanted, heat these in a little of tho veal gravy, and place them fancifully round the veal. Pour a little of the sauce into the dish, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Veal, Bride's Pie of (Scottish dish).— Take two large calf's feet, and boil them till they are quite tender. Make a mixture as for mince pies, with the calf's-feet flesh cut very small, a pound of finely-shred suet, a pound of apples pared, cored, and minced, half a pound of picked and dried currants, half a pound of raisins, two ounces of mixed candied peel, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, and one small nutmeg grated. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and moisten them with a glassful of brandy and a glassful of port. Line a dish with good pastry. Put in the mince, and con- ceal a gold ring in it. Cover the pie with pastry, and ornament with any suitable de- vices. Bake it imtil the pastry is done enough. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Veal, Brisket of, and Rice.—Cut a brisket of veal into neat pieces, and stew it according to the directions already given. Boil a pint of washed rice very gradually in a little more than a quart of broth till it is tender and has absorbed all the moisture. Butter the in- side of a plain mould, and line it with the boiled rice an inch and a half thick. Put the veal into the centre with a little of the thicken- ing sauce. Cover the stew with rice, put on the lid, and bake the preparation in a gentle oven. Let it remain until stifE, and be care- ful that it does not burn. Turn it out upon a dish, and send the remainder of the sauce to table with it. If liked, to save trouble, a wall of rice may be placed round the dish, rice being served in the centre. The addition of a spoonful of curry powder or curry paste will convert this dish into curried veal. Time to bake the rice in the mould, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Veal, Brisket of. Stewed with Onions.—Cut the brisket of veal into small pieces convenient for serving. Rub a stewpan quickly three or four times across with a freshly- cut clove of garlic. Dissolve in it a thick slice of fresh butter, put in the veal, and add three large onions thinly sliced, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a little pepper and salt. Cover the saucepan closely, and stew its contents as gently as possible till done enough. . Shake the saucepan frequently to keep the veal from burning. Ten minutes before the dish is to be served pour over the meat a little stock, if this is needed. Throw in a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley. Let all boil up together, and serve the pieces of veal and the onions in a hot dish with the gravy poured over them. Garnish with toasted sippets and sliced lemon. Time to simmer tho veal, two hours. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sullicient for five or six persons. Veal Broth.—Stew a knuckle of veal in about a gallon of water, to which put two 2 ii» ounces of rice, or vermicelli, a little salt, and a blade of mace. When the meat has become thoroughly boiled and the liquor is reduced to about one half, it may be sent up to table with or without tho meat. Veal Broth, Brown.—Slice one or two onions, and fi-y them in hot fat till they are browned but not at all burnt. Cut a pound of veal into slices, and break the bone belonging to it into small pieces. Take up the onions with a slice, and brown the meat in the same fat. Pour three pints of stock or water upon the meat; add the bones with any bones and remains of cold roast beef or povdtry that may be at hand. Let it boil up, skim carefully, and simmer quickly until the gravy is suf- ficiently strong. Flavouring vegetables may be stewed with it or not, and a spoonful of ketchup may be added if liked. Time to sim- mer the stock, about two hours. Veal Broth for Invalids.—Cut two pounds of lean veal into small pieces. Sprinkle a little salt upon these, and put them into a saucepan with a quart of cold water. Let the liquor boil, skim carefuUy, then simmer as gently as possible. Strain it, let it get cold, and remove the fat from the surface. Thicken with a little arrowroot before serving. Time to simmer the veal, three hours. Veal, Bubble and Squeak of.—Take the remains of dressed veal; cut the meat into neat slices, fry these in hot fat, and put them before the fire to keep hot. Take some boiled cabbage or spinach. Fry this also, and when it is quite hot pile it on a dish, and arrange the pieces of meat round it. Send tomato or any kind of piquant sauce to table with it. Time to fry the veal and the greens, altogether about a quarter of an hour. Veal Cake.—Take a pound and a half of cold dressed veal freed from fat and skin. Mince it finely, and thoroughly mix with it half a pound of good bacon, also finely minced. Season the mixture with a tea-spoonful of gi-ated lemon-rind, a pinch of freshly-pounded mace, half a small nutmeg grated, "and a little salt and cayenne. Press it smoothly into a buttered dish, and bake in a gentle oven. When it is done enough, drain the fat from it, turn it upon a dish, and serve hot or cold. If hot, a little brown gravy should be sent to table with it. Beef suet finely shred may, if preferred, be substituted for the bacon, 'if any portion of this cake is left after being cut, it may be divided into slices, and heated in a Dutch oven. This cake should be baked in a gentle oven, or it will be dried up. Time to bake the cake, an hour and a haK. Probable cost, veal, lOd. or lid. per pound. Veal Cake (another way).—Take as much cold dressed lean veal as will fill a small earthenware mould. Mince it finely, and mix with it three ounces of ham or bacon, also minced, a slice of the crumb of bread soaked in milk, a small piece of butter, two eggs well beaten, as mucli minced shallot as will lie on a threepenny piece, and a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Mix those ingredients thoroughly, press them into a buttered mouldVEA VEA ( 1034 ) nnd biiko tho proparation in ii inodoruto oven. Turn it out whon cold, and garnish with parsley. If liked, thifi cake may bo served hot, and sent to tablu with brown f^ravy. Time to bake tho aiko, about an hour, or" until it is brown. Veal Cake (another way).—Butter a i)lain earthenware dish or mould. Fill it with altemato layers of hard-boiled yolks of eggs, chopped parsley, and veal and ham mincodi seasoned highly, mixed thoroughly, and beaten to a smooth paste. Pour a spoonful or two of seasoned stock upon the meat, cover the pan closely, and bako in a gentle oven. When done enough, press firmly into tho mould, put a plate with a weight upon it, and let it remain untouched till cold. Turn it out, garnish with parsley, and servo for luncheon or supper. Time to halve, about an hour. Veal Cake, Superior.—Put a pint of stock made from bones into a stevpan with thi-ee young orn'ons, each stuck with one clove, a small sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a small piece of mace, and half an ounce of gelatine. Place the saucepan on the fire, and stir its contents till the gelatine is dissolved. To clarify it, stir into it when cold the white and crushed shell of an egg beaten up with a little water. Let it boil, draw it to the side, and let it simmer gently without touching it for ten minutes ; take it off the fire, let it settle for ten minutes, and then strain it through a jelly-bag. Cut a pound and a half of veal collops and three-quarters of a pound of bacon or ham into thin slices. Pour a spoonful or two of the savoury jelly into an ordinary potting pan or earthenware dish. Let it get cold, then cover with a layer of hard-boiled yolks of eggs cut into slices. Place on this a neat layer of the slices of veal, then a little salt, cayenne, chopped parsley, and shallot, and afterwards a few slices of ham. Pour a little jelly upon this, and repeat the layers until the dish is full. Cover the pan closely with a stiff paste of flour and water, put it in a dripping-tin three parts filled with boiling water, and keep adding more water as this boils away, until the cake is done enough. Take it out of the oven, and set in a cool place for some hours. Turn it upon a dish, and garnish with parsley. If the cake is put into the oven without the water under it, it will in aU probability be dried up and spoilt. Time to bake the cake, an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. Probable cost, 43. Sufficient for a breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish. Veal Cakes, Small.—Mince, season, and mix the veal and bacon as in the last recipe. Divide the mixture into small cakes. Dredge these aU over with flour, and fry in hot fat over a gentle fire. Drain them well, and serve in a hot dish with brown sauce, made from the trimmings of tho veal and thickened, poured over them. Time to fry the cakes, about a quarter of an hour. Veal—Calf's Brains (a la Ravigotc).— Wash the brains in several waters, and free them from skin and fibre. Boil them for ten minutes in salt and water mixed with a table- spoonful of vinegar, and when they are firm, cut them in slices, dip them in a frying hatU-.r, and fry th(;m to a light Itrown. Place them in a circle on a hot dish with a little fried parsley in tho centre, and send ravigoto sauce to table with them. Time to fry the brains, four or five minutes. Calf's brains are generally sold with the head. Sufficient for two or three jjersons. Veal—Calf 8 Head, Boiled.—Take a calf's head, cut it in two, and take out the brains; wash tho head in several waters, and let it soak in warm water for a quarter of an hour. Place it in a saucepan of cold water, and when the water comes to the boil skim carefully. Half a head, without the skin, will require boiling from an hour and a half to two hours and a quarter, according to size: with the skin it will require an hour longer. It must be stewed verj' gently till tender. Boil tender eight or ten sage-leaves, or parsley, or both ; chop them fine, and set them ready on a plate. Wash the brains well in two waters; put them into a bashi of cold water with a little salt in it, and let them soak for an hour; then pour away the cold and cover them with hot water; put them into a stewpan with plenty of cold water, and boil verj- gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Now chop them {tiot very fine), put them into a saucepan with the sage-leaves, a couple of table-spoonfuls of thin melted butter, and a little salt (some add a little lemon-juice), and stir them well to- gether. As soon as they are well warmed, skin the tongue, trim off the roots, and put it into the centre of the dish, the brains round it; or chop the brains with an shallot, a little parsley, and four hard-boiled eggs, and put them into a quarter of a pint of bechamel or white sauce. A calf's head is usually attended by a pig's cheek, a knuckle of ham or bacon, or pickled pork, greens, cauliflower, broccoli, or peas, and always by parsley and butter. If you like it full-dressed, score it superficially, beat up the yolk of an egg, and rub it over the head with a feather. Powder it with a seasoning of finely-minced or dried and pow- dered winter savorj', lemon-thjTne, or sage, parsley, pepper, salt, and bread-crumbs; and give it a brown with a salamander, or in a tin Dutch oven; when it begins to dry, sprinkle a little melted butter over it with a paste-brush. You may garnish the dish with broiled rashers of bacon. Veal—CaUTs Head, Hashed. —Soak the head in water, boil it, not thoroughly, but until the meat may be cut clean from the bone. Take the meat off the bone on the best side, lay it in a dish, and cover it with crumbs of bread among which are a few herbs cut vorj- small, with some pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and the yolks of two eggs. Set the dish before the fire, and keep turning it occasionally that all parts of the meat may become brown. Slice the remainder of tho head, peel and shco also the tongue. Put a pint of good gravy, or of the liquor in which the head was boiled, into a pan with an onion, a small bunch of sweet herbs, some salt, cayenne, shallot, a glassful of sherry, and a little oyster liquor. Boil these( 1035 ) VEA VEA together for a few minutes; then strain it on the meat, which should have been previously dredged with flour. Fresh or pickled mush- rooms, truffles, morels, and two spoonfuls of ketchup should be added. Half the bi-ains beaten up with tiour and butter should be added, and the whole simmered together. The other half of the brains are to be beaten up with lemon-peel and parsley tinely chopped, some nutmeg, mace, and an egg. These are to be fiied in small cakes, also some oysters dipped in yolk of egg; with these and some good force- meat balls the dish must be garnished. Veal—Calfs Head Pie (to be served cold).—Scald, soak, and parboil half a calf's head, with two pounds of the knuckle of veal, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of parsley, a strip of thin lemon-rind, half a blade of mace, a little salt and cayenne, and as much stock made from bones as will cover the meat. Let the liquor boil, and simmer it for half an hour. Remove the scum as it rises. Let the head get cold, then cut ofl: the flesh in neat pieces convenient for serving. Skin the tongue, and cut it into small square pieces. Strain the liquor in which the head was sinamered, and dissolve a little isinglass or gelatine in it, so that it will jelly strongly when cold. Cut part of the veal into pieces, mince the remainder, and make it into forcemeat with bread-crumbs, shred beef suet, and seasoning {see Veal Force- meat) . Divide this into balls the size of a nut- meg. Butter a good-sized pie-dish. Line it with thin slices of lean ham, and fill it with layers of the calf's head, the tongue, the veal, the forcemeat balls, and hard-boiled yolks of eggs. Season each layer with salt, pepper, grated lemon-rind, and nutmeg. Cover the meat with strained jelly gravj'. Line the edges of the dish with good pastry, cover with the same, ornament the surface as fancy dictates, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake in a well-heated oven. "When the pastry is tho- roughly baked the pie is done enough. In favourable weather this pie will keep good for ten days or more. Probable cost, 6s. to 8s. Sufficient for a luncheon or supper dish. Veal--Calf's Head, Plain. —Take a nice calf's head and bone it, that is to say, take off the bones of the lower jaw and of the nose, which you cut off as close to the eyes as possible. Then put all this into a large vessel with warm water to wash and disgorge the blood, or otherwise the head will look reddish. Then blanch it thoroughly, and let it cool. Now make a blanc in the following manner :—Melt over the fire four ounces of finely-chopped beef suet. When clear add four ounces of flour, a gallon of water, two onions sliced, three cloves, a clove of garlic, two bunches of herbs, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and plenty of pepper and salt. Stir the preparation over the fire. When boiling put in the calf's head and the tongue, lay a round of paper over the pan, and simmer for two hours and a half. When done, drain it. Take out the tongue, flay it, and then replace it. A calf's head must be served up quite hot, with the sauce called au pauvre homme (poor man's sauce), namely minced shallots and parsley, vinegar, salt and pepper, and the brains well minced. Veal—Calf's Liver, Fried—Take two pounds of calf's liver. Cut it into slices, and soak these in water for half an hour. Dry them in a soft cloth, and dip them into flour. Fry them with a little fat, and turn them about that they may be equally cooked. When they are lightly browned, sprinkle over them a savoury powder made with equal quantities of chopped parsley and finely-shred young onions, and a little pepper and salt. Pour a little stock over the liver, let it simmer a few minutes, add tho strained juice of a lemon, and serve the liver on a hot dish with the gravy poured over it. If liked, this iish may be eni-iched by adding a pinch of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a glassful of hght wine to the stock. Fried bacon may then be served with it. Time, from ten to fifteen minutes to dress the liver. Sufficient for fouz- or five persons. Probable cost of calf's liver, lOd. per pound. Veal, Choosing of.—The flesh of veal ought to be white, approaching to pink, with the fat firm. It should not be too large or it will be coarse and hard. The vein in the shoulder should be of a bright red, and the kidneys should be covered with fat. If the flesh be clammy and discoloured by spots of various hues, the veal is unfit for use. Veal is best when it is from two to three months old. The flesh of the bull-calf is suited for joints, that of the cow-calf for made dishes. The latter possesses the udder, which causes it to be preferred. That part of the loin whicli is under the kidney first begins to taint. It should therefore be examined carefully before being purchased. When the udder is skewered back it is always well to take out the skewer in order to ascertain whether the under part is perfectly sweet. Under the pretext of making- veal white a barbarous practice has prevailed of bleeding the calves daily until they have scarcely any blood left before killing them. Although this method of slaughtering the animal is not now universally adopted, it is still carried on to a large extent. The humane house- keeper would do well to ask the butcher whether or not the meat is killed in this way, and to refuse to purchase it unless the caLf has been deprived of life with as little pain as possible. " It is necessary to observe," says M. Ude, "that the veal you intend to serve for dishes must always be very white and fat; what you use for sauces is not of so much consequence; but it is certain that very white veal is more healthy than common veal: red veal will dis- order a great many stomachs, white never does." Veal Chop Stewed with Carrots.— Take a large chop from the neck, about one pound in weight, saw off the chine bone, trim the chop neatly, and fry it in a little hot fat for three or four minutes till it is lightly browned on both sides. Take it up, drain it, and put it into a small clean saucepan "vsnth two largo carrots cut into thick slices, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a little pepper and salt. _ Pour over the meat as much boiling stock as will eover it; put the lid on the saiiccparu( 1036 ) VEA VEA and let its contents simmer gontly until the ' carrot is tender, when the meal also will ]m Bulliciontly done. Tut the ('hop on a disli, gav- nish with the carrots, strain the gi-avy over all, and serve very hot. Time to simmer the chop, about an hour. Probable cost, veal. Is. per pound. Sufficient for one person. Veal Chops broiled in Paper.—Take the cliops from the neck, remove the chino- bone, gristle, and skin, and fry gently in a little butter. Prepare for each chop a piece of doubled stiff white paper sufficiently large to lejive a margin an inch and a half wide round the chop. Butter this well, lay on it a tliin slice of fat bacon, a spoonful of thick white sauce, the cutlet, another spoonful of sauce, and a second slice of bacon ; double down the edges securely. Lay the chops on a gridiron, and place this at a considerable height above a clear fire. Let them broil gently, and turn frequently. Serve on a hot dish in the papers. Garnish with sliced lemon. Time to broil, fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds of chops for four persons. Veal, Chump of, Stewed.—Take the chump end of a loin of veal. Bone it, and tie it in shape with tape. The butcher will bone it if desired. Put it into a stewpan, and pour a half-pint of veal stock upon it. Boil this quickly till it begins to thicken, draw it back, and let it acquire a little colour; then pour over it a quart of nicely-flavoured stock and a glass- ful of light'wine, and let it simmer very gently till the meat is tender. A quarter of an hour before it is to be served take it up, drain it, and put it in the oven. Strain the liquor, boil quickly till it is reduced to half glaze, then baste the meat with it until it looks bright and glossy. Put it on a dish, and garnish with glazed carrots, or onions, or with boiled cauli- flowers. Tomatoes, mushrooms, or any kind of dressed vegetables may be served with this dish, and brown sauce, Italian sauce, bechamel, tomato sauce, &c. may be sent to table with it. Time to simmer the veal, an hour and a half, rather more. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Veal, Cold, Baked.—Take a quarter of a pound of cold roast veal free from slrin and gristle. Mince it finely, and with it two or three slices of bacon. Add the bulk of the mince in finely-grated bread-crumbs, together with a little salt and cayenne, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of minced lemon-rind, and a pinch of pounded mace. Mix these ingredients tho- roughly, stir them into a cupful of veal gl'a^'y, add two well-beaten eggs, and pour the whole into a small buttered dish. Bake in a weU- heated oven, and serve with gravy in a tureen. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 4d. Sufficient for two persons. Veal, Cold, Hashed.—Take about one pound of cold veal, and cut the lean part into thin slices, free from skin and gristle. Season these with a little salt and pepper, and dredge a table-spoonful of flour upon them. Mince a moderate-sized onion finely. Put it in a sauce- pan with the bones, skin, and trimmings of the veal, and any flavouring ingredients that may lie chosen ; cover all witli stock or water, and simmer the gravy gently for an hour. Strain it, pour it back into the saucepan, and put into it the pieces of veal. Let them simmer in it till thoy are tender, but without boiling. Add a toa-spooniiil of vinegar or bmion-juice. Place the veal on a dish. Garnish with toasted sippets and a little fried bacon. Poiu- the gravy roimd the veal, and serve the hash very liot. Time, about an hour to simmer the meat. Pro- bable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat and bacon. Sufficient for three or four j^orsons. Veal, Cold^ Minced Plainly.—Take one pound of cold veal, free it from the bone, skin, and almost entirely from fat; cut it into small pieces with a sharp knife, and afterwards mince it finely. Season with a little pejji>er and salt, a pinch of pounded mace or grated nutmeg, and the rind of a quarter of a small lemon lightly grated; cover with a cloth, and leave it in a cool place till wanted. Break the bone of the veal, and put the pieces into a saucepan with the trimmings and skin, a quar- ter of the rind of a lemon, a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a few pepper- corns. Poui- upon these ingredients a pint and a half of stock or water, cover the saucepan closely, and stew the gravy gently till it is strong and pleasantly flavoured. ^Vhen they can be had, a slice of carrot, a stick of celery, an ounce of boiled or unboiled ham, or a little bacon-rind, may be stewed with the gravy. Strain it into a bowl, and when cold free it entirely from fat. . Moisten the mince tho roughly with it. Melt a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan. Mix smoothly with it a dessert- spoonful of flour and about two table-spoonfuls of thick cream or milk. Stir the mince into this, and let it get thoroughly hot by the side of the fire, but on no account allow it to boil. Pour the preparation into a dish, garnish with toasted sippets, and serve very hot. A few thin rashers of fried bacon may be served as an accompaniment. Time, about two hours to simmer the gravy ; twenty minutes to heat the mince. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for three or four persons. Veal, Cold, Minced with Mush- rooms or Oysters.—Take a pound of cold dressed veal, and trim away the gristle and the brown edges. A little fat may be added or not; this is a matter of taste. Mince the meat finely, season with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, and heat it—without letting it reach the point of boiling—in a pint of rich sauce. Stir into the sauce at the moment of serving half a pint of mushrooms stewed till tender with a slice of butter and minced. Turn the prepara- tion on a dish, and garnish with fried sippets If liked, a dozen or more oysters may be used instead of the mushrooms. They should be bearded and put into the mince a quarter of a minute before it is taken from the fire, rhe oyster broth should, of course, be added. Time, tiU thoroughly hot. The mince should be very slowly heated. Veal, Cold, To Ragoat.-Cut the white part of the cold veal into small round cutlets about the third of an inch thick, and free from( 1037 ) VEA VEA skin and gristle. Break up the "bones of the veal, and with them, the skixi and ti-inimings of the meat, and any flavouring ingredients that may be chosen, make a little good gravy. Strain this, and thicken it with a small piece of brown thickening, or with a small slice of butter. Season the gravy rather highly with pepper, mace or nutmeg, and anchovy, or mushroom powder. Flour the slices of veal, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain them, put them on a dish, pom* the gravy over, and serve very hot. Time, an hour or more to make the gravy. Veal, Cold, To Re-dress.—Cold yeal may be served in various ways, for which recipes are given under the different headings. It may be minced, hashed, or made into croquets and rissoles, curried, made into minced collops, and served with Tartar sauce, or made into a mould. For the latter method proceed as follows:—Cut cold-dressed veal into slices, and mince it finely, fat and lean together. Season as for minced veal, with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a little lemon-rind. Moisten with white stock, and bind the whole together with yolk of egg. Press it into a buttered mould, cover closely, and put it into a pan of fast-boUing water. Let it simmer gently for an hour, or longer if large. Turn it out, and serve with white gravy, or if preferred brush it over after it is turned out with beaten egg, sprinkle finely-grated bread- crumbs thickly over it, brown it in a brisk oven, or before the fire, and send brown sauce to table with it. Garnish with cut lemon and parsley. Time to boil the mould, one hour or more. Veal, Collared, or Galantine of Veal. —Take a fine breast of veal. Put it into a stewpan with as much cold water as will cover it, and put with it an onion and a can-ot, half a dozen peppOTComs, a moderate-aized lump of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Bring the liquor quickly to the boil, skim carefully, then draw the saucepan back, and let it sim- mer gently for a couple of hom-s. Take it up, remove the bones and the gristle, and lay it flat upon the table skin downwards. Have ready prepared half a pound of lean ham cut into thin strips, four truffles cleaned and thinly sliced, and a forcemeat made with the hard-boiled yolks of twelve eggs pounded smoothly with three ounces of clarified butter, the grated rind of a lemon, as much grated nutmeg as veill cover a sixpence, a salt- spoonful of white pepper, a tea-spoonful of powdered sweet herbs, two tea-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and a tea-opoonful of anchovy. Rub the veal quickly across with a piece of freshly-cut garlic, sprinkle a little salt upon it, and rub the strained juice of a lemon into it. Spread the egg forcemeat equally over, and lay the truffle and ham upon this in alternate lines. Roll the veal up very tightly, bind it with tape, and tic it in a cloth. Sew it up securely. Put it again into the liquor in which it was simmered, add the bones and trim- mings, let it boil up, then simmer as gently as possible three hours longer. Let it remain in the liquor half an hour after it is taken from the lire. Put it on a board, lay a large dish with a heavy weight upon it, and let it remain until cold. Brush over with liquid glaze, and garnish with very stiff aspic jeUy cut into cubes, diamonds, &c. If preferred, good veal forcemeat may be used instead of the egg forcemeat, and the truffles may be omitted. Very good soup may bo made of the liquor in which the veal was stewed. Time, two hours to simmer the veal the first time, three hours the second. Probable cost, 14s. Sufficient for a luncheon or supper dish. Veal Collops (a I'lndienne). — See In- dian Veal Collops. Veal Collops, Braised.—Cut about a pound of the fillet of veal into neat rounds half an inch thick and about the size of a crown piece. Pick the leaves from a handful of parsley, wash them and chop them small, then mix with them a minced shallot and a small bunch of chives. Butter a stewpan thickly, sprinkle some of the herbs into it, and place in it alternate layers of veal and herbs until all the ingredients are used. Season each layer of veal with salt and pepper, and add a small slice of butter or a tea-spoonful of olive oil occa- sionally. Cover the whole with slices of bacon, and lay a round of oiled paper on the top. Put the lid on the stewpan, put a few red-hot cinders upon it (if this can be done), and stew the veal as gently as possible over a slow fii'e till it is tender. An-ange the pieces of veal in a dish. Half a glassful of light wine should be poured in when the veal is half di-essed. Put a little brown sauce into the stewpan, let it boU, and pour it over the collops. Veal Collops, Made with Dressed Veal.—Take the remains of roast veal. Cut the meat into slices three-quarters of an inch thick, three inches long, and two inches across. Gash these with a sharp knife, and sprinkle upon them salt and cayenne, pounded mace, or grated nutmeg. Cover them, and lay them aside till wanted. Break up the bonoe, and put them with the skin and trimmings of the meat into a saucepan. Cover with stock or v>'ater, and add an onion, a pinch of powdered mace, a few peppercorns, a smaU roU of lemon-rind, and a little salt. Let the gravy simmer till it is strong and pleasantly flavom-ed. Thicken it, and, sup- posing there is half a pint of it, stir into it a lew drops of strained lemon-juice, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and two table- spoonfuls of sherry. Flour and fry the collops in hot fat, put them in a dish, the sauce over them, and serve. Fried rashers of bacon should accompany this dish. If Uked, a few forcemeat balls may be interspersed with the meat in the dish, and three table-spoonfuls of thick cream, or two table-spoonfuls of milk beaten up with the yolk of an egg, may be stirred into the sauce. Time to fry the collops, about six minutes; one hour to make the gravy. Veal Collops Made with Fresh Meat.—No. 1. Veal collops should be taken from the shoulder or the fillet. Cut the meat in slices half an inch thick, three inches long, and two broad. Flatten them with a cutlet- bat, and dredge them well with flour. Take as many rashers of bacon a quarter of an inch thick as there are slices of veal. Fry these in( 1038 ) VEA VEA a saute-pan. Take them up, put them ou a dish, and fry the voal in the fat \vhich has come from the bacon. When it is nicely browned on both sides, place it neatly on a dish, and arrange the bacon round it. Pour the fat out of the pan, and dissolve a small slice of butter in it. Mix a little tloui- smoothly with this, and moisten gradually with a little stock or "water. Lot it boil till smooth, add salt and pepper, and pour it round the veal in the dish. Serve very hot. Time to fry the meat, about twenty minutes. No. 2. Cut the collops as before. Rub them quickly over with a freshly- cut shallot, and sprinkle a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg upon them. Dip them in egg and bread-crumb, or in floui-, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly and equally browTied on both aides. Drain them, and put them in a saucepan, pour over them as much stock as will cover them, add a small roll of lemon-rind, a blade of mace, half a dozen pep- percorns, and an onion, and let them simmer gently till done enough. Put them on a hot dish, strain the gravy upon them, and serve. Time to simmer the veal, half an hour. No. 3. Divide the veal into slices as before, and take an equal number of thin rashers of bacon of the same shape and size. Lay the bacon on the veal, cover with a thin layer of veal force- meat, sprinkle a little cayenne upon this, and roll up the collops tightly. Skewer each one firmly. Melt a little butter in a stewpan, put in the rolls and turn them about till they are equally and lightly browned. Put them on a hot dish before the fire. Pour off the fat in which they were fried, and dissolve a slice of fresh butter in the pan. Mix a little flour smoothly with it, and add as much stock or water as will make the sauce of the consistency of cream, together Avith a little salt, pepper, pounded mace, and a small piece of lemon-rind for seasoning. Simmer the rolls gently in the sauce for an hour and a half. When serving garnish with sprigs of cauliflower. Probable cost, veal, Is. per pound. Veal Collops, Minced (made with cold meat).—Take the remains of cold dressed veal. With a pound and a half of veal, freed from gkin and gristle, mix half a pound of lean ham or tongue. Cut the meat into small pieces, mince finely, and season with a pinch of cayenne, half a small nutmeg grated, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, half a tea-spoon- ful of mixed mustard, the grated rind and strained juice of half a lemon, and a few drops of anchovy. Moisten the mixture with a slice of fresh butter clarified, and a spoonful or two of strong stock, and let it form a stiff paste Make this into neat round collops, brush each one with clarified butter, dredge flour upon it, then dip it in egg and seasoned bread-crumbs : repeat this operation twice. Put the collops in a baking-dish. Place a small piece ol outter upon each, and bake in a quick oven. When lightly browned, serve them in a circle on a hot dish with cold tartar sauce in the centre {see Tartar Sauce). Time to bake the collops, a quarter of an hour. Veal Collops, Scotch—No. i. Cut the veal into small round collops half an inch thick and about three inches across. Beat them with a cutlet-bat to flatten them, and sprinkle upon them salt, white pepper, and grated nutmeg, or if i)refcrred dip tlieni in egg and seahouod bread-crumbs. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan over a gentle fire. Fry the col- lops in this till they are equally and hglitly browned. Drain them, lift them into a hot dish, and pour over them a little good brown sauce seasoned rather highly, and flavoured with lemon-juice. Serve very hot with thin slices of bacon round the dish. Time to fry the collops, about four minutes. No. 2. Fry the collops as above. Lift them upon a hot dish before the fire. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in the saucepan, and as it melts mix a taljle- spoonful of flour smoothly with it. Stir it for two or three minutes, then add gradually ajj much stock made from bones as will make the sauce of the consistency of cream. Put in also an anchovy and half a dozen button mushi'oomB chopped small. Let the sauce simmer for ten minutes, then add a little salt and white pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and the fried collops. Let them simmer \vithout boiling for ten or fifteen minutes, and seiwe them in a hot dish with the gravy poured over, and toasted bacon round them. Time, four minutes to fry the coUops, ten minutes to sinuner them in the gravy. Probable cost, veal. Is. per pound. Veal Cones.—Mince the veal with a little ham or tongue, and form it into a paste as for Veal Collops, ]\Iinced. li liked, this paste may be moistened with cream instead of stock. Form it into cones about three inches high. Brush these over with beaten egg, dredge bread-crumbs thickly upon them, and fry them in hot fat till they are brightly browned, or bake them in a brisk oven. Put a layer of fried bread-crumbs in a dish, place the cones upon them, and send tartar sauce, or if pre- ferred brown sauce, to table with them. Veal Consomme for Making White Sauces.—Rub the inside of a bright saucepan wdth a coarse towel briskly for a minute or two. Heat it a little, and rub it with butter. Lay in it two or three sUces of lean ham or bacon, then add two pounds of the neck or knuckle of veal cut into pieces about four inches square. Pour upon it half a pint of stock made from bones. Place it on a brisk fire for about twenty minutes, or till the veal is very lightly browned. Prohe it in several places with the point of a knife till the juice flows freely. Put it again on the fire till the gravy begins to thicken without being at all coloured. Turn it over once or twice, pour upon it boiling stock made from bones in the proportion of a pint and a half of stock to a pound of meat. Let the Uquor boil, throw in a httle salt, and sk-im it well, then draw the saucepan to the side, and simmer the gravy veiy gently for about two hours. Strain it into a bowl, and when cold remove the fat from the surface. An onion, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or throe sticks of colerv, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and a blade of mace should be simmered with the gniyy to flavour it. A few button mushrooms will greatly improve it, but they may be omitted. The bonds of poultry may, if likod, be pmo-( 1039 ) VEA VEA •stituted for a portion of the veal. Time to simmer the gravy, about two hours. Probable cost, knuckle of veal, 6d. to 7d. per pound. Veal, Croquettes of.—Remove the skin, j?ristlc, and sinew from some cold dressed veal. Mince it finely, and with one pound of veal mince four ounces of ham, ton<?ue, or bacon. .Season the mixture with salt, white pepper, and grated nutmeg, and put it in a saucepan; stir for a quarter of an hour over a gentle fire with <an ounce of butter rolled in flour, one table- spoonful of thick cream, and one table-spoonful of very strong stock made from the bones and trimmings of the veal. Turn the preparation upon a dish, and spread it to a smooth layer about an inch thick. Let it get quite cold and stifl:, then form it to the shape of small balls or corks. Egg and b)-ead-crumb the croquettes, and leave them in a cool place for an hour; then egg and bread-crumb them again. Put them into a wire fnang-basket, plunge them into boiling fat, and let them remain until they are brightly browned aU over. Drain them thoroughly, serve on a hot napkin, and garnish ^dth parsley. Veal Curry, Forcemeat Balls for. —If Uked, a few forcemeat balls may be put into the curry. To make them, boil an egg hard, pound the yoke in a mortar, mix with it some finely-grated bread-crumbs, a pinch of salt, and a seasoning of curry powder or paste. Hub a small slice of fresh butter into the mix- tui-e, form it into balls the size of small marbles. Throw them into fast-boiling water for a couple of minutes, and they wiU be ready for use. Veal Curry Made with Cold Dressed Veal.—Take about two pounds of cold dressed veal, and cut it into neat pieces about a quarter of an inch thick. Slice four onions and one apple, and fry them in fat; turning them about tiU they are soft. Rub them through a sieve, and mix with the pulp a table-spoonful of curry paste or curry powder, a desseit-spoonful of ground rice, a pinch of salt, and a little stock or water. Boil the sauce till it is smooth, put in the pieces of veal, draw the pan back and simmer the meat gently in the sauce for about halt" an hour. Dish the curry neatly, and send rice boiled for curry to table on a separate dish. Time, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for four or five persons. Veal Curry Made with Fresh Meat. —Veal may be curried whether it is cooked or not. The fresh meat is, of course, to be pre- ferred, though the other is very good. To curry fresh veal, take about two pounds of veal from the breast or cutlets from the neck. Cut it into neat pieces convenient for serving, rub these over with curry powder, and fry them in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Take them up, put them into a saucepan with a pint of stock, and simmer them gently till tender. Slice a large onion, and mince an apple finely. Fry these in the fat in which the veal was fried till they are quite soft. Rub them patiently through a sieve, then mix with the pulp a table- spoonful of Captain White's curry paste, a dossnrt-spoonfiil of ground ric(!, a ])inch of salt, and a tea-spoonful of finely-minccd lemon-rind. Add gradually the stock in which the veal has simmered, let the sauce boil up, put the cutlets in again, and simmer all together over a gentle fire for half an hour. Place the meat on a dish, pour the sauce over, and send rice boiled for curry to table on a separate dish. If liked, a little lemon-juice may be used instead of the sour apple, and milk may be substituted for the veal stock. Some cooks put a clove of garlic into the curry, but this is a matter of taste. Time to simmer the veal, three-quarters of an horn- in the stock and haK an hour in tho gravy. Probable cost, veal, lOd. to Is. per pound. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Veal, Cushion of, Braised (superior), The cushion of veal, or the noix, as it is called in French cookery-books, is simply that part of the leg which is covered by the udder. It should be separated from the under part of the fillet with a sharp knife, and the udder should be left whole, closely adhering to the cushion in its original position. The sinewy parts may be cut away. Take the cushion thus prepared, and lard the fleshy portion evenly and neatly with strips of fat bacon. Butter a braising- pan, and cover the bottom with a layer of sliced vegetables (onions, carrots, celery, and herbs), put in the larded veal and any bones and trimmings of meat that may be at hand, pour in as much stock as will just touch the surface of the veal, and braise it very gently over a slow fire. Butter a round of paper to tit the stewpan, lay this over the meat, put the lid over all. Every now and then the paper must be lifted and the meat basted with the gravy. Stew very gently indeed till the veal is tender. Remove the lid and the paper, and put the stewpan into the oven to brown. Still baste it occasionally. The gravy should now be considerably reduced, and very thick. If it is, put the meat on a dish, and strain the gravj' over it. If it is not, boil it quickly in a sauce- pan with the lid off until it becomes so. The fat must of course be removed from it. Garnish the dish with a mixture of dressed vegetables, and send sorrel to table with it. The sorrel may be prepared as follows: Wash and pick the stalks from three pounds of fresh sorrel. Boil for fifteen minutes in a quart of water salted, then drain, and chop small. Melt an ounce and a half of butter, mix with it one ounce of flour. When smooth add a gill of broth and the sorrel. Stir over the fire for a few minutes, add another gill of broth, and stir again for twenty minutes. Mix three eggs with half a giU of milk, pour into the sorrel, and stir ovar the fire for five minutes. If liked, the veal can be laid upon the sorrel in the dish. Endive, spinach, or mushrooms, may be served with the diflh. Time to braise the veal, about thi-ee hours. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Veal, Cushion of, Braised (another w^y).—Prepare the veal as in the last recipe, then, instead of larding it, make deep incisions in the fleshy portion of it, and fiU these alternately with pieces of truffle or tongue. Cover the cushion with thin slices of fat bacon, and braise the veal according to the instructions already given. Serve with rich white sauce. Time to braise the veal, about three hours. Probable( 1040 ) VEA VEA cost, voal, 1b. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ton persons. Veal Custard.—Break throe fresh eggs iiito a bowl, take out tlio 8])ock8, and boat them till light. 8tir into thoni gradually half a pint of boiling voal gravy, atld a seasoning of salt and cayenne, a pinch of powdered mace, and a tea-spoonful of lightly-grated lemon-rind. Butter some cups, and three-parts till them with the custard. Bake them in a gentle oven till they are set, then turn them upon a dish, and pour a little good veal gravy round them. If pre- ferred, the custard may be baked in a small disk edged with pastry. Time to bake tho custard, fifteen to twenty minutes. Veal Cutlets.—Veal cutlets may either be cut from the best end of the neck, or what is Ciilled a veal cutlet may bo taken from the fillet. Chops only are taken from the loin. If cut from the neck the chine-bone, gristle, and skin should be removed, and the upper part of the rib-bones shortened. After being trimmed, the meat should be beaten with a cutlet-bat to make it smooth. A veal cutlet when trimmed weighs from six to eight ounces. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets (another way).—Take two or three cutlets about three-quarters of an inch thick from the best end of the neck of veal. Flatten them with the cutlet-bat, sprinkle pepper and salt upon them, and fry them in butter or lard six minutes on each side. Take them up, drain them, and put them aside till cool. Take a sheet of stiff paper for each cutlet. Trim the edges to make it as nearly as possible of the shape of the cutlet, and be careful to leave a tolerably wide margin for folding over. Oil the paper, lay on it a slice of bacon, a spoonful of sauce, the cutlet, another spoonful of sauce, and another slice of bacon. Double the edges of the paper all round that the sauce may not escape. When the cutlets are to be served, broO. them over a very slow fire, and turn them over that they may be equally cooked. Serve them on a dish in the papers. The sauce with which they are to be covered may be made as follows:—Thicken a pint of nicely-flavoured stock with an ounce of flour. Boil it till it is smooth. Strain it, put it back into the sauce- pan, and boil till it is reduced to half the quantity. Stir into it a little grated ham, a little parsley, half a tea-spoonful of minced shallots, one or two chopped mushrooms if they are to be had, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and keep stirring for a few minutes. The sauce should form a stifE jelly when cold, and if the stock of which it is made is not sufficiently strong for this a little gelatine may be dissolved in it to make it so. Time to broil the cutlets, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets (another way).—Soak the cutlets in oil for an hour, and put into the oil a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a small onion finely minced, and a little pepper and salt. Drain and dry them. Lay each cutlet on a sheet of white paper which has boon well saturated with oil, cover with bread-crumbs. divide the fluid in which they hiivo been soakod equally among tho cutlets, und lay a slice of bacon upon each. Wrujj the cutlets in stilf wliito paper, and fold tho edges so that the juice cannot escape. Broil tlie cutlets some distance above a clear fire, and turn them that they may be equally cooked. Sometimes cutlets tlius prepared are roasted before a gentle fire, instead of being broiled, liavigote sauce, or good gravy, or a little lemon-juice, may be served with the cutlets, or they may be sent to table with their own sauce only. Jt is a good plan to interpose a piece of oiled paper between tho paper envelope and the heated gridiron. Time to broil tho cutlets, about twenty minutes. Veal Cutlets (another way).—See Cutlets, Veal. Veal Cutlets (a la Dauphin).—Take six fine cutlets of veal, and pare them on one side only, but all on the same side : lard them like a fricandeau, only let the bacon be cut finer ; let them be braised also in the same manner as a fricandeau; then reduce the liquor in which they have been stewed, with which you glaze them. Serve up with either endive or sorrel. Veal Cutlets (a la Pinanciere). — Take the best end of a neck of veal. Saw off the rib-bones so as to make the cutlets about three inches long, and the chine-bone, and divide the meat into cutlets of an even thickness. Trim them neatly, flatten them with the cutlet-bat, and lard through the lean part evenly and closely with quarter-inch strips of fat bacon. Line the bottom of a small stewpan with sUced carrot, onion, and celery, and add a bunch of herbs and an onion stuck with six cloves. Lay the cutlets upon the vegetables, pour upon them as much stock or water as will barely touch the surface of the veal, and cover the meat with a round of oUed paper. Place the stewpan on a gentle fire, and let its contents simmer as gently as possible tiU the cutlets are tender. Baste frequently with the liquor in the pan. Take up the cutlets, and put them on a dish with the larded side uppermost. Strain the stock in which they were stewed. _ Thicken with a small piece of brown thickening. Let it simmer by the side of the fire that it may throw up the grease, which should be carefully removed. Stir into the sauce a \sdne-glassful of ketchup, a wine-glassful of sherry or madeira, and a pinch of cayenne. Pour the sauce round the veal cutlets, and serve very hot. Stewed mushrooms, or truffles, or different kinds of dressed vegetables, may be ser^'ed with this dish. Time to simmer the cutlets, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, veal, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets (a la IMaintenon, or En Papil- lotes).—This mode of dressing cutlets is Sii\d to have been invented by Madame de Mamtenon, Louis XIV.'s favourite, to tempt the failing appetite of tho king when he was advauccHi in age. Take some cutlets from the best end of the neck of veal. Saw off the chine-bone, trim away the skin and gristle, shorten tho rib-bones, and pare away the meat from the tip o£ theVEA VEA ( 1041 ) bones. Fry the cutlets in butter or lard till they are lightly browned on both sides. Take tliem up, drain them, and put them aside. Put 11 small bunch of sweet herbs into a stewpan with a little minced shallot, a roll of thin Icmon- rlnd, and a slice of fat bacon cut into dice. Pour upon these ingredients a pint of strong veal stock, or veal stock with a little gelatine dissolved in it. Add salt and popper as required, cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer very gently tiU the veal is tender. Take up the cutlets, and set them aside to cool; strain the hquor, and set that aside also. It ought to foi-m a stiff jelly when cold. When the cutlets are wanted, take as many sheets of stiff white paper as there are cutlets. Cut away the comers to give them something of the shape of a heart, but leave them sufficiently large to enfold the cutlets. Oil the paper on both sides. Place a cutlet on each paper, spread a httle of the sauce upon it, then fold it in the paper, and twist the edges secvirely, so that the sauce cannot escape. Broil the cutlets thus enclosed in paper over a gentle fire, or, if pre- fei-red, place them in a brisk oven till they are heated thoroughly, and the envelopes are lightly browned. Dish them in the papers with fried parsley as a garnish. Time to fry the cutlets, about a quarter of an hour. To broil them, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, from Is. to Is. 2d. Veal Cutlets la Venitienne).—Cut the best end of a neck of veal into cutlets, trim these in the usual way, and flatten them with the cutlet-bat. Mince finely half a pint of mush- rooms, and mix with them two shallots, a handf id of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a little pepper. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, add a quarter of a poimd of fat bacon cut into dice, and the minced herbs, &c. Stew all gently together till the mushrooms are tender; put in the cutlets with as much white stock as will barely cover them, and let all sim- mer very gently till they are done enough. Add a spoonful of white thickening, and carefully remove the fat as it rises. A few minutes before the veal is to be served add the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little cream to the sauce. Mix in a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice and a pinch of cayenne. Place the cutlets on a dish, pour the sauce into the centre, and serve very hot. Send sorrel or tomatoes, or anj"- dressed vegetables, to table as an accompaniment. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to stew the cutlets. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Veal Cutlets (a la Zingara).—Take a tolerably thick slice from the fillet of veal. Cut it into round pieces convenient for serving, trim these neatly, and fry them in a stewpan with hot butter or lard till they are lightly browned. Pour off the fat, and pour upon the cutlets as much brown sauce as will cover them. Put into the saucepan with them two ounces of grated ham, an onion stuck with one clove, a large can-ot grated, and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer all gently together over a slow fire till the cutlets are tender. Take them up, and keep them hot. Have already prepared as niany slices of lean nam or of cold tongue as there are cutlets; they should be trinmied to the same Shape and size. Frj' these in butter for five minutes. Dish the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish with a slice of ham or tongue between each. Strain the sauce, and serve it in the centre of the dish. Time to stew the cutlets, about one hour and a half. Probable cost, veal, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets (a I'ltalienne).—Cut a slice of lean veal from the fillet into neat pieces, and beat these with a cutlet-bat. Mince finely a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay- leaf. Fry the herbs in butter, and be careful that they do not acqmre any coloiir. Brush the cutlets with beaten egg, lay the fried herbs upon them, and sprinkle finely-grated bread-crumbs upon these. Let them remain untouched for an hour; then repeat the process. Fry the cutlets in butter over a gentle fire till they are suf- ficiently cooked and brightly browned. Send to table with them a sauce prepared as follows: —Mince a handful of parsley, a sprig of thjine, a bay-leaf, and one shallot. Fry these ingre- dients in a little salad oil over a gentle fire, and stir briskly to keep them from acquiring any colour. Pour upon them half a pint of brown sauce, and add a wine-glassful of mush- room ketchup, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, and a few fresh mushrooms finely minced, if they are to be had. Let the sauce boil; simmer by the side of the fire till it has thrown up the grease, skim it, and it will bo ready for use. A glassful of sherry or madeira will much improve this sauce. The sauce should of course be prepared before the cutlets are fried. Time to fi'y the cutlets, twelve to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets and Celery.—Divide the best end of a neck of veal into neat cutlets. Trim these in the usual way, and beat them with a cutlet-bat. "Wash four heads of celery, and cut them into neat pieces. Put them into a saucepan, cover with boiling water slightljr salted, add a blade of mace, let them boil quickly for ten minutes, then dxain them. Lay the celery at the bottom of a saucepan, add the cutlets and a little salt and pepper, and pour over them as much veal stock made from the bones and trimmings of the cutlets as will barely cover them. Let them simmer gently till tender. Take up the cutlets, and mix with the celery, now reduced to pulp, a quarter of a pint of miik or cream and a thickening of flour and butter. Stir the sauce over the fire for ten minutes, pour it over the cutlets, and serve immediately. A little stewed onion may be put with the celery if liked, but this is a matter of taste. Garnish the dish with veal, forcemeat balls, and sliced lemon. Time to stew the cutlets, about three- quarters of an hour. Veal Cutlets and Tomatoes.—Cut a shce of veal from the fillet half an inch thick, and weighing about a pound. Cut it into six pieces, and dredge a dessert-spoonful of flour upon them. Dissolve three ounces of butter in a stewpan, put in the cutlets, and let thim remain until they are brightly browned on both sides. Put with them a small slice of lean ham cut into dice, one small onion, four large ripe tomatoes, two anchovies cleaned JindVEA ( 1042 ) VEA pounded to pasto, the strained juice of half a large lemon, and a little salt, pepper, cayenne, and grated nutmeg. A wine-glassful of sherry or nuideira will greatly improve the gravy. Cover the saucepan closely, and bimmer the ingredients as gently as possible till the voal is quite tender. Remember to remove the scum as it rises, and shake tlie saucepan frequently in order to keep the contents from burning. Time to simmer the veal, one hour and a quarter. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Sufficient for thi'eo persons. Veal Cutlets, Bread-crumbed and Broiled.—Divide the best end of a neck of veal into cutlets. Saw off the chine-bone, shorten the rib-bones, trim the cutlets neatly, and flatten them. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt upon them. Brush them over first with clarified butter or oil, then with beaten egg; dip them in bread-criunbs, once more into oil, and then into the bread-crumbs again. Broil over a clear fire of a moderate heat, and turn them that they may be equally cooked on both sides. When they axe brightly browned take them up, arrange them on a dish alter- nately with rashers of ham or bacon, and send good gravy, or tomato, or any piquant sauce to table with them. Time to broil the cut- lets, ten to fifteen minutes, according to size. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets, Broiled (a I'ltalienne).— Take the best part of a neck of veal: cut the ribs one by one, flatten them, and pare them nicely, powder over a little salt and pepper, take the yolk of an egg, and with a paste-brush rub the cutlets with part of the egg, then dip them first in the bread-crumbs, then in melted butter, and afterwards in the crumbs of bread again ; give them a good form, and broil them on a slow fire, that they may get a fine brown colour. Serve with a brown Italian sauce, Spanish sauce, or gravy. Veal Cutlets, Broiled, Plain.—Divide the best end of a neck of veal into neat cutlets, allowing one bone to each. Trim these neatly, cut away the chine-bone, shorten the rib- bones, and flatten the cutlets with a cutlet-bat. Sprinkle salt and pepper on both sides, brush them over slightly with oil, and broil on a grid- iron over a clear slow fire till they are nicely browned on both sides. Serve on a hot dish, with a few slices of ham or bacon on a separate dish. Good brown gravy, or tomato or any piquant sauce, may be seut to table with veal cutlets. Time to broil the cutlets, ten to fifteen minutes, according to thickness. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Veal Cutlets, Curried.—Cut one pound of veal from the fillet into neat squares con- venient for serving, and free from skin, bone, gristle, or fat. Beat these well, and dip them twice into beaten egg and bread-crumbs seasoned with curry powder. Fry in a little butter over a gentle fire, and turn them that they may be equally cooked. Put them into a dish, and pour some good curry sauce round them. Serve very hot. If liked, the cutlets may be broiled instead of being fried, and then tliey will require only to be brushed over with clarified butter, and to have curry powder sprinkled upon them instead of being dipped into the beaten egg and seasoned bread-crumbs. The curry sauce may be prepared as follows: — Slice two large onions, and steam them in butter in a closely-covered saucepan till they are soft without being at all coloured. Add a sour apple pared, cored, and minced, and repkce the sauce- jmn upon the tire till this also is tender, liub the ingredients through a sieve, and mix the l)ulp with a dessert-spoonful of ground rice, a dessert-spoonful of curry pasto, and half a pint of stock. Simmer the sauce for twenty minutes, and it will be ready for serving. If this sauce is too pungent, a spoonful of curry paste may be stirred into half a pint of plain gravy made in tlie pan in which the cutlets were fried. Time to fry the cutlets, twelve to fourteen minutes. Veal Cutlets, Farce of.—Take some cutlets of an even thickness from the best end of a neck of veal, trim them in the usual way, flatten them, and spread over each one a cover- ing of good veal forcemeat. Roll the meat round the bone, put a thin slice of fat bacon over each cutlet, and bind it with twine to prevent the forcemeat escaping. Butter a stew- pan, and place a bed of sliced vegetables—carrot, turnip, onions, and celery—in the bottom. Lay the stuffed cutlets on these, and pour upon them as much stock as will half cover them. Let them simmer as gently as possible till quite tender. Take them up, place them in a circle on a dish, strain the gravy over, and serve very hot. Time to simmer the cutlets, about two hours. j Veal Cutlets, Fried.—Take the cutlets from the best end of the neck, and let them be about half an inch thick. Trim them neatly, flatten with a cleaver, and flour well. Fry them in butter or good dripping until they are cooked through. When brown on one side turn them upon the other. Pour away the fat, and dissolve a slice of fresh butter in the pan, stir a dessert-spoonful of flour into this, and when it is quite smooth and brown add very gradually a cupful of boiling gravy which has been made by stewing the trimmings of the veal verj' gently for an hour or more with a little water, a small roll of lemon-rind, an onion, half a blade of mace, a sprig of parsley and thjTne, and a little pepper and salt. This sauce ma J', if liked, be flavoured with a little lemon- juice or walnut pickle, or with a few mush- rooms. Some people would scarcely care for veal cutlets unless they were accompanied by mushroom sauce. Serve the cutlets on a hot dish with the sauce poured over. A few fried forcemeat balls and some fried rashers of bacon should be served with them. The veal may be taken from the fillet instead of the neck, and then the meat should be cut into neat round pieces convenient for serving. Time to fiy cutlets half an inch thick, about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, from Is. to Is. 4d. per pound. Veal Cutlets, Fried (another way).— Cut a slice of lean veal ahoTit the thii-d of an inch thick from the fillet. Divide this into neat cutlets convenient for serving. Prcixu-o( 1043 ) VEA VEA some finely-grated bread-crumbs, season witb pepper, salt, and pounded mace, and add a table-spoonful of pai-sley which has been scalded and finely minced. Fry the cutlets in butter or di-ipping till they are cooked through and nicely browned, then serve as in the last recipe. Time to fry the cutlets, ten to fifteen minutes. Veal Cutlets, Fried (a laMaintenon).— Cut three or four cutlets from the best end of a ucck of veal. Trim them neatly in the usual manner, and fry them in melted butter until they are lightly browned on both sides. Allow them to cool, then cover each one smoothly with good sauce, wrap it in oiled paper, and fold the edges together lightly and securely, that the gravy may not escape. Put the cutlets on an oiled tin into a brisk oven, and allow them to remain until the envelopes are lightly browned; serve very hot. The sauce may be made in the following manner:—Fry gently in one ounce of butter, one ounce of lean ham; add one ounce and a half of flour and half a pint of stock, then stir the sauce till it boils. Put in four button mushirooms. Skim away the fat, and when the mixtui-e is very thack and smooth stir in off the fire four egg-yolks. When cool the sauce is ready for use. Time to simmer the cutlets in the fat, one hour. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets, Gravy for.—Put the bones and trimmings of the veal into a sauce- pan, barely cover them with cold water, and add (for a pint of water) a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme or marjoram, a small roll of thin lemon-rind, half a blade of mace, and a little pepper. A little bacon-rind may be added if it is at hand. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer the stock gently tiU it is strong and nicely flavoured. Strain it, thicken with brown thickening, and let it simmer by the side of the fire tUl it has thrown up the grease. If the cutlets have been fried, lift them from the pan, and pour away the fat, leaving the brown gravy at the bottom. Pour the thickened sauce upon this gravy, stir well, boil it a few minutes, add a Httle salt if required, and then strain it over the meat. A few spoonfuls of cream may be added to the gi'avy if liked. Time, one hour to simmer the trimmings of veal. Veal Cutlets, Larded. — Take some cutlets of an equal thickness from the best end of a neck of veal. Trim these neatly, flatten f hem with a cutlet-bat, and lard the lean part with thin strips of fat bacon, with which, for a superlative dish, strips of red tongue and black truffle may be intermixed. Put the cutlets into a saucepan, and barely cover them with nicely- flavoured stock to which a glassful of light wine has been added. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the cutlets simmer gently until they are quite tender. Drain the gravy from them, and press them between two dishes with a weight upon them till they are cold. Strain the gravy, free it from fat, and boil quickly till it is considerably reduced. When the cutlets are to be served, heat them in the oven, dish them in a circle, pour the gravy over them, and place Fi-ench beans, or mushi-ooms, turnip, sorrel, or endive pui-6e in the centre. Time to stew the cutlets, according to thickness. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets Larded and Served Cold (Superlative).—Take six or eight thick veal cutlets, and prepare them as in the last recipe. Put them between two dishes, and press them tOl cold; then trim them neatly, and brush them over twice with liquid glaze. Serve on a dish, and garnish with aspic jelly and Montpellier butter. They will have a good appearance arranged as follows:—Boil some rice in water till it is tender and quite dry, then pound it, and press it into a flat round mould. When it is cold and stiff turn it out, place it in the centre of a dish, cover with Montpellier butter, arrange the cutlets rou}id it with the bones inward, and put a little chopped aspic jeUy between each one. Ornament the top of the rice with Montpellier butter and aspic jelly, fill the bottom of the dish with chopped aspic, and serve. Veal Cutlets made from Cold Dressed Veal.—Take a pound and a half of cold veal free from skin or gristle, and half a pound of lean ham or tongue. Mince the meat finely, pound it in a mortar, season with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg, and add a tea- spoonful of mustard, a tea-spoonful of anchovy, two table-spoonfuls of strong veal grdvy, the grated rind and juice of a small lemon, and a quarter of a pound of clarified butter. Half a cupful of rice boiled in milk tiU soft and pounded may be added if liked, and a little yolk of egg may be used to bind the mixture together. Form the jDaste into cutlets ; dip these into clarified butter, di-edge flour upon them, and egg and bread-crumb them twice. Fry them in hot fat, or bake them in a brisk oven, basting them two or thi'oe times whilst they are there. Send tartar sauce or any other piquant sauce to table with them. A little good stock thickened with brown thickening, and flavoured with lemon-juioe or lemon pickle, will answer the purpose, when the ingredients for tartar sauce cannot be procured. Time to fry the cutlets, eight to ten minutes; to bake them, about a quarter of an hour. Veal Cutlets. Roasted (ala Maintenon). —Take a cutlet ot veal from the fillet. Cut it into neat pieces, and flatten these vnth a cutlet- bat. Spread upon them a little good veal force- meat, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, and put them on a skewer. Cover them evenly with oiled paper, and roast before a clear fire. Send piquant sauce to table with them. Veal Cutlets, Russian Mode of Dressing.—Slake a little Russian sauce in a quantity sufficient to coat the cutlets upon one side only to the thickness of half an inch. This sauce may be made in the following pro- portions. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a small saucepan, and put with it a stick of horseradish grated, a finely-minced shaUot, a pinch of powdered herbs, a spoonful of grated ham, a table-spoonful of vinegar, a table-spoon- ful of sheiTy, a aniall himp of sugar, and a little pepper and salt. Cover the Baui'cijun( 1044 ) VEA VEA closely, lind lot its contents simmer gently over a slow tiro till tho tiavour of the inf^a-cdionts in extriicted. Add a quiirtor of a ])int of rich white sauce, and add the well-beaten yolks of two e{?j,'s. 8tir tlio sauce over a gentle lire till it begins to thicken, then strain it oif for use. Trim tho cutlets, flatten them with a cutlet- bat, and fry on both aides to a light brown. They will reiiiure about twelve minutes. Let them get cold, then spread a coating of tho Russian sauce upon one side of each. Brush them over with egg, and sprinkle u\)on them fried bread-crumbs mixed with grated Parmesan. Place them side by side in a single layer in a buttered baking-dish, and a few minutes before they are to be served heat them in a brisk oven. Dish them in a circle on a hot dish, pour a little tomato sauce into the centre, and servo very hot. Any kind of di-essed vegetable may be served as an accompaniment. Time to heat the cutlets, about ten minutes. Veal Cutlets, Stewed.—Cut a piece of the fillet into three parts, and trim from them all the skin. Stew all the ti'immings with carrot and onions to make a light gravy, then add a little broth or warm water ; add spice if approved, put in the pieces of veal, and stow them for two hours. Thicken the gravy, and pour it over the cutlets. Veal Cutlets, with Maitre d'Hotel Butter.—For one pound of cutlets prepare maitre d'hotel butter as follows :—"Wash and pick a bunch of parsley, chop small, wrap it in the comer of a cloth, dip it in cold spring water, and wi'ing the moisture from it. Put it into a basin with its bulk in fresh butter, a few drops of strained lemon-juice, and a little pepper and salt. Work it with, the point of a knife till the butter is like cream, and be very careful to keep the butter in a cool place, for if melted it will be oily. Trim and broil some veal cutlets in the usual way {see Veal Cutlets, Broiled, Plain). Put the butter on a dish, place the cutlets upon it, and serve very hot. Veal Cutlets, with Mushrooms.— Take a shce or more of veal for cutlets from the fillet, and for every pound of veal allow a handful of mushrooms. Cleanse and trim them, and put them into a saucepan with a table- spoonfid. of lemon-juice, a table-spoonful of water, and a pinch of salt for one pound of mushrooms. Shake them in the liquor for a few minutes, then add a slice of fresh butter, put them on a clear fire, and let them re- main for five minutes, shaking the saucepan occasionally. Turn them into a dish, cover closely, and leave them till wanted. Divide the veal into neat cutlets of a round or heart shape. Sprinkle a little pejiper and salt upon them, and either dredge them with flour or egg and bread-crumb them, and frj' them in butter or fat till they are equally and brightly browned. Put them on a plate, and keep them hot. Drain off half tho fat in tho i)an, and mix a table-spoonful of flour smoothly witli the remainder. Moisten gradually with a small tea-cupful of boiling stock or water, add the prepared mushrooms and a table-spoonful of ketchup. Let the sauco boil gently for three or four minutes. Put the fried cutlets on a dish allernately with slices of fried bacon or ham; place the mushrooms round, pour tho sauco' over all, and serve. Time to fry he cutlets, twelve to fifteen minutes. Veal Cutlets with SorreL - Take some cutlets of an even thickness from the best end of a nock of veal, trim them in the usual way, and fry in a little butter till tliey are lightly browned on both sides. Drain them, put them into a stewpan, pour over as much nicely-flavoured veal gravy as will cover them, and lot them simmer gently till done enough. A glassful of light wine may be added if Hked. Dish the cutlets in a circle, put some soirel puree into the centre of the dish, and serve the cutlets with the giavy in which they were stewed in a tureen. The puree may be prepared as follows :—Wash a peck of fresh green sorrel in plenty of water, and put it into a stewpan with a pint of water and a pinch of salt. Stir it over the fire for a quarter of an hour or until dissolved, then drain the water from it. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and mix two ounces of flour smoothly with it. Stir it over the fire for three minutes. Moisten with a pint of gravy, add the sorrel and a little pepper and salt, and stir the mixtui-e over the fire for twenty minutes. Rub it through a hair sieve, make the puree hot, and it will be ready for use. Veal Cutlets without Bone (London fashion). — Properly speaking, these cutlets ought to be made from the fleshy part of the neck, which has been taken out whole so as to form a sausage-shaped roll, and then cut in slices the third of an inch thick. Those who object to this may use a cutlet taken from the fillet instead. Divide the meat into neat shces. Brush them over with egg, sprinkle finely- grated and savoury bread-crumbs upon them, or, if preferred, omit the egg and bread-crumbs, and simply dredge flour upon them, and fry them in butter or lard till they are Ughtly brown fed on both sides. Toast separately as many slices of bacon as there are cutlets. AiTange the cutlets and the bacon alternately in a circle round a hot dish, and pour into the centre a sauce prepared as follows:—Put a quarter of a pint of brown sauce into a sauce- pan. Let it boil, then stir into it a table-spoon- ful of ketchup, a glassful of sherry or madeira, the strained juice of half a lemon, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Stir the sauce over the fire for a minute, and it will be ready for serving. When brown thickening is not at hand a Uttle may be made by kneading together equal pro- portions of butter and flour, then sturing the imste quickly over a slow fire for three minutes, and moistening it with stock. If preferred, good brown mushroom sauce may be used in- stead. Time to fry the cutlets, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. to Is, 2d. per poimd. Veal, Fillet of.—Tho fillet is one of tho prime joints of veal. It is taken from tho leg above the knuckle. The French divide it into three parts—the fat fleshy piece inside the thigh to which tiie u ldiT i.snttrtohod in a cow-( 1045 ) VEA VEA calf—and of which fricandeau is made, the iindei- noix used for forcemeat, pies, &c., and the centre noix for sauce, &c. As veal becomes tainted very quickly, the udder should be examined and wiped dry every day, and the kernel should be removed from the fat. The most usual mode of dressing a fillet of veal is to stuff and roast it, though it can be either boiled or braised. Probable cost, Is. Id. per pound. Veal, Fillet of (au bechamel — second dressing).—The remains of a dressed fillet of veal may be served in this way. Cut a portion of meat from the centre of the veal, leaving a goodly portion xmtouched from which slices may be cut. Trim the joint, fill up any cracks or cuts there may be in it with forcemeat, and bind it securely. Put it into the oven for an hour or more till it is heated throughout, and be careful to baste liberally for fear it should be dry. Meanwhile mince finely the veal that was taken from the fillet, mix a little forcemeat with it, and stir into it as much good white sauce as will moisten it well. Put this mince into the hollow in the fillet, cover with finely- grated bread-crumbs, and drop a little clarified butter upon the crumbs. Place the veal again in the oven till the crumbs are brightly browned, and serve the veal on a hot dish, with bechamel or good white sauce round it. Time, one hour and a half. Veal, Fillet of. Boiled.—Take a small and white fillet of veal for this purpose. Re- move the bone, fill its space with good veal forcemeat, and bind the veal securely with tape. Put a few skewers at the bottom of the stew- pan to keep the veal fi'om sticking; lay it on these, and pour over it as much cold weak stock, milk and water, or even water only, as will barely cover it. Let it heat slowly and sim- mer very gently indeed until it is done enough. The more gently it is simmered the better it will be. Carefully remove the scum as it rises. When done enough, take it up, put it on a hot dish, garnish with lemon, and send oyster, celery, or white sauce to table with it; or a sauce made by thickening a little of the stock in which it was boiled with white thickening, seasoning with salt, pepper, and mace, and fiavouring with lemon-juice and sherry. A boiled tongue should accompany this dish, which if served alone is in danger of being considered insipid. Time to simmer a fillet of veal weighing six pounds, three hours. Probable cost, Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Veal, Fillet of, Boiled (another way).— Remove the bone, and fill the centre with stufling similar to that used for boiled turkey. Allow twenty minutes to the pound, and twenty minutes over, for the boiling of this joint. After the water boils, skim carefully, and let it only simmer, keeping the meat covered by adding hot water, or it will become brown. The beauty of this dish depends on delicacy in the colour of the meat. A sauce must be formed by taking out a pint of the broth which has been made in boiling; this must he thickened with good cream, butter, and Hour, and flavoured with mushroom ketchup, and mushroom powder or button mushiooms. If cream be not at hand for thickening the broth, a sauce may be made by mingling the yolks of two eggs with flour, butter, and broth. Veal, Fillet of (French way). —Trim, stuflE, and truss a fillet of veal as directed for Veal, Fillet of. Roasted. If liked, the surface and the sides of the fiUet may be larded with strips of fat bacon. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with sliced vegetables and with thiu slices of bacon or ham. Lay the veal on this, moisten with a pint of stock or water, lay slices of bacon upon it, cover closely, and if possible put live embers on the lid of the pan, and let it braise very gently over a slow tire tiU tender. Baste frequently with the gravy. Take it up drain it, and put it in the oven. Strain the Hauce, and boil quickly for a few minutes; then baste the meat with it till it looks bright and glossy. Serve on a hot dish, and send any kind of dressed vegetable to table with it, together with brown Italian or tomato sauce as an accompaniment. If liked, the gravy in which it was stewed may be simply strained and thickened with brown thickening, then flavoured with pepper, lemon-juice, and light wine; and to enrich it oysters or stewed mushrooms may be added. Time to stew the veal, at least half an hour to each pound. Probable cost, veal, Is. Id. per pound. Veal, Fillet of, Roasted.—Have the fillet cut to the size required. Remove the bone, and fill the cavity with good veal force- meat {see Veal Forcemeat). Cut the flap slightly, and lay forcemeat under it. Draw the flap round, skewer the veal, bind it fiimly into a round shape, skewer the skin which has been sent with the veal over the forcemeat and the fat, flour the fillet, and put it down at some dis- tance from the fire, then draw it gradually nearer till done enough, and baste frequently. Let the outside be well browned, though it must not be burnt. Remove the skin, skewers, and tape, and put the veal on a hot dish. Pour melted butter coloured with browning or some good veal gray)'- {see Veal, Gravy for) round it, and garnish with sliced lemon. A pig's cheek, a boiled tongue, or small pieces of bacon or ham should be served with roast veal. It is always well to prepare plenty of stufl&ng, so that it may be used to flavour a mince if the remains of the veal are served in that form. As it is a little difficult to keep the stuffing in the veal when it is roasted before the fire, many cooks prefer to bake it in a moderate oven. When this plan is adopted the veal must be basted frequently. The veal should be roasted slowly, or the outside will be burnt before the meat is done through, and underdone veal is most unwholesome. Time to roast thp veal, twenty-eight minutes to the pound; half an hour to the pound in frosty weather. Probable cost. Is. Id. per pound. Veal, Fillet of, Roasted (another way). —The fillet of veal is most commonly roasted, being pre^^ously stuflted either in the flap or in the space in the centre from which the bone was taken. Veal, being a dry meat, requires constant basting either with butter, beef drip- ping, or suet. It must lie roasted thorouyln,/VEA ( 1046 ) VEA (underdone veal bein^? neither wholesome nor iiH:n'L'iibk(), and tjf a Tiiro brown. Wlien dished, half a pint of nioltod Imttor, HOURitinios mixed' with a blown gravy, is poured over it. Ourry stiuco in a tureen may also bo served with it. Bacon, or fried pork sausage-balls, with greens are among the accompaniments of roasted veal. Veal, Fillet of, with Oysters or Mushrooms. — Komovo the bono from a lillet of veal, and, witliout stufling it, bind it very tightly with tape, so that there may be no hollow loft in the centre. Koast in the usvial way. Whilst it is before the fire, take about two dozen oysters, and scald them in their liquor. Beard them, and simmer the beards in about half a pint of good veal stock. Strain the sauce, add to it the oyster liquor and an equal quantity of cream or milk, and boil with a small piece of white thickening, together with a few drops of anchovy and a little cayenne, nutmeg, and lemon-juice. Take up tlie veal, quickly cut out about a pound from the centre, and keep the meat hot in the oven, ojlince the slice which has been cut cut finely with the oysters, put them into the sauce, and poiu- the whole into the cavity in the veal. Serve very hot. If Kked, mushrooms stewed in butter may be substituted for the oysters. Veal Forcemeat.—No. l. Shred finely half a pound of suet, free from skin and fibre. Mix with it half a pound of bread-crumbs crib- bled thi-ough a colander, the rind of half a small lemon grated, one tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of thyme, a tea-spoonful of marjoram, two small blades of mace pounded. Bind the mixture together with yolk of egg to which a little milk may be added when economy is a consideration. No. 2. Chop finely a quarter of a pound of beef suet with two ounces of lean raw ham and five oimces of bread-crumbs rubbed through a colander. Add a piece of thin lemon-rind about the size of a thumb-nail, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs if fresh—if verj' dry, two tea-spoonfuls— and half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a little cayenne or white pepper. Bind the mixture together with two whole eggs. No. 3. Take half a pound of veal, and a quarter of a pound of fat bacon. Cut these into strips, and scrape them with the back of a knife, then pound them well in a mortar, and pass the preparation through a sieve. Mix with it the crumb of half a roll, half a drachm of powdered mace, the same quantity of grated nutmeg, a dessert- spoonful of chopped onions, parsley, and mush- rooms, with a little pepper and salt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, continually pounding them in the mortar, bind them together with two well-beaten eggs, and poach a small quantity in boiling water. \V7ien the pre- paration is firm, light, and delicately flavoured it will be ready for use. This forcemeat may be used oh all occasions, for pies, balls, &c. When forcemeat is to bo served in the form of balls, mould it to the size and shape of large marbles, put these into hot fat over the fire, and turn thorn about for a few minutes till they are lightly bro%vned. Place them on a sheet of blotting paper before the fire to drain off the fat. When dry they are ready for serving. Veal Forcemeat, Roll of.— Take a pound of lean veal from tlio fillet, three ounces of fat bacon, and two ounces of lean Ijam. Cut the meat in long shces, scrape with a knife, and pound it in a mortar. Mix with it one ounce of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a dessert- spoonful of baked flour, the gmted rind of half a_ small lemon, luilf a shallot finely minced, a pinch of grated imtmeg, and a little pepper. Add the yolks of three and the wliites of two eggs beaten up with two table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Mould the mixture to the shape of a roll. Brush over with the white of the egg which was left untouched, dredge baked flour upon it, roll it in well-oiled paper, tie it in a cloth, and steam over fast-boiUng water till done enough. Turn the roll upon a hot dish, pour a little nicelyrflavoured brown sauce over, and serve verj-^ hot. Time to steam the roU, two hours. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Suf- ficient for thi-ee or four persons. Veal, Fricandeaii of.—For this dish— a segment of veal, larded and stewed, with bacon, sUced vegetables, sweet herbs, and sea- sonings—we are indebted to the age of Leo X. Its inventor was Jean de Careme (John of Lent), who received the nickname in conse- quence of a celebrated soupe maigre which he made for the Pope, his master. He was the direct ancestor of the famous Careme, who was cook first to George lY., and afterwards to Baron Eothschild. Leo X., luxurious and mag- nificent in his tastes, was far from narrow- minded in his patronage of merit. He fostered the genius of Raphael, the painter, and en- couraged also the genius which could discover a fricandeau. The following recipe will be found excellent:—Take about three pounds of the fat, fleshy side of a fiUet of veal, of the best quality, or a shoe about four inches thick. With one stroke of the knife cut it even, trim it into an oblong or oval shape, then lard thickly and evenly with thin strips of fat bacon. Slice two carrots, two turnips, and two onions, and put these into the centre of a stew- pan with two or throe slices of bacon, the trimmings of the moat, a bunch of sweet herbs, two bay-leaves, and a little salt and white popper. Put the fricandeau on the vegetables, and pour in about a pint of stock, or as much as will cover the bacon without touching the veal. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents come slowly to the boil, then stow very gently by the side of the lire till the meat is quite tender. Baste frequently with UiJVEA ( 1047 ) VEA liquor. A short time before it is to be served take it up and put it into a well-heated oven to crisp the bacon. Strain the gi'avy, skim the fat from it, boil quickly to glaze, and baste the fricandeau witli it till it looks bright and glossy. Serve with the larded surface upper- most, in the centre of a pui-ee of any vegetables that are in season—sorrel, spinach, endive, as- paragus, peas, &c. If Kked, the gravy may be simply strained, skimmed, and poured over the meat, and then the dish is fricandeau with gravy. Sometimes as a matter of economy the lean part of the best end of a large neck of veal is used instead of the prime part of the leg, and does nearly as well. Truffles, mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms may all be served with this dish. Time to stew the fricandeau, about two hours and a half. Probable cost, veal, Is. Id. per pound. Veal, Pricandelles of.—Take a pound of lean veal from the fillet, and mince it finely with half its weight in suet freed from skin and fibre. Soak four rusks in milk, then press the moisture thoroughly from them, and mix them with the minced meat. Season and flavour the preparation with pepper, salt, grated nut- meg, and finely-minced lemon-rind. A little onion or shallot may be added, if liked. Bind together with the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. Divide it into three portions, and form these into balls. Drop them into fast- boiling water, and let them remain for four minutes. Take them up, drain them, dip them into egg and bread-crimibs, and fry in hot fat tiU they are nicely browned. Make some gravy with the bones and trimmings of the veal. Flavour this nicely, and thicken with brown thickening. Stew the baUs in this gravy a short time before they are to be served, put them on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and garnish with slices of lemon. Time to stew the fricandelles, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for three or four per- sons. Veal, rricandelles of (another way). —Prepare the fricandelle mixture as in the last recipe. Put it into a buttered dish which it will half fill, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. When the siuface is lightly brown, pour over it a little gravy, stock, or milk, and let it bake twenty minutes longer. Pour off the gravy which swims on the top, mix with it the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, again pour it upon the mince, place it in the oven for a few minutes, and serve. Veal, Fricassee of.—Take two pounds, or more if required, of lean veal free from skin and bone. Cut this into small thick pieces convenient for serving, and fry them in hot butter until the flesh is firm without having acquired any colour. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour upon them, add a small strip of thin lemon-rind, and gradually as much boiling white stock as will cover the meat. Let it simmer very gently till tender. Take out the lemon- rind, flavour the gravy with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, and mix with it a quarter of a pint of boiling cream. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a bowl, add gradually a little of the sauce (first allowing it to cool for a minute or two), then add it carefully to the remainder. Let the saucepan remain near the fire for three or four minutes till the eggs are sot, add the strained juice of half a lemon, and serve im- mediately. A few fried rashers of bacon should be served with this dish. A pint of stewed mushrooms may be served with it or not. The remains of di-essed veal may be served in this way. Time, about half an hour to simmer the veal. Probable cost, veal. Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Veal, Fricassee of (a German recipe).— This is a dish for spring-time. Cut up a breast of veal, stew it till tender in water flavoui-ed with a little salt, bay-leaves, and a bunch of mixed herbs. Boil a dozen crayfish, pick out the meat, and set it aside; stew the shells when pounded in two ounces of butter, and strain them. Make the crayfish, with the exception of the tails, into balls with an equal quantitj-- of bread-crumbs, two eggs, half the crayfish butter, and a little spice. Next boil some aspa- ragus or cauliflower till tender. Make a sauce of two ounces of butter beaten to cream; to which add the yolks of two or three eggs beaten up, two spoonfuls of flour, the rest of the cray- fish butter, and as much of the liquor in which the vegetables were boiled, or broth, as will make it a thin sauce. Now put the meat, the vegetables, and tails into the sauce, together with the balls ; let all simmer for ten minutes ; then take out the meat, boil the sauce a few minutes longer, and pour it over. Be careful to arrange the vegetables, fish, and balls \vith taste. Veal, Fricassee of (another way).—Cut two pounds of veal into neat pieces free from skin, bone, or fat. Melt a slice of butter in a saute-pan, put in the veal, and cook it very gently for five minutes, being specially careful that it does not acquire any colour. Pour on as much stock or mil k and stock as will cover the veal, and simmer gently for about twenty minutes, or until quite tender. Flavour with mace, salt, and white pepper, and add half an inch of lemon-rind if liked. Thicken the sauce with corn-flour, and add a quarter of a pint of good cream, then take the sauce off the fire, and let it cool. Beat the yolks of two eggs. Mix a little of the sauce with them, add them gradually to the rest, and shake the pan over the fire for a minute or two. Serve the prepara- tion on a hot dish, and garnish with slices of lemon. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Veal, GS^teau of.—No. l. Take the re- mains of a roast fillet of veal and the ham that has been served with it, and cut them into neat thin slices. Line an earthenware mould with thin slices of fat bacon, and fill it with layers of ham and veal, intermixed with slices of hard- boiled yolk of eggs. Sprinkle over each layer a seasoning of salt, white pepper, and finelv- shred parsley, with a few truffles cut up small, if they can be had conveniently. Pour clari- fied butter over all, then tie three or four folds of paper tightly over the top of the mould. Bake in a moderate oven, and turn it out in a shape when cold. Time to bake, one hour. No. 2. Minoc finely two pounds of calf's liver with six ounces of fat bacon and a small onioa.VEA ( 1048 ) VEA. Dissolyo a slice of butter in a stowpan, put in tho onion tuid bacon, unil when tho latter bogina to aoi'ten, put in tho livor with ii BouBoning of popper, aiilt, and gritted nutmeg. Stir tho mixture over tho fire till the liver I0HO8 its red appearance, turn it out to cool, and beat it to a paste. Add foiu- woll-beaton eggs with a few stewed mushrooms or truflles cut into pieces, if these are to bo had. Lino a basin with thin slices of fat bacon, put in the mince, and cover the top with bacon. Cover the basin closely, and bake the mince in the oven, or gently steam it over hot water till a skewer will pierce it easily. Let it remain till cold, trim neatly, and servo cut into slices. Veal, Godiveau (a kind of forcemeat).— Take a quarter of a pound of lean veal free from skin and sinew and an equal weight of good beef suet. JMince these very finely. Add a small bunch of parsley and a few chives chopped small, together with a seasoning of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Pound the ingi-edients in a mortar till they form a smooth, fiiTu paste, and place this on ice for an hour. Put it again into the mortar with three ounces of pure ice, and pound it till it looks soft and creamy. Roll it on the table with flour, divide it into small round balls about the size of marbles, and bake these on a baking-sheet in a moderately-heated oven. Time to bake the balls, five minutes. Veal, Goose.—This very savoury dish, which is a favoui-ite with many, may be made of breast of veal after the tendons or bones have been removed, or of the upper part of the flank of the loin, or of the skin of the best end of the neck which has been pared off with about an inch and a half of the flesh adhering to it. Lay the meat upon a table, cover with sage and onion stuffing, such as is used for goose; then roll it, bind securely with tape, and roast before a clear fire. When done enough place it upon a hot dish, and send good brown gravy and apple sauce to table with it. Veal Gravy, Endive with.—"Wash and clean twelve heads of endive, and beware of the worms which generally are found in the heart. After having taken off all the green part of the leaves, wash the endive again in two or three different waters, and blanch them to take off the bitter taste. Then throw them into cold water, and when quite cold squeeze them tiU there is no water left in them, then chop them very fine. Next stew them in a quantity of gravy sufficient to cover them entirely, to which add a little salt and a very small lump of sugar to cover the bitter tart taste of the endive. Ascertain if they are done enough by squeezing a bit between two fingers; if very tender they are done. Then add two spoonfuls of Spanish sauce reduced, and use them either for entremets under poached eggs or for entrees, such as minces of mutton, fricandeaux, sweetbreads, fillets of fowl, &c. Veal, Gravy for,—Take the bones and trimmings of the veal, and if the bones are large break them into small pieces. Put them into a saucepan, and pom over them as much cold watar aa will cover them. Supposing there is a quart of water, ad<l a bunch of parsley, two sprigs of tliyiuo or marjoruiii, a quarter of tho rind of a Icnujii thinly pared, a blade of mace, a jiinch of pcjipta-, and a few stripL of bacon-rind if they are at hand. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer the liquor gently till it is strong and jileasantly flavoured. Strain it, pour it into a bowl, and when cold remove the fat from the top. When wanted, thicken with a little brown thickening, and let it remain at the side of the fire till it has thrown up the fat. If brown thickening is not at hand, mix two table-spoonfuls of flour smoothly with a little cold water and a slice of butter, boil this with the stock, and add a Httlo sugar-browning. Pour the fat from tho pan under the veal, leaving the brown gravy untouched. Stir the sauce into the pan, dissolve a small lump of sugar in it, add a little salt, boil it up once more, and serve very hot. A httle boiling cream may be added if liked. Time, one to two hours to simmer the stock. Veal, Grenadin of.—Prepare an equal number of neat pieces of lean veal seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded mace, and of slices of good bacon, together with a portion of good forcemeat. Line a small dish with a veal caul, and be careful to leave as much of the skin hanging over the sides as wiU. cover the meat entirely. Fill the dish with alternate layers of bacon, veal, and forcemeat, and let bacon form the \mdermost and uppermost layers. Minced mushrooms and savoury herbs may be added or not. Fasten the caul over the meat, tie three or four folds of paper over the dish, and bake the grenadin in a moderately-heated oven. Turn it upon a dish, and send plenty of good brown gravy to table with it. Time to bake a small dish, about an hour. Veal, Grenadins of.—Take a sHce of veal from the fillet about an inch in thickness, and divide it into neat round pieces; or if pre- ferred the roimd piece of lean cut out of fi\-e or six chops from the best end of a neck or loin of veal may be used. Flatten the coUops, and lard them on one side only very thickly with strips of fat bacon. Put the bones and trim- mings of the veal into a stewpan with a pint and a half of cold water, a canrot, a turnip, an onion stuck with two cloves, a mmch of sweet herbs, a sprig of marjoram, an ounce of lean ham, a small lump of sugar, half a tea-spoonful of unmixed mustard, and a little salt and white pepper. Let the sauce boil till it is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Skim frequently, and when it is done enough strain, let it get cold, and then remove the cake of fat from the top. Eub the bottom of a bright stewpan quickly across with garlic, dissolve a thick slice of fresh butter in it, lay in the pieces of veal, the larded side uppermost, and let them remain until they are hghtly browned. Pour m as much of tho strained gravy as wiU just touch without covei-ing the larding, and let the veal simmer gently till done enough. Skmi the gi-avy, and baste the veal with the hquor frequently. Take out the veal, and put into tho gravy a pint of young freslily-shelled green peas, with a small lump of white siigar. Leave the Ud off the pan, and let the peas hodVEA ( 1049 ) for five minutes, then put in the veal, and let it simmer till the peas are done enough. Put the peas on a disli, place the coUops with the larding uppermost upon them, poxir the gravj^ over all, and serve. If preferred, instead of gi'een pi as being used, the veal may be dished upon a puree of mushrooms, dressed sorrel, or endive. Some cooks, instead of making the grenadins of uniform size, cut one large one to place in the centre, and form the rest of the meat into diamonds, to be arranged round it. 'lime, two hom"3 to simmer the gi-enadins. Veal, Haricot.—Take the best end of a small neck of veal. Shorten the bones, and either divide the meat into cutlets, or leave it whole. Put it into a ste^vpan, pour over it a pint of good brown gravj', and let it simmer gently imtil thi'ee parts dressed. Boil in stock in a separate saucepan a pint of freshly- gathered and shelled young peas, haK a pint of caiTots and turnips cut into shapes, a small cauliflower, half a dozen young onions, a sliced cucumber, a cabbage tettuco cut into quarters, a pound or two of young onions, or any suitable vegetables. When these are nearly tender, add a little salt and cayenne. Shortly before the haricot is to be served, put the vegetables with, the veal, and let all simmer gently together for ten minutes. Put the veal on a diih, arrange the vegetables round it, and garnish with forcemeat balls. Send fried bacon to table on a separate dish. If more •convenient, some of these vegetables may be omitted, and when boiling the vegetables it should be remembered that some kinds will need to boil longer than others, according to their nature and age. The appearance of the veal will be improved if it is brightly browned before being stewed, and a little acid will im- prove its flavour for many. Time to simmer the veal alone, about half an hour. Probable cost, veal. Is. per pound. Veal, Hashed.—Any joint of veal not over-dressed may be hashed, and will be found excellent. Cut the meat into neat slices free from skin and gristle. Cover these, and put them aside till wanted. Slice two onions, and fry them in butter, dredge a little flour upon them, pour over them half a pint of stock or water, and add a small bunch of sweet herbs, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of grated ni;tmeg, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of grated Jemon-rind, and a little salt and white pepper. Let all sim- mer for a few minutes till the liquor is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain the gravy, put the veal into it, let it simmer till it is hot without allowing it to boil, then serve on a hot dish, and gamish with toasted sippets. Time, altogether, about three-quarters of an hour. Veal Imitation of Mock Turtle.— Put throe or four pounds of knuckle of veal' into an earthenware pan with two calf's feet, two onions, each one stuck with two cloves, a })unch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, half a dozen allsijico, and half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns. Cover the ingredients with cold water, tic several folds of paper over the jar, put it in a woll-heatcd oven, and lot it remain until the meat in quite tender. Take it up, ' and let it get cold. Remove the cake of fai from the top of the jelly, and cut the meat into pieces convenient for serving, free from bone or skin. Put these into a stewpar. with the jellied stock, a large spoonful of ketchup, and whatever seasoning is requii-ed. Let the preparation become quite hot, then add a dessei-t-spoonful of lemon-juice, and serve with forcemeat balls and hard-boiled eggs. If more convenient, cow heels may be used instead of ! calf's feet. Time to bake the meat, three to j four hours. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for j eight or nine persons. Veal in Jelly (a breakfast or luncheon dighj.—Take two pounds of lean veal from the breast or fillet. Cut the veal into pieces an ' inch square and the ham into thin slices. Line a stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon, put in the veal, and add a calf's foot, the veal bones broken up small, two onions, two carrots, a parsnip, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a blad e of mace, two inches of lemon-rind, and a little pepper and salt. Pom* a pint of veal stock or water into the bottom of the j^an, let the liquor boil, skim carefully, and let it simmer as gently as possible till the meat is tender. Take up the veal, and arrange it neatly in a mould. Strain the gravy through a jelly-bag, boil quickly for a few minutes, then pour it over the meat, and turn it out when cold. Veal in Jelly (another way).—Take the bones from a breast or fillet of veal, and cut it in slices an inch thick and the size and shape of the mould in which it is to be baked. Sprinkle each slice with a savoiuy powder made by mixing two tea-spoonfuls of salt with one tea- spoonful of white pepper, and one tea-spoonful of powdered mace. Pour a tea-cupful of veal stock or -water in the bottom of the mould, and fill it with alternate layers of veal and thin slices of ham: let veal form the under- most and uppermost layers. Press the meat down tightly with a plate or dish a trifle smaller than the top of the mould, so that the gravy may run into it. Place a weight on the dif^h, and put it in a moderate oven tiU the veal is tender. Take it out, and let the weight remain upon it till it is cold. Put the bones and trim- mings of the veal into a saucepan with a hand- ful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, two blades of mace, two square inches of thin lemon-rind, half a salt-spoonful of pepperoonis, and two quarts of water. Let the liquor boil, skim carefully, then simmer gentlv for three hours. Strain it, let it get cold, and clear it from fat. It ought to foi-m a stifE jelly, but if not sufficiently firm it should either be'boiled a little longer or it should have a little isinglass or gelatine dissolved in it. Mix a pint of this jolly with the gravy that flowed into the saucer which was laid upon the meat, add a table- spoonful of ketchup, and pour the liquor over the veal. Let it get cold and stiff, then turn it out m a shape upon a dish, and garnish ^^•ith parsley. Cut it in slices when serving. The gravy should of course be made the day before It IS wanted. Time to bake the veal, three hours. Probable cost, veal, Is. Id. per pound. Veal, Italian.—Take half a pound of uncooked veal perfectly free from skin and fat.( 1060 ) VjjJA pound it in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of fat previously Loilod, or aa much fat hacon, also boiled. Jioil in milk a French roll with an onion, a bay-leaf, a suiall pinch of cayenne, white pepper, and wilt. Drain off the milk, remove the bay-loaf, and beat the pounded veai and broad through a coarse sieve. Mix in a beaten egg, and make into rolls with a little I flour. Boil these in separate floured cloths, 1 and servo turned out on a dish, with gravy^ white or brown, and a little lemon-juice. Time, j ten or twelve minutes to boil. Probable cost, about Is. Veal, Jugged.—Take from two to three pounds of lean vt;al, cut it into neat slices convenient for serving, and season with salt, cayenne, and powdered mace. Put the slices into an earthen jar, pour over them half a pint of strong stock, and add a small bunch of sweet herbs and a roll of thin lemon-rind. Cover the jar closely by tying over it two or three folds of paper. Put it in a dripping-tin three-parts filled with boiling water, and place it in a moderately-heated oven. Let it remain till the meat is tender. Take it out, remove the herbs and the lemon-rind ; thicken the gxavy with a little brown thickening, add the strained juice of half a lemon, and serve the meat on a hot dish with the gravy poured over it. Time to stew the meat, two hours and a half to three hours. Probable cost, 2s. lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Veal, Jugged (another way).—Cut some slices of veal, and put them into an earthen jug \vith a blade of mace, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, a sprig of sweet herbs, and a bit of lemon-peel. Cover the jug closely, that the steam may not get out; set it in a pot of boiling water, and about three hours will do the meat. About half an houi- before it is done, put in a bit 'of butter rolled in flour, and a little lemon-juice or lemon pickle. Turn it out of the jug into a dish; take out the herbs and lemon-peel, and send it to table garnished with lemon. Veal, Kebobbed.—Cut some lean veal into thin slices about an inch and a half in diameter, and not more than a quarter of an inch thick, and season each one of these with pepper, salt, powdered mace, and a little tur- meric. Fasten them alternately with thin slices of onion and slices of pickled pork upon small skewers. Fry them in butter till they are suf- ficiently cooked, or fasten the skewers to a spit, and roast the meat before a clear fire, basting liberally dirring the process; drain them, and serve on a hot dish garnished with fried parsley. If liked, after the veal is fried it may be stewed in good currj' gravy flavoured with lemon-juice, and served with dry rice. Veal Kernels,—There are ten kernels in each ciilf—four in each leg, and one in each shoulder. Those in the shoulders are considered much the best. French cooks trim, cook, and press these as directed for Tendons of Veal, and serve them in a circle on a dish, with, a puree of vegetables in the centre. Kernels are very v.ariable in price: they are cheapest in March, April, and May. About a dozen 8X0 required for a dish. Veal Kidney,—A veal kidney should not properly bo se]jarated from the loin, but should be roasted and served with it. If wished, however, it may bo cut oif, and may then be served with stows of veal, or minced and made mto forcemeat, and served on fried brc^-ad, or it may be broiled or fried like a sheep's kidney. Veal Kidney (a la maitre d'h6tel).—Cut a veal kidney in half lengthwise. Season the pieces with salt and pepper, dip them in clari- fled butter, and afterwards in bread-crumbs, and broil until sufficiently cooked. Put two ounces of fresh butter on a plate, and with Ihe point of a knife work well into it a dessert- spoonful of finely-minced parsley, a pinch of salt, another of pepper, and four or five drops of strained lemon-juice. Work these ingie- dients well together until the mixture is of the consistency of thick cream. When thoroughly mixed, put the butter on a hot dish, place the broiled kidney upon it, and serve. Time, seven or eight minutes to broil the veal kidney ; three or four minutes to mix * the sauce. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for one person. Veal Kidney, Broiled,-Skin the kid- ney, and cut it ia halves lengthwise. Flatten these, season with salt and cayenne, dip them in clarified butter, and bread-crumb them. BroU over a clear fire, and serve on a hot dish with a small piece of maitre d'hotel butter under them. This butter may be made as follows:—Pick and wash half an ounce of parsley. Chop it small, then put it in the comer of a napkin, dip it in cold water, and wring it diy. Put it in a basin with a little pepper and salt, three ounces of butter, and a dessert-spoon- ful of lemon-juice. Beat it with a wooden spoon or a knife till it looks like cream, when it will be ready for use. If it is placed too near the fire to melt the butter the preparation will be spoilt Time to broil the kidney, eight minutes—four minutes to each side. Veal Kidney Cakes.—Take a cold veal kidney, mince finely both fat and lean, and mix with it an equal weight of finely-grated bread- crumbs. Season rather highly -with pepper and salt, and bind the mixture together -with the yolk of a well-beaten egg. Form it into cakes, dip these into melted butter, and afterwards into finely-grated bread-crumbs, and fry them in a httlo hot butter or lard till brightly browned. Drain the fat from them before serving, and arrange neatly on a dish garnished with parsley. Send good brown sauce to table in a tureen. Time to fry the cakes, about ten minutes. Probable cost, *6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Veal Kidneys, Roasted,—Take two veal kidneys from a loin of veal which has been .roasted vmtil done enough. Jlincc them finely with some fat, and add a table-s]ioonful of flavoxiring made of mushrooms which have been stewed in butter, then chopped small, and mixed with parsley, thj-mc. and onion also fried. SoJison the forcemeat wnth salt and cayenne, and bind it together with raw egg. Cut one or two slices of stale crumb of bread into neat shapes. Fry these in hot fat till they are brightly browned on both sides, then drainVEA VEA ( 1051 ) them, and spread the forcemeat upon them half an inch thick. Brush the surface over with yolk of egg, and sprinkle bread-crumhs upon it. Place the pieces of bread thus prepared on a very hot dish, cover with a dish-cover, and serve immediately. Veal, Knuckle of, and Rice Soup- Take a knuckle of veal weighing about six pounds. Divide it (sawing through the bones) into half a dozen pieces, and put these in a stewpot with a carrot, a turnip, a small onion, half a dozen peppercorns, half a head of celery, half a blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of salt, and f om- quarts of cold water. Bring it slowly to the boil, remove the scum carefuUy as it rises, and boil gently for three hours. Take out the meat, cut it into convenient-sized pieces, and put them aside for further use. Strain the soup. Put it into a clean saucepan with twelve ounces of rice already three-parts boiled, and boil for three-quarters of an hour longer. Add the veal, and serve very hot. Time, four hours. Probable cost, 5s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Veal, Knuckle of. Boiled.—A knuckle of veal is generally boiled, and forms a most wholesome and nourishing dish. It should be washed, then put into a stewpan, covered with cold water, boiled, then simmered gently and skimmed frequently for from two hours and a half to three hours, or tiU the gristle is quite tender, but not tiU the flesh will leave the bone. On account of its sinewy nature this joint needs to be well cooked. Plain melted butter or parslej'' and butter may be both poured over it and served with it. Egg sauce, onion sauce, and white sauce are also suitable accompani- ments. Bacon and greens or mashed turnips and potatoes are usually eaten with knuckle of veal, and the dish should be garnished with parsley lemon-rind, and forcemeat balls. Time, a knuckle of veal weighing about six pounds, two hours and a quarter. Probable cost, 7d. per pound. Veal, Knuckle of, Boiled (another way).—Cut the shank-bone from a knuckle of veal. This may bo stewed separately in a little water to make white sauce. Put the joint into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and when it begins to simmer throw in a tea-spoonful of salt to assist in throwing up the scum, skim care- fully, and let it boil gently tmtil done enough. Ser^-e on a hot dish, and with either white sauce or parsley and butter poured over it, and more in a tureen. Garnish with slices of lemon and veal forcemeat balls. A piece of boiled bacon, a pig's cheek, or slices of fried bacon should be sent to table with it. Time to boil, fully twenty minutes per pound from the time the water boils. Probable cost, 9id. or lOd. per pound. Sufficient, a joint weighing six pounds, for six or eight persons. Veal, Knuckle of. Boiled (another ^^y) •—As veal is insipid, it is a meat seldom boiled. The knuckle, however, being chiefly composed of cjirtilage, is occasionally boiled, and requires stowing to render it fit for eating. Tt is sometimes boiled with rice, and the gravy diawn from it ia flavoured with onions, a little mace, and a few peppercorns. With the broth half a pint of cream or milk may be mixed, and the whole—meat, rice, and broth—served to- gether in a tureen. If sent up separately, the veal wiU require a sauce of parsley and butter, as weU as the accompaniment of boUed bacon on a separate dish. Veal, Knuckle of. Carving. — The knuckle of veal is almost always boiled: it is esteemed for its fat and tendons about the knuckle. The best slices can be cut only from the thickest part of the knuckle. About this part is some delicious fat; and cutting in one direction two bones will be diA-ided. Between these fine marrowy fat is to be found. Veal, Knuckle of, Ragofit of.—Cut a knuckle of veal into small thick slices. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt on these, dredge flour upon them, and fry them in butter tiU they are brightly browned on both sides. Drain them, put them in a saucepan, and barely cover them with boiling stock or water. Throw in a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, and a few outer sticks of celery. Let the liquor boil up, remove the scum as it rises, then draw the saucepan to the side and let its contents simmer very gently till the veal is tender. Thicken the gravy with ground rice, add a table-spoon- ful of good store sauce, and serve. A few force- meat balls may be added if liked. By waj' of variety, a pint of freshly-shelled young gTeen peas may be stewed separately and served with the veal. Dressed veal may be cut into small pieces and stewed according to this recipe in a little of the liquor in which it was boiled mixed with milk. Whole rice or peas may be stewed with it. Time to simmer the veal, about two hours. Probable cost, knuckle of veal, 7d. per pound. Veal, Knuckle of, Soup.—Take a knuckle of veal weighing about six pounds, and break the bone in three or four places. Put half a pound of bacon in slices half an inch thick at the bottom of a stewpan, place the meat on this, and add a carrot, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a few sticks of celery, two large onions with three cloves stuck in them, and a tea-spoonful of pepper- corns. Barely cover the ingredients with cold water, let the liquor boil, skim it, then draw the sa.ucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer gently tiU the veal is quite tender. Take out the meat, strain the soup, and let it stand tiU cold. Before serving, remove the cake of fat from the top. If there is too much soup to use at once, a little may be served at a time, and it may be thickened one day with vermicelli, another day with macaroni, and a third day with rice. The veal may be cut up into neat pieces and served with peas as a ragout {see Veal, Knuckle of, Ragout of), or, if preferred, it may be served in the soup. Time, four hours to simmer the soup. Probable cost knuckle of veal, 7d. per pound. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Veal, Knuckle of. Stewed with Green Peas.—Take a small knuckle of veal. Molt a slice of fresh butter in a frsang- pan, and put into it two onions sliced and the knuckle of veal whole. Turn the meat about( 1052 ) VEA VEA till it is lightly and equally hrowned. Put it into a stowpan with the onions und as nmeh hoiling stock or water as will cover it. Let tho liquor boil, then simmer gently for an hour. Add two lettuces lin(»ly shred, a pint of freshly- shelUd green ])0a8, two tea-Hi)o()ufuls of salt, and a tea-spoonful of pepper, and simmer all gently together another hour. iServo tho meat on a hot dish with tho gravy poured over it, and send boiled rice to table on a sejiarate dish. If liked, one or more cucumbers, pared, freed from seeds, and sliced, may be stewed in tho gi-avy as well as tho peas. Boiled bacon sliould be sent to table with it. Time to stew the veal, about two hours or more, according to size. Probable cost, four pounds at 5d. per pound, five pounds at 6d. per pound, six pounds at 7cl. per pound. Veal, Knuckle of. Stewed with Macaroni.—Break the shank-bone of a small knuckle of veal, wash it well, and put it into a stewpan with a shallot or a small onion, and a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Cover with stock or water, and let it simmer for an hour and a half. Throw half a pound of macaroni into it, and let it simmer till tender, when it will be ready for ser^'ing. If preferred, the sauce may be thickened and will be much improved by boiling with it for the last ten minutes a table-spoonful of ground rice mixed smoothly with milk; a little cream may be added to enrich it. I'ime, two hours. Probable cost, veal, od. to 7d. per pound. Veal, Knuckle of. Stewed with jj,iQe.—Put a small knuckle of veal into a stewpan just large enough to contain it. If too large, so much water will be needed that the veal will be rendered insipid. Cover with stock or water, thi'ow a tea-spoonful of salt into it, let the liquor boil, skim carefully, and simmer gently for thi-ee-quarters of an hour-. Throw into it half a pound of well-washed rice, and let all stew gently together till the meat and the rice are tender. HaU an hour before it is taken up, season the preparation with mace and cayenne, and add a little more salt if required. Send boiled bacon and parsley and butter to table with the veal. Time to stew the veal, two hours to two hours and a half— half an hour to the pound. Veal Liver Pat6 (to be eaten cold).— Take one pound of calf's liver and ten ounces of fat bacon. Mince these first separately, and afterwards together, and season the mixture with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Add two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, two ounces of iinely-minced lean ham, and a moderate- sized onion that has been sliced and browned m fat. Iklix these ingredients thoroughly, and mix with them first the beaten yolks, and afterwards the well-whisked whites of two eggs. Line a mould with thin slices of fat bacon, put in the mince, place sHces of bacon on the top, and bake the pate very gradually in a gentle oven. When it is done enough it can be easily pierced quite through with a skewer. Lot it get cold, turn it upon a dish, and garaish with parsley. Carve it in shccs. Veal, Loin of.-Tho loin is gonorally considered the prime joint of veal lor roasting. It is fieiiuently divided, and then there ig the kidni^y end und the chump end. The chump end is sometimes stufled, l)ut if this is not done forcemeat balls should be served witli it. A loin (jf veal is frequently stewed also, and in w inter-tiiiK^ is (;xc(.'llent. Veal, Loin of (a la creme). —Prepare and roast a loin of vi al in the usual way. About a quarter of an hour before it is done enough take up tho dripping-tin, put a clean dish in its place, and baste the veal continually with boil- ing cream. This will impart to its suj-face a rich brown coating of delicious flavour. Dish tho veal, and in doing so handle it carefully, for fear of injuring its surface. Pour two table- spoonfuls of boiling water into the dish over which it was basted, and in this stir the brown gravy which has dropped from the joint, and add it to half a pint of good white sauce. Pom- some of this round the veal, and serve the rest in a tui-een. Ham, tongue, or pickled ijoik wiU be needed as an accompaniment. Veal, Loin of (au bechamel).—Take a loin of veal, and have it boned entirely by the butcher. Take out the kidney, remove some of the fat, and put the kidney back in its place. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over the veal, roU in and skewer the flap to give the joint a good shape, and put a buttered paper round the meat. Eoast before a clear fire, and baste liberally. Ten minutes before taking up the meat remove the paper, sprinkle a little salt upon the meat, and let it brown. Send be- chamel sauce to table in a tureen. Serve boiled ham or bacon on a separate dish. Time to roast the loin, two hours to two hours and a half, or twenty-five minutes to the pound. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Veal, Loin of (au bechamel—Cold Meat CooKEKv).—Take the remains of a di-essed loin of veal. Cut ofl: the meat, mince finely, and season with salt, cayenne, and grated lemon- rind. Wrap the loin in oiled paper, place it in the oven, and heat thi-oughout. Moisten the mince with bechamel, and make it quite hot. Dish it, put the loin over it, pour about a quarter of a pound of bechamel upon it, and serve immediately. Fried or boiled bacon should be sent to table with this dish. Tmic, about one hour and a half to heat the joint. Veal, Loin of, BoUed.-It is not often that tho loin of veal is boiled whole, as it is always best to finish it the day on wluch it is dressed, because cold boiled veal is not a par- ticularly relishing dish. Nevertheless, to inva- lids and persons of delicate taste boiled veal is sometimes more acceptable than roa.st vcaL The best end of the loin, with the kidney lyit in, is excellent, and should be served with oyster or well-made white sauce The chump end may be accompanied by parsley and but er A loin of veal should be boiled just like a hllot of veal, though on account of its being less solid it will not need to bo boii?d quite so long A piece weighing from eight to .on PO"" J j' need to simmer from two hours and a quarter to two hours and a half. Veal Loin of. Braised.-Take four polds 'of tSe chum'p end of a lorn of vcai.VEA ( 1053 ) Take out tlie bone, and till the cavity with good veal forcemeat. If liked, this may bo omitted. Bind tif-fhtly with string, then put it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and turn it about till it is lightly and equally coloured all over. Liiy some slices of bacon over it, and add the bones and trimmings of the veal, a large carrot, an onion sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, a blade of mace, and a little stilt. Pour over all a quart of stock, and simmer the veal as gently as possible, basting frequently with the lic{uor till it is tender. Take it up, and put it in the oven to keep hot. Strain the gravy, skim the fat from the surface, and boil quickly tiU it is considerably reduced. Put it on a dish, glaze with part of the gravy, and stir into the rest an anchovy, a spoonful of capers, and a glassful of light wine. Dressed sorrel, spinach, or eudi\'e may be served on a separate dish. Time to simmer the veal, two hours. Veal, Loin of, Braised (superlative). —Take the best end of a loin of veal weighing about eight pounds, and trim it square. Cut the flap slightly, and in the incision thus made just over the ends of the bones place some nice veal forcemeat. Fasten securely with skewers und string. Cover the bottom of a braising- pan with sliced vegetables, and lay the veal on this; poirr in as much stock or water as will just reach the surface of the veal. Lay a roimd of oiled paper on the top, if possible put some live embers in the lid of the pan, and braise the meat over a gentle fire till it is quite tender. Baste frequently with its liquor. When done enough, take it up, drain it, and put it in the oven to keep hot. Strain the gravy, skim the fat from it, and boil quickly till it is much reduced and begins to thicken, then glaze the meat vdth. it. Place the meat on a dish, and gai-nish with dressed vegetables, ai'ranging these so that the colours will contrast one with another. Cauliflowers, carrots, turnips, mush- rooms, tomatoes, lettuces, asparagus, sorrel, en- dive, and spinach may all be served with braised loin of veal and mushi-ooms. Tomato, ' white Italian, or brown sauce may accom- j pany it. Time to braise the veal, three hours. Probable cost, loin of veal, lid. per pound. j Veal, Loin of. Chump End, Koasted. ; —^lake an incision in the skin round the thick pai-t of the joint with a sharp knife, and in this put some good veal forcemeat. Grease a sheet of white paper, wrap it round the joint, then put it down before a clear fire, and rather close to it. At the end of a quarter of an hour withdraw it to a distance, and let it roast very gently till done enough. Baste Hberally. Half an hour before it is taken up remove the paper, dredge a little flour upon it, and sprinkle over it n little salt and the strained juice of a lemon. Let the veal brown brightly. Mix a slice of butter verj- smoothly with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Pour upon this a cupful of boiliug water, add a little salt, and boil the sauce for a few minutes. Pour the fat out of the dripping- tin, leaving the brown gravy untouched. Stir the melted butter into this, strain it into the Sfiucopan, and again let it boil. Put the veal Cii ul diah the broad side downwards, i'oui' part of the gravy over it; put the rest in a tureen, and serve immediately. Send a cut lemon to table on a plate, and let boiled tongue, liam, bacon, or pickled pork accompany the veal Time to roast the veal, twentj'-five minutes to the pound. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Veal, Loin of—Kidney End — Roasted.—Place a piece of buttered jjaper round the lean part of the loin, being careful to cover the kidney entirely with its fat. Hang the veal close to a good fire. At the end of twenty minutes draw it back a little, and roast gently, basting frequently imtil done enough. Half an hour before it is taken up remove the j)aper, dredge a little flour upon the veal, and sprinkle over it the strained juice of a lemon and a little salt. Continue to baste until it is brightly browned. Make a Kttle brovra sauce according to the instructions given for roasting the chump end of a loin of veal. Toast a round of bread on both sides. Put it on a h6t dish, and place the veal upon it, with the kidney resting on the toast. Pour a little of the gi'a\-y over the meat, serve the rest in a tureen, and send a cut lemon to table on a plate. Bacon, ham, or tongue should be served with this dish. Time to roast the veal, twenty-eight minutes to the pound. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Veal, Loin of, Roast.—It is by no means a general practice zo stuif a loin of veal, but it is one which can be highly recommended, as it greatly improves the joint. Make an incision in the flap or skirt of the loin, and into the cavity thus made, just over the ends of the bones, put some good veal forcemeat. Roll in the flap to cover the kidney-fat, and skewer it down, or bind with string. Wrap the loin in weU- greased sheets of paper, and put it down at a moderate distance before a clear fire. Baste Liberally. Half an hour before it is done enough take away the paper, and let the veal brown. If the paper is not put on, the joint must be well dredged with flour soon after it is put to the fire. When done enough, put the veal on a hot dish, and pom- either clear brown gravy or good brown sauce over it. Garnish the dish with sliced lemon and fried forcemeat balls. Ham, tongue, bacon, or pickled pork should be served with it. In some places egg sauce and brown gravy are served with roast veal. If the loin is a very large one, the kidney should be skewered back for a while to ensure its bcino- sufliciently dressed. Care should be taken thai; the joint is hung before the fire in such a way that both ends will be equally done. Time, a large loin of veal, about three hom-s. Pro- bable cost, lid. per pound. Veal, Loin of. Steamed (a German recipe).—Bone a loin of veal, remove the kid- neys, and trim away the superfluous fat. Spread a layer of veal forcemeat over the inner side of the veal, then roll it, and bind with twme to keep it in shape. Dissolve a slice of butter m a saucepan, put in the veal, and turn It about over the fire till it is equaLy and hghtly browned all over. Put with it a sUced carrot, a small onion, two bay-leaves, and a httlo pepper and mlt. Pour a tea-cupful of stock over it, cover the saucepan closely, and let( 1064 ; VEA VEA the veal steam gently till tender. Take up the veal, strain and skim tlio gravy, stir into it a cupful of sour cream and two table-spoonfuls of bruised cai)crs. lict it boil, and pour it over the meat. Jf liked, the kidneys may bo browned and steamed with the veal. Time to steam the veal, an hour and a half to two hours. Veal, Loin of, Stewed, Plain—Take the eluunp end of a moderate-sized loin of veal; put it into a stewpan with a slice of fresh butter, and turn it about until it is lightly and equally browned. Pour over it boiling stock or water to half its depth, and add two sliced carrots, two small onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let it simmer gently for an hour, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Turn it upon the other side, and simmer another houi-. Dish the joint. Skim the gravy, pour some of it over tifie veal, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Ham, bacon, or pickled pork should accompany this dish. Time, two hours. Probable cost, chump end of a loin of veal, lOd. per pound. Veal, Loin of, Stewed, Superior.— Take the chump end of a loin of veal weighing about seven pounds, and let the butcher bone it. Fill the cavity thus made with good veal force- meat, and bind the meat into a good form with tape. Put it into a stewpan with half a pound of bacon cut into slices, two carrots, two onions, each stuck with a clove, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few outer sticks of celery, half a tea- spoonful of peppercorns, a blade of mace, and half the thin rind of a lemon. Half a dozen mushrooms may be added if liked, and will be an improvement. Barely cover the ingredients with veal stock, and let all simmer gently till the veal is tender. Draw the saucepan on one side, and take out as much of the stock as will be needed for sauce. Thicken this with white thickening or with a little butter rolled in flour. Place the veal on a dish, garnish with the bacon, pour the sauce over, and serve. Time to simmer the veal, two hours. Probable cost, veal, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Veal, Loin of, Stuffed and Braised (to eat cold).—Take a loin of veal with two neck-bones. Bone it, and stuflE with good veal forcemeat. "Wrap the sides round the forcemeat, skewer the joint firmly, and bind with tape, keeping it as oblong as possible. Wrap it in a napkin, tie the ends securely, and tie the meat also across in two or three places to # keep it in shape. Place it on a bed of sliced vegetables in a braising-pan, cover with as much stock as will barely reach to the edge of the surface of the veal, close the stewpan, and boil and simmer the veal very gently for four hours. Take the stewpan from the fire, but do not take out the veal until the liquor is cool. Remove the napkin, tie the meat in a clean- one, put over it a dish with a heavy weight upon it, and let it remain vmtil the next day. Trim neatly, brush over with liquid glaze, and garnish with aspic jelly, parsley, &c. This dish wiU bo much improved if three or four trufflos finely minced, a little red tongue, and the veal kid- ney finely minced, be added to the forcemeat. Time to braise the veal, fouv hours. Veal, Marbled.—Cut into thin slices a dried tongue wliich hfis been skinned and boiled in tlie usual way. Pound these in a mortar with a little butter and a seasoning of pepper and pounded mace. Mince and pound separately an equal weight with the tongue of cold roast veal, and season thin with salt and cayenne. Spread a layer of the veal in the bottom of a potting-pan, put the tongue on it in large lumps, leaving a space between each lump, and fill up the empty spaces with veal. Press the meat closely into the jjan. I'our clarified butter over to the thickness of half an inch, and keep the preparation in a cool place till wanted. Veal, Minced.—Take the '•emains of cold dressed veal free from skin, bone, and fat. Mince finely, and put it aside. Put the brown skin, the hones, and trimmings into a saucepan with a little salt and pepper, a puich of grated nutmeg, and a piece of thin lemon-rind. Pour over these as much stock or water as will cover them, and let the gravy simmer till it is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain the sauce, and^ supposing there is a pound and a half of meat, stir into it a little more seasoning if needed, half a quarter of a pint of cream or milk, and a small piece of white thickening, or about an ounce of butter rubbed in flour. When the sauce is smooth and thick put in the minced veal, and let it simmer very gently indeed till it is quite hot, but it must not boil or it will be hard. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with toasted sippets. If brown gravy is preferred to white, the cream must be omitted, and the gra.vy must be thickened with brown thickening, or if this is not at hand flour and butter may be used, and a few drops of sugar browning be added. An onion with two cloves stuck into it should then be stewed with the gravy, and a glassful of port or claret may be added if liked. Fried rashers of bacon should accompany this dish. Time, an hour and a half to draw the gravy ; haK an hour to simmer the mince m the gravy. ' Veal, Minced, and Macaroni.—Soak half a pound of macaroni in water for an hour, then put it into salted water, and boil gently till tender. Whilst it is boiling cut about a poimd and a half of cold roast veal into thin slices free from fat, skin, and bone. Mince the meat finely with a quarter of its weight in ham (if this is to be had); season the mince with salt, white pepper, grated nutmeg, and gi-ated lemon-rind, and add a quarter of a ipound of bread-crumbs. Bind the mixture together with one or two eggs. Butter a mould, drain the macaroni, and wind it roimd and round the inside. Put the mince in the centre, place a dish on the top of the mould, and steam the preparation over boiling water. Turn it upon a dish, and serve with brown gravy made from the bones and trimmings of the veal and ham poxired round, but not upon it. Time to boil the macaroni, varying with the quantity; to steam the preparation, half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 8d. Sufliciont for four ^lorpons. Veal, Minced, and Macaroni (another way).—Soak and boil the nuicaroni as before^. Minco and flavour the veal, and mix with itVEA ( 1065 ) VEA a table-spoonful of flour. Cleanse, peel, and slice three fresh truffles. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a saucepan, put in the trufiles, and fry them gently for eight minutes. Pour over them half'a pint of good gravy and the minced vcul, and let them simmer as gently as possible for half an hour. Add a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice and two table-spoonfuls of sherry; turn the preparation into a mould lined with DKicaroni, and steam as in the last recipe. Veal, Minced and Scalloped—To prepare this dish two or three scallop-shelLs are necessary, or small dishes or saucers may be used instead. Cleanse the shells, and butter them thickly. Mince the veal, and season in the usual way, then moisten and simmer it for three or four minutes in some good gravy drawn from the bones. Put a heaped table- spoonful of the mince into each shell. Cover it with seasoned bread-crumbs, lay little pieces of butter here and there on the top, and brown the surface in a Dutch oven before a clear fire. Serve the preparation in the shells, which should be neatly placed on a hot dish covered Avith a folded napkin. Veal, Minced, Moulded.—Cut three- quarters of a pound of cold roast veal free from bone, skin, and fat into thin slices, and mince it finely with a quarter of a pound of lean ham and a table-spoonful of bread-crumbs. Add half a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped onion (this, however, may be omitted), a pinch of grated lemon-rind, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a little pepper and salt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and bind the mixture together with the yolk of an egg. Butter a mould, put in the mince, and bake in a moderate oven. When done enough turn it upon a hot dish, and pour round, but not over it, some good brown gravy made of the bones and trimmings of the veal. Garnish with sippets, and send fried bacon to table on a separate dish. Time to bake the preparation, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 4:d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Veal, Minced, with Fowl.—The white flesh of a boiled or roast fowl is very good mixed with minced veal. It should be seasoned and flavoured in the same way. A little lean ham is always an improvement to this dish. Veal, Minced, with Poached Eggs. —Cut the lean meat from the bones, and mince it finely with a small portion of lean ham, if it is to be had. Break up the bones, and stew them in as much water as Avill cover them, with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, three or four outer sticks of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt. Sim- mer the gravy for an hour or more, strain, skim it, thicken with white thickening or with flour and butter kneaded together, and add a little milk or cream. Stir the sauce over the fire till it is smooth and thick, pour half of it into another saucepan, and add the minced veal to the remainder. Let it remain on the iirc till the veal is thoroughly hot. It must not boil or the meat will be hard; care must bo taken, too, to keep it from burning. Pile the minco in the centre of a dish, Liy poached eggs upon it, and garnish it round with, suiiill roUs of thin fried bacon. Pour a little of the sauce which was kept aside over the mince, and sena the rest to table in a tureen. Time, one hour and a haK to stew the gravy. Veal, Minced, with Potatoes (a plain family dish) .—Take the remains of cold dressed veal. Free the lean part entirely from skin, bone, and fat, and mince it finely. Stew the bones and trimmings with as much cold water as will cover them to a strong gravj. Mix with the minced veal an equal quantity (or more if liked) of cold boiled potatoes. _ Put the mixture into a saucepan, moisten with a little of the gravy, and add pepper and salt as required. Dredge a little flour into the mince, dissolve a slice of fresh butter in it, and let it simmer over a moderate fire till it is thoroughly hot. Stir occasionally to keep it from burn- ing. Time, haK an hour to heat the mince. Veal, Neapolitan Turnovers of.— Cut half a pound of dressed lean veal and two ounces of dressed ham (fat and lean together), into thin slices, and miuce these finely. Dis- solve a piece of butter the size of a walaut in a saucepan, and fry in it a finely-minced shallot and a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley. Drain these, and put them in a mortar with the minced meat, a table-spoonful of grated Par- mesan, a pinch of cayenne, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a salt-spoonful of white pepper. Poimd these ingredients thoroughly, and whilst poundiug add gradually a table-spoonful of strong stock which is a jelly when cold, a dessert-spoonful of sherry, a salt-spoonful of essence of anchovy, and a well-beaten egg. Have ready some good pastry made for the purpose, and rolled to the thickness of a shilling. Cut this into pieces three inches square, and lay a spoonful of the forcemeat on one comer of each. Turn the comers over, moisten the edges with beaten egg, and press them together to make them stick. Put a quart of water into a saucepan, tlirow a tea- spoonful of salt into it, and let it boil. Drop the turnovers into it, and let them simmer for five minutes. Drain them, and put them into a dish. Have ready prepared some good stock made by simmering the bones and trimmings of the veal, with a carrot, an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and as much water as will cover it. Strain this stock, skim the fat from it, and put half a pint of it into a saucepan with a wine-glassful of light wine, two table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan, a slice of butter, a tea- spoonful of ketchup, a spoonful of mustard, and another of essence of anchovy. Stir the gravy over the fire for five minutes, pour it over the turnovers, sprinkle a little grated cheese on the surface, and bake the turnovers in a quick oven. Serve them on the dish in which they they were baked. The pastry should be made fully three hours before it is used, and kept in a cool place till wanted. It may be made by mixing half a salt-spoonful of salt with six ounces of baked flour, then rubbing into this one ounce of butter, and working into the mix- ture the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a wine-glassful of cold water. Veal, Week of.—The best end of the neck it: gen(!r:illy clioscn for roastinf^, and i&( 1063 ) VEA VEA excollont served with foreomoat balls round it, though it is not usual to stuif it with force- meat. It is also very good braised or stewed. The scrag end of the neck sliould bo made into a pie or used for broth. Probable cost, best end, lid, large. Is. small; scrag end, from 7d. per pound, according to size. Veal, Neck of (a la Creme).—Take the best end of a neck of veal. Loosen the flesh from the ends of the bones. Cut the bones short to make the joint as square as possible, then fold and skewer the think underneath. Wrap the joint in oiled paper, fastcsn it upon tlie spit, and put it down at a moderate distance from a clear fire. Baste liberally. Eomove the paper, and baste the joint with a pint of good white sauce or with cream. Tlus will impart to the surface of the veal a rich brown appearance and a delicious flavour. Serve the veal on a hot dish, pour white sauce roimd it, and send a little more to table in a tureen. If liked, white mushi-oom sauce may be served with the veal, as well as or instead of bechamel. Some cooks before roasting the veal let it lie in oil for a couple of hours, with a little pepper, salt, and powdered sweet herbs sprinkled over it. Time to roast the veal, two hours to two hours and a quarter, or twenty-five minutes to the pound. Probable cost, lid. or Is. per pound. Veal, Neck of, Braised.—Take about four pounds of the best end of a neck of veal. Cut ofl: the long bones, and saw oft' the chine bone. Put in the bottom of a braising-pan a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thjine, a bay-leaf, and a few sticks of celery, with two or thi-ee slices of lean bacon or ham. Add the bones and trimmings of the veal with the scrag end of the neck if it is not wanted for other purposes. Pour in a Kttle stock or water, as much as will almost, but not quite, cover the veal. Set the pan over a slow fire, and let its contents simmer very gently till the veal is tender. Strain the liquor, and boil half of it quickly tUl it begins to thicken. With this glaze the meat until it has a bright glossy appearance. Thicken the remainder with a small piece of brown thicken- ing, or with flour and butter loieaded together and stirred quickly over the fire until the paste is brown. iSoil the sauce till smooth, skim well, stir the jidce of an orange or lemon into it, and serve with the meat. Dressed vege- tables, sucli as peas, onions, carrots, potatoes, spinach, sornd, endive, and asparagus, may be served with the veal, and part of these may be used to garnish the dish. If liked, rice boiled for curry and with cuny sauce poured over it may bo sent to table as an accompaniment. Time, from an hour and three quarters to two hours to stew the veal. Probable cost, lid. or Is. per pound. Suflicient for five or six persons. Veal, Neck of, Braised (u la Barbariej). Bniise the best end of a neck of veal accord- ing to the instructions already given, and be- fore doing so lard it with strips of truffles {see . Veal, Neck of, Lard(!d). Put bacon over the veal in the pan to preserve the colour of the mfat, nnd send Italian sauco to table aa an accompaniment. Veal, Neck of, Larded.—To lard a neck of veal, first trim it by slKjiiciiing the long b(jnc8 and sawing ofl' tliu chim^ bene. With a sliarp knife; remove tlie skin and sinew which cover tlie lillet, leaving the bones covered with fat, and lard the fillet thus bared closely and evenly with strips of fat bacon. After- wards braise the veal according to the intitruc- tions already given, and be careful tliat the liquor is high enough only to touch the edge of tlie surface of the veal, and that it does not cover the larding. When the veal is tender, take it up, and keep it hot. Strain the liquor, skim tho fat from it, and boil it down till it begins to thicken. Put the veal in the oven, and baste constantly for a quarter of an hour or till it has a bright glossy appearance. Place it on a dish, and send good brown sauce and dressed vegetables to table with it. Veal, Neck of. Roast.—Take the best end of a neck of veal, saw off the chine bono, and run a strong skewer thiough the joint lengthwise, wrap in buttered paper, and tie it to the spit. If the joint is not wrapped in paper, it must be well dredged with flour, and basted very liberally with di'ipping from the pan. Put it dowm before a clear fire, and at a suf- ficient distance to keep it from being scorched. A quarter of an hour before the joint is taken up, remove the paper, di'edge the meat with flour, and baste with a little butter dissolved in a spoon. Pour the fat from the pan, leaA-ing the brown sediment behind, stir into it a quarter of a pint of thin melted butter, and add a httle salt; then strain the sauce into a sauce- pan, and let it boO.. Put the joint on a hot dish, pour part of the sauce round it, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Send the joint to table accompanied by bacon, ham, tongue, or pickled pork on a separate dish, and vAth a cut lemon on a plate. Parsley sauce, onion sauce, white sauce, and rice sauce may all be served with roast neck of veal. Time to roast the veal, an hour and a half to two hours, or twenty-five minutes to the pound. Probable cost, l id. or Is. per pound. Veal, Neck of. Stewed.—Take the best end of a neck of veal. Lard it, or if this cannot be conveniently done, cover with a thin slice &f fat bacon, and roast it for one hour. Put it into a stewpan, pour a quart of stock made from bones over it, and add a bimch of parsley, a sprig of thjTne, a bay-leaf, two onions thinly sliced, half a dozen mushrooms, half a tea- spoonful of whole pepper, and ionr ounces of picked and washed rice. Let the liquor noil, then draw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer as gently as possible till the meat is tender. Put the veal on a dish, strain part of the gi-avy c"er it, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Garnish with the boiled rice. Time, altogether, two hours. Probable cost, veal, lid. or Is. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Veal, Norman Haricot of.—Take two poimds and a half of veal choi)s. Tnm them neatly, free thorn almost entirely from fat,' and brown thcju lightly in a little butter. Put them into a stewpan, pour over them a pint of boibui^ stock, add a bunch of paisley, and ammer very( 1057 ) VEA VEA gently for throe-quai-ters of an hour. Clean two pounds of new potatoes. Let them boil up once, then put them in the stewpan above the meat, cover closely, and simmer again until , they are done enough. Before serving add salt and pepper if required. Place the cutlets in the centre of a hot dish, and put the potatoes round them with any other vegetables that may have been cooked for the pm-pose. Yoimg carrots, gi-een peas, or cauliflowers are aU good. A slice of lean ham is a great improvement to this dish. Time, an hour and a quarter. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Veal Olive Pie.—Take the remains of a iiressed fillet of veal. Cut the meat into thin sHces, cover these with pieces of bacon, spread forcemeat upon them, and roU them firmly. Place them in a pie-dish, pihng them high in the centre, pour over them a little gravy made from the bones and trimmings of the veal and thickened with brown thickening. Line the edges of the dish with pastry, cover with the same, and bake the pie in a weU-heated oven. The pie will of course be much better if the olives are made with fi-esh veal. Time to bake a moderate-sized pie, one hour to one hour and a half. Veal Olive Pie (superior). — Make the olives according to the instructions given in the foUowing recipe {see Veal Olives). Place them in the pie-dish, piling them highest iu the centre, and intersperse amongst them a dozen or more forcemeat balls about the size of marbles, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs cut into halves, eight or ten stewed mushi-ooms, and a pickled cucumber sliced. Pour over the olives some good highly-seasoned gi-avy thickened with broMTi thickening and flavoured with lemon- juice and a glassful of sherrj\ A little cream may be added if liked. Cover the pie with good pastry, and bake it in a well-heated" oven. Time to bake a moderate-sized pie, one hour to one hour and a half. Veal Olives.—Cut half a dozen slices half an inch thick, seven inches long, and four inches broad, from an imdressed fillet of veal. Flatten these with a chopper, and brush them over with beaten yolk of egg. Lay upon each a thin slice of fat bacon the same size as the veal, brush this also with yolk of egg, and spread a layer of good veal forcemeat over it. _ Roll each piece up tightly, and bind it with twine. _ Flour the olives, or if preferred brush them with egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs. Melt a little dripping in a frying-pan, put in the olives, and turn them about till they are lightly browned all over. Drain, and place them closely side by side in a saucepan just largo enough to hold them. Pour over them as much boiling gravy as wiU cover them, and let them simmer very gently till done enough. Lift them on a dish, strain the gravy over and garnish with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. Send fried bacon to table on a separate dish. The grav-y in which the olives arc to bo stewed may be made as follows: —Take the bones and trimmings of the veai with any bones of poultry that there may be; break them into small pieces, and put them in a stewpan with a slice of butter or drip- ping, two sliced onions, a handful of parsley, a blade of mace, four cloves, and six or eight peppercorns. Shake the saucepan over the tire till the ingredients become slightly bro\^'ned, then pour in gi-adually a quart of hot water. Let this boil, and thicken with a lump of brown thickening. Failing this, mix a table- spoonful of flour smoothly with a little cold water in a basin. Stii- a portion of the boiling liquor with this, and add it to the rest. Add. also a table-spoonful of ketchup and as much sugar browning as will make the gravy of a good colour. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer gently tiU the gi'avy is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain the sauce, let it cool a short time, clear it from fat, stir in some salt, let it boil, and it wiU be ready for use. If there are no bones from the veal, one pennyworth of fresh bones or half a pound of lean beef or veal may be used instead. Time, one hour and a half to simmer the bones, two hours to stew the oHves. Probable cost, veal, Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Veal Olives (another way). — Cut five slices of veal six inches long, four wide, and as thin as possible, from the fillet, and an equal number of exceedingly thin slices of bacon of the same shape and size. Fatten the veal with a chopper, spread a portion of the forcemeat upon it, and cover this with the bacon. Roll the ohves firmly, and fasten them with a skewer, or bind them with twine. Flom- them, or if preferred dip them twice in beaten egg and bread-crumbs. Bro^N-n them in a little fat, jmt them side by side in a small stewpan, cover with gravy, and simmer very gently till tender, basting them constantly. When done enough place them on a dish, strain and skim the gravy, and stir into it a glassful of light wine or a table- spoonful of lemon-juice or walnut-pickle. Let it boU, pour it over the olives, and serve. By way of variety, iostead of ordinary veal force- meat the stuffing may be prepared as follows:— Scrape half a pound of undressed veal and one ounce of lean ham with the back of a knife tiU the fibre only is left. Put this pulp into a mortar with a cleaned ancho-^y, an ounce of suet from the loin chopped separately, a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, half a tea-spoonful of mixed and powdered herbs, a dessert-spoon- ful of com-fiour, and a little salt, cayenne, and gTated nutmeg. Mx and pound the ingredients thoroughly, and bind the forcemeat together with beaten egg. Time, about two hours to stew the oUves. Probable cost, veal. Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Veal Olives (another way).—Prepare the olives in the usual way. Brown them in a little fat, drain them, pack them in a saucepan^ and stew them in gravy till tender. A few mmutes before serving put with them half a pint of stewed button mushrooms, a table- spoonful of lemon pickle or lemon-juice, and a glassful of Marsala. A dozen fried oysters may be added if liked. Veal Olives, Roasted.—Prepare the olives as before. Skewer them and bind them fii-mly to keep in the forcemeat. Flour them.( 1058 ) VITA or if preferred dip them in egg and roll them in broad-crumbs, lay thom on u lark-spit, and put them down to a clear fire. Baste liberally till done enough. Take them up, and servo with good brown gravy or with muslu-oom sauce and sliced cucumber. Time to roust the olives, about thi-co-quartors of an hour. Veal Patties.—Make the patty-cases in the usual way {nee Patties, Preparation of, (ind Puff Paste Patties, or Small Vol-au-Vents). Bake them, and when they are done enough, have ready to fill them a savoury prepai-ation made according to any of the following recipes. No. 1. Mince, first separately and afterwards together, half a poxmd of lean veal and two ounces of ham. Add a table-spoonful of flour, a tea-spoonful of grated parmesan, the rind of half a lemon gi-ated, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a little pepper and salt. Mix the ingredients thoroughly. Put the mince into a saucepan with as much strong veal stock that will jelly when cold as will moisten it. Stir over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour. Add two table-spoonfuls of thick cream and a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice, and the mince will be ready for use. No 2. Mince half a pound of dressed lean veal free from skin and fat and half a dozen oysters separately. Take as much nicely-flavoured veal stock that will jelly when cold as will moisten the mince. Mix with it two table-spoonfuls of thick cream, the oyster liquor, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind. Put the sauce with the mince into a saucepan, and let it get quite hot. Put in the oysters for half a minute, and serve. No. 3. Take a pound of dressed lean veal free from skin and gristle. Cut it into strips, and mince finely with a quarter of a poimd of lean ham. Put the bones and trimmings of the veal into a saucepan with a pint of water, a bunch of parsley, an inch of thin lemon-rind, half a dozen peppercorns, and a blade of mace. Simmer this gravy for an hour or more till it is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, let it get cold, and free it from fat. Put the minced veal into a small saucepan with as much gravy as will moisten it, and add three table-spoonfuls of cream and a small piece of butter roUed in flour. Stir the mince over a gentle fire till it is quite hot and smooth, when it will be ready for use. If preferred, the mince may be baked in the cases instead of being put into them after they are baked, but it is best to bake the pastry separately, as the mince hardens in baking. Veal Patties, Fried. — Mince half a pound of dressed lean veal and a quarter of a pound of ham. Season the mince with salt, cayenne, grated lemon-rind, and grated nut- meg, and mix with it an egg boiled hard and chopped small. Moisten with nicely-flavoured stock that forms a strong jelly when cold, and add a little cream. RoU some good pastry to the thickness of half-a-cro'«-n. Put little mounds of the mince upon this an inch distant from each other. Place a piece of pastry over all, and stamp the covered mounds out in patties with a round cutter. Jloisten the edges, and press the pastry together round the mince. \VTien wanted, drop the patties into hot fat and fry them till they are lightly browned. Drain them, and serve on a neatly- folded napkin garnished with parsley. If pre- ferred, the patties may be baked in a moderate oven instead of being fried. Time to fry tho patties, a quarter of an houi-. Veal Pie.—Any part of lean veal free from fat and bone may be used for a pie. The loin and the best end of the neck are excoUent for the purpose when tho bone and tho greater part of the fat are removed. Slices from the fillet are very good also. The knuckle, part of the leg, the breast, and the shoulder may also be advantageously used, but they should be partially stewed before being put into the pie, as otherwise they will not be tender. Veal pie may be made plain or rich according to choice. Ham or bacon, forcemeat-baUs, hard-boiled eggs, sweetbreads, oysters, mushi'ooms, truffles, &c., may all be introduced. If ham or bacon has been cured with saltpetre there is a danger that it will make the veal red, and so spoil the appearance of the pie. On this accoimt dressed ham or bacon is to be preferred, though it is not so savoury. Veal Pie, Good.—Take a pound and a half of veal cutlets a quarter of an inch thick and free from skin and bone, also half a poimd of thin ham. Season the meat with a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, grated lemon-rind, and powdered mace, and let the quantity of salt used be regulated by the quality of the ham. Divide the meat into pieces an inch and a half square, put it in layers into a buttered pie-dish, and pour over it half a quartei^of a pint of cold stock or water. Intersperse amongst the pieces of veal the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs and four forcemeat balls, to- gether with four button mushrooms, or a truffle, if these can be had. The pie, however, will be very good without them. Line the edge of a dish with good pastry, cover with the same, ti-im with a sharp knife, and ornament the pie. Make a hole in the centre that the steam may escape, and bake the pie in a moderate oven. Have ready some nicely-seasoned veal gravy to pour into the pie after it is baked. Lay paper over the pastrj' in the oven to keep it from browning too much. Time to bake the pie, two hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized pie. Veal Pie, Good (another way).—Cut a pound and a half of veal cutlet, free from skin and bone, into pieces an inch and a half square, and cut half a pound of thinly-sliced ham into pieces of the same size. Fill a buttered pie-dish with the veal and ham in alternate layers, and place the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs on the surface. Mince four button mushrooms, on* shallot, and a bunch of parsley. Frj' these in an ounce of butter forafew minutes, then pour upon the mixture hfdi a pint of stock or water, and add a small piece of brown thickening or a table- spoonful of flour mixed smoothly with a little ketchup. Simmer the grnxy, stirring well until it boils. Add a table-spoonful of lemon-jmce, and strain some of it upon tho veal. Bake the pie in a wcll-hcated oven. Pour a bttle good graw into it before serving. Time to bake the p'ie, an hour and a half tc two hours.VEA VEA ( 1059 ) Probable cost, 3s. Sd. Sufficient for a moderate- sized dish. Veal Pie, Parsley.—Cut some slices of lean veal into neat pieces, and season these with salt and cayenne. Take a handfiil of parsley, pick the leaves from the stems, scald them, press, dry, and chop them small. Fill the dish with layers of veal, and sprinkle a little parsley over each laj'er. Pour milk into the dish in- stead of stock. Cover the dish with pastry in the usual way, and bake until done enough. Lift up the crust, pour away the milk, and substitute for it half a pint of boiling cream. Serve immediately. Veal Pie, Plain (for fanrdly use).—Take two pounds of the breast of veal, cut it into pieces an inch and a half square, and season the meat by sprinkhng over it a savoury powder made of two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one tea- spoonful of white pepper, half a tea-spoonful of pounded mace, and half a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind. Pour over the meat a small quan- tity of water, and add a few sticks of celery, an onion, and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Let the meat heat gently, and add a little more water till there is as much as will barely cover the meat. Stew the veal very gently till it is tender. Let it remain until cold, then take out ths fat. Place the meat in layers in a pie-dish, and put in with the veal a little ham or bacon, three eggs boiled hard, shelled, and sliced, and a few forcemeat balls. All or any of these ingredients may be omitted. Sti-ain a little of the stock over the meat. Line the edges of the dish with pastry, cover with the same, and make a hole in the centre. Ornament the sur- face of the pie, brush it over with yolk of egg, and bake in a well-heated oven. Turn the pie about that it may be equally baked. Boil the gravy that was not used, and when the pie comes from the oven pour it in. If more con- venient, the veal, instead of being stewed in. a saucepan, may be put into a pie-dish, covered with a dish, and stewed in a moderate oven. Time to stew the veal, about one hour and a quarter; to bake the pie, three quarters of an hour to one hour and a quarter. Probable cost, veal, 9d. or lOd. per pound. Veal Pie, Kaised.—Take a pound and a half of lean veal and a poimd of ham. Cut three-parts of the veal into neat pieces, and season these, with pepper and chopped mush- rooms. Mince the remainder of the veal with an equal quantity of fat bacon, pound the mix- ture in a mortar, and season with salt and cayenne. A small piece of onion, herbs, and spices may be added to the forcemeat, if liked. Line a mould with pastry in the usual way. Cover the bottom with forcemeat, and fill the pie with alternate layers of thinly-sliced ham, veal, and forcemeat. Lay thin slices of fat bacon on the top of the meat, put a bay-leaf on that, and finish and bake the pie (see Raised Pies). Half an hour after it is taken from the oven pour into it, through a pointed strainer placed in the hole at the top, a little highly- seasoned gravy which will form a strong jelly when cold. This joUy may be made by stewing a calf's foot and the bonos and trimmings of the veal with an onion stuck with two cloves, a small bunch of herbs, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg in stock or water for a couple of hours. "^Tien the pie is sufficiently baked, a skewer will pierce it easily. If liked, the pieces of veal in the pie may be larded. Time to bake the pie, two houi-s or more. Veal Pie, Solid.—Put a piece of the knuckle of veal into a stewpan, cover with water, let it boil up, then simmer till it is quite tender. Let it get cold, then divide it into small pieces. Butter a plain round or oval shape, and cover the bottom with the yolks and whites of hard-boUed eggs neatly arranged. Place over these some pieces of the meat and gristle, with a seasoning of salt, pepper, pounded mace, and grated lemon-rind. Pour in a little of the gravy in which the meat was boiled, and which ought to form a strong ieUy, and fill the dish with the meat, hard-boHed eggs, and sliced beetroot, so arranged that the colours will con- trast prettily. Pour in as much gravy as vdll cover the ingredients, and bake the pie in. a well-heated oven. When quite cold, turn it out. It ought to have a glazed appearance. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Veal Pie, Superlative.—Butter a dish, and fiU it with alternate layers of lean veal cut into neat pieces and seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded mace, thin ham sliced, sweetbread, and chopped truffles. Place little pieces of butter here and there in the pie. Cover the dish with rich pastry, and bake till done enough. After the pie is taken from the oven, pour into it through the hole in the centre some gravy made of some strong, highly-seasoned veal stock mixed with a glassful of champagne. Veal Pie with Oysters.—Take a po\md and a half of veal cutlet half an inch thick. Flatten the meat with a cutlet-bat, sprinkle over it a seasoning of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and cut it into neat pieces. Spread upon these a thin covering of lean ham minced and pounded, and roll them up. Place them at the bottom of a pie-dish, and put a layer of oysters upon them. Eepeat until the dish is full. Stew the bones and trimmings of the veal in stock or water, thicken the liquor with flour and butter, and add the oyster liquor. Pour the strained gravy over the meat, and keep back a portion to put into the pie when it is baked. Cover the pie with pastry, and bake in the usual way. Time to bake the pie, an hour and a half to two hours. Veal Pie with Pork.—Take equal quan- tities of veal and pork in slices half an inch thick, cut the meat into neat pieces, and season these with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Boil two onions, mince them finely, and mix with them a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley and another of shred sage. FiR the dish with alternate layers of veal and pork, and sprinkle a little of the savoury mixture over each layer. Pour half a tea-cupful of veal stock or water over the meat, cover with pastrj-, and bake in the usual way. Time to bake the pie, an hour and a half to two hours. Veal Pie with Potatoes (Cold Meat Cookeky).—Cut some cold dressed veal into small neat pieces, and slice double the quan-VEA ( 1060 ) tity of small cold boiled jiotatoes. Butter a pio-dish, aud fill it with altomato layers of cold meat and Bliced potatoes. Season eaeh layer witli pepper aud salt, gi-ated nutmeg, and grated Icmon-riud, and lay littlo pieces of butter hero and there upon it. Cover the meat with good pastry, and bake in a well-heated oven. When the pastry is done onougli, the pie wHl bo ready for serving. Veal Pie with Sausage.—Take some cutlets half an inch thick from the fillet of veal. Season those with pepper, salt, and powdered mace, and fill a dish with alternate layers of the cutlet and of liologna sausage thinly sliced. The veal will yield sufficient gravy to moisten the pie. Cover with good pastry, and bake in the usual way. This pie is excellent eaten cold. Veal Pie with Sweetbreads.—Take a pound and a half of veal and a sweetbread. Cut the veal into pieces an inch and a half square, and season these as in the previous re- cipes. Soak the sweetbread for an hour, throw it into boiling salted water, and boU for a quarter of an hour. Cut it into slices. Butter the pie- dish, fill it with alternate layers of veal and sweetbread, and lay upon the surface three or four hard-boiled yolks of eggs. Intersperse amongst the pieces of meat, oysters, mushrooms, or forcemeat balls. Pour over the meat a small quantity of gravy made from the bones and trimmings of the veal stewed in cold water till the stock will jelly when cold, and flavoured with lemon, sweet herbs, and ketchup. Have ready some nicely-seasoned gTavy to pour into the pie when it is baked. Cover and bake the pie in the usual way. Time to bake the pie, one hour and a half to two hours. Veal Pies, Raised (small).—Take the lean part of the best end of a neck of veal, with half its weight in thinly-sliced ham. Divide the meat into pieces an inch square. Put the bones and trimmings of the meat into a sauce- pan, cover them with water, add flavouring ingredients, and stew the liquor tUl it is plea- santly flavoured and so strong that it wiU jelly when cold. Put the veal into a stewpan, cover it with the strained stock, and add half a quarter of a pint of cream and a few mushrooms, if these can be obtained. Let the veal simmer gently for an hour, then let it get cold. Line some small pate moulds. Fill them with the preparation, cover them, and bake tiU done enough. Serve cold. Time to bake the pies, according to size, say till a skewer will pierce them easily. Veal, Pilau of.—"Wash a pound of rice, tlirow it into boiling water, and boil it quickly for five minutes. Drain it, put it into a stew- pan with four ounces of butter, and stir over a brisk fire till the rice is equally and lightly coloured without being at all burnt. Pour over it a pint and a half of stock or water, and let it simmer very gently till the grains are tender. Sprinkle a little curry powder over the rice, and stir it with a fork. Spread a littlo on a dish. Place upon it a few di-essed veal cutlets or a small breast of veal, which has been partially roasted, cut into neat pieces, and stewed in rich gravy. Arrange a few rashers of fried bacon round the veal, cover thu meat witli rice, brush over with beaten egg, and place it in the oven till it is brown and hot tln-ougliout. Gai-nish the dish witli forceni(;at balls, and serve hot. Time, altogether, two hours and a half to thiee houi-s. Veal Pluck.—Take a calf's heart with the liver and lights. Wash the lieart in several waters, let it soak for half an hour, di-ain and dry it, fill it with good veal forcemeat, tie thin slices of fat bacon round it, and roast or bake it. Soak the liver and hghts, boil them for an hour, and mince them. Put this mince into a stewpan with a little pepper and salt, the thin rind of half a lemon, half a blade of mace, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Cover with gravy, aud let it simmer gently till done enough. Season with pejiper and salt, and add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a table-spoonful of ketchup, and a httle strained lemon-juice. Slice the remainder of the liver, and frj'^ in the usual way {see Liver, Fried). Place the mince upon a dish, put the heart upon it, and garnish the dish with the fried hver, fried rashers of bacon, toasted sippets, and parsley. Serve very hot, and send good brown gravy to table with it. Time, one hour and a half to roast the heart; half an hour to simmer the mince in the gravy. Veal Pot Pie (economical family dish).— Take two pounds of the breast or scrag of veal, or, if prefeiTed, two pounds of cold dressed veal. Cut it into small pieces convenient for servong, and with it half a pound of pickled pork. Put it into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and let it simmer gently tUl tender. If the veal has been cooked, the bones and trimmings of the meat only ought to be stewed. Put the meat into a dish, and let it cool. Line the edges of a large pie-dish with good plain pastry or with bread dough roUed to the thickness of half an inch. Put in'the meat with six or eight potatoes, and di-edge a table-spoonful of floui- over it, -with, a tea-spoonful of pepper. Strain the gravy upon it, adding water if necessary to make the quantity up to one quart. Cut off as much pastry as is required to cover the dish, and lay the remainder in slices upon the meat. Put some skewers across to support the pastry, and place the cover on the top. Press the edges securely, make a slit in the centre that the steam may escape, and bake the pie in a weU-heated oven. "VNTien serving turn the pastry on a dish, place the meat upon it, and pour the gravy over all. Wholesome pastry may be made as follows: —Put two poimds of flour into a bowl, mix with it a tea-spoonful of salt, make a hole in the centre, and stir into it a tea-spoonful of powdered saleratus dissolved in a cupful of water. Make it into soft dough with sour milk. Veal Pottage.—Cut away from a knuckle of veal all the meat that can bo stewed or made useful in anv way, then break the bone into four or five pieces, and put these into a stewpan with an onion sttick with two cloves, a small blade of mace, a liunch of parsley, a sprig of thj-mc, a bay-leaf, six or eight peppercorns.VEA VEA •( 1061 ) and a little "bacon-rind. Pour over these ingre- dients five pints of cold water. Bring the liquor to the boil, skim carefully, di-aw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents sim- luer gently. When sufficiently boiled strain it into a pan, and let it stand tUl the next day. Kemove the fat from the top, take up the jelly free from sediment, and boil vegetables, such as celery, artichokes, or turnips, in it till tender. Rub the vegetables through a hair sieve, and mix the pulp with the liquor. Stir into it half a spoonful of flour which has been mixed to a smooth paste with half a pint of cream or milk. Let the soup boil a few minutes ; add pepper and salt to taste, and serve. Time, five hoiirs to boil the stock. Veal, Potted.—Take about a pound of dressed veal free from skin, bone, fat, and gristle. Cut it into small pieces, and mince finely. Put it in a mortar, and whilst poimding keep adding gradually as much pepper, salt, and poimded mace as will season and flavour it pleasantly, together with about two ounces of butter broken into small pieces, and a spoonful or two of strong veal gravy made by stewing the bones and trimmings of the veal in water. Pound the preparation till it is a perfectly smooth paste, press it into small jars, and cover with a layer of clarified butter or dripping a quarter of an inch thick. The addition of a quarter of a pound of lean ham will greatly improve this dish. Let it stand twenty-foiir hours before using it, and store in a cool dry place. Veal, Potted, made with Fresh Meat.—Take a thick slice of lean undi-essed veal. Season with pounded mace or grated nutmeg and white pepper; put it into a pot- ting-pan that wiU just hold it, pour cold water over, cover closely, and bake gently till quite tender. Let it get cold, cut it smaU, and pound it in a mortar till smooth. If to be used at once, quickly moisten with a little of its own gravy. If to be kept a short time, add a little clarified butter only. Press it into jars, and cover with melted butter or suet a quarter of an inch thick. Store in a cool dry place. Time to bake the veal, three hours. Veal, Potted, with Tongue. —Take three-quarters of a poimd of cold dressed veal free from fat, skin, and gristle, and a quarter of a poimd of boiled tongue. Mince these ingre- dients finely, and poimd them to a perfectly smooth soft paste. Add very gradually whilst pounding five ounces of clarified butter, a small tea-spoonful of white pepper, half a spoonful of freshly-made mustard, a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovy, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Add salt if required, but it is probable that the tongue will make the meat salt enough. Press the meat into small pot- ting-jars, cover with clarified butter or drip- ping, and store in a cool dry place. Veal Pudding.—Line a shallow pudding- basin with suet crust rolled to the thickness of half an inch, and leave the pastry an inch over the edge. Fill the dish with alternate layers of lean veal cut into neat pieces and ham thinly eliced, and sprinkle over each layer a little pepper and salt, and add pounded mace. Pour a quai-ter of a pint of veal gravy over the meat; lay a cover of pastry on the top, moisten the edge o£ the piece of pastry, draw it over the cover, and press the two closely together. Wring a pud- ding-cloth out of boiling water, flour it, and tie the basin loosely in it. Plunge it into fast- boiling water, and boil quickly until done enough. Take it up, let it stand a few minutes, turn it upon a dish, and serve very hot. A i)ound and a half of lean veal and half a pound of ham will make a moderate-sized pudding. Time to boil the pudding, two hours to two hours and a half. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Veal Pudding, Baked.—Take half a pound of cold roast veal carefully freed from skin, fat, and gristle, and finely minced. Mix thoroughly with it a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Pour half a pint of nicely-flavoured boiling gravy (made by stewing the trimmings of the veal in water) over two ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Let this cool, then stir into it the minced veal, and add three well-beaten eggs. Whisk the mixture briskly for a minute or two, turn it into a well-buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven. If liked, the crumbs may be soaked in cream instead of gravy. Time to bake the pudding, one hour. Probable cost, lOd., exclu- sive of the cold meat. Sufficient for three or four persons. Veal Quenelles (an entree). — Take a slice of lean veal from the leg, cut it in long thin slices, and scrape it with a knife till nothing but the fibre remains. Put it in a mortar, poimd for ten minutes, then pass it through a wire sieve upon a plate. Put back in a mortar six ounces of the veal thus prepared, also four otmces of panada, and three ounces of fresh butter. Pound these ingredients together till they are perfectly blended and form a smooth paste, and add gradually a little pepper, salt, and poxmded mace or grated nutmeg. The more the forcemeat is poimded the better it will be. Moisten gradually with two whole eggs, and pound it again. Poach a small ball in boiling water to see if the forcemeat is light, fine, and delicately flavoured. If it is not sufficiently firm, add the yolk only of another egg. The white wiU only serve to render the queneUes hollow and pufpy inside. A small quantity of white sauce will improve the force- meat, which should be kept in a cool place till wanted. Half an hour before the quenelles are to be served mould the forcemeat with a dessert- spoon (see Quenelles), and throw them into fast-boiling water slightly salted. When they are done enough take them up, put them on a dish, pour on them half a pint of nicely-fiavoured white sauce, and serve very hot. Mushrooms or truffles may be added to the sauce if liked. Time to poach the quenelles, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, veal. Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient for a small dish. Veal Quenelles (another way).—Take the fleshy part of veal, cut it into slices, and scrape it with a knife tiU you have got off all the meat without the sinews. About half aVEA ( 1062 ) TEA lound of this rasped moat is su£G,ciont for a ash. Boil u calf's uddor, either in yom- stock- ot or in plain water. Wlien it is done and _ as become cold, trim all the upper part, cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar till it can be rubbed tlu-ough a sieve. All that part which has been thus strained through the sieve you make into a ball of the same size as the meat, which you have also roll(.d into a ball; you tlien make a panada. You must have three balls, one of udder, ono of meat, and one of panada. Veal Rissoles.—Take about three-quar- ters of a iiouud of cold roast veal, free from skin, gi-istlo, and fat, and a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon. Cut the meat into slices, then mhice very finely. Mix with the meat half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, the eighth part' of a nutmeg grated, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, and three table-spoonfuls of gi-ated bread-crumbs. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and bind them together with the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little cream, milk, or strong unsalted gravj% Form the paste into balls the size of a small walnut. Flour the balls, then dip them into beaten egg and bread-crumbs; let them stand an houi', then dip them in again. Fry them in plentj' of hot fat till they are lightly browned all over. Drain, them, serve on a hot dish with good gravy poured round but not upon them, and place fried rashers of bacon round them. Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley. Time to fiy the rissoles, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for thi-ee or iovix persons. Veal Kissoles (another way).—Take some cold veal, a little cold -ham, some parsley, a small quantity of thyme, a little lemon-peel, and one anchovy; chop them aU very small, and mix them with a few bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg to taste. Wet them with an egg, and make them into little balls ot- pyramids ; then dip them in egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs ; fry them brown, and serve with a good beef-gravy in the dish. Beef may be done in the same way. Veal Rissoles, Gravy for.—Put the bones of the veal broken up small, •with the trimmings and any other bones that are to be had, into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter and a large onion finely minced. Shake the saucepan over the fire till the onion is lightly browned, then pour upon them as much thin fiour and water as will barely cover them. Add a bunch of parsley, a blade of mace, an inch of lemon-rind, six or eight peppercorns, and a little sugar browning; cover the sauce- pan closely, and let its contents simmer gently until the stock is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain and cool it, then clear it from fat. Add a dessert-spoonful of ketchup, two table-spoonfuls of cream, and also a little pepper and salt. Let it boil up, and it will be ready for serving. Time, about an hour and a half to simmer the gravy. Veal, Roast.—Veal requires to be roasted carefully if it is to be nicely browned. It is always best to fasten a sheet of oiled or buttered paper over the joint. Hang it close to a clear fire, and at the eud of twenty minutes draw it back and let it roast slowly till done enough. Baste with good dripping every quarter of an hour. Twenty miuutos before it is taken up remove the paper, dredge a little flour over the joint, and baste with fresh butter molted for the purpose in a spoon. Sprinkle a little salt over it five minutes before serving. Those joints which are not stufl'ed should have forcemeat balls sent to table with them. Ilam, bacon, tongue, or pickled pork should accompany roast veal. A little brown gravy should be poured over the joint, and a little more served in the tureen. Veal, Roast (a la Languedocienne).—Roast a joint of veal in the usual way, und baste liberally with good di-ipi)ing. Half an hour before taking it up, baste with a mixtui-e of oil and vinegar in which two ancho%'ies and five or six peppercorns have been infused. When the veal is to be served, skim the gra\y, and pour it round the veal in the dish. Veal, Roast, Sauce for.—Brown sauce is generally served with roast veal (see Yeal, Gravy for), and clear brown gravj', melted butter coloured with ketchup, tomato, sorrel sauce, and bechamel are also serA'ed with it. Or a sauce may bo prepared as follows:—Mince an anchovy, and boil it with a minced shallot in good stock till the anchovy is dissolved. Strain it, stir into it a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice and a glassful of port, let it boU, then mix it with the gra'S'y in the dish. Time, about twenty minutes to simmer the gravy. Veal RoU, Baked.—Mince finely from two to thi-ee poimds of vmdressed lean veal and one pound of good streaky bacon. Add to the mince a salt-spoonful of white pepper, the grated rind of a small lemon, half a tea-spoon- ful of minced thyme, a minced shallot, an oimce of finely-grated bread-criunbs, and a Httle salt— the quantity to be regulated by the qualitj'^ of the bacon. Foim the mince into a roll, cover with oUed paper, and wrap it in coarse paste made of fiour and water. Bake in a moderate oven. Tm-n it out, and serve with good brown sauce pom-ed round it {see Yeal Forcemeat, RoU of). Time to bake the roU, about two hours. Veal Rolls, Pried.-Take the remains of cold roast veal. Cut from it half a dozen slices of lean meat haK an inch thick. Brush these over with egg, cover with a thin slice of fat bacon, egg again, spread forcemeat upon them, and roU tightly. Skewer securely, egg and bread-crumb the rolls, and fry till tliey are brightly browned. Sctyo on a hot dish, and pour mushroom sauce or brown gra^y over them. Ganiish with sliced lemon and parsley. Time to fry the rolls, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for thi-ee or four persons. Veal Sausages.—Take equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon. Mince finely, and to everj' pound of meat add a tea-spoonful of minced sage and a little pp])per and SJilt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Bind the mixture together with yolk of egg, and form it into( 1063 ) VEA VEA rolls or flat cakes, and fry or bake these in the usual way. Two or three anchovies may be added to the mince if approved. Veal Sausages with Pork.—Take equal quantities of veal and pork. JVlince them, iii-st separately and afterwards together, and Avith them half their weight in beef suet free fi'om skin and fibre. With every pound of meat put a tea-spoonful of powdered sage, and season the mixtui'e rather highly with pepper and salt. Clean and fill the skins in the usual way, and the sausages are made. If they are to be used immediately, a little crumb of bread soaked in water may be beaten up with them. Veal Scallops, Fried.—Take about two pounds of veal from the fillet. Trim away the fat, gristle, and skin, and cut it into rounds half an inch thick and the size of a cro"wn piece. Flatten these with the cutlet-bat, and season with a little pepper and salt. Butter the frjdng-pan thickly, put in the scallops side by side, and fry till they are brightly browned on both sides. Take them up, and keep them hot in the oven till the sauce is ready. Dredge a table- spoonful of flour into the fat in the frying-pan, stir for a minute, and moisten the paste with three-quarters of a pint of stock. Let it boil, and pour into it the gravy which has come fi-om the scallops. Stir into the sauce a table-spoon- ful of chopped parsley. Take it from the fire, dissolve a slice of fresh butter in it, pour it over the veal, and serve. Time, eight to ten minutes to fry the scallops. Veal Scallops, White.—Prepare the scaUops as in the last recipe {see Veal Scallops, Fried), and fry them in clarified butter, taking care that though thoroughly cooked they do not acquire any colour. Drain them, arrange them in a circle on a dish, pour good white sauce round them, and put dressed celery, dressed artichokes, or fried potatoes in the centre of the dish. Veal, Scallops of, Cold.—Mince the meat very small, and set it over the fire for a few minutes with some nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a little cream; then put it into the scallop- shells, and fiU them up with crumbs of bread, over which put some bits of butter, and brown them before the fire. Veal, Shoulder of.—Owing, no doubt, to the fact that the meat on this joint is rather coarse, the shoulder of veal is not so highly -valued as other portions, and is seldom served, excepting as a family dish. It is occasionally plainly boiled, but is more frequently stuffed and roasted or braised. The knuckle should always be cut off and used to enrich the stew or to make gravy. Probable cost, if bought whole, 8^d. per pound; if cut, 9d. Veal, Shoulder of, Boiled.—Cut off the knuckle, and draw out the bones. Rub the under part with a cut lemon, and sprinkle over it pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. RoU the meat, and skewer it neatly. Put it into a stewpan, cover with milk and water, and let it simmer gently till done enough. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, or the appearance of the dish will be spoilt. Send good onion sauce to table with it, and serve boiled bacon or pickled pork on a separate dish. This dish is by most people considered insipid. Time, twenty minutes to the pound. Probable cost, S^d. per pound, if bought whole. Veal, Shoulder of, Boned.—The butcher will, if desii-ed, perform the operation of boning, which is rather troublesome to those not accustomed to it. Lay the joint upon the table, skin downwards. With a sharp knife detach the flesh from the blade-bone first on one side and then on the other, and be especially careful not to pierce the outer skin. When the bone is quite free, loosen it from the socket, and draw it out. The bone of the knuckle is some- times left in, but when it is necessary to re- move it the same rules need to be observed. The knife must be worked close to the bone, and the outer skin must not be pierced. An excellent grill may be made of the blade-bone if a little of the meat is left on it. Veal, Shoulder of, Braised (to eat cold).—Take a whole shoulder of veal weighing about nine pounds. Cut off the knuckle, and bone the joint entirely without piercing the skin. Place the joint on the table skin down- wards, trim neatly, cut away some of the meat to make it even, sprinkle salt and i^epper upon it, and spread over it a layer two inches and a half thick of good forcemeat made with equal parts of lean veal and fat bacon minced, pounded, and pressed through a sieve, and sea- soned with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; two or three finely-minced truffles may, if Uked, be added to the forcemeat. Fold the shoulder over to enclose the forcemeat, bind it with tape, and roU it in a napkin. Tie the ends securely and fasten string round the roll to keep it in shape. Place the veal in a braising-pan upon a bed of sliced vegetables; put with it the bones and trimmings of the veal, including the knuckle, also two blanched calf's feet, the blanched rind of the bacon which was used for the forcemeat, and a little pepper and salt. Pour over aU as much boiling stock as will barely cover the veal, put it on the fire, let it boil up, skim carefully, and simmer gently for four hours. Take it from the fire, but let it remain in the liquor till cool. Take it up, remove the napkin, tie it in a fresh one, and place upon it a dish with a weight. Let it re- main until the next day. Remove the napkin, brush the veal over two or three times with liquid glaze, and serve it, garnished with parsley, aspic jelly, &c. This jelly may be made of the liquor in which the shoulder was simmered, strained, freed from fat, and clarified. The calf's feet which were stewed with the veal may be served with sauce on a separate dish {see Calf's Foot a la Poulette). This is a good dish for a picnic or for a cold collation. Time to simmer the veal, four hours. Veal, Shoulder of. Stuffed and Roasted.—Cut the knuckle from a shoulder of veal, draw out the blade-bone, and fill the cavity thus made with good veal forcemeat. If preferred, the blade-bone may be loft in, and the forcemeat spread over the part whore the knuckle was cut off, and also under the flap.VEA ( 1064 ) VEA The broad ond of the ehouldor must then ho turned and skowored over the forcemeat. Tie a piece of oiled or greased paper over the joint, hang it tolerably near a clear fire, and at the end of twenty minutes draw it back and roast it gently until done enough. Baste every quarter of an hour. Twenty minutes l)eforo it is taken up removo the paper, dredge the joint ■svith floui-, and baste till it is nicely browned. Place it on a dish, pom- good brown sauce round it, and servo with a cut lemon on a plate. Send ham or bacon to table with it. Time to roast a shoulder of veal, three hours to three hours and a half. Probable cost, 8id. per poimd, if bought whole. Veal, Shoulder of, Stuffed and Stewed. — Kemovo the blade-bono from a slioulder of veal. Season the inside with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg, sprinkle over it minced savoury herbs, such as parsley and chives, together -with a few mushrooms, and spread over these thin slices of ham or bacon. KoU the veal, and bind it tightly with tape. Put it in a saucepan which will just hold it over a clear fire with a slice of butter or a piece of dripping, and turn it about till lightly browned all over, or, if preferred, roast it for an hour and a half. Take it up, put it into a deep dish, cover with good stock, and add two onions, a sliced carrot, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, and a httle pepper and salt. Stew the veal very gently in a moderate oven till it is so tender that a skewer will pierce it easily. Strain and skim the gravy, and thicken a portion of it with a little brown thickening. Place the veal on a dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with sliced lemon and parsley. Stewed mushrooms, green peas, and various kinds of dressed vege- tables may be served with this dish. Some cooks, instead of first browning the meat, put it at once into a dish, pour stock over it, surround it -with herbs, onions, carrots, &c., then cover the dish with a coarse paste of flour and water, and bake the veal in a moderate oven. Though the taste of the veal thus dressed is excellent, its appearance is not so good as when it is browned as above. Time to bake the veal, a shoulder which weighs ten pounds before it is boned will need five hours. Probable cost, 8^d. per pound. Veal Soup. — Tako two pounds of the knuckle of veal. Divide it into three or four pieces, and put these into a stewpan with any bones or trimmings of veal or poultry that may be at hand, and add a quarter of a pound of lean ham, a few cuter sticks of celery, an onion with a clove stuck into it, a small blade of mace, six or eight peppercorns, a little salt, and two table-spoonfuls of rice. Pour over these ingredients about five pints of cold stock or water, and let the soup simmer gently from three to foiu: hours. Carefully remove the scum as it rises. Strain the stock, season and fiour as much of it as may be required for table with salt, white pepper, lemon-juice, and pounded mace, and thicken with white thickening. If prefoired, this soup may be served with the boiled rice in it, and with sippets or forcemeat balls. The veal may be cut into neat pieces and served with parsley and butter or egg sauce. Veal Soup ( a Geman recipe).—Should the breast of veal bo chosen, allow one pound to every quart of water; in the case of knuckle of veal, allow two pounds to the quart. Let the water come slowly to the simmering point, add salt, and skim well; continue simmering for at least two hours. Add lice, sago, or kliisso to give the soup substance. Ten minutes before sending to table, add in small pieces cauliflower, scorzonera, or asparagus, previously cooked. Finely-minced chives may be thrown in the last thing, or an onion may be boiled in the soup, and taken out before the other vegetable is added. Veal Soup (a plain family dish).—Take about four pounds of the knuckle of veal, and cut it into five or six pieces, sawing through the bones neatly. Put these in a stewpan, pour over them as much cold water as will freely cover them, and let the liquor boil. Skim carefully, draw it to the side, and let it simmer for an hour. Throw in with it five or six tur- nips, two onions, and a few outer sticks of celery, and let it simmer gently for another hour. Mix a table-spoonful of flour or groimd rice to a smooth paste with cold water, stir a little of the boiling liquor into it, and add it to the rest. Let it boil a short time longer. Half an hour before the soup is to be served throw into it a pinch of powdered mushrooms, six or eight sliced potatoes; and ten or fifteen minutes before it is served put in half a dozen small dumplings. Add pepper and salt to taste. Serve the veal on a dish with the dumplings and vegetables round it, and send the soup to table in a tureen. If liked, a little sugar browning may be added to the soup to colour it. Time,, three hours to simmer the soup. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Sufficient for seven or eight per- sons. Veal Soup with Rice or Forcemeat Balls.—The veal is to be blanched in the usual way, but the water in which it has been seethed is not to be thrown away, as it contains some of the strength of the meat; but take out the meat, clean it, and lay it in cold wat€r to become perfectly white. Then pass the water used in the boiUng through a sieve, pour it over the veal, and boil the whole together. Having clarified the liquor by skimming, add a piece of butter, some salt, and half a lemon, which tastes excellently with rice; on 8er\-ing, beat eggs into the liquor, to which add rice mixed with a piece of butter, and mace grated over it: it makes a very beautiful strong soup. When forcemeat balls are used instead of the rice, they should be boiled in a basin, and added to the soup, along with the meat and vegetable roots; beating up the soup with eggs, and gniting nutmeg over it. Veal Stew.—Take about four pounds of veal, the chump end of the loin, or part of the leg, or a portion of the breast from which the bones have been removed will answer excel- lently for the purpose. Cut it into neat piece* about two inches square, or if preferred let ifc( 1065 ) VEA VEA remain whole. Eub it over with butter, then put it into a stewpan with two moderate-sized onions thinly sliced, and turn it about over a clour tiro till it is brijjhtly browned. Dredge Hour upon it, put with it the juice and thin rind ot' half a lemon, a lump of sugar, and a little pepper and salt, and then cover with some nicely-flavoured veal gravy. Cover the sauce- pan closely, and let its contents stew very gently till the meat is tender without being too much dressed. Pour most of the gravy into a clean saucepan, thicken it with a tea-spoonful of brown thickening, or with a table-spoonful of flour nuxed smoothly with a httle cold water, and a tea-spoonful of sugar browning. Add a dessert-spoonful of ketchup, half a glassful of sherry, and a few stewed mushrooms if these arc to be had. Put the meat into the thickened gravy, let it get quite hot, then serve on a hot dish with the gravy poured over it. Fresh or pickled cucvraiber may accompany this dish. The gravy may be made by stewing the bones and ti'immings of the veal for an hour or more in a quart of water with a biinch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, and six or eight peppercorns. Time to stew the veal, one hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost, 4s. lOd., exclusive of the wine. Ve£ll Stew, Piquant.—Take two pounds of lean veal from uie fiUet. Cut these into pieces haK an inch square, season with salt and pepper, dredge them with flour, and fry in butter till lightly browned. Fry with them a moderate-sized cucumber sliced and floured, a quarter of a pint of green gooseberries opened and seeded, a shred lettuce, and a few onions if liked. Move the vegetables about whilst they are being fried to keep them from burning. Lift the ingredients into a saucepan, pour over them gradually as much boiling stock or water as will barolj'' cover them. Let them simmer gently till the meat is tender. Serve very hot. Time to stew the veal, &c., about an hour. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Veal Stew with Green Peas.—Stew the veal as before. Add to the other ingredients a pint or more of freshly-shelled green peas. Let the veal stew till it is three-parts dressed, put in with it a lettuce finely shred, and let it stew half an hour after this is added. Thicken the gravy, and serve the veal on a hot dish with the gravy and peas poured over it. Time, about two hours. Veal Tea for Infants and Invalids. —Take a pound of lean veal, cut it into small pieces, sprinkle a pinch of salt over it, put it into a saucepan, and pour upon it a pint of cold ^vater. Let it boil, and skim carefully, then simmer gently for an hour. Pour it out, strain it, and it will be ready for use. To thicken it, mix a toa-spoonful of arro-svroot with a table- spoonful of cold water, and stir the boiling tea slowly into this, or boil a spoonful of arrowroot or sago in the liquor a quarter of an hour before using it. A little new milk may be added to the tea occasionally for the sake of variety. Time to simmer the tea, one hour. Probable cost, veal, lid. per pound. The above ingre- I I* dients are sulficient for a breakfast-cupful of tea. Veal, Tendons of.—The tendons of veal are the gristly portions found at the extremity of the bones towards the thick end of a breast of veal. They ai-e frequently cut ofE (care being taken not to spoil the appearance of the joint), and served on a separate dish as an entree. When the breast of veal is large it is well that this should be done, as they are often lost by being underdressed. They must, of course, be cut off the meat before it is di-essed. The place where the tendons begin and the ribs end is shown by a line of wliite gristle. Veal, Tendons of (a la Proven(,'alc).— Take the tendons of a breast of veal, and cut them in pieces two inches square. Pour four ounces of salad oil into a good-sized saucepan, and add two moderate-sized onions finely minced, a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a little pepper and salt. Put the pan on a slow fire, and place lighted embers on the lid that the cooking process may be carried on above as well as below. Stii- the preparation frequently, and let it simmer gently till the gristles ai-e tender. Pour in half a pint of stock, boil for five minutes, and without skim- ming the fat from the gravy. Serve the tendons in a dish with the gravy poured over them. Veal, Tendons of, Curried. — Take the tendons from one or two breasts of veal, being cai-eful in doing so not to spoil the joint for stewing or roasting. Put them into a deep stewpan with two carrots, two onions (each stuck with a clove), a strip of lemon-rind, a bay- leaf, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme. Pour over them a pint of good stock, and let them simmer gently till tender. Take them up carefully wdth a skimmer, pull" out any hard parts that may remain, and press them between two dishes tiU. cold. Strain the liquor in which they were stewed, and when it is cool free it from fat. Slice two onions, and fry them in butter with a finelj^-minced apple. Stir these in a saucepan over the fire till they are soft, rub them thi-ough a sieve, and mix with the pulp a dessert-spoonful of cuny paste, a tea-spoon- ful of cuiTy powder, and a dessert-spoonful of gi-oimd rice. Add the stock gradually, and stir the sauce over the fire till it boils. Cut the tendons into rounds, squares, or diamonds half an inch thick, and about an inch and a half across. Put them into the curry sauce, and let them remain until they are heated through. Dish, them alternately with fried rashers of bacon in a circle on a hot dish, and pour the curry sauce over and round them. Send rice boiled for cuny to table on a separate dish. Time, four hours to simmer the tendons. Probable cost, uncertain, the tendons being sold with the breast of veal. Veal Tendons, Fried.—Stew the ten- dons in the usual way, and place them between two dishes till cold. Cut them into slices half an inch thick. Brush them over with beaten egg, dip them into bread-crumbs, and fry theio over a slow fire of a pale brown. Serve very hot. Take half a pint of the sauce in which they were stewed, stir into it two table-spoonfuls( 1066 ) VEA VEA of chopped mushrooms, two table-spoonfuls of sherry, iind the yolk of iiu ogg bt-atoii up with throe tiiblo-spooufuls of croum. Stir tliis suuco over tlio fire till it begins to thicken, but it must not boil. Dish the fried tendons in a cirole on a hot dish, pour the sauce into the centre, _ and servo very liot. Sometimes the sauce is thickened with yolk of egg and allowed to get cold, then the sliced tendons are dipped into it, aftorwai-ds into bread-crumbs, and fried as before. Time, four hours to sim- mer the tendons. Veal Tendons, Fried (a la Villeroi).— Stew the tendons in the usual way, and when they are tender put them between two dishes till cold. Cut them into neat slices half an inch thick and about an inch and a half square, and place them in a marinade of equal parts of oil and \'inegar, with, a sliced onion and a strip of lemon-rind put under them, and a little pepper and salt sprinkled over them. Let them remain in this for three hours. Drain and dry them, dip them in frying batter, and fry till they are bro\\Ti. Serve in a circle, with tomato sauce in the centre of the dish. Time, four hours to simmer the tendons. Veal Tendons, Stewed.—Cut the ten- dons oS. the breast of veal, leaving the flap of meat on the ribs, and divide them into pieces six inches long. "Wrap these in slices of fat bacon, tie them with twine, and place them in a saucepan on a bed of sliced vegetables, consist- ing of a carrot, a turnip, an onion, a few outer sticks of celery, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, eight peppercorns, three cloves, a blade of mace, a strip of lemon-rind, and a little salt. Pour over them as much stock or water as will cover them, and let them simmer gently till they look almost transparent and are so tender that they can be pierced easily with a skewer. Take them up carefully, put them between two dishes, and leave them till cold. Strain the gravy in which they were, simmered, remove the fat from it, and boil till it is considerably reduced. Trim the ten- dons, heat them in their own gravy, glaze them with it, dish them in a cii'cle, pour a little of the gravy round them, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Serve dressed vegetables in the centre of the dish. Green peas, stewed spinach, stewed son'cl, mixed vegetables, and artichoke puree may accompany them, also tomato or mushroom sauce. Time to simmer the tendons, four hours. Probable cost, uncertain, tendons being usually sold with the breast of veal. Veal Tendons, Stewed, and served with Mixed Vegetables. — Stew the tendons as before. Warm them in gravy, glaze them, and serve in a circle on a dish with a mixture of vc,£jetables boiled separately and heated in a little good white sauce. Time to stew the tendons, about four hours. Veal, To Keep.—As veal when once tainted cannot be recovered like beef or mutton, it is important that cvory precaution sliould bo taken to preserve it in good condition till it is dressed. It should bo kept in a cool larder, and examined daily. It should be kept hanging, too, for if it is laid on a dish the pressure alone will cause it to taint. The pipe which runs along tlus chino of the loin and the kemela from the fat should bo removed au soon as possible. Tho'skiit of the breast, too, sliould bo taken olf, and tlio inside wiped and dredged witli flour. The pait of the leg which bccoiues most quickly tainted is that where the udder lies. The skewer sliould therefore be rouKJvod, and tliat portion examined every day. If there is any indication that veal is likely to become tainted, it should bo plunged into boiling water, boiled quickly for ten minutes, then di-ied thorouglily, hung in a cool larder, and di'essed as soon as possible. Veal Tongue, To Preserve.—Trim tho tongue, and put it into boiling water for a quai-ter of an hour. Drain and dry it, take off the skin, and rub thoroughly with salt which has been mixed with a small proportion of sjilt- petro and a few savoury herbs chopjjcd small. Put it into an earthen jar, sprinkle a handful of chopped herbs upon it, and lay a weight upon it to keep it under the brine. Keep it in a cool, well-ventilated place, and turn and rub it every day for ten days. Drain and drj^ it, put it in a largo polony-slrin properly cleansed, and tie it securely at both ends. If it is to be smoked, hang it over a small fire of juniper wood, upon which aroDiatic herbs are occasionally thrown. Veal, Vol-au-Vent of.—Make a vol-au- vent case the size and shape of the dish in which it is to be served, and bake in a brisk oven {see Vol-au-Vent). "When done, take out the lid, scrape out the soft pastrj-, and put it in the oven for a few minutes to dry. Fill care- fully with a hot savoury ragout prepared as follows:—Cut some lean veal into thin slices the size of half-a-crown. Beat these ^vith a cutlet-bat, and fry them till they are lightly browned. Cover with rich brown thick gravy highly flavoured {see Veal, Gravy for), put with them a few fried forcemeat balls, and serve the vol-au-vent on a napkin. Small vol- au-vents may be filled with the savourj- pre- paration recommended for veal patties. Veal, Wholesomeness of.—"Veal," says Dr. Graham, looking at the subject from the medical point of ^■iew, "is usually con- sidered not at all of a heating nature, and is therefore allowed, perhaps generally by the profession, to patients convalescent from an attack of fever, and to those who have a dispo- sition to bleeding from the lungs or elsewhere, especially with the addition of some acid ; but it is, in my opinion, so very indigestible an article, and has uniformly so strong a tendency to irritate the stomach and intestines, that I wlioUy proscribe its use wherever persons are not strong and healthy. In all stomach com- l^laints it is peculiarly"injurious. The flesh of ailves which have been robbed of their blood by repeated bleedings, or reared by the hand with milk adulterated with chalk, and confine- ment in small dark places so as to prevent motion, is unusually depraved." Veal with Cucumbers.—Roast a nock or a loin of veal, or any voal that is left. Tho log part is tough and dry, as every one must know, "\^^len cold, cut it into scallops, nnd put it into the sauce blanquotte. Take eix fine( 1067 ) TEO- cucumbers, cut them into quarterB, pare them about the size of the scallops; then take the parings and some other pieces, which mince with a little onion to make a puree. Fry the onions and the trimmings of the cucumbers together in a little butter; when the cucumbers ai-e entirely melted, moisten with sauce toiamee, and stew them on the corner of the stove for an houi'; skim off the grease, and rub this sauce through a tamis. Put the other whole cu- cumbers into some sauce tournee, and let them boil till done. Before putting the cucumbers in the sauce, they must be marinaded in a basin with a little salt and a thimbleful of white vinegar; let them remain for half an hour, and then drain them in a clean towel, and put them in the sauce, if you have any; other- wise, put them in a stcwpan with a small bit of butter, a bundle of parsley, and gi-een onions; fry them gently, then singe them with about a spoonful of fine white flour, and moisten with good broth; let that boil for an hour in the comer of the stove, skim all the butter, drain the cucumbers in a hair sieve, and reduce the sauce thick enough to receive the thickening. Mind, when you have no sauce in your larder, you must use the same principle to make white or brown sauce in a moment. Vegetable Consomm^, made with Dried Vegetables.—Put a pint of white haricot beans and a pint of lentils into a stew- pan with an onion, a pinch of salt, a bunch of parsley, and a small sprig of thyme. Pour over these ingxedicnts three quarts of water, then boil and simmer them gently for three hours. Strain the liquor. Fry the vegetables, and proceed as for Vegetable Consomme, made with Fresh Vegetables. Vegetable Consomm^, or Vegetable Gravy Soup, made with Fresh Vege- tables.—Dissolve in a stewpan four ounces of fresh butter. Tlirow into it two large carrots, two onions, two leeks, a head of celery, and a turnip, all cut small, together with a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, and a shallot. Cover the pan closely, put it on the fire, and shake it occasionally till the vegetables are lightly coloureci. Put a pint of freshly-shelled green peas into a separate ste^vpan with three quarts of water. Let them boil, then pour them upon the fried vegetables. Let the liquor boil, skim till it is quite clear, and put into it a crust of toasted bread, a blade of mace, six allspice, a dozen peppercorns, and a little salt. Cover closely, and simmer gently for two hours or more. Skim off the fat, strain it into a bowl, and let it stand in a cool place until clear. ^\Tion wanted, pour it off carefully, not to dis- turb any sediment that may still remain, boil VEGETABLE KNIPE. it, and serve very hot with fi-ied sippets. If it is wished that vegetables should be served in it, cut the red part of a carrot, an onion, a turnip, and about two sticks of celery into thin strips an inch long. For this purpose a vege- table knife, such as shown in the illustration, will be found useful. Put these in a saucepan, cover with cold water, boil for five minutes, and drain them on a sieve. Pour tbfi .clear soup into a stewpan, throw in the roots, and simmer gently till they are tender. Add salt and pepper if required. Dried vegetables {see Vegetables, Dried, for Julienne Soup) may be used instead of fresh ones to throw into the soup, and will save some trouble. Vegetable Curry.—A mixture of vege. tables may be used for curry. The most suit- able are celery, onions, cauliflowers, young cabbages, cucumbers, green peas, French beans, spinach, and sorrel. Mince or slice the vege- tables. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a stewpan; roll the vegetables in curry powder, and toss them in the butter till they are half dressed. Pour over them as much cream or gravy mixed smoothly with curry powder or paste as will cover them, and stew till tender. Add a little salt, and serve with rice boiled for curry on a separate dish. A table-spoonful of lemon-juice is generally considered an im- provement to this dish. If liked, a small quantity of mashed potatoes or fried onions and an apple rubbed through a sieve may be added to the curry sauce. Shrimps or prawns may also be added if approved. Time alto- gether, about an hour. VEGETABLE CUTTEE. Vegetable Cutters.—By means of these little instruments vegetables are cut into fanciful shapes, to the great improvement in appearance of those dishes in which vegetablea form an important feature. Vegetable Essences, To Extract.— The flavour of various herbs may be extracted as follows:—Pick the leaves, and put them in a warm place for an hour or two. FiU a largo wide-mouthed bottle with them, and pour upon them wine, brandy, spirits of wine, or vinegar. Let them soak for a fortnight. Strain the liquor, and put it into small bottles for use. Vegetable Food.—The different articles of nourishment derived from the vegetable king- dom may be divided into five orders, \\z. :— (1) The different sorts of farina, or grain—for example, wheat, barley, oats, and rice; (2) the legumes, or pulse, as peas and beans; (3) the different kinds of salads and pot-herbs ; (4) all the different sorts of roots ; and (5) fruits. The foUowing are the chief vegetable aliments and co^t""^ents, and for particulars regarding them and their uses the reader is referred to the articles under their respective headings :— Almond Artichoke j^^^® Asi'ARAGUS Apricot Barreurxes Arrowroot BarleyVEO ( 1068 ) VEG xJEAff Mango Beet Maple Blackbeiiry Mauigold Uread-fhuit Medlar Broccoli Melon Brussels Sprouts Mint Cakhaqe Mulberry Carrot Mushroom Cauliflower Mustard Oeleriac Nasturtium Celery Nectarine Lherry Nutmeg Chestnut Oat Chocolate Olive Cinnamon Onion Citron Orangb Cloves Parsley Cocoa-nut Parsnip Coffee Pea Cranberry Peach Cucumber Pear CUKRANT Pepper Damson Pine-apple Date Pistachio-nut Elder Plantain ±jNDIVB Plum Fennel Pomegranate 1* IG Potato Garlic Prune Gherkin Pumpkin Ginger Quince GoOSEBERRjr Eadish Grape Raisin Haricot Beans Raspberry Hazel-nut Rice Hop Rye Horseradish Sago Jerusalem Artichoke Sea-kale Kidney Bean Spinach Leek Straavberry Lemon Sugar Lettuce Tapioca Lime Tea Maize, or Indian Walnut Corn Yam Mangel-wurzel Vegetable Hach§.—Fry some onions cut in slices till they are of a pale brown. Fry them with butter, and add any kind of vege- tables previously boiled. Chop them up, and stew all together. Stir weU over a slow fire, and when about half done add some sliced chillies and tomatoes. If the pan be dry put in a very little gravy. Some sorrel or a glassful of vine- gar may be added. Time to stew, half an hour. Vegetable Marrow. — The vegetable marrow appears to bo merely a variety of the pumpkin. It was brought into Europe from Persia, and is now much cultivated in Britain. It is a hardy plant, and its fruit is of excellent quality, and useful for culinary purposes at al- most every stage of its growth. The best known sort is, when fully grown, elliptic in shape, very smooth, and generally about nine inches long, and four inches in diameter. There are, however, several other varieties, of different shapes and sizes. Vegetable Marrow, Cooking of the. —The vegetable man-ow may be dressed in a yanety of ways, and is wholeeomo and excellent in all. Vurious recipes are given below. It comes mto season towards the end of summer and even after it is cut if it is hung by the stalk in a cool dry place it will keep for some weeks I ho best marrows are those about six inches long. Very small marrows are likely to be de- licient m flavour. Very large ones will be full of seed. Probable cost, 2d. to Cd. each. VEGETABLE MAHROW. Vegetable Marrow Fried in Bat- ter.—Pare and quarter the marrows, and boO. them in the usual way for ten minutes, or until they are three - parts dressed. Drain them, sprinkle a little pepper and salt upon them, cut into slices, dip them into frying batter, and frj' in hot fat till brightly browned. Lift them upon a dish, sprinkle chopped parsley over them, and serve either alone or as an accompaniment to dressed meat. The frj-ing batter ma}'^ be made as follows:—Put six ounces of flour into a bowl, mix a tea-spoonful of salt with it, and work it into a paste with a quarter of a pint of water. Add a table-spoonful of oil and the well-beaten yolk of one egg, and beat the paste till it is quite smooth. Let the batter stand in a cool place for an hour. A quarter of an hour before it is wanted add the whites of two eggs whisked to a firm froth. Vegetable Marrow in White Sauce or Gravy.—Boil a large marrow in the usual way. M'Tien three-parts cooked, take it up, cut it into squares, place these in a saucepan, and pour over them as much white sauce or thick brown gravy as will cover them. Let them heat gently. Serve in a vegctable-dish with the sauce poured over them. Time, fifteen tc twenty-five minutes. Probable cost of marrows, 2d. to 6d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Vegetable Marrow in White Sauce (another way).—Pare and (luarter throe guod- sizcd vegetable marrows. Remove the seeds, cut the quarters into pieces about two inches long, and shape each piece in a point at the top and flat at the bottom. Boil until tender. Place them standing side by side on a hot dish, pour( 1069 ) VEG VEG eonic good white sauco round them, and serve as hot as possible. Or after boiling, cut them into dice, and boil thorn up in some good white sauce. Time, about twenty minutes to boil the marrows. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost of marrows, 2d. to Gd. each. Vegetable Marrow Marmalade.— Pare and seed any quantity of moderate- sized vegetable maiTows, and cut them into thin slices. Weigh them, and allow a pound of loaf sugar, the rind of half a small lemon chopped small, and a cupful of water to every pound of marrow. Boil the sugar and water to a clear syrup. Put in the marrow, and let it simmer gently for an hour and a half. Be careful that it does not burn. Strip the thick white skin from the lemons, slice them, take away the pips, mix these slices with the mar- malade, and let aU boil together for a quarter of an hour. Turn the marmalade into jars, and cover these in the usual way. An excellent imitation of pi'eserved ginger may be made with vegetable marrow (see Ginger, Preserved, Imitation of). Vegetable Marrow Preserve.—Peel the marrows, remove all the seeds, cut the mar- rows in pieces the size of large plums, boil them with their weight in sugar till the pieces become transparent. No water whatever is required. Then flavour with ginger and lemon, or ginger or lemon, according to taste. Vegetable Marrow, Preserved. — Peel the marrows, take away the seeds, and cut the vegetable into small pieces. To every pound of marrow add half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, the rind and juice of a lemon, and half an ounce of grated ginger. Put the whole into a basin, and let it stand aU night; next day poirr the juice into a pan, and let it boil; then add the vegetable. Boil all together for an hour and a half, or until it becomes thick and trans- parent. If prefeiTed it may be put into a mould, and the preserve will look very nice when tui-ned out for use. Most vegetables may be prepared in the same way. Vegetable Marrow Sauce, for Poul- try.—Pare and skin the marrows, and boil till tender; then rub them through a sieve. Season the pulp vrith salt and cayenne, and thicken either Avith stock or with cream. Serve the sauce very hot. Vegetable Marrow Soup.—Pare and cut in quarters a large vegetable marrow, and remove from it the seeds. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a stewpan, and put in the marrow with a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and a large lump of sugar. Shake it over the fire for a few minutes, and moisten with as much stock or water as will cover it. Lot it stew gently until tender, and rub it through a fine hair sieve. Put with it as much boiling stock as will make it of the consistency of thick gruel. Add a cupful of boiling cream or milk, and season with pepper and salt. Stir over the fire till quite hot, and serve with fried sippets. The stock may be made from bone; or the liquor in which mutton, real, or poultry has been boiled may bo used. Vegetable Marrow Soup (another way).—Boil five or six small vegetable mar- rows, peeled and cut into eight pieces, in a quart of good rich veal stock; put them into the boiling stock, and simmer gently three- quarters of an horn-. Then beat the pulp through a sieve, and return it with an addi- tionaf pint of stock, to be made hot together. Season with pepper and salt, and just before serving the soup, stir in a breakfast-cupful of cream, Avhich should be first made quite hot. Time, one hour. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Vegetable Marrow Soup (another ■way).—Take two pounds of vegetable man-ow peeled and cut into dice about an inch square; put it into a pan with three ounces of salt butter or fat, two tea-spoonfuls of sugar, the same of salt, a little pepper, and half a pint of water. Stew gently until it is quite soft. When in a pulp stir in well two table-spoonfuls of flour; then add three pints of new milk, or two pints of milk and one of cream, or three pints of stock—but do not mix the stock and milk. Boil for ten minutes, and serve with fried toast cut into small squares. Vegetable Marrow, Spring Soup of. —Pare the man-ows, remove the seeds, and cut them into small pieces; weigh, and put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter about the size of an egg, and stew gently until the marrow is reduced to a pulp. Add boiling stock, a little at a time, in the proportion of a pint of stock to a pound of maiTow, weighed before cooking. Add salt, a small lump of sugar, and cayenne, and serve with toasted sippets. Time, about half an hour to simmer the marrows. Probable cost, 4d. per pint. Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed. — Peel thinly two moderate-sized marrows; then cut a thick piece ofE one end of each, and scoop out the seeds. Press closely into the hoUows some good pork sausage meat, or if preferred some nicely-seasoned minced beef or mutton. Tie the piece which was cut off into its original position with twine. If there should be any difficulty about scooping out the seeds, the maiTOws may be divided into halves length- ways, and filled with sausage meat, the pieces may then be pressed closely together, and tied in three or four places with twine. Having thus prepared the marrows, lay them in a saucepan, put a slice of butter upon each, and sprinkle over them a little pepper, salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg. Pour upon them half a pint of stock, and add a table-spoonful of vinegar. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer the marrows as gently as possible for four hours. Baste frequently with the sauce. Lift them carefully upon a dish, skim the fat from the sauce, strain it over them, and serve. This dish may be rendered more piquant by rubbing a freshly-cut clove of garlic quickly across the saucepan before the marrows are put into it, and adding the juice of three or four ripe tomatoes pressed through muslin to the sauce. Time to stew the mar- rows, four hours. Probable cost, 2d. to 6d. each.VEG ( 1070 ) VEG Vegetable Marrows, Boiled.—Peoltho miirrows, frue them from sood, cut thorn iuto fiix or fight pieces, and put them into boiling water ; let them boil gently till tender. Lift them up carefully with a slice, put them on toast, pour melted butter or white sauce over them, and serve. No. 2. Put the marrow whole and with- out skinning it into boiling water. Lot it boil until tender. Take it up, halve, pare, and seed it, lay the halves on toast, with the hollow paii; uppermost, and fill tliom with rich melted butter. No. 3. Pare and seed the marrows, divide them into quarters, and the quarters into halves. Trim tliom neatly. Hub the inside of a saucepan with butter. Lay the pieces of marrow in it, and sprinkle over them a little pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and pounded sugar. Pour upon them half a pint of veal stock, and boil gently tiU tender. Lift them upon a dish; add to the gravy the juice of half a lemon and a little piece of butter; pour it over the marrow, and serve. If liked, the marrows may be stewed in milk instead of gravy, and they may be seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Time to boil: ten to twenty minutes, if boiled in slices; if boiled whole, longer, according to size. Probable cost, 2d. to 6d. each. Vegetable Marrows, Boiled (another ■way).—Peel the marrows, halve, and if very large quarter them, remove the seeds, and put them into boiling water to simmer gently imtU tender. Take them up with a slice, drain them, and serve upon toast. Send melted butter to table with them in a tureen, or, failing this, a little fresh butter. Time: young marrows, fifteen to twenty minutes; old marrows, three- quarters of an hour. ProlDable cost, 2d. to 6d. each. Sufficient, a good-sized marrow for three or four persons. Vegetable Marrows, Pried. — Boil the maiTows in the ordinarj' way till they are tender but quite firm. Let them get cold, and • cut them into slices. Brush them over with egg, dip in finely-grated bread-crumbs, and fry till they are lightly browned. Serve very hot. The remains of dressed marrow may be served in this way. Vegetable Marrows Marinaded and Stewed.—Take three good-sized mar- rows; pare, seed, and quarter them, sprinkle pepper and salt over them, and pour upon them a quarter of a pint of vinegar and two table-spoonfuls of lucca oil. Let them lie in this marinade for half an hour. Drain them, put them into a stewpan, cover with good brown gravy, and stew them gently until tender. Lift them up carefully with a slice, place them on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Time to stow the marrows, about twenty minutes. Vegetable Marrows, Mashed.—Boil two good-.sizcd vegetable marrows in water till tender {see Vegetable Marrows Boiled). Take them up, drain them, turn them into a bowl, and mash them with a wooden spoon. Heat them in a saucepan with a piece of melted butter the size of a walnut and a little pepper and salt. Marrows dressed thus are excellent served piled high in the centre of a dish of cutlets. Vegetable Mullagatawny {nee Mulla- gatuwny. Vegetable;). Vegetable Patties.—Prepare a maod- doino of vegetables {nce Vegetables, ]Macc-doino of); moisten these with nicely-flnvoured white sauce, and put a small quantity into ready baked patty-cases {sec Patties, Preparation of) Servo on a neatly-folded najtkin. Vegetable Pie.—Scald some WindBor beans. Cut into small neat pieces some young carrots, tumijjs, artichoke bottoms, lettuces, mushrooms, celery, and parsley, with green peas. Onions and a small quantity of spinach may be added if liked, but any of these may be omitted. The proportions should be re- gulated by taste and convenience. Partially stew the vegetables in gravy, and season with pepper and salt. Trim the edges of a dish with pastry, put in the vegetables, pour the gravy over them, and place the cover on the top. Bake the pie in a moderate oven.- If a maigre dish is wanted, cream, or milk slightly thickened with flour and butter, may be used instead of gravy. Vegetable Pudding, Economical and Good.—Shred six ounces of good beef suet very finely. Mix with it half a pound of the inside of baked potatoes, and add half a pound of the red part of carrots finely scraped, two ounces of candied peel finely shred, four table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and a little salt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and moisten with one weU-beaten egg. Tie the pudding in a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil quickly till done enough. Turn it out carefully, and serve with sweet sauce, to which a little brandy may be added if liked. Time to boU the pudding, two and a half hours. Vegetable Bagoiit.—Take the remains of cold dressed vegetables of various kinds. Cut them into small pieces, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and moisten them with gravy. Put them into a buttered sauce- pan, and stir briskly over the fire with a wooden spoon till they are quite hot. Serve in a vegetable dish. Time, about ten minutes to heat the vegetables. Vegetable Salad, Summer {see Sum- mer Vegetable Salad). Vegetable Salads.—The remains of dressed vegetables of almost every kind may be advantageously served as a salad. The vege- tables should be sliced or minced, according to their nature, seasoned with popper and salt, and worked lightly together with oil and vme- gar, in the proportion of two table-spoonfuls of the former to one of the latter. Vegetable salads should be prepared an hour or two before they are wanted, so that the vcgotablos may become thoroughly impregnated with the sauce. By way of variety, cold meat or fish may be mtro- duced; and hard-boiled eggs, sliced beetroot, &c., may be used for garnish. Vegetable Soup.—Take a quart of old green peas, and boil them in a gallon of soft( 1071 ) VEG ■water with a small bundle of mint, sweet herbs, mace, cloA-es, • and white pepper. Boil till the peas are quite soft, then strain and pulp the peas through a coarse sieve. Put the soup into a stewpiin with four heads of celery, the pulped peas, a small handful of spinach, one lettuce, two leeks cut small, a quart of young peas, and a little salt. Stew gently until only two quarts of the liquid remain, and the celery has become quite tendefr. Add a good limip of butter rolled in flour about a quarter of an hour before the stewpan is removed from the fire. Vegetable Soup (another way).—Put one onion cut in pieces into a saucepan with three ounces of butter, and brown it; then add finely-shredded turnips, parsnips, leeks, carrots (also a white carrot, if procurable), green celery, a little sorrel, one small potato, and a few French beans and green peas, all of which are to be tossed and browned in the butter, with sufficient quantities of salt and pepper. Pour in a little water or stock, crush the vegetables slightly, then fill up with more water, and let the soup simmer for two hours. A little rice or pearl barley may with advantage be added to the vegetables. Care must be taken not to get the soup of too thick a consistency. Vegetable Soup, Mock.—Soak a pint of split peas in water for some hours. Drain them, and put them into a stewpan with three table-spoonfuls of rice, half a pound of sliced potatoes, two onions, and th-ce quarts of stock made from bones. Boil all gently together tiU the peas are soft. Eub the peas, &c., through a sieve, add the pulp to the stock, and boil the soup again with a fine head of celery cut into inch pieces. Season the soup with pepper and salt, and boil it again till the celery is tender. Serve very hot. A table-spoonful of ketchup may be added if liked. Time, about four hours. Vegetable Soup (Puree).— Cut four ounces of lean ham into dice, and put it into the bottom of a stewpan. Lay upon it a turnip, a large carrot, a stick of celery, a leek or an onion, half a pint of haricot beans, and a pint of split peas. Place on the top of the vege- tables a slice of fresh butter: about thxee ounces will be a sufficient quantity. Let the butter melt ; then stir the vegetables over the fire for ten minutes. Pour upon them a pint of stock made from bones, and add four ounces of Carolina rice. Let the vegetables stew till tender. Eub them through a sieve, and moisten occasionally to soften them. Mix with the pulp an additional quart of stock. Season the puree with salt and cayenne; boil it again for a short time, skim it, and serve with fried sippets. Time, about two hours. Sufficient for five or six persons. (For another vegetable soup, see Vegetable Consomme, or Gravy Soup.) Vegetable Sbup, Summer.—Take a good quantity of mixed summer vegetables, such as green peas, lettuces, young onions, turnips and carrots, sorrel and leeks, to which may be added a small bunch of chervil and parsley, a cucumber, &c. Chop the roots into small pieces, and slice the bulbs thinly. Supi. posing there to be a pint of mixed vegetables, put them into a stewpan with a slice of fresh butter, and turn them about with a wooden spoon till they begin to soften, being careful that they are not allowed either to brown or to bum. Pour upon them a quart of veal stock, and season with salt and cayenne and a very small quan- tity of grated nutmeg. Skim the soup, and simmer gently till the vegetables are all per- fectly tender. Stir into it haK a pint of boiling cream, and serve with the vegetables in the tureen. If cream cannot be had, a little milk and the yolk of an egg may be used instead. Boil half a pint of milk, and pour it through a strainer into the soup. When the soup is to be served make the tureen quite hot, and throw into it the yolk of an egg. Beat this briskly with a table-spoonful of the soup out of the saucepan; add to it, gradiaally, six additional spoonfuls. Pour in the remainder of the soup, which should not be quite at the point of boiling, though thoroughly hot. Serve immediately. Time, one hour and a half. Sufficient for five or six persons. Vegetable Soup, Summer (another way).—Take a pint of green peas which have grown too old to be boiled in the ordinary way. Put them into a stewpan with a handful of the shells, a large onion sliced, a sprig of mint, and a quart of stock or water. Let them boil till tender, and rub them through a sieve. Dissolve an ounce of butter in another stewpan; throw into this two sliced onions, a large cucumber cut into dice, two lettuces cut small, and half a pint of freshly-shelled young peas. Pour upon the vegetables as much stock as will cover them, and let them boil till tender. Stir in the pulped liquor, season the soup with pepper and salt, boil all together, and serve. If necessary, a table-spoonful of spinach or parsley-juice may be added to improve the colour of the soup. Vegetable Soup, Vegetable Strips for.—Cut the carrots into pieces an inch long, and pare these round and round in thin ribands tiU the yellow part is reached. Cut these ribands into small strips, and the carrots will be ready for the soup. Turnips also may be pared into ribands and cut into strips, and celery may be cut into thin narrow straws. The vegetables should be boiled separately in stock or water until almost tender, and then drained and thrown into the soup. If boiled entirely in tho soup, they will, in aU probability, make it look cloudy. Vegetable Soup, Winter.—Cut an onion into thm slices, and frj^ it in two ounces of butter until it is lightly browned. Put with it half a pound of mixed vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, leeks, and celery cut up small, and stir aU briskly over the fire with a wooden spoon for ten minutes. Add a quarter of a pound of soaked split peas, a small bunch of sweet herbs, a clove, a Httle salt and cayenne, and two quarts of stock. -Simmer all gently together for two hours. Strain the soup, and serve with toasted sippets. Tlirce or four ripe tomatoes peeled and sliced may, if liked, be stewed with the soup. When a plain family soup 18 required, fry the vegetables, put the( 1072 ) VEG VEG pons with them, and boil till quite tender. Hub them tlirough a sieve or strainer, and mix a spoonful or two of oatmeal witli the pulp to form a licpiid paste. Stir this into the boiUng stock, let it boil for ton minutes, and it wiU be ready for use. VrOETABLE STKAINER. Vegetable Soup, "Winter (another ■way).—Allow half a pint of mixed vegetables cut small to every quart of water. Fry the vegetables in butter or fat till they are lightly browned. Pour upon them the boiling stock, and let them simmer gently till tender. Rub them through a sieve, moisten the pulp with the stock, and add salt and cayenne. Simmer the soup till it is thoroughly hot, and serve with toasted sippets. Carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and sweet herbs, are the vegetables best suited for vegetable winter soup. Vegetable Soup with Meat.—Take cabbage lettuces, chervil, white beet-leaves, celerj', leeks, sorrel, and scraped carrot—a good handful of each. Chop these fine, and add cucumbers sliced, young peas or asparagus. Stew gently in gravy and a few ounces of butter till they become quite tender, then put to them the required quantity of gravy or good broth made of shank of beef or veal and mutton. Give a boil, and serve up hot. Vegetable Stock.—If vegetable stock be required for a soup maigre, proceed as follows :—Cut into small pieces a large carrot, an onion, two lettuces, about a dozen of the outer sticks of celery, and a parsnip. Put these into a stewpan with a slice of butter or dripping, cover the stewpan closely, and let its contents sweat till they begin to soften. Pour upon them as much boiling water as will entirely cover them, add a Little salt and pepper, and let them stew softly till they are reduced to pulp. Skim and strain the liquor, and put it aside for use. Time, about four hours. Vegetables.— Good vegetables, carefully dressed, are wholesome, easy of digestion, and tend to purify the blood. In foreign countries they are frequently served as separate dishes, and constitute a distinctive part of the dinner. Here they are generally served with the meat. Vegetables may be cooked in a variety of ways, and the recipes for preparing them are given under their respective headings. As to general rules, the reader is "referred to the Phinciples OF Cookery, page lii. In boiling vegetables, some most impoiiant points must not be for- gotten, and those are, to boil them exactly the proper time, to take them out of the water the moment they are sufficiently cooked, to drain them, and keep them hot. If underdone, they are indigestible; if overdone, their appearance is spoilt and their flavour lost. On this account it 18 necessary to calculate as exactly as possible how long they wiU take and when they wUl be needed, so tiiat they may be suffic'i.-ntly cooked just when they are wanted. These calcuktions must bo regulated by tlie age freshness, and size of the vegetables. Summer vegetables are in perfection only when they are froslily gathere'd and ]jroperly matured. There is an exception to this rule, however— artichokes being improved by being kept two or three days. But it is not always tliat vege. tables can bo procured in tliis condition. For advice as to the best way of keeping them, see Vegetables, Keeping of. Vegetables, Boiling of.—Vegetables, after being cleansed with scrupulous care, should be put into plenty of fast-boiling water slightly salted. A table-spoonful of salt will be sufficient for half a gallon of water. Tiiey should be kept boiling until done enough, and if green should be in an open saucepan. <Jld potatoes and old Jerusalem artichokes should be put into cold water; young potatoes and young Jerusalem artichokes into boiling water. Dried beans and peas should be put into cold water, and soaked before being boiled. Vege- tables should be taken up as soon as they are sufficiently cooked. If underdone, they wiU be unpalatable and unwholesome; if overdone, they will be untidy and flavourless. Vegetables, Cooking of.—Few persons know how to cook vegetables. The rule is simple, and shoul''. never be forgotten. Old potatoes should either be steamed, or be ])ut into plenty of cold water and boiled slowly. New potatoes should be put into plenty of boil- ing water. With both the water should be drained off when the roots are tender, and they should finish cooking in their own steam. Green vegetables should be put into fast boil- ing water. They should be quickly boiled, and the lid should be left off the pan. If they are of good quality they will not need soda—indeed, soda will spoil them. If the water boils from the moment that the vegetable is immersed in it, the albumen is partially coagulated near the surface, and serves to retain the virtue of the vegetable. The reverse is of course the rule for making soup, or any dish from which the water will not be drained. By placing the vegetables in cold water, the albumen is slowly dissolved, and actually mixes with the water—a process most necessaiy for the production of nutritious soup. Vegetables, Dried, for Julienne and Clear Soups. —As vegetables for soups are rather troublesome to cut, especially for those unaccustomed to the work, and as fresh choice vegetables are not always to be had, the cook will find it both convenient and economical to have at hand a small quantity of dried vegetables, which may be bought at various foreign warehouses. These vegetables are light in weight, and in appearance some- thing like chips. They need only to be soaked in cold water for tliree-quarters of an hour, then put into a saucepan over the fire, stiU in cold water slightly salted, and boiled like fresh vegetables. The clear soup should then bo poured over them, and the whole boiled( 1073 ) VEG together for a quarter of an hour. They will have the flavour and appearance of fresh turned vegetables. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient, a table-spoonful of diied vegetables for a quart ef soup. Vegetables, Eggs Poached for.— Put into a stiucepan or kettle about a hand's depth of water; as soon as it boils, take some new-laid, or at least very fresh, eggs, and break them one after the other into the boiling water in such a manner that they shall stand close together. When the white is tolerably well set, take them quickly out of the water with a spoon, and lay them in cold water. These eggs must not, however, be boiled hard ; also, before taking them out of the saucepan, they may be flavoured with vinegar, which to many will render them very agreeable. With old eggs the whites run together, and the result is not so good; also care must be taken to keep the eggs from becoming attached to the bottom of the saucepan by means of a spoon. The eggs are left in the cold water till required for use, when they are trimmed and cut round for the table. Vegetables, Fresh, Treatment of.— Those who value fresh vegetables and sweet salads will never have them washed in the garden. Neither the one nor the other should be washed (says a >vriter in the Gardener s Chronicle) until they are just about to be cooked or eaten. Even potatoes lose flavour quickly after being washed; so do carrots and turnips; whilst water will very speedily become tainted in summer in contact with cauliflowers and cabbages, and thus destroy their freshness and flavour. The case is still worse with salads. If washed at all, it should be only just before they are dressed, and they should be dried and dressed immediately. Nothing ruins the flavour of vegetables, and renders good salads uneat- able, sooner than water hanging about them. If lettuces are quite clean, they make the best salad unwashed ; but if washed, the operation shoidd be done quickly, the water instantly shaken out, and the leaves dried with a clean cloth. The best practice is simply to remove all superfluous earth by scraping or rubbing, and all rough tops or leaves by cutting. Enough tender loaves may still be left on cauliflowers and broccoli to overlap the flowers. Salad should be sent in from the garden with most of the outside leaves and main root on. The tender leaves are easily tainted and injured by exposui-e, and if the chief root is cut off sharp, much of the juice oozes out of the wound. Wliere vegetables and salads have to be bought from a greengrocer the conditions are altogether different. Not only washing, but soaking often becomes necessary to restore something like their pristine crispness. Vegetables, Fried, Marinade of.— Slice two onions and a carrot, and put them, with a small bunch of savourj' herbs, half a blade of mace, and a slice of butter, into a stewpan. Cover closely, and steam them, shaking the pan occasionally, tiU. the onions turn yellow. Dredge a little flour upon them, and pour over them half a pint of stock and half that quantity of vinegar. Add salt and pepper if the stock is not already seasoned, strain the liquor, and it will be ready for use. Vegetables, Insects cleared from —Put plenty of cold water into a large jjan^ and add salt in the proportion of a largo table- spoonful to two quarts of water. Lay the vegetables in this, stalk uppermost, and shake them occasionally. This will cause the insects, which hide between the leaves, to fall out and sink to the bottom of the pan. If liked, a small pi-oportion of vinegar may bo added to the water instead of salt, and this will answer the same purpose. Vegetables, Keeping of.—When it is necessary to keep vegetables for a day or two, spread them out on a cellar floor, or keep them in a perfectly dry cool situation, but not exposed to currents of air. Be careful that each kind of vegetable is kept away from the other kinds, to prevent deterioration in flavour. Examine them daily to ascertain that they are not withering. Carrots, turnips, beetroot, parsnips, potatoes, and beans keep best in di'y sand or earth in a cellar. The mould which hangs about them should be left upon them, and if any sprouts appear, they should be care- fully removed. Cabbages, if spread out on earth in a cool cellar, will keep good for two or three months. Celery and leeks also may be kept for two or three months in a cellar in boxes filled with earth. The stalk ends of asparagus and cucumbers, on the contrary, should be placed in about two inches of cold water. Store onions should be hung in a cool dry place. Vegetables should not be washed or placed in water until a short time before they are to be used. . Vegetables, Macedoine of (for gar- nishing dishes).—Take equal quantities of car- rots, turnips, green peas, asparagus peas, French beans, brussels sprouts, and cauliflowers. With VEGETABLE SCOOPS. a vegetable scoop cut the carrots and turnips into pieces a quarter of an inch square, or turn them into the shapes of olives, filberts, &c. Divide the cauliflowers and French beans mto small neat pieces. Cook the vegetables separately in plenty of water slightly salted; when done enough drain and dry them. When the macedoine is wanted, put into a saucepan as much good white sauce as wiU moisten the vegetables, toss them lightly in it, being careful not to break them. When they are quite hot, the macedoine will be ready for serving. When the sauce is made entirely without stock, this garnish becomes Vegetable Macedoine Maigre. Vegetables, Mixed, Minced, and Stewed (second dressing). —Take various kinds of cold dressed vegetables, cut them small.( 1074 ) VEG VEG and mix them together. For a quart •£ vegeta- bles ehop small four moderate-sized ouious. Fry them in butter or fat till they begin to turn yellow, then stir tlie vegetables into them, and keep stirring till they are quite hot. Seiison tlie mixture rather highly with wliito pepper, and add a little salt. When they are half done, put with them four shced tomatoes, a spoonful or two of good gravy, and a little lemon-juice or chilli vinegar. Servo very hot. Time, about twenty minutes. Vegetables, Months for Various.— Jannanj.—Asparagus (forced), Jerusalem artichokes, beetroot, broccoli, brussels sprouts, cabbages, can-ots, cardoons, celery, chervil, cresses, endive, lettuces, parsnips, potatoes, savoys, Scotch kale, spinach, turnips; herbs. Febmary.—Jerusalem artichokes, asparagus (forced), beetroot, broccoli (purple and white), brussels sprouts, beans (French or kidney, forced), cabbages, carrots, celery, cardoons, chervil, cresses, cucumbers (forced), endive, kidney beans, lettuces, parsnips, potatoes, savoys, spinach, seakale, turnips; various herbs. March. — Artichokes (French), asparagus (forced), beetroot, broccoli (purple and white), brussels sprouts, beans (French or kidney, forced), cabbages, carrots, celery, chervil, cresses, cucumbers (forced), endive, kidney beans, lettuces, parsnips, potatoes, radishes (early), savoys, seakale, spinach, turnips, turnip-tops; various herbs. April. — Artichokes (French), asparagus, beetroot, beans (French or kidney, forced), broccoli, celery, chervil, cucumbers (forced), lettuces (cabbage), parsnips, radishes, young onions, small salad, seakale, spinach, sprouts, turnip-tops ; various herbs. May.—Artichokes (French), asparagus, beang (forced), beetroot, cabbages, carrots (young), cauliflowers, chervil, cresses, cucumbers, let- tuces, peas, potatoes (new), radishes, salads, seakale, spinach, turnip-tops ; various herbs. June.—^Artichokes, asparagus, beans (French, kidney, and Windsor), beetroot, cabbages, car- rots (young), chervil, cucumbers, cauliflowers, endive, lettuces, onions, parsnips, peas, potatoes, radishes, small salad, seakale, sorrel, spinach, turnips (young) ; various herbs. July.—Artichokes, beetroot, white beet, beans (French, kidney, scarlet runners, or Windsor), cabbages, carrots, cauliflowers, cucumbers, cresses, endive, lettuces, mushrooms, onions, peas, potatoes, radishes, red cabbages, small salads, salsify, seakale, sorrel, spinach, sprouts, turnips, vegetable marrows; various herbs. August.—Artichokes, beetroot, beans, Wind- sor beans, cabbages, carrots, cauliflowers, cucumbers, cresses, shallots, endive, lettuces, mushrooms, onions (for keeping), peas, pota- toes, radishes, red cabbages, seakale, small salads, salsify, sprouts, turnips, vegetable mar- rows ; various herbs. September.—Artichokes, J erusalem artichokes, beans, beetroot, cabbage sprouts, cauliflowers, carrots, celery, endive, shallots, lettuces, leeks, mushrooms, onions (for keeping), peas, pota- toes, salads, seakale, sprouts, tomatoes, turnips, vegetable marrows; various herbs. October.—Artichokes, Jerusalem artichokes, beets, broccoli, cabbages, cauliflowers, carrctt celery, cucumbers (late), endive, Bliallots, letl tuces, leeks, mushrooms, onions (for keeping), potiitoes, parsnips, sjirouts, tomatoes, turnips^ vegetable marrows; various herbs. A'owwifer.—Jerusalem artichokes, beetroot, broccoh, cabbages, carrots, celery, cardoons, endive, leeks, onions, parsnips, potatoes, sabtd, spinach (winter), sprouts, Scotch kale; vaiiouB herbs. December.—3cvnsolcm artichokes, beetroot, broccoli, _ cabbages, carrots, cardoons, celery, leeks, onions, potatoes, parsnips, spinach (win- ter), Scotch kale, turnips. Vegetables Preserved.—Tinned vege- tables and fruits preserved by the heat process are well worthy of attention. Common kinds of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, pars- nips, &c., are put up in large quantities by the manufacturing houses, but chiefly for shipping purposes and exportation. Re-warmed they are hardly distinguishable from ordinary fresh cooked vegetables; and considering the high price of these at the greengrocers', and the fearful waste of them in most households, those preserved in tins might often be used with advantage, to speak nothing of the convenience of having a few tins in stock. But it is to the French preservers—the disciples of M. Appert of Paris, who more than fifty years ago intro- duced the method of preserving vegetables by heat—^that we look for the best productions in the higher classes. '' Beans, celery, spinach^ artichokes, asparagus, and especially tomatoes, are so well preserved by the best French manu- facturers that they lose little or nothing of their flavour, and may be served by good cooks to the most critical companj*; while for soups, entrees, stews, and also for garnishing, the tins of macedoines (mixed vegetables) are found most useful. But of all the vegetable preserves, the green peas hold the highest place. The best are preserved without any use of ' copper, their colour being retained, or rather restored, simply, we beUere, bj' a little spinach- juice. The art of preserving peas has now reached so high a point of excellence, that it ia almost impossible to distinguish them from the fresh gathered and fresh cooked vegetables— indeed, just as new peas come in, and during the pod season, those from the tins are con- sumed in enormous quantities at first-class hotels and resturauts in London and all con- tinental cities, and at the tables of the wealthy classes, without anybody but those who provide them being the wiser. The fraud, if such it may be called, is a very hannless one, and confers a benefit on the pea-eaters, who are ensured against a dish of hard flavourless pellets. American preservers now send us large quantities of preserved tomatoes — a vegetable (perhaps we should almost say 'fruit') daily found in some form or_ other on every dinner-table across the Atlantic, but strangely neglected among ourselves. They are perhaps somewhat inferior in flavour to thope produced in the South of France, but their cheapness would recommend them. From America also we get tins of ' gi-een com,' and Indian maize, cooked in its milky sttite beforeVEG- VEG- ( 1075 ) it is ripe—a still more indispensable article on American dinner-tables. Green Lima beans are anotlier preserved vegetable sent from America, retailed in one pound tins at about a shilling, and very excellent tbey are, but, like tbe ' green corn,' seldom experimented upon by the English public, being chiefly used by American residents in this country. No small success has attended the preservation in tins of fruit. The Americans send us yearly hundreds and thousands of tons of the various products of their gardens and orchards. In many parts of America—California, for instance, which seems hkely to become 'the garden of the world'— fruit is a mere drug in the market, the supply of peaches, apricots, and pine-apples, to say nothing of what we consider more common fruits, being almost unlimited. They are now seen in most of the shops which deal in such ai'ticles, and have obtained that degree of public favour to which their excellence and cheapness entitle them. The Australian colonies are also fast developing their powers of fruit production; and both the quality and cheapness of their preserves of various kinds which have found their way into our markets commend them to the public." Vegetables, Preserved, by Drying. —A convenient method of preparing desic- cated vegetables, as practised largely in some coimtries, consists in drying them for a short time, and then exposing them to a slow heat in ovens. When soaked for cooking, peas, roots, potatoes, beets, com, and other substances swell out and show very little change in their esculent properties. A modification of this process consists in placing the substances, after being sun-dried, in paper bags, which are pasted up at the mouth, and then covered vsdth sand, and heated till perfectly crisp, but not burned or materially altered in colour. Vegetables, Preserved, Fresh. — "The preservation of vegetables for future use," says Loudon, "is effected by destroying or rendei-ing dormant the principle of Ufe, and by warding off, as far as practicable, the progress of chemical decomposition. Hence the herbs, or roots, or fruits, of some vegetables are dried; others are placed beyond the reach of the active principles of vegetation, viz., heat and moisture; and some are in addition excluded from the air, or placed in very low temperatures. All these practices are merely imitations of what actually takes place in nature, from the withered grassy tussock to the hedgehog's winter store, and hence the origin of herb, seed, fruit, and root rooms and cellars Preserving heads or leaves of vegetables is effected in cellars or sheds of any temperature not lower than, nor much above, the freezing-point. Thus cabbages, endive, chicory, lettuce, &c., taken out of the ground with their main roots, in perfectly dry weather, at the end of the season, and laid in, or partially immersed in sand or dry earth, in a close shed, cellar, or ice-cold room, will keep through the winter, and be fit for use tiU spring, and often till the return of the season of their produce in the garden. The German gardeners are expert in this practice ; and more especially, in Russia, where the necessities being greater have caUed forth greater skill and attention." Vegetables, Spring (dressed in the German manner).—Take a handful of parsley, and the same of sorrel, lettuce, and chervil; pick and wash the vegetables, shred them finely, and put them into a saucepan with a pint and three-quarters of green peas. Pour over them as much good broth as will cover them, season with pepper and salt, and sim- mer gently for two hours. In a separate sauce- pan boil three-quarters of a pound of rice in water till tender. Stir the boiled vegetables into this, season with pepper and salt, add a slice of butter, and beat the mixture to a paste. Serve on bread. Time, two hours. Vegetables, Stew of.—Take two pounds of spinach; pick it, wash it in several waters to free it from grit, and mix with it a large hand- ful of parsley picked and chopped small, and two moderate-sized onions, also minced. Put the spinach, &c., into a stewpan, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it, and add about half a pint of nicely-flavoured stock thickened with flour and butter. Cover the pan closely, and let its contents simmer gently tiU tender. Chop small, again heat it over the fire, and serve with broiled ham. Vegetables, To Make Tender.— When peas, French beans, and similar vege- tables are old, or when the water in which they are to be boiled is hard, a very small piece of soda may be thrown in with them, and this wiU serve to make them tender and of a good colour. If too much soda is put in, the taste of the vegetables will be entirely spoilt. Vegetarianism.—Under this name goes the doctrine, "That vegetable substances are the solids intended by nature for the sustenance of man ; and that it is wrong—against nature and against good morals—for men to make use of an animal diet." This doctrine has had many speculative persons for its supporters—Pytha- goras, Plato, Plutarch, for example, in ancient times; and Rousseau, Shelley, and Swedenborg, in modem. There is almost a concurrence of medical experience against vegetarianism, and in favour of the opinion that man, as regards all his powers and faculties, thrives best, and that— if a difference can be made out—he also Hves longest, upon a mixed diet. It has been found in making railways that differences between workmen in respect of bodily strength and energy were chiefly due to a difference of diet: that, for example, a beef-eating Englishman would almost do the work of three vegetable- fed Frenchmen, and that this difference of working power disappeared when the French- men took to eating beef. Upon the alleged beneficent moral influence of vegetable food, it may be observed that there is no proof whatever of its reality; moreover, that since the majority of manlcind live either almost or entirely upon vegetables, vegetables must bear a large share of the responsibility which mav fall upon diet for the evil tendencies of man; and that, in fact, the most cruel and the most debased of human races live entii-ely upon( 1076 ) VEG VEL vogotablos. To tho cliargo of c;ruolty Lrouglit iif^ainst tlio practice of killiufj: iminmla for food, it has hcoii answered, that tho plan of Nature contemplates such cruelty—if cruelty it be— and makes it impossible 'to avoid it; that tho microscope has shown us that oven in taking a draught of water wo may deprive a multitude of beings of life ; and tliat, on tho other liand, tho system of roaring cattle for tho butcher— since the cattle would otherwise not bo reared at all—really adds very largely to tho sum of happy animal existence. It is not disputed that there is a liability to disease from the use of unwholesome meat; but then vegetables as ■well as animals are subject to disease; and the reasoning which would drive us from the use of animal food because it is diseased would really cut us off from food altogether.— Chambers. The following remarks on this subject are from the pen of the late Dr. Lankester:—"I am," he says, " an advocate for a mixed diet for man, and I would particularly draw your attention to a statement that is often made, that it is not necessary to partake of animal food at all. Persons who argue thus put forth as a first ground the immorality of the act, and the impropriety and wickedness of taking away life at all. This is surely an absurd assumption; for the Greater has made a certain numlaer of creatures that could not live upon vegetable food, and they naturally prey upon the lower animals which feed on the grass and the herbs of the field. The lion and tiger exist by prey: and it appears to me that man has a perfect right, -without being charged with immorality or impropriety, to take the lives of the lower animals for his food. Then anatomical argu- ments are adduced against animal food. It is said that man in his structure is better adapted for vegetable than animal food. I must here again join issue, for I believe I can show from his structure that man is more adapted for a mixed diet than for either vegetable or animal food alone. Look at the jaws and teeth of a carnivorous creature—a tiger, for example. The jaws are so constructed that they will only move up and down like a pair of scissors. Ob- serve also his sharp-pointed carnivorous teeth, especially his great canine tseth. They are in- tended for holding and cutting up living food. Now look at the jaws of a horse. His lower jaw is quite movable from side to side. Instead of pointed teeth they are flat, and every ar- rangement is made for grinding, not cutting, the food; and this is the character of the mouth of a herbivorous animal. If, however, we take the skull of a man, we find he has certain teeth —canine teeth—which, like those of lions and tigers, have the power of cutting, but he has also flat teeth, and the power of moving his lower jaw laterally, and can bring these flat teeth across each other for the purpose of grind- ing his food; so that you see he is evidently provided with instruments to enable him to prepare for his digestion both vegetable and animal food. I might prolong this argument by showing you the complicated structure of tho stomach of the sheep and the ox, and, com- paring this with the stomach of the lion, point to the fact that the human stomach has neither tho complicated structui-o of tlio one nor the simplicity of the other. There ai-e many other points of structure in wliich man seems to stand b(!tween those two grou])8 of animaLs—thi^ her- bivorous on the one side, and tlie caniivorous on the other—which would seem to indicate his adaptation for taking botli kinds of food. " But whatever may bo tho arguments of the vegetarians, they do not practically carrv out their doctrines, for they partake of consideraljle quantities of animal food. They take milk, and butter, and cheese, and eggs. A well-known authority states that he has taken a vegetarian cookery book, and calculated the quantity of milk, butter, and eggs, employed in their food, and found that, if a vegetarian family lived in accordance with the rules of this book, each member would consume half an ounce more animal food a day than he did in his own family —and he was no vegetarian. So that you see people are deceiving themselves who enforce such a doctrine as this. " On the other hand, there are some persons who advocate a diet of purely animal food. I had a book sent me the other day, written by a gentleman at Liverpool, who states that he has discovered that the panacea for all human evils is the taking of animal food alone; and he takes the opportunity of stating that he is looking for some young lady of similar prin- ciples and practice who wiU link her fortunes with his own, and establish a family of cami- vorians. " There is no question that man may live on a purely vegetable diet; but the question is as to whether that kind of diet is best for the community. We find in the history of man that those races who have paiiaken of animal food are the most vigorous, the most moral, and the most intellectual races of mankind. We find that the ancient Jews, although they had certain sanitary regulations in regard to killing and eating animals, partook largely of meat, and were amongst the most vigorous people of their day. We find in modem Europe that those nations who take the most animal food are the strongest; and amongst ourselves it is just in proportion as we give our labourers animal food, or wages to procure it, that they are stronger and better able to do their work. It is vain for a man to expect to get through intellectual or physical labour without an abun- dant supply of the material of thought and of physical power, and animal food is one of the readiest means of affording this supply." Velout6 Sauce in small quantities. —Cut up the remains of a roast fowl, and take one or two bacon-bones or a couple of ounces of lean ham. Butter a saucepan, put in the bones, &c., w4th a quarter of a pound of veal, and add a small carrot, a small onion, one or two pepper- corns, and a little salt and grated nutmeg. Pour over the ingredients as much water as will cover them, and let them simmer very gently till tho liquor is strong and good. Strain it, skim well, and free it entirely from fat. Boil it quickly for a short time, thicken with a small spoon- ful of white thickening, let it simmer by the side of the fire till it has thrown uj) its grease, and it will be ready for use. A spoonful of gelatine( 1677 ) VEL YEN mav be xised instead of the veal, if liked. Time, two hours to simmer the sauce. Sufficient for a pint of sauce. Probable cost, 9d. Veloute Sauce, Maigre.—Put two poimds of fish into a saucepan with a small onion, a clove, a carrot, a bunch of parsley, a very small sprig of thyme, half a bay-leaf, and a little pepper and salt. Pour upon these in- gredients a large wine-glassful of sauterne or ehablis, or, failing this, of fish stock. Cover the saucepan, and let its contents simmer gently for five or six minutes. Add two pints of fish stock, or water and another glassful of wine. Boil the liquor, skim it, and let it simmer untU the fish is done enough. Take it up, and strain the liquor. Thicken with white roux as in the last recipe, let it throw up the grease by the side of the fire, strain it, and put it aside for use. Whiting, gurnet, and pike are the fish best suited for this purpose. The heads and bones may be advantageously used for sauce. VeloTita Sauce, or White CuUis.— Butter the bottom of a stewpan, and cover it with slices of thin lean ham. Place upon it three pounds of the knuckle of veal and an old hen, if this is to be had, or the bones of a cold roast chicken. Pour over it half a pint of stock, and let it boil away till it is reduced to glaze. Draw it back before it has time to acquire any colour, pour upon it seven pints of stock, and add a small onion in which one clove has been stuck, a carrot, a little parsley, half a bay-leaf, a small sprig of thyme, and a little pepper and s£ilt. ' Let it simmer gently, and skim fre- quently till the goodness is all drawn from the veal. Strain it, let it get cold, and free it from fat. Make a roux in a stewpan of equal parts of butter and flour. Before it can brown, moisten with the stock. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, and let it simmer gently by the side of the fire tiU it ceases to throw up grease. Skim carefully, strain through a cloth, and the sauce will be ready for use. For veloute sauce made in a large quantity, see Principles OF Cookery, page xxvi. Time, two hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. for this quantity. Velvet Breakfast Gakes. American {see American Velvet Breakfast Cakes). Velvet Cream.—Dissolve haK an ounce of isinglass in a quarter of a pint of water. Add a large wine-glassful of sherry, a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and six ounces of lump sugar which have been well rubbed upon the rind of a large fresh lemon. Stir the mixture over the fire until the sugar is entirely dissolved. Let the preparation get cold, and before it begins to stiffen mix with it a pint of cream. Pour it into a mould which has been soaked in cold water. Let it stand aU night in a cool place, and turn it out upon a glass dish. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of cream. Velvet Cream (another way).—&e Cream, Velvet. Velvet Cream (another way). — Pre- pare the velvet cream as in the last recipe. Cut four or five sponge cakes into slices, and Jay these in a glass dish. If preferred, substi- tute three ounces of macaroons and one ounce of ratafias for the sponge cakes. Place round them a little apricot or greengage jam. A glass- ful of sherry may be poured over them or not. Take the cream when it is quite cold, and before it begins to stiffen, and pom- it over the sweet- meat. Serve when cold and stiff. Probable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Velvet Cream (another way) .—Put a pint and a quarter of milk into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, the thin rind, of half a lemon, and an inch of stick cinna- mon. Let it simmer till pleasantly flavoured. Put two dessert-spoonfuls of Oswego into a basin, and mix with it foui' well-beaten eggs. Strain the milk when it is cool into the eggs, and stir the custard over the fire tiU it begins to thicken, but it must not boil. Stir it off the fire tiU it is almost cold, add a few drops of vanilla essence, and pour it into a glass dish over sponge cakes or ratafias soaked in sherry and covered with jam. Let it stand in a cool situation three or four hours before serving. Time, about twenty minutes to simmer the mUk with the flavouring. Probable cost, 2s- Sufficient for six or seven persons. Velvet Cream made with Gelatine. —Soak three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine in a quarter of a pint of water for half an hour. Pour upon it a quarter of a pint of sherry or raisin wine, and stir it over the fire till dis- solved. If it is preferred, the gelatine may be dissolved in half a pint of wine only, instead of wine and water. Add six ounces of loaf sugar which have been rubbed upon the rind of two fresh lemons to draw out the flavour, together with a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and stir the mixture over the flre till the sugar is dissolved. Pour the liquor into a bowl, and when it is cool mix with it gradually but thoroughly a pint of thick cream. Pour it into a moiild which has been laid in cold water for some time. Serve upon a glass dish. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons. Venetian Biscuit for Dessert.— Break four eggs, and put the whites upon a plate and the yolks into a basin. Beat the whites, and when they are firm add them to the well-beaten yolks of the eggs, together with half a pound of flour, half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, a small glassful of brandy, and a pinch of salt. Lastly, work in half a pound of butter melted but not oiled, and beat the mix- ture with a wooden spoon till the ingredients are thoroughly blended. Pour the batter a quarter of an inch thick into a baking-dish, and bake in a moderate oven. When it is cold, stamp it into pieces about three inches long and of an oblong shape. Split these in halves, and insert a little jam between them. Press them closely together, and cover one half with pink icmg, and the other half vdth white icing. Dry the icing, and the biscuits will be ready fof serving. Venetian Biscuit with Chocolate Icmg.—Break six eggs, and beat the yolks and whites separately. ]Mix gradually with the yolks half a pound of powdered sugar, and beat the paste briskly for twenty minutes. Whisk the whites to a froth, and add tliem to the yolks.VEN ( 1078 ) VEN and, lastly, work in a quarter of a pound of flour. Butter a pliiiu mould, sprinkle a little fine sugar into it, and pour in the batter. Hake the cake in the oven. When it is done enough turn it upon a sieve, lot it got cold, and cover with chocolate icing. Let it diy in a cool oven, and it will bo ready for use. The icing may bo made as follows :—Break three-quarters of a ],x)und of boat Fi-eneh chocolate into small pieces, and put these in a saucepan with a pint and a half of water and a pound of sugar. Stir the mixture lill the chocolate is dissolved, strain it into a clean boiler, and stir until it registers 38 deg., or gi-and plume on a saccharometer. Take it ofiE the fire, and work briskly till it thickens. When cool, it will be ready for pouring over the cake. Venetian Biscuit with Ice Cream. —Make a Venetian biscuit as in the last recipe. Bake it, let it cool, and scoop out the inside, leaving a wall an inch thick all roimd. Make a small mould of vanilla ice cream the same size as the hollow part of the biscuit. Place it on a napkin in a dish, place the biscuit crust upon it, and serve. Venetian Cake.—Blanch, dry thoroughly, and pound to a smooth paste seven ounces of sweet almonds and one ounce of bitter almonds. "WTiilst pounding, add a few drops of orange-flower water to keep the almonds from oiling. JMix a pound of flour with the almonds, and break into the mixture half a pound of firm cool butter. E,ub four or five large lumps of sugar upon the rind of a lemon. Crush this to powder, and put with it additional sugar to make up the weight to half a pound. Work the ingredients to a smooth paste with the well-beaten yolks of three large eggs or four small ones. EoU the paste to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, place it on a baking- sheet, and bake in the oven till it is firm, and lightly and equally browned. Take it out, let it get cold, and divide it into six or seven por- tions of equal size. Spread jam of different colours upon all of these but one, and lay them one upon the other, placing the one without jam upon the top. Ice the top of the cake, and orna- ment with coloured sugar. By way of variety, instead of cutting the cake into portions of an equal size, cut a large piece for the bottom, and the remainder gradually smaller and smaller, so that when they are placed one upon another a border an inch deep may be left round each. This border may be ornamented with jam of different colours. Venetian Cream.—Simmer a pint of milk with four table-spoonfuls of sugar till the latter is dissolved. Pour it when boiling on the well- beaten yolks of six eggs, and stir constantly over a gentle fire tiU it begins to thicken, but it must not boil. Stir into it throe-quarters of a pint of isinglass which has been dissolved in a gill of water and cooled, and add a quarter of a pint of thick cream. Mix with the cream half a pound of jam or candied fruit of any kind cut small, and stir the preparation until it begins to thicken. If this is not done, the sweetmeats will sink to the bottom. Time, three-quarters of an hour to make the croam. Probable cost, 28. lOd.' Suflicient for five or six persons. Venetian Fritters.—Take three dessert- spooiifuls of Carolina rice. Wash, pick, and diy it, and put it into a saucepan with half a pint of new milk. Put with it a piece of butter the size of a walnut, let it boil, and simmer gently till it is tender and has absorljod aU the milk. Beat it well witli a table-spooufui of powdered sugar and a pinch of salt; and when cold add a little grated lemon-rind, an ounce and a half of currants, a large apple pared, cored, and chopped small, half a tea- spoonful of floui', and two well-beaten eggs. Keep the mixture in a cool place till wanted. Drop it in spoonfuls into hot fat, and fry these over a gentle fire till they are lightly browned. When they are firm upon one side turn them carefully upon the other. Drain them, and serve on a hot dish with powdered sugar sifted over them. Time to fry the fritters, five or six minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Venetian Sauce.—Put half a pint of white sauce into a saucepan, and add a table- spoonful of mushroom-juice. Stir it over the fire for ten minutes, lift it off, and let it coel a little. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a bowl, and with them a quarter of a pint of cream. Stir a little of the sauce into the mixture, and add it gradually to the rest, together with a little pepper and salt, a pinch of grated nutmeg, haK a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Stir the sauce briskly over the fire for five minutes, and add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Pour it into the tureen, stii' a small lump of butter into it, and serve. Venison. — There are three kinds of venison known in Great Britain; the stag or red deer, peculiar to Ireland; the roebuck, known only in the north of Scotland; and the fallow deer, common in England. Of these the fallow deer is much the best, and when it is well kept and properly dressed it is quite worthy of the. high value set upon it. Buck venison, which is in season from June to the end of September, is finer than doe venison, which is in season from October to December. Neither should be dressed at any other time of the year. The haunch is the prime joint, though the neck and shoulder are much approved, and may be dressed in various ways. No meat requires so much care as venison in killing, preserving, and dressing. As soon as it is cut up it should bo taken into a cool dry larder, dried with a cloth, and liung in an airy place. If it is to be kept some time, dry ginger and pepper should be dusted over it to keep off the flics. It should be examined and Kircfully wiped every day, or twice a day in unfavourable weather, and it should be kept as long as it is possible to preserve it untainted. Excepting in very mild weather, it will keep a fortnight with care. In order to ascertain its condition, run a skewer close to tlie bone, and from this judge of the sweetness of the venison. If it should inadvertently become musty, first wash it with lukewai-m water, and afterward*( 1079 ) VEN ■with lukewarm milk and' water, and then dry it perfectly -with a cloth. Venison (ii la Daubo).—Take about three pounds of moat from the nock, and cut it into neat pieces. Put the rest, bones and trimmings, into an earthen jar which has a closely-fitting lid. Throw in with these eight ounces of bacon cut up small, a finoly-mincod shallot, a pinch of powdered mace, a smaU lump of sugar, and a little salt and cayenne, and pour over all as much stock as will cover the bones, &c. Put the lid on the jar, and jjlace it in a sauce- pan of boiling water. Keep the water boiling round it for two hours. Season the slices of venison with pepper and salt, and fiy them in butter till they are brown. Strain the gravy, stir a glassful of port into it, and put it, with the moat, into a clean saucepan. Simmer aU gently together till the venison is done enough. Put the meat on a dish, pour the gravy over and round it, and serve very hot. Send red-currant jelly to table as an accompaniment. Time to simmer the meat in the gravy, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost of venison, very un- certain. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Venison and Hare Pie.—In making this pie be sure that both the venison and the hare are thoroughly well kept. Take the flesh in one piece fronl a neck of venison, and cut it to the length of the pie-dish; season with salt, cayenne, and poimded mace. Divide the hare into pieces not larger than an egg. Take out the bones, and fill the cavities with good veal forcemeat. Line the edges of a pie-dish with good pastry. Lay the venison in the centre, and an-ange the pieces of hare closely reund it. Put forcemeat in the dish to fill up the empty spaces, and lay two or three spoonfuls of jollied gTavy on the top. Place the cover on the pie, and ornament according to taste. Bake in a well-heated oven. When done enough, poiu- into it, through a pointed strainer, a little additional gmvy. This gravy may be made as follows:—Put the bones and trimmings of the hare and venison into a saucepan with a slice of lean ham, six or eight peppercorns, two cloves, a little salt, and as much stock or water as will cover the ingredients. Simmer the liquor till it is plea- santly flavoured and so strong that it will jelly when cold. Let it cool, clear it entirely from fat, and it will be ready for use. If pre- f on-ed, the pie may be made entirely of venison. Time to bake the pie, two hours. Probable cost, hare, from 3s. 6d.; venison, very uncertain. Venison, Beef Potted in Imitation of.—Put eight or ten pounds of lean beef into a deep dish, pour a pint of wine over it, and let it lie for two days, seasoning well with mace, pepper, salt, and a clove of garlic; then lay it in a closely-covered pot along with the wmo—add another glassful if there is not enough—and bake for three hours in a quick oven. When cold, pound the meat to a paste, and pot in the usual way. Venison, Beef to Imitate {sec. Beef to Imitate Venison). , Venison, Boiled.—In tho American himt- mg grounds, where venison is very plentiful, it is sometimes boiled like mutton, and served with mashed turnips and cauliflowers. This method of dressing it is, however, by no means to be recommended. Venison, Breast of. Stewed.—Cut up the back ribs or the breast of venison into small neat pieces. Flour these, and fry them in butter with three or four sliced onions and a small quantity of bacon cut into dice. When the meat is lightly browned, drain away part of the fat, and pour over the meat a cupful of good stock and a glassful of port or claret, and add a small bunch of sweet herbs, half a tea- spoonful of anchovy, and a little pepper and salt, n the flavour is not objected to, a clove of garlic may be added, or the saucepan may be rubbed once or twice with a freshly-cut clove. Shake the stewpan over a gentle fire tiU the venison is tender. Thicken the gxavy with a little brown thickening, and let it simmer till it has thrown up its grease. Put the meat on a dish, strain and skim the gravy, and pour it round the venison. Garnish with toasted sip- pets. A few stewed mushrooms wiU be a great improvement to this dish. When venison cannot be had, well-hung four-year-old mutton may be used instead. This stew may be serv'ed in a casserole of rice or potatoes. It is an excellent way of dressing venison which is lean and dry. Time to stew the venison, about two hours. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain, varying with the supply. Venison, Choosing of.—The lean of venison should be dark and finely-grained, the fat should be thick, firm, clear, and white. The greater quantity of fat there is the better will be the quality of the meat. Like mutton, venison should have attained a certain age before it is killed, or it wiU not have acquired its true flavour; still, it ought not to be old. The age of the venison may be known from tho cleft of the hoof, which is always left on : if this is smaU and smooth, the animal is young. Venison, Cold, Stewed.—Take the remains of cold dressed venison; cut the meat into neat slices, and put these aside. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, pour over them as much strong unseasoned stock, or, failing this, water, as will cover them, and add a bunch of sweet herbs, a little grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt. Let them simmer till the gravy is good. Strain it, thicken with a small lump of brown thickening, and put it by the side of the fire to throw up its grease. Skim it, and add a spoonful of ketchup, a spoonful of rod-ciirrant jelly, and a glassful of claret. Put the shces of venison into the sauce, and let them get thoroughly hot without boiling. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the gravy. Put the meat on a dish, pour the gravj' over, and gar- nish VFith sliced lemon. The remains of cold dressed venison may be converted into an ex- cellent stew soup. Time to stew the bones, about two hours. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison CoUops. —Take any remains ot roast vemson, clear them of skin and vein, mmcc very finely, and mix them with a third as much of mmced bacon, a beaten egg or two.( 1080 ) VEN VEN a handful of crumbs, salt, pepper, and a little hoib seasoning if liked. Mix those ingredients thoroughly, form apple-sized balls; flatten and dip them in egg, uiul crumb thum or dij) thorn in warmed butter, and then fry of a nice pale brown. Venison Collops, Minced.—Minco finely a pound of veuisou taken from the neck or loin, and season pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Dissolve an ounce and a half of butter in a siiucepan over the fire, stir a dessert-spoonful of fiour into it, and when it is quite smooth add a largo tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt. A small onion chopped small, or a particle of garUc, may bo stirred in also when the flavour is liked. Keep beating the paste over the fire till it is lightly browned, then stir in the minced venison, and keep tossing lightly with a fork till it is quite hot. Moisten gradually with half a cupful of stock, and let the collops sim- mer for ten minutes. Ketchup, port, tarragon vinegar, lemon-juice, or basil wine may be added if liked. Probable cost of venison, very imcertain, varying with the supply. Venison Collops, Scotch.—Take as much venison as may be required in slices from the neck or loin. Trim neatly, and put them aside. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, cover either with cold stock or water, and let them stew gently tUl the gravy be- comes strong and good. Strain it, thicken with brown thickening, clear it from fat, and season with salt, cayeime, and a small pinch of grated nutmeg. Flavour with strained lemon- juice and a glassful of claret, to which may be added, if liked, a few drops of tarragon, chilli, or shallot vinegar. Fry the collops in butter, dish them, and pour the gravy over. By way of variety, vinegar and a small lump of sugar may be stirred into the gravy in the dish, and red-currant jeUy dissolved in the gravy .in the tureen. Time, about two hours to draw the gravy from the bones. Probable cost of venison, very imcertain. Venison Cutlets. Broiled.—Cut the cutlets an inch thick from a fine, weU-hung neck of venison. Trim them neatly without depriving them of their fat. Pepper and salt them, and lay them upon the bars of a gridiron over a clear, gentle fire. Turn them every two minutes to keep in the gravy. Serve on a very hot dish with a small slice of butter under each. Send stewed mushrooms and baked pota- toes to table with the chops. Time to broil the cutlets, from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, very imcertain. Venison Cutlets, Stewed.—Take the cutlets from the neck an inch thick. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a stcwpan, put in the cutlets, and let them remain until they are lightly and equally browned on both sides. Pour over them as much good beef stock as will barely cover them, and add half a tumbler- ful of port or claret, a table-spoonful of vinegar, n small spoonful of brown thickening, and a little pei)pcr and salt. Stew the cutlets gently till tender, and skim and strain the gravj\ . Put the cutlets on a dish, pour the gravy over and servo very hot. Time to stew the cutlets^ twenty minutes. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison, Pried.—Cut the meat into sUces, and make gravy of the bones. Fry it of a light brown, and keep it hot before the fire. Put butter rolled in flour into the pan, and ke<:'p stirring it till thick and brown. I'ut in some finely powdered sugar, the gravy made of the bones, and some red wine—let it be the thick- ness of cream—squeeze in a lemon; warm the venison in it, put it in the dish, and pour the sauce over it. Omit the sugar if you choose, and send cuiTant jelly to table with it in a glass. Venison Fry.—Cleanse the fry, and cut it into neiit slices about half an inch thick. Season these with pepper and salt, dredge fiour upon them, and frj- in hot fat till they arc brightly browned and sufficiently cooked. Drain them, put them round a hot dish, place fried parsley in the centre, and send highly- seasoned brown gravy to table in a tureen. Red-currant jelly may be served as an accom- paniment. Venison fry consists of the liver, heart, skirts, melt, &c. Probable cost, very imcertain. Venison, Gravy for.—A strong, unfla- voured gravy, seasoned with salt only, is generally served with venison. It may be made as follows:—Take the trimmings of the venison, or, failing these, a pound or two of the scrag end of a neck of mutton cut into chops. Fry these till they are brightly browned on both sides. Fovlt over them a quart of boiling water, and let the gravy simmer gently till it is reduced one-half. Skim as required, and season with salt. Let it get cold, free it entirely from fat, and serve in a tureen. The meat on the mutton bones may be potted and used as a breakfast relish. For sauces to serve with venison, see Venison, Sauces for. Pro- bable cost, very imcertain. Venison, Gravy for (another way).— Take the scrag end of a neck of mutton, half a pound of liver, the venison trimmings, and a kidney. Cut the meat into small pieces, and fry these in butter till they are shghtly browned. Put them into a saucepan, pour the contents of the frying-pan over them, and add a pint and a half of water and a few pepper- corns. Cover the saucepan closely, and stew its contents gently till the gra^T is strong and good. Stir occasionally. Strain it into a bowl, and when cold entirely remove the fat. Before serving, boil it, season with salt, add a table-spoonful of port and a Uttle sugar brown- ing, and send the gra\y to table in a tureen. Strong, unflavoured gravy is usually served with venison, together with venison sauce. If, however, it is preferred that the gravy should be slightly flavoured, then stew a sliced carrot, a minced shaUot, a clove and a bay- leaf with the other ingredients. hen the liver and k-idney cannot be procured, tliree or four mutton chops from the loin may be used instead. The meat mav afterwards be potted or made into rissoles. ' Time to stew the gravj-, about three hours.( 1081 ) VEN ITEN Venison, Gravy for {see Gravy for Roast Venison). Venison, Hashed.—Cut .any part of cold roast venison into thin neat slices the third of an inch thick. Do not remove the fat from them. Put the bones and trimmings of the venison into a saucepan with a sliced onion, a little pepper and salt, and as much stock or water as will cover them, and let them stew gently for two hours. Strain the gravy, thicken with a small piece of bro^^^^ thickening, or, failing this, with an ounce and a half of butter roUed in flour, and clear it from grease. Pepper and flour the pieces of venison. Put them into a clean saucepan, strain over them as much of the graAy as will moisten but not quite cover them, and heat them very gently, shaking the saucepan frequently. The gravy must not boil after the venison is put to it. Put the meat on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and serve very hot. A dish of plainJy-boiled French beans and a little red-currant jelly will be welcome accompaniments. If liked, a quarter of a pound of red-currant jelly and a glassful of port, or a glassful of claret and a small piece of sugar, may be added to the gravy. When a very good gravy is reqviired, make it as follows : —Dissolve a good slice of fresh butter in a saucepan. Put with it the bones and trimmings of the venison, any mutton, beef, or poultry bones that there may be, half a pound of liver, and a kidney. Add the red part of a small carrot scraped to pulp, a minced shallot, a clove, a bay- leaf, and a little pepper and salt. Shake the saucepan over the fire till the ingredients are brown. Pour on them as much water as will cover them, and let them simmer for three hours. Strain the gravy, thicken lightly with browTi thickening, clear it from fat, add a wine- glassful of. port, and ser^'e. Time, two to three hours to simmer the gravy ; about an hour to simmer the venison in the sauce. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison Hashed (another way).—The venison should be wanned with its own gravy, or some made without seasoning, and only made hot, not quite boiled. If there is no fat left, cut some slices of mutton fat; set it on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, simmer till almost dry, then put it to the hash, and it will eat as weU as the fat of venison. Venison, Hashed (another v^Sij).—See Grame, Hashed (Venison). Venison, Haunch of. —Take a weU- hung haunch of venison weighing from eighteen to twenty-five pounds. If it i^eigh less it will not be fully-flavoured. Be sure that it is in good condition. To ensure this it should be hung, as soon as it is brought in, in a cool, airy situation. The kernel of the fat should be at once removed, the part from which it is taken wiped dry, and it, as weU as the entire haunch, should be dusted with pepper and powdered ginger. The haunch should be examined twice a day, and if any moisture appears it should be |viped \nth a dry cloth ; and the meat should be ivi.pt as long as it can be preserved sweet and Qntainted. In order to ascertain whether or not it is ready for dressing, run a skewer into the flesh close to the bone, and from this judge of the state of the meat. When it is to be roasted, saw off the shank bone, remove the sinews, scrap© away the dark dry skin from the skirt, and also the dried surface of the under part. Wipe the haunch thoroughly with damp cloths which have been wrung out of lukewarm water, then dry it perfectly. It should be remembered that the more fat there is on the joint the better it will be, and that in roasting the main object is to preserve the fat. There-fore, first cover the haunch with a large sheet of well-greased, thick, white cartridge paper, then with a stiff paste of flour and water rolled out to the thickness of three-quarters of an inch, and tie securely over this with string or tape two additional sheets of greased paper. Put the haunch down to a clear, sound fire, quite near at first, to harden the paste. Draw it back after a minute or two, and bring it gradually nearer. Baste the venison the moment it is put down to prevent the outer paper and the string from burning, and con- tinue to baste frequently and liberally till done enough. Half an hour before it is done remove the paper and the paste from the meat, and a few minutes after take away the last paper. Sprinkle a little salt over the meat, dredge the surface lightly with flour, and then baste with butter dissolved in a spoon. Pour the fat from the dripping-tin, keeping back any brown gravy- there may be. Add half a tea-cupful of boiling water to this gravj"-, pour it into a saucepan, and skim off the fat. Boil it, and add a little salt to it. Put the haunch on a very hot dish, and pour the boiling gravy thi'ough a strainer upon it. Pin a friU of white paper round the knuckle bone. Send venison gravy [see Venison, Gravy for) and venison sauce to table in tm-eens, and let red-currant jelly be served on a separate dish. The gravy should be prepared the day before it is wanted, to ensure its being free from fat. French beans plainly boUed are a suitable accompaniment to haunch of veni- son. Venison fat freezes so quickly that espe- cial care should be taken that the plates are very hot; indeed, hot-water plates ought to be used. Time to roast the venison, from four to five hours, or about thirteen minutes to the pound when the haunch is weighed with the jDaste on. Although the omission is by no means recommended, some cooks omit the flour and water paste; then the haunch not need to be down so long. Doe venison will be done half an hour before buck venison. Venison is preferred underdone rather than overdone. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Suf- ficient for twenty persons. Venison, Haunch of (M. Ude's recipe). —It was customary in France to cut off a small rosette from the leg, to lard and then pickle it. _ In England it is customary to put it on a spit, then to make some paste with flour and water only, and case the venison with it, securing it with a few sheets of paper. It can- not be done thoroughly in less than four hours. It is usually served up -wath red-currant jelly made hot with a little port wine. The women cooks in England put flour over the roast just before they remove it from the spit, a customVEN ( 1082 ) VEN •which is utterly absurd. I approve of the practice of flouring rotistod moiit, if it bo douo early enough to imbibe the gruvy, and got nicely browned, when it becomes very tasty. In the other case, the froth of the flour and butter adheres to the palute, and has an aborai- niiblo taste. I like to remove the paper from the venison a few nunutes before it is served, and glaze the venison with very good glaze; some lino salt must be spread over it before the glaze is applied. This method is better and more tasty than the other. Venison, Haunch of, To Carve.— This is not a very difficult task. In carving a haunch of venison, first cut it across down to the bone in the line a n; then turn the dish with the knuckle farthest from you, put in the point of the knife, and cut down as deep as you can in the direction shown by the dotted lines; you may take out as many slices as you please on the right and left. The knife should slope in making the first cut, and then the whole of the gravy will be received in the well. It is held by genuine epicures that some parts of the haunch are better flavoured than others, but it is doubtful whether ordinary palates wiU detect any difference. Slices of HAUNCH OF VBHISON, TO CARVE. venison should not be cut thick, and plenty of gravy should be given with thembut as there is a particular sauce made for this meat with red wine and currant jeUy, your guest should be asked if he pleases to have any. The fat is very apt to get cool soon, and become hard and disagreeable to the palate; it should, therefore, always be served upon a water-dish. Venison, Imitation of, Potted.—Rub the bottom of a deep dish three or four tunes with freshly-cut garlic, and pour into it half a pint of claret. Season a piece of lean beef weighing about four pounds liberally with pep- per, salt, and powdered mace. Lay it in the wine, and let it remain for two days. Turn it frequently. Put it into a jar which has a closely-fitting lid, pour the wine over, cover lightly, and place it in the oven in a shallow tin filled with boiling water. Bake till tender, and put boiling water into the tm under it when necessary. Take the beef up, let it get cold, pound it to a smooth paste, and add further seasoning if required, together with about halt a pound of clarified butter, which is to be put in gradually whilst the meat is being pounded. Press the paste into pots, and cover with clari- fied butter. Time to bake the beef, one hour and a half. Probable cost of beef, lid. per pound. Venison, Marinaded and Baked.— Takij a sliouldor of voni«on, boue and flatten it, lay it in a deep dish witli a ]jint of vinegar, lialf a pint of oil, a sliced onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, the grated rind of a Seville orange, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a little pepper, salt, and powdered sugar. A glassful of white wine may be added or not. Let it remain in tliis marinade for forty-eight hours,and turn it about three or four times. Take it up, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderately-heated oven until done enough. Serve with venison sauce. Time to bake the venison, one and throe-quarters to two hours, according to size. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison, Melon Pickle for (see Melon Pickle). ■ Venison, Mock; or Mutton Dressed to Taste like Venison, Stewed.—Take a loin of mutton, or even a neck of mutton, cut long in the bones, and hang it in a cool, airy situation for several days. Skin and bone it, lay it in a stewpan, pour over it a pint of stock or water, and add a large onion stuck with ten or twelve cloves, eight peppercorns, a table- spoonful of vinegar, and three glassfuls of port. Let it boil, skim it, put with it a smaU bunch of sweet herbs and a little salt, and let it simmer very gently till tender. Turn it over two or three times that it may be equally cooked. Serve with strong gra\'y made from the bone^ and with red-currant jelly. The gravy may be made as follows:—Put the trimmings and bone of the mutton into a stewpan with a slice of butter. Shake them over the fire till lightly browned. Pour upon them as much stock as will cover them, and let them simmer gently for an hour and a half. Strain the liquor, let it cool, free it from fat, and season with salt only, that its flavour may not over- power that of the meat. Boil it up, and serve very hot. If not sufiiciently coloured, a very small quantity of sugar browning may be added. Time to stew the mutton, about three hours. Probable cost. Is. per pound. SufiScient for six or seven persons. Venison, Mock; or Mutton Dressed to Taste like Venison, Roasted—Take a fine loin of mutton, and hang it m a cool, airy situation for a week or more. Two days before it is to be dressed, bone it, remove the kidney fat and the skin from the upper part, and rub into the meat a powder made of two ounces of brown sugar, an ounce of ground black pepper, and a quarter of an ounce of allspice. Put it into an earthenware pan, pour upon it two or three wine-glassfnls of port, and cover with the skin. Turn and rub it twice a day. Sponge lightly ^^^th lukewarm water to clear it from the spice, dry it perfectly, wrap it in the skin, cover with coarse paste, and roast according to the directions already given for roasting haunch of vemson. berve with strong unflavoured mutton gravy and with venison sauce. Time to roast the mutton, thirteen minutes to the pound, when weighed with the paste. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Venison, Mutton Cooked lU^e.- Take a lillet of the leg of mutton, and steep it108S ) for a day or two, accoiding to the season, in a nuxture of vinegai-, onions, thyme, bay-leaves, salt, nutmeg, and popper ; then roast the meat, and serve with sauce d la poivrade. Venison, Neck of, to Roast.—A neck of venison should not be separated from the shoulder till the buck is quite stiff, otherwise the appearance of both joints wiU be spoilt. Shorten the rib bones, but do not cut thi-ough the fat; saw off the chine bone, and remove the small bones which cover the fillet part of the neck. Roll the piece of fat from which the bones were taken over the ribs. Wrap the neck in oiled paper, then in a stiff paste of flour and water, and afterwards in greased paper again. Tie the coverings secui'ely on with tape, and roast the neck according to the directions already given for roasting haunch of venison. When, done enough, serve with the same ac- companiments as the haunch. A neck of veni- son should properly be roasted on a cradle spit. When this is not at hand, three skewers should be put through it, and the spit should be put between them and the bones. Although it is best to cover the neck with the paste, this is oftener than not emitted, and the neck is enveloped in buttered paper only. Time to roast a neck of venison, eleven minutes to the pound. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain Venison, Oxford John of.—Take seme slices of equal size, and half an inch thick, from a well-kept leg, loin, or neck of venison. Season these rather highly with powdered spice, and fry in hot fat till they are brown on both sides. Put them in a stewpan, pour over fchem equal portions of claret and strong brown gravy, enough to cover them, and add a table- spoonful of white wine vinegar, half a tea- spoonful of powdered sugar, and a few fried bread-crumbs. Cover the saucepan closely, and heat the sauce gently till it is close upon the point of boiling. Put the slices of venison on a dish, strain the sauce over, and serve very hot. If liked, the slices may be marinaded for an hour or two in the wine, vinegar, and spice, before being fried. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison Pasty.—Venison pasty is gene- rally made of the portions of venison which do not roast very well, such as the neck, breast, and shoulders, though even the neck is more generally roasted. The pasty should properly contain venison only. When game and force- meat are introduced, it is laiown no more as venison pasty but as game pie. Wash the veni- son in vinegar, sprinkle a little sugar upon it, and hang it in a cool, airy situation for ten days, or a fortnight- in favourable weather. It should not hang too long, and should be examined night and morning and dried with a cloth. When it is to be used, sponge it over with lukewarm water, and dry it with a soft cloth. Bone it, trim away aU the skin and cut it into pieces two inches square. Lino a baking-dish entirely with good stiflt pastry. Put in the pieces of meat, fat and lean together. If there is not sufficient fat belong- ing to the venison, a thin slice of the firm fat of a loin or peck of mutton may be put in with each piece of lean venison. Season the meat with pepper and salt only, put haU a pound of butter over it, and pour in a quarter of a pint of stock or water. Cover the dish with thick pastry, ornament the top, make an opening in the centre, and lay a sheet of letter-paper over it. Bake in a moderately- heated oven. Whilst it is being baked, put the bones and trimmings of the venison into a stewpan with a pinch of powdered mace, a little pepper and salt, and thi-ee pints of water. Simmer the gravy tiU it is strong and plea- santly flavoured and reduced to less than half the quantity. Strain it, let it cool, and remove the fat. AVhen the pie is done enough, beat the gtavy with a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice and a glassful of port. Pour it into the pie, by means of a pointed strainer, through the hole in the centre, incline the dish a little to each side that the gravy may penetrate to all parts, and serve hot or cold. Time to bake the pasty, two hours to three hours and a half, according to size. If the under-crust is omitted, the pie will not need to bake so long. Unless the pastry is thick it will be burnt up before the meat is done enough. Many cooks partially stew the- venison before putting it into the pie. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison Pasty (another way).—If the meat is fresh, keep it for a fortnight or three weeks, cut it into pieces, boil it well, and make good gravy, season with pepper, salt, port wine, vinegar, and a little sugar (according to taste); if not fat, put in a little fat mutton. Let it get cold, and then pack it in a dish as close as you can pack it, and put it into the oven. Venison Pasty (another way).—A modem pasty is made of what does not roast well, as the neck, the breast, or shoulder. The breast makes a good pasty. Cut it into little chops, trimming oS the bones and skin; make some good gravy from the bones and other trim- mings ; place fat and lean pieces of the meat together, or, if very lean, place thin slices from the firm fat of a leg or a neck of mutton along with each piece; season the meat with black pepper, salt, pounded mace, and allspice; place it handsomely in a dish, and put in'the di-awn g-ravy, a quarter of & pint of claret or port, a wine-glassful' of shallot vinegar, and if liked a couple oi onions very finely shred. Cover the dish with a thick crust. Before serviag the pasty, if the meat is lean, more sauce, made of a little wine, gravy, mixed spiee, and the juice of a lemon may be put in hot. An hour and a half in a moderate oven is quite sufficient for baking an ordinary-sized pasty; an hour wiU do for a small one. Some cooks marinade the meat in the wine and other seasonings for a night, or for some hours previous to baking. This no doubt imbues the venison with the flavour of the seasonings, but at the same time draws off the juices and hurts the natural flavour of the meat. Venison Pasty, Pastry for.—Pastry .yj^^^"^""- P^^*^ should be good and short, but stilt, h or a nch pasty, it may be made in the proportion of ten ounces of butter to one poundVEN VEN ( 1084 ) of ilcur, and worked to a smooth stiff paste v?itli two eggs and a little lukewarm water. I'or an ordinary pasty, rub tluee or four ounces of butter into a pound of Hour, and work it to a smooth stift" paste with a boaton egg and a little lukowai-m water. Venison Pasty, to Keep for some time.—Cut the meat of a breast or shoulder of venison into pieces two inches square. Season these with pepper and salt, adding if liked a small pinch of grated nutmeg. Put them, fat and lean together, into a baking-dish, place a good slice of butter upon them, and cover the dish with a coarse paste of flour and water. Bake the pasty in a moderately-heated oven for a couple of hours, and keep it in a cool dry place. When wanted, remove the coarse crust, line the edges and sides of the dish with good pastry, pour in a small quantity of strong gravy, cover with pastry, and bake in a good oven tiU the pastrj' is firm. Time to bake the pastry, about an hour. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison, Pickled Melons to Serve with..—Take some small melons, not fully ripe, skin, seed, and sHce them,' put them in an earthen jar, and pour over them as much vine- gar as will cover them. Let them lie for eight or ten days. Drain them, put them into a saucepan, pour fresh vinegar upon them, and simmer gently till they are so tender that a fork will pierce them easily. Drain and dry them on a sieve. Put them into large wide-mouthed glass bottles, pour thin syrup over to cover them entirely, and leave them in a cool place for about eight or nine days. Pour half the liquor from them, and fill the bottles with -sonegar which has been boiled and allowed to cool. Cover the bottles with skin, and store the pickle for use. The ingredients for the syrup should be in the following pro- portions : twelve ounces of sugar, one pint of water, three cloves. Strain the cloves from the syrup before pouring over the melons. Venison, Potted.—Place the venison in a pan, pour red wine over it, cover with a poimd of butter; put a paste over the pan, and set it in the oven to bake. When done enough, take the meat out of the gravy, beat it well with the butter that has risen to the top, add more if necessary, season with salt, pepper, and po\inded mace. Put the venison into pots, set them for a few minutes in the oven; withdi-aw them, wait till they are cold, and then cover with clarified butter. Venison, Potted (another way).—Rub the venison with vinegar if it is stale, and let it lie an hour. Then dry it with a cloth, and rub it all over with red wine. Season with pepper, salt, and mace, and put it into an earthen pot or jar. Pour over it half a pint ot red wine, and a pound of butter, and put it m the oven tiU it is quite tender. When it is done, pick it clean from the bones and skin, and beat it in a mortar with the fat and gravy, it you find it not sufficiently seasoned, add more, and keep beating till it is a fine paste. Ihcn piress it hard down into the pots, and pour clarified butter over it. The wino may bo omitted if not approved. Venison Pudding,—Take two pounds of venison from tlio neck or loin; cut tho meat, fat and lean logetlior, into neat pieces, and season these witli salt and pepper. Put them in a saucepan, cover with water, and simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Lift them out, and let them get cold. Lino a pudding-basin with pastry half an inch thick. Put the venison into it, pour over it a quarter of a \nnt of the gravy, to which a wine- glassful of port has been added, and cover in the usual way. Press the edges securely to- gether that the gi'avy may not escape. Wring a pudding-cloth out of boiling water, flour well, and tie the pudding loosely in it. Plimge it into boihng water, and keep it boiling quickly unto, done enough. Let it stand a few minutes before turning it out. Send the remainder of the gravy to table in a tureen. Time to boU the pudding, about an hour and a half. Probable cost of venison, veiy imcertain. Venison, Roast (a German recipe).— Hang the venison for ten days or a fortnight in a cool dry place. At the end of that time wash and wipe it, then beat it well. Flay off the skin. Take bacon-strips rather more than two inches long, and lard all over the fleshy parts. Roast or bake the meat, basting constantly; use sour cream or butter and milk for the purpose. Send to table with a sauce made by adding water to the bastings, skimming and straining, and adding pepper, salt, and lemon- juice. ' Venison, Saddle of. Crusted (a Ger- ' man recipe).—The venison must be himg some time, but not long enough to be high. After washing, lay it in a broad pan to cook with cold water enough to cover it; and in this put a smaU tea-cupful of vinegar, two or three carrots, onions, bay-leaves, a good bimch of sweet-herbs, including basil and a sprig of marjoram, some salt, pepper, about twenty juniper berries, as many whole pimento, and six cloves. Let it cofue slowly to a scalding heat. Skim and leave it to simmer two hours or more, according to size. It must be done tender. Then take it up, spread over it a beaten egg, and on this sprinkle a thick layer ' of bread-crumbs mixed with a table-spoonful of moist sugar, a tea-spoonful of powdered cin- namon, and half a dozen pounded cloves. Brown bread is best for this. The coating must be a third of an inch thick or more. 1 Skim off a little of the fat boilings, and sprinkle I over the crumbs with it. Put the venison in ■ the oven, and let it bake a nice brown. Serve I good fruit sauce with it. Venison, Sauce for {see Old Currant Sauce for Sucking-pig, Venison, &c.). Venison, Sauces for.—In addition to the strong unflavourod gravy—a rocipc for making which has already been given (see Venison, Gravy for)—venison is usually accom- panicd by either a sweet or a piquant sauce. Several recipes are here given. No. 1. Melt a little red-currant jelly, and send it to tableYEN ( 1085 ) VEN in a turocn; or, -without melting it, turn it upon a glass dish, and serve cold. _ No. 2. Simmer the triimiiings of the venison for half an hour in as much mutton gravy or ■water as will bai-ely cover them. Strain and skim the liquor, and put it into a saucepan ■with a large table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, a table-spoonful of po-wdered -white sugar, and a largo wine-glassful of port or claret. Let the sauce simmer gently till it is quite hot, and then servo. No. 3. Bruise an inch of stick cinnamon, and put it, -with the rind of half a lemon, into a saucepan. Add a quarter of a pint of red-cun-ant jeUy and a table-spoonful of port. Boil the sauce for five minutes, and serve. No. 4 (old-fasliioned sauce). Clean two ounces of cuiTants, and boil them for five minutes in half a pint of water. Add a glassful of port, half a tea-cupful of finely-grated bread- crumbs, an ounce of butter, and four cloves. Stir the sauce over a gentle fire for ten minutes, remove the cloves, and serve. Currants washed and diied are sometimes served instead of this sauce. No. 5. Put two ounces of pow- dered white sugar into a stone jar -with a quarter of a pint of white -wine -vinegar. Heat the sauce till the sugar is dissolved, and serve. A glassful of claret and a pinch of cayenne may be added to this sauce if liked. No. 6. Put a quarter of a pint of strong unflavoured mutton gra-vy into a saucepan, and add a large glassful of claret, and a small glassful of raspberry •vinegar. Simmer the sauce till it is hot, and eerve. Venison, Shallot for (see Shallot for Venison). Venison, Shoulder of. Marinaded. —Make a marinade by mixing together a pint of vinegar and a tea-spoonful of black pepper. Eemove the bones from a shoulder of venison, flatten it on a table, and lay it, with the neck (from which half a pound of the meat has been cut), in the marinade. Let it lie for twelve hours. Jlince the meat which was cut off with. four ounces of fat bacon, and add a pinch of cayenne and a little grated nutmeg. Spread this forcemeat on the inside of the shoulder, roU and bind it tightly, and roast in the usual way. Serve with strong unflavoured gravy, and sweet or piquant sauce. Time to roast the joint, two hom-s to two hours and a half, according to size. Probable cost of venison, very imcertain. Venison, Shoulder of. Boast.—Be careful that the shoulder of venison is not sepa- rated from the neck till the buck is cold and stiff, otherwise the appearance of both joints will be spoilt. Let the shoulder hang in a cool airj' situation as long as it can be kept untainted. Examine twice a day, and -wipe away any moisture that may appear. Cover all over with thin slices of mutton fat. It is important that this should be done, because the meat has none of its o^vn. Wrap it in greased paper, then in a stiff flour and water paste, and afterwards in greased paper again. Hang it before a sound clear fire, roast, and serve like a haunch, with the same accompaniments. The flour and water paste is sometimes omitted; the slices of mutton fat should never be. Time to roast a shoulder of venison, about an hour and three-quarters. Probable cost of venison, very uncei'tain. Venison, Shoulder of. Stewed.— Bone the shoulder, and flatten it on a table. Season with a savoury powder made of two table-spoonfuls of salt, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, half a tea-spoonful of pounded mace, and a tea-spoonful of powdered white sugar. Lay over the joint thin slices of the fat of a loin of mutton, roU tightly, and bind secui-ely -svith tape. Place it in a stewpan as nearly as possible of its o-wn size, pour over it as much stock as -will cover it, let it boil, skim it, and simmer gently till tender. Turn it over when half done. Take it up, remove the tape, and lay the venison on a dish. Strain the gravy, thicken with brown thickening, season -with salt and cayenne, add a glassful of wine, and serve -with the meat. Time to stew the venison, thi'ee to four hours, accord- ing to size. Probable cost, very uncertaio. Venison, Shoulder of, Stewed (an- other way).—Let the meat hang as long as it -will keep sweet. Take out the bone, and beat the meat with a rolling-pin; lay some slices of mutton fat that have been soaked a few hours in a little red port; spriokle a little pepper and allspice over it in fine powder; roU it up tight, and tie it. Set it in a stewpan that -will just hold it -with some mutton or beef gravy, or broth, a quarter of a pint of port -wine, some pepper and allspice. Cover close, and simmer as slowly as you can for three or four hom-s. When quite tender, take off the tape, set the meat on a dish, and strain the gravy over it. Serve with currant jeUy. Venison Soup.—Cut two pounds of the breast of venison into small pieces, and place these, -with a poimd of the knuckle of veal and a couple of ounces of lean ham, in a ste-wpan. Pour over them three quarts of cold water, and add a large onion cut small, half a blade of mace, a few sticks of celery, and a little salt and whole pepper. Let it stew till the goodness is entirely drawn out of the venison. Eub it through a sieve, thicken with bro-wn thicken- ing, add a large glassful of port or madeira, boil a quarter of an hour longer, and serve very hot. Time to simmer the soup, about three hours and a half. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison Soup (another way).—Take the broken-up bones, trinmaings, and remains of various kinds of game; put them into a stewpan, pour over them three quarts of stock made from beef or mutton bones, and stew gently for two hours. Strain the soup, pick the meat from the bones, let it get cold, and pound till smooth with a little butter. Stir it into the strained stock, and put it back into the stew- pan -with a carrot, an onion, a few sticks of celery, a blade of mace pounded, and a little salt and cayenne. Simmer the soup half an hour, and skim carefully. Cut some fresh venison into neat slices, flour these, and bro-wn them in the frj-ing-pan. Put them into the soup, and stew them till tcndo:- but not overdone. Take out the vegetables, add a glassful of port and( 1086 ) VEN VEB a taWe-spoonful of red-currant jelly to the soup, and serve it with the meat in the dish. Time, ftbout four hours. Venison Soup, Brown.—Cut about a pound and a half oi tlio broast of venison into small pieces, and stow them with a small piece of fi-osh butter for half an hour. Turn them about occasionally, and bo cai-eful that they do not bum. lilix a quart of cold water with a quarter of a pint of the blood, put the liquor into a separate stewpan, and stir till it boils. P\it tho stew into it, and add six or <iight black peppercorns, an onion minced small, and the rod part of a carrot grated: then simmer tho soup gently for from ono hour and a half to two hours. Strain the soup, and thicken with brown thickening. Put the meat into it again, add a glassful of wine, make it thoroughly hot, and serve. When the blood is objected to, it may be omitted, and beef or mutton stock substituted for the water. French beans cut into diamonds, and carrots and turnips cut into dice, may be served with this soup. Venison Soup, made from the Remains of Cold Roast Venison.— Break up the bone into small pieces, put it into a stewpan, and cover with cold water, or with stock, if at hand. Put with it two carrots, two onions, each stuck with a clove, and a little j)epper and salt. Let the Liquor boil, skim careftdly, and simmer gently for three hours or more. Strain it, and thicken with a little brown thickening. Let it simmer again by the side of the fire till it has thrown up its grease, then skim it. Let it boil again, add a table-spoonful of red-currant jelly and a glass- ful of port or claret, and serve very hot. Cut some stale bread into dice, fry these in hot fat, drain them on a sieve before the fire, and send them to table with the soup. If there be any meat left on the bones, it may be cut up, and either stewed and rubbed through a sieve or pounded to a pulp and stirred into the soup. Time, four to five hours. Venison Steaks, Broiled. — Cut the pleaks an inch thick from the leg or the loin of venison. Make the gridiron hot, rub the bars with a little suet, and place the steaks upon it over a clear fire. Turn them every two minutes to preserve the gravy. Make the steak dish very hot; put on it for each pound of venison an ounce of butter, a table-spoonful of liquid red- currant jelly, a table-spoonful of wine, or, as a substitute, boiling stock or water, and a Httle pepper and salt. Turn the broiled steaks in the sauce once or twice, and serve very hot. _ By way of variety, the butter only may be put into the dish under the steaks, and stewed mush- rooms may be served with the venison; or thin slices of lemon maybe laid on the steaks for the last two or three minutes that they are. being broiled, and then served with them. Time, from twenty to twenty-five minutes to broil the steaks. Probable cost of venison, very un- certain. Venison Steaks, Fried. —Cut some steaks half an inch thick from a leg or lorn of venison, season with pepper and salt, dip them in flour, and put them in tho frying-pan with some hot fat. Keep them covered till they are brightly browned on ono side, then take off tho cover, turn them, and let them brown quickly upon the other. Bo careful tliat they are not overdone. Pour a wine-glassful of boil- ing stock or water into the pan, add a table- spoonful of red-currant jelly and a glassful of port or claret if Liked; stir the sauce; over tlio tire for a few minutes, and serve -very hot. Probable cost of venison, vury uncertain. Venison, Wholesomeness of.—Veni- son is less nutritive than beef, but is more easily digested. Indeed, venison, if kept for some time, is one of the most easily digested articles of animal food, and well fitted for dys- peptics. When used by such persons, it should be plain roasted, and rather underdone; and they should eat it without any sweet condi- ments, using merely table-salt. It should be kept for some time to make it tender, but not so long as to begin to decay, as is often done. Venus's Jelly.—Boil a quarter of a pound of hartshorn shavings in a quart of water till the liquor is reduced to a pint. Strain, and simmer in it the thin rind of a large lemon and of an orange. When sufficiently flavoured, pour it out, and let it get cold. Sweeten to taste, add the strained juice of the fruit, a large wine-glassful of sherry, and the whisked whites and crushed shells of two eggs. Put the liquor on the fire, stir briskly for a minute or two, then let it simmer without being touched for ten minutes. Lift the pan gently from the fire, and let the liquor stand to settle for ten minutes. Pour it through a jeUy-bag, and strain till clear. Colour with a few drops of cochineal. Verder, or Milk Punch.—Eub the rind of half a dozen lemons and as many oranges with lumps of sugar tiU the yellow part is taken off. Pare off verj' thinly what cannot be rubbed into the sugar, and soak this in a bottle of rum or brandy for two days. Be careful not to take any of the white part of the lemon, as this would make the punch bitter. Strain the spirit, put with it the juice of the lemons, which has been squeezed upon two pounds of sugar (in- cluding the lumps upon which the lemons were rubbed), four quarts of water, and a pint of boiling-hot milk. Eun the preparation through a jeUy-bag, and keep it in a stone jar, closely corked, for six weeks. This bevemge is not much used nowadays. Verder, or Milk Punch, quicMy made.—Sweeten a small tea-cupful of hot mUk, and add it, with a glassful of brandy, to a quart of lemonade. Strain through a jcUy- bag, and it will be fit for use. Verjuice.—Verjuice, or the juice of green fruits, is an acid liquor expressed from crabs, sour grapes, and unripe gooseberries, and used in sauces or ragoilts as a substitute for lemon- juice; indeed, for some dishes experienced cooks prefer verjuice to lemon-acid, io pre- pare it from unripe grapes, gatlier the grapea while they are transparent, and extract ttxG iuice from them by a wine or cider press, or by pressing them in a cloth. Futer it re-( 1087 ) VER VER peatedly till it is clear. Bottle it, and expose it to the sun, uncorked, for six or seven days. The liquor wiU ferment, and the bottles must be filled up every morning. To preserve it, an ounce of salt should be added to each pint of juice, and it should be kept in well-closed bottles. Gooseberry verjuice is much used in France. It is sweetened and coloured, and sold as " Syrup de Groseilles." It is made just like grape verjuice. When crab-apples are made use of for this purpose, they must be gathered fuUy ripe, then piled in a heap, and left for a few days to sweat before the juice is expressed from them. All decayed apples must of course be discarded. As verjuice is very liable to undergo decomposition, the vessels in which it is to be preserved should be sulphured before it is put into them. To do this, introduce into the jars a burning match that has been dipped in melted sulphur, fill the bottles while they are full of the smoke, and cork instantly and very securely. Vermicelli.—Vermicelli is a preparation of wheaten flour, of a substance similar to macaroni, the difference between them being that the latter is made in larger tubes. It is in the form of long threads, and derives its name from its worm-like appearance, as vermi- celli means little woi-ms. It is of Italian origin, and with macaroni forms the principal food of the people in Italy. It is used amongst us in soups and broths, and for making puddings, &c. Vermicelli {h la Eeine).—Blanch the ver- naiceUi in boiling water, di-ain it, and throw it into some rich consomme well seasoned. When done, a short time before serving thicken it with the yolks of eight eggs mixed with cream, and pour the vermiceUi into the tureen for fear the thickening should get too much done, which would be the case if it remained on the comer of the stove. Vermicelli (au lait).—Boil a quart of milk, and drop lightly into it six ounces of vermicelli which has been blanched in boiling water to free it from all impurities. Simmer gently, and stir frequently to keep it from getting into lumps. When tender, sweeten it and send it to table. Time to boil the vermi- celli, fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to quality. Vermicelli Chestnuts for Dessert. — Peel the brown skin from twenty fine chestnuts. Put them in a saucepan, and cover with water. When they begin to be hot, take off the second skin very carefully. Put them into a preserving-pan, cover with thin syrup, and simmer gently till tender. Take them up, and put them upon a dish. Throw into the syrup two or throe inches of thin lemon- rind, or a small piece of stick vanilla, and boil ^ it till thick and pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, and put the chestnuts into it again. Eub them through a hair sieve into the dish in which they are to be served, and do not let the pur6e be touched till it is Bent to table. In appearance it wiU some- what resemble vermicelli. Time to simmer the chestnuts, twenty minutes. Vermicelli, Chinese Preparation of. I' A dough is prepared out of small green peas by soaking them thoroughly in water, and grinding them between stones, adding water, and pressing them through a sieve, then sub- jecting the mass obtained to pressure in a strong vessel, and thus removing the water. This dough, well softened with water, is poured through a gourd vessel, usually with ten holes in it, into a vessel of boiling water; the higher the gourd above the boiling water the longer and finer the vermiceUi. On removal from the boiling water the threads are immediately dried." Vermicelli, Portuguese.—Break lightly thi-ee ounces of vermicelli. Soak it in water for an hour, drain it, and put it into a saucepan with a pint of milk and an inch of stick vanilla, or a little lemon-rind. Let it simmer gently for an hour and a quarter. Take out the flavouring ingredient, stir into it three additional, table-spoonfuls of milk, and sweeten to taste. Simmer twenty minutes longer. Let it cool a little, then stir into it four well-beaten eggs. Beat it over the fire till it is on the point of boiling, draw it back, and add a small wine-glassful of thick cream and another of brandy. When wanted, put it into a glass dish, and keep it in a cool place till it is to be served. A few minutes before it is wanted, crush three macaroons to powder, and sprinkle the dust thus obtained over the vermicelli. Time,"four hours. Probable cost, Is. 4d, exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for five or six persons. Vermicelli Pudding (a GeiToan recipe). —Take a pint of milk, and boil it with six ounces of butter; throw in at the moment of boiling three ounces of vermiceUi, and stir till it thickens and no longer adlieres to the sides of the pan. Take the preparation off the fire, and when cool stir in two ounces of powdered sugar, an ounce of powdered almonds, including four bitter ones, the grated peel of half a lemon, a little spice if liked, and the yolks of six eggs; then add the whites of the eggs whisked to snow. Boil the pudding briskly for an hour in a well-buttered form. Serve with a fruit or wine sauce. VermiceUi Pudding, Baked, Plain. —Flavour a pint and a quarter of milk with cin- namon, lemon-rind, or grated nutmeg. Strain and boU it, and drop into it gradually when boil- ing a quarter of a pound of vermicelli. Stir it over the fire tiU it is tender and the milk is thick. It wiU take about a quarter of an hour. Pour it into a bowl, and beat it weU with a pmch of salt and a little powdered sugar. When nearly cold add one well-whisked egg. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven. WTien it is nicely browned "Pon the top it is done enough. If a richer i?f required, an additional egg or more should be put m, together with a quarter of a pint of cream and a Uttle brandy. Time to bake the puddmg, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Vermicelli Pudding, BoUed.—Put tour ounces of fresh vermicelli into a saucepanVER ( 1088 ) VEE ■with a pint and a quarter of milk. Bring it gently to tlie boil, and simmer it, stirring all the time, till it is tender, and the milk thick. It will take from ten to fifteen minutes. Pour it into a bowl, lot it cool, sweeten it, and 11a- voiir witli lemon and nutmeg. Add a pinch of salt, and stir in gradually tlu'oe well-beaten eggs. Butter thickly the inside of a mould. iStick raisins here and there upon it, and pour in the vermicelli and milk very gently, so as not to disturb the raisins. Let tlio mould be quite full. Place a round of buttered paper on the top, tie the pudding firmly in a floured cloth, plunge it into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and keep it boiUng quickly till done enough. Move it occasionally for the first quai-ter of an hour to prevent any of the ingre- dients from settling to the bottom. As the water boils away add more, boiling. Let the pudding stand four minutes after it is taken out of the ■water, and place it on a hot dish. Pour sweet sauce round it, and serve. If more convenient, the pudding may be steamed instead of being boiled. Time, one hour and a quarter to boil or steam the pudding. Probable cost, lOd, Sufficient for four or five persons. Vermicelli Pudding, Rich.—Simmer the rind of half a lemon and half an inch of stick cinnamon in a quart of milk till it is pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, let it boil, and drop into it hghtly and gi-adually four ounces of fresh vermicelli. Stu- constantly, and boil gently for twenty minutes. Turn it into a howl, and stir into it a slice of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of thick cream, and sugar to sweeten it sufficiently. Beat, first separately and afterwards together, the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs. Stir them into the pudding, pour it into a thickly-buttered pie- dish, and bake in a gentle oven. Serve with powdered sugar sifted thickly over it, and with ■wine sauce as an accompaniment. Instead of ■wine sauce, jam or fi-esh stewed fruit may be sent to table "with it. Time to bake the pudding, about an hour. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Vermicelli Pudding with Apples.— Put a quart of milk into a saucepan with a thin strip of lemon-rind, bring it gently to the boil, remove the lemon-rind, and drop lightly and gradually into it four ounces of very fresh ver- micelli. Simmer over a gentle fire, stirring it all the time till it is quite tender and very thick. Turn it into a bowl, work into it a large slice of fresh butter, and sweeten to taste. Let the pudding become almost cold, stir into it two, three, four, or five well-beaten eggs, according to the kind of pudding required, and add a spoonful of brandy if liked. I3utter a dish, turn the pudding into it, and cover the surface with good baking apples which have been pared, cored, and thinly sliced. Press them into the pudding, so that they may be covered with the batter, and bake the pudding in a moderately-heated oven till the fruit is tender. Time to bake the pudding, three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. or more, according to quality. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. I Vermicelli Soup.—For eight people take a quarter of a puund of vermicelli, wliich blanch in boding water to take oH tlie taste of dust. Stmm it, and tlu-ow it into some broth tliat is boihng, otherwise the vermiceUi will stick together, and cannot bo separated unless crumbled into a thousand pieces. Mind, the vermicelli must bo boiled in Ijroth before you mix it wth any of the puree, and take care to break the vermicelli before you blanch it in the water, otherwise it will be in long pieces and unpleasant to serve up. Vermicelli Soup (another way).—Take a knuckle of veal antf a scrag of mutton, from each of which cut the flesh into small pieces aljout the size of walnuts, and mix them together with five or six sKces of lean ham. Put into the bottom of your pan about four ounces of butter, and then your meat; to which add four blades of mace, three carrots, two parsnips, two large onions with a clove stuck on both sides of each, four or five cut heads of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, ten morels, and an anchovy. AVhen these are prepared and mixed together in the pan, cover it very clcse, and set it over a slow fire without any water untn the gravy is dra^^•n out of the meat. This being effected, pour it into an earthen pan, and let the meat brown ; then add to it four quarts of water. Let the whole stew gently until wasted to three pints, then strain it, and add the gravy reserved. Set it on the fire, add ten ounces of vermicelli, a head of celery cut small, cayenne pepper and salt, and let the whole simmer for about six minutes. Lay a French roll in the bottom of the tureen, pour the soup upon it, strew some vermiceUi on the surface, and serve up. Vermicelli Soup (another way).—Break lightly four ounces of Italian vermicelli, and soak it in cold water for half an hour. Drain it, and drop it into three pints of boiling stock, j Add a spoonful of mixed mustard, half a tea- cupful of gTated Parmesan, a lump of sugar, and a Httle salt. Stu- frequently, and simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Pour into it two additional pints of stock, simmer a few minutes longer, and serve. Send some grated Pai-mesan to table with the soup on a separate dish. A Uttle sherrj- or marsala may bo thrown into the soup if liked, and will greatly improve its flavour. Time, one hour. Vermicelli Soup, Clear.—Lightly break a quarter of a pound of vermicelli, to prevent it hanging in long threads over the side of the spoon as the soup is carried to the mouth. Put it into boiling water, let it boil for five minutes, drain it, and it will be ready for the soup. If it cannot bo immediately used, cool it by putting it into cold water (if it is left in a sieve to strain while hot, it will become lumpy, and -will not again dissolve). "VMien cold, drain it again, and it will be ready for use. If the ver- micelli is not thus blanched before it is put into the soup, it will in all probability impart a cloudy look to the hquor. Boil three pints of bright, clear stock already _ seasoned and flavoured, put in the vermicelli, simmer gently till tender, and stir it now and then( 1089 ) VIC to keep it from getting into lumps. "WTien tender, serve in a tureen. Grated Parmesan cheese served on a separate dish is a great improvement to this soup. It may of course bo dispensed with. Time to boil the vermicelli, twelve to twenty minutes, according to quality. It must not be overcooked, or it will be spoilt. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Vermicelli Soup, White.—Take two or thi-ee pmts of white stock seasoned with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, and flavoured with a turnip, a carrot, an onion, and a bunch of parsley. Put the crumb of a French roll in as much of the liquor as it will absorb, let it simmer till it is quite soft, and beat it smooth with the back of a wooden spoon. Stir it into the soup, boil for a quarter of an hour, and add half a pint of boiling cream. Blanch two ounces of vermicelU by boiUng it in water for five minutes, drain it, put it into fresh water, and boil till it is tender. Put it into a tureen, pour the boihng soup upon it, and serve very hot. If cream is not to be had, the yolk of an egg and half a pint of milk may be used instead. Stir the boiling milk into the soup, beat the egg in the tureen, mix a little of the soup with it, and add the rest. Put in the vermicelli, and serve. Time, twelve to twenty minutes to boil the vermicelli. Sufficient for five or seven persons. Vermicelli Soup, "WTiite (another way).—Boil a quart of nicely-flavoured stock, break lightly two ounces of vennicelli, and blanch it in boiling water for five minutes, then put it into the soup, and boil till tender. Beat the yolk of an egg with two table-spoon- fuls of cream. A few minutes before it is to be served, mix a spoonful or two of the soup with the egg, add it to the rest, and let it simmer gently for a short time, but the soup must not boil after the egg is added. Put a French roll into the bottom of a tureen, pour the soup over it, and serve. A few leaves of green cher\'il or finely-shred parsley may, if liked, be added to the soup to improve its appearance. Time, from twelve to twenty minutes to boil the vermicelli. Vermicelli with Boiled Chicken.— Truss a tender chicken for boiling, put it into a stewpan with two pounds of the cushion of bacon into which three or four cloves have been stuck. Add a small piece of white roux, or, failing this, half an ounce of butter mixed smoothly with flour, pour over it as much white stock as will cover it, and let all stew gently together for three-quarters of an hour. Throw into the stock two ounces of vcrmiceUi, and boil it till tender. Take up the fowl and bacon, and place them in separate dishes. Skim the stock, and pour it with the vermicelli over the fowl. Serve very hot. Time, two hours. Vermont Biscuits.—Rub six ounces of loaf sugar upon the rind of half a small fresh lemon until the yellow part has been rubbed ofE, then crush the sugar to powder, and mix with it five ounces of fine flour and the wcll- whiakcd yolks of three eggs. Put the mixture into a copper saucepan, and beat it briskly over a very gentle fire until smooth and thick, J J something like cream, then add the whites of the eggs, which have been beaten to a firm froth. Drop small portions from the end of a spoon upon waxed baking-sheets, and then put them into a cool oven. When they are firm and li"-htly browned they are done enough- Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Vermoute, or Wormwood Wine.— Put a tea-spoonful of the extract of woi-mwood in a pint of light wine. (Use the wine as a tonic.) St. George, a Hungarian wine, is useiV. in the preparation of true vermoute, but this cannot always be procured. Wonnwood is a plant which posesses intensely bitter tonic and stimulating qualities. It is frequently used in medicine. Vesuvian Macaroni.—"Wash a quarter of a pound of pipe macaroni, then let it simmei in a little veal gi'avy imtil it is quite tender but unbroken. Strain off the liquid, and put the macaroni into a stewpan with two ounces of finely-grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces of fresh butter broken into small pieces, and a little pepper and salt. Shake the saucepan over the fire for five or six minutes, then put its contents into a hot dish, and strew over the top four ounces of grated Parmesan, which, should have been prepared beforehand. Send good brown gravy to table in a tm-een. Servo immediately. Time, about half an hour to boil the macaroni. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Vice-Chancellor's Pudding.—Boil a quarter of a pint of milk and a quarter of a pint of cream with a dessert-spoonful of sugar and a small strip of lemon-rind. If liked, miUc only should be used. Strain it over a slice of the crumb of bread, and let it stand till the bread has absorbed it. Beat it lightly with a fork, and add the yolks of two eggs, the white of one, a table-spoonful of brandy, a little grated nutmeg, and sugar to sweeten it. Pour the pudding into a weU-buttered shape which it will quite fill, place a round of buttered paper on the top, tie it in a cloth, and boil tiU done enough. Let it stand for a minute or two, and turn it out. Time to boil the pudding, half an hour. Victoria Biscuits.—Put three ounces of fresh butter into a bowl, and beat it to cream; add, gradually, haK a pound of powdered white sugar, six ounces of dried flour, three ounces of pounded bitter almonds, and the rind of a lemon which has been rubbed upon sugar and crushed to powder. Moisten the mixture with a small glassful of liqueur, butter some small tms, dredge flour upon them, and bake in a tolerably brisk oven till they are lightly browned. Spread upon them thinly a little orange marmalade, dip them in glaze, and put them on a drainer in a cool oven for a few mmutes till it is set. The glaze may be pre- pared as follows:—Boil together over a quick fire half a pound of refined sugar and a quarter of a pmt of water. When bubbles appear on the surface of the syrup, dip the finger and thumb m cold water, and take a little of the sugar between them. Open them instantly, and when the thread between them is strongC 1090 ) VIC VIC and thick, take tho sugar from tho firo, let it cool a few minutea, und stir into it, f^raduidly but briskly, whatovor liquid liuvouring in to bo used. Tho glaze is now ready for tho biscuits. Victoria Buns.—Beat two ounces of fresh butter to cream; add two ounces of powdered white sugar, an ounce and a half of ground rice, an ounco and a half of currants, a small piece of candied peel thinly sliced, a pinch of salt, and a well-beaton egg. Boat the mixture between every addition, and add as much flour as will make the dough firm and smooth. Divide it into eight portions, roll these into balls, place them on a buttered baking-tin, and bake thom immediately in a brisk oven. If left to stand they will become heavy. Time to bake the buns, about half an hour. Probable cost, buns, -|d. each. Victoria Cake.—Put a pound and a quarter of fresh butter into a bowl, and beat it to cream. Add six ounces of powdered sugar, six ounces of pounded sweet almonds, with two or three bitter ones, half an ounce of cinnamon powder, half a pound of dried cher- ries, a quarter of a pound of candied peel finely shred, a pound and a quarter of flour, a little salt, and four eggs. Beat the mixture quickly for a few minutes; then add gradually, beating the batter all the time, thi-ee-quarters of a pound of flour, eight eggs well beaten, and a large wine-glassful of brandy. Dissolve an ounce and a half of fresh German yeast in a spoonful of lukewarm water; make a hollow in the centre of the batter, pour in the yeast, and knead it thoroughly into the cake. Whip half a pint of cream to froth, and add this to the rest. Line a baking-tin with buttered paper, half fill it with the mixture, cover with a cloth, and set it in a warm place till it has risen to double the size, then bake immediately in a moderately-heated oven. "When the cake is lightly browned, and when a skewer pushed into it will come out clean and dry, it is dqne enough. If liked, this cake may be served as a pudding, with custard sauce. Probable cost, 68. Victoria Cake (another way).—Rub the rind of two fresh lemons -with sugar till the yeUow part is taken off, crush the lumps to powder, and add as much powdered sugar as will make up the quantity to half a poimd. Whisk the whites of three eggs to froth, stir in the sugar, and afterwards the beaten yolks of six eggs. Last of all, work in gradually and very thoroughly seven ounces of dried flour. Line a tin mould with buttered paper, pour in the batter, and bake the cake in a moderately- heated oven. When it is lightly brown, and when a skewer pushed into it wiU come out clean and dry, it is done enough. Probable cost. Is. Gd. Victoria Pudding.—Boil a little piece of stick vanilla in a pint of milk till it is pleasantly flavoured, strain it upon six ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and add three table-spoonfuls of sugar, one table-spoonful of brandy, and three well-beaten eggs. Butter a mould thickly, flour it, and ornament taste- fully with dried cherries, slices of preserved citron, or stoned raisins. Pour in the pudding quite cold, put a plate upon it, and steam it over boiUng water. Let it stand two or three minutes, tum it upon a h<jt dish, and serve with Victoria sauce, or with molted red-cur- rant jelly poured round it. Time to steam the pudding, one hour and a qufiiler. Probable cost. Is. Suflicicnt for four or live persons. Victoria Pudding, Superior.—Shred finely half a pound of sound beef suet free from skin and fibre, put it into a bowl, and mix with it a quarter of a pound of finely- giated bread-crumbs, six ounces of dried flour, four oimces of apples (weighed after they have been pared, cored, and chojjped), four ounces of apricot jam, three ounces of finely-shred candied citron, three ounces of dried cherries, and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and stir into them five well-beaten eggs, half a pint of cream or milk, and two table-spoonfuls of brandy. Put the mixture into a buttered mould which it will quite fill, tie it in a floured cloth^ plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly until done enough. Let it stand three or four minutes, tum it upon a glass dish, and serve with brandy sauce. Time to boil the pudding, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Victoria Sandwiches, Savpury (for breakfast, luncheon, &c.).—Wash six or eight anchovies, cut oflE their heads and fins, take out the back-bones, and divide each fish in two, from the shoulder to the tail. Cut an equal number of thin slices of brown bread and butter; put between two slices alternate layers of hard- boiled eggs, mustard and cress cut small, and the fillets of the anchovies ; press the slices closely together, and with a sharp knife cut them into neat squares. Place them on a dish covered with a napkin, and garnish with parsley. If not wanted immediately, cover them vrith a napkin wrung out of cold water to keep them moist. Victoria Sandwiches, Sweet.—Beat half a pound of fresh butter to cream. Work in with it half a pound of powdered white sugar, half a pound of dried flour, and a pinch of salt. Add these ingredients gradually, and beat the mixture well between every addition. Whisk four large fresh eggs, stir them into the cake, and beat again for some minutes. Butter a shallow baking-tin, pour the batter into it, and bake in a weU-heated oven. Let it get cold; spread a Httle good jam upon one half, place the other half upon it, press the pieces together, and sift powdered Avhitc sugar on the top. Cut the cake into long fingers with a sharp knife, pile these crosswise on a glass dish, and they will be ready for serving. Time to bake the cake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Suflicicnt for half a dozen persons. Victoria Sauce for Sweet Puddings. —Beat the yolk of an egg with three table- spoonfuls of cream; boil a table-spoonfid of sugar to a svrup with a little water, stir mto it the egg, &c., and a dessert-spoonful of cunu^oa. Beat the sauce rapicUy over the fire till it begins to thicken; it is then ready for ser^^ng. It should look like rich cream. Time, a quarter( 1091 ) VIC of an hour. Probdble cost, 6d. Sufficient for . foui or live persons. Victoria Soup (said to be a favourite with the Queen).—^\Vash half a pound of best Carolina rice. Throw it into boiling water, and boil it quickly for ten minutes. Drain it, put it in a stewpan, and pour upon it three pints of good nicely-flavouri d white stock. Let it simmer gently tiU quite tender. Put aside two heaped table-spoonfuls of the rice; rub the rest through a sieve, and stir the pulp into the stock. Let it boil, and pour it upon the whole rice. Season with salt and pepper if required, and stir into it half a pint of boiling cream or milk. Serve immediately. If liked, pearl barlej' may be used instead of rice. It must, of course, be partially boiled in water to remove the impurities before it is put into the stock. Time to boil the rice, about an hour and a half. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Vienna Cake (a German recipe).—Make four or five white paper plates by stretching the paper over any round utensil—a large dinner or soup-plate will do—plait up an edge an inch deep, and tack it round with needle and thread to keep it upright. Butter these papers, and lay them on baking-tins. Spread over each a layer of " sand tourte" mixture not thicker than a thin pancake. The sand tourte mixture is made thus:—Stir half a poimd of butter to a cream* then add the yolks of twelve eggs and half a lemon-peel grated. Add by degrees half a pound of sifted sugar, quarter of a pound of fine flour, and the same of potato flour. When these ingredients are well mixed, add the egg-whites whipped to a snow. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven a nice yellow; do not let them tinge brown. "When cold cut away the paper roimd, turn the cakes over, and peel off the bottom paper without breaking them. Lay one cake over the other, with different coloured preserves and marmalades between, till all are piled up. Dissolve powdered sugar with g, little lemon-juice, spread it thickly over the top and sides of the cake to make a glazing. Put it into a cool oven to dry, and when cold ornament the top with preserved fruit or marmalade. Vienna Yeast.—The good qualities of Vienna beer and bread are celebrated all over Germany, and are due to the excellence of the yeast used in preparing them. According to Dr. Vogel, the formula for preparing this sub- stance is as foUows :—Previously malted barley, maize and rj'e, are ground up, and mixed; next put into water at a temperature of 150 deg. to 170 deg. Fahr.; after a few hours the saccharine liquid is decanted from the dregs, and the clear liquid brought into a state of fermentation by the aid of some yeast. The fermentation becomes very strong, and, by the force of the carbonic acid which is evolved, the yeast globules are carried to the surface of the liquid, and there form a thick sciun, which is to be removed by a skimmer, placed on cloth filters, drained, washed with a little distilled water, and next pressed into any desired shape by means of hydraulic pressure, and covered with a strong and stoutly-woven canvas. This kind of yeast keeps from eight to foui-teen days, according to the season, and is, both for bakers and brewers, very superior to that ordinarily used. Viennese Biscuits for Dessert.— Beat five eggs for fully a quai-ter of an hour with haU a pound of powdered white sugar. Add gradually half a pound of flour, and beat the mixture again till it is light and smooth. Have ready some baking-sheets buttered and floured for the purpose. Put the batter into a biscuit-forcer, and gently press it out upon the baking-sheets in shapes broad at the ends and narrow in the middle. Dredge powdered white sugar on the surface, and bake the bis- cuits in a brisk oven. When they are lightly browned they are done enough. Time to bake the biscuits, about eight minutes. Probable cost. Is. for this quantity. Vinaigrette of Cold Meat.—Take any kind of cold dressed meat, cut it into neat slices, and put it upon a dish with cold pota- toes cut into slices, hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, and slices of beetroot. Season rather highly with pepper and salt, pour upon it oil and vinegar, in the proportion of three table- spoonfuls of oil to two of vinegar, and toss it lightly together with a fork. Sliced cucumber, chopped parsley, and finely-minced onion may be added if liked, and a few drops of tarragon or chilli vinegar may be mixed with the ordinary \'inegar. Sometimes the various in- gredients are sent to table prettily arranged in rings round a dish, with the colours contrasting, and they are mixed with the salad dressing at the moment of serving. A vinaigrette of cold boiled beef is excellent. Vinaigrette, Sauce a la.—Thisisasauco much used in Paris for cold viands. Sauce a la vinaigrette is composed of salad oil, vinegar, finely-chopped parsley, and shallots, onions, or chives, with pepper and salt to taste. For those who have no objection to oil this sauce is infinitely superior to mere vinegar, pepper, and salt. It is suitable for every kind of cold meat, and especially for cold calf's head ; and is ad- mirable with cold salmon, turbot, or indeed any sort of cold fish. Hard-boiled eggs also eat extremely well with sauce a la vinaigrette; so do many kinds of cold vegetables, and es- pecially asparagus; in fact, this is quite aa often eaten cold as hot in Paris, and always a la vinaigrette. Cold artichokes are also very largely consumed with this sauce. When used with cold meat, and particularly with calf's head, the addition of a few capers to the sauce is a great improvement; and with cold roast meat a gherkin cut up fine is excellent As this is a sauce produced almost entirely out of the cruet-stand, its suits well with our English habits. _ You rub up the salt and pepper with a Mtle vmegar, then add as much oil as you please, with chopped parsley, shallot, gherkins, or capers, according to convenience or taste. Vine Leaves, Wine from.—Gather the leaves when young, weigh them, wash them, and drain them. As the stems are fuU of flavour, they must on no account be picked( 1092 ) VIN VIN from tlio loavos. Place thorn in a liirgo tub, and pour upon thorn boiling water in the proportion of two gallons of water to ten pounds of loaves. Let them infuse for twenty-four liours. Drain them, and press the leaves strongly to extra(jt all the juice from them. Pour an additional gallon of water upon them, and again press them. Dissolve in the mi.xed liquor sugar and tartar, allowing seven pounds of sugar and one ounce of tartar for every ten pounds of leaves. Cover the tub with a blanket, place a board upon that, and leave the liquor in a warm situa- tion for some hours. Draw it off into the small Cixsk in wliich it is to ferment, and each day add a little of the superfluous juice, so as to keep the liquor near the bung-hole. AVhen the fermenta- tion ceases, which will be when the hissing sound grows less, drive in the bung, and bore a hole by its sido for the vent-peg. This peg may be loosened a little every two days for ten days, to keep the cask from bursting. Keep the wine in a cool cellar tiU December. Eack it into a fresh cask, and bottle during March. The leaves of vines from which no fruit is expected may be utilised in this way. Vinegar.—Vinegar is an acid liquid, ob- tained by fermentation, and, when either plain or flavoui-ed, used largely in cookery. White wine vinegar is generally considered the best. It is by no means the most wholesome. Bordeaux vinegar is perhaps to be preferred to any other for salads, sauces, and home-made pickles, and other preparations for which common vinegar is too strong in flavour. It may be obtained by order from any grocer. Vinegar may be economically made at home, either witha "S'inegar plant or with sugar and water {see Sugar Vinegar), or with sour wine, or even strong sour beer. All that is necessary is to provide at first a small cask of good vinegar, to keep it in a place where the temperature is mild, and, as it is drawn off, to fiU it, and also to keep it always filled up wdth spoUed or sour wine. If a cask is chosen which has not contained vinegar before, a large bottleful of boiling vine- gar should be poured into it, shaken about till cold, and left in it for some hours. Vinegar may be made, too, from the pulp and husks of fruit which have been xised for making wine. To make it, pour boiling water on the refuse; let it stand some hours, and stir occasionally till the taste is completely drawn from the fruit. Strain the liquor, and add to every gallon a pound of strong coarse sugar and a table- spoonful of yeast. Let it work four or five days, put it into a vinegar cask, cover the bung- hole with a piece of tile or slate, and leave it in a warm situation for ten or twelve months till the vinegar is made. Put it in a cool place, and if the vinegar is not clear and bright, mix a little dissolved isinglass with it. Bung it up, or bottle for use. Vinegar made from the refuse of raisin wine is excellent {see Raisin "Wine Vinegar). Vinegar was known for many ages before any other acid. It is mentioned by iloses, and indeed seems to have been common among the Israelites and other Eastern nations at a verj' early period. It was at first made from Avine, and the formation of wine vinegar is probably as ancient as the liquor itself from which it was produced, altliough the improvement of the process lias boon the i-csult of the observa- tion of ages. Vinegar was much in use among the Greeks and liomaiis, wlio employed it both in their cookery as a luxuiy and as a medicine. It w^as found higlily useful in their armies; the soldiers being always obliged to carry some, for the purpose of mixing a little with water to obtain a gi-ateful drink both cooling and excel- lent to quench thirst. The practice is stUl fol- lowed in some of the warmer parts of Europe ; particularly among the Spanish peasantry, who are accustomed to mix about a gill of wine vinegar with a gallon of water and a tea- spoonful of salt for a common beverage; and with this drink alone, and bread, they frequently sustain the labours of the field, exposed to the heat of the sun in their warm climate, and are as healthy and athletic a race as any in Europe. Recipes for the following vinegars will be found imder their respective headings:— American {see Vine- gar, American) Basil {see Vinegar, Basil) Camp Cayenne Celery Chilli Cider Cider {see also Vine- gar, Cider) Colourless {see Vine- gar, Colourless) Cucumber Cucumber {see also Vinegar, Cucumber) Elder Flower and Tarragon Eschalot {see Shallot) Garlic Gooseberry Green Mint Harvey's, or Camp Herbs, Vinegar of Honey Horseradish lilADE FROM THE VlNE- GAR Plant Vine- gar, made, &c.) Malt {see Vinegar, Malt) Mint {see also Green Mint) Mulberry Nasturtium Pepper Raisin Wine Raspberry Shallot Sugar SuGiiR {see also Vine- gar, Sugar) Tarragon Violet {see Vinegar, Violet) W^ALNUT Vinegar, Adulteration of.—The prin- cipal adulterations of vinegar are : — dilution with water; the addition of sulpLuric acid; the substitution of pjToHgneous for acetic acid; the use of burnt sugar as a colouring agent; and occasionally the addition of acrid sub- stances, as chillies and grains of Paradise. It is a curious fact, that although the vinegar maker obtains his malt vinegar without colour, he is obliged to add burnt sugar to colour it, in order to satisfy the public taste. This is a harmless addition, but it is one of those things which illusti-ate a feature in the adulteration of food, and that is, that a great deal of it is done to please the public taste. Vinegar, American.—Stir half a gallon of molasses into three gallons of boiling water, set it aside to cool; then add half a pint of fresh yeast, put it into the vinegar cask, and let it stand in a warm place for twenty-four hours; then put it in the sun. The bung-hole must not be quite closed, but covered with a little linen to keep out the insects. It will be ready( 1093 ) VIN VIN for bottling in three months. If the cask has not had vinegar in it before, it must have a little boiling vinegar poured into it, be well shaken, and then be left with the vinegar in it until the next day. Time, about three months to stand. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for three gallons and a half. Vinegar and Lemon Whey (Invalid Cookery.)—Take a sufficient quantity of boiling nulk, and pour into it as much vinegar or lemon whey as will make a small quantity quite clear, dilute with hot water to an agreeable acid, and add a lump or two of sugar. This drink is less heating than if made with wine, and, if only to excite perspiration, answers as well. Vinegar, Basil.—FiU a wide-mouthed bottle with fresh green basil-leaves, cover them with vinegar or wine, and let them steep for ten days. If a very strong essence be re- quired, the liquor must be strained ofP, and more leaves be added to it, to steep in it for another fortnight; when this is done it must be corked down. When used, a table-spoonful will give to mock-turtle soup the basU flavour. Vinegar, Cider.—Cider is the principal source of vinegar in the northern states of North America. The common family method is as follows:—The vinegar barrel in summer is placed in the garret, or on the sunny side of a building, and in winter in a room where it does not freeze. The refuse cider, already sour, or the daily remnants of the family table, are added to some good vinegar in the barrel, or to the mother of vinegar, as it is called. This mother of vinegar is a white or yellowish ropy coagu- lum of a mucilaginous appearance which is formed in the vinegar, and acts as a ferment upon cider not yet thoroughly acidified. The fermentation is often aided by putting into it a piece of dough or lean animal muscle, or by adding molasses, or the sugar which falls spon- taneously from molasses. In a few weeks the vinegar will be formed. Vinegar, Colourless.—To render pick- ling vinegar colourless, which it should be for some sorts of pickles, stir together one gallon of the best pickling vinegar and six ounces of bone black (animal charcoal); let the mixture stand for two or three days, then pour off the clear vinegar. Vinegar, Cucumber.—Take eighteen large cucumbers and six large onions; slice them thin, and put them into a pan with twelve shallots, one head of garlic, a table-spoonful of salt, the same of ground pepper, and a tea- epoonful of cayenne pepper. Add to these two quarts of good \'inegar, and let it stand four days ; then strain it through a flannel bag, <».nd bottle it, with twenty peppercorns in each bottle. Vinegar for Salads.—Put into a jar two handf uls of tarragon, half a handful of cress, the B?imc of chervil and of the young leaves of the pimpernel, and two cloves of garlic; fill the jar with vinegar, cover it closely, and let it infuse for eight days; then strain and bottle it. Vinegar, Fruit.—Take pears, apples, or any other juicy fruit, crush them well with a stamper, and put them in a suitable tub. For every two bushels of fruit add four gallons of boiling water. Stir wcU, and set the prepara- tion in a warm place for a week, skimming o£E impiirities whenever fermentation arises. At the end of that time strain the vinegar through strong fine linen, pressing the pulp. Put the juice in a barrel, stir in a pint of yeast, and throw in a piece of bread. Let the cask be quite full; put the bung in loosely, and throw- over it a piece of flannel. Set in a warm place for a month or six weeks, when the -\nnegar will be fit for bottling. Vinegar made with a Vinegar Plant.—Boil half a pound of coarse brown sugar and half a pound of treacle in two gallons of water, stir it well, put it into a, large jar, and when it is lukewarm put on it a -vinegar plant. Let it stand in a warm place for two months or more, when the liquor will have turned to vinegar. Boil the vinegar, strain it, and bottle for use. Keep it in a cool place. The vinegar plant is a fungus which grows in the liquor in warmth and darkness. If left without the liquor, it will die. A plant may be purchased often at a trifling cost; market people are the most hkely to sell it. It will form in vinegar casks, and when it is used, a young plant will grow on the old one, which can be applied to the same purpose. In countrj' places it is often spoken of as the " mother.'' Vinegar made with a Vinegar Plant (another way). — By means of the vinegar plant an insipid sort of vinegar is some- times manufactured. The vinegar plant itself may be thus produced:—Take a solution of quarter of a pound of sugar and half a pound of treacle in three quarts of water, simmer it, then pour it into a jar, cover it up, and keep it in a warm place for six weeks. The liquid will become vinegar, and on the top will form a scum-like fungus, which is the vinegar plant. By adding a piece of this to a similar solution, the process of conversion into vinegar will now take place in much less time. During the pro- cess the plant thickens by the formation of a new layer on its under surface, and by peeling off this layer and using it in a fresh operation, the plant may be propagated indefinitely. The vinegar plant is a fungus somewhat resembling those known by the name of mould. " It forma a flocculent mass or web, which is tough and crust-hke, or leathery. It is found on decaying bodies, and in fluids undergoing the acetous fermentation, which it greatly promotes, and which, indeed, it very, readily occasions—a small piece placed in sugar and water soon changing it into vinegar. Vinegar, Malt.—In Great Britain vinegar is usually made from malt. By mashing with hot water, one hundred gallons of wort are ex.- tracted in less than two hours from one boll of malt. When the liquor has fallen to the tem- perature of 75" Fahr., four gallons of the barm of beer are added. After thirty-six hours it is racked off into casks, placed upright, having a false cover, pierced with holes, fixed at about a foot from their bottom. On this a considerable quantity of rape, or the refuse from the makersVIN VIK ( 1094 ; of British wine, or othorwiso a quantity of low- pricod raisins, is laid, tho liquor is turned into another bjirrol every twenty-four hours, in which time it has begun to grow warm. Sometimes the liquor is fully fennontod without tho rape, which is added towards tho end to communicate flavour. Vinegar, Preserving of.—The methods of preserving vinegar are various. It is a fact generally kno>vn that vinegar, of whatever kind, wUl not keep long, but in the course of a few weeks, especially in tho warm temperature of summer, grows turbid; its surface is then covered with a thick mucilaginous substance, dui'ing which time the acid disappears by de- grees, and at last is entirely lost; whence the vinegar must veiy often be thrown away. Now, in order to avoid this spoiling of the vinegar, five methods are known. The first is to prepare the vinegar veiy strong and sour at first, by using more sugar or other materials. It is well known that such vinegar will keep for several years; but as few people prepare their own vinegar, most persons contenting themselves with buying it at the shops, there are of course but few who can make use of this method. The second method is to concentrate the vine- gar by freezing; after which a hole is made in the crust of ice which covers it, through which the part that is not congealed is let out, and afterwards put into bottles. This manipulation answers well enough; but nearly one half being lost, because that which forms the crust of ice is nothing for the most part but water, good economists dislike it. The third method is to prevent the access of air by filling the bottles, and keeping them corked. Though vinegar is kept long by this method, it is not much employed, probably because it is troublesome to fill up the bottle with clear vinegar from another bottle every time you make use of part of its contents. The fourth method is to_ distil the vinegar, and thus leave behind the impurities. Distilled vinegar does not suffer the least change, though exposed to a warm air for years; but the expense of distilling is often thought too much. The following method of purifying and preserving vinegar is the easiest, and answers suflBciently. Put the vinegar into a well-tinned vessel, and make it boil for a minute over a strong fire, or the vinegar may be put into bottles, and then into a kettle of water upon the fire, and boiled; this will coagulate the glutinous and mucilagpinous matter which all vinegar contains, and this may be separated by straining; after which the clear liquor should be kept in well-corked bottles. Vinegar pre- pared in this way keeps long without spoiling, and should be so treated when intended for pickling vegetables. Vinegar Sauce for Venison.—Put half a pint of vinegar into a well-tinned and perfectly clean saucepan, together with four ounces of pounded loaf sugar; simmer the sauce gently till the sugar is dissolved, remove the scum as it rises, strain through a napkm, and serve in a tureen. Vinegar, Seasoned, for Indian Pickle.—The quaiitily o£ vinegar required to be seasoned must bo regulated by that of the pickle to be made. Tbere sliould be enough to cover the pickles entirely^ with a little over to make up for evaporation. To prepare the vinegar, mix an ounce of powdered turmeric and three ounces of flour of mustard smoothly with a Uttlo cold vinegar. Stir in gi-adually additional vinegar to make up tho quantity to six pints. Cut a root of horseradiiih into slices, put it, with two ounces of shallots and two ounces of bruised ginger, into a vessel; pour over them six pints of strong vinegar, and add half a pound of salt, together with an ounce of chillies, and two ounces of white pepper tied in muslin. Boil all gently together for twenty minutes, and pour the preparation, while hot, on the pickle, having first poured off the vine- gar in which they were infused. If it is wished that the pickle should quickly be made ready for use, the vinegar may be boiled again in ten days, and again poured hot over the pickles, which will be ready when cold. Vinegar, Seasoned, for Salads.—Take of shallots, tarragon, savory, and chives, three oimces each, and of balm and mint one ounce each; dry these ingredients verj- carefully, and bruise them. Put them in a wide-mouthed bottle, pour upon them a gallon of vinegar, and cork the bottle securely. Put it in a warm place, leave it for two or three weeks till the vinegar is strongly flavoured, pour off the liquor, and press the herbs very dry with a wooden spoon. Let the vinegar stand to settle for a few hours, filter it, and put it into small bottles. Cork closely, and store for use. Vinegar, Strengthened.—When vine- gar is not sufficiently strong, expose it in an open situation during frosty weather. "VNTien the S'orface is frozen, take the cake of ice from the top of the vinegar. If this is melted, it will be found to be water only. The \Tnegar, being freed from so much water, wiU be more acid than before, and may be frozen again and again, until it becomes of the desired strength. Vinegar, Sugar.—Take a sufficient quan- tity of water, and to every three quarts put a pound of raw sugar. Boil for half an hour, skimming if necessary. Set the liquor in an earthen vessel to cool; when not more than lukewarm throw in a slice of bread with yeast strewed over it thickly on both sides. Ferment for two days, then pour the liquor into a barrel which has previously been well rinsed out with vinegar. Paste over the bimg-hole a piece of brown paper, perforate this with a fork, so as to leave little aii--holes, and set the barrel in a dry warm place. Vinegar, Violet (a German recipe).— " Gather wood violets when they are most plentiful—in spring. Put the flowers, without their stems, into bottles, shaking them down tiU full Then pour in as much wine vmegar as they wiU take; cork, and set them m the sun three or four weeks. Strain off the vinegar after this time. A spoonful or two of the violet vinegar in water, with or without sugar, is, in many cases, a remedy for nervous headache^ It is good also for flavouring beverages and sweet dishes."VIN VOL ( 1095 ) Vinegar, Wholesomeness of.—Vine- gar in aniall quantities ia a grateful and salu- tary stimulus to the stojuach, correcting the putresceucy of animal food, and the flatulency of vegetable. Its use, however, is improper in valetudinary cases, especially for gouty persons. Pickles are merely vegetable receptacles for vinegai", but the vegetable being hardened by the acid renders it somewhat difficult of di- gestion, and therefore vinegar in the form of pickles is not much to be recommended. We may add on this subject the remarks of Dr. Paris in his work on " Diet." " Vinegar," he says, " in small quantities, is a grateful and wholesome stimulant; it will often check the chemical fermentation of certain substances in the stomach, and prevent vegetable matter in its raw state from inducing flatulence; but its use requii'es caution, and in some morbid states of the system it is obviously improper. Fatty and gelatinous substances frequently appear to be rendered more digestible in the stomach by the addition of vinegar, although it is difficult to offer either a cheniical or physiological ex- planation of the fact. The native vegetable acids may also be occasionally substituted; the addition of lemon-juice to rich and gelatinous aoups jenders them less liable to disagree with the stomach; and the custom of eating apple- sauce with pork is undoubtedly indebted for its origin to the same cause." Vinegar, Wine, Trench Method of Making.—The following is the French method of making vinegar. The wine de- stined for vinegar is mixed in a large tun with a quantity of wine lees, and the whole being transferred into cloth sacks placed within a large iron-bound vat, the liquid matter is forced through the sacks by superincimibent pressure. What passes through is put into large casks set upright, having a small aperture in their top. In these it is exposed to the heat of the sun in summer, or to that of a stove in winter. Fermentation supervenes in a few days. If the heat should rise too high, it is lowered by cool air and the addition of fresh wine. In the skilful regulation of the fermentative temperature chiefly consists the art of making good wine vinegar. In summer the process is generally completed in a fortnight, in winter double the time is requisite. The vinegar is then run off into barrels, which contain several chips of birchwood. In about a fortnight it is found to be clarified, and is then fit for the market. It must be kept in close casks. Vinegars, Flavoured. — Vinegar mav be flavoured with herbs and spices, and a good store of these vinegars will prove of great service in cookery. All that is necessary is to procure the flavouring ingredients—such as celer>' or cress seed, chillies or capsicums, tarra- gon leaves, shallots, &c.—to put them in bottles, cover them with good cold boiled vinegar, and stopper them closely. In a week or two the vinegar will he sufficiently flavoured, and all that will be then necessary is to strain it off and bottle in small bottles for use. In nine cases out of ten the flavouring ingredients may have a second, and even a third, supplv of vinegar poured upon them. Tarragon and chilli vinegars are particularly useful for salads; while a few di'ops of garlic or shallot vinegar added to a pint of gravy will impart a par- ticularly fine flavoui'. Herbs also, if boiled for a short time in vinegar, will communicate their flavour to it, and the flavour of some fruits, when imparted to vinegar-, is very delicious. The acid thus made, when mixed with water and sUghtly sweetened, constitutes a refreshing summer beverage. Violet Tea.—This is a soothing beverage for persons suffering from bronchitis and similar affections. Put a tea-spoonful of dried violets in a jar, and pour upon them half a pint of boiling water. Let them infuse for five minutes, strain the liquor, sweeten with honey, and it will be fit for use. Virginia Pudding.—Butter a plain quart pudding-mould rather thicklj-, then stick dried cherries, fine raisins, or strips of candied peel in regular rows on the inside, place a slice of soaked bread-crumb over the fruit, and three- parts fill the inside with alternate layers of thin bread and butter and currants and grated nut- meg. Pour in as much custard as the bread will absorb, let the pudding soak for an hour, and steam it over boiling water, or bake in a moderate, oven. Turn out before serving, and send sweet sauce to table in a tureen. Time to steam, one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Volaille, Puree de.—Mince very finely the white part of a cold fowl or turkey, then pound it in a mortar, put in two or three spoonfuls of white sauce, and pass it through a ' sieve, adding a little salt and white pepper, and warm the whole ; it may be served up with the legs grilled. It should not be too thin, but can be made the proper consistence by a greater or smaller quantity of white sauce or cream. Garnish with fried bread or paste cut into shapes. It may also be served up in a casserole or wall of rice and mashed potatoes, or with, poached eggs. Vol-au-vent.—A vol-au-vent presents one of the handsomest forms in which the remains of dishes can be served. It is generally fiUed with a mince, or ragout, or fricassee—or what- ever other name may be chosen—of dressed meat; and after this vol-au-vent case is made, there is abundant opportunity for the cook to display her skill, either in the richness and delicacy, or in the savoury nature of its contents. A vol-au-vent can be made success- fully only with the lightest puff paste. Full directions are giveU; ior making this under Paste, Puff, or FeuiUetsige. It should be remembered that the puff paste of which a vol-au-vent is made will be much better if it is prepared an hour or two before it is wanted, and placed in a cool situation till required. If the puff paste is not exceedingly light, the vol-au-vent will not rise properly, and so will have a very bad appearance. In rolling it, care must be taken to keep it perfectly square and even at the ends, as unless this is done the pastry cannot rise evenly. The pastry for a vol-au- vent ought to have six turns, and five minutes should bo allowed to elapse between each turn.VOL VOL ( 109G ) After it has been turned five times, brush the pastry over with lemon-juice, and when it is doubled for the last time, fold it in such a way that, when linished, it will be the exact size of the inside of the dish in which it is to be served, and a little more than an inch thick. Cut it evenly all round with a knife that has boon made hot in water, so as not to drtxg the pastry. Place a stewpan lid, or any other shape of a suitable size, within an inch and a half of the outer edge of the pastry, and with a sharp knife make an incision a quarter of an inch deep all round the edge of the lid. Press the inner circle away from the outer one with the point of the loiife to prevent them closing again; this inner circle, when baked, will fomi the cover of the vol-au-vent. Put the vol-au-vont in a well-heated oven; in half an hour or thrco-quai-ters of an hour, if it should appear baked through, take it out of the oven, lift up the cover with the point of a knife where it has been marked, and scoop out the soft crummy centre without at all injviring the walls of the case. It will be evident that if it should be injured in this way, the rich eauce of the ragout with which it is filled will ooze through the sides and spoil its appearance. Put it in the oven a few minutes longer to dry it, fill with the savoury mince, put the cover on, and serve on a napkin. Careful attention should be paid to the condition of the oven in which a vol-au-vent is baked: if it is not well heated, the pastry cannot possibly rise ; if the heat is too fierce, the surface wiU be set before the heat has penetrated through the pastry, and this also win keep it from rising. "When it has risen a couple of inches, and before it acquires any colour, cover the vol-au-vent with paper to keep it from browning too quickly. If acci- dentally the walls of the vol-au-vent should receive any injury, a little piece of pastry should be stuck upon the thin place with white of egg. The appearance of the vol-au-vent will be im- proved if it is brushed over with egg after it has risen in the oven. Time to bake the vol- au-vent, half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient, three-quarters of a pound to one pound of puff paste for a good-sized vol- au-vent. VOL-AV-VENT. Vol-au-vent (a la Financiere).—Prepare a vol-au-vent case according to the instructions already given, bake it, lift off the cover, and dry the inside. FiU it with a financiere ragout, ornament the top with crayfish, cockscombs, and mushrooms; or, if preferred, simply place the cover on the top of the vol-au-vent, and serve. The ragout may be prepared as fol- lows :—Put into a stewpan equal quantities of sweetbread, forcemeat balls, and mushroomB, all dressed, with a few sUced truflles and cocks- combs if liked. Cover with tluck and rich brown sauce made of game, and add a glass- ful of sherry or madeira. Let them simmer very gently till they are heated throughout, and the ragout will be ready for the vol-au- vcnt. Time, three minutes to heat the ragout. Vol-au-vent (a la Normande). —Make a vol-au-vent case according to the instructions already given, bake it, lift ofl: the cover, and have ready to fill it a liagout a la Normande. Put on the lid, and serve the vol-au-vent on a dish covered with a napkin. The ragout may be prepared as follows :—Fillet a large sole, put it on a buttered dish, and sprinkle upon it a tea-spoonful of very finely-minced onions which have been previously parboiled. Pour upon it as much milk or light wine as will barely cover it, and bake till done enough. Di\'ide it into neat slices of uniform size, ajid put these in a stewpan with an equal quantity of oysters which have been plumped in their liquor, mussels which have been shaken over the fire in a stewpan till their shells opened, mushrooms which have been stewed in butter, and pieces of the crumb of bread about the size of a crown piece which have been fried in butter until they were lightly browned. Take as much veloute sauce as will cover the in- gredients, put it into a saucepan, and stir in the oyster liquor, the mussel broth, and the gravy from the sole. Let it simmer till very thick. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a basin, mix a spoonful or two of the sauce with them, and add them to the rest. Simmer the sauce for a minute or two mthout allo^wing it to boil, and pour it over the fish. Let all heat very gently together for three or four minutes, and the ragout wiU be ready for the vol-au-vent. Vol-au-vent, SmaU.—To make small vol-au-vents, prepare the pastry, and make the vol-au-vents according to the instructions already given for making a large vol-au-vent. Roll the pastry out to the thickness of half an inch. Two pastrj'-cutters will be needed—the smaller one the size of half a cro^mi, the larger one double the size. If these cutters are fluted, so much the better. Bake the vol-au-vents in a moderately-heated oven ; when done enough, lift off the CQvers, and scoop out the insides as before; dry the pastry, and fill the cavity with any of the varieties of meat which can be pre- pared for the purpose. Put on the covers, and serve the vol-au-vents, hot or cold, on a neatly- folded napkin. Time to bake small vol-au-vents, ten to twelve minutes. Vol-au-vent with Cream. —Bake a large, or six or eight small vol-au-vents; take oft' the covers, scoop out the insides, dry the cases, and let them become quite cold. Fill them with rich jam, or with fresh fruit stewed in a thick syrup, and place upon the top some nicely-flavoured whipped cream. Garnish the edges of the vol-au-vents with dots of bright- coloured fruit jell J'.VOL ( 1097 ) WAF Vol-au-vents.—Eocipes for the follo-ftTng vol-nu-vents will be found under their respec- tive headings:— Croquettes Egg Fruit Lobster Oyster Plum Sweetbread Veal. Vol-au-vents, Green Gooseberry.— Prepare some small vol-au-vents in the usual way, and bake them. Take off the covers, scoop out the inside, and let them get cold. "When wanted, fill them with a compote of green gooseberries. Place the covers upon them, or, if preferred, put a little whipped cream, or Devonshire cream, in their places; serve on a neatly-folded napkin. The gooseberries may be prepared as follows :—Top and tail a pint of green gooseberries, and put them into boihng water for two minutes, then throw them into cold water which has been mixed with a table- spoonful of vinegar (this is to restore their colour). Boil six ounces of refined sugar in half a pint of water for ten minutes, put in the gooseberries, and let them simmer gently till tender but unbroken. Strain them, and if necessary put the syrup back again, and let it boil a few minutes till it is very thick, then pour it over the fi-uit. When cold it will be ready for the vol-au-vents. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to simmer the gooseberries. Vol-au-vents, Orange.—Prepare the vol-au-vents, and bake them in the usual way. Let them get cold. Pare the rind vcrj- thinly from three or four large oranges, put it into a saucepan with four ounces of loaf sugar and half a pint of wafer, and boil to a clear syrup. Strip the white skin from the oranges, remove the pips, and divide them into quarters. Thicken the syrup by pouring it when boiling upon a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot which has been mixed smoothly with a Httle cold water, and stirring it well. Add a little brandy and two or three drops of cochineal, and pour the syrup upon the fruit. When cold it will be ready for the vol-au-vents. Vol-au-vents, Sweet (a la Parisienne). —Make some small vol-au-vents, and have some good jam or stewed friut ready to fill them. As soon as they are taken from the oven, sprinkle finely-powdered white sugar thickly on the edges, and hold a red-hot shovel over them tiU the sugar melts. Fill them with the fruit, pile whipped cream on the top, and serve. Time, ten or twelve minutes to bake the vol- au-vents. Vol-au-vents, To Pill.—A vol-au-vent is simply a case in which are served delicate and savoury ragouts of dressed meat, fish, &c. When preparing these, it is very important that the cook should make the sauces in which the meat is heated rcry thick. TJnless this is done, the liquor will be in danger of oozing through the crust, and this wiU entirely spoil the appearance of the vol-au-vent. Also the meat should be simmered only in the sauce ; if it is allowed to boil, it will in all probability be hard and unixilatable. J J* w Wafer Biscuits.—Mix an ounce and a half of finely-sifted sugar with half a pound of flour. Eub'in a small slice of fresh butter, and work the mixture into a stiff paste with the well-whisked white of a fresh egg and a little cream. Cover the paste, and leave it in a cool place for a short time. Divide it into smaU portions of equal size, and roll these into rounds as thin as possible, and about two and a half inches in diameter. Bake on buttered tins in a brisk oven. Time to bake the wafers, three or four minutes. Wafer Biscuits (another way).—Mix thoroughly two ounces of sifted sugar with two ounces of fine flour. Add a drop of oil of cinnamon and a drop of oil of cloves, or if preferred a little grated nutmeg, and the well- whisked whites of two eggs. Make the mixture into a thin liquid paste. Butter some tinned baking-sheets; put on these portions of the batter four inches apart, and the size of a walnut, and with the finger spread them into rounds the size of the top of a tumbler, and almost touching each other. Bake in a brisk oven till they are lightly browned. Take them up when soft, and either roll them upon a round piece of wood or turn them to the shape of buns. Serve with custards or-ices. Time to bake the wafers, three or four minutes. Wafer Biscuits, Almond.— Blanch, peel, and pound till smooth four ounces of Jordan almonds. Mix with them two ounces of powdered and sifted sugar, and moisten the mixtvire with the white of an egg. Heat an untinned baking-sheet, and rub it over mth pure white wax. Let it get cold, then place on it, four inches apart from each other, portions of the paste the size of a penny-piece. Flatten these with a knife till they almost touch one another and are about the size of the top of a tumbler. Blanch and chop two ounces of almonds, and mix them with an ounce of sugar and a tea-spoonful of white of egg. Sprinkle them on the surface of the wafers, and bake in a gentle oven. • When sufficiently baked, roll them whilst warm round a piece of wood, and leave them till crisp. Wafer Cakes.—Wafer cakes are excel- lent tea-cakes, and they do not take long to make, although a little practice is required to make them successfully. Beat three eggs quite Hght; wash rather less than a quarter of a pound of butter, so as to extract the salt from it, and mix with it a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar; add to the mixtiire the beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful of rose-water, and enough sifted flour to make a thin batter. Stir with a wooden spoon till the batter is perfectly smooth and so light that it will break when it falls against the side of the vessel. Heat the wafer- irons ; not too hot, however, or the batter will bum. Grease the iron with butter tied in a linen rag, the rag being twice doubled ; fill the iron with the batter, and then close it. Place it on the fire so that both sides wUl heat at once; if this cannot be done, turn the iron frequently.WAP WAP ( 1098 ) If properly managed the batter will be cooked iu about two minutes. Wafer Paper, to put under Cakes (a Gorman rccipu).—Take fine tlonv, to which put as much water as will make it boat smooth. Then by degrees add as mucli more as will bring it to a thin paste. Rub a baking-plate with wax, beat it, wipo off the wax, hold the tin again o\-or the fire, then pour a spoonful of the flour and water, or as much as will cover the bottom thinly, and bake it merely so that it becomes di-y and white. Wafer Puddings. —Beat an ounce of butter to cream, and mix with it a table-spoon- ful of tlour, a table-spoonful of cream, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. A little flavom'ing may be added if liked. Butter some patty-pans, half fill them with the batter, and cover with the whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. Sprinkle a little powdered white sugar upon them, and bake in a weU-heated oven. "When done enough, turn them upon a hot napkin, and send jam or sweet sauce to table with them. Time to bake the puddings, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Suf- ficient for four or five puddings. Wafers.—There are many ways of making wafers, but however made, they must be baked in the same way, that is, in irons made for the purpose, and called wafer-irons. These irons should be used as follows:—Heat an iron on both sides over a moderate fire. Rub it inside with a little butter, put a tea-spoonful of the wafer batter into it, close the iron upon this almost immediately, and put it on the fire. When cooked upon one side, turn it upon the other. Cut away the superfluous paste round the edges, and roll the wafer on a stick while it is still warm. Put in another piece of batter, and repeat vmtil all the batter is used. Keep the wafers in a tin box in a diy place till wanted. They are generally served with the sweets. Wafers, Almond.—Mix thoroughly equal quantities of dry iiour and sifted sugar. "With every four table-spoonfuls of this mixture that it is intended to use work in two well-beaten eggs, two ounces and a half of chopped almonds or pistachio nuts, a small quantity of fresh yeast, and as much cream as will make a thick batter. Let the mixture settle, and bake the •wafers in the usual way. Wafers, Dutch..—Put seven ounces of flour upon a pasteboard, and work it to a smooth stiff paste with three ounces of butter, the grated rind of an orange, five ounces of powdered sugar, and one egg. Divide the paste into pieces the size of a pigeon's egg, form these to an oval shape, and bake in an oval wafer-iron. Wafers, Plemish.—Rub a large lump of sugar upon the rind of half a fresh lemon till the yellow part is taken off, then crash it to powder. Put four oimces of flour into a bowl, mix with it a pinch of salt and the flavoured sugar, and add gradually a quarter of a pint of lukewai-m milk and a table-spoonful of fresh yeast. Work the mixture to a soft dough. cover it, and put it on the health to riBe. Work in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter beaten to cream, th(j yolks of three eggs well- beaten, and, lastly, the well-whisked whites of the eggs. Let the dough rise till it in double its original size. Bake the wafers in the usual •way. Put them while hot upon a dish, and sift powdered wliite sugar thickly over them. Time to cook tlie \vaferB, three or four minutes. Wafers, Prui t, for Dessert.—Take any kind of ripe well-flavjured fruit. Put it into an earthen jar, cover closelv, and set it in a pan of boiling water. Keep the water boiling qiuckly round it till the juice flows freely from the fruit. Strain it through a jelly-bag, and with each pint of filtered juice mix a pound of powdered white sugar and the white of an egg. Beat the mixture till it forms a stiff paste. Spread it in a thin layer upon buttered paper, and bake in a gentle oven till it is dry enough to leave the paper. Turn it upside down, and put it again in the oven until it is perfectly dry. Stamp it in shapes, and place these between sheets of white paper in layers in a tin box. Wafers, Greneva.—Beat three ounces of fresh butter to cream. Add two heaped table- spoonfuls of powdered sugar, two well-whisked eggs, and, very gradually, three ounces of dried flour. Beat the batter till it is smooth. Butter a baking-sheet, and drop on it at regular in- tervals a tea-spoonful of the mixture. Bake the wafers in a gentle oven. When they are set, but still quite soft, take them out, and turn them to the shape of horns. Put a little piece of bread into the wide end to keep them in shape, and let them remain in the oven till crisp. When they are cold, take out the bread, and just before serving the wafers fill them with jam and whipped cream. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Probable cost. Is. Time, altogether, about twenty minutes. Wafers, Ice.—Mbc together half a pound of flour and half a pound of powdered sugar. Add three well-beaten eggs and a few drops of essence of vanilla, and beat the mixture till it is quite smooth. Melt half a pound of fresh iDutter, work this into the batter, and beat it again. Add very gradually a quart of milk. Let the batter remain untouched for an hour, and bake the wafers in the usual way. Wafers with JeUy.—Beat a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to cream. Add half a pound of powdered sugar, two eggs well beaten, a quarter of a pint of milk, a table-spoonful of brandy, a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, half a nutmeg grated, half a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, a quarter of a tea- spoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little hot water, and as much flour as will make a ver>- thiok smooth batter. Beat the mixture well. Butter a large baking-sheet, and spread the batter upon it in a lavcr not more than an eighth of an inch thick.' Bake in a moderately- heated oven till it is set. Cut it m halves; spread a little jelly upon one half, and lay the other half upon it. Wlien cold, cut it into fingers with a sharp k-nifc. Pile those m a glass dish, and serve. Time to bake the batter,WAL WAT ( 1099 ) about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the jcUy, Is. 2d. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. WafiB-es.—Take a tea-cupful of fresh butter, put it into a large bowl, and beat it to cream. Add three cupfuls of sugar, a pinch of salt, half a nutmeg grated, a few di-ops of essence ■of lemon, three well-beaten eggs, half a tea- «IJOonf ul of saleratus dissolved in a tea-spoonful of milk, and as much flour as will make a thick batter. Boat the mixture thoroughly. Heat the waffle-iron, rub it over with butter, and put into it one or two large spoonfuls of the mix- lure. Be careful to leave room for rising; ■close it, and put it over hot coals. Let it re- main for six or eight minutes, then turn it •over, and leave it a few minutes longer: if on •opening it the cake is nicely browned, and ■will leave the iron easily, it is done enough. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for this quantity. Waffles (another way).—Dissolve half an ounce of butter in a pint of milk; beat two eggs in a bowl, and add to them gradually the "buttered milk and as much flour as will make -a stiff batter. Stir in a wine-glassful of fresh yeast and a little salt. Let the batter rise till light. Heat the waffle-irons, and bake the waflles in the usual way. Butter them, and if liked serve with sugar and powdered cinnamon. "Waffles (another way).—Take a quart of •milk, five eggs, a pound and a quarter of flour, half a pound of butter, and a spoonful of yeast. When the waffles are baked, sift pounded sugar and powdered cassia over them. Waffles (a Danish recipe). — Take one pound of fresli butter, and beat it till it creams. Add the yolks of six eggs, a quarter of a pound ■of sugar, one poimd of flour, a quart of warm milk, and lastly the whites of the eggs beaten to snow. Butter the waffle-iron each time before fiUing it, and heat it befoi-e using. When baked strew sifted sugar over the waffles. This <[uantity will make twenty-four waffles. Waffles (a German recipe). — Mix one pound and a half of flour with the same quan- tity of clarified butter, add twelve eggs one by one, then a little gi-ated nutmeg, a few grains of salt, two handfuls of pounded almonds with a few bitter ones among them, four or five spoonfuls of yeast, nearly a pint of milk, and lastly the whites of the eggs beaten to snow. Mix and beat well together, then leave the mixture for two hours before proceeding further. Have ready tlie waffle-iron, heat it in the fire, and rub it over with butter; pour into it a ladlef ul of the batter, and bake of a fine yeUow. The iron must be buttered each time before any batter is poiu-ed in. Strew pounded sugar and ■cinnamon over the waffles aiter they are done. Waffles (another German recipe). — Mix together three-quarters of a pound of flour, seven eggs, a pint of milk, three good spoonfuls of yeast, a gill of brandy, and half a pound of butter beaten to cream. Beat the butter and <3gg:5 first together, then add the flour, and, ■whon smooth, the other ingredients ; let this stand in a warm ])lace for an hour to rise. Butter the waffle-iron before you pour in tlie batter, and bake of a light yellow colour. Strew with pounded cinnamon and sugar before serving. Waffles made with Yeast.—Beat three fresh eggs to a light froth; mix with them a pint of lukewarm milk and a large table-spoon- ful of fresh yeast, and add half a nutmeg grated, a pinch of salt, an ounce of butter, and as much flour as will make a Kght batter. Put this in a warm place, and let it rise for_ two or thi-ee hours. Bake the cake in waffle-irons in the usual way {see Waffles). Waffles made without Yeast or Soda.—Take a pint and a quarter of flour, and as much additional flour as will go into a wine-glass; mix with it half a tea-spoonful of salt. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a pint of hot milk, and let the milk cool. Beat the yolks of thi-ee eggs in a bowl, and add to them the milk and the flour alternately. Whisk the whites of the eggs separately to a fii-m froth, and stir them lightly into the batter. Bake the waffles immediately after the whites are put in, and do not beat the batter after the whites are added. Waffles, Rice.—Boil half a pint of rice tiU soft; put it into a bowl, and add very gi'adually three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a tea-spoonful of salt, a pint and a quarter of milk, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Beat the mixture thoroughly. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the batter, and beat it again. Take a small quantity of this mixture in a cup, and pour it backwards and forwards from a good height for a few minutes; then bake immediately. Waffles, Rice (a German recipe).—Wash half a pound of rice in warm water, drain it, and boil in milk till it swells and becomes a thick mass. Take the rice off the fire then, and keep stii-ring it, adding by degrees one pound of flour, five eggs beaten up, two spoonfuls of yeast, half a pound of melted butter, a little salt, and a cupful of warm milk. Set it in a warm place to rise, and bake quickly in the usual way. Wales', Prince of. Sauce for Salads and Broiled Pish.—Take a small handful of bumet, chervil, chives, and tan-agon leaves, throw them into boiling water, and boil them for a few minutes; then put them into the corner of a napkin, and press the moisture thoroughly from them. Put the pulp into a mortar with two anchovies filleted, two hard- boiled yolks of eggs, a dessert - spoonful of capers, a dessert-spoonful of unmixed mustard, and the yolk of a raw egg. Pound these in- gredients to a smooth paste, then add (first by drops, and afterwards by tea-spoonfuls) a quarter of a pint of lucca oil, beating the sauce well between every addition. Add last of all and very gradually about two table- spoonfuls of tan-agon vinegar; rub the sauce through a hair sieve to make it smooth, and it will be ready for serving. Time, about tliree- quarters of an hour to prepare the sauce. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons.( 1100 ) WAL Wall of Potatoes (to put round a dish in the centre of wliich a fricassee is to bo served). —lioil as many potatoes as may ho required, and mash tlioni sniootlily with butter. I'ut tliom round tho dish upon which they arc to bo served, and with tho bowls of two spoons mould them to tho shape of a wall, two inches and a half "wido at the base, two inches and a half high, and tapered towards the top. Make this wall quite smooth, brush over with beaten egg, and put it in the oven till it is lightly browned all over and quite hot. Pour tho fricassee into the centre, and serve. Walnut.—The walnut is now cultivated generally throughout Europe. " On the Con- tinent,'" says Selby in his " History of Forest Trees," " the fruit is in great demand, and indeed becomes in many parts almost one of the necessaries of life. It constitutes a con- siderable portion of the food of the inhabitants of certain districts, and also affords an oil little inferior when first drawn to that of the olive, for which in many parts of France it is the substitute in all culinary matters. The worst feature about the oil is that it soon turns rancid. WALKXriS. The refuse matter, after the oil is extracted, is oaten in Switzerland by poor people, under the name of pain amer. The nuts are used in various ways and at various stages of theii' growth. When young and green they make an excellent and well-known pickle, as well as a savoury ketchup, and a liqueur is also made from them in this state. Before they are fully ripe, and whilst the kernel is yet soft, walnuts ore eaten in France cn cerneaux—B. way of pre- paring them with a seasoning of salt, pepper, vinegar, and shallots. About the end of Sep- tember or the beginning of October they are fully ripe, and are then eaten in great quan- tities, being both wholesome and easy of di- gestion, so long as they remain fresh and part freely from the skin which envelops the kernel." Walnut Jam.—Take fifty walnuts in which the shell has not begun to form, pnck them all over, and boil in water till they are quite soft. Strain the water o£F, put a clovo in each, and strew over them two ounces of bruised ginger. Make a syrup of half a pint of water to two and a half pounds of coarso brown sugar, stirring on the fire till all ia melted; then put in tho walnuts, and boil for twenty minutes, stirring to prevent them bum- ing. This jam forms an excellent htxative, and may be elevated to the position of a pleasant domestic medicine. Walnut Salad.—Gather the young wal- nuts when the nut is just formed, and when they can be pierced easily with a jiin. Par© them down to tlio kernels, put them into a salad- bowl, pour a little good sftlad sauce over them, toss them lightly in it, and serve immediately. This salad, though very agreeable, can only be had in places where walnuts grow abim- dantly. Walnut Vinegar.—The vinegar which covers pickled walnuts is useful for flavouring tho gravy used for hashes of cold meat. It ia also excellent when used as a pickle. Walnuts, Pickled.—Scald the walnuts, which must be used for pickling before they have a hard shell. This scalding will enable you easily to rub off the skin. Put them into a brine of salt and water strong enough to float an egg. Let them stand three days, then shift them into fresh brine, and let them soak three days longer. Now shift them once more into fresh brine, and let them soak four days. They are then fit for the jar. Have ready prepared' equal parts of black pepper, Jamaica pepper, allspice, and ginger; a quarter of a pint of cloves, the same quantity of mace, and a pint and a half of white mustard-seed. Beat these ingredients together in a mortar, but do not pound them fine. Put the walnuts into the jar by layers, and over each kyer strew some of the mixed seasoning. Then have ready some vinegar boiled with sliced horseradish and ginger, and cover tjje walnuts with it. When quite cold, cork and bladdei- the jar. This pickle is much improved by the addition of a little garhc and tarragon boiled with the A-inegar. Walnuts, Pickled (to be made from the beginning to the middle of July).—Be very particular to gather the green walnuts when they are in a proper state for pickling—neither too soon nor too late. If they are too yoimg, they will dissolve in the pickle; if too old, they will resist the action of the vinegar. They ought to be taken before the shells have begun to form; and the test of their fitness is that a large pin can, without difficulty, be pushed through them in everv direction. If once the shell can be felt they are no longer fit for pickling. Wipe the walnuts sepai-ately with a coarse cloth, put them into an earthen pan, and pour upon them a strong brine that will float a fresh egg. This brine may bo made by boilmg six ounces of salt with each quart of >yater It should be skimmed carefully, and allowed to get cold before being put to tho walnuts. Lay a tliin board upon tlie walnuts to keep them under the bi-ine. Turn them about ^nth a wooden spoon every day, and let them remamWAL ( 1101 ) WAS for six days; then drain them, and pour fresh brine upon them. Leave them from three to six days longer, drain in a colander, and' put them in the sun in a single layer, on a large dish covered with coarse sackcloth. They will turn black in a few hours. Tm-n them over once or twice, handling them gently. Boil as much vinegar as will entirely cover the walnuts, with spices, in the proportion of two ounces of whole ginger bruised, two ounces of black pepper, four blades of mace, two ounces of mustard seed, eight cloves stuck into four shallots or small onions, and a tea-spoonful of salt, to half a gallon of vinegar. A dessert-spoonful of scraped horseradish and one or two capsicums are some- times added, but they destroy the flavour of the pickle. Boil the vinegar for ten minutes, put the walnuts into unglazed jars or wide-mouthed bottles, and when the vinegar is cool pour it upon them, and divide the spices equally amongst the bottles. When cold, tie them over with moistened bladder or with strong brown paper. As the walnuts soak up the vinegar, boil a little additional ■s'inegar without spices, and pour it cold upon them. They must be kept entirely covered with the vinegar. They will be ready for use in three months, but will improve with keeping. If wanted for speedy use, pierce each one throughout both ways with a needle, leave them in the brine fully twelve days, and pour the vinegar upon them boiling hot. Time, about a fortnight to make the pickle. Probable cost, walnuts, Is. 6d. to 28. per 100. Walnuts (to freshen old nuts for dessert). —Put the nuts into an earthen pan, and pour over them as much cold water slightly salted as will cover them. Leave them until the next day, and rub them dry before using them. Walnuts, To Preserve.—Fill an earthen pot with them, and cover them with clay an inch thick. At Christmas-time they will be found as fresh as when first gathered. Another way is to put the walnuts into a common earthen- ware jar with an earthenware lid, and bury the jar in the earth about a foot deep in a place not too wet or too diy. A third way is as follows:—Gather the walnuts on a dry day, and directly the walnuts are taken out of the rind, put them into large flower-pots holding two pecks (any pans, however, will do as well), and when nearly full cover the pots two inches thick with sawdust. Place the pots on the floor in a wine-cellar. Washington Cake.—Put three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter into a bowl, and beat it to cream. Add gradually a pound of sugar, four well-beaten eggs, a tea-cupful of milk, half a nutmeg grated, half a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, three table-spoonfuls of brandy, and a pound and three-quarters of flour; flour a pound of dried currants, and stir them in also: they may be omitted. Beat the mixture briskly for a quarter of an hour. Dissolve a tea-spoonful of saleratus in a little hot water, and stir it into the mixture. Line the sides and bottom of the pan with buttered paper, pour in the cake, and bake in a moderate oven. AVTien a skowcr which has been tlirust into it comes out clear and dry it is done enough. Washington Cakes, Breakfast.—Rub two ounces of butter into a pound and a half of flour; add a pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, three well-beaten eggs, and a pint of milk. Beat the nuxture thoroughly. Put it into buttered pans an inch deep, and bake the cakes in a well-heated oven. Time to bake the cakes, about half an hour. Probable cost, Is. for this quantity. Wasps' Nest Cakes.—Beat up six ounces of fresh butter, one egg, and three yolks. Add two spoonfuls of yeast, three spoonfuls of milk, and half a pound of flour. Make the mixture into a paste, roll it out thin, cut it into strips twelve fiigers long, and three broad. Strew thickly with currants, chopped almonds, sugar, and cinnamon; roll the strips up, butter a tin, and bake slowly. Strew with sugar, and serve. Wassail Bowl.—The wassail bowl used in ancient days to be served specially on Christ- mas Eve. It was brought into the banqueting hall with songs and carols, and crowned with garlands. To make it, grate half a nutmeg, and put it into a saucepan with one clove, a quarter of an ounce of grated ginger, half a small blade of mace, an inch of stick cinnamon, and two or three coriander and cardamom- seeds. Pour upon these ingredients a tea- cupful of cold water, and let them boil. Then add two bottles of white wine, not sweet, and three-quarters of a pound of refined sugar. Pour the mixture into a large saucepan, and set it on the fire. Break the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs into the wassail bowl. "WTien the wine is warm, mix a tea-cupful of it in a bowl with the eggs; when it is a Little warmer, add another tea-cupful, and repeat until five tea-cupfuls have been used. Let the wine boil, and pour it upon the eggs, stirring briskly all the time to froth it. Core, but do not pare, six apples; fiU the cavity with sugar, roast them, and throw them into the bowl. Serve very hot. Though sherry or madeira ought properly to be used, good raisin wine will make an excellent wassail, especially if a tumblerful of brandy be added to it. Wassail Bowl (another way).—Mix half an ounce of grated ginger, half a grated nutmeg, and a pinch of powdered cinnamon with half a pound of Demerara sugar. Put it into a sauce- pan with a pint of ale, and let it boU ; then stir in two additional pints of ale, half a bottle of sherry, madeira, or raisin wine, and a large lump of sugar which has been rubbed upon a fresh lemon till the yellow part is taken off. Make the wine very hot, but do not allow it to boil; put it into the bowl. Throw into it half a dozen apples roasted as in the last recipe, and half a small lemon cut into slices and freed entirely from the white pith. Serve very hot. Wassail Bowl (another way).—The fol- lowmg IS an old recipe for making the wassail bowl:—Simmer a small quantity of the follow- ing spices in a tea-cupful of water, viz., carda- moms, cloves, nutmeg, mace, ginger, cinnamon, and coriander. When done, put the spice toWAS ( 11 two, four, or six bottles of port, slu^rry, or madeira, witli a pound and a half of (inu loaf sugar pounded to four Lotties, and set all on the fire in a clean bright saucepan; meanwhile, have the yoUcs of twelve and the whites of six eggs well whisked up in it. Then, when the spiced and sugared wine is a little wanii, take out oiui tea-cupful, and so on for three or four cups; after which, when it boils, add the whole of the remainder, pouring it in gradually, and stir- ring it briskly all the time so as to froth it. The moment a fine froth is obtained, toss in twelve fine soft roasted apples, and send it up hot. Spices for each bottle of wine: Ten grains of mace, forty-six grains of cloves, thirty-seven grains of cardamoms, twenty-eight grains of cinnamon, twelve gi-aina of nutmeg, forty- eight grains of ginger, and forty-nine grains of coriander-seeds. Wassail Bowl (another way).—Put into a bowl half a pound of Lisbon sugar, pour on it a pint of warm beer, grate a nutmeg and some ginger into it, add four glassfuls of sheiry and five additional pints of beer; stir well, and sweeten to taste. Let the preparation stand covered up for two or three hours, then put into it three or four slices of bread cut thin and toasted brown. Sometimes a couple or three slices of lemon and a few lumps of loaf sugar rubbed into the peeling of a lemon are intro- duced. Wassail Custard.—A wassail custard is really a tipsy cake under another name. Cover the bottom of a punch bowl or a deep glass dish with a mixtiire of macaroons, ratafias, and sponge biscuits, all crumbled. Moisten with sherry or raisin wine, and add a glassful of brandy and the strained juice of a lemon. Let the biscuits stand in a cool place for an hovir, till they have absorbed the wine. Cover them with some rich, highly-seasoned custard, sprinkle grated nutmeg and powdered sugar lightly upon the sm-face, and ornament with blanched and sliced almonds. Water as a Beverage.—No water what- ever is absolutely pure; the freer, however, from extraneous matter the better, except that it should not be deprived of the common air, of which it usually contains a portion; con- sequently, newly-distilled water is not desirable, nor water that is just produced from thawed ice or snow—such water should be exposed for a day or two to the atmosphere, that it may absorb air, which appears to be essential to it as an agreeable beverage. Spring water is the most agreeable, from its general purity and coolness; but all spring water is not fit for di-ink, as it often contains various salts. The water of rivers is in general good, par- ticularly when filtered, so also is rain-water; stagnant is the worst. It is necessary ^ to boil water only when it contains salts which require to be precipitated. "Water," says Dr. Paris, " is unquestionably the natural beve- rage of man; but any objection against the use of other beverages foundisd on their artificial origin I should at once ropol by an argument which might be also used in defence of cookery. We axe to consider man as he is, not as he 3i ) WAT miglit have been had lio never forsaken the rude jjatlis of nature. 1 ajii willing to confess that the more simply life is suj)portod, and the loss stimulus wo use, the- bcitter, aiid that he is h'lppy who considers water the best drink and salt the best sauce." Water Biscuits.—Rub an ounce of butter into one pound of best flour. Add a i)inch of salt, and stir as much cold water into the mix- ture as will make a stift', smooth paste. Roll this out till very thin, cut it into small biscuitB, and bake upon buttered tins in a quick oven. Water Cakes.—Sift three-quarters of a pound of pounded and sifted sugar with one pound of fine flour. Add a pinch of SJilt and a tablespoonful of caraway seeds. !Mix wi-U with the white of an egg beaten up with a little cold water, and roll the paste thin. Stamp into small rounds with a cutter, prick holes in them with a fork, and bake upon tins in a good oven. Water, Cherry.—Take a dozen morella cherries, crush the fruit, and break the kernels; put them into a large tumbler, and pour over them a wine-glassful of capillaire. Half fill the tumbler with shaved ice, add a wine-glassful of cold water, and serve with sponge biscuits. Watercress possesses valuable medicinal properties of a stimulating nature, and is said to be particularly useful in strengthening the nerves. The expressed juice, which contains the peculiar pungency and taste of the herb, is used in medicine. External impurities in watercress may be removed by washing, but WATEKCriESSES. not the impurities which are absorbed within. If the full virtues of this herb arc to be ex- perienced, it should be eaten fiequentlv and freely. It is mostly used, with bread and salt, as an accompaniment to cheese. It is also used to garnish dishes; it is excellent served as a salad; and it is good boiled as spmach. U ater- cresscs are good from autumn till early summer,, unless when cut off by frost. Bronz(^-leaved specimens are the mwt highly esteemed. Watercress, Pigeons Served with. [ncc Pigeons Served with Wuteurcs.s).( 1103 ) WAT WAT Watercress Salad.—Gather the water- cress when young, cleanse it thoroughly in salt and water, and serve as fresh as possible. Place it in a bowl, cither alone or mixed with other salad plants, and toss it lightly in a simple salad sauce. "When served at breakfast, water- cress is best sent to table as it is, fresh and crisp. Watercresses, Wholesomeness of. —Watercress acts as a gentle stimiilant and diuretic ; for these purposes the expressed juice, which contains the peculiar taste and pungency of the herb, may be taken in doses of an ounce or two, and continued for a considerable time. It should be at the same time eaten at break- fast, also at dinner, and for supper, to expe- rience benefit from the virtues of this herb, Haller says, " We have seen patients in deep declines cured by almost entirely living on this plant." Water Gruel.—Ascertain whether it is desired that the gruel should be thick or thin. If it is preferred thick, mix two table-spoonfuls of oatmeal smoothly with a little cold water ; if it is preferred thin, one table-spoonful of oatmeal will be sufficient. Boil a pint of water in a saucepan, stir it gradually into the oatmeal in the basin, return the mixture to the sauce- pan, and boil it till smooth. Stir it well to keep it from bm-ning, skim it, strain through a sieve, sweeten, season, or flavour it, and it will be ready for use. The gruel may be used after it has boiled five minutes. It will be better if boUed a qiiarter of an hour. Probable cost, one halfpenny. Sufficient for one person. Water Gruel, Relishes for.—Gruel " may be sweetened and flavoured with nutmeg, ginger, or grated lemon, ale, wine, or spirit; or it may be seasoned with salt and pepper, and flavoured with spices, herbs, mushroom powder, celery-seed, shallots, or onions. \Vhen sweetened with treacle, and taken just before getting into bed, it is one of the best suppers that can be partaken of by any one who is sufier- ing from a cold in the head or on the chest. It is most usually served with a small piece of butter dissolved in it, and either sweetened with sugar or seasoned with salt. Water Ices.—Water ices are made of the juices of ripe fruits mixed with syrup and frozen; and it must be remembered that if the juices are sweetened excessively they will not freeze. It is, therefore, necessary to test them with an instrument called a saccharometer. To do this, put the mixture prepared for freezing in a tumbler, place the saccharometer gently in it: if it is mixed correctly for freezing with powder it will stick to the highest red mark; for freezing with ice and salt to the lowest red mark. To make it sink, add water to the mixture; to make it rise, add syrup. These remarks apply also to ice creams, ice puddings, and all drinks which are to be frozen. For water ices clarified sugar should be used ; and this may be made by boiling for ten minutes, and skimming thoroughly, a quart of water with three pounds of sugar and "half the white of an egg well whisked. Having prepared the mixture and also ascertained its strength, put it into an ice-pot. Place it in the ice-paU, and surround it with ice which has been broken almost to powder and mixed with, salt and a little saltpetre. Work the freezer rapidly for ten minutes; then remove the ice from the sides of the freezer with the ice-spattle, and work it again till it is stiff and smooth. Put it into the mould, and leave it in ice mixed with salt and saltpetre tUl it is to be served. To turn it out, wipe it with a cloth, dip it in cold water for a minute, and wipe it dry; lift off the ends of the mould, and with the fingers push the ice upon its dish. Recipes for the follo^\nng water ices will be found under their respective headings :— Easpberry Cherry Ginger Grape Lemon Melon Orange Pine-APPLE Pomegranate EUM Straw^berry Water in Food.—" The action of water in our food," says a medical writer, "is very important. There would be no carrjdng of food into the system but for the agency of water. It dissolves everything that we take, and nothing that we take as food can become nutriment that is not dissolved in water. It would not do to test that by taking things and putting them into water and seeing whether they dissolve, and rejecting them as food ac- cording to that circumstance; because food un- dergoes a considerable change in the stomach. It undergoes a change to begin with in our mouth. One of the great objects of that change is to render things soluble which had been before insoluble in water. Starch, which we cannot dissolve in water out of the stomach, is dissolved in water directly it gets into the mouth, for the starch is changed by the saliva into sugar, and that which would lie unchanged in water for months is so changed by the saliva of the mouth and the gastric juice of the stomach that it is speedily dissolved. Thus, when we are taking considerable quantities of dry food, it becomes absolutely necessary that we should add a certain quantity of water, so that this drj-- food should become dissolved. Such things as oats, barley, wheat, rice, maize, and other articles of diet containing little water, must have water added, in order that their starch, fat, and gluten may be dissolved, and enter into the system." Water-Melon Rind, To Preserve.— Pare off the outer skin, cut the rind into shapes, green them by simmering with vine-leaves and a little alum, and allow a pound and a quarter of sugar to each pound. Make the syrup, clarify it with the white of an egg, and simmer the melon-rind tiU done through and trans- parent. Boil down the syrup afterwards, and pour it over the preserves. Water, Orange (for flavouring).—Take the thin nnd of oranges, without any of the white part; bruise it in a mortar, and pour as much boiling water upon it as wiU barely cover it. Cover closely. When cold, strain the Hquoxi and bottle for use.WAT ( 1104 ) WEA Water, Purification of.—Pure water is incapiiblo of putrofaction, but ordinarily water contains a small quantity of organic matter in solution which quickly undergoes decomposition even in closed vessels. This is particularly the case when the water is kept in wooden casks, or in open cisterns, into wliich loaves and insects are driven by the wind. As a bever- age, putrescent water is highly unwholesome. Among the various methods that are adopted for purifying foul water, are the following:—1, Filtration through or agitation with powdered freslily-bumt charcoal, either animal or vege- table, but preferably the latter. This lemoves both mechanically suspended matter, and part of the calcareous and gaseous impurities held in solution. 2. Free exposure to the action of the air, by which the organic matters become oxidised and insoluble, and speedily subside. This may be effected easily by agitating the water in contact with fresh air, or by forcing air through it by means of bellows. 3. Add a Little sulphuric acid; fifteen to twenty drops are usually sufficient for a gallon. This addi- tion may be advantageously made to water intended for filtration through charcoal, by which plan at least two thirds of the latter may be saved (Lowitz). 4. An ounce of powdered alum (dissolved) well agitated with a hogshead or more of foul water, will purify it in the course of a few hours, when the clear portion can be decanted. When the water is very putrid, about half a drachm (or even one drachm) per gallon may be employed. 5. A solution of ferric sulphate acts in the same way as alum ; a few drops are enough for a gallon. 6. Sea-water may be rendered fit for use as a beverage by distillation. The waste heat of the cook's galley is amply sufficient for this purpose. There are several patent contrivances for the distillation of water on ship-board. Water, Purity of.—The purity of water may be known by the following marks qr properties of pure water:—1. Pure water is lighter than water that is not pure. 2. Pure water is more fluid than water that is not pure. 3. It has no colour, smell, or taste. 4. It wets more easily than the waters containing metallic and earthy salts, called hard waters, and feels softer when touched. 5. Soap, or a solution of soap in alcohol, mixes easily and perfectly with it. 6. It is not rendered turbid by adcUng to it a solution of gold in aqua regia, or a solution of silver or of mercury in nitric acid, or a solution of acetate of lead in water. Water Souchet.—Take some verj' small flounders or dabs; clean them thoroughly, and boil them in water with a little salt till tender. Take them up carefully with a sUce, one by one, keeping the white side uppermost. Put them into a vegetable-dish nearly full of boil- ing water, and throw into this two or three sprigs of clean double parsley. Serve very quickly. Hand round with the fish thin slices of brown bread and butter. Water souchet is made also of eels, soles, and plaice. The fish ought to be very small; but if they cannot bo procured, and larger ones have to be used, they should be cut into moderate-sized pieces, rejecting the heads and tails. Time, a few miiuites to boil the fish. Probable cost, 6d. for a moderate-sized dish. Sufficient for three or four persons. Water Souchet (another way).—Take a quart of water, a few perch or flounders, some parsley and parsley-roots. Stew these in a suit- able pan, and when soft pulp them through a sieve. Into the liquor put the remainder of the fish with more parsley and parsley-roots and some salt. Boil till the fish is done enough, and then send it to table in the surrounding water, together with the roots. A few of the fish stewed down strengthens the water in which the fish is afterwards served. Water, Toast and.—By impregnating water with the soluble parts of toasted bread, it will frequently agree with those stomachs which rebel against the use of the pure fluid. It is thus rendered slightly nutritive, holding a cer- tain portion of gum and starch in solution. Sir A. Carlisle recommends that it should be prepared with hard biscuit reduced by fire to a coft'ee-colour. " This drink," he says, " being free from yeast, is a most agreeable beverage." Much depends upon the water being at the boiling temperature, and it ought to be dnmk as soon as it has cooled sufficiently, for by keeping it acquires an tmpleasant fiavour. Infusions of other kinds of bread, in particular of toasted oat-cakes, also dried or toasted oatmeal, have been recommended; but the taste of such in- fusions would not be palatable to any one who has not been accustomed to eat oat-bread. Waters.—Recipes for the following waters will be found under their respective headings:— PiNE-APPLE Apple Apple, Iced AllllOWROOT Barley Currant Gooseberry Lemon Marsh MALLOW Mulberry Pomegranate Eice Soda Summer Beverages Toast and Water Vinegar and Water {see Summer Beve- rages) Waters, Iced Fruit.—These are very agreeable beverages, in their season, for evening parties. Currants, cherries, strawberries, rasp- berries, or apples, may be used for making them. To make strawberry water, take a pottle of strawberries—let them be scarlet strawberries, if possible, on account of the beautiful colour they impart to the syrup-pick them carefully, and put them into three pints of very weak syrup; bruise the strawberries in it, and boil them up ; strain the water through a jelly-bag without any pressure, which would make the water thick. Ice the water, and keep it m a cool place till wanted. To make cuiTant and cherry waters, a stronger syrup must be used than for strawberries, but the exact strength of the syrup must be determined by taste. Weaver Pish.—The great weaver, or the sea-cat, of Sussex, generally measures about twelve inches in length, s^\-ims near the bottom, and is remarkable for living a long tmie after- it is taken out of the water. It is also armed with very sharp spines, which mflict woundsWEB ( 1105 ) WEI difficult to heal, unless one uses friction with oil. The fishermen consequently cut off these spines previous to bringing the fish to market. The}- are a sort of marine perch, and are ex- cellent. The lesser weaver is more common on our coasts than the great weaver, and, having the faculty of striking with its sharp spines, is often called the sting-fish. Webster Cakes.—Beat half a pound of fresh butter to cream. Add half a pound of powdered white sugar, three-quarters of a pound of sifted flour, a table-spoonful of orange- flower water, a table-spoonful of brandy, four ounces of picked and dried currants, and five weU-beaten eggs. Beat the mixture till it_ is very light. Line some shallow tins with buttered paper, pour in the mixture to _ the depth of half an inch, and bake the cake in a brisk oven. Before ser^'ing the cake cut it into squares or oblong pieces with a sharp knife. Time to bake the cake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 8d. for this quantity. Wedding Cake, Excellent.—A wed- ding cake is an expensive article to purchase, and if it is not waited very large, may be made at home without much difficulty, and with a great saving of expense. It will improve with keeping—indeed, confectioners do not use their cakes until they have been made some months; and if a cake is cut into soon after it is made it WSDDINO CAKE. will crumble. To make a wedding cake, first procure the following ingredients :—One pound and a half of flour, one pound and a half of butter, half a pound of candied lemon, half a pound of candied orange, half a pound of candied citron, one pound of dried cherries, one pound and a half of dried currants (if the cherries cannot easily be procured, they may be omitted, and two pounds and a half of currants used instead), eight ounces of almonds, eight eggs, the rind of four oranges or of two lemons rubbed upon sugar, half an ounce of spices, consisting of powdered cinnamon, grated nut- meg, and powdered cloves in equal proportions, a tea-spoonful of salt, and a small tumblerful of brandy. If objected to, the brandy may be omitted, and another egg may be added. Wash, pick, and dry the currants, cut the cherries into moderate-sized pieces, slice the candied peel into thin shreds, blanch and pound the almonds, or cut them into very small pieces, and crush the flavoured sugar to powder. Put the butter into a lar"-e bowl, and beat it to cream, either with a woockn spoon or with the hand. Add very gradually the sugar, flour, and eggs, and when they are thoroughly mixed work in the rest of the ingredients.' Put them in a little at a time, and beat the cake between every addition. It should be beaten fully three-quarters of an hour. Line a tia hoop with double folds of buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and place it on a metal baking-sheet with twelve folds of paper under it, and four or five on the top, to keep it from burning. Put it in a moderately- heated oven, and keep the oven at an even temperature until it is done enough. If the cake is to be iced, first prepare the almond part: —Take half a pound of almonds, throw them into boiling water, and skin them. Pound them in a mortar with a few drops of orange-flower water, one pound of fine white sugar, and as much white of egg as will make a soft stiff paste. Spread this over the top of the cake, and keep it from the edge as much as possible. Put it in a cool oven, or in a warm place, tili it is drj' and hard. To make the sugar icing, put two pounds of icing sugar into a bowl and work into it the whites of two, or if necessary three, or even four eggs. The whites must not be whisked, but thrown in as they are. Work the mixture to a stiff shiny paste, and whilst working it add occasionally a drop of lemon-juice. Be careful to obtain icing sugar. If a drop of liquid blue is added it will make it look whiter. The icing will need to be worked vigorously to make a paste which will not run, and the fewer eggs taken the better. The cake ought not to be iced until a short time before it is wanted, as it may get dirty. The icing should be spread evenly over with hands wetted with cold water, then smoothed with an ivory knife, and it should be put in a gentle oven to harden. It may be ornamented with little knobs of icing placed round the edge; and on the day of the wedding a wreath of white flowers and green leaves may be placed round it by way of orna- ment. If anything more elaborate is required, a pretty centre ornament may be made with glazed white cardboard, silver paper, and orange- blossom; or a stand and a drum, with artificial flowers, may be hired of the confectioner. Time to bake the cake, about six hours. Probable cost, 10s., or thereabouts. A cake of the same size, if bought at the confectioner's, would cost at least 30s. Sufficient for a cake the size of a large dinner-plate. This, when placed on a stand and ornamented, will have a very good appearance. Wedding Cake (see also Bride Cake). Weights and Measures.— Every kitchen should have scales, with weights from a quarter of an ounce to two pounds placed on the dresser, and the weights should be kept carefully in order. A set of tin measures with small spouts or lips, with the contents dis- tinctly marked upon them, from a gallon down ! to half a gill, will also be found very convenient.WjSL ( 1106 ) It is likewise well to have a Bet of wooden meusuits, from a bushel down to a quarter of a peck. Let it be remembered that of liquid measure— Two gills are half a pint. Two i)iut8 are one quart. Four quarts are one gallon. Of dry measure— Half a gallon is a quarter of a peck. One gallon is half a peck. Two gallons are one peck. Four gallons are half a bushel. Eight gallons are one bushel. About twenty-tive drops of any thin liquid will till a common-sized tea-spoon. A common tumbler holds half a pint. Four table-spoonfuls, or half a gill, will fill a common wine-glass.. Four wine-glasses will fill a half-pint or common tumbler, or a large coffee-cup. _ A quart black bottle holds in reality about a pint and a half. Of flour, butter, sugar, and most articles used in cakes and pastry, a quart is generally about equal in quantity to a pound avoirdupois (six- teen ounces). Ten eggs generally weigh one pound before they are broken: A tea-spoonful of salt or brown sugar is gene- rally about one ounce. The following table may be added, by whicli persons not having scales or weights at band may readily measure the articles wanted to form any recipe, without the trouble of weigh- ing. Allowance must be made for any extra- ordinary drjuess or moisture of the articles weighed or measured. Wheat flour . . . 1 lb. is I qt. Indian meal . . . 1 lb. 2 oz. is 1 qt. Butter, when soft . . 1 lb. is 1 qt. Loaf sugar broken'. .,. .1 lb. is 1 qt. White sugar powdered .' -1 lb. 1 oz. is 1 qt. Best brown sugar . . 1 lb. 2 oz. is 1 qt. Eggs . . . .10 eggs are 1 lb. . Flour .... 8 qts. are 1 peck. Flour .... 4 pecks are 1 bush. "Welsh Ale, Fine.—Boil fifty gallons of river water for an hoTir, withdraw the fire, and when the steam has gone off pour it upon seven bushels of fresh-ground malt; cover close, and let it infuse for half an hour. Stir or mash up twenty minutes at least, cover again close, and leave it for two hoiu"S. Infuse four poimds of good Worcester hops in half a gallon of hot water one hour ; put it into the tub, and let the wort nm upon it from the mash; do not press the grains, but boil the wort with the hops slowly but continually two hours, adding two hand- fids of table-salt the last ten minutes. Strain the wart into your cooler, and work it at the proper temperature (70° Fahr.) with two quarts of good fresh ale-yeast, stirring well twenty minutes. If the weather be cool, cover it up, and in three days fill a thirty-six gallon barrel, covering the bung-hole with a tile, and filling up with the liquor. When the fermentation has entirely ceased, put into the cask a pound of white sugar candy, and a pint of old wheat tied in a muslin bag; then bung it up, paste coarse linen over the bung, and heap sand upon that. Let it stand twelve months, and it will b(! excellent and beautifully line. Welsh Ale, Strong.-Boil eighty-two gallons of river water an hour, and when tho steam has subsided pour it upon twelve buhhehs of pnme newly-ground malt; cover close, and when it has infused one hour mash up for twenty minutes, and let it stand two hours longer. Pour two gallons of boiling water on nine pounds of the best Kent hops, cover close and lot it stand an hour; then put it into the tub, and run the wort upon it. Stir well, and boil all together two hours, or more if you choose, but this is long enough for all purjjoses- add two or three handfuls of table-salt at the last, and when cool enough strain the wort into your cooler, and work it with good fresh yeast. Cover with cloths if the weather is cold, and in three days fill your hogshead; and putting the bung on lightly, or covering with paper and a slate, let it work out. Fill up the cask night and morning; and when fermenta- tion has ceased dry two poimds of the spent hops before the fire gradually, and put nearly two- thirds of them into the ale. Bung up well, and keep it three years, it will then be fit to drink; and the latter part, if carefully bottled, will be admirable in two years more. "This recipej" says Mr. Robinson, " is from the original of a respectable woman, who during a long series of years was accounted the best brewer in North Wales. She preferred March to brew in, unless the weather was severe, to October." Welsh Beef.—A round of beef prepared in this way wiU keep for two months in cold weather, and constitute a good standing dish. If the quantity for which the recipe is written is too large, a small roxmd weighing eighteen or twenty pounds may be taken, or a part of a round of the weight that is required, and cooked in the same way. Half a round might lie in j the salt ten days or a fortnight, instead of three I weeks. Take a round of beef weighing from twenty-five to thirty pounds, rub two ounces of saltpetre into it, and let it he for an hour. Rub it well with a powder made of one pound of common salt, one ounce of white pepper, one ounce of moist sugar, one nutmeg grated, a quarter of an ounce of pounded mace, and a quarter of an ounce of poimded cloves. Lay the meat in a pickling-pan, rub the ingredients into it, and turn and rub them every day for three weeks. Wash the meat in cold water, and let it dry. Skewer it into a round form, and bind with tape. Put it into an earthen pan with plenty of chopped suet under and over it, pour a cupful of water or stock round it, ccTver the vessel with a coarse paste of flour and water, and bake the beef in a moderate ovon tiU tender. Pour off the gravy, and let the beef stand till cold. This gravy will when strained form an excellent foundation for soup. The beef will have a much better appearance if it is pressed under a heavy weight for some hours after being taken from the oven, and bnishcd over twice with liquid gliize. The glaze mav bo made of anv strong clear gnry boiled quickly until it thickens when dropped from the spoon; or a small quantity may be bought of the grocer, dissolved in the usual( 1107 ) WEL WES way, and used. Time to bake the beef, six to eight hours, or a quarter of an hour to the pound. Probable cost, beef, lOd. or lid. per pound. Welsh Capillaire.—Take a pound and a half of clarified honey, half a pound of pre- served ginger, three quarts of strong raisin wine, two quarts of proof spirit of wine, one ounce each of candied lemon and citron sliced, two ounces of red-cun-ant jelly, four ounces of sugar-candy beaten fine, one ounce of isinglass dissolved in a little water, two oimces of sweet almonds beaten to a paste, half an ounce of bitter almonds also beaten to a paste, one ounce of thin rind of Seville oranges, and one ounce of lemon-juice strained. Clarify the honey to the highest extent; beat the almonds with a spoonful of the wine; and infuse all in a jar for two months. Then strain and filter it bright; colour with light yellow, and bottle it. This is a pleasant but not strong cordial, and should be kept in a cool room imtil two years old to be excellent. Welsh Gallimawfrey. — Slice some cheese and put it in a mortar. Pound it well, flavour rather highly with mustard, and moisten with butter, a Little vinegar, and wine. AVhen quite smooth it will be ready for serving. Welsh Hams.—A Welsh ham is simply the name given to a fat leg of mutton which has been cured and smoked like an ordinary ham. As a Welsh ham has little fat of its own, it is customary to put a piece of fat bacon into the pan with it whea boiling, and to serve the bacon with the ham. Welsh Leek Porridge.—This is made just like cock-a-leekie soup, and thickened with toasted bread. It used to be the custom to stew French plums with the porridge, but this now is scarcely ever done. Welsh Nectar (a pleasant summer beve- rage).—Cut the peel of three lemons very thin, and put the rind into a jar with the strained juice, two pounds of loaf sugar, and a pound of raisins stoned and chopped small. Pour upon these ingredients two gallons of water which has been boiled and allowed to cool. Stir the liquor daily for five days, strain through a jelly-bag, bottle, and tie do-wn the cork. It will be fit for use in ten days or a fortnight. Time, five days to make the nectar. Probable cost. Is. per gallon. Sufficient to make tAvo gallons. Welsh Pudding, Modern (sometimes called Quaker's Pudding).—Take haK a pound of fresh beef suet free from skin and fibre. Chop it small, and mix Avith it half a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs, haK a pound of sugar, the grated rind of a large fresh lemon, and the juice of two. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and bind the mixture together with two eggs well beaten. Put it into a buttered mould, place it in boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly until done enough. Turn it out carefully, and serve. Time to boil the pudding, four hours. Probable cost, Is. or Is. 2d. Suf- ficient for half a dozen persons. Welsh Pudding, Very Rich.—Rub a large lump of sugar upon the rmd of a fresh lemon till all the yellow part is taken oflE. Crush it to powder, and add additional sugar to make up the quantity to three ounces. Melt four ounces of fresh butter very gently. Mix with it the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, and add the sugar. Line a shallow dish with good pastry, put in the mixture, and bake till done enough. Time to bake the pudding, half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. S\xfficient for four or five persons. Welsh Rarebit.—Cut half a pound of a mellow Gloucester cheese into thin slices. Put an ounce and a half of butter upon a plate, and knead it before the fire with a tea-spoonful of immixed mustard and a pinch of cayenne till it looks like thick cream. Cut from a large loaf a round of bread half an inch thick. Trim away the crust, toast the bread, and butter thickly. Lay half the cheese upon it, pour half the seasoned butter upon that, and add, first the remainder of the cheese, then the rest of the butter. Put the bread in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and let it remain until the cheese is melted. Serve very hot. Time to toast the cheese, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Welsh Rarebit (another wa.j).—See Cheese, Toasted, or Welsh Rarebit. West Country Pudding.—Take a quarter of a pound of good baking apples, weighed after they are pared and cored. SGnce them finely, and mix with them a quarter of a pound of currants picked and dried, a quarter of a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs, three table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and two weU- beaten eggs. Press the mixture into a buttered mould which it will quite fill, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly till done enough. Send sweet sauce to table with it. If liked, cold boiled rice which has been drained from the milk in which it was boiled may be used instead of bread-crumbs. Time to boil the pudding, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four- or five persons. West Indian Pepper Pot {sec Pepper Pot, West Indian). West Indian Pudding.—Take a quar- ter of a pound of stale sponge biscuits, crumble them into a bowl, and pour upon them half a pint of boiling cream nicely sweetened. Let them soak for an hour. Beat the mixture with a fork, and add three well-beaten eggs. Butter a small pudding-mould. Line it with preserved ginger cut in thin slices, and fill it with the pudding, placed gently into it T)y spoonfuls so as not to disturb the ginger. Cover it, and tie securely in a cloth. Put it in a saucepan upon a plate turned upside down, surround it with about three inches of boiling water, and keep the water boiling. When done enough, turn it out, and serve with the sjTup from the ginger made hot, and pom-ed over it. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Time, three-quarters of an houi- to one hour to steam the pudding.( 1108 ) WES WHE "Westphalia Hams.—Westphalia is cele- brated iov tlio delicacy and flavour of its hams. A Westphalia ham needs to be soaked longer than one cured at homo. It should bo laid in cold water for twenty-four hours, di-ained, covered with fresh water, and loft for another twenty-four hours. "When sufficiently soaked, cleanse and trim it, put it into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and let it simmer gently for an hour. Take it up, put it in a stewpan upon a bed of sliced carrots, onions, and celery, and add a bunch of marjoram, a sprig of thyme, a clove of garlic, tliree bay-loaves, a dozen pepper- corns, half a dozen cloves, and a blade of mace. Pour over the ingredients as much stock as will barely cover them, and let the ham simmer gently until done enough. Take the stewpan from the fire, and leave the ham in the liquor tiU cold. Take it up, draw oflE the rind, trim the fat evenly, put it in the oven for a few minutes, then press it with a dry cloth to free it from fat, and either glaze it or shake bread- raspings all over it. Tim.e to simmer the ham, about five hours. "Westphalia Hams, Mock. — Hams may be cured at home in such a way that they will acquire something of the flavour which belongs to Westphalia hams. To do this, rub each ham with one ounce and a half of poimded saltpetre and one ounce and a half of moist sugar. Let it lie for twenty-four hoiirs. Put a pound of strong stale beer into a stewpan with a pound of common salt, a pound of bay- salt, half a pound of brown sugar, one ounce of black pepper, one ounce of pounded cloves, and a little piece of sal-pruneUa. Let the liquor boil, skim it, and pour it boiling hot upon the ham, which should be turned and rubbed in it twice a day for a fortnight. Or make the pickle by boiling two gallons of soft water with two pounds of common salt, two ounces of bay- salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and a handful of bay-leaves finely shred. Pour the boiling liquor upon the ham, and turn and rub it every ■day as before. Bum juniper wood under the hams when smoking them. The Westphalia hams derive their peculiar flavour not from the way in which they are cured and smoked alone: the peculiar nature of the food of the West- phalian pigs has a great deal to do with it. "Westphalian Ham Boiled Deli- cately.—After the ham has soaked all night in lukewarm water, it is laid in the kettle with a depth of about nine inches in water, a quart of wine, a, little rosemary, a handful of sage, thj-me, basU, marjoram, whole pepper, juniper- berries, and some whole onions. With these ingredients it must boil for four hours only, that is to say, to draw it. We may prevent its falling asunder by binding it in a clean old cloth. When completely tender, we take it out in the cloth, lay it on a dish, draw oS the rind after removing the cloth, and ornament it with the rind. The more it is garnished the better it is. When cold, lay it from the cloth on a clean dish, and tastefully arrange parsley about it. "Westphalian Sausages. — Take six pounds of lean beef and two pounds of cow's udder-fat; boil the meat, but let the fat only parboil; then mince them up as fine as possible; take about a third of the quantity of bread- crumbs, which have been soaked in the soup, the soup being well pressed from them; add salt, pounded pepper, cloves, and sausage-herbs; mix the whole well together, and fill fat ox- entrails which have been thoroughly cleaned. Parboil them; then smoke them of a yellowish colour. To be eaten with otlier things, or warmed with cabbage, or fried in ljutter. These sausages will not keep very long. Westphalian Sausages (a German re- cipe).—Take twelve pounds of any parts of the pork, fat and lean together, and cut it up. It should not be minced so fine as for other sau- sages, in fact the pieces should not be smaller than peas. Season with half an ounce of black pepper freshly ground, and a quarter of a pound of salt, sprinkling the seasoning among the meat on beginning mincing. After filling in the pig-skins, hang the sausages to smoke for a week. If to be eaten fresh, the sausages will be improved by hanging for a few days in a cool dry place. Wheat.—The cereal used in the largest quantity is wheat. With regard to its compo- sition, there would appear to be quite as much if not more nutritive matter in oats—a larger quantity of saline matter, and, in fact, of all those constituents of food which are necessary to the production of tissues, the maintenance of the animal heat, and the supply of mineral materials to the body. With regard, also, to barley, we find that barley has the same capa- bilities as oats—it contains all the constituents of wheat and of oats. We may also say in regard to maize, that it contains the same con- stituents—starch, nutritive matter, and saline matter—even in larger quantities than oats and wheat; and, in addition to them, it con- tains a very large quantity of fatty matter and of oily matter, which is not found in wheat, in barley, or in oats. AVhy, then, has wheat been consumed so largely by the most polished nations on the face of the earth? ^Vhy do barley, oats, rice, maize, and millet constantly succumb to wheat ? Where wheat wiU grow there it has been grown—in India and China— and where people can get wheat they will have it. I have no other explanation to offer, except that wheaten flour alone of all these farinaceous foods will make fermented bread. I do not know, however, that the time may not come when we shall find that the fermented bread of wheat flour is not so good as tMe unfermented bread from the flour of other grains, and that we may not have occasion to change our habits in this respect. But at the present time whe.it is consumed. Its product is more abimdant in districts of a higher temperature than our own, and it is always cultivated in this country with difficulty. Our really natural grains are barley and oats. Barlcv is cultivated as high as 70° of latitude, and also in the tropical parts of the western world; so that barley has a greater range than oats or wheat. The oat has a much more northern range than wheat, and of the throe, the wheat is cultivated in our northernWHE ( 1109 ) WHE climate at the greatest uncertainty and expense; but still we cultivate it. "Wheat docs not ap- pear to have a larger quantity of nutritive matter: it contains less protein than oats, and very little more than Indian meal; a consider- able quantity, however, more than rice, but not a much larger quantity than barley-meal. It seems, then, not so much its composition, as the power it possesses of making a light loaf by fer- mentation, which causes it to be the favourite form of food. Wheat and Maize Bread.—Mix seven pounds of Indian meal with double its weight in wheaten flour, and add four ounces of salt. Mix a pint and a half of fresh yeast with two quarts of boiling water. Make a hollow in the flour without touching the bottom of the bowl, ponr in the yeast and stir into it as much flour as will make a thin batter. Sprinkle flour lightly on the surface of the batter, cover the bowl, and leave it on the hearth for an hour. Stir into it two additional quarts of boiling water, cover it again, and let it stand in a warm place for ten hours. Knead thoroughly, gash the surface with a knife, and let the dough rise a couple of hours longer till it is very light. Form it into loaves, put these into the tins, let them rise half an hour longer, and bake in a good oven. If the crust is hard, wrap the loaves in a towel as soon as they are taken from the oven. Bread made in this way is inexpen- sive and wholesome. It has a peculiar flavour which improves with acquaintance. Wheat and Rice Bread {see Bread, "V\Tieat and Eice). Wheatears.—These birds are in season from July to October. They should be dressed the day on which they are killed. Carefully pick and draw the birds, truss them Uke larks, put them on a bird-spit, or pass a long skewer WHEATEARS. from one bird to the other, and put the roasting- hook between them that they may hang side by side. Flour them, put them down to a clear fire, and baste plentifully with butter. When done, dish them upon fried bread, and garnish the dish with sliced lemon. Send bread sauce to table with them. Many cooks brush them over with yolk of egg and sprinkle bread- crumbs upon them before putting them down tc the fire. Time to roast the wheatears, about ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, tmcertain. Wheaten Bread, Wholesomeness of.—The chemical changes which flour under- goes during lUe process of making bread are not easily understood; for when the panary fermentation is completed, its properties are sp altered that we cannot obtain from it either fecula or gluten. Bread, therefore, differs widely from the flour of which it is composed, and, in fact, may be considered as a new sub- stance. It is easier of digestion than any other preparation of flour, and mixes more readily with water, but is considerably less nutritive. Newly-baked bread, however, swells in the stomach, and is far from being easily digested. Indeed, the process of fermentation does not appear to be completed tiU the bread is cold; for new bread differs from old, not only in its effects, but in its smell and taste. The best bread, says Dr. Coghan, is made of pure flour of good wheat, sufficiently lea- vened, somewhat salted, well moiilded, well baked, neither too new nor too old; that is to say, that it be at least a day and a night old, and not past four or flve days old, except the loaves be very great. Besides the nutritive qualities of bread, it prevents the bad effects which would result from the use of too much animal food, rich soup, and other concentrated food; and also serves to divide and give our aliment a proper bulk and consistence. It may be allowed to the stomach of the weakest patient, neither stimulates nor relaxes the system, and is justly called the staff of life. Whelks.—Procure the whelks alive if pos- sible. To cleanse them, put them into fresh WHELKS. water for several hours. Boil them in salt and water. They are hard and leathery in sub- stance, and wiU need to boil a long time. The small ones, which may be eaten as periwinkles, will require three-quarters of an hour; the large ones with shells as large as hens' eggs, one hour and a quarter. Large whelks, even after being thus boiled, are scarcely eatable;( 1110 ) WHI therefore take them ou'; of their shells, floui- thoni or dip tliom in breud-crumbs, and fry in hot flit. Before siaviu^,', sprinkle pepper and vinegar upon thvm. Good soup maigro may be made from wliolks. "Whey.—Whey decanted from the curds and fiwoetoned affords a favourite Hudorilic draught, which may be advantageously partaken of at bedtime whenever there is a threatening of cold ill the head. Whey (another way).—See Curd. Whey, Alum {see Alum Whey). Whey, Irish (an excellent drink in cases of fever).—Put two-thirds of a pint of sweet milk into a saucepan, let it boil, and then stir into it a third of a pint of fresli buttermilk. Gently «tir the mixture round, and let it boil up. Pour it out, let it settle, and strain off the whey. In Ireland milk is generally turned in the way thus described. The whey possesses a slight acidity which is verj'^ agreeable : it is of a perfectly clear greenish hue. It is often •called two-milk whey. Whey, Lemon.—Let the quantity of milk required boil, and stir into it when boiling as much strained lemon-juice as will turn the milk. Let it boil a minute or two, cool it, and strain off the whey. Add as much water as will make it an agi'eeablc beverage, sweeten, and it will be ready for use. Whey thus made is less heating than that for which wine is used. When they are liked, the curds may be sweetened, flavoured with nutmeg, and eaten. They are rather indigestible, and should cer- tainly be avoided by an invalid. Whey, Lemon (another way). — See Lemon Whey. Whey, Vinegar.—Make a pint of milk boU, and stu- into it when boiling a glassful of vinegar. Let it boil from one to two minutes, cool it, and strain off the whey. A little water and sugar may be added if liked. Vinegar whey, like lemon whey, is less heating than wine whey, and it promotes perspiration just as well. Whey, Wholesomeness of.—When milk is coagulated by the addition of a smaU piece of rennet, the whey, when separated from the curd, contains some butter and curd in solu- tion ; it also holds in solution nearly all the sugar of the milk, and is therefore more liable than milk to ferment in weak stomachs, and produce flatulence. Whey is not so nutritious as milk, but affords an excellent demulcent drink in consumption, coughs, jaundice, and some other diseases, either alone or mixed with mineral waters. Whey, Wine.—Boil a pint of new milk in a saucepan, and stir into it two glassfuls of sherry or raisin wine, or less if that will com- pletely turn it. Bring it again to the point of boiling, let it stand a few minutes, remove the curd, pour off the clear whey, and sweeten. If it is for an invalid a little hot water may be added. The curd is indigestible. Whim Wham.—Rub three ounces of sugar in lumps upon the rind of half a lemon till the yellow part is taken off, crush it to powder, and stir it into a pint of cream. Add a glassful of sherry or any other white wine and the well-wliiskod wliite of an egg. Wliisk the cream tiU it froths, and as the froth rises place It on a sieve to diuin. Put back into the bowl the crr>/im that drains from the froth, and whisk it again. If the weather is cold, leave the froth in a cool place until the next day. Cut four ounces of sponge biscuits into very thin slices, and fill a glass disli with alt(;mate layers of whipi>ed cream, slicc-d bis- cuit, and currant jolly. Let the froth fonn the uppermost layer. Pour the cream which has drained from the froth round the dish, and gamisli with strips of candied i>eel and bright- coloured jelly. Time, one hour or more to whip the cream. Probable cost, 28. 4d. Suf- ficient for a moderate-sized dish. Whipped Cream (a French recipe).—Put a quart ot very thick cream into a pan; beat it with a whisk until it becomes entirely frothed, which will soon be the case if the weather be cold; or, to hasten tlie operation, put some pounded ice with a good handful of salt into a deep pan, and in it set your pan of cream. The froth will have a greater consistency if you put into the cream a piece of pounded gum-traga- canth about the size of a pea, or the white of an egg beat up : but the former is preferable. If the froth forms slowly, take it off by degrees with a slice, and lay it on a sieve covered with a fine cloth to drain till wanted for serving, which ought not to be long, or the froth will fall. What drains from it may be added to the rest and whipped. If the cream will not froth in a quarter of an hour it is not good for that purpose. When it has drained, mix three or fom- ounces of sifted sugar to it, and flavour according to taste as follows :—A spoonful of orange-flower water, or a few orange-flowers pounded mixed with the sugar; or a tea-spoonful of the essence of roses, with a little rose-lake to colour it; or pound a quarter of a stick of vanilla with one ounce of sugar, boil and strain, add two ounces of sifted sugar, and mix it with the cream; or press the juice of four ounces of strawberries or raspberries, mixed with the sugar, and a little carmine to colour it. Lemon, orange, or any fruit you please may be used in thQ same way; or a small glassful of maraschino or any other liqueur may be added to the sugar to flavour the cream. (See Cream, Whipped.) Whipped Cream, Lemon.—Rasp the rind of two large lemons on a i)icce of sugar, and as the sugar imbibes it scrape it off into a basin with some cream, whip it up, and send it to table. It is improved if set on ice or placed in a refrigerator for some time before sending to table. Orange cream is made in the same way. Whip Sauce, Eich, for BoUed Puddings. — Beat the yolks of two oggs in a small basin, and add a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, a small glassful of sheny or of any kind of liqueur, and a few drops of almond, lemon, orange, or vanilla flavouring. Put the basin in a sauce- pan which contains a small quantity of boihng water, and wliisk the sauce over the fire tillWHI ( 1111 ) WHI it looks like frothed cream. Pour it over the pudding, and serve. Whipped Syllabubs.—Mix a quarter of a pint of sherry with two table-spoonfuls of brandy, stir the mixture into half a pint of thick cream, and add a little grated nutmeg, the strained juice of half a lemon, and as much sugar as will sweeten the syllabub pleasantly. Put the cream into glasses, pile whipped cream upon the sui-face, and serve. SuflB.cient to fill eight glasses. Probable cost, Is. without the sherry and brandy. Time, one hour or more to whip the cream. Whips.—Take some small custard-glasses, half till them with crumbled macaroons, rata- fias, and sponge biscuits in equal proportions, pour upon them a little sherry mixed with a table-spoonful of brandy, spread a thin layer of raspbeny jam upon them, and cover with custard. Heap some whipped cream on the top of the glasses, and serve. Whisky Apples, for Dessert.—Take some large sound sweet apples, pare and core them without dividing the fruit. Weigh them, and put them into a preserving-pan with half a quarter of a pint of whisky, the thin rind and strained juice of a lemon, one inch and a half of stick cinnamon, half an inch of stick vanilla, a piece of whole ginger the size of a bean, two cloves, and three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar to each pound of apples. Simmer as gently as possible, and turn them over fre- quently till they are tender and quite clear. Take them up carefully, and put them into glazed jars. Strain the syrup, boil quickly for five minutes, and pour it over the fruit. Tie bladder over the jars, and store the fruit in a cool dry place. It will keep for a year or more. Ameiican Newton pippins axe the best for this purpose. Time to simmer the apples, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 3d. for each poimd of apples. Sufficient for a des- sert dish. Whisky, Apples Stewed in (see Apples Stewed in AATiisky). Whisky Cordial.—This cordial should bo made when white currants are in season. Take the thin rind of a large fresh lemon entirely free from the white bitter part. Put it into a jar with half a pint of ripe white currants stripped from the stalks and a piece of whole ginger the size of a bean. Pour over the in- gredients a quart of whisky, and let them in- fuse for twenty-four hours. Strain the liquor, sweeten with haH a pound of loaf sugar, let it stand twelve hours longer, and bottle for use. Cork securely. Time, two days. Whisky Punch. —Rub three or four large lunips of sugar upon the rind of three lemons till the yellow part is taken off, and add more sugar to make up the quantity to six ounces. Put the sugar into a bowl, squeeze upon it the juice of two of the lemons, and pour upon it a pint and a half of boiling water, fetir the mixture tiU the sugar is dissolved. Add a pint of whisky, and the punch will be ready for serving. Whisky Punch (another way).—Whisky, when it can be obtained genuine, is perhaps the purest spirit of any, and the least noxious when taken in large quantities. The sugar is first dissolved in boiling water, and the spirit added either in a tumbler or jug, and that is the general process. Some prefer a little lemon in which case the sugar should be rubbed on the rind, and the juice added in making the syrup. It is also a common practice to add a spuonfui of raspberry jam, which gives a pleasant taste to the beverage. Whisky Punch (another way).—See Punch, Whisky. Whisky Shrub. — Boil five pounds of moist sugar to a syrup with a pint of water. Add the strained juice of four pounds of lemons and one pound of Seville oranges. Stir the liquor, and when it is quite cold add half a pint of poiter and a gallon of pine whisky. Pour the mixture into a jar, cork closely, and shake it each day for seven days. Put it into a cool closet, and leave it for five weeks; then bottle, and store for use. White and Clear Soup, Quenelles for {see Quenelles for White and Clear Soup). Whitebait.—This favourite fish, so highly esteemed by epicures, belongs especially to London, being found in the Thames as far as Blackwall. Great differences exist as to its parentage, many supposing that it is the fry WHITEBAIT, either of the shad, the sprat, or the smelt, and others declaring that it is a distinct species of herring. Perhaps the most general opinion is that it is the fry of the common herring. It is a small silvery-looking fish, from about an iuch in length. It first makes its appearance in March, and is to be had in perfection in May, J.une, and July. It should be procured per- fectly fresh and in an unbroken condition. If not to be used immediately, it should be put into iced water as soon as it is brought in. It is served either fried or deviUed with cayenne, lemons cut into quarters, and brown bread and butter. It requires no sauce. The frj^ of various species of fish are treated as whitebait, and if not too large are passable.( 1112 ) "WHI ■Wliitebait,Devilled.—Frythowiiitobait in tho usual way till it is crisp. Lift the basket out of the fat, diako tho fish, and sijrinkle over it a little suit and black popper. Plunpe the basket again into tho fat, and let it remain for a few seconds. Drain the fish, and turn it upon a napkin. If a red devil is required, sprinkle a little cayenno upon the fish (in addi- tion to the black pepper already used) after it is taken out of tho fat for the last time. It is a common practice with cooks to take whitebait which has been fried and served in tho ordinary w^ay, to sprinkle black popper upon it, to plunge it into the hot fat, and, after allowing it to remain for a short time to drain it, sprinkle it again with pepper, and serve a second time as devUled whitebait. Whitebait, Dressed.—Take the white- bait out of the w;iter with tho fingers, drain them, and throw them into a cloth upon which flour has been strewn. Shake them in the cloth to make the flour adhere to them, then toss them in a large wide sieve to free them from the superfluous flour. If the fish stick together, separate them, but they wUl not do this if they are fresh. Have ready plenty of boiling beef-fat (this is much better than lard, which is usually recommended), put the white- bait a few at a time into a wire basket, plunge in the boiling fat, and leave them for a minute or two. At the end of that time shake them to keep them from sticking together, and when they are slightly crisp without being browned they are done enough. Drain them from the fat while they are still in the basket, sprinkle a little salt upon them, pile them on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. Send quarters of lemon and brown bread and butter to table with them. Time to fry the whitebait, a few minutes. W Hitebait, Mock.—Take cooked or un- cooked white fish of any kind; uncooked fish is of course the best. Divide it into strips an inch long and a quarter of an inch wide. Dip those into frjring batter, put them into a wire frying- basket, and plunge them into very hot fat. Let them remain till they are lightly browned. Drain them, pile on a hot dish, and serve with cayenne, quarters of lemons, and thin brown bread and butter. The frying batter may be made by beating together briskly and tho- roughly a table-spoonful of flour, a pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of milk, and one egg. Flour varies in quality, so that some kinds require more liquid than others. The batter, however, should be a little thicker than cream. Time to fry the fish, four to five minutes. White Bean (see White Kidney Beans). White Bechamel Sauce, Cold (to mask boiled poultry, turbot, &c., which is to be served cold).—Make the bechamel of nicely- flavoured white stock, so strong that it will jelly when cold. A spoonful of gelatine dis- solved in a little white stock will answer the purpose if- jellied stock is not at hand. Mix with it when hot an equal quantity of milk or cream, strain it into a basin, thicken with arrowroot, and when cold it will be fit for use. It should be thick enough to adhere to tho bird, ice, which it is to UKisk. White Bechamel Sauce (economical and good).—Good IjcclianK 1 muv be made of tho remains of a cold roast fowl. Break up the bones, and ]mt them into a saucepan with two or throe bacon-bones, a small car- rot, a * small onion, a very small piece of mace, two peppercorns, and a pinch of salt. Pour over the ingredients as much water as will entirely cover them, and simmer gently for two hours. Carefully remove the scum as it rises. Half an hour before the stock is taken from the fire, stir into it a tea-spoonful of gelatine which has been soaked for half an hour in two table-spoonfuls of water. .Strain the stock into a bowl, and when it is cold re- move the fat from the surface. Put it into a clean saucepan, and simmer till it is reduced to about three-quarters of a pint. Mix with it an equal quantity of boiling cream or milk, slightly thicken with arrowroot, add salt to taste, and it will be ready for use. Time, three to four hours. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for a pint and a half of white bechamel sauce. White Bechamel Sauce (to make a small quantity).—Put two ounces of butter and two ounces of flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire briskly with a wooden spoon to a smooth paste. Add gradually three- quarters of a pint of milk, together with a small onion, two or three sticks of celery cut up small, half a carrot thinly sliced, half a bay-' leaf, a very small sprig of thyme, a bimch of parsley, a little nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Stir the sauce over a quick fire till it is pleasantly flavoured, strain it into a basin, and it vrill be -fit for use. By increasing the quantities, and preserving the proportions, a larger quantity of sauce may be made if re- quired. Time to boil the sauce, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for a little more than half a pint of sauce. White Beet, To Dress the Leaves of.—Pick the leaves, and wash them in three or four waters. Throw them into boiling water slightly salted, and keep them boiling quickly till tender. Drain the water thoroughly from them, chop them small, and heat them in a saucepan with a little butter, pepper, and salt. They may be used as a substitute for spinach. Time to boil the leaves, twenty minutes or more. White Cabbage, To Pickle.—Take a fij-m white cabbage; remove the outer leaves, sprinkle salt upon it, and leave it for a couple of hours. Wash it in cold water, drain it, and cut it into very thin shreds. ]\Iake some brine sufficiently strong to float an egg, pour this cold over the shred cabbage, and leave it for a fortnight. Stir every day. Boil as much vinegar as will entirely cover it for five minutes with spices in tho proportion of a ([uarter of an ounce of whole ginger, a quarter of an ounce of black pepper, a quarter of an ounce of long pepjier, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, a quarter of an ounce of turmeric mixed smoothly with a Httlo cold vinegar, a tea-spoonful of mustardWHI ( 1113 ) WHI seed, and a piece of alum the size of a pea to ' each pint of vinegar. A clove of garlic may be added if liked. Skim the vinegar, and pour it hot over the cabbage. Let it remain three days. Drain off the vinegar, boil it, and again pour it hot over the cabbage. Put the cabbage into bottles or imglazed jars, divide the spices equally amongst these, and cover the pickle entirely with the vinegar. Add more vinegar (which has been boiled and allowed to go cold) as required. Time, eighteen days. "White Cake.—Beat one pound of fresh butter to cream. Work in gradually one poimd of powdered white sugar, one pound of dried flour, a dessert-spoonful each of candied orange and lemon-peel chopped small, an ounce of caraway-seeds, half a nutmeg grated, a quarter of a pint of cream, five well-beaten eggs, a small glassful of brandy, and a little rose or orange-flower water. Beat the cake well between every addition. Mix with it a table- spoonful of fresh yeast, cover with a cloth, and put it on the hearth to rise. When suf- ficiently risen, put it into a well-buttered tin, and bake in a well-heated oven. As soon as it is done enough, brush over with the beaten white of an egg, sprinkle powdered white sugar over it, and put it in a cool oven for a short time till the glazing is hard. Time to let the cake rise, about half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy, 3s. 4d. W Hite Cake (another way: sometimes called one, two, three, four cake).—Take a cup- ful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, three cupfuls of flour, and four eggs. Beat the butter to cream, and add the sugar, the flour, and lastly the eggs. Flavour the mixture -svith grated nutmeg qr lemon-rind. Dredge flour upon the table, and roll out the cake to the thickness of the third of an inch. Put the cakes on baking- sheets, prick them lightly with a fork, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake the cake, about a quarter of an hour. White Cake, American {see American White Cake). White Cakes (simple recipe).—Rub an ounce of butter into half a poimd of dried and sifted flour. Add a small pinch of salt; four table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar, half a tea-spoonful of caraway-seeds, one egg, and as much milk as will make a smooth light paste. Roll it out a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into shapes, and bake these on baking-tins in a quick oven. Time to bake the cakes, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4d. for this quantity. White Cup Cakes.—Take as much fresh butter as will fill one cup, as much powdered white sugar as will fill two cups, and as much flour as will fill three cups. Beat the butter to cream, add the powdered sugar and the flour. Whisk the whites of eight eggs to frotli, and add them gradually to the mixture, together with a table-spoonful of powdered saleratus dissolved in a little hot water, a table-spoonful of rose water, and as much milk or cream as will make the batter of the consistency of poimd- cake batter. Butter some small tins, three parts fill thorn with the mixture, and bake in a well-heated oven. The yolks of the eggs may of course be used for other purposes. Time to bake the cakes, according to size. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. for this quantity. White Fish and Sauce.—Take three pints of veal stock; put it into a saucepan with the heads and fins of five haddocks, four onions, a bunch of pai-sley, three inches of thin lemon- rind, and a little salt and cayenne. Simmer the liquor for an hour, strain it, and put with it a dessert-spoonful of strained lomon-jiiice and a large wine-glassful of light wine. IVIince the flesh of a lobster or crab. Thicken the sauce with a little white thickening, skim carefully, add a little cream and, if Uked, the well-beaten yolk of an egg, and stir the mince into it. Boil the haddocks, put them on a dish, garnish with forcemeat balls, and pour the sauce over them. The forcemeat may be made as follows:—Tear the flesh of a small boiled haddock into flakes. Mix with it an equal quantity of bread-crumbs, and add a small proportion of chopped parsley. Rub a httle butter into the mixture, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Bind it together with egg, form it into balls, and fry these in hot fat to a light brown colour. Time, altogether, two hours. White Kidney Bean.—The haricot blanc, or white kidney bean, deserves to be introduced more generally into our kitchens. There are various methods of dressing these beans, but the best is to have them softened in the gravy of a leg of mutton ; they are then a good substitute for potatoes. They are nearly as good dressed with oil or butter, and Napoleon was exceedingly fond of them dressed as a salad. Of course we allude here to the bean which, in full maturity, is taken from the pod, and eaten in winter. In England we eat the pod itself (in summer) split, and served with roast mutton and venison. The mature bean, however, makes an excellent dish. White Kidney Beans (a la Lyon- naise).—Cut a few onions into dice, and fry them in a little butter till they are of a light- brown colour; then add two spoonfuls of Spanish sauce. Let the onions be well done; season them with pepper and salt; drain the beans that have been done as above, then throw them into the sauce, and serve up hot. If you have no Spanish sauce, when you have fried the onions, add a spoonful of fine flour, and rnoisten with good grav)% or broth, and a little glaze; then boil very well, and put the beans in as directed. This manner is for entre- mets, 'and they are dressed the same to put under a leg of mutton roasted, or a quarter of mutton h. la Lyonnaise. Wliite Kidney Beans (a la Maitre d'Hotel.—White beans, when fresh, must be put into boiling water; but if dry, they must be soaked for an hour in cold water before being boiled. Then boil them in cold water, and replenish with cold water also, which makes the rind or coat tender. White beans must be well done before being dressed a la maitre d'hotel, which is done as follows:— Put in a stewpan a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little parsley chopped very fine, and some pepper and salt, over which lay the beans( 1114 ) WHI well drained. Keep moving the stowpan, ■without using a spoon, for foar of breaking the beans. Then squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and serve quite hot. White Kidney Beans, Pur^e of.— The beans, which must bo boiled beforehand, ai"e to be mixed with the following preparation: Chop some onions, fry them lightly in a little butter, put a little flour to fry in the batter, and when done moisten with a spoonful or two of bi'oth. Let the onions be thoroughly done. Next let the beans heat in the sauce till quite hot, season well, without pepper, and strain through a tamis. Eeduce the puree over a brisk fire, skim off the white scum, and before serving refine the puree with a bit of very fresh butter and two spoonfuls of thick cream. This dish is to be garnished with fried crusts of bread aU round. The same method is used to make the soup a la puree d'haricot, only put some strong consomme in it, and keep the puree quite clear. Serve with the soup some *rumbs of bread cut in small squares and fried browm in butter. White Kidney Beans, Pur6e of (another way).—New white beans should be used for making a puree. If fresh, put them into boUing water; if dry, into cold water, adding a little butter in either case, to make the skin more mellow. When the beans are done enough, add a handful of salt to season them. Fry in a little butter a few shces of onions. When they are melted, sprinkle them with half a spoonful of flour; moisten with consomme, and season with a little pepper and salt; skim off the grease. When the flour is done, mix it well with the beans, let them boU a quarter of an hour, and squeeze them well before rubbing them through a tamis. Let the puree be rather limpid, as it is liable to thicken when on the fire. A short time before serving mix a small piece of butter with the puree. White Pot, Devonshire {see Devonshire White Pot). White Puddings.—^WHte puddings are frequently made with the white part (other- wise the frill or fraise) of a calf's pluck boiled and minced, and mixed with an equal weight of boiled liacon, soaked bread-crumbs, and sausage meat, seasoned with salt and pepper, flavoured with boiled onion and spices, and bound together with yolk of egg. The pud- dings thus made will not keep. They should be put into well-cleaned sausage-skins, and baked in the oven or broiled over a clear fire, and served very hot. Before being used the calf's frill should be thrown into cold water, and kept there till wanted. It should be boiled in salt and water, and cooled before being minced for the pudding. White Puddings (another way).—Take the fry of a small freshly-killod pig, with half a pound of fresh pork and half a poimd of the inner fat of the pig. Mince all finely together, and mix thoroughly with a handful of fresh parsley leaves, two sage leaves, a sprig of chervil, and a moderate-sized onion, all chopped small. Take three ounces of the stale crumb of bread, grate finely, and boil it to a pulp in half a pmt of milk; beat it with a wooden spoon, and add a heaped tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of i^owdered sugar, a teal spoonful of white Jjepjjer, half a teu-s|x>ouf ul of dry mustard, as umcli grated nutmeg as will he on a thieepenny-]jiece, a pincli of powdered mace, a pinch of powdered coriander-seed, and a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind. When the seasoning ingredients are tliorouglily mixed with the boiled bread, stir in the minced meat, and bind the mixture together with the w^ijl- beaten yolks of two and the white of one egg. A small piece of garlic may be added to the other ingredients, if the flavour is not objected to; and work in one ounce and a half of dried flour. Three-parts fill some well-prepared pigs' skins with the mixture, and tie them firmly in links about six inches in length. Be careful to leave room for the mixture to swell. Put them into warm water, let them boU, then simmer gently for two hours. As they swell prick them with a needle to let out the aii\ Hang them in a cool situation. When wanted, cover with but- tered paper and broil the puddings over a clear fire; remove the paper, and serve very hot. Time to broil the puddings, about twenty-five minutes. White Puddings (another way).—Cut half a pound of the flesh of a cold roast fowl into shces, then mince it finely, and mix with it four ounces of the inner fat of the pig also minced. . Boil a quarter of a pint of bread- crumbs in half a pint of nulk tUl it forms a thick paste; skin and chop small one large onion, dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan, put in the onion and the. minced meat, cover the stewpan closely, and let its contents stew gently tUl the onions are tender; add the soaked bread-crumbs, season the mixture with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and bind together with the yolks of three eggs; stir the mixture over the fire briskly for five minutes. Clean some skins thoroughly, three-parts fill them with the mixture, tie them firmly in links about six inches in length, and put them into a saucepan with plenty of water, hot but not boiling; bring the water to the boil, then simmer the puddings for ten minutes. Drain theiii, and hang them in a cool situation till wanted. Before using them, cover with but- tered paper, and broil over a clear fire; serve very hot on a dish covered with a nap- kin. If more convenient, the flesh of roast pheasants, partridges, hares, or veal, may be used instead of roast fowl. Time, about twenty-five minutes to broil the puddings. White Puddings (another way).—Take eight oimces of beef suet, eight ounces of oat- meal, one ounce and a half of onion shred very small, an eighth of an ounce of salt, an eighth of an ounce of ground black pepper: mix these ingredients thoroughly without water, and tie hard up in a cloth. Boil for an hour and a half slowly in an open goblet, keeping it always under water, which must be boiUng when the pudding is put in. White Puddings, Sweet.—Shred finely haK a pound of freali pork kidney fat,, put it into a bowl, and mix with it a pinch of salt, four ounces of flour, four ounces of powderedWHI WHI ( 1115 ) white sugar, four ounces of currants cleaned and picked, two ounces of ground rice, a table- spoonful of candied lemon-peel, and the same quantity of candied orange-peel, both chopped small, an ounce of sweet and four bitter al- monds blanched and chopped, and a little gi-ated nutmeg. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, moisten with a quarter of a pint of new milk, and bind the mixture together -with two well- whisked eggs. Beat the pudding with a wooden spoon for twenty minutes, put it into weU- cleaned skins, and be careful to leave room for the mixtiu-e to swell. Tie the ends securely, put the puddings into boiling water, and boH gently until done enough. Before serving them remove the skins. If liked, the puddings may be put aside and kept for a while before being used. They must then be hung separately in a cool situation, and boiled for a short time, to heat them, before serving. Time to boil the puddings, about two hours and a half; when boiled the second time, a quarter of an hour will be sufficient. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Suf- ficient for six or eight persons. White Boux.—Dissolve a pound of fresh butter in a saucepan over a slow fire; skim it thoroughly, and pour the pure oily part into a clean saucepan, leaving behind the thick curd at the bottom. Stir into it very gradually one pound of well-dried flour, and stir it over a very gentle fire tUl it is thoroughly baked but not at all browned. The more slowly it is done the better, but care must be taken that it does not acquire the least colour. Put it into a small jar for use; it will keep for some time. Sufficient, a tea-spoonful will thicken half a pint of gravy. White Sauce. — Melt two ounces of butter, and fry in it gently two ounces of lean ham. Do not let it discolour. Stir into it one ounce and a half of flour, pour on one pint of white stock, and add six button mushrooms cut up smaU, and two small carrots. Stir the sauce tUl it boils, draw the pan back, put the lid half on, and simmer gently for a quarter of ah hour. Skim away the fat, strain the sauce through a tamis, add half a gill of cream, and the sauce is ready. White Sauce (a French recipe),—Take one ounce of good butter, put it into a sauce- pan, stir in a spoonful of flour, add a glass- ful of water, put it on the fire, and keep stirring. When the sauce boils, take it off, set it on one side, and salt it. Should it be too thick, add a little water; if too thin, a piece of butter rolled in flour. Just before serving, beat up the yolks of two or three eggs to stir in ; warm the sauce, but take care not to let it boil; then put in a dash of vinegar. White Sauce, Celery with {see Celeiy with White Sauce). White Sauce, Cucumber {see Cucum- ber White Sauce). White Sauce, Economical.—Beat two ounces of flour and an oimce of butter to a smooth paste in a saucepan over the fire. Add gradually a pint of milk and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Stir the sauce over the fire for a few minutes, strain through a pointed strainer, and it will be ready for use. White Sauce, Eggs and {see Eggs and White Sauce). White Sauce for Boiled Chicken {see Chicken, White Sauce for Boiled). White Sauce for Pish.—Mince two anchovies, and put them into a delicately clean saucepan with a glassful of light wine, a glass- ful of vinegar, and an onion stuck with one clove. Simmer all gently together till the anchovies are dissolved, then strain the liquor. Mix a dessert - spoonful of flour smoothly with a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan; cook thoroughly, then add a quarter of a pint of milk or cream. Stir the sauce over a gentle fire for a few minutes till it thickens, lift it from the fire, and add the strained liquor. Or mix half an ounce of butter in a saucepan with an ounce of flour; stir in half a pint of cream or milk, two table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy, and a little cayenne. Stir the sauoe over the fire for a minute or two, and serve. White Sauce for Pike {see Pike, White Sauce for). White Sauce for Turkey or Fowl.— Take the head, neck, heart, and feet of the birds, wash them thoroughly in hot water, cut them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a slice of lean veal, two sprigs of parsley, a spig of thyme, a square inch of thin lemon-rind, a blade of mace, three pepper- corns, and a quart of cold water. Cover closely, and simmer gently till the stock is strong and good. Strain the liquor through a napkin laid in a sieve, and when cold free it entirely from fat. Put a tumblerful into a saucepan, and let it boil. Stir into it a table-spoonful of fiour which has been mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold milk, and add more milTr or cream to make it equal the measure of the stock. Stir the sauce over the fire till it is white and thick, and add pepper and salt if required. If the sauce is to be poured over cold poultry, it should be made thick enough to adhere to the birds: therefore, less stock should be used for the sauce, with a Httle more flour and cream. When more convenient, the veal may be omitted, and a tea-spoonful of gelatine may be used instead. The liquor in which poultry, veal, or rabbits have been boUed is excellent for making white sauce. Time to simmer the stock, about two hours ; to simmer the sauce, a few minutes. Probable cost, 6d., if made with milk. Sufficient for five or six persons. . White Sauce for Vegetables. —Put a pint of stock made from bones into a saucepan with an inch of lemon-rind, half a blade of mace, and six peppercorns. Let it simmer for half an hour, then strain it. Mix a table- spoonful of corn-flour smoothly with a Uttle cold milk. Stir this into the stock, and also a little more milk to make up the measure to about three-quarters of a pint. Add pepper and salt if required. Simmer the sauce, stirring it well, for about five minutes; pour it out, stir into it a small piece of fresh butter until it is dissolved, and serve. Time, altogether, ouq hour.WHI WHI ( ni6 ) White Sharp Sauce.—Take a little ■white stock, and flavour it pleasantly with two or thi-oo mushrooms, a Lunch of parsley, and some young onions. Strain it, thicken with white thickening, and boil till smooth. Stir into it a little tarragon vinegar to flavour it pleasantly, and add stilt and cayenne, together with a small proportion of cream, and just before serving stir into it until dissolved a small piece of fresh butter. ^Vhen a very rich sauce is required, the well-beaten yolks of one or two eggs may be added. Beat the eggs in a bowl. Let the sauce cool a little, then stir a table-spoonful of it into the eggs, and add the rest gradually. Stir the sauce over the fire for a minute or two, but on no account allow it to boil; then serve. White Soup.—The meats to be used in making stock for white soup are veal, fowls, rabbits, and calf's feet, or cow heel. White Boups may be thickened with white roux, rice, ground rice, arrowroot, macaroni, tapioca, vermicelli, pearl beirley, &c., and boiling cream or milk should be added. Half milk and half stock is a good proportion for white soups, and the peculiar seasoning and flavouring must be particularly attended to. It is a good plan to keep a separate stock-pot for the pre- paration of white soups. White Soup (another way).—Take three pints of good white stock entirely free from fat and sediment, put it into a stewpan, and let it heat gently. Blanch two oimces of sweet almonds, and pound them to a paste in a marble mortar with a little water to keep them from oiling. Mince and pound with them a slice of dressed veal or fowl, and add a table-spoonful of stale bread-crumbs and a small blade of mace finely powdered. "When the mixture is smooth, stir it very gradually into a pint of cream, and add a pint of the stock; put into it an inch of thin lemon-rind, and simmer over the fire .for a few minutes. Stir into it as much of the stock as will make it of the thickness of cream, and simmer the soup gently for half an hour. Remove the lemon-rind, and serve the soup with toasted sippets. If liked, arrowroot, ground rice, or common flour may be used instead of the aMionds; and, when cream cannot be had, new milk mixed with the yolks of eggs may be used instead. The egg should be beaten in the soup tureen; it should be mixed with a table- spoonful of the milk, the rest of the milk (boiling) should be added gradually, and the soup poured in. By increasing the quantities and preserving the proportions, a larger quan- tity of soup may be made. Time to simmer the thickening in the soup, half an hour. Suf- ficient for eight or nine persons. White Soup (another way). — Take two quarts of good, nicely-flavoiired white stock, entirely free from fat {see Stock, White, for Soups and Sauces); put it into a stewpan, and let it boil up. Mi-x foxir table-spoonfuls of corn- flour to a smooth thin paste with a little cold milk. Stir this into the boiling stock, let it boil, then draw it back, and let it simmer gently, stirring all the time, for seven minntcs. Season the soup with pepper and salt, stir into it a pnit of boiling cream or milk, and serve very hot. Time, with the stock already made about an hour. Probable cost, if made with cream, and with stock costing Is. pur quart, 48. Suflicient for ten or twelve persons. WTlite Soup (another way).—Take a knuckle of veal, two calf's feet, two anchovies, a slice of ham, two heads of celery, three onions a few sweet herbs, a few peppercorns, and one ounce of sweet almonds blanched and boat fine. Stew all over a slow fire with the rtx^umU, quantity of water, taking off the scuni as it rises. Strain the liquor off, and wlien put upon the fire next day to boil add to it two ounces of vermicelli. _ Just before it is sent to table, put in half a pint of cream, and give it a gentle boil. White Soup (another way).—Into sir quarts of water put a knuckle of veal, one large fowl cut into quarters, a pound of lean ham, haK a pound of rice, two ancho-vaes, a few peppercorns, two or three onions, a bundle of sweet herbs, and three or four heads of celery. Stew all together till the soup becomes suffi- ciently strong, then strain it through a hair sieve into an earthen pot; after standing all night, take off the fat, and pour the soup clear oflt into a stewpan, and put into it half a poimd of almonds beat very smooth, boil a short time, and run the soup through a lawn sieve; then put in a pint of cream and the yolk of an egg. Serve hot. White Soup (a la Eeine).—Eoasta fowl, pick the flesh from the bones, free it from skin and sinew, mince a poimd of it to a smooth paste, moistening with a quarter of a pint of stock and a slice of fresh butter. Have ready three-quarters of a pound of Carolina rice which has been boiled gently till tender in three pints of white stock. Put it into the mortar, and pound it with the other ingredients. Put the pulp into a stewpan, moisten with two pints of white stock, and rub it through a fine sieve. Heat it again in the stewpan, and when it is quite hot season with pepper and salt, stir into it half a pint of boiling cream, and serve immediateh^ The stock for this soup may be made by stewing the bones and trimmings of the fowl with a slice of lean veal, a large cprrot, a few sticks of celery, and an onion. If Uked, a dessert-sjloonful of gelatine may be sub- stituted for the veal. Time, altogether, three to four hours. Probable cost, 6s. lOd. for this quantity, supposing the fowl to cost 3s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight jiersons. White Soup, Economical.—Take a quart of nicely-flavoured stock made from the bones of veal. The liquor in which veal, mutton, or chickens have been boiled will answer excellently for the purpose. Before being used it must be simmered for an hour with the flavouring ingredients mentioned below. Let the stock boil; then stir into it two table-spoonfuls of corn-flour which has been mixed to a smooth thin paste with a httlc cold mUk. Draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently, stirring all the time, for seven minutes. Season with pepper and salt. Put the yolk of an egg into the soup tureen, beat itWHI ( 1117 ) WHI with a table-spoonful of milk, and stir in gradu- ally half a pint of boiling milk; add the stock, and servo inunediatoly. When veal bones or cold meat liquor are not at hand, take one pound of the scrag end of a neck of veal, and a slice of thin lean ham, or a piece of bacon-iind ■which has been scalded and scraped; put them into a stewpan with a small carrot, a turnip, one large onion, a blade of mace, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and four pepper- corns. Pom- over the ingredients half a gallon of cold water, let the liquor boU, skim care- fully, then draw it back, and simmer gently till it is strong and good. Strain it, and when cold, free it entu-ely from fat, and it will be ready for being converted into white soup. Time to simmer the stock, three hours. Probable cost of the scrag end of the neck of veal, 7d. or 8d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. White Soup, Family.—Take four pounds of the knuckle of veal and one pound of lean ham, put them into a stewpan, pour over them three quarts of water, and add an onion stuck with a clove, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, half a bay-leaf, a small blade of mace, the thin rind of a quar- ter of a small lemon, and eight peppercorns. Let the liquor boil, skim carefully, draw it to the side, and simmer gently till the meat ia tender. Take up the veal, and serve it separately with parsley sauce. Strain the liquor, and when cold, free it entirely from fat. When it is wanted, put it into a stewpan and let it boil; mix two table-spoonfuls of arrowroot to a smooth paste with three table- spoonfuls of cream, add half a pint of new milk, and stir this into the soup. Let it simmer for ten minutes, season with pepper and salt, and serve immediately. Time, two hours to stew the veal. Probable cost of veal, 5d. or 6d. per pound. Sufficient soup for ten or twelve persons. White Soup, Portable.—Procure as fine a leg of veal as can be got, remove the whole of the skin and fat, chop in pieces two dozen fowls' feet, wash them well, put them into a largo iron kettle -with three gallons of water, stew untU the meat is tender enough to separate, cover down close, and stew for eight hours; take a tea-cup and fill it with the soup; set it where it can quickly cool. If when cold it is hard enough to cut -with a knife, strain through a sieve and remove all the fat, pour into cups the clear jelly, put them into a stewpan with boiling T.-atsr until they are like glue; let them cool, and w^hen nearly cold run a ring round them and turn them on a piece of new flannel; it will draw all the moisture out of them : turn them in seven hours, and continue until they are qiute hard. Put them in. tin canisters in a dry place. When any is re- quired, cut a piece about the size of a walnut, pom- a pint of boiling water upon it, stir until the soup is dissolved, season with salt; it will make a basin of strong broth. If for soup, steep some vermicelli in water, boil it, then to one cake of the soup pour one pint of water. If two quarts or four pints of soup are required take four cakes of the soup, and when melted,' set H over the fire and simmer, pour it into a soup-tureen, add thin slices of bread verj' lightly toasted, and upon them the vennicelli; season to taste. White Stock for Sauces and Soups (to make a lai-go quantity) .—Take a large stew- pan perfectly tinned, butter it well, and line the bottom with thin slices of lean ham. Lay upon these some lean veal cut into pieces about two inches square, and also any bones and trimmings of veal or poultry there may be ; an old hen will be a valuable addition. Pom- in as much stock as will cover the meat, cover the stewpan, and boil the liquor quickly tUl it is of the consistency of gum. Draw it back before it can acquire any colour, and fill the stewpan -ndth common stock. Add a hand- ful of parsley, a sprig of thjTne, a bay-leaf, two onions, each stuck with three cloves, half a blade of mace, and a few peppercorns. Sim- mer the stock gently, carefullj^ removing the scum as it rises, for about two hours, strain thi'ough a sieve, and put it aside till cold. Eemove the fat from the top, and pour the liquor off free from sediment before using it. When filling up the stewpan it should be remembered that a quart of stock should be allowed for each pound of veal and fowl com- bined. White Wine Jelly (Calf's-foot Stock). —Take one quart of cold calf's-foot stock entirely free from fat and sediment, and measured whilst hot. Put it into a saucepan with the thin rind of a small fresh lemon, the strained juice of two lemons, six ounces of roughly-pounded sugar, and the well-whisked whites and crushed shells of two fresh eggs. Mix all weU together; then put the sauce- pan on a gentle fire, and whisk its contents thoroughly till the liquor rises high in the pan. Stop whisking at once, put the lid on the saucepan, and let it stand by the side of the fire for twenty minutes, to let the impurities harden and form a crust. Wring a jelly-bag out of boUing water, pour the contents of the saucepan into it, and without squeezing the bag let the liquor run through it. If it is not clear, pour it thi-ough a second and even a third time; but this should not be done unless it_ is necessary, as it wastes the jelly. "WTienit is quite clear, stir into it from a quarter to three-quarters of a pint of white wine, according to taste. Pour the jelly into moulds which have been soaked in cold water, and let it stand in a cool place till stiff. If the jelly is to be served in glasses, pour it into a shallow dish, and when cold, take it up ^vith a des- sert-spoon and put it into the glasses. If the caH's-foot stock is not very firm, or if the weather is warm, soak from a quarter to half an ounce of gelatine or isinglass in two table- spoonfuls of cold water for an hour. Stir into this a cupful of boiling water, and add the liquor to the calf's-foot stock. Time to boil the jelly, twenty minutes. Probable cost, ex- clusive of the wine and without isinglass, Is. 8d. Sufficient for a quart of jelly. White Wine JeUy made with Isin- glass or Gelatine.—Soak an ounce of isin- glass or gelatine in as much cold water as will cover it for an hour. Pour upon it three-WHI ( 1H8 ) WHI quarters of a pint of boiling water, and stir it until dissolved. Lot it gut cold; tlicn add as much white wine as will make up the quan- tity to one quai-t. IShorry or marsala wine may be used, or a mixture of sherry and good raisin wine. _ Put it cold into a delicately clean sauce- pani with the thin rind and strained juice of two fresh lemons, a quarter of a pound of roughly- powdered sugtir, and the woll-wlusked wliites and crushed shells of two eggs. Beat the mix- ture briskly for a minute or two, put it on the fire, and whisk it vigorously until it rises high in the pan. Tut the lid on, draw the pan back, in order that it may form a crust. Lift it from the fire, and let it stand to settle for ten minutes. Wring a jelly-bag out of boiling- water, pour the contents of the saucepan into it, and lot it run through till clear. Bo careful not to squeeze the jelly-bag, as this would make the jelly thick. Pour the jelly into a quart mould or into two pint moulds which have been soaked in cold water, and keep it in a cool place till wanted; turn it out upon a glass dish and serve. If it is to bo put into glasses, pour it into a shallow dish, let it remain until stiff, and before serving take it up in a dessert-spoon and put it into the glasses. Time to boil the jelly, a quarter of an hour. Proba- ble cost, Is., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a quart of jelly. White Wine Negus.—Extract the juice from the peel of a lemon by rubbing loaf sugar upon it, or cut the peel of a lemon very thin and pound it in a mortar; cut two lemons into thin slices, add four glassfuls of calf's-foot jelly in a liquid state, and small quantities of cinnamon, mace, cloves, and all- spice. Put the whole into a jug, pour one quart of boiling water upon it, cover the jug closely, let it stand a quarter of an hour, and then add a bottle of boiling white wine; grate half a nutmeg into it, stir it well together, and sweeten to taste. White Wine Sauce for Sole.—First boil a large sole in the white wine. To do this, cleanse and trim the sole, and put it into a shallow fish kettle just large enough to hold it. Skin a small onion, and cut it into dice; sprinkle it over the fish, and add a little salt, a small bunch of sweet herbs, six peppercorns, and one clove. Pour over the sole as much French white wine as will cover it, and let it boil gently till done enough. Strain the liquor, put it into a small saucepan, place it by the side of the fire, and stir into it, gently and gradually, the yolk of an egg. As soon as it begins to thicken, take it from the fire and pour it over the fish. Time to boil the sole, according to size. Whiting.—The whiting, when fresh, is an excellent and delicate fish, light, tender, and easy of digestion. It may be caught on different parts of the coast all the year round, but is to be had in perfection during the winter months. It does not keep well. Whitings are occasionally caught which weigh several pounds, but as a general rule they do not weigh more than a pound and a half. The best whitings in point of flavour are those which are about nine inches long. It is contrary to law to take the fish when it is less tlian six inches long, Whit- ings are occasionuUy boiled, but tln-y arc best when fried or broiled. It is usual before fryintr the fish to skin it, and fasten the tails thioutrh the eye-liolos. Whiting (au Gratin).—Butter a baking, dish, and spruiklo over it some grated bread- crumbs and a little pepper and salt. Mointen these with a gkss of white wine, and add a tiible-spoonful of mushroom ketchup and a tea- spoonful of anchovy. Pkce the whiting in the dish, and strew all about it two tea-spoonfuls of finely-chopped mushrooms, and one of parsley and shallot. Cover the surface of the fish with brown bread-crumba, and put it in the oven till it is done enough. Take it up carefully with a fish slice, put it on a dish, and serve \vith the sauce poured over it. If not sufficiently browned, a salamander or red-hot shovel may be held over it for a minute or two. Sometimes the fish is filleted and prepared in this way. Time to bake the fish, half an hour. Probable cost of whitings, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, one for each person. WHrnSG. Whiting (au Gratin).—Another way.— Take two full-sized whitirigs, empty, scrape, cleanse, and wipe them, then make deep inci- sions on each side with a sharp knife to the depth of a quarter of an inch. Butter a shallow dish thickly; sprinkle upon it a little pepper and salt and two table-spoonfuls of fine bread- raspings. Put in the whitings, sprinkle these with pepper and salt, pour gently over them one to two glassfuls of French light wine, and lay upon the fish two table-spoonfuls of finely-minced mushrooms mixed ^^•ith a table- spoonful of parsley. Melt an ounce of butterj pour it over the fish, sprinkle two table-spoon- fuls of bread-raspings on the top, and bake the whitings in the oven. Send a cut lemon only to table with the fish. If it is preferred that the wine should not be used, three or four table- spoonfuls of pale veal gravy may be substituted for it. Time to bake the whitings, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost. 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Whiting (au Gratin).—Another way.— After having scaled, emptied, and washed theWHI WHI ( 1119 ) whitings, wipe them clean. Preserve the liver. Take a silver dish if you have one, if not, a baking-pan. Rub the bottom over with butter, and sprinkle it with parsley and imishrooms chopped verj' fine, over which lay the whitings. Then take some rasps of bread that are not burnt, and sprinkle thorn over the whitings, with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; then again dust them over with sweet herbs, namely, parsley and mushrooms, chopped very fine. (If shallots are approved of, you may add some.) Next lay small lumps of butter on the whit- ings ; pour into the dish a glassful or two of white ^vine, a tea-spoonful of each of the follow- ing articles—essence of anchovies, cavice, chili, vinegar, Harvey's sauce, &c.—and bake in a hot oven. The whitings will be done within a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, accord- ing to size. Serve with lemon-juice and no other sauce. This is a very palatable dish ; if there is too much sauce, reduce it on a stove, as it must be very short, it being called " au gratin " because it is a short sauce. W Hiting (aux Fines Herbes).—Clean and skin the fish, and fasten it with its tail in its mouth. Place it on a dish, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over it a tea-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder. Lay little pieces of butter here and there thickly upon it, cover with another dish, and bake in a moderately- heated oven till done enough. Tiuti it once or twice that it may be equally cooked, and serve with the sauce poiu-ed over it. Time to bake the fish, twenty to thirty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, one whiting for each person. Whiting, Baked. — Cut the heads off some fuU-sized whitings, empty them, and cleanse them perfectly, opening them for the purpose as little as possible. Dry them, fold them in a cloth, and leave them for a quarter of an hour. Butter a baking-dish, and put them into it backs downwards, that the sauce maj'- cover the thickest part of the flesh. Sprinkle salt and cayenne upon them, and put roimd them half an ounce of butter kneaded with a salt-spoonful of flour, half a tea-spoonful of chili vinegar, a table-spoonful of port, and a small pinch of powdered mace for each fish. Lay a double fold of oiled paper upon the dish, and press it upon the fish. Put them in a gentle oven, and bake till done enough. Take them up carefully with a fish slice, place them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. Time to bake the fish, twenty to thirty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, one whiting for each person. Wlliting, Boiled.—Whiting plainly boiled 18 sometimes recommended for invalids, as it is considered light and easy of digestion; but it is insipid food, and this method of dressing the fish cannot be recommended. Large whiting should be chosen for boiling. Skin the fish, and skewer it with its tail in its mouth. Put it into boiling water slightly salted, clear off the scum frequently, and simmer the fish till the eyes start and the flesh will leave the bone. Take it up the moment it is done enough. Drain it, remove the skewer, put the whiting on a hot dish covered with a napkin, garnish with parsley, and send melted butter, anchovy, shrimp, parsley, white, or Dutch sauce to table with it; or, if preferred, merely mix a little fresh butter lightly with the flakes of the fish- Time to boil, from five to eight minutes, ac- cording to size. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, one whiting for each person. Whiting, Broiled.—Wash the whiting ill salted water, and be careful to preserve the liver, as it is by some considered a delicacy. Dry the fish thoroughly, brush it over with oil, and roU it in flour. Broil it over a clear bright fire. Serve on a hot dish, either with a little piece of butter placed upon the fish, or with melted butter or parsley sauce; or, better still, with a sauce prepared as follows:—Beat the yolk of an egg in a gallipot, and put with it two table-spoonfuls of water and two table- spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. Put the galli- pot into a saucepan, and surround it with boil- ing water. Place it on the fire, stir briskly for a minute, and add a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of chopped pars- ley, and half a tea-spoonful of flour which has been kneaded into two ounces of butter. Stir the mixture till it thickens, work in a few drops of strained lemon-juice, and serve. The sauce must not boil. Time to broil the fish, six to twelve minutes, according to size. If liked, the tarragon vinegar can be omitted, and the sauce flavoured entirely with lemon-juice. Whiting, Broiled (another way).— Empty the whitings, scale them, but preserve the Uver, which is very delicate. When you have washed and wiped them clean, sUt the back on both sides. Beat the yolk of an egg with a little salt and pepper, and rub some of it over the whitings with a brush. Then dip the fish into crumbs of bread, next into melted butter, and then into crixmbs of bread again. Broil them of a fine colour, and serve up. The sauce is to be sent up separately in a boat, whether it is anchovy sauce or melted butter. It is to be sent up separately, for if you were to pour the sauce over the fish, the whiting would not prove palatable, and the sauce would get too thick. Whiting, Buckhorn. — In Cornwall, whitings which have been salted and dried are sold vmder the name of buckhorn. Whiting, Choosing of. — Whitings should be procured as fresh as possible. The goodness of the fish may be known by the firmness of its flesh, the brightness of its eyes, and the silvery hue of its appearance. Codlmgs and pollacks are frequently sold as whitings. The true whiting may be known by its having no barbel under its chin, by the under jaw being shorter than the upper one, and by its tail being even at the end. In point of flavour, those are the best whitings which are about nine inches long. Whiting, Curried.—Take three full-sized whitmgs. Clean and skin the fish, fillet them neatly, and cut the fillets into pieces about three inches in length. Skin two onions and cut them into dice. Put them into a frjnng- pan with a little fat, place them on the fire, and turn them about till soft. When they( 1120 ) WHI have steamed a minute, put with thorn a sour apple chopped small. Kub the onion and the apple through a sieve. Place the pulp in a basin, and mix smoothly with it a tablo-apoon- ful of- curry paste or powder, a table-spoonful of ground rice, and as much nicely-llavourod stock as will cover the fish. Put the sauce into a stewpan, and when it boils, put into it the fillets of whiting. Let them boil gently till done enough. Put them carefully on a 'dish; slcim the sauce and pour it over them, and send rice boiled for cuny to table on a separate dish. If liked, a little cream may be added to the sauce to em-ich it, and if it is not sufficiently acid, a little lemon-juice may bo stin-ed into it. Time, a few minutes to boil the whitings. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for four or five persons. Whiting, Fillets of .—Empty and cleanse the fish, but do not skin them. Pass a knife from the tail to the head, and take off the flesh close to the bone. Divide the fillets into halves crosswise, trim them neatly, fold them in a soft cloth, and leave them for awhile that they may be perfectly dried. Season with pepper and salt, sprinkle a little oil and vinegar over them, dip them in beaten white of egg, flour them well, and fry in hot fat till they are crisp and lightly browned. Drain them, press them in white blotting-paper to free them from fat, and place in a cii-cle on a hot dish, and serve with melted butter, or with parsley, an- chovy, shrimp, ra\agote, piquant, or oyster sauce. The last-named sauce, if made very thick and white, may be served in the centre of the fillets. Time to fry the fillets, five minuteg or more. Probable cost of whiting, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, one small whiting for each person. Whiting, FiUetS of (another way).— After having scaled, emptied, and washed the whitings, take up the fillets. Pare them nicely on both sides without damaging the skin. Cut each fillet in two pieces of an equal size, and put them into an earthen pan with a few stalks of parsley, and a few shallots shredded, some salt, pepper, and the juice of a lemon; stir the whole in the lemon-juice. Let it steep for about three houi-s. Then drain the fillets on a clean towel. Next beat the whites of two eggs, so that they may stick to the fillets. Slix some crumbs of bread and flour, dip the fillets into the whites of eggs and in the crumbs of bread and flour, and fry the whole just before they are wanted in very hot dripping, that they may be served up hot with white sharp sauce. Whiting Forcemeat.—Skin and fillet two or three whitings, scrape the flesh with a Bpoon, and rub it through a wire sieve. To twelve ounces of the fish thus prepared put half a pound of panada {see Panada) and six ounces of fresh butter. Season the mixture with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, mix the ingredients thoroughly, and add gradually three whole eggs and the yolks of two. Poach a small quantity of the forcemeat to ascertain whether or not it is firm, yet light and delicately flavoured. If too stiff, mix a little .cream with it. Keep it on ice till required. Whiting Forcemoat, Boudins of.— Prupuro some whiting i'orcom.^at according to the instructions abeudy given. Roll out tlie forcemeat' on tlio table in the fonn of oval cutlets two inches and a half long, one incli and a half wide, and one and three-qujii-ters of an inch thick. Lay these on strips of oiled paper three-quarters of an inch larger than the cutlttg. Make a hollow in the centre of each boudiii size of a failhing and three-quai"ter8 of an inch deep. Throe-parts fill this with shrimps, mussels, or oysters, cut into small dice and mixed in some very stiffly-reduced allemande .sauce. Ck)ver the sauce entirely witli forcemeat. A quarter of an hour before the boudins are to bo served, drop them airefully into some hot but not boiling water slightly salted, and simmer gently till the forcemeat is set. Drain them, dish them in a circle on a hot dish, pour over them some allemande or ravigote sauce, and serve. By way of variety, instead of poaching the boudins, brush them over with egg, roU them in bread-crumbs, and broil over a clear but not too fierce fire. Dish them in a circle, and serve with clear gravy flavoured -with lemon-juice. Whiting, Fried.—Clean, skin, and dry the fish thoroughly in a soft cloth. If they are not perfectly dried, the egg and bread- crumbs will not adhere to them. Turn the tail of each one round and fasten it between the jaws by means of a small skewer. Brush the fish over with Ughtly-beaten egg, and cover with fine bread-crumbs mixed with a little flour. Fry in plenty of hot fat till they are done through and lightly browned; drain and dry them well, and serve on a dish covered with a napkin. Garnish with parsley. Send anchovy or shi-imp sauce to table in a tureen. Small fried whitings are frequently used to garnish lai'ge fish, such as turbot and cod. The whiting, if very large, should be split open, crumbed, and fried flat, or they may be filleted, rolled, and fried. Time to fry small wliitings, about six minutes. Probable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient, one for each person. Whiting, Fried, Economical. — Empty, cleanse, scrape, and wipe the whitings without skinning them, and score them on each side to the depth of a quarter of an inch with a sharp knife. Dip the fish in milk, flour it well, and fry it in fat till crisp and lightly browned. Drain it, serve on a hot dish covered with a napkin, and send anchovy, shrimp, or ra\-igote sauce to table with it. Time, about six minutes to fry the fish. Whiting, Hot Pie of Fillets of (Careme's recipe).—Take the fillets of fifteen small whitings, wash and trim them without taking off the skins. Season highly with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Spread thinly over them a forcemeat of crayfish, Nvith truffles of mush- rooms ; roU up the fillet (beginning at the small end) quite round, men thus prepared, spread some of.the same forcemeat at the bottom and sides of the pie; place upon it ten of the faUets upright, which should thus cover the bottom; pour upon them two spoonfuls of butter scarcelyWHI C 1121 ) WHI melted, and place two more layers of the fillets (ten in each), and pour two or more spoonfuls of butter over them, with two bay-leaves added. Finish the pie in the usual way, and bake it an hour and a qufirter; then pour oft' at the time of serving all the fat, and mask with a ragoflt of carp-roes, crayfish-tails, mushrooms, and arti- choke-bottoms, with a tomato sauce or an Eapagnole with lemon-juice. Whiting, Paupiettes of—FiUet three or four fuU-sized whitings. Trim the fillets, season with pepper and salt, and spread upon each a little whiting forcemeat {see Whiting Forcemeat). Roll them round, tie securely with twine, and wrap them in strips of oiled paper. Put them in the oven, and bake until done enough. Remove the paper, place the paupiettes upright on a dish, put upon the top of each a turned mushroom or a bunch of parsley, pour a little lobster sauce round them, and serve. Time to bake the paupiettes, about half an hour. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Wtiiting Pollack.—This fish is not much prized as an article of food. It is com- mon near the shores of Britain and in the Baltic, and, is usually about the size of a had- dock. The flesh is rather coarse. Whiting Pout, — The whiting pout, otherwise known as the bib, the brassy, the bleus, and the pout, is an excellent fish, which is not so highly esteemed as it deserves to be, possibly because it may be purchased in the places where it is abundant at a trifling cost. It possesses the singular power of inflating the membrane which cover the eyes and other parts of the head, which, when thus distended, have the appeai-ance of bladders. It is probably from this that it derives its name of pout. It is a deeper and stouter fish than the whiting, and its flesh is firmer, di-ier, and less delicate. It seldom exceeds twelve inches in length. It should be eaten very fresh, and may be cooked in every way like whiting. It is improved by being salted for twelve hours, and still further improved by being dried in a current of air. To vary the flavour of the fish, slightly smoke it over a wood fire, then broil it. The great Soyer pronounced this fish to be quite equal to the red mullet. Whiting Pudding.—Take half a pound of the flesh of cold boiled whiting perfectly freed from skin and bone. Pound it to a smooth paste, soften by working gradually into it four ounces of fresh butter which has been beaten to cream, and add three ounces of baked flour, a pinch of grated lemon-rind, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, and bind the mixture together with the yolks of four and the weU-whisked whites of three eggs. Form the pudding to a bolster shape, roll it in oiled paper, and tie it in a cloth. Fasten both ends securely, and steam it over fast-boiling water. Turn it out carefully, serve on a hot dish, and send good white sauce nicely flavoured with lemon-juice in a tureen to table with it. Timo to steam the pudding, one hour. K I. Probable cost, Is,, without the sauce. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Whiting Quenelles. — Prepare some whiting forcemeat, and keep it upon ico till required {see Whiting Forcemeat). Take two spoons of the size it is intended the quenelles should be, and fill one of them with the forcemeat. Dip the other spoon into boil- ing water, remove the queneUe with it, and put it in a buttered saucepan. Repeat until there are as many quenelles as are desired. Pour over them some stock, and boil thero. gently till firm. Take up the quenelles, put them into a dish, pour a little fish sauce round them, and serve. Time to boil the quenelles, about ten minutes. Whiting, Sauce for.—Whitings may be served with plain melted butter, or with shrimp, anchovy, maitre d'hotel, piquant, tomato, ravi- gote, white, or Dutch sauce. Sometimes they are sent to table with no other accompani- ment than a cut lemon. Whiting, Stewed.— Skin, cleanse, and fillet three full-sized whitings, trim the fiUets neatly, and divide them into halves. Season with pepper, salt, and grated lemon-rind, and sprinkle over them a pinch of powdered mixed sweet herbs. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, put the fish into it, and let them simmer gently for ten minutes. Pour a glass of sherry over them, and add the strained juice of half a lemon. Let them heat thi-ee oi four minutes. Take them up carefully, put them on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Serve inunediately. Time, a quarter of an hour to simmer the fish. Probable cost, whitings, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for thi-ee or four persons. Whiting, Wholesomeness of.—The whiting is very tender and delicate; it possesses these qualities in a greater degree than any other fish which our coasts afford. It is not a very nutritive food, but it produces no stimu- lating action on the system, and not being oily or viscid is easily digested, and therefore weU suited to deUcate stomachs, and to patients labouring under various complaints, in which the daily use of even the least exciting meat might prove injurious. Whiting with Caper Sauce.—Cleanse, scrape, and dry two full-sized whitings, and score them on both sides to the depth of a quarter of an inch with a sharp knife. Sea- son with pepper and salt, lay them in a buttered baking-dish, and pom- over them a large wine-glassful of light wine. Put them in the oven, and bake gently till done enough. Make the third of a pint of melted butter, stir into it the liquor from the fish, and add two table-spoonfuls of bruised capers. Pour it over the fish, and serve. Time to bake the fish, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, whitings, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Whiting with Herbs.—Take off the heads and tails, and lay the fish in a stewpan rubbed well with butter, with a handful of mixed herbs chopped fine. Sprinkle with melted butter and a glassful of white wine. Whcu.WHI WHO ( 1122 ) half-boilod, tm-n the fish; when done enough, take thoni out. Add a piece of butter rolled in flour to the suuco, lot it tluckeu, and serve the fish upon it with the juice of u lemon. Whiting with Sweet Herbs,—Clean, wash, and diy five largo whitiugb, fill the iusides with quenelles of whiting, and lay thera in a kettle on a strainer well buttered; cover them with eight ounces of fresh butter in which you have mingled salt, popper, and grated nut- meg sufficient for their seasoning. Add two pottles of chopped mushrooms, two spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a small shallot chopped and blanched, the juice of a lemon, and haLE a pint of chablis wine. Half an hour before serving, make them boil, moistening them from time to time with their liquor; then make them simmer gently with a little fire above and below. When ready to serve, di-ain and dish them; pour their liquor over them, and send to table. Whiting with White-Wine Sauce. —Cleanse, scrape, and dry two full-sized whitings, and score them on both sides to the depth of a quarter of an inch with a sharp knife. Season with pepper and salt, and pour over them as much white wine as will cover them. Place them in the oven, and bake gently till done enough. Knead together in a saucepan over the fire an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour. When the paste is quite smooth, moisten with the third of a pint of water, let it boil, and add the liquor from the baking-dish and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Take it from the fire, stir into it until dissolved half an ounce of fresh butter, pour it over the fish, and serve. Time to bake the whitings, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Whole-meal Bread.—Brown, composi- tion, or whole-flour bread is made from the ground but undressed wheat, and therefore con- tains the bran as well as the flour. Some years ago it was suggested that as the bran contained more nitrogenised matter than the flour, the whole meal must be more nutritious than the finer flonr alone. But that opinion is now considerably modified, for while it is true that the whole meal (bran and fine flour) contains chemically more nutritive matter than the flne flour alone, yet the gritty particles that are present in the former cause an unnatural irrita- tion in the alimentary canal, and lead to a quicker evacuation of the but partially digested and absorbed food. This explains why brown bread possesses laxative properties, and why labourers fed on it consider that it makes them hungry soon again: they feel that it does not last in the stomach, and consequently think there is little nourishment in it. ' Wholemeal Breadj to Bake.—" This laread," says Miss Acton, "is composed of wheat ,^ound into meal, and used without any portion —even the bran—being taken from it; and it is highly recommended by some of the first scien- tific men of the present day as containing a larger amount of nourishment, and being more easy pf digestion than that which ia made with fine flour only, because it is now ascertained that the bran (which was fcjrmerly considered as altogether unfit for food) contains in reality moiv (/luten, or nutriment of the best kind, than any other part of the corn; and it is stated by a very superior writer that it possesses also a peculiar kind of fonnent which has the property of dissolving the Ijread or flour with which it is mixed, and rendering it more easily diges- tible in the stomach. He adds, * To this quality of bran, as well as to the nouiishment it yields, are to be ascribed some of the wholesome quali- ties which many persons have recognised in whole-meal bread.' Now it will be seen that very great advantages would attend the general use of the wheat merely reduced by grinding to a proper state for being converted easily into bread, which is more strengthening in its nature than any other, and therefore of more value to those whose toil is heavy and exhaust- ing ; and which, from its digestible character, is also well suited to persons of sedentary habits and to invalids. In the ordinaiy processes which the com undergoes in separating its various parts there is always considerable loss, and the consumption of wheat in the country would be naaterially lessened if the loss were in a great measure avoided by the adoption of whole-meal bread. There would soon be a per- ceptible difference if a flrMn of it only were consumed in every family which is at present supplied entirely with that made with fine wheaten flom*. After a time it would be pre- ferred by the eaters generally to white bread, and the poorer classes of the people, who now reject with disdain every form of brown bread, would gradually lose this prejudice against it if they saw it commonly adopted for consump- tion by the wealthy. To derive from whole- meal bread all the advantages whic^ it -will undoubtedly yield, the following points should be observed: The com should not be damped before it is ground, and it should lie over for some weeks, and be kept very dry after the grinding before it is converted into bread. Quite at first it will be well to mix a certain portion of flour with it for persons who are not in strong health, or who are unaccustomed to eat brown bread, as it wiU otherwise occasion a little irritation in the stomach for a few days; but this is easily avoided by using it only in part for a time, and by diminishing at each baking the proportion of flour added to it. In making dough with the whole meal, it will be seen that it absorbs more hquid than flour does, and requires rather more yeast to render it light, or a longer time to rise. It should not be made very stiff, or it will be too dry after it i£ baked, yet it should always be workable, and not stick to the hands. If well managed, its flavour wiU be peculiarly sweet and agreeable. It is prepared in precisely the same manner as white bread. Whole meal, one gallon; good flour, one gallon; fresh German yeast, two ounces and a half, or weU-washed beer yeast, two table-spoonfuls ; salt, four to six spoonfuls, or one ounce to one and a half; wann water, or milk and water, full three quarts To rise from one hour to one hour and a halt the ftrst time, or until it is evidently quite hght; the second time about an hour. To be well baked( 1123 ) WHO WIG- in a moderately-heated oven. Or, whole meal, seven pounds; flour, three pounds and a half; solid beer yeast, three large dessert-spoonfuls, or fresh German yeast, nearly two oimces; liquid, rather more than four pints and a quarter; salt as ahove. Or, whole meal, one gallon; German yeast, one ounce and a quarter in summer, one ounce and a half in wnter, or solid brewer's yeast, three dessert-spoonfuls; all else as in the foregoing recipe. It is to be observed that about an ounce or a moderiite- sized table-spoonful of salt to the gallon of flour is suflicient to remove any insipidity of flavour fi-om bread, but a larger proportion is liked by many persons. Not only will a smaller quan- tity of yeast be required in summer than in very cold weather for the fermentation of dough, but the liquid used in making it will require to bo less warm than in winter. Ex- perienced breadmakers recommend that it should then be used at blood-heat (98"). Wholesome-fare Pudding.—This fa- vourite bread-and-butter pudding may be thus made : — Cut some thin sUces of bread and butter; butter a dish, and lay slices all over it. Strew on a few currants picked and washed clean, a little grated nutmeg and cinnamon pounded or in small pieces; then a row of bread and butter, then a few currants again, with the spice as before, and so on, till the dish is fuU. Sweeten some milk according to the size of the dish, and beat up three eggs, a little salt, and a little more nutmeg grated. Mix them all together, pour it over the bread, and bake it. Three rows of bread and butter are sufficient for a dish of a moderate size, as it swells considerably. Slices of bread and beef- suet chopped fine will answer the purpose of bread and butter for a family pudding. Let it stand an hour after the milk has been put to it before it is put into the oven. More eggs may be added, and cream used instead of milk, if it is intended to be very rich. Some people put a little brandy into it. Whortleberry.—This berry sometimes goes under the names of windberry, bartleberry, and bilberry. It grows wild in great abundance upon our heathy commons and imcultivated hills. It is also plentiful in the northern parts of Europe. The fruit is seldom brought to market, but it is much relished by some persons in tarts or cream, and made into jellies. There are several varieties of whortleberry; the purple are rather larger than juniper-berries, and are covered with a fine blue or purple bloom, like the bloom of plums. They are seldom culti- vated. This little berry makes an excellent jelly, being treated exactly in the same manner as currant jelly, to which, in flavour, it is far superior. It, however, requires a pound and a half of sugar to each pint of juice. It will keep good two years, and if properly and carefully made be bettor the second year than the first. Whortleberry Jam (a German recipe). —Moisten the sugar with wine, and boil it well. To four quarts of fruit allow two pounds of sugar and half an ounce of powdered cinnamon. When the sugar boils in transparent bubbles, throw in the fruit, and keep stii-ring till it is of a smooth consistency and no more thin juica collects on the top. Sprinkle inihe cinnamon just before it is done. Widgeon.—The common widgeon is plenti- ful in Britain during winter. The flesh is good for the table. The American widgeon forms also an esteemed food. It breeds chiefly in the northern parts oi America, and is common in winter on the coasts of the United States and in the rice-grounds. Widgeon, Gravy for.—Put a quarter of a pint of veal stock into a saucepan with an inch of thin lemon-rind, three leaves of basil, and a thin slice of onion. Let the liquor boil a few minutes, and strain it. Put with it the clear juice of a lemon or of a Seville orange, and add a glassful of port and a little salt and cayenne. Send it to table very hot. Or dissolve an ounce of fresh butter in a saucepan, stir into it the strained juice of two lemons, and add a little salt and cayenne. Send the gravy to table in a tureen and very hot. Many cooks score the breast of the bird deeply, and pour the gravy over it; but this plan is not to be recommended, because many persons prefer widgeon without gravy. Sirfecient for two birds. Widgeon, Gravy for (another way).— See Orange Gravy for Teal, Widgeons, &c. Widgeon, Hashed.—Cut the best parts of the widgeons into neat pieces. Place them on a dish, cover them over, and place them in a cool pantry till wanted. Put the carcases and trimmings of the birds into a small saucepan with the remains of the gravy that was served with them, or, failing this, with a Uttle broth or water. Let them simmer gently till the liquor is strong and good, then rub the gravy with the Httle pieces of meat that have fallen from the bones through a sieve. Add a wine-glassful of sherry to the sauce, and put it back into the saucepan with the pieces that were put aside. Let these simmer gently till they are warmed through. Of course they must not be allowed to boU. Arrange them on toast upon a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and serve. Time, about half an hour to simmer the pieces. Widgeon, Roasted.—Rub the breast of the widgeon -\vith the liver till it is red. Truss it securely, and put it down before a clear fire. Flour it, and baste frequently till done. Serve on toast in a dish, and send the gravy to table with it. It is generally preferred that a widgeon should be underdressed. If liked, it may be stuffed with the liver pounded and mixed with a few bread-crumbs, a little pepper, salt, and grated lemon-rind, and bound together with the yolk of an egg. Time to roast the widgeon, a quarter of an hour; if liked well done, twenty to twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, Is. each. Widgeon are seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, two for a dish. Wiggs.—Put half a pint of warm milk to three-quarters of a pound of fine flour; mix in it two or three spoonfuls of light yeast. Cover it up, and set it before the fire an hour, in order to make it rise. W^ork into it four ounces each of sugar and butter; make it into cakes, or( 1124 ) WIL "WIL " wiggs," with as littlo flour as poasible and a few caraway-soodB, and bako thorn quickly. Wilberforce Pudding. — Maku batter the Bamo us fur a batter pudding, liutter a bakiug-dish, put in the batter; take some apples, rub them clean with a cloth, take out the stalk and blossom, and do not pare thoni or take out the cores. Put them in the batter, and bake in a (juick oven. If the apides are pared before they are put in the pudding they mash among the batter as soon as they are hot, and make the pudding soft; but when baked whole the pudding is light, and oats very weU. Use butter and sugar for sauce. Wild Boar. — This dish is prepared and dressed in the same way as pork. Generally the flesh of the wild boar is cut in fillets or cutlets, or in slices, which are laid in a stew- pan with butter, chives, parsley, thyme, basilic. When the slices are haH done take them off, and let them steep in their own gravy a day and a night; then fry them, and serve with pickled gherkins. "Wild Boar Cutlets.—Take the under fillets of a ^\nld boar; cut them into slices three-quarters of an inch thick and the shape and size of a cutlet. Lay these in an earthen pan, cover with equal parts of vinegar and white wine, and add a head of garlic and a little salt. Leave them for a couple of hours or longer; drain, and dry them with a soft cloth. Sprinkle over them a little finely- chopped parsley, thyme, and sage, and fry them in butter till done enough. Take them up, and pour a little of the marinade into the saucepan with the butter. When it is quite hot, put the cutlets in a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve garnished with sliced gherkins. If pre- ferred, the cutlets, instead of being fried, may be larded and stewed in a very small quantity of rich gravy glazed, and served with Robert sauce. Time to fry the cutlets, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, uncertain. Wild Boar Ham.—Take a ham that has hung for ten days or more, singe off the bristles, wash the ham in lukewarm water, and saw oft the bone two inches below the knuckle. Put it in a marinade made of equal parts of vinegar and water, to which has been added a tumbler- ful of light wine, a bunch of sage, and a little salt and caycmne. Ijot it remain for eiglit days; drain it, and wipe it dry. Cover witli pajxir that has boon soaked in oil, jiut it down before a clear fire, and baste with the marinade every quaitor of an hour. When done enough, take off the paper, and remove tlie rind. Brush the ham over with liquid gkze, and put it in the oven for a short time, or, if prefeiTcd, instead of glazing it, cover with bread-raspings. Put a paper frill round the knuckle, place the ham on a dish, and send venison sauce, or sauce made of the nmrinade boiled with a little good gravj' and strained, served in a boat. If more convenient, the rind may be removed from the ham at first, and then it need lie in the marinade three days only. Wild-boar hams are very good either when diessed fresh or after they have been cured and smoked. Time to roast the ham, about three hours. Probable cost, imcertain. Wild Boar. Hauncli of, witli Cherry Sauce.—The loUowing recipe is given by M. Dubois in his " Cosmopolitan Cookerj':"—" Get a quarter of young wild boar, fresh and without rind ; take out the thigh-bone, and saw off the thin end; salt, put it in a kitchen basin, pour over a quart of cold cooked "marinade " stock, let it macerate for two or three days, drain, wipe it on a cloth, and put it into a deep roast- ing-pan with lard. Cover it with greased paper, roast it in the oven for three-quarters of an hour, basting often with the fat; then add a few spoonfuls of its marinade, and cook half an hour longer, basting with its own stock. When done vsdthdraw the roasting-pan from the oven, drain the quarter, and spread on its surface a thick layer of black bread- crumbs rasped, dried, pounded, sifted, and mixed up with a little sugar and cinnamon, then moistened with red wine, but only just enough to give it a little consistence. Sprinkle over the layer some drj' bread-crumbs, baste with the fat of the roasting-pan, into which put the quarter back, and keep it at the entrance of the oven for twenty minutes, basting often. When ready to serve take it up, put a ruffle on the bone, dish up, and serve separately the following sauce :—Cherry sauce. Soak in water two handfuls of black dry cherries, as commonly sold in Geraiany—that is, with the kemels; pound them in a mortjir, dilute with a glassful of red wine, and pour the preparation into a sugar-pan. Add to it a piece of cinnamon, two cloves, a Httle salt, and a piece of lemon-zest. Let the prepanttion boil for two minutes, and thicken it with a httle diluted poiato-flour; draw the pan on the side of the fire, cover it, keep it there for a quarter of an hour, and pass it afterwards through a sieve. The cooked marinade men- tioned above is prepared thus:—First of all some chopped roots and vegetables must bo fried with butter, these are moistened with common vinegar, in quantity nearly suftioiont to cover the meats intended to be marinaded. When the vegetables are well saturated, mix( 1125 ) WIL with the liquid a little salt, cloves, peppercorns, and other spices. The mai-inade should con- tinue cooking at least twenty-five minutes. Sometimes a little water is mixed with the vinegar, in order to mitigate its pungency. Wild Boar's Head.—Under the Nor- man kings the wild boar's head was considered a noble dish, worthy of the sovereign's table. This, we are told, was brought to the king's table with the trumpeters sounding their trumpets before it in procession. " For," says Holinshed, " upon the day of coronation (of young Henry) King Henry II., his father, served him at table, bringing up the bore's head with trumpets afore it, according to the ancient manner." Wild Boar's Head (superlative re- cipe).—Remove the hair, snout, and bones from a boar's head, and take off the ears. Si)rinkle a little salt upon it, and put it into a me;it pickle for three or four hours. Meantime, take the white part of the flesh of four young rabbits, and an equal weight of tongue, boiled fat bacon, and peeled truffles. Cut all into one- inch dice, and mix thoroughly. Take the remainder of the rabbit flesh free from skin and gristle, and make forcemeat of it, by chop- ping it up with four pounds of veal and four pounds of fat bacon, and seasoning it rather highly. Drain the head, wipe it with a soft cloth, sprinkle mixed spices upon it without salt, and cover with layers of forcemeat, intermixed with the truffles, rabbit, &c. Form the head into shape, wrap it in a cloth, and put it into a stewpan. Pour over it some good nicely-flavoured stock to which a bottle of madeira or sherry has been added, and let it stew gently till done enough. Take it up, drain it, remove the cloth, wrap the head in a fresh cloth, and, beginning at the snout, bind it round and round Avith tape. Leave it until quite cold, remove the tape and the cloth, put it in the oven for a minute, and wipe the fat from the surface. Trim the back part of the head neatly. Fasten the ears in their places with small skewers; they should, mean- time, have been boiled separately, but not long enough to cause them to lose their shape. Hide the skewers with lard and mutton suet, and rub the head all over till it is black and shiny with a little lard mixed with some very clean soot. Cut out a piece of the skin in the shape of a shield between the eyes, cover the place with lard, and decorate it with a crest or a monogram, or even a few flowers. Stick the tu.sks, remodelled with fat, in their places, and fill the eyes with white of egg and a little piece of beetroot. Surround the head with a wreath of flowers, place it on a dish covered with a napkin, or on a stand, garnish with jelly, and servo. The skin should bo removed before the head is carved. Time to boil the head, five hours or more. Probable cost, very uncertain. Wild Boar, To give Pork the Fla- vour of.—Steep the pork with cloves, garlic, bay-leaf, shallots, juniper-berries, thyme, mint, and vinegar. Wild Duck, Fillets of, with Truffles.—Fry the slices of duck in butter till they are lightly browned. Put them into a clean saucepan, pour the sauce over, and add truffles pared and cut into slices. Let them simmer very gently for five minutes, stir a table- sponfulof lemon-jnice into the gravy, and let it simmer five minutes longer. Take the slices of duck up carefully, arrange them neatly on a dish, pour the gravy round them, and serve very hot. Time, about ten minutes to simmer the fillets in the sauce. Probable cost of wild ducks, 48. to 5s. per pair. Sufficient for a dish. Wild Duck, FUlets of, with Truffles (another way).—Clean two wild ducks, and cut off the flesh from the breasts and sides in neat slices. Put the carcases and giblets of the birds into a saucepan with a thick slice of fresh butter rolled in flour, and add half a dozen mushrooms and two shallots finely minced, the parings of two ounces of truffles, and a little salt, cayenne, and pounded mace. Shake the saucepan over the fire for a few minutes. Pour in a gill of good stock, stew the sauce till strong and well-flavoured, then add a large glass of claret. Fry the slices of duck in butter, drain and simmer gently in the sauce till tender. WrCD DUCK. Wild Duck, Roast.—The breast is the dainty morsel. Stuff the duck with crumb of bread soaked in port or claret. Truss it securely, rub it over with the liver, flour it, put it down to a clear brisk fire, and baste constantly. Let the spit turn very rapidly. When the bird is sufficiently roasted (and it is generally pre- ferred underdressed), take it up, put it on a dish, without gravy, with an uncut lemon on either side of it, and with wild duck gravy in a tureen. The carver will frequently cut a lemon in halves, put salt on one side and cayenne on the other, then score the breast of the duck deeply, squeeze the two lemons together over it, and pour a glassful of port upon it. Time to roast the duck, fifteen to twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, 4s. to 5s. per pair. .."^ild Ducks. — Notwithstanding the slightly fishy flavour of the flesh, wild duck is highly esteemed by epicures. It is trussed like a tame duck, with the feet left on and turned close to the body. It is often said thatWIL ( 1126 ) WIL a wild duck should be allowed only to fly through a hot kitchen before it is sent to table; and though this ia scarcely the case, still the bird is considered to be in perfection only when it is crisp and brown on the surface, and so much underdone that tlio gravy Hows into the dish when it is cut. Usually the breast of the bird is the only part cared for. A wild duck should be roasted before a brisk lire, and it ahould be basted constantly. The duck is to bo preferred to the drake, though the latter often fetches the higher price. Wild Ducks (American fashion) .—Pluck and di-aw the ducks, wipe the inside with a cloth, !ind sprinkle salt and pepper over them inside and out. Fill them with crumb of bread "which has been thickly buttered and soaked in hot water till quite soft. Truss them securely, put them down to a clear fire, and baste them for ten minutes with half a pint of slightly-salted water in which a sliced onion has been soaked. This is to remove the un- pleasant fishy flavour from the birds. When it has been used, throw the onion water away, and in its place put haK a pint of hot water. Baste the birds with a little butter, dredge flour over them, and baste with the water in the pan. When they are done enough, take them up, and serve with gravy which has been made by stewing the giblets, then straining the liquor, thickening it with brown thickening, and stirring into it a table-spoonful of black- currant jeUy, a glassful of port, and a little salt and cayenne. Time to roast the ducks, twenty to thirty minutes. Wild. Ducks, Fillets of.—As the breast only of the wild duck is usually eaten at table, the fillets from each side of the breast and the slices from the sides are frequently cut oft' after the birds are roasted, and served on toast with orange gravy {see Orange Sauce, for Ducks and Wild Fowls) poured over them. When served in this way the bird is underdressed. Wild Ducks, Fillets of. with Olives or Celery.—iioast three or lour wild ducks, and cut ofi the fiUets according to the recipe already given. Score the skin, dish the fillets in a circle, and put into the centre either some stewed celery {see Celery, Stewed) or some stoned olives. Send clear brown gravy to table in a tureen, and serve. Time to roast the ducks, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4s. to 5s. per pair. Sufficient for a dish. Wild Ducks, Fillets of, with Poivrade Sauce.—Roast three or four wild ducks, and cut off the fillets according to the recipe already given {see Wild Ducks, FiUets of). Score the skin, dish the fillets in a circle, and pour over them a little poivrade sauce. Serve, and send additional sauce to table in a tureen {see Poivrade Sauce). Time to roast the ducks, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4b. to 6s. per pair. Sufficient for a dish. Wild Ducks. Roasted (Polish fashion). —Take two wild ducks, singe them, wash them inwardly, truss, put them in a kitchen basin, pour over a little cooked marinade, and let them macerate for five or six hours. At the end of that time lay them in a roasting-pan with the marinade; cover them with buttered paper, and cook them, basting often. When half done, add to their cooking-stock two gills of good thick sour cream, and finish cooking gently basting from time to time. Just bo- fore serving, draw, divest them of the string, and dish them up. Mix a little gravy with their cooking-stock, reduce the liquid, stirring till it is thickened Like a sauce, then pour it over the birds. Wild Fowl (Hunter's fashion).—Roast the fowls before a clear fire, baste liberally, and take them up whilst they are still decidedly underdressed. Send them to table very hot with rich brown gravy in a tureen. Put near the carver a silver dish which can be placed over a spirit lamp. Put into this dish a spoon- ful of Harvey, two glassfuls of port, two glass- fuls of gravy, the strained juice of a lemon, and a little salt and cayenne. Mix the sauce thoroughly, cut the fillets from the breast of the fowls, and the slices from the sides; put these into the gravy. Heat the whole over the spirit lamp, and serve very hot. Time, a minute or two to heat the fillets in the sauce. Our American cousins dissolve a little black- currant jelly in the sauce thus prepared for wUd fowl. Probable cost of wUd fowl, very uncertain. Wild Fowl, FUlets of, with Bigarade Sauce.—Roast three or four wild fowls, take them up, and cut the flesh off each side of the breast and from the sides under the wings. Score the skin, and dish the fiUets in a circle with a little bigarade sauce poured over them, and more sent to table in a tureen. This sauce may be made as foUows:—Take the yeUow rind of two oranges without any of the white part, cut it into thin shreds, blanch it in boiling water for two minutes, drain it, and put it into an earthenware jar with the strained juice of the lemons. Add a pinch of cayenne and a tea-cupful of good brown gravy. Put the jar into a saucepan, surround it with boiling water, set it on the fire, and keep the water boiling tiU the sauce is very hot. Stir it aU the time; add a smaU glassful of port to it, and it wiU be ready for serving. The wine may be omitted. Time, two minutes to boil the sauce. Wild Fowl, Plucking of.—It is rather a tedious affair to dispossess the generality of wUd fowl of the closely-adhesive down which is pecuUar to them. The most effectual plan to adopt is to immerse the birds, when divested of their feathers, in scalding water. AUow them to remain therein for about two minutes. Have at hand some finely-powdered resin, and by the appUcation of the hand with the use of the latter rubbed over the fowl the whole of the down wiU be removed. Wild Fowl, Roast.—It is an old and true figurative saying that a wild duck to bo pro- perly roasted should only walk through the kitchen, that the widgeon should run gently through, but that the teal should scamper through. AU these birds must therefore be very Httle done. If they are of a kind that ia usuaUy impregnated with a fishy flavour, which is most inveterate when they are not fa.,they should he soaked in and ruhhed with a little tjuragon \ancgur a few hours prior to heing put upon the spit. The sauce for wild fowl is served, not in the dish, but in a tui-een. It is thus made—Put into a saucepan a quarter of a pint of port wine, the same quantity of meat gravy, two or three shallots, a hit of mace, pepper and salt to your taste, and a dash of cayenne. Let it simmer ten minutes, then squeeze into it the juice of half a lemon, and thicken it ynth butter rolled in flour. Wnd Fowl, Salmi of—Cut off the legs, wings, breast, and rump of the wild goose, duck, widgeon, or teal, and put them by for the salmi. The head, neck, back, and giblets, if they are preserved, constitute the parings. Cut_ four shallots into several pieces, and put them into a very clean stewpan. If a plain salmi is wanted it will be necessary only to add a slice of butter, a bay leaf, a small piece of mace, and half a dozen pepper-corns. Let the whole fry until the ingredients are lightly coloured ; then dredge in a third of a spoonful of flour, and continue to fry until the flour is brown ; but be careful that the other ingredients do not burn. Now put in a large glass of red wine and double that quantity of veal gravy, together with the parings of the wild fowl. Season with pepper and salt, and let the whole simmer gently during an hour and a half. Then strain the gravy through a hair-sieve over the meat for the salmi, which must be ready in another stewpan. Stand this near the flre to get gra- dually and slowly hot through, but be especially careful that it does not boil. Give it a dash of cayenne pepper. When about to dish it up, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Wild Fowl, Sauce for {see Orange Sauce for Ducks and Wild Fowl). Wild Fowl, Sauces for—No. l. Mix the juice of half a lemon with a glassful of port or claret, three shallots sliced, a table-spoonful of Harvey, and a pinch of cayenne. Stir the sauce over the fire for five minutes, and strain it into a tureen: serve very hot. No. 2. Put into a tureen a tea-spoonful of essence of an- cho\'ies, a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, a table- spoonful of ketchup, a glassful of claret, and a pinch of cayenne; mix thoroughly, and serve. No. 3. Slice three shallots, and put them into a small saucepan with two table-spoonfuls of clear gravy, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and six peppercorns. Simmer the liquor till it is strong and good, strain it, add a little salt, and sors'o hot or cold. No. 4. Put a tea-cupful of gravy into a saucepan with a shallot or small onion finely minced, an inch of thin lemon-rind, a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a pinch of cayenne. Simmer for ten minutes, strain the gravy, add a wine-glassful of port or claret, and servo very hot. A table-spoonful of Harvey's sauce or of mushroom ketchup may be added if approved. {See also Orange Sauce for Ducks and Wild Fowl.) Wild Fowl, Truffled Saute of.—Cut up the raw birds, and put the heads, necks, and giblets into a stewpan with a bit of lean ham, a ahoop's melt, four shallots, half a dozen mush- rooms chopped fine, the parings of two or three ounces of truffles, a bunch of herbs consisting of parsley-root, one bay-leaf, and a very smaU sprig of thyme, a Httle bit of mace, four grains of allspice, and a smaU lump of butter. Let these all fry together until the ham is bro\vn; after which pour in half a pint of port wme and half that quantity of broth. Stew and reduce this during two hours; then season and strain it. Now put the limbs of the birds into a stewpan with a pretty large lump of fresh butter; let them fry a short time, and dredge into them half a table-spoonful of flour. ^Vhen the meat is seized on all sides, but without being of a deep brown, pour the sauce into it, adding at the same time the truffles cut into slices, the parings of which were put into the sauce. Let the whole simmer very gently during ten minutes, then squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and serve up on a very hot dish. Wilhelm's Cherry Sauce (a German recipe).—Having bruised three pints of cherries in a small mortar, boil them with a pint of wine and water; strain them through a sieve, and again boU with lemon-peel, sugar, cinna- mon, and bruised cloves. Add a level spoonful of potato-flour or starch previously mixed smooth with a little cold water, and continue stirring till the sauce is made. This sauce ia well suited for puddings and cold things. We might have removed the stones and boiled them in their unbroken state, then stirring in peach- water and half a spoonful of potato-flour. Williams's Pudding Sauce (a United States' recipe).—Bruise a stick of cinnamon, set it over the fire in a saucepan with just as much water as will cover it; give it a boil, and then put in a couple of table-spoonfuls of fine sugar pounded, a quarter of a pint of white wine, a roll of thinly-pared lemon-peel, and a bay-leaf; boil all gently together, strain, and send it up hot. Wiltshire Method of Curing Bacon. —Cut up a moderate-sized hog, sprinkle salt upon the flitches, and let the blood drain from them for twenty-four hours. Mix tho- roughly four pounds of common salt with one pound and a half of brown sugar, one pound and a half of bay-salt, and six ounces of salt- petre. Rub this mixture into the flitches and turn, and rub them in every part each day for a month. Hang them up to dry; then smoke them for ten days. Wiltshire Pudding.—Whisk three eggs in a bowl, and mix with them a pint of milk, a pinch of salt, and as much flour as will make a thick batter. Beat the mixture for some minutes, then stir in gently half a pint of picked red currants and a quarter of a pint of ripe rasp- berries. If more convenient, the raspberries may be omitted. Tie the pudding in a cloth, and plunge it into fast-boiling water; keep it boiling quickly till done enough. Turn it out carefully upon a dish, and cut it into slices three- quarters of an inch thick. Keep these in their original position. Put a little butter and hrown sugar between the slices, and serve the pudding hot with sauce in a tureen. Time to boil the pudding, two hours. Probable cost, lOd. or le. Sufficient for five or six persons.WIN (11 28) Windborry.—This ia another name for the whortleberry (which see). Windermere Ketchup.—Procure the largest iiiushruoins, with broad flaps and rod gills, gathered before they are discoloured by the sun. Wipe them with a clean cloth, and break them into an earthen pan. Upon every three handfuls of mushrooms put a handful of Bait, 80 as to form layers, until all tlio mush- rooms are in the pan. 8tir them well with a stick or a wooden spoon throe or four times a day imtil the mushrooms are dissolved, which process may bo hastened by pressing the several lumps. Now throw the whole into a boiler, and set it over a slow fire, when it must simmer until the whole is perfectly liquescent. Strain the hot liquid through a hair-sieve, then boil it gently again with some allspice, pepper- corns, horseradish, a few shallots, and two or three bay-leaves. After it has simmered some time, and all the dark scimi is taken from it, strain it into a large bottle or jar, which, when the ketchup is quite cold, must be well corked, and a bladder tied over the cork. At the expiration of three months boil it again with a few peppercorns, some fresh allspice, a stick of horseradQsh, a few more shallots, and two bay- leaves. Let it simmer half an hour after it has boiled up, then strain it into small bottles; when the ketchup is quite cold, cork the bottles, tie a bladder over the corks, and cover the bladder with sealing-wax. It will then keep any length of time. Windmill Pancakes.—These are pink pancakes prepared as follows:—Boil a large red beetroot until it is very tender; then peel it, cut it into thin slices, and pound it to a pulp in a marble mortar. Add the yolks of five eggs, two table-spoonfuls of flour, four of cream, plenty of powdered loaf sugar, half of a nut- meg grated, and a wine-glassful of brandy. Rub the whole into a batter, and fry the pan- cakes with lard. Serve them up hot, garnished with green sweetmeats. Windsor Beans {see Beans, Broad or Windsor). Windsor Beans (a la Poulette).—Wind- sor beans are to be served at a good table only when very young and fresh-gathered. Boil them in salt and water. When nearly done drain them, and stew them in a little sauce toumee with a bunch of parsley and green onions, a little savory chopped very fine, and a small lump of sugar. When the beans are sufficiently reduced, throw in a thickening made of the yolks of two eggs and a little thick cream. Send them up in a short sauce, and properly seasoned. Windsor Beans, Ham with {see Ham with AVindsor BnanH). Windsor Beans (preserved in tins).— Procure, as a pattern, from an Italian ware- house a tin box, pint size, with its cover. Get as many similar boxes made as will be required. Gather the Windsor beans when they are the size of green pcaa; put them into the tins with a tea-spoonful of salt, a sprig of green winter f-avory, and haH a gill of wat(!r. liot a tinman Bolder down the covers; then put the tms into a largo stowpan. Cover with boiling water, and boil quickly for half an hour. Take tliem from tho tire, and when cold examine them care- fully. Solder again any parts tliat l(!ak, and keep them in a cool place. When tlie beans are to bo used, open tho tin, and turn its contents, liquor and all, into a saucepan with a sprig of parsley and a pinch of powdered white sugar. When tho beans aro hot, strain off the liquor, put the vegetables into a tureen with a small piece of butter, and serve. Time to boil tho beans in the tins, half an hour. Windsor or Broad Beans.—These beans are great favourites witli many persons, but they are not good unless they are young and freshly gathered. They are in season in July and August. To boil them, first shell them, then put them into slightly-salted and fast-boiling water. When tender, drain them, dish them quickly, and serve with parsley sauce. They are the usual accompaniment to boiled bacon. They should be boiled separately. Two or three recipes for dressing these beans are given under Beans, Broad or Windsor. Windsor Pancakes {see Pancakes, Windsor). Windsor Pies of Meat, Potdtry, or Game.—Take a pound of lean undressed mutton from the loin or leg, or an equal quan- tity of any other kind of meat, poultry, or game. Cut it into dice, season with pepper, salt, chopped mushrooms, finely-shred parsley, and minced shallot, and moisten with good gravy. Line some patty-pans with pastrj', three-parts fiU them with the mixture, cover them with pastry, and press the edges securely together. Make a little slit in the centre of each patty, and ornament it. Brush the patties over with egg, and bake in a well-heated oven. When done enough, dish them on a napkin, and serve. Time to bake the patties, about twenty minutes. Sufticient, a dozen for a dish. Windsor Pudding.—Pare and core half a dozen baking apples, and boil or bake them tin quite soft. Beat them to a smooth pulp, and with them an ounce of best Carolina rice boiled in milk till it is tender, an ounce of powdered white sugar, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a pinch of grated lemon-rind. Whisk the whites of four eggs to snow, stir them into the pudding mixture, and beat it again till it is yery light. Dip a pudding-mould into boiling water, take it out, and whilst it is hot pour the mixture into it; cover it, put it into a large pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling till the white of the egg is firm. Turn it out, and pom- round it a custard made with the yolks of the eggs. Serve immediately. Windsor Syllabub. — Put a pint of sherry into a china bowl, sweeten it, and flavour with grated nutmeg. Pour upon it a pint and a half of milk, stir briskly, and serve the syllabub frothed. Windsor Veal Pie.—Fill a dish with alternate layers of lean voal cut in slices halt an inch thick and thin slices of lo^in ham. and season each layer with powdered man- and white pepper. Place a dish with a weight overWIN WIN the meat, and press it for half an hour. Pour upon it as much strong veal gravy that will jelly when cold as will cover it, and add a slice of fresh butter. Cover the dish with good pastry, and bake till done enough. Serve cold. Time to bake a moderate-sized pie, one hour and a half. Probable cost, fillet of veal, Is. a pound. Wine.—The tei-m wine is more strictly and specially applied to express the fermented juice of the grape, although it is generally used to denote that of any sub-acid fruit. The presence of tartar is, perhaps, the circumstance by which the grape is .most strongly distinguished from all the other sub-acid fruits that have been applied to the purpose of wine-making. The juice of the grape moreover contains within itself all the principles essential to vinification, in such a proportion and state of balance as to enable it at once to undergo a regular and com- plete fermentation, whereas the juices of other fruits require artificial additions for this pur- pose ; and the scientific application and the adjustment of these means constitute the art of making wines. Wine, Apricot. —Take ten gallons of river-water and boil it for half an hour; then set it to cool in a clean vessel. Take forty- five pounds of ripe apricots, cut them into thick slices, and put them with the juice into the water, adding twenty-five pounds of the best loaf sugar. Stir well, cover closely, and leave till the following day; then boil the fruit and liquid together, stir in the whites of eight eggs well beaten, and take off the scum as it rises. When the liquor is clear and the fruit reduced to a pulp, press, strain through a fine sieve into a cooler, add the broken stones, and stir well. Spread good yeast on both sides of a toast, and when the liquor is at the proper warmth work it well two days; strain it through a jelly-bag into the cask, put on the bung lightly, and let it work over, keeping the cask full. When it has done fermenting, add two quarts of French brandy and two ounces of white sugar-candy. Put in the bung, fasten it well, keep the liquor for twelve months, and then bottle it. It must re- main a year or more in bottle, for apricot wine is a very rich wine, and is improved greatly by age. Wine. Beetroot, Bed. — Bruise six quarts of ripe sloes (the fruit of the black thorn) in a stone mortar, breaking the stones, boil them twenty minutes in two quarts of soft water, strain the liquor, and pour it into a stone jar. Scrub well with a soft brush and wash thirty pounds of purple beetroots, but on no account cut or break the skins, and boil them slowly till tender. When cold, peel and slice them into a tub, pour to them the sloe liquor, cover them up, and the following day add the rinds of three lemons and four Seville oranges, and twelve pounds of Smyrna raisins cut in halves. Boil twenty-six pounds of strong moist sugar with nine gallons and a half of soft water three-quarters of an hour, skimming it well, and pour it hot into the tub upon the sliced beetroots, &c.; stir well, and when lukewarm work it well with eight table- spoonfuls of strong yeast, cover it up, and lot it K K* remain three days; then strain the hquor, and filter it into your cask, filling to the bung. Let it work out, and when the fermentation is over, put to the wine sLx ounces of sugar-candy and a quart of French brandy. Then stop it up for a month, rack it off, filter the lees, and put all again into the cask with an ounce of the best isinglass dissolved, and two ounces of bitter almonds blanched and slit, Secui-e the bung, and let the wine stand eighteen months; then bottle it, seal the corks, and keep it a year longer. This is a nice light wine, and has fre- quently been introduced as claret. It improves greatly with age. Wine, Birch..—A wine used to be made from the sap of the birch-tree, though now it is scarcely known. The sap contains so much saccharine matter as to be fermented; it is to be obtained in the month of March, when it begins to ascend, by boring a hole in each tree, about a foot from the ground, large enough to adniit a faucet which is to be inserted. The sap will flow for several days into a vessel placed to receive it, without injury to the tree. Having obtained as much as is necessary, the hole should be stopped with a peg. To a gallon of this sap add a quart of honey or two pounds and a half of sugar, and boil them together, stirring the whole; add also two ounces of hops for every nine gallons, a few cloves, and a rind or two of lemons. Ferment this with yeast, transfer it to the cask, refine with isinglass, and proceed as in making other British wines. In about two months the wine may be bottled, and in two months more it will be fit for use. * It will im- prove by keeping. Wine Biscuits.—Dry one pound of flour and sift it, then rub into it a quarter of a pound of butter, and add three heaped table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar, one well-beaten egg, and as much thick cream as will make a stiff paste. RoU it out very thin, stamp it into shapes with the top of a wine-glass, and bake the biscuits on tins in a weU-heated oven. A few currants or caraways may be added if liked. Time to bake the biscuits, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Wine Biscuits (another way).—Ladierf Wine Biscuits. Wine, Bitter.—Take a quart each of red and green camomile, and bruise them -with a pint of wormwood, all being picked nicely from the stalks; lay them in a vessel, and add two ounces of camomile flowers, a handful of rose- mary, and an ounce of gentian root. Boil four gallons of soft water with ten pounds of good loaf sugar, two ounces of ginger bniised, and the whites of four eggs well beaten, half an hour, skimming till quite clear. Pour the liquor scalding on the herbs, cover up close, and let them infuse for four days. At the end of that time warm a part of the liquor, mix it with, the rest, and work it with yeast; strain it into a small cask, and on fermentation ceasing, add an ounce of dissolved isinglass and a pint of bi-andy; stop up the bung, and keep it for nine months; then bottle in pint bottles, seal the corks, and keep for six months longer.WIN ( 1130 ) wm Wine, Blackberry.—To make an excel- lent strong blackberry wine, proceed us follows: Take forty-tivo quarts of ripe blackl)orrii)8 well picked and pressed, and mix them with ten pounds of good honey and twenty-six pounds of Btrong bright moist sugar. Boil with twelve gallons of soft water and the whites of twelve eggs well beaten, till the liquor is reduced to ten gallons, skinnning it till it is perfectly clear. Strain the liquor into a tub, and let it stand till the following day; then pour it clear of the lees and boil it again for thi-ee-quartors of an hoiu-, adding the lees, filtered twice, and two ounces of isinglass dissolved in a quart of water. Skim well, and put in two ounces of Jamaica pepper, two ounces of cloves, and two ounces of best ginger, all bruised and tied loosely in a piece of muslin. Put into your cooler the thin rinds of six Seville oranges, and a pint of lemon-juice; strain the liquor upon them, stir well, and when cool enough work it with a pint of fresh yeast stirred well into a gallon of the liquor. Cover close, and let it work for four or five days, removing the top scum and stirring twice daily; then strain, and filter it into the cask, put in the bung tightly, keep the cask well tilled up, and when it has ceased fer- menting, let a day elapse, and add two quarts of French brandy and an ounce and a half of isinglass dissolved in a little water and mixed with a gallon of the wine, ten minutes, an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and slit, and six ounces of sugar-candy broken small. Secure the bung, paste strong white paper or coarse linen over it, and place plenty of sand over all, wetted a little. Keep the wine in a cool cellar for two years, then bottle it, for it is certain to be fine, by means of the filterings, which are quite necessary to this as well as to all rasp- berry and elder wine. Seal the corks, and keep it in the bottles before using for two years. If allowed to lie for a longer time it wiU still improve, and will be found a beautiful wine. Wine Browning for Flavouring and Colouring Gravies.—Dissolve an ounce of fresh butter in a small saucepan, and Btir into it a quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar. As soon as it begins to colour draw it to the side, and stir into it very gradually a pint of good port. Pour it into a fresh saucepan, and put with it six cloves, twelve peppercorns, three minced shallots, one blade of mace, one inch of stick cinnamon, the thin rind of a lemon, a wine-glassful of mush- room ketchup, and a little salt. Stir the mix- ture over a gentle fire for ten minutes, strain it into a basin, let it get cold, skim it, and bottle for use. Time, ten minutes to simmer the sauce. SufiBcient, a few drops will pleasantly flavour and colour half a pint of gravy. Wine Cakes (a Danish recipe).—Take three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a poimd of fresh butter, half a pound of sugar, and a gill of white wine; mix these ingredients with the yolks of two eggs, knead all well, and roll it out. Cut with a glass into small cakes; brush these over with white of egg, strew them with sugar-almonds or poimded cinnamon, and bake of a light colour. Wine Caudel.—Beat with a whijik the white of one egg and the yolks of eiglit. Stir into it a bottle of white wine, a pint of water, the peel of a lemon, iind half a pound of lump sugar. Set the mixture on the fire, and keep stirring it. Itemovo it as soon as it boils. Pour the caudel into a bowl or Binull gbissea. It sliould be eaten with sweet biscuit. Wine, Cherry (a French recipe).—Bruise together fifteen pounds of cherries not quite ripe, and two of currants; add two-thirds of the cherry kernels. Put tlie whole in a small cask with a quarter of a pound of sugar to (jach quart of juice. Let the cask stand in sand, and cover the bung tightly while it is working, which will occupy nearly three weeks. The cask should be of the size just to hold the juice, or the latter must be made up in the above proportions to the size of the cask, as it is necessary it should be full. Carry on the fer- mentation in the usual manner as in grape or gooseberry wine. When the fermentation is over, bung up the cask, and in about two months the wine will be fit to be drawn off and bottled. Wine, Cherry, Red.—Take some ripe red cherries, press them, breaking the stones amongst the fruit, tiU you have obtained ten gallons of pme juice. Add twenty-four pounds of strong bright moist sugar, stir well, and let the liquor stand three days covered up, stirring twice every day. Press the fruit in a horse-hair bag, and add the result to the juice; then mix well, and strain into a sweet cask, adding five pints of French brandy, the rinds of six lemons pared very thin, and an ounce of the best isin- glass dissolved in a little water. Secure the bung tightly, and let the wine stand for six months in a cool cellar; then rack it off, filter the lees perfectly fine, and put all into the same cask again with three ounces of sugar-candy broken in large pieces. Fasten the bung as before, keep the wine eighteen months, and then bottle it. This excellent wine deserves keeping till it is very old. A rich light cherry wine may be made as follows :—Take all kinds of ripe cherries, and bruise them in a tub till you have extracted eight gallons of juice; add six- teen pounds of good moist sugar, and set the liquor aside for three days covered closely up. Put two gallons of soft water upon the fruit, stir well for twenty minutes, and infuse for the same length of time. Then pare the rinds off four Seville oranges and three lemons—pare them very thin—stone and shred four pounds of Smyrna raisins, put them into a sweet ten-gallon cask with the juice of the oranges and lemons strained, and six ounces of sugar-candy. Slix the liquors in the two vessels, and stram well; then filter thi'ough a flannel bag, and fill the cask; leave the bung out four or five days; add a pint and a half of brandy and an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a Httle Hght wuie, and stop up the cask safely for eighteen months. Then bottle the wine, seal the corks, and m six or eight months it will be fit for use. This wine will remain good for three years, not longer. Wine, Cherry (another way).—Pick Mo- rello chorri(>s, not over-ripe, from thoir stalks, mash them in a mortar, and press to detach theWIN WIN ( 1131 ) pulp without bruising the stones, and let the mass stand twenty-four hours. Press the pulp through a coarse hair sieve, and to every three gallons add from eight to nine pounds of loaf sugar. Put the mixture into a cask, add yeast, and jillow it to ferment, then rack the wine from its lees as soon as it grows clear. Some makers of cherry wine crack the stones and hang them with the bruised kernels in a bag suspended from the bung-hole and in the cask during the fermentation of the wine, which thus acquires a nutty flavour, A good deal of this wine is made in Russia, where it is a com- mon practice to add honey to the cherries. Wine, Cider.—ilix sixteen gallons of apple-juice, sixteen pounds of honey, four oimces of white tartar; enclose in a bag one ounce each of cinnamon, cloves, and mace, and suspend it in the mixture while fermenting. When the fermentation is complete, add one gallon of rum. Wine, Clary.—Take nine gallons of cold soft water, six pounds of honey, thirty pounds of the best loaf sugar, and the whites of twelve eggs beaten to a froth; mix all these together, and boil for an hour and a half, skimming and stirring nearly all the time. Pour the Kquor into a cooler and add four quarts of clary tops in flower; work it at the proper temperature with good fresh ale yeast, keeping it closely covered up and stirred well. Pick, stone, and cut in pieces fourteen pounds of good Malaga raisins; pour over them three gallons of luke- warm water that has been well boiled, stir well, and let them steep for five days. At the end of that time press the fi'uit in a hair bag, strain the liquor from the flowers, add to it the rinds of ten lemons pared thin and their juice strained, and put this into the cask, filling up, and keep it open three or four days until the fermenta- tion has entirely ceased. Then add two quarts of French brandy, and stop it up for three months, after which rack it off into a clean cask, filter the lees, and fill the same cask again, adding six ounces of sugar-candy bruised, and an ounce of isinglass dissolved in two quarts of wine. Stop it up securely, and keep it eighteen months in a cool dry cellar; then bottle the wine, seal the corks, and in a twelvemonth it will be fit for use. Wine, Coltsfoot.—Take ten gallons of river water, and boil with it twenty-six pounds of sti .mg moist sugar and the whites of ten eggs well beaten, three-quarters of an hour, skimming well all the time. Pour the liquor boiling hot on three pecks of fresh-gathered coltsfoot flowers and ten pounds of Malagas stoned and cut small; cover the vessel up close, and let them infuse three days, stirring three times daily. Then make two gallons of the liquor scalding hot, stir it well into the rest, and add six or seven table-spoonfuls of good yeast; keep it well mixed and covered up, until it has worked freely, then strain it into your cask upon three ounces of the best ginger bruised and the thin rinds of six Seville oranges and let it remain open, covering the bung-horo with a tilo until it has ceased fermenting. Add three half-pints of French brandy and a bottle of strong madeira wine, stop it up securely, and keep it twelve months; then bottle it, and drink in six months more. This is a valuable wine for its medicinal properties. Wine, Cowslip.—Take seven poimds of moist sugar, two gallons and a half of water, . and two oimces of hops, and boil them together. Pare the rinds of eight lemons or Seville oranges, or a part of each; pour the boiling liquor over them; when this is cool squeeze the juice over it, and add this to the liquor. Ferment the whole with yeast in the usual way, and put it into the cask. Gather cowslips on a fine day, carefully picking out all stalks and ^ leaves. Put into the cask of wine as much of the flowers as would equal a quart when fresh gathered for every gallon; stir well till the flowers sink. Dissolve three ounces of isin- glass in a little of the wine, and return it to the rest to fine; in a few days bung it up close. In six months the wine will be fit for bottling, but it will improve by being kept longer in the cask. By managing as just described, the wine win be fined in the cask, and will be as good from the cask as if bottled, which will be a great saving of trouble. Wine, Currant, Red.—Bruise eight gallons of red cmrants with one quart of rasp- berries. Press out the juice, and to the residuum, after pressure, add eleven gallons of cold water. Add two poimds of beetroot sliced as thin as possible to give colour, and let them infuse, with frequent mixture, for twelve hours; then press out the liquor as before, and add it to the juice. Next dissolve twenty pounds of raw sugar in the mixed liquor, and three ounces of red tartar in fine powder. In some hours the fermentation will commence, which is to be managed as in the case of gooseberry wine. When the fermentation is completely over, add one gallon of brandy; let the wine stand for a week, then rack off, and let it stand for two months. It may now be finally racked off, bunged up in the cask, and set by in a cool cellar for as many years as may be required to ameliorate it. Wine, Currant, White.—Bruise forty pounds of fruit in a tub holding fifteen or twenty gallons, and add to it four gallons of water. Stir the whole well, and squeeze tiU the pulp is thoroughly separated from the skins. Leave these materials at rest for about twelve hours, and then strain them through a canvas bag or fine hair sieve, and pass one gallon of fresh water through the marc. Dissolve twenty- five or thirty pounds of white sugar in the juice thus obtained, and make up the whole quantity by an addition of ten gallons and a half of water. The proportion of sugar here given IS for a brisk wine : if a sweet wine is required there must be forty pounds of sugar. ^Tiite sugar IS recommended as much the best; if moist sugar be used, somewhat more will be necessary. The must being now prepared, the fermentation and subsequent treatment must be exactly the same as for gooseberry wine. Tt brandy is to be added, it should be added towards the end of the fermentation in the( 1132 ) WIN cask. For the above quantity some will put in u qvuirt of brandy alone ; others first mix it with honey. Whether the wine should bo racked off from the ley at the end of six months, put into a fresh cask for si.x months longer bofore it is bottled, or be sull:ered to remain the whole time in the lees, nmst dej)end upon the state of the wine. The bottling should be carefully attended to. Wine Custard..—Kub off the zest of a lemon on six ounces of sugar; boat eighteen eggs to froth with half a spoonful of flour- potato flour, if it is at hand—a quart of wine, and a cupful of orange-flower water. Set the mixture on the fire, and keep stirring it till it froths. Pour the custard into cups or bowls, and serve with macaroons. Wine Custard Sauce.—Take the yolks of eight eggs, beat them up till thick, mix with them sugar to taste, the juice of two lemons, half a pint of white wine, and a little more than half that quantity of water. Set it on the fire, beat with a whisk till it froths: whenever the sauce boils, take it off. This sauce is to be eaten with puddings and tarts. Wine, Damson.—Boil ten gallons and a half of pure river water with thirty-two pounds of strong moist sugar and the whites of ten eggs well beaten half an hour, skimming it well; then add thirty-two quarts of ripe prune damsons well picked from the stalks and stoned, and boil them half an hour longer, skimming and stirring until the liquor is beautifully bright. Strain it off the fruit in a fine hair sieve into your cooler, and when at the proper temperature work it with fresh yeast, spread on a toast, three or four days. Then draw it off the sediment, put it into the cask, filter the lees, and fill up, letting it work out at the bung. When it has ceased hissing put to it a quart of French brandy, and stop it up safely, pasting paper over the bung. Let it stand six months, then rack it off, filter the lees through flanriel twice folded, and filling the cask again, add an ounce of isinglass dissolved and mixed with two quarts of the wine. Secure the bung well, and let it remain two years; then draw it oft' and bottle, sealing the corks. This being a rich wine, requires age, and should not be drunk until it has been bottled two years or more. Wine, Damson (another way).—Gather the damsons when dry, stone them, and mash them with your hand. Put them into a vessel with a fauset, and to eight pounds of fruit add one gallon of water. Boil the water, and put it to the fruit scalding hot. Let it stand about two days, then draw it off; and to every gallon of liquor put three pounds of fine sugar. Let the barrel be full, and stop it close. If it is A large quantity, let it stand twelve months before you drink it. Wine Decanters, Cleaning of.—Use a little pearlash or soda, and some cinders and water. Rinse the decanters well out with clean water. Wine, Elderberry.—The elderberry is well suited to the production of wine. The \<^'u:q contains a considerable quantity of the principle necessary for a vigorous fermentatixjn, and its beautiful colour imparts a rich tint to the wine made from it. It isi however, deficient in sweetness, and sugar must be added to it. The following is an approved recipe :—Take one gallon of ri]>e eldorbenies and one quart of damsons or sloes for every two galluns of wine to be made. Boil the elderberries in al^out half the quantity of water till they burst, breaking them frequently with a stick. Strain the liquor, and return it to the copper. To produce eighteen gallons of wine, twenty gallons of this liquor are required, and for whatever quan- tity the liquor falls short of this, water must be added to make it up. Boil this along with fifty-six pounds of coarse moist sugar for half an hour, and it is to bo fermented in the usual manner when sufficiently cooled, and then it is to be tunned or put into the cask. Put now into a muslin bag a pound and a half of ginger bruised, a pound of allspice, two ounces of cinnamon, and four or six ounces of hops; suspend the bag with the spice in the cask by a string not long enough to let it touch the bottom; let the liquor work in the cask for a fortnight, and fill up in the usual way. The wine will be fit to tap in two months, and is not improved by keeping hke many other wines. Elderberries alone may be used. Wine, Elderberry (another way).—Take ten gallons of elderberries, ten gallons of water, forty-five pounds of white sugar, eight ounces of red tartar, and ferment with yeast in the usual way. When in the cask, ginger root sliced or allspice, four ounces, bitter almonds, three ounces, suspended to a bag may -be allowed to infuse in the liquor while it is fer- menting ; they are then to be removed. Brandy may be added or not. AVhen the wine is clear, which will be in about three months, it may be drawn off from the lees and bottled. The spices may be varied according to taste. Wine from the Leaves and Stalks of the Grape.—The following is Dr. Jlaccul- loch's recipe for making this wine:—"The young leaves may be taken at any period from vines which have been cultivated for this pur- pose, and from which no fruit is expected. In other cases they may be obtained from the summer pruning. The tendrils and green shoots are equally useful. The claret ^-ine may be cultivated for this purpose, in which case the wine wiU have a red colour. The leaves are best when young, and should not hf^ve at- tained more than half their growi-h; they should be plucked with their stems. In the neighbourhood of London they require to be carefully washed to remove the taste of soot which so often adheres to them: sometimes that is insufficient. From sixty to eighty pounds of such leaves being introduced into a tub of sufficient capacity, seven or eight gal- lons of boiling water are to be poured on them, in which they are to infuse for twenty-four hours. The liquid being poured off, the leaves must bo pressed in a press of considerable power; and being subsequently washed with an additional gallon of water, they are a^n submitted to the action of the press. The sugar, varj-ing from twenty-five to thirtyWIN WIN ( 1133 ) pounds, is then to be added to the mixed liquors, and the quantity being made up to ten gallons and a half, the process for making goosoberrj'- wine is to be followed. Although the water is here directed to bo boiling hot, it must be remembered that it is immediately cooled down to that temperature which is most efficacious in extracting the several soluble in- gredients of the fruit." The following additional observations on this curious subject are extracted from the same author :—"The difference between young and old leaves is very great; the former contain ten or twelve times the quantity of bitter that the latter do. The old leaves are unfit for the ferment. June is the proper time to pluck them; at this season it is usual to remove leaves from the fruit-bearing vines, so that they may be easily procured; but if vines should be grown for this sole purpose, as they may be in any waste place or hedgerow, being allowed to rim wild and impruned, it will be always easy to procure a sufficient quantity and in the best condition. In their very best state at least six pounds are required for two of sugar, and it is perhaps preferable to adopt eight and a half; though no rule can be absolute, such is the va- riation in the extractive produce of the leaves. In the progress of the fermentation, should the wine promise to be too sweet, from defect of ferment, it is quite easy to add a fresh infusion, 80 as to correct this defect by a renewal of the fermentation. Of the leaves it must be ob- served, as they scarcely yield anything to the press, they require to be infused in the water for some time before they are subjected to fermentation, and they seem to yield their soluble parts most readily to hot water, without any material alteration in the result—a matter of no sui'prise because, though the water be ap- plied at the boiling heat, its temperature is immediately lowered. Tartar appears some- times to bo a useful addition to the leaves of the claret-vine; and it may be added in the proportion of half a pound or one pound to ten gallons of the must. One advantage re- sults from the use of vine-leaves—the facility with which they are reproduced during the growth of the vine. By this the produce of a small vineyard in leaves alone will be abundant, and even that of a single vine suffered to run wild, branches and leaves, will be as great as is required for the use of most families. It must always be remembered that in these cases the price of the sugar is the price of the wine. The expense of utensils and labour is comparatively trifling, and, when the manufacture is upon a small scale, scarcely worthy of regard." Wine Froth for Dessert—Take the yolks of twelve eggs and a pint of wine, and place them in a deep saucepan on the fire, adding the grated peel of a lemon and sugar to taste. Beat with a whisk till the mixture of the eggs becomes a thick froth, then stir in the" whites, which must be beaten to snow. Whisk the froth until it thickens, then pour it into cups or glasses: if into glasses, the froth should first be allowed to cool a little. Wine, Gilliflower.—To three gallons of ■water j)ut six iioundn of the best powdered white sugar; boil the sugar and water together for half an hour, keep skimming as the scum rises; let it stand to cool. Beat up three ounces of syrup of betony with a large spoonful of ale yeast, put it into the liquor, and brew it well together; then, having a peck of giUiflowers cut from the stalks, put them into the liquor, let them infuse and work together three days covered with a cloth ; strain it, and put it into a cask, and let it settle for three or four weeks; then bottle it. Wine, Ginger.—Take eighteen or twenty pounds of sugar, dissolve in nine gallons and a half of boiling water, and add ten or twelve ounces of bruised ginger-root. Boil the mixture for about a quarter of an hour, and when nearly cold, add to it half a pint of yeast, and pour it into a cask to ferment, taking care to fill the cask from time to time with the surplus of the liquor made for that purpose. "When the fer- mentation ceases, rack off the wine, and bottle it when transparent. Very often the outer rind of a few lemons is boiled together with the ginger intended for the wine, to impart to the wine the flavour of lemon-peel. Wine, Gooseberry.—The following ia Dr. Macculloch's recipe lor making gooseberry wine:—" The fruit must be selected before it has shown the least tendency to ripen, but about the time when it has attained its full growth. The particular variety of gooseberry is perhaps indifferent; but it wUl be advis- able to avoid the use of those which in their ripe state have the highest flavour. The Green Bath is perhaps among the best. The smallest should be separated by a sieve properly adapted to this purpose, and any unsound or bruised fruit rejected, while the remains of the blossom and the fruit-stalk should be removed by friction or other means. Forty pounds of such fruit are then to be introduced into a tub properly cleaned and of the capacity of fifteen or twenty gallons, in which it is to be bruised in successive proportions, by a pressure suffi- cient to burst the berries without breaking the seeds or materially compressing the skins. Four gallons of water are then to be poured into the vessel, and the contents are to be carefully stirred and squeezed in the hand until the whole of the juice and pulp are separated from the solid matters. The materials are then to remain at rest from six to twenty-foiir hours, when they are to be strained through a coars6 bag with as much force as can conveniently be applied to them. One gallon of fresh water may afterwards be passed through the marc for the purpose of removing any soluble matter which may have remained behind. Thirty or twenty-five pounds of white sugar are now to be dissolved in the juice thus procured, and the total bulk of the fluid made up with water to the amount of ten gallons and a haK. If I name two quantities, it is because the fruit itself varies in quality, and it depends on the operator to distinguish. The old recipes allow forty _ pounds, of which the consequence is, invariably, a sweet wine, while it fails of being brisk in nine cases out of ten. And the smaller proportion here giver will -most frequently en- sure a brisk wine, if the operator will but attend( 1134 ) WIN to the progress of tho fennontation and tho treatment as formerly described. Tho liquor thuH obtiuned ia tho artificial must, wliich is equivalent to tho juico of tho grapo—that is, made to resomblo it as nearly as possible. It is no-w to be introduced into a tub of sufficient capacity, over which a blanket or similar sub- stance, covered by a board, is to bo thrown, the vessel being placed ui a temperature vary- ing from 60'' to 60^ of Fahrenheit's themo- motor. Hero it may remain for twelve or twenty-four hours, according to the symptoms of fermentation which it may show, and from this tub it is to be drawn off into tho cask in which it is to ferment. When in tho cask it must be filled nearly to the bung-hole, that the scum which arises may be thrown out. As the fermentation proceeds, and the bulk of the liquor in the cask diminishes, the superfluous portion of mmt, which was made for this express purpose, must be poured in, so as to keep the liquor still near the bung-hole. When the fermentation becomes a little more languid, as may be known by a diminution of the hissing sound, the bung is to be driven in, and a hole bored by its side, into which a wooden peg, called the spile, is to be fitted. After a few days this peg is to be loosened, that, if any material quantity of it has been generated, it may fijad vent. The same trial must be made after successive intervals, and when there appears no longer any danger of extensive ex- pansion, the spile may be permanently tight- ened. The wine thus made must remain over the winter in a cool cellar, as it is no longer necessary to provoke the fermenting process. If the operator is not incHned to bestow any further labour or expense on it, it may be examined on some clear and cold day towards the end of February or beginning of March, when, if fine, as it will sometimes be, it may be bottled without further precautions. To ensure its fineness, however, it is a better practice to decant it, towards the end of December, into a fresh cask, so as to clear it from the first lees. At this time also the operator will be able to determine whether it is not too sweet for his views. In this case, instead of decanting it, he will stir up the lees, so as to renew the fer- menting process, taking care also to increase the temperature at the same time. At whatever time the wine has been decanted, it is to be fined in the usual way with isinglass. Some- times it is found expedient to decant it a second time into a fresh cask, and again to repeat the operation of fining. All these removals should be made in clear, dry, and, if possible, cold weather. In any case the wine must be bottled during the month of March. The wines thus produced will generally be brisk, and similar in their qualities (flavour excepted) to the wines of Champagne, with the strength of the best Sillory, if the larger proportions of sugar have been used,but resembling tho inferior kinds with the smaller allowance. Inattention, or circum- stances which cannot always be controlled, will sometimes cause it to be sweet and still, at other times to bo dry. In the former case it may be manufactured the following season, by adding to it that proportion of juice from fresh fruit which the operator's judgment may dictate, and renewing the fermentation and suljHOfiuont treatment as before. In the latter case, as its briskness can never be restored, it must bo treated as dry wine, by decanting into a sulphured cask, when it must be fined and bottled in the usual manner. Such dry wines are occasionally disagreeable to tho taste in the first or second year, but are much improved by keeping, nor ought they to be drunk under five or six years." Wine Jelly for an Invalid (see Jelly, Weak AVino, for an Invalid). Wine Jelly, Madeira.—This jelly U made just like calf's-foot jeUy. When the jelly is nearly clarified, pour into the same stewpan a bottle of madeira. As the operation of clarifying takes away the strength of the wine, you must add half a bottle of brandy to it. You must observe that this jelly will keep for several days, and that accordingly what you have left, and what is sent down from table, will be sufficient to supply you with another entremet some other day. This is a common jelly, which cooks frequently serve; therefore, in order to avoid monotony, you must ornament it with another jelly, which make as follows:—Take four spoonfuls of the wine jeUy, break the yolks of four eggs into a stewpan, beat the eggs with the jelly, and lay it on the fire to thicken; then strain it through a sieve, lay it on ice in a basin, and use it for the same purpose, to decorate as in the recipe Winter Jelly, Mosaic. It sometimes happens that the jellies made of calf's feet will break when you turn them up- side down into a dish. To prevent this accident, throw in a pinch of isinglass when you Eire going to clarify the jelly. It gives it a greater substance. This jelly is a monotonous one, but the sagacity of the cook will in some respects alter this character, for he will sometimes give this jelly plain, sometimes with grapes in it, and sometimes put it in a cylinder mould. When you have turned the jelly, have some of the same in ice, take a stewpan cover, chop some of the jellj'^ very fine, and put it some- times all round, sometimes in the middle, and try by yom* intelligence to supply the deficiency of the art whenever you can. This jeUy is • made in aU seasons; in summer strawberries are excellent in it, and the flavour of the fruit harmonises well with the jelly. Wine JeUy, Madeira (another way).— See Madeii-a Wme JeUy. Wine Lozenges.—Steep one oxmce of isinglass in water lor twelve hours—use very little water for this purpose—then boil in a pint of port or madeira tmtil evaporated to one-half. Poirr into a mould; when cold cut into lozenges with a large pair of scissors. Those lozenges, used in moderation, are highly tonic. Wine, Marigold. —Take twenty-five pounds of good loaf sugar and four pounds of honey, and boil them, with ten gallons of soft water and tho whites of eight eggs well-beaten, one hour, skimming it imtil quite clear, and pour it hot upon three pocks of marigold flowers and four pounds of good raisins stoned and shred, covering the vessel close. Next day stirWIN ( 1135 ) WIN the liquor continually twenty minutes, and let it remain covered until the following morning. Then stmin the liquor, and put it into your cask upon the rinds of six Seville oranges pared very thin, and eight ounces of sugar-candy broken small, reserving two gallons, which must be made nearly boiling hot, and stirred amongst the rest. Then work it Avith nearly seven or eight table-spoonfuls of good fresh yeast, cover the bung-hole with a tile, and let it work over, filling it up every day as the liquor decreases. When the fermentation has ceased, put in three pints of French brandy and an ounce of dissolved isinglass, and stop it up securely. It will be fine in nine months, and fit for bottling, but will improve if kept longer. Let it remain in bottles well corked and sealed twelve months. Wine, Mulberry. — G-ather the mul- berries before they are quite ripe, bruise them in a tub, and to every quart of the bruised beiTies put the same quantity of water. Let the mixture stand for twenty-four hours, and then strain it through a coarse sieve. Having added to every gallon of the diluted juice three or foiu: povmds of sugar, allow it to ferment in the usual way. When fine in the cask, bottle it. Wine, Mulled.—Any kind of wine may be mulled, though port and claret are the most suitable, and are usually preferred for the pur- pose. Claret needs to be liberally sweetened. The quantity of spice used must be regulated by individual taste, which varies considerably upon questions of this sort. Grated nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, and mace, are the spices gene- rally used for mulled wine. To mull the wine, take equal quantities of wine and water (or, if preferred, double the quantity of wine to that of water). BoU the spice in the water till the latter is sufficiently flavoured; strain the liquor, sweeten it, mix the wine with it, and bring it again to the point of boiling. Serve very hot, with wine biscuits or thin strips of drj^ toast. When equal quantities only of wine and water are used, an egg may be whisked in a bowl, the boiling liquor may be stirred graduallj' into it, and then served. The sauce- pan in which wine is mulled should be delicately clean, and used for no other purpose. Wine, Mulled, Claret.—Take a few cloves, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, the thin peel of half a lemon, two slices of lemon, four oimces of sifted sugar, and one pint of water; boil for a quarter of an hour in an enamelled saucepan, add a little grated nutmeg or powdered ginger, two bottles of claret, one small glass of brandy or cura^oa ; when nearly boiling, strain. Wine, Orange. — " Seville oranges are used for this purpose ; they are best in March. For eighteen gallons of wine half a chest of onmges are required. Pare the rinds from about a dozen or two dozen, as more or less of the bitter wiU be agreeable. Pour over this a quart or two of boiling water, and after letting this stand for twelve hours, strain off the water which extracted much of the essential oil of the oranges. Take the peel off entirely from the remainder of the oranges, squeeze the juica through a bag or sieve, and put it into a cask with about forty-five pounds of white sugar, or fifty-five of the best moist sugar. Soak the pulp in water for twenty-four hours, and after straining this add it to the cask. Repeat this several times till the cask is full. Stir the whole well with a stick till the sugar is dis- solved, then set it to ferment. The fermen- tation is slower than with currant wine, but may be heard hissing for some weeks. When this subsides, close the bung-hole and proceed as in the case of gooseberry wine. Some add brandy. This wine requires to be kept in the cask a year before it is bottled." Wine, Peach (a Canadian recipe).—Take the stones out of forty-five pounds of ripe peaches, slice the fruit into a clean vessel, and strew over and amongst them ten pounds of loaf sugar broken small: let them lie covered up until the next day. Boil ten gallons of soft water, with sixteen pounds of loaf sugar and the whites of ten eggs beaten fine, half an hour, skimming it until clear; then put to it the fruit and sugar out of the vessel, and boil them to a pulp, taking off the scum as it rises. Put the whole into a tub upon the shells and kernels of the peaches previously broken, stir it well, and when properly cooled stir well amongst it nearly half a pint of good yeast, and leave it to ferment. Stir it well two days at proper inter- vals, then strain the liquor through a fine sieve, and put it in yoxir cask to work over, being kept always full. Add the thin rinds of six Seville oranges, and half a pint of orange and lemon juice mixed, and when the fermentation has ceased, put in two quarts of brandy, and stop it up for two months. Then rack it off, into a clean vessel, filter the lees, and fill the cask again, adding an ounce of dissolved isin- glass and six ounces of sugar-candy. Stop it up securely, and keep it twelve months; then bottle it, seal the corks, and let it be six months longer before you drink it. It is a delicious wine, and may be made at a trifling expense. Wine Punch.—Take two lemons, and rasp the yellow rind off with half a poimd of loaf sugar. Put this with the juice of the lemons into a bowl; then make scalding hot two bottles of good Rhine wine, adding to it a pint of strong green tea. Pour this over the sugar, and add from half a pint to a pint of arrack or fine rum. Wine, Raisin.—Procure fresh Smyrna or Malaga raisins; pick out the stalks and all defective fruit; chop twenty-eight pounds of these into smaU bits, and pour upon them three gallons of tolerably hot water, and let them stand to soak for twelve hours. Put the whole into a hair-cloth or clean canvas bag, and with a sufficiently powerful press press out the jtiice. Put two gallons more of hot water on the maro of raisms; let this remain also twelve hours, and press out as before. Mix the two liquids *0f father; but the skins are not to be used. Add to the juice thus obtained three pounds of white sugar, and put the whole into a proper vessel to ferment. Some add an ounce or two ot crude tartar, but no yeast, as the raisiuaWIN ( 1136 ) contain of thomsolvoB Huffieieiit formontiii^^ piiuciplo. This liquor will formont, and tho VOS80I ahould bo covorod with a blanket. Whon tho tirst fermentiitiou in ovor, the wine is to bo transferred or rai-kod into a clean cask, and suliorod to uudorgo tho slow fermentation; it is thou to be kept bunged up for three months, and then racked into another cask. In about twelve months it will bo fit to bottle. 8ome add brandy after the first fermentation; but this is not necessary. A still richer wine may bo made by increasing tho quantity of fruit and leaving out the sugar. Wine Sauce for Sweet Puddings.— l\Iake a quarter of a pint of good molted butter, sweeten it, flavour with grated lemon or oi-auge-rind, and add a glassful of wine. Mix thoroughly, and serve very hot. If preferred, brandy or rum may bo substituted for the wine. Sufficient for five or six persons. Wine Sauce, Red.—This is a Danish sauce to be eaten with plum pudding. Take a quarter of a pint of cherry-juice and half a pint of wine. When the mixture boils put in a good spoonful of flour mixed with a gill of water and two or three spoonfuls of brandy. Just before the sauce reaches the boiling point take it off, and serve immediately. Wine Sauce, Tremblant, Beef with {see Beef with Wine Sauce, Tremblant). W^ine Soup (a German recipe).—Take two ounces of butter and melt it in a stewpan. In this brown two table-spoonfuls of flour, s^ir into it a pint of water, add three or four ounces of sugar, the rind and juice of a lemon, a stick of cinnamon, and a bottle of wine. Simmer ten minutes. Place in a tureen the yolks of six eggs, pour over them slowly the wine soup, and send to table with toasted sippets. Wine Soup, Monastery Monastery Wine Soup). Wine Soup with Lemon (a German recipe).—Cut two lemons in thin slices, and take out the seeds. Cover the slices with powdered sugar in a tureen. Melt a piece of butter in a stewpan, and throw in a cupful of grated bread to brown. Keep the crumbs shaken or stirred tiU they are crisp, then strew them over the lemon-slices. ^Make a quart of wine, with a jiint of water and sufficient sugar, boiling hot; jjour it over the lemon-slices; cover closely for a few minutes, and serve with sponge cakes. Wine Soups.—Wine soups, made of light German wino, are very common throughout (Germany. They are very quickly made. Two or three recipes are given. No. 1. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a saucepan, stir into it briskly a table-spoonful of flour, and beat the paste over the fire till it acquires a little colour. Stir into it half a pint of water, and add the thin rind and strained juice of haU a fresh ]"mon, half a stick of cinnamon, three table- spoonfuls of sugar, and a small bottle of light wine. Simmer the soup for ten minutes, break throe eggs into the tureen, and froth them lightly. Mix them with a spoonful of the soup. Add the rest gradually, and serve. No. 2. Ik)il two ounces of best rice and the thin rind of half a lemon in thrce-quarteju of a pint of water. When tlie rice is tender, mix with it gmdually a small bottle of wino, and add as much white sugar as will sweeten it pleasantly, llrcak two eggs into the tureen, mix with them a spoonful of the soup, and servo. No. 3. Cut a largo fresh lemon into thin slices, carefully removing tho seeds. Put them into a tureen, cover with powdered white sugar, and add a tea-cupful of grated bread-crumbs whicli have boon browned in butter. Mix a pint of wine with half a pint of water. Sweeten the mix- ture, and bring it to the point of boiling. Pour it upon tho slices of lemon, &c., let them soak for five minutes, and servo. Send small sponge cakes to table as an accompaniment. Wine-sour Plums, To Preserve (excellent).— Pick off the stalks, weigh the plums, and take half their weight in loaf sugar pounded. Tear the skin of the seam with a pin, and put the fruit and the sugar, in alternate layers, into a large earthen jar. Cover the jar closely, and put it in the oven in a shallow tin of boiling water. Keep the water boiling Tinder it. When the plums are soft, pour the syrup from them; boil it, pour it over the fruit, and leave them till cold. Do this several times until the skin looks hard and the plums clear. Let them stand a week, then take them up one by one with a spoon and put them into jars. Boil the syrup once more, and jwur it over them. If there is not sufficient sj-rup to cover them, add syrup to it, made in the pro- portion of a pound of sugar to a tea-cupful of water. When the plums are cold, place brandied papers upon them, and tie a bladder over, to keep them air-tight; otherwise, they will lose their colour. If stored in a cool dry place, plums thus preserved will keep for years. Time, about ten days. Wine-sours are plums peculiar to Yorkshire. Wine-sours, To Preserve (a more expeditious method).— Skin and stone the plums, and boU them till soft. Put with them thiee-quarters of their weiglit in sugar, and stir them continuously till the syrup will set when a little is put upon a plate. Pour the jam into jars, and cover in the usual way. Store in a cool di-)' place. Time to boil the plums, three- quarters of an horn- without sugar; about a quarter of an hour with sugar. Wine, Spiced, or Bishop. — lilake several incisions in the rind of a k-mon, .stick cloves in the incisions, and roast the lemon by a slow fire. Put small but equal quantities of cinnamon, cloves, mace, and allspice into a saucepan with half a pint of water. I-<^t it boil till it is reduced one-half. Boil a bottle of port wino; bum a portion of the spirit out of it by applying a lighted paper to the saucepan. Put the roasted lemon and spice into the wine, stir it up weU, and let it stand near the fire for ten minutes. Rub a few knobs of sugar on the rind of a lemon, put the sugar into a bowl or jug with the juice of half a lemon (not roasted), ■pour the wine into it, grate some nutmeg into it, sw(-cten to taste, and serve with t.ho lonion and siiice floating in it. Granges are sometimes used instead of lemons.WIN ( 1137 ) WIN Wine, Strawberry.—Bruise and press out the juieo. Pour on the marc seven gallons of water; infuse for twelve hours, and press out the liquor; add this liquor to the juice, and mix them with six gallons of cider. Dissolve in the mixture sixteen pounds of raw sugar and three ounces of powdered red tartar, and tlien set it to ferment in the usual manner. Pare the rinds of two lemons and two oranges, and, together with the juice, throw them into the fermenting-tub, and take out the rinds when the fermentation is over. Three gallons of brandj' may be added. Wine Test, Dr. Paris's. — " Expose equal parts of sulphur and powdered oyster- shells to a white heat for fifteen minutes, and when cold add an equal quantity of cream of tartar. These are to be put into a strong bottle with common water to boil for an hour, and the solution is afterwards to be decanted into ounce phials, adding twenty drops of muriatic acid to each. This liquid will precipi- tate the least quantity of lead from wines in a very sensible black precipitate. As iron might be accidentally contained in the wine, the muriatic acid is added to prevent its precipita- tion." Wine Vinegar.—Wine vinegar is pro- perly the vinegar of genuine foreign wines, methodically prepared as in Germany, France, and Italy, and does not include those made from cider, malt-wines, or made wines of any description whatever. All wines, especially those of a weak kind, either spontaneously, or by repeated fermentations, may be converted into a kind of vinegar. Wine Whey, White.—Take half a pint of new milk and dilute it with an equal quan- tity of hot water; boil both together, and while boiling pour in at the moment two wine- glassfuls of white wine. A curd will form, which, after the mixture is boiled for two or three minutes, wiR settle at the bottom of the saucepan. Strain the whey carefullj' from the curd; it should be perfectly clear. Sugar may be added to please the taste. " Warm white- wine whey promotes perspiration, and hence it is useful in the commencement of some com- plaints ; but taken cold it has a different efifect, and often in cases of low fever it is an excellent beverage; also in the early stages of con- valescence it is as safe and sufficient a stimulant as can be given." Wine, Wholesomeness of.—" Sweet wines," says Dr.T. J. Graham, "are nourishing, and may sometimes be useful to the weak and convalescent, but they are not so wholesome as the wines in more common use. The acid wines, as the Rhenish and hock, are the least heating, and the most diuretic, and well calcu- lated for consumption in hot weather. AU thin or weak wines, however, though of an agreeable flavour, yet from their containing little spirit, are readily disposed to become acid in the stomach. But it ought to be observed that with some delicate persons the best Tlhenish wines agree veiy well, and are less liable to ferment than many of the stronger wines. 'J'ho dry and strong wines, such as sherry, madeira. and marsala, and the dry and light, as burgundy, claret, and hermitage, are the most wholesome: they are more cordial than the acid ones, and can be taken with safety in greater quantities than the sweet. The gentle astringency in genuine claret renders it in the opinion of many on the whole the most wholesome of any strong liquor whatsoever to be drunk plentifully. Port is a strong astringent wine, and, when not mixed with more than a very small portion of brandy, is generous and stomachic, and well suited to the generality of British constitutions in tolerable health. It is well calculated for cold and moist weather; but, like other red wines, is apt to occasion costiveness. Sparkling brisk wines, as champagne, inebriate more speedily than the stiller wines, but the morbid excite- ment is of short duration, and the subsequent exhaustion is comparatively trifling. In feverish habits, burgundy, port, and the stronger white wines, are to be avoided. To those who have a disposition to corpulence, claret, hock, or moselle, on account of their diuretic properties, are preferable to every other kind of wine for daily use. The moderate use of wine is safe, and often highly beneficial to those who have passed the meridian of life, but to young per- sons it is almost invariably pernicious. Children in tolerable health are never strengthened, but always injured, by it. As a tonic and stomachic to the aged, thi'ee or four moderate-sized glasses of good wine after dinner ought to be sufficient for most men." Wines. — Recipes for many home-made wines are given in the immediately preceding pages. Recipes for the following will be found under their respective headings:— Apricot Ginger, Superior Aromatic Goosemerry, Effer- BlRCH VESCING Blackberry Gooseberry, Still Black-currant Grape, Sparkling Champagne, Currant Herbs, Wine of Champagne, English Jelly, Weak, for In- Claret Cup valids Claret, Mulled Lemon Cowslip Lemon, quickly made Currant, Black Malmsey Currant, Red Malmsey, Scotch Currant, White May Currant, fkom Un- Mulled RIPE Fruits Orange Damson Parsnip (simple way) Dandelion Raisin EoG Raisin with Cider Elder Raspberry Frontignac Shallot Ginger Yi^e Leaves WineS; Alcohol in.—The quantity of alcohol existing in different wines may be seen from the following table drawn up by Mr. Brande:— Names of the Wines, Malt and Spmtwous Liquors, and the proportion of Alcohol {specific gravitxi 0-825) in otw /lundred jiurts of tJicse liquids by measure. Lissa (average) . . . .25-41 Marsala (average) .... 25 09 Port (average) .... 23-39 Madeira and Red or Burgundy ) Madeira (average) . . \ 'WIN WIN ( 1138 ) Ifames of the M'ineit, Malt and Spirituous Liquors, and l/io l>ro})ortion nf Alcohol (.s-jjoci/ii: iiravity O HliS) in one hundred parts of these tK/uids by measure. Xorea or iShorry (averugo) . . 19-17 Tenorilt'e 19'7'J Laclu-yma Christi .... iy-70 CouBtiinlia (wliito).... 19-7() .^o- M .... 18-92 Lisbon 1894 Capo Muscat 18-25 Houssillon (average) . . , 18-13 Miilaga 17-26 Hermitage (wliito). . . . 17-43 Malmsey Madeira . . . .10-40 Lunel 15-52 Bordeaux Wine or Claret (average) 15-10 ISauterne 14-22 Burgundy (average) . , . 14-57 Nice 14-63 Champagne (still) . . . .13-80 do. (sparkling) . . . 12-61 Red Hermitage .... 12-32 Vin de Grave .... 13.37 Frontignac 12-89 Cote Eotie 12-32 Ehenish Wine (average) . . 12-08 Tokay 9-88 Gooseberry Wine . . . .11-84 Cider (highest average) . . . 9-87 do. (lowest average) . . 6-21 Mead 7-32 Ale (average) 6-87 Brown Stout 6-80 Porter (average) .... 4-20 Small Beer 1-28 Brandy 53-39 Eum 63-68 Gin 51-60 Whisky 54-32 Irish Whisky .... 53-90 The action of wines upon the animal economy depends principally upon the quantity of alco- hol they contain. However, a certain given quantity of wine does not act in the same way as a mixture of alcohol and water in the same proportions; and certain wines yielding on distillation very nearly the same pro- portion of alcohol do not inebriate with the same facility. This difference must be ascribed to the various kinds of combinations in which alcohol exists in these complex products. Wines, Analysis of.—The following re- marks on this subject are drawn from the admirable South Kensington Museum Hand- book on " Food," by Professor Church. " When the sugary juice of any fruit is left to itself for a time at a moderately warm temperature, the change known as fermentation occurs. This fermentation is generally brought about by the growth of a low form of vegetable life—an organised ferment. It consists of a splitting up of the sugar present in the liquid (or at least of a large part of it) into alcohol, which remains in the liquid, and carbonic acid gas, which escapes more or less complctely- " Although the fermented juice of all fruits may be regarded as wine, yet the term is gene- rally limited to the alcoholic liquor prepared from the grape- But we have in England at least two familiax native wines—perry or pear wine, and cider or apple wine. Other so-called lintish wiiKiH are usually made-up or compound iKinors, into wliich a krge quantity of cane or b(;i;t sugar has been introduced. They cannot bo regarded as true wines, nor are they generally wholesome. "The analysis of grapes shows us that the chief mgrodient in their juice is glucow;, a kind of sugar. There is also some albuminoid matter and a little tartaric acid, chiefly in wjmbination with potash; other minor ingredients also exist m grape--juice. The seeds of the grape contain the astringent substance, tannin, with some bitter principles, while in the skins not only docs colouring matter exist, but also some flavour- ing matters and tannin. From these facts it will be clearly seen that very different qualities of -Nvine may be made from the same quality of grape, according to the method of operating upon the fruit. The colour, the bouquet or volatile flavour, the astringency, &c., of a wine may thus be varied according to the admission or exclusion of the characteristic ingredients of the skins and stones of the grapes. "The main difference between grape-juice and grape-wine is the substitution of the sugar in the former by the alcohol which is charac- teristic of the latter. But other changes occur in the fermentation and ripening of wine. Much of the acid tartrate of potash is deposited from the liquid on being kept, this deposit being called argol. Argol consists chiefly of the above- mentioned tartrate, but with it a little colouring matter and some tartrate of lime are always found. In the stronger but natural white wines small floating crystals of cream of tartar often occur; they are nearly pure acid tartrate of potash. A small quantity of free acetic acid is found in wines. When they become sour it is this acid to which the sourness is due; it is formed by the oxidation of some of the alcohol present, a change which occurs more readily in weak natural wines than in those which contain much alcohol. Another important characteristic of wines is the presence in small quantity of certain compounds called ethers. They are usually fragrant oily liquids, of which traces are present in all wines. These ethers are com- pounds formed by the imion of the ordinary alcohol or spirit of wine with some of the acids which are contained in the fermented liquor—at least this is usually the case. Much, then, of the flavour and perfume of a wine is due to these ethers, some of which existed, ready- formed, in the grape itself, while others were slowly formed in keeping the fermented liquor. Different varieties of grape yield differently- flavoured wines, but the alcoholic strength of a wine depends mainly upon the propoi-tion of sugar in the grapes, and in the degree of com- pletion to which the process of fennentation is carried. The same kind of grape gives a very different wine as to flavour and alcoholic strength in accordance with the climate in which it is grown, the season, and the soil. " The quantity of true or absolute alcohol in natural wines varies from 7 per cent, in some hocks, clarets, and other light wines, to 13 ])er cent- in many Greek and Hungarian -^ intiiges. When the quantity of absolute alcohol exceeds 13 or 13^ per cent, it may usually be consideredWIN ( 1139 ) that the wine has received an addition of dis- tilled spirit, or been fortified. Wines of deli- cate flavour will not bear fortifying, the alcohol added being usually derived from the fermenta- tion of artifically-prepared grape sugar, and con- taining the coarsely-flavoured alcohol known as fusil oil. A fortified wine may contain a good deal of sugar, for the addition of spirit to a fermenting liquid checks, more or less com- pletely, the further change of the sugar. " Wines under 26° of proof spirit pay on im- portation a duty of Is. a gallon; those over 26° and under 42° pay 28. 6d. Large and increas- ing quantities of natural wines now come into this country. Even of Spanish wines so im- ported about one-half are of natural strength, while the average of all Spanish wines does not show much over 28 per cent, of proof-spirit— rather less than 14 per cent, of absolute alcohol. " The following table shows the quantities of alcohol, of fixed acids—calculated as tartaric acid—of acetic acid, of sugar, of ethers, and of mineral matter or ash, contained in fair ave- rage samples of eight different kinds of wines commonly consiuned in Europe. One imperial pint of each of the following wines contains about:— Name of Wine. Hock . Claret . Champagne Burgundy Carlowitz Sherry . Madeira Port. . Alcohol (absolute). Tartaric andother Acids. Acetic Acid. Sugar. Ethers. Mineral Matter. oz. gr. gr. gr. oz. gr. gr. gr. 1 219 39 18 none 4 16 1 306 31 18 0 9 6 18 1 343 20 10 1 120 6 20 2 18 24 17 0 10 6 18 2 35 36 19 none 6 16 3 147 24 12 0 236 4 38 3 218 26 18 0 175 5 33 3 218 23 12 0 359 6 20 "The different wines made in this country from rhubarb stalks, gooseberries, currants, cowslips, elderberries, oranges, &c., contain oxalic, malic, and other acids, besides the tai-taric acid which is the chief acid of the grape. Now these acids are not thrown out of the liquor after fermentation, as is the case to a groat extent with the wine from grapes. Thus sugar has to be added to mask the acidity of these liqueurs, and in consequence they are not so wholesome as the natural imported wines. But it must not be supposed that grapes are entirely free from all acids save tartaric, or that the analyses as above given re- present every constituent of the wines we have included in the table. _ " The ethers of wines previously alluded to include a number of compounds not yet com- pletely analysed or understood. Some of them, however, have been examined pretty fully, and even exactly imitated by chemical means! CEnanthate, butyrate, and acetate of ethyl are the names given to some of the best known of these ethers. These ethers enter into the com- position of the artificial "oil of cognac" and various flavouring essences." Wines, Bottling of.—Bottling can never bo looked on as an unimportant matter, seeing tlial upon the process depend in a great moasuro many of the finest qualities of different wines. As a general rule, fine and delicate wines never attain to their full perfection till they have been some time in bottle. There are many conditions essential to a satisfactory performance of the operation, such as the state of the wine, the atmosphere, and the materials employed in the process. The state of the wine should be such as would prevent any further advantages accruing from its retention in the wood. This point varies much even in the same wine—that is, in •wine made from the same plants grown upon the same ground, but of different crops (because the grapes of one year's crops may be more matured than those of another), and even in the same crop, when the wine has been placed in different utensils and subjected to slight changes of temperature. To ascertain the point, the palate of a skilled " taster " is usually the surest guide. Wine should never be bottled till it is still, clear, and translucent. The least negli- gence in these respects may seriously com- promise its condition after bottling. From what has just been said, it will be seen that it is impossible to fijs a determinate date at which particular wines ought to be bottled. In any case, it should not be delayed until the wine begins to deteriorate, nor hurried on before it has acquired a suitable maturity. The atmospheric conditions most favourable to the process of bottling are those in which the wine is most tranquil. Autumn and winter, up to the end of March, when the weather is still cold—neither damp, overbright, nor thundery —are the best times, for the reasons which render these seasons most suitable to " racking." As regards material, great circumspection should be observed in the choice of bottles and of the corks to be used with them. However good the bottles themselves may be, it is in- dispensable that they should be washed, inside and out, with scrupulous care, so that they may be free from the least spot or stain of any foreign substance, and from suspicion of impart- ing even the slightest colour or taste to the water in which they are washed. The practice of using leaden smaU-shot in washing bottles, to detach the harder portions of fur and crust, is highly prejudicial, and should be forbidden in every case. The shot-corns often get wedged between the sides of the bottle and its convex bottom so firmly as to defy aU efforts to dis- J^dge them. Coming in contact with the wine, they dissolve more or less completely, and com- municate to the latter poisonous properties, due not only to the formation of salts of lead, but to the arsemc which enters into the composition ot smaU shot. For cleansing purposes, there- ±ore, metalUc chains with small joints are greatly to be preferred, though, after all, wash- ing with suitable brushes is the best method, and various smaU machines exist which execute the operation verj^ satisfactorUy. The bottles should be allowed to drain thoroughly before Z"^^ P"^* wh'ch purpose they should be made to stand bottom upwards for a sufficient time, the necks being inserted in orifices placed for the pizrpose on tables or shelves. Corks should invariably be used as stoppers. It 18 very essential that they should be of good quality, fine, even in texture, andWIN ( 1140 ) WIJT clfiHtic, and, in the case of now corks, that thoy eliould be properly cut, and free from dofocts. After bottling, it is very desirable that the wine tthould stand for sumo time, to got the full benetit of the operation—generally speaking, for twelve months at least. During this period the bottle should be kept in a suitable store- house, in such a position that the wine may cover the corks, and should on no account bo moved. Ordiuai-y wines containing a small portion of alcohol are apt to fur if these pre- cautions are unheeded. Should the wine deposit any sediment after bottling (which it generally does), it will of course form on the under sidii, and care must be taken in moving the wine to prevent any admixture of the sediment there- with. Wines, Choice of .—The choice of wines, in lajdng in a stock, is a matter of considerable difficulty, particularly to the inexperienced. A habit of tiisting the superior wines will alone give the palate the power of discriminating minute differences in the aroma and bouquet of the choice kinds. But a very correct taste in wine is a rare quality ; and there is sometimes a good deal of pretension in passing a judgment upon them. The particular impression on the sense of taste is also liable to be affected by the state of bodily health at the time, or by the last substance taken into the mouth. Thus, wine after sweetmeats and fruits frequently tastes harsh; whereas after made dishes and cheese wines sometimes appear better than they really are. The first object to be considered, next to the taste, from which the purchaser must judge for himself, is whether the wine is pure and the genuine production of the country whose name it bears; and whether or not it is adul- terated with any foreign substance. To dis- tinguish this accurately, in many cases, requires great experience and a very nice palate. It is even said that few persons, except the maniifac- turers themselves, are judges sufficiently ex- perienced to distinguish and appreciate ■ the different growths of their own territory; and that even these cannot estimate properly the wines of another district. Another kind of ability necessary is to be able to distinguish the condi- tion of the wine: whether it is new, and whether it will keep or will be liable to change. Some wines may appear good that will not keep a year; and others that at first appear indifferent will im- prove so much by keeping as to be in the end excellent. Good wine is most frequently to be found among capitalists, who can afford to buy large quantities in favourable j^ears, and who can select in their stock that which is fittest for bottling at any j^articular time, not sending out any but what is fit for use, and who have a reputation to keep up. It is scarcely necessary to add that there are few articles of domestic consumption in which there are more frauds practised than in wine, or in which more money I may be thrown away for want of good ' management: to say nothing of the pleasure it I affords every one to place good wine before his - guests, or the danger of injuring their healths by offering them what is prejudicial. Wines, Diseases of.—By "diseases of wines " wo must understand those conditions in which winoB h»ive become bo altered and un- fitted for use as to have lost their distinct character. The chief disoascH are m follows: 1. The Turning of JViue.—Thitt is a disease which attacks young wine, and seemB to occur under special conditions id tlie weather. The colour grows darker, and tlie taste first dis- appears, and if the disi;a8e continues becomes disagreeable; the wine becomes turbid and acid. This disease arises from a decomposition of tartar. 2. The JRopineas of Wine.—Thiii disease con- sists in the formation of vegetable mucus from the sugar of the wine, and is known as mucous fermentation. The wines liable to this change are those which are deficient in tannic acid. 3. T/ie Bitterness of Wine.—In this we have a disease to which Burgimdy wines are specially liable. It appears to arise from a second fer- mentation, inasmuch as a large quantity of car- bonic acid is evolved. It has been ascribed by some to the foi-mation of citric ether, which is very bitter. The disease is caused by the sedi- ment, and is often put a stop to by drawing the wine off into other casks. 4. The Acidifying of Wine.—This depends upon the conversion of the alcohol into acetic acid, and may be nipped in the bud by adding alkahne carbonates; which, however, destroy the colour and affect the taste of the wine. 5. The Mouldiness of Wine.—In this disease mould-plants are produced on the surface of the wine. How and under what condition the mould is formed is uncertain ; all that is known is that the admission of air is favourable to the disease. Wines, Effervescing.—If wines are bottled before the fermentation is over, the carbonic acid is retained in the .wine, and what is called an "effervescing" wine is produced. Certain kinds of wine are more favourable than others to this process; and in all coimtiies effervescing wines are produced. In this coim- try we are most familiar with the effervescing wines of Fi'ance, which are generally known under the name of champagne. Hocks, mo- selles, and even red wines are treated thus; and, on the cork being removed from the bottle, the carbonic acid begins to escape, and gives them their sparkling effervescent character. When such wines contain much sugar, the fer- mentation ia the bottle is arrested before aU the sugar is consimied, and they are sweet effervescing wines. In other cases the sugar is all exhausted in producing the carbonic acid, and such wines are then said to be dry. Sparkling or effervescing wines are agreeable to the palate, and in the same way as bottled ales they some- times appear to assist the digestion of the food with which they are taken. In some cases, how- ever, there can be no doubt that they produce injmy. When new, they conimimicate the state of change in which they are to the contents of the stomach, and interfere with the healthy process of digestion. They are less liable to disagree when thoy are dry and contiiin but little sugar thiin when they contain mucli of this fiul)stance. The quantity of sugar varies in champagne from one Inmdred grains in the pint to considerably above an ounce.WIN ( 1141 ) WIN Wines, Home-made.—Home-made wines differ chiefly from foreign or grape wines in containing a much greater quantity of malic acid, whilst the wine of the grape contains chiefly tartareous; for it is the presence of super-tartrate of potash by which the grape is most strongly distinguished from all the other sub-acid fruits applied to the purposes of wine- making. This salt is most abundant in the grape before ripening, and a portion of it dis- appears during this process. A consideration of this diversity led Dr. Macculloch to point out to the public the useful practice of introducing super-tartrate of potash into all those juices of fruits which are intended for the basis of home- made wines. This salt is doubtless decomposed during the fermentative processes, and a con- siderable quantity of what remains is sub- sequently deposited in the casks or bottles in which the wine is kept, constituting what is termed the crust of the wine. Few of our home- made wines possess an intense colour; with the exception of the elderberry, mulberry, and the black cherry, scarcely any colour is contained in our domestic fruits. The colouring of home-made wines may be effected by bil- berries, mulberries, or the husk of elder- berries; these substances impart a fine red colour to vinous fluids; they are sometimes suffered to ferment with the must, to render the colour more intense. The practice of making wines from the produce of our gardens is deserving of very general attention. Foreign wines are entirely beyond the reach of the poor; and, therefore, the benevolent will en- deavour to supply them, in age and sickness, with the best substitutes which our native fruits will afford. The following domestic fruits are well calcu- lated for the fabrication of wine :—The goose- berry, elderberry, mulberry, raspberry, black- berry, strawberry, red currant, black currant, white currant, and cranberry. These ferments will afford good and wholesome wines. It is a vulgar prejudice to suppose that the wines made from our domestic fruits are unwhole- some. They may disagree with the constitu- tions of some persons, but no fact can warrant the assertion that they are more injurious than wines made from the grape. The pulpy fruits of our gardens, such as the peach, nectarine, plum, cherry, damson, and apricot, may also be employed; but, upon the whole, they answer not so well for the fabrication of wines as the domestic sub-acid esculent berries. The gooseberry and currant are, of all other fruits, most commonly employed in the fabrica- tion of homo-made wines ; and, on the whole, they are best adapted for the purpose. When used in their green state, both gooseberry and currant may be made to form light brisk wines, falling little short of champagne. Ripe gooseberries are capable of making sweet or dry wines; but these are commonly ill-flavoured, particularly if the husk has not been carefully excluded. Ripe currants, if properly managed, make much bettor wines than gooseberries. These fruits are much impi-oved, according to Dr. Macculloch, by boiling jjreviously to fermentii- tiwii. This, he states, is particularly the case with the black currant, which, when thus managed, is capable of making a wine closely resembling some of the best of the sweet Cape wines. The strawberry and raspberry are capable of making both dry and sweet wines of agreeable quality. The elderberry is capable of making an excel- lent red wine. Its cheapness also recommends it. It does not, indeed, possess any great degree of flavour, but it possesses no bad one, which is a negative property often of great importance in artificial wine-making. The cherry produces a wine of no very peculiar character. If used, care should be taken not to bruise too many of the stones, otherwise a disagreeable bitter taste will be imparted to the wine. The blackberry and mulberry are capable of making coloured wines, if managed with that view: they are deficient, however, in the astrin- gent principle; nevertheless, they may be occasionally employed with advantage when a particular object is to be gained. The sloe and damson are so associated in qualities that nearly the same results are obtained from both. Their juice is acid and astringent, and hence they are qualified only for making dry wines. By a due admixture of currants or elderberries with sloes or damsons, wines not unlike the inferior kinds of port are often produced. Grapes, of British growth, are capable of making excellent sparkling and other wines by the addition of sugar. The grapes may be used in any state, however immature; when even but half-grown and perfectly hard they succeed perfectly. Raisins are extensively used in this country for making domestic wines, therefore they deserve to be mentioned here. When properly managed, they are capable of making a pure and flavourless vinous fluid, well adapted for receiving any flavour which may be required, and thus of imitating many wines of foreign growth. The orange and lemon are likewise used for making domestic wines. Upon the whole, however, they are not very well adapted for the purpose, as they contain too little acid and too little of the extractive or fermentative juice. The quince, from its analogy to the apple and pear, is better qualified for making a species of cider than wine. The following is the art of making wine from native fruits. We start upon the grounds that home-made wines are intended to be imitations of foreign wines. In the first place, therefore, we have to prepare a juice or must similar to i the juice or must of the grape in its general composition. Now, no fruit whatever yields a juice precisely similar to that of the grape. In our northern climate, more especially, the sac- charine principle, which is the fundamental basis in wme-making, exists in very minute proportion in most fruits. It must be, there- fore, suppbed artificially. The tartaric acid, or rather super-tartrato of potash, which is another essential principle in wine-making, is likewise wanting in most of our fruits. This, therefore, must be supplied. On the contrirv.WIN ( 1H2 ) WIN other subatanceH, and particularly tho malic acid, exiat in too largo a pj'oportion in most of our fruits, which, in their natural state, are thus better adapted for making' cider than wino. To.get rid of tlio malic acid, and to prevent its deteriorating eli'ects, as well as tho deteriorating elfects of other foreign principles, is difficult, or perhaps impossible; and this will doubtless always render home-made wines inferior to those of the grape, though very near approaches may be made by judicious management. The practical mode of obviating those diffi- culties is to dilute tho juico of tho fruit to such a degree that a given quantity of it shall contain no more of the malic acid, for example, than a given quantity of the juice of tho grape; and, as before observed, to supply artiticially the two grand principles, sugar and super- tartrate of potash, which are wanting. Having thus prepared an artificial must as nearly re- sembling in its composition that of the grapes as possible, the application of the other prin- ciples wiU be obvious, as we have nothing to do but to manage, in general, all the subsequent processes precisely as if we were operating upon the must of the grape. In manufacturing wine from grapes different methods ai-e pursued according to the kinds of wine which it is intended to make. Now the same thing holds good in manufacturing home- made wines; it is absolutely necessary that the maker should determine beforehand upon the kind of wine which it is his object to produce, and to modify his processes accordingly. We may, with Dr. Macculloch, consider wines as of f om- general descriptions: sweet wines; sparkling or effervescing wines; dry and light wines, analogous to hock and Rhenish, in which the saccharine principle is entirely decomposed during fermentation; and lastly, dry and strong wines, as madeira and sherry. Those of the first and most simple class are the sweet wines, or those in which the fermen- tative process has been incomplete. It is %o this class that by far the greater number of our home-made wines bear the greatest resemblance; a resemblance, says Dr. Macculloch, so general, as to show that few makers of this article pos- aess sufficient knowledge of the art to enable them to steer clear of what may be firmly called a radical defect of domestic wines; for so large a quantity of sugar is often added in proportion to the juice of the fruits, that the quantity of natural leaven, or fermentative matter, in the compound, is insufficient for the conversion of the sugar into wine; hence that part of it which remains undecomposed is sweet. The use of the artificial leaven, yeast, may in some measure correct this defect, but the quantity added is generally inadequate to this object. "The addition of brandy," says Dr. Mac- culloch, *' so often recommended in the recipes for making fruit wines, so far from checking the wine from becoming sour, increases it; the tendency, and therefore the use of brandy as a preservative of wine, is founded on error. Dr. Macculloch recommends a certain pro- portion of crude tartar; the dose of which may vary from one to six per cent, -svithout materially affecting the wine, as a great proportion of what escapes decomposition wiLL be subsequently deposited. All fruits except the grape wili require more or loss of thia salt. In the manufacture of home-made wines, care therefore should bo taken not to use too small a proportion of fruit compared with th© augar employed; for it is in this cucumstance chi.jfiy which renders the fermentative process in- complete, and thus imphrts that sweet and mawkish taste to our domestic wines which renders them intolerable to many people, and even perhaps to all, without tho addition of brandy. Tho strength of the wine ia always proportional to the quantity of sugar employed, provided that sugar has been completely decomposed ; tho moat aaccharino juices, there- fore, afford tho strongest wine; or, in tho practice which is necessary in making wine from native fruits, that fluid will produce the strongest wine to which the greatest quantity of sugar has been added previously to fermen- tation, care being always taken to increase the quantity of leaven in auch a ratio aa to insure the complete decompoaition of the sugar, without which the produce gains in sweetness only without acquiring additional strength. But even with this precaution there is a limit to the quantity of augar that can be employed, and this limit is obviously the proportion of water which ia required to insure the ferment- ing process. The fermentation must continue the longer if it ia desired that the produce shall be a dry wine, and for a less time if it ia wished to produce a aweet wine. But if, on the contrarj', it is the wish of tho operator to preserve the flavour or bouquet of the wine, it is necessary that the period of the fermentation should be shortened. The case will be precisely the same if it is an object to have a brisk wine, as the carbonic acid, on which this quality exclusively dependa, will be dissipated irrecoverably by an undue protraction of the fermenting process. "Wines, Keeping of.—Wine is put into bottles for the sake of keeping it, and the placing these bottles in some sfife and con- venient place called a cellar is technically called cellaring. Some wines are not much improved by bottKng at all, and these one may drink direct from the cask. In wine countries it is not unconmion to drink the wine directly from the cask as we do beer. This is more especially done with the weaker and cheaper wines, and wine is occasionally thus consumed in thia country. "Wine from the wood is sold in some of our wine shops. Inferior red wines, sherries, and marsala, are said to improve more whilst on tap in the cask than when bottled. Weak wines cannot be kept long in the cask without a danger of the oxygen of the air converting their hydrated oxide of ethyle (alcohol) into the hy^ated tri-oxide of acetylo (vinegar), which is a result very much to be avoided by those who attach importance^to the flavour or atrength of their wines. Wine in casks gets altered by the evaporation of the water and the alcohol into the air, and also by the absorption of one or the other by the wood. These changes cannot happen when the wine is put into glass bottles. Wine can thus be ke])t long(>r in bottles without change than in wood. There is a notion that wine gets stronger( 1143 ) WIN WITT by keeping, but this is erroneous. If fermen- tation goes on, a little more sugar will be converted into alcohol, but this is not large, even in the case of effervescing wines. It is, therefore, a false notion that wine gets stronger by keeping. Strong wines undoubtedly keep best. Wines get altered by keeping, and they get weaker by keeping. They should not be kept in hot cellars, nor cold cellars, nor cellars with a changeable temperature. It appears that a uniform temperature of between 50° and 60° is the best for all kinds of wine. Wines are said to ripen sooner in warm cellars than in cold ones, and it is very certain that new wines may be made to assume the flavour of old ones by exposing them to high temperatures, and letting them cool again. This, however, belongs to the art of doctoring." The art of preserving wines is to prevent them from fretting, which is done by keeping them in the same degree of heat and careful working in a cellar where they wiU not be agitated by the motion of carriages passing. If persons wish to preserve the fine flavour of their wines, they ought on no account to permit any bacon, cheese, onions, pork, or cider in the wine cellars; for if there be anj'- disagreeable odour in the cellar, the wine will indubitably imbibe it; consequently, instead of being fra- grant and charming to the nose and palate, it ■svill bo extremely disagreeable. Wines, Wholesomeness of.—Wines may be resolved into two great divisions ; into those which are coloured, and commonly called red wines, and those which have a yellow tinge, more or less deep, termed white wines. This colouring matter is not derived from the juice, but from the husk of the grapes. If, therefore, the fermentation be not permitted to take place in contact with the husks, a colourless wine is in all cases produced. This colouring matter is highly astringent, and consequently the red wines differ from the white in their effects upon the stomach; and yet it is difficult to explain the well-known extent of this operation by the presence of so small a proportion of active matter. It must, however, be remem- bered that irritable stomachs are frequently impatient of astringent matter. Many persons are incapable of drinking port wine, in con- sequence of the heartburn it occasions; while others, OA the contrary, appear to derive advantage from the tonic influence of its syngency. This is a circumstance of idio- syncracy which no theory can explain. A popular writer remarks, " When my stomach is not in good temper, it generally desires to have red wine; but when in best health nothing affronts it more than to put port into it; and one of the first symptoms of its coming into adjustment is a wish for white wine. Every physician is practically aware of the caprice which the stomach displays in its morbid con- ditions ; but as a general rule it may be stated that white deserves a preference over red wines, because the latter being pressed and subjected to a stronger fenncntation to extract the colouring principle from the husk are neces- sarily more loaded with extractive and as- tringent matter; and as this remains in the stomach after the liquid portion of the wine is absorbed, it will bo liable to occasion dis- turbance." ■, ^, J. J., It is a fact not easily explained that the stomach is frequently outraged by a wine to which it has not been accustomed; and it is equally true that a mixture of different wines is a common source of indigestion. The cus- tom of mixing wine with water has its advan- tages as well as its evils. By dilution it frequently proves too little stimulant to the stomach, and runs into a state of acescency. An invalid is also thus liable to deceive him- self by taking niore wine than may be con- sistent with his welfare. Much, however, depends upon the quality of the wine taken; the lighter wines cannot requii-e dilution, while port is certainly rendered less injuiious by the admixture. Winged Game, Sauce for.—Take a quarter of a pint of the gravy which runs from the birds, put it into a saucepan, with a clove of garlic, a few peppercorns, a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, a tea-spoonful of salad-oil, and the thin rind of a quarter of a Seville orange cut into strips. Boil the gravy till it is pleasantly flavoured, skim and strain it, add a glassful of wine, and salt to taste, and serve. Time to boil the gravy, about quarter of an hour. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Winter, Butter Preserved for use in.—Work some good butter, which is neither strong nor rank, with cold water till it is perfectly free from milk. Mix thoroughly a quarter of a pound of powdered saltpetre with an equal quantity of powdered white sugar and half a pound of common salt. Work an ounce of this mixture into each pound of butter, pack it closely in stone jars, and fasten it down. If not exposed to the air, it will keep good for a long time. Winter Cheesecakes {see Cheesecakes, Winter). Winter Hotch Potch.—Soak three- quarters of a pound of di-ied green peas over- night, then boU them till tender, and pulp them through a sieve. Take from three to four pounds of the best end of the neck or loin of mutton, or of the thick flank of beef. Either cut the meat into neat pieces or ksep it whole, as preferred. Grate four caiTots, and cut as many turnips into small dice. Put them, with a few sticks of celery and a large onion, or a leek and a bunch of parsley, into a stewpan, pour over them about four quarts of water, and bring them gently to the boil. Put in the meat, add pepper and salt, and sinuner all gently together for about two hours. Add the pulped peas, boil quarter of an hour longer, and serve. If liked, a cabbage, finely shred, may be added to the other vegetables. The meat may either bo served with the soup or on a separate dish. If liked, it may be taken out when it is done enough, and put aside till it is to be served, then heated again in a little of the soup. Eice or pearl barley may be substituted for the peas. Time, two hours to stew the vegetables. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons,WIN WIN ( 1144 ) Winter Hotch-Potch (another way) .— 'J'liis ilisli may oithcr bo made of fresh hoof or of a uock or back ribs of mutton, or of a mix- tiiru of both. Cut four pounds of moat into neat piecos. Boil and skim woU, add caiTots and turnips sliced, small leeks and parsley cut down, and some German greens shred; and, if tender, put in only half an hour before the soup is completed. Season with pepper and siilt. The quantity of vegetables must be regulated by the quantity of meat, so that tho soup may have consistency, but not be dis- agreeably thick. Serve the meat and soup together. Rice or dry but melting gi-een peas may, if Uked, be boiled in the soup. Winter Jelly, Mosaic. — Boil half a pint of cream. When it boils, infuse the peel either of an orange or of a lemon, according as you -wish to decorate the jelly with either. When the cream has imbibed the flavour of the fruit, put in a little sugar. Break the yolks of four eggs, which beat with tho cream, lay it on the fire to thicken, and then put in some isin- glass that has previously been melted. Strain the whole thi-ough a hair sieve, and put it in a basin, well covered, on some ice, in order that it may get quite firm. Now take the mould which you intend to use, brush it lightly with oil all over the inside, and then cut the white cream jelly with a knife in the first place, and next with small tin cutters. Decorate the mould without putting it on ice, for the damp would prevent the decoration from sticking on. Decorate the bottom first, next the sides; then only put the mould over ice. Now pour a little orange jellj' lightly, not to injure the decora- tion, and let it get thick. When the orange jeUy is frozen, thrust the mould deeper into the ice; then put a little more jelly to the height of the lower decoration on the sides; let the preparation be made firm again. Mind, the jelly is never to come higher than the flowerets till the bottom has been first made fii-m, then gi-adually ascend to the top. Cover and sur- round the mould with ice. When you wish to serve up, dip a towel into some hot water, and rub the mould all round. Ascertain that none of the jelly sticks to the sides before you meddle with the bottom of the mould; then rub the bottom with the hot towel, and turn the jelly neatly into a dish. Were it not for aU these precautions, the two colours would melt and mix with one another. This jeUy looks beautiful when well made. N.B.—It is to be observed, that this jeUy can only be made in winter, hence its name; for during the summer season it would melt, except made hard, then it would not be good; however, you may work it in a very cold place. Winter Salad, Endive with (nee En- dive with Winter Salad). Winter Salads.—In winter-time excellent salads may be made with endive, celery, beet- root, scraped horseradish, boiled potatoes, or whatever vegetables are available. A pretty efPect may be produced by contrasting the different colours of the ingredients. Two or three recipes are given for the preparation of a dish which may be varied in numberless ways. No. I. Wash thoroughly in two or three waters a head of endive and another of celery. Dry thom perfectly, and put with them a small pro- portion of red cabbage finely shred, and some mustard and cress, if it is to bo had. Hub the iiisido of a salad bowl with a slice of fresh onion, put in tlio mixed vegetables, toss them lightly in good salad sauce, garnish the salad with slices of boiled beetroot, and serve. No. 2. Wash a head of endive, dry it perfectly, and shred it finely. Place it in tho contio of a dish, and an-ange neatly round it, first, a littlo red cabbage, and then some white celery cut up small. Garnish the salad with sHced beet- root and hard-boiled eggs, cut into quarters lengthwise. Send the sauce to table in a boat, and mix it with the salad at the moment of serving. No. 3. Take equal poilions of pickled ' cabbage, fresh celery, and cold boiled potato— one pound of each. Cut the celery into small pieces, throw it into boiling water for ten minutes, and drain it. Drain the cabbage from its vinegar, mix it with tho celeiy, and add the cold boiled potatoes thinly sliced. Pepper the salad, toss it Ughtly in three table-spoonfuls of good Lucca oil, add a table-spoonful of chopped tarragon leaves, and serve. No. 4. Boil some small onions; let them get cold, then place them at the bottom of a salad bowl, and put round them three or four gherkins chopped small. Cover with pieces of honing or an- chovy, and add a Uberal allowance of pickled tunny or salmon. Sprinkle a Httle chopped parsley and a table-spoonful of bruised capers over the salad, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters lengthwise, and olives from which the kernels have been removed. Serve a good sauce with the salad. Cold boiled potatoes, brussels sprouts, endive, or celerj', will be a valuable addition. Beetroot and raw apples may also be added. No. 6. Procure two heads of celery; wash and dry them, and cut the white stalks into pieces an inch long. Toss them Hghtly in a salad bowl with some mayonnaise sauce. Cover the surface with hard-boiled yolk of egg which has been rubbed through a wire sieve; sprinkle a tea-spoonful of chopped green parsley over the egg, and garnish tha celery with a border of boiled beet- root, cut into thin strips and arranged like trellis-work. Two or three black trufiles, chopped small and sprinkled over the egg yolk, will have a very good appearance and improve the flavour of the salad. Gei-man sausage or pink ham, thinly sliced, may be serv^ed round the salad. Cold dressed vegetables, finely shred, and seasoned with pepper, salt, oil, and A-inegar, may be served as a salad {see also Russian Salad). Winter Snow.—Take the white of six eggs, which wiU be enough for an entremct; whip them till they get thick; have some milk boiling over the fire in a large stew^ian; poach several spoonfuls of tho whites in it, and when done enough, di'ain and dish them. Next, make a Siiuce to pour over them in the follow- ing manner : take some of the milk in which you have poached your eggs, then put a Httlo sugar, a Uttle orange-flower, and a httle salt; mix the yolks of four eggs with the same, stir( 1145 ) WOO the whole on the fire till the milk is made thick, put it through a tammy, and mask the neifjos with that sauce. Winter Soup.—Break into small pieces the bones of a joint of dressed beef which weighed six or seven poimds before it was roasted. Put these into a stewpan, pour over them four quarts of cold water, or the liquor in which fresh beef or mutton has been boiled, and add two large onions sliced, a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, and a dessert-spoonful of salt. Biing the liquor to the boil, skim carefully, draw it back, and let it simmer gently till the bones are quite clean. Strain the liquor, let it go cold, and free it entirely from fat. "Wash and scrape eight large carrots. Slice the red part only very thinly. Put the slices into a stewpan with three or four sticks of celery cut up small, and a turnip cut into dice. Place a large lump of dripping or fresh butter upon the vegetables, cover the saucepan closely, and steam the vegetables for quarter of an hour or more. Shake the saucepan occasionally to keep them from burning. Pour over them as much of the stock from the bones as will cover them, and let them simmer tUl quite tender. Eub them through a hair sieve. Add to the pulp as much stock as wiU make the soup of the consistency of thick cream; let it boil again, add salt and pepper to taste, and serve very hot. Very small suet dumplings, lightly made and boiled separately in water, are sometimes served in winter soups. Time, four hours to simmer the bones. Probable cost, exclusive of the bones, lOd. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Winter Soup, Clear.—A short time be- foi-e it is wanted, clarify some stock made from fresh meat {see Clear Soup). Cut the red part of two large carrots and a turnip into quarter- inch dice. Divide two white stalks of celery into shreds, and skin a dozen button-onions. Half boil the vegetables in salted water to which a little sugar has been added. Drain them, and put them into a stewpan with about three pints of the clear stock, boiling.- Let them simmer till tender, and serve. Winter Squash.—The squash is a kind of gourd, which is cultivated in America as an article of food. To dress it, pare a large yeUow squash, remove the strings and seeds from the inside, and cut it into small pieces. Put these into a stewpan, pour upon them as much hot water as will cover them, and simmer gently till tender. Drain them in a colander, and mash them till quite smooth. Season the mash with pepper and salt, and mix a slice of fresh butter into it. Put it into a tureen, dot it over with small spots of pepper, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Time to simmer the squash, half an hour or.more. Winter Squash (an American recipe).— Winter squashes are stewed in the same way as others, but they must remain on the fire a little longer. Cut up the squashes in pieces of an mch thick, having first pared the squash; if old, extract the seeds and boil the pieces until thfy break, mash thorn with a spoon, boil them a little longer, and when they are done squeeze them through a colander. Llix them with a little salt and a small quantity of butter. If kept in a dry place winter squashes will re- main good all the winter, but if they are once frozen they lose their flavour and are apt to decay. They are richer and firmer than the summer kind. Wisdom Soup.—Take a pound of beef, a pound of veal, and a pound of mutton, cut and hacked aU. to pieces, put it into two gallons of water with an old cock beat to pieces, a piece of carrot, the upper crust of a penny loaf toasted very crisp, a little bundle of sweet herbs, an onion, a tea-spoonful of black and one of white pepper, four or five blades of mace, and four cloves; cover it and stew over a slow fire until half is wasted, then strain it off and put it into a clean saucepan with two or three large spoonfuls of raspings clean sifted, half an oimce of truflles and morels, three or four heads of celery cut small, an ox's palate first boiled tender and cut into small pieces, a few cocks'- combs, and a few of the little hearts of young savoys; cover it close, and let it simmer very softly over a slow fire two hours; then have ready a French roU fried, and a few forcemeat balls fried, put them in your dish and pour in your soup. You may boU a leg of veal, and a leg of beef, and as many fine things as you like, but this is likely to be rich and high enough. You may leave out the cocks'-combs, palates, and truffles, &c., if you don't like them —it will be good soup without them; and if you would have your soup very clear don't put in the raspings. Vermicelli is good in it—an ounce put in just before you take it up; let it boU four or five minutes. You may make this soup of beef or veal alone, just as you fancy. A leg of beef will do without either veal, mutton, or fowl. Witches, Bermuda (see Bermuda Witches). Wolfram Ketchup.—Into two gallons of very stale ale—the stronger the better—put a pound and a half of anchovies washed and cleansed from the entrails, half an ounce of mace, the same quantity of cloves, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, the same quantity of long pepper, four chillies, half a dozen lumps of ginger, a pound of shallots, six lumps of sugar, and two quarts and a half of large mushrooms weU rubbed and picked. BoU all this slowly m a well-tinned stewpan during an hour, then run the liquor through a jelly-bag. Let it stand until cold, then bottle it, cork the bottles weU, tie a bit of bladder over each cork, and cover the bladder with sealing-wax. This is the most delicious of fish sauces, and one table- spoonful of it wiU suffice for a pint of melted butter. This ketchup will keep good more than twenty years. Wonders.—These cakes are made thus: lake one table-spoonful of butter, one of sugar, one egg and a little spice. Mix stiff with flour, and boil in lard. • Br«ad made from.—That it 18 possible to make a palatable and nutritious bread from the dry ligneous pari; of wood, was shown many years ago by Professor Autenriethwoo ( IMG ) Woo of Tubingen. The following is his procoss, as wo tiiid it stated by Dr. Prout, in the " Philoso- phical Tninsautions" for 1827:—" In the iirst place, ovorylliing that was soluble in watijr was removed by frequent maceration and boiling. Tho wood was then reduced to a niinuto state of division—that is to say, not merely into hno fibres, but actual powder; and after being repeatedly subjected to tho heat of an oven, was ground in tho manner of corn. Wood thus prepared, according to tho author, acquires the taste and smeU of com-tlour. It is, however, never very white, but always of a yellowish colour. It also agrees with corn-flour in this respect, that it does not ferment without the addition of leaven, and in this case some leaven of corn-flour is found to answer best. With this it makes a perfectly uniform and spongy bread, and when it is thoroughly baked and has much crust, it has a much better taste of bread than what is made in times of scarcity, prepared from the bran and husks of com. Wood-flour, also, boiled in water, forms a thick, tough, trembling jelly, like that of wheat starch, and which is very nutritious." Woodcock.—Woodcocks, Hke snipe, are only good when they are fat. They are cooked but in a very few ways. The most delicate parts are the legs and the intestines. The fillets of woodcocks, for those persons who do not like their meat underdone, are tough, and without savour. They are held in high esti- mation when roasted or en salmi (as a hash). A puree of woodcocks is also served occa- sionally. They may, however, be dressed in as many ways as young partridges. When loasted, you must always put a toast imder them to receive the intestines, which generally drop out while roasting unless paper is used to secure them. Take care to stop the spit when the back is towards the fire, because the legs are to be well done and the fillets under- done. THE WOODCOCK. Woodcock la LucuUus).— Roast the woodcocks in tho usual way, and catch the trail on a toast. Take the birds up when they aro still under-dressed, pour over them a little melted butter with which the yolk of an egg and a little cream has been mixed, sprinkle grated bread-crumbs lightly over them, brown them in a Dutch oven or with a salamander, and serve with brown gravy. Time to roas'. the woodcocks, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, uncertain. Woodcock (a la Perigueux).—Truss three woodcocks, cover them with layers of bacon, and tie those on seciu-ely with string. Put tliem into a stewpan, pour over them as much richly-flavoured stock as will barely cover them, and add a glassful of sherry or madeira. Let them simmer gently till done enough. Drain them, and remove the tapes. Put them on a dish, pour over them some Perigueux or truffle sauce, and serve. Woodcock, Ch.aud Froid of.—Truss four woodcocks, and to keep them from ac- quiring any colour, wrap them in buttered Avriting-paper. Roast before a clear fire, let them get cold, and cut them into neat joints. Make a little highly-seasoned and stiffly-reduced iiUemande sauce. Cover the joints of wood- cock evenly with this, and put them on a dish in a cold place till it is set. Put in the centre of a dish a block of fried bread three inches high and an inch and a half across. Place tho woodcock roimd this in a pyramidal form, and •ornament the dish with aspic jelly. Woodcock, Devilled.—Divide a brace of under-dressed woodcocks into neat joints, and season the pieces with a savoury powder made in the propoiiion of a tea-spoonful of salt to a tea-spoonful of curry-powder, a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and a dessert-spoonful of nmshroom- powder. Split the heads, take out the brains and put them in a basin with the trail, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, the grated rind of half a lemon, a pinch of pounded mace, and a table- spoonful of soy. Rub the mixture with the back of a wooden spoon till it is smooth, and add the juice of two Seville oranges, a table- spoonful of ketchup, and a glassful of madeira or sherry. Put the sauce with the birds into a silver dish over a spirit lamp, stir occasion- ally, and simmer gently till it is very hot and the flesh has become thoroughly impreg- nated with the liquor. Stir in quickly a dessert-spoonful of salad oil, and serA-e im- mediiitcly. Woodcock, Fillets of. -Take ax woodcocks, cut neatly tho fiUets from each side of the breast and the sUces from the^ sides. Season them aU with pepper and salt, i ut tlie large fiUets into a saucepan, pour clarified butter over them, cover with a round of but- tered paper, and let them cook gently tiU done enough. Put the small fillets into a buttered baking-dish, place a httle P^ece of truffle upon each, and bake m a gentle oven. Arrange the fillets neatly in a circle on a dish put a little truffle puree in the centre, and serve with brown gravy m a boat. Woodcock, Gravy for.-Plam "^^Ited butter or gi'uvy 'is generally served ^jithjvood- cocks. It should be put m a tureen, as if it wero poured into tho dish with the birds, itwoo ( 1147 ) would destroy their flavour. A sauce prepared as follows may, if preferred, be sent to table with the birds. Put a tea-cupful of veal stock into a saucepan with a small onion, half an inch of thin lemon-rind, and tive or six leaves of basil. Lot the gravy simmer for a few minutes, then strain it. Put ■svith it the juice of a Seville orange or of a lemon, a glassful of claret, and a little salt and cayenne. Make it hot, and serve immediately. "Woodcock, Gravy for (another way). —See Orange Gravy for Teal, Widgeon, Snipes, Woodcocks, (fee. Woodcock, Marinaded {see Grouse or Woodcock, Marinaded). Woodcock Pie (to be eaten cold).—Line the edges of a dish with good puff-paste. Put a slice of lean veal well seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded mace at the bottom, and on this place a slice of thin lean ham. Pluck four woodcocks carefully, so as not to injure the ten- dor flesh. Do not open them, but season with pepper, salt, and mace, and cover them with layers of bacon. Pack them closely into the dish, and fill up the empty spaces with hard- boiled plovers' or hens' eggs. Pour over them a pint of strong beef gravy, so strong that it will jelly when cold, and cover the dish with pastry. Brush it over with egg, ornament it, and place in the centre two or three of the feet nicelj'' cleaned. Bake the pie in a well-heated oven, until the pastry is done enough. A woodcock pie is considered a rare delicacy, though it is rather an expensive one. Time to bake the pie, an hour or more. Probable cost, uncertain, woodcocks being seldom for s iJe. Woodcock, Potted.—Take any number of fresh woodcocks. Pluck them carefully, and cut o£E their legs and wings. Split the birds in halves, and lay them on a dish. Take away the gizzards with the point of a knife, and with this exception, leave the inside or trail undisturbed. Line the inside of an ordinary potting-pan with thin slices of fat bacon. Fill it with the woodcocks placed neatly and closely in layers upon the bacon, and season each layer with salt and black pepper. When the pan is full, pour as much clarified butter over the woodcocks as will cover them, and cover the pan with a coarse paste of flour and water. Make a hole in the top of the lid, and bake the woodcocks in a moderate oven. They must not be eaten tiU they are quite cold. When a skewer can be pushed easily to the bottom of the pan, the woodcocks are sufficiently baked. Woodcock, Potted (another way).—Pick and clean the birds nicely, but do not draw out the trail; fix the bills with small skewers to the thighs, and the legs on the breasts ; season them highly with mace, pepper, and salt, and put them into a deep pot with fresh butter to bake in a moderate oven. When done enough, take them out to drain on a sieve, and when cold, place them in pots, and cover them com- pletely with clarified butter. Tie them securely from the air with bladder, and set them in a dry place. Woodcock, Potted (another way).— Rub the woodcocks very well with seasoning. then surround each with a coating of butter, and then with a buttered paper, over which put a paste of flour and water. Lay them upon tins, and bake them. Do not take ofl: the crust and' paper till the woodcocks are cold. Put one in each pot, and cover it with clarified butter. The woodcocks must not be drawn. Woodcock Pudding—Pluck a wood- cock very carefully, so as not to injure the tender flesh, and, without opening it, truss it for roasting. Line a pudding-basin with pastry. Put into it a slice of tender rump steak seasoned with pepper and salt only, put in the woodcock, and place another steak over it. Pour over the meat a quarter of a pint of strong beef gravy, cover the basin with pastry, tie it rather loosely in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling till done enough. Take it up, let it stand a few minutes, turn it upon a dish, and serve. Time to boil the pudding two hours and a half. Probable cost, woodcocks, seldom bought. Sufficient for four or five persons. Woodcock Pur6e (for patties, crou- stades, &c.).—Take the remains of dressed woodcock. Pick the flesh from the bones, and put the skin, bones, and trimmings into a saucepan, pour over them a little stock or water, and add a shallot, a small piece of celery, a sprig of thjTne, and three or four pepper- corns. Let the gravy simmer gently till it is strong and good. Mince the flesh flnely, and pound it in a mortar with a spoonful of stock and a little piece of butter. When reduced to a pulp, rub it through a hair sieve. Strain the stock, free it entirely from fat, and boil till it is considerably reduced. Season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and mix with it double the quantity of white sauce. If this is not at hand, a quarter of a pint of cream and a small spoonful of flour will answer the same purpose. Put the pulp into the sauce, stir it over the fire till it is hot, and it will be ready for use. Time, an hour and a half or more to simmer the bones. Probable cost, un- certain, woodcocks being seldom bought. Woodcock Raised Pie, Cold.—Make some good veal forcemeat. Bone four wood- cocks. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan with a shallot, a small onion, and a sprig of thyme, and cover them with stock. Let them simmer till the gravy is strong and good. Remove the gizzard from the trail, then pound it, and mix it with the forcemeat. Place the woodcocks, skin downwards, open upon a board, spread over them first a layer of force- meat, then two or three sliced truffles, and another layer of forcemeat. Fold the skin over, and restore the bird to something of its original shape. Line a pie-mould with pastry {see Raised Pies). Put a layer of forcemeat at the bottom, place two woodcocks on this, cover them with a few slices of truflPlc and a thin layer of forcemeat, put in the other two wood- cocks with a little more truffle and another layer of forcemeat, and place some thin slices of fat bacon over all. Cover the pie, and finish m the usual way. Bake in a moderate oven. Half an hour after it has been taken out of the oven, pour into it a little of the gravy from thewoo WOO ( 1H8 ) bones, which should bo stronf? enough to form a jolly when cold {sve liiiiaod Pios of Guiiio luid I'oultry). CloHO tho hole in the oover, und when tho pio is cold, Borvo on a dish covorod with a napkin. Woodcock Raised Pie, Hot.—Pro- paro some forcomoat as in tho last rocipo. Divide four woodcocks into quarters. Lino a pie-mould with pastry {see lijiised Pios), luid fill it with alternate layers of forcemeat and pieces of woodcock. Cover it, and bake in a moderate oven. Take it out, pour into it some good brown sauco made of tho trimmings of tho woodcock stewed in beef gravy. Servo hot upon a dish covered with a napkin. If liked, a hollow place may be left in the centre of tho pie, into which a piece of the crumb of bread, covered with fat bacon, may be put, whilst the pie is being baked. When done enough, this hoUow may bo filled with sliced truffles mixed in brown sauce. Woodcock, Koast.—Pluck the wood- cocks carefully, neck and head as weU. Do not open them, but truss them securely {see Woodcock, Trussed). Fasten them feet down- wards to a spit, put them down to a brisk clear fire, flour them, and baste liberally with dripping or butter. When they have been down about five minutes, put a buttered toast, free from crust, under them, to catch the drop- pings from the trail. After this is done, hold a dish under them when they are basted. Wben the steam draws to the fire, they are done enough. Dish them with a piece of toast under each, and garnish with watercresses. Send melted butter or orange gravy to table in a tureen. It is an improvement to cover the woodcocks with slices of bacon before putting them down to the fire, and, when they are to be had, two or three vine-leaves may be laid under the bacon. Time to roast the woodcocks, if liked underdone, fifteen to twenty minutes; if liked well dressed, twenty-five to thirty minutes. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient, two for a dish. Woodcock, Roast (another way).— There is more art in roasting woodcocks than any other bird of the same size. They require constant attention during the operation of roasting them. As they must be very little dressed—the flesh of the woodcock, like that of all dark-fleshed game, being digestible when almost raw, and losing its savour if roasted to the same degree as a partridge—their cooking occupies but little time; therefore the cook should never leave her woodcocks from the moment they are put down until she takes them up. Truss without drawing them, and put toast under them to catch the trail, which often falls from them when they are before the fire. The most delicate parts of the woodcock are the legs and the trail; next, the breast. As this latter must be very much underdone, and the legs a little better done, to be eatable, there is, of course, an inequality in their roasting, which must be obviated by stopping the spit for a time whenever the logs are turned to- wards the fire, in order to give them a greater proportion of heat. The woodcocks when done aro served up upon tho toast with melted butter only, as then- flavour would bo deteriorated by any kind of gravy. Woodcock, Salmi of.—Take the re- mains of cold dressed woodcocks, and cut off tho nieat in neat pieces. Place these in a covered dish, and put them aside till wanted. Itfimove tlie gizzards from tho trail, then chop it fine, and mix with it a spoonful of bread-crumbs, a small slice of butter, and a spoonful of chopj)ed parsley. Put this also aside. Scrape a carrot, and put tho pulp into a saucepan with two shallots, two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, six peppercorns, and half a dozen mushroomu, if liked, but these nuiy be omitted. Pour over tho ingredients a pint of gravy, and let thorn simmer for an hour. Strain the liquor, and free it entirely from fat. Bruise the bones and trimmings of the woodcocks, put them into the strained liquor, and simmer till they are quite clean. Take the bones out, and send the gravy and the little pieces of meat that are in it through a sieve, and add a glassful of sherry or madeira. Put the pieces of woodcock into a saucepan, pour the gravy over them, and let them heat gently by the side of the fire. Of course they must not boil. Toast one or two slices of crumb of bread, and divide them into five or six pieces of the shape of a heart. Spread the minced trail upon them, and put them in a hot oven for a few minutes. Place the pieces of woodcock on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and garnish with the heart- shaped croutons. Time, two to three hours. Woodcock, Salmi of (another way).— Draw the gravy from a pound of gra^'y beef with a bit of lean ham, and a sheep's milt added to it. Then take a few shallots, a handful of mushrooms chopped, a few strips of ham, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, such as we have indicated for the salmi a. partridges, two cloves, half a dozen of peppercorns, and the same number of blades of allspice. Fry aU this for a short time in a stewpan with a little butter, then pour in a quarter of a pint of madeira or sherry, and the gravy above mentioned. Put in also the backs and necks of tho birds, leaving the rumps with the other limbs for the salmi. Let aU this stew very quietly. Season to taste, and at the expiration of a couple of hours strain the sauce. Then put into a stewpan about an ounce and a half of butter, and, when this boils, half a spoonful of flour. Stir the mixture as it boils until it has assumed a rich blonde colom-; then add gradually the sauce, and let it boil a quarter of an hour longer. Squeeze in the iuice of a lemon. If you have tho trail, pound it, and mix it well with the sauce. Strain this over the woodcock mto another stewpan. This latter must now bo stood near the fire, so that it may heat without boiling. When the me^at is fully penetrated with the Siiuce, serve it up very hot vdth fried sippets. As a variation from this mode, red wine may be substituted for white. Woodcock, Salmi of (^ la Lnoullus).— Vdv'H ro( ip.'.—For this dish you must be par- ticular in having tho woodcocks very much underdone; then take out the intestmos, andwoo ( 1149 ) WOO with the addition of two or three fat livers of fowls make the following forcemeat:—Take half a dozen mushrooms chopped very fine, a shallot and some pai-sley the same ; fry these herbs in a small bit of butter. When they are neai'ly done, put the fat, livers, and the intestines of the woodcocks to fry with them, and when done put the whole into a mortar and pound them very fine; season with salt and pepper, &c.; rub this thi'ough a tammy ; then, as three ■woodcocks give you six fillets, cut six bits of bread of the same shape, fry them of a nice colour, then spread the farce (forcemeat) equally divided over the six pieces of bread, put them into the oven, and when they are a good coloxir serve them between each of the fillets; as for the sauce, you make it with the trimmings as usual for salmi: this, well managed, is a deli- cious dish. The sauce must be made early, so as to keep the fillets in it to prevent them from drying ; then warm them without boiling, for boiling would make the dish good for nothing. Serve the legs in the middle. Woodcock, Scotch, or Woodcock Toast.—Take a slice of bread from a moderate- sized stale loaf, also three anchovies, one egg, and two or three table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Beat the yolk of the egg, mix it with the cream, and stir the mixture over the fire till it thickens, but it must not boil. Toast the bread, butter well on both sides, and cut it in halves. Wash, scrape, and mince the anchovies, put them between the pieces of toast, pour the cream, &c., over the toast, and serve as hot as possible. Time, five minutes to make the sauce hot. Probable cost, 6d. Suflicient for one person. Woodcock (sportsman's fashion).—Truss three woodcocks, and put them down to a clear fire. At the end of a quarter of an hour take them up, and divide them into neat joints. Put the inferior portions into a saucepan, with four minced shallots and a sprig of thyme, and add a wine-glassful of good gravy, another of wine, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Let the gravy simmer for ten minutes. Remove the gizzards from the traU of the woodcocks, and pound them in a mortar, with half a shallot, a slice of fresh butter, and a little pepper and salt. When smooth, rub it through a sieve, and spread it upon some small pieces of fried bread cut into the shape of hearts. Before using these, put them in the oven for two or three minutes. Put the joints of the woodcocks into a separate saucepan, strain the gravy upon them, and let them heat gently without boiling. Place them on a dish, put the fried bread, with the trail, round them, pour the gravy over all, and serve very hot. Time, quarter of an hour to roast the woodcocks; ten minutes to simmer the gravy. Woodcock, Spurious.—Some years ago a curious deception used to be practised by the inferior poulterers in London upon genuine cockneys, who were ambitious of having game, at their tables. " The grey plover was some- times trussed like a woodcock, its bill cut off, and the bill of a real woodcock inserted instead; the bills of these latter birds being purchased from the cooks of wealthy families." If sucu a deception is ever practised nowadays, the obvious way to discover the fraud would be to give the bill a good tug." Woodcock, Stuffed.—Pluck and singe the birds, take ont the inside, chop it fine with bacon, parsley, onion, salt, and pepper; mix it with the yolks of two eggs ; fill the woodcocks with this forcemeat, sew them together, and truss as for roasting. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin slices of bacon, put in the birds, and cover them also with bacon; let them simmer for a quarter of an houi-, pour in a cup- ful of broth and half a glassful of white wine ; let it boil over a gentle fire. When done enough, take out the birds and lay them on a dish; skim the fat off the sauce, strain it, add a dash of vinegar, and pour it over the birds. Woodcock, Stuffed and Boasted.— Pluck and di-aw two woodcocks. Remove the gizzards, then mince the trail finely with half its weight in fat bacon, and add a dessert- spoonfiJ. of chopped parsley and a little pepper and salt. A little very finely-minced shallot may be added, if liked. Truss the woodcocks, and roast them in the usual way. Send them to table with gravy in a tureen. Woodcock, Surprised.—Put the trail of the cold woodcocks, and two or three fat livers of fowls, upon a plate in readiness. Then chop very fine a dozen mushrooms, two shal- lots, and a little parsley, and fry them in a stewpan with a small bit of fi-esh butter. When they are nearly done, put the trail and livers to fry a little with the vegetables. Pound the whole in a marble mortar verj'^ fine, mixing the several ingi-edients weU together. Season with salt, pepper, and the least possible dash of pounded mixed spice. Now fry of a nice colour six slices of bread of the same size and shape, and spread over them in equal portions the forcemeat you have just made with the trails of the woodcocks and the fowls' livers. Put them into the OA^en until they are of a good colour, then lay them on a dish, and over them place the limbs of the birds made into a salmi in the usual way, and pour the salmi sauce over the whole. Woodcock, Terrine of (M. Dubois's recipe).—Bone two woodcocks, divide each of them in two, which pieces put into a pie-dish (terrine) with five or six peeled truffles cut in quarters, the same volume of cooked ham-fat, or fat bacon, in large dice. Season the meat and truffles lightly, and baste with the third part of a glass of madeira. Take off the flesh from a leg of hare, cut it in pieces, fry it in a stew- pan, with double its volume of liver of poultry or game. When weU set, add the trails of the woodcocks, then let the whole cool, to be chopped afterwards with a third its volume of lean pork. Season the forcemeat, put it into a "^o^a^' pound, and add to it the same quantity of fresh fat bacon, previously chopped, and pounded with the trimmings of truffles. Season the forcemeat with a pinch of pounded aro- u^'v ^® minutes after remove it into a kitchen basm, and mix with it the madeii-a the( 1150 ) woo WBB woodcocks huvo been soaking in. Mask the bottom unci sidoH of a pio-dish with sonio of tho propurod forcemeat, arrange tho pieces of woodcock, tho truffles, and the ham in tho centre, alternating with forcemeat. The pio- dish must then be completely full; amootli the top with the blado of a knife, and mask it with Bliccs of bacon. Cover the preparation, and set the pio-dish in a saute-pan with a glassful of hot water, and push it into a moderate oven, to bake for an horn- and a half. When done, take it out; and when half-cold, put a light weight on tho top of tho preparation. When completely cold, take it off the pie, cut it in oblong squares, which dish in a circular order into the torrino. Woodcock, Trussed.—Pluck the bird entirely, head and neck included, and very carefully, to avoid tearing the tender skin. Singe oft" tho hairs and cut o£E the ends of the toes, but do not draw the birds. Twist the legs at the joints to bring the feet upon the thighs. Press the wings to the sides, and turn the head under the wing, with the beak forward. Tie a string round the legs and breast, and pass one also round the head and the tip of the bill. Hang the bird to the spit feet-downwards. Wood-hens (Russian fashion). — Take three or four wood-hens (ffelinottes), trum them, put them into a stewpan with butter, season, and fry them all over. When about done, baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of sour cream, and finish cooking them, basting fre- quently. Drain them afterwards, cut each of them into three parts, and dish them up. Mix a little bechamel into the sauce, which reduce until of a good consistence, then pour it over the wood-hens, masking them .with a thick coating. Sprinkle over bread-crumbs, let them gratrnate in the oven till the sauce is sHghtly coloured. Wood-hens, Pain of (Swedish fashion). —Take out the meat from the breasts of three wood-hens (ffelinottes), pare, pound it in a mortar, and when converted into paste add, by degrees, half its volume of good butter and five or six y-olks of eggs. Season the prepara- tion, pass it through a sieve, put it into a kitchen basin, work it with a wooden spoon for a few minutes, then introduce into it the glair of an egg whipped up, and about the same quantity of whipped cream. When well mixed up, pour the preparation into a timbale mould, and poach at the "bain-marie" for twenty-five minutes. "WTien about to serve turn it out on a dish, and mask with a little bechamel sauce, reduced with a few table- spoonfuls of meat-glaze. Woodman's Sausages. — Take six pounds of young pork, quite free from skin, gristle, or fat, cut it small, and beat it fine in a mortar. Chop six pounds of beef suet very fine, shred a handful of sage-leaves fine, spread the meat on a clean dresser, and shake the sage, over it; shred the rind of a lemon very fine, and throw it with sweet herbs on the meat; grate two nutmegs, to which put a spoonful of pepper and a largo spoonful of salt, throw the suet over, and mix all well together; put it down close in tho pot, and when used roll it up with as mucli egg as will make it smooth. Wood Pigeons.—Wood pigeons should be allowed to hang till tender before being di-essed. They may bo roasted, and served lik(/ common pigeons. Woodruff.—Tho woodruff is a fragrant little plant, which is found plentifully in woods and shady places. Tho odour is only percep- tible when the leaves are bruised, or when they are dried. Woodruff is used to flavour lilay wine (see May Wine). Worcester Sauce, To Make.—Mince two cloves of shallot, put the mince into a dry bottle, and pour over it a pint of Bordeaux vinegar. Add three table-spoonfuls of essence of anchovy, three table-spoonfuls of walnut ketchup, two table-spoonfuls of soy, and as much cayenne as is approved: the quantity cannot be given, as cayenne varies so much in quality. Cork the bottle, keep it in a cool place, and shake it well twice a day for a fort- night. Strain the sauce, put it in small bottles, cork closely, and store for use. Wormwood Lozenges.—Dissolve some gum tragacanth in water, and mix with it a little spirit of wormwood. Add as much powdered loaf sugar as will make a stiff paste, and beat the mixture thoroughly. Eoll it out to a sheet of the thickness of a penny-piece, stamp it into diamond-shaped pieces, and dry these in a cool oven. Wormwood Wine {see Vermoute). Wow Wow Sauce, for Boiled Beef or Bouilli.—Wash and pick a handful of parsley, and shred the leaves finely. Put them into a basia, and mix with them three bruised pickled walnuts. Make half a pint of melted but- ter, using for the purpose the fiquor in which the meat was boUed. Put it into a saucepan over a gentle fire, and stir into it a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, a table-spoonful of vinegar, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a table-spoonful of port. Simmer the sauce, stir- ring it all the time, tUl it is thick. Add the parsley and the walnuts, simmer the sauce a minute longer, and serve. If liked, pickled cucumbers may be used instead of walnuts, and the flavoiu: of the sauce may be varied by the addition of any of the piquant vinegars. Wreaths.—Take one pound of flour, five eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter, two or three spoonfuls of cream, two oimces of sugar, and a few grains of salt; make these in- gredients into a paste; roU out and form into rings or wreaths. Poll the wreaths in sugar, and bake on a tin in a slow oven. They may be covered with chopped almonds pressed down a little with the hand. Wreaths, Sugar (a Danish recipe).— Mash the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, and add four raw ones, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and half a pound of flour; knead to a stiff paste; pull off small pieces, dip each in flour, which roll with the hand and form into rings jWUR ( 1151 ) YAR rub the upper pai-t with white of egg. Strew over with coarse-pounded sugar, and bake of a light-brown colour. iSufficient for thirty-six rings or wreaths. Wurtemburg Sausages.—These sau- sages are made of a uiixturc of blood, liver, brains, milk, bread, meat, siilt, and spice, which is put into skins, boiled, and smoked. When they are well made, they wiU keep good for months; but when they are deficient in salt or spice, or when they are smoked too late, or not sufficiently, they undergo a process of putrefac- tion, which begins at the centre of the sausages, and is poisonous. Yachting Soup.—Put an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, three or four blades of mace, some pepper and salt, in a gallon of water to boil; provide two hundred crawfish, reserve about a score, pick the rest from the shells, saving the tails whole, beat the body and sheDs in a mortar with a pint of peas, either dry or green, but boiled tender, add them to the gallon of boiling water, and after stewing ten or fifteen minutes, or till aU the goodness is extracted, strain. Next set it over a slow fire, put in a stale French roll sliced veiy thin; stew tUl half wasted; put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, shake in two table-spoonfuls of flour, add an onion, and stir about to keep from burning; put in the tails of the crawfish and a pint of the soup; let it simmer for five minutes, then take out the onion, fry a French roU brown, also the score of reserved fish, and pour aU the soup together, serve up in a dish, and lay the roll in the middle, with the crawfish around. Be sure to pick out the bags and the wooUy part of the crawfish before you pound them. Yale Boat Pie (an American recipe).— Lay three or four pounds of steak from the under-cut of a round of beef in a middling- sized dish, having seasoned it with pepper and salt. Have a couple of chickens at hand, cut in pieces and seasoned; place them on the steak, and over them one dozen and a half of fresh fat oysters without the liquor. Add half a dozen fresh hard-boiled eggs, and after damping the bottom of the dish with half a pint of strong ale, cover the whole with fresh mushrooms, adding to these half a pound of glaze or plain neat's-foot jelly; lay over the dish a substantial paste, and bake in a brisk oven. This pie is excellent for a picnic or water excursion. _ Yam.—The yam is a slender herbaceous vine, having large tuberous roots, which are much used as food in Africa and the East and West Indies. They are mealy, and thought easy of digestion, are palatable, and not inferior to any roots now in use either for delicacy of flavour or nutriment. They are eaten either roasted or boiled, and the flour is also made into bread and puddings. There are niiiiiy varieties of the roots, some spreading out like the fingers, others twisted like a serpent; others again are very small, scarcely weighing more than a pound, with a whitish ash-coloured bark, whereas the bark is usually black. The flesh of the yam is white or purplish, and viscid,, but becomes farinaceous or mealy when cooked.. " A species of yam {Dioscorea Batatas)," says a. writer in Chambers's JEncyclopcedia,'' has recently been brought from the temperate parts of China,, where it appears to have been long in cultivation,, and is found to succeed well in France. It is hardy enough to endui-e the climate even of Scotland without injury, but the heat of the summer is not sufficiently great and long-con- tinued for its profitable growth, so that in general the plant merely lives, without pro- ducing a large tuber. The root is of a very fine quality, and attains a very considerable size. The stem requires the support of a pole round which it twines; the leaves are more elongated and acuminated than those of the West Indian yams; the root strines perpendicularly down into the ground, and forms its tuber often at a very considerable depth, which is sometimes inconvenient to the cultivator, but this is pre- vented by putting a slate under it." Yams, American.—Yams, when roasted or boiled, form a nutritious and palatable article of food. They are excellent prepared as follows:—Cut them into slices half an inch thick, and form them into rounds about the size of the top of a tea-cup. Wash, drain, and dry them well, put them into a weU-buttered saucepan, and season with a little salt and grated nutmeg. Moisten with water, cover closely, and let them simmer gently till done enough. Turn them over frequently, that they may be equally and lightly coloured on both sides. Pile them upon a dish. Pour white sauce, sweetened and flavoured, round them, and serve. Time to simmer the slices, about three-quarters of an hour. Yankee Cakes.—Beat a cupful of buttei to cream, stir into it an equal quantity of sugar, and add a pinch of salt, a flavouring of nutmeg or lemon grated, two well-whisked eggs, and a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda which has been dissolved in a cupful of sour milk. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and stir into the mixture as much flour as wiU make a stiff batter. Butter or grease a dripping-tin thickly. Beat the cake mixture over the fire for a short time. When it is hot, pour it at once into the tm, and bake the cake in a well-heated oven, lime to bake the cake, half an hour to three- quarters. Probable cost. Is. Yankee Pudding Sauce, for Pan- cakes and Light Puddings.-Beat a table-spoonful of fresh butter to cream, and add a small tea-cupful of powdered white sugar, a dessert-spoonful of sherry or brandy, and a little grated nutmeg. Place the mixture on a dish grate a little orange or lemon-rind upon it, and serve. Yarmouth Bloaters.—Cut off the head and tail open the bloater down the back, and lay It flat. Broil it on both sides over a clear fare and serve with a Httle fresh butter and a captam s biscuit, which haabeen heated in the oven. (See Bloaters).YEA YEA ( 1152 ) Yeast.—Yeast is a substanco produced duriug tho fonnontution of wine, hmr, and vogiitablo j uicua: it ia iisod to raiso dougli for broad and cakos, and to mako it light and puii'y. Tho bust yoast is tliat taken from good brewer's ale, though it is generally too bitter to use without preparation. This yeast, however, cannot always bo obtained, and Greriuan yeast is frequently used as a substitute. This yoast is excellent when it can be procured fresh and good, and free from the bitter taste to wliich brewer's yoast is liable: it is fre- quently olfered for sale when unfit for use, especially in hot weather. When neither good brewer's yeast nor fresh Gennan yeast can be procured, yeast made at home may be used as a substitute; and two or thi-ee recipes are given for its preparation. It is scarcely so strong as brewer's yeast, however, and therefore a larger quantity of it will need to be used. Half a pint of solid brewer's yeast will raise fourteen pounds of flour. If the brewer's yeast is thin, a few spoonfuls more will be needed. Yeast (another way).—Boil a small handful of hops in a quai't of water for half an hour. Pour it boiling upon a close sieve or colander upon three-quarters of a pound of white flour. Give it a stir, and let it stand till new-milk- wai-m, then add a breakfast-cupful of yeast fi'om the baker's; stir again, and let it stand near the fire for twenty-four hours. A pint of this yeast makes twenty-one pounds of fiour into bread. By keeping a small quantity of this yeast in a bottle, to add to the new, one may be quite independent of baker's or brewer's yeast. This yeast will keep a fortnight if either bottled or covered in a jar. Yeast, Baker's.—Put two ounces of hops into a saucepan, and pour over them one gallon of cold water. Bring the liquor to the boil, and keep it boiling, stirring well for one hour. Strain it, and mix with it two pounds of malt. Cover, and leave it till it is the heat of new milk. Stir into it briskly half a pint of solid brewer's yeast, let it work for ten hours, strain through a sieve, and it wiU be ready for use. Yeast, Bread without.—" Some years since," says Miss Acton, in her Bread-book, " when unfermented bread was first becoming known, I had it tried very successfully in the following manner, and I have since been told that an almost similar method of preparing it is common in many parts both of EngLand and Ireland, where it is almost impossible to pro- cure a constant supply of yeast. Blend well together a tea-spoonful of pounded sugar and fifty grains of the purest carbonate of soda; mix a salt-spoonful of salt with a pound of flour, and rub the soda and sugar through a hair sieve into it. Stir and mingle them well, and make them quickly into a firm but not hard dough with some buttermilk. Bake tho loaf well in a thoroughly-heated but not fierce oven. In a brick or in a good iron oven a few minutes less than an hour would be sufficient to bake a loaf of similar weight. The butter- milk should be kept till it is quite acid, but it must never he in the slightest degree rancid or otherwise bad. All unfermented bread should be placed in the oven directly it is made, or it will 1)0 heavy. For a large baking allow rather less tliau an ounce of soda to tho gallon (7 lbs.) of Hour." Yeast, Brewer's, To prepare for use.—Taste tlui yoast, and if it is V(;ry bitter, pour over it a considomblo quantity of <x»ld water. Lot it stand for twenty-four hours, then pour oft" tho water, when the yeast will bo found at tho bottom of tho vessel quite tliick. Taste it again. If it still continues bitter, pour more water over it, and let it stand an hour or two longer. Yeast may be kept covered with cold water for several days. When brewer's yeast does not appear sufficiently strong, honey or brown sugar may be mixed with it, in the proportion of a tea-spoonful to half a pint. Sufficient, half a pint of solid brewer's yeast will raise fourteen pounds of flour. If it is thin, a few spoonfuls more will be required. Yeast Cake.— Put three-quarters of a poimd of flour into a bowl, and mix with it a pinch of salt. Dissolve quarter of a poimd of butter in quarter of a pint of hot milk. Let the mixtui'e cool a little, and when it is new- milk-warm, stir it into the flour. Add a small table-spoonfiil of fresh yeast and two well- beaten eggs, and knead the preparation till it forms a smooth dough, ilake two or three gashes across the surface with a knife, cover the bowl with a cloth, and set the dough in a warm place to rise. When sufficiently light, knead it again with six ounces of currants picked and dried, four ounces of powdered white sugar, one oimce of candied peel cut into thin strips, and a little grated nutmeg. Line a good-sized cake-tin with buttered paper, and let the paper rise four or six inches above the tin. Pour the mixture mto it, let the cake rise half an hour longer, and bake in a well- heated oven. Protect the surface of the cake with a sheet of paper whilst it is being baked. Time to bake the cake, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, la. Sufficient to make a moderate-sized cake. Yeast Cake (another way). — Mix thoroughly in a bowl two poimds and a half of flour, a pinch of salt, and half a pound of Demerara sugar. Make a hollow in the centre of the flour, but do not touch the bottom of tho bowl. Pour into this haif a pint of lukewarm milk which has been mixed with a table-spoon- ful of fi-esh yeast. Stir as much flour into the milk as will make it of the consistency of batter, sprinkle a little flour on the surface, throw a cloth over the bowl, and leave it in a warm place for an hour. Melt three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter to oil, and add this to the other ingredients, together with a pound and a quarter of currants picked and dried, liiilf a pound of candied peel (lemon, orange, and citron together) finely shred, a quarter of an ounce of grated nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, and a quarter of an ounce of ground allspice. Knead the mix- ture thoroughly, and add as much n;ilk as will make a smooth, light dough. Lino three moderate-sized cake-tins with buttered paper,YEA YEA ( 1158 ) throe-parts fill them with the mixture, let them rise before the tire for half an hour, and bake iu a well-heated oven. If hked, this cake may be iced after it has been baked. For in- structions in icing see the remarks on icing a cake towards the close of the ai-ticle on Wed- ding Cake, Excellent. Time to bake the cakes, about an hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. each. Yeast Cake, Excellent.—Eub one pound of butter into six pounds of flour, and add a tea-spoonful of salt. Make a hole in the centre of the flour, without touching the bottom of the bowl, and pour into this a little more than half a pint of good, fresh, sweet yeast, mixed with half a pint of lukewarm water. Stir into the yeast as much flour from the sides as will make a batter, sprinkle flour over the surface, and leave the mixture for an hour, or till the yeast has risen in bubbles through the covering of flour. Stir into the yeast four well- beaten eggs, add one pound of fine raw sugar, and knead the whole thoroughly with about half a pint of hot milk. Let this dough stand to rise till it is very light and the sui-face has cracked. Knead it again with three pounds of currants picked and dried, and half a pound of candied lemon and orange mixed; add also a little grated nutmeg. Put the cake-mixture into two large tins, well buttered, let it rise be- fore the fire for quarter of an hour, and bake the cakes in a moderately-heated oven. Time to bake the cakes, three hours. Sufficient for two large cakes. Probable cost, 28. lOd. each cake. Yeast Cakes (William Cobbett's recipe). —To make yeast cakes—Provide seven pounds of Indian com meal, three and a half pounds of rye flour, three ounces of hops, and one gallon of boiling water. Separate the hops by the hand, strew and boil them in the water for half an hour, then strain the Hquor into an earthen vessel, put in the rj'e flour while hot, stirring quickly as the fermentation commences. Next day, when it is working, put in the Indian meal, stirring it well. Before aU the meal is added, it will become a stiff dough. Knead it well, and roll it out as you woiild a pie-crust, to the thickness of half an inch. Cut it into cakes ^vith a tumbler-glass, or anything else that will sers'e the purpose; place these cakes on a board, and set them in the sun to dry. Turn them every day, sheltering from wet, until they become quite hard. Keep them in a l)ag or box perfectly free from damp. When you bake, take a couple of these yeast cakes, break them, and put them in hot water over night. Let the vessel containing them stand near the fire ; they will dissolve; use the liquid for setting your sponge (as it is called), just as you would the yeast of beer. White pea meal, or bailey flour, will do as well as Indian meal. Mr. Cobbett adds, that the very best bread he ever ate was lightened with these cakes. Yeast, Camp {see Camp Yeast). Yeast, Connecticut (an American recipe). ■—Put a handful of liops in a bag, boil in two quarts of water with five pared potatoes; whon done, sift the potatoes, put with them in 8 pan one table-spoonful of flour, half a cup- LL ful of sugar, half a cupful of salt, and pour on this the boiling hop-water. When sufficiently cool, add yeast enough to ferment it well, then put it in a jug, cork tight, and keep in a cool place. Yeast Dumpling (a German recipe).— Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to cream, add four or five eggs to it; when weU-mis!ed, pour in a cupful of milk and the same quantity of yeast, sugar, grated lemon-peel, and poimded cinnamon, with as much flour as will make it of a proper consistency. Make the dough into dumplings, and let them remain an hour in a warm place to rise, then boil them in boiling water. Serve with melted butter and sugar or a wine sauce. Yeast, Economical Preparation of. —Thicken two quarts of water with four ounces of fine flour, boil it for half an hour, then sweeten it with three ounces of brown sugar; when almost cold, pour it, with four spoonfuls of baker's yeast, into an earthen jug deep enough for the fermentation to go on vdthout running over. Place it for a day near the fire, then pour off the thin liquor from the top, shake the remainder, and close it up for use, first straining it through a sieve to pre- serve it sweet. Set it in a cool cellar, or hang it some depth in a well. Keep always some of this to make the next quantity of yeast that is wanted. Yeast, German.—This yeast in many distilleries forms an important by-p7-oduct of the manufactory, and is collected and sold under the name of dry yeast for the use of the private brewer and baker. "\Arhen this is done, the process adopted is nearly as follows:—Crushed rye is mashed with the proper quantity of barley malt, and the wort, when made, cooled to the proper temperature. For every hundred pounds of the crushed grain there are now added half a pound of carbonate of soda and six ounces of oil of vitriol (sulphuric acid) diluted with much water, and the wort is then brought into fermentation by the addition of yeast. From the strongly fermenting liquid the yeast is skimmed off and strained through a hair sieve into cold water, through which it is allowed to settle. It is afterwai-ds washed with one or two waters, and finally pressed in cloth bags tiU it has the consistency of dough. It has a pleasant fruity smell, and in a cool place may be kept for two or three weeks. It then_ passes into a putrefying decomposition, acquires the odour of decaying cheese, and has now the property of changing sugar into lactic acid instead of into alcohol, as before. A hun- dred pounds of crushed grain-will yield six to eight pounds of the pressed yeast. It is made largely at Rotterdam, and is imported thence to thjfi country through HuU. Gei-man veast is ex- cellent when it can be procured fresh, but this 18 rather a difficulty. After being purchased it should be taken out of the paper as soon as pos- sible, and laid m a cool place tiU wanted. An ounce of German yeast will raise a quai-tem or halt a gallon, or three pounds and a half of flour. Yeast, German {see also German YeastJ.( 1164 ) YEA YEA Yeast, Home-made.—No. i. Boil two ounces of best liopH in two quiirts of water for half an hour. 8train tho liquor, and lot it cool down to the heat of now milk. Put into it a small handful of salt and lialf a pound of moist sugar. Boivt up a pound of tine tiour with some of the liquor, and mix all well together. Two days afterwards, add threo pounds of ppta|-oas whicli have 1)000 boiled a,t^d mashed. Let tl^o preparation stand for twputy-four hours, then strain it, and bottle for use, but do not cork ^t till it hag ceased working. Whilst making it, gtir frequently and keep it near the fire. Before using shake the bot,tle 'vyell. It.will l^eop in a cool place fpf two n^onths. Teast made from this recipe is excellent, but it must be prepared with great care. Bread made from it needs to rise longer, both in the sponge and in the dough, than when fresh brewer's yeast is used. No. 2. Put two gallons of cold water into a stewpan, with quarter of a pound of moist sugar and one ounce of salt. Put it on the fire, and as it heats stir in with it one pound of flour. Let it boil for an hour. Pour it out, and when milk-warm bottle it closely. It will be fit for use in twenty-four hours. Half a pint of this yeast will make nine pounds of bread. No. 3. Put a handful of hops into a quart of water, either hot or cold; let them boil for twenty minutes. Mix in a bowl two table-spoonfuls of flour with one table-spoonful of salt and one of moist sugar. Pour the boil- ing liquor through a sieve upon the mixture, and stir briskly. When it is almost cold, stir into it a tea-cupful of good brewer's yeast. Let it stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours or more, and bottle ior use. In winter- time this yeast should be kept in a warm place. It should be stirred before being used. It should stand to sponge all night, and will then require to rise about two hours after being kneaded. When fresh yeast is to be made, a pint of this preparation may be used instead of a tea-cupful of fresh yeast.' A large tea-cupful of this yeast will raise fourteen pounds of flour. Yeast, Kirkleatham.—Bpil an ounce pf hops in two quarts of water for twenty minuter- Strain the liquor, and mix with it quarter of a pound of flour ap-d a little lesa than quarter of a pint of fresh yeast. Bpttle the pre-: paration, and tie the cork down. Whpn the bread is to be made, add mashed potatoes, according to the quantity of yeast required. For a peck of flour, boil and mash three pounds of potatoes, and mix with them half a pound of flour and half a pint of the yeast. Let the mixture stand all day. Mix it with the flour, and let it stand to sponge all night; kncftd and bake next day. Time, twenty minutes to boil the hops in the water. Sufficient, half a pint for about a peck of flour. Yeast. Oatcakes made with {see Oat- cakes made with Yeast). Yeast, Patent.—" To make a yeast g;allon of this con^position—such yeast gallon containing eight beer quarts—bpil in common water eight pounds of potatoes as for eating. Bruise them perfectly smooth, and mix with them, while warm, two ounces of fine honey and one beer quart of common yeast- For making bread. mix tlireo boor pints of the above componitioa with a bushel of flour, using warm water in making the bread. The water should bo waiTOor in winter than in summer, and th(; composition should bo used a few hours after it is made. As soon as the sponge, or the mixtuio of the composition with the flour, begins to fall the first time, the bread should bo made and put into the oven." This recipe is copied from the original specification in the pat<;nt oflice. Yeast, Potato.—Boil any quantity of good potatoes in their jackets. When done enough, peel, weigh, and mash them quickly, and with each pound mix a quart of boiling water. Rub the mixture through a hair sieve, and add an ounce of honey or brown sugar to each pound of potatoes. Boil the mixture till it is as thick as batter; pour it out, and when lukewarm, stir into it a large table-spoonful of soUd yeast to each quart of water. Cover the 'mixture with a cloth; it will be ready for use in twenty- four hours. Double the quantity of this yeast as of beer yeast will be needed. The next time yeast has to be made, use a bottle of this pre- paration (first pouring off the thin liquid fi-om the top) instead of fresh yeast- Fresh yeast will, however, be required every two months. Yeast, Potato (another way).—Boil pota- toes of the mealy sort till they are thoroughly soft. Skin and mash them very smooth, and put as much hot water on them as will make a mash of the consistency of common beer yeast, but not thicker. Add to every pound of pota- toes two ounces of treacle, and when just warm, stir in for every poimd of potatoes two large spoonfuls of yeast- Keep it wariu till it has done fermenting, and in twentj'rfour hours it wiU be fit for use. A pound of potatoes will make nearly a quart of yeast, which has been found to answer the purpose so well, as not to distinguish the bread made with it from bread made with brewer's yeast. Yeast, Potato (another way).—See also Potato Yeast. Yeast, Preserved.—When yeast is plenti- ful, take a quantity and work it well with a whisk until it becomes thin; then procure a large wooden dish or platter, clean and dry, and with a soft brush lay a thin layer of yeast on the dish, and turn the top downwards to keep out the dust, but not the air, which is to dry it. When the first coat is dry, lay on another, and let that dry, and bo continue till the quantity is sufficient; by this means it may soon be made two or three inches thick, when it may be preserved in dry tin canisters or stopped bottles for a long time good. When used for baking, cut a piece oS, and dissolve it in warm water, when it will be fit for use. Yeast, Preserved (another way).—To preserve yeast, take a close canvas bag, fill it with ye^.st, then press out the water and make it into cakes. *' I have tasted bread," says one writer, "made with yeast preserved in this manner, and it has been excellent. The mode pf using it is tp dilute it with warm water, to which a littio gugar and flour are aadod." Yeast, Preserved (another way).—Whisk the yeast to a froth, and then with a p(unt-])rusli \a,y it on wfitiixg paper; continue coating the( 1155 ) YEA YOR paper every time it dries, until a cake is formed, then divide it into squares with a knife. Yeast Wreaths.—Set a pound and a half of fine flour to warm in a pan. Mix an ounce and a half of fresh dried yeast, or two hirge table-spoonfuls of brewer's yeast, \y-ith a cupful of lukewarm milk; stir this in the centre of the dough to a batter; cover, and leave it to rise. When it is light, add half a pound of butter beaten to a cream, three eggs, three ounces of sifted sugsir, and a little milt. Work all to a smooth light dough. Divide it into six parts. Roll them on the paste-board into long bars; plait two twists of these, lay them in rings on a buttered tin, making the ends of each ring join. Set them in a warm place to rise, and, when light, brush them over with egg. Sprinkle chopped almonds and coarsely-powdered sugar over, and bake them to a nice yellow colour in a moderate oven. Yellow Colour.—Yellow colour for the ornamentation of pastry may be prepared by placing an ounce of hay-saffron in a sugar-pan with a gill and a half of water, a small quantity of alum, and half an ounce of sugar. Set the pan on the fire, let the liquid boil for ten minutes, then pass it through a napkin. Yellow Pickle. — Take quarter of a f)Ound of brown mustard seed, two ounces of ong pepper, two ounces of black pepper, two ounces of garlic, one ounce of turmeric, quar- ter of an ounce of mace, three roots of horse- radish, and half a poimd of salt. Dry these ingredients thoroughly, and pour oyer them a gallon of cold vinegar. Procure a large head of cauliflower, two cabbages, six large carrots, and a quart of French beans. Cut the vegetables into small pieces, strew salt over them, and let them stand for twenty-foiir hours. Drain them on cloths, and dry them on hair sieves in the sun, or near the fire, for twelve days. Put with them a quart of small onions, and let them dry two days longer. Put them into a large jar, with the vinegar, and let the pickle stand near the fire or in a warm place. It must not, however, be made hotter than new milk. At the end of ten days it wiW be ready for use. If it is too thick, a little boiling vinegar may be added. Time, three to four ■y^eeks. York Hams,—Of English hams, York hams and WestmoreLand hams are perhaps the best. If they are only three or four months old, they do not need to soak very long, but if a year old or jnore, they should be soaked for twenty-four hours before being dressed. A ii&m is excellent when nicely boiled, l^ut. better Vfhen baked. Yorkshire Backstone Oake (^ee Oat- oake). Yorkshire Black Puddings.—Crumble a quarter of a pound of stale bread, pom- boiling milk over it to cover it, and lot it remain until it has absorbed the milk. Soak a pint of half grits, and boil them for half ftH hour in as much milk as w^l entirely cover thorn. Drain the milk, mix it with the boiled grits, and add a pint of blood and half a pint of good cream, together with half a pound of finely-shred suet, two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a dessert-spoonful of chopped thyme, and the same quantity of marjoram, sage, and penny-royal, a leek, a smaU omon, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of black pepper, six powdered cloves, and a pmch of grated nutmeg, ground ginger, and powdered aUspice. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, and add four well-beaten eggs. Have ready one pound of the iimer fat of the pig cut into dice. Cleanse the skins thoroughly. Half fill them, and put in the fat amongst the mince. Tie the skins in links, prick them with a fork, and boil tiU done enough. Let them cool, and hang them in a cool situation till wanted. Broil them lightly over a clear fire, and serve on a napkin. Time to boil the puddings^ about an hour. Yorkshire Brown Bread.—Mix three pounds of best flour with one pound of coarse broad bran. A pound of rye flour may also be added, if approved. Make a hollow in the centre of the flour, but do not quite touch the bottom of the bowl, and sprinkle a little salt round the edge of the flour. Mix an ounce of fresh German yeast smoothly with a little more than half a pint of tepid water. Pour a cupful of tepid water into the hole in the flour, mix with it as much flour from the sides as wiU make a thin batter, and add the yeast. Sprinkle flour over the top, throw a cloth over the bowl, and let it stand near the fire till the yeast rises in bubbles through the flour on the surface. Knead the bread thoroughly, adding lukewarm water as required, and continue to knead without ceasing till it does not stick to the fingers and the sides of the bowl. Cut it across with a knife, throw a cloth over it, and let it stand near the fire or in a warm place until it is well risen and the surface is slightly cracked. Grease some tins, three-parts fill them with the dough, let the loaves rise in the tins for a few minutes, prick them with a fork, and bake in a moderate oven. If they are put into a brisk oven, the bread will not be baked through. Brown loaves require more water and longer baking than white bread. If liked, a smaller proportion of bran may be used with the flour; pr lye flpu|- only may be used. Yorkshire Plat Cake (sometimes called Oven Cake).—When bread is made at home, and the dough is being formed into loaves, take a piece the size of half a loaf. Form it into a ball, and with the rolling-pin roll it into a large round cake, from eight to twelve inches in diameter and three-quarters of an inch thick. Put it on a buttered baking-tin, prick it with a fork, let it rise before the fire for about ten minutes, and bake in a brisk oven. When firm it is done enough. Split it in halves the broad way, butter it well, and serve hot or cold lime to bake the oake, about three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2d. buflicient for three or four persons. Yorkshire Fritters.—Mix two ounces of powdered sugar, a pinch of solt, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated, with half a pound of flour. Add a table-spoonful of fresh veast, or half an ounce of German veast, and hdlf a pint of fresh milk, and beat the whole to a thick batter.YOR ( 11 Btir into it two oimcos of currants picked and dried, throw a (^lotli ovor tho bowl, and jiiit it bol'oro tho llru or in a warm jjlaco to nso. At tho oud of half an liour, or whon woil risen, stir in throe woJl-beaton eggs. Make a little butter or da-ipping hot in a frying-pan, drop tho battor into it a spoonful at a time, and keep the fritters apart. Wlien they are brown upon one side, turn them upon tho other; drain thorn, serve on a napkin, and sift powdered white sugar thickly ovor thorn. Time to fry the fritters, thi-eo or four minutes. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for throe or four persons. Yorkshire Frumenty (a Christmas Sup- per Dish).—Put a pint of good wheat into a bowl, pour cold water over it, and let it soak for twelve hours or more. Cover with a plate, put it la the oven, and let it simmer gently till tender. Stir occasionally to keep it from sticking to the bot- tom of the dish. Take it out and let it get cold; it ought to be quite atift. When wanted, stir about a pint of the boiled wheat into a quart of boiling milk, sweeten the mixture, and flavom* with grated nutmeg or powdered cinnamon. Let it boil, serve in a soup tureen, and hand it round in soup plates. Time to simmer the wheat, about three hours. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Yorkshire Hare Cake.—Procure a hare, three-quarters of a pound of lean ham, four hard-boiled eggs, and a little gravy jelly. Pick the flesh from the bones in pieces as large as possible, divide it into neat coUops, about a quarter of an inch thick, and put these aside in a covered dish till wanted. Put the bones and trimmings of the hare into a saucepan, with a calf's foot, a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bay-leaf, a few sticks of celery, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thjTne, and half a dozen peppercorns. Pour upon the ingredients as much stock or water as v ill cover them, and let them simmer gently till the gravy is strong and pleasantly flavoured. If the liquor is not so strong that it will jelly when cold, two ounces or more of gelatine may be dissolved in it. Free the jelly entirely from fat; spread a thin layer of it at the bottom of an earthen potting-pan, and fill the pan with alternate layers of the coUops of hare, thin slices of ham, the hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and the gravy jelly. Season each layer with a slight sprinkling of herbs and spices {see Aromatic Seasoning of Herbs and Spices). When the whole of the ingredients are used, cover the pan with a coarse paste of flour and water, put it in the oven in a di-ipping-tin, three-parts filled with boiling water, and keep the water boiling round it till it is done enough. Take the pan out of the oven and leave it in a cold plfice till the next day. Turn it out upon a dish, garnish mth parsley, and serve as a luncheon, breakfast, or supper dish. Time to bake tho cake, one hour and a quarter to one hour and three-quarters, according to the size of the hare. I^-obable cost of hare, Ss. 6d. to 6s. 6d. each. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Yorkshire Pie.—A true Yorkshire pic, such as constitutes a standing dish during the Chri.stmas festivities at tho hospitable board of p. Yorkshire squire, is simply a raised pie filled 56) yoE with poultry and game of different kinds, put on(! inside tho other and side by side. 'J'hese picH arc soinetinics niad(! of a large size ; and it is recorded that one of them, wliich was sent from Sheffield in 1832 as a present to tlie then Lord Chancellor Brougham, broke down on account <jf its weight. Yorkshire pies require both skill and patience for their manufacture. They are not common, and are becoming less and less so; nevertheless, when successfully made they form a most excellent dish, and one sure to be highly a])preciated. Turkey, jihea- sants, ducks, fowls, gi-ouse, snipes, and tongue; any or all of these may enter into thf;ir com- position. Whatever birds are used should be boned and partially stewed before being put into the pie : the smallest of them should be filled with good, highly-seasoned veal forcemeat; a layer of forcemeat should be placed at the bottom of the pie, and all the vacant placet filled with the same. A recipe is here given foi making a moderate-sized pie. Bone a fowl and a goose; fiU tne fowl with good veal forcemeat, truss it, and sew it up. Truss the goose, and put the two side by side in a stewpan which will just hold them. Pour over them as much stock as will cover them, and let them simmer gently for haK an hour. Take them up, put the fowl inside the goose, truss the latter, and sew it up. Line a pie-mould with some pastry, such as is used for making raised pies, rolled out to a good thickness. Cover the bottom with a layer of forcemeat, lay the goose upon it, pour a little of the liquor in which it was stewed over it, and place round it slices of pigeons, boned hare, tongue, &c. FiU the vacant placee with forcemeat, and when the meat is closely packed in the crust put over it a layer of clari- fied butter. Place the pastrj^-cover on the top, brush over with egg, ornament it, bind several folds of buttered paper round it, and bake in a well-heated oven. Make a Httle strong jelly by boiling the bones and trimming? with seasoning and spices, and pour-this into the pie after it is baked. When the pie is to be served, place it on a dish covered with a napkin, remove the cover whole, and cut the meat in thin slices. The pastry of a pie like this is not made to be eaten but is simply in- tended as a case in which to preserve and serve the meat. When a skewer will pierce easily to the bottom of the pie in the centre it is done enough. Time to bake the pie, four hours or more. Yorkshire Ploughman's Salad.— Wash some lettuces, and drj^ them perfectly Shred them finely, and toss them lightly in a sauce made as follows:—Mix thoroughly a s;dt- spoonful of salt with an equal quantity of pepper, two table-spoonfuls of vinogar,and oneof treacle. Add the sauce to the salad at the moment of ser%dng. A bunch of chives or a handful of young onions may be introduced or not. Yorkshire Pudding.—Allow one egg. and milk to make a tolerably stiff batter, to two tiiblc-spoonfuls of flour. This will make a verj- good puddini?, though a better and lighter one may be made by using two (\ggs to three table- spoonfuls of flour, or even one egg to each table-spoonful of flour. Put as much flour aston ( 1157 ) will be required into a bowl, and add a pinch of Siilt. Stir in gradually as much milk as wiU mako a stiff batter, and beat the mixture vigorously till it is perfectly smooth and light. Whisk the eggs sepai-ately, and add thorn to the batter. Place the pudding-tin under the roadting joint, and leave it till it is thoroughly hot and well greased with the di-ippings from the joint. Pour the batter into it to the thick- ness of the third of an inch, and bake the pudding before the fire under the joint. Tui-n the pan round and round, that the puddiag may be equally and lightly browned on every side. Cut it in thi-ee-LQch squares; take these up carefully with a slice, place them on a separate dish which has been made very hot, and send them immediately to table, to be eaten with the meat and the gravy. If the joint is to be baked under the roast, the latter may be placed on a stand in the dripping-tin, the pud- ding, however, will not be so light as if baked before the fire. Out of Yorkshire, what is called Yorkshire pudding is made an inch thick or more, and after it is browned upon one side, it is cut into squares and turned over, that it may be browned upon the other. This is quite a different thing from the true Yorkshire pudding, which is made very thin, and browned on the uppermost side only. The batter for this pudding will be much better if made two, three, or even four hours before it is wanted. Cold Yorkshire pudding may be heated in a Dutch oven before the fire. Time to bake the pudding, varying with the kind of range used: with an old-fashioned range, which throws out a good deal of heat in front, the pudding will be baked in from three- quarters to one hour; when a kitchener is used, the pudding will need to be finished off in the oven. It must not, however, be allowed to get dry. If made thick, and browned on both sides, the pudding wiU need at least an hour and a half. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient, a pudding made with four table-spoonfuls of flour, three eggs, a pinch of salt, and a pint of milk, for five or six persons. Yorkshire Pudding, Beef with {see Beef with Yorkshire Puddiag). Yorkshire Punch,—Rub some large lumps of sugar upon four lemons and one Seville orange until all the yellow part is taken off. Weigh the sugar, and add as much more as will make up its weight to a pound and a quarter. Put the sugar into a bowl, and strain over it the juice of six lemons and three Seville oranges. Add a pint of liquid calf's-foot jeUy, and stir in gradually two quarts of boiling water. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, and put the bowl containing them by the side of the fire for twenty minutes. Strain the mix- ture, put with it a bottle of orange or lemon shrub, and add half a pint of rum, and half a pint of brandy. If the trouble of rubbing the sugar upon the lemons and orange is objected to, the sugar may be rubbed upon a portion of the lemon, and the thin rind of the rest soaked in the jelly and the strained juice imtil the flavour is extracted. The flavour of the punch thus made will not quite equal that nuido by rubbing the sugar with lemon. Yorkshire Spice Cake (sometimes called Yule Cake).—These cakes are made in large quantities in Yorkshire families at Christmas time. They are freely offered to strangers and presented to friends, and are frequently eaten with cheese instead of bread. Recipes for them will be found under the headings: Yeast Cake, Excellent; Annie's Rich Cake; Aunt Edward's Christmas Cake. Another is given below. Put eight poxinds of flour into a bowl, and mix a table-spoonful of salt with it; then rub into it a pound and a half of butter, and two pounds of lard. Scoop a hole in the centre of the bread without touclung the bottom, and pour in half a pint of fresh sweet brewer's yeast mixed with water. Stir flour into the yeast tiU it is like batter, sprinkle flour over the top, and set the bowl in a warm place. When the yeast rises in bubbles through the flour, knead the dough thoroughly as for com- mon bread, and let it rise tiU it is light. When risen, work in with it six pounds of currants, picked and dried thoroughly, three pounds of raw sugar, some grated nutmeg, and eight weU- beaten eggs. Divide it into loaves of various sizes, put these into tins which they will half fill, lined with buttered paper, and bake the cakes in a weU-heated oven. The yeast must on no account be bitter. Time to bake the cakes, according to size. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Yorkshire Tea-cakes.—A hospitable Yorkshire housewife would consider her tea- table was barely spread if it were not liberally supplied with these delicious cakes, constant relays of which should be served steaming hot. Put two pounds of good flour into a bowl; scoop a hole in the centre, but do not touch the bottom of the bowl, and pour into the hoUow thus made a little less than an ounce of German yeast which has been dissolved in a tea-cupful of lukewarm milk. Add to this yeast two well- beaten eggs and six ounces of butter which has been dissolved in half a tea-cupful of hot water. The water, when added to the batter, ought to be a little more than new-milk-warm. Draw a little of the flour from the side of the bowl into the liquor till it is of the consistency of very thick cream, sprinkle a little flour upon it to cover the surface, and leave it in a warm place to rise. In about an hour, when the bubbles of yeast show themselves through the flour, knead the dough thoroughly, addirig as much more lukewarm mUk as is necessary for the purpose. The tea-cakes will require about a pint of milk altogether. Gash the sur- face of the dough two or three times across with a knife, throw a warm towel over it, and leave it to rise. When it is very light (that is when the surface cracks, which it will do in an hour or more), divide it into ten portions of equal size. Roll these lightly into cakes four inches in diameter, and put them on a baking- tin. Prick them with a fork and let them rise before the fire for ten minutes. Put them into a moderately-heated oven ; they must not be baked hard. When they are to be served, either cut them into halves, toast them, and butter liberally, or make them hot in the oven, divide them, and butter thorn. Serve very hot. These tea-cakes will bo very good( 1158 ) ZAN YOE it irmdo with four ounces of butter instead of SIX, and if ouo oyg only is usod. Tli«y nmy bo buttorod and sorved cold, but aro bust hot Ijiiio to bako thu toa-cakus, a (luartor to lialf an hour, rrobablo cost, Id. oach. SuUiciont lor ton cakes. A few currants may bo added if liked. Yorkshire Veal Cake.—Take one pound and a half of lean vual from the lillot, three- quarters of a pound of thinly-cut ham, and four eggs. Boil the eggs till they are hard aud let them get cold, thou cut the veal into neat pieces, lake about half a pint of clear highly-Hoasoned ■ veal gravy, made so strong that it will ielly firmly when cold. Put a layer of this at the bottom of an earthen potting-pan, and fill the dish with successive layers of the veal, the ham, the hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and the jellied gravy. Season each layer lightly with a little pepper, minced parsley, and shallot, and salt, if required; this will depend upoh the saltness of the bacon. Cover the potting- pan with a coarse stifl: paste of flour and water, put it in the oven in a dripping-tin, thiee-parts . tilled with boihng water, and add more water in place of that which boils away till the veal cake is done enough. Let the cake get cold, turn it whole upon a dish, and garnish with parsley. The jellied gravy may be made by boiling the bones and trimmings of the veal in water, with a cow-heel and suitable seasonings, and clarifying the liquor with white of egg. It should form a stiff jelly when cold. Time to bake the cake, one hour and a quarter. Pro- bable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Young Oxford Sausages.—Take one' pound of young pork, fat and lean, without skin or gristle; one pound of beef suet, chopped tine together; put in half a pound of grated bread, half the peel of a lemon shred, a nutmeg grated, six sage-leaves chopped fine, 'a tea- spoonful of pepper, and two of salt, some thjone, savoury, and marjoram, shred fine. Mix well together, and put the preparation close down in a pan till used. Eoll the sau- sages out the size of common sausages, and fry them in fresh butter of a fine brown, or broil them over a clear fire, and send them to table hot. Yule Cake {see Yorkshire Spice Cake). Yule Dumplings.—Cut two small loaves of bread made of milk into slices, and pour over them a sufficient quantity of cold milk to render them soft; having gently pressed the bread, then add to it the following:—Two ounces of the small and one ounce of the large raisinSj icked and washed, some blanched and finely- ruised or grated bitter almonds, grated lemon- peel, mace, and sugar, a piece of rubbed butter, and two or three eggs. AU these ingredients to be well mixed together with two or three spoonfuls of flour, and formed into a consistent mass of dough, which is to be divided by a spoon into dumplings of the proper size ; these are to be put overhead into boiling water, and when thoroughly done taken out with a skim- ming-spoon, and served up with cream sauce poured over thorn. These dumplings furnish a beautiful suppor-dish. Yule Pudding.—A quarter of a pound of butter; ton ounces of loaf sugar; the j nice of two large lemons, with the rinds grated; one ounce of isinglass—the quantity after dissolved should bo a krge tea-cupful; and two spoonfuls of fine flour. Put these ingredients into a stewpan, Htir over a slow fire, till the preparation nearly boils, then throw it into a ])asin and stir till almost cold ; then add eight eggs, four whites, and half a wine-glass of brandy. A puff paste is to be put entirely over a dish, and the pud- ding is to bo baked half an hour. z Zampino^ with French Beans.—" In Italy and Vienna," says M. Dubois, "they think a great deal of ' zampino' ('hand,' i.e., foot and leg, of young pork) from Modena, and they are quite right. For my own part, I do not know any product of this nature more cleverly contrived or more successfully achieved than this ' zampino.' The only thing to regret is that the ' zampino' is not sufficiently and better known to epicures. Choose a ' zamjjino' freshly salted, having soaked it for two hours, drain, and wrap it up in a fine cloth; tie, and place it in an oval stewpan, moistening plenti- fully with cold water; make the liquid boil, draw the pan on the side of the fire, keeping the stock simmering for two hours, after which take the pan quit(3 off the fire, leaving the 'zampino' in, and twenty minutes after un- pack, and dish it oil a garnish of French beans or sour-crout." Zandrina Pudding.—Pick some fresh ripe raspberries. Put them into a jar and cover closely; set the fi'uit in the oven in a tin of boiling water, and keep the water boiling round it till the juice flows freely. Boil it with half its weight of sugar to a syrup, and let it get cold. If fresh fruit can- not be procured, a jar of raspberry jam may be dissolved, mixed with a little thin syrup, and rubbed through a sieve. Beat six oimces of fresh butter to cream; work in six ounces of powdered white sugar, six oimces of dried flour, and the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Whisk the whites of the eggs to snow, and add them to the mixture, together with a wine- glassful of the raspberry syrup. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould which it will quite fill, put the cover on it, and put it in a saucepan, containing boiling water to the depth of throe inches or thereabouts, according to the depth of the mould. Keep the water boiling round the pudding until it is done enough. Take it up, let it stand a minute or two, and turn it out carefully upon a hot dish. Serve, with a little of the syrup whisked with an equal quantity of thick cream, poured round it. If liked, the'pudding may be baked instead of being steamed. Time to steam the pudding, an hour and a half. Probable cost, exclusiyo of the sauce, two shillings. Sufficient for six or seven persons.APPENDIX A.—KITCHEN UTENSILS. Oi^ the subject of culinary utensils we may reproduce the following remarks of Mt^. Eliet:—" The various utensils used for the preparation and keeping of food are made either of metal, glass, pottery-ware, or wood, each of which is better suited for some particular purpose than the others; Metallic utensils are quite unfit for many uses, ahd the knowledge of this is necessslry to the preservation of health in general^ and sometimes to the prevention of immediate dangerous consequences. " The metals commonly used in the construction of these vessels are silver^ copper, brass, tin, iron, and lead. Silver is preferable to all others because it cannot be dissolved by any of the substances used as food. Brimstone unites with silver, and forms a brittle crust over it, that gives it the appearance of being tarnished. The discolouring of silver spoons used with eggs arises from the brimstone contained in eggs. Nitre or saltpetre has also a slight efiect upon silver, but nitre and silver seldom tetaaiii long enough together in domestic uses to require any particular caution. " Cojiper and bl-ass are both liable to be dissolved by vinegar, acid fruits, and pearlash. Such solutions are highly poisonous, and great precautions should be used to prevent accidents. Vessels inade of these metals are generally tinned, that is, linisd with a thin coating of a mixed metal containing both tin and lead. Neither acids nor anything containing pearlash should ever remain above an hoUr in vessels of this kind, as the tin is dissolvable by acids, and the coating is seldom pierfect over thfe surface of copper or brass. " The utensils made of what is called 1)lock-tin are constructed of iron plates coated with tin. This is as liable to be dissolved as the tinning of copper or brass vessels, but iron is not an unwholesome substance if even a portion of it should be dissolved arid mixed in the food. Iron is therefore one of the safest metals for the construction of culinary utensils, and the objection to its hiore extensive use only rests upon its liability to rust, so that it requires more cleaning, and soon decays. Some ^rtibles of food, such as quinces, orange-peel, artichokes, &c., are blackened by remaining in ii'on vessels, which must not therefore be used for them. " Leaden vessels are very unwholesome, and should never be used for milk and cream if it be ever likely to stand till it becomes sour. They are unsafe also for the purpose of keeping salted meats. " Tlie best kind of pottery-ware is oriental china, because the glazing is a perfect glass which cannot be dissolved, and the whole substance is so compact that liquid cahnot penetrate it. Many of our own pottery-wares are badly glazed, and as the glazing is made principally of lead, it is necessary to avoid putting vinegar and other acids into them. Acids and greasy substances penetrate into uUglazed warfes— excepting the strong stoneware—or into those of which the glazing is cracked, and hence give a bad flavour to anything they are used for afterwards. They are quite imfit, therefore, fdr keeping pickles or salted ineats. Glass vessels are infinitely preferable to any pottery-ware but oriental china, and shoidd be used whenever the occasion admits of it. " Wooden vessels are very proper for keeping many articles of food, and should always be preferred to those lined with lead. If any substance has fermented or become putrid in a wooden cask or tub, it is sure to taint the vessel so as to produce a similar effect upon anything that may be put into it in future. It is useful tooassrll's oookkry. 1160 char the iiisides of these wooden vessels before they are used by burning wooden shavings, so as to coat the insides with a crust of chai-coal. b " As^Avhatever contaminates food in any way must be sure from the repetition of Its baneful ei5ects to injure the health, a due precaution with respect to all culinary vessels is necessary for its more certain preservation. There is a kind of hollow ironware lined with enamel, which is superior to every other utensil for sauces or Ijreserves; mdeed it is preferable for every purpose. • A kitchen sliould always be well furnished; there is no necessity tliat it should be profusely so, but there should be a suHiciency of everything which can aid in producing the dishes preparing with the success which is so essential to the gratifica- tion of the palate. A good workman cannot work well with bad tools, neither can good cooks do justice to theii- proficiency if they possess not the necessary utensils suitable to the various modes of cooking. And when this important point has been realised, cleanliness in every article used should be scrupulously observed; no utensil should be suflFered to be put away dirty; it not only injures the article itself materially, to say nothing of the impropriety of the habit, but prevents its readiness for use on any sudden occasion. No good cook or servant would be guilty of such an act. Cleanliness is a most essential ingi-edient in the art of cooking, and at any saciifice should be maintained in the kitchen." The following are the most important kitchen utensils:— Baking Dish.—Ordinary baking dishes are made of earthenware. Some house- keepers prefer them made of tin or of iron, enamelled on the inside, as being more durable. M. Soyer invented an improved baking dish, to which was attached a movable false grating of wire, and in the centre of this was fixed a trivet three inches in height. He put the pudding at the bottom of the dish; he then put in the grating, on which he placed the potatoes, and on the trivet he put the meat. By this means the surplus fat, which would otherwise have fallen on the pudding and prevented its setting, would descend on the potatoes, making them delicate and crisp. Probable cost of baking dishes, 4d. upwards, according to size and quality. Beer Taps.—Beer taps are made either of brass or wood. The former are the most durable, the latter the sweetest. Taps should always be brushed and laid in cold water for some hours after bemg taken out of one cask, before they are put into another. Several patent taps are sold of various kinds. One of these, the screw tap, is to be recommended to those who find it necessary to tap theii' own baiTels and have a difficulty in doing it. The tap needs only to be pushed into the cork, and screwed round and round till the circular piece of metal presses ujwn the cork. Probable cost, taps made of brass, from Is. 6d.; of wood, 4d.; screw taps, 2s. Gd. Boiler.—In large families the boiler is in frequent requisition. It is used for boiling large joints, hams, &c. Boilers are made in various sizes of wrought-ii-on or cast-iron. The wrought-iron ones cost from 16s. to 22s. 6d. The cast-ii'on ones from 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d. Boilers should be washed out and diied perfectly as soon as possible after they are done with. The cover should be hung in the cupboard by the side of the pan when they are not in use. Bottle Jack and Wheel.—A bottle jack is a useful little machine for roasting joints of meat or poultry before the fire. It is wound up like a watch, and its action keeps the meat turfaing round and round, thus causing it to be eiiuaUy cooked. Probable cost, 8s. 6d., 10s. 6d., and 16s. 6d. Braising Pan or Braisi^ire.—A braisi^re is simply an oval steAvpan, with a cover so formed that live embers can be held in it, and thus the cooking process can be canied on from above as well as below. These pans are made both of copjjer and of tinned iron. The latter are much cheaper than the former, and just as good. As braisi^res are not very common in ordinary kitchens, it may be said that st«w- pan of modem form which will admit of embers being placed upon the lid will answer the same purpose. Probable cost, copper braising pans, with fij-e-pan, cover, and draining plates, from £3 10s. to £6 lOs., according to size. Bread Grater.—A bread gi-ater is made of tin, and is used to cinimble breadAPPENDIX. 1161 smoothly, evenly, and finely. It may be bought in two or three sizes, and will cost from 9(1. to Is. 6d. Caxisteus.—Canisters in winch to preserve tea, coffee, and various groceries are made of japanned tin. They should be emptied and washed out occasionally, and should then be dried perfectly before being used again. They may be bought of various sizes. Price, from 9d. Cask Stand.—Cask stands are made to hold a cask of wine or ale quite steadily. They are so constructed that the cask can be raised when necessary so gently that the contents need not be shaken, and the liquor can be drawn off clear and bright to the last. Price 8s. 6d., 10s. 6d., and lis. 6d. Chopping Board and Knife.—When meat is to be minced for croquettes, kromeskies, rissoles, &c., or when suet or other ingredients are to be chopped veiy small, the task will be most easily accomplished upon a chopping board, with a knife adapted for the purpose. These boards have to a great extent been superseded by the sausage machines, which do their work quickly and thoroughly. A choppLag board can be procured from Is. to 2s., and a knife from Is. 4d. A sausage machine costs from 10s. 6d. to 21s. Clocks.—A clock is indispensable in a kitchen where regularity and punctuality are to be observed. Clocks may be had at all sorts of prices. Excellent American clocks can be obtained at a very ti-ifling cost. Cook's Knife.—It will facilitate the cook's operations if she is provided with two or tlu-ee sharp-pointed knives of different sizes. This kind of knife is much to be preferred to the short round-bladed knife. Probable cost, from 2s. Digester.—A digester is a most valuable utensil which cannot be too highly recommended to those who wish to preserve all the goodness that can be extracted from meat, bones, or vegetables. It is a kind of iron stock-pot, made with a lid which fits so closely into a groove at the top that no steam can escape that way, but only through a valve at the top. Care must be taken, therefore, in filling the digester to allow plenty of room for this escape—^indeed the pot should never be more than three-parts filled with water, bniised bones, and meat. The contents of the pan should be kept simmeiing very gently as long as may be necessary. A fierce heat would injure the quality of the preparation. Digesters are made in all sizes, holding from three quarts to ten gallons. The saucepan and stewpan digesters for making gravies hold from one to eight quarts. Probable cost, digester holding one gallon, 4s. 9d. ; holding four gallons, 9s. 8d. Dredgers.—Dredgers for sugar and flour may be bought for about Is. Their use prevents waste, and also makes it easy for the cook to distribute the ingredients lightly and equally over the preparation. Dripping Pan and Basting Ladle.—The diipping pan is placed under the joint to catch the fat and gravy which drops from it. This pan is constructed with a well in the centre, which is covered with, a lid and sun'ounded with holes, so that the dripping can run into the Avell free from ashes. This M can be lifted up when the meat is to be basted. The basting ladle is half covered with a piece of perforated metal, so that if any cinders shoxild get into the dripping, they may be kept from falling upon the meat. Dripping pans may be purchased, made of copper, and standing on legs, and the price of one of these with the well and ladle would be from £4 10s. to <£11 10s., according to size. They are usually made of wrought-iron or of tin, and stands for them may be bought separately. The price of a good wrought-iron dripping pan on iron legs, with a well, would be from £1 18s. to £2 6s The price of a good tin dripping pan would be about 8s. 6d., that of an iron stand about 4s. 6d., and a basting ladle from 2s. to 5s. 6d. Earthen Jars.—A most excellent mode of cooking is that which is accomplished by means of an ordinary earthen jar with a closely-fitting lid. Meat, fruit, and varioTis faiinaceoiis articles may be baked most satisfactorily in this way. The pi*o- cess is so gentle and gradual that the ingredients can scarcely be spoilt, and besides this, if the jar is closely covered the nourishment contained in the food cannot escape. The meat, frmt, rice, or whatever is to be cooked, should be placed in the jar with1162 cassell's cookery. the necessary quantity of liquid. The jar should then be covered closely or pasted down, sliould be put in a shallow tin tilled with boiling water, and put in the oven. The water should be kept boiling round it. The quantity of water should be kept up (a little being added every now and then) until the preparation is sufficiently baked. Probable cost, earthen jars from 9d., according to size. Filter.—A filter should be found in every house. No one who has given the least thought to the subject can doubt that health depends to a great extent upon the purity of the water which is drunk, and the water supplied to houses is often not fit for drinking pui-poses until it has been filtered. A filter needs only to be filled regularly and cleaned out every week, and when this is done there is always at hand a supply of that necessary of life—^pure drinking water. Filters may be procured from 6s. upwards. Fish Kettle.—A fish kettle is fitted with a drainer, upon which the fish is to be placed, and which is pulled up when the fish is suflSciently boiled. The drainer should be placed across the kettle for a minute, and when the water has drained from it, it should be placed carefully on the dish. There are three or four shapes in fish kettles, constructed to suit the shape of different fish, such as a salmon kettle, a turbot kettle, and a carp kettle. All are fitted with drainers. Price of fish kettle, from 7s. 6d. Fish Slice.—A fish slice is made of perforated metal—tin or copper—and is used to lift the fish from the drainer to the dish upon which it is to be served. A utensil of the same kind is used to lift poached eggs out of. the water, and is also useful to preserve unbroken any article which needs to be carefully passed from the pan to the dish. Price, from 6d. Frying Pan, Saut^: Pan, Omelet Pan, and Fish Fryer.—When a frying pan is spoken of it is generally understood to mean a shallow pan, made of iron or copper, in which any preparation that requires but Kttle cooking can be tossed quickly over the fire. A pan with straight sides is named a saut6 pan, and a smaller pan of the same kind, with sloping sides, and kept exclusively for omelets and dif- ferent preparations of batter, is called an omelet pan. It has been already explained that to fiy anything is to boil it in fat : to saute it is to cook it over the fire, one side at a time, in a very small quantity of fat. When a pancake, an omelet, or a chop are cooked in a small quantity of fat they are said to be " dry fried." These distinctions are, however so Kttle understood in English kitchens, that to adopt the correct terms would in nine cases out of ten be to cause the recipes to be misimder- stood, therefore the usual word has been taken. Frying pans, or saute pans, and omelet pans are made both of iron and copper. The former are most generally used. They should be kept scrupulously clean, and should never on any account be put away dirty. When not in use they should be hung in a dry, airy situation, where the dust cannot settle upon them. Before being used a little fat should be heated in the pan, and when this is removed the pan should be wiped with a dry cloth. This will ensure its being perfectly free from damp. The same pan that is used for frying fish should not be taken for other things. Deep frying pans are sold on purpose for fish ; they are called fish fryers. They are in shape not unlike a pre- serving pan, and are fitted with a closely-made wire drawer, with handles at each end. The fish placed in this can be plunged at once into the boiling fat, and when done enough can be taken out of it and drained without much fear of being broken. The possession of one of these pans makes it a comparatively easy thing to fry fish. When they are not at hand, however, and they are not by any means in general use, the ordinary frying pan must be used instead. The fat used must be as deep as circumstances will permit, and if necessary the fish must be fried first upon one side and then turned over upon the other. Steaks and chops, though constantly fried, are much better broiled. When a prejudice exists in favour of dry fiying, however, it should be remembered that the fat used should be allowed to become hot before the meat is placed in it. This will keep it from being greasy. Probable cost, iron frying pans and omelet pans from Is. each ; copper ones from 6s. 6d. according to size. Fish fryers from 12s. 6d,APPENDIX. 1163 Funnel, Tin.—A tin funnel is used to prevent waste in passing liquid from one vessel to another. Tin funnels should always be scalded and dried perfectly after being used. Price, 4d. or 6d. Gauffre Irons.—GaulFre irons are a kind of tongs made for the purpose of baking small round cakes over the fire. Price, 7s. 6d. Glaze Pots.—A glaze pot and brush for heating and applying glaze somewhat resembles a glue kettle. When the utensil is not at hand, put the glaze into a jar, place this in a pan of boiling water, and keep the water boiling round it till the glaze is melted. Gravy Strainers.—Gravy strainers are made of tin, and in various shapes and sizes. Perhaps the best and most convenient is one shaped like a jelly-bag, and perforated at the sides. Gravy strainers should be rinsed in hot water and dried each time they are used. Probable cost, Is., Is. 3d., and Is. 6d. each. Gridirons.—The giidiron is an essential article among kitchen utensils, and indeed in all kitchens at least two should be kept—one for fish, and one for chops, steaks, &c. Gridirons are of various shapes and sizes, some being square and some round, or " cii'cular gridirons " as they are called. Some, too, consist of round parallel bars of iron, and some of fluted bars—i.e., gutter gridirons. The circular gutter gridiron is of coui'se adapted to close stoves, and the advantage that gutter gridirons possess over ordinary ones is that much of the fat, &c., that would otherwise fall in the fire and flare is by this means saved. In all ordinary gridirons, of course, all that falls from the meat goes in the fire. Sometimes this is desirable, as in cooking a chop or steak the object of the cook is as much as possible to obtain a black colour outside and a red colour in. In using a gutter gridiron over a rather slack fire it will be found advisable to take a spoon and dip it into the reservoir into which the fat has run, and pour occasionally a few drops into the fire, thereby causing the flare that will turn the meat the colour desired. Very great pains should always be taken in the cleansing of gridirons. Those composed of round bars, after being carefully washed, should be inibbed with scorning paper, by which means only perfect cleanliness is attainable. In cleaning gutter gridirons each gutter should be scraped separately till no stain is left, and extra precautions as to cleanliness should be observed always after cooking bloaters, haddocks, or indeed fish of any kind. In using a gridiron for gi-illing, cai^e should always be taken in the early stages of the process to prevent whatever is grilled from sticking, and consequently burn- ing. For instance, when fish is gi-illed it will be always found advisable to rub the gridii-on with a piece of mutton fat. Hot Closet.—^A hot closet is a kind of cupboard connected with the range, furnished with shelves, upon which plates and dishes can be warmed, and in which various kinds of confectionery can be dried. They are seldom used, excepting in hotels and very large establishments. Price, from 30s. to 60s. Hot Water Dish.—Joints which are to be served very hot, and especially those which are liable to chill quickly, should be placed on a hot water dish. This is a dish arranged with a double bottom, which can be filled with hot water, and which will keep hot both the dish which is over it, and the joint and the gravy which are upon it. The water ought to be boiling hot, and ought not to be poured into the dish imtil the last moment. Probable cost, for a 16-inch dish of Britannia metal, abo\it 37s. 6d. Hot water plates of Britannia metal will cost about 9s. ; if made of tin they will cost 3s. 6d- Covers for the same will cost from Is. 6d. to 4s. 6d. Ice Making Machines,—The following method is the one usually adopted for freezing various preparations :—Procure a few pounds of ice, break it into small pieces, mix three or four large handfuls of bay salt with it, and put it into an ice pail. Put the preparation into a freezing-pot, and cover it. Place this in the midst of the broken ice, cover it, and when it is cold twist it round rapidly, then work it veil with the spatula until it is smooth. If this is not done the ice will be lumpy.cashell'8 cookery. 11G4 Put it into a mould, and embed it in ice till it is set. In the piston freezing macliii.« the preparation is placed in cylinders, and outside these are jnit j)ounded ic<^ salt, and a little water. The piston is then worked up and down, and tliis not only moves the ice and salt round the cylinders, but also moves the " stirrers " inside the cylinders, which nuikes the i>reparation smooth. Wlien it is frozen it is pi-essed firmly down and moulded, then embedded in ice till it is quite set. Fr(;ezing powders for generating ice are much used. Some machines can be used with these powdei-s only, othem requii-e a mixture of ice and salt. A freezing pail may be })rocured for about Vs. 6d.; a pewter freezing pot which will hold one quart, for 12s. 6d.; two quarts, IGs. Gd. • three quarts, 25s.; a spatula for 5s.; freezing machines from 35s. Freezing powdei-s are sold in boxes, or by the cwt. Ice Safes or Refrigerators.—Ice safes are constructed for the purpose of keeping mnes, jellies, butter, milk, &c., deliciously cool in summer time. The price varies according to size, which regulates also the quantity of ice required per week. A small safe, 1 ft. 10 in. by 1 ft, 8 in. will need 40 lbs. of ice per week, and for a large one measuring 4 ft. 2 in. by 2 ft. 3 in., 150 lbs. will be requisite. There is an improved refrigerator which is fitted with a filter, and is so constructed that the water as it melts is drained into the filter, where it is kept ready for drinking, and ice cold. The cost of a refrigerator will be from <£2 10s, to £8 8s., according to size. If fitted with a filter it will be more expensive. JELLY Bags.—Jelly bags may be bought ready made, but they are much the best when made at home. Procure a piece of very stout flannel. That used for making ironing blankets is very good. Turn it comerwise, and make it in the shape of a fool's cap. Be careful to stitch the seams twice with strong thread, and fasten tapes round the top at equal distances, by means of which it may be suspended from the stand. The easiest way of using it is to fasten the mouth of the bag round a loop, and tliis will keep it open, so that the jelly may be conveniently poured into it Stands are sold on purpose for jelly bags; when one of these is not at hand, the bag may be hung between two chairs tux^ned back to back. A jelly bag may be made of any size. It should be dipped into hot water, and wi-ung quite dry befoi-e being used. Extempore jelly-bags may be made by tying a clean cloth on the legs of a chau- turned upside down on a table. Jugs, Kitchen.—In buying jugs, always choose the shape so that the cook's hand can be easily inserted. Otherwise they are apt to be put by with a rim in the upper part of stale milk or beer, thus rendering sour the next liquid poured into them. Knife Baskets.—Knife baskets are made of wicker work, with a tin lining. They can be very easily washed out and dried. Probable cost of tinned baskets, 10s, Japanned baskets may be had for about 2s. Larding Needles.—Larding needles are used in larding. They are made with split ends, and are intended to hold the little strips of bacon called lardons, which, by their means, are introduced into the surface of the meat. Tliey are sold in boxes, which contain twelve needles of difierent sizes, or they may be bought separately, Probable cost, 9d. to Is. each. Lemon Squeezer.—By means of this little utensil the juice can be pressed from the lemon so thoroughly that scarcely a drop is left in it. As it is almost impossiljle to squeeze a lemon quite dry with the hand, the lemon squeezer may certainly be classed amongst the kitchen utensils which prevent waste. Price, Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. Marble Slab for Pastry.—Pufi" paste ought properly to be rolled upon a mai'ble slab; it is then much more likely to be light and puffy than when it is rolled upon wood. Marble slabs are sold for the purpose. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Meat Chopper.—A meat chopper is used to chop into small pieces and to dis- joint bones, which are to be stewed down for gravy or stock. The price is from Is. 9d. to 3s. A meat cleaver to be used for the same purpose will cost fi-om 4s. 6d. Meat Safes.—Meat safes belong properly to the larder. They are intended to preserve meat, pa.stry, &c., from flies and dust. They are almost indispensable in hot weather. It should be remembered that meat, &c., should be allowed to become perfectly cold before being ]mt into the safe. Small wire safes may be bought for1165 APPENDIX. about Is. 6d., luicl large ones of the same kind for 6s. or 7s. Better and more dui-able ones made either to hang from the top of the larder or to fit in the window, imd of various sizes, will cost from 22s. to 33s. Meat Screens.—Some meat screens are made of wood, lined with tin, and fitted with shelves upon which the plates and dishes can be warmed. The modern meat screen is a more compact affair. It is made of tin, and is constructed to condense the heat as much as possible. The joint is hung inside, and there is a place for the jack just above the screen, and connected with it. The advantage which this sci'een possesses over the old-fashioned one is that by its means a joint may be cooked at a compai-atively small fire, on account of the heat being reflected from the tin upon the meat. Some persons object to it because they consider that the meat being so closely siuTOunded acquii'es a baked taste. Certainly the close sci-een should not be placed near the gi-ate, or the joint will become hard and dry upon the surface. Probable cost, wood screen, from SOs.; close screen, 16s. 6d. Moulds for Cakes and Puddings.—Cakes are generally baked in tin moulds, and a large choice of these is offered to the purchaser. Puddings may either be boiled in moulds or in plain pudding basins with a rim. Many puddings, especially those into the composition of which bread enters, are both lighter and drier when boiled in a stout cloth, rather than in a mould. Probable cost of pudding and cake moulds, from 4s. 6d.; pudding basins, from 6d. Moulds for Jelly.—Moulds for jelly may be purchased so pretty and so artistic that they need to be seen to be appreciated. There are plain moulds of all shapes and sizes, and if these have a bunch of fruit or any similar design on the top, a pretty effect may be produced by coloiuing suitably the jelly which will fill that portion of the mould. Particular care must be taken to colour only as much jelly as is required, and the coloured part must be allowed to go quite stiff" before the rest of the jelly, which should of course be perfectly cold, is placed upon it. Open moulds, or rather border moulds, ai-e also made, which leave the jelly with an opening in the centre to be tilled with whipped cream. By means of the more elaborate moulds, jellies beautiful in appearance may be turned out. Amongst these may be mentioned the Belgrave mould, the Alexandra mould, and the star mould. These moulds aie provided with movable interiors so constructed that a transparent jelly can be poured into the outer portion of the mould, and when this is quite stiff" the lining can be removed, and the cavity filled with an opaque jelly, which, being dis- cernible through the ti-ansparent exterior, has a very good appearance. Simple earthenware moulds can be purchased from 2s. 6d.; copper moulds cost from 9s. 6d.; border moulds, 12s. 6d.; and moulds with movable linings, about 22s. 6d. To me tJie Belgrave Mould.—Pour some clear bright jelly round but not into the cylinders. When this is quite set, pour a little warm water into the cylinders for a moment, then withdraw the lining, and fill the cavities with bright-coloured jellies or cream of diff"erent colours, or with fruit, which can be kept in its place by pouring a small portion of liquid jelly upon it after it is arranged. The space which was occupied by the central cylinder may be left empty, and filled just before the jelly is served with white or coloured whipped cream. To use t/ie Aleocandra Mould.—Put the mould in ice. Fill the first cross with white jelly, and when this is stiff" fill the second cross with pink jelly, and let this also stiff"en. Put the lining in the mould, and fill the space outside it as far as the plain band of the mould with pink jelly. When this is stiff", pour a little warm water into the lining to loosen it. Withdraw it instantly, and fill the cavity with white jelly or blancmange. When this is set, fill the plain band of the mould with bright yellow jelly. When this j<elly is turned out it will represent the Danish cross upon a golden ground. To use tlie Stwr Mould.—Put the mould in ice, then fill the circle at the top with bright red jelly. When this is set, fill the smaller star with silver jelly. Let this set, and fill the large star with red again. Put the lining into the mould, and fill the space outside it, as far as the plain band of the mould, with clear jelly. With- di-aw the lining, and fill the empty space with blancmange. When this is peifecUyCASSELL's COOKBfeY. 1166 stift pour as mucli red jelly into the band part of the mould as will fill it. When this IS quite stiff the jelly is ready to be turned out. To tui-n jelly out of the mould dip the mould quickly in and out of boiling water. Shake it gently, place a glass dish upon It, and turn it carefully upside down. If necessary give it a sharp tai) with a kmfe or spoon. Moulds for Raised Pies.—Moulds for raised pies are made to open, which rendei-s it a comparatively easy task both to form the pie and to turn it out when baked. The cost is about 68. 6d. Nutmeg Grater.—A nutmeg grater is made of tin, perforated with holes, and presenting a rough surface upon which nutmegs or whole ginger can be rubbed to powder. It generally constitutes a portion of the spice-box. When bought separately it can be procured for Id. or 2d. Paste Board and Rolling Pin.—Pastry-boards are plain smooth boards, upon which pastry can be rolled. They are generally made of common wood, but the best kinds are made of box-wood. Even these, however, are not to be compared with marble slabs. Pastry-boards should be kept scinipulously clean, should be scrubbed well every time they are used, and should be hung in a dry situation where they will be in no danger of mildewing. Probable cost of pastry-board and roller, from 2s. 6d. Paste Jagger and Corner Cutter.—These utensils are used for trimming and cutting pastry. The wheel which is placed at the end of the pastry jagger is used to mark pastry which is to be divided after it is baked. Probable cost, Is. Patty Pans.—These little pans which are used for baking tarts, cheesecakes, (fee, ai'e made of tin. They may be procured of all shapes and sizes. Probable cost, Is. or Is. 6d. per dozen. Pepper Mill.—A pepper mill can be so regulated that the pepper shall be either fine or coarse. Probable cost, 4s. 3d.; if made of steel, £1 2s. 6d. Pestles and Mortars.—These utensils are used to pound various ingredients, and are exceedingly useful in cookery. They are sold made of both brass and u-on, but these are neither so sweet, nor are they so easily kept clean, as when made either of marble or wedgewood-ware. They should be washed and diied perfectly each time they are used. Probable cost, 14s. 6d. Plate Rack.—A plate rack is a convenient article used in washing plates and dishes. The plates should be first scraped, then washed in hot water with a little soda, and wiped with the dish-cloth, linsed in cold water, and drained on the rack. In a short time they can be taken down and put away, and will present a bright shiny surface, without any of those streaks showing the marks of the dish-cloth, which are enough to take the edge off the keenest appetite. The water in which plates are washed should be changed frequently. Probable cost of plate rack, 12s. Plate Warmers.—Plate warmers are stands constructed for the purpose of heating plates that are to be used at table. They are made in various shapes, and are placed before the fire in such a position that they catch the heat which radiates fi-om it. Many modern ranges are made with a shelf, upon which plates can be put, and this dispenses with the necessity of a separate plate warmer. Probable cost, from 16s. Potato Pastry Pan.—This pan is shaped something like a baking-dish, and it is made with a perforated plate, with its valve-pipe screwed on. A delicate and savoury preparation may be prepared in it. For instmctions as to its use, see Potato Pastry, Modem. Probable cost, 4s. or 4s. 6d. Potato Steamers.—A potato steamer is a pan vnth. a perforated tin bottom, which is made to fit closely into an iron saucepan below it. The potatoes are placed in the upper pan, and are cooked by the steam which rises from the boiling water in the lower one. There is an improved steamer which is made with a handle, which can be drawn out when the potatoes are done enough, thus allowing the steam to escape, so that the heat from below dries the potatoes already cooked. Probable cost of improved steamer, 7s. to 8s. Preserving Pans.—Preserving pans are generally msidc of copper, ihey are used for making jams, jellies, and marmalade. They sliould be cletmed with scnipu-1167 Appendix. lous care each time they are used. Enamel-lined iron pans are now much used for preserving. They are much cheaper than copper or " brass " pans, and will last for years if carefully used. If put upon the stove empty, or if over-heated, the enamel will crack. Probable cost of preserving-pan, 10 inches across, 12s. 6d. ; the price increasing with the size. Enamel-lined iron pans will be less than half the cost. Pudding Cloths.—Pudding cloths should be kept scrupulously clean, otherwise they may impai-t an unpleasant taste to the pudding. As soon as they are done with they should be thrown into water, and allowed to soak until they are washed. Very hot water, but no soap, should be used in washing them. They should be dried out of doors, and kept in a dry dean place. Pudding cloths are sometimes made of thick soft cord, loosely knitted, and these mark the pudding boiled in them, and give it a pretty appearance. In order to prevent a pudding which is boiled in a cloth from sticking to the bottom of a saucepan, a plate or saucer should be placed underneath it. Puddings which are steamed do not need to be boiled in a cloth. They are put into a well-greased basin or mould with a jDiece of buttered kitchen paper laid over them. The basin may then be placed in a stewpan with boiling water two inches deep. Steamed puddings are lighter than boiled ones, but they take longer to cook. Ranges, Kitchen. — The " range"—where shall we draw the line between the long rows of hot plates, (fee, that are necessary in the grand hotel and the modest little grate in the ai-tisan's cottage, or indeed the fire inclosed between a few open bricks which support the soldier's cooking-pot containing perchance the hastily- cut steak from the flank of the warrior's steed 1 To be pi-actical, however, we need seek neither the camp nor the court, but rather the ordinary dwellings of those whom the large majority of the recipes we have published are chiefly intended to benefit, and the very first point that it is necessary for us to consider is the advantages and disadvantages of open and shut stoves. One of the chief points in favour of all close ranges is that there is no fear of any of the dishes cooked being sent to table smoky. Secondly, a far gi-eater number of saucepans can be kept hot on a close range than on an open fire, and it is far more easy to regulate the heat. Too often in open fireplaces when saucepans are left for a short time they will boil over. Thirdly, in using close ranges the outsides of the saucepans do not get covered with soot, as is necessarily the case in open fireplaces. The best close ranges are also fitted up with a rack over the top for warming ])lates. In roasting joints care should be taken that a current of aii- passes through the oven or roaster while the meat is cooking, as by this means that peculiar gi-easy flavour detected too often in meat that has been baked will be avoided. Another purpose to which close stoves can be turned is that of an ironing stove, and undoubtedly close stoves for ironing purposes generally, but especially for heating irons, possess enormous advantages over open gi-ates. There is one point in connection with stoves to which I would call particular attention, and that is the boiler. This latter indispensable part of every stove should always be made to fili itself, and also should be made so that it can be easily got at for the jjurpose of being cleaned. In shut stoves it will generally be found that the boiler is more accessible than in the old-fashioned open grates, and this is another important advantage possessed by the close oven. When boilers do not fill themselves they are very apt to be forgotten by even careful servants, and are almost certain to be neglected by the average nin of servants in the present day. You will therefore run the following risk :—The boiler will get empty and then hot. The servant finding it empty will take a can of cold water, and without thinking of the risk she is i-unning fill the boiler just as It w, thereby cracking it probably, and doing some pounds' worth of mischief A^ain you have a still greater risk to run. Supposing the fire to have been very fierce?and the boOer to have got red-hot, then the water when poured into the boiler by a careless servant gets quickly converted into steam, and an explosion occurs that may be senous An explosion from this very cause occurred many years back at a house in Gower Street.lies cabsbll's cookery. We will now namo Bomo of tho disadvantages of tlie close stoves. One of the most commonly felt is perhaps the diiiiculty of airhxg clothes. The close stoves unless heated almost to redness, rarely throw out suliicient heat to ai)' linen properly • and m huiulu.s wluuo there are many yoimg children the inconvenience in consider- able, unless other hres are lit for tlu^ ]mi-pose. Secondly, close stoves undoubtedly do not cook large joints, such as haiuiches of mutton, equally well witli large ojien grates, owing to tlie fact that basting is so much easier a process in tlie latter than in tho former. And basting is an impoi-tant point in roasting, and one that is too often overlooked. Another drawback to shut-up stoves, especially those in which the tii-e is quite closed from view, is that servants are apt to overlook the fire altogether, and let it go out. In choosing close stoves, it is always as well to guard against those whose chief merit seems to consist in a number of ingenious contrivances, such as regulating the flow of air, adapting the hot plate to different-sized saucepans, <fec. Ash trays, iron rings, knobs, &c., are all liable to break, and some of these small stoves, that are not bricked into the fii-eplace, but stand on four legs like a table, will often be found very brittle, and are sometimes even broken in being put up. They are also apt to crack if, when hot,- a little cold water is spilt on them, and as this is a probable occurrence occasionally in every kitchen, of course these stoves possess but little wear. Salad Basket.—This is a wire basket of a peculiar form, used to shake salad in, so as to dry it perfectly after it has been washed. In France these baskets are in very general use. When they are not at hand, the salad, after being washed, should be put a small quantity at a time into a clean dry cloth. This should be taken up by the four corners and shaken till the salad is diy, when it may be put into the salad bowl. An ingenious person could twist a little wire to form a basket, which would answer the purpose intended. Probable cost, 3s. or 4s. 6d. Salamander.—A salamander is used to impart a brown coloiu' to any preparation wanting it. The instrument is made red-hot, and is held close to the preparation until it is sufiB<;iently browned. When a salamander is not at hand, a fii-e shovel made red-hot will answer the same purpose. Probable cost, from 6s. 9d. Saucepans.—Saucepans are of various kinds, and are made in all sizes. In a well-furnished kitchen there is generally a complete set, with the sizes in gi'adation, and the efficient cook prides herself not only upon their perfect cleanliness inside, but upon their bright and polished exteriors. Saucepans are made of tinned copper, iron, plain or lined with tin or enamel, titi, and earthenware. Of late they have been made of seamless steel, coated with tin inside and outside, and this kind of ware was solely used at the cookery departme)it of the Health Exliibition : it has all the advantages of tinned copper, at the cost of wrought-iron. Those most frequently used are made either of cast iron or of blocked-tin. Cast-iron saucepans are fre- quently lined with enamel. With care they will last for years. Blocked-tin ones also are very good, and though not so durable, can be mended more easily than iron ones. Small saucepans are made of porcelain also. They are excellent for sauces and very delicate preparations, and can be washed like a plate. The objection to them is that they are exceedingly brittle and crack very quickly. All saucepans of whatever kind should be kept scrupulously clean. They should be washed, scoured with fine sand or ashes, and well rinsed each time they are used. Tinned saucepans should be examined frequently, and as soon as the tin shows any sign of wearing off, they should be re-tinned. This is especially necessary with copper saucepans, which, when red, not only spoil the colour of anything that is boiled in them, but make it poisonous. The cost of saucepans is exceedingly variable, according to size and quality. Saw.—A meat saw is used for dividing the bones of a fresh joint The meat will of course need to be cut close to the bone before the saw can be used. The saw should be carefully wiped when it is done with, and hung in a dry safe place. If any damp gets to it, it will rust, and be quite spoilt. Probable cost, from 3s. 9d. Scales and Weights.- Although some cooks are very proud of being able to1169 APPENDIX. make their dishes "by guess," their method is not one which is to be imitated, because it is not to be relied upon. Preciseness in apportioning the ingredients to be used is indispensable to the cook who would be always successful, and therefore there is scarcely a more important kitchen utensil than a set of scales and weights. The weights should mnge from I oz. to 7 lbs. They should be put away as soon as they ai-e used, as the small ones especially are veiy easily lost, and they should be carefully kept in regular order. When anything of a gi'easy nature has to be weighed, it should be put upon a piece of paper, otherwise it wiU spoil the scale. Probable cost, £1. ^^ rri. Sieves.—Sieves of different kinds are very essential kitchen utensils. Ihere are hair sieves and wire sieves ; the latter are the stronger, and more durable, the former tlie finer of the two. All purees ought to be rubbed patiently through a sieve, and various saiices are much improved by being passed either through a sieve or a tamis. Wii-e sieves are intended for materials which could not be made to pass through a hair sieve. Probable cost, hair sieve, from Is.; brass-wire sieves, 4s. Skewers.—A set of skewers can be procured at a very trilling cost. Those who have exj^erienced the inconvenience of being without these insignificant but useful little articles, vnW take care to keep a supply on hand. Spice Boxes.—Spice boxes are divided into compartments in which the different kinds of spices can be kept. The nutmegs are generally put in the centre, in a box which forms the grater. The assistance which it is to the cook to have ingredients of this kind together, yet separate, and close at hand when wanted, can only be understood by those who have known the hindrance which is caused by a different arrangement. Probable cost, 3s., 4s., and 4s. 6d. Spit,—^The spit is simply the bar from which the joint is suspended when roast- ing. It should be kept bright and clean, and should be carefully wiped before being used. The meat should be well balanced upon it, as otherwise it will not turn steadily. When poultry or boned joints have to be roasted, a cradle spit is to be preferred to the ordinary spit, as the latter is sure to occasion the escape of some of the juices by the necessary perforation of the joint. In the cradle spit the meat instead of being pierced is held in a sort of cradle. Steak Tongs.—Steak tongs are intended to turn steaks or chops when they ai-e being broiled or fried, without piercing the meat in any part, as this causes the escape of the juices. When steak tongs are not at hand, the cook should be particu- lai'ly careful in turning the steak to injure it as little as possible. She should on no account stick a fork into the lean portion, as this would inevitably make the meat dry and flavourless. Probable cost, 2s. per pair. Stewpans.—A stewpan differs from a saucepan in this, that it has a flat lid, with a handle, which fits very closely into the pan, and thus prevents the escape of the steam. Stewpans are made, like saucepans, of different materials, and in various sizes. They vary in price according to their quality. They are generally made with straight sides. (See Saucepans.) Stock Pot.—Stock pots are made of tinned copper, tinned iron, cast-iron, and earthenware. The two fii'st are the best, because they are the most easily cleaned. Tinned iron stock pots answer their purpose just as well as copper ones, and are much less expensive. Some stock pots are fitted with a tap, by means of -^ich a little clear liquid can be drawn off without disturbing either the sediment at the bottom or the scum which may be at the top. Stock pots should be washed and scoured with fine sand, and rinsed and dried each time they are used. They should never be put away dirty. The stock should on no account be allowed to remain in them all night. The quality of the stock depends in a gi'eat measure upon the cleanliness of the pot. Probable cost, copper stock pots, from .£1 14s. ; fitted with taps, from £3 15s. : tinned iron stock pots, from 17s. 6d.; with taps, from 30s. Tamis.—A tamis or tammy cloth is a piece of thin woollen canvas, used in straining soups and sauces. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. each. Tartlet Tins.—Tartlet tins are made of tin, and are used for baking the trimmings of pastry rolled out ftmoothly and very thin. The jam is better to Ueoabbell's cookery. 1170 spread on after the tai-tlet is baked, and small ornaments of pastry which have been stumped out with the cutter, and baked separately, may be laid on the jam. Tartiet this should be oiled or buttered before the pastry is put on. When they are done with they shoukf be scalded and dried, and kept in a dry place. Tea Kettle.—Tea kettles are made of copper, iron, and blocked-tin. Iron kettles are very durable, but the water in them is a long time in coming to the Ijoil. Blocked-tin kettles boil quickly, but they have not nearly so much wear in them as an iron kettle. Blocked-tin kettles, with copper bottoms, are perhaps l>ett(ir than any other, as they are durable, and the water in them boils quickly. Cojjper kettle-s are genemlly intended to be brought into the dining-room. They should be cleaned every day either with vitriol or with oil and emery-powder. A tai-nished copper kettle has a very bad appearance. Probable cost, blocked-tin kettle, Ss. The price increases with the quality and size. Tongs.—One very important accompaniment to the gridiron is a pair of cooking tongs for turning chops and steaks. Cooks should never by any chance stick a fork into a steak or chop, as thereby all the gravy is let out, nms into the fire, and is wasted, and the meat instead of looking red inside will look white. When a chop or steak is cooked again, the cook should never cut it open to see if it is done, but should simply judge from pincliing it with the tongs. If it feels what may be described as spongy outside, it is evidently blue in the middle. The meat when pinched should feel soft; but neither hard which means over-cooked, or spongy which means underdone. When there are no tongs for the purpose, the chop or steak Ls best turned by means of two iron spoons. TuRBOT Kettle.—A turbot kettle is a fish kettle made broad and shallow to suit the shape of the fish for which it is intended. It is fitted with a drainer, like an ordinary fish kettle. Pi"ice, from £1. Vegetable Cutters.—Vegetable cutters are sold in boxes, and are wsed to stamp vegetables into neat shapes for garnishing dishes. The appearance of a dish is very much improved if the turnips and carrots placed round it are shaped, instead of being plainly sliced. Probable cost, vegetable cutters, 3s. a box. Vegetable scoops are sold for the same purpose. They cost Is. 6d. each. Warren's Cooking Pot.—Probably by means of this invention less food is wasted than in any other known methods of cooking. For instance, when a leg of mutton is roasted or baked, a certain amount of flavour and nutriment must of necessity go up the chimney; or when a leg of mutton is boiled, a certain amount of juice necessarily goes into the water in which it is boiled. Warren's cooking pot cooks meat in an almost air-tight chamber, heated by steam. Thus the meat cooks in its own vapour. w is a large oval-shaped pot, into which is fitted an inner case A, leaving a space into which water is poured. The lid c may now be placed on, and the pot, so far as cooking meat is concerned, is complete. The meat of course is placed in the chamber A. The pot is placed on the tire, and the water in w kept boiling, the steam of course arising and sun-ounding the chamber a, but not entering it. The lid c is made double for the purpose of condensing the steam, which runs back mto w. There is, however, a small hole in the lid c in the top, in order to let out the steam in case it should boU too fast. A good-sized leg of mutton takes about three hours to cook by this means. Shortly before it is done, open the chamber a, and pour into a basin all the liquor and melted fat that has run out of the leg of mutton owing to the heat, and replace the mutton in A. Strain ofi" the fat, which of coui-se must be kept for di-ipping, and warm up this liquor (from the condensation of the steam of the mutton, perchance increased by a trifling escape from the steam m the outer chamber) fresh in a small saucepan, and use it as the gf^yj^ P^"/ over the meat when served on a dish. In a leg of mutton cooked m Warrens cooking pot, a saving of quite ten per cent., if not more, is efi-ected. Joints of meat can be cooked in Warren's pot till nearly done, and then browned before the fare, but a leg of mutton served as a boiled leg cooked this way is far preferable. The portion a of the pot is for cooking vegetables, and can be placed on the top of the chamber A1171 APPENDIX. before the lid is placed on, and the same lid then fits on b. There is a small tube connecting B with w, so that the steam rises into B, into which vegetables may be placed, that are thus cooked by steam during the same time that the meat is being cooked in its 0"vvn vapour in the chamber A. For ti-avellers camping out there is probably no invention in the world in relation to cooking so useful as Captain Warren's cooking pot. A few bricks may be collected and ranged round with spaces between, filled with a little coke or coal, and the pot placed on the top. All that is necessary is to keep in the fire, and the meat and vegetables will, after a time, be as well cooked, and taste as savoury, though the fire has been stiiTed by a sol- dier's bayonet, as if served up in the most luxurious Parisian cafe. When the pot is not in use, first let it be thoroughly cleansed, and then put by ia separate pieces, and not all fitted together. Of course, quite new pots require washing and boiling to get rid of that tia flavour peculiar to all new tin vessels. Whisk.—There are several kinds of egg whisks; the one generally used costs 6d. or 8d, Our grandmothers dispensed with an egg whisk altogether, and used either a knife or a fork. Whatever whisk is used, the white of eggs will never froth properly unless the bowl into which they are broken is quite cold, and unless they are perfectly free from the least speck of yolk. It is best to whisk them in a cold place. Wire Frying Basket.—This is a basket made of wire to fit inside a frying pan; it is used to fry parsley, herbs, and various vegetables, as well as patties, croquettes, rissoles, and preparations of a similar nature. The articles to be fried should be put into the basket, and this should be plunged quickly into hot fat, and withdrawn when they are done enough. They will, of course, need to be well drained. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. An ingenious person could make a basket of twisted wire which would answer the required purpose. Wire Stand.—Wlien meat is to be baked in the oven it should be placed on a wire stand in the baking-tin. This will keep it from having the sodden taste which it would certainly get if it were laid flat in the tin. If liked, potatoes or a pudding can be baked under the meat. Probable cost, Gel. CAPTAIN AYAKKEN S COOKING POT. LISTS OF KITCHEN UTENSILS. The following lists are given for the purpose of assisting those who are about to furnish their kitchen in selecting the necessary articles. With kitchen utensils, as with everything else, the purchaser must first consider the extent of his resources; and it is frequently the case that articles must be dispensed with which every one acknowledges it is desirable to possess. The lists are made gut. for a large, a medium, and a, small s^t of kitchen utensils. There1172 one considemtion which should not be forgotten, and that is thjit a clever cook wiil produce a good dinner with utonsilH that would l)e considered a sutticiiiut excuse for total failure by an ineliicicmt one, and in notliing in the skill of the woiknian shown so much as in tlic way ho can manage inconveniences, Wlietlnir tlie supply of kitclieu utensils be liuiited or ample, it cannot he too sti'ongly insisted upon that they should be kept scrupulously clean. (Jleaidiness is the soul of good cookery. It Inis been already said that every utensil should be cleaned jiroi^erly each time it is used, and that not one should ever be put away dirty. The kitchen should be kept clean and well ventilated, and when the cooking is over should be perfectly free from smell. The sink should be scoured every day with boiling water and a little soft soap, then thoroughly rinsed. If the kitchen is small and inconvenient, there is all the more need that care shoidd be taken to keep it clean, and to preserve in good order the utensils which have to be kept in it. Articles to be Found in a Large, ■Well-appointed Kitchen. 1 Large Wooden Meat Screen, with Hot Closet. 1 Busting Ladle. 1 Cradle Spit. 2 Polished Iron Meat Spits. 2 Holdfasts for Joints. 1 Dripping Pan, with Well. 1 Meat Cleaver. 1 Saw. 1 Bottle Jack. 12 Stewpans, in sizes, 1 pint to 9 quarts. 6 Iron Saucepans, in sizes. 2 Iron Saucepans, with Steamers, 6 to 8 quarts. 2 Gridirons. 1 Bain Marie, with 6 Stewpans, 1 Soup Pot, and 1 Grlaze Pot. 1 Braising Pan, with Drainer and Fire Cover. 1 Digester. 1 Preserving Pan. 1 Preserving Spoon. 1 Sugar BoUer. 1 Fish Frier, with Drainer for Frying Fish. 2 Saute Pans. 1 Omelet Pan. 1 Tea Kettle. 2 Frying Baskets. 2 Fish Kettles, different sizes, and 1 Fish Slice. 1 Set Poultry Skewers. 1 Set Meat Skewers. 3 Cook's Knives. 12 Tinned-iron Spoons, in sizes. 1 Root Knife. 6 Tinned Meat Hooks. 2 Dishing-up Forks. 1 Pair Steak Tongs. 1 Cutlet Bat. 1 Chopping Board and Ki ite 1 Trussing Needle. 2 Larding Needles. 1 Salamander. 1 Toasting Fork. 1 Weighing Machine and Weiglits, to weigh up to 28 lbs. 1 Marble Mortar and Hardwood Pestle. 4 Hair Sieves. 1 Wu-e Basket for Salad. 1 Brass-wire Sieve. 3 Block-tin Gravy Strainers, different sizes 1 Spice Box. 1 Bread Grater. 1 Egg "V^Tiisk. 1 Egg Slice. 1 Dozen Patty Pans. 3 Tartlet Pans. i Dozen Mince Pie Tins. 1 Box Paste Cutters. 1 Paste Jagger. 1 Box Vegetable Cutters. 3 Baking Sheets. 1 Marble Slab for Pastry. 1 Rolling Pin. 1 Coffee Mill. 1 Jelly Bag and Stand. 6 Jelly Moulds. 3 Cake Moulds. 3 Pudding Moulds. 1 Vegetable ]\Iould. 1 Mincing Machine. 1 Freezing Pot, 1 Freezing Pail, 1 Spatula, and 1 Ice Pudding ]\Iould, or 1 Piston Freezing Machine. 1 Ice Closet. 1 Corkscrew. 1 Block-tin Colander. 1 Tin Funnel. 1 Flour Dredger. 1 Sugar Dredger. 3 French Vegetable Scoops. 1 Filter. 1 Wooden Meat Screen. 1 Bottle Jack. 1 Dripping Pan and Stand 1 Basting Ladle. 3 Iron Saucepans. 3 Block-tin Saucepans. 1 Ijarge Boiler. 1 Iron Digester. I Iron Saucepan and Stean Medium Set. 2 Enamelled Stewpans. 1 Fish Kettle. 1 Fish and Egg Slice. 1 Paste Board and Rolling Pm. 12 Patty Pans. 2 Tart Pans. 1 Paste Jagger. 1 Gridiron. 2 Frying Pans.1173 APPENDIX. 1 Omelet Pan. 2 Sets of Skewers. 1 Hair Sieve. 1 Jelly Bag. 1 Flour Dredger. 1 Pair Steak Tongs. 1 Bread Grater. 1 Toasting Fork. 1 Kettle. 2 Larding Needles. 2 Jelly Moulds. 2 Pudding INIoulds. 2 Cake Moulds. 1 Meat Chopper. 1 Chopping Board and Knife 1 Set of Scales and Weights. 1 Filter. 1 Colander. 1 Spice Box. 6 Tinned-iron Spoons. 1 Funnel. 1 Gravy Strainer. 1 Box Cutters. 1 Coffee IMiU. 1 Pestle and Mortar . 1 Saw. 1 Egg WTiisk. 2 Baking Tins. Small Set. 1 Meat Screen, ^vith Bottle Jack, Dripping Tin, and Basting Ladle. 1 Digester. 2 Iron Saucepans. 2 Iron Stewpans. 1 Boiler. 1 Fish Kettle and Slice 1 Enamelled Saucepan. 1 Gridiron. 1 Frying Pan. 1 Omelet Pan, 1 Spice Box. 1 Filter. 1 Paste Board and Rolling Pin. 1 Flour Dredger. 12 Patty Pans. 1 Hair Sieve. 1 JeUy Bag. 2 Pastry Cutters. 1 Chopping Board and Knite, 1 Colander. 1 Gravy Strainer. 1 Funnel. 1 Baking Tin. 1 Set of Skewers. 1 Set of Scales and Weight^'. 1 Jelly Mould. 1 Cake Mould. 1 Pudding Mould. 2 Large Iron Spoons. 1 Kettle. B.—SEASONABLE FOOD. January. Meat.—Beef, mutton, pork, house-lamh, doe- venison. Game and Poultry.—Hares, rabbits, pheasants, partridges, woodcocks, snipes, fowls, chickens, capons, pullets, grouse, wild fowl, turkeys, tame pigeons. Fish.—Turbot, soles, flounders, plaice, skate, whitings, cod, haddocks, herrings, smelts, lam- preys, oysters, lobsters, crabs, prawns, eels, carp, tench, perch, mussels. Vegetables.—Cabbages, broccoli, savoys, en- dive, sprouts, Scotch kale, sea-kalo, spinach, lettuces, celery, cardoons, carrots, parsnips, beetroot, salsify, turnips, potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes, onions, leeks, garUc, shallots, mus- tard and cress, cucumbers, mushrooms. Garden herbs, both dry and green, being chiefly used in stuffing and soups, and for flavouring and garnishing certain dishes, are always in season : tarrfigon, chervil, savory, mint, sage, thyme, parsley, &c., may be procured all the year round. Fruits.—Apples, pears, medlars, figs, raisins, currants, prunes, grapes, walnuts, nuts, filberts, almonds, oranges, lemons, melons, bananas, po- meloes, shaddocks. Preserved and dried fruitc of all kinds may be used tlrroughout the winter, as also jams, marmalades, and fruit jellies. Especially in /Season in January.—Haddocks, whitings, tench, skate, hares, rabbits. February. Meat. — Beef, mutton, house - lamb, veni- son. Game and Poultry.—Hares, rabbits, phea&ants, partridges, woodcocks, snipes, pigeons, turkeys, fowls, pullets, capons, chickens, green geese, ducks, ducklings, wild ducks, wild geese, turkey poults. Fish.—J'lounders, brill, plaice, skate, soles, turbot, codfish, whitings, smelts, sturgeon, herrings, haddocks, sprats, oysters, mussels, cockles, crabs, crayfish, prawns, shrimps, barbels, carp, eels, perch, pike, tench, trout, salmon-trout. Vegetables. — Broccoli, cabbages, Brussels sprouts, savoys, celerj--, cardoons, lettuces, en- dive, spinach, sorrel, forced French beans, potatoes, carrots, parsnips, tui-uips, beetroot, chervil, cresses, and all small salads, tarragon,1174 cassell's t.'OOKERY. Mcorzonera, cucumbors, mushrooms, onions, pirsloy, sago, shallots, thymo, mint, and ali garden horba, frosh or dried, Jorusalom arti- chokes, dried peas, and beans. J^riii/!*.—Apples, pears, gi-apos, oranges, bana- nas, pomeloos, shaddocks, almonds, nuts, ches- nuts, walnuts, figs, raisins, currants, filberts, prunes, all sorts of preserved and dried fruits, jan\8, marmalades, and fruit jellies, and forced strawboi-rios. Especially in Senmn in February.—Skate, tench, dace, ducklings, turkey poults, green geese. March. Meat.—Beef, veal, mutton, house-lamb, pork, doe-venison. Game and Poultry.—Fowls, chickens,turkeys, ducks, pigeons, rabbits, guinea-fowl, woodcocks, snipe. Fish.—Turbot, whiting, soles, plaice, floun- ders, skate, oysters, lobsters, crabs, prawns, crayfish, cod, smelts, eels, carp, tench, mullet, mackerel, mussels. Vegetables.—Savoys, cabbagesj sprouts; spin- ach, lettuces, radishes, turnips, carrots, parsnips, Jerusalem artichokes, potatoes, mushrooms, parsley and other garden herbs. Onions, leeks, Scotch kale, broccoli, scorzonera, beet, salsify, sea-kale, chives, celery, cress, mustard, sorrel, horse-radish, rhubarb, shallots, cucumbers. Fruit.—Apples, pears, oranges, forced straw- berries, dried and preserved fruits as in Feb- ruary. Especially in Season in Ma/rch.—Mackerel, mullet, skate, whiting, prawns, tench. April. Meat.—Beef, mutton, grass-lamb, house- lamb, veal, pork. Oame and Poultry.—Pullets, chickens, fowls, {;reen geese, ducklings, pigeons, wood pigeons, rabbits, leverets, turkey poults. Fish.—Chub, carp, brill, cockles, conger-eels, cod, crabs, dory, flounders, eels, haUbutj hng, herrings, lobsters, mullet, mackerel, mussels, perch, oysters, pike, plaice, salmon, prawns, shrimps, skate, smelt, tench, sturgeon, soles, trout, whitings, turbot. Vegetables.—Asparagus, beans, fennel, endive, broccoli, cucumbers, chervil, lettuces, parsley, onions, peas, rhubarb, turnips, sorrel, sea-kale, radishes, spinacli, turnip-tops, small salad, parsnips. Fruits.—Apples, oranges, pears, early straw- berries, walnuts. Especially in Season in April.—Salmon, tench, prawns, crabs, lobsters, grass-lamb, asparagus, cucumbers. May. Jlfea/.—Beef, mutton, house-lamb, grass-lamb, pork, vepl. Game and PouZiry.—Fowls, pigeons, pullets, ducklings, chickens, green geeao, wood pigeons, ra])bit8, leverets. Fish.—Eiils, conger-eels, carp, cod, crabs, dace, brill, ficjundors, ling, lobsters, mackerel, porch, mullet, prawns, jjlaice, pike, salmotti smelts, shrimps, whitings, chub, crayfishi gurnet, dory, haddocks, herrings, lialibut, tur- bot, trout, soles, sturgeon, tench. VcyctabloH. — Cabbage, carrots, asparagus, kidney beans, chervil, turnips, spioach, sorrel, 8ea-kaie, lettuces, peas, rhubarb, corn salad, cu- cumbers, cauliflowers, radishes, onions, arti- chokes, new potatoes, salads generally. Fruits.—Apples, pears, cherries, currants, scarlet strawberries, gooseberries, melons, apri- cots (forced). Especially in Season in May.—Salmon, prawns, lobsters, crabs. June. Meat.—Beef, veal, mutton, grass-lamb, buck- venison. Game and Poultry.—Fowls, chickens, pulletsj ducklings, green geese, turkey poults, pigeons, leverets, rabbits, plovers. Fish. —Salmon, turbot, soles, mackerel, trout, crabs, pike, carp, eels, tench, lobsters, ptawhs, shrimps, mullet, haddocks, sturgeon, white- bait. Vegetables.—Cauliflowers, spinach, potatoes, beans, peas, artichokes, asparagus, carrots, parsnips, turnips, lettuces, cucumbers, onions, radishes, cresses, and all kinds of salads and garden herbs, sorrel, white beet, horse-radish, rhubarb, vegetable marrow. Fruits. — Gooseberries, currants, cherries, strawberries, apricots, peaches, various kinds of apples, pears, and nectarines, grapes, pine- apples, melons. For Pickling.—Garlic. For Drying.—Orange thyme, bumet, mint, tarragon. Especially in SeOfSonin June.—Salmon, salmon- trout, skate, prawns, whitebait, lobsters, crabs, grass-lamb, vegetable marrow. July. Meat.—Beei, mutton, giatife-lainb, house- lamb, veai, venison. Game and Poultry. — Tame rabbits, wHd rabbits, lisverets, plovers, fowls, wheatears, wild chickens, pullets, pigeons, greet! geese, turkey poults, ducks, wood pigeons. Fish.—Eels, dace, dory, conger-eels, cod, carp, brill, barbel, crabs, crayfish, flounders, herrings, haddocks, mackerel, ling, lobsters, trout, thomback, mullet, plaice, pike, soleSj sfilmon, tench, gurnet, perch, dabs, prawns, whitings. Vegetables.—Kidney, "Windsor, and scarlet beans, asparagus, artichokes, celery, endive, carrots, chervil, lettuces, mushrooms, potatoes, peas, salsify, spinach, sorrel, radishes, salad, turnips.1176 APPfiNDlX. For Pickling.—Frfmch beans, red cabbage, caulitlowors, gherkins, uucumbers, onions, radiali pods, nasturtiums, garlic. For Drying. — Sidsify, knotted marjoram, summer and winter savory. Fnti<s.—Apples, pears, oranges, pine-apples, cherries, currants, damsons, melons, gooseberries, strawberries, raspberries, plums, peaches, nec- tarines. Especially in Season in Juhf. — Grass-lamb, crabs, dace, mackerel, lobsters, herrings, prawns, salmon, plovers, chickens, green geese, wild chickens, damsons. August. Meat.—Beef, mutton, grass-lamb, veal, veni- son. Game wmd Poultry.—Grouse, pullets, fowls, pigeons, green geese, turkey poults, chickens, ducks, moor game, plovers, turkeys, wild ducks, pigeons, and rabbits; wheatears, rabbits, leverets. Fish. —Turbot, whitings, eels, conger-eels, dabs, dace, salftioii, tench, thomback, flounders, perch, haddocks, herrings, lobsters, crabs, pike, plaice, barbel, carp, oysters, prawns, gurnet, brill, cod, crayfish, mackerel, mullet, soles. Vegetables.—French, kidney, Windsor, and scarlet beans, carrots, artichokes, onions, let- tuces, cauliflowers, cucumbers, peas, salsify, radishes, salads generally, mushrooms, potatoes, shallots, turnips, spinach, leeks, endive. Fruits. — Apples, pears, peaches, plums, greengages, damsons, cherries, currants, rasp- berries, gooseberries, grapes, figs, melons, nec- tarines, filberts, mulberries. For Pickling.—Red cabbage, walnuts, capsi- cums, chillies, tomatoes. For Drying.—Thyine, basil, sage. Espesially in Season in August. — Turbot, mackerel, pike, perch, prawns, dace, crabs, herrings, lobsters, grouse, greengages, filberts, figs. September. Meat.—Beef, veal, mutton, lamb, and venison. Oame a/nd Poultry.—Fowls, pullets, fchickens, geese, wild ducks, partridges, grouse, pigeons, hares, rabbits, turkey poults. Fish.—Cod, haddocks, flounders, plaice, mul- lets, salmon, soles, lobsters, oysters, prawns, carp, tench, pike, perch, herrings, brill, turbot,' crabs, eels, dace. Vegetables.—Votatoca, cauliflowers, cabbages, turnips, peas, beans, artichokes, carrots, onions, mushrooms, lettuces, sorrel, celery, beet, scor- zonera, .salsify, leeks, thyme, sage, pennyroyal, marjoram, and all sorts of salads and sweet nerbs. Fwi<s.—Apples, pears, plums, cherries, peaches, grapes, strawberries, melons, pines, walnuts, filberts, hazel-nuts, quinces, medlars, currants, damsons, figs. Especially in Season in September. — Pikeji perch, lobsters, dace, crabs, mussels, hares, moor game, partridges, grouse, wild ducks. October. Meat.—Beef, veal, mutton, lamb, venison, pork. Game cmd Poultry.—Geese, turkeys, fowls, pullets, chickens, wild ducks, widgeons, teal, woodcocks, larks, grouse, pheasants, partridges, pigeons, snipes, hares, rabbits. Fish.—Oysters, lobsters, crabs, brill, gurnet, salmon-trout, dory, smelts, halibut, gudgeon, barbel, perch, carp, tench, herrings, eels, hake, pike, dace. Vegetables. — Turnips, potatoes, cabbages, cauliflowers, carrots, parsnips, beans, peas, onions, leeks, spinach, endive, celery, salsify, scorzonera, cardoons, beet, parsley, mushrooms, salads of all sorts, sweet herbs of all sorts, garlic, shallots. Fruits.—Pears, peaches, apples, plums, figs, medlars, grapes, walnuts, filberts, nuts, quinces, damsons, pines. Especially in Season in October.—Dace, pike, hake, dory, partridges, pheasants, widgeons, broccoli, truffles, grapes, medlars, tomatoes, hazel-nuts. November. Meat.—Beef, veal, mutton, pork, venison. Game and Poultry.—Hares, rabbits, phest- sants, partridges, geese, fowls, pullets, turkeys, wild ducks, teal, widgeons, woodcocks, snipesj larks, pigeons, grouse. Fish.—Oysters, lobsters, crabs, salmon-trout^ dory, soles, smelts, gurnets, brill, halibut, barbel, carp, pike, tench, cockles,, mussels, turbot, herrings, sprats, haddock, whiting, skate, cod, eels, dace. Vegetables.—Carrots, parsnips, turnips, po- tatoes, onions, leeks, shallots, Jerusalem arti- chokes, cabbages, broccoli, savoys, spinach, beet, cardoons, chervil, endive, lettuces, salsify, scorzonera, Scotch kale, celery, mushrooms, tarragon, parsley, all sorts of salads and swfeet herbs. Fruits.—A-p-ples, pears, quinces, grapes, wal- nuts, chestnuts, filberts, nuts, figs, grapes, raisins. Especially in Season m November. — Pike, tench, plaice, dory, sprats, grouse, geese, hares, snipes, woodcocks, teal, chestnuts. December. Meat.—Beef, veal, mutton, pork, doe-venison. Poultry and Game.—Hares, rabbits, phea- sants, grouse, partridges, woodcocks, snipe, fowls, chickens, pullets, turkeys, geese, wild geese, ducks, wild ducks, teal, widgeons, larks, capons, pea-fowl. Fis?i.—Sturgeon, turbot, soles, skate, codfish.1176 carskll's cookekv. huddouks, smolts, dory, gumot, herrings, sprats, oysters, inussola, cockles, lobsters, crabs, mid shell-tish iu general, perch, ciu-p, eels, dace, ling. Vegetables.—Cabbages, broccoli, savoys, Brus- Kols sprouts, (Scotch kale, sua-kale, apiuach, endive, cardooiis, lettuces, skirret, salsit'y, scor- z'Uioru, surrol, potatoes, turnips, parsnips, car- rots, beeti'oot, Jerusalem articliokes, celery, peas, hiuicot beans, looks, onions, sliallots, nnish- rooms, horse-radish, piu-sley, thynio, tarragon, choi-vii, mint, sago, small salads. Gai-don herbs, or pot herbs, which are chiefly used for stuffings, in soups, and for flavouring dishi^s, or for gar- nisliiug, are always in season, and can be procuied at any time, either green or diied. iVui<8.—Apidos, pears, medlars, grapes, figs, chestnuts, almonds, filberts, nuts, walnuts, raisins, currants, prunes, and all sorts of jjre- served and dried fruits, jams, marmakdes, and fruit jellies. E82)ecially in Season m December.—Haddocks, tench, dace, cod, dory, ling, skate, turbot, capons, pea-fowl, turkeys. C—GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY. Aspic.—A savoury jelly. AssiETTES.—Small entrees not more than a plate win contain. Atelet.—A small silver skewer, Au Bleu.—A French term applied to fish boiled in white wine with flavourers. Ax) Gkas.—Dressed with meat gravj'. Au Jus.—In the natural juice, or gravy. Au Naturel.—Plain, simple cookery. Bah A.—Very light plum-cake, or sweet French yeast cake. Bain-Marie.—An open vessel which has a loose bottom for the reception of hot water. It is used to keep sauces nearly at the boiling- point without reduction or burning. Barde.—A thin slice of bacon fat placed over any substance specially requiring the assistance of fat without larding. Batterie de Cuisine.—Complete set of coolcing apparatus. Bavaroise a l'eau.—Tea sweetened with syrup of capillaire, and flavoured with a little orange-flower water. Bavaroise au Lait.—Made in the same way as the above, but with equal quantities of milk and tea. Bechamel.—A rich white French sauce. Beignet, or Fritter {see Fritter). Bisque.—A soup made of shell-fish. Blanc.—"White broth used to give a more delicate appearance to the flesh of fowl, lamb, &c. Blanch.—Placing anything on the fire in cold water until it boils, and after straining it off, plunging it into cold water for the purpose of rendering it white. Used to whiten poul- try, vegetables, «&:c. Blanquette.—A fricassee usually made of thin slices of white meat, with white sauce thickened with egg yolk. Blonde de Veau.—Double veal broth used to enrich soups and sauces. BouDiN.—A delicate compound made of quenelle forcemeat. BouiLLi.—Beef which has been boiled in making broth. BouiLLiE.—A French dish resembling that called hasty pudding. Bouillon.—The common soup of France. BouauET OF Herbs.—Parsley, thyme, and green onions tied together. Bouquet Garni.—The same thing as Fagot, which see. BouRGUiGNOTE.— A ragout of truflles. Braise.—Meat cooked in a closely-covered stewpan to prevent evapoi-ation, so that the meat retains not only its own juices, but those of any other articles, such as bacon, herbs, roots, and spice put with it. Braisiere.—^A saucepan with ledges to the lid, so that it will contain filing. Brider.—To truss fowls -with a needle and thread. Brioche.—A sponge cake similar to Bath buns. BuissoN.—A cluster or bush of small pastry piled on a dish. Callipash.—The glutinous portion of the turtle found in the upper shell. Callxpee.—The glutinous meat of the turtle's under shell. Cannelons.—Small rolls or collars of mince- meat, or of rice and pastry with fruit. Capilotade. a hash of poultry. Casserole.— The form of rice to be filled with a fricassee of white meat or a puree of game; also a stewpan. Civet.—A dark, thickish stew of hare or venison. CoMPiiiGNE.—Sweet French yeast cake, with fruit. CoMP&TE.—Fruits stowed in syrup, ihere are also compotes of small birds. CoNKiTUHEs.—Sweetmeats of sugars, fruits, syrups, and essences.1177 APPENDIX. C0N8OMME.—strong, clear griivy obtained hj sti'vving meat for a considerable length of time. Ooiu.is.—A rich, smooth gravy used for colouring, flavouring, and thickening certain soups and sauces. Ckoquettes. — A savoury mince of fish, meat, or fowl, made with a little sauce into various shapes, roUed in egg and bread-crumbs, and fried crisp. CouRONNE, En.—To serve any prescribed ai-ticles on a dish in the form of a crown. Croustacles.—Also known as Dresden patties. They are composed of mince encased in. paste, and moiilded into various forms. Croustades.—Fried forms of bread to serve minces or other meats upon. CroOton.—A sippet of bread fried, and used for garnish. Cuisine MAsauEE.—Highly seasoned or un- usually mixed dishes. CuissoN.—Method of cooking meats, or the liquor in which they have been boiled. Dariole.—A sweet pate baked in a mould. Daube.—Meat or fowl stewed in sauce. Daubiere.—An oval stewpan. DejeOner a la Fourchette. — Breakfast with meats, wines, &c. Desosser.—To bone. Dorure.—Yolks of eggs well beaten for covering meat and other dishes. Entree.—A comer-dish for the first course. Entremet. — A side-dish for the second course. Escalopes.—CoUops. EspAGNOLB.—A rich brown Spanish sauce. Fagot. — A small bunch of parsley and thyme tied up with a bay-leaf. Farce.—Forcemeat. Feuilletage.—Puff paste. Financiers.—^Anexpensive,highly flavoured, mixed ragoAt. Flamber.—To singe fowl or game after pick- ing. I'LAN.—A French custard. Flancs.—The side-dishes of large dinners. FoNCER.—To put in the bottom of a saucepan thin slices of veal or bacon. Fondue.—A light and pleasant preparation of cheese. Fricandeaux may bo made of any boned pieces of veal chiefly cut from the thick part of the fillet, and of not more than two or three pounds weight. Fricass^.e.—Chickens, &c., cut in pieces in a white sauce, with truffles, mushrooms, &c., as accessories. Fritter.—Anything encased in a covering of batter or eggs, and fried. GAf EAu.—A pudding or baked cake. Gaufpres.—A light, spongy sort of biscuit. Glaze.—Stock boiled down to the thickness of jelly, and used to improve the appearance of braised dishes. Uodiveaux.—Various varieties of forcemeat. Gras.—With, or of meat: the reverse of 1)1(1 igre. Gratin.—Au Gratin.—A term applied to certain dishes prepared with sauce and baked. Gratiner.—To cook like a grill. Haricot.—So called from the French word for beans, with which the dish was originally made. Now understood as any thick stew, or ragout of mutton, beef, or veal, cut in pieces, and dressed with vegetables and roots. Hors-d'oeuvres.—Small dishes of sardines, anchovies, and other relishes. Lardiniere.—Vegetables stewed down in their own sauce. Lardon.—The piece of bacon used in larding. Liaison.—The mixture of egg and cream used to thicken white soups, &c. Lit.—Thin slices in layers. Luting.—A paste to fasten lids on pie-pans for preserving game. Madeleines.—Small plum cakes. Maigre.—Without meat. Marinade.—The liquor in which fish or meat is steeped. Mask.—To cover meat with any rich sauce, ragout, &c. Matelote.—A rich fish stew with wine. Mayonnaise.—Cold sauce, or salad dressing. Mazarines, or Turbans. — Ornamental entrees of forcemeat and fillets of poultry, game, or fish. Menu.—The bill of fare. Meringue.—Light pastry made of sugar and the white of eggs beaten to " snow." Mignonnette Pepper. — Coarsely gi'oimd peppercorns. Miroton.—Small thin slices of meat about as large as a croAvn jjiece made into ragouts of vaiious kinds, and dished up in a circular form. Mouiller.—To add broth, water, or other liquid while the cooking is proceeding. Nougat.—Almond candy. Nouilles.—Strips of paste made of eggs and flour. Panada.—Soaked bread used in the prepara- tion of French forcemeat. Paner.—To cover with bread-crumbs fried or baked food. Papillote, En.—^The pieces of paper greased with oil and butter, and fastened round a cutlet^ &c., by twisting it along the edge. Pate.—A small pie. Paupiettes.—Slices of meat rolled. PifecE DE Resistance.—The principal joint of the dinner. Pilau.—A dish of meat and rice. PiQUER.—To lard with strips of bacon fat, &c. PoEL^E.—Stock for boiling turkeys, fowls, vegetables, instead of water, so as to render them less insipid. Potage.—Soup. pRiNTANiERs.—Early spring vegetables.CASSELL'S COOKERY, 1178 Pkofitekolles.—Light pastry creamed in- side. PuiiKE.—The name gfiven to a soup the in- gredients for thiekonini^ which have hinm passed through a sieve, then thinned with broth to the proper consistency. Meat and fish are cooked and pounded in a mortar, roots and vegetables are stewed till soft in order to prepare thorn for being thus convei'ted to a smooth pulp. Quenelles.—Forcemeat of various kinds composed of fish or me^t, with bread, yolk of egg, and some kind of fat, seasoned in different ways, formed with a spoon to an oval shape, then poached in stock and used either as gar- nish to entrees, or to be served separately. RagoOt.—A rich sauce, with sweetbreads, mushrooms, truffles, &c., in it. Releves.—The remove dishes. Remou L ADE.—Salad- dressing. RiFACiMENTO.—Meat dressed a second time. Rissole.—A mince of fish or meat enclosed in paste, or formed into balls and other shapes. Used either as side-dishes or garnish. {See Ulso Fricassees.) Ron.—Roast meat. Roux.—A mixture of butter and flour used for thickening white soups and gravy. Salmi.—A hash of game cut up and dressed \irhen only half roasted. Santon.—To dress with sauce in the sauce- pan by keeping it in motion. Sauce i'iuuant.—A sharp sauce in which lemon and vinegar predominate as a flavour. Sai'te-i'an.—A tJiin-bottomed shallow pan for quicTc frying. Sauteu.—To toss over the fiio in a, aaute-pan with a small quantity of fat only. Seuviette, ^ LA.—Servpd in a napkin. Su'i'ETK.—Small pieces of bread cut into various shapes, cither soaked in stock, tf^asted, or fried, to servQ w\)h meats as garnishing or borders. Souffle.—A light pudding. Stock.—The broth of which soups are made. Tamis OH f Tammy."—A strainer of fine woollen canvas, used for straining soups and sauces. TiMBALE.—A sort of pie made in a mould. TouBTE.—A tart baked in a shallow tin. TiUFLE.—A second - course dish, made of sponge cake, macaroons, jams, &c., brandy or wine, and liqueurs. TiioussEK.—To truss a bird. TuKBANS [see Mazarines). Vanner, To.—To make a sauce smooth by rapidly lifting it high in large spoonfuls, and allowing it to fall qiuckly again for some time. Veloute. —Rich sauce used to heighten the flavour of soups and made dishes. yoL-AU-TENT.—A light puff paste, cut roimd or oval, ejaclosing any delicai^e mincemeat. I un;v r,..iTY I L' 1-1 PRINTBD BY CA8SELL & COMPANY, LIMITED, LA BELLE SAUVAOE, LONDON, B.C.Complete in One Volume, price 15b. ; half-morocco, 21b. Our Homes, and How to make them Healthy. With numerous Practical Illustrations. Edited by Shirley Forster Murphy, Medical Officer of Health to the Parish of St. Pancras. With Contributions by Robert Brudenell Carter, F.R.C.S. Douglas Galton, C.B., D.C.L., F.R.S F. S. B. FitANgois de Chaumont, M.D.. F.R.S, W. H. CoRFiELD, M.A., M.D. (Oxon.). William Eassie, C.E., F.L.S., F.G.S. Robert W. Edis, F.S.A., F.R.I.B.A. Rogers Field, B.A., M.In8t.C.E. J. Wallace Peggs, C.E. B. W. Richardson, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S. Percival Gordon Smith, F.R.I.B.A. Keith Downes Young, A.R.I.B.A. &c. &c. &c. " A large amount of ijseful information cpnoeming all the rights, duties, and privileges of a house- holder, as well as about the best means of rendering the home picturesque, comfortable, and, above all, wholesome."—Tir/ie*. Cassell <k Comjpam^i, Limited^, I/^dgate Hill, London. Thibd EpiTiON, price 2X8.; half-morocco, 25s. The Book of Health. A Volume upon the Science and Preservation of Health in every condition and relation of life. With Contributions by Sir Risdon Bennett, M.D., F.R.S. John S. Bristowe, M.D., F.R.S. Sir J. Crichton Browne, LL.D., M.D. T. Lauder Brunton, M.D., F.R.S. Sir Joseph Fayrer, K.C.S.I., F.R.S. Malcolm Morris, F.R.C.S., Ed. J. Russell Reynolds, M.D., F.R.S. Henry Power, F.R.C.S. W. S. Savory, F.R.S. Frederick TRpvps, F.R.C.S. Hermann Weber, M.D. &c. &c. &c. "A more valuable work than 'The Book of Health,' for those who would exercise a reasonable care of their health without becoming valetudinarians, has never been published. The book is by far the most complete of its kind that we have ever seen."—Standard. Cassell & Company, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London. New and Enlarged Edition, price 21s.; half-morocco, 258. The Family Physician. A Manual of Domestic Medicine by Physicians and Surgeons of the principal London Hospitals. " A book which ought to have a place in every househol^l, and its contents should be pondered by the heads of families.' —The Court Journal. Cass^ d) Cornpany, Idmited, Ludga^ ^Ult Lon^n. Fwth AifD CflEAP Edition, price Is. 6d.; cloth, 2s. A Handbook of Nursing. For the Home and for the Hospital. By Catherine J. Wood, Lady Superin- tendent of the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormo^d Street. " A book which every mother of a family ought to have, as well as every nurse under training."— Guardian. " The best book of its kiad."—Nonconformist. Cassell <fc Compf^ny, Limited, f/udgate HUl, Lov4or\. Fifth Edition, extra fcap. 8vq, cloth, 6s. The Ladies' Physician. A Guide for Women to the Treatment of their Ailments. By a London Physician, " The statement* are accurate, thp opinions soupd, and the advice judicious."—il/edwaj Tiiws. Castdl <fc Company, Lirnited, Ludgate Hill, London.THE LARGEST, CHEAPEST, AND BEST OOOKEEY-IiOOK. 1,2K0 iiagcH, royal 8vo, cloth, 78. (5d.; roxburgh, lOs. 6d Casseirs Dictionaiy of Cookery lUustmled throughout Containing about 9,000 Rkcipes and a k'^* to .]..■ Pj-inci])lcs of Oookery. "One of the moat thorough and comprohenHive workH of the kunV'—Tfui Times. ^"■s^ell di ComiMuy, Limited, Ludyate Hill, London. AN ENOYCLOr^DIA FOR THE HOUSEHOLD. 1,280 pages, royal Svo, cloth, 7s. Gd. ; roxburgh, 10s. 6d. CasseU's Domestic Dictionary. rnrnishmg information on Several Thousand Subjects relating to the Wants of Every-day Life. With numerous Illustrations. "As a manual of ready reference for aU household purposes this work has no rival. "-rA* Quern. Cassell <fc Company, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London. Second Edition. Price 3s. 6d. Choice Dishes at Small Cost. By A. G. Payne, Author of " Common-Sense Cookery," &c J"*^^* invaluable contribution to the housekeeper's library."—Cowrt Joui-nal. A book of economical and yet good cookery. If it be carefully studied, and as carefuUy followed niajiy a home may be made the happier for it."—Scotsman. Cassell & Company, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London. Cheap Edition (17th Thousand). Cloth gilt, Ss. 6d. A Tear's Cookery. Giving Dishes for Breakfast, Luncheon, and Dinner for Every Day in the Year, with Instructions for their Preparation. By Phillis Browne. " A Year's Cookery, by Phillis Browne, with bills of fare for everyday in the year, with directions for cooking, for marketing, and for making, arrangements for the next day, makes up an invaluable present for young housekeepers."—^iAen-tewm. Cassell & Company, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London. Cheap Edition (9fH Thousand). Cloth gUt, 2s. 6d. What Girls Can Do. A Book for Mothers and Daughters. By Phillis Browne, Author of A Year's Cookery." "As an exceedingly useful and reliable manual of information, we heartily recommend AVhat Girls Can Do to both the mothers and daugliters to whom it is atkb-essed."—Spectator. Cassell & Company, Lhnited, Ludgate Hill, London. ■ • Revised Edition. Price 1b. How Women may Earn a Living. By Mercy Grogan. " In a lucid and concise manner are embodied a large number of suggestions in which ladies who have to depend upon their own exertions for their support could be helped."—Daily Telegraph. Cassell ifc Company, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London. 47th Thousand. Stiff covers, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d. Etiquette of Good Society. " A book which may fairly be considered a recognised authority. It covers the whole of our lives in all their varying phases, and is as pleasantly written as it is instructive."— The Queen. CunsrJl tfc Company, Limited, Ludgate Hill, Lmdon. 9fs