HEALTH AND PERSONAL ATTENTION. {See Myra’s Answers in “Myra's Journal.’’) EXTRACT FROM TOILET LIST PHILIP H. MASON, IJljannntcutinrl (fljcmist, anb (Cljcmist to tbc ^arrisoit, " 25, HIGH STREET, GOSPORT. The entire list (containing some eighty preparations) will he sent by return post, on the receij^t of stamped address. NOTICE.—All articles in this List admit of Postal Transit, and will be delivered free per post at the prices marked, secure from observation, and carefully packed. The immense number of postal applications which have followed Myra’s ” esteemed notices of a few of Mr. Mason’s Preparations, show that there are large numbers of ladies who, in the country, are remote from a| first-class pharmacy, or who, in towns, find it inconvenient to go or send to their immediate neighbours for such articles as Hair Restorers, Cosmetiques, Depilatories, Corn Plasters, and the thousand-and-one toilet requisites and medicinal remedies in daily use. The want thus shown, this List is in some measure intended to supply. ACNE LOTION (Strachan’s).—Specially adapted to remove blackheads, and that greasy appearance of the skin which is a common sympton in some varieties of Acne. 3s. 3rl. per case. DANDRIFFINE.—An exquisite prepara- tion for the immediate removal of cicui-f or Dandriff, and for i^reventing its re-ap- pearance. It is almost invaiiably suc- cessful, and, though it contains no grease, the hair needs no other di*essiug during its use. 3s. Cd. per case. EXTRACT OF SEA WRACK (Fucus Vesi- CULOSUS).—The new remedy for obesity. This preparation has met with a wonder- ful demand. Its effects in some cases seem magical. It is perfectly safe for the most deUcate constitutions. Price 3s. 3d. per case. ASTRINGENT TOOTH POWDER.—A cer- V tain remedy for sponginess of the gums. Is. 3d., 3s. per box. BITARTRATE OF POTASSIUM.—This is Xa safe and efficient agent for the removal of tartar. Also prepared as a tooth powder. Price Is. 4cl, 3s. BLANC DE PERLE.—This innocent and carefully-prepared cosmetique is free from the poison ordinarily used in face white. Is. 3d., 2s. 3d. per case. BLOOM OF ROSES.—A perfectly innocent aid to the complexion. 2s. Gd. per case. GANTS GRAS POMADE.—A novel form of the well-known Gants Gras of the French and Italian perfumers of the last century. By its use {with soiled white kid gloves) the hands may he rendered beautifully white and soft in a few nights. Is. Gd. per jar. CAPTENE PAINT.— A wondei*ful external remedy, and instant cure for neuralgia, tooHiache, rhumatism, sciatica, gout, palpitation, and all local nerve pains. Although 80 efficacious, it does not dis- colour the skin. Is. Id., 3s. per bottle. MAY DEW FACE WASH.-A new and valuable preparation. Its effects in im- proving the complexion, and softening and dealing the skin, are wonderful. 3s. per case. SULPHUR SOAP (for the hair).—The natural colour of the hair is due to an organic pigment, into the composition of which sulphur and iron largely enter. It is believed that in many cases grey hair is due solely to a deficiency in this natui'al secretion of sulphur. In such cases the sulphur may be supplied to the hair glands by occasionally washing the hair and scalp with the above soap. It is most particularly recommended that in cases of incipient greyness this should be tried before artificial colour restorers are resorted to. It is also the best soap for cleansing the hair applying any dye or colour restorer, as it greatly quickens and enhances their action. It is also of great service for washing the skin in many cases of eruption and skin disease. Is. 3d. THE COLLURION.—A fiuid compounded on strictly chemical and physiological principles. It accomplishes its purpose of restoring the hair to its pristine hue by its peculiar action on those vessels which secrete its colouring matter, the tempo- rary derangement of which, caused eitlier by accident or disease, leads to a suspen- sion of their functions, and hence pre- mature greyness ensues. It must be home in mind that tlie action of the Collurion, being natural, is gradual, and therefore all persons using it must not expect the change to be sudden; on the contrary, it will, according to the natui-e of the case, take more or less time, but when once restored, an occasional application will preserve the colour to any ago. An addi- tional advantage of the Collunon over all dyes C'Uisists in its requiring no pomade or oil to be used with it, and its action on the skin, instead of being in- jurious, is positively beneficial. 2s. Cd. per case. COMPLEXION PILLS.—Specially adapted to produce a healthy action of the skin and a clear complexion. If used in con- junction with certain easy rules of diet, tlieir eifect is rapid and marvellous. Is, 3d., 2s, lOd. per box. For other Hair Dyes and Colour Restorers see the other Lists,