556 CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. piece which is the shortest, is directed downwards and backwards to the verge of the anus. There is a marked dissimilarity in the caliber of these three portions; the first being constricted, particularly at its commence- ment- the second gradually increases in size, forming at its iunction with the third a large dilatation, but it again becomes insensibly constricted as it approaches the anus, where it is embraced by the sphincters. J2e/a<wns.—Posteriorly it corresponds to the iho-sacral symphisis, pyriformis muscle, sacral plexus, middle sa- cral artery, sympathetic ganglia, coccyx, ano-coccygeal ligament, and posterior fibres of levator am; anteriorly to the cul de sac of peritoneum, which is usually filled with the convolutions of the small intestines, base ot the bladder, vesicul^ seminales, and vasa deferentia, the latter being separated from each other by a trian- gular interval, already described with the bladder, pos- terior extremity of prostate gland, which is intimately connected to it, and recto-bulbar space; laterally the ureters, a mass of loose areolar tissue, and insertion of the levatores ani, which separate it from the ischio-rectal fossse at each side. „ , ^ The large intestine, like the small, has four coats,— a serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous. We wiU now proceed to examine each separately. ^ Serous CoAT.-This is very variously arranged m the several portions of the large mtestme, and a so differs materially in different individuals. Generally sneaking, it is so disposed over the caecum, ascendmg and descending colons, as to cover them anteriorly and laterally, while it is deficient posteriorly where its TDlace is taken by fine, loose, areolar tissue. Exceptions, however, occur in this rule, particularly in the c^cum, which may occasionally be connected to the iliac fossa by a specious of mesentery, of variable extent, bes o^^ang on it a degree of mobility which is not generaUy the hafacLSc of this portion of the gut. ^^^^^^^^^^^^ colon on the contrary, may be said to be almost com Setely surrounded by the peritoneal investment which rSved from the reflected layers of the great omen- tum which splits to receive it, and hence the facility iTh which it is enabled to change its position. The