CONGENITAL HERNIA. 385 tegument; but in the external direct form, which pro- trudes on the outside of the hypogastric artery, and in- ternal to the epigastric, the hernia has a cremasteric covering, which lies between the external spoutlike and fascia propria. Let it be remembered that the epigastric artery lies to the outer side of the neck of a direct in- guinal hernia, and that in some old cases the hernia enlarges its opening of escape upwards and outwards, so that this vessel may cross it superiorly in its course to the rectus sheath. We therefore doubt if it would be wise m such a case, or even safe, to cut the stricture directly upwards. Let the student now reflect as to where stricture is likely to ensue in those hernia we have described. In an oblique inguinal hernia it may be caused within the sac by the intestine passing through openings m the contained omentum, or by bands of lymph crossing the sac; next in order it may occur at the external abdominal ring,_this usually being the seat of strangulation in old and large hernia,-or it may occur at the fleshy margin of the internal oblique and trans- versahs muscles, or lastly, at the neck of the sac. In the direct form, the stricture is usually situated at the latter situation. Congenital Hernia is that form of protrusion which takes advantage of the patulous state of the inner rine requisite for the descent of the testicle to escape into the scrotum ; the usual period for its production beina between the sixth and ninth months, and most frequently at the latter period, owing to the pressure to which the abdomen is subjected during parturition. It descends directly into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, lying when fully formed in front of the cord and testUe! having followed the exact course of an oblique inguina hernia, but being devoid of a peritoneal sac"excep^t that which It receives from the vaginal tunic. But after birth the internal ring is closed by the eflFusion of plastic lymph, and whilst this material remains soft and yield ing, a portion of intestine presses against it, proloLint. the barrier as a membrane before the hernia; thus the infantile hernia" lies also within the tunica vaginalis but immediately surrounding it there is likewise an ad- ventitious covering derived from the plastic exudation