THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 330 of the muscle, and becomes continuous with the capsu- lar ligament. The muscle is triangular, and arises from the supraspinous fossa, and from the fascia that covers it; passing forwards, it ends in a strong tendon that runs beneath the deltoid ligament, then pierces the capsular ligament, and is inserted into the superior of the three facettes on the great tuberosity of the humerus. Relations.—It is covered by the trapezius, fat and fascia, triangular ligament, and it lies on the bone, the supraspinous artery and nerve, and the synovial mem- brane of the joint. Action.—It strengthens the superior and external part of the capsule, raises the humerus, and assists in rota- tion. Sir A. Cooper believes this the principal obsta- cle to the reduction of a dislocation into the axilla. Infraspinatus—Covered in its posterior two-thirds by a strong fascia, attached to the base behind, to the spine of the scapula above, and below to the intermus- cular septum that separates this muscle from the teres minor; at the posterior edge of the deltoid it splits, a layer going on the superficial and deep surfaces of that muscle; raise this, which adheres very loosely; the in- fraspinatus is triangular, arising from the infraspi- nous fossa, and from the fascia which covers it; the inferior fibres pass obliquely outwards, the superior transversely; these terminate in a tendon, which passes beneath the acromion process over the capsular liga- ment, to which it intimately adheres, and occasionally perforates, and is inserted into the middle facette on the great tuberosity. Relations—It is covered by the deltoid, by the fascia, and a few fibres of the latissimus dorsi, near the inferior angle. It lies on the bone, capsular ligament, and the inosculation between the circumflexus scapula and in- fraspinous branch of the suprascapular artery, also on the infraspinous nerve. Action It strengthens the capsule externally, and rotates outwards; it scarcely possesses any power either to elevate or depress the humerus; it is ruptured in dislocation backwards on the infraspinous fossa. Teres Minor.—Also covered by a thin layer of fas- cia; somewhat rounded; arises from a ridge on the