MUSCLES OP THE FACE. 227 ma. It is covered by the skin, areolar tissue, and pal- pebral branches of the portio dura. Action.—To close the lids, principally by depressing the upper; also to compress the lachrymal sac by acting on the tendo oculi, and thus forcing the tears into the nasal duct, and from thence into the nose, when it is fully contracted. The further tension of the ciliary fibres will turn the internal sixth of the tarsal cartilage inwards, as it is here unsupported, and by this action immerse the punc- tal orifices in the lake of tears at the inner canthus. When the eyes are closed firmly by a voluntary move- ment, the orbital fibres are the principal agents, being quickly obedient to the will; but in those involuntary movements which are continually occurring, the palpe- bral set are the sole agents. Even during sleep, we have frequently seen the superior lid in rapid motion, but without the orbital fibres at all participating in the action. These involuntary movements in some indivi- duals are so frequent and regular, that they might be classed with true rhythmical contractions. Under the microscope, the fibres of the palpebral portion exhibit but faint strias, which entirely disappear under the action of acetic acid, forming a marked contrast to the orbital in this respect. We are disposed to look on the former as exhibiting one of the connecting links be- tween the voluntary and involuntary system of muscles. In old persons the palpebral portions frequently pre- sent marked deficiencies between the fibres, accounting for the diminished energy of the movements of the eye- lids at that period of life. Now turn downwards the superior portion of the last muscle, and expose the corrugator supercilii. CoRRUGATOR SuPERCiLii arises narrow and tendinous from the internal angular process of the os frontis, passes obliquely upwards and outwards, and is inserted into the deep surface of the orbicularis, and the integu- ments of the eyebrow. Relations.—It is covered by the orbicularis, frontal nerve, and supra-orbital artery: it lies on the bone. Action.—To throw the forehead into vertical wrin- kles, to depress the brows, and to erect the hairs,— thus defending the eye from intense light. Sometimes