102 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. nasal, lachrymal, and inferior spongy; the single, the vomer and lower jaw. We will begin with the malar, as the most prominent. Malar Bone.—This occupies the superior and ex- ternal part of the face, and presents the appearance of a curvilinear triangle resting on a broad base, the or- bital plate. We may therefore describe it as having two surfaces,—an external and internal; and three mar- gins, a superior, an inferior, and anterior. The external surface is smooth and convex, and is perforated at its internal inferior part by a small foramen for the pas- sage of the superficialis malse nerve; it likewise affords origin to a few fibres of the masseter below, the zygo- maticus major in the middle, and the zygomaticus minor above. The internal surface is concave, and enters into the formation of the temporal fossa; the muscle of the same name likewise arising from it, while it is also pierced by a small hole for the temporo-malar nerve. The superior margin is thin and undulating, and has attached to it the temporal aponeurosis, presenting above a sharp process,_the superior orbital, for articu- lation with the external angular process of the os frontis, while below and behind it is cut off very obliquely to support the zygomatic arch of the temporal bone. The inferior edge is likewise thin, but straight, giving origin to the deep fibres of the masseter; the an- terior, concave and sharp, forms the outer and inferior part of the rim of the orbit, terminating below and in- ternally in a tapering point—the inferior orbital process, which articulates with the superior maxillary bone. Bending backwards and inwards at a very acute angle with the part of the bone already described, is the orbi- tal plate, smooth and concave, semilunar m shape, bounded in front by its anterior free edge, and behind by a serrated margin, articulating above with the frontal aiid great wing of the sphenoid, and below with the malar process of the superior maxilla, into which it is re- ceived • a slight notch is immediately above this last point of articulation, corresponding to the spheno-max- illary fissure, of which it forms the anterior boundary. The malar articulates with four bones only: three ot the head,—the frontal, sphenoid, and temporal and one of the face,—the superior maxilla. It has four pro-