THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 218 third order has the fulcrum at one extremity, the weight at the opposite, and the power at any interme- diate point between them. It is generally found in the body, and by its adoption, rapidity of motion and sym- metry of form are obtained, but power is sacrificed. Certain mechanical circumstances tend to diminish the power of individual muscles,—as for instance, their in- sertions being at acute angles to the lever on which they act, the obliquity of direction, acting through a disadvantageous lever, and the passive contraction of opposite muscles. The masseter and gastrocnemii are from the mode of their insertion the most powerful in the body, the fibres forming right angles with the lever into which they are inserted. Muscles are highly orga- nized, the arteries running in the interfibrous spaces; the nerves are also numerous, and it may be stated as a general rule, that the greater the amount of vascular and nervous supply, the more energetic are the con- tractions of the muscle; and in certain pathological con- ditions, in which nutrition is diminished, as where the arteries are ossified, the contractions are feeble and weak. MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND FACE. Raise the subject by a block placed beneath the shoulders, and support the head in an almost vertical condition. Several different modes of incision may be adopted with almost equal advantage, for the purpose of raising the integument. In making post-mortem ex- aminations, where it is an object to avoid disfiguring the features with blood, a transverse incision from ear to ear, and the subsequent reflection of the flaps, will be found most advantageous; but for anatomical pur- poses it will be preferable to run a circular incision around the scalp, in front, above the superciliary arches, laterally above the ear, and posteriorly above the occi- pital protuberance, when an antero-posterior incision will further facilitate the raising of the integument. This should be accomplished cautiously, commencing before, as it adheres loosely to the muscular fibres, but strictly to the subjacent tendon. Having raised it, ex- amine the several constituents which compose it. The