THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. 190 TARSO-METATARSAL ARTICULATION. These are all arthrodial, and present such a varied ligamentous connexion, that it will be necessary to ex- amine each separately. We will accordingly begin with the first. 1. The first metatarsal bone articulates with one tarsal bone only,—the internal cuneiform. Its bond of union consists of two ligaments,—a superior or dorsal, and an inferior or plantar. They are formed by strong fibrous bands passing between the adjacent bones, the inferior being much the best marked. The tendon of the tibialis anticus over the upper and inner part, and the peroneeus longus below and internally, add mate- rially to the strength of the articulation. Its synovial membrane is peculiar to itself. 2. The second metatarsal bone articulates with the three cuneiform, being completely wedged between them, and is maintained in this position by dorsal and plantar ligaments. The former of these consists of three dis- tinct bands, the most internal passing from the upper surface of the internal cuneiform bone, forwards and outwards, to be inserted into the head of the metatarsal bone; the middle, of great strength, stretches horizontally between the middle cuneiform and the same bone; and the external, the weakest, between the third cuneiform and a similar insertion. These are covered by the extensor tendons. The plantar are only two in number, and nearly of the same strength; the most internal extends from the first cuneiform, forwards and outwards; and the external from the second, directly forwards, to be implanted into the sharp ridge on the under surface of the second metatarsal bone. They are covered by the deep plantar muscles. 3 The third metatarsal articulates with the third cuneiform only. Its ligaments are a dorsal and plantar. The former of these is a strong bundle of fibres extend- in<r between the adjacent bones, but the latter are weak and indistinct, and partially blended with the sheath of the peronajus longus. 4. The fourth metatarsal articulates with the cuboid,