THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 396 that they possess a remarkable tendency to be thrown off from the surface on which they are developed. It is in these cells that the formation of the spermatozoa occurs. The anatomy of the epididymis is similar, but that the tunics are thicker. The vas deferens consists of a dense external fibrous coat, which Lewenhoeck be- lieved was muscular, which it certainly is in the horse; the canal is exceedingly small, not more than capable of admitting a bristle, but this cavity is somewhat larger at the base of the bladder. When laid open, the surface is seen covered by a fine mucous membrane, but still irre- gular, in consequence of a layer of whitish fibres that lie external to the mucous membrane, crossing each other at acute angles. The spermatic cord consists of the sper- matic vessels, lymphatics, spermatic plexus of nerves, genito-crural nerve, and deferential artery, a branch of the superior vesical, surrounded by the degenerated tubule of serous membranes, internal spoutlike fascia, cremaster, and external spoutlike fascia. These vessels, &c., will be found described in their proper place or system. Development of the Testicle These organs make their appearance in the lower and inner part of the Wolf- fian bodies at the close of the seventh week; they at first consist of a granular albuminous fluid, which serves as the nidus in which the tubuli seminiferi become de- veloped ; the epididymis appears about the tenth week, and the gubernaculum at the thirteenth. The organ commences its descent about the fifth month of intra- uterine life. The function of the testicle is to secrete the semi- nal fluid; this is compound, consisting of a fluid por- tion, or liquor seminis, and certain solid constituents, namely, essential, the spermatozoa,—and non-essential, the mucous corpuscles, seminal granules, and epithe- lium. A spermatozoon consists of a disc or head, and tail, and possesses automatic movements for some time after the ejaculation of the fluid; these are developed within cells from nuclei, and are then set free, like the young of the volvox, but they do not appear until pu- berty, and are present until an advanced period of life.