842 ARTERIES AND VEINS. Arteria Sigmoidea arises below the last, and passes downwards and outwards towards the left iliac fossa be- neath the peritoneum, and divides into two branches,— a superior to anastomose with the colica sinistra, and an inferior with the superior hsemorrhoidal, their loops of communication supplying the lower part of the descend- ing colon and sigmoid flexure. Superior HiEMORRHOiDAL,—The terminal branch of the inferior mesenteric; it passes downwards, backwards, and inwards, beneath the peritoneum, and over the psoas, ureter, common iliac artery and vein, and, enter- ing the meso-rectum, descends on the back part of that viscus to where the serous membrane is reflected along its sides, and here divides into two branches which em- brace it laterally, and from these numerous ramusculi are detached for the supply of its walls, which anasto- mose with the middle and inferior hemorrhoidal from the internal iliac and pudic. Remarks The inferior mesenteric is always very re- gular in its origin and termination, and both it and the superior are remarkable for the arched arrangement of their branches with the view of equalizing the circula- tion. „ ■ n ■ VIII. Lumbar.—Generally four, sometimes Ave, m num- ber • they arise from the back part of the aorta, and pass outwards over the bodies of the vertebrte, and beneath the looped origins of the psoas; the superior also under the crura of the diaphragm. Arriving at the intertrans- verse spaces, they divide into two branches,—an ante- rior, which runs outwards over the quadratus lumborum and' under the transversalis aponeurosis, to anasto- mose with the intercostal and ilio-lumbar; and a pos- terior which winds backwards through the intertrans- verse space, and reaches the erectors of the spme, which it supplies. This latter always gives ofi" a small twig, which enters the spinal canal through the foramen of conjugation, to supply the body of the bone, and to communicate with the proper spinal. . toarfo.—If there are five lumbar, the last is usually given olF by the common iliac. IX. Middle Sacral—Very variable in size; it arises • from the back part of the aorta, about hall-an-mch above its bifurcation, and, descending m the mesial hne