168 THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. sufficient to bestow great solidity on the articulation, exclusive of the other ligaments which protect it. ILIO-FEMORAL ARTICULATION. This is true enarthrosis, or ball-and-socket joint, the deep cup or acetabulum of the os innominatum re- ceiving the globular head of the femur. As it is an ar- ticulation the functions of which are so incessantly called into play, nature has taken pains to confer on it a proportionate degree of strength, depending as well on its muscular as ligamentous connexions. The latter consist of five—the capsular, accessary or ilio-femoral, teres or round, cotyloid, and transverse. Capsular.—All the muscles around the articulation must be cautiously removed, in order to examine this, as well as the loose areolar tissue which is sometimes very abundant in this situation. When perfectly ex- posed, we observe it to be of a dull, opaque, white colour; in shape cylindrical, but much more capacious above than below,—attached superiorly around the acetabulum, but not to the cotyloid ligament, which lies free within it, and separated from it by the syno- vial membrane, which is inflected between them, in- serted inferiorly into the anterior intertrochanteric line, and posterior part of the neck of the femur, at the junction of its external with its two internal thirds, so that it is much longer in front than behind. As a liga- ment, it is tense and strong, especially superiorly and externally, where the principal weight of the body is thrown, as in progression, but internally and inferiorly it is comparatively laxer and weaker. The several muscles which surround it must, in a great measure, contribute to its power of resisting displacement of the bones which it encloses. Thus we find the psoas, iliacus, and internal head of the rectus, sweeping down in front; and the very motion which would have a ten- dency to rupture the capsule in this direction, viz:— over-extension,—naturally brings their tendons to the highest pitch of tension, which must have a powerful influence in keeping the bone fixed in its socket. Ex- ternally it is strengthened by the gluteus medius, and