THE BONES OF THE FACE. IQl dividing the whole bone into two lateral masses; this is thin below, where it is received between the lips of the fissure in the anterior superior margin of the vo- mer; rough in front, where it joins the septal cartilage and nasal bones; irregular posteriorly, where it is united to the body of the sphenoid in front of the ros- trum ; above, it becomes continuous with the crista galli already alluded to. Between this median septum in- ternally, and the os planum externally, is placed the spongy masses of the bone, consisting of the anterior and posterior ethmoidal cells, separated from each other by a thin transverse septum; the former communicat- ing with the middle, the latter with the superior mea- tus. The surface which they present inferiorly is un- even, projecting so as in some parts to overlap and help to close in the maxillary sinus. The two spongy bones which are connected to the ethmoid are thin, osseous laminse, curled upon themselves, convex towards the septum, and divided from each other by a horizontal narrow groove, the superior meatus, into the upper and posterior part of which open the sinuses of the sphenoid and cells of the ethmoid. The inferior spongy bone is the larger of the two; anteriorly, it rests on a ridge of the nasal process of the superior maxillary; posteriorly, on a similar crest on the palate. The ethmoid articulates with two bones of the head, —the frontal and sphenoid; and eleven of the face, the two superior maxillary, two malar, two lachrymal, two palate, and vomer. Its proper holes are those for the olfactory and nasal nerves; its common, the ante- rior and posterior ethmoidal. It has two processes only, the crista galli and nasal lamellae. The ossific nucleus of the ethmoid is not visible till the fifth or sixth month, and the cells in its interior are not deve- loped till the fourth year. THE BONES OF THE FACE. The Face, although much smaller in its dimensions than the cranium, consists of more numerous bones. They are, of course, miich smaller, and are altogether fourteen in number, six being double and two single. The double are the malar, superior maxillary, palate,