132 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM, tures, generally very small, about five or six in number. The spheno-palatine hole is found near its superior and posterior part, opening from the pterygo-maxillary fossa; it is bounded above by the body of the sphenoid, below by the nasal plate of the palate, anteriorly by its orbi- tal process, and posteriorly by its sphenoidal. From the manner in which the mucous membrane is reflected over it, the opening is not very apparent on its nasal sur- face ; it, however, transmits the spheno-palatine branches of the internal maxillary, and the nerve of the same name, from Meckel's ganglion, for the supply of the ca- vity. Into the middle meatus, which we have already stated is very curved in its figure, the frontal sinus, anterior ethmoidal cells, and foramen antri, open. The first of these, or the frontal sinus, curves downwards and backwards, and terminates in a kind of tube, the infundibulum, composed partly of bone and partly of the Schneiderian membrane; it presents a slight dilata- tion at its nasal extremity, and can be seen properly only on raising upwards the middle spongy bone. By this means we also bring into view the small orifices of the ethmoidal cells, some of them opening directly into the meatus, and others into the infundibulum. A little below this last-named process, the fissure of the an- trum is also visible. This hole, so very large in the su- perior maxillary, if examined in its dry condition, is extremely circumscribed, so much so, as scarcely to admit the introduction of the blunt end of a probe, if viewed in connexion with the nose. This is owing to the manner in which its orifice is encroached on by the other bones contiguous to it. Thus the lachrymal over- laps it in front, the nasal plate of the palate behind, the OS planum of the ethmoid above, and the inferior spongy below. If we now proceed to the inferior meatus, we will find that the anterior palatine canal in front, the nasal duct in the middle, and the Eustachian tube be- hind, severally open into it. With respect to the first or anterior palatine canal, it cannot be said properly to open into the cavity of the inferior meatus, as the mu- cous membrane is reflected over it, and thus excludes it; but as it is apparent on the dry bone, we have con- sidered it proper to be mentioned. It is the canal through