THE TEMPORAL BONE, 87 concave ^where it joins -with the temporal to form the foramen lacerum posterius; a slight spicula of bone often appearing on it, dividing it into two parts, the smaller portion being situated anteriorly. The remain- der of the circumference has been already described. The occipital articulates with six bones,—the two parietal, two temporal, sphenoid, and atlas. Its pro- cesses are six in number,—the two condyles, two jugu- lar eminences, the basilar and occipital protuberance. It has five proper foramina,—the foramen magnum, the two anterior and the two posterior condyloid; and two com- mon,—the anterior and posterior lacerated holes. The first is of an irregular figure, and is formed by three bones,—the body of the sphenoid, basilar process of oc- cipital, and point of the petrous portion of the tempo- ral. In the natural condition of parts it is filled up with cartilage, which is traversed by the Vidian nerve in its passage into the cranial cavity. The posterior la- cerated foramen is formed by two bones only,—the occi- pital and temporal; it is of an ovoid figure, broad behind, narrow and pointed in front, intersected by two septa, which are sometimes bony, sometimes cartilaginous; the posterior is for the jugular vein, the middle for the spinal accessory and pneumogastric nerves, and the an- terior for the glosso-pharyngeal. The bone is developed from four osseous points,—one for the basilar process, one for either condyle, and one for the upper part; the first ossific point is visible from the seventh to the eighth week. The Temporal Bone is of an irregular oval figure, and is found in the lateral and inferior part of the cranium. It has been divided by anatomists generally into three portions: a squamous, situated anteriorly and superiorly; a mastoid, posteriorly and inferiorly; and a petrous in- ternally, at the junction of the other two. We will commence with a description of the squamous. This is of a semilunar shape, limited internally and inferiorly by the petrous portion; externally and inferiorly by zygomatic arch, and bounded in its curved outline by the free margin of the bone. Its outer surface is very smooth and convex, it enters into the formation of the temporal fossa, of which it forms a large part, and