THE SPINAL COLUMN. 13 to it, and connected to it by a tliin curved plate of bone. Between the two is situated a small round foramen, which transmits the vertebral artery, veins, and a plexus of nerves from the sub-occipital and inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The anterior extremity of the transverse processes gives attachment to the lon- gus colli, rectus capitis anticus major, and anterior scalenus; the posterior to the scaleni, medius and pos- ticus, splenius colli, levator anguli scapula; while the intertransverse muscles are attached both anteriorly and posteriorly. The articulating processes are covered with cartilage, round and nearly flat; the superior look backwards and upwards, the inferior forwards and downwards. The lamina are flattened and compara- tively strong, terminating in the spine, which stands out horizontally from the bone, and terminates poste- riorly in a bifid arrangement. They give attachment to the cervical aponeurosis, trapezius, and splenius. The spinal canal is very large and triangular, owing to the great amount of motion that exists in this region. The particular vertebra; that are found in this portion of the column are the first, or atlas; the second, or axis; and the seventh. Of these the last is easily known from its greater size and resemblance to a dorsal. It is remarkable for the great length of its spinous process, which juts out boldly backwards, presents but a single tubercle, and gives attachment to the ligamentum nu- chse and lesser rhomboid. Its transverse processes are also very long, and similar to rudimentary ribs; and when a hole exists in them, it is for the transmission of the vertebral veins only. Atlas—This vertebra, as contrasted with the others, presents a very remarkable appearance, being nothing more than a mere circle of bone, with the lateral masses applied to its sides. It has been divided into two portions, called its anterior and posterior half- arches, the former being much shorter than the latter. Anteriorly it presents a tubercle in the me- sian line, for the insertion of the cord-like process of the occipito-atloid ligament, and external to this It IS concave, for the origin of the rectus capitis anticus minor. Behind it is grooved and covered with