LUMBAR PLEXUS. 713 times an offset from the obturator. Behind the internal condyle a second branch is always given off which per- forates the sartorius, and then, descending for a short distance, again winds upwards and outwards over the ligamentum patella, and is lost in fine cutaneous fila- ments in the skin on the inner side of the joint; while from the upper part or concavity of the arch thus formed twigs are sent up to supply the integuments over the patella, while others pass off from its convexity to be distributed to the superficial structures on the front of the upper third of the tibia. As the internal saphenous continues its course on the inner and bacli-part of the leg, much diminished in size from giving off this patellar branch, it throws off several filaments both to its inner and back part, and also a branch about two inches above the ankle-joint, which passes downwards and back- wards, supplying the integuments on the internal mal- leolus and heel. On the inner side of the foot it sends filaments to the several articulations, and others to anas- tomose with the musculo-cutaneous of the peroneal. Obturator Nerve.—Much smaller than the anterior crural ; it arises from the third and fourth lumbar nerves, crossing the ilio lumbar artery, which separates It from the lumbo-sacral nerve; it then passes outwards and forwards, first between the angle of bifurcation of the external and internal iliac arteries, and then along the wall of the true pelvis beneath the peritoneum, and buried m the subserous tissue, having below it its own artery, and above it the external iliac vein; arriv- ing now at the anterior wall of the cavity, it escapes through the oblique groove in the upper part of the thyroid foramen, perforating in succession the follow- ing partsVesical fascia; 2. A few fibres of the levator am; 3. The obturator fascia; 4. Obturator in- ternus; 5. The obturator membrane; and fi. The obtu- rator externus, which it supplies as it passes through, but gives off no branch to any of the structures within the pelvis. Emerging now in the femoral region be- neath the pectineus, where it divides into two branches, —an anterior, which descends between the adductor lon- gus and brevis, and terminating in three branches for the supply of both these muscles, as well as the gracilis