355 MUSCLES OF THE HAND. Action.—To extend the wrist, and independently the index finger. The muscles of the palm of the hand are divided into those of the thumb (thenar), of the little finger (hypo- thenar), of the centre (palmar proper). The muscles of the thumb are five in number,—abductor pollicis, op- I ponens pollicis (flexor ossis metacarpi), flexor pollicis i brevis, adductor pollicis, and the abductor indicis. Abductor Pollicis arises, tendinous and aponeu- I rotic, from the annular ligament, the scaphoid bone, and t from that portion of the trapezium which receives the i insertion of the extensor ossis metacarpi; it passes for- ' ward, outwards, and downwards, forms a flat tendon, ' which is inserted into the outer and back part of the i first phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—It is covered by the outer portion of pal- : mar fascia, and lies on the opponens, separated from it ; by a thin fascia; the arteria superficialis volse perfo- : rates its origin, but this does not always occur. Action—To draw the thumb forwards and inwards; lit would be therefore more correct to call it an adduc- ttor. Opponens Pollicis, or Flexor Ossis Metacarpi.— 'Triangular, thick, and fleshy; arises from the trape- 2zium bone and annular ligament, close to its attachment tto that bone; the superior fibres pass horizontally, the cothers downwards and outwards, and are inserted into I the inner edge of the whole length of the metacarpal tbone of the thumb, extending as far as the base of the ffirst phalanx. Relations—It lies beneath the abductor and fascia, :iand rests on the first carpo-metacarpal articulation and tthe metacarpal bone; the inner edge corresponds to the iflexor brevis. Action.—To flex the metacarpal bone, and thus anta- jgonize the extensor. Flexor Pollicis Brevis.—To see the inner head of tthis muscle, the outer tendon of the long flexors must tbe removed, and drawn inwards with the lumbricales; :it consists of two heads,—an external and internal. The I'former arises from the scaphoid, trapezium, and annular I ligament; the latter, which is deeper, from the sheath