606 NERVOUS SYSTEM. internal dipping in to form the processes, as well as the ■walls of the sinuses. The dura mater adheres most in- timately to the lines of the sutures, but is still more closely connected to the bones constituting the vault of the skull, particularly the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, from which it is most difficult to remove it, even after maceration. It is also much stronger in the base of the skull than in the calvarium, but cannot be divided into layers in this situation, with a few ex- ceptions, which will be alluded to hereafter. The dura mater has many uses, firstly, to act as an internal periosteum; secondly, to separate and preserve the several divisions of the brain from mutual pressure; thirdly, to form sinuses; fourthly, to send processes out on the nerves to form their external fibrous sheaths; fifthly, to constitute by its prolongation forwards the periosteum of the orbit, and downwards the theca ver- tebralis; sixthly, in foetal life to assist in the develop- ment of the bones. The processes are six in number, namely,—1. Falx ce- rebri; 2. Tentorium cerebelli; 3. Falxcerebelli; 4. Sphe- noidal; 5. Orbital; and 6. Vertebral. The sinuses are venous canals lying in the vicinity of the bone, and con- sisting of a surrounding investment of dura mater, lined internally by a continuation of the serous venous tunic from those veins, with which they communicate. It is obvious that the strong fibrous layer of dura mater which surrounds them prevents during momentary congestion that injurious pressure which might result to the brain, if yielding and expansile veins were substituted for these fibro-venous canals. The sinuses are nineteen in number, namely,—superior longitudinal, inferior longitudinal, straight, cavernous, circular, transverse sphenoidal, su- perior and inferior petrosal, transverse occipital, lateral, posterior occipital and the torcular Herophih; these, with the dura mater, should now be examined in detail. DuEA Mater.—The surface now exposed presents a rough fibrous aspect, numerous processes being pro- longed into the bone, particularly at the sutures, these fibrous prolongations being the obliterated remains ot those vessels which connected the dura mater with the pericranium in foetal life. The surface is likewise seen dotted with blood, owing to the rupture of those