1 826 ARTERIES AND VEINS. to its outer side, but, crossing it anteriorly, aboiit the middle of the arm, it ultimately becomes internal to it. Two veins likewise accompany this vessel, the one, the larger, lying internal and posterior to it, the other, the smaller, external and anterior, while numerous cross branches unite them to each other. Dr. Corbett, in his work on the Arteries, has draAvn a very fair analogy between this artery, with its muscular and fascial rela- tions, and the femoral, as it occupies the middle third of the thigh, or Hunter's canal. Opposite the flexure of the joint the brachial artery lies in a triangular space, which may be exposed by removing the integu- ment, siiperficial fascia, with the external and internal cutaneous nerves, basilic, cephalic, and median basilic and median cephalic veins, and ultimately the semilunar fascia of the biceps, which constitutes its operculum or covering. This space is bounded externally by the su- pinator longus; internally by the pronator teres; supe- riorly by the belly of the brachialis anticus; posteriorly by the tendon of the latter muscle, with that of the biceps; and anteriorly by the semilunar aponeurosis. It contains three very important parts, which are from without inwards:—The tendon of biceps, brachial artery, and median nerve; but it should be remembered that still more externally, between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus, the musculo-spiral nerve and artery are situated; and more internally, beneath the pronator teres, is the anastomotica magna, communicating witli the anterior ulnar recurrent, while m the apex ot tbe space are found the mediana profunda vein, radial and ulnar arteries, with interosseous trunk. Anomalies—The brachial artery may be double, de- pending on a high bifurcation of the axillary, and in these cases its representative branch is generally the radial, which takes its usual course, while the ulnar runs more directly towards the internal condyle. b.x- ceptions to this rule will, however, occur, and then the snialler trunk or radial, which lay internal to the infe- rior third of the arm, will cross under and become ex- ternal to the larger or ulnar, and where this high bifur- cation does exist, the two branches usually communicate by a cross branch at the bend of the elbow. The bra-