MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. 331 outer side of the infraspinous groove, and from the ten- dinous septum, which separates it from, and almost in- separably unites it to, the last-described muscle. The fibres pass forwards and outwards, and terminate in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the inferior facette, on the great tuberosity of the humerus. Relations.—It is covered posteriorly by the deltoid, latissimus dorsi, and a thin fascia; anteriorly by the long head of the triceps and the subscapular artery; the outer head of the triceps arises below its insertion. Action—To rotate the arm outwards and depress the humerus when raised, and to fix the head of the bone. Teres Major—Wider behind than before; arises from the ovoid space on the inferior angle of the sca- pula, passes forwards and outwards, and is inserted into the posterior lip of the bicipital groove by a flat tendon, posterior and inferior to the latissimus dorsi. Relations.—It is in contact posteriorly with the latis- simus dorsi, deltoid, and long head of the triceps; anteri- orly with the tendon of the latissimus, the axillary vessels and nerves, and the superior profunda artery: its upper edge is separated from the teres minor by the circum- flexus scapulce and the posterior circumflex artery and nerve, together with the middle head of the triceps. Action.—To draw the arm backwards and inwards, and probably rotate inwards. Subscapularis.—Triangular, thick, and fleshy; arises by fasciculi, three or five in number, from the subsca- pular fossa; the fibres pass forwards and outwards, form a tendon about an inch in width, and is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus, and the ridge below that point. Relations—It is divided into fasciculi by aponeurotic septa, which adhere to the ridges on the scapular venter: the external surface is in contact with the bone, the inner lip of the glenoid cavity, which it grooves below the coracoid process, and also with the synovial membrane of the joint as it pierces the capsular liga- ment; the internal surface lies in contact with the ser- ratus magnus, which separates it from the ribs, and on the tendon lie the axillary vessels and nerves; the sub- scapular artery and nerve course along the lower margin.