47 METACARPAL. All these small bones are developed by single points of ossification. These become visible at different pe- riods for each. Thus, it appears in about the first year in the os magnum and unciform; in the cuneiform in the third; in the trapezium and semilunar in the fourth; and in the scaphoid and trapezoid in the eighth. The pisiform is not ossified till the fifteenth year. Metacarpal—These are five in number, and belong to the class of long bones. They each present two extremities, a carpal and phalangeal, and a shaft. The carpal ends are generally square in shape and expanded, and to a certain extent may be distinguished from each other by the number and shape of the facettes which appear on them. Thus, the first has only a single one on its extremity, concave transversely, and convex antero-posteriorly, but none laterally. The second has four; three on its extremity, the central being the largest for the trapezoid, with two smaller ones on either side for the trapezium and os magnum, with one internally and laterally for the third metacarpal bone. This last has only one facette on the extremity for the OS magnum, with two lateral ones for the adjacent me- tacarpal bones. The fourth has four: two superiorly, the smaller external for the os magnum, the larger in- ternal for the unciform; it also has two lateral ones for the contiguous bones. The fifth has only one superiorly for the unciform, and one externally for the fourth metacarpal bone. The carpal ends of those bones which are rough anteriorly and posteriorly for the attachment of ligaments give insertion to the following tendons. To the posterior and external part of the first the ex- tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis; to the second in front the flexor, and behind to the extensor carpi radialis longior. To the third posteriorly the extensor carpi radialis bre- vior; to the fifth in front the flexor, and behind, the ex- tensor carpi ulnaris. The shaft of these bones are con- stricted, prismatic in shape, convex posteriorly and concave anteriorly; their sides flattened for the attach- ment of the iuterossei muscles. They terminate in large rounded extremities for articulating with the proximal ends of the first phalanges. If we look to the differential characters of those metacarpal bones, we