NERVOUS SYSTEM. 690 STis it communicates witli the gustatory, forming the hyo-glossal plexus. This constitutes the motor nerve of the tongue. CERVICAL PLEXUS. This plexus is formed by the anterior branches of the four first cervical nerves, which emerge from the foramina of conjugation between the rectus capitis an- ticus major, which is in front of them, and the levator anguli scapulae, which is behind them, but covered ex- ternally by the sterno-mastoid, the plexus when fully formed occupying the posterior superior triangle of the neck, requiring a tedious and laborious dissection to ex- pose it, owing to the manner in which it is invested by dense areolar tissue and the several lymphatic glands which are imbedded in it. We will now proceed to describe the mode of its formation, taking each nerve separately. The First Nerve is remarkable for its small size; it emerges from the spinal canal, beneath the vertebral ar- tery, between the occipital bone and the posterior half- arch of the atlas, behind its oblique process, and, wind- ing forwards to the anterior part of its transverse, it bends downwards, and anastomoses with an ascending branch from the second. Second Nerve is somewhat larger than the preced- ing; it passes out between the atlas and axis, also behind the articular processes, runs forwards to the intertrans- verse space, and divides into two branches,—an ascend- ing and descending, the former to communicate with the first, and the latter with the third cervical nerve. Third Nerve is double the size of the preceding, and emerges'between the axis and third cervical vertebra; it sends upwards one branch to anastomose with the se- cond, and another downwards to unite with the fourth. From this nerve are principally derived, as we shall pre- sently observe, the principal cutaneous filaments of the neck. . 1, 1 4. Fourth Nerve.—Nearly similar in size to the last, and on reaching the intertransverse space, or rather a little external to it, it receives the connecting twig from