124 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. again prominent,—the frontal eminences, the points where the first ossific nuclei are deposited. Between these two elevations is generally observed the imperfect remnant of the suture where the opposite bones were disunited in early life; at this period the posterior su- perior angle was rounded, as already alluded to in the description of the separate bone, giving rise to a de- ficiency in the osseous structure,—the anterior superior fontanelle. The bregma or vertex is of a quadrilateral shape, bounded anteriorly by the coronal suture, be- hind by the lambdoidal, laterally by the temporal ridges. It also presents in the mesial line a suture,—the sagittal, which lies between two well-marked eminences on either side of the parietal. Two small foramina are generally found near the posterior part of the suture, for the transmission of a small vein from the longitudinal sinus. We have already stated that this bone is also rounded at its angles, where it forms in foetal life a part of the two superior and two lateral fontanelles. The occipital region is exceedingly circumscribed, being entirely formed of the upper part of the occipital bone, bounded above by the lambdoidal suture, and below by the superior semicircular line. It is smooth and convex, is covered by the occipito-frontalis, and the ramifications of the occipital artery and nerve. The lateral regions are defined by a curved line, drawn from the external orbital process of the os frontis, backwards to the point where the superior semicircular line on the occipital bone strikes the os frontis. This would form its superior boundary; its inferior is constituted by the zygomatic arch; its horizontal root as far back as the auditory meatus; it now bends downwards, and is limited by the auditory process and edge of the mas- toid as far back as the lambdoid suture. According to this definition we would find the lateral regions to be semicircular in form, flattened anteriorly, and slightly convex posteriorly. It presents for consideration the following parts:—most anteriorly the temporal fossa, bounded above by the temporal ridge, below by the horizontal root of the zygoma and crest on the great wincv of the sphenoid, which separates it Irom the zygo- matic fossa, and it is formed by the following bones,