CEREBRUM, g37 internally, at the optic commissure separated from that of the opposite side by the anterior extremity of the great longitudinal fissure, and from the middle lobe by the fissure of Sylvius; the inferior surface, concave and irregular, rests on the orbital plates of the frontal and lesser wings of the sphenoid bones, presenting a groove or sulcus in which is imbedded the olfactory nerve, a single longitudinal convolution always existing on the internal side of that sulcus. The fissure of Sylvius takes a direction upwards, backwards, and outwards, passing to an indefinite extent between the anterior and middle lobes; and on carefully unravelling the surface of the former, where it rests on the latter, a second smaller fissure is seen passing vertically upwards cir- cumscribing the island of Eeil; within the fissure of Sylvius the external root of the olfactory nerve, middle cerebral artery, and island of Keil, are found, the arach- noid membrane passing over it and separating the sphe- noidal fold of dura mater from the middle cerebral ar- tery. The middle lobe is convex inferiorly, and bounded behind by a superficial depression which corresponds to the superior angle of the petrous portion of the tempo- ral bone; in front by the fissure of Sylvius, and inter- nally by the circle of Willis and the parts it contains; on Its internal margin a convolution is always present' bounding externally the transverse fissure, formed by the interior termination of the callosal lobule (Ourlet) _ The posterior lobe is triangular, but pointed poste- riorly, concave on its inferior surface, and supported by the tentorium cerebelli, being separated from that of the opposite side by the posterior extremity of the o-reat longitudinal fissure. It is marked inferiorly by nume- rous large and winding convolutions, which are all con- tinuations of the lobule of the transverse fissure In the middle line of the base of the brain the fol- lowmg parts present themselves for examination •_! Longitudinal fissure; 2. Lamina cinerea; 3. Optic com- tnissure; 4. Tuber cinereum, with the infundibulum leadmg down to the pituitary body; 5. Corpora albi- cantia; 6. Locus perforatus medius; 7. Crura cerebri • «. Tons varolii; 9. Medulla oblongata, resting in the