MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 237 and a small ascending branch of tlie united coronary, named the artery of the filtrum. Action.—To depress the upper lip and ala of the nose; the lower fibres may likewise elevate the lip. Now draw the angle of the mouth downwards and forwards, and thus make tense the following muscles:— Zygomaticus Major.—Arises fleshy and flat above the lower edge of the malar bone, becomes rounded, and passes obliquely downwards and forwards, and is inser- ted into the angle of the mouth. Relations It is covered by the orbicularis palpebra- rum, branches of the portio dura, with a quantity of fat, and lies on the bone, transverse facial artery, and vein, masseter, buccinator muscles, fat in which it is buried, and facial vein and artery. Zygomaticus Minor Sometimes wanting, arises from the upper part of the malar bone above and be- fore the major, passes downwards and forwards, and is inserted into the upper lip and orbicularis oris. Relations.—It lies on the bone, levator anguli oris, and facial vein, covered by the orbicularis palpebrarum and integument. This muscle is frequently united at its origin with the fibres of the orbicularis, and at its inser- tion with the levator labii superioris, of which it might be considered an additional origin. Action.—These muscles draw upwards and backwards the angle of the mouth and upper lip, as in tetanus. Raise the levator labii, together with the last muscles, and expose the following:— Levator Anguli Oris vel Musculus Caninus Arises thin from the canine fossa, external to the compres- sor nasi, passes downwards and a little backwards, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth, and the orbicularis oris, a slip being often continued downwards to the triangularis oris. Relations.—It is covered by the orbicularis palpe- brarum, levator labii superioris, the infra-orbital nerve and artery, which is interposed between them; it lies on the bone, buccinator, and mucous membrane. Some- times it is fasciculated at its origin, many of its fibres being then inserted into the integument. Action—To elevate the angle of the mouth, and thus