CEREBRAL NERVES. 677 by the venous membrane, but at the anterior part of the cavity it passes outwards, lying immediately be- neath the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and above the ophthalmic vein, then running through the base of the sphenoidal fissure, between the two heads of the external rectus, it attaches itself to the deep surface of that mus- cle, which It supplies exclusively. Whilst in the caver- nous sinus It communicates with the sympathetic and Vidian nerves by very fine filaments which lie on the outer side of the carotid artery. Seventh Nerve consists of two portions,_portio mollis and dura or facial nerve. The portio mollis ; arises by four or five banded filaments from the side of the calamus scriptorius, which, uniting, pass upwards, forwards, and outwards before the pneumogastric and : subpeduncular lobule, becoming visible behind the crus ;cerebelli; the portio dura, white, round, and fascicu- Mated, appears to arise in the upper part of the groove .■between the restiform and olivary bodies, above the ^glosso-pharyngeal and below the pons, and windino- for- . wards beneath the crus cerebelli, it becomes applied to tthe portio mollis; but the real origin of this last nerve :niay be traced to the posterior pyramids in the imme- ' diate vicinity of the soft branch. In their course they aare separated by the restiform body, choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle, and the acoustic artery, which is a .branch of the superior cerebellar. They now pass out- wards and forwards to reach the internal auditory mea- ttus, the dura lying anterior to the mollis, but on enter- ing that canal the former becomes superior to the latter itnn/f^" . ^^^^ting between them • portio intermedia, Wrisberg), and at the extremity of ^ he meatus they separate, and each should now be fol- 1 lowed to Its termination. Auditory, Terminal DisTRiBUTroN.—When thenerve rreaches the extremity of the internal auditory meatus I t divides into the vestibular and cochlear branches! Ihe former which is most posterior, consists of three ■;ets of branches,—superior, middle, and inferior: the first ■Pierces the inner wall of the vestibule immediately be- hind the internal orifice of the aqueduct of Fallopius •and IS distributed to the utriculus and the ampulla of