19 THE SPINE IN GENERAL. THE SPINE IN GENERAL. It will be necessary, before proceeding further, to take a general view of the spinal column, as it appears in the adult human being, as well as the modifications which may be induced in it by age, habit, or disease. When observed on its anterior aspect it presents the appearance of a knotted stick, tapering at either extre- mity, but gradually enlarging a little below its centre, constituting, in fact, two pyramids, with their bases op- posed to each other, at the upper part of the sacrum. However, on a closer examination it will be found that the superior pyramid maybe again subdivided into three smaller ones, depending upon the unequal size of cer- tain vertebrse, presenting too obvious a difierence to be easily overlooked. The last lumbar vertebrae is ex- ceedingly large, while the fourth dorsal is comparatively small; thus the first pyramid is formed with the base below and the apex above. From this point, however, there is a gradual increase in size, as far as the seventh cervical, thus constituting the second, with its apex be- low united to that of the first, and its base above. • The vertebrse again diminish up to the second, which forms the apex of the third cone, its base being opposed to and at the same point as the second. The spinal column, when viewed anteriorly, is by no means perfectly straight, but presents four great curva- tures in its course downwards. These, although differ- ing from each other in the manner in which their direction is concerned, still, however, modify and coun- terbalance each other in their degree of intensity. Thus the convexity is directed forwards in the cervical region, and corresponds to the longus colli and anterior va- ginal ligament, supporting the pharynx, larynx, and upper part of the CBSophagus. In the dorsal region the concavity is directed forwards, is covered almost entirely by the broad common ligaments, supports the pericardium and great vessels, with the several parts contained in the posterior mediastinum. The concavity in this region increases the antero-posterior