109 THE NASAL BONES. maxillary fissure, the other, superior and anterior, form- ing part of the floor of the orbit, and three articular,— one in front and above to unite with the orbital plate of the superior maxilla; one behind and above for the body of the sphenoid; and one internally for the eth- moid. An imperfect cell is usually found in this process, which communicates with the sphenoidal sinus. The posterior process is thin and prolonged backwards to articulate with the roots of the pterygoid plates as they springfrom its body, and henceitsname,—thesphenoidal. The Palate unites with two bones of the head,—the ethmoid and sphenoid, and four of the face; its fellow, the superior maxilla, the inferior spongy, and vomer. It has seven processes,—the horizontal and vertical plates, the pterygoid, crest, spine, orbital, and sphe- noidal. Its foramina are two proper—the palatine hole and its accessory,—and two common—the spheno-max- illary and spheno-palatine canal; the two last will be more particularly alluded to in our description of the cranium. It is developed from a single point of ossifi- cation, which is visible about the sixth week at the ex- ternal inferior part, or the junction of the two plates with the pterygoid process. In the foetus its vertical measurement is less than its transverse, and it is also much broader comparatively in the antero-posterior direction. Nasal Bones.—These are two in number, and form part of the roof of the nose. In figure they are oblong, narrow and thick above, broader and thin below. They are of variable shape in different individuals: in some being flat, in others concave or convex; presenting for ex- amination an anterior and a posterior surface, a superior and an inferior extremity, and an internal and external margin. The anterior surface is smooth, and corres- ponds to the integuments and pyramidalis nasi; the posterior, concave and marked by a groove, for the nasal twig of the ophthalmic, is covered by the pituitary mem- brane ; the superior extremity is rough, thick, and serrated to articulate with the internal angular process of the os fronds; the inferior, sharp and thin, sometimes notched, is connected to the nasal cartilages; the internal edge thick and bevilled, so that their anterior parts come in