77 THE PHALANGES. ihough they still present characters precisely similar; a sesamoid bone is always found on either side of its metacarpo-phalangeal articulation; the internal afford- ing insertion to the inner head of the flexor pollicis brevis; the external to its outer, to the adductor pol- licis, the transversalis pedis, and slip from the peronaus longus. Into the base of the second phalanx is inserted inferiorly the flexor pollicis longus; superiorly its exten- sor. The corresponding rows of the four outer toes present a striking resemblance to the former, so that they can only be distinguished from each other by their size, as they imperceptibly become smaller from the second to the fifth. Posteriorly they are excavated, forming cups for the reception of the heads of the ad- jacent bones; anteriorly rounded and convex, and divided on their under surface into two small condyles, xvhich are accurately adapted to similar facettes on the contiguous phalanges. The last is very peculiar, from its constriction in the centre, and its expanded extre- mities. At their distal and proximal ends, laterally, are the tubercles, for the attachments of the lateral ligaments; superiorly they are invested by the aponeu- rosis of the long extensor tendons; inferiorly they form the anterior part of the sheath in which the flexor ten- dons work; the base of the first giving insertion to the lumbricales and interossei; the middle of the second to the flexor brevis; and the base of the third to the flexor longus. The bones of both the metatarsus and phalanges are developed from two points of ossification: one for the shafts, and one for the posterior extremities. They are visible at varying periods before birth, but are not completely united till the eighteenth or twen- tieth year. The foot, the great point of support of the whole body, is remarkable for its extreme strength, combined with an extent of elasticity which imparts a facility of motion and springiness in progression which man pos- sesses in an eminent degree. It is of a triangular shape, the apex turned posteriorly, the base in front; but be- cause three points only meet the ground when resting upon it, it has been compared to a tripod; the posterior