THE SKULL. 79 the body on the anterior part of the foot, where the elasticity of the phalangeal arch is now brought into action. This last, hitherto little noticed, is of essential service in progression; its buttresses are the distal ex- tremities of the metatarsal bones, and the points of the toes themselves; its convexity is turned upwards, the concavity downwards. Any one can readily satisfy him- self by experiment as to the great amount of elasticity which this arch possesses, and its power of propulsion where the body is inclined forwards, anterior to its na- tural equilibrium. THE SKULL. We must now proceed to examine one of the most important parts of the whole skeleton—the cranium; and in doing so we will merely state here, that it is si- tuated on the upper part of the spinal column; that it is of an irregular, ovoid shape, broader behind than in front,—containing an organ, the integrity of which is essential to life; that it is anteriorly blended with the bones of the face, which lie anterior and inferior to it, reserving the more general observations on it as a whole till we have examined minutely the several parts which constitute it. The Cranium consists of eight bones, of which four are single and two double. The four single are the fron- tal, occipital, sphenoid, and ethmoid; the two double, the parietal and temporal,—one being found on either side. We will begin with the description of the frontal. Frontal—This has been compared in shape to a bivalve shell, smooth and convex externally, concave internally, and marked by prominences and pits corre- sponding to the convolutions of the brain, known by the name of mammillary elevations and digital impres- sions. It lies anterior and superior to the other bones, and forms a part of the cranium, forehead, and orbits. In examining it, we will give it two surfaces,—an ex- ternal and internal,—and a circumference. The exter- nal surface may be divided into two parts; the cranial reaching from its margin posteriorly, where it articu-