11 THE SPINAL COLUMN. the vertebrae above and below. The superior are con- cave from side to side, straight from above downwards, and look inwards and backwards, while the inferior are exactly the reverse, being convex from side to side, and look forwards and outwards. They are covered with car- tilage, and lock closely with the facettes of the adjoin- ing bone, where they are kept in position by a tense capsular ligament. The laminae in this region are broad and strong, stretching obliquely downwards and back- wards, diverging anteriorly where they become conti- nuous with the roots of the oblique and transverse pro- cesses, converging posteriorly where they unite to form the spine; their upper and lower margins connected to the corresponding vertebrse by elastic tissue, called the ligamenta subflava. The spinous process is thick and wedge-shaped, thin superiorly, broad inferiorly, blunted at its extremity, where it is bordered by a thick crest of bone. It stands out nearly horizontally, and gives attachment to the inter and supraspinous ligaments, lumbar aponeurosis, and extensors of the spine. The canal in this region is triangular in shape, and large, owing to the amount of mobility which this part enjoys. It is bounded in front by the back part of the body; on each side by the pedicles, roots of the transverse and oblique processes; and behind by the la- mina, converging to form the spine. The fifth or last lumbar vertebra differs from the others in the following particulars. It is cut off obliquely on its inferior surface, so that its vertical depth in front far exceeds its similar measurement posteriorly. The same rule prevails with respect to the intervertebral disc between it and the sacrum, and this produces that re- markable appearance at the junction of those bones known as the promontory of the sacrum or sacro-verte- bral angle. Dorsal Region—The dorsal vertebrae, taken as a whole, are much smaller than the lumbar, and dif- fer from them in several important particulars. The body is more circular, and shorter in its vertical mea- surement before than behind. On its sides posteriorly, at the upper and lower margins, two small facettes are visible, the superior being a little larger than the infe-