LIVER. 561 2 B 3 fecal matter lodging in this dependent portion of the gut. The appendix vermiformis, of variable length, but always persistent, remains to mark out the original point of communication between the alimentary canal and the umbilical vesicle, a fact that was formerly doubted, but is now placed beyond dispute by the in- vestigation of recent observers. LIVER. Having now concluded our remarks on the hollow viscera, we will next proceed to examine the solid, com- mencing with the liver, as being the most important in the animal economy. It is the largest of all the glan- dular bodies, remarkable not only for its size, but like- wise for its firmness, peculiar construction, and secre- tion,—the latter performing a decided part in the func- tion of digestion. When normally situated, it occupies the right hypochondriac and epigastric regions, but sometimes may extend into the left hypochondriac, or into the right lumbar or umbilical; in forced inspira- tion there can be no doubt but it descends more or less into the two latter. In its general outline it resembles an oblique section, of an ovoid figure, cut longitudi- nally, being longer in its transverse than antero-poste- rior diameter,—the former measuring from ten to twelve inches, the latter from six to eight. It presents for description a superior and inferior surface, an anterior and posterior margin, and a right and left extremity. The superior surface is smooth and very convex; but more particularly so on its right side, presenting, how- ever, a slight sulcus superiorly, corresponding to the falciform ligament; it lies in contact with the dia- phragm, to the concavity of which it is accurately adapted,—this muscle forming the partition between it and the base of the right lung; its inferior surface is concave, but irregular, a deep sulcus running from be- fore backwards, containing the obliterated umbilical vein and ductus venosus, separating it into its right and left lobes. This is sometimes bridged over by a thin layer of hepatic structure (pons hepatis), which oblite- rates the sulcus, leaving, however, the notch still appa- rent at its anterior margin, marking out its position.