328 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. gularis sterni, and origins of tlae diaphragm, with the insertions of the transversalis; the intercostal vessels and nerves, with a thin tendinous layer, separate them. Infracostales vary in number, and are sometimes absent. These are small fleshy slips that pass from one rib to the other. We have only seen them in connexion with the fourth, fifth, and sixth; they are merely super- ficial portions of the internal intercostals. Action.—To raise the ribs in inspiration. By cutting through the cartilages where they join the ribs, and gently raising them, by tearing down the pleura, a thin muscle is seen, the Triangularis Sterni Symmetrical, arising from the base of the ensiform cartilage and extremity of the ster- num ; passes upwards and outwards, and is inserted by four fleshy slips into the cartilages of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs. Relations.—He on the pleura, and are covered by the internal layer of intercostals and internal mam- mary artery. Action—To depress the ribs. Now raise the integument, which has been freed be- fore and behind, from the point of the acromion to the centre of the humerus; remove the layer of fascia in this situation, and the deltoid is exposed. _ _ Deltoid receives its name from its similarity m figure to the Greek letter A inverted; large, thick, and trian- gular ; base above, apex below; arises tendinous from the lower edge of the spine of the scapula, from the poste- rior edtre of the acromion process, and the anterior mar- gin of the external third of the clavicle; the clavicular fibres pass downwards and backwards; the scapular downwards and forwards, and the acromial at first out- wards, then vertically downwards, converging to termi- nate in a tendon by which the muscle is inserted into a V-shaped ridge on the outer side of the humerus at its centre. Sometimes this muscle is divided into three dis- tinct portions, according to its attachments,—acromial scapular, and clavicular; by unravelling its structure it may be resolved into from ten to fifteen triangular fas- ciculi, with their bases above, and their apices below, }