49 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. licis; posteriorly, the extensor primi internodii pollicis; into the base of the last, anteriorly, the flexor pollicis Jongus; posteriorly, the extensor secundi internodii pol- licis; into the base of the first phalanx of the four outer fingers, the lumbricales and interossei; into the middle of the second, anteriorly, the flexor communis, into the base of the third, the flexor profundus. These bones are developed from two points of ossification, one for the upper extremity, and one for the shaft. They are very variable as to their appearance,' from the first to the seventh year. THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The bones entering into the formation of the lower extremity are the two ossa innominata, the femur, pa- tella, tibia, fibula, and foot. We will commence our de- scription with the first, and go through each of them severally in the same order as was observed in the upper. Os Innominatum.—Taken as a whole it may be said to be hour-glass in shape, expanded at both extremities, and contracted and twisted inwards in the centre, but because in early life it was divisible into three distinct parts—the ilium, ischium, and pubis, we will take each of these separately, and having examined them in- dividually, will afterwards consider them as a whole in the general review of the pelvis. Ilium.—This forms by far the largest part of the bone. It may be separated from the other two by makmg a cut with a saw between the pubal eminence and the anterior inferior spinous process, as far as, and a little above, the centre of the acetabulum. Another cut must now be made in the great sciatic notch, to meet the preceding one in the same cavity. This will detach the ilium from the other two. On examining the bone thus removed we find it to be fan-shaped, broad and expanded above, thick and constricted below; its central part bounded on either side by the sawn sur- faces, forming a little less than two-fifths of the aceta- bulum, covered with cartilage, and looking downwards forwards, and outwards. It is bounded above by an elevated ridge or lip, to which is attached the cotyloid