FEMORO-TIBIAL ARTICULATION. 173 over it; below it is attached to the tibia internally and externally, and to its tubercle in front. When this is cautiously removed, the second layer, formed by the expansion from the rectus anteriorly, the vasti laterally, and the semimembranosus behind, is exposed; and like the preceding, is inserted around the head of the tibia. This is very dense immediately over the front of the joint. The third layer, or that derived from the liga- ments, is thin; but its existence can, nevertheless, be clearly demonstrated, its principal use being to confine the large synovial sac which lines the articulation within its proper cavity. Having concluded the examination of the capsule, it may be removed, and the tendons surrounding the joint cut and thrown down; the ligaments may be detached from the synovial membrane, and separately examined. Anterior Ligament, or Ligamentum PATELLiE.— This is situated immediately in front of the articula- tion, and from its general character evidently appears to be a continuation of the common extensors of the leg; the patella being interposed as a sesamoid bone, in. order to bestow a different direction on their tendon. It arises by a broad origin from the point and anterior surface of the bone alluded to, and, passing nearly ver- tically downwards, is inserted into the lowest part of the tubercle of the tibia. As it descends it decreases considerably in tranverse width, but it becomes much thicker from before backwards. It rests posteriorly on a quantity of fat which separates it from the joint, and below on a bursa which intervenes between it and its tubercle of insertion. In front it is in relation with the capsule already described, and two bursse which are situated near its extremities. The fibres of this liga- ment are, when submitted to maceration, found to take a vertical direction, and to be united together by a fine areolar tissue. Ligament of Winslow—This is a broad aponeuro- tic band, given off from the outer margin of the semi- membranosus tendon, stretching upwards and outwards over the posterior condyloid notch, to be inserted into the external condyle of the femur; this is further strengthened by numerous fibres borrowed from the