THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. 204 superior, an arrangement whicli has a manifest tendency to add to the security of the articulation. It is covered in front and externally by the supinator brevis, which is intimately attached to it, and behind by the anconeus; above, the external lateral ligament is inserted into it, and below it is slightly prolonged on the neck of the radius. Synovial Membrane.—This is extended as a cul de sac from the elbow-joint. Oblique Ligament This is thin but strong, arising from the shaft of the ulna, immediately below the co- ronoid process, from which it passes downwards and outwards to be inserted into the anterior surface of the radius, below its tuberosity. It lies between the supi- nator brevis and flexor sublimis, supination renders it quite tense, while pronation relaxes it. Interosseous Membrane.—This, like that between the tibia and fibula, is extremely strong. It consists of a series of fibres, stretching downwards and inwards from the inner edge of the radius to the outer of the ulua, intersected by a few others which take a contrary direction. It is deficient both above and below for the passage of the interosseous vessels and nerves, while it aiFords attachment by its anterior surface to the flexor profundus and pollicis, -and by its posterior to the ex- tensors of the thumb. This ligament, like the preced- ing, is relaxed in pronation, and rendered tense by supination. Inferior Radio-ulnar Ligaments.—These consist of a series of weak fibres, extending nearly transversely across from the anterior and posterior surfaces of the ulna to the corresponding ones of the radius. They are lax, to allow of the necessary degree of mobility in the articulation, and are concealed by the flexor tendons in front, and the extensor behind. Interarticular Fibro-cartilage.—This is trian- gular in shape, very thick at its apex and margins, but thin at its base and in its centre. Internally it is at- tached by its point to the depression between the head and styloid process of the ulna, and passing beneath the former it is inserted by its base into the internal mar- gin of the articular groove on the inner side of the ra-