LIGAMENTS. 145 ■ with indistinct walls and compound nuclei, with oily i particles,—these cells having a linear arrangement, ver- I tical to the surface in the articular cartilages; but in ; the laryngeal, tracheal, costal, nasal, and auricular car- tilages the cells are without any definite arrangement, I although all belonging to the same system. The false or : fibrous cartilages are composed of wavy bands of fibrous 1 tissue, containing in their areolae but few cells, and these I devoid of that bold outline that characterizes the true. ' The fibro-cartilages are principally interarticular, but Ithis tissue also lines those osseous grooves, through or (over which tendons play (stratiform cartilage). True (cartilage yields an animal matter, when subjected to llong boiling, chondrine—nearly allied to gelatine, but iit differs from the latter in not being precipitated from 3a solution by tannic acid, and in being thrown down tby acetic acid, acetate of lead, and protosulphate of iron. :The cartilage of bone before ossification (true) yields . chondrine only, but at the completion of that process, ^gelatme is the product obtained. Fibro-cartilage yields ^gelatine without a trace of chondrine. Articular car- ttilage is thicker on the centre of a convexity; but the .-opposite rule holds in reference to concavities. Its con- mexion to the bone is not exactly determined; four rmeans of conjunction have been enumerated: firstly, by imutually irregular but indigitating surfaces; secondly, thy vascular loops; thirdly, by a continuation of the sy- nnovial membrane over its surface; and, fourthly, by a pprolongation of the periosteum between it and the bone. IThe vessels terminate at the margins in loops, dilatecl ifrequently into ampullffi,_not, at least in the adult, ireaching the deep surface of the cartilage,—a thin layer ODt dense but porous bone intervening. In fcetal life ca- unals exist, by which the blood plasma permeates the ttissue fonts nutrition; a vascular plexus also occurs nt that period on the synovial surface, which disappears S(30on after birth. The fibrous cartilages are supplied by H circumferential vascular circle, from which loops are continued into the structure, but always terminating boefore they reach the centre or that point most liable tec pressure. Ligaments—These belong to the class of fibrous tis- H