679 CEREBRAL NERVES. directed forwards. The temporal cross the zygomatic arch at right angles, expanding on the temporal region, and communicating with the frontal and temporo-auri- cular nerves; its branches are flat like ribbons, some terminating in the skin, and others in the frontal por- tion of the occipito-frontalis. The orbital set pass for- wards beneath the npper and lower segments of the or- bicularis palpebrarum, which they supply, together with the corrugator supercilii. The Infra-orbital or Buccal Branches consist ge- nerally of two sets, accompanying the Stenonian duct, across the masseter muscle,—one set, superficial, supply the_ zygomatics, levator labii superioris, and pyramidalis nasi; the second, deeper, are distributed to the levator anguliorisand compressor nasi, whilst long slender twigs of both divisions are given off to the integument, com- municating with the infra-orbital. Cervico-FACIAL DIVISION. — Smaller than the last, runs downwards and forwards in the substance of the parotid, and divides into buccal, mental, and cervical branches: the buccal cross the masseter, frequently com- municating and sending one or two filaments to that muscle, and, running between the fibres of the buccina- tor, supply it, communicating with the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary. The mental pass forwards for the supply of the muscles of the lower lip, anastomosing- with the mental branch of the inferior dental. The cer- vical branches run downwards and forwards, then curve upwards between the platysma and fascia, and terminate ' beneath the chin in the submaxillary region on descend- 1 mg to communicate with a superficial branch of the cer- 'vical plexus. Immediately as the trunk leaves the stylo-mastoid I foramen it gives off three small branches,—namely, pos- iterior auricular, stylo-hyoid, and digastric. The pos- Iterior auricular, arising from the external and posterior I part of the trunk, winds round the anterior and exter- inal face of the mastoid process, then ascending, sends 'One branch backwards on the occipital region, while ithe other ascends, entering the retrahens aurem, and 1 having left a twig in that muscle, it escapes and passes lupwards to reach the attollens aurem, in which it ter-