33 SCAPULA. two bones only, the sternum and scapula; occasionally it lies on the cartilage of the first rib. It is developed at a very early period, generally about the thirtieth day, and continues to grow very rapidly during the term of intra-uterine life. It has but one single point of ossification, but sometimes a complementary nodule is found on its under surface near the sternum, and a se- cond for the tubercles, of thecoraco-clavicular ligaments. This bone in the female is easily distinguishable from that of the male; it is comparatively longer, much straighter, and always more rounded. The clavicle, in fact, appears to be more influenced in shape and size above all the other bones by the nature of the avoca- tions, whether laborious or otherwise, in which its pos- sessor was engaged. Scapula—This belongs to the class of flat bones, and is found on the lateral and posterior part of the thorax, occupying the interval between the first and seventh ribs. It is of a triangular form; its base turned backwards and inwards; its apex, which is formed by the glenoid cavity, pointing upwards, for- wards, and outwards. In the description of the bone it is necessary to give it two surfaces, an internal and external; three borders, a superior or cervical, a poste- rior or vertebral, or base, and an inferior or anterior, or axillary; three angles, a superior posterior, an inferior posterior, and an anterior; three processes, a coracoid, acromion, and spine. If we take the internal surface of the bone we will find it to be concave and marked by three or four elevated ridges or lines, which give attachment to the subscapular muscle. The external surface is divided into two distinct portions by the spine, leaving a fossa above it, called the supraspinous; another below it, the infraspinous. These diff"er from each other in size, the inferior being three times as large as the superior. The latter, which is of an irre- gular triangular shape and concave, affords attachment to the supraspinous muscle, while the former, which is of a similar figure and convex, bounded below by an elevated ridge, gives origin to the infraspinous muscle. The ridge which appears on it below is broad and expanded posteriorly, narrow andconstricted anteriorly;