BRANCHES OF SUBCLAVIAN. 811 wards in the anterior median furrow of the cord, be- neath the thickened process of pia mater (membrana resplendens), and terminates inferiorly at the coccyx by anastomosing with branches of the middle and lateral sacral. In its descent it communicates with the deep cervical, vertebral, intercostal, and lumbar. Remarks.—It is very tortuous, presenting several di- latations and constrictions. Anomalies—It may arise as a single trunk from the basilar. Posterior Spinal arises from the back part of the vertebral, a little below the last, and having sent up a small filament to supply the fourth ventricle, it divides into two branches,—an internal, which descends along the margin of the posterior median furrow; and an exter- nal, which runs on the outer side of the posterior spinal nerves, anastomosing with each other frequently, and with the former as well as its fellow of the opposite side, ihey also communicate with the same arteries as the anterior spinal. Remarks—These branches are also tortuous, and rarely ot the same size on both sides. Anomalies.—Th^j frequently arise, at least one of them, from the inferior cerebellar. Inferior Cerebellar.—Generally large, arising from the vertebral just before its termination; it passes back- wards and inwards round the medulla oblongata, first between the filaments of origin of the ninth nerve, and then between the pneumogastric' and spinal accessory. It now enters the posterior median fissure of the cere- bellum, where it lies very close to that of the opposite side, and divides into two branches,—an internal, which continues its course to the upper surface of the cerebel- lum as far as the superior vermiform appendix, where it anastomoses with the superior cerebellar, from which branches pass inwards, with the velum interpositum, as far as the foramen commune anterius, to communicate rJ^]^^"'"^ perforating filaments from the circle of Willis ; and an external, which, winding round the outside of the cerebellum to its upper margin, unites with corresponding branches of the superior. Remarks.—ll might be almost stated as a rule that