320 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. muscles, on the mastoid process and occipital artery, covered by splenius and transversalis colli. Action To rotate the head, and draw it backwards and to one side. CoMPLEXUS Tendinous and bifid below, thick and fleshy above; arises tendinous from the spines of the six superior dorsal, and from the transverse and oblique processes of the four inferior cervical vertebra, passes obliquely upwards and outwards, and is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone, between the two transverse ridges, internal to the splenius capi- tis ; the internal portion is first fleshy, and then forms a tendon about two inches in length, to which again succeeds a fleshy belly, the name biventer is some- times applied to it; a second flat longitudinal tendon lies in the middle of the outer portion, from which an irregular tendinous line passes upwards and outwards; sometimes a second digastric fasciculus is observed on the deep surface. Relations.—It is covered by the longissimus dorsi, trapezius, transversalis colli and splenius, occipital artery, and great occipital nerve, which pierces_ the muscle just below its insertion; it lies on the obliqui, the posterior recti, the vertebral artery, cervicalis pro- funda, and posterior jugular vein, which hes deep on the spinalis colli. Action.—To revert the head, and support it erect; also to rotate the atlas on the axis. Eemove the coraplexus, this exposes the fourth layer, which consists of nine muscles, namely, semispmahs colli and dorsi, which together are termed the dorsi-cer- vico-spinalis,—interspinalis, intertransversalis, muitib- dus spinas, the obliqui and recti. DoRSi-CERVico-sPiNALis consists of a series ot ten- dinous and fleshy fasciculi; the dorsal portions arise from the transverse processes of the six inferior dorsal and are inserted into the spines of the five superior and two inferior cervical vertebras. . . v u Cervical PoRTioN.-This consists of six shps, much thicker and stronger than the dorsal; they arise from the oblique processes of the five lower cervical, and are inserted into the spines of all except the atlas. This