538 CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEW- and partially invest the ascending and descending colons, keeping them fixed in the right andleft lumbar regions. In their course outwards they likewise cover the an- terior surface of the kidney. MESociECUM and Ilio-Mesocolon.—Both these pro- cesses, the one partially investing the caecum, and the other the sigmoid flexure, are continuations downwards of the mesocolons of either side; the latter being always the most perfect, constituting a species of mesentery for this portion of the gut. The vermiform appendix, which is attached to the inner and posterior part of the c^cum, is very variable with respect to its peritoneal connexions, beino- sometimes tensely bound down by it to the wall of the pelvis, while at others it is sufficiently loose to allow it to float freely in that cavity. Mesorectum. — This, as we have already stated, forms a perfect covering for the upper third of the rec- tum, but is deficient posteriorly on its middle thirds, where it invests it only laterally and anteriorly, from which it is reflected forwards on the back part of the bladder, leaving its inferior third completely tmcovered. The partial envelope which it affords to the bladder has been already fully described in the anatomy of that viscus, and we will therefore only observe here, that m the male subject a large cid de sac is left between it and the rectum, its sides prominent, owing to the pas- sao-e of the ureters, which are contained withm its folds; and in this space is contained a great part of the small intestines. From the existence of the uterus in the female, it necessarily results that two such de sacs must ot;cur, one being situated between the front of the rectum and the back part of the vagina and uterus,--tlie larger; and the second between the front of the latter orcran and the back of the bladder,_the smaller. In the case of the female, likewise, two broad folos stretch from the sides of the uterus to the correspondmg iliac lossfe; they are termed the broad ligaments, contammg withm their folds the round ligament of the uterus, ovaries, and Fallopian tubes. . , ^ StLiure.-'nns, like the pleura, consists of a supcn - ficial layer of pavement epithelium, supported hy a ba e- ment membrane, with a subjacent stratum ot areolar