220 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. ficial surfece is attached to the integument by dense areolar tissue; the deep is free, and extremely moveable on the bone, being attached to the pericranium by fine lax areolar tissue. Relations. — It lies on the occipital, parietal, and frontal bones, on the dorsum of the nose; a thin layer also rests on the temporal fascia. It is covered by the integument and areolar tissue, and on it are seen the following nerves and vessels:—Anteriorly, supra-orbital artery and nerve, supratrochleator nerve, and frontal artery; laterally, the temporal artery and four nerves,— auricularis magnus, temporo-auricular, temporal branch of superior maxillary, and lastly, temporal branches of portio dura; posteriorly, the posterior auris artery and occipital, the posterior auricular nerve, the lesser occi- pital, and great occipital. Before proceeding further with the dissection, the stu- dent should carefully observe the position of the several nerves and vessels exposed and enumerated. Supra-orbital Artery.—A branch of the ophthalmic arises within the orbit, passes through the supra-orbital notch in company with the frontal nerve, turns upwards between the orbicularis and corrugator supercilii, co- vered by the former and occipito-frontalis. It sends branches outwards, to communicate with the anterior branch of the temporal, then divides into two—a super- ficial that pierces the orbicularis, then lies on the occi- pito-frontalis, merely covered by the integument which it supplies; the deep branch is not visible until the muscle is raised; it lies on the periosteum, which it principally supplies, but its termination is generally cutaneous. We often have seen the frontal artery sup- plying the place of this vessel. . Frontal Artery, also a branch of the ophthalmic, is seen emerging from the orbit above the pulley of the superior oblique, by raising the upper and inner por- tion of the orbicularis. Sometimes it is very large, and supplies the supra-orbitnl branches, but always small twigs are sent upwards to the occipito-frontalis and in- tegument. , , 1 • Frontal Nerve, a branch of the ophthalmic, escapes by the supra-orbital notch, divides into a superficial and