ILIO-FEMORAL ARTICXJLATION. 160 I minimus and outer head of the rectus. Posteriorly the same remark applies to the several rotators out- wards, for the position of the limb, semiflexed and fwisted inwards, favourable to displacement in this direction, will necessarily put them on the stretch, and cause them to make pressure upon the protruding head. Inferiorly and internally the tendon of the ob- turator sweeps beneath it, and partially sustains it in forced abduction. Ilio-Femoral or Accessory Ligament.—This is a dense, flattened band of fibres, apparently a thickened portion of the capside, arising from the anterior infe- irior spinous process of the ilium; and passing from this point downwards, backwards, and outwards, it is inserted into a rough space anterior to the lesser tro- L'chanter. It rests upon the capsule, and is covered by the ttendons of the psoas and iliacus. Its use is to prevent oover-rotation inwards, and extreme extension; and in t'lforcibly attempting either of those motions, it becomes eexceedingly tense, and resists every effort to carry it tbeyond a certain point. LiGAMENTDM Teres, or EoUND LiGAMENT.—The cap- <sule must be divided, and the head of the bone dislo- ccated, in order to bring this into view. The syno- vial membrane which invests it must be cautiously cdissected off", when the ligament is seen to arise by two -small crura from the upper and lower edge of the notch lin the acetabulum; and proceeding outwards, back- mards, and upwards, they unite into one, but diverge ;again before they reach the head of the bone; and, becoming twisted and expanded, are inserted into a de- pression below its transverse axis. Eegarded as a liga- iraent, it is of very little use indeed to confer security on the joint; but it forms the medium by which the ves- sels are conducted to the head of the bone, as well as a jiieans of reflecting the synovial membrane from the ihead to the acetabulum. As it is closely connected to the IHaversian gland, it may be likewise of use in moving tthis, so as to fill up the several interstices which must ttake place in the various motions of the joint. Cotyloid Ligament—This, which is fully exposed by itheremovalof thecapsular, is attached all round the brim