880 ARTERIES AND VEINS. tulous condition wlien divided, insomuch that the tying of the vessel in amputation at the shoulder-joint has been recommended; however, it was not at all neces- sary to apply a ligature in a case of amputation of the shoulder performed by Mr. Rumley in the year 1820; nor was it tied by Mr. Rynd, of the Meath Hospital, in his recent operation, according to the account that we have received. It appears that if the vessel is divided high up, that a greater probability of its remaining patulous occurs, than when cut low down in the axilla, and with this opinion our friend Mr. Butcher coincides. The inner head of the median, and the communicat- ing branch between the anterior and middle thoracic nerves, separate the vein from the artery, and it re- ceives the circumflex, subscapular, and long thoracic veins, just at the lower edge of the lesser pectoral, pro- ducing an enlargement at this point (sinus of axillary vein).°The subscapular is a large trunk about one inch in length, commencing by an anterior and posterior branch" corresponding to the divisions of the artery of the same name; these, uniting, form the trunk, which opens into the inner side of the axillary vein, anterior to the artery, and internal division of the brachial plexus; above the lesser pectoral the axillary vein re- ceives the anterior circumflex, acromial thoracic, with muscular branches from the deltoid, and superiorly the cephalic trunk. . . The Subclavian Vein commences as a continuation oi the axillary at the lower margin of the first rib, and terminates at the sterno-clavicular articulation, by uniting with the internal jugular to constitute the vena innominata. It lies anterior and inferior to the artery, and bein"- transverse in direction is compared to a chord subtending the arc of a circle. Anteriorly, the rela- tions are similar to the artery; inferiorly, cone ot the pleura and first rib; and behind, the subclavian artery; anterior scalenus and phrenic nerve. Both right and left veins are about the same length, and they receive the anterior, external, and sometimes posterior jugulars, and sometimes the vertebral.