THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. 178 ligaments, is reflected around the fat behind the pa- tella, over the posterior surface of which and its proper ligament it is also spread out; it throws off distinct folds, forming the mucous and alar ligaments already described, and, passing upwards beneath the extensor tendons, it forms a large cul de sac, which extends for some distance between the vastus internus and the bone. Its continuity is clearly demonstrated from disease. Adipose Tissue.—This is found in a great quantity in this joint. Besides the large mass which is situated immediately behind the iigamentum patella, it occupies likewise the space between both condyles. Always ex- isting, even after the most wasting disease, which only ap- pears to modify its structure, rendering it of a more wa- tery character, without sensibly diminishing its volume. Motions.—These are confined to flexion and exten- sion, with slight rotation. Flexion. — This is most extensive, and is limited only by the leg and thigh coming in contact; in this motion the head of the tibia glides upon the rounded condyles of the femur, relaxing all the ligaments but that of the patella, which becomes extremely tense and prominent; in this condition the knee presents gene- rally a rounded form, owing to the position of the pa- tella, which covers in the depression which would otherwise naturally exist between the bones, forming a kind of shield for its protection, while so firmly is it fixed in the trochlea of the femur that it resists every effort to displace it. Extension can be only carried so far as to bring the thigh and leg to a straight line, but any motion beyond this is impossible, as all the ligaments, with the excep- tion of the Iigamentum patellas, are on the stretch; the several tendons also which glide behind the condyles are in the same state, and actively resist further motion in this direction; the knee may, in fact, be compared to a hinge at present much used by mechanics, which from its peculiar construction permits motion in one direc- tion, while it limits it completely in the opposite; it is called a stop-hinge. Rotation.—This is very inconsiderable, and may be said only to exist in semiflexion; in this motion the