814 AETERIES AND VEINS. vital fluid by increasing friction. The convergence of the two vertebral arteries for the formation of the basilar would, on a cursory view, appear to imply a de- sire to increase, not to diminish, the force and rapidity of the circulation, but the obvious explanation of this arrangement may be thus simply stated,—that inasmuch as the entire weight of the brain is thrown upon this particular vessel, it is clear that unless some peculiar mechanism was employed, the blood would be incapable of overcoming the resistance thus entailed on it by com- pression, and more especially as the arterial tubes of this region are deficient in that elasticity which is their pre- dominant characteristics in other situations, both the external and middle coats being absolutely thinner and weaker The most remarkable inosculation that exists is that'of the circle of Willis, all danger from undue pressure being here guarded against by the subarachnoid fluid an unresisting medium in which the vessels are continually bathed. The pia mater forms the great ve- hicle for conducting the arterial ramifications for the nutrition of the organ; but it must be observed, that several large branches permeate the white substance tor the more complete supply of the grey. Thyroid Axis arises from the anterior and supe- perior part of the subclavian a little external to the ver- tebral and passes upwards and outwards lor about half-an-inch, and then terminates by dividing into its four branches. . delations.—Anteviorlj, integument, platysma fascia, sterno-mastoid, deep cervical fascia, and internal jugu- lar vein; and posteriorly, edge of scalenus and phrenic nerve. i • Remarks.—We have observed nothing very peculiar concerning this artery except its variable length. Anoinalies.-lt may arise from the second stage of the subclavian, or in common with the interna mammary, or it may have no existence at all, each of its branches, arisine independently from the subclavian. Collateral Branches.—Inferior thyroid, ascending cervical, transversalis colli, and transversalis humeri. Inferior Thyroid arises from the inner side oi th axis, passes upwards and inwards to the thyroid body.