THE THORAX. 23 portant organ, the spinal marrow. This is proved by the late appearance of the ossific nuclei in the processes • they are comparatively of little consequence, and accord- ingly are not completed till an advanced period the fifteenth or twentieth year. The atlas is, however, pe- culiar in its ossification, for while its posterior half-arch follows the general rule of the laminte of the other ver- tebrae, no ossific point appears in its anterior till a year after birth. We have already alluded to the late period in which the change is produced in the sacrum and coccyx, so that it is quite unnecessary to repeat them here. THE THORAX. In pursuing the description of the osseous framework of the body, the thorax naturally comes next after the spinal column, both from its direct connexion with it and its very great importance in the animal economy. It is a large cavity, imperfectly conical, situated rather above the centre of the trunk; and, in addition to the other structures entering into its formation, has the ribs and sternum, which we shall now proceed to de- scribe. EiBS.—These bones from their position and use have been classed both as long and flat bones, acting in the one instance as levers, to which the muscles are attached, and in the other as flat ones, to enclose a cavity. They are twenty-four in number, or twelve on each side, while from the different manner in which they are situated with regard to the sternum, they have been divided into sternal, asternal, and floating. The first of these are seven in number, and are directly con- nected to the sternum by their own proper cartilages. The second consist of the three succeeding, which, although attached to the sternum, are only so indirectly, for their cartilages unite after proceeding for some dis- tance, and then the common one formed by the three becomes blended with that of the seventh, which gives them a species of connexion to the sternum. The two last are called floating ribs from the manner in which they seem to float in the cavity, having only a single