726 NEEVOUS SYSTEM. the anterior lacerated hole, as well as with the nerve of Jacobson, or tympanic plexus, and on entering the cavernous sinus, it anastomoses by several filaments with the sixth nerve. From the plexus formed in this last situation two twigs are given oS which accompany the anterior cerebral artery as far as the arteria com- municans, on which they unite to .form the ganglion of Eibes, the existence of which may be considered fairly questionable; while in the cavernous sinus it likewise communicates with the third, Casserian, and lenticular ganglions, whilst it also sends oflf branches to the pituitary body, with others to accompany the ultimate divisions of the internal carotid, around which they form complicated plexuses. Inferior Branch.—This consists of a fine tapering cord, which descends behind the sheath of the vessels, to which it is connected by fine areolar tissue, as far as the inferior thyroid artery, where it joins the middle, or, where that has no existence, continuing downwards as far as the inferior ganglion. In its course it com- municates by one or two twigs with the cervical plexus, also with the superior cardiac and superior laryngeal. External Branches.—These pass backwards to unite with the first and second cervical, but particu- larly with the latter, a distinct twig being sometimes given to the phrenic. . Internal Branches—These may be divided into vascular and visceral; the former accompany the exter- nal carotid, around the branches of which it forms nu- merous plexuses and minute ganglia, accompanying them to their ultimate termination; while the latter or visceral may be again subdivided into pharyngeal, laryn- geal, and cardiac; the first uniting with the branches of the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric to torm the pharyngeal plexus for the supply of tlie muscles oi the pharynx; the second communicating with the su- perior laryngeal for the supply of that tube, while the third is destined for the heart, and will presently be more particularly alluded to. i * ,i • i. Anterior BuANCHES.-These consist of short thick branches of communication to the eighth nerve; la- ments are also occasionally given to the ninth, but are not always capable of demonstration.