NERVOUS SYSTEM. 688 August, 1851, page 75; also, an account of Dr. Hugh Ferguson's Preparation, by Dr. E. W. Smith, Quar- terly Journal, N. S., vol. ix., page 236.) Pulmonary Branches.—These have been already examined with the lungs (see Anatomy of the Chest). (Esophageal Plexus is formed by the union of a number of filaments, which, arising from the pneumo- gastric trunks, surround that tube. G astric Branches.—When the pneumogastric nerves enter the abdomen through the oesophageal opening, the left, which is anterior, expands on the anterior sur- face and lesser curvature of the stomach, sending branches through the gastro-hepatic omentum to the liver, whilst the right expands on the posterior surface and great curvature, sending a number of branches to the solar plexus. The function of the gastric branches has given rise to much difference of opinion amongst physiologists. Wilson Philip believed them to preside over the secretion of gastric juice, as that function_ was suspended on their division in a living animal; Sir B. Brodie, on the other hand, conceives that their section checks the secretion of gastric mucus; Avhilst Dr. Reid considers that their division only impedes digestion, and that in a more marked degree in the herbivora, owing to the complexity of the function of digestion in that class of animals; and he leans to the opinion that they preside over the sensations of hunger and satiety, as emanating from the stomach. Spinal Accessory Nerve—Intermediate in size be- tween the pneumogastric and glosso-pharyngeal; escapes from the jugular foramen, and, dividing into an internal or anastomotic branch, which joins the pneumogastric, and an external, which, communicating with the glosso- pharyngeal, ninth and sympathetic nerves, passes down- wardi and outwards, lying in front of (sometimes be- hind) the jugular vein, where it is crossed by the occi- pital artery, then lies on the rectus capitis lateralis, beneath the posterior belly of the digastric, and continu- ing its course, it pierces the upper third of the sterno- mfstoid, communicating with the third and fourth cer- vical nerves in the posterior superior triangle of the neck; and, arriving at the anterior margin of the trape-