222 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. the anterior and superior edge of the parotid, and radi- ate on the temporal region as far forward as the orbicu- laris palpebrarum. Posterior Auricular Artery is seen emerging from the posterior and inferior part of the parotid, where it overlaps the sterno-mastoid muscle; it passes then ob- liquely upwards and backwards between the mastoid process and cartilage of the ear, sends a branch to anas- tomose with the occipital, and the larger or anterior ramifies on the cartilage of the ear. Occipital Artery, like the last described, arises from the external carotid. It is now only observed in its last stage. It pierces the trapezius an inch external to the middle line, and divides into two branches,—an external and internal,—which lie on the occipito-fron- talis, and supply that muscle and the integument. These branches are often exceedingly tortuous, so as in some cases to resemble the splenic artery. The Nerves seen in this region are,—nearest to the mesian line, the great occipital; midway between it and the mastoid process, the lesser occipital; and on that process, the posterior auricular. Great Occipital is the posterior branch of the se- cond cervical. It pierces the trapezius superficial to the artery, and on the occipito-frontalis divides into branches, which are lost in the integument and muscle. Posterior Auricular Nerve arises from the trunk of the portio dura, leaves the parotid at its back part, winds over the anterior and external part of the mas- toid process, sends one branch backward to the occipi- tal region; the other ascends to the retrahens aurem muscle and cartilage of the ear. Lesser Occipital Nerve, a branch of the cervical plexus, ascends at first at the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid, lying on the splenius, then on the in- sertion of the former, and finally on the occipito-fron- talis, which it supplies with the integument. The veins of the scalp, as a general rule, correspond to the arteries, and accompany them in their divisions. They, with the foregoing, will be found minutely de- scribed, with the systems to which they belong. The Muscles of the external ear are seen by raising