THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 136 •white fibrous tissue, strong, but at the same time suffi- ciently lax to allow of a great amount of mobility. The alar or inferior cartilages are irregular in shape; they may be said to consist of a body and caudate process. The body is of an oval shape when viewed on its exter- nal surface, but on examining it more carefully it will be found that a thin plate curves backwards and in- wards, those of the opposite sides being in contact with each other inferiorly, with the intervention of some loose areolar tissue, and occasionally a cartilaginous nodule to facilitate motion, constituting the lobe of the nose, but above they are apart where the septum fits in between them, and is attached to them by fibrous membrane. Their upper edge is connected with the nasal cartilage, but only for a limited extent. Their inferior margin is deeply scolloped to increase the size of the nostril, Avhile their caudate extremity is prolonged around the margin of the orifice, to be attached to the nasal spine of the superior maxillary by strong ligamentous tissue. Around this is reflected the dense integument which constitutes the principal part of the ala of the nose. The vessels and nerves for the supply of the organ of smell are derived from different sources. Its arterial is received principally from the internal maxillary in its third stage, as it lies in the pterygo-maxillary fossa. These enter the nose through the spheno-palatine fora- mina, and break up into numerous branches, which form plexuses with the artery of the filtrum from the supe- rior coronary; the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, from the ophthalmic; twigs from the posterior palatine, and small perforating offsets from the lateral nasal of the facial. Their effete blood is again taken up by a se- ries of veins, which likewise anastomose freel}'-, and form plexuses much larger than the arterial, to be ultimately removed by two trunks,—a superior, which runs along the convex border of the nose; and an inferior, along the lower edge of the lateral cartilage; these unite on the outside of the ala, stretch obliquely upwards, an^ join the angular. The spheno-palatine likewise aids in its removal; it opens into the great alveolar plexus, which again terminates in the facial. The nerves which supply the nose are also numerous,