546 CAVITY OP THE ABDOMEN. ■umbilical. The degree of motion which it enjoys in each of these is very unequal, but this we shall again ad- vert to. The remainder of the small intestine has been known by the name of jejunum and ilium,—an arbitrary dis- tinction, as no real line of demarcation exists between them, it being impossible to determine the termination of the one or the commencement of the other. To fol- low, however, the received rule, we may state that the upper two-fifths has been called the jejunum from the empty condition in Avhich it is usually found, while the remaining portion has been termed the ilium, from the numerous well-marked convolutions which it forms. As . it, however, gradually diminishes in size from its com- mencement to near its termination, its extremes, of course, naturally present very obvious differences; but about three inches before it reaches the right iliac fossa, where it joins the csecum, it again expands, and has a flattened appearance. The arrangement which nature has employed in order to accommodate their great ex- tent to the circumscribed cavity in which they are con- tained is strikingly beautiful. Disposed in coils, each constituting nearly a complete circle, the convexity of which is directed downwards and forwards, and em- braced by the serous membrane, which, springing from the root of the mesentery, passes downwards in front of each to return again behind it to be attached to the same spot,—they form a series of folds, lying upon and beside each other, but still floating so loosely, and_ so freely lubricated by the exudation of their investing membrane, as not to interfere in the slightest degree with the motions so requisite for the functions Avhich they are destined to perform. Their convolutions may be said to occupy more or less partially all the regions of the abdomen, with the exception of the three supe- rior, but they are found in greater abundance on the left than on the right side, owing to the position ot the liver, and extending likewise into the pelvic cavity. The small intestine, consisting of the three parts just alluded to, possesses, like the stomach, four distinct coats,—a serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous. Serous.—This is disposed in a very peculiar manner