823 BRANCHES OF AXILLART. come, which it afterwards perforates for the supply of the subclavius muscle. Thoracica Suprema.—Smaller than the last; it runs downwards and inwards between the two pectorals, to both of which it gives numerous branches, and ulti- mately anastomoses on the Avail of the thorax with the mammary and intercostals. Thoracic^ Alares.—Usually numerous, but small; they spring from the inner side of the axillary beneath the lesser pectoral, and are distributed to the glands and areolar tissue, communicating with each other. Thoracica Longa, or External Mammary, arises below the tendon of the lesser pectoral, and passes down- wards and inwards, and terminates on the side of the thorax by anastomosing with the mammary and inter- costal. Relations.—Anteriorly, greater pectoral; posteriorly, serratus magnus; and superiorly, lesser pectoral. Remarks.—Those four thoracic branches are very va- riable in size, particularly the alar and long thoracic, the latter being larger in the female, from supplying the mammary gland. Anomalies are more frequent in those branches than in any others in the body; in fact they are very rarely regular. The two first almost always arise in common, or the entire of them may spring from a common trunk, ' while the alar thoracic may be either single, or consist of two, three, or four. Anterior Circumflex.—Always small, as contrasted with the posterior; it arises from the axillary, opposite the lower edge of the subscapular tendon, and passes directly outwards, as far as the bicipital groove, Avhere it divides into three branches,—an ascending, which enters the joint with the long tendon of the biceps for its supply; a descending, which passes downwards, to anastomose with the profunda; and a middle, which continues its course, to communicate with the posterior circumflex. > Relations.— Anteriorly, external cutaneous nerve, outer head of median, coraco-brachialis, and short and long heads of biceps; posteriorly, neck of humerus.