TONGUE. 289 to constitute the wall of the cylinder, but are free at the point, reminding one forcibly of the tentacular arms of the polype; these points vary from sixteen to thirty in number. This circular arrangement is very obvious in the papillae of the sides and apex, but more difficult to be detected in those of the middle re- gion. On further inspection, they present a depression in the central part exactly like a mucous follicle; lo each acuminated extremity of the formative simple pa- pillee a cylinder of epithelium is attached, which is hol- low, the walls being composed of scales of that struc- ture, attached by their edges to form a tubule. These are of different lengths, short, and badly defined at the apex and edges, but long and well-marked in the middle region of the tongue. It is in consequence of these fili- form prolongations that this class of 'papillas has re- ceived its name. Fungiform—These occur at the centre of the organ, and are narrow at the base, dilated at their summits. The simple formative papillas are flattened, the epithe- lium thin, and destitute of filamentous processes. Be- hind the calyciform class there are a few which appear to be a modification of the fungiform; they are sessile, and the simple papilla on their surface are pyriform. Calyciform, or, Papillae Circumvallam, are from twelve to sixteen in number, arranged at the posterior part of the organ in two diverging lines, meeting poste- riorly at the foramen coecum. Each represents a cup, out of the centre of which is evolved a papilla, sometimes ad- herent to the surrounding rim. Both .papilla and margin are beset with simple papillte, which are very much flat- tened; the epithelial investment is thin, and less adhe- rent to these than any of the foregoing forms. Behind this is a V-shaped space, where the tongue is smooth, but irregular, and presents the opening of numerous mucous glands, to which tlie mucous membrane has but a slight adhesion. The use of the compound pa- pillae appears to be gustative sensibility, and this is limited to the point between the foramen coecum and the apex of the organ. For a further description, see Hassal's " Microscopic Anatomy," p. 495. , On raising the mucous membrane from the dorsum 0