727 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. Middle Cervical Ganglion may be sometimes ab- sent, but where it does exist, it is found opposite the fourth or fiflh cervical vertebrse, resting on the inferior thyroid artery, but sometimes behind it. According to our observation, in figure it is diamond-shaped, its long measurement being from above downwards, throw- ing off branches from each of its angles, viz.: superior, inferior, internal, and external. ^ Superior Branch—Merely the cord of communica- tion already described between the two ganglions ; it generally becomes expanded as it joins the middle. Inferior Branch.—This may be either single, or it may consist of several, which descend to connect it to the inferior ganglion. External.—Twigs of communication to the cervical plexus, one of which usually joins the phrenic directly. Internal Branch.—Cardiac, to be hereafter de- scribed. Inferior ^ Cervical Ganglion is small, semilunar in figure, its concavity directed upwards and for- wards, its convexity downwards and backwards, and it rests upon the transverse process of the seventh cer- vical vertebra, covered by the vertebral artery, whicli it sometimes entirely surrounds. Its internal cornu receives the communicating twig from the middle, while its external throws off filaments to the brachial plexus, and also a branch to accompany the vertebral artery as it ascends through the foramina of the trans- verse processes, communicating in its course with the su- perior cervical nerves, and ultimately entering the cranium, to form plexuses to accompany the ramifi- cations of the basilar artery, as it supplies the cerebrum and cerebellum; branches are also thrown off from the lower, or convex margin of the ganglion to unite with the first thoracic and recurrent nerve, and some of these passing in front, and others behind the subclavian artery, they invest it with a species of nervous rin"- (annulus of Vieussens). ° Cardiac Nerves are threeinnumber on each side: supe- rior, middle, and inferior; and are destined for the heart. Superior Cardiac Nerve arises by five or six fila- ments from the front of the superior cervical ganglion,