154 THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. region. In the cervical and lumbar, particularly in the former, it is much better marked. Lateral motion partakes in a great measure of the character of the last, and is least limited in the same regions. It may be here necessary to repeat what we have before stated generally,—that flexion, extension, and lateral motion depend not on the absolute stretching of the connect- ing tissues, but on the degree of displacement of the soft portions of the intervertebral disc. To whatever side the body is inclined, there it is thinned, while it becomes thickened in the opposite direction in a ratio with the degree of pressure it sustains from the conti- guous vertebr$e. ATLO-AXOID ARTICULATION. The union between the first and second vertebrse takes place at three distinct points, viz.: between the oblique processes at either side, and the odontoid of the one with the body of the other in the centre. For the security of this joint it is provided with an anterior and posterior ligament, a capsular on each side, and a transverse. Anterior Ligament.—This consists of a lamina of fibres, particularly dense in the mesial line, stretching from the tubercle of the atlas, and the anterior surfaces of its contiguous half-arches, to the front of the body of the axis, where it becomes blended with the anterior common ligament; it is exceedingly strong, and partially covered by the tendinous insertions of the longus colli. Posterior Ligament.—This is much weaker and looser than the last, extending between the posterior half-arches of the atlas and upper edges of the lamina? of the axis; it seems to be typical of the ligamenta sub-flava in the other regions. The inferior oblique muscle must be re- moved in order to expose it. Capsular Ligaments—These are compact, and pos- sessed of great strength, particularly anteriorly and ex- ternally, but at the same time sufficiently lax to admit of the great amount of motion that exists between those two bones; they are attached to the edges of the cor- responding oblique process, and are lined by a synovial sac, which is remarkable for its great extent.