26 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. is equaUy concave. The point of this rib is flattened, and is tipped with cartilage, short, which connects it to the sternum. The two last ribs are very unlike the others; they form segments of larger circles, and are not near so deep from above downwards. They present but one facette on the head, as they articulate with one vertebra only. They have no neck, properly speaking, while the tu- bercle is not required, as they do not unite with the transverse process. They are likewise deficient, both in the angle and groove for the vessels. Their cartilage is also ve?y short. The ribs may be said to articulate directly only with the vertebral column but at two points, for they are only connected to the sternum by means of cartilage. They are developed by a single primitive point of ossification, which is for the body, and this makes its appearance from the fortieth to the fiftieth day. There are also two complementary points, one for the head, and one for the tubercle; these are united to the shaft about the fifteenth year. Sternum—This bone occupies the front oi the tho- rax and is not placed vertically, but slopes obliquely downwards and forwards, so as to increase the capacity of the lower part of the cavity. It is a single bone, and lies in front of the heart and pericardium, and hence its name, from forming a species of shield fo^f^t impor- tant organ. In early life it consisted of five distinct bones; and the division which existed at that period is generally marked out by a series of ridges, which are, however, nearly entirely effaced in more J^ature age, with the exception of the one between the first and se- Tond pieces. The persistence of this, with the addition of the xiphoid cartilage, has given origin to a fanciful nomenclature which the older anatomists applied to it from its supposed resemblance to an ancient sword. To the first piece they have applied the appellation, ma- nubrSmf the handle; to the second, gladiolus, or mucro whicTsignifies the blade; and to the third processus Ins formi°s, or point. It is, however, preferable, while considering it, to regard it only as one bone, o an hour- Xss shapf, b^oad above and below, and contracted in fhe centre. By this means we can examine its two sur-