882 ARTERIES AND VEINS. is carried off by the superior, middle, and inferior lias- morrhoidal veins; the former forming the commence- ment of the inferior mesenteric, and the two latter opening into the internal iliac. Vesical Plexus.—This extensive and intricate ve- nous plexus surrounds the prostate, neck, and inferior fundus of the bladder, receiving in front the dorsal veins of the penis, and communicating with the hemorrhoidal plexus; they are supported by the recto-vesical fascia, so that when divided their orifices remain patent, producing troublesome haemorrhage; they are also fre- quently dilated in old persons, particularly those suf- fering from obstructive diseases of the urinary passages, and in some cases projecting into the vesical cavity as hsemorrhoids, or they may contain small calcareous bo- dies (phleboliths). The blood is conveyed from this plexus to the internal iliac by two branches,—the proper vesical veins. Vaginal Plexus consists of a series of loops sur- rounding this canal, receiving numerous branches from the spongy structure of the part, as well as from the submucous plexus, which is largely developed mfe- riorly, and it communicates in front with the vesical, and behind with the hgemorrhoidal plexuses; two branches convey its blood into the internal iliac. Uterine Plexus An intricate interlacement of ve- nous branches, situated on the sides of the uterus, receiv- ing the blood from the transverse uterine sinuses which is conveyed into the internal iliac by two branches. The venous organization of the uterus undergoes a remark- able augmentation during pregnancy, and hence a gravid uterus should be selected for their examination, when they will be observed to communicate freely with the ovarian and hasmorrhoidal veins. Many of the pelvic veins possess valves, but we have satisfied ourselves of their absence in the hfemorrhoidal plexus. „ I 4. The Internal Iliac Veins are from three-quarters to one inch and a half in length, the right lying usually external to the artery, the left on the internal side; but we have seen both placed internal to their correspond- ing vessels. In a number of cases a thin layer oi lascia