62 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. the origin of the poplit^us muscle. Internally it is rough for the insertion of the anterior crucial liga- ment. A much larger tubercle is visible on the inter- nal condyle; to it is attached the adductor magnus above, and the internal lateral ligament below; on its outer surface it is also rough for the insertion of the posterior crucial ligament. The femur articulates with three bones—the os innominatum above, and the tibia and patella below. It is developed from five points of ossification. Of these, three are primitive; one for the shaft apparent about the sixth week; one for the lower portion, visible about a fortnight before birth, and one for the head, which is not developed till a year after birth. The two complementary points are .for the greater and lesser trochanters; that for the first makes its appearance about the fourth, that for the second, about the twelftli, year. All those separate points are united about the age of twenty. _ There are certain modifications existing m the femur which have a reference to its upper portion, dependent on both sex and age. In the festal bone, the neck is a mere extension of the shaft, both forming a contmuous line; in the female, on the contrary, it is longer, nar- rower, and placed more at a right angle with the shatt; in old age it is shortened considerably, is much weaker, and as in the female, springs also at right angles Irom the bone. In making a longitudinal section o_t the neck of the femur, we observe that it is cellular m its character, except inferiorly, where a dense arch of com- pact tissue passes upwards and inwards to the head. A change takes place in old age from the effects of inter- stitial absorption, which enlarges the cells, and renders the compact tissue more porous, producmg a conse- quent liability to fracture at that period of life de- nendino- on diminished cohesion. , , , ^ Patella, or, as it is sometimes called, Rotula, belongs to the class of sesamoid bones, being developed in the tendon of the rectus. It may, however, be said to differ from sesamoid bones generally, from its greater size and from its being found on the angle of extension, and not flexion, as the others of the same description are. It presents for examination an anterior and posterior