285 MOUTH, rior constrictor and internal pterygoid muscle. The vici- nity of these muscles evidently provides for a certain de- gree of pressure on the gland, urging the secretion of mu- cus from the follicles. Severallarge vessels are also in close proximity, usually described as the boundaries of the gland; thus on the external side is the external or super- ficial carotid; anteriorly the facial, and posteriorly the internal carotid. When the tonsil enlarges, it becomes of necessity much closer to those vessels by its external surface, the pterygo-pharyngeal aponeurosis, however, obviating its enlargement to any considerable extent in that direction, the principal increase being towards the mucous surface, impinging on the cavity of the mouth, so that, in applying a cutting instrument to the internal surface of an enlarged tonsil, it is really more remote from any large vessel than in the healthy condition of the gland. The tonsil is very freely supplied with blood from the following arteries:—Internal carotid, ascend- ing pharyngeal, tonsillitic, ascending and descending pa- latine ; these form a plexus surrounding the gland, from which the capillaries freely enter its structure; it pos- sesses but slight sensibility, and is supplied by branches from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, gustatory, and sym- pathetic. The student should now direct attention to the ca- vity of the mouth and its contained organ,—the tongue. The oral cavity may be examined either by making a vertical section of the skull and face, or by dividing the buccinator and removing one-half of the ramus of the jaw. It is of an oval figure, bounded above by the hard and soft palate; below by the tongue and the sub- lingual space; laterally by the cheeks, molar teeth, and alveoli; posteriorly by the isthmus faucium; and an- teriorly by the incisor and canine teeth, with the lips. The superior wall is arched, the concavity directed downwards; so that anteriorly the roof looks downwards and backwards, the posterior part downwards and for- wards. Although fixed and immovable anteriorly, that portion constituted by the floating curtain can alter its position with freedom and facility. The anterior por- tion of the wall of the cavity may also be elongated by protrusion of the lips; a similar enlargement may ensue