THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 374 consists of fasciculated plates of muscular fibre, varying in number from one to five; these bands arise from the internal oblique and Poupart's ligament, and when nu- merous often unite at the inferior third of the cord, to form a perfect cylinder for its inclosure; but when a single band exists, it lies on the anterior part of the cord, beyond which the fibres cannot be traced. If, however, two bands occur, one is found anterior and external, the stronger; the other internal and posterior, weak and pale. The latter has been observed to termi- nate in the globus major of the epididymis; and another variety is where the loops of Cloquet are stretched be- tween these bands. We met with a case where this muscle was present in the canal, and terminated at the external ring, the testicle being normal in situation. The tendinous insertion is sometimes well marked, broad, and of a silvery lustre; the cord must be raised to see it perfectly; this may terminate on the pubic fascia, and never reach the bone. It is not always a constant structure, nor can a continuity of tissue be invariably traced between the fleshy fibres with which it is connected and those at the bottom of the scrotum. It may also exist without any muscular tissue on the back of the cord, and even be wholly independent of any that may be present. On this account, we con- ceive it to be a ligament to preserve the position of the cord on the pubis, admitting the views of Cloquet as being correct respecting the formation of the cremas- ter, which are supported by many facts that may be shortly stated as follows:—That the testicles extend the fibres of the internal oblique into the scrotum, to form the cremaster in their descent, is proved by the continuous attachment of the internal oblique to Pou- part's ligament in the foetus prior to the descent of the testicle; also, where the organ has never descended m the adult, the same attachments of the oblique are ob- served. In the female, likewise, the connexion to the ligament is almost complete, with the exception ot a small space for the round ligament, on which a Tudx- mentary cremaster is formed. There are, however ob- jections to these views equally forcible, namely, that the cremaster has been found in the scrotum, where the