THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 236 rum and facial nerve, and lies on the levator anguli oris, infra-orbital nerve, and vessels, facial artery, which afterwards emerges between its inner edge and the com- mon elevator. Action.—To elevate the upper lip. The two last mus- cles are sometimes described as a single mass. Pyramidalis Nasi.—A narrow slip, continued from the occipito-frontalis above, and inserted into the apo- neurosis of the compressores nasi. Relations—It lies on the dorsum of the nose, and the triangular cartilage, covered by the skin, to which it intimately adheres; it is separated from its fellow by a cellular interval, wider below than above. Use To raise the alas, also to draw down the skin at the inner part of the brow, assisting the corrugator supercilii in expressing anger. Compressor Nasi Seen by raising the levator labii; is triangular; arises narrow from the inner part of the canine fossa, passes forwards and inwards, becom- ing wider, and terminates in a thin aponeurosis, which is continuous on the dorsum of the nose with that of the opposite side. Relations.—It is covered by the levator labii, skin and lateralis nasi artery, and lies on the bone and alar carti- lage. Use—To compress the nostril if the alee are pro- jecting, but if concave, to dilate the opening. Depressor Labii Superioris Aljeciue Nasi.—To ex- pose this muscle let the upper lip be raised, and the mucous membrane dissected from the side of the frse- num; narrow at its origin, broad at the insertion, it arises from the myrtiform fossa above the incisor teeth of the upper jaw; the fibres radiate in a direction up- wards and outwards; the inferior are inserted into the orbicularis oris, the middle into the deep surface of the lip, and the superior into the alee nasi. Relations.—The upper margin corresponds to the compressor nasi, and it is covered by the orbicularis oris, levator labii superioris aleeque nasi, and mucous membrane, supported on the deep surface by the bone. This is so intimately connected with the orbicularis that it is often considered as a portion of that muscle. Those of opposite sides are separated by the frffinum,