CARPAL ARTICULATION. 207 the styloid process of the ulna and pisiform bone inter- nally ; continuous above and below with the fascia of the fore-arm and back of the hand. Their processes, prolonged from the deep surface of the latter to the bones beneath, form a series of distinct channels, lined by a synovial bursa, for the passage of the several ten- dons. These channels are six in number on the back of the hand; the four externally are in the radius; the fifth between that bone and the ulna; and the sixth in the ulna itself. In the first of these, commencing from the outside, are the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and primi internodii pollicis; in the second, the two ra- dial extensors; in the third, the extensor secundi inter- nodii pollicis; in the fourth, the extensor communis and indicis; in the fifth, extensor minimi digiti; and in the sixth, the ulnar extensor. Beneath the anterior ligament there are three grooves: the most internal for the flexor communis and profundus; the middle, for the flexor pollicis longus; and the most external, for the flexor carpi radialis. It is crossed by the palmaris longus and flexor carpi ulnaris, the superficialis volse and ulnar arteries, and ulnar and superficial palmar nerves. Motions.—Flexion, extension, abduction, adduc- tion, and circumduction. In the two first of these motions the hand can be brought nearly to a right angle with the fore-arm, and is limited by the ten- sion of the ligaments before and behind, and the ten- dons which cover them. The range of abduction is very trifling, from the styloid process of the radius and scaphoid coming in contact almost immediately; but adduction is less circumscribed, from the interval which naturally exists between the lower part of the ulna and its corresponding carpal bone. Circumduc- tion is nothing more than a rapid alternation from one to the other of those motions thus described. CARPAL ARTICULATION. This is constituted by the eight bones of the carpus, forming a series of articulations one with the other; and as nature has arranged them in two rows we will