BRANCHES OF SUBCLAVIAN. 817 in its second stage, but is separated from it by the an- terior scalenus and phrenic nerve; and nearly at the same point is crossed superficially by the external jugular vein, but divided from it by the cervical fascia. While lying in the posterior inferior triangle of the neck, it is generally concealed from view by the clavicle, to which, as well as to the subclavian vein, it is attached by a process of the deep fascia, and hence the idea enter- tained of its frequent absence. Anomalies.—It may arise in common with the trans- verse humeri from the subclavian, in either of its three stages; we have also observed it to arise from the axillary. Collateral Branches.—Only one, the SuPRA-ACROMiAL, which Springs from the artery while under the trapezius, passes outwards beneath that muscle to the acromion process, there anastomosing with the acromial thoracic and circumflex from the axillary. Internal Mammary arises from the inferior part of the subclavian, and, running downwards and inwards, along the outer margin of the sternum, enters the wall of the abdomen, between the xiphoid and costal at- tachments of the diaphragm, which are on either side of it, and the costo-xiphoid ligament, which is in front of it, insinuates itself into the back part of the sheath of the rectus, and, descending as low as the umbilicus, anas- tomoses with both epigastrics and the lumbar arteries. Relations—Anteriorly, phrenic nerve, clavicle, vena innominata, costal cartilages, intercostal muscles, costo- xiphoid_ligament, and rectus muscle; posteriorly, tri- angularis sterni, pleura, peritoneum, and posterior layer of internal oblique. Remarks—The position of the phrenic nerve to this vessel is not always constant, as we have observed it not only splitting, but likewise running behind it. In its course downwards it lies not quite a quarter of an inch from the edge of the sternum. Anomalies.—It may arise in common with the thyroid axis, or from the second or third stages of the subcla- vian, from the innominata, or even from the arch of the aorta. Collateral Branches—Thymic, mediastinal, comes 2n