ABSORBENTS. 900 and the glandulse Pacchioni have been looked on by some anatomists as deep lymphatics, without foundation, however. Those of the face lie on the ramus of the jaw and on the line of the facial vessels, and three or four are also present in the parotid, whilst a few lie be- neath the zygoma, and often a large one on the bucci- nator. Lymphatic Vessels of the Head—The temporal set pursue the course of the vessels, pass through the parotid chain of glands, and reach the neck, whilst the occipital set run downwards and backwards, entering the mastoid and occipital glands. The deep lymphatics of the skull are those of the dura mater, and they follow the middle meningeal artery, escaping by the spinous foramen of the sphenoid bone to terminate in the jugular lymphatics. Lymphatics of the Brain.—Such contradictory de- scriptions and delineations have been given by Ruysch, Mascagni, and Fohman, that we are safe in stating that the arrangement of the cerebral lymphatics (if any exist) is still unsettled. . Lymphatics of the Face are divided into superfacial and deep; the former commencing on all parts of the face, some running with thefrontal, others with the facial, arteries, and, passing through the zygomatic and buccal, and submaxillary glands, reach the neck; the latter or deep accompany the blood-vessels as temporal, maxil- lary, nasal, palatine, pharyngeal, &c., communicating with the deep parotid and cervical glands. Lymphatic Glands of the Neck.—The superficial run beneath the platysma, and on the external jugular vein in the posterior inferior triangle of the neck ; and two or three smaller lie between the os hyoides and thy- roid cartilage. The deep form a continuous ch am from the mastoid process to the upper aperture ot the thorax, Ivina- on the sheath of the cervical vessels; there are also fflands for the trachea, pharynx, and the oesophagus. Cervical Lymphatic Vessels are constituted by those which descend from the face, also by the tracheal, oesophaceal, and pharyngeal, and, having traversed the glands, ^they terminate on the right side in the right, and on the left in the great, thoracic duct.