737 THE SKIN. overlapping from the fixed to the free extremity; and internal to this a fibrous stratum, and in the centre a medullary or cell structure; the latter containing the colouring matter, which is deficient in the albino, in black, red, and yellow hair, being composed respectively of peroxide of manganese, oxide of iron, and sulphur. The Use of the Hair On the head it is esteemed as an ornament, on the cheeks and face it gives character and expression, whilst on the pubis and genitals it serves the purpose of concealment (Hassal). The Nails are twenty in number, and rest on the posterior surface of the distal extremity of each finger and toe. Each nail is convex from side to side, and also in the antero-posterior direction, the posterior and the lateral margins being imbedded in a groove in the der- mis, whilst the nail itself is merely a continuation of the scaly cuticle. The superficial surface is smooth, but li- near, in consequence of the formative cells being ar- ranged in rows from before backwards; and if the nail is torn from the matrix, nucleated cells containing pig- ment gran\iles Avill be seen on its deep surface; at the posterior extremity a white semilunar space exists; this is named the lanula, beneath which the matrix is not as vascular as in other situations. The matrix is highly organized, and studded with papillas, which are linear from before backwards. The nail grows in two direc- tions,—first, from behind, by the constant evolution of new cells; and secondly, by the deep surface; the pa- pillte producing new laminaj beneath, as frequently observed in diseased toe nails. When the nail is de- stroyed, it is always regenerated, and the whole extent would probably be developed in three months, it being computed tliat it would grow ^^th of an inch each week. 'Jlie skin is of use in conferring symmetry on the body, preventing too rapid evaporation, and defending the subjacent parts from injury by acting as a sentinel. The functions of exhalation, absorption, with the sense of touch, have likewise their seat in this tissue.