44 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. head of the flexor poUicis brevis; posteriorly it is rough and convex for the dorsal ligaments, while ante- riorly it is contracted and concave for the palmar. The scaphoid is thus seen to articulate Avith five bones: the radius, semilunar, os magnum, trapezoid, and trape- zium. Semilunar.—This bone is wedge-shaped, broad pos- teriorly, convex, and rough, for the attachment of the dorsal ligaments; thin anteriorly for the palmar; supe- riorly it is convex, covered with cartilage, irregularly quadrilateral to articulate with the radius; inferiorly it presents two facettes, both concave and oblong from before backwards; the outer to articulate with the head of the OS magnum, the inner with the unciform. Ex- ternally it unites with the scaphoid by a flattened, long facette, and internally with the cuneiform by a trian- gular one. This bone, like the preceding, articulates with five: the radius, scaphoid, os magnum, unciform, and cuneiform. Cuneiform.—This is also wedge-shaped, with its broader surface turned posteriorly, which we find to be generally convex, but irregularly marked by elevations and depressions. To these are attached the dorsal liga- ments. The anterior surface is much smaller, but like- wise irregular; it presents a circular facette for the pisiform bone, and gives attachment to the palmar liga- ments. Its superior surface, rounded externally, grooved internally, is separated from the head of the ulna by the triangular fibro-cartilage. Its outer presents a flat quadrilateral facette, to articulate with the semilunar. Its inner is free and blunted, and has inserted into it the internal lateral ligament. Its inferior border has a long convex facette to articulate with the unciform; it is connected directly to three bones only, the semilu- nar, unciform, and pisiform. Pisiform Small and rounded like a pea, very va- riable in size in diff^erent individuals. It is not placed exactly on the same plane with the three preceding bones, but rather on the anterior aspect of the cunei- form, internally with which it articulates by an oval concave facette. This small bone gives attachment