CAVITY OF THE CHEST. 494 and inwards, commencing two inches below and behind the apex, and passing through the entire thickness, ter- minates about one inch above and in front of the base, thus dividing the lung into two lobes; from the upper third of the great fissure on the right side a second passes forwards, so as to cut off a smaller middle lobe. The superior of these lobes is triangular, small, and pointed above, wide and oblique inferiorly, the base concealing the inferior; the latter is also triangular, the base posteriorly thick and round, the apex anteriorly and inferiorly; the middle lobe of the right lung is small, the base anteriorly thin and sharp, the apex pos- teriorly. In old age, when the ribs collapse, the upper lobes descend so as in a great measure to conceal the in- ferior anteriorly. In the female a very small portion of the inferior lobe is visible anteriorly; and in cases where the chest has been disfigured by tight lacing, the in- ferior lobe is pressed upwards, the superior ghdmg downwards on its anterior surface, until it rests on the diaphragm. We have seen four lobes on each side m one instance, and three on the left in two cases; mboth examples the fissures, as in the normal arrangement, ex- tended through the complete thickness of the organ as far as the root. These interruptions allow the lungs to descend with greater facility, as they follow the diaphragm in inspiration, also tending to isolate disease, and by the larger extent of surface exposed to the serous mem- brane the effects of friction are diminished. In the bird tribe, where the diaphragm is deficient, the fissures are absent. The lungs present the following points oi dif- ference when they are contrasted with each other:— the right is shorter in consequence of the liver imping- ing on the right thoracic space; the left is longer but narrower, the deficiency in width depending on the po- sition of the heart; the right is likewise somewhat higher in the neck, and a little heavier than the left, present- ing also under usual circumstances three lobes, whilst the left has only two. The lungs are of a pa e red or rose colour in the child, grey in the adult, dark purple, mottled with black spots, in old age; they ahv-aysre ain a certain amount of air, which causes crepitation when their structure is compressed. The weight m the adult