CEREBRAL NERVES. 661 distributed to the orbital surface of the superior oblique muscles, near their posterior extremities, and hence the name trochleatores. Recurrent Branch.—Whilst within the cavernous sinus, each gives off a recurrent branch, which runs back- wards and outwards between the layers of the tentorium in which It terminates; sometimes this branch also receives a hlament from the ophthalmic. The fourth was considered by Sir C. Bell as the respiratory nerve of the orbit, beino' the highest nerve of that superadded system, arisino- in the respiratory tract. In the cavernous sinus it is inti- mately connected with the ophthalmic, inducing some anatomists to consider it as an additional root of that nerve, whilst others, drawing their arguments from its distribution, believe a similar relation to subsist between It and the common motor nerve of the orbit. It is how- ever a curious fact, that the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic almost constantly receives from it a branch ot communication, and in a case where the former was evmently absent it was replaced by a filament from the latter ; would it not, therefore, be fair to infer that the trochleator should be considered as a compound nerve? Fifth Nerve, Trifacial or Trigemini, consists of two roots, one being white, round, small, and hard, the second, soft, grey, large, and ganglionic; these two roots are seen in front of the crus cerebelli, this point constituting their apparent origin, but yet they can be traced through the pons as separate portions down- wards to the olivary tracts of the medulla, or as Dr Alcock remarks, to the floor of the fourth ventricle' where they arise from a yellowish grey layer above the . auditory nerve, which connects them with the ante- I nor and posterior columns of the cord. The soft root ^ emerges through an elliptical aperture between the 1 transverse fibres of the pons, whilst the hard or smaller escapes through a distinct rounded opening, separated . from the former by a small papillar enlargement, and ■ lying on Its superior and posterior border. The soft .-root consists of from seventy to one hundred filaments mnd if the nerve is forcibly torn from its attachment a .:mammillary tubercle remains, which Bichat conceived constituted its origin; it always seems constricted when