BRANCHES OF AORTA. 839 with the proper splenic, winds downwards and towards the right side, between the layers of the great omentum on the great curvature of the stomach, anastomosing with the gastro-epiploica dextra, a branch of the gastro- duodenalis. Vasa Brevia.—Short, thick branches, which run between the splenic omentum, and supply the large ex- tremity of stomach. Eemarks.—All the branches of the celiac axis, with their subdivisions, are remarkable for their free inoscu- lations, so much so that it is often difficult to determine where the one commences and the other terminates, and hence is apparently the cause why such an extreme va- riation exists in the size of the anastomosing branches, the rule of compensating power, in cases of deficiency in capacity m either, being here remarkably applied in the augmented volume of either one or the other. m._ Superior Mesenteric Artery arises from the left side of the aorta, opposite the second lumbar verte- bra, below the pancreas, which separates it from the celiac axis, and above the inferior transverse portion of the duodenum and left renal vein; it descends at first downwards, forwards, and towaifls the left side slightly, and then, arching across the lower part of the abdomen' terminates in the right iliac fossa in its ilio-colic branch. Collateral Branches—1. A series of branches to small mtestines; 2. Colica media; 3. Colica dextra: and 4. Ilio-colic. _ 1- Small Intestinal BRANCHEs.—Fifteen or sixteen in number, springing from the convexity of the arch, and passing outwards and downwards between the layers of the mesentery, for about two or three inches, when each bifurcates, the secondary branches anastomosing with : similar ones from the arteries above and below, this i process being repeated two, three, or four times till they ! reach the small intestine, where, terminating in slender ; filaments which form loops around it, they are distri- i buted to the muscular tunic of the gut. 2. Colica Media—Large; arises from the superior I mesenteric immediately after its commencement, and 1 passing downwards and forwards, between the layers of !the transverse mesocolon to within an inch of the trans