BRANCHES OF INTERNAL ILIAC. 849 more liable to variation than is generally supposed, and in the session before last especially, nearly every subject that was brought into the dissecting-room was marked by a variety of origin from the epigastric, and not from Its ordinary source. When this abnormal condi- tion of the vessel exists, its importance as far as femoral hernia is concerned is obvious, as its course is at first directly inwards, parallel but above Poupart's ligament then backwards along the base of Gimbernaut's, and ultimately downwards, backwards, and outwards to the subpubic canal. In an instance of this kind, it is quite clear that it must embrace nearly two-thirds of the neck of the sac, and this m a most dangerous position, as it lies in the direction of the edge of the knife, as it divides the stricture at the point of strangulation. But again this anomaly may prevail, and yet be attended with no'dan - ger as the vessel may pass to its destination between the neck of the sac and the external iliac vein. The obtu- rator artery may also arise from the internal circumilex of the profunda, the external iliac, or, accordintr to Burns, from the femoral. ° Sciatic—This almost always arises by a common trunk with the pudic, than which it is always laro-er- It passes downwards, forwards, and outwards, and leaves' the pelvis through the lower part of the great sciatic notch where it divides into its ultimate branches. This vessel has also been divided into two stages, or one withm and one without the pelvis. Relations-First .S'ta^re.-Anteriorly, rectum, bladder and vesicu a? seminales; posteriorly, pyriformis, sacral plexus, and pelvic fascia; externally, pudic artery; and internally, middle sacral. ^ Leaving the pelvis now below the pyriformis, above the lesser sciatic ligament, and posterior to the spine of the ischium, it stands boldly out in its second stage be- neath the glutffius maximus, and posterior to, or nearer the sacrum than the great sciatic nerve, and liereit di- vides mto its terminal branches,_viz., coccygeal, comes ■ neryi ischiadici, and muscular. Coccygeal.—Generally large; it arises from the back ,part of the sciatic, and passes backwards and inwards over the pudic artery, and between the greater and 2 o .3