SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 807 it can be traced as far as the foramen commune anterius, where it anastomoses with perforating arteries from the circle of Willis, and the cerebellar twigs, which enter with the velum interpositum. Remarks—It is sometimes so small that it can with difficulty be demonstrated, and hence the fact of its re- puted absence. Anomalies.—It may arise either as stated, or from the middle cerebral or posterior communicating arteries. SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. These two trunks resemble the carotid arteries in differing in size as well as origin, the right being the larger, and arising from the arteria inuominata, oppo- site the sterno-clavicular articulation; the left smaller, and springing from the descending portion of the arch of the aorta opposite the second dorsal vertebra, but both terminate at the same point, viz., the lower edge of the first rib. Both are likewise divided into three stages by the anterior scalenus, which crosses them at a right angle, and their direction is at first upwards and outwards, till they ascend about half-an-inch above the clavicle, and then downwards, outwards, and a little backwards, till they ultimately end in the axillary. We will confine our remarks at present to the right trunk. Relations—First Stage.—Anteriorly, integument, pla- tysma, fascia, sternal attachment of sterno-mastoid, deep cervical fascia, communicating branch from anterior to external jugular vein, sterno-hyoid and thyroid. Burn's fascia, internal jugular and vertebral veins, pneumo- gastric, superior and middle cardiac nerves; posteriorly, longus colli, but at some distance from it, and separated from it by loose areolar tissue, recurrent laryngeal and sympathetic nerves; internally, right carotid and pneu- mogastric; and externally andinferiorly, lung and pleura. _ Second Stage—Anteriorly, integument, platysma, fas- cia, clavicular portion of sterno-mastoid, deep cervical fascia, phrenic nerve, and anterior scalenus; posteriorly, cone of pleura and middle scalenus. Third Stage—To arrive at this space it passes through a tringular space, bounded in front by the anterior