LIVER. 565 with a narrow tongue, thin and overlapping the spleen; generally speaking, it is one-third or one-fourth the size of the right lobe; but we have had opportunities of wit- nessing instances where it had no existence at all, and where the iimbilical vein ran along the left edge of the one solitary lobe. LoBULUS QuADRATUS is of a quadrilateral shape, its greatest length being antero-posteriorly. It is bounded in front by the free anterior edge of the liver, posteri- orly by the transverse fissure and the parts entering into it; to the left side by the horizontal and the um- bilical vein, and to the right by the gall bladder and the sulcus, in which it is contained. It is sometimes little more than a mere oblong slip. LoBULUS Spigelii, so called from the anatomist who is said to have first described it, is a tongue-shaped ele- vation, dependent from the under surface and posterior part of the liver: it is bounded in front by the trans- verse fissure; behind by the thick edge; to the right side by the fissure for the vena cava, and to the left by the ductus venosus. When in position, it lies to the right side of the oesophagus, and reaches down so far as to touch the pancreas, where it appears to be embraced by the great branches of the celiac axis, particularly the hepatic. It was known to the older anatomists as the posterior portal eminence, the lobulus quadratus being termed the anterior. This lobule is attached to the liver by two distinct roots,—a posterior, which winds round the vena cava, generally converting it into a com- plete canal; and an anterior, which is now generally known by the following name:— Lobulus Caudatus, always very indistinctly marked, is merely that portion of the liver circumscribed be- tween the depression for the kidney behind, and those for the colon and duodenum in front. The lobulus dexter is the thick posterior angle lying behind the renal fossa. The liver is invested by two tunics, an external se- rous and an internal, which may be considered as its proper capsule, fibro-areolar. The first of these is de- rived from the peritoneum, which, with slight excep- tions, forms nearly an entire investment for it, covering