THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. 170 of the acetabulum, and deepens the cavity to a conside- rable extent, while at the same time it fills up all its de- pressions and sinuosities, and renders it quite plain on its free border. A section of it would represent nearly an equilateral triangle, which shows that it is much thicker at its attached than its femoral border; the latter also forms a smaller circle than the former, closely embracing the neck of the bone, and in a great degree adding to the strength of the articulation. On examining it behind and above, we find it much denser and stronger at this point than at any other, the reason for which is obvious, this being the point on which the entire weight of the body is thrown in the upright position. The fibres which compose this ligament are not concentric, but they spring from all parts of the margin of the acetabulum, decussate each other at a very acute angle, and terminate finally in its free margin, in a kind of rounded cord. Its extremities, on reaching the notch, are prolonged across it; the one from above being inserted into its lower lip; that from below into its upper, leaving between them and the edge of the bone, an irregular foramen for the passage of the vessels and nerves to the articulation. Transverse Ligament.—This is sometimes very ob- scure, consisting merely of a few fibres stretching across to complete the interval which must exist between the decussating extremities of the cotyloid ligament, as they dip backwards to their insertion. In addition to those already described, there is ano- ther peculiar to the femur alone, called the cervical ligament. It is found surrounding the neck, stretching obliquely upwards and inwards, from the insertion of the capsular to the sinuous line which defines the head. It usually consists of strong ligamentous fibres rarely continuous, covered by folds (retinacula) of the synovial membrane (Stanley's Ligament). Synovial Membrane—This envelopes the head of the bone, the acetabulum, and ligamentum teres. It also sends off" two small processes, one into the narrow groove which separates the cotyloid ligament from the cartilage of incrustation, and another, which becomes blended with the mass of fat, found in the inferior and internal part of the acetabulum, and described by