41 RADIUS. the extremities not till the fifth or sixth year after birth. The union between the several parts is not com- pleted till the eighteenth or twentieth year. Eadius.—This also belongs to the class of long bones, but is shorter, but not quite so Strong as the last. For the purposes of description it may be divided into a head, neck, tubercle, shaft, and lower extremity. The head is caliciform in shape, slightly excavated, and covered with cartilage, to articulate with the capitulum of the humerus. It is surrounded by a rim of bone, broader internally, where it articulates with the lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna, than externally, where it is embraced by the orbicular ligament. Below this the bone presents an evident constriction for about an inch, as far, in fact, as the tubercle; this is the neck, not ob- serving the same axis as the shaft, but taking a direction upwards, backwards, and outwards. The tubercle is on the inner and anterior part of the bone, slightly ele- vated, and covered by a btirsa, over which the tendon of the biceps glides, to be inserted immediately below it. The shaft of the bone, although prismatic in shape, like the ulna, differs from it in having its contracted part superiorly, its broad and expanded portion in- feriorly. It presents for examination three surfaces, and as many margins; the anterior surface is concave from above downwards, and flat, and has attached to its superior three-fourths, internally, the flexor poUicis longus; to its middle third, externally, the flexor digi- torum sublimis; and to its inferior fourth, the pronator quadratus. Near its upper and outer part is the hole for the nutrient artery. The external surface is convex and rounded. Into its superior third is inserted the supinator brevis; on its middle third a well-marked crest appears, for the attachment of the pronator radii teres; and inferiorly, at the base of the styloid process, it is again rough, for the tendon of the supinator longus. The posterior surface is likewise convex; it is rounded above and below, and grooved longitudinally about the centre. Siiperiorly it gives attachment to the extensor digitorum communis; and inferiorly to the extensor ossis, and primi internodii pollicis. Of its