THE EYE. 751 which last is a flattened space existing between the li- gament and the sclerotic, as maybe proved by injec- tion, being probably a venous sinus; anteriorly to the cornea, posteriorly to the choroid and ciliary processes, and internally to the iris, it is also pierced by the cili- ary nerves and long ciliary arteries. But it haviu^ been observed that all the nerves which perforate did not emerge again, it was supposed from this lact, as well as from its colour, to resemble a ganglion. _ Now proceed to examine the ciliary muscle by rais- ing a portion of the sclerotic coat as far as the margin of the cornea. It appears as a greyish semi-transparent . structure, situated behind the ciliary ligament, and ex- ternal to the ciliary processes, consisting of a series of unstriped radiating fibres, arising from the ciliary liga- ment, and passing backwards to be inserted into the cihary processes under cover of the sclerotic. This muscle, which was described by Porterfield, will ad- vance the ciliary processes and the lens,—a structure somewhat similar existing in birds, which was described by bir Philip Crampton, but the fibres are striped. General Eeviarks on the Choroid Coat This mem- brane is exceedingly vascular, but does not exhibit the same tinge in all animals, being silvery in the perch, jet-black in the shark, and in the eyes of herbivora, as well as m the felmae, presenting at its posterior part a ustrous greenish layer of a fibrous texture, the epithe- lium on Its surface being destitute of pigment gra- nules as in albinos. This tapetum lucidum reflects the rays ot ight a second time on the retina, particularly where they are weak. In osseous fishes a small, reddish, glandular mass is found at the posterior part of the choroid, covered by silvery grey membrane,—the cho- roid gland, the use of which is unknown; and in birds a plicated vascular process passes forwards in the vi- treous humour so far as nearly to touch the lens, which as called the pecten. The use of the choroid coat is to preserve the cavity of the globe as a dark chamber and absorb the superfluous rays of \wht. The Ikis is a circular fold ofmemijrane, with an aper- ture (the pupil) a little nearer the nasal than the tem- poral margin; floating in the aqueous humour, and