VOMER. Ill 1 wall, below the ethmoid. They are thin and rough, owing t to the numerous grooves with which they are marked, for t the veins and arteries which ramify on them under the I pituitary membrane. They present for examination an 3 internal and external surface, an upper and lower mar- i gin, and an anterior and a posterior extremity; the inter- inal surface is convex and turned towards the septum, 1 from which it is usually separated by a narrow interval, : sometimes it is in contact with it; the external surface ;is concave, forming a large portion of the inferior : meatus; the superior border is articular and irregular, ' being very thin anteriorly, where it rests on the inferior horizontal ridge, on the nasal process of the superior maxilla; moreposteriorlyis athin elevated portion,—the lachrymal process, slightly grooved, forming a part of the nasal duct, and articulating with the os unguis; still more posteriorly it is bent downwards and out- wards into a small triangiilar plate, which lies against and assists in closing the antrum Highmorianum, while above it articulates with the os planum of the ethmoid; still farther back it rests on the inferior horizontal ridge of the palate bone; the inferior margin is thicker, free, curved outwards, and lies at very variable distances from the floor of the nose; its anterior extremity is much broader than its posterior, which indicates at once the side of the nose to which it belongs. The inferior turbinated articulates with one bone of the head,—the ethmoid, and three bones of the face,— the OS unguis, superior maxillary, and palate.. It is developed from a single point of ossification, which is visible from the fifth to the sixth month. Vomer—This is a single bone, placed in the median line, forming the posterior part of the septum nasi. It is usually perpendicular, but it may incline to either side, sometimes in a very remarkable degree. In figure it is quadrilateral, presenting two surfaces, correspond- ing to either nostril, marked by some small foramina and grooves, for the passage of veins and nerves. It has four margins,—a superior or sphenoidal, an inferior or maxil- lary, an anterior or ethmoid, and a posterior pharyngeal. The superior border presents an elongated fissure for the azygos process of the sphenoid, with two alaj spreading