466 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. laalf-an-incli larger than the tube; this is a condition calculated to promote the occurrence of diaphragmatic hernia, and *of course a portion of the stomach would form the contents of the sac. We have also seen the oesophagus presenting a circular indentation from the margins of the opening impressing it. This was pre- sent in a case of constant vomiting, caused by a carci- nomatous affection of the stomach, the coats of the tube being thickened, but without dilatation. CosTO-xiPHOiD Space.—The diaphragm is attached to the posterior surface of the ensiform cartilage, at its base by a flat band, separated by an indistmct cellular line into two, sometimes this line being absent. Be- tween this band, on each side, and the first costal origin, there exists a triangular opening; but when the central slip is absent, which is sometimes the case, but one aperture only occurs. Through either passes the ab- dominal branch of the internal mammary artery, the areolar tissue of the two cavities communicatmg, and in the case of central deficiency, the serous membranes of the thorax and abdomen coming m contact; and through the right also passes the anterior superficial absorbents of the liver, in their course to reach the elands in the anterior mediastinum. _ Neural Openings.—These are four m number two on each side; they are more properly slits m the fibres of the crura, the great splanchnic nerve passing through the most anterior, which is occasionally so evident as to present the appearance of dividing the erus into an an- Lior and posterior portion, the lesser sp anchmcs piercing the crura more posteriorly. We have fre- quently seen each costal origin formmg a distinct slip, indieitating with the corresponding origins of the trans- versllis abdominis, or, more correctly speaking, apposed withthatmuscle, amutualinterpositionoffascicuh being 7arelv if ever, observed. These slips presented m some c Jes^merely light cellular intervals, but m others the separaXn was so manifest that the pleura and perito- neum were united for at least half-an-mch in width Tiear the costal attachment of the diaphragm. Theoii- 5ns from the eleventh and twelfth ribs are endmous, Sa e not in apposition with the trausversalis, nearly