THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. 148 sides, as the radius and ulna (double), the odontoid process with the atlas (single). The oblique processes of the lumbar vertebrae may be said to form similar ar- ticulations or hinges. Enarthrosis is where a large convexity and concavity are united, forming a ball and socket, as in the ilio-fe- moral artictilation. Arthrosis, where there is a shallow concavity and a slight convexity, or where a disparity occurs between the surfaces, as in the shoulder, costo-transverse, and a single carpal and tarsal articulation. To the same class may be appended the raetacarpo-carpal joint of the thumb. Planiform Arthrosis is where plane surfaces are op- posed, as in the junction of the metacarpal and metatar- sal bones with the carpal and tarsal. Amphiarthrosis is divided into symphisis and synchondrosis, or union by cartilage, as in the ilio-sacral symphisis and the junction of the ribs with their cartilages; also the union of the vertebral bodies. Synarthrosis, or the immoveable class, is divided into the following:—Suture, harmonia, gomphosis, and schyndylesis. Sutures are serrated, as the saggital: den- ticulated or dove-tailed, as in the lambdoidal; and squa- mous, as between the squamous plate of the temporal and the parietal. The palate plates of the superior maxil- lary bones are examples of harmonia. Schyndylesis occurs between the rostrum of the sphenoid, nasal la- mella of the ethmoid and the vomer. The connexion of the teeth with the maxillae affords instances of gom- phosis. In the enumeration of the illustrations of each form of articulation a few only have been mentioned, the remainder being deferred, until the further conside- ration of the individual joints. LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. The structures which unite the spinal column may be divided into those which bind together the bodies, consisting of the intervertebral substance, and an an- terior and posterior common, or vaginal ligament, and those which connect the processes, comprising the in- terspinous and supraspinous, the intertransverse, im-