560 CAVITY OP THE ABDOMEN. dilating the part, so as to efface the radiating integu- mentary folds which encircle the outlet. In this position it is highly vascular, sometimes thrown into plicas, studded with crypts or glands, and supported by a dense layer of erectile tissue. The adjoining integu- ment in the male subject is implanted with some scat- tered hairs, but this peculiarity is rarely observed in the female. The arterial and nervous organization of the stomach having already been briefly alluded to, we will now proceed to state the sources from which a similar sup- ply is imparted to the small and large intestines, re- serving, however, a more detailed explanation of their course and individual relations till a future period. The duodenum receives its greatest amount of blood from the pancreatico-duodenalis; the jejunum and ilium from the numerous branches of the superior mesenteric, which with the inferior mesenteric also supplies the large intestine down to the termination of the sigmoid flexure, while the rectum is supplied by the superior hsemorrhoidal, a branch of the inferior mesenteric, the middle hsemorrhoidal from the internal iliac, and an inferior heemorrhoidal from the internal pudic. The effete blood is carried back by corresponding venous trunks, which ultimately unite to form the porta, the destination of which is the liver. The nervous supply is derived from the great solar plexus, an offset ot the sympathetic, which sends its numerous filaments to the entire of the hollow tube, the rectum likewise receivmg additional twigs from the sacral plexus. Development—I^^Q alimentary canal is developed from the umbilical vesicle or yelk sac, and is at first a conti- nuous tube, narrow and nearly straight, closed at both extremities till about the end of the second month, when the mouth and anus are found to make their appear- ance. Shortly afterwards, a small dilatation marks out the position of the future stomach, and the tube gra- dually assumes those curvatures which are to continue as the permanent distinctive characters of the large and small intestine. Properly speaking, a ca3cum can be scarcely said to exist in the foetus or in very early in- fancy ; but it appears to be formed by the weight of the I