541 STOMACH. gins, where a triangular interval is left between them, about an inch in extent, to allow the stomach to ex- pand when distended, as well as to accommodate the vessels which are destined for its supply. Muscular Coat. — Between this and the serous a thin layer of areolar tissue is observed, but it scarcely deserves the uame of a separate tunic. The muscular fibres are arranged in three sets,—longitudinal, circu- lar, and oblique. The first are directly continuous with those of the oesophagus, as, passing downwards from that tube, they expand over the anterior and posterior sur- faces of the stomach, but are loosely scattered, except at its upper margin, where they form a well-marked band, extending as far as the pylorus, into which the deeper fibres sink and there terminate, while the more super- ficial can be traced for some distance on the duodenum. The Circular Fibres form a series of distinct rings extending from the oesophagus to the pylorus. Near the former, and over the great extremity of the stomach, they are few, with broad intervals existing between them, but as we approach its duodenal end, they become better marked and more closely packed together, parti- cularly at the junction of its right with its middle third, where they form a remarkable constriction de- scribed by Sir Everard Home, and said to be the ana- logue of the bilocular stomach in the horse. They occa- sionally cross each other very obliquely, and do not always constitute complete circles, while at the pylorus they are very dense and strong, and form the constric- tion visible at that point. Oblique Fibres are found only on the great extre- mity; they cross each other very obliquely, and may be traced from the oesophageal orifice to the lower part oi the great cul de sac. The Muscular Fibres of the stomach are pale, and sometimes remarkably indistinct. They belong to the involuntary class, but a few striated are always visible scattered through them. ' Fibrous Coat—The existence of this tunic was first pointed out by Bichat. It may be exposed by dissect- ing off the muscular fibres, when it will be observed, presenting a white glistening appearance, possessed of