317 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. edge of the tendinous origin of this muscle is continu- ous, with a fascial expansion that passes downwards, and unites it to the serratus inferior, through which it becomes connected with the lumbar aponeurosis. Serratus Posticus Inferior.—Arises thin and apo- neurotic from the spines of the three last dorsal and two first lumbar vertebrae, passes outwards and upwards, and is inserted into the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs, external to their angles, by fleshy slips. Relations.—Covered by the latissimus dorsi, lies on the lumbar mass of muscles, ribs, and intercostals. Actions.—The serratus superior is a muscle of inspi- ration, acting by raising the ribs; the serratus inferior a muscle of expiration, acting by depressing the ribs. Kaise the serratus superior and examine the splenius. This is usually looked on as two, namely, the splenius capitis and colli, but the separation is often either ab- sent or indistinct; it is therefore preferable to consider it only as one. It arises from the spines of the two or three last cervical and the five first dorsal vertebra?, also from the ligamentum nuchas; the fibres pass ixp- wards, forwards, and outwards, and are inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four superior cervical vertebrae by tendinous slips, and also into the outer and back part of the mastoid process, and into the occipital bone between the two transverse ridges. Relations—Covered by the trapezius, sterno-mastoid, and serratus superior; lies on complexus, a small por- tion of which is seen above, between the divergent splenii; on the semispinalis colli, the occipital and cer- vicalis profunda arteries, and great occipital nerve. Action.—To bend the head backwards and to one side, and support it in equilibro. The third layer consists of the sacro-lumbalis, lon- gissimus dorsi, spinalis dorsi, cervicalis descendens, tra- chelo-mastoid, and complexus. Clothing the posterior and lateral part of the spine, extending from the sacrum to the last cervical verte- brae, there lies a mass of muscle composed of tendinous and fleshy fasciculi, to which the terms erector spinae or sacro-spinalis have been applied. This is divisible into portions lying in contact from without inwards; some-