CAVITY OF THE CHEST. 522 lar extremities a mutual interchange of anatomical ele- ments occurs, the muscular tissue of the auricle being prolonged on that portion of the vessels within the pericardium, vfhilst the venous structure enters into the formation of the auricular walls. On the septum auricularum, which is convex in this cavity, the small oblique communication between the auricles is_ gene- rally observed, but without any annulus, as in the right. The opening of the appendix is small and cir- cular, leading into a conical cavity, in which the mus- cular fibres are well marked; the margins of the ap- pendix, which is longer and narrower than that on the right side, are very closely serrated, and, curving for- wards, it overlaps the pulmonary artery and aorta, although its root is at the upper and back part of the auricle. The left auriculo-ventricular opening is circu- lar, smaller than that on the right side, but, like that orifice, surrounded by a tendinous zone, and it leads into the left ventricle. The Left Ventricle will be exposed by raising the septum ventriculorum from apex to base. In general terms it may be said that this cavity is conical, pro- jecting below the right, so as to form the apex of the heart, but superiorly the latter cavity ascends above it. The walls of the left ventricle are much thicker than those of the right, and within it we observe carnea3 columns, chordae tendinese, mitral valves, and auricular orifice, with the origin of the aorta. The CARNEiE Columns are of three orders, as in the right: those attached to the tendinous threads of the mitral valves being usually two in number, round and thick, where they arise from the ventricular wall, digi- tate or divided at the point of connexion with the tendons; the reticulated fibres are few in comparison with those on the right side, and do not produce that peculiar cavernous structure so remarkable m the latter situation. , ^ • i „ The Septum is concave towards the ventricular ca- vity, somewhat smooth, the fleshy bands which lie on its surface being flat and attached by their whole extent. The Mitral Valves are two in number one being placed anteriorly, the other posteriorly; the former, the