THE MUSCLES. ^17 augmented with diminished extent of action by a pen- niform arrangement, as in the rectus femoris. The causes assigned as the source of contraction are nu- merous. Volition is obviously the natural excitor of the action, and although the effects are visible, the immediate cause is exceedingly obscure. A muscle is observed during contraction to become shortened, thicker, harder, with an increase of temperature. A similar condition is easily excited in muscles laid bare and subjected to galvanism. The whole muscle is not thrown at once into contraction, but it radiates from the stimulated point, until it equally pervades the en- tire fibres. As to the immediate causes of contraction, Prevost and Dumas conceived that the nervous fila- ments were distributed to the fibres at angles, and that, being dissimilarly electric, they attracted each other, producing the zig-zag condition observed so frequently; but this appearance is merely the result of the short- ening of the neighbouring fibres. It has also been attributed to the sudden influx of a large quantity of blood into the vessels of the muscle; and the contrary opinion has likewise been sustained,—that the escape of the blood was the excitor of contraction. Haller conceived it to be a power inherent in the fibre; Skey, the shortening of a spiral cord that surrounded it. It has also been attributed to contraction of the transverse stripes, and to alteration in the sarcous elements; but these are wholly inadequate to account for this functional activity. In the voluntary muscles, the contractions are energetic, but of short duration; in the involuntary, on the contrary, they are less en- ergetic, but more prolonged. Muscles acting on bones represent levers. Of these, three orders exist: the first, with the power atone extremity, thcAveight at the opposite, and the fulcrum or fixed point occupying an intermediate position, as in the nodding motions of the head and extension of the fore-arm by the triceps muscle. The second order has the weight in the centre, the power at one extremity, and the fulcrum or fixed point at the opposite; the action of the gastrocnemius during progression is an example of this class, which is the most powerful, and termed the crushing lever. The h