58 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. the pubal eminence, and again depressed a little pos- terior to this process. The acetabulum is a deep and cup-like cavity, covered with cartilage of incrustation, except inferiorly and internally opposite the notch, where it is deficient, constituting about one-fourth of the whole, and in figure resembling the ace of spades; the aspect of this cavity is downwards, forwards, and outwards, and it articulates with the head of the femur. Below and behind the acetabulum we have the tubero- sity, a well-marked process, which supports the body when in a sitting position; it is exceedingly rough for the attachment of the muscles already mentioned m the description of the separate bone. Behmdthe tuberosity is the excavation for the lesser sciatic notch, converted into a foramen by the greater sciatic ligament passing forwards and inwards to be inserted into the tuber. This is traversed by the obturator muscle, its nerve and the pudic vessels and nerve. Still more posteriorly is the greater sciatic notch, bounded anteriorly by the ischium,.superiorly by the ilium, posteriorly by the sacrum, and inferiorly by both greater and lesser sciatic ligaments. This is traversed by the pyriformis muscle, which may be said to divide it into two parts, an upper and lower, through the one passes the gluteal vessels and nerves, and through the other the pudic and sciatic arteries, with all the external branches of the sacral plexus. The appearance of the posterior region of the pelvis has been already noticed in the description of the sacrum and coccyx. If we examine the pelvis in early infancy, it presents the following peculiarities :-It is much more oblique, its superior aperture looking almost directly forwards, extremely contracted in all its dimensions, so much so as to be incapable of containing at this period the bladder, which lies in the lower part of the abdomen. Its al^ likewise are nearly straight; the sacrum vertical and narrow, while the horizontal rami of the pubis are ex- ceedingly short. This gives rise to the peculiar position of the acetabula, which are placed more anteriorly than in adolescence, being at the same time remarkably shallow. In old age the pelvis again becomes very