BRANCHES OF POSTERIOR TIBIAL. 865 the artery is comparatively superficial, but in order to reach it, it will be necessary to cut through 1. Inte- gument; 2. Superficial fascia; 3. A thin aponeurosis from the inner edge of the tendo Achillis; 4. Deep fascia, which is here dense and strong, its fibres run- ning transversely across from tibia to fibula; 5, Sheath of tendon of flexor pollicis. The order of parts from within and before, backwards and outwards, is: 1. Tibialis posticus; 2. Flexor communis; 3. Artery, with a vein on either side; 4. Posterior tibial nerve; and 5. Flexor pollicis longus. Anomalies.—We have already observed, that the pos- terior tibial may arise at any point above the poplitseus, or even a short distance below it; while in some in- stances it is said to be altogether absent, but we have never observed an instance where it did not exist, cer- tainly in many cases as a mere filament, the peroneal under these circumstances being abnormally large, and giving off the ordinary branches of the tibial. Collateral Branches.—Peroneal; several branches to the adjacent muscles; external and internal plantar. Peroneal.—Always a large branch arising from the outer side of the posterior tibial an inch and a half be- low the inferior margin of the poplitoeus; it passes at first downwards and outwards on the tibialis posticus and under the deep fascia; then beneath the flexor pol- licis longus, on the interosseous ligament, having the fibula external to it, till it arrives about two inches above the ankle-joint, where it divides into anterior and pos- terior fibular,—the former piercing the interosseous ligament, and running downwards to the external mal- leolus, in front of the fibula, and under the peroneus anticus, while the latter passes on the back of the same bone, still beneath the flexor pollicis longus, forming an anastomotic loop beneath the external malleolus with the anterior, where they also communicate with the tar- sal and metatarsal branches from the anterior tibial. Anomalies.—This artery may arise either indepen- dently from the popliteal or from a line to two inches below the margin of the poplitaeus. In some cases it is so very small that it can scarcely be said to exist at all while in others, it may be vastly increased in caliber' 2 p