ARTERIES AND VEINS. 812 those arteries of opposite sides are always different in size, and sometimes one is found to be so small that it is ex- pended in supplying the medulla, when the other, which is commensurately larger, will be found to divide in the posterior cerebellar furrow for the usual distribution. Anomalies.—One or both often arise from the basilar. Basilar Artery Formed by the junction of the vertebral at the lower margin of the pons, and extend- ing upwards and forwards, to terminate at its anterior border. Relations Inferiorly, basilar process of occipital bone and dura mater; superiorly, pons varolii; and on either side, arachnoid canals, with sixth pair of nerves. Remarks.—These will be reserved for observations on the cerebral circulation. Anomalies.—We are aware of none, except that it may occasionally be deflected to one side. Collateral Branches.—Besides a number of capil- lary twigs to the pons, it also gives off the superior ce- rebellar and posterior cerebral. Superior Cerebellar.—Large branches which arise from the basilar, a quarter of an inch previous to its ter- mination, and, passing upwards and outwards between the crus cerebri and pons, then over the latter, behind the third nerve, and beneath the tentorium cerebelli and fourth nerve, each divides into two branches,—an ex- ternal, which turns outwards on the upper surface of the cerebellum to its free margin, where it anastomoses with the external division of the inferior cerebellar; and an internal, which passes inwards to the superior vermiform process to communicate with the internal branch of the same artery. A small twig is usually given off from the superior cerebellar,—the auricular, which, passing in a groove in the portio mollis, and be- neath the dura, enters the auditory meatus for the sup- ply of the cochlea and vestibule. Posterior Cerebral.—Likewise large; they arise from the termination of the basilar and in front of the third nerve, then, winding upwards and outwards around the crus cerebri and above the tentorium, they divide into two branches,—an internal, to anastomose Avith the callosal at the posterior extremity of that body;