303 LARYNX. to consider tliis as an opening of the larynx. The mucous membrane is fine, pale, and soft, covered in its entire ex- tent by ciliated epithelium. At the superior opening it is loosely adherent, but on further descending within the cavity the attachment to the cartilages becomes strict; on this account cedema is of constant occurrence in the neighbourhood of the glottis, but exceedingly rare be- low that point. The ligaments of the larynx are,—the broad and round thyro-hyoid, the crico-thyroid, crico- arytenoid, and thyro-arytenoid; also the inferior, or tra- cheal ligament. Thyro-hyoid Ligament (broad), attached inferiorly to the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage, and supe- riorly to the superior and posterior edge of the os hy- oides; strong in the middle, weak at the sides, where it becomes continuous with the following:— Thyro-hyoid Ligament (round) arises from the su- perior cornu of the thyroid cartilage, and is attached above to the point of the cornu of the os hyoides; a sesamoid bone sometimes exists in this ligament. The broad is pierced by the superior laryngeal nerve and artery; an oval bursa separates it from the posterior surface of the os hyoides, and is covered by the thyro and sterno-hyoid muscles. The round ligament gives attachment to the fibres of the middle constrictor. Crico-thyroid Ligament.—The anterior is broad and diamond-shaped, attached above to the thyroid car- tilage, and below to the cricoid; strong in the middle line, but becoming weaker externally. It is covered by the sterno-hyoid and crico-thyroid muscles, also by the crico-thyroid artery, and is principally made up of elastic tissue. In this space the operation of laryngo- tomy is performed. Lateral Crico-thyroid Ligaments. — A strong but imperfect capsule surrounds the articulation of each inferior cornu of the thyroid with the side of the cricoid cartilage. The fibres are strongest posteriorly, and anteriorly a flat band, formed of elastic tissue, passes forwards from the inferior cornu to the side of the cricoid. "When the former cartilage is depressed, this band is stretched, and its resiliency tends in a great measure to restore it to its former position. When the