ARTERIES AND VEINS. 850 lesser sciatic ligaments, and, reaching the coccyx, it anastomoses with the gluteal, lateral, and middle sa- cral. Comes Nervi Ischiadici.—A slender, but long branch; it runs at first downwards on the back part of the great sciatic nerve, then, perforating it, descends in its sub- stance as far as the knee-joint, where it anastomoses with branches of the poplit^ah Muscular.—Several twigs to the adjacent muscles, one of which always runs to the digital fossa to anasto- mose with the glutEeal, obturator, and internal circum- flex of the profunda. PuDic.—This is the longest and most important of the branches of the internal iliac; it arises usually from a common trunk with the sciatic, and, pursuing a very tortuous course, terminates at the corona glandis in the male, and the labia in the female. In order to un- derstand its relations with greater facility, it has been divided into three stages,-rthe first extending from its origin to its exit, from the pelvis through the great sciatic notch; the second very short, where it crosses the spine of the ischium; and the third from its re-en- trance into the pelvis till it reaches the glans penis. Relations—First Anteriorly, rectum, bladder, and vesicular seminales; posteriorly, pyriformis, sacral plexus, and pelvic fascia; internally, sciatic artery; and externally, the parts as they emerge from the greater sciatic notch. As it passes through the aperture it winds beneath, and becomes anterior to, the sciatic ar- tery; has above it the the pyriformis, and below it the lesser sciatic ligament. . Relations—Second Stage.—Anteriorly, spine oi the ischium; posteriorly, external falciform process of great sciatic ligament and glutajus maximus; superiorly, pu- dic vein; and inferiorly, pudic and obturator nerves. It now re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sciatic notch, but is separated from the bone by the tendon ot the ob- turator internus, which is escaping at the same moment, and here its third stage commences. 2eeto<t0JW.—Externally, tuber ischii and obturator in- ternus; internally, obturator fascia, in a tubule ol which it is invested; and inferiorly, internal falciform process