35 SCAPULA. easily felt during life, and is of much importance to the surgeon; its upper surface rough for the attachment of the acromio-clavicular ligaments, and covered by a strong aponeurosis from the deltoid and trapezius. Its inferior surface, springing like an arch from the back part of the bone behind the neck, where it is thick and rounded, gives attachment to the spino-glenoid liga- ment, while above, where it is broad and expanded, it gives origin to the apex of the triangular. The cora- coid process springs by a thick root from the upper margin of the scapula, anterior to the notch; its first direction is upwards, then forwards and inwards, ter- minating in a blunted extremity. Its posterior angle, very obtuse, gives origin to the transverse ligament; its external margin has inserted into it the base of the triangular, its internal the costo-coraco-clavicu- lar; its superior surface, which is slightly convex and rough, affords attachment to the coraco-clavicular liga- ments; its inferior surface, smooth and arched, cor- responds to the head of the humerus, and has con- nected to it anteriorly the coraco-humeral or accessory ligament. Three muscles are attached to its point, viz., the lesser pectoral internally, the biceps externally, and the coraco brachialis between the two. The glenoid cavity lies immediately beneath the co- racoid process. It is of an ovoid shape, the inferior part broad and rounded; the superior, narrow, and pointed, and affording attachment to the long tendon of the biceps. It is concave, but superficial, covered with cartilage and surrounded at its margins by the glenoid ligament, which partially deepens it for the reception of the head of the humerus. In its ordinary position it looks upwards, forwards, and outwards. The scapula articulates with two bones, the clavicle and humerus, while it is connected with the trunk by muscle or sysarcosis. It is developed from a single pri- mitive point for the body, visible about the eighth or ninth week; and four complementary, viz., one for the coracoid process, generally visible at birth; two for the acromion about the fifteenth year; one for the spine about the third month; and one for the vertebral bor- der about the sixteenth year.