COSTAL LIGAMENTS. 159 COSTO-SPINAL ARTICULATIONS. The articulation between the ribs and spinal column is a double arthrodia,—the former uniting by its head with the bodies and intervertebral substance, and by its tubercle with the extremity of the transverse process of the vertebra below; for this reason they have been called costo-vertebral and costo-transverse. The liga- ments which tend to secure each of those articulations are three in number: those of the first being an ante- rior or stellate, a middle or intervertebral, and a poste- rior or imperfect capsular; those of the second are an anterior, middle, and posterior. Stellate, or Anterior Costo-vertebral. — This may be exposed with great facility in a subject from the thorax of which the soft parts have been removed, by dissecting off the costal pleura,—the fibrous mem- brane which lies beneath it,—and turning on one side the dorsal ganglia of the sympathetic. The dissection will be greatly facilitated by sawing across all the ribs anterior to their angles. The stellate ligament, which is now brought into view, is of a triangular shape, nar- row externally, but broad internally, it arises by a thick, narrow process from the anterior surface of the head and neck of the rib, passes inwards, and divides into three distinct parts, the superior being inserted into the vertebra above, the inferior into that below, and the middle into the intervertebral substance. It differs in the mode of its insertion in the first, eleventh, and twelfth, being attached to a single vertebra in each of those instances, although it still consists of three slips. This ligament is exceedingly strong, and rests on the contiguous bones and cavity of the joint, and is covered by some loose fibrous tissue, the dorsal ganglia of the sympathetic and pleura. Capsular Ligament—In order to examine this, it will be necessary to detach from the back all the large muscles which cover it; a cautious dissection must now be made, when the ligament will be perceived, consist- ing of a few scattered fibres stretching from one bone to the other. Although rather apparent posteriorly, it