594 CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. tionally, with the serous tissues; at the menstrual pe- riod this membrane becomes highly vascular, a condi- tion which again subsides with the termination of that secretion. MuscuLA R TiiNTCS.—In theunimpregnated organ these are difficult to detect, but at the third month of utero- gestation their arrangement can be very well observed, consisting of a superficial and deep set of fibres, which cover the anterior and posterior surfaces of the organ, whilst on the sides they follow a curved direction; they appear to be inserted below into the elastic tissue of the cervix, not abruptly terminating at that point, but con- tinuing into its structure, intermixing with the elastic fiibres observed in this situation. The deep set of fibres are made up in two cones, deficient internally and meeting in a raphe on the anterior and posterior sur- face, the base of each being turned upwards, the apex downwards or towards the os, the fibres all assuming a circular course. In the cervix the structure is ob- viously of an elastic nature, although in some cases we have traced weak and indistinct prolongations of the longitudinal muscular fibres into its tissue, but never in sufficient numbers to affect the general statement as to the fibro-elastic elements of its composition. Peritoneal Layer.—This membrane covers the body and fundus of the organ, but is deficient on the cervix and OS, also where the round and ovarian ligaments, with the Fallopian tubes, are attached. _ Fallopian Tubes.—These are symmetrical, and arise from the lateral and superior angle of the uterus, be- tween the round and ovarian ligaments. They are from three to four inches in length, taking a direction at first downwards and outwards, and then turning back- wards; they present for description two extremities,--a uterine and an ovarian, the former commencing from the fundus uteri by an opening capable of admitting a small probe or bristle, the latter dilated and fringed like the. tentacula of a polype; of these fimbria one is long, rarely on the same line with the others, and is attached to the capsule of the ovary, whilst the remainder are free and floating. The tunics of the tube consist of a serous, muscular, and mucous investment. The muscular layer