BRAKCHES OF SUBCLAVIAN. 815 and dividing into three branches, the most external anastomoses with the superior thyroid, the middle enters the gland for its supply, while the internal fol- lows the isthmus or connecting lobe, and commtmicates with its fellow. Relations.—Anteriorly, sheath of the vessels, inferior laryngeal and sympathetic nerve; and posteriorly, lon- gus colli and vertebral artery. ^ Remarhs.—This artery is always very variable in its size, which appears to be regulated by that of the su- perior thyroid. It also constantly gives off a small branch (inferior laryngeal), which accompanies the nerve of the same name for the supply of the muscles of the larynx. Anomalies.—It may arise either from the vertebral, common carotid, or subclavian, and may be sometimes double. In an instance Avhere the right subclavian arose from the descending portion of the arch of the aorta, and ran to its destination in front of the trachea, the inferior thyroid ascended directly in front of this tube, although its origin was regular from the thyroid axis. Ascending Cervical arises from the extremity of the axis, and, passing directly upwards, anastomoses with the vertebral and occipital. Relations—Anteriorly, deep cervical fascia and ster- no-mastoid; posteriorly, anterior scalenus; externally, phrenic nerve; and internally, internal jugular vein. Remarks.—We have never observed it absent, though occasionally it may be very small. Anomalies—It very constantly springs from the in- ferior thyroid, but it may arise from the transversalis colli or humeri, or from the subclavian itself Transversalis Colli or Posterior Scapular Generally a large branch, arising from the posterior wall of the axis; it passes at first backwards and upwards, till it arrives on a level with the superior angle of the scapula, when it bends downwards, parallel t°o its pos- terior border, and at its inferior angle anastomoses with the subscapular and circumflexus scapulaj. Relations.-Ki\tenor\y, sterno-mastoid, omo-hyoid trapezius, levator anguli scapulas, rhomboideus minor and major; posteriorly, anterior scalenus, phrenic nerve