LITHOTOMY. 431 LITHOTOMY. The operation for removing a calculus from the male bladder consists essentially in arriving at the most pos- terior portion of the urethral canal, laying it open, and thus extricating the foreign body through the artifi- cially dilated space. To accomplish this object two dif- ferent modes of proceeding have been adopted,—the first, in which the operation is completed on one side (Che- selden); the second, where both sides of the perineum are made to participate equally in the operation (bila- teral—Dupuytren). The former is that principally per- formed by British surgeons. The patient being drawn to the edge of a table of a convenient height, the buttocks supported on a pillow, the wrists secured to the outer side of the ankle-joint, while an assistant stands at each side to divaricate the thighs, and also to support the staff firmly against the symphisis pubis. The staff is grooved on the convexity, sometimes a little to the right side, but does not reach the point, and should be intro- duced before the patient is secured in the requisite po- sition. Let the scrotum be now elevated, and any scat- tered hairs shaved from the surface of the perineum; the first incision commences at one side of the raphe, on the left of the mesian line, and one inch and a quarter in front of the anus, being continued downwards and backwards to midway between the anus and tuber is- chii, its extent being about three inches. The knife should pass through the skin, fasciae, and fat, with the fibres of the superficial sphincter; the long perineal ar- tery may escape, because it is parallel to the line of in- cision, but the transverse artery (superficial) is always divided. The second incision is commenced half-an-inch below the last, in order to avoid the artery of the bulb, and is then continued in a line with the former, the knife passing through the triangular space between the erector penis and accelerator urinse, and dividing the base of the triangular ligament, transversalis perinei, mus- cle, anterior fibres of the levator ani, and Wilson's mus- cles. The fore-finger of the left hand is now to be in- troduced into the wound, and the nail should press the