367 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. trude, forming tumours resembling herniae; these are named adipoceles. It often occurs that these become inflamed, and may even be subjected to operation as strangulated hernife, but from the repeated observa- tions of those engaged in anatomical examinations, it would appear that their pathological characters are not always very remote, as by drawing forwards the fatty tumour a small portion of the parietal perito- neum is found engaged in the dilated aperture. We scarcely remember to have seen a single case of adipo- cele without a variable quantity of peritoneum forming part of the tumour, nor have we observed them except in the epigastric region. In consequence of the con- centric development of the abdominal parietes, a de- ficiency is sometimes present above the pubis, and in such cases the anterior wall of the bladder is also absent, the margins of that viscus adhering to the abnormal aperture, and the pressure of the contents protruding the posterior wall, forming a reddish spongy tumour, the ureter opening on its surface, and in such cases the penis is either absent or atrophied. The operations of tapping the bladder above the pubis, also a similar one for ascites, are performed In the course of the linea alba. The high operation for lithotomy had likewise a similar site, but this has now become obsolete. Linea Semilunaris.—This is a whitish faint line, extending from the cartilage of the ninth rib to the spme of the pubis; it corresponds to the point at which the tendon of the internal oblique splits, where it is about to form the sheath of the rectus. If a line be drawn from the umbilicus to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and this be bisected, but a little nearer to the latter, is the point which has been selected for the evacuation of ovarian accumulations, but the pressure of the contained fluid exercises so much influence on the rectus that it may exceed three inches in width, pro- ducing a corresponding displacement of the epigastric artery, which may, therefore, be wounded. Surgeons are, therefore, slow to adopt the operation in this situation! LiNE^. TRANSVERSiE—These are three or four white Imes seen through the tendon of the external oblique;