886 ARTERIES AND VEINS. perior hsemorrlaoidal vein from the plexus of that name, then receiving the sigmoid and left colic branches, it ascends to open at right angles into the splenic, an inch to the left side of the portal confluence. Splenic Vein commences by numerous branches which coalesce at the hilus of the spleen, and then passes almost transversely towards the right, lying posterior and inferior to the pancreas and its correspondmg ar- tery, which is tortuous, but the vein is perfectly straight; and having received the inferior mesenteric, pancreatic, and gastric veins, terminates in the porta. The Vena Port^, with its branches, are peculiar m being devoid of valves, although a contrary opinion was maintained by Bauer; still, modern authorities agree that they are absent; it is also peculiar in possessing remark- ably thick coats, so that when the trunk is divided it remains patulous; again it commences by branches and terminates also in branches, and the blood which it con- tains ministers to secretion. A case is mentioned by Abernethy where the porta terminated m the inferior cava, failing to reach the liver; but in this instance the umbilical vein was patulous. In obstruction to the por- tal circulation in the liver, ascites is sometimes absent, which Dr. Lyons has accounted for by the Eachidian sys- tem becoming the efferent vessels of the portal, the vena azygos being found dilated in connexion with these peculiarities. Dilatation of the abdominal veins m the vicinity of the umbilicus, compared to the head ol the Medusa, is recorded by Kokitansky, uniformly associated with adult patency of the umbilical vein and cirrhosis ot the liver The veins of the lower extremity are divisible into superficial and deep,—the former are the internal and external saphense, whilst the latter pursue the course of the deep arteries of the limb. . . , j Internal SAPHENA._The longest vem in the body , it commences at the internal extremity ot the tarsal arch of veins, and, passing upwards and backwards, it ascends in front of the internal malleolus, and immedi- ately above this, it receives the internal calcaneal vein which ascends behind the interna malleolus to join it, then continuing its course upwards, lying ner edge of the gastrocnemius, it curves backwards be