198 THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. bone. For this purpose it is obviously too weak; but it may be of use in protecting the branch of the supra- scapular artery, as it descends beneath it to the infra- spinous fossa, from the pressure of the adjacent muscles. SCAPULO-HUMERAL ARTICULATION. This is an arthrodial joint, for it scarcely deserves the name of enarthrosis, which has been sometimes ap- plied to it. Portions of two bones only enter into its formation,—the head of the humerus and glenoid ca- vity of the scapula; and these are connected by four ligaments,—the capsular, accessory or coraco-humeral, glenoid, and interarticular. Capsular.—In order to obtain a view of this liga- ment, the upper extremity must be detached from the trunk in the usual manner, the deltoid and coracoid muscles cut across at their origin and thrown down, and the capsular treated in the same manner; but their tendons of insertion must be left untouched, in order to observe their relative position with respect to the articulation. The capsule thus exposed resembles in figure a sack open at both extremities,—the superior, which is the smaller, being closely applied around the neck of the scapula, while the inferior encircles the de- pression immediately above the tubercles of the hume- rus, known as its anatomical neck. It must not, how- ever, be supposed to be sufliciently tense to preserve the bones to which it is attached in close apposition; on the contrary, it is exceedingly lax, and permits an interval of separation between them, varying from half to three- quarters of an inch; nor is it equally strong in all directions,—for superiorly and externally it is dense, while inferiorly and internally it is comparatively weak and thin. The fibres which compose it take generally a longitudinal course, stretching from the neck of the humerus to that of the scapula, but an interval usually exists between them at the upper edge of the subscapu- laris, through which a fold of the synovial membrane escapes to communicate with the bursa, separating its tendon from the bone; a second, likewise, occasionally is found in the position of the infraspiuatous tendon.