72 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. face is prolonged into the process already alluded to for the insertion of the tibialis posticus and calcaneo-sca- phoid ligament, of surgical importance in amputation of the foot. The external sometimes presents an arti- cular facette for the cuboid, but this is not always ma- nifest. The scaphoid articulates with four bones: the astra- galus posteriorly, and the three cuneiform anteriorly. The Cuboid.—This bone is situated on the outside ot the foot, and is very thick as contrasted with the pre- ceding. It also presents two surfaces: a posterior and an anterior, and a circumference. The posterior exhibits an articular facette for the os calcis, covered with carti- lao-e, convex from above downwards; concave from side topside. The anterior is cut ofiP obliquely from withm, backwards and outwards, and has on it two facettes, separated by a slight ridge; the internal is_ verti- cally oval, slightly concave, and articulates with the extremity of the fourth metatarsal bone ; the exter- nal is larger, rounder, and flat, cut off obliquely, so as to form an obtuse angle with the preceding, for uniting with the fifth. The upper part of its circum- ference is irregularly quadrilateral and rough, broad internally, constricted externally; having attached to it the dorsal ligaments for the contiguous bones, and givintr origin to a slip of the extensor brevis. i he ex- !ernaT surface is very small, and presents a hp anteriorly and posteriorly, separated by the commencement of the groove for the tendon of the perona3US longus; to these lips ligaments are likewise attached. The inferior sur- face has anteriorly the continued groove for the peroneal tendon, directed forwards and inwards; more posteriorly it is quadrilateral and elevated, covered with cartilage, affording attachment to the two portions of the calcaneo- cuboid ligament, and insertion to a slip ot the tibialis posticus. Internally the bone becomes expanded, its two anterior thirds are covered with cartilage, to articulate with the external cuneiform; and a facette is visible on its posterior third, where it is in contact with the sca- phoid, but not invariably. ti„. The cuboid articulates with four bones or five; the