BRANCHES OF INTERNAL CAROTID. 805 Frontal—Generally large; it emerges in company with the preceding, and, having thrown off a filament to the lachrymal sac, turns upwards through the fibres of the corrugator supercilii, and, dividing into two branches, the internal of which passes inwards to supply the integuments of the forehead, communicating with Its fellow of the opposite side, while the external winds outwards to anastomose with the supra-orbital. _ Remarks—The ophthalmic, according to our expe- rience, is always constant in its course and ultimate distribution, and we cannot at present recall an instance oi any peculiarity that would deserve especial notice. Anomalies—The same observation may be equally applied to the origin of this vessel. Anterior Cerebral arises from the carotid, about a quarter of an inch before its termination; it pursues a very tortuous course, first passing forwards and inwards on the under surface of the anterior lobe of the brain, between the olfactory and optic nerves, to both of which It distributes some minute twigs, and, on reaching the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum, it turns up- wards round Its genu, between the two anterior lobes then bends backwards on its superficial surface (cal- losal), concealed by the hemisphere which overlaps it, and, reaching its posterior extremity, turns downwards to anastomose with the posterior cerebral from the basilar. Collateral Branches. — Anterior communicatina- and hemispheric. ° _ Anterior CoMMUNiCATiNG.—Short, but thick, stretch- ing between the anterior cerebral arteries, just before they wind around the genu of the corpus callosum: in many mstances there may be two, or sometimes three. HEMisPHERicconsistofseveralbrancheswhichareRiven . off as the trunk lies on the upper surface of the corpus . cal osum; the anterior passing upwards and backwards ! and the posterior upwards and forwards along the inner :side o the hemispheres, the upper surface of which I they ultimately reach, and, breaking up into numerous branches, supply the convolutions, anastomosing with tfilaments from the middle and posterior cerebrals Remarks.—ThQ anterior cerebral arteries may join