836 ARTERIES AND VEINS. VI. Spermatic; vii. Inferior mesenteric; viii. Lumbar; and IX. Middle sacral. I. Phrenic.—Very variable in size; arise from the aorta; immediately below its tendinous arch, and pass upwards and outwards, each in front of their correspond- ing crus, the right behind the cava, and the left behind the oesophagus, and on reaching the sides of the cordi- form tendon they divide into two branches,—an exter- nal, which passes outwards, to anastomose with the lower intercostals; and an internal, which runs iuAvards towards the xiphoid cartilage, to communicate with the internal mammary. Immediately after its origin the phrenic almost constantly sends down a branch to the suprarenal capsule, to anastomose with its arteries and with the renal. Anomalies. They may arise by a common branch from the parent trunk, or from the celiac axis, or oc- sionally from the renal. II. Celiac Axis A thick, short trunk, about half- an-inch in length; arises from the left side of the aorta, from which it stands out at nearly a right angle, oppo- site the first lumbar vertebra. Relations.—Above, tendinous arch of diaphragm; be- low, pancreas, which separates it from the superior me- senteric artery; in front, concave margin of stomach and lesser omentum; to either sides corresponding crura, semilunar ganglia, and suprarenal capsules, with, in addition on the right and superiorly, the lobulus Spigelii of the liver, whilst it is encircled on all sides by branches of the solar plexus. Collateral Branches.—Coronary or gastric, he- patic, and splenic. Coronary or Gastric—The smallest of the three; it passes upwards and towards the left side, as far as tb cardiac orifice of the stomach, where it throws off large branch, oesophageal, which ascends on that tub to anastomose with similar twigs from the thoraci aorta; also some branches to the great extremity of t stomach. Having given off these, it next takes a r current direction downwards and to the right sid between the layers of the lesser omentum, anastomosing near the pylorus with the superior pyloric, from the