ULNA. 39 perceive that it is quadilateral in shape, rough on its surface, and covered by a bursa, which the tendon of the triceps, inserted into its posterior margin, plays over. Its internal edge gives origin to the flexor carpi ulnaris; its external has the anconeus inserted into it; its posterior surface, extending downwards for about an inch and a half, is triangixlar, the base above and apex below; it is smooth and subcutaneous; its anterior surface is covered with cartilage, and enters into the formation of the greater sigmoid cavity, presently to be described. The coronoid process lies on a plane inferior and anterior to the last; it also is conical in form, con- cave from above downwards, and exceedingly rough, for the attachment of the following parts: most supe- riorly, the anterior ligament of the joint; below this the insertion of the brachialis anticus; then the pronator radii teres; more inferiorly, flexor digitorum sublimis, and slip of the flexor pollicis longus. The great sigmoid cavity separates these two processes, forming a little more than one-third of a circle; it is concave from above downwards, convex from side to side, and looks up- wards, forwards, and inwards; a prominent vertical ridge, corresponding to the trochlea of the humerus, oc- cupies its central part; while a transverse depression is sometimes found to exist, showing the point where the upper portion became united to the shaft. Situated on the outer and lower part of the greater sigmoid notch is the lesser, concave from before backwards, deeper behind than in front, forming about one-fourth of a circle, for articulation with the head of the radius, the orbicular ligament completing the remainder of the ring for connecting the bones together. The shaft is prismatic in its superior three-fourths, rounded and contracted in its inferior. It presents three margins and three surfaces. The external margin is well-marked superiorly, where the interosseous membrane is attached, but gradually lost below, where this ligament ceases. The anterior internal edge is the direct continuation downwards of the apex of the coronoid process. It is much more rounded than the external, while the pos- terior internal presents nearly the same characters as