731 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. it are:—1. Diaphragmatic, which accompany the phre- nic arteries for the supply of that muscle, the right plexus being always larger than the lefc. 2. Capsular, comparatively large, for the supply of the suprarenal capsules. 3. Hepatic, consisting of two distinct plex- uses, one anterior, accompanying the artery, the other posterior, following the vena porta, for the supply of the liver; they also send a number of twigs to the gall- bladder. 4. Splenic, comparatively small for that organ. 5. Coronary, for the stomach, principally to its upper curvature. 6. Eenal, which unite with the lesser splanc- nic, presently to be described, for the kidney and sper- matic cord, and ovaries in the female. 7. Superior me- senteric, which accompanies the artery of the same name, for the supply of the small intestine, and right portion of the large. 8. Inferior mesenteric: it likewise follows its corresponding artery, and is distributed with it to the remaining part of the large intestines commu- nicating in the pelvis with the hypogastric. Lesser Spl.^nchnic Nerve arises from the tenth and eleventh dorsal ganglia, and forms a small cord, which perforates the outer edge of the crus of the diaphragm, and, passing downwards to the hylus of the kidney, unites with branches of the greater,' constituting the re- nal plexus, for the supply of the kidney and testicles in the male, and the ovaries in the female. Lumbar Ganglions.—These are five in number, and generally of a fusiform shape, but the superior espe- cially are occasionally so blended together that it is im- possible to assign any particular figure to them. They are connected to each other by slendercord-likebranches, sometimes double, forming a chain on either side of the vertebral column internal to the origin of the psoas. The branches which they give oiT may be divided into external and internal. External branches pass down- wards and outwards in company with the lumbar arte- ries, between the loops of origin of the psoas, to join the lumbar plexus in the body of that muscle; there is, how- ever, great want of uniformity in their arrangement, as several twigs may pass oft" from the ganglion above, and none from that below. Internal Branches.—Exceedingly numerous, whicli