THE TEETH. 117 ! short, the fangs three or four, with a corresponding 1 number of neural and vascular foramina. Occasionally i in the lower set two roots only occur, and a divergent ■ excurvation exists, which increases their security. We 1 have noticed this arrangement much more frequently in ■ the upper set, although the contrary opinion is usually I entertained. The pulp cavity is figured like a Maltese I cross, large and well marked. Structure.—A tooth consists of three hard tissues and : a central vascular matrix,—the enamel surrounding the I crown, the dentine or tooth ivory, intermediately placed ' between the enamel and the pulp cavity, and the crusta petrosa, or cementum, holding the same relation to the : fang as the enamel to the crown. This latter structure is the hardest in the human body, smooth on the exter- : nal surface, more rough internally ; thicker on the 1 summit than the sides of the crown, which it wholly ; surrounds. In order to examine its structure, a section ■ must be prepared for the microscope, both longitudinal ; and transverse. It consists of a series of hexagonal : fibres, with opposed surfaces mutually corresponding, • one extremity free, the second resting on and attached to the surface of the dentine. Maceration in acid proves these fibres to be merely an organic sheath, containing a crystaline deposit (fluoride of calcium), and consequently a modified cell-structur& We have been unable to de- tect any wave in the enamel fibres, but an obliquity, in many cases amounting to a single curve, is often visi- ble. The figure is best observed in an oblique fracture of the edge of a section, when the surface appears beau- tifully crystaline. Dentine.—This structure gives form and strength to the tooth, and consists of tubular fibres, commencing by large, open extremities on the surface of the pulp cavity, from thence radiating and dividing dichoto- mously in their course to reach the enamel, to which they are attached by filamentous extremities, but where they reach the crusta petrosa, they are the efferent tubes of osseous lacunse, which they form by dilata- tions of their own cavities. Each tube has a proper osseous wall, granular when examined with a high power, and much denser than the intertubular struc-