405 PERINEUM. piercing that structure to reach the dorsum of the penis. The anterior surface of the triangular ligament is covered by crura penis, erector, transversalis perinei, accelerator urinee muscles, and the long perineal artery and nerve; the bulb and spongy structure of the ure- thra also lies on it for about an inch and a quarter; the posterior surface corresponds to the anterior face of the bladder, prostate gland, membranous portion of the urethra, levatores ani, and the curve of the rectum, but the latter is at some distance posteriorly; also the dorsal nerve of the penis. This ligament consists of two layers, superficial and deep; the former should now be removed, and the following parts will be observed between its layers:—!. Cowper's anti-prostatic glands; 2. Wilson's and Guthrie's muscles; 3. Pudic artery; 4. Artery of the bulb; 5. Membranous portion of the urethra. Cowper's Glands—Two small ovoid tubular bodies, lymg on each side and below the membranous portion of the urethra; they are surrounded by a dense re- flected saccule from the triangular ligament, and their size varies, sometimes not exceeding a small pea, or agam, as large as a kidney-bean. From the superior part a duct emerges, that passes upwards and forwards, grooving the bulb, and then opens obliquely into the spongy portion of the urethra, in front of the bulb or dilatation, after a course of three-quarters of an inch. These glands consist of a single duct, to which the secondary tubes are attached, and these latter are of the same diameter throughout, being long, slender, looped, or convoluted, but never arborescent or mi- nutely divided. Relations.—AnterioTly a,nd posteriorly, the triangular ligament; below, transverse perineal muscle; and above the artery of the bulb, from which the vascular supply IS derived; they secrete a fluid which is probably mixed with the seminal secretion during its discharge, but the variation in their magnitude would seem to imply that their function is unimportant. Wilson's Muscles—These are two bands that arise from the lower edge of the symphisis pubis, and, ter- minating in tendons which surround the urethra, are