BRANCHES OF CAROTID. 799 Anomalies.—Very rare: it has been remarked to have sprung from the facial, but such an occurrence we have never witnessed. Phartngea Ascendens arises from the external ca- rotid as it bifurcates from the common; passes nearly vertically upwards to the base of the cranium, and, di- viding into two branches,—a posterior (meningeal), which enters the cerebral cavity through the foramen lacerum posterius, where it anastomoses with the poste- rior meningeal; and an anterior (pharyngeal), which supplies the muscles of the pharynx and Eustachian tube, communicating with the tonsillitic, inferior pala- tine, and Vidian. Relations Anteriorly, external carotid and superior constrictor, the latter muscle being also internal to it; posteriorly, rectus capitis anticus major; externally and anteriorly, internal carotid. Remarks.—The ascending pharyngeal is always very variable as to size, appearing to be regulated in a great measure by the palatine of the facial, the increased ca- pacity of the one being generally accompanied by a cor- responding diminution of that of the other. Several of its smaller twigs are distributed to the nerves of this region, particularly to the superior cervical ganglion and pneumogastric. Anomalies.—We have observed the pharyngeal to arise from the common carotid immediately before its bifurcation, also from the occipital and facial. Temporal.—The continuation of the external caro- tid in direction, but not in size. It commences half-an- inch below the zygoma, and, passing nearly vertically upwards, crosses that process near its tubercle, and then, ascending for about one inch and a quarter, divides into three branches,—an anterior, to anastomose with the supra-orbital; a middle, to commiinicate beneath the muscle with the deep temporal; and a posterior, wind- ing backwards above the concha to anastomose with the posterior auricular and occipital. Relations—Anteriorly, integument, fascia, and attra- hensauremmuscle; posteriorly, temporo-auricularnerve, bone, and temporal aponeurosis. Remarks.—This artery is sometimes very large and