TIBIA. 63 surface, and a circumference. The anterior surface is rough, convex, and marked by a number of vertical lines or strife. It is covered by a dense fibrous struc- ture, derived from the tendon of the rectus and fascia lata of the thigh. Its posterior surface has a vertical ridge in the centre, corresponding to the trochlea of the femur, dividing it into two portions, both covered with cartilage; the external, the larger, to articulate with the outer condyle; the internal, narrower, to articulate with the inner. Its circumference presents the figure of a curvilinear triangle, flattened and thick superiorly, affording attachment to the rectus and cru- rasus; sharp and convex on its inner and outer border, for the attachment of the vasti, and pointed inferiorly for the origin of the ligamentum patellae. It articulates with the femur only, and is developed from a single point of ossification, which is visible between the second and third.year. Tibia.—This is another of the long bones, and is next to the femur in size and strength. We will examine it by dividing it into a shaft, upper and lower extremity. The upper extremity presents two articular facettes for the condyles of the femur; they are both covered with cartilage, but they differ from each other in the follow- ing particulars: the internal is oval from before back- wards, deeply concave, and looks upwards, backwards, and inwards; the external is comparatively flat, more circular in figure, and looks upwards, backwards, and outwards. These articular facettes are deepened for the reception of the femur by the semilunar carti- lages, and are separated from each other by an ir- regular crest of bone, extending from before back- wards, and terminating in a prominent point towards its posterior and inner part, inclined upwards and inwards; this is the spine, anterior and posterior to which is a pit or depression for the attachment of the crucial ligaments and cornua of the semilunar car- tilages. The anterior part of the head of the bone is of a triangular shape, the base above and apex below formed by an elevated process which is called the tu- bercle, into which the ligamentum patellee is inserted. The surface alluded to is rough, perforated by several