576 CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. abruptly, but it forms sheaths for the vessels, which continue to inclose them in all their minute ramifica- tions to their ultimate termination. The spleen must be considered as composed of several lobules, and this may be distinctly shown by injection. The artery which supplies it is very large, and before it penetrates into its substance usually subdivides into five or six branches; these may be injected with fluids of difi'erent colours, which will only tinge their own immediate compartments, unless too great a force be employed, when they may become blended together by the consequent rupture. The manner m which the arterial capillaries terminate is not clearly understood; it is, however, generally believed that they are tufted or pencillate, discharging their blood into the cellwork of the spleen by a kind of exudation; these cells being filled with small pulpy masses, the ulterior ramification of the vein, constituting a species of venous erectile tissue which pervades the entire organ. There can be no question but the veins communicate with the ceils much more freely than the arteries, a fact which may be proved by endeavouring to distend the spleen by a co- lumn of water of similar weight being introduced by either vessels, when it will be found that its maximum pitch of distention will be accomplished much more rapidly from the one than from the other. MaLighian CoEPUSCLES._The existence of these small bodies have at one period been demed, at another affirmed, in the human subject. They are, however, verv evident in the ox, sheep, and pig, ymg m con- tact with the venous cells, and occasionally appearing to be connected to the arteries by short sjalk-like pro- cesses. They were looked on by Malpighi as of ome importance, i effecting certain changes - the splenic blood, a fact which, however, requires confirmation Th; spleen is a lymphatico-vascular gland, aiid accord- ingly! has no special ducts. In the foetus it is visible abou the end of the second month, being then very small, :nd maintaining a comparatively the entire of intra-uterine life. With lespect to its Wtions there is, perhaps, no organ m the entire hu- body concerliing which so many theories have