MUSCLKS OF THE FACE. 239 Action To draw downwards and backwards the L angle of the mouth, as in laughter. Triangulaeis Oris is seen by raising the last; it ; arises thin and fleshy from the side of the ramus of the 1 lower jaw, from two lines in front of the masseter to tthe mental foramen; the fibres ascend the anterior up- 1 wards and backwards, the posterior vertically; inserted tthin and narrow into the angle of the mouth, continuous 'with the levator anguli, and superficial to the buc- . cinator. Helations.—It lies on the ramus of the jaw, the mental I nerve, and artery, which separate it from the quadratus imenti, on the buccinator and facial artery at its inser- 1 tion, but at its origin this vessel is posterior, and sepa- ]rates it from the masseter; at the commissure, an inti- imate connexion exists between this muscle and the I levator anguli; also the zygomaticus major, so that they 1 would seem to form a single muscle with three points of origin. Action—To depress the angle of the mouth. If act- 1 ing in combination with the musculus caninus, the I aperture may be diminished in the transverse diameter. Quadratus Menti—Somewhat square, and inti- imately adherent to the skin which covers it; arises 1 from the side of the body of the lower jaw, between the 1 mental foramen and symphisis; the fibres pass upwards ; and inwards, and are inserted into the half of the 1 lower lip. Relations.—It is covered by the skin and a yellowish • fatty tissue, which sinks between its fibres, also by the triangularis oris, mental nerve, and artery; it lies on : the bone and the levator of the lower lip; a small space 1 intervenes between the muscles of opposite sides, in ' which is felt below, even through the integument, the 1 mental prominence. Action.—To depress the lip, also draw it outwards i and downwards, making it tense transversely. Levator Labii Inferioris is seen by dissecting I the mucous membrane from the posterior part of the lower lip; there is some difficulty in separating the ! muscles of opposite sides, as they are intimately united 1 in the middle line. It arises I'rom a small depression