THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 66 observed that the internal malleolus is on a plane ante- rior to the external and also to the internal condyle, in consequence of the twisting of the bone. The tibia articulates with three bones: the femur above, the fibula laterally, and the astragalus below. It is developed from three points of ossification: one for the shaft, which appears about the sixth week; one for the lower, and one for the upper extremity both of these latter are visible from the first to the second year. There has occasionally been found a fourth com- plementary point for the tubercle. The union of these several parts is not completed till the twentieth or twenty-first year. Fibula Is the most slender of all the long bones, and seems to be placed in the leg, not for the purpose of bestowing additional strength, but to afford a broader basis for the attachment of muscles, and to complete the peculiar mortice-joint which the ankle presents. Like all of the same class, it may be divided into a shaft and two extremities. Of these last the upper is usually called the head. This is of a conical figure, termi- nating superiorly and posteriorly in a pointed process, into which is inserted the tendon of the biceps and ex- ternal lateral ligament. Internally and anteriorly co- vered with cartilage, and presenting a concave facette, looking upwards, forwards, and inwards, to articulate with the tibia; rough anteriorly and posteriorly for the attachment of the tibio-fibular ligaments. The shaft is prismatic in shape, presenting an anterior well-marked edge, which gives attachment to the intermuscular sep- tum, between the muscles attached to the external and anterior part of the bone; it stretches from the head downwards to within two or three inches of the mal- leolus, where it bifurcates into two lines, one of which forms the anterior, and the other the posterior boun- dary of that process. The internal ridge is also promi- nent, but deficient in its superior and inferior fifths; it affords attachment to the interosseous ligament. Ihe external may be said to exist only in its inferior four- fifths, and has connected to it the deep fascia of the leg. Of the three surfaces of the bone one is internal and anterior, concave, traversed from above downwards