CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. 582 corresponding suprarenal capsule on the right side, with the spleen on the left, but divided from it by the same organ; on the right the caecum lies immediately below it; on the left the sigmoid flexure. Their external margin, which is very convex, corresponds to the abdo- minal wall; their internal, which is concave, and termed the hylus, for the passage of—from before, backwards, and above downwards—the renal vein, artery, and ureter, posteriorly being more deeply notched, has in- ternal to it, on the right—the vena cava, and on the left—the aorta. These organs are retained in position by the peritoneum, which is reflected over them, by the fatty tissue in which they are buried, by the large blood- vessels which pierce them, and by the pressure of sur- rounding parts. Coats.—'The kidneys have three tunics,—an external or serous, a middle or cellulo-adipose, and an internal or proper fibrous. The first, which is derived from the peritoneum, is very incomplete, merely covering it an- teriorly and partially on its margins, and can be re- moved from it without much difiiculty, its principal use apparently being to bind it to the posterior Avail of the abdomen. The adipose coat is developed very spa- ringly in the human subject, but is generated in great abundance in quadrupeds; it is always very irregular in its distribution, but is usually found in greater quan- tity on the posterior than the anterior aspect of the or- gan. The proper capsule is composed of thin but strong fibrous tissue; it completely invests the whole organ, and on reaching the hylus forms sheaths for the several vessels that pass in through it, becoming contmuous with the fibrous envelopes and septa wilhin the organ. It likewise throws off" numerous thin processes exter- nally, that become blended with the fat, and assist in maintaining this structure in its proper position. Either kidney may be now removed irom its po- sition, and a longitudinal incision made completely through it from its convex to its concave border taking care, however, that the knive is carried directly through the centre, so as to expose fully all its constituent parts The cut surfaces maybe now washed beneath a stream cf water, and examined. In the section of the healthy