THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 290 of the tongue the muscular structure becomes appa- rent. This tissue is divided into muscles extrinsic and intrinsic: the former have been described as the stylo- glossus, hyo-glossus, genio-hyo-glossus, glosso-pharyn- geus, and the inferior lingualis; the class to which it appertains being doubtful. The intrinsic muscles are, the superior and inferior linguales and the central muscular nucleus. The existence of these can be shown by making a transverse section of the tongue anterior to its centre. Superior Lingualis This is formed by a series of fibres, constituting a continuous layer on the dor- sum, intimately attached to the basement portion of the mucous membrane. Their course is obhquely for- wards and inwards towards the raphe; the internal are short, the external much longer, extending to the pointof the tongue, where they are weak, but posteriorly their thickness sometimes exceeds a quarter of an inch. Lateral Lingualis.—This consists of three sets of fibres. The superficial, most visible at the base, pass downwards and forwards; these are often raised Avith the mucous membrane. Beneath the last a deeper set pass backwards and downwards; these may be seen about the centre: and lastly, some longitudinal fibres, derived from the stylo-glossus, form the deepest layer of this region. Inferior Lingualis.—This fasciculus, lying between the hyo and genio-hyo-glossi on each side, has been described with the extrinsic muscles. As it often takes an origin from the hyoid bone, it may be therefore con- sidered as common to both. Now make a transverse section of the tongue: m the centre will be seen an oval mass, concave below, and of a pale yellowish colour, a whitish septum dividing it into two symmetrical halves; this is the lingual muscular nu- cleus, extending from the os hyoides forwards for about one inch and a half, -superiorly related to the upper lin- gualis, laterally to the stylo and hyo-glossus ; belo w to the inferior lingualis and genio-hyo-glossus. Its fibres are transverse and vertical, and on its superior aspect also longitudinal. When the three folds of mucous mem- brane attaching the tongue to the epiglottis are raised