164 THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. The Sacro-iliac Synchondrosis has for its security anterior and posterior ligaments, with a dense cartila^^e of incrustation. ° Anterior Ligament—This requires very little pre- paration,—merely the removal of the great vessels and nerves, and a little loose areolar tissue, when it is brought into view, consisting of a series of parallel fibres of unequal lengths, stretching from the surfaces of one bone to the other, by no means remarkable for their strength. It is covered by the lumbo-sacral nerve and internal iliac arteries. Posterior Ligament.—A tedious dissection is neces- sary to expose this, as all the muscles on the back of the sacrum must be removed, as the ligaments lie deeply between its spines and the posterior edge of the ilium. In its character it differs completely from the preced- ing, as it consists of three or four triangular fasciculi of exceeding strength and thickness, stretching between the tubercles on the back of the sacrum, and the adja- cent non-articular surface of the ilium. When these are cautiously removed, another deeper set are brought into view, much weaker, horizontal, and running pa- rallel to each other between the contiguous edges of the two bones. They are, as we have already stated, co- vered by the organs of the lumbar muscles, and rest on the bones from which they are separated by a quantity of loose areolar tissue, through which ramify several very large veins. Having examined those ligaments, they may now be divided; and having torn the bones forcibly from each other,—an operation sometimes of great difficulty, as they are generally more or less anchylosed,—the inter- vening cartilage may be observed. It is thick, particu- larly on the sacrum, and very rough, so that the pro- cesses of the one seem to indigitate with corresponding ones of the other, rendering the joint by this arrange- ment very secure, even without the aid of its ligaments. It has been said that a synovial membrane can be de- tected in this articulation both in childhood and in the female during the period of pregnancy. In the first there is no doubt a structure bearing a close resem- blance to a tissue of this nature, but in the latter we