THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 32 anterior and a posterior. The internal extremity is tri- angular in shape, the base turned upwards and for- wards, the apex downwards and backwards. It is covered with cartilage, and its inferior third, which is concave from before backwards, and convex from above and within downwards and outwards, articulates with the corresponding facette of the sternum, while the remaining portion is on a plane higher than the margin of the sternum, and gives attachment to the interclavi- cular ligament. Its circumference is rough anteriorly and posteriorly for the sterno-clavicular ligaments— superiorly for the origin of the sterno-mastoid, while below it is smooth and rests on the cartilage of the first rib, from which it is separated by a bursa. Its external extremity is flattened, and presents an oval facette covered with cartilage, cut off obliquely from above and without downwards and inwards, so that it rests on and is supported by the acromion pro- cess; its upper and lower edges are also rough for the attachment of ligaments. Of its two surfaces, the superior is the rounder and smoother, directed rather upwards and forwards; its internal third gives origm to the outer head of the sterno-mastoid, while its two external thirds can be easily felt in the livmg subject, being covered only by the skin and a strong aponeu- rosis from the deltoid and trapezius. Its inferior sur- face is more irregular. Internally we observe a ridge for the insertion of the rhomboid ligament; a little more externally a longitudinal groove for the attach- ment of the ligamentum bicorne and subclavius muscle the latter extending out as far as the outer fourth ot the bone, where two rough eminences appear, the inter- nal and posterior for the conoid, and the external and anterior for the trapezoid ligaments. Its anterior mar- o-in directed also downwards, is convex for its internal ?wo-thirds, and gives attachment to the great pectoral- concave externally where it affords ongin to the del- toid. Its posterior edge is rough and convex exter- nally, and into it the fibres of the trapezius are inserted concave internally and smooth, embracing the first rib, and permitting the great vessels and neryes to pass up and down behind it. The clavicle articulates with