110 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. contact, leaving a groove between them posteriorly to receive the spine of the frontal and perpendicular plate of the ethmoid; its external is almost straight, and smooth to unite with the process of the superior maxillary. The nasal articulates with two bones of the head,—the ethmoid and frontal; and three of the face,—the superior maxillary, vomer, and its fellow of the opposite side. It is developed from a single point of ossification, which is visible about the eighth or ninth week. The OssA Unguis or Lachrymal are found in the an- terior part of the orbital cavity, and are two in number. They are ex tremely thin like paper, quadrilateral in shape, and accordingly present two surfaces,—an internal and external, and four margins,—a superior, an inferior, an anterior, and a posterior. The external surface is marked by a perpendicular ridge, which divides it into two por- tions,—aYi anterior and a posterior; the former is deeply grooved and porous, and enters into the formation of the nasal duct; the posterior is larger, slightly concave, and assists in completing the inner wall of the orbit, the ridge which separates them terminates below in a hook, and gives origin to the tensor tarsi muscle. The internal surface is slightly concave, owing to a depression which exists on it, corresponding to the ridge on the opposite side; that portion which lies anterior to it corresponds to the middle meatus, while that posterior, covers in the ethmoidal cells. Its anterior margin is nearly straight for articulation with the nasal process of the superior maxillary; its posterior extremely thin, and shorter, unites Avith the os planum of the ethmoid; its inferior, slightly denticulated, is joined to the orbital plate of the superior maxillary, sending downwards and backwards a long process to meet the inferior turbinated bone; the superior, the shortest and thickest of the whole, articulates with the frontal. The lachrymal articulates with two bones of the head: the frontal and ethmoid, and two of the face,—the su- perior maxillary and inferior turbinated. It is developed from a single point of ossification, which is visible from the thirteenth to the fourteenth week. Inferior Turbinated Bones.—These are two in number, situated in the cavity of the nose, on its outer