141 CRANIAL VAULT. .about one-third of the occipital, and in front by two- • thirds of the frontal. In the mesial line from before bbaclcwards it presents anteriorly the frontal ridge, vwhich as it proceeds backwards bifurcates, becomes c continuous more posteriorly with the parietal groove, aand still farther back with the occipital ridge. Along tthis line the remains of the sutures are visible, but not tto the same extent as on the outer surface of the sktill, meither are they denticulated. The openings of the eemissary holes of Santorini may be likewise observed luear the posterior superior angle of the parietal bone. .-Anteriorly are the frontal fossee; on each side the pa- rrietal; and behind the occipital, all corresponding to the eeminences on the outside, while the general surface is rmarked by irregular elevations and depressions, coin- cciding with the convolutions of the brain, and laterally vwith the shallow grooves for the lodgment of vessels in : their sinuous course between the bone and dura mater. ^"We may also remark the line of suture between the : frontal and parietal, between the latter and the tem- fporal, and likewise between the occipital and parietal. [Between the two last are wedged in the ossa Wormiana, :the sutures of which are much more apparent than any cof the others. The lower part of the cavity is more complex in its aarrangement. It comprises, as we have already stated, tthe cerebral fossas, which do not lie on the same plane, I but incline like the steps of a stairs from above, and in ifront downwards and backwards. They are three in mumber,—the anterior, middle, and posterior, and these v-we will examine each in the order in which we have : named them. The anterior fossa is of a semilunar shape, Abounded in front and on each side by the curve of the t frontal bone; behind by an undulating line, the con- vexity of which is turned forwards, formed by the pos- terior margin of the lesser wings and anterior lip of the .olivary groove. It may be divided into three distinct [portions,—a median or ethmoidal, and two lateral cor spheno-frontal. The ethmoidal is oblong, narrow 'from side to side, depressed; presenting anteriorly the ' foramen coecum or canal of communication between the tnose and great longitudinal sinus; behind it the crista