571 LIVER. lique, sometimes amounting to nearly twenty in num- ber, and occasionally conferring on the interior of the tube a kind of spiral appearance; they seem to offer an equal opposition to the ingress or egress of the bile into and from the gall-bladder. In the common biliary and hepatic ducts, there are, properly speaking, no valves, and any excrescence that may appear on the mu- cous membrane is purely accidental. A large fold, how- ever, is always found at the confluence of the cystic and hepatic ducts, and this is prolonged for some distance into the ductus communis choledochus; another like- wise exists at the junction of the right and left hepatic, but this is always much more limited in extent. The bile elaborated from the liver has been very fully analyzed by Gmelin, and the result of his investigations may be thus briefly stated:—1. A substance with a pecu- liar musky smell; 2. Fatty material, cholestrine, oleic, and margaric acid; 3. Cholic acid; 4. Biliary resin; 5. Taurin or biliary asparagin; 6. Picromel; 7. Yellow co- louring matter; 8. Extractive matters, osmazome, pty- aline, &c.; 9. Casein, an albuminous matter, and mucus; 10. Bicarbonate of soda, carbonate of ammonia, acetate of soda, oleate, margarate, chelate, sulphate, and phos- phate of potash and soda, chloride of sodium, and phos- phate of lime. This fluid performs several important functions in the animal economy; thus, it decarbonizes the blood, saponifies the fatty matter of the chyle, also animalizes it, and separates this last product from the chyme; it stimulates the intestines to throw out their peculiar secretion; it also excites their peristaltic action, and in some measure deodorizes the excrementitious re- sidual portion. The liver is developed by a conical protrusion from the hollow intestine, and during the first month of in- tra-uterine life is one-half of the weight of the entire body; but from this period it ceases to enlarge with the same rapidity, while the other organs rapidly increasing, the disparity is reduced from one-half to one-eighteenth at the time of birth, when an actual diminution appears to take place in its size, particularly in its left lobe, sup- posed to depend in a great measure on the obliteration of the umbilical vein, which deprives it of the great