193 STERNO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION. motions of opposition, or flexion and extension. The mode of union between them is precisely similar to the last described, so that it would be to no purpose to re- peat them. The Foot must be regarded as the basis of support of the entire weight of the body; and with this object in view, nature has been more anxious to confer on it strength and solidity to enable it to perform this office effectually, than to endue it with that delicacy of move- ment, which she has so lavishly expended in the con- struction of the hand. We accordingly find that the motions, generally speaking, are those of a gliding nature, as far as the tarsus and metatarsus are con- cerned, with a slight power of abduction, adduction, and torsion between the first and second rows of the former. In the latter as well as the phalangeal articu- lation, the mobility is greatly increased. Flexion and extension prevail to a very marked extent, conferring elasticity in progression, without compromising the strength which is so essential to the security of this important organ. LIGAMENTS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Steeno-clavicular Articulation.—This is formed by the union of two bones,—the extremity of the cla- vicle and the upper and lateral part of the sternum. From the peculiar configuration of the articulating sur- faces, alternately concave and convex, it is a joint by mutual reception, having for its security an anterior, a posterior, and an interclavicular ligament, with a thick intervening fibro-cartilage. Anterior Ligament—This consists of a series of strong fibres stretching obliquely downwards and in- wards from the anterior surface of the clavicle to the front of the sternum. Posterior Ligament—This is nearly similar to the preceding, but situated on the back part of the adjacent bones. A few scattered fibres on the upper surface of the articulation connect both together, and render them in some degree orbicular. It is right to remark, that one very high authority considers the posterior liga- K