235 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. on the free surface of the globe by the ducts, collected in the chiasma by the action of the lids; the fluid passes towards the internal canthus, urged in that di- rection by the horizontal movement of the inferior lid, and also by gravitation, in consequence of the external canthus being on a plane superior to the internal. The orbicularis muscle or tensor tarsi compressing the sac, their sudden relaxation produces a tendency to a va- cuum within that cavity, and at the same moment,^ the puncta being immersed in the lake of tears, the fluid is forced into the sac by atmospheric pressure, and its de- scent through the nasal duct follows. Nerves and Vessels of the Lids—The lachrymal nerve sends a branch to the upper eyelid which commu- nicates with the supratrochleator branch of the frontal; the infra-orbital nerve, and infratrochleator form the inferior tarsal arch; while the portio dura sends a branch to the muscle, but not to any other structure. The Arteries are the superior and inferior palpebral branches of the ophthalmic, communicating in the upper lid with the frontal and supra-orbital, and in the lower ■with the infra-orbital. Raise the lower and internal portion of the orbicularis to exhibit the first of the nasal group of muscles. Levator Labii Superioris Al^eque Nasi.—A thin, narrow slip of fleshy fibres, arising from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone; sometimes extending as far upwards as the frontal; it descends on the side of the nose, and is inserted by two slips, one into the dense skin of the ala of that organ, the second into the upper lip. Relations Above, it is overlapped by the orbicularis, but below it is pale and subcutaneous. It lies on the bone, the ala of the nose, and compressor nasi. Use.— To expand the nostril in forced inspiration, to express contempt, and raise the upper lip. Levator Labii Superioris (Proprius), arises broad and flat from the orbital margin of the superior maxil- lary bone, above the infra-orbital hole; the fibres pass downwards, converging, and are inserted into the upper lip and orbicularis oris. Relations.—It is covered by the orbicularis palpebra-