THE SPINAL COLUMN. 9 to entitle them to the designation which they now ap- pear to have received by almost general consent. The true spine consists of twenty-four distinct pieces, firmly united together by cartilage, ligament, and di- rect articulation; but as the several bones which com- pose the whole differ from one another in many essential particulars, it has been divided into three regions: the cervical above embracing the first seven; the dorsal in the middle, comprehending the twelve succeeding; and the lumbar below, consisting of the last five. The ver- tebree, however, possess some general features which may be said to be common to the whole, as, for example, each presents for consideration a body forming the en- tire of the anterior part of the bone, and a series of pro- cesses, nine in number, constituting its posterior por- tion. These processes are known by the following names: two pedicles, springing from the posterior and lateral parts of the body, and connecting it to the oblique and transverse processes; they are short, strong, and rounded, presenting a shallow groove above, a deep notch below. These, by the articulation of two cor- responding vertebras, are converted into irregular holes, the foramina of conjugation, for the transmission of the nerves from the spinal marrow, and for the entrance of arteries and veins, the one to supply the structures within the canal, the other to establish a communica- tion between the general venous system and the Eachi- dian vessels. From the posterior extremity of those pedicles the transverse processes jut out laterally. They are about an inch in length, and present various pecu- liarities which will be more particularly noticed in the description of the several regions. The articular or oblique processes are situated above and below the root of the transverse; they are covered with cartilage of incrustation, and interlock with those of the vertebraj above and below. Springing from the roots of the trans- verse and articular processes are the lamina, broad plates of bone, taking a direction backwards and inwards, con- verging to form the spinous process, the last in our enumeration. Lumbar Region—A vertebra in this region has the following peculiarities:—Its body is of an oval shape b3