20 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. dimensions of the thorax, thus affording increased space for the organs devoted to the important offices of circu- lation and respiration. The lumbar region presents a well-marked convexity, concealed by the psose and crura of the diaphragm, but appearing prominently below, where it is only covered by its shining ligament, sup- porting on the right side the cava, and on the left the aorta The direction of its convexity has a tendency to throw the abdominal viscera forwards, and cause them to rest on the arch of the pubis. The concavity is forwards in the sacral region, and has resting on it the tectum, pyriformis and sacral plexus. The direction of its curve increases the capacity of the pelvis tor the re- ception of the important parts which it contains. But in addition to those curvatures which observe an antero-posterior direction, we likewise have two others situated laterally, one in the dorsal, the other m the lum- bar region; the convexity of the first bemg turned to the right fide, that of the second to the left. Two ideas have been assigned for the production of the first of those curves; it has been supposed by some that the thoracic aorta lying on the left side has a tendency by its pul- sations, gradually to force the vertebral column m the opposite direction, while others assert that the more frequent use of the right side naturally tends to cause the curvature in that line. The last observation seems to be correct, as in left-handed individuals the con- vexity of the curve is always turned m that direction, and in those pursuing laborious occupations the de- viation from a straight line is always more obvious than in those whose avocations require the application ot less physical exertion. It may be merely requisite to state that the slight curve in the lumbar region is only theie to antagonize that which exists m the dorsal, and is more or less apparent according to the degree of m- now S our attention to the posterior part of the spinal column we will observe the same alternating curvatures as on its anterior surlace but of course turned in an opposite direction. In mesial line the spines jut out prominently, forming ^^^ll-marked ri^^^^^^ from above downwards. In the cervical region the spmeot