506 CAVITY OF THE CHEST. ten intercostals on the left, and nine on the right, which pass backwards and outwards to reach the intercostal spaces; it also gives off bronchial and cesophageal branches. The superior intercostal of the subclavian enters the cavity of the chest in front of the neck of the first rib and communicans dorsalis nerve, to supply the superior spaces. Vena Azygos Minor.—Not always present; com- mences in the abdomen from the ascending lumbar vein of theleft side, pierces the left crus, enters the posterior me- diastinum, receives the five inferior intercostal veins, crosses the spine opposite the sixth dorsal vertebra be- hind the aorta, and opens into the great azygos. The left greater and lesser splanchnics are similar to those on the right side. , j r The present opportunity may be selected for exa- mining the trachea, or air-tube, which will be facili- tated by drawing the heart and pericardium towards the left side, then removing any areolar tissue and glands between it and the aorta, its course will be sufficiently exposed It commences at the lower margin ot the cricoid cartilage, and descends almost vertically as low as the third dorsal vertebra, where it bifurcates into ritrht and left bronchi. -, • i ^ i Eelations.-lt lies on the oesophagus and right longus colli, and is covered anteriorly by the middle lobe of the thyroid body, descending thyroid yems, middle ar- tery of that name, when such a branch exists, sterno- thvroid and hyoid muscles, left vena mnommata, ar- teriainnominata, left carotid, remains of thymus gland, transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, descending cava, and superior part of the pericardium. It is related on each side to the inferior laryngeal nerves which lie in a groove between it and the oesophagus, inferior thyroid arteries, and the lateral lobes of the thyroid body, with the carotids and arteria innominata. Structurc-lt consists of seventeen to twenty-one rines each forming about three-fourths of a circle; but S prolonged they would rather describe an oval figure. The free^ extremities may terminate in different ways, either blunted, incurvated downwards, or expanded, the upper and lower edges are thm and bevillcd off.