THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 248 able to confine our remarks solely to the salivary system and its peculiarities. Tliese glands are disposed in three pairs, in the im- mediate vicinity of the lower jaw, and communicating with the buccal cavity. The parotid is the largest, the submaxillary intermediate in size, and the sublingual the smallest of the three; but although they differ in size and position, still they possess many well-marked common characters, each being related structurally to a large vessel, and occupying sucli a situation that al- most continual pressure is the result of the natural motions of the lower jaw. Their structure presents a uniform friability, and an efferent duct emanates from each, forming a communication with the mucous cavi- ties ; they are also similarly developed from the mucous layer of the germinal membrane, and are devoid of any proj)er capsule save that which is derived from the fas- cial investments in the neighbourhood. Their struc- ture is difficult to determine without careful prepara- tion; the ducts commence by oval granular follicles, that constitute the parenchymatous tissue of the glands; these are collected into lobules, from which a short tube, sometimes recognised with difficulty, passes to join the common efferent duct; from their number they confer on the tubular structure an arborescent appearance. The lobules are inclosed by sepimenta of the investing fascia, the capillaries ramifying in the interlobular spaces; the whole system of tubes is lined by a continuation of the mucous membrane of the mouth. In the larger, the epithelium is squamous; but in the ultimate rami- fications, a granular layer supplies its place. Branches both of the sympathetic and cerebro-spinal nerves, sup- ply these glands copiously; they secrete the salivary fluid, which varies in quantity from 15 to 24 ounces in the twenty-four hours; it is a clear, transparent fluid, with an alkaline re-action when not overcharged with mucus, which is acid, and consequently may alter or neutralize the re-action of the saliva. It consists of water, a peculiar animal matter named ptyaline, mu- cus, epithelium, and the granules of the secreting sur- face; also, chlorides and lactates of potash and soda.