310 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. traction. It lies on the clavicle, sternum,_ ribs, inter- costals, lesser pectoral, serratus magnus, axillary vessel, and nerves, coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles. Action.—It will be observed that the clavicular, ster- nal, and costal fibres are distinct and separated by cel- lular spaces, but still the muscle can only act as a whole to press the arm to the side, or if the arm be fixed, it elevates the ribs in forced inspiration; by presenting a soft cushion it protects the superior ribs from fracture, and by the proximity of its insertion to the head ot the humerus, it serves, it would seem, to avert dislocation, not produce it. „ . ^- Cut across the last muscle, and reflect it cautiously, avoiding the superior thoracic artery ; this brings into view the lesser pectoral, the ligamentum bicorne, the biceps, coraco-brachialis, axillary vessels and nerves. Pectoralis Mince.—Triangular in shape, broad and expanded at its origin, narrow at its insertion; arises by short aponeurotic fibres, giving place to three fleshy slips from the third, fourth, and fifth ribs external to the cartilages; the fibres pass upwards, backwards, and outwards, and end in a tendon which is inserted into the internal and anterior edge of the coracoid process; a thin slip passes ofi-from its lower margin to bind down the biceps and coraco-brachialis, assistmg to form the fascia on the inner side of the arm; a second prolonga- tion is continued over the coracoid process, passing through an aperture in the triangular ligament to be- come continuous with the supraspmatus tendon; but this is sometimes absent. ■ r ■ ■k^,,r. Relations.-The upper margm forms the ^"f^rior boun- dary of the space in which the axillary artery lies mits firi sta-e and gives attachment to the expansion of S Vgame'ntlm Lorne, which sends a thin layer over the anterior surface of the muscle; the lower margin Iroiects below the great pectoral. It is covered by the S pectoral, the Lperior thoracic artery, and the an- ferTor thoracic nerve."^ It lies on the ribs, mtercostals, axillarv vessels and nerves. +i „ „„„ AaL -To depress the shoulder and draw the sca- pufa forwards and inwards; it also presses the clavicle