598 CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. of the body and fundus becoming vascular, and the fol- licles prominent; a plastic membrane is now effused, which lines the entire surface (decidua vera); the ovum then, entering the cavity, pushes the decidua vera before it, receiving a surface covering from that membrane (decidua reflexa, Hunter), whilst a fluid (hydroperion) exists between the two layers, which constitutes the nutritive material for the foetus in its early stages of uterine life. Mr. Goodsir has, however, offered a different explanation of the formation of the decidua; the vera being derived from the interfoUicular spaces, whilst the reflexa, being a cell-structure, is secreted by the uterine follicles themselves; the placenta being formed in a subsequent stage, a new series of changes are the result (for which see Fcetal Cikculation). When the ovum leaves the ovary the ovisac remains filled by the thickened granulary membrane and blood, containing a cavity in the recent state, but subse- quently becoming of a yellow colour, striated but friable, like a lobule of a salivary gland (corpus lu- teum). The cicatrices of small abscesses or scrofulous tubercles may sometimes be confounded with true cor- pora lutea (Montgomery); the former, however, cannot be injected. . Mammary Glands.—These organs are situated on the anterior and upper part of the thorax, correspond- ing to the space included between the second and seventh ribs. Each gland is oval in its outhne and irregular at the margin; the long measurement oeing directed downwards and inwards; the anterior surface being convex and surmounted by the nipple; the pos- terior concave, and resting on the great pectoral muscle. The structures composing the organ are:—1. Skm; 2. Sepimenta and capsule; 3. Fat; 4. Lactiferous tubes, erectile tissue, nerves, vessels, and absorbents. I he skin on the surface of the breast is fine, soft, and smooth, but immediately surrounding the nipple it is of a dark colour, particularly in the pregnant female, constituting the areola, and containing in this situation numerous sebaceous glands, with a few promment papi-llo3 and fine hairs in the old subject; as it ap- proaches the nipple its tenuity is marked, and at the