THE ETHMOID. 99 spheno-maxillary, spheno-palatine, and posterior-pala- tine. These last will be fully discussed in the general description of the cranium. In the earlier periods of foetal life, indeed occasionally up to birth, the sphenoid is composed of two distinct parts,—an anterior, consisting of the lesser Avings and that part of the body to which they are attached; and a posterior, constituted by the sella turcica, greater wings, and external pterygoid plate, the internal form- ing a distinct process. We will accordingly find that the points of development will in a great measure de- pend on this early arrangement. The lesser wings and their contiguoiis portion of the body have each a sepa- rate nucleus, forming four in all; the greater with their corresponding half have each one, making four also. If we now add one for each internal pterygoid process, and one for each bone of Bertin, these will form twelve altogether. The periods of ossification vary in making their appearance from the sixth week to the fifth month. The sphenoidal sinuses do not exist at all in the young subject. Ethmoid—This bone is situated in the anterior in- ferior part of the cranium, forming the greater part of the nasal cavity. It is remarkable for its light and spongy character, being composed principally of a se- ries of cells which communicate with the meatuses of the nose. In shape it is cuboid, and we may accord- ingly give it a superior, inferior, two lateral surfaces, and an anterior and a posterior extremity. The superior surface is quadrilateral, longer antero-posteriorly than from side to side. When in position it supports the bulbs of the olfactory nerves, and is perforated by a number of small rounded foramina, for the transmis- sion of their filaments into the cavity of the nose. In the mesial line we observe an elevated process, which, from its resemblance to the comb of a cock, has been called the crista galli; and on each side of this, but anteriorly, is a fissure about two lines in length, the nasal slit, through which passes the nasal branch of the ophthalmic to supply the septum and tip of the nose. The crista galli, which can only be regarded as a pro- longation upwards of the vertical plate of the ethmoid,