THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY. 103 cesses: the zygomatic, the superior, inferior, and internal orbital. Its proper foramina are the two already men- tioned for the passage of the two small cutaneous nerves; its common the spheno-maxillary, for the passage of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve and small twigs from the infra-orbital artery, for the supply of the parts in the cavity of the orbit. It is developed from a single point of ossification, which is visible about the seventh week. Superior Maxillary.—This is one of the most irre- gular bones of the whole face, and extremely compli- cated from the number of parts which require to be considered. In order to examine it properly it should be divided into a facial, malar, zygomatic, palatine, naso- palatine, and orbital surfaces, each presenting peculiar margins, which will each require an individual descrip- tion. We will commence with the anterior edge. This, inferiorly, is prominent, corresponding to the root of the inner incisor tooth; above this it is concave, afford- ing attachment to the frsenum of the upper lip; this is limited above by a sharp spicula of bone,—the nasal spine, to which is connected the caudate extremity of the alar cartilage. As we proceed still higher up we find the bone abruptly hollowed out, concave with the margins, smooth and rounded below, sharp above; this is the nasal notch, which gives attachment to the alar and late- ral cartilages of the nose. Above this is a long process,— the nasal, quadrilateral in shape, having an external and internal surface, an anterior and posterior edge, and an upper extremity; the lower being continuous with the bone inferiorly. The external surface is smooth and slightly convex; it has attached to it the long head of the levator labii superioris alseque nasi, the orbicularis palpebrarum, and tendo oculi; its internal surface is rough, and has two remarkable horizontal ridges on it; one below, near its root, to support the inferior spongy bone, the other a little above its centre for the middle; the depression which separates them corresponds to the middle meatus of the nose; higher up it is very irregu- lar, and lies against the ethmoid, the anterior cells of which it assists in closing; the anterior margin is thin and sharp, but straight; it articulates with the nasal