862 ARTERIES AND VEINS. phatic gland generally intervening, and ultimately on the poplitseus. Eemarks.—The popliteal space which this vessel oc- cupies is one of great surgical importance, and it may ^ be exposed by stripping the integuments from the lower third of the back part of the thigh, and to the same ex- tent on the posterior surface of the leg. The superficial fascia which lies beneath it is thin in its character, espe- cially on the sides of the space, but becomes more dense towards its centre, and in it are found branches of the posterior cutaneous nerve from the sacral plexus, with the posterior or external saphenous vein. On removing these parts the true popliteal fascia is exposed, stretched tensely across the space, its fibres forming well-marked curves, the concavities of which are directed upwards and outwards; opposite the flexure of the joint it is remarkably strong, and is here perforated by the saphe- nous vein in its course to join the poplita^al When this fascia is removed the outline of the space is exposed; it is of a diamond shape, or perhaps it might more pro- perly be said to consist of two triangles, with their bases united opposite the condyles, the superior being the best defined, and larger, so as to be capable of embracing by its expanded legs those of the inferior at their point of junction. The outer wall of the poplita^al region is formed above by the tendon of the biceps, and below by the external head of the gastrocnemius, solasus, and plantaris; while the inner is constituted by the semi- tendinosus, semimembranosus, gracilis, and sartorius above, and the inner head of the gastrocnemius below With respect to the parts which it contains, we aviII find the poplitfeal nerve the most superficial, being at first external to the vessels, but crossing them opposite the flexure of the joint, and lying internal to them be- low the vein holds nearly the same relation to the ar- tery, being at first a little external, then superficial, and ultimately slightly internal, to it; but it must be recollected that they (the vein and artery) are intimately connected to each other. Three or four lymphatic glands are always found opposite the joint, generally surround- ine; the vessels. . . ^- . Anomalies.-ExtTemelj rare, but it is sometimes