OS INNOMINATUM.. 55 nally it is sharp, and forms the boundary of the thyroid hole; inferiorly it becomes continuous with the ascend- ing ramus of the ischium. The OS innominatum, taken as a whole, is developed from eight points of ossification, of which three are pl-i- mitive and five complementary. The three primitive are for the three separate pieces of bone, and are visible in the following order: that of the ilium, about the second month; that for the ischium about the third; and that for the pubis about the fifth. These several portions are not, however, united fully till the fifteenth year. The complementary points are, one for the crest of the ilium; one for the tuberosity of the ischium; one for the anterior superior spinous process; one for the angle of the pubis; and one for the centre of the aceta- bulum. The pelvis, thus constituted by the ossa innominata, the sacrum, and coccyx, forms a whole, remarkable not only for its great strength, but likewise for its extreme lightness. Not situated perpendicularly, but obliquely, owing to the saliency of the sacro-vertebral angle, with its superior outlet looking upwards and forwards, its inferior downwards and backwards, it is admirably adapted both to break the force of sudden shocks transmitted along the vertebral column, as well as to retain securely the contents of the abdomen, by throw- ing them forwards on the arch of the pubis, and not suf- fering them to press too heavily on the less solid struc- tures which complete its inferior aperture. In examin- ing the interior of the pelvis, we are struck at once by a prominent ridge which encircles it about its centre; this is constituted by the pectineal lines laterally, the upper part of the crests of the pubis anteriorly, and the sacral promontory posteriorly. Anatomists have taken advan- tage of this fact to divide the pelvis into two great parts, terming all above the ridge the false pelvis, all below it the true. The former is by far the larger and more expanded, looks upwards and forwards, and is bounded posteriorly by the last lumbar vertebra; late- rally by tUe alae of the ossa ilii, excavated into the iliac fossae; while anteriorly there is no osseous structure, the abdominal muscles filling up the large interval in