BRAKCHES OF SUBCLAVIAN. 813 and an external, to communicate with the middle cere- bral, and hemispheric branches of the anterior. Feniarks.—The divergence of these last-described branches forms a part of a remarkable arterial anasto- mosis at the base of the brain, known as the circle of V\ illis, or, as it should be more properly called, a hepta- gon, as It possesses seven distinct walls. Thus it is bounded posteriorly by the basilar trunk and posterior cerebral; laterally by the posterior communicatin<r and internal carotids; and anteriorly, by the anterio? communicating and anterior cerebral. Anomalies.—None, except a discrepancy in size, some- times very remarkable. General Remarks on the Cerelral Circulation.~The dif- ference in the mode of supply to this organ, as contrasted r u .° '''' ^o™Poi^ent tissues of the body, may be thus briefly stated:_l. Thegreat size ofthe vessels/hen considered relatively with the positively small amount ot matter to which they are distributed; 2. Their Ion? and tortuous course and transit through unyielding bony canals; 3. Ihe marked weakness of their walls •when within the cranial cavity; 4. The convergence of •two primary branches, constituting a trunk of dimi- .mshed caliber; 5 Their frequent and free inosculations; iand 6. Their peculiar mode of distribution to theneura 1 masses. ^^iai The strongest proof of the vital importance of this (organ may be deduced from the vast amount of nutri- tion which It receives, and pathology clearly shows that tthis volume is absolutely necessary both t^ the proper cdevelopment of its functions and its integrity as a com- iponent part of the entire animal system. But whUe mature has been thus solicitous in bestowing on it this apparent excess of nutrition, she has been equally anx- .lous to modify any injurious effects that mi^ght accrue ^from It, by deriving the stream from a remote source Iby causing the current to ascend against gravity and .Burrounding the containing tubes by osseous g^kles ^whlch constrains them in a great measure to transmit ae^-^y the same amount of blood at all times; to this may be added, likewise, their numerous curves, a means a7 ^irably calculated to diminish the impetuosity of the