THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 70 Os Calcis.—Thislikewise belongs to the round bones, and is the largest of all those constituting the tarsus, lying immediately inferior to the last described. It is of an oblong shape, presenting four surfaces: a supe- rior, inferior, external, and internal, and two extremi- ties,' an anterior and posterior. Of the surfaces we will first examine the superior. If we take its two anterior thirds we will observe on it the two facettes to unite with the astragalus; one anterior and internal, supported by a peculiar process, the sustentaculum tali; it is oval in shape and concave, looking directly upwards; the other larger, of the same figure, convex, looking up- wards, forwards, and inwards, both covered with carti- lao-e, and separated by a sulcus shallower than that ot the astralagus for the interosseous ligaments Behind, the bone is prolonged into a process called the calx or heel- the inferior surface is comparatively narrow; be- hind it presents two tubercles, giving origin to the strono- plantar fascia, and beneath it to the abductor pollicts internally; the abductor minimi digiti exter- nally, and the flexor digitorum brevis m the centre. Advancing forward we find the bone becoming rough and rounded, giving attachment on either side to the forked head of the musculus accessorius, and between them to the superficial portion of the calcareo-cuboid lia-ament. Still more anteriorly there is another tu- bercle, to which is connected the deeper portion of the calcaneo-cuboid ligament and outer head of the flexor noUicis. The external surface is broad posteriorly, nar- rower anteriorly; a little behind its centi^ is the tu- bercle for the inseition of the middle slip oi the exter- na lateral ligament; and in front of the tubercle is occasionally visible a superficial groove for the peronjei tendons The remainder of it is subcutaneous. Ihe internal surface presents a well-formed arch, constituted principally by the sustentaculum, which juts out con- Sably Tbe inner margin of this process is grooved ; nto it is inserted the internal lateral bgament, and over ts insertion the tendons of the tibialis posticu. and flexor digitorum communis glide to their insertion. More eSernally but mfenorly, where this Focess j^ns with the side of the bone, is a deeper sulcus, conti-