THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. 194 ment the stronger; but this we have never found to be the case in the repeated instances in which we have examined them. The anterior derives additional strength from the inner origin of the tendon of the sterno-mas- toid, the fibres of Avhich are intimately blended with them. Interarticular Fibro-caetilage.—This is exposed by dividing the preceding close to the sternum, and bending the clavicle downwards. It is rather circular in figure, extremely thick at its margins, which are closely united in front and behind to the anterior and pos- terior ligaments, but in the centre it is sometimes deficient; attached below to the sternum, where it arti- culates with the first rib, and above to the extremity of the clavicle, it forms an elastic cushion between the two bones, and breaks those shocks to which this joint is so peculiarly liable. Interclavicular Ligament.—This is exceedingly strong; it stretches between clavicle and_ clavicle, firmly attached to their non-articular extremities, and for some distance to their upper surfaces; it is concave superiorly, and has united to it the deep fascia of the neck; convex inferiorly, connected to the fourchette of the sternum, and posteriorly to the pericardium. If a section is made of this^ ligament, it is found to be tri- angular in shape. Synovial Membrane.—They are two m number; separated from each other by the fibro-cartilage; when this is perforated, they communicate with each other. A third synovial sac occasionally exists between the lower edge of the clavicle and the cartilage of the first rib, which is usually found to enlarge the articulating surface for the former to play upon. Motions. Forwards, backwards, upwards, and down- wards. In the first of these, or the motion of the shoul- der forwards, the articular surface of the clavicle glides backwards, and puts the posterior ligament on the stretch; in that backwards, the clavicle bulges forwards, and carries before it the anterior ligament, so that the limitation of both these movements depends "pon the unyielding nature of those media of connexion. When the shoulder is elevated, the clavicle gUdes outwards