THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. 214 Motions Downwards, upwards, gliding, and late- ral. In the first of these, which is eiFected by the con- traction of the muscles attached from the os hyoides, the condyle, with the interarticular cartilage, glides for- wards on the transverse root of the zygoma, and, if the motion is carried too far, may slip anterior to it, but the occurrence of this accident is usually prevented hj the extreme tense condition in which the masseter, in- ternal pterygoid, and posterior fibres of the temporal are placed; the external lateral ligament and anterior part of the capsular are likewise on the stretch, and so pre- vent it; the upward motion, which is accomplished by the muscles of mastication, is limited effectually by its contact with the upper jaw; here the condyle and car- tilage, favoured by the natural inclination, pass back- war°ds into the glenoid cavity, and press against the posterior part of the capsule; in this condition the gliding motion forwards and backwards is most appa- rent,—the first being effected by the contraction of the external pterygoid and anterior fibres of the masseter, while it is restored again to its normal position by the posterior fibres of the latter muscle, aided by the same portion of the temporal. In the lateral motion, the con- dyle of one side advances on the transverse root of the zy- goma, whilst the other presses against the capsule poste- riorly; it is accomplished principally by the external pterygoid of the corresponding side being called into action, while the other remains quiescent. We may here cursorily allude to the stylo-maxillary and inter-maxillary ligaments. The former is merely a process of the deep cervical fascia, stretchmg between the upper and outer edge of the styloid process of the temporal bone and the angle of the lower jaw. It is •strono- and well defined, and serves in some measure to limit the lateral motion of the articulation. It lies between the parotid and submaxillary glands, and se- parates the facial from the external carotid artery. ^ Intermaxillary LiGAMENT.-This extends between the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate, and the root of the coronoid process of the inferior maxilla. It is merely a strong aponeurosis, giving origin to the superior constrictor posteriorly, and the buccinator anteriorly.