474 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. tion of the fibres being circular. Now remove the fas- cia from the anterior region, commencing below, where it can be raised with facility, but above so intimately is it attached to the muscles beneath, that a few fibres are removed with it. The muscles in this region are four in number:—Tibialis anticus, extensor poUicis pro- prius, extensor digitorum communis, and peroneus ter- tius. Tibialis Anticus.—Triangular or prismatic, fleshy above, tendinous below; it arises from the outer side of the head of the tibia, also from the concave sixrface of the bone for the upper two-thirds, from the fascia and intermuscular septum, Avhich separates it from the ex- tensor communis, and the inner half of the interosseous membrane; it passes obliquely downwards, forwards, and inwards, the fleshy fibres at the inferior third surround- ing a tendon which passes beneath the annular liga- ment, then over the astragalus and navicular bones, and, becoming flattened, courses downwards on the inner side of the internal cuneiform, and, reaching its lower sur- face, it is inserted into that bone, and by a flat slip into the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Relations.—GoYeved. by the fascia, and lies on the in- terosseous membrane, tibia, astragalus, and navicu- lar bones, and at its insertion between the abductor pollicis and the bone, a bursa separating it from the in- ternal cuneiform; the external edge corresponds to the extensor digitorum, anterior tibial artery and nerve, and the extensor pollicis proprius. Action.—To flex the ankle-joint, and raise the inner side of the foot from the ground; to press the astragalus firmly against the external malleolus, and limit eversion. In the congenital deformity named "pes varus,this tendon is shortened, and frequently requires division. Anterior Annular LiGAMENT.—See Anatomyof Li- gaments. Extensor Pollicis Proprius.—A semipenmtorm mus- cle; arises fleshy and narrow from the anterior grooved surface of the middle third of the fibula, from the in- terosseous ligament, and outer edge of the tibia above its articulation with the fibula; the fibres pass down- wards and forwards to reach a tendon, formed on the