THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. 146 sues, in many, indeed the majority, of situations these structures are devoid of elasticity; but in some that physical property is the predominant character: white fibrous tissue constituting the former; yellow elastic, the latter. The white or non-elastic is found in the hu- man body expanded to control and preserve the position of the muscles (fascisfi) surrounding bones (as the perios- teum, dura mater, giving insertion to muscles, as ten- dons and aponeuroses), confining and protecting organs (pericardium, sclerotic, and tunica albuginea), uniting bones as ligaments. The white fibrous tissue consists of wavy bands, that may pass parallel or interlace, present- ing faint longitudinal strise, more indicative of simple creasing than divisibility. Under the action of acetic acid it becomes transparent, and yields gelatine on boil- ing; its vascular siipply is limited, and nervous orga- nization probably absent. It is opaque, dense, resisting, inelastic, slow to take on inflammation; but on the su- pervention of that process, if acute, it rapidly sloughs; subject to chronic inflammatory action, it becomes vas- cular, and thickened by interstitial deposit, as in false nodes and diseases of the joints, producing false anchy- losis. Yellow elastic tissue is composed of fibres smaller than the last, branched and uniting with neighbouring filaments, with a disposition to become curled when rup- tured. Acetic acid does not produce transparency, but discloses the existence of nuclei. This tissue occurs in the ligamenta subflava, thyro-hyoid, crico-thyroid, sty- lo-hyoid, and calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments; also in the middle coat of the arterial tubes. A second form of elas- tic tissue also is found in those situations where a cer- tain degree of contractility exists, as in the skin, nipple, dartos, crus penis, and smaller blood-vessels. It is cha- racterized by the presence of nuclei at regular intervals, and is the principal constituent of the vascular coats m the erectile tissues (Hassall). Ligaments are divided into three forms: funicular, capsular, and the fascicu- lated, or membranous. The first occur in connexion with ginglymoid joints; the second in the ball and socket; and the third are common to both. Synovial membranes form a sub-class of serous tis-