THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 322 Action.—To bend the head backwards and to one side; it also may produce slight rotation. Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor—Also triangular, but much smaller than the last; it arises tendinous from the tubercle on the posterior part of the atlas, passes upwards, backwards, and outwards, and is inserted broad, behind the posterior edge of the foramen mag- num. Relations.—It is covered by the complexus, and over- lapped by the greater recti, to which it corresponds ex- ternally, and internally it is separated from that of the opposite side by the deep process of the ligamentum nuchas. Action.—To bend the head backwards. Let the student now examine the ligamentum nuchas; this is a thick, strong band of fibrous tissue, broad su- perficially, narrow at its deep margin, attached supe- riorly to the occipital protuberance, and below to the last cervical spine, where it becomes continuous with the supraspinous ligaments; in the interval between these points it sends slips deeply, which are bifid, to be attached to the spines of the cervical vertebra; the margins give attachment superficially to the cervical aponeurosis, and more deeply to the cervical muscles. Obliquus Capitis Inferior.—Thick, round, and fleshy; arises tendinous from the spine of the axis, im- mediately becomes fleshy, passing upwards and out- wards, to be inserted into the posterior surface of the transverse process of the atlas. Belations.—It lies on the posterior intertransverse muscle between atlas and axis, and conceals the verte- bral artery. It is covered by the complexus and tra- chelo-mastoid, also by the great occipital nerve, which winds round its lower edge to reach the complexus. Action.—To rotate the head to its own side. Obliquus Capitis Superior—Smaller than the last, and somewhat triangular; it arises tendinous from the posterior surface of the transverse process of the atlas; passes upwards, backwards, and outwards, and is in- serted broad into the inferior transverse ridge of the •occipital bone, overlapping the great rectus. Relation It lies on the vertebral artery, occipito-