599 FEMALE OE6ANS OF GENERATION. free extremity of that point it becomes continuous with the mucous lining of the lactiferous tubes. The capsule is formed by the superficial thoracic fascia, which splits at the upper margin of the organ to inclose it, likewise sending processes into its structure (ligamenta suspensoria), to separate and connect the lobules of which the organ is composed. The fatty tissue is the predominating structure, and forms the principal volume of the breast in the infant, when it is comparatively large, as well as in the adult,' but in old age both the fat and the glandular tissue undergo the process of absorption, producing senile atrophy, but occasionally, however, the reverse is the case with regard to the fatty tissue, its volume becoming greatly augmented, so that the gland may attain the weight of many pounds. The lactiferous tubules commence by ca?cal extre- mities ; a number of these coalescing to form a lobule, which is perfectly isolated by the sepimenta of the cap- sule; a single duct, the eflferent tube of each lobule, approaches the base of the nipple, where it is dilated into an ampulla, from twelve to sixteen of these passing through the nipple, and terminating at its free extremity. The nipple is situated at the most convex part of the_ breast, being variable as to size and figure, small, conical, and smooth in the virgin, long and enlarged at the extremity during the period of lactation. It may however, be extremely elongated, or, on the contrary,' so small and deeply sunk that the infant may be un- able to grasp it. In colour it varies from a light pink to a dark red; and at the extremity presents two or three depressions, on which the lactiferous tubes open Its structure consists of a fine but closely adherent tegu- mentary investment, inclosing a cylinder of dense erec- tile tissue, with the efferent tubes of the gland. Vascular Supply.—This is derived from the long thoracic, intercostal, and internal mammary arteries and the veins of the organ open into the internal mam- mary and axillary. Nerves—These are branches from the third, fourth titth, and sixth intercostal, together with filaments from the thoracic branch of the brachial plexus.