84 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. eminence; and one proper hole, which is sometimes ab- sent, that for the emissary vein of Santorini. It is de- veloped from a single point of ossification, which is visible between the fifth and sixth week. In foetal life it is not quadrilateral but oval in shape, as its angles at this period are not developed, and hence the existence of the fontanelles, which are six in number,—one an- terior and superior, of a diamond figure, formed by the two parietal and the frontal, which at that time con- sisted of two bones; a posterior superior, triangular in shape, its sides formed by the parietals, its base by the occipital; an antero-lateral, very small and semilunar, bounded by the parietal, frontal, and sphenoid; and a postero-lateral, oval, constituted by the occipital, tem- poral, and parietal. The Occipital Bone.—This is of an irregular oval shape, but pointed anteriorly and posteriorly. When in position it occupies the back and inferior portion of the cranium. In examining it we will consider an internal and external surface, and a circumference. The exter- nal surface is convex, smooth in its upper third, where it is covered only by the integuments and cellular tis- sue, which is here particularly dense, and the ramifi- cations of the occipital artery and nerve; below this and in the mesial line is a prominence of variable size, giving attachment to the ligamentum nuch«; this is called the occipital protuberance; on either side of this are two well-marked ridges, extending out as far as the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, affording origin by its two external thirds, superiorly, to the occipito- frontalis; and inferiorly, for the same space, having in- serted into it the sterno-cleido-mastoid; the trapezius arises from its internal third. Below this is a groove, into which two muscles are inserted,—the complexus internally, and the splenius capitis externally. Still lower is another ridge, but not so well marked as the preceding, for the attachment of the rectus capitis pos- ticus major, and superior oblique. Between this and the foramen magnum is a slight depression, for the in- sertion of the recti minores. Running vertically down- wards from the occipital protuberance, and separating the bone into two parts, is a slight, elevated crest; this,