THE THORAX. 29 from the one to the other. The cartilage and the ster- num are bound together in precisely a similar manner, the cup-like cavity in the latter receiving the elongated extremity of the former, with fibrous bands stretching between both. The thorax, formed by the union of the parts thus described, with the addition of the dorsal vertebra and intercostal muscles, to fill up the intervals between each rib, holds an appropriate position, both in size and con- stitution, between the other two great cavities, the cra- nium and abdomen, being larger than the former, but smaller than the latter. The structure of its walls, partly osseous and partly muscular, bestows upon it a certain degree of mobility, but it is limited, being by no means equal to that of the abdomen, while it forcibly contrasts with the rigid, unyielding nature of the cranial cavity. In the Avell-formed male adult subject, when the upper extremities are removed, it presents a conical figure, but with a truncated apex, which is turned upwards. The anterior wall, sloping downwards and forwards, flat- tened, and about half the length of the posterior, is formed by the sternum and costal cartilages. The late- ral, rounded in their outline, and expanding in their descent, are constituted by the ribs and intercostal muscles. The posterior, flattened like the anterior, but convex from above downwards, is made up of the twelve dorsal vertebrse and the angles of the ribs. If we now contrast the inner part of the cavity with the outer, which we have just described, we will find that they ac- curately correspond with each other, of course substi- tuting what is convex in the one for what is concave in the other. We find, however, that the posterior wall, on its internal aspect, presents the following peculiarity: The bodies of the several vertebrte bulge forwards into the thorax, forming an elevated ridge in the mesial line, while a deepened guttur exists on either side, between the prominent spine and the angles of the ribs, a con- formation peculiar to erect man alone. Comparing now the organ of circulation with those of respiration, we observe, that a great disparity exists in their vo- , lume, and we accordingly find that the former is placed