ARCH OF THE AORTA. 779 position of the entire arch where it embraces the root of the right, and not the left lung. These examples are, however, very rare, and are usually accompanied by a transposition likewise of the veins. After its origin, the aorta may proceed for a short distance, and then divide into an ascending and de- scending trunk,—the former for the supply of the head and upper extremity, and the latter for that of the lower, as in the horse. The aorta may also bifurcate at the junction of its ascending and trans- verse portions, and unite again at the spine, the oeso- phagus and trachea passing through the interval be- tween those abnormal branches, which thus form an arterial ring around them, as in reptiles. The aorta may also arise in common with the pulmonary artery, and thus prove a cause of cyanosis. With respect to the branches which arise from the arch, they may be either anomalies from deficiency, anomalies from redundancy, or anomalies from transpo- sition. In the first instance there may be only two branches; and in this case the left carotid almost inva- riably arises from the innominata, or the left subclavian and carotid may form a common trunk; in the second there may be four branches, the left vertebral being usually the supernumerary. But a very curious ex- ample of this anomaly has occurred where there was no common carotid, the internal and external carotid arte- ries springing separately from the arch (see Dr. Power's work on Arteries, pp. 34, 35). In some cases these may be five, the additional branches being the left ver- tebral, with the internal mammary or superior inter- costal, or inferior thyroid or deep cervical; but we have never observed an instance where more than five sprano- independently from the arch, although we are aware such has been recorded. In the anomaly by transpo- sition we usually find both carotids arising by a com- mon trunk, on either side of which is a subclavian, or both the latter may spring from the left extremity of the arch, the carotids still arising from a common trunk. Collateral Branches of the Arch These are: