143 CKANIAL VAULT. vjinterior to this, the foramen rotundum for the passage . of the superior maxillary nerve; more posteriorly, the llforamen ovale for the exit of the inferior maxillary and 'entrance of the small meningeal artery; still farther boack, the spinous hole for the artery of the same name; irmore posteriorly, the hiatus Fallopii for the entrance of t!;he Vidian nerve, external and anterior to which is the SBmall fissure for the exit of the nervus petrosus super- fiicialis minor. The middle fossa of the cranium sup- poorts the middle lobes of the cerebrum. The posterior fossa is situated on a still lower plane thhan the other two, and is equal to them both in capa- ci;ity. It is deeply concave, bounded in front by the iiuperior edges of the petrous portions of the temporal boones and posterior clinoid processes, laterally and be- hiind by the posterior inferior angles of the parietal boones, and the transverse ridges on the occipital. The idoor is formed by the occipital, part of the sphenoid and mastoid portion of the temporal. It likewise pre- ^oents a median and two lateral regions. The central reegion is occasionally marked towards its anterior part boy the line of suture between the occipital and sphe- Qdoid bones; it is grooved, and supports the pons varolii, boasilar artery, and sixth pair of nerves; more poste- riorly is the foramen magnum for the passage of the medulla oblongata, with the nerves and vessels accom- paanying it, on each side of which are the anterior and poosterior condyloid foramina, the one for the exit of Ithe lingual nerve; the other has a small vein passing ;lihrough it. The lateral regions comprehend the deep wcipital fossas for the reception of the lobes of the ce- : ebellum. They are separated from each other by a ^ veil-marked vertical ridge, to which the falx cerebelli >3 attached; anteriorly they are grooved deeply for the aateral sinuses, which terminate into a large ovoid fora- men, the posterior lacerated for the transmission of the nnternal jugular vein and eighth pair of nerves; more uuperiorly is the internal auditory meatus, into which nnters the seventh pair of nerves and the small auri- iTilar artery; behind which is the aqueduct of the ves- ibule, from which a small vein emerges.