RIBS. 27 faces, its margins, and superior and inferior extremities. The anterior surface is slightly convex from above downwards, the same from side to side above, but flat- tened, and a little concave in the same direction beloAV. It is rough, and gives attachment to the aponeurosis of the pectoral of opposite sides, which cover it completely. Its posterior surface is concave from above downwards, and concave from side to side above, but completely flat below, and covered by the posterior sternal aponeurosis. It is much smoother than the anterior, corresponds to the anterior mediastinum, and gives origin above to the sternohyoid and thyroid muscles, and below to the tri- angulares sterni. Its margins, taken generally, are con- cave and rough, owing to the pits or depressions for the reception of the cartilages of the ribs; these are concave and oval in shape, and are arranged in the following manner: a whole and a half facette on the side of the first bone; four whole and two half ones on the side of the second; the half ones being found above and below, the whole ones between them; and, ultimately, a demi- facette on the upper part of the xiphoid cartilage. These constitute the seven for the articulation of the true ribs. The superior extremity of the bone is ex- tremely thick, as contrasted with the inferior. It pre- sents in the centre a rounded surface from before back- wards, concave from side to side, usually known as the fourchette, across which the interclavicular ligament passes, and is united to it by dense areolar tissue. This is limited on either side by the depression for the ex- tremity of the clavicle, forming an articulating surface, concave from within downwards and outwards; slightly convex from before backwards, looking upwards, back- wards, and outwards, and covered with cartilage for its reception. The inferior extremity is formed by the xiphoid cartilage, which is exceedingly irregular in its form and position. It may be either square or triangu- lar, hanging vertically, or turned forwards, backwards, or to either side. As the continuation of the sternum it gives attachment to the linea alba, the rectus, and flat abdominal muscles, the diaphragm, &c. The' ster- num articulates with the clavicles on either side and the costal cartilages of the true ribs. In structure it is ex- c 2