800 ARTERIES AND VEINS. tortuous, and it always throws off one very peculiar branch,—the orbital, which -runs between the layers of the temporal aponeurosis, in company with the tempo- ro-malar nerve, and terminates in the orbicularis palpe- brarum. Anomalies We have never observed any. Internal Carotid arises from the common trunk, opposite the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage, and terminates within the cranial cavity at the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. It has been divided into three stages,_the first extending from its origin to the base of the cranium (cervical); the second from the last point to the anterior extremity of the petrous portion of the temporal bone (petrosal); and the third to its termination (cranial). The direction of its first or cer- vical stage is at first upwards and outwards, and then upwards, forwards, and inwards, its concavity being di- rected forwards and inwards. . Edations.—ABteriovlj, integument, platysma, lascia, lingual nerve, mastoid, occipital, and external carotid ar- teries, with the superficial relations of the latter, pha- ryngeal and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, stylo-glossus and stvlo-pharyngeus muscles, and styloid process, ascend- ino- palatine artery, the last five lying between it and the external carotid; posteriorly, rectus capitis anticus maior, eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves, with su- perior laryngeal branch from the pneumogastric and internal jugular vein; internally, external carotid su- perior constrictor, and ascending pharyngeal artery; and externally, internal jugular vein but separated from it above by the eighth and ninth nerves, one of the divisions of the latter, however, occasionally passing behind the vein. . . Before the artery enters the bone it makes a sharp turn forwards and inwards, and then ascends vertically, its relations at this point being :-Anteriorly, tensor pa- lati; anteriorly and externally. Eustachian tube; ex- ternally, middle meningeal artery, internal lateral liga- ment of lower jaw, and temporo-max.Uary articulation; internally, junction of occipito- and petro-phaiyngeal aponeurosis,-^ but separated from it by the superior cer- vical ganglion of the sympathetic; and posteriorly, fo-