325 LUMBAR REGION. below to the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, and in some cases nearly one-half of that bone. If this is now raised from the vertebrae and thrown forwards, it will be found to be easily detached from the erector, and for one inch anterior to the outer edge of those muscles, some areolar tissue being found in the latter situation ; the structure can still be raised, but not without difficulty to the posterior margin of the internal oblique, to which, and the external, it appears to afford an origin. Structure.—It is the strongest of the three leaves of the lumbar aponeurosis, and consists of fibres that appear to arise as bands from the spines of the vertebrae; these expand in passing forwards, are bound together by others, oblique, vertical, and interlacing ; the strong fibrous sheet resulting from their union is thick behind and below, thin above and before, and is pierced by the pos- terior lumbar cutaneous nerves and arteries. Now raise the outer margin of the erector spinae, and the middle layer of the lumbar fascia is exposed, much weaker than the posterior, from which it is separated by the lumbar mass of muscles posteriorly; then a cellular space, and in front of this, they are in close apposition. On dissec- tion it will be seen attached to the ilium below, last rib above, and transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae posteriorly. Now endeavour to raise it by dividing its attachment to the transverse processes perpendicularly, and throw it forwards; this separation can only be car- ried to the outer edge of the quadratus lumborum, or three-quarters of an inch external to the erector spinae. Structure.—It arises by flat bands from the lumbar transverse processes; these expand and are again united by interlacing fibres; these latter bound semilunar spaces between the transverse processes, through which the posterior branches of the lumbar arteries and nerves escape; and it is separated from the internal, or deepest layer, by the quadratus lumborum muscle. Now raise the quadratus, and the internal layer becomes visible. It is attached to the lower margin and inner surface of the . last rib above, to the crest of the ilium below, and be- hind to the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae by a series