THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 18 to about the twentieth or twenty-fifth year in the male, and the forty-fifth in the female. Its apex points infe- riorly and anteriorly, and terminates in a small nodule of bone, to which the ano-coccygeal ligament is attached. Its margins are very irregular, and give origin to the sciatic ligaments, and insertion to the posterior fibres of the levatores ani and coccygasus. Its anterior surface is smooth and concave from above downwards, and con- tributes to support the rectum as it descends. Its pos- terior, convex and rough, presents above, on each side of the mesial line, two small demi-tubercles, which are found to be firmly united by bone to corresponding processes on the lower part of the sacrum. These cir- cumscribe a foramen for the transmission of the fifth sacral nerve; to this surface is attached the aponeurosis of the glutseus maximus. Development of the Sacrum.—This bone, taken as a whole, has numerous points of ossification; but as they vary in the several pieces of which it is composed, it may be preferable to examine each separately. The three first are developed exactly as the true vertebrs, viz.: one point for the body, one for each lamina, and one for each lateral mass, making five points in aU. The two last have, however, only three, viz.: one for the body, and one for each lamina; thus constituting twenty- one primitive points in all; but at a later period of life twelve complementary points appear, viz.: two lor the upper and lower parts of the body of each bone, and one for each articulating surface for the ossa innomi- nata, thus increasing the number to thirty-three. Each separate piece of the coccyx is developed from a single point; but the ossific nucleus is much sooner apparent in the sacral than in the coccygeal region, it bemg visi- ble in the former about the third month, and m the latter not until during the first year after birth. Ihe union of the several bones of the sacrum and coccyx may be said to be completed about the twenty-fifth year, but this rule is of course liable to many excep- tions.