THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 402 If an effort be now made to press the fingers upwards through this space into the pelvis, it will be seen that the triangular ligament forms the roof or superior boun- dary ; through this triangle the knife must pass in the lateral operation of lithotomy, in order to reach the mem- branous portion of the urethra. We have observed con- siderable variations in its form: the accelerator and erector penis may be united on its surface; the bulb may be of such a size, particularly in the old, as to overlap the space, concealing it altogether, or the trans- versalis perinei may be so oblique, or continued so far upwards in connexion with the accelerator, that the space is absent. The long perineal artery and nerve run through it in their course to the scrotum. Now exa- mine the posterior region, which presents for dissec- tion in the present stage two muscles,—namely, super- ficial and deep sphincters, and the ischio-rectal fossae, with their contents. Sphincter Ani Externus.—A flat, oval plane of muscular fibre, interrupted in the centre by an ellip- tical aperture; it is subcutaneous, one surface directed upwards, the other downwards, and arises by a thick, strong tendon (ano-coccygeal ligament) from the last bone of the coccyx; the fibres separate into two fasci- culi at the posterior edge of the anus, surround it, and again unite anteriorly, becoming tendinous; and it is inserted into the raphe, superficial fascia, and central tendinous point of the perineum. Relations.—Superiorly with the levator ani; exter- nally, the fat of the ischio-rectal fossse; internally, the annular fibres of the rectum, which are easily recognised by their paleness. The inferior hemorrhoidal arteries and veins terminate in the outer border. Action.—The external fibres can contract the rectum, while the internal act only on the anus. This muscle is peculiar in being contracted in its quiescent state, the stimulus to that condition being the pressure from above. Internal Sphincter consists of a pale fasciculus of muscular fibres, surrounding the extremity of the rec- tum, about an inch in depth; anteriorly it is attached to the central tendinous point of the perineum, lying