735 THE SEIN. sition, signifying a certain amount of elastic property, although apparently homogeneous. A vertical set of lines seem to imply a fibrous organization, Avhich, with two or three capillary loops, and a single nervous loop (Gerber), completes the structure of the papilla. Messrs. Todd and Bowman, in their " Physiology of Man," state, that they have not been able to detect the nervous loops, but have seen a single tubule entering the papilla, and then becoming lost to view. (See p. 412 of the above work, which is equally explicit and simple on the skin as on all other parts of structural anatomy.) Choeion.—This term has been applied to that portion of the cutis lying beneath the papillary layer. It is soft, flexible, and elastic, consisting of white andyelloAV fibrous tissue; the latter predominating where elasticity prevails, and the former where resistance and fixedness are requisite, as in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. This layer is thickest on the back and sides of the body and the scalp, but fine over the flexures of joints, and thin, but dense, on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet; its deep surface being rongh and fila- mentous in all situations, and attached to the subjacent areolar tissue. It is composed of gelatine, Avhich may be extracted by boiling, whilst maceration in solutions containing tannic acid converts it into leather. Appendages of the Skin.—These consist of the su- doriferous and sebaceous glands, the hairs, and nails. Sudoriferous Glands are of a follicular type, one ex- tremity lying in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, and the second free. Each gland consists of a single tube which is closed at the deep extremity, and in1;ricately coiled on Itself, so as to form a small round mass from which the efferent tube passes in a tortuous course through the cutis until it arrives at the papilla?, where It becomes straight, and then closely spiral as it pierces the cuticle, terminating by an expanded orifice Each tube, the cavity of which is about t-^V* of an inch in diameter, possesses an external basement layer, which becomes continuous with the papilla; and a lining of epithelium derived from the cuticle. _ These glands are situated in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, and their number is in proportion to the amount