319 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. vertical, but interlaced with oblique bands, tending to increase their strength. Relations.—The lumbar mass is covered by the latis- simus dorsi, serratus inferior, the posterior leaf of the lumbar fascia, and the posterior lumbar and intercostal cutaneous nerves. It lies on the middle leaf of the lumbar fascia, which separates it from the quadratus lumborum, also on the bones and intercostals. Action—To support and flex the spine to one side, to bend the body backwards, and depress the ribs. Cervicalis Descendens, or Cervical Portion of the Sacro-lumbalis.—Arises from the five superior ribs, be- tweeen their tubercles and angles; passes upwards and outwards, and ends in four tendons, which are inserted into the transverse processes of the four or five inferior cervical vertebrae; the levator anguli scapulte over- lapping them, and blending with their fibres. Relations.—It lies internal to the sacro-lumbalis, and is covered by the splenii and levator anguli, with the serratus superior. Action.—To bend the neck to one side, and support it erect. Transversalis Colli or Cervicis is seen by turning outwards the longissimus dorsi; it arises from the pos- terior projecting points of the spinous processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the five inferior cervical vertebrte. Relations.—It is covered by the splenius, levator of the scapula, and longissimus dorsi; it lies on the tra- chelo-mastoideus and complexus. Action—Similar to the last muscle. Trachelo-mastoid is seen by reflecting outwards the transversalis colli; it arises by four flat tendons from the groove between the articular and transverse pro- cesses of the four inferior cervical vertebrae, passes up- wards and outwards, and is inserted into the inner sur- face of the posterior edge of the mastoid process. This muscle is intersected by an oblique tendinous line about its centre; we have seen it inseparably united to the edge of the complexus, when it appeared wanting. Relations.—It lies on the complexus, obliqui, digastric