ARTERIES AND VEINS. 810 sometimes two, veins accompany it. In its course back- wards and inwards, it runs between tlie superior oblique and posterior occipito-atloid ligament, below the occi- pital bone, and above the posterior half-arch of the atlas, which it deeply grooves, and from which it is se- parated by the ganglion of the suboccipital nerve, which lies inferior and internal to it. On the upper and back part of the neck it occupies a triangular space, bounded above by the superior oblique; below, by the inferior; behind, by the rectus capitis posticus major; and it is covered by the great occipital nerve, a quantity of areo- lar tissue, dense fascia, with complexus and trapezius. After perforating the ligament and dura mater, it runs between the first and second teeth of the liga- mentum denticulatum, the former of which separates it from the lingual and spinal accessory nerves, occasion- ally passing between the origins of the former being at this point closely applied to the side of the medulla oblongata. Remarks.—This artery may occasionally first enter the foramina of any of the transverse processes of the cer- vical vertebrae from the second to the sixth, but, we be- lieve, never the seventh; in its course through them being always slightly tortuous. On the left side the vessel is also crossed by the thoracic duct. Anovialies.—lhQ right is almost always normal, but the left often arises from the arch of the aorta, or occa- sionally may spring from the carotid. Great disparity has been observed in the size of the vessels of opposite Sides* Collateral Branches.—Some few small twigs which are thrown off in the neck, and which enter the spinal canal to communicate with the arteries of that region also occasionally the posterior meningeal, with anasto- motic twigs to the Qccipital and cervicalis profunda Those which are particularly named are, the anterior and posterior spinal and the inferior cerebellar. Anterior Spinal arises from the vertebral imme diately beneath its termination in the basilar; and, pass ing downwards and inwards, unites with its fellow of the opposite side, thus circumscribing a lozenge-shaped space on the front of the medulla oblongata. The com pound trunk thus formed continues its course down