CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. 536 boundaries being the following:—anteriorly, the lesser omentum, stomacb, and great omentum; inferiorly, by this last process turning upwards on itself; posteriorly, the transverse colon, and the ascending layers of the transverse mesocolon ; and superiorly, the transverse fissure of the liver. The interval through which this secondary sac is thrust in was first described by Wins- low, and hence it has always been called after him, and described as the foramen Winslowi. It is bounded in front by the lesser omentum, and the parts contained in it; behind, by the ascending layer of the transverse mesocolon; below, by the superior horizontal portion of the duodenum and hepatic artery; and above, by the lobulus Spigelii of the liver. If the finger is kept close to the back part of the lesser omentum it wiU pass into the sac, and can be freely moved in the large space behind the stomach. Splenic Omentum.—This is a double fold of the pe- ritoneum, prolonged, from the inferior surface of the diaphragm, covering in this viscus completely, except at the hylus, where its vessels enter for its supply. From this point it is reflected to the right side, where it be- comes continuous with that covering the stomach, to which it is thus closely united, and necessarily also with the arch of the colon, through the ascending layer of the transverse mesocolon. Great Omentum.—In early life this process is ex- ceedingly circumscribed, and sometimes does not exist at all, but it becomes gradually developed with advanc- ing years, so as to reach from the lower margin of the stomach as far as the brim of the pelvis, being generally found to be a little lower on the left than the right side, thus accounting for the more frequent existence of epi- plocele in the latter situation. It usuaUy covers the mass of the small intestines like an apron, but is coiled up sometimes amongst them, sometimes is adherent to them, and requires the connexions to be broken up be- fore it can be properly seen. It presents various appear- ances in difi-erent individuals, being in some thin and diaphanous, whilst in others it is much thicker to the touch from the fat deposited between its layers. Glands likewise exist in this position, and it is traversed by