MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 377 muscle, and are probably the rudiment of the abdomino- costal bones of reptiles; these long fibres may also be analogous to the long intercostal muscles; it will also depress the ribs, and prevent the trunk bending back- wards on the pelvis, as well as assisting in leaping. Arteries in the Abdominal Wall—Internal mam- mary, deep epigastric, and circumflex ilii; also the trunks of the inferior intercostals. The abdominal branch of the internal mammary artery enters the abdominal wall through a triangiilar space between the costal and xi- phoid origins of the diaphragm, passes into the sheath of the rectus, and a little above the umbilicus anasto- moses with the deep epigastric. Internal Epigastric.—A branch of the external iliac, passes upwards in the sheath of the rectus, and anasto- moses with the abdominal branch of the mammary. Internal Circumflex Ilii.—Also a branch of the external iliac; passes between the internal oblique and the transversalis at their iliac attachments; anasto- mosing with the lumbar, ilio-lumbar, and ghiteal arteries. Intercostals.—The six inferior pass between the internal oblique and transversalis forwards, and termi- nate in the rectus; and such is also the termination of the corresponding nerves: but for a more detailed de- scription see Vascular System. Pyramidalis Abdominis.—A small triangular mus- cle, lying in front of the origin of the rectus; arises from the crest of the pubis: the fibres pass upwards and inwards, and are inserted into the linea alba, with which it is intimately connected about one inch and a half above the pubis; so that the absolute insertion is into the ensiform cartilage. In front of it are the ex- ternal oblique, Colles's ligament, and conjoined tendons, and behind it the rectus abdominis. It is very often wanting. Action.—To make tense the linea alba. Let the student now direct his attention to the ana- tomical region concerned in the production of hernia: this can be accomplished on the opposite side of the ab- domen, which should be left entire in the inferior third A hernia is defined to be a protrusion of a portion of