618 KERVOUS SYSTEM. certainly not by any distinct membrane, as supposed by Dr. Sharpey,—the subarachnoid fluid occupying this po- sition being in all probability derived from the pia mater, as the deep surface of the arachnoid is devoid of epithe- lial investment. On the summit of the brain the mem- brane is fine and weak, but increases in density and thickness at its base, in the situation of the sub-arach- noid spaces. These latter are four in number, namely, middle, two lateral, and the posterior: the middle cor- responding to that medullary space which is of an hexa- gonal shape, and bounded laterally by the middle lobes, in front by the anterior, and behind by the crura cere- bri and pons varolii. From this there are six openings or outlets, viz.:—Anteriorly, thetermination of the great longitudinal fissure by which the anterior cerebral ar- teries escape; laterally, the fissures of Sylvius for the exit of the middle cerebral; posteriorly and laterally, it opens into the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle by the anterior extremity of the great semilunar notch of Bichat, which lies between the inner edge of the middle lobe (lobule of the transverse fissure) on the outside, and the tractus opticus and crus cerebri on the inside, the choroid plexus and artery also passing through it on each side; and posteriorly, the median groove of the pons gives passage to the basilar artery, constituting the sixth opening of communication; over this space the arach- noid membrane is stretched, covering loosely the circle of Willis and the parts contained in it. The subarach- noid tissue appears to be the seat of meningeal tubercu- losis. Lateral Subarachnoid Space corresponds to the fissure of Sylvius, where the arachnoid is stretched from the anterior to the middle lobes, and it communicates internally with the middle or great space. Posterior Subarachnoid Space corresponds to the floor of the fourth ventricle, and connects the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata to the inferior surface of the cerebellum. j • 4. 1 These spaces, and indeed all that prolonged interval between the pia mater and the arachnoid, is occupied by the subarachnoid fluid, which serves to adapt the varying size of the brain to the cavity m which it is