758 NERVOUS SYSTEM. The Lens is composed of soluble albumen, and is ex- travascular, neither its growth nor pathological condi- tions appearing to depend on the presence of vessels, at least, carrying red blood. The lens refracts the rays of light towards the per- pendicular to so great an extent that they decussate at its posterior surface, which accounts for the inverted image, but during refraction the danger of chromatic aberration is incurred, this form of aberration occurring where the elements of the light ray are unequally re- fracted, as takes place with an ordinary lens; but this is obviated in the crystalline by its different density at the surface and in the centre; on which account it is called achromatic. It is also observed that light rays passing through the margin of a biconvex ens are re- fracted before those which are transmitted through the centre, which would produce a confused image on the retina, this being termed spherical aberration; but it is however, connected by the iris, preventmg the en- trance of the marginal light rays into the eyes, it a sharp instrument is introduced into the centre of the cornea, and passed from before backwards through the globe, the following parts will be pierced m succession. 1. Conjunctiva; 2. Anterior elastic cornea; 3. Cornea propria; 4. Posterior elastic cornea; 5. Membrane of aqueous hum^Dur; 6. Anterior chamber; Mr'upii; 8. Posterior chamber; 9. Membrane of aqueous humour on the lens capsule; 10. Anterior layer of the ens cap- sule- 11. Lens itself; 12. Posterior layer of lens cap- sule' 13. Hyaloid membrane; 14. Cells of vitreous body- 15. Hyaloid membrane at the posterior part of the clobe- 16. Vascular layer of the retina; IT- JNer- lousf 18.'Serous; 19. Pigmental layer of the choroid coat- 20. Arterial; 21. Venous; 22. Sclerotic; 23. Ocular fascia; and then the needle will pass mto the fat at the back of the globe. INTERNAL EAR. As the pinna or auricle has been already described wii tie sLlp, we will proceed at once to t^e e_ tion of the internal ear, commencing with the auditory