SCAPULAR LIGAMENTS. 197 LIGAMENTS PROPER TO THE SCAPULA. These are exposed by removing all the muscular at- tachments from this bone, when they will be brought into view, consisting of the coraco-acromial, or trian- gular, the transverse, and the spino-glenoid. CORACO-ACROMIAL, or TRIANGULAR LiGAMENT.—This is a very powerful band of fibres, extending between the two processes of the scapula, immediately above the shoulder-joint. It arises by a narrow-pointed process from the under surface of the acromion, and passes downwards and inwards to be inserted by a broad base into the outer and posterior border of the coracoid for its whole length; its anterior edge being prolonged into a thin fascia separating the deltoid from the articula- tion; while its inferior surface is lined by a distinct synovial sac. This ligament, with the two processes to which it is attached, constitutes a perfect vault or arch, beneath which the head of the humerus plays, and which prevents dislocation upwards of that bone. In a recent dissection, we found it to be completely ossified. It is covered by the deltoid muscle, and lies upon the supraspinatus and a quantity of fat. Transverse Ligament—This is a strong bundle of fibres, stretching from the root of the coracoid process backwards to the posterior edge of the notch in the su- perior costa of the scapula. It converts it into a fora- men, through which the suprascapular nerve runs to its destination, while the suprascapular artery passes above it. The omohyoid tendon usually arises from it by a broad origin, and partially conceals it. Its use appears to be merely to protect the nerve, in its passage, from pressure. Spino-glenoid.—This scarcely deserves the name of a ligament, as it is usually constituted by a little areo- lar tissue stretching from the under part of the spine of the scapula to the outer lip of the glenoid cavity. A ridiculous use has been assigned to it,—that of sup- porting the glenoid cavity of the scapula and head of the humerus, and preventing their sinking into the ca- vity of the axilla in fractures of the neck of the latter