ABSORBENTS. 896 cuticle, liair, nails, or brain, nor in the placenta and umbilical vein. Lymphatics of the Lower Extremities should be examined as glands and vessels; the former being the anterior tibial, poplitaeal, and inguinal. The first is a small gland lying on the upper third of the interosseous membrane, sometimes a little lower down (Hewson); Meckel states that he has seen two in this situation, but Cruikshank positively declares that he has never observed any glands in the lower extremity below the ham; however, we have more than once shown three or four glands in the course of the anterior tibial veins when dissecting anasarcous subjects of immature years. The popliteal glands are three or four in number, situ- ated thus:—One superficial, a second deeper, a third and fourth on each side of the artery, but in surrounding the vessel we have never seen them exactly opposite, but always on different levels as regarded each other. The inguinal set are from eight to twelve in number, and consist of superficial and deep; the former consti- tuting a superior and inferior set: the first, fewbutlarge, are parallel to Poupart's ligament, whilst the second correspond to the course of the internal and external saphenous veins. The deep lie in the angle between the pectineus and adductor longus on the inside, and the psoas and iliacus on the outside, whilst one occupies the femoral ring to preserve the continuity between the inguinal and external iliac glands. Pelvic Glands.—External iliac, internal iliac, sacral, and pelvic. , The External Iliac are five or six in number, ail ot them being very small, except two, which lie near Pou- part's ligament, one before and one external to the artery; and if the gland which occupies the femoral ring be considered as appertaining to this set, the third would lie internal to the vessel; these might possibly become the seat of enlargement, simulating ihac aneu- rism, but we have not seen them hypertrophied even in cases where such might have been expected. The Internal Iliac—These lie in the interval be- tween the external and internal aliac arteries, and are often very large in f trofulous children.