333 MUSCLES OF THE ARM, joined by the venae comites of the brachial artery, to constitute the common brachial vein; sometimes it ter- minates in the axillary. The Median Vein commences from the median ve- nous plexus over the annular ligament; it ascends in the middle of the fore-arm, and about an inch below the flexure of the joint it divides into three branches,—me- dian cephalic, median basilic, and mediana profunda. Median Cephalic passes upwards in the depression, between the supinator longus and biceps tendon, and joins the cephalic. Median Basilic.—Crosses the semilunar fascia of the biceps, the origins of the pronators and flexors, and joins the basilic vein. Mediana Profunda sinks deep, piercing the fascia, and then communicates with one of the venae comites of the brachial artery. The internal cutaneous nerve lies superficial to the median basilic; the external cu- taneous is deeper than the median cephalic. When the superficial fascia has been removed, the proper brachial aponeurosis is seen. This fascia is thick internally, thin externally; anteriorly and inter- nally it is formed by an expansion from the great pec- toral tendon and a condensation of the areolar tissue of the axilla, posteriorly and externally by a continuation of the infraspinous fascia and an expansion from the tendons of the teres major and latissimus dorsi ten- dons. Surrounding the arm, it adheres to the inter- condyloid ridges and condyles of the humerus, inti- mately connected to the semilunar fascia of the biceps in front, and to the tendon of the triceps posteriorly. A strong layer separates the muscles on the front from the triceps behind, both on the external and internal sides; these are the intermuscular septa. External Intermuscular Septum commences above, at the outer lip of the bicipital groove, arising from the anterior edge of the tendon of the deltoid, and continues attached to the condyloid ridge as far as the external condyle. This separates the brachialis anticus, the su- pinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior and bre- vier, from the triceps behind; it is pierced by the spiral nerve and artery.