602 KERVOUS SYSTEM. exceeds the granular cells in the grey matter of the brain, but the latter predominate in the cerebellum, spinal cord, and tuber cinereum. The ganglionic cells are large granular bodies, containing pigmentary mat- ter, with a nucleus and nucleolus, and an oily fluid, possessing the common character of being provided with caudate prolongations in whatever situation they are exa- mined ; their shape is not, however, uniform in all parts of the nervous centres, being stellar in the locus niger of the crus cerebri, and pyriform in the cerebellum; or they may be triangular, as in the medulla oblongata; or large and irregular, with numerous prolongations, as in the spinal cord. It is believed by some physiologists that these caudate prolongations are connected with the conducting tubular structure. Nerve Filaments.—These are small and nucleated, resembling the sympathetic fibres. FiBRO-TUBULAR STRUCTURE.—In the bram, spinal cord, and nerves of motion and special sensation, the tubules are unbranched and extremely slender; butm the cerebellum, whilst they still are undivided, they become much larger, a character also observed m the posterior roots of the spinal and sympathetic nerves. But it is in the motor nerves that these tubules exhibit the largest size, accompanied with the greatest amount of resistance. The nerve tubes of the brain, cerebel- lum, together with the nerves of special sense, have a remarkable tendency to become varicose when sub- iected to pressure, which seems to depend on the tenuity of their investing membrane, and their containmg a fluid matter, which collects at certain points, sometimes even producing rupture of the envelope. It is almost im- possible to isolate the fibres of the brain for examina- tion from the surrounding tissues, and on this account the fibres of the motor nerves are selected as the type of the tubular tissue. A nerve tube consists of an invest- ing membrane, transparent, homogeneous, and smooth, without a trace of fibrous structure (neurilemma); within the last occurs a thin, elastic, white, albuminous layer (whitesubstance of Schwann), which incloses a thm, soft, semifluid matter, probably phosphorized fat having little tendency to solidification: this is called the axis cylinder (Purkinje). In the white matter of the brain