208 THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. adopt the same plan, by first explaining the connexion between the two tiers, and then describing the union between tier and tier. The first row of carpal bones are in contact with each other by extremely small facettes, but those of the se- cond are much larger. They are connected by anterior, posterior, and interrosseous ligaments. The two first of these are narrow slips, extending from bone to bone in front and behind, the anterior being much the stronger; the interrosseous are thick but short bundles, stretching between the non-articular adjacent surfaces, possessed of extreme strength, and quite sufficient of themselves to insure the integrity of the whole. The pisiform bone is, however, an exception to the rule; it is isolated, and forms a distinct joint with the cunei- form, to which it is united by an imperfect capsular ligament, extending downwards to the unciform and base of the fifth metatarsal bone below. Generally speaking, it has a separate synovial capsule, but it is sometimes continuous with the radio-carpal. The two rows of bones connected together, as just described, are again united to each other in the follow- ing manner: The prominent head of the os magnum is received into a socket formed by the scaphoid and semilunar, while internally the cuneiform dips down to articulate with the unciform, and externally the sca- phoid is prolonged in the same direction to meet the trapezium and trapezoid. The os magnum is retained in its position by a strong anterior ligament and a weaker posterior; the former is always well marked, and consists of a vertical set of fibres, which arise by a single process from the neck of the os magnum and pass upwards, diverging to be inserted by three slips into the anterior surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cunei- form; these are crossed by a series of transverse fibres, extending between the unciform bone on the inside and the trapezoid on the outside. The posterior ligament is not so well marked; its fibres decussate each other over the posterior part of the head of the os magnum, dipping down to be attached to its neck, and terminat- ing by being inserted into the adjacent bones of the first row. The union of the scaphoid with the trape-