282 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. pterygoid plate, terminates in a round tendon that plays around the hamular process, from which it is separated by a bursa; then expands, and is reflected horizontally inwards, and is inserted into the aponeurosis of the ve- lum, and also into the posterior edge of the palate bone. Relations.—Externally with the internal pterygoid muscle, from w^hich it is separated by a fibrous layer; internally with the internal pterygoid plate, superior constrictor, and Eustachian tube, which separates it from the levator palati; the horizontal portion is continuous with the palatal aponeurosis, and above and before the levator, it is covered by the motor uvulee. Action. —To make tense the velum, and if the lower part is fixed, to dilate the Eustachian tube. Motor Uvulae occupies the middle line of the palate; it arises by a long tendinous slip from the spinous pro- cess of the palate bone; passes at first backwards, then curves forwards, and is inserted into the areolar tissue of the uvula. Relations.—Above, mucous membrane; below, levator palati muscles, with the palatal aponeurosis. These muscles are often described as a single fleshy mass, un- der the name of azygos uvulse, but an areolar line al- ways separates them. They have been said to be occa- sionally absent, but this opinion probably arose from examining them too near the palate bone, where the structure is fibrous. Action.—To shorten and elevate the uvula. Palato-pharyngeus is seen by drawing upwards the velum, and dissecting oflF the mucous membrane behind the tonsil, also from the under surface of that fold itself; it arises broad and fasciculated, fleshy in structure, from the inferior surface of the palatine aponeurosis, becomes narrow, and passes downwards and backwards, to be in- serted into the superior cornu and posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. Relations.—li\ the palate it is below the insertions of the superior muscles; in the pharynx it is between the mucous membrane and superior constrictor, where it forms the posterior half-arch of the palate. Its action will be described with the palate in general. Palato-glossus.—Smaller and shorter than the last,