202 THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. into the upper edge of the olecranon process. The te- nuity and looseness of its structure are so obvious, that its use as a ligament may be fairly questioned, and it should be more properly regarded as a kind of protec- tion to the synovial membrane against the pressure of the tendon of the triceps, which lies directly over it. Internal Lateral Ligament.—This is possessed of great strength, and is triangular in shape. Strictly speakings it may be said to consist of two distinct fas- ciculi, continuous at their apex, but divergent at their base; bound together by a powerful transverse band, strong below, but gradually becoming weaker as it as- cends. The anterior slip arises from the internal con- dyle, and passes nearly vertically downwards to be in- serted into the inner side of the coronoid process; it affords a point of origin to the flexor sublimis. The posterior arises in common with the preceding, but its direction is downwards and backwards, to be implanted into the inner side of the olecranon; to this some fibres of the triceps are attached. The transverse band which connects them is inserted below into the lip of the sig- moid notch of the ulna, and is here dense and well marked, but as it passes upwards towards the internal condyle it gradually becomes weaker and less ligamen- tous in its character. Exteenal Lateral Ligament.—This is inferior m strength to the preceding, hut is of the same triangular shape. It arises from the external condyle by a narrow, thick, pointed extremity, and from this it descends nearly vertically, becoming gradually broader, and is inserted into the orbicular ligament of the radius, and by a few scattered fibres into the outer and anterior surface of the coronoid process. It is concealed and strengthened by the supinator brevis, which adheres to it very intimately. Synovial Membrane—This is common to this as well as the radio-ulnar articulation; it must therefore be necessarily extensive; posteriorly it is especially lax, where it blended with a little adipose tissue, and pro- longed for some distance between the triceps and bone. Motions.—Flexion and extension only. In the first of these movements the fore-arm can be bent on the arm