806 ARTERIES AND VEINS. together at the point of the corpus callosum, and after continuing united for about half-an-inch may again se- parate to form the callosal arteries. Anomalies We have witnessed an instance where the anterior cerebral was deficient on the left side, but that on the right was of undue magnitude, and bifur- cated to form the terminal branches or callosal. Middle Cerebral.—This is a very large branch, and must be considered as the true termination ol the m- ternal carotid; it winds upwards, backwards, and out- wards, and, entering the fissure of Sylvius, divides into three branches,—an anterior, which ramifies on the under surface of the corresponding lobe; a posterior, which turns backwards to supply the middle and pos- terior lobes; and a middle, which bifurcates to inclose the lobule of the fissure (island of Reil), and then, con- tinuing its course outwards, winds round the external border of the hemisphere to anastomose on its upper surface with the hemispheric arteries from the anterior cerebral. ,. ^ ^ 4. Remarks —This artery is pecuhar from the great num- ber of capillaries which it gives off, and w'hich smk into the sulci for the supply of the structure of the brain. Anomalies—S^Q are aware of none. , , , . Posterior Commonicating arises from the bact ot the internal carotid, about a quarter of an inch below its termination; it passes backwards and inwards, and anas- tomoses with the posterior cerebral of the basilar Bemarlcs.—'lhi^ artery is occasionally very small, but it8 deficiency in size is always compensated by the ex- treme magnitude of that of the opposite side. AnomcSies.-lt very often arises from the middle ce- ""^^Choroid ARTERY.—Uniformly present, arising from the back part of the carotid, and, passing backwards along the under surface of the crus cerebri, entei;s the anterior cornu of the great semilunar notch of Bichat, Sen reaches the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle running upwards between the taenia hippocampi and optic thalamus, accompanying the ^1--^^ plexus to which it distributes numerous filaments, and Avith it winding round the posterior cornu of theoptic thalamus,