5 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. To these we will apply the term secondary laminfe. In their structure may also be observed a second series of dark points, the osseous lacunse or corpuscles, some- times called calcigerous cells. In the human bone they are semilunar, with the concavity turned towards the Haversian canal, of which they are the satellites. Inter- nally they communicate with the Haversian canal by fine pores or transverse canaliculi, and externally with those of the proximate lamina. Neither lacunae nor canaliculi are visible in the bone tissue of the intertu- bular spaces. A longitudinal section represents the canals passing parallel with the axis of the shaft, and frequently communicating with each other. The true figure of the lacunae may also now be determined, being that of menisci. The Haversian canals have an average diameter of of an inch; the canaliculi, -j-^oo-; and the lacunse, in their vertical diameter, an average of TsTTu-) usually half as wide, and one-third as thick (Todd and Bowman). The external surface of the bone is surrounded by laminse proper to its entire thickness; these are from seven to ten in number, and can be well observed in a section which has been macerated in acid. These may be called primary laminse, to distinguish them from those of the Haversian system; they consti- tute the periosteal layer, that again passes insensibly into the mediate structure. The pores of the most superficial lacunse open on the periosteal surface, and those of the most deep on the medullary, an arrange- ment that might be anticipated in consequence of the con- tinuity of all the elements of its anatomical composition. The ultimate structure of the laminse is difiicult to determine. With a high power of about 650, the sur- face seems granular, according to Dr. Sharpey, with small lozenge-shaped spaces, formed by the crossing of minute fibres. We have observed these spaces and the so-called fibres well marked in the lachrymal bone, pre- pared on one side only so as to be transparent under a high power, particularly when the light was reflected obliquely. Mr. Tomes conceives the ultimate structure to be formed by minute granules, oval, oblong, or an- gular, imbedded in a tissue with characters not yet definite. However, in the ossifying nucleus of the