834 ARTERIES AND VEINS. the cleft between the little and ring fingers, and bifur- cating, supplies their opposed surfaces; the third pur- sues the same course to the cleft between the ring and middle fingers, and divides for their adjacent aspects; while the fourth, running downwards to the cleft be- tween the middle and index fingers, likewise subdivides, to be distributed in a similar manner; the arterial supply of the thumb and half the index finger being completed by the radial is indicis and princeps pollicis. Deep Palmar Arch. — Formed by the profunda branches of both radial and ulnar arteries, and it difi'ers from the superficial in being smaller, more transverse, and situated much nearer the carpus. Relations.—Anteriorly, superficial and deep flexors, origin of adductor pollicis, and deep process of palmar fascia, which separates it from the superficial arch; pos- teriorly, heads of metacarpal bones and interossei muscles. Collateral Branches.—Anterior or digital, pos- terior or perforating, and superior or carpal. Anterior or Digital.—Generally three or four in number; they arise from the convexity of the arch, and run forwards along the interosseal spaces, and at the clefts between the fingers turn upwards, and anastomose with the digital branches of the superficial palmar arch, before their division. Posterior or Perforating.—Similar in number to the preceding, arising from the deep surface of the arch; they pass backwards, piercing the interossei muscles, which they supply, then ascend to the back of the carpus, where they anastomose with the interos- seous and carpal. Superior or Carpal.—Two or three small twigs, which ascend from the concavity of the arch, beneath the anterior annular ligament, to anastomose with thp anterior interosseous and anterior carpal. Anomalies of the Arches.—The superficial is sometiniea constituted by the ulnar alone, dividmg into the ordi- nary number of digital branches, or, as we have betore observed, by its union with the radialis indicis. ihe deep arch is sometimes formed by the radial only, the proiunda of the ulnar being so small as scarcely to be said to give it any blood. With respect to the use ot