171 ILIO-FEMORAL ARTICULATION. Clopton Havers as a gland for the secretion of the synovial fluid for the lubrication of the joint. Without stopping to inquire whether this idea has any founda- tion or not, we will merely observe that its more obvious use is to form an elastic cushion for the sup- port of the head of the bone, and to fill up any interstices that might occur in its varied motions. The Motions of the ilio-femoral articulation are very numerous. They consist of flexion, extension, abduc- ,tion, adduction, circumduction, and rotation. Flexion.—This motion is very extensive, and may be carried so far, that the anterior surfaces of the thigh and abdomen will come in contact, while the head of the femur rolls in the acetabulum on an imaginary axis, represented by a line passing upwards and inwards through its neck. Extension.—This is limited from several causes:—from the peculiar aspect of the acetabulum; any attempt at throwing the thigh backwards, bringing the neck of the femur in contact with the lower edge of this cavity, which forms the fulcrum on which the head is thrown forwards, thus protruding the capsule. The ilio-femoral ligament, with the tendons of the psoas, iliacus, and rectus, are immediately rendered tense, and powerfully resist all further movement in this direction. Abduction is very considerable. The laxity of the capsule internally permits the head to glide partially out of the cotyloid cavity, while the great trochanter points towards the ala of the ilium. This has the effect of bringing the upper part of the neck in contact with the edge of the acetabulum, which necessarily resists all further motion in this direction. Adduction is extremely slight, as the meeting of the thighs limits it at once; but if either be slightly flexed, it may be carried over the other for some extent. The ligamentum teres and the rotator muscles becoming tense prevent its being carried beyond a certain point. Circumduction. — This is merely the revolution of the limb, forming a cone, the apex being at the joint, and the base below formed by an imaginary circle de- scribed by the foot. Rotation In this motion the head turns slightly