CARPUS. 45 to the flexor carpi ulnaris, the abductor minimi dio-iti and the anterior annular ligament. It articulates only with one bone, the cuneiform. Trapezidm.—Is of an irregular cuboid figure, and as such presents six surfaces, which we will describe in order. The posterior is semilunar and rough for the at- tachment of the dorsal ligaments; the anterior, wedoe- shaped, the sharp edge of the wedge, which looks di- rectly forwards, giving attachment to the anterior annular ligament and abductor, opponens and flexor pollicis brevis muscles; internal to this is a deep groove, through which the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis glides. The superior presents a circular concave facette to articulate with the scaphoid; the inferior, a larger one, concave from before backwards, convex from side to side for the extremity of the first metacarpal bone; a smaller facette is likewise visible on it inferiorly, and internally for the second; the external is rounded, and has inserted into it the external lateral ligament; the internal is concave from above downwards, and unites with the trapezoid. This bone thus articulates with four: the scaphoid, trapezium, and first and second metacarpal. Trapezoid—A very small bone and wedge-shaped. Its broader part, directed posteriorly, is of an oval figure; it gives attachment to the dorsal ligament; small and rough anteriorly for the palmar. 1°articu- lates superiorly by a small concave surface with the scaphoid; inferiorly it presents a large oblong facette, concave from before backwards; convex from side to side for the second metacarpal bone; externally it is flat and triangular where it unites with the trapezium- and mternally quadrilateral, but still flattened where it lies m contact with the os magnum. It articulates, like the preceding, with four bones: the scaphoid, trape- zium, second metacarpal bone, and os magnum. Os Magnum.—This is the largest bone°of the carpus and has been divided into a head, neck, and body. The head is the highest part; is very convex; looks up- wards, backwards, and outwards, and is received into a kind of ^cket formed by the scaphoid and semilunar bones. The neck is the constricted portion, lying im-