247 PAROTID GLAND. cess of the pharyngeal aponeurosis, superior constrictor, tonsil, from which it is separated below by the ptery- go-pharyngeal space, to the stylo-glossus muscle, stylo- maxillary ligament, tonsillitic and facial arteries, and the submaxillary gland. The anterior edge corresponds from below, upwards, to the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental nerve, mylo-hyoid attachment of the superior constrictor, pterygo-maxillary ligament, and the fossa of that name; the posterior edge is related above to the inferior maxillary nerve and otic ganglion, the dental, gustatory, and chorda-tympani nerves, and a portion of the parotid, with the internal lateral liga- ment. Its origin consists of a strong tendon, continued on its inner aspect, not very dissimilar to the masseter; the posterior edge is thinner than the anterior, while it is also thicker above than below. Action To elevate the jaw, and also throw it for- wards,—an effect greatly increased by the muscle being inserted at a right angle to its lever; thus it assists both the masseter and external pterygoid muscles. Glands signify organs that eliminate effete materials from the blood mass, which, remaining in the system, would exercise an injurious influence; or they serve to promote the more perfect performance of the requisite functions of assimilation and absorption. We will di- vide this system into the conglomerate, conglobate, folli- cular, and lymphatico-vascular glands; a division founded on anatomical characters that can be recognised without difficulty. Under the first, the salivary glands, mammae, pancreas, lachrymal, liver, kidneys, may be classed. The lymphatics are the only representatives of the se- cond; their particular description will be given with the absorbent system. The third class includes those glands which are spread over the mucous surfaces, and are more or less simple, being devoid of a ramified, se- creting, tubular system, as the buccal, labial, tonsilli- tic, Brunnerian glands. The fourth are principally com- posed of a vascular structure, without a proper efferent duct; are variable in size, in contour, and even in per- sistency ; these are the spleen, suprarenal capsules, thy- mus and thyroid bodies. At present, it will be prefer-