135 THE NOSE. palatine hole, passes into the posterior ethmoidal cells and sphenoidal sinus, converting the latter into a fun- nel-shaped chamber; then, after covering in the whole of the superior meatus, it descends to the inferior border of the superior spongy bone, where, forming a very small fold, it is inflected upwards to the roof of the nose, which it crosses inwards to the septum, or to that point from which we at first started. In order to complete the nasal cavity, it will be now necessary to take a view of its flexible portion, or that formed by the cartilages. These are five in number,—one median or septal, and two lateral,—the superior or nasal, and the inferior or alar. The septal cartilage is of an irregular quadrilateral figure, presenting four margins and two surfaces. The two last correspond to either nostril, covered with miicous membrane, which is here extremely thick and studded with hairs. The anterior margin stretches upwards and slightly backwards, and is received between the lateral cartilages and the slight groove of the nasal bones,—its posterior superior edge, directed backwards and downwards, unites with the nasal lamella of the ethmoid; its inferior posterior margin is received into a slit of the vomer, which is here fissured for its reception. Inferiorly it is attached to the sym- phisis of the two superior maxillary bones for a very short distance posteriorly; is free anteriorly, forming a broad and rounded columella, constituting the line of division between the nares of opposite sides. At the re- treating angle of junction above and behind, between the nasal lamella of the ethmoid and vomer, a caudate pro- longation is sent upwards and backwards between these bones, to be attached to the azygos process of the sphe- noid ; it resembles a narrow band, thin and irregular above, smooth and rounded below. The nasal cartilages, which are situated superiorly, are of a semilunar shape, thick anteriorly, where they are united to each other, forming the dorsum of the nose, leaving a triangular groove between them posteriorly for the reception of the septal cartilage,—united above to the nasal bones, and on either side to the sharp edge of the nasal notch of the superior maxillary,—below connected to the alar cartilages. The mode of union at all those points is by