221 t MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. deep branch; the former pierces the orbicularis, some- times passes between its edge and the occipito-i'rontalis, lies between the last-named muscle and the integu- ment, and can be traced as high as the coronal suture. The deep, larger than the last, external to which it lies, remains between the muscle and the bone, where it di- vides into a number of flat, ribbon-like branches that at the coronal suture pierce the muscle and terminate in the skin. SupRATRocHLEATOR Branch of the frontal escapes from the orbit, with the frontal artery, above the pul- ley of the superior oblique. Two or three long branches turn up, to supply the occipito-frontalis and integu- ment. Temporal Artery.—This arises from the external carotid in the substance of the parotid gland, then as- cends between the cartilage of the ear and the temporo- maxillary articulation, passes over the horizontal root of the zygoma, and one inch and a quarter above this it divides into anterior, middle, and posterior branches. The former passes forwards towards the brow, where it anastomoses with the supra-orbital; the middle pierces the temporal fascia; and the posterior ascends almost vertically as high as the summit of the cranium, where it divides into its terminating branches, communicating behind with the posterior auris. Temporo-auricular Nerve arises from the inferior maxillary; is seen emerging from the parotid superfi- cial to the artery, after sending backwards an auricular branch; it terminates in the integument of the side of the cranium. AuRicuLAins Magnus arises from the cervical plexus, and is seen in the present dissection sending upwards a branch anterior and superficial to the last-described nerve. _ Temporal Branch of the orbital division of the supe- rior maxillary nerve pierces the temporal aponeurosis about three-quarters of an inch above the zygoma, and the same distance from the posterior edge of the malar bone. Its distribution is tegumentary, having pre- viously communicated with the portia dura. Temporal Branches of the portio dura emerge from