NERVOUS SYSTEM. 764 process of the malleus, and thus, by antagonizing the tensor, to relax the membrana tympani. Stapedius.—Small, and of an oval shape; it arises from within the pyramid, and emerging from its apex, it passes forwards and slightly outwards, and is in- serted into the neck of the stapes. Use.—To draw inwards this bone, and press its base against the membrane of the ovalis fenestra. From the firm connexion of these several small bones to each other, it necessarily follows, that motion pro- duced in any one of them will be propagated in succes- sion to the entire, and hence the effect produced by the contraction of the tensor tympani may be more clearly understood. In rendering the tympanic membrane tense, the muscle draws the malleus inwards, which causes its head to press firmly against the body of the incus, which in its turn is prevented from passing backwards by its short process, which is fixed in the recess of the tympanum. The motion is accordingly propagated to its long process, which again presses against the orbicu- lar bone, and this naturally impels the stapes, with which it is united, against the membrane of the fenestra ovalis. During these movements it will be observed that the processus gracilis of the malleus is the point or fulcrum on which the motion takes place, and the better to adapt it to this ofiice, it is firmly attached to_ the Glasserian fissure by a strong ligamentous connexion, the laxator tympani of some authors. This is the explanation ad- vanced by Huguier, and it appears to be the true one, as the one action renders both membranes, that of the tympanum and fenestra ovalis, tense at the same mo- ment, and the vibrations which take place in the for- mer from external causes are rapidly conveyed to the latter by the osseous chain, and by it accurately repeated for the labyrinth to take cognizance of it. The Vidian nerve, which enters the tympanum through a small hole at the base of the pyramid, crosses the cavity from within downwards and outwards, between the long process of the incus and handle of the malleus. It may be presumed that it conducts the small twig ot theportio dura which Soemerring describes as passing to the stapedius muscle for its supply.