717 SACRAL PLEXUS. it lies at first inferior to the pudic artery, but after- wards ascends above it, and, running forwards towards the superior and anterior part of the tuber iscbii, di- vides into three branches,—a superficial external, a su- perficial internal, and bulbo-urethral. Superficial External (Long Perineal) passes at first downwards, perforating the falciform process of the great sciatic ligament, then winds forwards and upwards on the crus penis, and, becoming cutaneous, terminates in supplying the dartoid structure and integuments of the scrotum in the male, and the labia majora in the female. In its course it always gives ofi" a branch to the verge of the anus. Superficial Internal (Long Perineal).—Larger than the last; it pierces the obturator fascia, and in com- pany with the long perineal artery crosses the triangular space between the urethral muscles, reaches the "scro- tum, to the integuments of the central region of which It is distributed, several long filaments being prolonged to the under surface and sides of the penis, extending even as far as the prepuce. Bulbo-urethral._A thick, short branch; it also perforates the obturator fascia and base of the triangular ligament, and, crossing inwards beneath the accelerator lunnffi, IS distributed to the bulb and corpus spongio- sum. In the female, the pudic nerve likewise gives°oflF numerous branches to the vagina, which generally pro- ceed as far as its external orifice. Inferior Glut.eal arises from the back part of the tplexus and leaves the pelvis through the great sciatic -notch below the pyriformis, and behind the great ischia- rtic nerve. While beneath the glutajus maximus it '.divides into two branches,—muscular and cutaneous • the tformer of which, breaking up into numerous twigs, is ' distributed to that muscle only, while the latter passes mt first downwards, and then, emerging beneath its infe- mor margin, winds upwards, and dividing into two iportions, supplies by long and slender filaments the in- tteguments over it. Lesser Sciatic arises in common with the last, and ;passes out of the pelvis in company with it, and with •the same relations. Beneath the gluta^us maximus it