176 THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS, From this arrangement it will be observed, that those bgaments cross each other as they proceed to the r destination at an oblique angle, and hence their nZZ They are strong; and as they are attached behind the tense in extension,-a motion which they completely iimit, if attempted to be carried to excess. The decus- sa ion can be removed, and the ligaments brought pa- rallel to each other, by rolling the leg outwards. ^In tTr.L^fli"'^ '^^bia, it will be recol- lected that the anterior is intimately connected to the anterior horn of the internal semilunar cartilage; and the posterior, which is the more vertical, to the poste- rior one of the external. ^ Ligament of WmsBERG.-This is not always to be found, and when present appears to be only an offset from the posterior crucial. It arises from the posterior edge of the external semilunar cartilage, and is inserted into the outer side of the internal condyle in front of the posterior crucial ligament. Its use appears to be to hx the posterior cornu of the external semilunar carti- lage, and prevent its displacement. Semk-unab Cartilages.—Iu order to examine these It will be necessary to detach the femur from the tibia by cutting across the crucial ligaments,—leaving how- ever, a small portion connected to the latter bone in order to observe more closely their attachments The semilunar cartilages are two in number,—an internal and external. The former, as its name implies, is cres- centic m shape; its cornua so far apart as to allow those ot the external, which is more circular, to be ™ped or embraced by them. In describing those cartilages, it will be necessary to give them a superior and inferior surface, an internal and external margin, and an ante- rior and posterior cornu. Their superior surface is concave, and corresponds to the convexities of the con- dyles of the femur; their inferior is convex, and is ac- curately moulded on the glenoid cavities of the tibia. Their external margins are thick, and are attached to the bone by some scattered fibres, the coronary liga- ment, and folds of the synovial membrane, called reti- nacula; their internal edges are thin and sharp, and