SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. 579 coats, they consist of two, an external, which is very thin, scarcely deserving the name of fibrous, and an in- ternal mucous, derived from the lining membrane of the ductus communis choledochus, but so A^ery fine that It seems analogous to a serous membrane; its proper character is, however, established by the existence of certain mucous follicles which are found within it as well as by the epithelium which covers it. Its gradually increasing caliber from its commencement to its termi- nation IS accounted for from the fact of its receiving successively the smaller ducts, from the glandules of which the pancreas is composed, that open into it sepa- rately and give it the appearance of a centipede, to which It iias been very aptly compared. In structure the pancreas closely resembles the sali- vary glands, which have already been fully described hav- ing like them. Its lobules separated by fine fibrous tissue each containmg its follicles of secretion, with its ac' companying cell apparatus for the elimination of its peculiar fluid, which is derived from its proper vessels the splenic, superior mesenteric, and hepatic. An evi' dent analogy likewise exists in the secretions of the pancreatic and salivary glands; but the former contain more solid ingredients, as albumen and caseine has acid re-action, and no sulpho-cyanate of potassa, while the contrary, the saliva possesses the latter, as well as an abundance of salivin and mucus, which is sparingly tound in the pancreas. It is extremely difficult to J sign a decided use to the pancreatic secretio^_it ha^ been said to be of service in diluting the bile, in s.no mfying the fat globules found in the chyle, and neuTra- hzing the acidity of the gastric juice rn\he duod num The quantity secreted in about twelve hours from a largedogamountedto about eight drachms (Tiedemann) buPRAKENAL Capsules are found in bo h hypochon ' dnac regions, and. as their name implies, gener^dly ' . close apposition with the kidneys. In shane iC J ;triangular, flattened from before^ackwart'm Jve" 'variable size m different individuals, as well as at diffJ .rentperiods of life. If the kidneys ar^ normall^^aS' 'the suprarenal capsules are always more or less exca 'vated xn order to fit on their upper lobe like a heln e" 2 c 2 s an on