THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 98 the inferior much smaller, the entrance into the Vi- dian canal. The pterygoid processes are two remark- able plates of bone, and have received their name from their supposed resemblance to the wings of a bird. They are of an oblong shape, convex anteriorly, and only separated by a narrow fissure, into which the sphe- noidal process of the palate bone is fitted; concave pos- teriorly and separated by a broad groove, which is occupied by the tensor palate as it runs to its insertion, origin of the internal pterygoid and pterygoid process of the palate bone. The external pterygoid plate is the broader, thinner, and shorter; concave on its outer surface, it gives origin to the external pterygoid muscle; convex on its inner, the internal pterygoid is attached to it. The internal pterygoid plate arises by two roots, one external and long, connecting it to the spinous pro- cess ; the other short, bending inwards, and forming a thin lamina, which overlaps the side of the vomer; be- tween them is a depression, triangular in shape,—the scaphoid fossa, from which the tensor palati arises. The inner side of the internal pterygoid plate is slightly convex, and forms the external boundary of the poste- rior nares; concave externally where it corresponds to the tensor palati; it terminates in a remarkable hook- like appendage, round which, but separated from it by a small bursa, the tensor palati plays,_ Tvhile to its point the pterygo-pharyngeal aponeurosis is attached. The sphenoid articulates with all the bones of the l-iead,—the ethmoid and frontal anteriorly, both parie- tals and temporals laterally, and the occipital behind; and with five of the face,—the two malar, the two pa- late, and vomer. It has twenty-eight processes,—two greater and two lesser wings, two orbital and two tern- poral, two spinous and two styloid, four pterygoid plates and four clinoid, two hamular and two lesser bones of Bertin, one ethmoidal, one olivary, one basi- lar, and one azygos. It is perforated by fourteen pro- per foramina, or seven on either side,—the spinous, oval, round, lacerated—orbital, optic, Vidian, and openings into sphenoidal sinuses. Its common foramina are eight, or four at each side,—the anterior lacerated,