123 THE SKULL. G 2 dropping a vertical line from the most prominent part of the forehead to the incisor teeth, and another from the last-named point to the tube of the ear. The angle in- cluded between these has been found to vary from 80° to 85° in the European, from 70° to 75° in the Mongolian, from 60° to 65° in the Negro, 40'' in the Chimpanzee, and 30° in the ouran outang. This idea, extremely inge- nious, and supported by the foregoing facts, contributes to support the views inculcated by comparative ana- tomy, which teaches us that in the ascending scale of intellectual development the face and cranium are in an inverse ratio to each other, and that the one is always increased at the expense of the other. We also find the brain, and, of course, its bony case, comparatively larger in the child than in the adult, while that of the male is always much more capacious than that of the female. The Cranium, with its facial appendage removed from it, is of an ovoid figure, more expanded behind than in front, flattened on its inferior surface anteriorly, as well as on its sides, while superiorly it is smooth, rounded, and convex. It does not necessarily follow that its two lateral portions should exactly correspond in size, as variations exist more or less obvious in all; but where the deviation is very striking it has been generally found that some cerebral affection had been evidenced during life. As it is a hollow cavity, we must give it two surfaces,—an external and internal; the one in its general character convex, the other con- cave. We will begin with the first. The exterior of the skull may be divided into the sinciput or frontal region ; the bregma or vertex, with the lateral regions on each side; the occiput, and true base. Of these the first or sinciput occupies the anterior superior part of the cranium, and is formed solely by the frontal bones. It is smooth and convex, bounded anteriorly by the supraciliary ridges, and the suture between the frontal and nasal bones; posteriorly by the coronal suture; and laterally by the temporal ridges. Immediately above the edge of the orbit we observe a small hole, sometimes a mere notch, for the supra-orbital nerve and artery; higher up there is a slight transverse depression, above which it becomes