FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 587 aorta, and their effete blood is returned to the cava by two large veins, the superior of which, with its corres- ponding artery, afterwards forms the renal vessels; the inferior, with its accompanying artery,—the spermatic. The Wolffian bodies are placed on either side of the spinal column, and are composed of a series of ctecal ap- pendages or pouches, which present a convoluted ap- pearance, interspersed with numerous darker points, which are small plexuses of blood-vessels, closely coiled on themselves, the analogues of the future Malpighian tufts. The excretory ducts, with those from the kid- ney and sexual organs, form a common canal, and this again, with that from the rectum, opens into the cloaca or sinus urino-genitalis, the sides of which latter, by their gradual approximation and subsequent union, ultimately forni a septum of division between the rectum and genito-urinary organs; the urethra of the female is af- terwards isolated from the vagina by a similar process. The Urine, the fluid eliminated from the blood by the kidneys, is of an amber colour, emitting a peculiar odour, and in health having a specific gravity of about 1011. According to Berzelius it is composed of:—1. Wa- ter; 2. Solid residue; 3. Urea; 4, Uric acid; 5. Lactic acid, lactate of ammonia, alcohol, and water extract; 6. Mucus; 7. Sulphate of potash; 8. Sulphate of soda; 9. Phosphate of soda; 10. Biphosphate of ammonia; 11. Chloride of sodium; 12. Chloride of ammonium; 13, Phosphate of lime and magnesia; 14, Silicic acid. Be- sides removing these products from the blood, which, by their deleterious agency might exercise an injurious influence on the body generally, the kidneys act an im- portant part in equalizing the circulation by abstract- ing the excess of serum from the vessels, which would otherwise increase to an immoderate extent. FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The Female Organs of Generation are divided into copulative and formative, or external and internal, the former consisting of the mons veneris, labia majora and mmora, clitoris, and the vagina; but the last cannot pro- perly be stated to belong to either division exclu- /