FEMORO-TIBIAL ARTICULATION. 175 .interior part of the tibia, a little below its head. It crosses in its course downwards the internal semilunar cartilage, to which it is firmly attached, the tendon of the semimembranosus, and the inferior internal articu- lar artery, both of which separate it from the tibia. By its internal surface it is crossed by the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus, as they arch forwards to tbeir insertion. Both the external and in- ternal lateral ligaments are attached posterior to the axis of motion, and are of course relaxed in flexion and rendered tense by extension. Rotation of the leg in- wards will also slightly relax them. Mucous Ligament This is exposed by throAving downwards and forwards the patella. In consists of a fold of synovial membrane, enveloping a thin process of fibrous tissue,—attached above to the intercondyloid fossa, and below to the mass of fat which lies imme- diately behind the patella. Alar Ligaments.—These are likewise processes of the synovial membrane,—continuations of the mucous, ■which are stretched downwards along the sides of the patella to the fat in front of the joint. The use of these and the preceding is to act upon the adipose tissue, and to cause it to fill up the several interstices that would otherwise exist within the cavity of the joint during its various motions. Crucial Ligaments These are two in number,— an anterior or external, and a posterior or internal. In order to obtain a good view of their course and attach- ments, all the external ligaments should be removed, as well as the mucous and alar; the synovial membrane, which is reflected round them, removed; and the lower part of the femur split vertically downwards by a cut that will pass antero-posteriorly between the condyles. The anterior crucial ligament arises broad from a de- pression in front of the spine of the tibia, is directed obliquely backwards, upwards, and otitwards, and is inserted into the inner side of the external condyle. The posterior takes its origin from a notch behind the spine, posterior to the cornua of both semilunar carti- lages, and, passing upwards, forwards, and inwards, is attached to the outer side of the internal condyle.