122 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. attachment to the posterior thyro-hyoid ligament. These processes of the bone differ essentially from the body; they are much smaller and rounder, tapering gradually oft' as they proceed backwards. The thyro-hyoid muscle and membrane are inserted into them below, the hyo- glossus and middle constrictor above. The OS hyoides has no immediate connexion with any other bone of the skeleton, but this rule is occasionally liable to exception, as the styloid process of the temporal has been sometimes observed to articulate with it. This, however, would appear to depend on the ossification of the stylo-hyoid ligament—a structural change which it is exceedingly prone to undergo. It is developed from five ossific points,—one for the body, one for each cornu, and one for each appendix. These at birth are seldom or ever found to be united, but are separated by carti- laginous intervals, which are sometimes persistent for a lengthened period. Having now described the several bones of the cranium and face in detail, we shall next proceed to an examina- tion of them as a whole—a subject, no doubt, of much complexity, but at the same time of paramount import- ance, as a thorough acquaintance with the several regions, fossae, and foramina are essentially requisite in order properly to understand the intricate anatomy of the head and neck. It may be necessary here to remark that it is our intention to confine our observations for the present to the cranium, properly speaking, excluding the face, which in general may be said to form about one-fourth of the whole mass of the skull; but as this proportion is not always exact, varying in some degree in the several races of man, physiologists have attempted to define with some degree of precision the capacities of both in relation to each other as a standard of intellect, which, to say the least of it, appears to be exceedingly proble- matical. Amongst the various theories which have been propounded on this subject, it may be, however, neces- sary briefiy to allude to that of Camper; he proposed what is termed the measurement of the facial angle, by