725 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. size from above downwards. On emerging from the sacral foramina, they freely communicate with each other, and then divide into branches to supply the ad- jacent muscles, as well as the integument over the sacral and glutasal regions. SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. This presides over the functions of organic life, and consists of two long knotted cords, stretching from the base of the cranium above to the coccyx below, on either side of the spinal column, where they communi- cate by a common mass, termed the ganglion impar. In order to understand its arrangement properly, it will be necessaiy to divide it into a cervical, thoracic, abdominah and sacral portion; to examine its ganglia in each of those regions, and briefly describe the branches which it supplies, Avith the various plexuses which it forms in the course of its long descent. _ Cekvical Portion consists of three ganglia,—supe- rior, middle, and inferior, connected to each other by an intervening nervous communication, rendering them continuous with each other. _ Superior Ganglion, fusiform in shape, of a greyish- pink colour, and in length varying from one to four inches, its upper extremity being situated about three- quarters of an inch from the carotid foramen, while its inferior, which is sometimes bifid, gives oif the branch to the middle. It usually corresponds posteriorly to the second and third cervical vertebra, and is covered by the internal carotid artery, pneumogastric, glosso- pharyngeal, and lingual nerves, while the internal jugular vein lies posterior and external to it. The branches which it throws off have been divided into superior, inferior, external, internal, and anterior, and these we now propose to examine in order. Superior Branch.—This proceeds upwards from the summit of the ganglion, and, entering the carotid canal, it divides into two, which run on the inside and outside of the artery, presenting at its first turn an en- largement described as the carotid ganglion (Lob- stein); a little farther on it communicates with the Vidian, as the latter perforates the cartilage which fills