CAVITY OF THE CHEST. 524 it will be necessary to fill the heart's cavities with plaster of Paris, and then, carefully removing the serous membrane, the proper tissue is exposed, which may now be unravelled. We have been enabled to demonstrate the cardiac fibres exceedingly well by selecting the heart of an infant, and subjecting it to maceration in a solu- tion of corrosive sublimate and alum, which hardens the muscular fibre, and at the same time renders the separation of the layers extremely easy. This we pre- fer to boiling, a proceeding which produces so great a friability of the fibre, that it becomes almost impossible to preserve the specimen entire even for a short period. The Auriculae Fibres consist of a superficial and deep set, the former being common to both cavities, the lat- ter being distinct appendages to a single auricle, and hence called " proper." The common fibres cover the anterior face of both cavities and the auricular appen- dices, and then sink posteriorly into the median furrow, but not passing into the septum, being strong ante- riorly, and presenting an excavation for the aorta, to which they are attached by areolar tissue. Many de- ficiencies occur in this stratum where vessels enter and leave, particularly posteriorly. It is commonly stated that these fibres arise from the auricular and aortic zones, but by dissecting into the auriculo-ventricular furrow, the intervention of the ventricular fibres will exhibit the fallacy of this view. The Proper Auricular Fibres are attached to the deep and upper edge of the auricular rings, being thicker in the left than the right auricle, in the former situation assuming a circular arrangement, but m the latter crossing in all directions, presenting at many points a well-marked reticulated appearance. The Septal Wall, convex towards the left, and con- cave towards the right side, consists of two muscular planes, that of the left auricle being smooth, whilst that on the right forms by a sudden increase in thickness the incomplete annulus which surrounds the fossa ovalis. By a careful dissection carried through the septum the right may be separated from the left auricle, that por- tion which is proper to the former cavity being much the thicker of the two.