THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 356 of the radial flexor, os magnum, and head of the me- tacarpal bone of the middle finger. The two heads proceed towards the base of the first phalanx, become tendinous, and are inserted into the sesamoid bones, and, crossing these obliquely, into the base of the first phalanx. Relations.—The outer head is covered above by the abductor, but below is superficial; the inner head is covered by the flexor tendon and bursa. The long flexor tendon lies between the two portions; the outer head rests on the abductor indicis and radial artery, the inner on the first palmar interosseous, metacarpal bone, on the radialis indicis, princeps pollicis, and palmaris pro- funda arteries. Action.—1o flex the first phalanx and metacarpal bones. Adductoe Pollicis lies below the inner head of the short flexor, but on the same plane; it is triangular. The base at its origin arises from the inferior three- fourths, sometimes less, of the anterior surface of the middle metacarpal bone; the fibres pass outwards, con- verging, and are inserted tendinous into the inner sesa- moid bone and the base of the first phalanx. Relations It is covered by the two outer tendons of the flexor sublimis and profundus, lurabricales,_ branches of the median nerve, and a thin fascia. It lies on the metacarpal bones of the middle and index fingers, and corresponding interosseous muscle, on the abductor in- dicis and terminal branches of the radial artery; the upper edge corresponds to the inner head of the short flexor, with which it is sometimes united; the lower is round and fleshy, and projects beyond the abductor in- dicis, on the external side of the cleft between the thumb and index finger. The palmaris profunda artery passes between its upper edge and the flexor polhcis. This muscle is considered by some anatomists as the first palmar interosseus. Action.—1o adduct the thumb. Abductor Indicis is seen on the back of the clett; triangular, like the last-described muscle; arises tendi- nous and fleshy from the posterior third of the meta- carpal bone of the thumb, and from the entire of the