617 DURA MATER. Straight. This reservoir is occasionally absent, when the majority of the sinuses enumerated open into the right lateral. _ The sinuses placed within the skull do not form a dis- tinct system, as they communicate freely with the ex- ternal veins in several situations, which may be enume- rated as follows:—The cavernous, with the ophthalmic vem; the superior longitudinal, with the vein which passes through the posterior superior angle of the pa- rietal bone, as well as with those of the diploe and naso- cjecal vein; the lateral with the gulf of the internal jugular, and with the mastoid. The Arteries supplying thedura mater consistof three sets,_anterior, middle, andposterior meningeal. Thefirst are principally derived from the ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic; the second consist of the middle menin- geal arteries (greater and lesser), both being usually de- rived from the internal maxillary; also of branches which arise from the internal carotid, whilst that vessel IS m Its cavernous stage; and lastly, of a small branch which enters tlie foramen lacerum anteriusin basicranii, derived from the ascending pharyngeal. The posterior consist ot two branches on each side, namely, the occi- pito-meningeal, which enters the cranium through the jugular foramen, and the vertebro-meningeal, that pass into the cranium by the foramen magnum,_these ves- sels being derived from the trunks which their names indicate. _ The Nervous Supply of the Dura Mater is exceed- ingly obscure, but its source may be stated as bein? trom the iourth, frontal and Casserian ganglion of the nith pair. AuACHNoiD Membrane belongs to the class of serous tissues, being a shut sac, consisting of two portions, namely, a parietal and visceral layer; the former ad- hering most intimately to the internal surface of the dura mater, except in the situation of the sella turcica where the pituitary body is interposed between them' tne latter covering the suri'ace of the brain, passing over Its involutions and binding the convolutions to each other. It IS connected by its deep surface to the pia ma- ter, which lies beneatli it, by a tine areolar tissue, but