855 FEMORAL ARTERY. with its fellow of the opposite side. It also, at the in- ternal ring, gives off the cremasteric branch, which ra- mifies in the substance of the cord, and ultimately anas- ' tomoses in the scrotum with the spermatic and defe- rential. Internal Circumflex Ilii arises from the external iliac, close to the origin of the epigastric; it passes up- wards and outwards, parallel but internal to Poupart's ligament, over the anterior crural nerve, and between the fascia transversalis and iliaca, a well-marked white line indicating its course. On reaching the anterior su- perior spine of the ilium, it anastomoses with the ilio- lumbar, superficial circumflex of the femoral, and pro- funda division of the glutteal; it next continues its course backwards on the crest of the ilium, between the internal oblique and transversalis, and over the ilio- scrotal nerve, to the back part of the crest, where it again communicates with the superficial glutasal and iho-lumbar; it next turns upwards between the same muscles towards the last rib, to anastomose with the lumbar and intercostals. Anomalies—This artery may arise either from the obturator or deep epigastric, and both it and the latter vessel have been known to spring from the external iliac two inches or more above Poupart's ligament; this however, is very rare. We have observed, in one case only, a most important anomaly with respect to the origm of this artery, where it sprang from the epigastric above the internal abdominal ring; thus, crossing above the cord as it emerged from the abdominal cavity, it passed outwards to reach its proper destination. In an operation for oblique inguinal hernia, strangulated at this orifice, it was impossible that the vessel could have escaped. _ Femoral Artery—The continuation of the external ihac; commences opposite the pectineal line, and, passing- downwards, backwards, and iliwards, terminates at the junction of the lower with the middle third of the thicrh here perforating the adductor magnus, and becomfna poplita;al. We will accordingly examine it as it lies in Its first stage, or Scarpa's space, and in its second or Hunter's canal. '