2 D 2 1/ NERVOUS SYSTEM. 603 numerous globules occur, forming the greater amount of the cerebral mass, these being of all sizes, and resem- bling cells, Avith an oily consistence and colour. Sympathetic System.—The nerves connected with this division present some peculiarities, being of a grey colour, soft, and exhibiting the formation of gan- glia at intervals. They likewise possess two distinct elements,—the first being the ordinary nerve tubule; the second, nucleated filaments, resembling the non- striped muscular fibre which Henle has named gelati- nous nerve fibres. Some difference of opinion has oc- curred with reference to the latter constituents, as to whether they were really portions of the nervous sys- tem at all; but their origin and termination being si- milar to the true nerve tubes, as observed by Bidder, is quite sufficient to justify an affirmative. The Ganglia, which are observed not only on the sym- pathetic, but in connexion with the cerebro-spinal system contain three elements—namely, corpuscles (ganglionic)' gelatinous filaments, and nerve tubules. Each ganglion has on its external surface a capsule, derived from the external investing membrane of the nerve trunk, this capsule_sending sepimenta into its structure, so as to di- vme It into small compartments, each containing a sepa- rate and independent portion of nervous tissue. Internal to the capsule the gelatinous filaments form an inner cap- sule, by being arranged in a continuous layer, whilst the centre is occupied by the ganglionic corpuscles and nerve tubules; these latter, on entering, separate from each other, and become twisted and interlaced in a serpen- tine manner amongst the ganglion cells. These gancrlia present externally a great similarity to glands, and This resemblance is further increased by the presence of a capsule which sends its partitions deeply, separating the lobules trom each other. That they are connected with the secretion of some peculiar element would ap- pear at least probable, the tubular structure standina in the relation of efferent ducts for the transmission of the eliminated product. Origins of the iVerm.—These are conceived to com mence by loops, and to have a similar mode of termina tion at their peripheral extremities, as in cases where