MDSCLES OF THE BACK. 321 p 3 muscle is exceedingly large in quadrupeds, for obvious reasons. Interspinales are bands passing between the spines of the vertebrae; they are double in the neck, absent in the back, but thick in the lumbar region. Intertransverse Muscles.—A double plane, con- sisting of an anterior and a posterior fleshy belly, attached, as their names imply. Between the occipital bone and atlas they are represented by the rectus late- ralis, but this is single; the vertebral artery separates them, also the cervical nerves. We never could detect these fibres in either the dorsal or lumbar regions, where their substitutes are the intertransverse liga- ments. MuLTiFiDUS Spin^ consists of a series of tendinous and fleshy strips, running between the spines and transverse processes of the vertebrse; the highest arises from the spine of the axis, and is inserted into the transverse process of the succeeding vertebrae; a repe- tition of a similar arrangement ensues as far down as the last lumbar spinous process, this last slip being attached to the transverse process of the sacrum. Use.—To extend the spine and produce lateral incli- nation with rotation. The Eecti consist of two muscles on either side, beneath the occipital bone,—namely, the greater and lesser. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major.—Triangular in figure, base above, apex inferiorly; it arises tendinous from the spinous process of the axis; then becoming fleshy, passes upwards, backwards, and outwards, and is inserted into the inferior transverse ridge of the occi- pital bone, close to the mesian line, which is often in- dented, corresponding to its attachment. Relations.—It lies on the axis, atlo-axoid ligament, atlas, and posterior occipito-atlantoid ligament, with the occipital bone, and is covered by the complexus. It is separated from its fellow by the median spine of the occipital bone, recti minores, and a deep slip of the liga- mentum nuchae; externally it corresponds to a triangu- lar space, and the superior oblique, which usually over- laps its insertion.