59 FEMUR. oblique, but this obliquity is counteracted by the bend in the knees, which is the usual characteristic of ad- vanced life. Femur.—This is a long bone, and is the largest of its class in the whole human body; it is also the strongest, as it is destined fb support the weight of the entire trunk. In order to examine it properly it will be necessary to divide it into a head, neck, greater and lesser tuberosities, shaft, and two condyles. The head of the bone is globular, forming about three- fourths of a sphere, covered with cartilage, except infe- rior and posterior to the centre, where a deficiency exists for the attachment of the ligamentum teres. A very irregular wavy line limits the head, which articu- lates with the acetabulum of the pelvis. The neck of the bone is of a triangular figure, its apex above conti- nuous with the head; its base below and without rest^ ing upon two ridges; one anterior, long, but badly marked, to which the capsular ligament is attached, the anterior intertrochanteric line; the other posterior and exceedingly prominent, affording insertion to the quadratus femoris, the posterior intertrochanteric line. The axis of the neck is very oblique, directed upwards, forwards, and inwards, forming an obtuse angle with the shaft; concave on its upper surface to permit the lip of the acetabulum to lodge in it in motions of ex- treme abduction; rounded inferiorly, where we find a thick lamina of compact tissue, flattened anteriorly, and short,, corresponding to the cervical ligament; longer posteriorly and slightly concave, where it gives inser- tion to the capsular and the ligament before mentioned. Several foramina for the passage of the nutritious ves- sels are visible on this surface towards its lower part. It will be observed that the vertical diameter of the neck is much greater than its antero-posterior, an im- portant provision of nature in giving strength to the bone in that direction in which fracture would be most liable to occur. Oa the upper and posterior part of the neck, near its outer extremity, is a deep fossa, bounded externally by the great trochanter. This is the digital depression which gives insertion to the cap- sular muscles in the following order:—Most superiorly