414 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. not present any resemblance to muscular fibres, nor did galvanism excite their contraction in a living horse. They diiFer from white fibrous tissue in not yield- ing gelatine on long boiling, and from elastic tissue, in being soluble in acetic acid, and precipitated from the solution by ferro-cyanuret of potassium (Muller's Phy- siology, by Bailey, p. 250). Valentine believes that muscular fibres are attached to the trabeculse, and pass from thence to the walls of the veins; and he com- pares them to the muscular fibres of the intestines or non-striped class. He states that they are of use in dilating the veins, and thus causing erection (Mul- ler's Archiv. 1838, p. 182). The crura are supplied by nerves from two sources,—from the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic, and also from the internal pudic; these ramify in the vascular network (MuUer, ut su- pra). Guenther observed, when these nerves were di- vided, that erection was prevented in the horse; but his experiment only applied to the internal pudic branches. (Meckel's Archiv. 1828, p. 364). Vessels of the Cruka.—The artery arises from the internal pudic, as that vessel lies on the bone. It en- ters the crus obliquely, runs on the side of the septum pectiniforme, frequently communicating with its fellow. At the extremity of the crus it pierces the fibrous tunic, and enters the glans—a fact denied by many anato- mists, but quite evident in a well-injected subject. MuUer thus describes the branches of this artery:— " The arteries of the corpora cavernosa have two sets of branches: one set are the ultimate ramuscules, which terminate in the minute radicles of the veins, and are destined for the nutrition of the part; the other set come off from the side of the arteries, and consist of short tendril-like branches, terminating abruptly by rounded, apparently closed, extremities, turned back somewhat on themselves. These are sometimes single; sometimes several arise by one stem, forming a tuft; i have named them 'arterial helicina^.' They project into the venous cells, and are found principally m the pos- terior part of the corpora cavernosa and spongiosa urethra."-(Muller, by Bailey, p. 252.) He believes that they pour their blood into the venous cells by their