KIDNEYS. 581 that they do perform some important part in the animal economy, but as yet very little light has been thrown on their true function. That they may be of some use as a diverticulum during renal congestion (Carpenter) seems to be very probable, and appears to be the most rational of any of the conjectural theories that have as yet been advanced on the subject. It is a curious fact that malposition of the kidney, or atrophy of that organ, never has any influence in altering the situation of the suprarenal capsule, or diminishing or increasing its or- dinary size. KIDNEYS. These two organs are situated in the lumbar regions on either side, corresponding to the two last dorsaf and two first lumbar vertebra?, but not exactly on the same plane, as the left is always placed a little higher than the right, which is more or less depressed by the liver. They are not exactly parallel to each other, but con- verge superiorly and diverge inferiorly; neither do they he perfectly flat, but are so disposed that one sur- face looks forwards and outwards, the other backwards and inwards; in size, too, they are very variable, but their usual weight is from three to four ounces each, while in shape they resemble very closely a French bean. In order to understand more properly their re- lations, we will give them an anterior and posterior sur- face, an external or convex, and an internal or concave margin, and a superior and inferior extremity. The posterior surface is recognised immediately by its Hatness as contrasted with the anterior. On both sides it rests on the quadratus lumborum, from which It IS separated by the anterior layer of the transversalis aponeurosis, ilio-scrotal, and last dorsal nerves; on the psoas magnus and posterior edge of the diaphra-m, which intervenes between it and the last ribs. Its an- terior is very convex, and corresponds on the right side to the ascending colon, vertical portion of duode- num, and under surface of the liver, which overlaps it superiorly; on the left to the descending colon and mass of the small intestines. Its superior extremity is in relation with the liver, but separated from it by its