CORACO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION. 195 on the facette of the sternum; the rhomboid or costo- clavicular ligament and subclavius forming the check that prevents this motion from being carried to a too great extent. In depression, the clavicle slips forwards; its shaft or body comes in contact with the first rib, which offers a strong barrier to its sinking too far in this direction. COSTO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION. The inferior part of the sternal extremity of the cla- vicle and the cartilage of the first rib are generally in contact with each other, and are united by a strong ligament, called from its shape,—the rhomboid. This arises from the upper edge of the cartilage of the first rib, and passes upwards and outwards, to be inserted into a rough ridge on the inferior surface of the cla- vicle. It is of great importance in strengthening the sterno-clavicular articulation, and preserving the bones which compose it in the requisite apposition with each other. CORACO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION". This is syndesmodial, as the bones which compose it are not in apposition with each other, but are connected by two powerful ligaments, deriving their name from their shape,—the conoid and trapezoid,—the former being triangular, and situated on a plane posterior and inter- nal to the latter, which is quadrilateral. The conoid takes its origin by a narrow-pointed extremity from the upper surface of the coracoid process near its root, and passes upwards to be inserted into two tubercles on the posterior edge of the inferior surface of the clavicle by a broad base. The trapezoid is attached to the inner lip of the coracoid process, and stretches obliquely up- wards and outwards to be implanted into a rough ridge on the clavicle, external and anterior to the last. On observing those ligaments from the outside, they appear to be single, and are, in fact, more or less continuous; but on viewing them from the inside, an interval trian- gular in shape exists between them, into which is pro- k2