THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 130 anastomosis with the naso-palatine or nerve of Cotunnius the ganglion of Cloquet. We will now direct our attention to the anterior part of the face, which we have already described as being triangular in form, with the base above, the apex below formed by the prominence of the symphisis menti. Above this last, and on either side of it, are the myrti- form fossae which we have already described. Similar de- pressions exist above the incisors of the superior maxilla, which, with the canine fossae, have been likewise alluded to in the general examination of the separate bones. We will, therefore, at once proceed to the examination of those great cavities which the face presents, the nasal and orbital, commencing with the former. The anterior orifice of the nose, as viewed on the dry skull, is heart-shaped, the broader part turned down- wards and backwards—contracted, and slightly rounded above. The greater part of its margin is formed by the two superior maxillary bones, which bound it infe- riorly and laterally; the two nasal bones which complete it above, constituting a very limited portion of it. The cavity, however, taken as a whole, may be said to be conical, with a vaulted roof; the base or floor of which is turned directly downwards, separated by a vertical partition, which divided it into two lesser chambers,— the nares. It accordingly presents for examination an external wall on either side, a floor below, a roof above, and a septum. The external wall slopes gently down- wards and outwards, and is formed by the apposition of six bones; these, taken from before backwards, are the nasal process of the superior maxillary, behind which is the lachi-ymal; still farther back, the os planum of the ethmoid, below which is the inferior spongy; more posteriorly, the nasal plate of the palate, and behind this is the internal pterygoid plate. The floor, Avhich is inclined slightly downwards and backwards, concave from side to side, is composed of two bones only, or ra- ther parts of them; these are the nasal processes of the superior maxillary and palate; the roof, which is vaulted or crescentic, consists of five bones,—the two nasal and frontal, which look downwards and backwards, the cribri-