592 CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. about two and a half or three inches; the width at the base from one inch and a half to two inches, and the thickness from three-quarters to an inch. It is divided into a fundus, body, neck, and os, the two latter being contained within the vagina. The os is bounded before and behind by two prominent lips, the former being the thickest, the latter the longer of the two; the included opening is circular in the virgin, but trans- versely oval in those who have borne many children. After this general description of the organ the student may now proceed to the examination of its connexions. Many causes tend to preserve it in situ, and prevent any displacement, namely,—the pressure of surrounding parts, also the structures closing the outlet of the pel- vis, as the rectum, vagina, levatores ani, and coccygeal muscles, triangular and sciatic ligament; and in addition to these the elasticity of the organ tends to restore it to its original position, when displaced by temporary pressure. But its ligaments exercise the most important influence in preserving its relative connexions to those parts which surround it. These are eight in number, namely, round, broad or lateral, recto-uterine, and vesico- uterine, each of the two latter being double. The round ligament arises from the lateral and superior angle of the uterus, in front of the Fallppian tube, passes upwards, outwards, and forwards, runs through the internal ring, inguinal canal, external ring, and is attached to the spine of the pubis, whilst some small nerves and vessels which it contains are lost in the la- bia majora. Within the abdomen a process of perito- neum is continued on the ligament, and often remains pervious as far as the external ring, constituting the canal of Nuck; and recently muscular fibres have been described on the surface of the ligament, which by their contraction may gradually draw the gravid uterus downwards into the pelvic cavity. We could only de- tect these fibres lor one inch from the uterine extre- mity The use of these ligaments evidently seems to be for the purpose of preserving the uterus in the direct axis of the pelvic cavity. Broad LiGAMENT.-This is a double fold of perito- neum, extending from the lateral and superior angle ot