495 LUNGS. is generally from eighteen to twenty-four oimces for each organ, the right being somewhat the heavier, but it is difhcult to determine even the approximate weight, as it is influenced by the amount of blood it contains after death. In the foetus the weight of the lungs is to that of the body as one to sixty, and after the first re- spiration as one to thirty, the increase depending on the admission of the blood into the pulmonary vessels. Be- fore birth the lung is absolutely lighter, but speci- fically heavier; but after birth the reverse obtains, and it is from this circumstance the hydrostatic test, in cases of suspected infanticide, is of some utility to determine whether the infant was still-born or other- Avise. The structures entering into the composition of these organs must now be examined in detail. They consist of, firstly, membranes, sero-fibrous and mucous; secondly, of the bronchial ramifications and their terminal air-cells; thirdly, of the pulmonary arteries and veins; fourthly, of bronchial arteries and veins; fifthly, of areolar tissue, Avhich forms the parenchyma; sixthly, of the pulmo- nary branches of the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves; and lastly, of the lymphatic system, consisting of vessels and glands. Serous Membrane—Cruveilhier denies the existence of any fibrous tissue beneath it; but the presence of such a structure can easily be demonstrated by making a cautious triangular incision through the pleura, then let the apex be grasped by a good forceps, and torn up, •when the friable structure of the lung is still smooth, and covered by a glistening fibrous layer, strongest in those depressions which exist in the surface of a col- lapsed lung. In a case of aneurism which exercised pressure on the root of the right lung, that organ being much contracted, the fibrous membrane was exceedingly well marked, and it is also distinct in the seal and otter. The use of such a structure is evidently to prevent over- distention of the lung, and promote its contraction; it will also prevent the contents ofvomicse beino- dis- charged into the cavity of the pleura. It has been stated before, that in advanced life this membrane becomes thickened independent of disease. The mucous mem-