187 TARSAL LIGAMENTS. lies between them. It is shorter and weaker than the last, being attached behind to a ridge on the anterior part of the os calcis, and in front to the margin of the cuboid. The musculus accessorius must be removed in order to expose this ligament. Internal Calcaneo-cuboid Ligament—This is, pro- perly speaking, merely a continuation of the superior, but much thicker and stronger in its nature, passing between the adjacent surfaces of the bones on their in- ner side. In order to bring it into view, the fat and areolar tissue between the os calcis and astragalus, ex- ternally, must be removed. This is a very secure joint, not only from the pecu- liar shape of the contiguous surfaces, but likewise from its powerful ligamentous connexions. As in the astra- galo-scaphoid articulation, the providence of nature is likewise exemplified in the present instance, by placing the most powerful means of resistance on the sole of the foot, where it is more essentially required to resist the pressure from above. INDIRECT ARTICULATION OF CALCANETJM AND SCAPHOID. This is syndesmodial, as the two bones are at no point in apposition with each other. They are connected by two powerful ligaments,—a superior and inferior,—the latter of which is by far the stronger. Inferior Calcaneo-scaphoid Ligament.—This is broad and thick, triangular in shape, arising from the under surface and anterior part of the os calcis; from this it stretches inwards and slightly forwards, passes between the head of the astragalus above and the ten- don of the tibialis posticus below, where it is almost cartilaginous, and is ultimately inserted into the tu- bercle on the inferior and inner part of the scaphoid, and slightly into the adjacent surfaces of that bone. Its use, in addition to its forming a bond of union between the two bones under discussion, -with regard to the head of the astragalus, has been already alluded to. It is concealed by the musculus accessorius and long flexor tendons.