THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 334 Internal Intermuscular Septum arises from the in- ner lip of the bicipital groove, passes downwards, cross- ing obliquely the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, which gives fibres to strengthen it, and then descends along the intercondyloid ridge to be attached to the internal condyle. It separates the brachialis anticus from the triceps, and is pierced by the ulnar nerve, inferior pro- funda, and anastomotica magna arteries. The brachial aponeurosis also gives a sheath to the biceps and coraco- brachialis ; it is stronger internally, where it covers the brachial vessels and nerves, than externally. The fibres are circular in direction, some having a spiral tendency; vertical fibres also strengthen the preceding, these being more perceptible anteriorly and posteriorly. The several perforations for the cutaneous nerves are semilunar or arched, but they are never well marked or abrupt, a thin layer being continued from the margin on the nerve as it escapes through the fascia. The Muscles of the Arm consist of the triceps pos- teriorly ; the biceps, coraco-brachialis, and brachialis an- ticus, in front. Biceps Flexor Cubitl—Tendinous above and be- low, fleshy in the middle. It consists of two heads, long and short; the long head arises from the apex of the glenoid cavity, and is seen by dividing the capsule; it then leaves the joint between the tuberosities, and enters the bicipital groove, in which it is bound down by an aponeurosis derived from the teres major and latissimus dorsi behind, and the tendon of the great pectoral in front; this groove is lined by a continuation of the synovial membrane of the joint, which is again reflected on the fibrous walls, as the tendon leaves the groove; a little above the middle of the arm it becomes fleshy, and meets the short head, which arises from the coracoid process, between the coraco-brachialis and triangular ligament; it passes downwards and outwards, and meets with its fellow. The fleshy belly resulting from the union of the two runs in the direction of the humerus, and about one inch and a half above the flexure of the joint it becomes tendinous, forming a superficial aponeurosis and deep tendon. The latter has at first one surface directed forwards, the other back-