LARGE INTESTINE. 559 shape, the broad extremity resting on the basement membrane, the narrower portion corresponding to the free surface, but they appear to be open-mouthed, and without the covering which they possess in the small intestines; they are thickly covered with epithelium (columnar), which sinks into the cavity of the small depressions and lines them throughout. Their use is evidently for the purpose of the mucous secretion with which this portion of the gut is so abundantly supplied. In the rectum the mucous membrane is particularly thick and smooth, but loosely attached to the subjacent tissues; it is also very vascular, deriving its supply of blood from several and different sources. Some re- markable folds are also visible on it, first accurately de- scribed by Dr. Houston; these are generally three, but may amount to four in number; the first is on the right side, just at its commencement, opposite the right sacro- iliac synchondrosis; the second on the left, opposite the third bone of the sacrum; the third anteriorly, corres- ponding to the base of the bladder; while the fourth, when it does exist, is situated posteriorly between the last and the verge of the anus. In order to obtain a good view of those folds, the rectum should be cleared out, and while still in situ, should be filled with spirits of wine, which will have the efiect of hardening its tissues, and thus will afford an opportunity of makino- a longitudinal section of the gut, by which those mucous elevations will be rendered apparent. According to the views of Dr. Houston, these folds may be considered as a species of shelves, which, by supporting the ftecal matter in the intestine, may relieve the sphincter of a part of the superincumbent weight, but we conceive that they may perhaps be of use in allowing the ascent and descent of the gut, in accordance with the contrac- tion and relaxation of the levator ani. The dilatation of the rectum has likewise been provided for by a series of vertical folds, not always very distinct, extending from its commencement to its termination. The mucous membrane terminates two or three lines within the anal orifice, by becoming continuous with the skin, their point of union being indicated by a faint wavy line, which may be easily distinguished by