82 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. the principal portion of the anterior fossae of the cra- nial cavity for the support of the anterior lobes of the brain. The frontal articulates with four bones of the head, —the two parietal, sphenoid, and ethmoid; and with eight of the face,—the two nasal, two superior maxil- lary, two lachrymal, and two malar. It has thirteen processes,—two orbital, two superciliary arches, four angular, two frontal eminences, two temporal ridges, and one spine. Its proper foramina are three in number,— two supra-orbital, and one foramen ca3cum. Its com- mon, six,—four ethmoidal or orbital, and the openings of the two frontal sinuses. It is developed from tAvo points of ossification, one for each lateral portion, the ossific nucleus being visible about the sixth week in the orbital arches. At birth, their lower parts are in con- tact with each other, but their upper are still uncon- nected, having between them an interval constituting one-half of the anterior fontanelle. During the first year they are joined by a suture, which gradually dis- appears, especially towards its posterior part, although it may continue persistent to a very advanced age. In early life, the frontal sinuses are not developed; they appear towards the termination of the first year after birth, and continue to increase gradually in size until death puts a period to their further progress. The Parietal Bone is situated on the lateral and su- perior part of the cranium. It is of a quadrilateral shape, presenting two surfaces,—an external and internal; and four margins,—an anterior, posterior, superior, and in- ferior. The external surface is very convex and smooth, and is covered on its upper part by the tendon of the occipito-frontalis; towards its posterior superior angle it is perforated by a small foramen, giving passage to one of the emissary veins of Sautorini, communicating between the vessels externally and the great longitudi- nal sinus; a little below its centre is a well-marked prominence, the parietal eminence; and still lower a curved ridge, forming the upper boundary of the tem- poral fossa, and affording attachment to the temporal muscle and fascia); its inferior margm is bevilled oft obliquely, where it is overlapped by the squamous plate