NERVOUS SYSTEM. 614 I mic vein, carotid artery, and the orbital nervei?. The ophthalmic vein commences by a branch from the fron- tal, receiving in its course through the orbit the palpe- bral, ciliary, and lachrymal veins, enters the cranium through the base of the sphenoidal fissure lying here be- tween the two heads of the external rectus, beneath the sixth nerve and above the periosteum, and opens into the forepart of the sinus. Carotid Artery This vessel enters by the foramen lacerum anterius in basi cranii, the dura mater forming a dense fibrous ring around it. On entering the cra- nium it first ascends, and then turns forwards and in- wards on the inside of the sinus and sixth nerve, and external to the pituitary body; it next passes through the dura mater, between the posterior and anterior cli- noid processes, to commence its cerebral stage, and dur- ing its course branches are given off internally to the pi- tuitary body, and externally to the dura mater and sinus. Nerves.—The third, fourth, and fifth lie in the sub- stance of the outer wall, in their numerical order from above downwards; but the sixth in the two posterior thirds of the sinus lies between the carotid and the ve- nous membrane, the latter only separating it from the blood; but anteriorly the sixth is related to the other nerves, lying below them all, with the commencement of the sinus beneath it. (See Anatomy of the Cerebral Nerves, both for those mentioned above, as well as for the Casserian ganglion, which may now be examined with advantage.) Petrosal Sinuses.—These are two in number,—one superior, and the other inferior, with a similar pair on the opposite side of the skull. The superior commences anteriorly at the cavernous, and, running backwards in a groove on the superior angle of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, between the layers of the tentorium, terminates in the lateral sinus. Its figure is triangular, and it receives veins from the superior and inferior sur- face of the cerebellum, and frequently a transverse branch from the velum. Immediately behind the point of the petrous portion it is separated from the bone by the fifth pair of nerves, and in one instance only we liave observed the complete absence of the entire sinus.