THE PALATE BONES. 107 teeth. The suture which connects this to the body of the bone has been occasionally observed, even in the adult, running from the septum between the outer in- cisor and canine tooth inAvards to the back part of the incisive fossa, and afterwards extending upwards to the nasal process, where it is gradually lost. This, on either side, would circumscribe a segment corresponding to the intermaxillary bone in certain animals, and its arrest of development would account for the occurrence of harelip. A second fissure is likewise sometimes seen extending from the edge of the orbit to the infra-orbital foramen; this can only be considered as a continuation of the canal of the same name, which in early life is al- ways incomplete. In the foetus the superior maxilla is remarkable for the extreme shortness of its vertical measurement arising from the non-development of the antrum, and its great length from before backwards, the teeth not having as yet emerged from the tuberosity. In old age the loss of those implements of mastication bestow upon it something of a similar character. Palate Bones.—These are found lying immediately behind the superior maxillary, and have been divided into two parts,—a horizontal and vertical plate, which unite with each other externally nearly at a right angle. The horizontal plate is irregularly quadrilateral, presents two surfaces, a superior and an inferior, and four margins,—an anterior, a posterior, an internal, and ex- ternal. The superior surface, or nasal, is smooth, concave from side to side, forming the floor of the inferior meatus of the nose; bounded internally by an elevated lip, which articulates with the vomer, and which termi- nates posteriorly in a sharp-pointed process, the spine, which gives attachment to the tensor palati and azygos uvulse. The inferior surface is grooved from side to side, and covered with the mucous membrane of the palate, and pierced by a foramen externally for the transmission of the posterior palatine nerve and artery; two or three smaller foramina issue from this, perforat- ing the posterior part of the bone, for the accessory twigs of the nerve for the supply of the neighbouring structures. Of its margins the internal is short, thick, and rough, for articulating with its fellow of the oppo-