165 PELVIC LIGAMENTS. aave never had an opportunity of demonstrating it. Fa'rom an examination made in repeated instances, it ■nay be safely stated that any motion that does exist is ivery limited, indeed, in the great majority of cases, not poerceptible, a fact that might be inferred from the pow- ecrful nature of its connecting media. LATERAL LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIC OUTLET. These are two in number, commonly called the c^reater and lesser sacro-sciatic, from the marked difFe- rcence in their size. The greater, which is also exter- naal, is of an irregular hour-glass figure, but much bDroader posteriorly than anteriorly. It arises behind ffrom the posterior inferior spine of the ilium, from the sside of the sacrum and coccyx, extending on the latter Ibone for about its first and second pieces; it stretches I obliquely downwards, forwards, and outwards, becom- iing narrow as it crosses the lesser sciatic notch, again I expands on reaching the tuberosity of the ischium, into i the inner lip of which it is inserted, as well as into its iascending ramus, where it becomes continuous with tthe base of the triangular ligament. Its internal mar- gin is prolonged inwards and slightly upwards for some cdistance, processus falciformis, which, vmiting with the lobturator fascia, leaves a slight interval between it and tthe obturator muscle, for the reception of the pudic \vessels and nerves; its external expands over the pyri- fformis muscle. The great sciatic ligament is covered externally by tthe glutseus maximus, which is very closely adherent tto it, and more anteriorly by the hamstring muscles \ which arise from it. Internally it corresponds to the . lesser sciatic ligament and coccygeal branch of the is- i chiatic artery posteriorly, and to the fat in the ischio- 1 rectal fossa and pudic artery more anteriorly. Lesser Sacro-sciatic Ligament—This is trian- igular in figure, broad posteriorly, and narrow and ! pointed anteriorly. It is attached behind to the side I of the sacrum and coccyx, and takes a more horizontal ' course to be inserted into the posterior edge of the ; spine of the ischium. It is much weaker and shorter