654 NERVOUS SYSTEM. The Spinal Nerves consist of thirty-one pair ou each side, viz.: eight cervical, twelve dorsal, five lum- bar, and six sacrkl. These arise from the secondary grooves or furrows already described on either side ot the ligamentum denticulatum, with which the posterior roots are almost parallel; but the anterior diverge from it in a very marked manner towards the inferior extre- mity of the cord. ■ The characters of the two roots are very different,—the anterior being white, bard and small, and the posterior grey, soft, and large. Much diversity of opinion prevails as to the manner m which the nerves originate from the spinal marrow, but the more general idea appears to be, that they arise by two sets of filaments, one of which becomes fused or blended with the grey or vesicular mass in the centre ot the cord, while the other passes upwards and inwards through its structure,—and are supposed totermmate in the brain itself. It may, however, be necessary to ob- serve, that although a doubt may exist as to the con- nexion of the anterior root with the grey matter, there can be none whatever as to the posterior, which can be clearly traced into it; and indeed the very fact of the posterior horn of the vesicular matter extending out as far as its fissure of origin is an additional confirmation of this view: but the same remark will not apply to it. anterior cornu, which, as has been already observed terminates a line or two from the anterior furrow. On leaving the spinal cord, each nerve receives an ^vesting tubul? from'the pia mater and an inflection from the arachnoid, they then perforate the dura mater by dis- tinct foramina, obtaining likewise an investiture fiom this structure, and, emerging into the vertebial fora- mina, the posterior root dilates into a soft grey, oval ganglion, t'o the anterior face of which the W ro°t s Applied, or, more strictly speaking, is imbedded m it ^ef there appears to be no direct communication ot Seir fibres;''but after the formaticn. o the ga^hon the posterior nerve is again collected into a P^^^^^ cord which unites inextricably with the anterior, ana mmediately after this common Vision, l two trunks again ensues, and ot these the anterior is now decMl/the larger. Their ultimate destination