ARTERIES AND VEINS. 840 verse colon, it divides into two branches, right and left,^ the former anastomosing with the ascending branch of j the colica dextra, and the latter with that of the colica , sinistra, the first arch supplying the hepatic, and the ' second the splenic, flexure of the colon. _ j 3. Colica Dextra arises from the concavity of the ' artery a little below its centre; it passes downAvards and towards the right side, beneath the right lumbar mesocolon, and dividing into two branches, the superior ascends to anastomose with the right of the colica media, while the inferior descends to communicate with the ilio-colic, their arch supplying branches to the lower part of the ascending colon. 4. Ilio-colic—Eeally the termination of the mesen- teric itself, which, bifurcating, anastomoses below with one of the small branches from its convexity, and above with the colica dextra, and it is distributed principally to the termination of the ilium, cagcum, aud veripitorm process. . • • ^ ^i. EemarTcs.—It gives branches at its origin to the pan- creas and great omentum. Anomalies.—It may spring from the celiac axis. IV Capsular or Suprarenal.—Extremely small, arisino- from the sides of the aorta opposite the celiac axis - "they pass outwards over the corresponding crura, and 'are distributed to the suprarenal bodies, anasto- mosing with the renal and phrenic. V Renal.—Very large; they pass out nearly at a richt angle from the sides of the aorta, and about an inch from the hilus of the kidney brenk up into four or live branches, which enter the substance of that organ (see , Anatomy of Kidney). • w „^ ipft Relations—Eisht side-.-Anteriorly, right and left renal veins and cava; posteriorly crus o d^jplj^a^ psoas, and ureter. Left side-.-Anteriorly, left renal vein only; posteriorly, same as right. Bemarks.-The left vein is occasionally behind its corresponding artery. „+v,nnl-from Anomalies.-The.y may arise by a common trunk from the front of the aorta. . . ^ _ VI. SPERMATic-Long slender branches, -ising from the front of the aorta, below the renal, and extending