CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. 564 emerge. From its right extremity arises the sulcus for the gall bladder; it passes downwards and forwards, generally as far as the free margin of the liver, and cor- responds in shape to the figure of the contained viscus. On the posterior thick margin is observed the fissure for the vena cava ascendens; it is placed on the inner side of the right lobe, infringing partially on its inferior surface,—it, as well as that for the gall bladder, being oc- casionally converted into a complete canal by a portion of the liver being continued over them. Thus we may observe that the liver presents on its lower aspect five fissures, which may be recapitulated as that for the gall bladder, that for the umbilical vein, that for the ductus venosus, that for the vena cava, and the trans- verse for the hepatic artery, duct, nervous plexus, portal vein, absorbents and capsule of Glisson. With respect to the depressions, they are found to be exactly similar in number, and may be enumerated as the superficial excavation on the under surface of the left lobe, corre- sponding to the stomach, on which it rests, the deep notch p°osteriorly embracing the vertebral column and crura of the diaphragm; the depression on the posterior and external part of the right lobe for the kidney and suprarenal capsules; and the two in front of the trans- verse fissure, always superficial, the most anterior and external for the angle of the colon; and the posterior and internal, for the sharp curve of the duodenum. The liver has been primarily divided into two great lobes, the right and left; but the former has been again subdivided into three others,—the lobulus quadratus, lobulus Spigelii, and lobulus caudatus. Some anatomists admit even a fourth,—the lobulus dexter. The positive distinctions, however, between these several lobules are not always uniformly marked, and in many instances they must be considered as purely arbitrary. The right lobe may be said to form the greatest bulk of the entire orcran, and in its superficial outline is quadrilateral its left margin being rather shorter than the right which is also much thicker in vertical depth. The left lobe, on the contrary, is comparatively thin in its whole ex- tent, and very irregular in shape and size, being some- times oval, sometimes triangular, and sometimes marked