SCAPHOID. 71 nuous with that on the back part of the astragalus, for the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. Beneath this it is concave, and in the natural condition of the parts is filled with fat and loose areolar tissue, giving insertion behind and below to the posterior annular ligament. The posterior extremity of the bone is ovoid in figure, convex; smooth above where a bursa rests; rough inferiorly for the attachment of the tendo Achillis, and more internally to that of the plantaris; anteriorly, much more contracted in size, covered with cartilage, concave from above downwards, convex from side to side, and cut off obliquely from without backwards and inwards for articulation with the cuboid. The os calcis articulates with two bones; above by two points, some- times three, with the astragalus, and in front with the cuboid. Scaphoid—This bone has received its name from its shape, resembling in some measure a boat or canoe. Strictly speaking it is of an ovoid figure, broad supe- riorly and externally, narrow and pointed inferiorly and internally, where it affords insertion to the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle. In examining it we give it a posterior and anterior surface and a circumference. The posterior surface is oval and concave, covered with cartilage, and receives the head of the astragalus; the anterior is irregularly convex, and marked by three fa- cettes, of which the internal is the largest; triangular in shape, the apex above, the base below; convex from above downwards for articulating with the internal cuneiform. The second or middle is also triangular, but its base, which is situated superiorly, is broader than that of the first; it is also shorter from above down- wards, not so convex, and unites with the middle cunei- form. The third or external is similar to the last de- scribed in figure, but intermediate in size between it and the first; it articulates with the external cuneiform. If we look now to its upper part, we will find it to be rough and convex for the attachment of the dorsal liga- ments for connecting it to the adjacent bones. The in- ternal surface is much flatter, and gives insertion to the anterior slip of the internal lateral ligament. This sur-