VELUM PENDULUM PALATI. 283 is seen by removing the mucous membrane in front of the tonsil; it arises broad from the inferior surface of the velum, passes downwards, becoming narrow, and then again expanding, is inserted broad into the side of the tongue with the stylo-glossus. Relations.—Internally, mucous membrane; externally, superior constrictor; posteriorly, tonsil. It forms the anterior half-arch of the palate. The mucous membrane of the velum is formed^ on the nasal aspect by a continuation from that cavity; that on the lower aspect is prolonged from the mouth; both layers uniting at the posterior free edge and apex of the uvula. This membrane is comparatively thick and soft, pale on the upper, more vascular on the lower, surface; the epithelium partakes of the characters pecu- liar to the cavity in its vicinity, being columnar and ciliated on the nasal surface, squamous on the oral aspect. In addition to the five pairs of muscles already described, a dense aponeurosis occupies the upper half, continuous above with the fibrous layer of the hard palate, of the nasal fossae, and the Eustachian tubes, this receives the insertions of the several muscles, but does not extend to the inferior border, where the two layers of mucous membrane are in contact with the intervention of lax areolar tissue and glands, largely prolonged into the uvula. The glands are involuted mucous tubules, and are more numerous on the inferior than superior sur- face ; their ccecal extremities lie in the areolar tissue. This latter constituent of the velum is lax, and permits of ra- pid and extensive effusion, in which the uvula partici- pates. The uvula is a pyramidal projection, sometimes flat or bifid; it may also be absent; but this is a rare occurrence in the normal state; it curves forwards above the base of the tongue, but does not touch it. In relaxa- tion of the palate subsequent to repeated attacks of in- flammation, particularly of an asthenic character, it fre- quently becomes elongated to such an extent as to lie continually on the tongue, but its very slight sensibility does not permit it to produce any irritation, except that during a sudden inspiration, or an attempt at degluti- tion, it may be carried so far back as to touch the epi- glottis. That such is the explanation is proved by the