THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. 200 tendon of the biceps from the upper part of the glenoid cavity to the tuberosities of the humerus, and in those cases it was firmly attached to the bicipital groove; but it was evidently the result of the disease. The inter- articular ligament is, more properly speaking, that de- scribed by Dr. Flood, of the Richmond, now the Car- michael. School of Medicine. It is exposed by throwing upwards the arm, and dividing the capsule in its infe- rior part,; a strong fold of synovial membrane will then be observed, enclosing a little fibrous tissue stretching from the inner side of the glenoid cavity, just where it is crossed by the tendon of the subscapularis, outwards and forwards, to be implanted into the upper part of the bicipital groove. It is bifid at its extremities; but indeed it varies in appearance, being sometimes exceed- ingly well marked, while in other instances it can scarcely be satisfactorily demonstrated. Synovial Membrane.—This is extensive, as, in addi- tion to its inflection within the joint, it likewise sends processes beyond it. Those to the burs^ of the infra- spinatus and subscapularis we have already alluded to, but a large process is also folded around the tendon of the biceps, which it accompanies for some distance, when it is again folded back, to become continuous with the general sac. Motions.—Very extensive, consisting of flexion, ex- tension, abduction, adduction, circumduction, and rota- tion. Flexion, or the motion forwards, can be carried to a great extent,—even so far that the humerus may be elevated vertically in a direction exactly opposite to the * position it occupies in its quiescent state. This mobi- lity is due in some degree to that of the scapula, which revolves on its imaginary axis in unison with the huine- rus, and is limited by its neck coming in contact with the triangular ligament. Extension is the reverse of the preceding, but cannot be carried so far, as it is checked by the tensity of the accessory ligament and the tendons which surround the articulation. Abduc- tion is remarkable for its extent. In this motion the head of the humerus leaves the glenoid cavity, and can be distinctly felt in the axilla, and hence the frequency