THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 56 front between the wings; the false pelvis during life is filled up by the iliac and psose muscles, the ccECum and sigmoid flexure, and external iliac arteries. It affords a good indication of the difference of sex, being broad and expanded in the female, while they are much more vertical in the male; in infantile life they are nearly perpendicular and flat. The true pelvis, much smaller than the former, is of an oval figure from side to side; bounded anteriorly by the symphysis pubis and the back part of its descending rami; laterally by the ischium, and those portions of the pubis and ilium en- tering into the formation of the acetabulum; and poste- riorly by the anterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx. Its upper aperture is entirely osseous, presenting nearly a tiniform line, already alluded to as separatmg it from the false pelvis; it looks upwards and forwards. The inferior aperture, directed downwards and back- wards, is very irregular in its outline, presenting a de- ficiency anteriorly between the rami of the ischium and pubis; a well-marked prominence laterally, formed by the tuberosities of the jschia; broad deficiencies behind these, the sciatic notches; and directly posteriorly an eminence constituted by the extremity of the coccyx. A striking difference is visible in both the configuration and size of the true pelvis in the male and female; m the former it is contracted in its circumferential mea- surements, but deep from above downwards; m the latter, on the contrary, its diameters, both conjugate and transverse, are much more extensive, but it is shal- low from above downwards. These differences naturally depend on the functions which the opposite sexes are called on to perform in the offices of procreation. The true pelvis in the male contains the bladder m front, the rectum behind; and in addition to these the prostate aland, vesicute seminales, terminations of the ureters and vasa deferentia; sacral plexus of nerves; internal iliac arteries and their branches; levatores am; pyri- formus, and obturator internus muscles. In the temale, in addition to the bladder and rectum, the uterus, with its broad ligaments, containing the round ligament, ovaries, and Fallopian tubes, with the nerves, arteries, and muscles already enumerated m the male.