BRANCHES OF THORACIC AORTA. 781 pneumogastric nerves; posteriorly, vertebras, anterior vaginal ligament, and intervertebral substance, inter- costal arteries and left intercostal veins, with the demi- azjgos; to the right side, thoracic duct and vena azy- gos; and to the left, pleura and lung, and dorsal ganglia of sympathetic. Remarks.—It will be recollected that although the oesophagus lies anterior to this vessel below, it is to its right side above, while the thoracic duct, although to its right below, is partially posterior to it above. The point where the lesser azygos crosses beneath it to join the greater is usually opposite the fifth or sixth dorsal vertebra. Anomalies—None except from transposition. Collateral Branches—1. Bronchial; 2. (Esopha- geal; and 3. Intercostal, Bronchial—Generally two in number. They arise from the upper part of the thoracic aorta, and, passing upwards and forwards to the back part of the root of the lung, attach themselves to the posterior wall of the bronchial tubes, accompanying them into the substance of the lung, supplying them, as well as the parenchyma of those organs; they also send branches to the oesopha- gus and left ventricle of the heart. It is supposed that their effete blood is taken up by the pulmonary arteries, or that they communicate with the pulmonary veins. CEsopHAGEAL.—Usually very small, and about six in number; they arise from the front of the aorta, and, passing outwards, reach the anterior surface of the 03so- phagus, perforate its cellular and muscular coats, and are lost in the submucous tissue, anastomosing above with the bronchial and twigs from the inferior thyroid, and below with the coronary and left phrenic, Intercostals.—Nine on the right side, and ten on the left; they arise from the back part of the thoracic aorta, and pass, the superior upwards and outwards, the middle horizontally outwards, and the inferior downwards and outwards, to terminate at the inter- transverse space by dividing into an anterior and poste- rior branch. Relations.—On right side:—Anteriorly, ojsophagus, pneumogastric nerves, thoracic duct, and vena azygos;