65 TIBIA. it, is inserted the poplitasus muscle; below the line and internally is the hole for the nutritious artery, and for a distance of two inches arises the inner head of solceus, and external and inferior to this, for a variable distance, the flexor digitorum communis. The bone for its inferior fifth is quadrilateral, and accordingly presents four surfaces,—an anterior, posterior, external, and internal. The anterior is rounded and smooth for the extensors tendons to glide over; it gives attachment by its inferior lip to the anterior ligament of the ankle- joint; posteriorly it is much flatter, and on it we ob- serve two remarkable grooves, both extending down- wards and inwards; the internal is exceedingly deep for the tendon of the tibialis posticus and flexor com- munis ; the external is scai'cely ever well marked for the passage of the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. The external surface presents a triangular notch,—the base below, the apex above, for the reception of the lower end of the fibula. The internal is prolonged into a quadrilateral process—the internal malleolus, smooth superficially where it can be felt beneath the skin and fascia, covered with cartilage towards the joint, where it articulates with the astragalus, roiigh and prolonged anteriorly, for the attachment of the anterior annular ligament; thicker and shorter posteriorly for aff'ording insertion to the posterior annular and inferior tibio- fibular ligament, occasionally grooved inferiorly for the internal lateral ligament of the joint. The lower extremity of the tibia is quadrilateral in shape, convex from side to side, concave from before backwards. The convexity is due to a ridge which traverses it in an an- tero-posterior direction, dividing it into two facettes, of which the external is oblong in shape; its length from before backwards exceeding that of the internal; the cartilage of incrustation which covers it is likewise prolonged into the tibio-fibular articulation. The in- ternal facette is more quadrilateral, and is bounded in- ternally by the articular surface of the internal malle- olus. The anterior and posterior lips of bone which bound the astragaloid surface of the tibia are of unequal length, the latter extending lower down than the for- mer, which is concave in its outline. It may also be