THYROID GLAND. 273 lobules, the latter being composed of cells of an angular or flattened shape, containing nucleated cells, and an oily fluid; in hypertrophy these cells become circular,, resembling fat vesicles, but differing from them in pos- sessing fibrous walls. Mr. Simon believes this struc- ture to be an organ supplemental in foetal life to the development of the great nervous centres. The gland adheres very intimately to the first ring of the trachea, but there is not a trace of any duct at this point, or in any situation in connexion with the air-tube. Arterial supply is derived from the superior and inferior thyroid arteries, and sometimes the fifth branch passes upwards, in front of the trachea, from the arch of the aorta or arteria innominata. The nervous supply is derived from the sympathetic; we have not succeeded in tracing any filaments from the pneumogastric itself into the gland, except a doubtful branch of the recur- rent, which seems to terminate in the interannular membrane of the trachea; the lymphatic vessels open into the glands above the sternum; the veins are superior, inferior, and transverse, and will be found described with their proper systems. The weight of the gland varies from one ounce and a half to two and a half, but is subject to excessive enlargement (goitre), induced by the influence of climate and peculiarities in the aqueous aliments; it is also comparatively larger in the foetus than the adult, and is developed as two distinct and independent bodies, the middle lobe being the last to appear. The student should now proceed to the dissection of the vessels, commencing with the subclavians, and then following the anatomy of the carotids and their branches; he may now also trace the several nerves to which allusion has been made in the account of the muscles; full descriptions of both will be found in the proper section devoted to their examination, to which reference should now be made. Let him then proceed with the dissection of the pharynx and larynx. In order to prepare the pharynx for examination cut across the trachea and oesophagus, together with the n3