CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. 544 great extremity. It receives its nervous supply both from the cerebro-spinal and ganglionic system, the vagi and numerous branches from the solar plexus being dis- tributed to it. . Before concluding our remarks on the stomach, it may be necessary to observe, that we are by no means to judge of the distance between the oesophageal and pyloric orifice by its transverse breadth; they are, in fact, comparatively close, and merely separated by the short concave border, which very nearly approximates in length in all individuals. The (Esophageal opening is directed nearly vertically upwards, and lies on a plane superior and posterior to the pyloric, which is directed upwards, backwards, and towards the right side. The stomach is merely a dilated appendage of the ali- mentary canal, and as such is comparatively small m the foetus. At this period of life it is also remarkable for its vertical direction—a position in a great measure depending on the very large size of the left lobe of the liver It is also peculiar for the contracted appearance of its oesophageal extremity,_thefood which it requires for nutrition not demanding the same amount of chymi- fication as the more solid constituents which form the basis of support in the adult. The stomach m the fe- male is smaller than that of the male, and is more lia- ble to abnormal displacement, owing to causes connected with dress, habits, &c. _ . r^t, x Duodenum.—This is a direct continuation ot the sto- mach, commencing at the pylorus, opposite the horizon- tal fissure of the liver, from which it takes a curved direction to terminate at the second lumbar vertebra by uniting with the jejunum, the point of junction be- ing marked out by the attachment of the mesentery to the latter, and by the passage of the superior mesen- teric artery, which crosses the gut nearly at a right angle. It is the first portion of the sma 1 intestine, and has derived its name from its supposed length, which Ts said to be twelve fingers in breadth or nme inches. Curved in its general outline, with the convexity di- rect towards'the right side, it forms about three- Zrthsofan irregular circle, -"-^^^"S, tVvTtkal and inferior transverse portion, connected by a vertical