387 SCROTUM. s 2 testicular gland lies beneath the kidnej'on the quadratus lumborum muscle, above the gubernaculum testis, and behind the peritoneum. But.in order to understand the descent of those glands, the gubernaculum testis should be examined in the foetus. At present it will be suffi- cient to remark, that the gubernaculum is a triangular fibrous canal, containing in its centre a gelatinous fluid the base receiving the inferior extremity of the testicle like a cup, the apex inferiorly attached to the spine of the pubis, or more correctly to Poupart's ligament, trom thence sending a thin process downwards into the scrotum. Both the superior and inferior portion is in- closed by the cremaster, and to the gradual contraction of the latter, and the shortening of the gubernaculum, the slow descent of the gland is attributed. The fifth month they have reached the iliac fossa; the sixth they are at the internal ring; the seventh in the canal; the eighth at the external ring, or upper part of the scrotum; and the nmth m the position they are ultimately to occupv Sometimes one of these organs fails to attain its proper situation; it may be arrested in the abdomen, in the canal, in the external ring, or the superior part of the scrotum. In a case we recently examined, the organ was beneath the integument of the perineum; still the movement may be delayed even to the adult period See case of Undescended Testicle, by Mr. HamiUon, of May 1852°'' Quarterly Journal for _ In the examination of the scrotal region, the follow- 2^bZZT% T Integument or scrotum; 2. Dartos; 3. Areolar layer; 4. Scrotal fascia; 5 Tu- nica communis ; 6. Tunica vaginalis scroti and testis- 7. Tunica albugmea; 8. Tunica vasculosa. Integument. This covering is loose, fine, and ru- gated, of a dark-brown colour, and studded with a few scattered hairs. The tenuity of the skin permits the sub- cutaneous veins to be seen, as well as the contents of the sebaceous glands, which are numerous in this situation- the mesial line is indicated by an elevation, with « depression on either side; this raphe corresponds to the junction of the two tumid folds of skin, that mark in the foetus the rudimental scrotum; occasionally the