PENIS. 415 closed extremities; but Valentin objects to the exis- tence of those helicine arteries, as he believes that the arteries are dilated before their junction with the veins, and that these are surrounded by elastic bands, which curl at the extremities when divided, producing the ap- rently curved termination. The veins of the crura commence by cells, the efferent branches being the dor- sal veins and deep branches that pierce the triangular ligament at the pubis, and open into the prostato-vesical plexus. The use of the crura is to cause the erection of the organ by distention of the venous cells, and many causes have been assigned for this state. It is attri- buted to the helicine arterial terminations (Muller); to the active dilatation of the venous cells themselves (Chaussier); to muscular dilatation of the veins (Va- lentine) ; to the action of the erector penis (Krause); to that of the compressores venje dorsalis penis (Hous- ton) ; to contraction of the dartoid tissue (Todd and Bowman). The Corpus Spongiosum Urethra commences at the bulb, and terminates at the glans penis. The former is covered by the accelerator urinas and the anterior ex- pansion of the triangular ligament, Avhich connects it to the surface of that plane of fibrous membrane as high as the symphisis pubis. It has been stated that the corpus spongiosum lies in a groove between the crura; but when the integuments and fascia have been removed. It still is covered by a proper investing fascia, which seems to be a continuation of the true suspensory liga- ment. This on each side splits to inclose the urethra, the deep layer connecting it to the fibrous crus, to which It adheres intimately. If this fascia is now traced forwards, it will be observed to expand on the corona and glans penis, which it covers, serving to maintain the connexion between the crura and glans, and also preventing over-distention of the latter. When the glans penis is dissected from the crura, its figure is ca- pitate, like a mushroom, and consists of the corpus spongiosum, expanded superiorly and laterally, the in- vesting skin and urethral fasciaj connecting it to the crura, together with the terminal branch of the arteria corporis cavernosi penis.