352 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. ■width, is inserted into tlie head of the metacarpal bone of the fifth finger. Relations It is covered by the fascia, annular liga- ment, and lies on the extensors of the thumb and index finger, on the ulna, carpus, and metacarpal bone; above, it is between the anconeus and extensor minimi digiti; below, between the latter and the ulna, with the flexor ulnaris. Action.—To extend the ulnar side of the carpus and the fore-arm; also to assist the flexor ulnaris in ad- ducting the hand. Anconeus Triangular; arises by a distinct flat ten- don from the back part of the external condyle; the fibres pass inwards, the superior transversely, the inferior ob- liquely inwards; in serted by short tendinous fibres into the outer side of the olecranon process, which is here rough and triangular, and into the ulna for about two inches. Relations It is covered by the superficial expansion of the triceps and a bursa; it lies on the ulna, coro- nary ligament of the radius supinator brevis, and poste- rior interosseal recurrent artery, which separates it from that muscle; the upper margin corresponds to the tri- ceps, a cellular interval intervening; the outer edge to the flexor ulnaris. Action.—To extend the elbow-joint, also to draw the synovial membrane out of the angle during extension. It is also stated that it can rotate the arm inwards; but this is obviously a misconception. This niuscle is analogous to the poplitseus in the lower extermity. DEEP LAYER. Supinator Radii Brevis.—A flat muscle, embracing the upper part of the radius; and to examine the at- tachments let the hand be forcibly pronated. It arises from the external condyle, external lateral ligament, with which its tendon is inseparably united; also from the coronary ligament of the radius, from a ridge below the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and a triangular concave surface behind that ridge; the fibres pass ob- liquely downwards, outwards, and forwards, and are inserted into the external and anterior part of the ra- dius, above and below the tubercle. Relations It lies on tlie bone, coronary, external,