HEART. 517 rior and inferior part of its circumference a semilunar fold of membrane projects at the fourth month of foetal life; in many cases we have observed a distinct mus- cular stratum contained within this duplicature of the endocardium, and as gestation advances, this valve (oper- culum foraminis ovalis) increases until it attains suffi- cient magnitude to occlude the opening perfectly, but still, being placed on the left side of the foramen, it allows the current to pass from right to left, whilst it presents an effectual barrier to its passage in a contrary direction. The patency of the interauricular septum after birth constitutes merely a link in the chain of patho- logical conditions producing cyanosis. (See Dr. Mayne's paper in the Dublin Quarterly Journal, Feb., 1848.) The auricular appendix is a fleshy saccule of variable lengths, curved forwards and inwards, so as partially to conceal the superior cava and aorta; its margins are notched and serrated, and internally the surface is reti- culated, fine muscular fibres crossing it in every direc- tion, often so loosely attached that a probe can be passed beneath them; and it communicates with the auricle by a circular constricted orifice. In addition to the muscu- lar fibres already described, others, round and semi-at- tached, run from the orifice of the appendix downwards on the right side of the superior cava, as low as the auriculo-ventricular opening; and these from their form and direction may be named musculi pectinati. We have already alluded to the third position within the auricle that possesses well-marked muscular character m the description of the coronary vein and its facette. Foramina Thebesii are a number of small openings, prin- cipally seen on the superior and posterior wall of the auricle; these were conceived to be the orifices of the small veins of Vieussens, but without any foundation, being merely involutions of the lining membrane. In order to dissect the right ventricle, let the anterior wall of that cavity be raised from belowto within half-an- mch of the auriculo-ventricular groove, and on examin- ing its shape it is found to be triangular, the base'above, the apex below, and terminating above the point of the heart. Within the cavity are seen the following parts- Carney colunina;, chordaj tendinete, tricuspid valves'