PROSTATE GLAND. 425 tion may be, and is, probably, performed by the veins. The nerves of the bladder are derived from the sacral plexus of the spinal and the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic system. The Urethra is divided into three portions,—prosta- tic, membranous, and spongy; the first being one inch and a quarter, the second from a quarter to three-quar- ters of an inch, and the remainder of the canal, which is from nine to ten and a half inches in length, is formed by the corpus spongiosum urethrse. The body named Prostate Gland is situated at the commencement of the canal, which it surrounds; the shape is that of a horse-chestnut, or triangular, the base behind, the apex in front, convex inferiorly, flattened above, surrounded on its surface by a dense capsule, formed above by the anterior vesical ligaments, on either side by the lateral, and inferiorly by the reflected layer of the triangular ligament, and between the capsule and the proper structure of the gland, the prostatic plexus of veins is found. Its boundaries are,—above, the an- terior vesical ligaments and dorsal vein of the penis; below, the rectum; laterally, the external true vesical ligaments and levatores ani (compressores prostati); posteriorly, the neck of the bladder, vesicula; seminales, and vasa deferentia; anteriorly, the triangular ligament, membranous portion of urethra, Wilson's and Guth- rie's muscles, and the anti-prostatic glands. This gland measures from apex to base fifteen lines; trans- versely at base, eighteen lines; vertically at base, twelve lines (Cruveilhier). In thirty-two cases that we mea- sured, the mean length was one inch and a third; the width at the base one inch and a quarter; the vertical a little more than three-quarters of an inch, which are some- what less than those of Cruveilhier. The neck of the bladder in some cases is surrounded by the base, but the gland is generally lunated, so as to exclude that part. The urethra runs through its substance, tWo- thirds being inferior, and one superior; sometimes it is altogether deficient above the canal, when the longitu- dinal fibres of the bladder compensate for its absence. It is divided into two lateral and a middle lobe (Home); the lateral are united anteriorly, but posteriorly they