BRANCHES OF SUBCLAVIAN. 819 side, at the third intercostal space, and on the left at the second. Relations.—Anteriorly, pleura; posteriorly, neck of ribs, and first dorsal nerve; internally, dorsal ganglia; and externally, emergence of proper spinal nerves. Remarks.—We have occasionally observed this vessel to pass behind the neck of the first rib, and then coming forwards between it and the second to assume its proper position. Anomalies.—It may arise from the first stage of the sub- clavian ; from thevertebral, thyroidaxis, or deep cervical. Collateral Branches.—Anterior and posterior. Anterior or Intercostal consist of two on the left and three on the right side; they pass directly out- wards on the anterior costo-transverse ligament, then on the external layer of intercostals, and enter between the latter and internal, at the angle of the rib; a little beyond this point they each throw oif a small branch, which runs along the margin of the rib below, supply- ing the muscles iu front and behind it, while the supe- rior wind beneath the inferior edge of the rib above, but separated from it by the vein, and terminate by anastomosing with the mammary and branches from the axillary. Posterior Branches.—These pass backwards be- tween the transverse processes above and below; the bodies of the vertebra internally, and the costo-trans- verse ligament externally, and, piercing the erectors of the spine, which they supply, terminate in cutaneous fila- ments, which ramify in the integument over those muscles, anastomosing with each other. Deep Cervical arises close to the superior intercos- tal, and passes at first backwards, between the first rib and transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, then upwards and backwards, to terminate by anasto- mosing with the vertebral and occipital. Relations—Anteriorly, anterior scalenus, brachial plexus, and coinplexus ; posteriorly, middle and poste- rior scaleni and scmispinalis colli. Remarks.—We have observed it to pass between the sixth and seventh transverse processes. While lying between the scmispinalis colli and complexus, it is in 2 N 2