37 HUMERUS, prominent above, depressed and nearly lost below; an internal, which must also be regarded as the inner lip of the same groove, much more elevated below, where it forms the internal condyloid ridge, than above; and an external, which is scarcely visible above, but well- marked inferiorly, where it forms the external condy- loid ridge. These three naturally divide the bone into as many surfaces, an external, internal, and posterior. On looking at the latter, we observe that it is rounded, slightly convex from above do\vnwards, and deeply- grooved by the musculospiral artery and nerve ; the whole of this surface is clothed by the triceps. The ex- ternal side presents, a little above the mesial line, a well- marked V-shaped crest for the insertion of the deltoid, and on either side of it a furrow or groove for the origin of the brachialis anticus, the two heads of which em- brace the tendon of the deltoid. The internal surface, which is exceedingly flat, has a rough portion about its centre for the insertion of the coraco-brachialis. The inferior fifth of the bone is of a triangular shape, ex- panded and flattened out below, twisted inwards, and bounded on either side by the condyloid ridges. Of these the external is by far the most prominent and best marked, its lip curled forwards, and exceedingly rough, terminating below in the external condyle. To its upper third is attached the supinator radii longus ; to its middle third the extensor carpi radialis longior; and to its lower, the extensor carpi radialis brevior. The external intermuscular septum is connected to its posterior edge, separating the origin of those muscles from the triceps. The internal condyloid ridge is much thicker, more rounded, and depressed; a little anterior to it, and about the centre of the shaft is the foramen for the nutritious artery of the bone, directed down- wards; the internal intermuscular septum is attached to its centre for its whole extent, separating the triceps from the brachialis anticus. On contrasting the two condyles with each other, the internal is found to be much the strongest and most elevated; it is conical in shape, rounded anteriorly, flattened posteriorly, having an inclination backwards, and giving origin to the powerful flexors and pronators of the fore-arm. The