468 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. and its contractions are rhythmical, continuing during sleep and cerebral lesions that annihilate volition,— these constituting the more important features of the organic system of muscles. As the great inspiratory muscle, it acts both in ordinary and extraordinary in- spirations. In the former, the ribs being fixed by the intercostals, the diaphragm descends, by its contrac- tions becoming a plane instead of a concavo-convex surface, in this movement the crura fixing the cordi- form tendon. In extraordinary inspirations the action is the same, but that it is assisted by the subsidiary muscles. The diaphragm is antagonized directly by the abdominal and levatores ani muscles, which, by pressing the abdominal viscera upwards against its lower surface, cause its relaxation. In its contraction, it assists in expelling the contents of the hollow vis- cera; produces sneezing, the mechanism being a slow inspiration followed by a sudden expiration; it also assists in coughing. The diaphragm is supplied by the phrenic nerves, branches of the cervical plexus and the sympathetic. The vessels distributed to it are_ the phrenic branches of the abdominal aorta, the six infe- rior intercostal, comes nervi phrenici, and musculo- phrenic arteries. Psoas Parvus.—Sometimes wanting; thick, round, and fleshy above; tendinous and expanded inferiorly; it arises by two semicircular tendinous bands from the sides of the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra; to these succeed a short fleshy belly, ending in a tendon which superiorly becomes broad and ex- panded, and is inserted into the linea ileo-pectinea and junction of the pubic and iliac fascia?, on that point be- hind the terminal portion of the external iliac artery. Occasionally the outer edge of the tendon is continued as a falciform edge or process upwards and outwards over the iliacus internus to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. , .1 Relations.—li lies anterior and internal to the psoas magnus, and the anterior surface has similar relations to that muscle. ■, , ^ 1 Action.—lo bend the body forwards; also to make tense the fascia and sheath of the femoral vessels.