ARTERIES AND VEINS. 884 venae cavas hepaticsp, and phrenic veins, and it presents two dilatations,—one where the renal, and the other where the hepatic, veins open into it, a normal, well- marked dilatation existing at the latter point in diving animals. We have seen this vein diminished to the size of a crowquill in a case of cirrhosis of the liver, whilst the first, second, and third lumbar, with the three in- ferior intercostal and the internal Rachidian veins, were enormously enlarged, and communicated with the vena azygos, which, equalling the normal cava in diameter, presented near its termination a dilatation as large as an egg, which was buried in the right lung, evidently taking up the function of the inferior cava. Spermatic Veins.—Each vessel commences by a num- ber of small branches, which pierce the tunica albugi- nea on the inner side of the epididymis, and, uniting with the veins of that body, they form five or six trunks, lying in front of the vas deferens, and being particularly prone to enlargement near the external ring. They communicate with the dorsal veins of the penis, internal and external pudic veins, and then cours- ing through the inguinal canal, they unite to form either a single or double trunk, that leaves the vas de- ferens at the internal ring, and running upwards and inwards over the psoas muscle, the right opens into the ascending cava, whilst the left, curving inwards, termi- nates in the left renal vein. The spermatic veins form a very intricate plexus, particularly on the left side, as they lie on the psoaj muscles (plexus pampiniforme), and the left vein passes behind the sigmoid flexure ot the colon in its ascent, which may account for the greater frequency of varicocele on this side. The coats ot these veins are exceedingly thin, resembling those of the lym- phatics, but they are destitute of valves. Lumbar Veins—These will be described with the Rachidian System. i-j^^^ Renal Veins emerge from the hilus of the kidney, the left crossing the abdominal aorta behind the inlenor transverse portion of the duodenum, and the right lying in front of the right renal artery, and behind the duo- denum, both terminating in the cava. The suprarena , consisting of three branches, open into the same vessel.