288 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. short, the notch is occasionally a quarter of an inch in depth. The mucous membrane on this surface should be particularly examined, both with the unassisted eye and also with lens of a low power, as it is extremely dif- ficult to become conversant with its structure without a close investigation. This investment exhibits the several constituents peculiar to its class, namely, a basement membrane, a papillary layer, and an epi- thelial covering; which will be examined in succession. The basement membrane is composed of the two forms of fibrous tissue. Thick, dense, and resisting, it re- ceives the insertions of the superficial muscular fibres, thus assisting in the formation of the skeleton of the or- o-an; while the surface is marked by papillae. These latter consist of two classes, the simple and compound,—the former being found in all situations, the latter restricted to the dorsal region. In order that a proper idea may be formed of them, it is requisite to macerate the organ to remove the epithelial investment: it will then be ob- served that the peculiar organization found in this situa- tion is not wholly dependent on the epidermoid tissue, but that the subjacent basement membrane participates in the modifications of the surface. Simple papilla are found in the largest number on its sides and under surface; also on the dorsum, in the intervals between the filiform and fungiform (compound bodies), but more scattered in the latter situation. Each consists of a pointed or pyriform prolongation of the basement mem- brane, covered by epithelium; some being perforated, representing a follicle containing granular bodies or nucleated cells, a single vascular loop, with nervous fila- ments, completing their organization. Compound pa- pillaj are divided into three varieties,—the filiform, fungiform, and calyciform. Their situation is re- stricted to the dorsum and edges of the tongue, each com- pound papilla being merely an assemblage ot the simple, modified in arrangement according to the variety with which they are connected. The filiform are the most numerous, being as twenty to one in comparison with the other varieties. Each consists of a cylindrical pro- iection, formed of a circularly arranged series of simple papillae; these are fused into each other at the margins