316 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. from the three superior dorsal spines, and passes also out- wards and downwards, and is inserted into the base of the scapula, below the spine, extending to the inferior angle. Eelations.—They are covered by the trapezius, a por- tion of the major being superficial in the triangular space before described, below this by latissimus dorsi. They lie on the splenius capitis, on the serratus posticus superior, and the posterior scapular artery, with the insertion of the serratus magnus. Action.—To rotate the scapula, so as to depress the acro- mion process; also to draw backwards the shoulder; thus assisting the trapezius, and opposing the serratus magnus. Levator Anguli Scapula. —Somewhat round, arises by tendinous slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of four superior cervical vertebrae; these join the fleshy portion of the muscle obliquely: it then passes downwards and outwards, and is inserted into the superior angle of the scapula, grasp- ing it as far downwards as the spine of that bone. Belations.—ltlies on the cervical nerves, splenius coUi, scalenus posticus, separated from the latter by the pos- terior scapular artery. It is covered by the trapezius, a triangular space being also now visible, where the posterior scapular artery passes, bounded above and m- ternally by the splenius capitis, inferiorly a^d mter- nallv by the rhomboideus minor, and externally by the levator anguli scapula. In this space the artery lies, only covered by the trapezius. _ Action.—To raise the scapula, and rotate it so that the acromion maybe depressed. Cut across the rhomboids and levator anguli scapulae; this will expose the serratus superior and splenius. Serratus Posticus Superior.—Arises by a thm apo- neurotic expansion from the three superior dorsal spines, and also from the ligamentum nuchas; it then becomes fleshy, and is inserted into the second, third and lourth ribs, about an inch external to their angles. These insertions are divided into slips. j r . «r Relations—Covered by the rhomboids, and lies on the splenii, sacro-lumbalis; also on the posterior mter- costals and ribs. It will be observed that the lower