304 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. articulation is opened the surfaces are seen smooth, in consequence of a distinct synovial lining within the ar- ticulation. The crico-thyroid lies in front of the arti- culation, the crico-arytenoideus posticus behind it, and the inferior constrictor covers the external surface. Crico-arytenoid Ligaments consist of an imperfect capsule, the anterior and posterior fibres being the strongest; a synovial lining facilitates the motions of the articulating surfaces, and a strong band of fibres also may be traced downwards from the posterior and external angle under the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle to the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage; at its back part occasionally this is strong and well marked. Crico-tracheal Ligament is represented by a plane of elastic tissue, uniting the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage to the first ring of the trachea. Sometimes this is fibro-cartilaginous, or it may be absent, the first ring being fused with the cricoid. Thyro-arytenoid Ligaments have been already de- scribed as the vocal chords; also the ligaments of the epiglottis, with the description of that part. The Larynx is supplied by the superior and inferior laryngeal arteries from the thyroids, also by the supe- rior and inferior laryngeal nerves of the pneumogastric. See Nervous and Vascular Systems. DEEP MUSCLES OF THE FOREPART AND SIDE OF THE NECK. These consist of three pair in front,—longi colli, recti capitis antici majores and minores, those of the late- ral region being,—the scaleni, antici, and postici. _ In order to expose them, the deepest layer of the cervical aponeurosis or prasvertebral fascia must be removed, after having examined its attachments. It comes off superiorly from the basilar process of the occipital bone, passes downwards on the front of the spine, becoming strong and dense inferiorly, on each side coveruig the scaleni and levator anguli scapula, attached below to the superior costa of the scapula and posterior edge ot the cavicle; thus separating the posterior mlerior tri- angle of the neck from the axilla, and constituting the cervico-axillary septum. It is also in intimate connexion