526 CAVITY OF THE CHEST. separated as distinct cavities, similar to the auricles. In the foregoing account we have merely given a general description of the muscular structure of the heart, as being the only mode applicable to the intricacy of the subject; indeed a sharp knife, scissors, and a pair of needles, will yield to any patient investigator conditions adapted to any description, however complex; a circum- stance perfectly natural, when we recollect that the fibres are united, not by areolar tissue, as in other situa- tions but by a mutual interweaving, which renders the structure almost inextricable. (See Searle, m Todd's Encyclopedia, page 168.) _ Development of the Heart—This organ at its earliest period is visible as a pulsatile speck, the "punctum saliens of Harvey." It first consists of a smgle tube formed in the vascular layer of the germinal membrane, receiving the veins at its posterior extremity, and the arteries emanating from its anterior; subsequently it becomes curved into a loop, presenting three saccules, arterial or ventricular, venous or auricular and the bulbus aorts, a dilatation at the extremity of that vessel. About the fourth week the septum ventriculorum com- mences to be developed from below upwards, or from apex to base, and is completed about the eighth. Ibe septum auricularum is developed from the superior and anterior part, but remains deficient at the foramen ovale until birth. The Eustachian valve is an early structural formation, being sufiicient at the third month to conceal the inferior caval orifice, and at this period the proper valve or membrane of the foramen becomes visible, and it is stated that now the valves grow in an inverse ratio, or that the Eustachian diminishes as the septal increases. We have before stated that such a change is functionally impossible, nor has such a law ever been satisfactonly proved by the only unerring test-demonstration. Ihe Talt occupies the whole cavity of the thorax in the f<^tus about the fourth week -^-^^,^"7^;^^^^^^^^^ is much larger, in proportion to the weight of the bodj, at Te third month than at birth, its weight being to tL body at the former period, as 1 to 60, at the latter as 1 to 120. It is also vertical, the obliquity of direc- Zn commencing about the fourth month, while, ui ad-