/ 76 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. broader, the lower sharper, than those of the preceding; the one for the attachment of the dorsal ligament, and the other for the plantar, as well as some fibres of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. Its shaft and head pre- sent no marked difference from the preceding. The fourth metatarsal bone is about the same length as the last, but rather more slender. On it we also ob- serve three facettes: one posterior, quadrilateral in shape, flat, rounded below, convex, to articulate with the cuboid; one on either side, the internal being much the larger, as it unites not only with the adjacent metatarsal bone, but likewise with the external cunei- form ; while the external is very small, for the fifth metatarsal only. Its upper and lower parts are both rough for ligaments. The shaft and head are similar in appearance to the preceding. The fifth metatarsal bone has the following pecu- liarities at its posterior extremity: it is cut ofl" ob- liquely from within backwards and outwards ; covered with cartilase on its inner two-thirds, forming a trian- gular facette for articulation with the cuboid; its exter- nal third is prolonged backwards and outwards into a remarkable process—the spur, which afi"ords insertion to the tendons of the peron^us brevis and anticus. Its inner portion is occupied by a small facette, where it is in contact with the fourth metatarsal, while its outer is roucrli. for the insertion of the external slip of the plan- tar ^fascia. It is broad and irregular superiorly, for the dorsal ligaments; of a similar character interiorly, where it afiTords origin to the flexor brevis minimi digiti. The shaft is more prismatic than the preceding, but m the appearance of the head there is httle or no difier- The Phalanges, like those of the hand, are fourteen m number; the great toe, as the thumb, being deficient in the second. They also belong to the class ol long hones, presenting two extremities, which are very much expanded, and a shaft constricted and rounded, but convex superiorly, flattened and concave mfe- "°The two phalanges of the great toe are remarkable for their greater size as contrasted with the others,