15 THE SPINAL COLUMN. grooved posteriorly where it is surrounded by the strong • transverse ligament; this portion is called its neck; it is surmounted by a process of bone partially enlarged, the head, which presents a groove on either side for the attachment of the check ligaments, while to its apex is connected the ligamentum suspensorium. The body is extremely long from above downwards anteriorly, but short in the same direction posteriorly. This is owing to the anterior lip, which is prolonged so as to overlap the vertebra below to some extent. In front the body presents a concave depression on either side, with an intervening ridge; to the first are attached the longi colli muscles, and to the last the commencement of the anterior vagi- nal ligament. The transverse processes are extremely short, and rounded at their extremities; the articulating nearly flat, superiorly large, circular, looking upwards and outwards; the inferior concave, and much smaller, looking downwards and forwards; the lamina are ex- ceedingly thick and strong, terminating in a well-marked triangular spine, which bifurcates posteriorly to give attachment to the recti postici majores, and the obliqui inferiores. Development.—Each vertebra, as a general rule, is developed from three primary points of ossification: one for the anterior part of the spinal canal correspond- ing to the body, and one for each of the laminte. These osseous points are generally visible from the fortieth ta the fiftieth day. The lateral ones spread out gradually, and become united about a year after birth, while they are not connected with that of the body for nearly five. The complementary points are one for the upper, and one for the lower part of the body: thus forming three separate discs, which remain laminated for a lengthened period; one for the extremity of each transverse process; and one for the spine. The union between those comple- mentary points is complete about the twenty-fifth year The atlas is developed from six points of ossification^ VIZ. two for the anterior half-arch, two for the posterior and two for the lateral masses. Those for the posterior part of the body appear about the end of the sixth week, while those for the anterior are not visible for some time after birth. The axi§ has two additional