THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 7 generally called gelatinous, is marked by the existence of a hyaline basis, scarcely a trace of cell structure being visible to give it the character of cartilage. Gra- dually the appearance of dark points indicates the for- mation of nuclei and cell-walls; this constitutes the second or cartilaginous stage. The cartilaginous cells now exhibit a disposition to arrange themselves in columns, with a further tendency to form groups. At the same time the cells are flattened on their opposed sides, the nuclei enlarge and sometimes divide. In the centre of the shaft of a long bone an opaque, trans- versely oval mass appears; from its upper and lower sur- faces lamince of a similar nature grow into the intercellu- lar spaces; these send their transverse laminte across the groups thus enclosing them in perfect cells, elongated in the axis of the bone. These laminas are distinctly fibrous. This we consider as the third or fibrocellular stage. As the elongation of the laminaj continues, the hyaline is being absorbed, but the cartilage cells increase in number. Within the cells of the laminas they are also altered; highly refracting points appear within them, signifying the presence of fatty matter; these enlarge, and, coincident with this increase, the cells attach themselves to the laminar wall of the cancellus which contains them. The fluid of the latter cavity becomes fatty, granular, and of a reddish colour, deve- loping the elements for the endogenous growth of new lamina?, imbedding, of necessity, the cartilage cells, which after some time disappear, but the nuclei remain to form the osseous lacunae. The absorption of the trans- verse septa converts the cell-spaces into canals (Haver- sian), and the radiate prolongations of the nuclei deve- lope the canaliculi, but these nuclei are not persistent; a coarse earthy material is substituted that occupies the lacunae in fully developed bone. This is the fourth or ossific stage, in which the assumption of the several cal- careous salts obliterates all fibrous arrangement. Ossi- fication commences in the long bones by three centres, one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. These gradually extend towards each other, encroaching on the mass of cartilage intervening. The extreme points are called epiphyses, the shaft or centre the diaphysis.