149 LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. : perfect capsular, and ligamenta subflava. These we now I propose to examine in order. When describing the vertebas we stated, that their I bodies did not lie in contact with each other, but were s separated by a greater or lesser interval, according to tthe region which they contributed to form, being most aapart in the lumbar, and least in the cervical. The ex- cception to this rule is the articulation of the atlas and aaxis where they lie in direct contact with each other. IThe interval alluded to is filled up by a substance de- sscribed by some anatomists as fibro-cartilaginous, but bby others said to be fibrous; it is called the inter- vertebral disc; in shape oval, but slightly flattened pos- tteriorly, its lateral measurement exceeding somewhat iits antero-posterior; its surfaces, both superior and in- tiferior, convex, to correspond to the partial cavities ex- idsting on the upper and under part of the bodies of the bbone, to which they are united by fibrous prolongations :implanted into the osseous structure, and this with such a a, degree of tenacity, that we can with greater facility ifracture the body of the bone than rupture its attach- rment to the disc. If we call in the aid of maceration in oDrder to examine its more intimate structure, we will fifind that the arrangement of its fibres is not truly con- ccentric, but decussating, crossing from the vertebra aibove to the vertebra below, at a very oblique angle, tithus presenting a strong barrier to over-rotation. The C3ircumferential portion of the disc is dense and compact, aand has attached to it before and behind the anterior iand posterior common ligaments; but as we advance to upoint situated a little posterior to its centre, we observe II 1 gradual change taking place in its appearance. The ^lbres insensibly become more apart, until they are at laast completely lost in a pulpy substance, white, and esxtremely elastic in youth, but yellow and brittle in old uge. _ If a knife be passed in through the middle of the liisc in front, so as to pierce its anterior two-thirds, and tbhen withdrawn, this soft, pulpy matter will exude :hhrough the fissure by pressing the bodies of the adja- :t;ent bones together. The intervertebral disc must be regarded not only as u powerful medium of connexion, but also as of vast