CEREBRUM. 621 of the whole mass. The cerebrum is of an ovoid shape, larger behind than before, consisting on its upper sur- face of two hemispheres, separated by the great longi- tudinal fissure, each representing the figure of a quarter sphere. Externally and superiorly the surface is con- vex and irregular, marked by alternate elevations and depressions, the former being called convolutions or gyri, the latter, involutions or sulci. These convolu- tions are much diversified in shape and size, as well as in direction, but still some few generally present a uni- form character in all cases, and to these we will allude in the examination of the different surfaces of the brain. Those on the upper aspect may be divided into frontal, occipital, and parietal,—the first varying from three to seven in number, and taking a direction from before backwards; the second consisting of three, and runnino- from without inwards; whilst the third, varying from five to eight, pursue an exceedingly tortuous course trom before backwards: all these are separated by in- volutions, which pass to variable depths, separating the convolutions like depressions of elevation. The parts entering into the formation of the convolu- tions may now be examined by slicing off a portion of the surface. The arachnoid and pia mater form the most superficial covering, and next in order is seen the grey or cineritious matter, about a quarter of an inch in depth ; while internal to the last, the white or fibrous structure occurs. These elevations are merely the re- sult of a folding of the cerebral surface, there beino- no absolute mterruption of continuity, which may be proved by removmg the arachnoid, when the irregularities may be effaced with facility, the surface becoming perfectly- smooth, a similar condition being consequent on the in- ternal chronic form of hydrocephalus, as remarked by Sir E. Home. Their existence has been accounted for in different ways:—In the first place, the brain growing from below upwards meets with the opposing cranial bones, and the surface becomes folded, to accommodate irself to the small space within the calvarium ; secondly by the diverging fibres being of different lengths, some reaching the convolutions, while others pass only so far