THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. 174 poplitaeus and gastrocnemius,—the whole forming a li- gament of vast strength; its deeper layer being con- nected to the edges of the tibia and margins of the semilunar cartilages; spreading out over the condyles at each side, so as to invest them with a kind of sheath; passing up superiorly, to be lost in the masses of fat found on the flattened posterior aspect of the femur; inferiorly, becoming continuous with the deep fascia of the leg; while opposite the flexure of the joint it is perforated by an oblique foramen, for the passage of the azygos artery, for the supply of the joint, its two ac- companying veins, and the articular branch of the ob- turator nerve. This ligament corresponds by its ante- rior surface to the back part of the tibia, semilunar cartilages, posterior crucial ligament, intercondyloid notch, and poplitsus muscle; and by its posterior to the popliteal vessels and nerves, with their branches, the heads of the gastrocnemius, plantaris, tendon of the semi- ten din osus, and a large quantity of adipose tissue. In extension it is extremely tense, while in flexion it be- comes relaxed. External Lateral Ligament. — This is strong, rounded, and cordlike, broader at its points of attach- ment than in the centre. It arises from a tubercle on the outer side of the external condyle, immediately above the popliteal groove, and, taking a direction down- wards, outwards, and backwards, is inserted into the upper part of the head of the fibula. In its course downwards it crosses the tendon of the poplitseus, which separates it from the external condyle and the inferior external articular artery, which divides it from the se- milunar cartilage of the same side. The tendon of the biceps lies at first posterior, but afterwards becomes external to it. This ligament occasionally bifurcates inferiorly, and under such circumstances its second in- sertion is into the outer part of the head of the tibia. Internal Lateral Ligament.— This is diamond- shaped, and differs from the preceding in being much flatter, broader, and stronger. It arises from a tubercle on the inner side of the internal condyle, below the in- sertion of the adductor magnus; its direction is down- wards and forwards, to be inserted into the inner and