160 THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. is very weak and indistinct anteriorly, where it is scarcely required, the strong stellate taking its place. Intervertebral Ligament.—In order to expose this, the stellate ligament must be divided as well as the capsular; the attachment of the tubercle of the rib to the transverse process must likewise be cut through, and then, by pulling it slightly apart from the spine, the intervertebral ligament may be observed arising from the ridge or crest between the two articular fa- cettes on the head, and stretching directly inwards, to be inserted into the side of the intervertebral disc. In its character it is comparatively weak; flattened from above downwards, so as to form a septum or partition between the two synovial membranes which line the superior and inferior articulations. Anterior Costo-transverse Ligament. — This is extremely strong, but flattened, and is fully exposed in the dissection already made. It arises from the under surface of the extremity of the transverse process of the vertebra above, and stretches downwards and in- wards, to be inserted into a slight crest or ridge on the upper edge of the neck of the rib below, which it thus directly supports. It appears to be a thickened portion of the fibrous membrane which covers the external in- tercostal muscles, and corresponds anteriorly to the anterior intercostal vessels and nerves, and a quantity of loose areolar tissue; posteriorly, to the longissimus dorsi; internally, to the posterior dorsal vessels and nerves, which pass through a quadrilateral opening in- tercepted between it and the bodies, and transverse pro- cesses of the adjacent vertebra; and externally, to the levator costse. Posterior Costo-transverse.—This is a strong band of fibres, stretching between the extremity of the trans- verse process and non-articular portion of the tubercle of the rib. It is covered in by the insertion of the erectors of the spine and levatores costarum. Middle Costo-transverse—This is truly an inter- osseous ligament, and possesses some degree of strength. It is very difficult to obtain a good view of it; a partial one may, however, be accomplished by dividing all the other ligaments and forcibly tearing one bone from the