638 NERVOUS SYSTEM. inferior notch of the cerebellum; and lastly—10. Pos- terior extremity of the great longitudinal fissure. In this situation a vascular circle, or more properly an heptagonal vascular space, exists, known as the circle of Willis, bounded in front by the anterior communicating and anterior cerebral arteries, laterally by the internal carotid with the posterior communicating branch, and behind, by the basilar artery with the posterior cere- bral; several of the parts before enumerated he within this space, namely, from before backwards,—lamma cinerea, optic commissure, tuber cinereum, with the m- fundibulum, corpora albicantia, middle perforated plate, inner margins of the crura cerebri, and the origin of the third nerve (see Vascular System). Let each of the parts enumerated be now examined carefully. Lamina Cinerea—This consists of a grey layer, con- tinuous in front with the rostrum of the corpus callo- sum, and, passing backwards, is attached to the optic commissure and tuber cinereum, whilst superiorly it la continuous with the grey lining of the third ventricle, and pierced by the descending pillars of the lornix. Optic Commissure.—(See Anatomy of Nerves). Tuber Cinereum.—A grey body of a small size, and reniform in figure, convex anteriorly, and notched pos- teriorly, attached above to the grey floor of the third ventricle, before to the optic commissure, and below and behind to the infundibulum which lies in its notch or hvlus. It consists principally of granular cells, many ot which are yellowish, and so soft that they break down into a pultaceous mass on the slightest pressure; we have also observed a cavity in its centre. Infundibulum.—A grey tube surrounded by arach- noid large above where it communicates with the iloor of the third ventricle, smaller inferiorly, and attached to the pituitary gland; within the tube the arachnoid is continued downwards, as far as the superior third, where it terminates in a ad de sac. Pituitary Body or Gland—Au oval body about the size of a horse-bean, situated in the se la turcica above the dura mater, and beneath the arachnoid and surrounded by the circular sinuses It is divided into an anterior and posterior lobe: the former being dense,