FEMORO-TIBIAL ARTICULATION. 177 pass in on the articular surfaces of the bone to an un- equal extent,—the external covering nearly the whole of that portion of the head of its own side, while the internal leaves a large part of its corresponding tibial depression free. The cornua are sharp and pointed; those of the external inflected towards each other so as to approximate very closely, and are inserted into the fossa between the two prominences constituting the spine of the tibia; those of the internal are separated by a broader interval, and are severally attached to slight depressions, anterior and posterior to the spine, embracing the insertions of the preceding. It will be likewise recollected, that the internal lateral ligament is firmly connected to the circumferential margin of the internal cartilage; but the same rule does not apply to the external, as it is separated from its corresponding ligament by the tendon of the poplitseus and inferior external articular artery. The use of the semilunar cartilages is to deepen the cavity for the reception of the condyles of the femur, and to adapt it to the vary- ing convexities of the latter, as well as to break those shocks to which the joint would be liable from its con- struction, the bones which compose it being nearly per- pendicular to each other. ° Coronary Ligament.—This has been already cur- sorily alluded to. It consists of a few scattered bands of fibrous tissue, passing from the edges of the tibia to the margins of the semilunar cartilages. They are some- times very difiicult to be demonstrated. Transverse Ligament.—This must be exposed by a cautious removal of the fat in front of the joint. It is thm but strong, and is attached on either side to the anterior margins of both semilunar cartilages. Its ob- vious use is to prevent the displacement of these from each other,—an accident they would be liable to from their wedgehke shape, when by the weight of the body transmitted to the condyles they must necessarily be compressed and forced outwards. _ Synovial Membrane.—This is one of the most capa- cious of this class in the whole body: it lines the entire cavity of the joint, covers the articular extremities of the bones, the semilunar cartilages, invests the crucial I 3