386 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. at the internal ring, or, as Mr. Hey expresses it, " there is a sac within a sac." The late Mr. Todd, of the Rich- mond Hospital, has offered a different explanation of this hernia, not indeed very easily understood, but perfectly consistent with anatomical considerations. He believed that the intestine inflects that portion of peritoneum that covers the anterior surface of the cord, projecting a sac between the spermatic vessels and that portion of peritoneum which is to form the tunica vaginalis testis. Thus when it has descended so far as to reach the tes- ticle, three layers of serous membrane would lie an- terior to the intestine, namely, tunica vaginalis scroti, testis, and the inflected layer; and'only one posteriorly, namely, the back part of the inflected sac. In this way it would possess a peritoneal sac, which Mr. Hey denies. This question is of some practical importance, as it in- volves the propriety of making the incision in the an- terior part of the scrotum. Mr. Todd recommends, when such a protrusion becomes strangulated, to cut down on the back part, as only one layer of serous mem- brane intervenes, while Mr. Hey advocates the anterior incision. We have not, however, seen this particular form of rupture dissected, and cannot, therefore, offer an opinion on the subject. ORGANS OF GENERATION IN THE MALE. Testicles, perineum, penis, bladder and its appendages; such is the order of dissection to be pursued in the ex- amination of the generative organs; but with the testi- cles should be grouped the vesiculje seminales and vasa deferentia, Cowper's glands, and probably the prostate; but as these appear in different stages, it will be pre- ferable to examine each as it is exposed, rather than connected as a system; and with the anatomy the m- dividual organs their functional relations to each other will be explained. . The Testicles are symmetrical organs, situated an a loose, pendulous bag of the integument, called scrotum. To within a short period prior to birth they occupied the abdominal cavity, where their development was com- pleted from the Wolffian bodies. At the fifth month each