HUMEEO-CUBITAL ARTICULATION. 201 of displacement in this direction. Adduction is ex- ceedingly trifling, as the contact of the arm with the trunk presents an effectual bar to it. Circumduction. —This motion is very perfect, the head of the bone representing the point of the cone, and the revolution of its inferior extremity its base. Rotation.—This move- ment is enjoyed to a moderate degree, and is partially favoured by the muscles which are inserted into its neck, forming an angle to its shaft. HUMERO-CUBITAL ARTICULATION. This is formed by the union of three bones,—the humerus, ulna, and radius. The articulation of the two former bones, if taken separately, would constitute a complete ginglymoid joint; but as the radius likewise enters into its formation, and enjoys more unlimited motion than that of flexion and extension,—being, in fact, an arthrodia,—it will be necessary to class the el- bow under the designation of an arthrodial ginglymus. Its media of connexion are an anterior and a poste- rior, an internal and external lateral ligament. In or- der to obtain a good view of these, all the muscles about the joint should be removed, and this must be done with great caution, as several of them are inti- mately attached to them. Anterior Ligament.—This is thin, but possessed of a moderate degree of strength; it arises by a series of fibres which are implanted above the depression on the anterior surface of the humerus, particularly towards the internal condyle; from this it descends obliquely downwards and outwards, and is inserted into the coro- noid process of the ulna, becoming blended with the attachment of the orbicular ligament. Its strength is greatly increased by certain transverse fibres which cross it nearly at right angles, and it is covered by the brachialis anticus, which lies immediately over it. Posterior Ligament This, as contrasted Avith the preceding, is very weak and lax; it is attached to the humerus above the olecranon depression, and on either side to the back part of both condyles; as it sweeps across the joint, it is inserted by a few scattered fibres K 3