57 PELVIS. In examining the exterior aspect of the pelvis it is better to divide it into four regions—an anterior, pos- terior, and two lateral. The anterior region may be said to occupy that space intercepted between two verti- cal lines drawn between the pubal eminence above, and the anterior part of the tuberosity of the ischium below. On it we observe two well-formed arches; a superior, its pillars constituted by the horizontal rami of the pubis, supported by the acetabula on either side; an in- ferior, its pillars formed by the rami of both ischium and pubis, and terminating at the tuberosities. A trian- gular interval, broader in the female than in the male for obvious reasons, separates the pillars of the inferior arch, filled up above by the subpubic, and below by the triangular ligament. These structures, stretched tensely across, serve to give great security to the arch, and, without interfering with the important parts which pass through it, bestow on it extreme lightness, with sufficient strength. External to this we have another deficiency in the pelvic wall; the obturator foramen, of an oval shape, broader above than below, bounded in- ternally, inferiorly, and externally by the ischium; superiorly by the pubis. In its natural condition it is completed by the obturator membrane, a strong tense process of fibrous tissue which fills it up altogether, except superiorly where an oblique canal is left di- rected forwards and inwards for the transmission of its own artery, nerve, and vein. In this instance nature has aga,in added considerably to the lightness of the bone without detracting materially from its strength. The lateral region of the pelvis is that portion inter- cepted between the pubal eminence and anterior part of the tuberosity of the ischium in front, and the edge of the sacrum behind. It presents superiorly and ante- riorly the acetabulum formed by the proportions of the several bones already enumerated; its border not pre- senting an horizontal plane, but elevated superiorly opposite the ala of the ilium; depressed posteriorly at the junction of the ischium with the last-named bone; again prominent opposite the tuberosity; excavated into a deep notch at the thyroid foramen; elevated at d3