ilUSCLES OF THE ARM. - 335 wards, but as it sinks deep they become directed inwards and outwards, the edges forwards and backwards, and, on reaching the radius, it is inserted into the posterior part of the tubercle of that bone, separated from its antsrior part by a bursa; the superficial portion is semi- lunar ; it arises broad from the outer edge of the tendon; the fibres first pass downwards, then curve upwards and inwards, and are incorporated with the tendinous origms of the pronators an* flexors, and through them It receives a fixed attachment to the internal condyle. We have sometimes seen this muscle inseparably united to the brachialis anticus, and occasionally only bv a thm slip of fleshy fibres. Relations.—It is covered by the deltoid, great pecto- ral, capsular Lgament, supraspinatus tendon, and bra- chial aponeurosis. The long head lies on the synovial membrane of the joint and bone, the short head on a tew fibres of the coraco-brachialis, on the external cutaneous nerve and subscapular tendon, also on the anterior circumflex artery; the fleshy belly on the brachiahs anticus, the external cutaneous nerve the mner edge overlapping the brachial vessels; the'deep tendon IS between the supinator brevis, which it notches at the inner edge, and the brachialis anticus; the semi- lunar fascia covers the brachial artery, median nerve and the origins of the pronators and flexors; and it separates the median basilic vein from the brachial trunk,_a circumstance which should be recollected in the operation of venesection. anif St'^';Humerus, to supinate the hand, and then flex the fore-arm on the arm. CoRAco-BRACHiALis arises fleshy from the coracoid process and from the short tendon of the biceps- it passes downwards and outwards, and is inserted^ t'en- cenZ of t°l. I -"^^ -bout the centre of the shaft, being continuous with the internal intermuscular septum. Relations.—It is covered by the deltoid and great pec- oral, and a few fibres of the biceps; the brachll artery . and median nerve lie on the insertion. It conceals Plexus 1?''^' • "^^"^^y -^t^^^' brachial I plexus, which separate it from the insertions of the