119 THE TEETH. rline the sac external to the pulp of the last described .-structure. Taking these changes more in detail at the -sixth week of foetal life, the upper jaw presents a pro- nminent mucous fold anteriorly,—the rudiment of the liip; and a second, internal to this,—the nascent palate, ; separated from the former by a groove, all receiving a .covering from the proper mucous membrane. A little iilater a ridge is developed from the floor of the groove aanteriorly, — the rudiment of the external alveolar rridge. The order of parts from before backwards;— ffirst, the lip; second, a depression; third, the external salveolar ridge; fourth, primary dental groove ; fifth, I'fold representing the internal alveolar border ; sixth, tthe palate. Order of primary formation:—papilla of tfirst deciduous molar, seventh week ; of canine, eighth \week; of incisor,—the central having precedence,—ninth \week; second molar, tenth week. When the germs of :iall the deciduous teeth are perfected, those in the lower ijaw being a little later prolonged until the eleventh vweek, the follicular stage is completed. At the thirteenth week the closure of the follicles and their conversion ; into saccules is accomplished. During the fourteenth a and fifteenth weeks, the primary dental groove is closed, '.but a portion nearer to the surface remains open,—the ^secondary dental groove; processes from the dental sac tare prolonged into it to form the saccules of the perma- 1 nent teeth; those are styled cavities of reserve, the pro- Uongations for the incisors preceding the canine and imolares. The secondary dental groove is now closed, and at the fifth month papillae are developed, produc- ling saccules like to the primary forms; these like- \ wise recede from the surface of the gum, and lie internal • to the deciduous sacs. The first permanent molar is . developed, not in the secondary dental groove, but by i a papilla, situated in the posterior extremity of the 1 primitive sulcus; the reserve cavities of the two last 1 molares being situated superficial to the former in the ; secondary groove, a sufficient distance being procured tfor their development by the elongation of the jaws 1 backward. Prior to that period, the first permanent 1 molar is imbedded in the coronoid process and tuber of I the maxillary bones. This permanent first molar is