736 NERVOUS SYSTEM. of sweat secreted by the part, being most numerous in the axilla, perineum, and folds of the nates, but they are still present on every part of the surface. Sebaceous Glands.—Also follicular, consisting of a mere tube, occasionally branched, which becomes pouched or convoluted in the substance of the cutis, sometimes projecting into the areolar tissue, whilst the efferent tube either opens into the hair follicle or on the free surface. They are most numerous on the face, scro- tum, and perineum, whilst they are absent on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. The coats of the ducts are similar to, but finer than, those of the sudorife- rous glands, and within them may be usually found the peculiar parasite known as the entozoon folliculorum; their use is to secrete an oleaginous fluid which lubri- cates the surface of the skin. _ _ Hairs. This superficial appendage to the skm is strewed over the whole surface, with a few exceptions; -whilst in some localities it is concentrated so as to form a covering more or less thick in situations so obvious that we do not conceive it necessary to mention them. A hair consists of a root and stem; the latter are elon- gated and more or less cylindrical evolutions of the cu- ticle; but they differ from a cylinder in being laterally compressed or reniform;and they arc also thicker at the iunction of the middle and inferior third, and sometimes split at the extremity. They differ in size m many parts of the body,—the hairs of the head being the longest those on the general surface the finest (lanugo), and those of the pubis, whiskers, chin, and axilla, the strongest. . , . , • . The Hair-Bulb is that expanded portion which is set in the follicle, about twice the diameter of the hair it- self and sometimes excavated at its base; this portion is contained in the hair follicle, which is a depression m the dermis, extending deeper into the areolar tissue than either the sudoriferous glands or sebaceous loUicles, and isformed by an invagination of the cuticle; but between this and the root a cavity exists, into which the seba- ceous follicles open, and in which entozoa are frequently generated. The shaft of the hair consists,-first, o a scabrous coat, continuous with the cuticle, the scales