472 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. surface; finally, the muscle is inserted into the line be- low the lesser trochanter, also into the posterior and in- ferior part of that process. Relations.—It is covered by the iliac fascia, cellular tissue and ctecum on the right side, sigmoid flexure of the colon on the left; and is also crossed by the muscu- lo-cutaneous nerve, while it is separated internally from the psoas by the anterior crural. It lies on the bone, ilio-lumbar artery and ligament,—such being the re- lations above Poupart's ligament. The femoral portion is covered by the sartorius, femoral, profunda, and ex- ternal circumflex arteries; and it lies on the capsular ligament and adductor magnus. The lax areolar tissue lying between the caecum and iliac fascia sometinies suppurates, constituting " ilio-csecal abscess;" or, again, an abscess may form within the muscle, and this is considered an " iliac abscess." Action.—To flex the thigh and rotate it outwards, and also advance it forwards, as in progression. ANATOMY OF THE LEG. The integument of the leg is strong and dense ante- riorly and externally, but much finer and more sensi- tive on the inner surface and crest of the tibia. In all the situations enumerated it is fixed to the subjacent structures almost immoveably; posteriorly it is thick, but fine and soft, and very moveable on the dorsum ot the foot and toes, where it is so thin, that the cutane- ous veins are visible, even to the smallest branches, which contrasts remarkably with the similar structure of the sole or plantar region, it being here dense and horny, except internally, where it is fine, polished, and transparent. The surface is generally covered with hair in the adult, predominating on the anterior region be- ing somewhat less posteriorly; few m number, but fine and prolonged, on the dorsum of the foot; and again to- tall/absent on the plantar region. Now et an incision be carried from the knee to the great toe, along the crest of he tibia, and reflecting the skin outwards, the superficial fascia is exposed; this is merely a continua- S of the same tissue from the thigh, sometimes con-