CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. 558 ing on the torsion of the tube, and not on any positive alteration in the direction of the bands. The remark- able sacculated appearance which this portion of the intestinal canal presents is attributable to those longi- tudinal fibres, which are at least one-third shorter than it; and hence the puckered condition of the tube to create a correspondence in length between the two, an arrangement admirably calculated to bestow increase of surface without additional elongation. We have already stated that at variable points on the descending colon the two posterior bands tmite and form one, a con- dition which continues as far as the termination of the sigmoid flexure, where they become scattered, of a redder colour, and as distinct fibres surround the rec- tum, being very simikr in their character, but not quite so strong as those of the oesophagus, a few of the striated or voluntary class being found among them. The Circular Fibres may be exposed by cautiously dissecting off the longitudinal; they form, as on the small intestine, a series of rings embracing the gut as far as the sigmoid flexure, where they become much thicker and more closely impacted together. Their density continues to increase on the rectum, till we ap- proach the verge of the anus, around which they form a dense fascic^ilus of about an inch in depth, which completely encircles it. The colour is likewise more vivid, and the voluntary and involuntary class of fibres are completely intermingled in this last situation. Fibrous Coat is of the same character as that already described in the small intestine. Mucous Coat.—This is much paler than m the small intestine, and more loosely attached to the fibrous tissue beneath. Properly speaking, it has no valves if we ex- cept the ilio-colic and csecal already described, and but few folds, and these always indistinct and imperfect, for the large saccules which are visible on laying open the gut are equally formed by the fibrous and muscu- lar coats. The existence of the villi has also been de- nied, but it is thickly studded with follicles nearly analogous to those of the stomach; solitary glands or structures very similar to them may be also observed, a vertical section showing that they are of a fiask-like