THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. inserted into the central tendinous point of the peri- neum. Mr. Guthrie believes that the existence of such muscular bands is unusual, and considers the arrange- ment as different; he describes a half-circle of tendon above, and a similar one below the membranous portion of that canal, and from the circle arises a muscular band on each side, sometimes bifid, which passes out- wards, and is inserted into the ramus of the ischium where it joins the pubis. We have seen Wilson's muscles in all cases that we have examined, but vary- ing considerably in size, but we have not been equally fortunate at all times in detecting the arrangement described by Guthrie; but in some instances these transverse muscles appeared well marked, and in such the internal pudic artery split the band into two fasci- culi. Mr. Harrison looks upon these structures as being a part of the anterior fibres of the levator ani, but they are separated from that muscle by the posterior layer of the triangular ligament, and in all the cases that we have examined, the separation between them was suffi- ciently obvious for demonstration. That it is possible by special intention to produce appearances similar to those figured in recent works, as being the natural arrangement of the urethral compressors is evident, but if merely the anterior layer of the ligament and no more is removed, and all derangement by the use of hooks dispensed with, it will be seen that the anatomy of Mr. Wilson is correct in almost every particular as to those structures, first described by Santorini. Use. To compress the urethra; they may also by tonic contraction induce spasmodic stricture, and con- sequent retention of urine. Internal Pudic Artery.—This vessel is seen pierc- ing the posterior layer of the ligament, a quarter of an inch above the base, then ascending between the two layers, and one inch above the base, it perforates the an- terior layer, passing then between the crus penis and the bone, where it terminates. In this course it gives off the artery of the bulb; this runs upwards and in- wards, from half-an-inch to three-quarters above the base of the ligament, and divides into two branches,— a posterior, smaller, to the glands of Cowper; the