147 CLASSIFICATIONS OF JOINTS. > sues. They are thin, semi-transparent, and constitute s shut sacs. The external surface is rough, cellular, and ^attached; the internal smooth, free, and lubricated by aa glairy fluid, termed synovia. Structurally it consists cof a superficial covering of squamous epithelium, be- rneath this a basement membrane, and most externally aareolar tissue. In foetal life the epithelium can be traced cover the surface of the cartilage, but not in the adult, lln many joints there occur fringed processes and fatty tbodies, described by Clopton Havers as special glands; Ibut the synovial fluid is equally secreted by the entire ffree surface. The Classifications of joints are numerous, the first ddepending on the mode of union, as syndesmosis or ssyneurosis, where they are united by ligament; syn- cehondrosis, where cartilage is the bond of union; me- ijiingosis, by membrane, as in the foetal cranial bones; aand sysarcosis, by muscle, as between the scapula and rribs. The second classification depends on motions en- jgoyed by the bones. Being in a great measure physiolo- --gical, we will only briefly state the divisions of Bichat. Uhe motions are four, namely, gliding, as between astra- ggalus and calcis; opposite motions in the ginglymoid cslass, as elbow; and circumduction, as in shoulder; ro- Ttation, in hip-joint. He next subdivided them 'into jioints with every motion perfect; secondly, into those with all motions save rotation, as the metacarpo-phalan- g;eal articulation of the thumb; thirdly, joints only ceapable of the motion of opposition ; fourthly, joints lonly admittmg a rotatory movement; and lastly, joints uwhich ghde on each other without any other motion. The division now in use in this country is that of I'jalen, with some variation, however. He divided joints iLuto two classes, moveable or diarthroses; immoveable DDr synarthroses, to which Winslow added the third imixed class, or amphiarthrosis. ^ Diarthrosis is subdivided into ginglymus, enarthro- ;iis, arthrosis, and planiform arthrosis. Ginglymus is ?i!ither perfect, as in the humero-cubital and interpha- aangeal articulations, or imperfect, as the knee-joint, in which some lateral motion exists. Lateral ginglymus, !»r trochoides, occurs where bones are opposed by their H 2