THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 488 slip of the plantar fascia, and also above the digital nerves and vessels; they are only attached to the four outer toes, the great not receiving any. Action To flex the first phalanx, and likewise bind down the extensor tendons on the dorsum of the pha- langes. The muscles in the third layer are four in number:—- flexor pollicis brevis, adductor pollicis, flexor brevis mi- nimi digiti, and transversalis pedis. Flexor Pollicis Brevis arises tendinous from the cuboid, external cuneiform, and occasionally from the under surface of the os calcis; it passes forwards, becoming fleshy, and is inserted by two tendons into the internal and external sesamoid bones and base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Eelatmis.—Belovf with the abductor and tendon ot the long fiexor, and above with the bones and the tibialis posticus. Action To flex the first phalanx. Adductor Pollicis.—Triangular in shape, lies ex- ternal to the last; it arises from the sheath of the ten- don of the peronseuslongus and the base of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones, passes forwards and inwards, and is inserted tendinous into the external sesa- moid bone and base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Relations.—It has below it the long and short flexors, lumbricales, and musculus accessorius, and superiorly it lies on the tarsal bones. Action—T^o adduct the great toe. ^ , j ^ Transversalis Pedis.—Placed across the heads ot the metatarsal bones; it arises from the anterior extre- mities of the outer four of those bones; passes inwards and forwards, and is inserted into the external sesamoid bone and base of the first phalanx of the great toe Relations.—It is covered by the long and short flexor tendons, lumbricales, and the digital vessels and nerves, and it lies on the metatarsal bones, ligaments, and mter- ossei ldwn.-To adduct the great toe in reference to the mesial line of the foot. . Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti arises from the base of the fifth metatarsal bone and the perona^al sheath, it