THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 298 requisite to determine the question, which appears of some interest physiologically. The Muscles of the Larynx may be examined after the description of the glottis. This opening is broad anteriorly, narrow posteriorly; bounded in front by the epiglottis, which forms the base, curved, -with the concavity directed backwards; posteriorly by the ary- tenoid cartilages, their cornicula, and a notch which lies between them; laterally by the aryteno-epiglotti- dean folds of mucous membrane, which are lax, con- taining a quantity of loose areolar tissue, permitting of extensive effusion in oedema glottidis. During de- glutition the epiglottis is thrown down upon this open- ing, increasing the security of the aperture against the entrance of foreign bodies; at all other periods it is free to admit of the ingress and egress of atmospheric air. The muscles may be divided into three sets,—two pair anteriorly, crico-thyroid and thyro-arytenoid; two pair posteriorly, crico-arytenoideus posticus and proper ary- tenoid ; three pair laterally, crico-arytenoideus lateralis, aryteno-epiglottideus, and Hilton's muscles, to which may be added the hyo and thyro-epiglottideus. Crico-thyroid,—Triangular in shape, arises from a convex eminence, which occupies the side of the cricoid cartilage; the fibres pass upwards and backwards, and are inserted into the inferior edge and cornu of the thyroid cartilage. Relations It lies on the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and crico-thyroid articulation, and is covered by the sterno-hyoid, superior thyroid artery, and lateral lobe of the thyroid body, also by the edge of the inferior constrictor, which arches over it; the crico-thyroid membrane lies between them, with the artery of the same name. Action.—1o approximate the anterior edge of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and thus make tense the vocal chords, by increasing the distance between their attachments. . Now cut vertically the ala of the thyroid cartilage half-an-inch external to the angle, and turn it back- wards, which will bring into view both the thyro-ary- tenoid and the lateral muscles.