LARYNX. 301 examined by cautiously dissecting off the aryteno-epi- glottidean folds, and raising one layer of mucous mem- brane. They are not easily seen, unless the larynx is quite recent, and they may be divided into the inferior and superior; the former, described by Mr. Hilton, arises narrow from the edge of the arytenoid cartilage, above the superior vocal chord, passes forwards and outwards, expanding, and is inserted into the side of the base of the epiglottis; the sacculus laryngis is inter- nal to it, and a layer of mucous membrane external. Action To compress the sacculus laryngis; but we cannot conceive this to be a separate muscle, as it is frequently united with the thyro-arytenoid. The Superior Aryteno-epiglottideus.—A few fibres arising from the apex of the arytenoid cartilage, bor- dering the sides of the glottis, and inserted into the margin of the epiglottis; this is sometimes absent, and Avhen present, so pale and confounded with the sub- raucous tissue, that it easily escapes observation. There are a few muscles in addition to those already described, but they are without the slightest rudiment in the hu- man subject, and their description is consequently ex- cluded. The superior aperture of the larynx has been already described; and to examine the inferior, let the first ring of the trachea be removed by a transverse section. The lower edge of the cricoid cartilage circumscribes the outlet, which is oval, its long measurement from before backwards. The margin of the cartilage is bevilled off on the internal surface, and although lined by mucous membrane, it permits the first ring of the trachea to glide within it during the quiescent condition of that tube. The distance between the tracheal and glottal orifices is about one inch behind, and an inch and a half in front, the difference depending on the obliquity of the glottis. Now let a section be made through the vertical ridge of the cricoid cartilage, and the sides se- parated, in order to see the vocal chords; these are two in number on each side. The superior is thin and curved, the convexity looking upwards, attached be- hind to the arytenoid cartilage; and before to the posterior surface of the angle of the thyroid; this is