PELVIC LIGAMENTS. 167 Anterior Ligament This may be brought into yiew by cautiously removing the muscles attached to ■.;the anterior part of the crest. It consists of a series of cbblique fibres, stretching from one bone to the other, tihose of the left side crossing in front of those of the riright. They are seldom very well marked, and are ccovered by the decussating tendons of the external ijojblique muscle, which thus adds greatly to their I sstrength. Posterior Ligament—By removing the fascia from tthe back part of the symphisis, this will be exposed. l[t diiFers from the preceding in the arrangement of its fibres, which are transverse and much weaker. It is ;oncealed by the pelvic fascia, as it dips downwards to [ terminate in the true ligaments of the bladder. Superior Ligament—This is strong, rounded, and ccord-like, a continuation of Poupart's ligament. It ex- pends across the whole of the upper edge of the crest, lifrom the spine of one side to that of the opposite, be- ccoming exceedingly thick opposite the articulation. It sgives attachment to the muscles of the abdomen, parti- ccularly the recti. Inferior Ligament stretches across between the rrami of opposite sides, immediately beneath the sym- {phisis. It is broad at its points of attachment, but irounded and flattened out about its centre, presenting aan arched appearance, with the concavity directed down- \wards. It forms the strongest bond of union of the 3articulation, and its strength is still further increased Iby the triangular urethral ligament, with which it is in - some degree continuous below. Interpubic Fibro-cartilage.—In order to obtain a i : proper idea of this, a horizontal section must be made I across the joint about its centre, by which means the ' wedge-like appearance of the fibro-cartilage will be at once understood. In the disposition of its fibres it 1 bears a close resemblance to those of the discs of the : spinal column, being dense at the margins, and semi- ! fluid and palpy in the centre. They cross each other ■ very obliquely, to be firmly implanted into the contigu- ous surfaces of the opposite bones. It is, however, ' denser in its character, and would of itself be quite