ARTERIES AND VEINS. 818 nervi phrenici, intercostals, diaphragmatic, and ramus abdominalis. ■ Thymic arise from the artery as it enters the tho- rax ; they pass inwards, and supply the thymus gland, and loose areolar tissue, communicating with those of the opposite side. Mediastinal.—Small twigs that ramify on the pos- terior surface of the sternum, into which they like- wise send several filaments. Comes Nervi Phrenici arises opposite the farst rib; passes down in company with the phrenic nerve, on the side of the pericardium, to which it sends several twio-s, and, reaching the diaphragm, divides into two branches, which, encircling its cordiform tendon, form a zone around it, from which filaments are distributed to the muscular structure. Intercostals.—Generally five in number, ihey arise from the outer wall of the artery, opposite the five superior intercostal spaces, and passing outwards, at first between the pleura and internal layer of inter- costals, then perforating the latter, and lying between the external and internal, they run outwards along the inferior margin of the corresponding superior rib usually sending downwards a smaller branch, which winds along the upper edge of the inferior rib; they ter- minate by anastomosing with similar branches Ironi the superior intercostal and thoracic aorta. From these, and sometimes from the internal mammary itsell, branches are thrown off" to supply the integuments of the thorax and the two pectorals. , , , . . Eamus Abdominalis descends m the back part oi the sheath of the rectus, to anastomose with the super- ficial and deep epigastrics. • i -j „„^f; Diaphragmatic arises opposite the xiphoid carti- lage and passes downwards and outwards behind the cartilages of the false ribs, supplying the diaphragm and sending small branches into the lower intercostal spaces, to anastomose with the aortic intercostals^ Superior Intercostal arises from the back part of the subclavian Avhile under cover of the anterior scalenus, and consequently in its second stage; it passes downwards and backwards, terminating on the right