30 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. in the contracted interval between the vertebral column and sternum, while the greater bulk of the latter are accommodated in the wider space between the angles of the ribs and the costal cartilages. Thethorax communi- cates with the cervical region by what has been termed its upper outlet. This is of an oval form, its greatest breadth, from side to side, cut oflf obliquely from above and behind, dowuAvards and forwards; bounded ante- riorly by the first bone of the sternum, extremity of the clavicle, and inter-clavicular ligaments; laterally by the first rib, and behind by the body of the first dor- sal vertebra. A vast number of most important parts traverse it, some descending from the neck to the chest, and others again taking a contrary direction. These will be all enumerated in their proper place. The inle- rior aperture of the thorax is of much greater extent than the superior, but it is of the same oval figure, and cut off obliquely from before downwards and backwards, bounded anteriorly by the xiphoid cartilage; laterally by thecartilagesof thelasttrue, and all the false with the last rib itself; and posteriorly by the last dorsal vertebra. In the natural condition of the parts a strong muscle, the diaphragm, is thrown across the opening, forming a partition between the abdominal and thoracic cavities and through certain foramina in it parts are transmitted essential to the vital functions of the individual. 1 he obliquity of these two openings explains the reason why the vertical measurement anteriorly is much shorter than that posteriorly, the superior being cut olt from above, and behind downwards and forwards the mierior from below and behind upwards and forwards. The chest in the female subject is shorter than that of the male, owing to the abdomen being longer for the purpose of utero-gestation, but it is deeper antero-pos- teriorly. The habit, however, of using stays and iga- tures around the body produces gradually a striking alteration in its original shape by narrowing tje infe- rior outlet, and thus rendering it of an ovoid foim. The injurious effects which this produces are not con- fined solely to the lungs, which are foijihly thrust upwards; but they act likewise on the abdominal vis-