291 LARYNX. and also the membrane in the concavity of the os hy- oides, a ligamentous layer is seen passing from that bone to the lingual nucleus (glosso-hyoid ligament); and deeper in the mesian line, but seen more easily from the inferior surface, between the genio-hyo-glossi, the lingual cartilage appears. This is triangular, the base posteriorly, apex in front; it is, however, incomplete, being pectinated similar to the septum of the penis; we have observed it to be often merely a ligamentous structure, without a vestige of cartilage, and fused with the fatty tissue of the base of the tongue. Three nerves are distributed to this organ; the lingual or ninth to the muscular structure, the glosso-pharyngeal to the mu- cous membrane at the base, and the gustatory to the papillated surface. The lingual branch of the external carotid, the ascending palatine, and tonsillitic arteries, also supply it. The functions of the tongue are numerous and im- portant: first, it is a material agent in mastication, also in deglutition and in the act of sucking, its retraction producing the requisite vacuum; secondly, as an agent in the articulation of sounds; thirdly, the sense of taste is located in its mucous surface. In many animals, as the woodpecker and chamelion, it subserves to the function of prehension; and in reptiles its motions are intimately connected with respiration. THE LARYNX. This organ of natural language in man is situated above the trachea and below the os hyoides, correspond- ing from the third to the fifth cervical vertebrae. Several different structures enter into its composition,—carti- lage, muscle, ligament, mucous membrane, vessels, and nerves, arranged with no slight degree of complexity. The student will, therefore, find great assistance by first studying a dry skeleton before proceeding to the examination of the recent larynx. The natural course to be pursued in the following description will be to describe the cartilages and ligaments; afterwards the muscles and openings of the tube. The larynx consists of eight cartilages, of which four are large and four small. 0 2