205 CARPAL ARTICULATION. dius. It accordingly not only forms a bond of union between the bones of the fore-arm, but likewise assists in completing the cavity for the reception of the bones of the carpus. Synovial Membrane.—This is peculiar to this arti- culation, but from the manner in which it is invested by fibrous tissue, and prolonged upwards between the radius and ulna, it has received the designation of a ligament, being termed the sacciform. It is attached internally to the styloid process of the ulna, and ex- ternally to the articular surface of the radius. Motions.—Kotatory, or pronation, and supination. Pronation.—This motion is much more extensive than supination, and can be carried so far that the ra- dius may lie across the ulna at a very oblique angle, the curvature in the former bone adding materially to its freedom of mobility in this direction. In this move- ment the ulna is invariably fixed, the head of the ra- dius rotates in the lesser sigmoid notch, and is protruded backwards, while its inferior extremity glides forwards on the rounded head of the ulna, performing in fact a motion of semicircumduction, Avhich is only limited by the assistance of the anterior and posterior ligaments, which connect the bones below,—the interrosseous and oblique being in a state of complete relaxation. In supination, on the contrary, exactly the reverse takes place, the head of the radius advancing forwards, its inferior extremity protruding backwards, but neither to the same extent as is observed in the preceding, for here both the interrosseous and oblique ligaments be- come decidedly tense, and allow the motion of supi- nation to be carried only to a certain point. Force suddenly applied to the hand, in either forced prona- tion or supination, is very liable to produce displace- ment of the head of the radius either backwards or forwards, the former being more likely to occur, ana- tomically considered. ARTICULATION OF THE WRIST. This is an arthrodial joint; or, according to some, a condylar throsis. A cavity is formed above by the ra-