612 NERVOUS SYSTEM. sinuses connected with the tentorium are,—the torcular Herophili, lateral, superior petrosal, and straight. Sphenoidal Fold of Dura Mater—Thick, round, and strong, but not very extensive, being a continua- tion outwards of the concave edge of the tentorium, is attached to the posterior edge of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, to which it is almost inseparably connected. Use and Relations.—To increase the anterior fossa of the base of the skull, and prevent the pressure of the anterior lobe on the sphenoidal lobule of the middle. It corresponds to the fissure of Sylvius at the base of the brain, but its ascent for any distance into that sul- cus is prevented by the arachnoid membrane passing from the anterior to the middle lobe, separating the fold from the middle cerebral artery. Falx Cerebelli To see this the tentorium should be raised. It is triangular, the base above, and attached to the tentorium, and the apex inferiorly at the foramen magnum, where it often bifurcates, so as to surround the posterior half of that opening; the posterior edge, thick and bifid, is connected to the vertical spine on the occipital bone, inclosing the occipital sinuses, while the anterior lies in the incisura posterior of the -cerebellum. Let the student now commence the examination of the sinuses in the base of the skull, the first being the ca- vernous or spheno-orbital. This is placed on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and is prismatic in form, consisting of an external covering of dura mater, with an internal venous lining. It is bounded exter- nally by the concave edge of the tentorium, expanding to line the middle cranial fossa; internally by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, covered by a perios- teal layer of the same membrane; posteriorly by the convex margin of the tentorium, attached to the poste- rior clinoid processes; and anteriorly, by the foramen lacerum orbitale. This fibrous space contains internally the deep carotid artery, on the external side of which runs the sixth nerve, and in its external wall are found the third, fourth, and ophthalmic division of the fifth; in the centre lies the venous sinus, which receives ante- riorly the ophthalmic vein; whilst posteriorly it ter-