172 THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. in the socket, but the radius, above, is the neck of the bone. In its lower part it does not revolve on an axis corresponding to the femur, but on an imaginary line supposed to be passed from the joint to the internal condyle. Rotation outwards is always better marked than that inwards. FEMORO-TIBIAL ARTICULATION. This is one of the most important articulations in the whole body, and as it is continually brought into action in all our movements, nature has been solicitous to confer on it the utmost security, in order to preserve the parts which compose it in proper apposition. For this reason we will find that its ligaments are extremely numerous, but so placed as in no degree to interfere -with the due degree of motion required, while it is fur- ther strengthened by a series of tendons, so disposed as to perform the office of ligaments, when their functions as muscles are no longer of value. It belongs to the class of angular ginglymus; but as it possesses a slight degree of rotatory motion, it is of course incomplete, though in all other respects it exhibits the usual cha- racteristics of this form of articulation. Its media of connexion consist of, first, an imperfect capsule; second, an anterior ligament; third, a posterior, or that of Wins- low; fourth, an external; fifth, an internal; sixth, a mucous; seventh, two alar; eighth, two crucial; ninth, ligament of Wrisberg; tenth, coronary; eleventh, trans- verse; twelve, two semilunar cartilages to deepen the cavity of the tibia for the reception of the condyles of the femur. The bones which enter into its formation are three:—the femur above; the tibia below, and the patella in front. Imperfect or Surgical Capsule.—This consists of three layers, the fascia lata most superficially, beneath which is an expansion from the adjacent tendons; and still deeper, a thin fibrous layer from the surrounding ligaments. The first of these, or the fascia lata, is extremely strong in this region. It is stretched tensely across, and is firmly inserted into the condyles at each side, adhering to the surface of the patella as it passes