CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. 596 tains from fifteen to twenty Graafian vesicles or ovisacs, the larger being found nearest to the surface; these cells of the ovary have two coats: first a dense but vas- cular capsule, lined internally by a granular membrane, the cavity being occupied by a granulary fluid, con- taining a few oily particles, together with the ovum. The latter appears as a small transparent vesicle, about 1-120th of an inch in diameter, attached to the inner surface of the Graafian ovisac by retinaculse, or the proli- gerous disc, and covered by a granular layer (tunica granulosa). The ovum possesses a dense but transpa- rent envelope that surrounds the yelk, being named zona pellucida (Valentin), or chorion (Wagner); in its centre is found the germinal vesicle, with the macula germinativa; these several parts being subject to changes or modifications in the progress of generation, which will be briefly alluded to hereafter. Vascular Supply of the Internal Organs.—The uterus receives its vessels from several sources, namely,— uterine branches of the internal iliac, vesical in front, and the middle hemorrhoidal posteriorly, and lastly, a few twigs from the spermatic arteries. The Veins are numerous and large, opening into the internal iliac, and communicating with the hemor- rhoidal and vesical plexuses. The Lymphatics consist of a superficial and deep set, the former being the more numerous; they join the pelvic and lumbar lymphatic glands. The Nerves of the Uterus are branches of the sacral and hypogastric plexuses of the sympathetic, the former appearing to preside over the reflex motor mfluences of the organ, and the latter subserving to the special generative functions of the uterus, as also associatmg it not only with the other parts of the urino-genital ap- paratus, but likewise with more distant organs. Vascular Supply of the OvARiES.-The spermatic arteries not only supply these glands, but also send branches to the uterus. , . , „ -l^^^ Nervous Supply.—This is derived from the hypo- ^""The veinrascend on the psoas muscle, and form a