THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 36 Humerus.—Occupies the highest part in the upper extremity, and belongs to the class of long bones. It is comparatively straight, slightly twisted inwards, ex- panded at either extremity, and constricted m its centre. It presents for consideration a head, anatomical neck, two tuberosities, a surgical neck, shaft, and inferior ex- tremity. The head is a rounded process of bone, form- inrr about one-third of a sphere, situated on the lateral and posterior part of the bone, looking upwards, back- wards, and inwards, and covered with cartilage, to arti- culate with the glenoid cavity of the scapula. It is limited all round by an irregular, slightly-depressed, wavy hne, the anatcmiical neck into which the capsular ligament of the joint is inserted. Directly below this, and on the anterior and external part of the bone, two promi- nent processes are observed, the greater and lesser tu- berosities; the former lying on a plane external to the latter, and presenting on its upper part three weii- marked facettes—the most superior for the supraspi- natus: the middle for the infraspinatus, and the interior for the teres minor. The coraco-humeral ligament is also inserted into it. The lesser tuberosity is more co- nical in shape, and presents only one facette for the attachment of the subscapularis. These two processes are separated from each other by a groove, deep above, but broad and shallow below. It is called the bicipi- tal, because the long tendon of the biceps plays through it in its course downwards and inwards to unite with its second or short head. The bicipital groove has two lips an anterior or external, and a posterior or internal; to the first is attached the pectoralis major to the second the latissimi dorsi and teres major. The space intercepted between the insertion of those muscles and the tuberosities has been called, from the i^^q^ency of fractures in this position, the surgical neck To the back part of this porti^on of the bone, and extending upward L 1 i'h as the facette for the teres minor, the external head of the triceps is attached; from its internal surface, as high up as the insertion of the teres major i s inner head'arises. The shaft of the bone is irregularly pris- matic presenting three margins: an anterior which is, Tu^^'sp aSng, the externallip of the bicipital groove,