KIDNEYS. 585 several tubes to the apex of the Malpighian pyramid, and is distilled in minute quantities from the small ori- fices of the papillae into the calyces, which we will now proceed to describe. Calyces are small, cup-like cavities, with their open mouths turned externally, and embracing one, two, or three papillae, of which they receive tlie contents. They are composed of a thin but strong fibrous sheath exter- nally, and are lined by mucous membrane internally; in number they are variable, but generally average from six to seven, and they terminate towards the hylus of the kidney in a small, funnel-shaped process, which, unitmg with an adjacent one, constitutes an infundibu- lum. These latter are short, thick tubes, and are almost invariably three in number,_a superior, middle, and an inferior. Of these the first is the longest, and the se- cond the shortest. They are composed precisely of the same structures as the calyces, and their convergence at the hylus, and ultimate union, constitute the com- mencement of the ureter, or, as it has been termed the pelvis. ' The urine, secreted from the kidney, is carried to the bladder, the rgservoir for its temporary reception by the ureters. These tubes are from fifteen to eighteen inches in length, and are nearly as large in caliber as a , goose-quill. As they pass downwards and inwards towards the true pelvis, they rest upon the psoas mus- . cle, bifurcation of the common iliac arteries, into ex- I ternal and internal, with their accompanying veins, and I the obturator vessels and nerves. They lie behind the i peritoneal sac, and are crossed at a very acute angle > while in the abdomen by the spermatic vessels; as they descend into the pelvis they pass behind the last coil ot the ilium on the right side, and the sigmoid flexure sand superior hemorrhoidal artery on the right- are inext enveloped in the posterior false liijaments of the tbladder, which conduct them to that organ, Avhere they mre crossed in front by the vasa deferentia, then pierc- ung the coats of the bladder, and, running forabout three- 'jquarters of an inch between them, they open at the ex- •tremity of the base of the trigone by a valvular orifice II he ureters have three tunics,_an external or peritoneal 2 c 3