802 ARTERIES AND VEINS. relative situation of the parts in the pterygo-pharyngeal space. This remarkable region is formed by the diva- rication of the internal pterygoid and superior constric- tor,—the former bounding it externally and the latter internally; its posterior wall constituted by the muscles of the spine, its base by a line drawn horizontally back- wards from the angle of the jaw to the vertebral co- lumn, while its apex is at the base of the skull, corre- sponding generally to the foramen commune posterius. Its contents may be thus generally stated:—Eighth, ninth, sympathetic, pharyngeal, and superior laryngeal nerves, internal carotid, pharyngeal and posterior pala- tine arteries, internal jugular vein, styloid process and muscles attached to it. The relation of the carotid ar- tery to the tonsil should here be specially noted, as it lies posterior to that gland. The examination of the pterygo-pharyngeal space is always better accomplished in the examination of the pharynx according to Bichat's section. Anomalies.—These are such as have been already in- dicated in the several origins of the external carotid, but we had an opportunity of observing, last winter, a very peculiar course of the internal carotid. It pursued at first its usual direction till it reached the base of the cranium, and then bent suddenly downwards and for- wards for about an inch and an half, when it as abruptly, and at an equally acute angle, again ascended vertically to the carotid foramen. It was at first supposed that the vessel was double until dissection revealed its abnor- mal disposition. Collateral Branches.—In its first stage it rarely gives off any, but in the second always a tympanic branch to anastomose with those of the external carotid and internal maxillary on the walls of that cavity; also a few small filaments (arteria receptaculi), for the supply of the cavernous sinus and Casserian ganglion; these require no separate description. In the third stage it throws off the ophthalmic, choroid, anterior and middle cerebral, and posterior communicating. OpHTHALinc.—This is always a large branch; it arises from a curve of the carotid, opposite the base of the anterior clinoid process, and enters the orbit