THE NOSE. 137 jand derived from several sources. The principal of these ids the olfactory, standing pre-eminent above the others :'ifrom the function over which it presides,—the sense of fsmell. At present we have merely to direct our atten- ttion to its termination, without regarding its remarka- tble origin, or the other peculiarities which it exhibits lin its course from the brain to the cribriform plate of tthe ethmoid, where it expands into its bulb. From its iinferior surface it throws off about twenty or twenty- tfive filaments, which enter the cavity of the nose through tthe small foramina of the perforated plate, each invested iwith its proper sheath, borrowed from the dura mater. ] Dividing now into three sets,—an external, middle, and iinternal, they descend between the mucous membrane iand the bony structure, forming plexuses at first, but L afterAvards pursuing their course in separate filaments ttobe lost in the mucous lining, into which they can be t traced. The external set stretch down as far as the mid- i die spongy bone; the middle cover the roof; while the i internal extend nearly as far as a horizontal line drawn t through the centre of the septum. Some anatomists as- : sert that they anastomose freely with the spheno-pala- : tine and proper nasal, but we are not quite certain of this fact. The spheno-palatine nerve is a branch from Meck- ' el's ganglion, which enters the nose through the fora- men of the same name from the pterygo-maxillary fossa. It divides into numerous branches, which ra- : mify on the surfaces of the septum and spongy bones. One filament has been invested with great importance from the anatomist who first described it,—the nerve of Cotunnius, or naso-palatine; it passes downwards and forwards along the caudate appendage of the septal cartilage, generally overlapped by the edge of the vomer till it reaches the incisive fossa, where it unites with the posterior palatine to form Cloquet's ganglion. These branches, as we learn from pathology, all preside over common sensation. The proper nasal is a branch of the ophthalmic divi- sion of the fifth, which leaves the orbit through the an- terior ethmoidal hole, enters the cavity of the cranium, and crosses the cribriform plate of the ethmoid anterior