THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. 216 the sympathetic system of nerves and the fibre is un- striped, the contractions being slow and rhythmical. The heart, although an organic muscle, is red, thick, and strong, the fibres presenting a faint striation. In addition to these, a third class of muscles exists, which are of a mixed character, as, the diaphragm, sphinc- ters, and oesophagus. Structure of Muscle—It consists of fibres varying in size, and irregular in shape, but usually angular, each surrounded by a proper sheath,—sarcolemma. This fibre, when examined with a power of 450 dia- meters, presents a number of transverse, equidistant, dark lines or stripes, with fainter longitudinal markings, by no means constant or regular in their appearance. The spaces intervening between the stripes are longer than broad when the fibre is quiescent, but the reverse during contraction. If this fibre is torn transversely, a disc results, but if longitudinally, a fibrilla (Bowman). The fibrilla is remarkably fine, and, without branching, it consists of a series of cells, which at their opposed edges produce the strias (Sharpey, Carpenter); or of a number of particles opposed by their extremities, con- stitutino- sarcous elements, the animal contents being termed °sarcine (Bowman), or of fibriUae constituting the fibre (Fontana, Hassal). The organic muscular fibre is more simple; smaller than the voluntary; flattened, without transverse markings, and containing numerous nuclei imbedded in its tissue, indicative of the primary development from nucleated cells. Their diameter is from the l-2000th to the l-3000th of an inch. The tendons of muscles are composed of white fibrous tissue; the sarcolemma of the fibres being continuous with them, and each fibre terminating individually either m or on their extremities. Muscles are the active agents of the economy,—con- tractility, or the generation of power, being the inhe- rent attribute of the fibre,-the force of any given muscle being exactly in proportion to the quantity of fibres that it contains. The fibres m sustained action diminish one-third of their original length, but where a limited extent of motion is requisite, and where energy and power are also of importance, the fibres are