CARPUS. 43 about the second year, and one for tbe upper, about the ninth. They are all united, and form a whole about the twentieth year after birth. Hand.—The hand, subservient to the functions which it is destined by nature to perform, is endowed with an organization far more complex than the other parts of the body. To bestow upon it variety of motion we find that it is composed of a great number of bones, firmly bound together by powerful ligaments, and yet allowing a certain degree of freedom to adapt it to those offices which it is momentarily called on to perform. In order to render its structure more simple, anato- mists have divided it into three distinct parts: the superior, consisting of the eight small bones, the carpus; the middle, consisting of the five intermediate; the me- tacarpal, and the inferior of the last fourteen, the pha- langes. The Carpus—The assemblage of bones constituting the carpus are arranged in two distinct rows,—a supe- rior and inferior,—four in each. Taking the first from without inwards, we find it to be composed of the sca- phoid, semilunar, cuneiform, pisiform; the second, in the same direction, of the trapezium, trapezoid, os mag- num, and unciform. We will now proceed to give a brief description of each, beginning with the scaphoid. Scaphoid—This bone is very irregular in figure, being elongated from without inwards, and boat-shaped as its name implies. Superiorly and externally we ob- serve on it an oval surface covered with cartilage, con- vex, looking upwards and backwards for articulation with the radius; inferiorly and internally a large con- cave facette, looking downwards and forwards to receive the head of the os magnum; external to this, but still inferiorly, a smaller facette of the same shape, but con- vex, to unite with the trapezium, while the small ridge that separates the two discs looks downwards to articu- late with the trapezoid; internally it presents a flattened surface, to articulate with the semilunar; externally it terminates in a rounded extremity, which gives attach- ment to the external lateral, annular ligaments, and the aponeuroses of the abductor, opponens, and outer