389 SCROTUM. tended, but in consequence of the density of the areolar tissue beneath the raphe, the swelling may only affect one side, at least for some time; a similar condition is observed in diffused areolar emphysema. Scrotal FAsciA.—This is a prolongation of Scarpa's trom the abdomen; passing downwards on the cord, it covers the scrotum, adhering to the rami of the ischium and pubis on each side, ascending in the mesian line to lorm the septum, being attached to the urethra above; then, passing backwards, and increasing in strength, it forms the perineal fascia; thus it is that urine extravasated in the perineum reaches the scrotum and abdomen. On this fascia three superficial nerves are seen on each side — the external long pudendal, a branch of the inferior glu- teal which ascends from the perineum, and is continued as lar forwards as the penis; also the long perineal anterior and posterior branches of the pudic lie a little internal to the former, but have a similar destination. Many subcutaneous veins are likewise visible; these run to- wards the root of the scrotum, and pour their contents into the vens tegumentorum of the penis. The super- ficial arteries are the terminal branches of the long pe- rineal, and the inferior superficial pudic of the femoral ar- tery; but the principal branches of the latter are distri- buted to the integument of the penis. Tunica .Communis vel Erythroidea is formed of the expanded cremasteric fibres, placed between the in- ternal and external spoutlike fascise. In fcEtal life the cremaster consisted of two distinct portions, namely abdominal and scrotal; these, in accordance with the views of Mr. Curling, have special functions in relation to the descent of the testicle; each abdominal portion ?' Kr ' ^°"P^"'^ lig^^^^^t; fasci- culus ascends obliquely upwards and inwards; the second origin is from the spine of the pubis, and tendon of the rectus abdominis, and also ascends to the testicle, in- cluding between the internal and external portions the gubernaculum testis; the scrotal portion passes downward frona the spine of the pubis to be attached to the bottom of that cavity. By the gradual contraction of the ab- dominal portion the gland is carried to the pubis, and during its descent the cremaster is involuted, so that