THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 28 ceedingly spongy, two thin plates of compact tissue covering it in anteriorly and posteriorly. In its deve- lopment it is exceedingly late, the first ossific point not appearing till after the fifth month for the first piece, -while the others are not visible for some time longer. Generally speaking, there is a single point for each sepa- rate piece, but these are very often found double. The hole which exists occasionally between the first and se- cond piece is clearly an arrest of development in cases where there are double ossific points for the upper portion. The costal cartilages, which complete the thorax in front and -laterally, are remarkable for their elasticity and promptness to recover their original shape and posi- tion when distorted by the motions of the thorax. Hence they perform an important function by aiding the expiratory muscles, in restoring the cavity to its former dimensions after inspiration. In number they are twelve, and, like the ribs, they increase in length from the first to the seventh, and again gradually de- crease from that point to the twelfth. The first costal cartilage is remarkable for its shortness and thickness, and for the wide interval which separates it from the one below. The second, third, and fourth present no peculiar features; but the fifth, sixth, and seventh are found to approximate each other, so as to be completely in contact at their point of connexion with the sternum. The eighth, ninth, and tenth are much narrower, and more curved than the true; they taper off" gradu- ally towards their anterior extremity; become blended with each other, and the common cartilage thus formed is ultimately joined to that of the seventh rib; thus af- fording them a species of attachment to the sternum in front. The eleventh and twelfth are only a few lines in length, and terminate abruptly between the layers of muscles constituting the abdominal wall. If we now turn our attention to the mode of union between those cartilages and the osseous structures which they con- nect, we will find, as already explained, that there exists in the extremity of the rib a deep oval depression, into which the cartilage is imbedded, and the union between the two is still further strengthened by a process oi thinbut extremely strong fibrous tissue which stretches