604 NERVOUS SYSTEM. the brain and spinal cord were absent tlie nerves were ob- served to arise from a granular and cellular matter by looped extremities. Some authorities, however, conceive that their extremities are connected with the caudate prolongations of the ganglionic cells, but this opinion is far from being proved. Development of Nervous Tissue.—Ta.Q nerves appear to be formed by the fusion of primary cells, arranged in rows, thus constituting a secondary cell; and when a nerve can first be distinguished it appears as a pale cord, with longitudinal fibrillation profusely nucleated, from which filaments can be detached, these also contammg nuclei. These fibrillse are pale, granulated, and hol- low at this period; but a secondary deposit takes place on the inner surface of the cell membrane of the se- condary nervous cell, and this deposit is fatty, and white in colour, giving the future opacity to the nerve. As the deposit increases, the volume of the nerve is aug- mented, and displays a double contour under the mi- croscope, indicating a tubular character. The nuclei now disappear, but slowly, so that some few remain visible for a longer period, the cavity appearing to be filled up by a firm, consistent substance,—the band of Eemak; so that the adult nerve seems to consist of, first, the cell membrane; secondly, a white, fatty sub- stance; and thirdly, the band of Remak. Coverings of the Brain.—The membranes ol the brain are three in number,—namely, the dura mater, which is fibrous; the arachnoid, serous; and the pia mater, an areolo-vascular tissue; these lying from su- perficial to deep in the order of enumeration. Dura Mater.—In order to examine this membrane, with the inclosed organ, the brain, a variety of modes have been adopted. If the scalp has been dissected, it will only be requisite to remove the calvanum at once; but if, on the other hand, the tegumentary tissue re- mains entire, and the object is merely to examine the pathological appearances of the contained organ, a dil- Lent mode of proceeding must be pursued. An inci- sion may be carried round the scalp above the ears, or the crucial division may be adopted, turning down four flaps; but if cleanliness and avoidance of disfigurement