423 BLADDER, bands, extending from the vesical orifice of the ureter to the uvula, and posteriorly by a curved line, the con- vexity directed forwards, drawn between the ureteric orifices. At the sides, this space measures about one inch and a quarter, and in the centre three-quarters of an inch. These lateral bands have been described by Bell as muscles arising from the vesical orifice of the ureter, and inserted into the uvula; their use being to preserve the obliquity of that tube, and prevent regur- gitation when the bladder is distended. Mr. Guthrie believes that they are of utility in preserving the pa- tency of these openings; and Amussat, that they draw downwards and backwards the uvula, and thus dilate the urethral orifice; they are not present in the female, which would go far to prove that their importance in preventing regurgitation is somewhat exaggerated. "In a subject, the bladder was carefully opened, and a sharp- pointed bistoury inserted beneath them, so as to divide all their fibres; a quantity of fluid was then introduced into the organ, the opening and urethra being secured. Forcible pressure was now made, but no fluid escaped mto the ureters."—(Dr. Harrison, in Todd's Encyclope- dia, Art. Bladder.) We have examined this portion of the bladder with much care, and have found these muscles in many instances absent, their place being Supplied by an elastic band of a similar structure to the trigone Itself; the latter always exhibited a well-marked elastic structure. On tracing it forwards, it expanded around the urethral orifice, becoming much thickened, receiv- mg externally the deep insertion of the longitudinal fibres of the bladder; in some cases only could any cir- cular muscular fibres be detected, so that their presence cannot be essential to the functions of the part. Dr. Harrison describes the opening as consisting, superiorly and laterally, of muscular fibres, the floor of the neck being fibrous merely. The retention of the urine in the bladder would in part depend on muscular contractility, and be assisted by elastic pressure in some degree (Todd's Encyclopedia, Art. Bladder). The Openings of the Ureters are two oblique slits at the posterior and lateral angle of the trigone; the long measurement of each aperture being directed ob-