ARTEEIES AND VEINS. 824 Anomalies.—It may arise in common with the poste- rior, or from the long thoracic or subscapular. Posterior Circumflex.—Large; arises close to the preceding, and, passing backwards and outwards through a quadrilateral space, behind the joint, divides into three sets of branches,—scapular, to anastomose with the suprascapular; articular, to supply the joint; and muscular, to the deltoid, anastomosing with the ante- rior circumflex. Helations.—As it winds backwards: above, the capsu- lar ligament and circumflex nerve ; below, the teres major and latissimus dorsi; externally, neck of hume- rus; and internally, long head of triceps. ^ftoni«/2e5.—Frequently from the subscapular, ante- rior circumflex, or long thoracic; occasionally from the superior profunda, where its course to reach its destma- tion is peculiar, no longer passing through the quadri- lateral space just described, but through another below the axillary cavity, triangular in shape, and bounded as follows: Above, teres major and latissimus dorsi;ex- ternally, shaft of humerus; and internally, long head of triceps. . Subscapular.—The largest branch of the axillary, arising opposite the lower margin of the tendon of the same name, and passing downwards, backwards, and m- Avards, for about an inch, divides into two branches,—an anterior or proper subscapular, and a posterior or cir- cumflexus, or dorsalis scapulas. Eelations.—Antev'wrly, internal cutaneous, ulnar and musculo-spiral nerves, with the subscapular and axillary vein; posteriorly, tendon of subscapular. Anterior or Continued Trunk.—Passes doAvnwards and backwards, along the inferior margin of the sub- scapular muscle, and reaches the inferior angle ot the scapula, where it anastomoses with the posterior scapu- lar and dorsalis scapulas. . CiRcuMFLExas or Dorsalis Scapul.e.—From its size the proper continuation of the subscapular trunk; it l,assc.s backwards through a triangular space, bounded externally by the long bend of the triceps; above by the teres minor; and below by the teres major and Jatissi-