HEART. 527 dition, the apex is double, both ventricles conspiring to its formation, and the disparity between the auricles and ventricles is much more marked than in the adult, the left side being also more capacious than the right for obvious reasons. The action of the heart is to propel the blood through the vascular system, exercising a pressure on that fluid equivalent to a weight of four pounds three ounces. The external manifestations of its contractions consist of an impulse, a first sound followed by a second, and lastly, an interval. The impulse is caused by the apex of the heart striking against the space between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth -ribs. This occurs during the systole or contraction of the ventricles, and has been attributed to several causes, namely, 1o the propulsion of the blood into the curved arch of the aorta, and the consequent tendency of that tube being to assume the straight position, tilts forwards the apex of the heart (Hunter, Senac); also to the fact, that the posterior fibres of the right ventricle are shorter than the anterior, and the latter, contracting one-third of their length^ curve the apex forwards; it has likewise been accounted for by the spiral direction of the fibres, as well as by the dilatation of the ventricles. The first sound is some- what dull and prolonged, and is conceived to arise from the sudden tension of the mitral and tricuspid valves (Dr. Billing). Again, others believe that it is produced by the contraction of the ventricles (Williams), regard- ing it as a muscular sound, but these views are, how- ever, open to objections. The second sound is more sharp and abrupt in its character, being caused by the flapping of the aortic valves (Dublin Committee, Hope) If the penod occupied by the first and second sounds with the interval, is divided into four parts, the first would occupy two, the second and the interval one each. The heart at each contraction propels from one ounce and a half to two ounces into the systemic cir- culation, so that taking the whole mass of the blood as being on an average about twenty-eight pounds, it would pass through the heart in a period of from three to four minutes, but the rapidity of the contraction of the orean will materially aflFect this estimate, and it is on this ac-