ABSORBENTS. 899 the aorta and vena cava, and ultimately reaching the thoracic duct. The lymphatic vessels of the spleen, pancreas, and stomach being similar to those of other organs, it will be only necessary to state that, passing through the neighbouring gland, they terminate in the thoracic duct. Intestinal Lacteals commence on the villi of the intestines (see Anatomy of Abdomen), and, passing through the mesenteric glands, they terminate in the receptaculum chyli; but, in addition to these, there are proper lymphatics for the hollow intestines, some of which pass through the lumbar, others through the mesenteric glands, to reach the commencement of the thoracic duct. Lymphatic Glands of the Thorax consist of those which lie in the walls and the intrathoracic set. The first or posterior intercostal are variable in number, lying at the posterior part of the intercostal space, while the second or anterior lie along the internal mammary vessels, one for each intercostal space; the intrathoracic are, the anterior mediastinal, lying in the inferior part of that space, and the posterior mediastinal, occupying that region in front of the oesophagus and aorta, also pulmonary, which are principally found in the vicinity of the roots of the lung, being of a dark colour, parti- cularly in the old, from the absorption of carbon. The Lymphatic Vessels are similarly arranged. The intercostal lymphatics accompany the vessels of that name, passing through their proper glands, and open into the thoracic duct. The internal mammary lym- phatics commence in the parietes of the abdomen, pass upwards behind the ensiform cartilage, and then behind the margin of the sternum and through the glands, in this situation opening on the right side into the lesser, and on the left into the greater thoracic duct. Lymphatics of the Lungs (see Anatomy of Lungs). Lymphatics of the Heart consist of a superficial and deep set, some of which open into the thoracic duct, whilst others join the pulmonary lymphatics. Lymphatic Glands of the Head and Face are found behind the ears and beneath the insertion of the sterno- mastoid, and, in addition to these, the pituitary body