THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 238 deepen the tegumentary sulcus extending from the ala of the nose to the angle of the mouth; this is known as the abdominal angle, in consequence of its characteristic contour in disease of that cavity. Orbicularis Oris.—Surrounds the oral aperture, and consists of two semi-elliptical planes, united at the commissures; the fibres are of unequal thickness in dif- ferent individuals, turned outwards at the free margin, and intersecting with each other at the angles of the mouth; the superior are united with the lower fibres, and the inferior with the upper fibres of the bucci- nator. Beneath the integument of the filtrum, or space of skin beneath the nose, a band of fibres pass, at first upwards, and then turn forwards, to be inserted into the anterior extremity of the septum nasi; this might be separately described as the naso-labialis; in depth the superior segment extends from the septum to the free margin of the lip; and the inferior, from the trans- verse depression bounding the chin to the free border of the lower lip. Relations.—It receives the insertions of the labial and angular muscles, and lies on the mucous membrane and coronary arteries, covered by the integument. Ac- tion To diminish the oral aperture; assists also in pre- hension, and articulation of certain consonants. The Oral Muscles connected with the lower jaw are four pair proper, namely,—musculus risorius of Santorini, triangularis oris, quadratus menti, and levator labii inferioris; one common to the upper and lower jaw,—the buccinator. Musculus Risorius.— Consists of a flat plane of pale muscular fibre, evidently a portion of the pla- tysma myhoides, arising from the masseter and angle of the jaw, and inserted into the angle of the mouth and integument; wide at the origin, narrow at its insertion, and unequally developed in different individuals. It covers the lower portion of the parotid, the masseter, triangularis oris, facial vein, artery, and buccinator, and lies immediately beneath the skin. We have never seen this muscle extending to the occipital or mastoid process, as described by Gruveilhier, but have observed its frequent absence.