223 MUSCLES OF THE EAR. the fine integument which covers the auricle. They are large and well marked in the lower animals, but merely- rudimentary in man. The division into a common and proper set is that usually adopted,—the former being three, the latter five, in number. Common Muscles.—Attrahens aurem, attollens au- rem, retrahens aurem. Attrahens Aurem, weak and indistinct, arises from the temporal fascia and epicranial layer, passes back- wards, and is inserted into the descending portion of the helix. Relations.—It lies on the temporal fascia and vessels, and epicranial layer; it is covered by the inte- guments and superficial fascia. Action.—To draw for- ward the helix, and thus dilate the concha. Attollens Aurem, triangular, arises broad and ex- panded from the epicranial aponeurosis and temporal fascia, passes downwards,—the fibres converging to be inserted into the upper part of the concha. A branch of the lesser occipital nerve supplies it. Relations.—It lies on the temporal and epicranial aponeurosis, and is covered by the integuments; it is often united by its anterior margin with the attollens aurem. Action—To elevate the whole auricle, and dilate the concha. Retrahens Aurem, the strongest of the three mus- cles, arises double, sometimes by three portions, from the base of the mastoid process, passes forwards, and is inserted tendinous into the posterior part of the concha. Relations It lies on the bone and posterior auris ar- tery, and is covered by the skin; a branch of the pos- terior auricular nerve enters it. Action.—To retract the whole auricle, and assist the other muscles in dilat- ing the concha. The Proper Muscles of the ear are,—the helicis ma- jor and minor, the tragicus, antitragicus, and trans- verso-helicis. These are seen by removing the fine integument cautiously from the concave surface of the auricle. Helicis Major.—A flat, oval bundle of fibres, wide and fleshy in the centre, narrow and tendinous at each extremity; it lies immediately beneath the integument, on the superior and descending portion of the helix,