THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 422 connexion of the muscular fibres, and also assist in pre- venting over-distention. Use of the Muscular Coat—It diminishes the capacity of the whole organ, the deep fibres assisting at the same time in expanding the neck; they are much more energetic than the similar coats of other hollow viscera, and receive the principal amount of the blood supplied to the organ. The external layer, or detru- sor urinse, is partly under the control of the wiU, and in some degree involuntary; when the bladder is in the ordinary state of distention, the stimulus of pressure exercised by the urine is the excitor of reflex action, not only on the detrusor urinse, but likewise on the muscles associated in the acts of expulsion, these being, the levator es ani, abdominal muscles, and dia- phragm, with the acceleratores urinse. Now lay open the cavity from above to within an inch of the prostate, and examine the several parts brought into view. The mu- cous membrane is thin, and of a light reddish tinge, pale in the summit and body, more vascular inferiorly, smooth in all situations, nor does it possess the same amount of sensibility as the mucous lining of the ure- thra. A very small amount of mucous secretion is found upon its surface, insomuch that some authors have de- nied the existence of mucous follicles altogether; but they are present in large numbers, but still are exceed- ingly small and obscure. The cervix diminishes as it approaches the urethral orifice, the latter representing a semi-ellipse, the long axis placed transversely. Project- ing into its lower part is a small papillar elevation of mucous membrane, named uvula, or luette vesicae; this is not by any means constant. On either side of this, folds sometimes exist, with their concavities directed forwards; these are formed by the posterior expansion and bil'urcation of the verumontanum. Amussat con- ceived that he had detected transverse muscular fibres m connexion with them, and named the elevated crest the pyloric valve; but this is also a variable arrangement. Posterior to the uvula the structure of the bladder is pale, but thick, and highly sensitive; this is called tri- gone vesicae,—triangular in shape, the base posteriorly, the apex at the uvula, bounded laterally by two elevated