864 ARTERIES AND VEINS. the gastrocnemius, tendons of semitendinosus,^ gracilis, sartorius, and expansion from internal lateral ligament; and on the front of the joint also divides into two branches,—a deep, to supply its interior; and a superfi- cial, to anastomose with its fellow and anterior tibial recurrent. AzYGOs Articular.—Always small; it pierces the ligament of Winslow, and, entering the joint, is distri- j buted to the crucial ligaments. Sural Long slender branches, irregular as to num- ber; they spring from the superficial surface of the popiitasal, and, passing downwards, are principally dis- tributed to the muscles on the back of the leg. Remarks.—The branches of the popliteal are very variable both in origin and size, but where those of one side are found to be small, those on the other are pro- portionably large. . . Posterior Tibial.—This is the direct continuation ot the poplitajal, both in size and direction. It arises op- posite to the lower edge of the poplit^us, and, passing downwards and inwards, terminates by dividing into the external and internal plantar arteries, between the internal malleolus and os calcis, and likewise between the two heads of origin of the abductor poUicis. _ Relations.—It is covered in its two superior thirds by the gastrocnemius, solteus, plantaris, deep fascia, and posterior tibial nerve; and it rests on the tibialis posti- cus, flexor digitorum communis, and lower and back part of tibia, separated by a cushion of fat. Remarks.—Much importance has been latter y attri- buted to the tendinous arch between the two heads ot the solaius, beneath which the artery glides to reach the posterior part of the leg. Its obvious use appears to be. to prevent compression of the vessel from the contrac- tion of the muscle, stretching, as it does, from bone to bone, its concavity being directed forwards or towards theartery, and it can always be easily shown by cutting across the tendo Achillis, and then dissecting up the superficial from the deep muscles. The posterior tibial nerve lies to the inside of this vessel at its oi-'gi^^' it crosses it at the junction of its superior_ and middle thirds, so as to become external to it. In its mfcrior part