588 CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. sively; the latter include the uterus and its appendages, or peritoneal ligaments, and Fallopian tubes, with the ovaries. MoNS Veneris is formed by the prominent pubic symphisis, covered by a strong layer of integument, a cushion of dense fatty matter being interposed between them; the surface is studded by strong hairs at the age of puberty. Labia 'Majora are two tumid folds of integument continuous before with the mous, and behind uniting to constitute the fourchette, inclosing a space between them of an elliptical figure, named the vulva: externally they are flattened, being much thicker before than be- hind, and are covered by scattered hairs, internally being smooth and lined by a mucous membrane, while anteriorly and internally they lie in contact with each other. The areolar tissue interposed between the folds of integument is lax and much disposed to oedema in difficult parturition; and the vessels also, being slightly supported, sometimes rupture, producing the disease termed "thrombus," as described by Dr. Montgomery. Posterior to the fourchette, and anterior to the anus, there exists a space from three-quarters to an inch in width, where the skin, fine, thin, and highly elastic, pre- sents a brownish colour, and forms the perineum. Labia Minora will be exposed by separating the ma- jora, internal to which they lie, being formed of a dou- ble fold of mucous membrane, commencing at the inner surface of the great labia; small at first, they gradually increase as they ascend, then divide into two folds, one of which is attached to the clitoris, while the other unites with its fellow, above that point forming the prteputium clitoridis. The mucous membrane forming these folds is highly vascular, and furnished with a num- ber of simple follicles that lubricate the surface with a continual secretion. The labia minora are large m the infant, and particularly so in the Hottentot, where they project beyond the majora; we have seen them altoge- ther absent. , i • ^ Clitoris appears as a projecting tubercle hal -an-incli below and behind the anterior commissure of the vulva, bounded above by the union of the nymphaj, and the