25 RIBS. downwards. This is called the angle, and to that part of the bone intercepted between it and the tubercle on its posterior surface are inserted the great extensors of the spine. The shaft is the flattened portion of the bone between the angle behind and costal cartilao-e in front. It presents for examination two surfaces, an external and internal, and two margins, a superior 'and inferior. The external surface is flattened and very convex from before backwards, broader posteriorly than anteriorly. They give attachment to the great muscles of respiration, the serrati, pectorals, obliquus exter- nus, rectus, latissimus, dorsi, &c. The internal surface, concave from behind forwards, is covered by the pleura! The upper margin is rounded and smooth, and forms a smaller circle than the lower, which is deeply grooved for the reception of the intercostal vessels and nerves. This groove occupies about the posterior two-thirds of the bone, and is gradually lost as it approximates its anterior extremity. Its external lip is much deeper than Its internal, and to each is attached the muscles of the same name. The anterior extremity is deeply ex- cavated for the reception of the costal cartilage which is imbedded in it. The first rib is recognised immediately by its peculiar shape. It forms a larger segment, but of a smaller circle, than the others, and presents no angle of torsion Its head is small and rounded, and has only onefacette," as it articulates with one vertebra only, viz., the first' Its neck is contracted and small, while its tubercle is very prominent and differs from all the rest in its arti- culating facette being placed on its upper portion. Its two surfaces are very broad and flat, but they can no longer be called external or internal, but superior and mferior—one looking upwards, the other downwards, ihe upper presents the following peculiarities: a su- perficial groove anteriorly for the subclavian vein- behind this, a tubercle for the attachment of the sca- lenus anticus; behind this, another groove for the sub- clavian artery; and posterior to this, a longitudinal rid^e tor the insertion of the scalenus medius. The under surface presents nothing remarkable: it has no groove- the anterior margin is very convex, while the posterior c