THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 118 ture in which the cylinders are imbedded in their course. The tubes present two systems of curves,—pri- mary and secondary; the angles, by alternately inter- cepting the light, produce their apparently baccated condition. The object of these osseous vessels appears to be for the purpose of conveying the elements of nu- trition to the most remote portions of the dental struc- ture, being similar in function to the Haversian canals of long bones ; they likewise, by their direction and numerous incurvations, produce strength, and confer a certain degree of elasticity on the tooth structure. Cementum, crusta petrosa, or tooth bone, surrounds the root, lines the vascular canal for some distance, and at the emergence of the tooth covers the enamel with a thin stratum. It is thickest at the extremity of the fang, and presents true lacunas and canaliculi exactly similar to the bones of the true skeleton. Development.—This process consists of four stages, the papillar, follicular, saccular, and eruptive. It will be preferable in an anatomical work merely to present a general view of the subject, referring to trea- tises on structural anatomy for more exact informa- tion. (See Miiller by Baily, Todd and Bowman's Phy- siology of Man, and Dr. Carpenter's beautiful work on General Physiology.) It may be stated generally, that about the sixth week the superior maxillary bone presents a shallow groove anterior to the palate-plate or its rudiment, lined by mucous membrane. The first stage consists of the development of a series of papillae; within the sulcus folds are produced, separating the papillas, the rudiments of the future alveolar septa, representing the follicular stage. From the margins of the follicle, opercula or coverlids overlap the papillae, forming closed saccules, or the third stage. The crown of the tooth is first developed from the dentinal pulp, the enamel by a second and distinct pulp, the ossifying sur- face being the columnar epithelium of the enclosed mucous membrane; the cementum is a subsequent formation, probably derived from a distinct membrane, which, from the fact that the enamel is covered by a thin layer at the period of eruption, would seem to