THE NOSE. 131 form plate of the ethmoid, which is directed nearly ver- tically downwards, and the body of the sphenoid, the aspect of which is downwards and forwards. Five bones contribute to form the septum,—the vomer, nasal lamella of the ethmoid, azygos process of the sphenoid, with the crests of the palate and superior maxillary. Each of these nares are again subdivided into a series of minor cavities, three in number, called meatuses, which are deep grooves lying between the spongy bones. These are three in number, the two superior connected with the ethmoid, of which they form a part, as we have already stated in the description of that bone, having between them a broad fissure directed downwards and backwards,—the superior meatus. Beneath the middle turbinated bone we have the inferior, attached to all the bones constituting the outer wall, except the inter- nal pterygoid plate, as far back as which it rarely ex- tends, but a similar groove exists between it and the one above,—the middle meatus, the anterior part of which is curved upwards and forwards, while its posterior is nearly horizontal, but with a slight inclination down- wards and backwards. Between the inferior turbinated bone and the floor of the nose another channel is left, longer than the other two, but narrower towards the centre,—the inferior meatus; this receives the secretion from the other two, previous to its being expelled from the anterior orifice of the cavity, or its being swallowed with the saliva, as it invariably trickles down the back part of the pharynx. These meatuses are very apparent if we look into the posterior nares, as well as the curled appearance of the spongy bones as they lie above each other, their convexities directed towards the septum, from which they are distant generally two or three lines, but occasionally they are in contact with it. Anteriorly they have no communication with each other, but pos- teriorly their extremities are free, leaving patulous in- tervals between each, by which they freely communi- cate with each other, and with the cavity of the pharynx. The superior meatus receives the openings of the sphe- noidal sinus, the posterior ethmoidal cells, and spheno- palatine hole. The orifice of the first of these is usually single, but the cells of the ethmoid have distinct aper-