734 NERVOUS SYSTEM. deep surface of the cuticle consists of granular cells, and the nearer the superficial aspect is approached the more the cell character disappears, being replaced by scales which still present a trace of their former nuclei. Rete Mucosum consists of immature epidermic cor- puscles, containing iron or carbon, phosphate of lime, and animal matter, as pigment granules. This layer is black in the negro, and of a fawn colour in the European, being well marked in the latter in the perineum, scro- tum, neighbourhood of the anus, and around the nipple of the pregnant female. Breschet also conceived that there were special glands for the secretion of this struc- ture situated in the cutis vera. Cutis Vera consists of an elastic membranous layer, having two surfaces,—the superficial being irregular, but smooth, constituting the papillary layer; Avhilst the deeper portion is dense, where it approaches the surface, but becoming lax inferiorly, and blended by irregular prolongations with the subcutaneous areolar tissue. The'^'ACTiLE Papillary Layer exists on the whole external surface of the cutis; but the number and size of the papillae predominate in those situations where tac- tile sensibility is at its maximum,—for example, at the extremities of the fingers, on the tongue, palm of the hand, and soles of the feet, being usually developed in an inverse ratio to the thickness of the subjacent cutis. The surface presents furrows which pursue various di- rections, separated by intervening ridges, which may be curved tortuous, or concentric, indicatmg the disposi- tion of the tactile organ. The ridges result from a sin- gle or double row of conical processes or papilhe, which proiect from the surface of the cutis, the papillffi bemg arranged in pairs; shallow surface grooves indicating the spaces between them, and passing transversely to tho long axis of the ridges; whilst in the centre of the linear elevation a dark point indicates the opening of the sudo- riferous duct. The papillfe are often of unequal size m the same ridge, but their average length is about Tooth of an inch, and the diameter at the base about ^^^th. Their outline is well defined when viewed with a power of 500, and they appear semitransparent, flexible, and, if not very forcibly bent, returning to their former po-