COSTAL LIGAMENTS. 161 !)ther, when we may observe its fibres stretching irre- -i-ularly from one facette to the other; it is likewise iDrovided with a synovial membrane. The articulations just described are remarkable for tbheir strength, admitting of very slight motion, strictly sppeaking, but when propagated along the curved lever ivvhich the rib represents, it becomes amply sufficient fcbr the proper distention of the thorax. In its act of B2xpansion, the tubercle glides to a certain extent on tbhe transverse process, communicating a species ^ of se- imirotatory movement to its head, which plays in the wocket formed by the contiguous vertebrce and inter- Tfening intervertebral substance. CHONDRO-COSTAL AND CHONDRO-STERNAL ARTI- CULATIONS. The union between the ribs and their cartilages is vvery peculiar: the extremities of the former are exca- vvated, and into these the cartilages are implanted, while tithe, periosteum is continued uninterrupted from the .one to the other. The connexion between them is very iintimate, although there are no ligaments for their secu- rrity. The cartilages are in the same manner imbedded iin grooves in the sides of the sternum, according to ssome authorities having a synovial membrane inter- pposed, but this we have hitherto been unable satisfac- ttorily to demonstrate: They have for their security a ssuperior and inferior, an anterior and posterior liga- nment. The Superior and Inferior Ligaments scarcely deserve • the name as such, being merely processes of fibrous tis- -sue extending from the sides of the sternum to the up- . per and lower margins of the costal cartilages; but the a anterior and posterior are much better marked, parti- cularly the first, which stretches obliquely from the aanterior surface of the cartUage of one side, decussating ^with its fellow across the sternum. It is covered by tthe aponeurosis of the great pectoral muscle. The Posterior Chondro-sternal.—This is much >weaker than the last, but is arranged in a similar man- iner, presenting the same radiated appearance on the I