241 MUSCLES OF THE FACE, are distended, to expel the air or fluid which the mouth may contain. When expelling air the action of the or- bicularis may graduate the column, as when playing on wind instruments, and hence the name buccinator or trumpeter's muscle. It also presses the food between the teeth, thus assisting in mastication and deglutition. Eqt the Vessels of the face, see Vascular System. For the Nerves, see Nervous System. General Remarks.—The muscles of the face are in many subjects but slightly developed; in others well marked, producing a decided contour of the more pro- minent points of the countenance. Their number is not less remarkable than the peculiar association of their action during expression, and the various evidences of mental emotion, whether connected with pleasing sensations, or indicative of painful impressions. These sudden changes are in part volitional; but under many circumstances the features are thrown into forms exhi- biting perfectly the working of the innermost thoughts, notwithstandins; the most violent efforts which the iudi- vidual may put in action to control them. Habit exer- cises a considerable influence on their action; the fre- quent repetition of the same expression may leave a peculiar contour, although the sensation which caused it has vanished; in this way those striking alterations of the features may be produced, which continue as the outward signs of those deep mental operations that mark the dissimilarity of man from all other animals. Independent of expression, their action is important as the regulators of the several openings with which they : are connected, as the eye, nose, and mouth; but as the action of each has been described with its anatomy, we will avoid any further allusion to the subject, and refer the student to the work of Sir C. Bell on Expression. DEEP MUSCLES OF THE FACE. The Deep Muscles of the face are four pair,—masseter, temporal, and the external and internal pterygoids. The masseter covers the external side of the ramus of the lower jaw, tendinous above, thick and fleshy below; it M