THE PARIETAL BONE. 83 of the temporal bone. Its internal surface is concave and uneven, being marked like the frontal with the mammary eminences and digital depressions correspond- ing to the sinuosities of the brain; it is likewise tra- versed by several grooves for the middle meningeal artery; one better marked than the rest appears in front for the trunk; it varies in the appearance which it presents, being sometimes quite superficial, at others a complete bony canal, in which the vessel is concealed; tills groove is always found about half-an-inch from the anterior edge; another groove, much broader and deeper, is seen at its posterior inferior angle, corre- sponding to the lateral sinus. Of its four borders, the superior is the longest and straightest; it is exceed- ingly serrated, and marked by prominent spiculae, simi- lar in shape to the pointed head of an arrow, locking with its fellow of the opposite side, and forming the sagittal suture. From this the anterior border bends downwards at nearly a right angle; it is slightly con- cave; cut off superiorly, so as to be overlapped by the frontal; bevilled oif inferiorly, so as to rest upon the same bone, forming the coronal suture. The inferior margin is curved and fluted; anteriorly it presents a long, pointed angle, which is wedged in between the great wing of the sphenoid and frontal; this is grooved by the canal for the middle meningeal artery; behind this it is concave, and bevilled off to articulate with the latter; and still farther back very thick and rough, to unite with its mastoid portion, between which and the squamous plate its posterior inferior angle is wedged. This is the squamous suture. Its posterior margin is irregular, spiculated, convex, and generally marked by deep undulations; these latter being filled up by sepa- rate pieces of bone,—ossa Wormiana or triquetra, form- ing the lanibdoid suture. It may be necessary to state, that the internal surface, near its upper part, is often marked by depressions of variable size and depth, the result of absorption from the pressure of the Pacchio- nian glands. The parietal articulates with five bones,—the frontal, sphenoid, temporal, occipital, and its fellow of the op- posite side. It has but a single process, the parietal