835 ABDOMINAL AORTA. the two arches in the hand, it appears to be to obviate the effects of pressure, which in its grasping motions would have a tendency to cut olf its arterial supply, if it was dependent solely on the blood from its superficial source. Abdominal Aorta is a direct continuation of the thoracic, which, descending between the crura of the diaphragm, through the tendinous aortic opening to the left side of the azygos and thoracic duct, may be said to become abdominal at the inferior margin of the twelfth dorsal vertebra, the latter stretching from this point to the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar, where it bifurcates into the common iliac. Relations—Anteriorly, tendinous arch of diaphragm, posterior thick margin of liver, ascending layer of trans- verse mesocolon, solar plexus, celiac axis, pancreas, formation of vena porta?, superior mesenteric artery, inferior transverse portion of duodenum, left renal vein, root of mesentery, inferior mesenteric artery, and descend- ing layer of transverse mesocolon; posteriorly, left crus of diaphragm, left side of vertebral column, with its con- necting media, receptaculum chyli, left lumbar veins, and middle sacral artery; to the right side above, right crus of diaphragm, thoracic duct, vena azygos and lobu- lus Spigelii of liver, and below the vena cava ascendens; to the left, the left crus of the diaphragm, semilunar ganglion and sympathetic nerve. Remarks—It will be observed that although the aorta may be said generally to lie on the left side of the vertebral column, it approximates to the mesial line, above and below, so as to present a slight concavity towards the right side. Anomalies.—Variable only as far as its point of bifur- cation exists, as it may be either higher up or lower down than the point indicated. Collateral Branchus—These have been divided into those which arise singly, as the cajliac axis, su- perior and inferior mesenteries, and middle sacral, and into those which arise in pairs, as the phrenic, cap- sular, renal, spermatic, and lumbar; their order of origin from above downwards being:—i. Phrenic, ii. Cajliac axis; IK. Superior mesenteric; iv. Capsular; v. Renal;