THE EYE. blueness, although, when raised, the aperture is dark. I he use of the ins is to regulate the amount of li^ht which impniges on the retina, also averting the aberra- tion of sphericity by intercepting the marginal rays Membrana Pupillaris consists of a thin semi- transparent membrane thrown across the pupil in foetal ife, into which the vessels of the iris enter, formin<. loops which do not touch in the centre (Cloquet), and IS usually ruptured about the seventh month of intra- uterine life; but, according to Dr. Jacob, a portion al- ways remains up to the ninth month, and traces of its existence can be discovered a fortnight after birth. Wr sberg, B umenbach, and Cloquet, account for its rupture by the retraction of the loops of the blood-ves- sels which enter it; but, according to Dr. Jacob the first step IS diminished vascularity; and secondly', ab- sorption, the use of this membrane being to preserve oflheTii!' '''''' P^P^^ the='devebpment Chambers of the Era-These are two,-an anterior and posterior; the former, bounded anteriorly by the cTr- nea, and posteriorly by the iris, is capable of containTng about three drops of fluid, whilst the posterior, which IS bounded behind by the lens, anteriorly by he Sis and IS surrounded by the ciliary processes, beino-deeper m the latter situation than in'the centre will contain about two drops^ being, therefore, one-tl ird less than the anterior. Both these chambers are lined by an epithelial layer, beautifully tesselated, and are filled by he aqueous humour, weighing about five grains. WliiS contact with the posterior aspect of the cornea and at his period the aqueous humour is confined to Ihe pos tenor chamber as a clear, serous fluid, containin/so- luble albumen and salt. ''dining so- RETiNA.—The nervous tunic of the eye may be de scnbed as an expansion of the optic nerve, comm ndnt a Its entrance through the choroid coa , and tS natmg anteriorly ui a dentated margin a the ciWv processes, expanded over the surface of the hv! ^ membrane, and lying internal to the dioro d coT t IS divided into three layers, the most cxtenial beiJg