TUE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 64 foramina for the nutritious vessels, and corresponds to the Haversian gland, which separates it from the ligament. The posterior part is flattened, and co- vered by the ligamentum posticum of Winslow. Pos- teriorly and externally we observe a circular facette looking downwards, backwards, and outwards, to arti- culate with the fibula; still more anteriorly a rough portion for the second slip of the external lateral liga- ment. On the inner part of the bone is a deep channel or groove, leading from behind forwards for the tendon of the semi-membranosus which is attached to its ante- rior part, immediately beneath the internal lateral liga- ment. The shaft is prismatic in shape in its four supe- rior fifths, qiiadrilateral in its inferior, and twisted out- wards. It accordingly presents three margins: an an- terior, external, and internal, with as many surfaces. The anterior, commonly known as the crest or shin, commences above at the tubercle, passes downwards, forming a wavy line, sharpest in the centre, till it reaches the inferior fourth, where it becomes flattened out and gradually lost in the smooth surface below. The external margin, not so prominent, begins above, anterior to the facette for the fibula; extends down- wards until it arrives at a point about two inches . above the inferior extremity of the tibia, when it bitur- cates to form the anterior and posterior lips ol t ie groove for the fibula; to this margin is attached the interosseous ligament. The internal edge is badly marked; it reaches from the head down to the back part of the internal malleolus, giving attachment to the deep fascia of the leg. Of its three surfaces the mter- nal is the smoothest; it is slightly convex above, and concave below; immediately below and behind the tuber- cle the sartoriusis inserted; a little lower, and still more posteriorly, the gracilis; and still more interiorly and posteriorly the semi-tendinosus; in the rest ol its extent it is subcutaneous. The external surlace is con- cave above, convex below, giving attachment by its two superior thirds to one muscle only, the tibialis anticus. The posterior surface is comparatively flat, and presents in its superior fifth an oblique line or ridge, extending downwards and inwards; into this, and the space above