THE SPINAL COLUMN. 17 eedges, appear the four holes for the transmission of the >sacral nerves. The two first are very large, while the ttwo last are comparatively small. To the surface of the tboue, between each of the foramina, is attached a fasci- cculus of the pyriformis, and along their edges sweep cdown the lateral sacral arteries, which throw small tbranches into each, to pass out posteriorly, to anasto- tmose with the lumbar and gluteal. Corresponding to iits central portion we observe the middle sacral artery aand rectum. The posterior surface is rough, convex, aand extremely irregular. It presents, in the median nine, a series of elevated tubercles, which gradually di- iiminish in size from above downwards; they are gene- rrally three in number, while the fourth and fifth bifur- ccate, and appear as small prominences, two on either sside of the sacral canal, to which the strong ligament ffor its completion posteriorly is attached. These are aanalogous to the spinous processes of the true vertebrae. .'A little external to these are a second row of tubercles; tthey are very badly marked, and represent the articu- lilar processes. Still more external are the four sacral iforamina for the transmission of the posterior nerves, bbut they are much smaller than those on the anterior sisurface. Passing out still farther, a third series of emi- nnences appear, the type of the transverse processes; tlhey are intermediate in size between the first and se- ccond rows. These several elevations give attachment tito the lumbar fascia, extensors of the spine, glutseus naiaximus, and the powerful sacro-iliac ligaments. The sppmal canal is triangular in shape above, but flattened aand extremely small inferiorly. It is bordered supe- rriorily and laterally by the oblique processes, looking (backwards and inwards, and concave from side to side, l :or articulation with the last lumbar vertebra. The -sacrum articulates with four bones; the ossa innomi- I nata on either side, the spinal column above, and the ccoccyx inferiorly. Coccyx.—This is a small bone, consisting of four, ?'iometimes of five pieces. In shape it is triangular, with thhe base turned upwards, presenting an articular facette Movered with cartilage, for uniting with the last bone )f)f the sacrum, with which it forms a moveable joint up