626 NERVOUS SYSTEM. quently is seen present, with well-defined margins. The walls of the cavity are usually thin and diapha- nous, but we have seen them fully one-eighth of an inch in thickness. FoENix.—A triangular lamina of white medullary structure, with the base behind and the apex in front. It arises posteriorly by three bands on each side,—one from the ttenia, the second from the hippocampus major, and the third from the hippocampus minor; these unite, forming a flat band, which coalesces with that of the opposite side to form the body of the fornix, and then, curving forwards, it dips downwards and backwards, dividing into the two descending pillars, which, piercing the grey floor of the third ventricle, terminate withm the circle of Willis in the corpora albicantia. The fornix consists of longitudinal fibres, occasionally exhibitmg a median splitting into two symmetrical halves ; on which account the name of twain band has sometime^ been applied to it. The upper surface corresponds to the corpus callosum and septum lucidum; the mferior hes on the velum interpositum and the foramen commun^ anterius, while its margins are bounded by the choroid plexuses. n • + • Now divide it transversely, and reflect its anterioi and posterior portions. In the former segment its pillar^ can be seen descending as thick round cords behind the anterior commissure, and in front of the foramen com- mune anterius, receiving in their course the followmc reinforcing structures:—The horizontal peduncles_ o the pineal gland, with the ttenia semicircularis, whicl ioin them in the foramen commune anterius, whilst oi the inner side of the optic thalami they receive som. fibres from those bodies; and lastly, they acquire som. additional tissue from the grey floor of the third ventrij cle. On the posterior part of the fornix, at its under sur, face, a peculiar arrangement, called lyra or corpus psal loides, may be observed, consisting of the transversa fibres of the posterior extremity of the corpus callo sum, which appear between the converging roots ot tn- ^° Velum lNTERPOsiTUM.-This consists of a double foL of the pia mater, which enters at the transverse fissur