SCAPDLO-HUMERAL ARTICULATION. 199 This ligament is in relation with, above, the supra-spi- natus; externally, with the infra-spinatus and teres minor; inferiorly and posteriorly, with the long head of the triceps; and internally, with the subscapularis tendon. It will be perceived at once, that a broad in- terval naturally exists between the two tendons last named, and here displacement most usually occurs. Accessory, or Coraco-humeral Ligament.—This is a dense band of fibres arising from the inferior and an- terior part of the coracoid process; it passes downwards and outwards, expanding as it proceeds, becoming blended and lost in the capsule, of which it is truly a part, immediately above the great tuberosity of the humerus. Its use is to limit over-extension of the arm and rotation outwards. Glenoid Ligament.—This is proper to the scapula itself, around the glenoid cavity of which it is inserted. If cut across, the section is triangular, the base attached, the apex free. It consists of a series of fibres irre- gularly disposed, and decussating each other very ob- liquely. It deepens the recipient cavity about a quar- ter of an inch, altering its shape from an ovoid, which it exhibits in the dry condition, to an oval. It appears to be of little use as a protection against dislocation, but it is of marked advantage in forming a cushion for the head of the humerus, to preserve it from being in- jured against the sharp edges of the socket in the nu- merous and free motions with which this joint has been endowed. It has been stated that this ligament is formed by the long tendon of the biceps, which bifur- cates, and thus encloses the cavity. Interarticular Ligament.—According to some au- thorities, this has been said to be formed by the tendon of the biceps, which traverses the articulation imme- diately beneath the capsule, and in support of this view cases have been cited where it has been found to be in- serted into the upper part of the bicipital groove be- tween the tuberosities, and from thence to have pro- ceeded as from a new point of origin in its course downwards. This we have never had an opportunity of witnessing in repeated examinations, but we have in several instances observed a complete deficiency of the