MUSCLES OF THE LEG. 477 Eelations.—It lies on the fibula and peroneus brevis, and is separated anteriorly from the common extensor by the musculo-cutaneous nerve and an intermuscular septum, and posteriorly from the soleus above, and the flexor pollicis below, by a similar fibrous layer. The tendon grooves three bones,—fibula, os calcis, and cuboid; has three bursal sacs corresponding to those grooves, with separate fibrous sheaths, the last being an expansion of the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. In the sole of the foot the tendon is close to the tarsal bones, and above all the soft parts in this region. Action.—This is a powerful muscle, in consequence of the peculiar reflection of its tendon at right angles nearly to the lever on which it acts. By its action the ankle-joint is extended and the toes everted, whilst the weight of the body is thrown on the internal arch of the foot, which, by the elasticity of the calceo-scaphoid ligament, averts the injurious efiects of shocks in leap- ing, &c. In partial and complete dislocation of the tibia inwards this muscle produces in a great degree the de- formity consequent on that accident; it is also a source of the congenital deformity termed " pes valgus." A dislocation of this tendon has been noticed by the late Mr. Wilson where it slips to the forepart of the exter- nal malleolus. Peroneus Brevis—Shorter than the last, beneath which it lies. It arises from the outer and back part of the inferior half of the fibula, continues fleshy to within an inch of the external malleolus; but the ten- don is formed in the muscle near its commencement, the fibres being at first attached to it so as to produce a bipenniform muscle: afterwards it is semipenniform, then, coursing at first downwards, and again turning backwards, it grooves the external malleolus, winds for- wards on the OS calcis, which it also grooves in common with the peroneus longus, but above that muscle, then expands, and is inserted into the projecting extremity and base of the metatarsal bone of the fifth toe. _ Relations—It is covered by the peronteus longus, and lies on the fibula and external malleolus. It grooves two bones,—external malleolus and os calcis.