306 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. ferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic below, but is closely related to the rectus capitus anticus major above: it is covered by the left subclavian, carotid, and aorta on the left side; by the arteria innominata on the right; in the neck, on either side, the subclavians, the common carotids, and jugular veins, pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves, the pharynx, oesophagus, and la- rynx, cover its anterior surface. Action. To bend the neck forwards and to turn it on one side; also to preserve its erect position. Rectus Capitis Anticus Major lies external to the last; it arises from the anterior surface of the trans- verse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cer- vical vertebra by tendinous slips; to these succeed fleshy fasciculi, that unite to form a muscular mass, which ascends obliquely upwards and inwards, and is inserted into the cuneiform process of the occipital bone, which is often depressed in this situation. Relations.—Its origin is between the longus colli and the anterior scalenus; it rests on the spine and rectus minor; is covered by the pharynx, internal carotid and jugular vein, pneumogastric, superior la- ryngeal, pharyngeal, and sympathetic nerves, also the ascending pharyngeal artery and vein. Action.---To depress the head and bend it forward. Rectus Capitis Anticus MmoR—In order to see this muscle, let the major be raised and drawn inwards. It is somewhat square, and arises from the anterior half-arch of the atlas, between the anterior crest and the rectus capitis lateralis; the fibres pass upwards and inwards, and are inserted into the cuneiform process posterior and external to the rectus major. .1^ *^^ si- tuation of the insertion of this muscle there is likewise 'Sr«!llt covers tbe ocoipito-atlantoid artic^^^^ lation and broad ligament, and is concealed by the last muscle sympathetic nerve, and jugular vein. ine Tter ma -gin corresponds to the rectus lateralis, from ;~i? separate? by a triangular space — the ninth and suboccipital nerves; the inner edge is separated from the opposite by the anterior or vertical occipito-atlantoid.