68 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. scale than in the hand, the function of which is pre- hension. To adapt it to this office we accordingly find that the phalanges are exceedingly long, while in the foot they are comparatively short; the metatarsal bones of the latter are also lengthened and strong, for they assist in supporting the body, especially in progression, while in the metacarpal bones of the latter, Avhich cor- respond to them, we observe a marked contrast both in length and strength. But it is in the carpus of the one and the tarsus of the other, that the most striking dif- ference prevails; the first being remarkable, with a single exception, for their diminutive size and delicacy of their contiguous surfaces ; the second, for their rnag- nitude, and the broad facettes by which they are united to each other. Anatomists have divided the foot into three distinct parts: the tarsus, comprising the astragalus, os calcis, navicular or scaphoid, cuboid, and three cuneiform bones; the metacarpus, consisting of five; and the pha- langes, which are fourteen in number, the great toe, as the thumb, being deficient in the second. We shall describe each in the order as we have enumerated them, commencing with the astragalus. Astragalus.—This belongs to the class of round or irregular bones, and is one of the highest in the tarsus. In shape it is rather quadrilateral, presenting for exami- nation two surfaces, a superior and inferior; two sides, an external andinternal; and two extremities, an anterior and posterior. On examining its superior surface we observe on it a large facette, covered with cartilage, looking upwards, backwards, and inwards; convex from before backwards, concave from side to side; its exter- nal lip much more prominent than its internal, limited behind by a superficial groove, to which is attached a thin layer of areolar tissue, by some described as the posterior ligament of the joint; bounded anteriorly by a depression much broader, the neck, Avhich is perfo- rated by several foramina for the nutritious vessels, and affording insertion to the anterior ligament, and by its outer edge to the anterior slip of the external late- ral. This facette, much wider in front than behind, articulates with the lower extremity of the tibia. The