THE ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. 206 dius and triangular fibre-cartilage, which receives a convexity below, composed of the scaphoid, lunar, and cuneiform bones. The styloid processes of the radius and ulna bound it internally and externally. Its secu- rity is insured by an internal, external, anterior, and a posterior ligament. ExTEUNAL Lateral.—This is exceedingly strong. It takes its origin narrow from the point of the styloid process of the radius, and passes doAvnwards, gradually increasing in breadth, to be inserted into the outer side of the scaphoid bone, and sometimes by a prolonga- tion into the trapezium. Internal Lateral.—This is weaker than the pre- ceding, and consists usually of two fasciculi, both of which are attached above to the point of the styloid process of the ulna, from which they descend to be in- serted into the pisiform and cuneiform bones. Both slips are occasionally completely blended together. Anterior and Posterior Ligaments..—These are broad but thin, weak and lax, especially the latter. They take their origin from the anterior and posterior edges of the radius, and pass downwards and inwards, and are inserted into the corresponding surfaces of the first row of carpal bones, except the pisiform. There are two distinct processes of the anterior, which are implanted into the semilunar bone by a single attach- ment, though they are bifid Avhere they spring from the radius. A similar arrangement is visible with re- spect to the posterior, but it is not so obvious. The division between the two portions is visible at the ra- dius as well as at the cuneiform and semilunar bones, into which they are inserted. This articulation, like the ankle-joint, is provided with annular ligaments, to confine the several tendons, which play around, in their position. They consist of two, an anterior, which is short, thick, and exceed- ingly strong, stretching between the scaphoid and trape- zium externally, and the unciform and pisiform inter- nally, continuous with the fascia of the arm superiorly, and with the palmar aponeurosis inferiorly; and a pos- terior, much thinner and weaker, but longer, extending from the styloid process of the radius externally to