THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 400 rating the two portions; if is covered superficially by the transversalis artery, integuments, and fascia; it lies on the base of the triangular ligament, which separates it from the levator ani; posteriorly it corresponds to the dipping in of the fascia, the long and transverse perineal arteries, and superficial sphincter; anteriorly to the accelerator urinee and a triangular space which contains the long perineal artery and nerve. Action.—To fix the central point, and draw down- wards and backwards the bulb. Erector Penis, or Ischio-cavernosus.—An elon- gated muscular and aponeurotic fasciculus, lying on the crus penis; it arises by short aponeurotic fibres, that immediately become fleshy from the inner edge of the tuber ischii. It passes upwards, forwards, and inwards, and is inserted by an aponeurotic band, that commences on the surface of the muscle, into the corpus caverno- sum penis. This band is placed between a separation of the muscular fasciculi, the external portion of which is often prolonged for some distance on the crus; the direction of the aponeurosis is obliquely outwards and forwards. Relations Below with the fascia, skin, and dartos; above, the crus penis and transversus perinei; inter- nally with the ischio-urethral space, which, with the long perineal artery, separates it from the accelerator urin£E muscle. Action. To draw downwards and back wards the penis during erection; the action is apparently rhythmical, and dilates the crus rather than compresses it. It is a fallacy to suppose that these muscles produce distention of the penis by compressing the veins of the crura, there being several objections to such a view,—namely, that the mechanical arrangement is the opposite to that which would cause compression; that the contractions are not permanent during erection, but rhythmical; and lastly, that the venous blood has many subsidiary modes of escape from the crura, which will be described with the anatomy of the Penis. Accelerator Urin;e, or Bulbo-cavernosus.—Bi- penniform; lying on the spongy portion and bulb ot the urethra; it arises from the central tendinous pomt