SMALL INTESTINE. 547 on the duodenum, not investing it all in the same de- gree. Like the stomach, with which it is continuous, the superior transverse portion receives its envelope from the lesser omentum, which covers it completely, except at its superior and inferior margins, where the fissures exist precisely as it does in that organ. This arrangement naturally bestows on this particular part a great amount of mobility, a characteristic which is deficient in the other two portions, which are fixed more or less firmly in their position, the inferior by the split- ting of the transverse mesocolon, and the vertical by its ascending layer. The two latter are, therefore, only covered on their anterior surface, and partially on their sides. The remainder of the small intestine, the jeju- num and iliiim, receive, however, a more complete in- vestment, and its arrangement is more regular through- out their entire extent, for, with the exception of the slight interval on its superior posterior border op- posite the attachment of the mesentery occupied by the arteries and emergence of the lacteals, the investment is perfect and very adherent. Muscular Fibre—This consists of two distinct lay- ers,—the longitudinal and circular, the former being the most superficial, and prolonged immediately from the stomach to the duodenum, and so in succession to the jejunum and ilium. In the first they are pale, indis- tinct, and scattered, but in the remaining portions of the small intestine they become much better marked, and more closely approximated to each other. They do not, however, consist of lengthened fibres, running con- tinuously from one of its extremities to the other, but of several fragments of varying length, which appear to overlap and indigitate with each other. The circular fibres, which lie immediately beneath the preceding, are of a denser and stronger character; they appear to form perfect rings around the gut, not always parallel, but occasionally crossing each other at a very oblique angle. Their appearance is very uniform in the whole course of the small intestine. Fibrous Coat.—This is precisely similar to the same structure in the stomach, being pale and thin, but re- markably strong.