838 ARTERIES AND VEINS. Gastro-epiploica Dextra.—Apparently the conti- nued trunk; it runs downwards and to the leftside, be- tween the layers of the great omentum, and along the con- vex margin of the stomach, inosculating with the gastro- epiploica sinistra from the splenic, while from the arch thus formed branches are given off to the anterior and posterior surfaces of that organ, as well as to the glands of the omentum. Pancreatico-duodenalis—Smaller than the preced- ing; it passes at first downwards, between the head of thepai^creas and vertical portion of duodenum, in front of the ductus communis choledochus, then winds be- tween the inferior transverse portion and lower edge of the pancreas, and ultimately, after supplying both these latter structures, anastomoses with the siiperior HlGSGIltGnC. Cystic. An exceedingly small branch, which may arise either from the hepatic trunk or its right division; it runs downwards, forwards, and to the right side, be- tween the cystic and right hepatic ducts, and, dividing into two branches, one is distributed to the coats of the gall-bladder, and the other to the tissue of the liver beneath it. , , -, i i Splenic —The largest of the three branches, remark- able for its tortuosity; it passes to the left side, and slightly upwards to within an inch and a halt ol tlie hvlus of the spleen, where it divides into five or six branches, which are distributed to that organ (see its Anatomy). • -4. Eelations.-Anteviovly, and slightly grooving it, up- per margin of pancreas; posteriorly, left crus, semi- lunar ganglion, and psoas muscle, with its own vein, but the latter is slightly inferior to it. Anomalies.—It may arise separately from the aorta. Collateral Branches.—Lesser and greater pancrea- tic, gastro-epiploica sinistra, and vasa brevia. Lesser piNCREATic.-Small, usually four or five in number, for the supply of tins organ. Greater PANCREATic.-Of a medium size; it buries itself in the substance of the gland, and supplies prm- SsiRo'EpLoicA SINISTRA comes off in common