CEREBBAL NERVES. 687 the proper arytenoid, communicating with the superior laryngeal branch. The left laryngeal, having curved round the ductus arteriosus, ascends behind the aorta and is likewise received into the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, and lias a termination similar to the right. The right laryngeal recurrent sometimes arises opposite the cricoid cartilage, and running for- wards, hooks round the inferior thyroid artery in its di- j rect course to the larynx. The cause of this peculiarity lhas been pointed out by Dr. Harte, Professor of Ana- itomym the College of Surgeons. He having observed ithat It was connected with the anomalous origin of the :right subclavian artery from the descending portion of tthe arch of the aorta, proposed the following solution :ot the question:—" In the earlier periods of foetal exist- oence the brain is situated in front of the thymus gland aand aorta. The larnyx is placed at this time behind tthe ascending aorta. Hence it is that the inferior la- rryngeal nerves pass back to the larynx, separated by ithe aorta, the left going through its arch, while the rnght goes below the arteria innominata." Now if the mght subclavian arises on the left side it is obvious that Ithe recurrent must be absent as such. During the course of the inferior laryngeal nerves tihey distribute branches to the cardiac plexus, rings of tthe trachea, and inferior constrictor. With respect to tbhe function of the superior and inferior laryngeal rt would appear from the observations of Mr. Hil ton of ^«uy's Hospital, that the former is sensitive, whilst the aatter IS motor. Experiment likewise indicates a si- nnilar 1 unction; for when the pneumogastries are divided ^.bove the origin of the inferior laryngeal, paralysis of he dilators „t the glottis ensues, and the arytenoid arti ages tall into the glottis, producing asphyxia, /hich IS rendered more rapid by the immature age of nhe animal and the struggles attendant on the experi- ■aent. Pathology has also thrown light on the func- 1. on of these nerves, as it appears when the recurrent aas oeen subjected to the long-continued pressure of an • neurismal tumour, that atrophy of the laryngeal mul- • es corresponding to the affected side ensues (See Dr oanks's Clinical Reports in the Quarterly Journal for