THE TEMPORAL BONE. 93 J (irticulating with the side of the spine of the sphe- I noid. The temporal articulates with three bones of the I head,—the parietal, occipital, and sphenoid; and with I two of the face,—the malar and inferior maxillary. Its {processes are six in number,—the mastoid, styloid, vagi- ;nal, auditory, zygomatic, and cochleariform. It has : fourteen proper foramina,—the external and internal i auditory, the mastoid and stylo-mastoid, the aqueducts , of the cochlea and vestibule, the hiatus Fallopii, and the I hole for the lesser petrosal nerve, the foramina for the ; Eustachian tiibe and tensor tympani, glenoidal fissure, : and carotid hole, the small openings for the tympanic I nerve of Jacobson and auricular of Arnold. The com- ] mon are two,—the anterior and posterior lacerated, al- ] ready described with the occipital. The temporal is developed from five points of ossifica- ' tion: one for the squamous portion, one for the petrous, one for the mastoid, one for the auditory meatus, and one for the styloid. These make their appearance in I periods varying from the second to the fifth month, but I do not become thoroughly united—we allude to the three principal portions—till a year after birth. The ; styloid process may remain separate for several years. The appearance of the temporal bone in the foetus is pe- culiar : the bony portion of the auditory meatus is not developed to any extent, but consists of a mere bony ring; the transverse root of the zygoma is but slightly ■ elevated, so that the glenoid cavity is nearly flat. The mastoid portion of the bone is extremely small, and its cells, on making a section, are not as yet visible. The upper surface of the petrous portion is also remarkable from the prominence of the superior semicircular canal and size of the cochlea, while the small ossicula of the tympanum exhibit all their future elements in a state of high perfection. With respect to the remark so often quoted, of the styloid process articulating with the os hyoides, we have only to observe that, in a large number of subjects that ' came under our own inspection, it occurred but in one 1 individual instance; in this case the styloid process, thick and strong, not tapering, but increasing in sizp