53 OS INNOMINATUM. The external surface is slightly convex, and perfo- rated by one or two holes for the entrance of the nu- tritious vessels. It gives attachment above to the ob- turator externus and adductor magnus. The internal surface is comparatively smooth, affording origin supe- riorly to the obturator internus; below and anteriorly to the transversus perinaei, erector, and cruspenis. Its an- terior margin is concave and sharp, and gives attachment to the obturator membrane. Inferiorly it is triangular in shape, the base behind, the apex in front, convex from before backward, rough, looking downwards, backwards, and outwards, giving origin superiorly and externally to the long head of the biceps, more anteriorJy, to the semi-tendinosus,external to both the semi-membranous; still further inwards, above, to the inferior gemellus, and inferior to this to the quadratus femoris. The great sciatic ligament is inserted into its inner lip, forming there a falciform process. The ascending ramus is the connecting link between the tuberosity and pubis. It IS of an oblong figure, concave on its external surface antero-posteriorly, giving origin internally to the gra- cilis, in the centre, to the adductor magnus, and exter- nally to the obturator externus. Its internal surface is convex, and affords attachment internally to the obtu- rator internus; more externally to the triangular liga- ment, and near its upper extremity to Guthrie's muscle or compressor urethra. Its posterior edge is sharp, and has connected to it the obturator membrane; its ante- rior is rounded, and twisted outwards, and gives origin to tlie crus penis. The pubis, which is already detached, is of a triangular : form, and may be divided into a body, horizontal ramus, • spine, crest, and descending ramus. The body consti- ■ tutes about one-fifth of the acetabulum; it is less pro- imment than the other two portions. Immediately ! above and anterior to it is a large expanded eminence, I the pubal, bounding internally the groove for the psoas I and iliacus; into this the lesser psoas is inserted. Pro- cceeding forwards and inwards, we reach the horizontal !ramus, extending as far as the spine; the anterior part <of Its superior surface is rounded and gives origin to the