BRANCHES OF CAROTID. 791 supply the masseter muscle, anastomosing with simi- lar twigs from the external carotid. Coronary.—These are two in number,—superior and inferior, the former being always the larger; they arise opposite the angle of the mouth, and run forwards and inwards on the posterior margin of the lips, being merely covered by the fine integument; they are re- markable for their tortuosity, as well as for their free inosculation, while from the arch formed by the two superior rather a large branch (arteria septi nasi) is given off for the supply of the mucous membrane of the septum of the nose. Lateralis Nasi arises generally opposite the lower border of the nose, and, passing inwards, ramifies on the compressor nasi, anastomosing Avith its fellow of the op- posite side, and with the nasal of the ophthalmic. Angular.—This is the terminal branch, and is no- thing more than a slender twig; it runs upwards and inwards, between the two heads of the levator labii su- perioris alseque nasi, then between the inner head of that muscle and edge of the orbicularis palpebrarum, to the internal canthus of the eye, where it anastomoses with the frontal and nasal of the ophthalmic. Remarks.—The facial artery is remarkable both for the length of its course and its tortuosity, forming a re- markable contrast to its vein, which is nearly perfectly straight, and which lies to its outer side. We have oc- casionally observed it completely obliterated as it passed over the ramus of the jaw, but its facial portion was still pervious to blood, which it received from its nume- rous anastomoses with the various branches in that region. We have been accustomed to describe a trian- gular space, bounded in front by the facial, behind by the external carotid, and above by the ramus of the jaw, constituting its base, which is a little better than an inch in width, and here an incision for subfascial cervi- cal abscess may be made with comparative safety,—a fact in surgical anatomy which was recently tested by Dr. Butcher with complete success. Anomalies It repeatedly arises in common with the lingual, and may terminate at the angle of the mouth, by dividing into the two coronary. Under these