181 riCICLT.S. Peel, slice, and salt a pound of garlick three days, then put it in the sun to dry. Salt and dry long pep- per in the same way. Prepare various sorts of vegetables thus: Quarter small white cabbages, salt three days, squeeze and set them in the sun to dry. Cauliflowers cut in their branches; take off the green from the radishes ; cut celery in three-inch lengths; ditto young Prench beans whole, likewise the shoots of elder, which will look like bamboo. Apples and cu- cumbers, choose of the least seedy sort; cut them in slices or quarters, if not too large. All must be salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter ; over which you must pour boiling vinegar, and in twelve hours drain them, but no salt must be used. Put the spice, garlick, a quarter of a pound of mustard- seed, and as much vinegar as you think enough for the quantity you are to pickle, into a large stone jar, and one ounce of turmeric, to be ready against the vege- tables shall be dried. When they are ready, observe the following directions:—Put some of them into a two- quart stone jar, and pour over them one quart of boil- ing vinegar. Next day take out those vegetables ; and when drained, put them into a large stock jar, and boiling the vinegar, pour it over some more of the ve- getables ; let them lie a night and do as above. Thus proceed tdlyou have cleansed each set from the dust which must inevitably fall on them by being so long in doing ; then to every gallon of vinegar put two ounces of flour of mustard, mixing by degrees, with a little of it boiling hot. The whole of the vinegar shoidd have been previously scalded, but left to be cold before it was put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. This pickle wdl not be ready for a year ; but you may make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving the cauliflower one scald in water, after salting, and dryingas above, butwithout the preparative vinegar; then pour the vinegar, that has the spice and garlick, boding hot over. If at any time it be found that the