rUE USE OF THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. XXXvii what bed it belongs to, should be sewed on each feather-bed, bolster pillow, and blanket. Knives, forks, and house-cloths, are often de- ficient : these accidents might be obviated, if an article at the head of every list required the former should be produced whole or broken and the marked part of the linen, though all the others should be worn out. The inducement to care of glass is in some measure re- moved, by the increased price given for old-flint-glass.—^Those who wish for trifle-dishes, butter-stands, &c. at a lower charge than cut glass, may buy them made in moulds, of which there is great variety that look extremely well, if not placed near the more beautiful arti- cles.—The price of starch depends upon that of flour : the best will keep good in a dry warm room for some years; therefore when bread is cheap it may be bought to advantage, and covered close. Sugars being an article of considerable expense in all families, the purchase demands particular attention. The cheapest does not go so far as that more refined; and there is difference even in the degree of sweetness. The white should be chosen that is close, heavy, and sliining. The best sort of brown has a bright gravelly look, and it is often to be bought pure as imported. East India sugars are finer for the price, but not so strong, consequently unfit for mnes and sweetmeats, but do well for common purposes, if good of their kind. To prepare white sugar, pounded, rolling it with a bottle, and sifting, wastes less than a mortar. Candles made in cool weather are best; and when their price, and that of soap, which rise and fall together, is likely to be higher it will be prudent to lay in a stock of both. This information the chandler can always give: they are better for keeping eight or ten months, and will not injure for two years, if properly placed in a cool situation; and there are few articles that better deserve care in buying, and allowing a due quantity of, according to tlie size of the fiiuiily.