'274 DOMESTIC COOKEllT. any thing; and when to be fattened, must have plenty, however coai’se, and in three weeks they will be fat. Geese Require little expense ; as they chiefly support them- selves on commons, or inlanes, where they can get water. The largest are esteemed best, as also are the white and grey. The pied and dark coloured are not so good. Thirty days is generally the time the goose sits, but in warm weather she will sometimes hatch sooner. Grive them plenty of food, such as scalded bran and light oats; and as soon as the goslings are hatched, keep them housed for eight or ten days, and feed them with barley-meal, bran, curds, &c. For green geese, begin to fatten them at six or .seven weeks old, and feed them as above. Stubble geese require no fattening if they have the run of good fields. TurJcies Are very tender when young. As soon as hatched, put three pepper-corns down their throat. Great care is necessary to their well-being, because the hen is so care- less that she will walk about with one chick, and leave the remainder, or even tread upon and kill them. Tur- kies are violent eaters; andmust therefore beleft to take charge of themselves in general, except one good feed a day. The hen sits twenty-five or thirty days; and the young onesraust be kept warm, or the leastcold or damp kills them. They must be fed often; and at a distance from the hen,whichwilleat every thing from them. They should have curds, green-cheese parings cut small, and bread and milk with chopped wormwood in it; and their drink milk and water, but not left to be sour. All young fowlsare aprey for vermin, therefore they should be kept in a safe place where none can come; weasels, stoats, ferrets, &c., creep in at very small crevices. Let the hen be under a coop, in a warm place exposed to the sun, for the first three or four weeks ; and the young should not be suffered to go out in the dew at morning or evening. Twelve eggs are enough to pnt under a turkey; and when she is about to lay, lock her