DOilESTIC COOKEET. 226 quick, heat makes them ferment; and damp causes them to grow mouldy. They should be looked at two or three times in the first two months, that they maj? be gently boiled again, if not likely to keep. It is necessary to observe, that the boiling of sugar more or less, constitutes thechief artof the confectioner, and those who are not practised in this knowledge, and onlypreserve ina plain way for family use, are not aware that in two or three minutes, a syrup over the fire will pass from one gradation toauother, called by the confec- tioners degrees of boiling, of which there are six, and and those subdivided. But I am not versed in th e m inutiae, and only make the observation to guard against under- boiling, which prevents sweetmeats from keeping; and quick boiling and long, which brings them to a candy. Attention, without much practice, will enable a per- son to do any of the following sorts of sweetmeats, &c. and they are as much as is wanted in a private family; the higher articles of preserved fruits may be bought at less expense than made. Jellies of fruitmade with equal quantity of sugar, that is, a pound to a pint, require no very long boiling. A pan should be kept for the purpose of preserving; of double block-tin, with a bow-handle opposite the straight one, for safety, will do very well; and if put by nicely cleaned, in a dry place, when done with, will last for several years. Those of copper or brass are improper, as the tinning wears out by the scraping of the sweetmeat ladle. There is a new sort of iron, with a strong tinning, which promises to wear long. Sieves and spoons should be kept likewise for sweet things. Sweetmeats keep best in drawers that are not con- nected with a wall. If there be the least damp, cover them only with a paper dipped inbrandy, laidquite close; putting a little fresh over in spring, to prevent insect- mould. When any sweetmeats are directed to be dried in the sun or in a stove, it will be best in private families, where there is not a regular stove for the purpose, to put them in the sun on flag-stones, which reflect the