DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. xlviii Hare.—The best way of cutting it up is, to put the point of the knife imder the shoulder at a, (See Plate No. 4.) and so cut all the way down to the rump, on one side of the back-bone, in the line a 6. Do the same on the other side, so that the whole hare will be diidded into three parts. Cut the back into four, which, with the legs, is the part most esteemed. The shoulder must be cut off in a circular line, as c, a; lay the pieces neaUy on the dish as you cut them; and then help the company, giving some pudding and gravy to every person. This way can only be practised when the hare is young; if old, do not divide it down, which will require a strong arm, but put the knife between the leg and back, and give it a little turn inwards at the joint, wluch you must endeavonr to hit, and not to break by force. W hen botli legs are taken off, there is a fine coUop on each side the back; then divide the back into as many pieces as youplease, and take off theshoulders, which are by many preferred and are called the sportsman’s pieces. V,' hen every one is helped cut off the head, put your knife between the upper and lower jaw, and divide them, which will enable you to lay the upper flat on your plate ; then put the point of your knife into the centre, and cut the head into two. The ears and brains may be helped then to those who like them. Cari’-e Rabbits as directed the latter way for hare; cutting the back into two pieces, which with the legs are the prime. A Pheasant.—^Thebird in the annexed engranng is as trussed for the spit, with its head under one of its u-ings. When the skewers are taken out, and the bird served, the following is the way to carve it Fix your fork in the centre of the breast; slice it down in the line a, h; take off the leg on one side, in the dotted line b, d; then cut off the wing on the same side, in the line c, d. Separate the leg and w ing on the other side, and then cut off the slices of breast you divided before. Be careful how you take off the wings, for if you should cut too near the neck, asatp, you will hit on the neck-bone, from wliich the