101 sours. made into cutlets, &c. and set the remainder on to stew with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and five pints of water; cover it close; and let it do on a slow fire, four or five hours at least. Strain it, and set it by till next day ; then take the fat and sediment from it, and simmer it with turnips cut into small dice till tender, seasoning it with salt and pepper. Before serving, rub down half a spoonful of flour with half a pint of good cream, and the size of a walnut of butter. Let a small roll simmer in the soup till wet through, and serve this with it. It should be as thick as middling cream. Old-peas Soup. Save the water of boiled pork or beef; and if too salt, putas much fresh water to it; or use fresh water entirely with roast beef-bones, a ham or gammon-bone, or an anchovy or two. Simmer these with some good whole or split peas ; the smaller the quantity of water at first the better^ Simmer till the peas will pulp through a cullender; then set the pulp, and more of the liquor that boiled the peas, with two carrots, a turnip, a leek, and a stick of celery cut into bits, to stew till all is quite ten- der. The last requires less time; an hour will do for it. When ready put fined bread cut into dice, dried mint rubbed fine, pepper, and (if wanted) salt into the tu- reen, and pour the soup in. Green-peas Soup. In shelling the peas divide the old from the young ; put the old ones, with an ounce of butter, a pint of wa- ter, the outside leaves of a lettuce or two, two onions, pepper, and salt, to stew till you can pulp the peas; and when you have done so, put to the liquor that stewed them, some more water, the hearts and tender stalks of the lettuces, the young peas, a handful of spinach cut small, and salt and pepper to relish properly, and stew till quite soft. If the soup is too thin, or not rich enough, either of these faults may be removed by adding an ounce or two of butter, mixed with a spoonful of rice or wheat-flour, and boiled with it half an hour. Before servincf, boil some green mint shred fine in the soun.