xrviii miscellaneous observations for her on earth to fulfil such sacred obligations, not to waste the talents committed to her charge ? When it is thus evident that the high intellectual attainments may find exercise in the multifarious occupations of the daughter, the wife; the mother, and the mistress of the house, can any one urge that the female mind is contracted by domestic employ ? It is, however, a great comfort that the duties of life are within the reach of humbler abilities, and that she whose chief aim is to fulfil them, will rarely ever fail to acquit herself well. United with, and perhaps crowning all the virtues of the female character, is that well-directed ductility of mind, w’hich occasionally bends its attention to the smaller object of life, knowing them to be often scarcely less essential than the greater. Hence the direction of a table is no inconsiderable branch of a lady’s concern, as it involves judgment in expenditure; respectability of appearance; and the comfort of her husband and those who par- take their hospitality. The mode of covering the table differs in taste. It is not the mul- tiplicity of things, but the choice, the dressing, and the neat pleasing look of the whole, which gives respectability to her who presides. Too much, or too little dinners are extremes not uncommon: the latter is in appearance and reality the effort of poverty or penurious- ness to be genteel; and the former, if constantly given, may endan- ger the circumstances of those who are not affluent. Generally spealdng, dinners are far less sumptuous than formerly, when half a dozen dishes were supplied for what one now costs; con- sequently, those whose fortunes are not great, and who wish to make a genteel appearance, .without extravagance, regulate their table ac- cordingly. Perhaps tlrere are few incidents in which the respectability of a man is more immediately felt, than the style of dinner to which ha accidentally may bring home a visitor. Every one is to live as ha