DOMISTIC COOKERY. 51 well; season it high with these; lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity of thick slices of fine ham, or a beautiful coloured tongue skinned, and then the yolks of six nice yellow eggs stuck here and there about, iloll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil it, and then lay a weight on it. A cloth must he put imder the tape, as for other collars. Moch Turtle. Bespeak a calf’s head with the skin on, cut it in half, and clean it well; then half boil it, take all the meat olf in square bits, break the hones of the head, and boil them in some veal and beef broth to add to the richness. Fry some shalot in butter, and dredge in flour enough to thicken the gravy; stir this into the browning, and give it one or two boils ; skim it carefully, and then put in the head; put in also a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the meat is quite tender. About ten minutes before you serve, put in some basil, tarragon, chives, parsley, Cayenne, pepper, and salt to your taste; also two spoonsful of mushroom-ketchup, and one of soy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat-balls, and small eggs. A cheaper way.—Prepare half a calf’s head, without the skin, as above : when the meat is cut off, break the bones, and put them into a saucepan with some gravy made of beef and veal bones, and seasoned with fried onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. Have ready two or three ox-palates boiled so tender as to blanch, and cut into small pieces; to which a cow-heel, likewise cut into pieces, is a great improvement. Brown some butter, flour, and onion, and pour the gravy to it: then add the meats as above, and stew. Half a pint of sherry, an an- chovy, two spoonsful of walnut-ketchup, the same of mushroom-ketchup, and some chopped herbs as before Balls, &c. Another.—Put into a pan a knuckle of veal, two fine cow-heels, two onions, a few cloves, peppers, berries of allspice, mace, and sweet herbs : cover them with water, then tie a thick paper over the pan, and set it in an oven