BOMESTIC COOKERY. 190 Curds and Cream. Put three or four pints of milk into a pan, a little warm, and then add rennet or gallino. When the curd is come, lade it with a saucer into an earthen shape perforated, of any form you please. Kill it up as the whey drains off, without breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours before wanted, it is very light, but those who like it harder, may have it so, by making it earlier, and squeezing it. Cream, milk, or a whip of cream, sugar, wine, and lemon, to be put in the dish, or into a glass bowl, to serve with the curd. Another way.—To four quarts of new milk warmed, put from a pint to a quart of buttermilk strained, ac- cording to its sourness; keep the pan covered until the curd be of firmness to cut 3 or 4 times across with a sau- cer, as the whey leaves it; put it into a shape, and fill up until it be solid enough to take the form. Serve with cream plain, or mixed with sugar, wine, and lemon. A curd Star. Set a quart of new milk upon the fire with two or three blades of mace; and when ready to boil, put to it the yolks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, and as much salt as will lie upon a small knife’s point. Let it boil till the whey is clear; then drain it in a thin cloth, or hair-sieve; season it with sugar or a little cin- namon, rose-water, orange-flower water, or white wine, to your taste; and put it into a star form, or any other. Let it stand some hours before you turn it into a dish; then put round it thick cream or custard. Blanc-mange, or Blamange. Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half-pints of water half an hour ; strain it to a pint and a half of cream; sweeten it, and add some peach-water, or a few bitter almonds; let it boil once up, and put it into what forms you please. If not to be very stiff, a little less isinglass will do. Observe to let the blamange settle before you turn it into the forms, or the blacks will remain at the bottom of them, and be on the top of the blamange when taken out of the moulds^