DOMESTIC COOKElir. 224 the sugar dipped quickly, and instantly brought out. Boil thepluins in thisfresh syrup, after draining the first from them. Do them very gently till they are clear, and the sj-rup adheres to them. Put them one by one into small pots, and pour the liquor over. Those you may like to dry, keep a little of the syrup for, longer in the pan, and boil it quickly; then give the fruit one warm more, drain, and put them to dry on plates in a cool oven. These plums are apt to ferment, if not boil- ed in two syrups ; the former will sweeten pies, but will have too much acid to keep. You may preserve part of it, and add a little sugar, to do those that are to dry, for they will not require to be so sweet as if kept wet, and will eat very nicely if only boiled as much as those. Don’t break them. One parcel may be done after another, and save m.uch sugar. Lemon drops. Grate three largelemons, with a large piece of double- refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a plate, add half a tea-spoonful of flour, mix well, and beat it into a light paste with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, and put them into a moderate oven on a tin plate. Barberry Drops. The black tops must be cut off: then roast the fruit before the fire, till soft enough to pulp with a silver spoon through a sieve into a china basin; then set the basin in a sauce-pan of water, the top of which will just fit it, or on a hot hearth, and stir it till it grows thick. When cold, put to every pint a pound and a half of sugar, the finest double-refined, pounded and sifted through a lawn sieve, which must be covered with a fine linen, to prevent its wasting while sifting. Beat the sugar and juice together three hours and a half if a large quantity, buttwo and a halffor less; then drop it on sheets of white thick paper, the size of the drops sold in the shops. Some fruit is not so sour, and then less sugar is neces- sary. To know if there be enough, mix till well incor- porated, and then drop; if it run, there is not enough