DOMESTIC COOKERY. 34 good beef-broth, or weak gravy. Simmer it as gently as possible for several hours till quite tender. Clear off the fat, and add to the gravy half a pint of port wine, a glass of vinegar, and alarge spoonful of ketchup; simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Half a pint of table-beer may be added. The herbs to be used should be burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, bash, savoury, mar- joram, pennyroyal, knotted marjoram, and some chives if you can get them, but observe to proportion the quantities to the pungency of the several sorts; let there be a good handful altogether. Grarnishwith carrots, turnips, ortrufflesandmorels, or pickles of different colours, cut small, and laid in little heaps separate; chopped parsley, chives, beet-root, &c. If, when done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only a part to season for serving, but the less water the better; and to increase the richness, add a few beef- bones and shanks of mutton in stewing.—A spoonful or two of made mustard is a greatimprovement to the gravy. Hump roasted is excellent; but in the country it is gene- rally sold whole with the edgebone, or cut across instead of lengthways as inLondon, where onepiece is forboiling, and the rump for stewing or roasting. This must be attended to, the whole being too large to dress together. Stewed Rump another way. Half-roast it; then put it into a large pot with three pints of water, one of small beer, one of port wine, some salt, three or four spoonfuls of vinegar, two of ket- chup, a bunch of sweet herbs of various kinds (such as burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, pen- nyroyal, maijoram, knotted marjoram, and a leaf or two of sage), some onions, cloves, and Cayenne; cover it close, and simmer till quite tender: two or three hours will do it. AVhen done lay it into a deep dish, set it over hot water, and cover it close. Skim the gravy: put in a few pickled mushrooms, truffles, morels, and oysters if agreeable, but it is good without; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and heat with the above, and pour over the beef. Forcemeat-balls of veal, anchovies, ba/>