21G DOMESTIC COOKERY. To Preserve Oranges or Lemons in Jelly. Cut a hole in the stalk part, the size of a shilling, and ■with a blunt small knife scrape out the pulp quite clear ■without cutting the rind. Tie each separately in mus- lin, and lay them in spriDg--water two days, changing twice a day; in the last boil them tender on a slow fire. Observe that there is enough at first to allow for wast- ing, as they must he covered to tbe last. To every pound of fruit, weigh two pounds of double-refined sugar, and one pint of water; boil the two latter togetlier with the juice of the orange to a syrup, and clarify it, skim well, and let it stand to be cold; then boil the fruit in the syrup half an hour; if not clear, do this daily till they are done. Pare and core some green pippins, and boil in water tiU it tastes strong of them; don’t break them, only gently press them with the back of a spoon ; strain the water through a jelly-hag till quite clear; then to every pint put a pound of double-refined sugar, the peel and juice of a lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain off the syrup from the fruit, and turning each orange with the hole upwards in a jar, pour the apple-jeUy over it. The bits cut out must go through the same process with the fruit. Cover with brandy paper. To keep Oranges or Lemons for Puddings, ^c. When you squeeze the fruit, throw the outside in wa- ter, without the pulp; let themremain in thesame a fort- night, adding no more; boil them therein till tender, strain it from them, and when they are tolerably dry, throw them into any jar of candy you may have remain- ing from old sweetmeats; or if you have none, boil a small quantity of syrup of common loaf-sugar and water and put over them; in a week or ten days boil them gently in it till they look clear, and that they may be co- vered with it in a jar. You may cut each half of the fruit in two, and they will occupy a small space. To preserve Straioberries whole. Take equal weights of the fruit and double-refined sugar; lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half