156 DOMESTIC COOKEET. ounces of butter in it, till it looks all like flour, and with a gill of boning cream, work it up to a fine paste. Another, not sweet, hut rich.—Rub six ounces of but- ter in eight ounces of fine flour: mix into a stifiish paste, with as little water as possible; beat it well, and roll it thin. This, as well as the former, is proper for tarts of fresh or preserved fruits. Bake in a moderate oven. A very fine Orustfor Orange-cheesecakes, or Sweet- meats when to he particularly nice. Dry a pound of the best flour, mix with it three oun- ces of refined sugar: then work half apoundof^ bntter with your hand till it come to froth ; put the flour into it by degrees, and workinto it, well beaten and strained, the yolks of three and whites of two eggs. If too lim- ber, put some flour and sugar to make it tit to roU. Line your pattypans, and till. A little above fifteen minutes will bake them. Against they come out, have ready some refined sugar beat up with the white of an egg, as thick as you can ; ice them aU over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. Salt butter will make a very fine flaky crust; but if for mince-pies, or any sweet things, should be washed. Observations on Pastry. An adept in pastry never leaves any part of it adher- ing to the board, or dish used in making. It is best when rolled on marble, or a very large slate. In very hot weather, the butter should be put into cold water to keep it as firm as possible: and if made early in the morning and preserved from the air until it is to be baked, the cook will find it much better. A good hand at pastry will use much less butter, and produce lighter crust than others. Salt butter, if very good and well washed, makes a fine flaky crust. Remarks on using preserved Fruits in Pastry. Preserved fruits should not be baked long: those that have been done \vith their full proportion of sugar, need no baking; the crust should be baked in a tin shape, and the fruit be afterwards added; or it may be put into a