D031ESTIC COOKERY. 136 want, making the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which you will make by good kneading and beating it with the rolling pin. WTien quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth, or under a pan, to soak till near cold. Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do thus: Eoll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bottom of the pie, then a long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringingthe former rather further out, andpinching both together :/put egg between the edges of the paste to make it adhere at the sides. Pill your pie and put on the cover, and pinch it and the side crust together. The same mode of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into atin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered; but in the latter case, the tin should be buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough: and as the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour than is proper, the paste should be put into the oven again for a quarter of an hour. With a feather put egg over at first. PXJDDIIfaS, &c. Ohservations on maTcing Puddings and Pancakes. The outside of a boiled pudding often tastes disagree- able ; which arises from the cloth not being nicely wash- ed, and kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in boiling water, squeezed dry, and flouredwhen to be used. If bread, it should be tied loosely, if batter, tight over. The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in; and it should be moved about for a minute, lest the ingi’edients should not mix. _ Batter-puddings should be strained through a coarse sieve, when all is mixed. In others the eggs separately. The pans and basins must always be buttered. A pan of cold water should be ready, and the pud- ding dipt in as soon as it comes out of the pot, and then it will not adhere to the cloth. Very good puddings may be made xoitlwut eggs; but they must have as little milk as will mix, and must boil