VJCNISOli. 29 Wlien you wish fried things to look as well as possible, I do them twice over with egg and crumbs. Bread that i is not stale enough to grate quite fine, will not look i well. The fat you fry in must always be boiling hot I the moment the fish, meat, &c. are put in, and kept so 1; till finished ; a small quantity never fries well. To keep meat hot.—It is best to take it up when )i done, though the company may not be come ; set the )i dish over a pan of boiling water, put a deep cover over 1 it so as not to touch the meat, and tlien throw a cloth ( over that. This way will not dry up the gravy. VEXISOjS". To keep Venison. Preserve the venison dry, wash it with milk and water V very clean, and dry it vrith clean cloths tiU not the least 1 damp remains; then dust pounded ginger over every 4 part, which is a good preventative against the fiy. By thus managing and watching, it will hang a fortnight. I When to be used, wash it with a little lukewarm water, f and dry it. Pepper is likewise good to keep it. I To dress Venison. A haunch of buck will take three hours and a half or i: three quarters roasting: doe, onlythreehours and aquar- ). ter. Venison should be rather over than underdone. Spread a sheet of white paper with butter, and put it over the fat, first sprinkling it with a little salt; then I lay a coarse paste on strong paper, and cover the haunch; A tie it with fine packthread, and set it at a distance from il the fire, which must be a good one. Baste it often; y ten minutes before serving take off the paste, draw the <1 meat nearer the fire, and baste it with butter and a good } deal of flour to make it froth up well. Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and not into the I d ish (unless there is none in the venison), and made thus: I Cut ofi" the fat from two or three pounds of a loin of old ♦ mutton, and setit insteaks, onagridironfor afewminutes I just to brown one side; put them into a sauce-pan with a i quart of water, cover quite close for an hour, and simmer