rJiv " DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. Sirloin of Beef may bo begun either at the end, or by cutting in- to the middle. It is usual to inquire whether the outside or the in. side is preferred. For the outside, the slice should be cut down to the bones ; and the same with every following helping. Slice the inside, Ukcwise, and give with each piece some of the soft fat. Tlie inside, done as follows, eats excellently:—Have ready some shalot-vinegar boiling hot; mince the meat large, and a good deal of the fat; sprinkle it with salt, and pour the shalot-vinegar luid the gravy on it. Help with a spoon, as quickly as possible, on hotplates Round or Buttock of Beef is cut in the same way as fillet of veah in the next article. It should be kept even all over. When helping the fat, obseive not to hack it, but cut it smooth. A deep slice should be cut off the beef before you begin to help, as wiU be dh-ect- ed for the edge-bone. Fillet of Veal.—In an ox this part is round of beef. Ask whe- ther the broivn outside be liked, otherwise help the next slice. The bone is taken out and the meat tied close, before dressing, which makes the fillet very solid. It should be cut thin and very smooth. A stuffing is put into the flap which completely covers it; you must cut deep into this, and help a thin slice, as likewise of fat. From carelessness in not covering the latter with paper, it is sometimes dried up, to the great disappointment of the can’er. Breast of Veal,—One part (which is called the brisket) is thick- set, and has gristles: put your knife about four inches from the edge of this, and cut through it, which will separate the ribs from the brisket. Ask which is chosen, and help accordingly. A Cod’s Head,—Fish in general requires very little carving, the fleshy parts being those principally esteemed. A cod’s head and shoulders, when in season, and properly boiled, is a very genteel and handsome dish. When cut, it should be done with a fish-trowel, and the parts about the back-bone on the shoulders are the most