CHAFINC DISH iSSff ' CASSEROLE C09KEI^y| C. HERMAN SENN22101719583Med K10572Chafing Dish and Casserole Cookery♦ BY C. HERMAN SENN, Gold Medallist (Paris, London and Vienna) Inspector and Consulting Chef National Training School of Cookery; Author of " The New Century Cookery Book," “ Practical Gastronomy," “ French Menus," “The Practical Cookery Manual," “ Recherche Side Dishes," etc. etc.equivalent Weights aqd J^easures- FOR DRY MATERIALS. lb=i6oz.=3 Tea-cupfuls or 2 Breakfast-cupfuls, closely filled, but not heaped. Breakfast-cupful, closely filled, but not heaped. Tea-cupful, loosely filled. Table-spoonfuls, filled level, do. do. Desert-spoonful, filled level. lb. = 8 oz. =i lb.= oz. oz. oz. 4 oz. = I = 2 = I I 4 Gills=i I Gill FOR LIQUIDS, Pint=about 3^ Tea-cupfuls, 2 Breakfast-cupfuls. — I Small Tea-cupful. or nearly WELLCOME INSTITUTE UBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. arPreface. This little Manual is designed to show the culinary possibilities of a chafing dish, which is looked upon by many as one of those delightful toys which make cook- ing a real pleasure. It also shows the handy use to which earthenware casseroles and marmites can be adopted in cookery. The former is intended chiefly for things that are quickly prepared, whilst the latter, “ casserole cookery,” is more especially adapted for so-called long or slow cooking processes. Cooking by the help of a chafing dish affords great pleasure, and at times amuse- ment, though it has a solid basis of useful- ness, for there are some decided advan- tages to be gained in being able to prepare dainty dishes quickly for either breakfast, luncheon, or supper. Many housewives take a real delight in chafing-dish cookery for ordinary purposes, whilst for sick-room cookery a chafing-dish will prove a most valuable friend, for there are many dishes suitable for invalids which can be prepared with its aid. The number of dishes which can be cooked in a chafing dish or in a casserole is almost endless. The collection of recipes contained in this book, which have been specially com- piled, will, it is hoped, meet the long-felt want so often expressed by many of my colleagues and friends, for whose benefit this volume has been published.4 Contents and Index. Almonds, Devilled PAGE ,, 43 ,, Salted 43 American Creamed Lobster 21 ,, Golden Buck 35 ,, Rabbit 33 Anchovy Eggs . 40 Apple Fritters, French 42 Asparagus au Gratin 72 Baked Fish, Gratin style . . 49 ,, Curried Tomatoes 82 ,, Stuffed Tomatoes 81 ,, Oysters au Gratin . 55 Banana Canapes • 43 ,, Trifle . . 44 Bechamel Sauce 84 Beef, Curried .. 63 ,, Fillets a la Minute 25 ,, Steak en Casserole 59 ,, Stewed with Macaroni 62 ,, Smothered, with Tomatoes 60 ,, Toast .. . . .. 25 Blazer, The 14 Boston Tit-Bit 34 Braised Calf’s Liver . . 62 ,, Loin of Mutton, Soubise 57 ,, Partridges with Cabbage • • 70 Broiled Calf’s Livers,, , , 28 ,, Oysters • • 18 Brown Sauce , , , , 85 Brussels Sprouts Mousses , , 76 Buttered Eggs , , 38 Calf’s Brains with Eggs 29 ,, ,, ,, Parsley Sauce . • 29 Calf’s Liver, Braised , , 62 ,, Broiled ,, 28 ,, Tossed 28 Casserole Cookery • • 45 ,, of Fish 51 ,, of Fowl 68 Cassolettes, Mushroom 74 Cauliflower au Gratin 78 ,, Mousses 76 Celery Ramakins 75 Chafing Dish, The . • 9 Cheese Fingers • • 365 PAGE Chicken, Creamed .. . . . . .. 26 ,, Croquettes ,. . . . . . . 26 ,, Omelet .. . . .. . . 27 ,, Pot, French .. . . . . 71 ,, Roast, en Casserole . . . . 67 ,, en Casserole .. . . . . 68 Coquilles, Egg, with Spinach . . . . 81 Crab, Curried .. . . . . . . 22 Creamed Cliicken .. .. . . .. 26 ,, Lobster .. . . . . .. 20 ,, Peas , . . . . . . . 31 Croquettes of Fish . . . . . . .. 23 Curried Beef .. .. .. . . . . 63 ,, Crab 22 Eggs 38 ,, Fowl . . . . . . . . .. 69 ,, Oysters .. .. . . . . 16 ,, Rabbit . . . . . , ,, 66 ,, Shrimps . . . . . . . . 53 ,, Toast . . .. . . . . 36 Veal 64 ,, Vegetables . . .. . . . . 73 Curry Sauce .. .. . . . . . . 85 Custard Sauce . . . . . , . . 44 Devilled Almonds . . .. . . . . 43 ,, Lobster . . . . .. .. 22 Eel, Matelote of . . .. . . , . 53 Eggs, Anchovy ., .. . . . . 40 ,, and Bacon . . .. .. . . 37 ,, Buttered . . . . . . .. 38 ,, Calf’s Brains with . . . . . . 29 ,, en Cocotte .. .. .. .. 80 ,, Coquilles with Spinach .. ., 81 ,, Curried .. .. . . .. . . 38 ,, ,, (another way) .. ,. 39 ,, a la Jardiniere .. . . , . 39 ,, Poached .. .. . . . . 37 ,, Sardine .. ., . . .. .. 41 ,, Scrambled . . . . , , . . 40 ,, ,, with Ham .. .. . .40 ,, ,, with Shrimps . . . . 40 ,, a la Rouennaise . . .. . . 81 ,, Stirred .. . . . . . . . . 37 ,, Tomato . . . . . . . . 38 Fillets of Beef a la Minute .. . . . . 25 Fish, Baked, Gratin style .. . . . . 49 ,, Casserole . . .. . . . . 51 ,, Croquettes . . . . . . . . 23 ,, Kedgeree . . . . . . . . 19 ,, Rechauffe of .. . . . . . . 236 PAGE Fish, Toast .. . , . . . . .. 23 Fowl, Casserole of .. .. ., .. 68 ,, Curry of .. .. . . .. 69 French Apple Fritters .. .. ., 42 ,, CMcken Pot . . . . .. 71 Fricasseed Oysters .. .. .. .. 16 ,, Veal ., . . . . .. 64 Fried Scallops . . . . .. . . 19 Golden Buck .. .. .. .. , . 33 ,, American .. . . .. . , 35 Ham, Roast, en Casserole .. ,. .. 55 ,, Spinach and. Souffle . . . . .. 75 Hot-Pot or Hodge-Podge .. .. .. 65 Italian Macaroni Pie , . . . ., 79 ,, Risotto . . .. . . .. 80 Kedgeree of Fish .. .. .. .. 19 Kidneys a la Minute .. . . .. 30 Kidney Omelet .. .. . . ,. 83 Lamb’s Kidneys with Tomatoes . . . . 29 Lobster, Creamed .. .. .. .. 20 ,, ,, American . , .. .. 21 ,, Devilled .. . , ,. ,. 22 ,, Patties .. .. ,. .. 21 Macaroni au Gratin .. . . .. .. 79 ,, Italian Pie .. .. .. . , 79 Matelote of Eel ., .. .. .. 53 Mince Meat Toast .. . . . . .. 30 Mock Crab . . .. ,. . . .. 34 Mousses, Brussels Sprouts . . .. .. 76 ,, of Cauliflower ., .. . . 76 Mutton, Braised Loin, a la Soubise .. ., 57 ,, Chops en Casserole . . .. . . 59 ,, Cutlets a la Minute .. .. .. 27 ,, ,, en Casserole . . .. 59 ,, Spiced Shoulder .. .. . . 57 ,, Neck, en Casserole . . .. .. 56 Mushroom Cassolettes . . . . .. 74 ,, Omelet .. .. . . . . 83 ,, Puree, in Cases . . .. .. 74 Neck of Mutton en Casserole . . .. 56 Omelet, Chicken .. .. .. .. 27 ,, Mushroom .. .. . . .. 83 ,, Orange .. . . . . . . 42 ,, Oyster ., .. .. ., 17 ,, Plain .. . . . . . . 82 ,, Rum . . . . .. . . , . 41 ,, Salmon . . .. ., . . 22 ,, Savoury .. .. .. . . 41 ,, Tomato a la Viennoise . . .. 83 Orange Omelet .. .. . . . . 427 PAGE Oyster Fritters .. . . .. .. 17 ,, Omelet .. .. .. .. 17 ,, Patties . . .. .. .. 16 ,, Rarebit . , .. .. .. 35 Oysters, Baked . . .. .. .. 55 ,, Broiled .. .. .. .. 18 ,, Curried . . . . .. .. 16 ,, Fricasseed .. .. . . .. 16 ,, a la Marguerite .. .. .. 14 ,, Sauce .. .. .. .. .. 18 ,, Seaman’s Style .. .. .. 54 ,, Scrambled Eggs with . . .. 15 ,, Shrivelled .. .. .. .. 15 ,, on Toast .. .. .. .. 18 Partridges, Braised with Cabbage .. .. 70 Peas, Creamed .. .. .. .. 31 Petite Marmite ,. .. .. .. 47 Pigeons en Casserole .. .. .. .. 70 Plain Omelet .. .. . . .. .. 82 Poached Eggs .. .. .. .. 37 Potatoes a la Hollandaise .. • .. .. 31 ,, Sante .. .. .. .. 73 Puree, Mushroom in Cases .. .... 74 ,, Soubise .. ,. ., .. 58 Quails en Casserole .. .. .. .. 71 ,, on Toast .. .. .. .. 24 Quickly made White Sauce .. .. .. 84 Rabbit en Casserole .. ,. .. .. 66 ,, Curried .. .. .. ,. 66 Ramakins, Celery .. .. .. .. 75 ,, Spinach .. .. .. .. 74 Rechauffe of Cold Meat .. .. .. 24 ,, of Fish ., .. .. .. 23 Red Mullet en Terrine . . .. .. 52 Roast Chicken en Casserole . . . , .. 67 ,, Ham en Casserole .. .. .. 55 Rolled Fillets of Sole.. .. .. 51 Rum Omelet .. ,. .. .. ., 41 Salmon Omelet . . . . .. . . 22 ,, Scalloped .. .. ... . . 54 Salted Almonds .. ., .. . . 43 Sardine Eggs .. .. . . .. . , 41 Sauce, Bechamel . . . . ,. . . 84 ,, Brown .. .. .. . . . . 85 ,, Curry .. .. .. . , . , 85 ,, Custard .. . . . . .. 44 ,, Simple White .. .. . . , . 44 ,, Tomato .. . . . . . . . . 84 ,, White (quickly made).. .. 84 Savoury Omelet .. . . . . . . 41 Saute Potatoes . . .... . . 738 Scalloped Salmon Scallops, Fried Scrambled Eggs ,, ,, with Ham . . ,, ,, with Oysters ,, ,, with Shrimps Scotch Collops Sea Pie Shrimps, Curried Shrivelled Oysters Smothered Beef with Tomatoes Soubise Puree Sole, Rolled Fillets, Cardinal ,, au Gratin Soles a la Parisienne .. Souffle, Spinach ,, ,, and Ham Spiced Shoulder of Mutton Spinach and Ham Souffle ,, Ramakins ,, Souffle Stewed Beef with Macaroni ,, Chicken with Rice Stirred Eggs Sweetbreads Swiss Rabbit Terrine of Toast, Beef ,, Curried ,, Fish ,, Mince Meat ,, Woodcock Tomato Eggs .. ,, Omelet, Viennoise ,, Sauce .. Tomatoes, Baked Stuffed ,, ,, Curried Tossed Calf’s Liver ,. Tripe with Cream Sauce Turnips au Gratin Veal, Curried ,, Fricassee of Vegetables, Curried Vienna Steaks Welsh Rabbit, No. 1 No. 2 White Sauce, quickly made Whiting, Fillets au Gratin ,, Terrine of . . Woodcock Toast Yorkshire Rarebit Whiting PAGE . 54 . 19 . 40 . 40 . 15 . 40 . 61 . 61 . 53 . 15 . 60 58 51 50 . 20 . 78 . 75 . 57 . 75 . 74 . 78 . 62 . 27 . 37 . 24 . 34 50 . 25 . 36 . 23 . 30 . 35 . 38 . 83 . 84 . 81 . 82 . 28 . 28 . 77 . 64 . 64 . 73 . 25 . 32 . 33 . 84 . 50 50 . 35 . 35CDe Cbafind Di$D. Ob, I am a festive chafing dish, I foam, and froth, and bubble, / sing the song of meat and fish. And save a deal of trouble. In kitchen realm and dining hall The housewife now is able. When / respond unto her call. To cook dinner on the table. CHAFING-DISH cookery is by no means a new invention, for it was practised in olden times for so-called rechauffes of game and poultry in rich and highly-flavoured wine sauces. The use of this convenient cooking apparatus has been revived in America, probably on account of the great difficulty experienced there among private families to get qualifled cooks. The increasing knowledge of good cookery among all classes in this country as well as in the United States may also be responsible for the increasing popularity of the use of the chaflng dish as the mostlO handy and convenient cookery utensil for the preparation of tasty and quickly- cooked dishes. Some few years ago chafing-dish suppers became fashionable in London, and from that time the use of the chafing dish has become more and more popular. It is only right to say that if ever there was an article whose use was abused, whose design was misunderstood, and whose ability, or shall we say possibility, was maligned, it was this very article, com- monly known as the chafing dish. Chafing-dish cookery is restricted to certain dishes only, and cannot be adapted for all cooking processes, but so long as those dishes are practical one could not wish for a more handy or more convenient cooking apparatus. You may boil, stew, broil, and fry on a chafing dish, provided the right kind of materials are used, but the other cooking processes are practically impossible to be performed in a satisfactory manner on a chafing dish. Whatever may be said for or against chafing-dish cookery, there is a great deal of fascination for professional as well as amateur cooks, which will enable them to give an exhibition of their skill, for by its means one can make the most tempting and quickly-prepared dishes that are so conveniently adapted to it. The chafing dish has become quite fash- ionable among the upper classes, who, for the sake of convenience or fun, like to show their skill in matters culinary. The mere mention of chafing dish brings up the much-discussed and, I may say, dis- puted question of late suppers. Although the chafing dish is mostly usedfor a late supper, i.e., for so-called supper parties, it may also be utilised at luncheon, breakfast, or the time for making any kind of dish which must be served ala minute,'* that is, immediately after it is cooked. A chafing dish generally consists of four parts : the framework in which the lamp is set, the lamp, the hot-water pan with side handles which rest on the framework, and the blazer in which the food is cooked. A fiagon is a dainty adjunct for filling the lamp without removing it from the table ; but in its absence a jug can be used. The fiagon is recommended because when corked it prevents the alcohol from escaping. Cheap alcohol should not be used in the lamp ; the best is none too good, for it will not smoke or smut. A polished wooden or bone spoon and a chafing-dish fork are necessary, the former for stirring the food, the latter for serving it out. These articles have long handles with broad bowls. It is best to place the chafing dish on a tray so as to prevent any danger of a flaring flame igniting an unprotected table cloth. The tray, fiagon, hot plates, fork and spoon should be put on the side of the tray. The hot-water pan must be always used where slow cooking is required for creams, sauces, and rarebits. For frying, broiling, remove the hot-water pan and place the pan near to the flame, which is done by raising the lamp on a standard supplied for this purpose. Have the lamp filled with good alcohol, and closely covered until ready to light.12 Fill the pan one-fourth full of hot water, if handy, otherwise with cold, covering closely until hot. In preparing foods, let them be served from the chafing dish on to the hot plates, and never attempt anything in the line of elaborate garnishing. Neither should an elaborate meal be attempted, especially if only one chafing dish is used. It requires at least two chafing dishes, and sometimes three, to carry out a whole meal suc- cessfully. Near at hand should be a small table containing the materials for preparing the meal. The flour, salt, pepper and sugar should be accurately measured. Place small pats of butter or butter-balls on a dish. When whipped cream is used, prepare it before- hand, place it in a deep dish or bowl, and keep in a cool place until wanted. By having the meats seasoned and ready to form into whatever cooked dish is wanted, the cheese grated, eggs wiped clean, and placed near at hand, the work of cooking is much lessened. Parsley and cress should be washed, it is then ready when wanted. For dishes where toast is needed, pre- pare the bread over the coal or gas fire, as toasting cannot be properly done over the lamp. The toast must, of course, be kept hot until ready for use. The most suitable preparations for the chafing dish are light ragouts, eggs and omelettes, so-called creamed dishes, light stew dishes, fish savouries, curries, etc. Needless to say that any of the following recipes can be prepared equally well in an ordinary saucepan on the stove ; but these13 recipes for selected dishes have been specially compiled, so that they can be conveniently prepared in a chafing dish. A CHAFING DISH AND ITS OUTFIT. The above illustration shows the com- plete equipment of a chafing dish with its accessories. Besides the chafing dish and the lamp which provides the “ fuel ” and is the all- important adjunct for cooking, the fol- lowing accessories and utensils are neces- sary :— Two or three spoons, one wooden and one silver plated, used for stirring and mixing. A fork used for similar purposes. A fiagon or tin bottle to hold the fiuid fuel, methylated spirit. A skimmer, used for skimming purposes. An egg poacher, most handy to poach eggs in a dainty style. An omelet pan and a blazer, used for frying and broiling purposes.14 Cbe Blazer. The blazer of a chafing dish is used the same way and for the same purpose as an ordinary saut6-pan, or frying-pan, or as the upper part of a double boiler. To decide how to use the blazer, it is necessary to consider how the article would be cooked if an ordinary cooking stove were used, and use the blazer accordingly. For ex- ample, a roux can be made by melting butter and frying or blending flour in it, and then adding a liquid to make it into a sauce. This would be cooking in saut^-pan or blazer directly over the fire, the same as frying ; but if milk has to be scalded, and fiour and butter creamed together, or fiour mixed with lic^uid, which is to be stirred into the hot milk, then the cooking should be done over hot water. After a sauce has been made, and meat or fish is to be reheated or . cooked in it, or beaten eggs are to be added to it, the cooking, in such cases, is also best performed over hot water. Cutlets or thin chops, fillets of steak, or a small bird, are broiled over a quick heat, no matter whether the utensil in which they are cooked be a saut6 or frying-pan or a chafing-dish blazer. Opsters a la marguerite. Take eighteen large oysters, half a stick of celery (white part only), one and a half oz. of butter, one glass of white wine, one dessert-spoonful cornflour, twenty-four large picked shrimps, a little stock, lemon juice, seasoning, and chopped parsley. Beard the oysters, cut them in halves and blanch them in their own liquor;15 preserve the latter. Wash and trimTthe celery, using only the white portions ; chop up rather finely, and drain well on a cloth. Melt an ounce of butter in the chafing dish, add the celery, and fry for about ten minutes. Now add the wine and the oysters, and the liquor, season with salt and pepper, mix the cornfiour with a little stock (cold), and incorporate this along with the oysters, etc. Stir till it boils, adding a little more stock to moisten ; fiavour with a few drops of lemon juice, and lastly add the shrimps. Put in the remainder of butter, and cook very gently for five minutes. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve from the chafing dish. Scrambled €93$ U)UI) Opsters. (Ocufs brouilles aux huitrcs.) Mix an ounce of fresh butter with a tea- spoonful of anchovy paste. Beat up five or six eggs, season with salt, pepper, and a dash of paprika or Krona pepper sea- soning. Melt the anchovy butter in the chafing dish, when hot pour in the eggs, stir lightly until the mixture begins to thicken, then add quickly a dozen oysters, previously bearded and cut into halves or dice. Serve from the chafing dish, with fingers of toasted bread, buttered and lightly spread with anchovy paste. Sbripcilcd Op$tcr$. (huTtrcs €touffcV) Put the liquor of a dozen oysters in the chafing dish over the fire, allow it to boil, and remove the scum from the surface.i6 Add half an ounce of fresh butter, and put in a dozen oysters, previously bearded. Season with salt and pepper, a few drops of lemon juice, and a little chopped chives or parsley. Cook for five minutes, and serve plain or on toast. yricassced Opsters. This is an excellent dish for invalids or convalescents. Blanch twelve large oysters, drain and beard them. Melt half an ounce of butter in a chafing dish, to this add half an ounce of flour, stir for a few minutes, and moisten with a gill of milk and the strained oyster liquor. Bring to the boil, let it sim- mer for ten minutes. Cut the oysters in halves. Add them to the sauce, let them get very hot together without boiling, then add the beaten yolk of an egg and a little cream. Season to taste and serve. Opstcr Patties. (Boucbees aux Ruitrcs.) Blanch in their own liquor and beard twelve large oysters, drain them and cut them into quarters, or smaller if liked. Prepare a sauce as directed in the fore- going recipe, and add a yolk of egg and a few drops of lemon juice. Heat up the oysters in this, and fill up a number of puff paste patty or bouch§ cases with the prepared mixture. Curried Opsters. (fiuftrcs a rindknnc.) Prepare a curry sauce as directed for “ Curried Eggs,” add a teaspoonful of17 lemon juice, and drop in one dozen large fat oysters, previously bearded and fried in butter, also half the oyster liquor. Cook them very gently for a few minutes, and serve with plain boiled rice. Opster Fritters. (Beignets d’huitres.) Make a light batter with one ounce of flour, one yolk of egg, one dessert-spoonful of olive oil, a pinch of salt, and half a gill of milk. Beat it well, let it stand for an hour, then carefully stir in the whisked white of an egg. Beard one dozen large oysters, sprinkle over with a little lemon juice, and season with salt and pepper. Dip each oyster into the batter so as to completely cover them, then drop them one at a time into very hot butter con- tained in the chaflng dish. Fry to a rich brown, take up, drain and serve hot. Opster Omelet. (Omelette aux huitres.) Cook six large oysters in their own liquor without actually boiling. Drain them well, remove the beards, and cut the oysters into small pieces. Beat up the yolks of four eggs, add a pinch of salt and pepper, then add the oysters, and lastly the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Melt an ounce of butter in a chaflng-dish blazer, when hot pour in the egg mixture, and stir with a fork over a bright Are till the eggs commence to set, then shape and fold over, let cook for a minute or two longer, and turn the omelet on to a hot dish. NOTE.—Half the liquor of the oysters can be added to the eggs ; this will make the omelet moister and lighter.i8 Broikd Opstcrs. (Ruitrcs fritcs.) Remove the beards from a dozen large oysters, and proceed to treat them the same as directed in the recipe for “ Fried Scallops.” Fry them in hot butter, and serve with quarters of lemon. Opstcrs on Coast. (huitrcs sur Croutcs.) Remove the beards from a dozen large oysters, and put them in a dish containing enough milk to cover the oysters. Have ready some toasted and buttered bread, cut into oblong pieces about in. wide—six pieces will be required. Place two oysters on each piece of toast, season with a little cayenne or paprika pepper, and pour over enough white sauce to just cover the oysters. Sprinkle with a few bread-crumbs and a few drops of lemon juice. Fry them in a chafing-dish blazer for ten minutes. Dish up and garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve hot. Another and more simple way is to slightly broil the oysters with a little fresh butter, then season and put them on neatly cut slices of hot buttered toast. Dish up, garnish with lemon quarters and parsley, and serve. Opster Sauce. (Sauce aux fiuitrcs.) From six large sauce oysters remove the beards, and put them with their liquor in a chafing dish, with an ounce of butter. Cover with a lid and cook for four minutes (they must not be allowed actually to boil). Put the oysters on a sieve, cut them in19 twos or quarters, allow the liquor to reduce to half its original quantity, strain, return to the chafing dish, adding at the same time half a pint of white sauce, when quite hot add the yolk of one egg, and stir till the thickening is perfect, then add a few drops of lemon juice, also a pinch of salt and pepper if found necessary. Keep the sauce hot but not boiling till wanted for table, then pour into a hot sauce-boat. Kedgeree of ?isb. Take half a pound cold boiled fish, cod or whiting, or one smoked haddock, free the fish from skin and bones, and break up into small pieces. Wash and boil in plenty of water two ounces of rice, and when done strain the rice. Boil also two eggs till hard, remove the shells, take out the yolks, and cut the whites into small dice or shreds. Melt ounces of butter in a chafing dish, put in the fish, rice and hard-boiled white of egg. Season with salt, pepper and nut- meg. Mix well and stir over the fire for five minutes and keep hot. Dish up neatly in the form of a pyramid. Rub the yolks of eggs through a coarse sieve and decorate the surface of the shape with it. Garnish also with chopped parsley. Frkd scallops. (€scaIoppes frites.) Cut four or five fresh scallops in halves, wipe them and season with salt, pepper, a very little paprika or Krona pepper, then dip them in oiled butter. Drain again, and roll them in finely crushed shredded wheat biscuits or coarse bread-crumbs. Heat up20 two ounces of butter in the chafing dish, when quite hot drop in the crumbed scallops, and fry to a golden colour. Take up, drain, dish up and garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve hot. Soles a la Parlskmie. Skin and fillet two small soles, season with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, and roll up each fillet. Melt half an ounce of butter in the chafing dish, place in the fillets of sole, sprinkle over a small finely minced shallot and a dessert-spoonful of finely chopped parsley. Moisten with half a glass of white wine, Chablis or Sauterne, also two table-spoonfuls of well reduced bechamel sauce ; then cover the dish and cook the fish slowly from 15 to 20 minutes, according to the size of the fillets. Just before serv- ing, add a pat of fresh butter, divided into little bits, and shake the dish so as to dissolve the butter more quickly. Creamed Cobster. (fiomard a la Creme.) Pick the meat from the claws and body of a medium-sized boiled lobster, and chop it rather small. Melt one ounce of butter in the chafing dish, stir in one table- spoonful of fiour, cook a little without browning, then moisten with half a pint of milk, and boil up whilst stirring. Sea- son with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Put in the lobster mince, and let simmer whilst stirring for about ten minutes. Now add one teaspoonfiil of lemon juice and two table-spoonfuls of cream. Re-heat, but do not let it boil again. The dish is then21 ready to serve, and should be accompanied with thinly cut buttered brown bread. American Creamed £ob$ter. (hoinard a la Reiuburg.) Remove the meat from a medium-sized lobster, and chop it finely. Beat up the yolks of two eggs and mix with half a gill of double cream, a few drops of onion juice, half a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of Krona pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Melt an ounce of butter in the chafing dish ; when hot, put in the minced lobster, cook whilst stirring for a few minutes, then add the cream, etc. Stir continu- ously till it thickens, and serve out on small rounds of toasted and buttered or fried bread. Garnish with sprigs of crisp parsley. Eobstcr Patties. (Boucbccs de fiomard.) Crack a fair-sized lobster, and remove all the meat, cut it into small dice-shaped pieces, season with salt, pepper and a pinch of Krona or paprika. Melt half an ounce of butter in the chafing dish, put in one level table-spoonful of fiour, blend these well, then moisten with half a gill of hot milk and one table-spoonful of cream. Boil up and add the lobster, cook gently for ten minutes, then add a little grated nut- meg, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and a teaspoonful of anchovy essence. Stir well and fill up some previously heated patty cases made of puff paste or rough puff (bouche cases). Dish up and garnish with parsley.Devilled Lobster. (Romara a la Oiable.) Remove the meat from a medium-sized lobster and chop it finely; put it in a chafing dish with enough bechamel or other white sauce to moisten, season with pepper and salt. Re-heat and add a dessert-spoonful of mustard mixed with a little brandy or sherry. Have ready some rounds of toasted bread, butter them and spread them thickly with the hot lobster mixture, and serve. Salmon Omdet. (Omelette de Saumon.) Free four ounces cooked salmon from skin and bones, and fiake it finely, heat it up in a little butter and white sauce, just enough to moisten. Season with salt and pepper, and keep hot. Make an omelet as directed for “ Oyster Omelet,” omitting the oysters and the oyster liquor. When ready to fold, put in the hot salmon mixture, fold in the ends and shape neatly. Serve hot. Curried Crab. Remove the meat from a good-sized crab, including that of the claws, sprinkle it with a very little mustard and Krona pepper, and put it on a plate. Melt an ounce or more of butter in the chafing dish, add a peeled and finely chopped shallot, and half an apple, peeled, cored and chopped. Fry for a few minutes, and then add the crab, and fry for another five minutes. Drain off the fat from the crab mixture, adding a gill of curry sauce, and allow the whole to simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Serve hot with some well boiled rice.Recbaurre of ?i$i>. Almost any kind of boiled fish, especially white fish such as cod, haddock, whiting, or turbot is suitable for a rechauf!6. Free the fish from skin and bones, and shred it finely or chop it. Put half a pound of the fish into the chafing dish with an ounce of butter. When hot add half a cup of bread- crumbs, previously soaked in milk, one teaspoonful of anchovy essence or paste, and a well beaten egg. Mix thoroughly, and season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Cook whilst stirring for five minutes, then add a little cream, re-heat, and serve hot. croquettes of fisb. Spread a fish mixture made as directed in the last recipe on to a plate and let cool, then divide into six to eight portions, and shape each into a ball or cork shape, dip in egg and roll in bread-crumbs. Melt two ounces of clarified butter in the chafing dish, when quite hot drop in the croquettes one at a time, and fry to a golden brown. Take up, drain, and dish up. Serve with quarters of lemon. Fi$l) Coast This dish is made in the same manner as “ Mince Meat Toast, ’’page 30, using cooked fish in place of meat, omitting the onion, and using milk in place of stock. White or brown sauce may be used in place of stock or milk to moisten the fish or meat, in which case the fiour must be omitted. Be sure that the Triscuits as well as the mixture are thoroughly hot before serving. Toasted and buttered bread may be used in place of Triscuits.24 Recbauffc or Cold l»can The remains of cold roast beef or mutton can with very little skill and trouble be turned into appetising dishes by the help of the chafing dish. The meat, say about half a pound, should be cut into thin slices, freed from superfluous fat and gristle, or it may be cut into fine shreds or julienne strips. It is best if first fried or tossed in a little butter in the blazer over a full flame, after which a little good brown sauce or gravy is added, also a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, half a glass of sherry or Madeira wine, and a teaspoonful of Hol- brook’s Worcestershire sauce ; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne or paprika. Allow the meat to simmer gently for about twenty minutes, then serve. Su)cetbread$. Calves’ sweetbreads or lambs’ breads, being quickly cooked and tender, adapt themselves well for cooking in a chafing dish. They should be well washed, blanched and trimmed, then cut into slices and fried in butter in the chafing dish. Slices of fried bacon make a nice accom- paniment with sweetbreads. Another way is to egg and crumb the slices, and fry them in clarified butter, or to stew the slices in a richly seasoned white sauce. Quails on Coast. (Caillcs sur Croutcs.) Cut three small fat trussed quails in halves, flatten each, season with salt and pepper, and dredge them with a little flour. Melt one ounce of butter in the blazer of25 the chafing dish, when hot put in the quails, and fry them on both sides to a nice brown colour. Take up, drain them, and place each half on a crouton of bread or buttered toast. fillets or Beef a la l»lnute. Cut half-pound of fillet of beef into rather thin slices, flatten each a little and pare neatly. Season with salt and pepper. Heat up an ounce of butter in the blazer of a chafing dish. When quite hot, put in the fillets and fry them over a full flame, allowing about five minutes for each side. Dish up the fillets ; pour off the fat in the blazer, put a little stock or water mixed with one teaspoonful of ‘‘ Lemco ” into the blazer, boil up, and pour round the fillets. Garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. BceT Coast. A most nourishing toast can be made by shredding very finely four ounces of lean beef. Put it in a chafing dish with an ounce of butter and brown nicely. Season with salt and pepper, then add a little flour, and a table-spoonful of stock or gravy. Toast six Triscuits, butter one side of each slightly and spread the beef over each. Range them on a dish, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve. Buttered toasted bread may be used in place of Triscuits. Vienna Steaks. (filets a la Viennoise.) Chop finely four to six ounces of rump or buttock steak, season with salt and pepper, and mix with one ounce of bread-crumbs.26 and a beaten egg. Shape this into small flat rounds or fillets, dredge with a little flour, and fry them in an ounce of butter, previously heated in the blazer of a chafing dish, turn the fillets so as to fry both sides. Pour off the fat, put a little onion puree in each fillet, add a few table-spoonfuls of gravy, cover the dish and re-heat for five minutes ; then serve. Creamed Cbicken. (poulet a la Creme) Finely chop the remains of a cold chicken freed from bones, skin and gristle. Melt an ounce of butter in the chafing dish, add half an ounce of flour, and stir for a few minutes without letting it get brown, then add half a gill of milk or cream, and half a gill of white stock ; put in the minced chicken, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Cook gently for ten minutes, and serve with fingers of toasted bread or Triscuits. NOTE.—The above quantity of sauce ingredients is based on a breakfast cupful or more of minced chicken. Cbicken Croquets. (Croquettes de Volatile.) Prepare a fairly consistent white sauce as above directed, add to it half a pound of minced cooked chicken and ham or tongue, also two yolks of eggs. Cook for a few minutes, and spread on a plate to cool. Make up into small cork shapes. Egg and crumb them, then fry in the chafing dish in hot clarified butter to a rich brown colour. Drain the croquets and serve hot.27 stewed cittcken witi) Rice. (Ragout de poukt au Riz.) Cut the remains of a roast or boiled chicken, free from bones, into large dice shapes. Put this into the chafing dish with three to four table-spoonfuls of white sauce and a cupful of cooked rice, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Moisten further with a little white stock, cover the dish and let it simmer gently for about 25 minutes. Stir the ragout occa- sionally. Serve hot. Cbickcn Omckt. (Omelette de Volaille.) Cut some cold boiled or roast chicken, free from bone, skin and gristle, into small dice, season to taste and heat up in a little white sauce. Beat up six eggs with one table-spoonful of milk and season to taste with salt and pepper. Melt three-quarters of an ounce of butter in a chafing dish, pour in the egg mixture and stir over a quick fire till the eggs begin to set, then put the chicken mixture in the centre. Fold in the sides and shape neatly (oval cushion shape), allow the omelet to take colour, and serve. mutton Cutlets a la minute. Mutton or lamb cutlets, cut rather thinly, well fiattened, and trimmed neatly, can be cooked in the same manner as directed for Fillets of Beef, see page 25. These may be served with creamed peas, stewed tomatoes, or other vegetable garnish.28 Cripe ipitl) Cream Sauce. (Cripe a la Creme.) Wash half a pound of honeycomb tripe, wipe it dry, and cut into very fine shreds. Put half an ounce of butter into the chafing dish, and fry in it a peeled and chopped shallot; then put in the tripe, season with salt and pepper, and besprinkle with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Cook whilst stirring for about six minutes, then moisten with a gill of hot milk and two or three table-spoonfuls of cream. Allow to sim- mer, stirring often for half an hour longer. More milk or stock may be added if found necessary. A little grated nutmeg is con- sidered an improvement by many. Serve hot with croutons of fried bread or puff paste crusts (fieurons). Broiled Cairs Over. (Joie de Veau frit.) Wipe a piece of calf’s liver weighing about half a pound, and cut it into slices. Dip each slice into seasoned fiour. Fry a few thin slices of bacon in the blazer of a chafing dish, take up the bacon, and add to the fat remaining in the blazer half an ounce of butter, when hot put in the slices of liver, and broil them over a full flame for several minutes, turn the slices occasionally so as to brown them nicely. Pour in a little gravy or stock mixed with a tea- spoonful of “Lemco,” place the fried bacon on top, and cook for five minutes longer. Serve hot. Cossed Calf’s Cicer. (?oie dc Veau saute.) Cut half a pound of fresh calf’s liver into very thin slices, and proceed to cook it in29 the same manner as described for “ Kidneys a la Minute,” on page 30. Cair$ Brains witb €99$. (Ceroelles dc Vcau au\ Oeufs.) Soak in salted water half a calf’s brain, wash it well and remove the veins, then blanch it, drain and chop it into small pieces. Melt an ounce of butter in a chafing dish, when hot put in four well-beaten eggs, and the chopped brain. Season with salt, pepper (paprika or white pepper). Stir in a table-spoonful of cream and allow the mixture to cook whilst stirring for about five minutes. Serve with fingers of toasted bread or Triscuits. Calf’s Brains with Parslep Sauce. (Ccrecllcs de Veau a la poulctte.) Soak and wash carefully a calf’s brain, removing the veins, then blanch or par- boil it in salted water. Drain and cut it into small pieces. Melt an ounce of butter in a chafing dish, stir in half an ounce of fiour, and add half a pint of milk, continue to stir till it boils, season to taste with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Then put in the pieces of brain, boil up, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon juice. At this stage the yolks of two eggs may be added if liked. Allow the brains to cook till quite tender and serve hot with sippets of toasted bread or Triscuits. £amb$’ Kidneps ipiti) Comatoes. (Rognons d’Agneau au IRadere.) Skin and slice thinly four lambs’ kidneys and season them with salt and pepper.30 Melt in the blazer of a chafing dish half an ounce of butter and fry in it a small finely minced shallot, then put in the kidneys. Stir them quickly over a full flame, sprinkle over a dessert-spoonful of flour. Stir well until slightly browned, then add two peeled and sliced tomatoes, a small glass of Madeira or sherry, and half a gill of good stock. Cook together for another five minutes and serve with sippets of toast or celery biscuits. Kidncps a la I7)inute. (Rognons a la IRinute.) Skin and slice thinly three sheep’s kid- neys. Melt half an ounce of butter in the blazer of a chafing dish, and fry in it a peeled and chopped shallot. Then put in the sliced kidneys, season with salt and pepper, and dredge over with a dessert- spoonful of fiour. Stir the contents of the dish with a fork over a full fiame for several minutes, long enough to fry the kidneys, then moisten with a quarter of a gill of stock or gravy, half a small glass of sherry or Marsala, and a teaspoonful of Holbrook’s Worcester sauce. Add also four or five sliced preserved mushrooms. Bring the whole to the boil whilst stirring, and sim- mer for five minutes ; sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve hot. initicc wcat Coast. An excellent Supper Dish. Mince or chop finely four to six ounces of cold meat, free from skin, gristle and fat. Melt an ounce of butter in the chafing dish, and in it fry two slices of finely chopped31 onion. Add a dessert-spoonful of flour and brown a little, then put in the meat, season to taste, and stir till quite hot. Moisten with quarter-gill of stock, and cook for ten minutes. Heat up four to six Triscuits, butter them lightly when hot, and spread the mixture on each. Sprinkle over with chopped parsley, and serve. Buttered toast may be used in place of Triscuits. Creamed Peas. (Petits pois a la Creme.) Take a pint of cooked green peas, pre- served ones will do when fresh peas are not obtainable. Heat them up in boiling water containing salt and a sprig of green mint. Strain off the water and put the peas into the chafing dish with three or four table- spoonfuls of cream. Season with salt and pepper, also a good pinch of castor sugar. Add further a dessert-spoonful of flnely chopped parsley and stir carefully over the spirit flame till the peas and cream are thoroughly hot; the cream must not be allowed to boil. A little fresh butter may also be added to the peas if liked. Potatoes a la Rollandaise. For this dish take one and a half pounds of small new potatoes of even size, scrape them and place them in salted water con- taining the juice of half a lemon. Cook them carefully in fast boiling water till nearly tender, then pour off the water and drain them on a sieve or a cloth. The water should be salted and contain a sprig or two of green mint. Melt one ounce of butter in the chafing-dish blazer, put in32 the cooked potatoes and shake them over a full flame for a few minutes. Then add half a gill of bechamel sauce and boil up, and cook for ten minutes longer, stirring freely but gently so as not to break the potatoes. Mix the yolks of two eggs with a little milk or cream. Stir and pour over the potatoes, add a little lemon juice and season lightly. Re-heat thoroughly without letting it boil again, and serve hot. Ulelsl) Rabbits. There are several kinds of ways to pre- pare cheese dishes in a chafing dish, the most popular being the Welsh Rabbit, which is a real Rare-bit if properly made. Besides the Welsh Rabbits, there are Scotch Rabbits, Swiss Rabbits, American Rabbits, Boston Rabbits, Oyster Rabbits, Scotch Woodcock, Golden Buck, etc., all of which take the form of toasted cheese done in one way or the other. WelsD RaDDit, Ro. t Cut into shreds a quarter-pound of Cheddar cheese, put this into the chafing dish with an ounce of butter and three table-spoonfuls of ale, or if milk is pre- ferred use it in place of ale. Add also one dessert-spoonful of Holbrook’s Worcester sauce, one salt-spoonful of dry mustard and half a salt-spoonful of paprika or Krona pepper. Blend the ingredients thoroughly and stir constantly till the cheese has melted and the mixture is quite creamy. Have ready some slices of toasted bread, trimmed and buttered, place them on a hot dish and pour over the cheese mixture. Serve hot.33 weisi) ^(m\t no. 2. Take | gill milk, 3 ozs. of Cheddar cheese cut into small dice, 1 egg, 1 oz. butter, seasoning, toasted and buttered bread. Put the milk into a chafing dish and bring it to the boil. Add the cheese, the egg (previously beaten), season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Stir, cooking slowly until quite smooth, or resembling thick cream. Remove the pan from the fire, and stir in the butter ; then return over the fire and re-heat. Pour the mix- ture over round or square slices of toasted and buttered bread, and serve quickly. The secret of this Welsh rabbit is careful and continuous stirring, so that it is smooth and creamy. fiolden Buck. Proceed exactly the same as directed in the foregoing recipe. Have ready as many poached eggs as there are portions of Welsh rabbit, and place one on each. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve quickly. Hmcrtcan Rabbit. Chop finely about a quarter of a pound of American cheese, put it in a chafing dish, with half an ounce of butter, three to four table-spoonfuls of ale, half a teaspoonful of dry mustard, a few drops of Tabasco sauce and a good pinch of black pepper. Stir the mixture till it is quite creamy and free from lumps, then add the yolks of two eggs. Stir a little longer to cook the eggs, then pour it over some slices of buttered toast placed on a hot dish and send to table quickly. c34 Swiss Rabbit. Beat up in a cup a fresh egg, season it with salt and pepper and add to it an ounce of fresh bread-crumbs and three table- spoonfuls of cream. Melt one ounce of butter in a chafing dish, when hot put in three ounces of grated Gruyere cheese, the bread-crumbs, eggs and cream, and stir till quite hot and of a cream-like consistency. Add a grate of nutmeg and dress the mix- ture on small slices, square or oblong, of toasted and buttered bread. Dish up and serve hot. D)ock Crab. Put a table-spoonful of butter in the chafing dish, when melted, add six ounces of mild cheese, chopped or grated, and stir until melted ; then add the yolks of three beaten eggs, a dessert-spoonful of anchovy essence, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, a dessert-spoonful of lemon juice or vinegar, and a saltspoonful of paprika. Stir until smooth and cream-like, then serve on sippets of bread toasted and buttered. Serve hot. Boston Cit-Bit. Cut up four ounces of Cheddar or American cheese, put it in the chafing dish with a saltspoonful of mustard, one tea- spoonful of fiour, a pinch of paprika or Krona pepper, and moisten with a well beaten egg and a gill of hot milk. Stir till it boils and becomes creamy. Toast four or five Triscuits, butter them and place them on plates, pour over sufficient of the mixture to well cover each Triscuit, and serve hot.35 Opster Rarebit. Chop finely the soft part of six oysters, mix this together with half the liquor of the oysters with an ordinary Welsh rahbit preparation. Cook in the same way as directed for the latter dish, and serve on toast. yorksbire Rarebit. Prepare a Welsh rahbit mixture, spread it on portions of buttered toast cut into squares, upon each piece of toast place a small rasher of fried bacon, with a poached egg laid on top. American eolden Buck. This is made the same as Welsh rabbit (see page 32), and placing a small poached egg, neatly trimmed, on top of each por- tion. Some prefer to use only the yolks of eggs for poaching purposes as this makes a neater-looking portion. Put a tiny pinch of Nepaul or cayenne pepper in the centre of each egg just before serving. uioodcock Coast. To make this dish, the following ingre- dients will be required :—Four or five chicken or duck livers, two small Gorgona anchovies, half a teaspoonful castor sugar, one ounce butter, a quarter of a teaspoonful spiced pepper (paprika or Krona pepper), a pinch of salt, three yolks of eggs, and about half a gill of cream. Wash and clean the livers, removing carefully any gall that may be left on.36 Drain them in a cloth, and pound till quite fine in a mortar, bone and skin the an- chovies and pound them to a paste. Mix all thoroughly and add the butter, sugar, and seasoning. Rub through a fine sieve and incorporate the egg-yolks and half the above-mentioned quantity of cream. Stir this in a chafing dish until it is sufficiently cooked. Have ready a plate or small dish with a piece of buttered toast just before serving, add a little more cream and sea- soning if needed ; pour the mixture over the toast, garnish with fried bread croutons, and serve. Curried Coast. Cut four slices from a sandwich loaf, not too thin, and toast them in front of a clear fire, trim off the crusts and butter each slice ; then spread with a mixture com- posed of equal proportions of curry or mulligatawny paste and anchovy or bloater paste. Cut the prepared toast into fingers, place them over a hot chafing dish for a few minutes, long enough to heat them; the dish is then ready to serve. Cbecsc fingers. Cut up into small shreds four ounces of Cheddar cheese, free from rind, put it in a chafing dish with one ounce of butter and a table-spoonful of milk. Season with pep- per and a very little salt, and stir till melted and cream-like. Cut three or four Tris- cuits into halves, heat them well and butter them, and range them on a hot dish or on plates, and pour the melted cheese mixture over carefully, and serve.37 Stimd €99$. (Oeufs n?olkt.) Put into the blazer of the chafing dish half an ounce of fresh butter, when melted drop in four or five eggs, season with salt and pepper, and stir them gently till suffi- ciently cooked. Serve on or with buttered toast. poached €99S. COeufs pocbcs.) Three parts fill a hot water dish with boiling water. Season with salt, and add a little lemon juice or vinegar. Carefully break and drop in some new laid eggs, only three or four can be poached at one time, and the water must be boiling. Cook the eggs till they are set, then take them up and trim them neatly. Serve on hot buttered toast. NOTE.—It is advisable to use special egg poachers for this dish, as by their use the eggs will be of better shape when cooked. It is necessary to butter the rings of the poachers before using them. €99$ and Bacon. (Oeufs au lard fume.) Cut some streaky or other part of bacon into very thin slices, remove the rind part. Heat the blazer of the chafing dish, place in the bacon, and fry till quite crisp, turning each slice as it gets crisp. Take up the fried bacon and keep hot, add a little butter to the bacon fat, when hot carefully drop in the required number of eggs and fry them nicely. Trim each egg a little, and place them on top of the bacon. Sprinkle a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper over each egg and serve.38 Comato (Oeufs aux Comates.) Fry in the blazer of a chafing dish half a small finely minced onion in one ounce of butter, when of a pale brown colour, add three peeled and sliced tomatoes. Cook for five minutes, season with salt and pepper, stir in four well-beaten eggs, slightly sea- soned and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Cook them like scrambled eggs and serve on pieces of toasted and buttered bread. Buttered €gg$. (Oeufs brouilles au Beurre.) Beat up six eggs and add two table- spoonfuls of milk or cream, season to taste with salt and pepper. Melt one and a half ounces of butter in a chafing dish; when hot, pour in the eggs and stir quickly until the eggs commence to set. Have some pieces of toast made, butter them and place them on a hot dish, pile the mixture upon it, and serve hot. Curried €99$. (Oeufs a I’Indienne.) Boil three eggs till hard (about ten min- utes), remove the shells, and place them in cold water. Melt one ounce of butter in the chafing-dish and fry in it two small peeled and finely chopped shallots. As the shallots begin to get brown, add one table- spoonful of curry powder and a dessert- spoonful of fiour. Let this brown together whilst stirring, then add one gill of stock or water mixed with a teaspoonful of “ Lemco” and a table-spoonful of cream. Stir till it boils and let simmer for a few39 minutes. Cut the eggs into slices or quarters, lay these into the prepared sauce, and let them cook gently for about ten minutes. Serve with some nicely cooked plain rice. Currkd (flnotbcr luay.) Peel and chop finely half a small onion, fry this a light brown in an ounce of butter in the blazer of a chafing dish ; add a dessert-spoonful of “ Laxami ” curry pow- der, and a level table-spoonful of flour. Blend these well together and let them get slightly brown, then moisten with one and half gills of chicken, veal or other white stock. Stir till it boils, and add two table- spoonfuls of cream. Season to taste with salt and a very little pepper. Now add four or five hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and let simmer gently for about ten minutes. Serve hot with some well boiled rice. €ads a la Jardiniere. Drain in a colander or sieve half a pint of vegetable macedoine. Melt one ounce of butter in the chafing dish, and fry in it four to six finely chopped mushrooms, then put in the vegetables, and fry them together for a few minutes. Now moisten with one gill of bechamel or other good white sauce, place on top four hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and season to taste with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Shake the dish so as to mix its contents, simmer gently for ten minutes, and serve hot with fingers of toast.40 Jliicboop eggs. (Oeufs broutlles aiix JIticbois.) Cut the fillets of six anchovies into small dice, mix them with six well-beaten eggs, to which a tahle-spoonful of cream or milk has been added, and season with pepper hut no salt. Pour this into the chafing dish containing three-quarters of an ounce of melted butter, stir till the eggs commence to set, and serve on pieces of toasted and buttered bread. Scrambled €gg$. (Oeufs brouilles.) Break six eggs into a basin and beat up with a fork, season with salt and pepper, and add a table-spoonful of milk or cream. Melt half an ounce of fresh butter in the chafing dish, pour in the eggs, etc., and stir over the spirit fiame till the eggs commence to set. Serve on hot plates with sippets of toasted bread. Scrambled €gg$ mltb Sbrlmps. (Oeufs brouilles aux Creuettes.) Pick half a pint of fresh, large shrimps, and fry them quickly for a few moments in an ounce of butter, previously melted in the chafing-dish blazer. Next pour in five well-beaten and seasoned eggs mixed with a table-spoonful of milk and cream. Stir over the spirit fiame till the eggs commence to set, then serve with fingers of toasted bread or celery biscuits. Scrambled €g^$ wltb f>am. (Oeufs brouilles au 3ambon.) Proceed the same as directed in the recipe for Scrambled Eggs. Chop finely, or cut into41 small dice two ounces of cooked lean ham, fry this in the butter, then pour in the beaten eggs, and stir till sufficiently cooked, that is till the eggs begin to set. Serve with toasted bread. NOTE.—Scrambled eggs when properly cooked should be moist and very light. If over-cooked they become dry. Sardine €gg$. (Oeufs au\ Sardines.) Proceed as above but use four to six sar- dines, skinned, boned, and cut in small pieces, in place of the ham, and serve on toasted bread. Sanourp Omelet. (Omelette aux fines herbes.) To make an omelet of this description, put the chafing dish over the lamp (fire), melt in it about half an ounce of fresh butter, and fry half a finely chopped shallot to a light golden colour. Have ready two or three eggs well beaten, seasoned and mixed with a table-spoonful of cream and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Pour this into the chafing-dish blazer and cook whilst stirring continuously with a fork till the mixture begins to set. Then fold in the two ends so as to form a cushion shape. Allow it to take colour; the omelet is then ready for serving. Rum Omekt. (Omelette au Rbum.) Beat up four eggs with a table-spoonful of cream, a tiny pinch of salt and a tea- spoonful of castor sugar. Melt about half an ounce of butter in a chafing dish, when hot pour in the mixture and cook whilst42 stirring, until it will not run in the pan or till it begins to set, then roll carefully and turn out on a hot dish, sprinkle freely with powdered sugar, pour round the sides half a glass of rum, set it on fire, then with a spoon pour the burning liquid over the omelet as long as it will blaze, then serve. Orange Omelet. (Omelette Soufflee a rorange.) Separate the yolks from three eggs and cream them with an ounce of castor sugar. Add the juice of an orange and the stiffly- whisked whites of three eggs, to which a pinch of salt should be added. Melt three- quarters of an ounce of butter in the chafing- dish blazer. When hot pour in the egg mixture and allow to cook whilst stirring for two or three minutes, then let it take colour and by means of a pallet knife care- fully turn it over so as to brown the other side. Slit the omelet in the centre and insert two table-spoonfuls of orange com- pote, that is slices of orange stewed in syrup, or failing this use orange marmalade. Fold over the omelet carefully, dredge with sugar and serve. NOTE.—For other omelettes see pages 17, 22 and 27. fKiicl) Jippk Fritters. (Bcignets de pommes.) Peel four large, tart cooking apples, cut them into slices and remove the core from the centre of each slice. Put the slices on a plate, sprinkle over with castor sugar, a table-spoonful of cream and a few drops of lemon juice. Drain the apple slices, dip them in white of egg, and then in flour.43 Heat up four ounces of clarified butter in the chafing dish, when very hot but not burning, drop in the apples, a few at a time, and fry the slices on both sides to a golden colour. Take them up, drain, and dredge with cas- tor sugar mixed with a little ground cinnamon. Banana Canapes. Slice three peeled bananas lengthways, and cut each in halves. Fry these in butter in a chafing-dish blazer. Season with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and dress on toasted Triscuits or ordinary toasted bread; these must be well buttered. NOTE.—In place of Triscuits toasted bread or small rusks can be used. Salted jllmonds. (Hmandes Salees.) Blanch and peel half a pound of Jordan almonds, dry them well after peeling. Melt rather more than half-ounce of fresh butter or an equal quantity of sweet olive oil in the chafing dish. When hot put in the almonds and fry them to a golden brown. Pour off all the fat (butter or oil), so that the almonds are perfectly dry, then sprinkle over freely with fine table salt, “ Cerebos ” salt for preference. Con- tinue to stir them in the dish for a few minutes longer, and serve when cold as after-dinner tit-bit. Deuilkd jllmonds. (Umandes a la Diable.) Proceed the same as directed in the fore- going recipe. When the almonds are freed from butter or oil after being fried, sprinkle them over with fine salt mixed with cayenne44 and curry powder, using only a small quantity of each, especially of cayenne. Jt Simpk Ull)ite Sauce. Melt two table-spoonfuls of butter in the chafing dish, when hot stir in a heaped-up table-spoonful of Brown and Poison’s corn- fiour, fry a little without browning the corn- flour, stirring all the while. Then pour in gradually half a pint or a small breakfast- cupful of hot milk, bring to the boil whilst stirring, and cook for ten minutes. Season with salt and pepper and use as required. Custard Sauce. Mix one level table-spoonful of Brown and Poison’s cornfiour with half-pint milk, and boil up whilst stirring in the chafing dish. Cook for about ten minutes, then add a few drops of vanilla essence and two yolks of eggs. Sweeten to taste and re- heat the sauce without boiling. Strain and serve hot or cold. Banana Crifle. Mix an ounce of Brown & Poison’s corn- fiour with a little cold milk, boil up half a pint of milk and pour over the mixed corn- fiour. Return this to the chafing dish, add one ounce castor sugar and stir till it boils, then let cook slowly for ten minutes. Stir in two yolks of eggs, a little grated lemon rind, and the juice of half a lemon. Heat up without boiling. Peel and slice three ripe bananas, place the slices in a glass dish, sprinkle over a little castor sugar, and half-glass of brandy. Pour over the prepared custard as it begins to get cold, and let it set. Decorate the surface of the dish with ratafias, shreds of almonds, and glac6 cherries.Casserole Cookerp. Casserole cook- ery may be justly termed cooking in stone or earthenware —which, al- though very ancient, is be- coming exceed- MARMITE. ingly popular at the present time. Kitchen pottery fills an important mission in the present-day cuisine, for cooking per- formed in an earthenware fireproof pot has many advantages over that performed in a metal pot. A kitchen equipped with fireproof stone- ware casseroles in plenitude for the various kinds of its capable service may be truly described as having an odour of purity and a fascination with a sense of cleanliness. Earthenware or stoneware pots were un- questionably the first used for cooking pur- poses, and all that the substitution of other materials could offer in their stead, through invention and discovery, such as copper, brass, iron, steel, nickel, tin, aluminium and even silver, which compete with them in adornment and service, have failed to depreciate the stoneware pots, or casseroles as they are more commonly known, from use, or degrade their usefulness in any re- markable degree.46 The homeliest form, or shall I call it the most wholesome form of cooking very many articles of food, is that done in the earthen jar, pot or baking dish. The cause of this is not far to seek. Besides being unsurpassable for many purposes, earthenware or stoneware casseroles are light and clean to use, they impart no dis- agreeable flavour to the most delicate of viands, they are handy to use, the actual cooking is effected slowly and more evenly, consequently less fuel is used in cooking. They are not so liable to burn food in cook- ing. They do not tarnish, rust, or stain, and do not, therefore affect the contents cooked in them. Besides being handy and ever ready for use, earthenware flreproof casseroles, baking or braising pans, and dishes are inexpensive to buy, and if proper care is bestowed they may last as long as metal pans. Food cooked in earthenware or stone- ware casseroles is usually served up in the pots or pans in which it is cooked; this is convenient as well as economical. All that is needed is to place the cooking pot or pan on a dish and send it to the dining room, thus ensuring it being served hot—which is another point in favour of casserole cookery. This ware is also ornamental, and as it is used in the very best establish- ments where it is decidedly fashionable as a means of cooking and serving food. There are various kinds of these flre- proof casseroles, etc., in use. Those made in brown earthenware are considered the best, others are white or yellow inside and brown or green outside ; the white china gratin dishes, souffl6 cases and ramakins come under the same heading.47 This style of cooking is known as “ en casserole,” which in reality is the French name for stew-pan, and means that the dish is served in the vessel in which it has been cooked. Fish, meat, poultry and game can be cooked in this way ; soups, especially those of the pot-au-feu kind, are cooked and served in marmites, which are another type of fireproof cooking pots. Fruit which needs to be carefully stewed is ex- cellent if cooked in this ware. For brais- ing and stewing this kind of cookery has really no equal, and there are many other dishes cooked “ en casserole ” which have proved to be so superior in taste and flavour that one had better abandon them alto- gether than attempt to serve them without the aid of this useful kind of cooking utensil. Anyone who has adopted the use of these casseroles, marmites, braising or bak- ing dishes will readily admit that the merits claimed for them are in no way exaggerated, for by their use the cook flnds in them a most valuable assistant to ensure genuine, wholesome cookery. Petite tnarmite. This dish, which forms the standard din- ner item of the average French household, is best prepared in an earthenware mar- mite stock-pot, for it is an acknowledged fact that a petite marmite cooked in stone- ware is far more palatable, and for this reason this mode of cooking is especially recommended. Petite marmite is so typi- cally French that no other equivalent has as yet been found. It is a kind of soup usually served in little earthenware pots, which just hold enough for one person, but in some places it is sent to table in the actual pot in which it is cooked.48 Recipe.—The following ingredients will make a dish sufficient for eight to ten per- sons : 2 lb. of rump or plate of beef, 1 small piece of marrow-bone, half an ox-tail, 3 quarts of water, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 1 leek, half-stick celery, half small cabbage, 1 bay- leaf, 2 cloves, 12 peppercorns, and salt. PETITE MARMITE. STONEWARE STOCK-POT. Mode of preparation.—Wipe the meat, cut the ox-tail into small joints, put these in a stoneware marmite with the water and let come slowly to the boil, remove the scum as it rises to the surface. Have the vegetables trimmed, cleansed and pared, cut the carrots and turnips into convenient shapes, add these with the bay-leaf and peppercorns to the soup, and let the whole simmer gently for about 2J hours. Add salt to taste during the process of cooking. To serve, cut the meat into equal portions and place it in the small pots together with the vege- tables equally divided. Toasted bread cut into small slices and spread with marrow-fat should be served separately with this dish. Note.—Some cooks add a fowl to the soup at the beginning, and use the fillet49 (breast portion) as a garnish. This makes the soup more tasty, but adds, of course, ta the cost. Baked 6ratin $tple. (Potssoti au 6rattn.) Flake rather finely one pound, more or less, of cold fish, cod, haddock, turbot or salmon. See that it is free from bones and skin. Have ready a quarter of a pint of nicely seasoned white sauce. Butter one or more, according to the quantity of fish available, fish-shaped fireproof china dishes. Mix the fish with the sauce and season with salt and pepper, then fill the dish or dishes with it, smooth over the surface with a wetted knife, and cover with a thin layer of white sauce. Sprinkle the top with a mix- ture of Panurette or bread-crumbs and grated cheese, and place a few tiny bits of butter here and there on the surface. Bake in a fairly hot oven from 20 to 25 minutes, so as to get it thoroughly heated and the surface nicely browned. Dish up and serve hot. D5° UlbUing fillets au 6ratin. Remove the fillets from four small whiting and skin them carefully, season with salt and pepper, and fold over each. Range them neatly in a buttered fireproof china gratin dish, sprin- kle a few drops of lemon juice over the fish and put a mushroom (champignons) head on each fillet. Heat up one gill of brown sauce with a small glass of sherry or Chablis, sauce over the fish with this. Sprinkle over some fine bread-crumbs, placing a few tiny bits of butter here and there. Bake in a fairly sharp oven for about fifteen minutes, by which time the fish should be cooked and the surface of the dish be evenly browned. Place the gratin dish on to a fiat dish, covered with a folded napkin and serve hot. Sole au eratin. Skin and trim two soles, fillet them if preferred, or place them whole in a but- tered gratin dish, and proceed as directed in the foregoing recipe. Cerrine or Ulbiting. Bone two large whiting and pound the meat in a mortar till fine ; to this add the yolks of three eggs, half a gill of bechamel sauce and the needful seasoning, salt and pepper. Mix well and rub through a fine sieve.51 Whisk the whites of one and a half eggs and incorporate with the above. Butter a fireproof terrine or souffl6 dish and line the inside thickly with the prepared farce. Put three table-spoonfuls of chopped lob- ster meat in the centre and fill up with more fish farce. Place the dish in a saut6-pan three-parts filled with boiling water, cover it with the lid and cook in the oven for about 35 minutes and serve. Rolled fillets or Sole a la Cardinal. Skin and fillet two large or three small soles, fiat- ten each fillet, trim and season with salt and pep- per. Spread one side of each (i.e., the smooth side) with a light fish forcemeat as above directed. Sprinkle over some chopped truffle and roll up neatly each fillet. Place them folded side downwards in a buttered earthenware casserole, moisten with a glass of Ghablis wine and half a gill of fish stock. Sprinkle over with half a teaspoonful of Krona seasoning, cover with the lid, or buttered paper, and cook in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Pour off some of the liquor and put it with a gill of anchovy sauce highly coloured with lobster spawn and reduce a little. Strain this over the fillets, place a slice of truffle on each fillet of sole. Re-heat and send to table in the casserole. Casserole or Fisb. Peel 6 to 8 small button onions and fry them in a casserole with an ounce of butter to a golden brown. To this add a fresh52 haddock, trimmed, wiped, and cut into short pieces. Dredge with a heaped-up table-spoonful of flour and season with salt and pepper. Stir the whole gently over the Are for a few minutes, and moisten gradually with half a pint of brown or white stock. Add a blade of mace and half a bay-leaf. Bring it to the boil whilst stirring and remove the scum. Then cover and cook gently on the side of the stove or in the oven for about half an hour. Remove mace and bay-leaf, skim off any fat from the sauce and send to table. Note.—If liked the fish can be filleted and rolled up. Soles, plaice or brill may be prepared in this way. Red IRuilet en Cerrtne. (Roudets cn Cerrine.) Take 6 to 8 small red mul- let, oil, vine- gar and chop- ped parsley for marinade, J ounce butter, 2 small chopped shallots, 1 gill Espagnole or other good brown sauce, 10 to 12 preserved mushrooms, 1 teaspoon- ful Lemco, 1 dessert-spoonful anchovy essence, 1 small glass claret, half a lemon, seasoning. Wipe and trim the fish, place them in a deep dish, and cover with oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley (to marinade). Let them stand for half an hour or less. Melt the butter in a large fireproof earthenware “ terrine ” dish, and fry in it the shallot to a pale brown, drain the mullets and place them in the dish. Cook for a few minutes53 in the oven ; then add the sauce, the claret, anchovy essence, and season to taste with salt and pepper ; place the mushrooms cut in slices on top, cover the dish and put it in the oven to cook from 20 minutes to half an hour. Just before serving skim and add a few drops of lemon juice, and some chopped parsley. The dish is then ready for table. matelote of €el. (Jlnauille cn IPatclote.) Skin and bone a large eel, cut it into 2-inch pieces, dip each piece in seasoned flour, and fry a little in two ounces of butter previously heated in a fireproof casserole. Add 8 to 10 small peeled button onions and fry them also. Now moisten with a small glass of claret and half a pint of good stock. Bring to the boil whilst stirring, skim well and add two rashers of bacon, cut into inch pieces. Cover and let simmer for about 30 minutes or till the eel is tender. Skim off any fat that may fioat on top, and serve in the pan in which the fish is cooked. Curried Sbrimps. Skin or pick about a pint of shrimps. Fry in a small casserole two small peeled and chopped shallots in an ounce of butter, stir in half an ounce of fiour and one dessert- spoonful of Madras or Laxami curry pow- der. Blend both well and add gradually half a pint of milk and stock, and let it boil54 whilst stirring for ten minutes. Next add the picked shrimps and a dessert-spoonful of lemon juice. Cook gently for another ten minutes. Serve hot with well-boiled rice. Scalloped Salmon. (Coquilles de Saumon.) Not only salmon, but any other kind of boiled cold fish is very nice scalloped. Re- move the skin and bone from the fish and fiake it. Have ready the required number of scallop shells, butter them well, put in a layer of white sauce (bechamel or melted butter), upon this put the fiaked fish, and continue thus till each shell is filled. Season each layer with salt and pepper. Smooth over the surface with sauce. Sprinkle with fresh bread-crumbs or Panurette mixed with grated cheese, and put a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top of each shell. Bake in a fairly sharp oven for about twenty minutes. Dish up and serve. Opstcrs, Seaman’s stple. (huitres a la IPariniere.^ Take 18 sauce oysters, J glass Chablis wine, 1 table-spoonful chop- ped parsley, 1 table- spoonful chopped shal- lots, I oz. fresh bread- crumbs, 1 oz. butter, half a lemon, salt and pepper. Beard the oysters and put them with their liquor in a pie-dish, pour over the white wine and let stand for about an hour. Mix the parsley, chopped shallots, and55 bread-crumbs, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Range the oysters in a but- tered fireproof baking dish, pour over a little of the liquor and wine, and cover with the mixture of bread-crumbs, etc. Divide the remainder of the butter into little bits and place them on top. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Squeeze a little lemon juice on top and send to table in the baking dish. Baked Opsters (Gratiti stpk). (fiuUrcs ail Gratiii.) Procure the required num- ber of large oysters, open them, blanch them in their own liquor, then drain and remove the beards. Butter as many oyster-shell shapes as there are oysters, put an oyster in each, also a teaspoonful of cream, season with salt, pepper, and a tiny pinch of cayenne. Sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and a few drops of lemon juice. Spread over a little white sauce and besprinkle this with bread-crumbs and oiled butter. Bake for five minutes, dish up and serve. Roast Bam on Casserole. (Jambon cn Casserole.) Skin a small ham or gammon of bacon, cut off the knuckle part, and rub in a mix-56 ture composed of moist or brown sugar, half teaspoonful ground mace, one teaspoonful ground ginger, and half teaspoonful of paprika pepper. Place the ham in an earthenware double pipkin or roasting pan, lined with fat bacon or ham rind, and a few prunes. Pour over sufficient lard or butter to baste, put on the lid and bake in a slow oven from two to two and half hours ac- cording to size. Baste it frequently and freely. When done take up the ham, remove the fat and the ham rind from the pan, return the ham to the pan and add half a pint of rich gravy or brown sauce and a glass of sherry or Madeira. Continue to cook over the fire for another ten minutes. It is then ready for serving. Reck or iRutton en Casserole. (Carre de ffiouton eti Casserole.) Bone a neck of mutton weighing from 3 to 4 lbs., remove the super- fiuous fat, s t u ff the bone side with a mixture of bread-crumbs, beaten egg, chopped ham or tongue and chopped parsley. Tie up the meat into neat shape and place it in a deep earthen- ware fireproof pan which must be pre- viously lined with slices of fat bacon, sliced carrot, turnip, and a small onion. Put the pan on the fire and fry its contents over a brisk fire till the meat has acquired a light brown colour. Then moisten with a pint of good and well seasoned stock (the57 bones from the neck should be utilised for this). Place the cover on the pan and put it in a fairly hot oven for about one or one and a quarter hours. Baste the meat occasionally with its liquor during the process of cooking. And lastly remove the fat which has accumulated on top of the liquor. About ten minutes before serving, take up the meat and place it on a dish and keep hot. Add half a pint of brown sauce to the liquor remaining in the pan, boil it up, strain off the vegetables, skim the sauce well and season to taste. Now return the meat into the pan, cook for another ten minutes, and send to table in the pan in which it was cooked. Spiced Shoulder of IKutton. (Epaule de IPouton cpicec.) Bone a small shoulder of mutton, lay out the meat flat on a board, skin downwards, and rub in a mixture of salt, coarse brown sugar, pepper, ground mace, ground ginger, and ground cloves. Use only very little of the latter three ingredients. Roll up the meat and keep in the larder till next day. Repeat this operation for three or four days, then roll up the meat and tie it with string. Place it in a casserole with enough seasoned stock to cover and let it simmer slowly for about 2| hours, more or less, according to size. Remove the string and serve hot or cold. If served cold it should be brushed over with meat glaze after the meat is cold. Braised Coin of n^utton a la Soubise. (£otiae de IPouton braise a la Soiibtse.) Bone a moderate-sized loin of mutton and remove most of the fat, leaving only58 a thin layer on top. Place the trimmed fillet in a braising pan on a mirepoix, i.e., a bed of sliced carrot, onion, bacon and a small bunch of herbs ; put it in a hot oven and par-roast for about twenty minutes. Then pour off the fat, add one pint of thin brown sauce and season with salt and pepper and return to the oven for about an hour; baste the meat frequently during the process of cooking. Prepare a Soubise pur6e as directed below. Take up the cooked loin of mutton, cut it into slices (fillets) and dress them neatly in a casserole. Re-heat the brown sauce, strain it, remove the fat or skim carefully and pour over the slices of meat. Put the Soubise or onion pur^e in the centre of the dish or on each side of the fillets, whatever style of dressing is adopted. Sprinkle a little liquified meat glaze over the onion pur6e and serve. Soubise Puree. This is a well-reduced white onion sauce or pur6e. Peel and slice thinly two Spanish onions, blanch them for a few minutes in salted water ; drain off the water and chop the onions as finely as possible. Put the minced onion in a small stew-pan with a gill of white stock and milk (equal pro- portions) and let them cook slowly for half an hour, then add about a gill of white sauce (preferably bechamel). Season to taste with salt and white pepper and rub the pur^e through a fine sieve. Return it to the stew-pan, add about half a gill of cream and re-heat. It is then ready for use. A pinch of castor sugar added to this pur^e is often found an improvement.59 n^utton Cutlets cn Casserole. Procure the best end of a neck of mutton, 2 oz. butter, 10 small button onions, a pint of brown sauce, 6 to 8 thin slices of raw ham or bacon, 12 large Brussels sprouts, salt and pepper. Cut the meat into neat cutlets, and trim off the fat. Melt the butter in the casserole and fry the cutlets and the peeled onions a light brown. Cut the slices of ham or bacon about two inches square. Wash and trim the sprouts and roll each up in a square of ham or bacon. Pour off the butter in the casserole, put the meat, ham, and sprouts and onions in the casserole. Add the brown sauce. Cover the casserole and cook the contents slowly in the oven for about an hour. Skim off all fat before serving and send to table in the casserole. l»utton Chops en casscrok. Take a loin of mutton and cut it into neatly trimmed chops. Then proceed to cook them in the same manner as directed in the foregoing recipe. Pork chops or pork cutlets are treated in the same way. By way of a change small ripe tomatoes may be used in place of sprouts. Beefsteak en Casserole. Cut a large piece of rump steak into small fillets and season them with salt and pepper. Fry them slightly on6o each side in a little butter over a quick fire, and set them aside. Peel and chop finely a small onion, fry it in a small stew-pan with half an ounce of butter to a golden colour. Moisten with a glass of Marsala or Madeira wine and two large table-spoonfuls of brown sauce. Boil up and add a table-spoonful of piccalilli or mixed pickles cut up small, two ounces of fried bacon cut into dice, eight to ten small champignons, one small carrot cooked and cut into cubes, one potato cooked and cut into dice. Heat all up in a fireproof earthenware casserole. Place the meat on top, sprinkle over a little dissolved meat glaze, cover and cook in the oven for another ten minutes. Serve hot in the casserole. Smotbered Beef witi) Comatoes. (Boeiif poele aux Comates.) Cut about IJ or 2 lbs. of rump or buttock steak into small slices or thick strips, sea- son to taste with salt and pepper. Melt one ounce of butter in a casserole or pipkin, add a sliced onion and fry a little, then put in the beef, sprinkle over a heaped-up table-spoonful of fiour, and stir over the fire till all is nicely browned. Next add a pint of stock or water,and a table- spoonful of Holbrook’s Worcester sauce. Stir till it boils, remove the scum, and put in four peeled and sliced tomatoes. Sprin- kle over also a handful of shredded celery, then cover closely and let it cook slowly over a charcoal fire or in the oven for about an hour.6i Scotcl) Collops. Mince or chop not too finely one pound of lean mutton or beef. Heat up one ounce of butter in a fireproof casserole, add to it the half of a small finely chopped onion, fry to a light brown, add half-ounce of fiour, mix well together, moisten with one gill of good stock, and boil for ten minutes. Add the meat, and cook slowly for half an hour. Season with salt and pepper, add also a little finely chopped parsley, and place on top, just before serving, a few nicely fried bread croutons. Serve hot. s«a pk. Chop finely two ozs. of beef suet and mix with it four ozs. of flour and a pinch of salt, add enough cold water and work into a fairly firm dough or paste. Cut into slices three-quarters of a pound of gravy beef, put it on a plate, season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle over with vinegar. Melt an ounce of butter or dripping in a brown stewing pan or baking dish, fry in it an onion, peeled and chopped. When of a nice light brown stir in half-ounce of flour, and let it fry till brown. Pour in gently three-quarters of a pint of stock or water and bring to the boil whilst stirring. Now add the seasoned meat and a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley. Skim the stew as it simmers. Roll out the suet paste to a round shape a little smaller than62 the lid of the stewing pan ; place this care- fully on top of the stew, cover the pan with the lid, and let the whole simmer on top of the stove or in the oven for about IJ hours. Braised Calf’s Ciuer. (foie de Veau braise.) Take a small calf’s liver, soak it in cold water for about twenty min- utes, then drain and wipe it with a cloth. Insert small thin strips of larding bacon on the surface of the liver. Prepare a mirepoix of vegetables, viz., onion, carrot, bacon, bay-leaf, and herbs. Put these in an earthenware casserole, con- taining about IJ ounces of butter. Fry the vegetables a golden colour ; put in the liver and let it brown gently, pour off the fat, add about half a pint of rich brown sauce and a gill of good stock. Season with pepper and salt, and let simmer gently for about an hour. Then add a glass of sherry or port wine, the juice of half a lemon and a small quantity of finely- chopped parsley. Boil up, take up the liver, let the liquid reduce, strain and remove the fat. Replace the liver in the casserole and put it on a dish, sauce over carefully and serve. stewed Beef witi) macaroni. (Ragout dc Bocuf au IRacaroni.) Procure two pounds of rump or buttock steak, cut rather thick, and cut it into two- inch pieces. Peel and slice an onion of63 medium size. Scrape two carrots and cut them into neat cube shapes. Melt two ounces of butter in a large casserole and fry in it the onion to a pale or amber colour. Then put in the steak and fry to a nice brown over a quick fire. Stir in an ounce of flour and let it get slightly browned. Season with salt and pepper, and half a teaspoonful of ground ginger. Moisten with a pint of good brown stock ; bring it to the boil and skim well. Now put in six ounces of macaroni or spaghetti (a species of very small macaroni) ; these must be previously blanched in salted water and drained; put in also the carrots. Cover the casserole and let the whole simmer slowly for about an hour or a little less, till the meat, vegetables and maca- roni are quite tender. Before serving, skim off the fat from the sauce. Note.—A blade of mace and one or two cloves may be added to the stew, but these must be removed after cooking. Curried Beer. (Raqout de Bocuf a rindiennc.) Peel and chop finely one medium-sized onion, blend same in a casserole with one and a half ounces of butter, cut up into pieces one pound of beefsteak and fry in the above for a few minutes. Next add a dessert-spoonful of Laxami curry powder, and stir over the fire for a few minutes longer so as to fry the curry a little. Now add half a peeled, cored and chopped apple, one dessert-spoonful of vinegar or64 lemon juice, and season with salt and pepper. Moisten with a gill of tomato sauce and half a gill of gravy or brown stock. Stir till it boils, then skim and let simmer gently for about an hour. Serve with plain boiled rice. Proceed the same as directed in the fore- going recipe, but use lean veal in place of beefsteak. Cut the former into small squares, omit the tomato sauce and use in place of it bechamel or other good white sauce. A few peeled and chopped or pounded almonds or grated fresh cocoanut cooked with the curry gives it an improved flavour. Serve with plain boiled rice. serole. Add enough bechamel or other good white sauce to well cover the meat. Sea- son carefully with salt, white pepper, and a good grate of nutmeg. Add also a bay- leaf and two or three slices of lemon. Slice six or eight preserved mushrooms (cham- pignons), and put them with the stew, then cover and simmer slowly for about forty minutes, stirring occasionally and adding one or two table-spoonfuls of cream when Curried Veal (Kari de Veau.) fricassee of Veal _ t (fricassee de Veau.) Blanch in salted water two pounds of lean veal (cushion or leg), then cut it into IJ inch pieces or cubes, and place in a cas-65 the meat is cooked tender. One or twa yolks of eggs beaten up with a little milk or cream may also he added at this stage. Re-heat thoroughly, but do not allow the fricassee to boil again after the eggs are added. Remove the bay-leaf and slices of lemon before serving. Bot=Pot or i)od9c=Po(lgc. This is an exceed- ingly popular lun- cheon or supper dish for those who appreciate an old- fashioned stew.^ Either mutton, beef or pork can be used for it, the formula of preparation being the same. Wash, peel and slice thickly one pound of potatoes, peel and cut into slices a good-sized onion, blanch both potatoes and onion separately. Trim about one and half pounds of neck or loin of mutton, and cut into conveniently sized pieces, par-fry them in a pan containing an ounce of drippings Line a hot-pot jar with alternate layers of potatoes, meat and onion. Season each layer with salt and pepper and a pinch of dried savoury herbs. Moisten with a pint of good stock or water, cover the jar and place it to cook in a fairly hot oven for about hours. The stew must cook slowly and the fat must be carefully re- moved before the dish is sent to table. When ready for serving sprinkle a little chopped parsley on top. Note.—If liked, a handful of cooked peas or a few mushrooms can be added to the stew about ten minutes before serving it. E66 Curried Rabbit. (Capin a I’lndienne.) Cut a large, skinned rab- bit into neat joints, dip each piece into season- ed flour, that is flour mixed with salt and pepper to taste. Fry the rabbit in a large casserole con- taining two ounces of well-heated butter or dripping. When nicely browned remove the rabbit and add to the fat in the pan a flnely chopped onion, fry this with a table- spoonful of mild curry powder (Madras or Laxami), add also a clove of crushed garlic. Fry for a few minutes only, then put in the par-fried pieces of rabbit and half a tea- spoonful of ground cinnamon, half a tea- spoonful of ground ginger and a little ground mace. Moisten with enough brown stock to well cover the meat. Bring it to the boil, stirring occasionally. Skim well, add six to eight button mushrooms, peeled, and let the whole simmer gently with lid on the casserole for hours or less. Have ready some plain boiled rice to be handed round as the curry is served. Rabbit en Ca$$erok. Wash and wipe a good- sized rabbit, divide it into Joints, lard the legs and breast por- tion with strips of fat bacon. Fry the pieces in an67 earthenware casserole containing butter, sliced onions and bacon cut into cubes or dice. When of a nice light brown colour, season with salt and pepper, besprinkle with a heaped-up table-spoonful of flour. Stir over the fire till the flour has acquired a chestnut brown tint, then moisten with a glass of white wine (Chablis or Sauterne), add a small bouquet garni, and about a pint of stock. Boil up, place the lid on the pan, and cook in the oven or over a slow fire till the meat is quite tender. Remove the bouquet of herbs, and any scum from the surface of the stew, and send to table in the casserole. Roast Cbicken en Ca$$<trole. (Poulet roti cn Casserole.) Select a plump and tender chicken, singe and draw it, cut off the neck and part of the legs, wipe the inside with a damp cloth and truss as is usual for roasting. Wash the liver and heart and put them in a fireproof baking pan replete with a mirepoix, i.e., a small carrot, one small onion, three or four thin slices of bacon, all cut up in dice. Season the chicken with pepper and salt, and place it on top of the mirepoix in the baking pan, spread about an ounce of butter on top of the chicken and cook in a hot oven for twenty minutes ; baste frequently. After this reduce the oven heat and cook more slowly for another twenty minutes or longer. When the chicken is done take up, untruss, place it in the pan and keep hot. Pour off the fat from the baking pan, add a gill and a half of stock, boil this for a few minutes, season and colour to taste, strain, remove the fat if any is on the surface, and pour it round the chicken.68 Cl)ickcn cn Ca$$erok. (Pouict en Casserole.) Procure a fine plump fowl ready trussed for braising,put it in an earthen- ware stew casserole with an ounce of butter and cook over a quick fire. After the chicken has at- tained a light golden colour, moisten it with a gill of rich gravy and half a glassful of white wine ; cover over and cook over the fire or in the oven from forty to fifty minutes (according to size of bird). Let the liquid reduce to a half-glaze. When ready to serve dish up the chicken after untrussing and jointing it. A few small button onions may be added as a garnishing. These must be first blanched in boiling water and then fried in butter. Cover the whole with a rich demi-glace or Madeira sauce and serve. Casserole of foiol. (ilnotber luap.) Have ready the following ingredients : one plump fowl or chicken trussed for roast- ing, four slices of streaky bacon, ten small button onions, one oz. butter, half a gill rich stock or gravy, one glass white wine, three- quarters of a gill demi-glace or other good brown sauce, salt and pepper. Cut the bacon into dice shapes, melt the butter in an earthenware braise-pot, put in the bacon and the fowl, allow it to attain a golden colour over a fairly brisk but not69 too fierce a fire. Pour off the fat, moisten with the stock or gravy and the wine, cover the pan and let the contents cook gently for half an hour or longer. Peel and blanch the onions in boiling water, drain them and fry in the fat left over from the fowl. Take up the fowl, untruss and cut it into joints, replace the pieces in the pot with the bacon. Add the onions and the sauce. Cook for another twenty minutes, skim well, season to taste and send to table in the earthenware pan. Note.—When cooking the fowl in the second stage, the lid of the pan may be sealed down with a paper or paste band to ensure hermetical sealing. This is acknow- ledged to produce a still finer fiavour to all dishes cooked “en casserole.” Curried l^owl. (poulet au Kari.) Take one fowl, one small onion, two ozs. of butter, two small table-spoonfuls of curry powder, one table-spoonful of flour, two ozs. of sweet almonds, one apple, the juice of half a lemon, one pint of veal stock, salt to taste. Melt half an ounce of butter in a small casserole, peel and mince the onion and fry it in the butter. When of a light brown add the fiour and curry powder and fry together. Then add the minced apple and stock and stir till it boils, and let simmer for half an hour. Cut up the fowl into neat por- tions, and fry them in the remainder of the butter in a large casserole. Add the almonds peeled and chopped or pounded, and pour off the fat, season with salt and pepper and strain in the prepared sauce. Cook gently for about half-hour or more. Add a little70 cream and lemon juice just before serving, and send to table with a small dish of plain boiled rice. Pigeons en Casserole, For this dish either of the foregoing two recipes may be adopted. The birds can be cut in halves or quarters if preferred. One or two small smoked sausages cut into thick slices added to the chicken or pigeons whilst cooking imparts an additional savoury flavour to the dish. Braised Partridges loith Cabbage. (perdreaiix braises aiix Cboux.) Pick, draw and truss a brace of partridges in the same way as a chicken for boil- ing. Line the bottom of an earthenware braising pan with slices of fat bacon, two peeled shallots, one bay-leaf, one small bouquet garni, a blade of mace, and a sliced carrot. Put in the partridge and cook over a brisk fire for about ten minutes, long enough to brown the birds a little. Then moisten with a pint of good stock. Trim and wash a small cabbage, cut it into quarters, and cook it in salted water till half done, drain well, press it in a cloth and tie up with string. Put the cab- bage in the pan with the birds, season with salt and pepper, add two blanched pork sausages cut in short pieces, and cook the whole in the oven; it will take about an hour. Take up the partridges, untruss them, also the cabbage, and remove the71 string. Strain the liquor or stock and return it to the braising pan with about a gill of well-reduced brown sauce. Boil up and skim, now place in the partridges, the portions of cabbage and the pieces of sausage, cover the pan and let it cook gently for another ten minutes. The dish is then ready for serving, and should be sent to table. Frenci) Cbick«n=pot. (poule=aii=pot.) Put a large fowl, trussed for boiling, breast downwards into a fire-proof stew-pot (casserole), add the cleansed giblets, a pint of cold water, a carrot, a small onion, a blade of mace, a teaspoonful of salt, and ten pepper- corns. Cover closely, cook gently on the stove or in the oven until perfectly tender, then strain and season the liquor, and cut the chicken into joints. Arrange them on an oblong dish, strain the liquor over the pieces of fowl, garnish with small braised onions and slices of carrot, or serve in a round terrine. Quails en Casserole. Take six quails, one gill milk, two oz. butter, handful of bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, two yolks of eggs, pars- ley, shallot, three to four chicken livers, about six slices of bacon, one gill demi-glace or Madere sauce.72 Prepare the quails as for stuffing. Put the milk in an earthenware stew-pan, add half an ounce of butter, a small bay-leaf, salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; when boiling stir in the bread-crumbs (about a handful), simmer for ten minutes. Remove the bay-leaf and stir in the egg- yolks. Cut up small the chicken livers, saut6 them in butter in which the finely chopped shallot has been blended, season with pepper, salt and aromatics, and rub the liver, etc., through a sieve. Mix the pur^e with the bread-crumbs, etc., and stuff the bird with this. Wrap each quail in a thin slice of bacon, place them in an earthenware pan (casserole) with the re- mainder of butter and cook over a slow fire for half an hour. Pour off the fat and finish cooking in the sauce (demi-glace or Madeira). Asparagus au 6raUn. Clean a bundle of asparagus,cut off the tender portion and tie up in small bundles. Cook for about twenty minutes in fast boiling, slightly salted water, then drain and let cool. Prepare a rich white sauce (be- chamel), seasoned with salt, a grate of nut- meg and a pinch of cayenne. Range the cooked asparagus in layers on a greased baking or gratin dish, putting a little of the prepared sauce between the layers of asparagus. Spread some of the sauce over the top and sprinkle with grated cheese and bread-crumbs. Place small pieces of butter here and there on the surface, then bake in a sharp oven for about twenty73 minutes. The top should then acquire a golden brown. Place the gratin dish on another plain dish, covered with a folded napkin, and send to table. Saute Potatoes. Slice thinly IJ lb. of cold boiled potatoes, melt two ounces of butter in a fireproof earthenware frying or omelet pan, when hot put in the potatoes and toss over the fire till they are thoroughly hot and slightly browned. Season with pepper and salt, shape neatly, dish up, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley and send to table. Curried Vegetables. Cut six small cooked and peel- ed potatoes into thick slices, to these add two small cooked turnips, four small cooked carrots, all cut into dice-shaped pieces. Mince finely a small onion. Heat up an ounce of butter in a brown fire-proof dish, add the onion and fry a nice brown. Then add half an ounce of flour, and quarter of an ounce of Madras or Laxami curry powder, fry and mix together, moisten with one pint of stock and stir all together until it boils ; then let it simmer. Now add the above-named vege- tables, also some cooked French beans cut small, season with salt and pepper, cover the dish, and stew gently for about twenty minutes. Remove the fat from the surface of the vegetables and send to table with a dish of plain boiled rice. The top of the vegetables may be garnished with chopped gherkins and Spanish pimientos.74 n^usbroom Puree In Cases. (Pum de Champignons en Caissos. Wash and peel a small basket (half a pound) of fresh cup mushrooms, and chop them very finely. Fry this in an ounce of butter over the fire for a few minutes. Then add two table-spoonfuls of rich brown sauce, stew the pur^e for ten minutes, season with salt and pepper and stir in two yolks of eggs. Lastly add the stiffly whisked white of one egg. Blend the whole well and fill into buttered ramakin cases. Bake them in a moderately heated oven for fifteen minutes. Dish up and serve hot. musbrooni Cassolettes. (Cassolettes de Champignons.) Prepare a mushroom puree as above directed. Have ready ten small baked tartlet crusts made of rough puff or puff paste trimmings. Fill them with the prepared pur6e. Sprin- kle over with grated Parmesan cheese and a few fried bread-crumbs or Panurette ; also a few drops of oiled butter over each, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Dish up, garnish with lemon quarters and parsley, and send to table. Spinaci) Ramaklns. (Ramaqutns aux €pinards.) Pick and wash one pound of spinach and cook it with very little slightly salted water till quite tender ; then squeeze out the moisture by drain-ing the spinach thoroughly. Next rub it through a fine sieve. Melt half an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, add half an ounce of flour and cook a little, moisten with quarter- gill of cream and quarter-gill of stock ; boil up and add the spinach, season to taste with salt, pepper and nutmeg and cook for ten minutes. Incorporate two yolks of eggs. Whisk to a stiff froth two whites of eggs ; add this to the mixture. Three- parts fill six or ei ght well buttered china ramakin cases and bake in a moderately heated oven for about twenty minutes. Spinacb and bam Souffle. (Souffles d’epiiiards et Gambon.) Proceed to cook the spinach as directed in the foregoing recipe, then add two ounces of finely chopped cooked ham. Fill the mixture into one or two china souffl6 cases (previously buttered), and bake in a fairly hot oven for about twenty minutes. CeUrp Ramakins. (Ramaquins de Celeri.) Remove the outside leaves of two heads of white celery, trim and wash it and cut it into small pieces. Stew the celery till tender in a stew-pan with enough stock to cover and an ounce of butter. When thoroughly cooked, rub the celery through a fine wire sieve. Reduce half a pint of bechamel sauce to two-thirds of its quan- tity, then put in the celery pur6e and cook for a few minutes, season with salt, pepper.76 and grated nutmeg and incorporate three yolks of eggs. Lastly add two well whisked whites of eggs. Fill up a number of buttered china ramakin cases and bake in a moderate ovenj for about twenty minutes. Brussels Sprouts mousses. (IPousses dc Cboux de Bruxelles.) Trim and wash three- quarters of a pound of Brussels sprouts and cook them in plenty of fast-boiling salted water and a very small piece of soda, till tender. When done pour off the water and drain the sprouts well. Rub them through a fine sieve and proceed to cook the pur6e thus obtained in the same manner as directed for Spinach Ramakin. In place of stock, milk may be used. Fill the mixture into well- buttered souffle or ramakin cases and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. mousse or cauliflower. (Ifiousse de Cbouxfleur.) Trim and wash a small, firm cauliflower and cook it in plenty of fast - boiling, slightly salted water till tender. Drain and let it get cold. Next press out the moisture, using a clean dish-cloth or napkin for the purpose, then rub the cauliflower through a fine sieve. Melt an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, put in the caulifiower pur6e and stir over the fire for a few minutes, season with salt, pepper and77 grated nutmeg, and add a gill of well reduced bechamel sauce. Cook the whole for ten minutes, stirring frequently. In- corporate the yolks of two eggs, and when this is done remove the pan from the fire. Whisk to a stiff froth two whites of eggs. Add them to the mixture and fill up eight or ten small mousse or china entree cases, previously buttered. Place them on a baking sheet and bake for about fifteen minutes in a fairly hot oven. Dish up, garnish with crisp parsley and serve. Note.—If liked, one or two ounces of fine-chopped ham or tongue can be added to the above mixture before it is baked. This will make the dish more tasty, es- pecially if served as an entr§e. Curnips au 6ratin. Peel thinly eight or nine medium- sized young tur- nips, cut them into slices and wash them. Drain them thoroughly. Melt two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, when hot put in the turnips and stir over a brisk fire, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little stock and cook till tender. Rub half through a sieve as pur6e. Ar- range the slices on the pur^e in a well buttered gratin or pie dish. Sauce over with a well reduced bechamel sauce, sprinkle the surface with fine bread- crumbs and grated cheese, adding a few tiny bits of butter here and there. Bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes, long enough to nicely brown the top.SpinacI) Souffle. (Souffle (T€pinards au Gratiii.) Pick, wash and boil a pound of freshly picked spinach, drain it and rub through a fine sieve. Melt an ounce of butter in a small stew-pan, stir in half-ounce of flour, cook it whilst stirring, but do not let it take colour, add a little stock or water, and work vigorously with a wooden spoon over the fire till it resembles a smooth paste ; next add half-gill of cream, work again, and lastly put in the spinach pur6e. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. When thoroughly mixed stir in half-ounce of grated cheese. Butter a large china souffle case, sprinkle the inside with grated cheese, and fill with the mixture. Cover the top with grated cheese mixed with an equal quan- tity of fresh bread-crumbs. Place a few tiny bits of butter on top of each, and bake in a very hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Dish up and serve at once. Cauliriower au 6ratin. Wash and trim a caulifiower and boil it in fast - boiling, slightly salted, water till tender. When done, drain well and shape it neatly. Have ready some white sauce (bechamel), well seasoned and mixed with some grated cheese. Butter a gratin dish and put on it a table-spoonful of this sauce. Upon this place the cooked caulifiower (head upwards). Sauce over completely with white sauce, be- sprinkle the surface with bread-crumbs and grated cheese. Place a few tiny bits of79 butter here and there on top and bake in a very hot oven for about fifteen minutes, so as to brown it nicely. macaroni au 6ratin. Blanch and cook in salted water half a pound macaroni or spaghetti; when done, drain them in a colander or sieve, and let cool. The macaroni may, if liked, be cut into short pieces. Heat up an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, put in the cooked macaroni, season with salt and pepper to taste, also a good pinch of Krona or paprika pepper, and moisten with a gill of good white sauce. Mix carefully, so as not to mash the macaroni, with an ounce of grated cheese. Pile this neatly in a buttered gratin dish, pour over a little more white sauce if needed, then sprinkle over with grated cheese and bread-crumbs, also a little oiled butter, and bake in a sharp oven for ten minutes. Cut half to three-quarters of a pound of cold beef or mutton into thin slices, peel and slice thinly half an onion, slice likewise three or four firm but ripe tomatoes, and boil till tender quarter-pound of macaroni (cooked in slightly salted water. Cool and drain the macaroni and cut it up rather small. Line a buttered baking dish with8o macaroni and range the meat, onion and tomato slices in layers on the baking dish. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg, pour over a little sauce or stock and cover the top with macaroni. Sprinkle over some bread-crumbs and grated cheese, then bake for about thirty minutes in a hot oven. Italian Risotto. Wash in cold water half-pound of Patna or Caroline rice, dry it well and put it in a casserole stew-pan containing two ounces melted butter. Stir this over the fire for a few minutes with half a small finely minced onion ; the latter must not be allowed to brown. Now add about half a pint of stock and let reduce, then add half a pint tomato pulp, and more stock. Continue, to cook whilst stirring. Season with salt, pepper and a handful of chopped pimientos Lastly add about an ounce of grated Par- mesan cheese. Nearly all the moisture must become absorbed by the time the rice is cooked. €99$ cocotte^ Butter six or eight little cocotte pans, put a dessert- spoonful of fresh cream into each. Break care- fully as many fresh eggs, placing one into each pan containing the cream. Sprinkle over a little salt and pepper to season, then cook in a fairly hot oven for about six minutes, by which time the eggs should be sufficiently set. Dish up and send to table hot.8i €ag$ a la Roucnnaisc. Prepare a pur6e of ham mixed with a little foie-gras and well seasoned with rich brown sauce. Put a table- spoonful of this into as many previously buttered souf!I6 cases as may be required. Heat them up in the oven and place a neatly trimmed poached egg on top of the pur6e. Pour a little hot white sauce over each egg and besprinkle with a little finely chopped ham. Dish up and serve hot. €gg Coquilks voith Spinaci). Have six or eight very small coquille or marmite pots, or china souffle cases, butter them and put a table-spoonful of prepared and seasoned spinach in each ; upon this put about a dessert-spoonful of cream. Break a fresh egg in each, season with pepper and'salt, and bake care- fully in a moderately heated oven for eight minutes. Dish up and serve quickly. Baked Stuffed comatoes. (Comatqs farcies.) Chop finely four ounces of cooked cold ham, one ounce of beef-suet or fat bacon, and three or four mush- rooms. Mix these with one teaspoon- ful of chopped parsley ; add a grate or two of lemon rind. Fry these ingredients in a little butter, then season and moisten with a beaten egg. Remove the stalks from four large ripe but firm tomatoes, wipe them and cut each in halves. Scoop out F82 some of the pulp, which may, if liked, be mixed with the stuffing. Put enough of the mixture in each half of tomato to com- pletely fill them ; sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs, and put a small piece of butter in the centre of each. Put them on a buttered fireproof dish and bake in a fairly hot oven for about twenty minutes. Baked Curried Comatoes. (Comates au gratin a I’lndienne.) Blanch six to eight tomatoes, remove the skins, and place them in a deep fire- proof dish (previously buttered). Mix half a pint of tomato sauce with a dessert- spoonful of curry paste and a table-spoon- ful of red currant jelly ; boil up for five minutes. Season the tomatoes, and pour over them the prepared sauce. Sprinkle with grated cheese, Panurette or bread- crumbs, and a little oiled butter. Bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Fry a few slices of streaky bacon, place these on top of the dish, serve with a small dish of plain boiled rice. Plain Omekt. Beat up four fresh eggs and season with salt and pep- per. Melt in an earthenware omelet pan three-quarters of an ounce of butter ; when hot pour in the beaten eggs and stir over the fire till they begin to set. Then shape into an oval at one end of the pan, folding in the ends. Allow it to set and take colour, and turn out into a hot dish.83 Kldncp Omelet. (Omelette aux Roditons.) Skin two sheep’s kidneys or half a small veal kidney, cut it into thin slices, season to taste, and fry with one ounce of butter blended with a very small chopped shallot; add a little brown sauce, and keep hot. Beat five eggs together with two table-spoonfuls of milk ; season with salt and pepper. Melt one ounce of butter in an omelet pan, pour in the omelet mixture, and stir it over the fire until it begins to set; then put in the stewed kidneys and fold in the ends of the omelet. When nicely browned, slip the omelet on to a hot dish, pour a little hot tomato or brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve at once. l»u$broom Omekt. (Omelette aux Champignons.) Wash and peel three or four fresh mush- rooms, chop them and fry in half an ounce of butter, blended with a small chopped shallot. Season with salt and pepper to taste and keep hot. Prepare a plain omelet, when ready to fold put the mush- room pur6e in the centre, then fold in the ends and allow the omelet to take colour. Turn it out on to a hot dish and serve. Comato Omelet a la Vknnoise. Whisk up four or six fresh eggs in a basin, sea- son with salt and pepper and pour the eggs into a well buttered fireproof souffle dish. Bake in a84 fairly hot oven till the omelet is set and of a nice golden brown., 'Make an incision in the centre of the omelet and fill the cavity with a tomato stew which is made as follows : Peel three or four small ripe tomatoes; this is best done by dipping each into hot water for a few seconds. Then cut them into quarters and toss in a little butter over a quick fire. Season with salt and paprika pepper and use as directed. This omelet should be used in the dish or pan in which it is baked. Quickip maae Sauce. Melt one ounce of butter in a small cas- serole, stir in half-ounce of Brown & Poi- son’s cornfiour, when smooth moisten with half-pint of milk and stir the mixture over the fire till it boils. Cook from eight to ten minutes. Season to taste, and serve. To make a richer sauce add two table- spoonfuls of thick cream and re-heat with- out letting the sauce boil again. BecDamcl Sauce. Melt one ounce of butter in a small cas- serole, stir in one ounce of fiour (bare weight), and cook for a few minutes with- out browning. Then add half a sliced carrot, half a small onion, stuck with a clove, half a bay-leaf and a small blade of mace ; and dilute with one gill of good white stock and half a pint of milk. Stir till it boils and let simmer gently for about twenty minutes to half an hour. Strain the sauce and season to taste. Comato Sauce. Slice three to four small ripe tomatoes and fry them in a casserole with four85 ounces of raw ham or bacon, cut into dice, and one ounce of butter. Then add a few slices of carrot, onion and a very little celery, a small bay-leaf and a blade of mace. Next add half a pint of brown sauce or bechamel, also a few mushroom trim- mings, if handy, and cook gently for twenty minutes or longer, adding a little stock, if found too thick. When done, strain and season to taste. Brown Sauce. Take | pint brown stock, 1 small onion, 1 carrot, 1 ripe tomato, 1 oz. of butter or dripping, 1 oz. of flour, 1 dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, salt and pepper. Peel and chop the onion, scrape and slice the carrot, and slice the tomato. Melt the butter or dripping in a casserole, when hot add the flour, then all the vegetables, and fry a little, stir over the Are until nicely browned ; now add the tomato, vinegar ketchup, and stock, stir until it boils, skim well, and allow to simmer for about half an hour. Strain and season to taste. Currp Sauce. Peel and slice a small onion, scrape and slice a small carrot, fry both together in half-ounce of butter; when the onion has acquired a light brown colour, add one table-spoonful of “ Empress ” curry pow- der, and stir for a few seconds. Next add a small peeled and chopped apple, moisten with half a gill of tomato pulp, and a gill of brown sauce, allow to boil for a few minutes. Season to taste and pas: through a flne strainer. Re-heat and in last of all a finely chopped gherkin.Popular Books on Cookery, &c. By C. HEKMAN SENN. The New Century Cookery Book. The New, Re- vised, and Enlarged Edition is now ready. Price, sis. ; post free 2IS. gd. A work full of sound and useful information, and of the greatest service to every Cook, Manager, or Steward. It is the most complete and reliable of all vade mecums for Chefs. It is hanay, volluminous, and skillfully arranged and easily consulted. Profusely illustrated. Strongly bound in leather back. Edition de Luxe, 33s. Practical Cookery Manual- Price i/-; post free, 1/2. A book of simple but practical recipes and instructions, for Plain and Middle-class Cookery. 178 pages. Kecherche ciide Dishes (Hors-d’CZuvre and Savouries). Price, 3s. 6d. ; post free, 3s. gd. Fourth Enlarged and Revised Edition, now ready. A handy book of recipes for dainty Hors-d'QEuvre, Savouries, Salads, Sandwiches, and Orien- tal Dishes, containing nearly 600 reliable recipes. bavoury Breakfast, Dinner and bupper Dishes. Price 3s. 6d. ; post free, 3s. gd. A collection of carefully pre- pared useful recipes of easy and distinct directions for economi- cal as well as elaborate d'shes. Cookery for Invalids and the Convalescent. Price, IS. ; post free, is. 2d. A collection of valuable recipes, useful in the preparation of tempting dishes and drinks for in- valids and convalescents. Diet Tables and other useful informa- tion. bimple Cookery for the People. Price 2d., post free. A collection of palatable and inexpensive dishes, as taught in connection with the popular Cookery Lessons, organised by the Universal Cookery and Food Association. The Main Cookery Book. A valuable book, which covers all departments of Middle-class Cookery. It is especially adapted for small families. There are several excellent features in the book which render it particularly practical for family cooks. Price, is. ; post free, is. 2d. A Book of Salads ; or. The Art of Salad Dressing. By Alfred Suzanne. This little book is unquestionably the best in existence. It contains recipes for Green Salads, Vegetable Salads, Fish Salads, Poultry and Game Salads, Meat Salads, and Fruit Salads. Salad Dressings and Sauces are also fully treated. Price, is. 6d. ; post free, is. 8d. Ices, and Howto Make Them. Price 1/6; po.st free, IS. 8d. A new treatise on Plain and Fancy Ices, Cream and Water Ices, Ice Puddings, Souffles, Sorbets, Mousses, Cooling Cups, Iced Drinks, etc. etc. Curries, and How to Prepare Them. Compiled by J. Edmunds, with recipes by C. Francatelli, C. Herman Senn and others. Price, 6d. ; post free, 7d. Practical Gastronomy &. French Menus ; or. The Complete Menu Compiler and Register of Dishes. By C. Herman Senn. Price, 5s. ; post free, 5s. 3d. A practical trea- tise of up-to-date Cookery and Gastronomy. This is not a recipe book, but a guide-book and everyday manual for Chefs, Managers, and Housekeepers. Table Serviettes : How To Fold Them. Price i/o, post free. The Art of Napkin Folding fully explained, and pro- fusely illustrated by means of 130 diagrams and half-tone por- traits. Any of the above-mentioned Works may be obtained from the— Food & Cookery Publishing Agency 329, Vauxhall Bridg-e Road, LONDON, S.W.Everything is Well Hade that is made with Brown ^ Poison's "Patent" Corn Flour. Soups and Gravies are more inviting, fish and vegetable sauces are im- proved in flavour, Jellies, Custards, and Blancmanges are more tasty. r\ad? with Brown 8{ Poison’s "Patent” Com FIOUP Brown ^ Poison have been making good Corn Flour for nearly fifty years, that's why you can trust them on the point of quality. To Save Time When BaKing use Brown 8{ Poison’s p“?“Paisky Flour ” (Trade Aark). Cakes, pastries, SQones, bread, etc., can be quickly prepared by simple methods and with little trouble. The Cak^s come out of the oven beauti- fully light, the pastry is crisp and short.Lemco for nourishing Soups Lemco for delicious Sauces Lemco for Entrees and Curries Lemco for fine Gravies Lemco for Sick-room Cookery Beef in most concentrated form. The original and only genuine Liebig Company’s Extract. Wlghtman & Co., Ltd., Old Weatminatar Praaa, Regency Si., S.W.