FRACTURES. 289 anterior to the attachments of the coraco-clavicular ligaments, or unless these have been detached, the displacement can only be limited. Treatment.—Place the hand of the injured side on the opposite shoul- der, and apply Velpeau's bandage as for fracture of the clavicle. The ' prognosis is good, although fibrous union is the rule. Fracture of the glenoid process—that is, through that portion of the scapula between the glenoid fossa and the anterior portion of the base of the coracoid process—has not yet been noted. Several instances are re- corded, however, of fracture which, while anterior to the base of the acromion, included the base of the coracoid process. Treatment.—Flex the forearm at right angles to the arm, and carry it I across the chest, leaving the humerus parallel with the axis of the body. I Lift the humerus directly upward against the coraco-acromial ligament, place a pad in the axilla, and carry a roller around and under the fore- [ arm, at the elbow, and over the shoulder of the same side. Every other j turn should be carried horizontally around the body. By this means the ,head of the humerus keeps the fragment in jjosition. Fracture of the spine of the scapula is rare, but below this it is of more frequent occurrence. Velpeau's bandage, or any method which 1 will give the minimum of discomfort and the greatest degree of rest, will be most successful. Humerus.—Fracture of the humerus occurs most frequently in its lower third, while the proportion of fractures in the middle and upper thirds is about equal. In the upper third this bone may be broken through the anatomical neck ; just below this line, through the tuberosities ; immediately below the tuberosities (the surgical neck); or through the shaft. It may also be j fractured longitudinally, with separation of the tuberosities. Fracture of the anatomical neck, or intra-capsular fracture, is rare. It is caused by a blow or fall directly on the shoulder. I Diagnosis.—There may be crepitus. If the shoulder is fixed and the humerus grasped below and up to the tuberosities, and crepitus is felt by moving the head against the glenoid cavity, the character of the injury is evident. If impaction into the shaft has occurred, crepitus will be absent, but shortening will be ascertained by careful measurement. Bony union after intra-capsular fracture is rare, unless impaction has occurred. Osteo-arthritis may result, rendering exsection of the joint necessary. Fracture through the tuberosities occurs also from direct violence. The symptoms closely resemble those of the variety just described. The I prognosis is more favorable, since bony union is the rule. Prognosis as to freedom of motion should be guarded, since exostosis may result to such an extent as to interfere with the usefulness of the arm. Fracture through the surgical neck is of far more frequent occurrence than the intra- or extra-cax)sular fractures at the anatomical neck. It may result from direct violence, although not infrequently a fall upon the hand or elbow will produce it. The bases of the tuberosities are rarely involved in fracture of the neck in adults—except in the young, 19