A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 422 bound down to the surrounding tissues, may become adherent to the integument, and produce great pain and disturbance by reason of press- ure upon the nerves and vessels with which the gland is in close relation. The cartilage tumors are nodular, hard, and slightly elastic to du^ect pressure. Cancer is also nodular at times, but not so hard as enchon- droma. Cancer comes, as a rule, after the fortj^-fifth to fiftieth year, and the other neoplasms before this period. The lymphatic glands are involved in cancer, and rarely enlarged in any other form of neoplasm. Sarcoma occurs earliest of all. Cysts are elastic, may present fluctua- tion, while the exact character of this variety may be determined by exploration with the aspirator. If of great importance in determining the plan of treatment to be pursued, a section of the diseased organ sufiiciently large for microscopic examination should be removed; in this way a positive diagnosis is assured. Removal of the parotid gland is one of the most difficult operations in surgery. In many cases of tumor of this organ in which the neo- plasm is developed at the expense of the under portion of the gland, the' internal Jugular vein, internal carotid artery, and the important nerves and ganglia situated here become so involved that complete ex- tirpation is impossible during life. This condition was found to exist in a case in which I removed all of the organ anterior to the deep vessels. Having at first tied the external carotid artery, the dissection was com- paratively bloodless. When the tumor is of small size, it may be en- tirely removed. Section of the various divisions of the facial nerve or of the main trunk is almost inevitable. If the external carotid is first secured it may be avoided by a careful dissection, provided that the tumor is of moderate size. Operation.—Make a crucial incision over the mass, the perpendicular cut being in the line of the external carotid artery. Turn the flaps back from the anterior aspect of the tumor, and approach its deeper portions from below in the line of the vessels. As soon as the external. carotid can be exposed, it should be secured with a catgut ligature. All bleeding should be arrested as the operation proceeds. In lifting the under surface of the tumor from its bed, the operator should keep close to the mass, using a dull instrument for fear of wounding the internal jugular vein and other important vessels or nerves. The blunt scissors curved on the flat, the handle of the scalpel, or the thumb and finger- nail may be utilized for this purpose. The facial nerve and its branches which run through the neoplasm should be saved, if possible. As before stated, if the tumor is extensive, this is scarcely possible on account of the great length of time it would require. If, in the course of the opera- tion, it is discovered that the neoplasm dips down beneath the jaw and styloid process, and surrounds the vessels and nerves, its complete ex- tirpation is impossible. As much of the mass as can be lifted should now be transfixed near the middle with a double elastic ligature, tied, and the part external to the ligature cut away. The prognosis in cancer and sarcoma of the parotid is always grave, even after removal. The anatomical relations of this organ are such