464 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. as far down as the bifurcation of the trachea. Thoracic oesophageal diverticula occur most frequently opposite the origin of the bronchi. The causes of these abnormal pouches are various. As stated, they may be the result of a failure in normal development. A stricture of the oesophagus may lead to a dilatation and pouching of this organ in that portion immediately above the seat of constriction. Degeneration of the muscular libers of the tube in a limited area may lead to a hernia of the mucous membrane, in which, by the impaction of ingested matter, a diverticulum is formed. Ulceration of the lining membrane at any point, and from any cause, may lead to the development of a sac or pouch by the infiltration of ingesta behind the mucous membrane.* The diagnosis of these diverticula is made with great difficulty, and little hope of relief is offered, even when the character of the lesion is recognized. The presence of the tumor is indicated by dysphagia, and this symp- tom may vary in severity with the act of deglutition which carries food into the pouch. Dyspnoea may be present as the result of pressure upon the trachea and bronchi, and phonation may be interfered with if the pneumogastric or recurrent laryngeal nerves are involved. The treatment is chiefly palliative, and consists in the use of liquid diet. Fistula of the oesophagus may occur as a result of a penetrating wound, or from an abscess or ulceration which destroys a portion of the oesophageal wall. A few instances of supposed congenital fistula have been reported. The diagnosis will depend upon the passage of ingested matter through the outer opening, or the successful introduction of a probe from without. The treatment is surgical, and on the same principle as applied to aU fistulous tracks ; they should be laid open by incision, packed to arrest bleeding, and afterward allowed to close by granulation. Or, as in the recent procedure for the relief of fistula in ano, the lining membrane of the fistula may be dissected away and the wound closed throughout A^ith catgut sutures. * Rokitansky has advanced tlie theory that thoracic diverticula result from atrophy of the bronchial lymphatic glands, which are situated on thte anterior and lateral aspects of the (esophagus.