169 ARTERITIS. syphilis, rheumatism, gout, alcoholism, and nephritis with great regu- larity, and may occur as a result of any morbid process which poisons the blood or impairs its nutritive qualities. These varieties will be con- sidered under special headings. The sequels of arteritis, as far as the arteries are concerned, may be fatty infiltration and degeneration, atheroma, secondary calcification, occlusion, dilatation, aneurism, suppuration, ulceration, and rupture. Eemotely, partial or complete loss of function of the organs beyond the lesion, and partial or general necrosis or necrobiosis. I shall consider arteritis under two great heads, traumatic and non-traumatic^ subdivid- ing these as their pathogeny or pathology may justify in the considera- tion of each separate type. I. Traumatic Arteritis.—Arteritis may result from violence, either from without or from within. External violence will produce an inflam- mation of all the tunics of an artery, in the majority of cases, while vio- lence from within is more apt to cause an endarteritis. Arteritis from external causes is never an uncomplicated injury. The perivascular tissue is of necessity involved in the inflammatory process. In the arte- ritis resulting from deligation of an artery, from the forcible compression of a vessel, as in bending the knee, from the pressure of a tumor, or from a blow in the track of the artery, there is always an accompanying inflam- mation of the surrounding, injured tissues. The pathology of traumatic arteritis does-not differ greatly from the in- flammatory process which occurs in other vascular tissues. Immediately fol- lowing the injury there is a marked increase in the vascularity of the adven- titia. The vasa vasorum become swollen, the white blood-corpuscles crowd in- to the capillaries, and pass into the extra - vascular spaces, while a rapid pro- liferation of the normal cell-elements of the arte- rial tunics takes place. The connective-tissue cells of the adventitia, the white corpuscles, and the flat and polar cells of the in- tima, all take part in the morbid process. The walls of the vessel become ab- normally thickened, while, owing to the projection in- ward of the intima, the Fig. 247.—Traumatic arteritis. Transverse section of thie carotid artery of a dog, fifteen days after ligature : 5, ffranulation buds- formed froni projection of the intima. In the center of the figure one of these buds has been completely cut across; portion of the media modified by the inflammatory process; e, adventitia; V F, vessels cut across, one of which is newly- formed in the intima. Magnified 15 diameters. (After Cornil and Kanvier.)