EXSECTIONS OF THE JOINTS. 367 Fig. 402.—Tlie foot after exsectiou of the astragalus and articular ends of tibia and fibula. fixion with small steel drills, carried obliquely from above downward, entering on the internal aspect of the tibia and the external surface of the fibula, and passing into the astragalus (in the same manner as at the knee). The wound should be closed with catgut, leaving a small drainage- tube to pass out on each side. The rubber should not be permitted to get between the bones. An antiseptic dressing is now applied, and the foot and leg placed in a fracture-box and padded to hold it motion- less. If the drills are not employed, the parts should be held in ap- position while a plaster-of-Paris dressing is applied, which, being "set," is fenestrated on both sides over the wounds, in the same man- ner as shown in Fig. 350. Or a Volkmann's splint (Fig. 400) may be applied to the anterior extremity of the foot and leg, and the parts fixed with plaster of Paris, or sim- ple roller. This splint may be made of wood, or sheet- or hoop- iron, properly padded with anti- septic gauze. A useful substitute may be made from several pieces of telegraph-wire. If the bones are not extensively involved, a single L-shaped incision will suffice to expose the joint, and the dead bone can be removed with the gouge or Volkmann's spoon, and a counter-opening made for drainage. This operation is always to be preferred at the ankle. When, in an exsection of the ankle, the astragalus is so much involved that its re- moval is necessary, the upper surface of the OS calcis should be smoothed oft' with the chisel or key-hole saw, and brought up in apposition with the plane surface of the bones of the leg. Fig. 402 represents a foot after recovery upon which I did this opera- tion in 1885. The Shoulder-Joint.—Exsection of the head of the humerus is readily effected by a single straight incision, about five inches in length, made from the acromion process directly down the arm, parallel with and splitting the fibers of the deltoid (Fig. 403). The periosteum should be carefully lifted as far as the ostitis extends, and the soft tis- sues about the capsule raised with the ele- vator. The edges of the wound should be held wide apart by blunt retractors, and the tendons of insertion of the supra and infra Pis- 403. spinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis di-