696 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. muscles of the two sides, especial attention should be directed to the development of the organs of the weaker side, and at times it is neces- sary to impair the nutrition of the muscles of the stronger half of the trunk. When the de- formity is on the right side, the muscles of the left arm and side should be exercised by the use of the dumb-bells, elas- tic strap, swing, or hori- zontal bar. It is often advisable to place the right arm and hand in a sling, to prevent the further development of these muscles. Mass- age or kneading, con- fined to the left half of the body, and the gal- vanic current to the same region two or three times a week will be advis- able. Tonics, Judicious feeding, and out-of-door life are essential feat- ures of treatment. The patient should be directed to sit squarely upon the buttocks, and not to droop or loll to one side. In reclining, the body should be placed in such a position that the offending muscles Fig. 674.—Patient lying in a position to overcome contraction of the muscles of the left side of the abdomen and thorax. (After Reeves.) contraction ia on the right side (with the riglit shoulder-blade and ribs projecting. (A^fter Eeeves.) are put upon the stretch (Fig. 674). The de- formity is temporarily overcome by the em- ployment of Wolff' s cradle (Fig. 675). The belt passes over the projecting ribs and shoulder - blade, thus bringing the weight of the trunk upon these parts, while gravity aids in overcoming the curvature in the lumbar region. In a certain proportion of cases, mechanical support of the thorax is indicated, especially in those cases where from muscular weakness it is almost impossible to hold the spine erect. For this purpose the plaster- of-Paris jacket or the perforated corset may be used. The latter (Figs. 676, 677) I have found very satisfactory. It is to be commended, for the reason that it can be readily removed at night, and is more cleanly than a permanent plaster jacket. When the gypsum is applied it should be split down the front, taken off and fixed for lacing so that it may be removed when necessary.