VASCULAR TUMORS. 191 Angeiomata.—^The three next varieties of "vascular tumor," which, may be grouped together under the name of Angeiomata., are: (1) The Arterial Cutaneous Tamor, or Aneurism by Anastomosis, composed of dilatations or elongations of the arterioles, either normal or new-formed, in the skin; (2) the Capillary Cutaneous Tumor, consisting of dilata- tions and elongations of the normal or new-formed capillaries of the skin ; and (3) the Venous Cutaneous Tumor {Cavernous Ncevus), composed of dilatations of the normal or new-formed venous radicles of the skin. The angeiomata are considered by some writers as strictly new-forma- tions of blood-vessels. There is little doubt, however, that many vascular tumors are chiefly made up of normal vessels which have undergone dilatation or hypertrophy. Other names that have been given to angeio- mata are congenital nsevus, erectile tumor, telangiectasis or plexiform angeioma, aneurism by anastomosis, ecchymoma, cavernous nsevus, and fungus hsematodes. According to Depaul, one third of the children born in one of the eleemosynary institutions at Paris had congenital nsevi, the greater number of which disappeared spontaneously during the first few months of life. They occur chiefly in the skin, and are especially apt to appear on the forehead, face, ears, and neck. Structure and Symptoms.—Angeiomata commonly form flattened, slightly projecting tumors, varying in size from a mere speck to as much as an inch in diameter, and are composed of new-formed, dilated, freely anastomosing capillaries, arterioles, and veins, in irregular, labyrinthine masses. They vary in color, being at times grayish-blue or red. Often the only indication of their presence is the appearance of a diffuse red- ness over a considerable surface. Examined microscopically, the walls of the vessels are crowded with cells, and the vessels are imbedded in a network of flbrous and adipose tissue. The superficial and deep cutane- ous vessels—including the vessels of the hair-follicles, sweat-glands, and adipose tissue—^join in the formation of these tumors. The disease may extend into the muscles and deeper tissues. The majority of angeiomata are soft and yielding, and can be emptied by pressure ; but when of great vascularity and long standing, when there has been an extensive proliferation of the perivascular connective tissue, pressure will not cause their disappearance. Some are very painful, and others entirely free from sensibility. Venous cutaneous tumors are composed, in great part, of new-formed, erectile tissue, analogous to that found in the corpora cavernosa. Their structure is white and dense, the caverns communicating freely with each other. In rare instances they are known to contain chalky concretions, which are known as phlehoUtes. The circulation is active in these tumors, and their volume variable. The walls of the sinuses contain a dense, fibrous stroma, involuntary muscular tissue, and striated muscular fibers when the tumor is encroach- ing on the muscles. They are lined by the same endothelium as the normal veins. In specimens removed and immediately immersed in alcohol, it is found that the blood presents the same appearances as the normal, with the exception that the white corpuscles are less numerous