DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 391 which may cause it. The surgical treatment consists in the excision of an elliptical piece from the skin of the upper lid and the approximation of the edges by sutures. TricJdasis^ or turning in of the eyelashes, occurs with entropion, but may exist independently. Occurring with inversion of the lid, it does not require any other interference than that given for the cure of entro- pion. When the cilise turn in without inversion of the lid, the proper method of treatment is total excision of the hair-follicles. This should be accomplished by two parallel incisions made along the margin of the lid, Fig. 424.-Grueninff's depilating-forceps. one on either side of the row of hairs, and extending deep enough to insure the complete removal of the roots of the cilise. When depilation is demanded, the instrument shown in Fig. 424 will be found of great service. Epiphora, or overflow of the lachrymal secretion, may be due to paralysis of the orbicularis palpebrarum, or to any condition which causes displacement or obstruction of the lachrymo-nasal duct. In mild epiphora due to displacement of the inferior pimctum lachrymale the treatment consists in the dilatation of the canaliculus by the repeated introduction of a conical probe, followed by incision. This latter oper- ation is done by inserting the probe-pointed knife or scissors (Figs. 425, 426, 427), made for this purpose, into the punctum and along the canal for about one sixth of an inch, and slitting the canaliculus to this extent. The wound should be kept open by forcibly separating its edges once or twice a day, until the cut surfaces are covered with epithelium, and the trough remains open. Obstruction of the lachrymo-nasal duct may in some cases be over- come by dilatation. In acute or chronic dacryo- cystitis it is the common Fig. 427.—Maunolr's canalloulus-scissors. practice to slit open the upper canaliculus; in case of abscess, to give free discharge to the inflam- matory products, and, if stricture is threatened, to permit the introduc-