402 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. the forehead and outline the flap by making punctures at intervals of every fourth of an inch along its edges. The incision, made through all the tissues down to the periosteum, should begin at d and be carried to a c c a, and then down to a point near the eyebrow, at d, in the line of the freshened margin of the nasal cavity. The smaller incisions in the flap ab or c b are made to provide for the septum and alee of the new nose. If the finger has been grafted for the support of the flap, the in- cisions of Labat, cb, c b, will suffice; if not, those of Linhart, ab, ab, will give a doubly folded septum, and one less likely to fall or cave in. The flap is now dissected up from the periosteum as far as the pedicle, when it is turned down and sewed into position with fine silk sutures. The secondary flap for the septum is first doubled on itself, and then bent in at a right angle to the axis of the nose, and stitched down, as shown in Fig. 439, to the center of the lowest portion of the nose, just above the middle of the upper lip, while the alee are also folded in and sewed, as represented in the same cut. The operation is completed Fig. 439.-(After Linhart.) when the entire flap has been ac- curately stitched to the freshened edges of the cavity, as shown in Fig. 440. Pieces of rubber tubing may be inserted in the nostrils to Fig. 440.—(After Maigaigne.) hold the alee in position. The upper part of the wound on the forehead is drawn as near together as can be done, with silk or silver-wire sutures, and a sublimate or iodoform gauze dressing is applied. No pressure must be exercised upon the pedicle, or flap, which should be loosely enveloped in the dressing. In about two weeks the circulation will have been sufficiently established between the flap and the edges of the cavity to permit the section of the pedicle, the stump of which is used in filling up the gap upon the forehead. In re- turning the pedicle to its original position, it is advisable to scrape out the granulation-tissue in the bottom of the wound, so that the returned portion will sink to the proper level. Among other methods of performing complete rhinoplasty is that of Dieffenbach, as shown in Fig. 441, or that of Koenig, Fig. 442, in which the pedicle is somewhat wider than in the other flaps. The flap of Langenbeck is shown in Fig. 443. These various operations of trans- planting the flap from the forehead are modifications of the Hindoo