345 DISEASES OF SPECIAL JOINTS, It is a disease of childhood, occurring chiefly in the period of rapid growth. It rarely occurs after the twelfth year. It may occur at any time prior to this age, the majority of cases being between the ages of three and six years. The pathology of morbus coxcb will vary with the peculiar character of the lesion. The morbid changes which occur in that variety which is most frequently met with are those of ostitis, primarily, followed by destructive arthritis. The initial lesion occurs as an interference with, or arrest of, nutrition, near the diaphyso - epiphyseal cartilage (Fig. 380, a). It may begin on the diaphyseal or epiphyseal side. According to Prof. Gib- ney,*' the initial lesion appears in several centers of ossification about the same time. It is an ostitis rarefaciens. The can- cellous cavities become filled with embryonic cells, absorp- tion of the lamellae occurs, the inflammatory new products may undergo a slow process of fat- ty metamorphosis, may become 380.—Section of normal temur of a boy eight years % ' old. (After Uibney.) caseous, or the process may ter- minate in pus-formation. The development of the bone is arrested, the ostitis, commencing in the deeper portions, travels in all directions, de- struction of the diaphyso-epiphyseal cartilage occurs, with separation of the epiphyses {diastasis). While these changes are going on, the lining membrane of the capsule becomes involved, the process being one of chronic synovitis, which, as has been stated, terminates inevitably in inflammatory changes in the tissue proper of the capsule. The joint becomes filled with the products of inflammation, the capsule, over-dis- tended and weakened, ruptures either spontaneously or as a result of motion, and dislocation may occur. With separation of the epiphysis and destruction of the neck of the femur shortening ensues. While those just described are the usual morbid changes in hij)- disease, in other cases the pathology is different. Morbus coxce may begin as a simple idiopathic or traumatic synovitis, the destruction of the bone being secondary and commencing from the articular surface, progressing inward. It may commence as a result of injury to, or arrest of nutrition in, the digital fossa of the acetabulum, and the destruction of the ligamentum teres. Again, the initial ostitis may be situated in the bones which form the cotyloid cavity. Lastly, hip-joint disease may, in rarer instances, result from a peri-articular inflammation, first a syndesmitis, secondly a synovitis, lastly arthritis. Causes.—The causes of hip-disease are chiefly predisposing. Any * " The Hip and its Diseases," Bermingham & Co., New York, 1884.