252 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. between the cords of the brachial plexus, and is distributed to the tra- pezius muscle, sending a branch in the direction of the posterior border of the scapula, which anastomoses with the posterior scapular artery; and, when this last vessel is not present, this descending branch is con- tinued along the border of the scapula to anastomose with the subscapu- lar branch of the axillary. The suprascapular artery^ intimately associated with the preceding, travels suddenly downward and outward from its origin near the inner edge of the scalenus anticus, passes between the subclavian artery and min, in front of the phrenic nerve, crosses in front of the third division of the main trunk, and goes to the suprascapular fossa under the protection of the clavicle, anastomosing with the dorsalis scapula of the subscapular is. It gives olf a branch (frequently wounded in operations in this vicinity) which passes behind the sterno-mastoideus and along the upper border of the manubrium. (It is not usually men- tioned. ) The right superior intercostal artery comes from the second division of the subclavian in almost every instance ; occasionally from the first. The left is usually from the first division. The posterior scapular, one of the most important branches of the subclavian, in a surgical view, since it must be in dangerous proximity to a ligature applied in the third surgical division (not given in many standard text-books, except as an occasional branch of this artery), was present in thirty-six of fifty-two dissections, or 69 per cent. It was present in nineteen of twenty-six on the right side, and in seventeen of twenty-six on the left. In twenty-three of the thirty-six cases in which it was present it was derived from the third division; in the remaining thirteen, from the second division, close to its outer limit. On the I'ight side 74 per cent came from the subclavian, within one fourth of an inch to the outer and inner side of the external border of the scalenus muscle ; 26 per cent external to this. On the left side 82 per cent were within one fourth of an inch to the outer and inner side of the line dividing the middle and external thirds of the main trunk ; 18 per cent were to the outer side of this. The tend- ency of this important branch is to originate near the scalenus, i. e., within one fourth of an inch of its outer edge. When this vessel is present the transversalis colli is small, and when absent the descending branch of the transversalis takes its distribution. Passing outward be- hind the most superficial cords of the brachial plexus, it turns sharply downward, along the posterior border of the scapula, to anastomose with the subscapular branch of the axillary. Operation—The Right Subclaman in its First Surgical Division.— The incisions are the same as for the arteria-innominata (Fig. 279). When the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles have been divided on the director, the internal jugular vein will be seen directly in front of the artery. It may be drawn to the inner side (or outer, if more convenient), carefully using for this purpose a dull retractor. Care must be exercised not to injure the pleura which rises against the