122 A TEXT-BOOK ON SUEGERT. the vitality of the parts involved, may necessitate various modifications of the foregoing methods. In the surgery of the hand, the rule in prac- tice should be never to amputate when possible to avoid it, and never to remove any more than is absolutely necessary. Fig. 179 is that of an amputation after an injury from the explosion of a shot-gun, in which the thumb, in- dex, and middle fingers, and their respective metacarpal bones, were blown o&. The line of incision was a lateral one, and the disarticulation was at the carpo-metacarpal joint. Radio-Garpal Joint.—In ampu- tation at the wrist the carpus should be removed, even when all the bones of this group are not involved. The line of incision will depend upon the extent of the healthy tissues Fia. 178. available for forming the covering to the stump. The long palmar and short dorsal flaps are preferable on account of the finer tactile sense of the covering thus secured. More- over, the vitality of the palm is so great that, if ordinary precau- tions are observed in its dissection, sloughing will not occur. First Method.—Place the thumb and finger of the left hand respect- ively upon the styloid of the radius and ulna, and make an incision Fig. 179. across the dorsal surface of the wrist which shall divide everything straight down to the bones and into the cavity of the joint. This incision reaches half-way down the lateral aspects of the wrist. At the radial end of this cut enter the scalpel, and, in shaping the long flap, follow the center of the dorsum of the metacarj)al bone of the thumb as far as the meta- carpo-phalangeal articulation. From this point cut di- rectly across the palm to the ulnar side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and back along this to join the dorsal incision. Dissect the flap closely from the flexor ten- dons, and divide all tendons opposite the wrist-joint. Apply a cloth retractor, and saw through the styloid of Fio. 180. the radius and ulna just at the level of the articular surface of the radius, but not necessarily taking a sec- tion from this surface. The radial, ulnar, anterior, ^ud. posterior carpal vessels are tied, the palmar flap is trimmed down to fit snugly, and stitched in proper position. The drainage-tubes come out on either side (Fig. 180).