243 LIGATION OF ARTERIES. examined with scrupulous care above and below the ligature, and any collateral branch or branches within less than one quarter of an inch should be also secured. Should the artery be found to be normal (as in Fig. 286), I would place the ligature nearer the Ungualis than the bifurcation, and tie this vessel separately. If (as in Fig. 287, 3) a rare form should exist, I would ligature close to these branches, and tie each of them in its turn. This same conservative rule must apply to every case. The operation at or above the posterior belly of the digastric is com- paratively safer, and is applicable to all lesions above this point. The incision should extend from the lobule of the ear along the ramus oi the jaw, down to the level of the thyroid cartilage. Cutting through the superficial structures, the artery will be found just behind the posterior belly of the digastric muscle. Above this level—that is, after the artery enters the parotid gland—it is so situated that it should not be cut down upon. The incision would involve the facial nerve, causing paral- ysis of the muscles of expression. In malig- nant disease of the parotid, where this gland is removed, the vessel may as well be secured here as not, since the operation itself usually destroys the facial nerne. It is a remarkable fact that, notwithstanding the close proximity of the branches of the ca- rotid, in a number of instances in which it has been ligatured without the precaution of secur- ing immediate collateral branches, there has not followed secondary haemorrhage. No explana- tion of this fact has appeared so definite as the one given by Prof. H. B. Sands, "which takes into account the remarkable reparative power of the tissues surrounding this vessel. Suppu- ration is extremely rare, the wounded tissues soon become consolidated by plastic material, and secondary haemorrhage is prevented by changes occurring outside of, as much as by changes taking place within, the vessel liga- tured." On account of the importance of maintaining the integrity of the circulation to the brain, ligation of the common carotid, for a lesion in the distribution of the external carotid, should never be performed when a sufficient distance remains between the lesion and the bifurcation of the common trunk to allow of the application of the ligature. I have the histories of ninety- three cases of ligature of the external carotid, in sixty-nine of which this Tessel alone was tied. Of these sixty-nine cases only three died, while Fig. 288.—An enlarged superior thyroid artery.