SPONDYLITIS. 705 This is intended to leave room, when removed, for the expansion of the abdomen after meals, and so I call it the ' dinner-pad.' It is important to make it thin where it comes under the lower edge of the jacket, or else the Jacket would fit too loosely about the lower part of the abdomen. It should be taken out Just before the plaster sets. It is always a good plan to get the patient to eat a hearty meal before the Jacket is applied, but this precaution of allowing room for meals should never be neglected. " If there are any very prominent spinous processes which, at the same time, may have become inflamed in consequence of pressure produced by instruments previously worn, or from lying in bed, such places should be guarded by little pads of cotton or cloth, or little glove-fingers filled with wool placed on either side of them. Another detail, which I have found to be of practical value in some cases, is the application under the shirt, over each anterior iliac spine, of two or three thicknesses of folded cloth three or four inches in length. If these little pads be removed Just be- fore the plaster has completely set, such bony processes will be left free from pressure. "If the patient be a female, and especially if she be developing at the time, it will be necessary to apply a pad under the shirt over each breast before the plaster bandage is put on. These pads should be removed Just before the plaster sets, and at the same time slight pressure should be made over the sternum for the purpose of indenting the central portion of the plaster Jacket, and of thus giving form to the body, and of remov- ing pressure from the breasts. "The skin-fitting shirt having been tied over the shoulders, and then pulled down, and kept stretched by means of tapes applied, one in front, the other behind, near its lower edge, and tied tightly over a handker- chief placed on the perinseum, the patient is to be gently and slowly drawn up by means of the apparatus until he feels perfectly comfortable, and never ~beyond that point, and while he is retained in this position the plaster bandage is to be applied. A prepared and saturated roller, which has been gently squeezed to remove all surplus water, is now applied around the smallest part of the body, and is carried around and around the trunk downward to the crest of the ilium, and a little beyond it, and afterward from below upward in a spiral direction, until the entire trunk from the pelvis to the axillae has been incased. The bandage should be placed smoothly around the body, not drawn too tight, and especial care taken not to have any single turn of the bandage tighter than the rest. Each layer of bandage should be rubbed most thoroughly with the hand by an assistant, that the plaster may be closely incorporated in the meshes of the crinoline, and bind together the various bandages which make up the Jacket, thus making it much stronger than if attention is not paid to this particular. If you notice any spot which seems weak or likely to give way, pass the bandage over it, and then fold it back on itself, and do this until you have placed several thicknesses of bandage over this point, being careful to wet all well together, and then pass a turn com- pletely around the trunk to retain any ends which might have a tendency to become detached. 45