459 PHARYNX AND CESOPHAGFS. Pharynx and CEsophagtjs. Pharynx.—Neoplasms of the walls of this cavity are comparatively rare. They occur usually in the vault, and are attached to the mucous membrane beneath the basilar process. The treatment consists in re- moval by the snare or by the galvano-cautery. When a tumor of any considerable size is to be removed by the knife, it is a wise precaution to perform tracheotomy, insert a tube, and tampon the pharynx as a pre- liminary measure. Foreign ~bodies are not infrequently lodged in this organ. They may be discovered by inspection with the pharyngoscope, or felt with the index-finger. Retropharyngeal abscess follows in a certain proportion of cases in which the foreign body is not removed soon after its in- troduction. The treatment is removal by the aid of the mirror and the curved forceps. i (Esophagus. Rupture of the oesophagus, though several instances are recorded, is exceedingly rare. The accident occurs in forced efforts at deglutition after great distention of the stomach by over eating and drinking. The symp- toms are intense pain in the region of the rupture— which is usually in the long axis of the tube and near the < diaphragm—followed by rapid and fatal collapse. Vom- iting does not occur, although the contents of the stom- ach may be emptied, in part, into the mediastinum. Surgical interference is not justifiable. Foreign Bodies.—The lodgment of bodies in the oesophagus, resulting in partial or complete occlusion, is of frequent occurrence. The symptoms depend in great part upon the character of the foreign substance. A sharp and narrow body—as a bone, pin, needle, or splin- ter of wood—will produce pain at the seat of lodgment, but will allow the passage of liquid and semi-solid ingesta. Soft, compressible particles of large size may completely occlude the tube and cause pressure upon the trachea sufficient to induce marked asphyxia. The diagnosis must, in part, be based upon these symptoms and the history of the accident. Pressure over the seat of lodg- ment of a sharp substance will exaggerate the sense of pain, while the inability to swallow liquids will indicate the complete occlusion of the tube. The introduction of the elastic oesophageal sound (Fig. 625) will demonstrate the presence of any occluding body. Fig. 525. (Esophageal sound.