290 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. when separation at the epiphysis may occur. In the middle-aged and old the point of fracture is usually about one inch below the tuberosities. Displacement may occur in any direction, although as a rule it is not extreme. The tendency of the lower fragment is to be drawn upward by the deltoid and triceps, inward by the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, and upward and in- ward by the short head of the biceps and the coraco-brachialis (Fig. 318). Longitudinal Fracture.—This form of fract- ure, though rare, occurs from direct injury. The split usually runs through the head of the hu- merus and along the bicipital groove, resulting in a separation of the greater tuberosity from the shaft. The bone will be found to be flattened and wider than normal, while a deep groove marks the line of cleavage. The prognosis is unfavorable as to restoration of function. Differential Diagnosis.—In dislocation of the shoulder-joint there is always abnormal im- mobility ; the muscles of the shoulder and arm ure of the surirical neck of • • -i , , i • t the humerus. °AfterGray.) are rigid ; a measurement over the acromion and around through the axilla will be at least one inch greater than on the non-dislocated side ; the head of the bone will be felt out of its normal position; if the hand of the affected side is laid upon the opposite shoulder, the elbow can not be made to touch the chest-waU. In fracture without impaction, crepitus and shortening ; more or less pain on motion; mobility free; the circumference not increased; the head of the bone in position; with the hand of the affected side upon the opposite shoulder the elbow drops to the chest. With impaction, all of these symptoms except crepitus. Treatment.—Reduction of displacement is usually effected by exten- sion from the flexed forearm, the shoulder being fixed by traction in the opposite arm, or by a sheet carried around the body, just under the axilla. In the first manoeuvre it is usually best to hold the arm at right angles to the body, and, continuing the extension, to bring it down par- allel with the chest, in which position it is to be fixed. To this is added direct manipulation of the fragments. The choice of dressings may be made between plaster of Paris and a cup-shaped splint of gutta-percha, sole-leather, or book-binder's board. Properly adjusted, either of these materials will suflEice. The gypsum dressing has the advantage of more certain and permanent fixation of the parts. It is, however, not so com- fortable as the shoulder-cap splint. To apply the plaster-of-Paris splint, reduce the displacement as directed, and fix the arm in a position not quite parallel with the body, by firm and regular extension. Apply a dry muslin or flannel roller to the arm and shoulder, as heretofore de- scribed, and over this put on the plaster-of-Paris bandages, holding the arm perfectly immovable until the gypsum has hardened. If a shoulder-cap is to be applied, a pattern is first made by cutting