CHAPTER XII. THE SURGICAL DISEASES AND SUEGERT OF THE BOKES. Ostitis.—Inflammation in bone may be acute or chronic, general or , circumscribed., traumatic or idiopathic. It may involve the periosteum {periostitis), the compact substance (ostitis), or the cancellous tissue and medulla {endostitis). Endostitis and periostitis may occur independ- ently, yet ostitis, more or less severe, must of necessity be a part of a pronounced inflammation of either the periosteum or the endosteum and medulla. The termination of inflammation in bone is in resolution or local death. In resolution the inflammatory embryonic tissue undergoes granular metamorphosis and is absorbed, or it may be in part converted into new bone. If the bone dies, it may be cast off as a sequestrum, or remain imprisoned in a shell of new-made osseous tissue, the involucrum. When the inflammatory process is severe, or the arrest of nutrition sudden and complete, necrosis, or death in mass, occurs; under other and milder conditions of death in bone, the process of dissolution is known as caries. In necrosis, which is aptly compared to gangrene of the soft tissues, the cast off portion retains something of its original form and character ; in caries, which is the molecular death, or ulceration of bone, the cell- elements disappear by granular degeneration, leaving no trace of the original structure. Pathology.—When a bone is subjected to irritation by a force applied from without, or an interference with its normal process of nutrition from within, the earliest change which occurs is Jiypercemia, with marked increase in the number of white blood-corpuscles. With the dilatation of the blood-vessels, and escape of the leucocytes into the extra-vascular spaces, cell-activity becomes general. Rapid proliferation occurs in the cells of the periosteum; the meduUo-cells and the myeloplaxes, found not only in the central marrow, but around the vessels in the Haversian canals; the connective-tissue cells and the bone-corpuscles. The result of this general proliferation is a mass of protoplasm or embryonic cells analogous to that described in the chapter on Inflammation. Coincident with the formation of this embryonic tissue, absorption of the surrounding and contiguous osseous lamellae occurs, giving rise to abnormal, and often multiple and communicating, cavities, known as the