A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 678 When the morbid process involves the scrotal tissues, and even when there is a suspicion of involvement, the primary incision should be car- ried well away from the suspected tissue into the healthy structures. Two points of importance are suggested in the removal of this organ. The first is to make an incision into the mass in order to clear up the diagnosis; the second is to secure the vessels by the ligature applied near the external ring, and thus prevent the danger of forcing septic or metastatic matter in the lymph channels or vessels leading toward the center. The cord should be exposed at the ring, the vas deferens iso- lated, and a large, double catgut ligature thrown around so as to include the entire cord except the vas deferens. This is twisted around the cord while the exploratory incision is being made, and, if the diagnosis is confirmed, the catgut is tied and the cord divided between the two liga- tures. The diseased organ is then dissected out, the haemorrhage ar- rested, a drainage-tube introduced, and the wound closed with catgut sutures. A single dressing will usually suffice. When the vas deferens is divided, the accompanying artery will have to be separately tied. Malposition.—One or both of these organs may be absent from the normal position in the scrotal sac. The descent from the abdominal cavity may be prevented by narrowing or closure of the inguinal rings, or the inner ring may be passed, the testicle being arrested at the outer opening, and thus imprisoned in the canal; or, passing both rings, it may lodge beneath the skin near the pubic crest, or in the perinseum or groin. Occasionally the testicle remains entirely within the abdominal cavity. Another rare form of malposition is when the organ is turned obliquely or crosswise in the scrotum. Misplaced testicle does not usually give rise to great inconvenience until the approach of puberty, when its normal development is inter- fered with by compression. If it is lodged in the inguinal canal, where it is acted upon by muscular contraction, it may cause pain at an earlier period. The descent of a hernia upon a testicle thus imprisoned gives rise to considerable annoyance. An imprisoned testicle is occasionally the seat of a neoplasm. The symptoms are those of pain, neuralgic in character, and the diagnosis must depend upon the absence of the organ from its normal place and its recognition in the position of the abnormal swelling. Misplaced testicle requires no special treatment until it becomes a source of inconvenience or annoyance, or is the seat of some new forma- tion. Extirpation is then demanded. Supernumerary testicle does not occur. In several instances a cyst or other neoplasm has been mistaken for an extra organ. Diseases of the Female OEftAisrs of GENEEATioisr demanding Abdominal Section. Hysterotomy and Hysterectomy.—Hysterotomy., or cutting into the uterus for the extraction of the foetus from the living mother, is an op- eration which has been greatly perfected within the last few years,