ABSCESS OF THE LIVER. 521 slowly, has a history of progressive emaciation, occurs usually after forty years of age, and is nodular to the feel. Empyema may be mistaken for abscess of the liver, especially when the accumulation is considerable and the liver is displaced downward. It may be recognized by the interference with the expansion of the lung of the affected side, -and by the change in the percussion-sounds with the change in position of the thorax, in which the fluid of empyema is displaced. Over distended gall-bladder may be mistaken for abscess; but this error may be eliminated by bearing in mind its location in front and low down, where abscess is exceedingly rare, and also by observing that a distended gall-bladder is appreciably movable independently of the liver. Hydatid cyst of the liver is not painful, and is not accompanied with exacerbations of temperature, with the exception of the very rare occur- rence of inflammation of the cyst, when a differentiation is practically impossible without aspiration and the examination of the fluid. When the accumulation of pus is considerable, the tumefaction may be recognized by palpation and the diagnosis made positive by the ex- ploring-needle. The prognosis is unfavorable. Left alone, a fatal termination occurs in almost all cases—by rupture into the peritonaeum in about 30 per cent, into the lung in 25 per cent, while in a smaller proportion of cases the abscess opens through the integument. Treatment.—Evacuation is the only rational treatment. In the choice of methods the character of the abscess will determine the employment of the aspirator or drainage by incision. Aspiration is advisable when the abscess is deeply located, and especially so when strong inflammatory adhesions have not been formed between the wall of the abscess and the abdominal or thoracic parietes. In performing this operation the following plan should be adopted: The most superficial point of the abscess should be located by care- ful exploration with the smallest aspirator-needle, and the thickness of the intervening tissue measured. In using the evacuator it is necessary to have a good-sized needle to prevent solid particles or shreds of tissue from the abscess-wall from occluding it; but it is always safer, if firm adhesions have not occurred, to employ the smaller points, since, after the needle is withdrawn, pus is not so apt to escape and find its way into the pleural or peritoneal cavities. The needle should be introduced in the same opening and to the same depth as the exploring-needle, and the pus slowly withdrawn. It is considered a safer plan not to completely empty the cavity at the first operation. The procedure should be repeated on the second or third day. A piece of sublimate gauze should be laid over the puncture and held in position by a roller. When, after repeated use of the aspirator, a cure is not effected, and when the tissues between the most superficial portion of the abscess and the integument have been so solidified by adhesions that infiltration of pus can not occur, the abscess should be