126 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Amputation at this level (Fig. 188) should be made, as in other portions of the forearm, below. At the Elbow-Joint—First Method. —Make a circular incision down to the deep fascia from one to two inches anterior to the tip of the inter- nal condyle of the humerus, and, when the skin has retracted, at the level of the line of retraction divide all the tissues to the bones. Along the posterior surface of the ulna make an incision extending as high as the olecranon process. Dissect the soft tissues neatly from the peri- osteum and capsule back to the condyles on the lateral and anterior aspects of the humerus, and along the olecranon somewhat higher, in order to facilitate disarticulation and the complete removal of the synovial bursa, beneath the insertion of the triceps. When the disarticulation is completed, apply a cloth retractor and saw a portion of the articular sur- face off at the level of the lower portion of the internal condyle. The flaps are now sutured, leaving the drainage-tube out at the ujDper limit of the incision, over the olecranon. Second Method.—Make a circular incision through the skin from one inch to one inch and a half below the level of the internal condyle. Along the posterior aspect of the ulna make a second incision, splitting Fig. 189.—Transverse section of right arm just below tlie elbow-joint. Looking at the surface nearest the body. 1, Brachial aitery at the point of division into ulnar and radial. 2, Median basilic vein com- municating with brachial. 3, The radial and interosseous divisions of the musculo-spiral nerve and radial recurrent artery. 4, Tendon of biceps. 5, Median nerve and anterior ulnar recurrent artery. 6, Ulnar nerve and posterior ulnar recurrent artery. the sleeve of skin as far back as the end of the olecranon. Dissect up the flap from the muscles and deep fascial attachment until the joint is exposed in front, and the olecranon posteriorly. Extend the forearm fully, enter the articulation between the head of the radius and the