163 PHLEBITIS. When a thrombus, caused by the sudden coagulation of the blood in a vein, is examined in its recent state, it is found to be composed of suc- cessive laminje of fibrin and corpuscles, and the more recent of these laminse are external. When the vein is first occluded by this sudden coagulation of the blood, the pressure from behind is so great that the coagulum is compressed toward its center, while the current, more and more impeded in its progress, flows between the periphery of the clot and the inner surface of the vessel, adding, layer by layer, fresh deposits of coagulation upon the thrombus. A microscopical examination of such thrombi reveals a vast number of white corpuscles in various stages of fatty degeneration, with layers of fibrin intervening. Experiments have shown that not only does the inflammatory process, by reason of its invasion of the intima, produce changes in the blood which lead to stasis, but that there is also a dangerous endosmosis of septic matter, which is swej)t along toward the heart and lodged in the capillaries of the various organs (eTnboli), producing infarctions, abscesses, and, almost invariably, irreparable damage. The adhesion of the intima, and the formation of a fibrinous clot—which may completely occlude the vessel {occlusion throTnbus), or may merely i)laster over the endothelial tunic {peripheral thrombus)—are elforts toward prevention of this endos- mosis. The process of repair in tissues capable of successful resistance, in venous inflammation, is one of organization of the embryonic cells, fibril- lation, and contraction, resulting in partial or complete occlusion. In tissues of low and impaired vitality, the progress of the inflammation is rapidly toward suppuration, usually terminating in septic fever and death. Microscopical sections from such specimens of phlebitis show that the leucocytes and embryonic cells have undergone retrogressive changes, and that the tissues are infiltrated with pus corpuscles. Gan- grenous spots are not infrequent, often opening into the caliber of the vessel, and allowing the influx of septic products, or the efiiux of blood. Since phlebitis is a frequent cause of thrombosis, and since venous thrombosis is the most frequent form of intra-vascular coagulation, a consideration of the pathogeny and pathology of this process must natu- rally flnd a place here. Virchow has endeavored to show that primitive phlebitis is extremely rare, and that, when a clot is produced in a vein which is inflamed, the coagulation has more often preceded than followed the inflammation. Cornil and Ranvier, from whom the above account is taken, do not accept this theory. Fibrin, the immediate factor in coagulation of the blood, does not exist as such in the normal condition of this fluid. Under healthful con- ditions, the blood would circulate always without any deposit of fibrillated fibrin in the economy. According to Denis, the normal plasma of the blood can be separated into a semi-solid substance, plasmine, and a liquid, serine. Plasmine is further separable into fibrin and metalbumen, and it is held that the coagulation of the blood is due to the conversion of plasmine into fibrin. Foster holds that coagulation is the result of the interaction of two bodies, paraglobuUn and fibrinogen, brought about