258 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. eration above this point is essentially tlie same. In the lower third of the arm proceed as follows: On a level with the condyles of the humerus, and between the median basilic vein and the tendon of the biceps, commence an incision, which is carried upward three inches in the brachial line. Cutting through the deep fascia, the artery is readily found to the radial side of the median nerve, and surround- ed by its veins (Fig. 297). The needle is passed from the inner side. Occasionally the brachial artery is double, while more frequently it bifurcates into the radial and ulnar, at a varying distance above the elbow. Ligation of the Ulnar and Radial Arteries.—The radial artery may be tied immediately above the wrist, or in the upj)er third of the arm. Operation at the Wrist.—A vertical incision, one inch and a half long, is made in the center of the depression, between the outer bor- der of the radius and the radial border of the extensor carpi radialis muscle. Immediately beneath the deep fascia the artery will be ob- served, with its vence comites, from which it is separated and tied (Fig. 296). To find the artery in the upper third, draw a line from the middle of the elbow-joint, in front, to the styloid process of the radius. Along this line make an incision, about three inches in length, avoiding the superficial veins, if possible. Cutting directly down, the artery will be found between the supinator longus externally and the pronator radii teres on the ulnar side. The radial nerve is w^ell to the radial side, and the veufe comites on either side (Fig. 297). The ulnar artery may be tied at the bend of the elbow, and near the wrist. As it passes beneath the pronator radii teres and flexor muscles, it is so deeply situated that an attempt to deligate it here is not justifi- able. Above this point it may be secured by a downward extension of the incision given for ligature of the brachial at the bend of the elbow (Fig. 297). Near the wrist-joint an incision should be made about a quarter of an inch to the radial side of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis muscle. This incision should commence one inch above the level of the pisiform bone, and extend upward one inch. The ulnar nerve will be seen partly concealed by the tendon, while the artery and its accompanying veins are immediately on its radial side (Fig. 296). Ligation of the Intercostal Arteries—Anatomy.—The artery lies be- hind and near the lower border of the rib, the vein above, and the nerve below it. From near the angle of the rib to the vertebral column it is separated from the thoracic cavity by the pleura alone, but in front of this it runs between the two layers of intercostal muscles. Operation.—An incision should be made just along the lower bor- der of the rib. After passing through the outer plane of intercostal muscles the artery may be seen and secured. Or, failing in this, take a long, curved aneurism-needle, and through a puncture near the lower border of the rib pass it behind the artery and around the