228 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. effecting a cure. Consolidation may result in one or two hours, or it may- require several hours or days. Acupressure and massage are not to be employed. The elastic bandage of Esmarch has not given results wliich would justify its further use. When compression, either on the cardiac side or directly upon the aneurism, fails, the deligation of the femoral, in the extreme lower angle of Scarpa's space, is demanded. Aneurism 'beyond the Popliteal.—Aneurism of the peroneal or tibial arteries, or their branches, is rare. In diagnosis and treatment this lesion, when situated in this portion of the arterial system, requires little or no special consideration. When the tumor is so situated that the vessel immediately involved can not be occluded by compression, this may be directed to the femoral, or, in aneurisms of small size, direct pressure may be sufficient to effect a cure. The ligature will be demanded if other methods faD. Arterio-venous Aneurism. — Arterio-mnous aneurisms are of two kinds. In one variety the communication is direct, the contiguous walls of the artery and vein being closely adherent immediately around the opening leading from one vessel to the other. This is called direct arterio- mnous aneurism, or aneurismal varix. When a sac intervenes it is called an indirect arterio-mnous or "Gari- cose aneurism (Fig. 271). The cause is usually traumatic, resulting most frequently from punct- ured wounds, although any inflammatory process which induces necrosis of the arterial and venous walls may lead to this form of aneurism. In exceptional instances the communication has either not been established, or at least has escaped observation for several years after the injury. This lesion may occur in any portion of the economy. In former years it was observed most frequently in front of the elbow-joint, where it was produced by the accidental puncture of the brachial in the operation of venesection. It occurs not infrequently in the neck, as a result of wound of the carotid artery and internal jugular vein. The chief points in the differential diagnosis between varicose aneu- rism and aneurismal varix are the presence of a tumor and the peculiar aneurismal hruit and tremor, which conditions exist in the former. In both varieties of this disease the veins become greatly distended and tortuous, and pulsate forcibly with each contraction of the heart, while the pulsation in the artery beyond the lesion is perceptibly dimin- ished. In the treatment of varicose aneurism, compression of the artery should be employed on both sides of the tumor, while direct pressure should be made upon the sac, between the two vessels. When, from the location of the lesion, this method is not feasible, or when, after a faithful trial, it has failed to produce a consolidation of the aneurism, the ligature will be required. Catgut should be used, one thread being passed around the artery just above, and another just below the tumor. When so situated that the vein involved in the lesion is not necessary to the integrity of the part, as in the forearm, this may also be secured on the distal side of the foramen of communication.