469 THORAX. Cysts.—Among the various forms of cystic tumors found in this gland are galactocele, sanguineous, dermoid, and hydatid cysts, and the forms which occur in the degeneration of adenoma, fibroma, myxoma, and car- cinoma. Galactocele is a cyst caused by obstruction of the ducts which convey the milk toward the nipple. The obstruction is followed by distention of the tubes and acini. Examined with the microscope, the contents of these cysts consist of epithelial cells in various stages of granular meta- morphosis, and milk-globules. The diagnosis may be determined by aspiration. The treatment con- sists in incision and evacuation of the contents with drainage until the cyst may be obliterated by the process of granulation. Dermoid and liydatid cysts are exceedingly rare in this situation. The diagnosis may be determined by aspiration, and the proper treat- ment is excision. Cysts may occur in the breast from the extravasation of blood after contusions, or from the non-traumatic rupture of blood or lymph vessels. They heal readily after incision and drainage. Tuberculosis of the breast is rare. The nodules may be disseminated generally through the gland or beneath the capsule, or there may be one or more large collections. They are hard to the touch. The history of the case will aid in determining the character of the lesion. If there is no general dissemination of tubercular matter—that is, if the disease is limited to the mammary gland—this organ should be freely excised. Sarcoma of the breast attacks usually the young and middle-aged. It is rarely general in its development, but commences as a single nod- ule, more apt to occupy the upper portion of the organ than the lower, whence it invades the gland and circumjacent structures in every direc- tion. The rapidity with which it grows depends in part ujDon the micro- scopical character of the neoplasm, and in part upon the age of the pa- tient. Sarcoma develops more rapidly in the young, and the round-cell sarcoma, which variety is most frequently met with in the breast, is more rapid in its development than the spindle-cell sarcoma. In the earlier stage this tumor, though firm and nodular, is freely movable with the gland. Its growth, however, is often so rapid that the skin and subcutaneous tissues, the submammary fascia, and the muscles of the chest become involved, the breast stands out full and tense, and be- comes immovable. The superficial veins are greatly enlarged. As a rule, the lymphatic glands of the axilla are not involved until suppura- tion of the mass induces axillary adenitis. Differentiation between round and spindle-cell sarcoma is difficult unless the tumor is examined with the microscope. Practically, the dif- ferentiation is not important. The first variety is softer to the touch, more rapid in growth, and is more vascular. It is apt to occur in the younger class of patients. Both forms of sarcoma tend to the formation of cysts within their structure. As stated, they may be due to fatty degeneration of the em- bryonic elements of the tumor, or may result from caverns of blood