435 THE TONGUE AND BUCCAL CAVITY. first united. The anterior or posterior portion of the bony fissure may be closed at the next operation, as follows : Freshen the edges of the soft parts along the fissure. Drill two holes through the bony palate of either side, one fourth of an inch distant from the edges to be approximated, and insert two strong silver wires, as shown in Fig. 511. On either side, close to and parallel with the alveolus, make two incisions through to the bone, as at A 5 (Fig. 510), and drill with an awl a series of holes in the track of these incisions. A few strokes of a small chisel will now break the palate pro- cesses in the line of the holes, when, by twist- ing the wires, the loosened plates will be ap- proximated in the median line. After union has occurred in this portion of the cleft, the operation may be completed in the anterior por- tion, by drilling the palate and alveolus, and breaking this last through from the front with a chisel, approximating the sides as above. Perforations of the palate are treated prac- tically in the same way as congenital cleft, by freshening the edges, and, if necessary, sliding Fio. 511.—(Alter Agnew.) the periosteum, as above given. The Tongue and Buccal Cavity. Wounds of the tongue bleed profusely, especially if the larger vessels along its under surface are divided. The arrest of hgemorrhage is easily and safely accomplished by introducing the index-finger well back over j the dorsum to the root of the tongue, and bringing the organ well for- I ward and forcibly compressing it against the symphysis menti. The tip of the organ should be turned upward, and the forceps applied at the bleeding points. In the substance of the tongue the vessels are also readily secured in the same manner. Should any difficulty arise, a silk thread may be carried around the bleeding vessel by means of a curved needle, or it may be transfixed with a tenaculum and the thread tied around the hook. Glossitis—Hemiglossitis.—Inflammation of the tongue may result from the same causes and assume all the phases of inflammation common to the soft tissues in other portions of the body. It may be acute or chronic, ending in ulceration or hypertrophy. The process may begin superficially, as after the ingestion of some irritating substance, or it may commence in the deeper portions of the organ as a diffuse phleg- monous process. In some instances only one lateral half of the organ is involved. Treatment.—Inflammation of the tongue from any cause should be closely watched, on account of the danger of asphyxia from rapid en- largement of this organ. In this emergency tracheotomy should be performed. If abscess forms, incision or puncture is demanded. Scarifi-