A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 426 found by following the superior maxillary branch of the fifth nerve along the floor of the orbit to the location of the ganglion on the anterior sur- face of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone. The j^osterior shell of the antrum must be broken through in order to enter the fossa. Operation for Removal of the Upper Jaw. A quarter of an inch below the inner canthus of the eye commence an incision and carry it downward along the naso-maxillary groove, curving in the contour of the ala nasi, then horizontally beneath the ala to the median line of the lip, where it turns directly downward, dividing the lip in the median fissure. From the point of beginning carry a second incision one fourth of an inch below and parallel with the inferior mar- gin of the orbit out to the prominence of the malar bone (Fig. 499). Dissect up the soft tis- sues of the cheek, and turn the flap downward and outward. If the disease is so extensive that the incision does not expose the parts sufficiently, a horizontal cut may be made out- ward from the angle of the mouth. The bone may be divided by the saw insert- ed in the spheno-maxillary fissure, as in the preceding operation, cutting through the nasal process with a chisel. Extract an incisor tooth, and with large, strong bone-cutting forceps di- vide the alveolus and the palate-process by in- serting one blade in the nose and the other in the mouth. These sections being accomplished, avulsion is made by means of elevator and for- ceps. The oiDeration is completed by the clos- ure of the wounds with fine silk sutures. If, in section of the palate, the Paquelin cautery is used, hsemorrhage will be less annoying. Rec- tal anaesthesia is preferable in these major operations about the mouth. Preliminary tracheotomy and plugging the pharynx and larynx with sponges in order to prevent haemorrhage into the trachea is rarely, if ever, required. If such precaution is considered necessary, an ordinary trachea-tube will suffice.* Neurectomy.—Exsection of a portion of the second division of llie fifth nerve may be made at three j^oints—at its exit from the infra-orbital canal, within the canal, or at the foramen rotundum. In this last opera- tion the spheno-m^axillary ganglion is also extirpated. If the cause of the neuralgia is peripheral, make an incision about one inch long, par- allel with and half an inch below the lower margin of the orbital cavity. Fig. 499.—(After Eoser.) * Trendelenburg's trachea-tube and tampon is such a complicated apparatus that, when possible, it should be dispensed with. It is more to be commended in laryngectomy than in any other operation about the mouth or pharynx. The mechanism of this tube, and the method of using it, are given on page 457.