475 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. collapse of the lung of the affected side follows. As soon as the incision is completed the finger of the operator should be introduced in order to determine if the opening is near the bottom of the cavity. If not, it is usually advisable to make a second, or counter opening, on a lower level. A drainage-tube, or preferably two tubes, are carried side by side in at one opening and out at the other, and secured by transfixion with safety- pins. If a single opening is made, the double tube should always be used. The cavity should now be washed out with l-to-3000 sublimate, and a dressing applied. Later, a stronger solution may be used. I have repeatedly irrigated with 1-to-lOOO sublimate, with no poisoning. If the ribs are so close together that free drainage can not be secured, a portion of one rib should be exsected. The oj)ening should be large enough to admit the index-finger. Ostitis or other diseases of the scapula do not require especial con- sideration. Removal of any portion or all of this organ may be effected. Wounds of the Chest, Wounds of the chest are divided into penetrating and non-penetrat- ing. A penetrating wound is one which opens into the pleural cavity or mediastinum. Pneumothorax, with haemorrhage into the pleural sac, may occur, however, without an external opening, as when, after a con- tusion of the chest a rib is fractured, causing rupture of the intercostal artery and penetration of the lung. Contused wounds of the chest may be accompanied by fracture of the ribs, lacerations of the muscles, or followed by pleuritis with or without either of the above complications. Non-penetrating wounds of the chest, whether incised, lacerated, or punctured, are treated as directed for such lesions in other parts of the body. The^ same may be said of gunshot-wounds which do not involve the bony framework of the thorax or pass into the cavities. Penetrating wounds of the thorax are dangerous in proportion to the size of the entering substance, the direction and depth of the track of the wound. Punctured wounds, not involving the heart and great vessels, are not usually fatal, while death is apt to follow even small lesions of these organs. Incised wounds are more dangerous, while gunsJiot-wojmdiS, are still graver lesions. Passing in any direction into or through the mediastinum, a gunshot- wound is apt to inflict fatal violence. In the lungs and pleurfe the prog- nosis is not so grave, being proportionate to the size of the missile and to the nearness of its approach to the great vessels at the root of the lung. Again, if a rib is fractured at the point of entrance, the gravity of the prognosis is increased from the lodgment of particles of bone driven into the lung. Wounds produced by missiles of small caliber, not fatal within a few hours, are apt to end in recovery.