351 DISEASES OF SPECIAL JOINTS. the joint. 4. The night-extension prevents spasmodic contraction of the muscles and pain from unguarded movements during sleep. The length of time for which this treatment should be continued will be determined by the result achieved. It is often a necessity for one, two, or three years, and sometimes even longer, and should be worn for several months after all active symptoms of coxitis have dis- appeared. The constitutional treatment of this disease is of great importance. Carefully selected diet, out-of-door life, cod-liver oil and the hypophos- phites of lime and soda, and tonics, are indicated. If the long splint can not be obtained, the high shoe and crutches should be used while the patient is out of bed, and the extension em- ployed while lying down. In the second stage of hip-disease operative interference may be demanded: (1) To relieve pain on account of suppuration and the re- tention of pus, or to prevent sepsis from insufficient drainage; (2) to arrest ostitis in the head and neck of the femur, and in the ace- tabulum. When pain is so severe that fixation with extension will not afford relief, it is safe to conclude that distention of the capsule exists, or that in the structures which form the Joint, or are immediately around it, suppuration has occurred to such a degree that free puncture or incision is necessary. For this purpose the aspirator may be employed, or the bistoury. Although the propriety of opening the joint freely and removing all diseased bone—exsection of the hip-joint—when positive symptoms of destructive ostitis are present, is questioned by some surgeons, the weight of opinion is on the side of operative interference. Admitting that probably a majority of all cases in which destruc- tion of bone occurs recover, with more or less complete anchylosis, without exsection and without operative interference of any kind, the drainage through the sinuses which lead out through the skin being sufficient; and that the operation is not without danger to life ; and when not fatal is not successful in all cases, the ostitis continuing or recurring after exsection—the argument in favor of operation is not answered. Exsection of the hip-joint is not a dangerous operation when done in the earlier stages of destructive osteo-arthritis, before the patient's vitality is impaired by continued suppuration, septic absorption, and amyloid changes in the viscera. Moreover, in the cases which recover without surgical interference the dead bone and products of inflammation must be carried away through tortuous channels, in which absorption is more apt to occur than when direct drainage is established. The opera- tion removes at once all diseased tissue and leaves a free and open wound for drainage. After exsection the wound should be packed with sublimate gauze and treated by the open method—not even partially closed by sutures. The gauze may be changed every few days, the wound irrigated with