A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 48 tients sliould be as briglit and cheerful as possible. Good ligM, food, and air, and kind attentions from friendly hands, add nnicli to secure a successful issue. The physical preparation may be general or special, and the time to be devoted to it must depend in great measure upon the nature of the disease or injury, and the condition of the individual. If a condition of marked sepsis prevails, delay is dangerous, for all efforts at nutrition will be more than offset by continued absorption of the poison. The same rule will apply in haemorrhage not controllable by comi^ression. In most instances, however, much good can be achieved by devoting several days, or even weeks, to increasing the nutrition of the tissues. Properly selected food and tonics, the regulation of the bowels, sound and refreshing sleep, and freedom from pain, are all essential. When the abdominal organs are to be ex- posed, es23ecially in operations upon the alimentary canal and the re- moval of large tumors, solid food should be withheld for at least five days prior to the operation, and concentrated liquid nourishment, such as beef-juice and milk, taken in its stead. In addition to this, a laxative should be administered on the day before, and an enema on the morning of, the operation. Fi- nally, just before the anaesthesia, the parts about the field of opera- tion should be shaved and cleansed, provided that this is not painful to the patient. The other features of preparation have been given in the chapter on Ansestbesia. The preparation of the surgeon and attendants is also of great im- portance, and is comprehended in the greatest possible personal clean- liness. No one should be admit- ted to the presence of the patient who has been in a room with a con- tagious disease within twenty-four hours thereafter, or who has not made a perfect change of clothing, and thoroughly washed all over. The nails should be closely trimmed and cleansed, the hands and arms washed with soap and water and brush, and afterward in 1 to 3,000 sublimate. The operator should wear a water-proof gown, long enough to reach to the feet. The arms should Surgeon's water-proof operating-gown.