A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 124 Fig. 185.*—Transverse section through the right upper ex- tremity, one fourth of an inch anterior to the plane of the radio-carpal articulation. Looking at the surface of the stump. 1, Eadial artery and veins. 2, Ulnar artery, veins, and nerve. 3, Tendons of deep and superficial flexors. 4, Tendon of extensor ossis metacarpi and prirai internodii pollicis. 5, Flexor carpi radialis. 6, Palmaris longus. 7, Fibers of the flexor brevis minimi digiti, from the annular ligament. 8, Flexor carpi ulnaris. 9, 10, Extensor carpi radialis longior et brevior, and tendon of secundi internodii pollicis. 11, Extensor communis digi- torum. 12, Extensor minimi digiti. 13, Extensor carpi radialis. Supei-ficial veins and nerves are seen in the subcutaneous tissues. sector for tlie most part, and the knife-point when necessary, lift all the tissues closely from the periosteum and interosseous membrane. Fold the soft parts back as far as the point of section with the saw, apply a cloth retractor, and divide the bones smooth- ly. The saw should be en- tered on the ulna, which is the fixed bone, but the sec- tion of the radius should be first completed. The vessels are next secured, the sutures inserted, and the drainage- tube brought out at the up- per or proximal end of the longitudinal incision. This method of amputation will be found preferable in all cases where the section is through the lower half of the forearm. In patients of great muscular development, or in whom the subcutaneous fat is excessive, the sMn-Jlap operation may be necessitated in the upper half. Here the circular incision, with a per- pendicular slit along the ulnar aspect of the forearm, is the next in order of preference, or the rectangu- lar or crescentic symmetrical flaps may be made. The anatomical relations of the parts concerned in amputa- tions through the forearm are admirably shown in Figs. 185, 186, 187, and 188, which, with only slight modifications, I have copied from Prof. Braune's mag- nificent work. When the line of amputa- tion is so close to the elbow- joint that division of the bones is necessitated within an inch of the articular surface of the head of the radius, the operation to be preferred is a disarticulation at the elbow, with removal of the olecranon- When the bones Fig. 18(5.—Transver.se section showing the relations of the tissues divided in amputation through the lower tliird of the right foreai-m. Looking from below upward. 1, Radial artery and veins. Just below this, tendon of supinator longus, radial nerve, and close to the radius the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior. 2, Ulnar artery, veins, and nerve. 3, Median nerve. 4, 5, The posterior and anterior interosseous arteries. * All of these cuts represent the surface nearest the patient's body, i. e., the surface over which the vessels are searched for after an amputation.