.493 HERNIA. The removal of neoplasms may require the exsection of a part of the intestinal canal. In general, the rules above laid down are applicable here. Cylindrical epitheliomata, with no infiltration of the neighboring lymphatics or mesentery, are included among neoplasms which may with propriety be excised. When, however, the extent of the infiltra- tion is such that a complete removal is improbable, the palliative opera- tion of forming a fistula is advisable. Stricture of the intestine above the rectum may be excised in favor- able cases, or life may be prolonged by establishing an artificial opening in the gut above the seat of occlusion. Exsection will afford a more satisfactory result in the majority of instances when undertaken before the patient is exhausted by inanition and prolonged suffering. When the obstruction is located in the lower portion of the ileum or in the first part of the colon, ileo-colostomy may be performed when exsection, in order to be successful, must be an extensive procedure. In this operation the end of the ileum is stitched to the margins of a suitable opening in the colon below the obstruction. It is analogous to gastro- enterostomy. Hernia.—Literally defined, a hernia is a tumor formed by the escape of the whole or a portion of any viscus from its normal cavity. The term is now by common consent almost wholly restricted to protrusions of intestine or omentum (or both) from the cavity of the abdomen or pelvis. The protrusion may occur through an opening which is congenital or acquired. Complete inguinal hernia following the descent of a testicle, or ventral hernia, due to failure of perfect union in the aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles, are instances of the former; while a protrusion of the intestine after a wound in the abdominal wall is an example of the latter. The hernia may take place into an adjoining cavity, as the thorax (diaphragmatic), or protrude beneath the skin (femoral, umbilical, ventral, etc.). Hernise are classified according to their place of escape: inguinal, femoral, umbilical, ventral, diaphragmatic, gluteal, obturator, lumbar, and vaginal. The term ventral is applied to all hernise occurring at points on the abdominal wall other than those indicated in the classifi- cation just given. Of hernise in general the inguinal variety forms about 80 per cent of all cases ; femoral, 10 ; umbilical, 5 ; the remaining vari- eties, 5. Of every five patients affected with hernia four are males. Inguinal hernia in males occurs more often in the first ten years of life than in any subsequent decade, the period from the twentieth to the fortieth year being next in order of frequency. According to King- don, femoral hernia in males of all ages is met with in 4 of every 100 cases ; in the first decade, in 1 of every 300 ; the second, 2 per cent; the third and fourth together, 4^ per cent; the fifth and sixth, 6 per cent; and after this, 8 per cent. In females, inguinal and femoral hernise are met with in about equal proportions. The latter variety is rarely met with before puberty, but occurs chiefiy during the child-bearing period (Bryant). The contents 9t a hernia are inclosed in a sac almost always formed • 31*