FRACTURES. 307 S'EMI-MEMBRAPIt the upper fragment is usually rotated outward by the external rotators, and tilted up and to the front by the psoas and iliacus. When the fract- ure is near the knee-joint the lower fragment is tilted backward by the action of the gastrocnemius, popliteus, and plantaris muscles. The up- per fragment is acted upon in a milder degree by the same muscles that caused its displacement in the higher fracture (Fig. 339). Fractures at the condyles may include, trans- verse fracture near the epi- physeal line, or through the epiphysis proper; transverse fracture, with a split into the intercondyloid notch; or one or the other condyles may alone be broken off. The diagnosis of fracture of the shaft of the femur is not difficult, as a rule. Preternat- ural mobility, crepitus, pain, and shortening will usually de- termine the character of the injury. When the joint is in- volved, in addition to the usual symptoms of fracture the knee becomes much swollen. Treatment.—In the treat- ment of all fractures between the trochanters and the knee- joint the choice rests between the method by Buck's extension and the plaster- of-Paris dressing. In general the first method is preferable. Unless the fracture is too low down, the traction of the adhesive strips should be upon the condyles as well as upon the leg below. Even when it is determined to employ the gyp- sum fixed dressing, it is wise to defer its application until after all danger of swelling is past, usually after from four to eight days. When the fracture is below the middle of the thigh the plaster-of-Paris dress- ing may be applied without ansesthesia. The bandages need not extend higher than the level of the perinseum. After a few days the patient may move about on crutches. In the higher fractures the same prin- ciples are involved as in fractures of the neck. When the knee-joint is involved, passive motion should be commenced on the third week, and continued at intervals thereafter. Whatever method is employed, immobilization at the seat of fracture should be maintained for five or six weeks. In fracture of the femur in children the plaster-of-Paris dressing is to be preferred. The reposition of the fragments should be made un- der ansesthesia, and the parts immediately immobilized. This class of Fig. 339. — Displacement of I'ragnients in fract- ure of the thigh in the lower third. (After Gray.) Fig. 338.—Displacement of fragments in fracture of the thigh in the upper third. (After Gray.)