CHAPTER XIII. SURGERY OF THE ARTICULATIONS. Dislocations.—A dislocation is the displacement of the articular sur- face of one bone from its normal relation with another. Dislocations are traumatic, patJiological, and congenital. They are also partial or com- plete, simple, complicated, and compound. Traumatic dislocations are sudden, and result from violence ; patho- logical when, from disease of the joint, the bones and ligaments are more or less destroyed; congenital when, from failure of development, the normal contiguity of the articular surfaces can not be maintained. A dislocation is said to be partial when any portion of the articular sur- faces are still in contact; complete when one articular end overlaps the other ; simple when there is no other lesion than displacement and injury of the capsule; complicated when there exists with the dislocation a fracture into the joint; compound when, by reason of a wound, the air is in contact with the dislocated surfaces. Again, a dislocation may be recent or ancient, the limit of the former variety being from a few hours to two or three weeks. A primitive luxation is one in which the dislo- cated surfaces retain the same position as at the time of the accident, secondary when another position is assumed. In a dislocation the capsule may be ruptured, or simply stretched without a solution of its continuity. When great violence is employed in producing it, the muscles, tendons, nerves, vessels, fascia, and skin about the joint may be more or less involved. The changes which follow are practically those of acute synovitis, arthritis, or peri-arthritis. Dislocations occur chiefly in adult life, and are most frequent in those joints which enjoy the greatest freedom of motion, and, at the same time, are subjected to the heaviest strains. The condition of the individual, the tonicity of the muscles, and the strength of the liga- ments, have a great deal to do with the frequency of dislocations. All things being equal, patients with poorly developed muscles and relaxed ligaments are more prone to these lesions than the well developed and vigorous. The diagnosis of a dislocation rests chiefly upon abnormal immohility and asymmetry. Pain is usually present. Special Dislocations—Inferior Maxilla.—Displacement of the con- dyles of the lower jaw, from its articulation with the temporal bone, may occur on one or both sides; usually it is bilateral. The condyles slip