460 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. In order to introduce this instrument, lubricate it with the white of an egg, and cause the patient to throw the head back so as to bring the axis of the mouth and pharynx in line with that of the oesophagus. In- sert the bougie so that the point will glide over the root of the tongue and strike the posterior waU of the pharynx behind the larynx. The tongue should not be drawn out of the mouth. Spasm of the glottis will prevent the instrument passing into the larynx, while, if kept in the median line and pushed carefully down, it will pass into the oesophagus. The location of the foreign body Avill be indicated by stoppage of the sound. The prognosis is favorable when the occlusion is not comjilete. If the distention is great enough to interfere with respiration, the grav- ity of the accident is increased. Inflammation, abscess, and perforation of the oesophagus may occur if the obstruction is not removed within the first few days. Treatment.—When a foreign body is lodged in the oesophagus, and does not completely occlude its caliber, it may usually be dislodged by producing emesis. If there is complete obstruction, the act of vomiting should not be excited, nor is the employment of a sound or bougie to push the object into the stomach permissible. When the substance lodged does not occlude the oesophagus, and emesis has failed to dislodge it, the umbrella-probang (Fig. 526) should TIEMANN<a filY Fig. 526.—Bristle probang, for removing foreign bodies. be introduced. This instrument is lubricated, closed, and passed into the oesophagus until the bristles are well beyond the point of lodgment, when they, by pressure upon the whale- bone handle, are projected, completely filling the tube, and the probang vsdthdrawn. If the introduction of this instrument is difiicult or pain- ful, an anaesthetic should be administered. In case of complete obstruction, where the danger of inanition is threatened, or where pressure upon the trachea must be relieved, ossoph- agotomy should be performed. The incision should be made about five inches in extent, along the anterior border of the left sterno-mastoid muscle. If the occlusion is high up, the center of this cut shonld be opposite the point of obstruc- tion. If it is below the sternal level, the tube should be opened as low down as possible. If necessary, the sternal origin of the mastoideus may be divided. The carotid artery and jugular vein are left to the outer side. The thyroid body should be drawn outward or lifted upward. The omo-hyoid,thyro-hyoid, and sterno-hyoid muscles should be held to the inner side. A sound should now be introduced into the oesophagus, in order to serve as a guide to the operator. The opening should be made on the lateral and posterior aspect in order to avoid the recurrent laryngeal nerve. With the finger introduced into the wound, the foreign