ARTERITIS. 185 mens which demonstrate successful occlusion of the vessel without divis ion of either of the three tunics. Scarpa advanced this idea years ago, but surgeons generally have decried it. The coagulation thrombus disappears by fatty degeneration. The permanent occlusion is due to new-formed tissue springing from the normal cells of the intima and the leucocytes. 0. Weber held that the clot became organized into a true tissue, into which blood-vessels were projected from the vasa vasorum (Fig. 265). But Cornil and Ranvier long since disproved this assertion of Weber. Bubnoff held that the white blood-corpuscles emigrated through the walls of the ligatured ves- sel, permeated the clot, and caused its organization ; but Durante (Cornil and Ranvier) has demonstrated that the leucocytes only traverse the walls of the vessel when this has been tied with a double ligature, causing a death of the included vessel, and that the leucocytes travel through this dead tissue. They do not permeate the walls of an otherwise healthy artery which has been tied with a single ligature. Cell-proliferation takes place rapidly in the intima ; granulation-buds project into the territory occupied by the clot (Fig. 266); blood-vessels derived from the vasa vasorum permeate the projecting granu- lation-tissue, invade the clot, meet with live vessels from the opposite side, and join with these in a continuous circu- lation ; the embryonic tissue organizes, gradually contracts (process of cicatrization), and the walls of the vessel are per- manently occluded by this fibril- lation. Afterward the new- formed vessels disappear to a great degree, being obliterated by the process of contraction. Fig. 249, from a section of the carotid of a horse, shows how this rapid proliferation of the normal cells of the intima occurs when the intima has not been divided. There was in this case simply an irritation of the intima, a bruising, the result of jamming together the opposing surfaces of the intima by means of a broad (not cutting) ligature. Thrombosis from acute arteritis is rare. Chronic arteritis is not in- frequently the cause of occlusion. Syphilitic arteritis is apt to develop thrombosis of the cerebral arteries. Arterial thrombosis (excluding the vessels to the brain and walls of the heart) is not as dangerous to life as venous thrombosis. Fig. 266.—Traumatic endarteritis. Transverse section of the femoral artery of a dog eight days after the appli- cation of a ligature. «, the elastic lamina; p, the me- dia; J, granulation-bud projecting from the intima into the lumen ; new-formed vessel running through the inflammatory tissue. At a the elastic layer has partly disappeared. Magnified 30 diameters. (From Cornil and Kanvier.)