A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 556 The prognosis is unfavorable, but must chiefly depend upon the ex- tent of the injury, as determined by the earlier symptoms. The treatment may be radical or conservative. Immediate operation within the period of shock is scarcely to be thought of. If the symptoms of haemorrhage are alarming, deligation of the extremities should be practiced, and, if syncope is still threatened, the intra-venous injection of a saline solution should be performed. Direct operative interference, by cutting down upon the wounded organ, will be rarely called for. With the earliest symptom of abscess an exploratory incision should be made. It is advisable to insert the aspirator-needle at the points of greatest tenderness and induration, and, if pus is discovered, the incision should be made along the needle as a guide. If pus can not be obtained by using the aspirator, the incision is still indicated if the symjjtoms of sepsis above given are present. The organ may be readily reached by cutting parallel with, and about three inches and a half external to, the spines of the lumbar vertebrae. The kidney is located just in front of the outer border of the quadratus lumborum muscle, its lower extremity reaching down to the level of the umbilicus. If an abscess is found, it should be irrigated with l-to-5000-sublimate solution, and free drainage established. . The kidney is often the seat of morbid changes, which occur partly from internal violence and partly from idiopathic causes, which may at times justify the surgical invasion of this organ. Pyelitis, pyonephrosis, calculus, hydronephrosis, and certain new formations, as cysts, carci- noma, sarcoma, rhabdomyoma, adenoma, angioma, tuberculosis, and gumma, are among the chief diseases of a surgical nature. Pyelitis, or inflammation of the pelvis of the kidney, may be caused by the irritating effects of calculi in the calicos or pelvis of this organ, which do not escape readily into and through the ureter ; to over-disten- tion, resulting from urethral, vesical, or ureteral obstruction, or by exten- sion of an inflammatory process from below upward {urethritis, cystitis, ureteritis). It is less frequently caused by direct violence from without, or may be part of an idiopathic perinephritis. It is readily understood how a stricture of the urethra, enlarged prostate, or an obstructed ureter would force the urine back upon the kidney, causing, in severe and chronic cases, destruction of this organ, and a pyelitis before this could occur. In like manner, the inflammation in a urethritis or cystitis may travel along the ureter until the pelvis of the kidney is involved. The diagnosis of pyelitis can not be so readily made, out by the symp- toms referable to the inflammation in the pelvis proper, as by a study of the conditions which precede it. Pain, which is present in this disease, is present in a variety of kidney lesions, and, as in neuralgia of this organ {nephralgia), it is met with when no symptoms of inflammation exist. If, after an attack of renal colic, pain of a more constant and less excru- ciating character is felt, deep in the lumbar region, being on one side only, and on that side upon which the colic occurred, and if pus is pres- ent in the urine where no cystitis or urethritis exists, pyelitis should be strongly suspected. Persisting pain in this region, in a patient suffering