SALPINGITIS. 683 perhaps bulging into the vagina ; sausage-shaped when moderately large, but round when as large as an orange ; often movable, but almost always with false attachments. This tumor may be but a part of a general inflam- matory mass filling up the pelvic cavity and rendering fluctuation hard to obtain. In such a case, the uterus is fixed to this mass. As a rule, the tube is prolapsed, and drags with it the ovary, the latter being exter- nal to and above the cyst. In many cases the diagnosis is easy, but in others it is difficult. Treatment.—When the diagnosis is satisfactorily determined, and the symptoms are urgent, removal by abdominal section is indicated. The preparation of the patient and for the operation are the same as for ovariotomy. When the peritonaeum is opened, the tumor may be dis- tinctly felt, and should be removed without rupture of the cyst-wall when this is possible. Adhesions to the neighboring organs will be found to exist, in a varying degree, in all cases. Some of these, which are vas- cular and of good size, require to be tied with double large-sized catgut ligatures and divided, while others may be torn off. The silk ligature should be passed around the tube, close to the surface of the uterus, tied, and the mass removed. The stump beyond the ligature should be care- fully disinfected and seared with the actual cautery. If rupture should occur, or if there is a considerable amount of oozing, the Sims's drainage- tube should be used. The Ovaries.—Removal of the ovaries maybe necessitated on account of—1, cystic degeneration ; 3, cirrhosis ; 3, abscess ; 4, cystic, and 5, solid tumors. In cystic degeneration the ovary is enlarged, and the interior of the organ is filled with small cysts with dense, fibrous capsules. They can in some cases be seen through the investing membrane, and, if punct- ured, will give exit to a fluid usually clear, but at times brown, or even decidedly stained with blood. The tumor is elastic to the touch, usually spherical, and rarely attaining as much as a diameter of two inches. The fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube is often adherent to the diseased ovary. In rare instances the broad ligament and tube may surround the cystic tumor. The left organ is affected more frequently than the right, for the same reasons as given for the more frequent oc- currence of varicocele in the left scrotum (see Vaeicocele). The pa- thology of this affection is not yet definitely settled. In cirrTiosis the ovaries are usually small, and have a furrowed or withered appearance; occasionally they are found normal in size, or even slightly enlarged. The normal Graafian follicles are entirely destroyed in well-marked cases. In more recent cirrhotic disease of these organs the cavities of the follicles are distended with a bloody fluid. This condition is almost always due to a connective-tissue hyperplasia, resulting from a subacute inflammatory process in the ovary. In abscess of this organ it is enlarged, and may contain one cavity or several separate collections of pus. When the abscesses are small and multiple, the gross appearances of the organ are not unlike those of an