168 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. lygonal, nucleated cells, slightly elongated in the axis of the vessel; in edge view, these cells appear spindle-shaped, on account of the elevation of the nucleus at its center (Heitzmann); 2. A subendothelial layer of flattened, nucleated, anastomosing cells resting in a librillated basement substance, the direction of the librillse being generally i)araUel \^'ith the long axis of the artery (Cornil and Ranvier). In the smaller arteries this layer is exceedingly tine, while in the aorta it is comparatively thick, being composed of two distinct layers. Here the internal of these two layers is longitudinal, the external transverse in dii'ection. The middle coat in the larger arteries, such as the aorta and carotids, is composed of elastic laminse and of fibers, forming by their anastomoses a continuous system, and holding in the meshes of their loops the muscular tissue, transverse in its direction, and a relatively small amount of connective tissue (Cornil and E,anvier). According to C. Toldt, the muscle-fibers of the middle coat are wanting in the initial portion of the aorta, in the pul- monary artery, and in the arterioles of the retina. In the descending aorta, the common iliac, and the popliteal, small bundles in an oblique or longitudinal direction are interspersed between the cii'cular ones, and in other arteries, such as the renal and spermatic, at the inner boundary of the muscular coat, scanty longitudinal bundles occur, which by some are considered to belong to the inner coat. At times, in the correspond- ing arteries of difllerent persons, differences are observed in the distribu- tion of the muscles of the middle coat (Heitzmann). On the side nearest the inner coat the middle tunic is limited by a denser and more defined elastic lamina, which shows, however, on transverse section, a festooned appearance—very important in the study of the ijathology of arteritis— and is named the internal layer of the elastic coat. Upon the side of the tunica media nearest the external coat the elastic fibers pass outward, interlacing freely with the connective tissue of the adventitia. In the femoral, brachial, and other arteries of middle size, the middle coat pos- sesses only one layer, namely, the internal elastic. The muscular fibers are transverse in dkection, and form themselves into flattened bundles, separated by connective-tissue bundles and by elastic fibrillae, which are continuous on the one hand with the inner, elastic layer, and on the other with the elastic net-work interwoven with the adventitia. There are no vessels in the middle and internal coats. In the external coat are found arteries, capillaries, veins, lymphatics, and nerves. The small arteries have a middle coat, formed of involuntary muscle- cells, so interwoven that they form a continuous membrane (Cornil and Ranvier). C. Heitzmann describes this layer as seemingly twined round the artery. The adventitia here is composed of small bundles of con- nective tissue, arranged in the main in a longitudinal direction. Pathogeny of Arteritis.—The causes of arteritis are numerous. The most frequently recognized form is that resulting from injury, and known as traumatic arteritis. The pathogeny of the non-traumatic (idiopathic^ arteritis embraces every form of dyscrasia. It follows in the train of * "Microscopical Morphology of the Animal Body in Health and Disease," New York, 1883.