vi CONTENTS. CHAPTER VIIT. PAGE Amputations—Method of operating—Circular solid flap, with perpendicular slit—Oblique solid flaps by transfixion—The same, by cutting from the surface inward—Skin-flaps—Cir- cular method—Modified circular—Oval—Double crescentic—Double rectangular—Mixed flaps — Open method—Special amputations—Fingers—Hand—Forearm—Elbow-joint— Arm—Shoulder—Toes—Through the metatarsus—Through the tarsus—Methods of Pirn- goff, Choi^art, Forbes, Hey, Lisfrane, Le Fort, Lignerolles, and Hancock—Tibio-tarsal disarticulation—Method of Syme—Leg—Method of Stephen Smith—Knee-joint—Thigli— Hip-joint—Method of Erskine Mason, etc. 103 CHAPTER IX. Surgical diseases and surgery of the .lymphatic vessels, veins, and arteries—Lymphangitis— Adenitis—Phlebitis—Arteritis—Arterial thrombosis and embolism—Vascular tumors— Arterial varix—Cirsoid arterial tumor—Angeiomata—Venous varix or varicose veins— Moles—Port-wine mark 158 CHAPTER X. Aneurism—Varicose aneurism—Aneurismal varix—Method of Tuf nell and Valsalva—Ligature by the methods of Antyllus, Wardrop, Anel, Hunter, and Brasdor—Digital and mechan- ical pressure—Galvano-puncture, massage, flexion, introduction of wire, horse-hair, catgut, etc.—Aneurism of the thoracic aorta—Innominate—Common external and internal ca- rotid arteries—Subclavian—Abdominal aorta—Iliac arteries—Femoral—Popliteal . . 198 , CHAPTER XI. Ligation of arteries—Innominate—Common, external, and internal carotid and internal jugu- lar vein—Superior thyroid, lingual, facial, ascending pharyngeal, occipital, posterior auricular, temporal, and internal maxillary—Subclavian—Vertebral and internal mam- mary—Axillary—Brachial—Radial—Ulnar—Intercostal—Abdominal aorta—Iliac arteries —Gluteal, internal pudic, and sciatic—Femoral—Profunda femoris—Popliteal—Poste- rior tibial—Anterior tibial—Dorsalis pedis 330 CHAPTER XII. Surgical diseases and surgery of the bones—Ostitis—Osteo-periostitis—Osteomalacia—Rachitis —Fractures—Of the skull—Trephining—Nasal bones—Malar—Superior maxilla—Inferior maxilla—Clavicle—Acromion and coracoid process—Glenoid process—Spine of the scapula —Humerus—Condyles—Olecranon process—Ulna—Radius—Colles's fracture—Carpus— Metacarpus—Phalanges—Sternum—Ribs—Vertebrae—Sacrum—Coccyx—Os innominatum —Femur—Patella—Leg—Pott's fracture—Tarsus and metatarsus—Ununited fractures . 271 CHAPTER XIII. Surgery of the articulations—Dislocations—Lower jaw—Clavicle—Shoulder-joint—Elbow- joint—Wrist-joint — Carpo-metacarpal joints—Phalanges — Hip-joint — Knee-joint—Pa- tella—Tarsus—Vertebrae—Ribs—Arthritis—Hip-joint disease, or morbus co.rm—Knee- joint disease—Ankle-joint—Shoulder-joint—Elbow-joint—Wrist-joint—Exsections of the joints 319 CHAPTER XIV. Regional surgery—The head—Tumors of the scalp—Abscess—Pneumatocele—Encephaloccle— Meningocele—Neoplasms of the meninges—Hydrocephalus—Wounds of the scalp—Of the