442 • A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. with the forceps and dissect it out with curved, blunt scissors. Pack the wound firmly with iodoformized gauze, as above. Haemorrhage may be controlled as directed in wounds of the tongue. Tongue-Tie.—When the frsenum extends an unusual distance toward the tip of the tongue, or is so narrow that it checks the free movements of this organ, it should be divided in the following manner: Seize the tip of the tongue with a dry towel, carry it upward so as to put the bridle on the stretch, and, with a curved scissors, divide the frfenum from one eighth to one quarter of an inch nearer to the floor of the mouth than to the surface of the tongue. This precaution is necessary to avoid wound- ing the ranine vessels. The gag may be used if required. A congenital defect, very rarely observed, is the adhesion of the tongue to the floor of the mouth. The adhesions should be broken up at birth, and the operation repeated daily until free mobility is secured. Equally rare is the bifid or snake-tongue, which results from arrest of development or failure of union of the two halves from which this organ is formed. The edges should be pared, and the two halves united in the median line by sutures. Tonsils.—Acute tonsillitis is of very frequent occurrence, causing, in a varying degree, pain, difficulty of deglutition, and interference with phonation, deglutition, and respiration. The patJiology of this affection consists in dilatation of the blood- and lymph-vessels, emigration of leucocytes, and j)roliferation of the connective tissue and other cell-elements of the tonsil. The gland rapidly enlarges, producing great tension of the pillars of the fauces, and projects toward the median line, at times filling the pharynx and crowding the velum upward and backward. Acute tonsillitis may end in resolution, the gland rapidly diminishing to its normal size, or in ulceration or suppuration (abscess), or the acute process may subside into a chronic form of inflammation, which induces permanent hypertrophy of the organ. The local treatment of acute tonsillitis consists in the application of hot water as a gargle, and scarification of these organs when the tension is sufficient to produce great pain. The internal administration of aco- nite tincture and quinine is highly recommended. Abscess of the tonsil should be opened as soon as its presence is de- tected. The discharge of pus always brings great relief. If the symp- toms lead to the suspicion of pus, exploration with the hypodermic aspi- rator-needle should be made to determine the diagnosis. The internal carotid artery and jugular vein are well back from the tonsil, on a level with the posterior wall of the pharynx. The object in operating early is to prevent oedema of the glottis, which may occur when the abscess is large or situated behind the body of the tonsil. A more remote danger is rupture of the abscess during sleep, and escape of the contents into the larynx. Chronic hypertrophy of the tonsils should be treated by partial ex- cision, repeated as often as may be deemed necessary. The presence of these enlarged organs forces the patient to breathe through the mouth,