CHAPTER XV. THE NECK. Wounds.—Wounds of the neck may prove rapidly fatal from haemor- rliage inducing syncope ; from haemorrhage into the trachea, causing fatal asphyxia ; from the entrance of air into the veins ; or from injury to the cord, at or near the medulla. Death from sepsis may occur as a more or less remote sequence of a wound in this region. Treatment.—The immediate indications are to arrest haemorrhage at once, and prevent asphyxia, either by obstruction of the trachea or the admission of air into the veins. Haemorrhage should be controlled by pressure directly in the wound, untU the injured vessels can be secured by the ligature. The entrance of air into the veins must be carefully prevented, by constant pressure on the cardiac side of the lesion, until the forceps have been successfully applied at the bleeding point. When the wound is incised or lacerated., and is above the hyoid bone and has severed the hyoid muscles, in addition to the prevention of haemorrhage into the larynx the tongue must be drawn forwaid, for when these muscles are divided it falls back upon the glottis, and may occlude the larynx. If the trachea is opened, the edges of the wound should be held apart with tenacula, the head dropped over the end of a table (Fig. 44), any clots removed, and artificial respiration practiced by Sylvester's method (page 30). In the closure of all wounds of the neck the antiseptic precautions should be taken, and drainage secured. When the pneuraogastric, hypoglossal, or other important nerves have been divided, the ends should be brought together by a delicate silk suture. It is also advisable to unite the ends of divided muscles by sutures. An incised wound of the oesophagus should be closed immediately. Lacerated wounds of this tube should be allowed to close by granulation. Difficulty in deglutition follows severe wounds of the throat, not infre- quently necessitating the introduction of liquid food through the oeso- phageal tube, or feeding by the rectum. Punctured wounds of the neck should be dressed antiseptically, and compression employed to arrest haemorrhage. If this does not succeed, the ligature should be applied. Gunshot wounds should be treated in practically the same manner. Missiles of small caliber deeply lodged should be left alone, since they usually become encapsuled and remain harmless. When superficial and readily detected, they should be extracted by the forceps. In the effort to locate a bullet it is always important to place the parts in about the