PAROTITIS.—SUBMAXILLARY GLAND.—THE JAWS. 423 that a wide and complete extirpation, such as is readily made in tumors of the breast, is impossible. The question will naturally arise, Under what conditions should the operation be advised and undertaken ? In malignant disease the propriety of extirpation is very questionable, and should only be undertaken after a clear explanation of the dangers of the operation and the probabilities of recurrence. In benign tumors which show a tendency to increase, operation may be advised, esjDecially if the tumor is still of small size. It is always important to attempt the removal of the neoplasm early in its history. Facial paralysis generally follows the operation, and is more or less permanent. Paeotitis—"Mumps." Inflammation of the parotid gland occurs chiefly in children, but is I occasionally met with in adults. In males it is, at times, accompanied by orchitis, and in females the mammary glands and ovaries are affected. The symptoms are pain and swelling of the gland, difficult deglutition, and slight febrile movement. The prognosis is favorable, the disease yielding to warm applications, quiet, and the judicious employment of laxatives. In rare instances atrophy of the testicle has been known to follow the inflammation of this organ, occurring as a complication of mum'ps.'''' Abscess may occur after an acute inflammation of the parotid from traumatism, or as a complication of the eruptive or continued fevers. Under these last conditions the prognosis is always grave. The presence of pus is recognized by the intense character of the pain experienced, the febrile movement, the doughy condition of the skin and areolar tissue in front of the organ, and by aspiration. The abscess should be evacuated by aspiration, puncture, or incision. Submaxillary Gland. This organ may become inflamed and suppurate, or be the seat of neoplasms, yet not so frequently brought to the attention of the sur- geon as the parotid. Its removal is a simple procedure, and may be accomplished by a crescentic incision commencing at the angle of the jaw, dipping three quarters of an inch toward the hyoid bone, and end- ing one and a half inches in front of the angle at the lower border of the jaw. The flap of skin should be raised with the platysma muscle as far as the jaw, and the deep cervical fascia divided. The gland rests be- neath and internal to the bone and upon the mylohyoid and hyoglossus muscles. The submaxillary branch of the facial artery will be divided. ! The Jaws. Superior Maxilla. —Periostitis, ostitis, and abscess of the upper jaw may be caused by caries of the teeth, disease of the upper jaw within