597 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE BLADDER. jects the supra-pubic operation, carefully and properly done, offers the best prospect of speedy relief. Foreign Bodies.—Foreign substances in the bladder are usually intro- duced through the urethra. Less frequently they pass through the walls of this organ, as in gunshot-wounds, etc. In exceptional instances for- eign matter finds its way into this organ through a fecal or vaginal fistula. In several cases of this character worms have escaped from the intestines and found an exit through the urethra. The symptoms are usually those of stone in the bladder, with cystitis in a varying degree. The diagnosis may be evident from the history of an accidental or intentional introduction of the foreign substance. The matter can usually be recognized by the searcher. If a few weeks have elapsed, the substance will probably be coated with a deposit of urinary salts, and will impart to the sound the grating or click peculiar to stone. The treatment consists in removal of the offending substance as soon as possible. If it is small, round, and smooth, it may be extracted through the urethra, with the lithotrite. For this purpose the smallest instrument should be employed. If it is too large to be brought out in mass, it may be chopped up or crushed, and then extracted piecemeal, in the jaws of the lithotrite, or washed out through the evacuator. Fig. 598 represents an English gum catheter which was removed in this ;i Fig. 598.—Gum catheter removed from the bladder by the hthotrite. (The author's case.) manner. The two larger pieces were grasped by the end and drawn out; the remainder was caught in the lithotrite, and brought out one piece at a time. When the substance is so large or of such a shape that it can not with safety be brought through the urethra, cystotomy is imperative. In determining upon the method of opening into the bladder, the same rules will apply as given for lithotomy. The Prostate Body.—Disease of the prostate is almost always a con- dition of adult life. This organ is rudimentary in childhood, and while, from direct injury, as in catheterization, lithotomy, or any form of vio- lence, or by the extension of any of the rarer forms of disease which affect the bladder or urethra of children, this body may be involved, it only assumes its true importance after it has taken on its functional activity. Prostatitis.—Inflammation of the prostate may be partial or complete, as well as acute and chronic. It may affect the epithelial and glandular,