A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 614 introduced in the median line above, along the groove of which a bistoury is carried, and the division effected. When inflammatory paraphimosis exists, adhesions rapidly occur at a point just behind the corona, on the dorsum penis, rendering a reduc- tion impossible unless these transverse bands are divided. The reduc- tion of a paraphimosis is undertaken in this manner: The organ is held in a vessel of cold water for a few minutes, or cold cloths are wrapped loosely over and around the swollen parts. When removed, the glans and prepuce are thoroughly lubricated, and the organ grasped so that while the soft parts of the thumbs press the glans backward, the fingers are drawing the prepuce to the front. Or the penis may be grasped by the thumb and finger of the left hand, and the foreskin drawn for- ward while the glans is pushed backward by the thumb and fingers of the opposite member. When the reduction is accomplished, the patient should be directed to make every effort to prevent a recurrence of the accident. If the efforts at reduction fail, the contractions on the dorsum, behind the glans, should be divided by one or more incisions in the long axis of the penis. (Edema of the prepuce, especially of the lower portion, is apt to occur, even in cases of recent paraphimosis, and, when the condition has existed for a day or two, infiltrations occur, which may persist for a long time after the constriction is relieved. Prostatitis and cystitis, occurring with gonorrhoea, require treatment not differing from that already given. Retention must be relieved by the small soft catheter, or by supra-pubic aspiration. Epididymitis^ or inflammation of the vas deferens and the globus major and minor, is one of the most painful complications of gonorrhoea. Perfect physical quiet, with support of the scrotum and testicle, are essential. The last of these measures may be secured by using the handkerchief sling, which is made as follows : Attach a belt or piece of roller around the waist, above the pelvis; fold a good-sized silk handkerchief in a triangular shape, carry the cen- ter of the long side of this tri- angle beneath the scrotum, at the perineo-scrotal junction, attach one of the long ends to the belt, near the anterior su- perior spine of the ilium, on either side, and bring the short piece directly upward, in front of the scrotum and penis, and pin it to the belt in the median line ; or the ends may be tied just above the root of the penis (Figs. 615, 616). Another method is to place a three-cornered cushion beneath the scrotum, close up to the perinseum, and allow the testicles to rest upon Fig. 615. Handkerchief suspensory. Fig. 610. (After Hill.)