685 LARGE CYSTIC TUMORS OF THE OVARY. due to the intercurrent diseases—salpingitis, hgematocele, peritonitis, etc. When an ovarian abscess ruptures into the peritoneal cavity, a fatal general peritonitis is the result. If it opens into the vagina, it usually does so Just below the cervix in the posterior wall, at the bottom of Douglas's pouch, where the vaginal wall is thinnest. Treatment.—If the ovarian abscess is but part of a pelvic inflam- mation which unites together rectum, bladder, uterus, and broad liga- ment into one mass, and if the abscess is low down, fluctuation being obtained in the vaginal roof, it may be opened per daginam and drained. But in cases of pelvic abscess it is better to try to remove them by abdominal section. Exploratory incision has but little mor- tality. A certain and positive knowledge of the condition of the parts in these cases can be obtained by abdominal section only, and by it only can a radical cure and extirpation of the abscess be effected. These are the most difficult cases the surgeon has to deal with, especially when associated with pyo-salpinx or hsematocele. The drainage-tube should be employed whenever rupture of the abscess occurs in the efforts at removal, and when there is much oozing after the adhesions are broken up. The operation is similar in its technique to that of removal of the tubes. Cystic and cirrhotic ovaries are to be removed by abdominal sec- tion when, aU conservative measures having failed, the patient's health or reason is seriously threatened. The objection of sterility can not be maintained, for these women are already sterile. The operation may also be performed in cases of acute mania and epilepsy which appear to be due to ovarian disease and which are incurable by other means. The operation is simple. An incision large enough to admit two fingers is made in the median line. The lower angle of this wound should be about two inches above the os pubis. The ovary and tube are freed from false attachments, brought toward the incision, and the broad liga- ment transfixed close to the uterus with a double ligature. The ligatures are crossed—one is tied above the tube close to the uterus, the other below the ovary ; the tube and ovary cut off, and the ligatures cut short. The abdominal wound is closed as heretofore given. Drainage is rarely indicated. Large Cystic Tumors of the Ovary and Broad Ligaments.—Cystic tumors of the ovary are occasionally unilocular. In the vast majority of instances they are multilocular. The pathology and pathogenesis of these neoplasms are not yet definitely settled, and, since a discussion of the va- rious theories advanced is scarcely permissible in a text-book, the student is referred to the various standard works upon pathology. The most common form of ovarian tumor—the cyst-adenoma—is al- ways multilocular. The surface of such a tumor is glossy, often silver- white. The sac is usually firm, its contents being a thick fluid, with a grayish-brown or reddish tint. The outline of the cyst may be perfectly symmetrical and round ; or it may have one main cyst, and numbers of smaller ones springing from it; or two or three cysts of about equal size may constitute the entire mass. But, be the shape what it may, second- ary cysts will always be found in some part of the tumor. At one or