354 A TEXT-BOOK OX SURGERY. evacuation of the pus and irrigation of the joint are indicated. The same instrument is to be employed, and, after the fluid is withdrawn, the capsule is distended with l-to-40 carbolic-acid or 1-to-lOOOO sublimate solution, and again emptied. This operation should be repeated until the liquid comes out clear. Compression should be applied in the same manner as before given. If the joint refills with pus, and the symptoms of sepsis are not re- lieved by aspiration and irrigation, it should be opened and free drain- age established. It is usually safer to make one incision on either side of the patella, directly into the capsule, introduce the closed dressing- forceps and bore through the ligament, making a counter-opening on the lower lateral aspects of the joint. It is only necessary to incise the skin where it is pushed out and made tense by the point of the for- ceps. The hole may be enlarged by separating the blades of the instru- ment. A drainage-tube should be caught in the grasp of the forceps before it is withdrawn, and pulled through the joint as the instrument is removed. The irrigation may be constant or interrupted, according to the severity of the symptoms. A method of continuous irrigation is shown on page 115. The danger of anchylosis after acute synovitis of the knee-joint, last- ing not longer than from one to six weeks, is slight. It is alwaj's great after suppuratine synovitis and arthritis, and in osteo-artliritis is almost inevitable. Destructive osteo-arthritis of the knee-joint may commence as a syno- vitis, either traumatic or idiopathic, or it may begin as an ostitis, in or near the epiphysis of the tibia or femur, the joint being secondarily in- volved. The latter is by far the more frequent source of chronic knee- joint disease. Symptoms.—Pain is not, as a rule, a prominent symptom of ostitis near the knee, and, when the joint has become involved and the carti- lages eroded, in many instances the degree of pain felt is far from being proportionate to the gravity and extent of the destructive process. In exceptional cases pain may be excessive, and may be felt in the hip as well as the knee, or may be referred entirely to the acetabulum. As the disease progresses the swelling increases, and is due not only to effusion into the capsule, but also to thickening of the ligaments, and, to a certain extent, to changes in the ends of one or both bones which enter into the formation of this articulation. Later the ligaments give way, and dislo- cation of the tibia backward, with slight outward rotation, occurs (sub- luxation). In the earlier stages of the ostitis certain constitutional symptoms appear, and remain throughout the course of the disease. Septic fever is present in a varying degree, and with it impairment of function in the digestive apparatus. Treatment.—Whenever destructive ostitis, with arthritis, at the knee exists, the loss of function of the joint is almost inevitable. In fact, an effort to preserve motion in such a joint is of doubtful propriety, since the disease is apt to be exaggerated if complete fixation is not secured and maintained. If an opening is not made into the capsule it ultimately