450 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. The Larynx and Trachea. The operations upon these organs in the neck are tJiyrotomy, laryii- gotomy, laryngo-tracJieotomy^ tracheotomy, and exsection of the larynx. Thyrotomy is indicated in the removal of neoplasms or foreign bodies from the larynx, which can not be reached through the mouth by the aid of the laryngoscope and forceps or snare. The patient should be placed upon the table, with the head well depressed. Make a perpendicular incision from near the center of the hyoid bone, exactly in the median line of the pomum Adami, as far down as the cricoid cartilage. The bleeding is thoroughly arrested, and the two wings of the thyroid carti- lage divided exactly in the angle of union. This should be done with great care, in order to avoid wounding the vocal bands, which are at- tached on either side of the median line, in front. If at this stage of the operation a tenaculum is inserted, on either side, the alse may be drawn apart, freely exposing the interior of the larynx. In closing the wound the cartilages are not included in the sutures, it being sufficient to bring the edges of the skin together. In laryiigotomy the opening is made through the crico-thyroid mem- brane. It is indicated in oedema of the glottis, obstruction of the larynx by new growths, foreign bodies, and exceptionally in rapid inflammatory swelling of the tonsils or pharynx, with occlusion of the larynx. When the emergency demands it, rapid laryngotomy may be per- formed as follows: Make a single incision from the notch in the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage, in the median line, to the lower edge of the cricoid ring, then turn the knife-edge upward and thrust the point through the crico-thyroid membrane. A hook should now be quickly inserted on either side, and the edges of the v^ound separated. Traction not only opens the wound in the membrane to admit the air more freely, but it also arrests the bleeding. When tenacula can not be had, a fair substitute may be extemporized from wire, or the ordinary metal hair- pin. The opening in the membrane may be enlarged by a transverse incision when necessary. When expedition is not urgent, the bleeding from the w^ound in the integument should be arrested before the open- ing into the larynx is made. If it is necessary to keep the "wound open, a silver trachea-canula (Fig. 516) should be in- serted. This instrument is secured by a tape tied around the neck. When it becomes ob- structed, the inner canula should be withdrawn, cleansed, and reinserted, and, if necessary, the larger tube remaining in the larynx should be Fig. 516.—Double^ tiachea-tube, j^rushed out with a Small brusli or mop. When this instrument is worn it should be carefully watched, as long as any danger of its becoming obstructed exists. It may be worn indefinitely in cases of permanent laryngeal stenosis.