SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 211 the ascending and transverse segments, just in front Of the innominate. C. F. Maunder's patient died, on the fifth day, from occlusion of the aorta by a clot which projected from the aneurismal sac. The tumor sprang from transverse segment, a little to the left of the innominate.^' Heath's patient lived four years after the double distal ligature. The aneurism diminished in size, and the general condition was much improved. The sac ultimately burst, with a fatal result. The tumor originated from the ascending aorta, f Mr. Richard Barwell and Mr. Lediard have also per- formed this operation for aneurism of the arch. Mr. Barwell's patient died fifteen months after the operation, dying from dissipation and "general wearing out." The aneurism was completely filled with lami- nated clot. Mr. Lediard's patient survived ten months.^ Hobart tied the right subclavian in its first division, and the right common carotid, for a supposed innominate aneurism. Fatal haemor- rhage occurred from the seat of ligature on the carotid on the sixteenth day. The autopsy showed a pyriform aneurism originating from the aorta, just to the left of the innominate. The sac was filled with a firm coagulum.* Thus, of seven cases of simultaneous deligation of the right carotid and right subclavian arteries, two died on the fifth and sixteenth days, respectively, from the elfect of the operation. The remaining five recov- ered, with evident improvement. A point of great interest is to notice the effects of the operation upon tTie tumor. In my case there was no immediate change in the aneurism. Within twenty-two hours the diminution was evident, and by the fourth day it had shrunk from an elevation of one inch and a half above, down almost to the level of the skin upon the thorax. In Sands's case " the tumor diminished after the operation, and visible pulsation ceased." There was no diminution in Maunder's case, but after death the sac was almost com- pletely filled with recent clot, which had even occluded the aorta. In Heath's case " the tumor gradually diminished in size." The symptoms so far disappeared in Barwell's patient that that surgeon informed me, "The aneurism is, judging from symptoms, cured." In Lediard's case the "laryngeal symptoms disappeared ; the tumor had a more consolidated feeling." The sac in Hobart's case " was filled with firm coagulum." The evidence in these cases—which are all I have been able to collect —in which the right subclavian and right carotid arteries were simultane- ously tied for aneurism of the arch of the aorta, involving the last portion of the ascending segment, or the first portion of the transverse segment, or both, points to the conclusion that, in sacculated aneurism affecting the arterial limit just given, the double distal ligature tends to produce consolidation of the tumor, and to relieve the symptoms of distress caused by its presence. * See "American Journal of the Medical Sciences," January, 1881. t Ibid. X Author's article on Distal Ligature for Aneurisms near the Heart, "American Journal of the Medical Sciences," January, 1881. # Ibid.