286 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. cation. The prognosis is grave in proportion to the danger of asphyxia from inflammatory swelling or emphysema. When the force has been great, and the comminution extensive, death may occur from shock or other complication before asphyxia from occlusion of the trachea super- venes. When this last danger is threatened, tracheotomy should be per- formed early. When the os hyoides is broken, the fragment, if displaced or driven through the soft tissues, may be brought into position by introducing one finger into the mouth and pressing with the other hand from with- out. It is scarcely possible to retain the ends in apposition, and fibrous union is apt to occur. The accident is rare, is not dangerous, and the prognosis consequently favorable. Clavicle.—The clavicle is, next to the radius, more frequently the seat of fracture than any other bone. In children the fracture is rarely com- plete, and consequently overlapping is not met with, as is the rule in adults. The break occurs, in a large majority of instances, in the middle third, i. e., in that portion of the bone between the attachments of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles. This fracture may be caused by direct violence, or by indirect force, as a fall upon the shoulder or the extended arm. The character of the displacement is shown in Fig. 312. The inner fragment is held in position by the mastoideus muscle, and is prevented from being carried upward by the costo-clavicular ligament. The weight of the arm and shoulder drags the outer fragment downward, while the contractions of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and subclavius muscles carry it toward the middle line of the body, beneath the inner fragment. In rare instances the dis- placement is the reverse. The diagnosis rests upon loss of func- tion, pain at the seat of lesion, possibly crepitus, loss of symmetry, shortening, and recognition of displacement by pal- pation. The prognosis is good as to restoration of function, although, in complete fract- ure, overlapping and a certain amount of permanent deformity and shortening are almost inevitable. Treatment.—In complete fracture over- lapping of the fragments may be correct- ed, and the ends brought into apposition, by first carrying the arm and shoulder backward, and then elevating the shoulder. This is the principle in- volved in Prof. Sayre's excellent method of treating this lesion, which is as follows: Cut two strips of strong adhesive plaster (moleskin is preferable) Fig. 312.—(From Gray.)