A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 452 elevate the epiglottis and guide the tube into the larynx. The handle of the introducing instrument (Fig. 519), held close to the patient's chest in the beginning of the operation, is rapidly elevated as the glottis is ap- proached, and the tube pushed down- ward without using much force. It is then detached, and the obturator Fig. 518.—Gag. ^ quickly removed. The joint in the shank of the obturator is for the pur- pose of facilitating this part of the operation. Lest the tube should also be withdrawn, it is necessary to keep the finger in contact with it. Tubes. When it is ascertained with certainty that the canula is in the larynx (and for this purpose it is better to wait until the child coughs, or until it is evident that the dyspnoea is relieved), the finger is again placed in con- tact with it and the thread removed. It is important that the attempt at introduction be made quickly, as respiration is practically suspended from the time that the finger enters the larynx until the obturator is removed. It is, there- fore, under the circumstances much safer to make several abortive at- tempts than one prolonged efl'ort, even if successful. The removal of the canula is a more difficult operation than its intro- duction, owing to the fact that the aperture of the tube into which the Fig. 520.—Extractor. extracting instrument (Fig. 520) has to be inserted is so much smaller than that of the larynx. At the same time more deliberation can be used, and an anaesthetic, which is never necessary for the introduction, can be given if required. There is no danger whatever of these tubes slipping tlirough into the trachea, even if used on older children than those for which they are intended. Some practice on the cadaver is a very necessary preliminary to using them on the living subject. It is well also to bear in mind that it is much more difiicult to reach the larynx in the dead than in the living. £Pigh Operation.—Place the patient on the back, in such a position that the head falls well over the end of the table. If an anaesthetic is