170 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. caliber of the vessel is diminished. If the intima has been broken or bruised by the injury, the encroachment upon the caliber of the vessel will be more rapid, for, in addition to the mass of embryonic tissue pushing into the lumen of the artery, there will be a deposit of fibrin ujoon the roughened and projecting inter- nal tunic. The white corpuscles in the pass- ing blood-current ad- here to the intlamed surface, and undergo a change which causes a liberation of the fibri- no-plastic matter which they contain, and a deposit of fibrillated fibrin. This coagulum is found to consist of alternate layers of leu- cocytes and fibrin. In the mean time, if the inflammation be not so severe that rapid necrosis occurs from the sudden arrest of the blood- supply through the vasa vasorum, new-formed capillaries push through the mass of embryonic cells, into the "granulation buds" which project into the lumen of the vessel (Fig. 247). This form of arteritis may result in permanent occlusion of the vessel {endarteritis obliterans), or the function of the artery may be restored. If occlusion occurs, it results from the organization of the embryonic ceUs into a new tissue which undergoes fibrillation and contraction (a process of cicatrization) to such an extent that the new-formed capillaries are more or less occluded, and the artery shrinks to become a fibrous cord (Fig. 248). Or the coagulum may undergo fatty degeneration, and be swept away with the current of blood, the vessel remaining pervious and bearing but little trace of the inflammatory process through which it has passed. The microscopical appearances of a localized traumatic arteritis are typically represented in Fig. 249, which is copied from a section made from the carotid of a horse. The animal was in a healthy condition at the time of the operation. I tied the artery with a broad carbolized liga- ture, the sciatic nerve of a calf. In the fifth week the animal was killed. The artery was pervious. The location of the ligature was easily recog- nized by the peculiar, whitish, pearly appearance of the intima at the point of tying, where it was slightly elevated. The adventitia did not show any changes to the naked eye. The ligature had evidently slipped Fig. 2'}8.—Endarteritis obliterans, not syphilitic. Transverse section of the basilar; a, muscular layer; b, elastic layer. The lumen of the artery is entirely filled with a new formation, which has become canalized by new vessels at ddf; c, blood pigment; e, hyaline material, part of the new formation encroaching on the media at e, and seen elsewhere. (Drawn by Dr. W. L. Wardwell, from a speci- men borrowed from Prof. W. H. Welch. Magnified 60 diameters.)