89 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. humerus shattered by a cannon-ball, yet the skin remained as white and as sound as if it had not been touched. Numerous instances of similar lesions are recorded. Treatment.—As with all other wounds, the arrest of haemorrhage is the first indication in gunshot injuries. The various means to accom- plish this end have already been given. It should be the recognized duty of the profession to instruct the general public in the use of the simpler means for arresting haemorrhage. In military service each soldier should be taught by actual demonstration where and how to make com- pression in order to control the blood-supply to a part. In actual warfare the vessels should be outlined by nitrate-of-silver tracings, and with especial indications at those points where pressure will prove most efficient. The ready construction of a tourniquet by means of a belt, coat-sleeve, bridle- rein, etc., tied around the limb at the proper place, and then twisted by a bayonet, sword, gun-barrel, or stick, is an important lesson for an emergency. Next in order, and no less essential in the successful man- agement of a gunshot wound, is cleanliness and drainage. In the best- regulated armies of to-day each soldier carries in his cartridge-box a well- protected ball of iodoformized gauze, with the instructions to lay this over the wound as soon as possible, and to hold it there by a belt or bandage until the surgeon arrives. In the antiseptic treatment of these injuries irrigation with 1 to 3,000 sublimate solution is thoroughly done. All foreign matter or fragments of bone or destroyed tissues are removed, bone, catgut, or rubber drains inserted, and the regulation antiseptic dressing applied. When sublimate solution can not be had, 1 to 20 to 30 carbolic acid is next in order of preference; and, if neither of these articles is avail- able, the freshest and purest water should be employed. Following a serious gunshot or other injury (or at times a violent emotion without any appreciable lesion), a condition of prostration or partial collapse occurs, which is known as shock. Shock may be defined as a condition of coUapse resulting from physical injury or mental emo- tion (one or both) whereby the functions of the nerve-centers are more or less completely suspended. The degree of shock is often determined by individual susceptibility, and is not always in proportion to the severity of the injury. The symptoms are pallor, coldness of the skin, thready, irregular, or rapid pulse, nausea, vomiting, clammy perspiration, and an anxious and fixed expression. Judicious stimulation is the great indication, for, while reaction must be brought about, the quantity of stimulants should be kept at the pos- sible minimum, for an excess will only add to the fever of reaction. Rye whisky by the mouth, rectum, or hypodermically, should be preferred. Hot bottles, warmed blankets, friction, etc., are useful adjuvants in the treatment of shock. The advisability of searching for a gunshot missile which has lodged in the body, or which has traversed any of the cavities, as well as the treatment of wounds of special organs, will be discussed hereafter.