224 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. direct compression of the sac may be added, and, if a thorough trial of these two methods is not successful, a catgut ligature should be applied, after the method of Hunter. Aneurism of the Vertebral Artery.—Aneurism of the vertebral is almost always the result of a punctured wound. A rare exception to this rule is the case of idiopathic aneurism of both vertebrals reported by Dr. Anderton, of New York city.* It occurs most frequently in that portion of the vessel between the atlas and the transverse process of the sixth cervical. The chief point in diagnosis is the differentiation between the lesion in question and carotid aneurism. The difficulty of distinguishing vertebral from carotid aneurism in the neck arises from the fact that direct pressure from before backward, in the lower portion of the neck, will interfere with or arrest pulsation in aneurisms of both vessels. If, however, the head be flexed upon the chest, and the sterno-mastoid muscle thus relaxed, the carotid can be compressed by grasping the mus- cle between the thumb and finger, which are pressed deeply behind the outer and inner borders. This will not involve the vertebral. Again, if the carotid be forcibly compressed by the thumb, backward and inward, against the vertebral column, at any point above the trans- verse process of the sixth cervical, the vertebral will not be included, since it is protected by the processes. In my Essays are recorded five cases in which the common carotid was tied for supposed carotid, but in reality vertebral, aneurism. All ended fatally. In the treatment of this lesion direct pressure may be employed, since prolonged compression of the artery before it enters the foramen in the sixth transverse process is impossible. One successful result of this method is recorded. If the disease continues to increase, deligation of the vessel in its first portion may be effected. This is a very difficult operation, and has rarely been attempted. The only operators so far are Smyth, Parker, Alexander, and myself. Aneurism of the internal mammary, and other smaller branches of the subclavian, does not demand separate consideration. Aneurism of the intercostal arteries occurs in rare instances, usually as a result of fracture of a rib or a stab-wound. Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta.—Aneurismal dilatation of this section of the aorta occurs most frequently near the diaphragm. The entire vessel may be the seat of fusiform aneurism. Females are less frequently attacked than the opposite sex. In corpulent persons the diagnosis is difficult. Tumors of the central organs, as the stomach, pan- creas, transverse colon, and the superjacent mesentery, may be mistaken for aneurism. On the other hand, in emaciated persons, unnatural ex- pansion of the aorta during the cardiac systole has led to a mistake in diagnosis. The history of the development of the tumor, the presence of the aneurismal tremor and bruit, and the recognized general expansion of * " Medical Record," vol. xx, p. 354.