A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 22 toucliing tlie lids with blue-stone, the smaller quantity will suffice; for corneal section, iridectomy, etc., the ansesthesia should be more pro- found. In the mouth, it will suffice to paint the part to be anfesthetized with the 4-per-cent solution by means of a camel's-hau' brush, every two or three minutes, for a half-hour before, and at intervals during the opera- tion. In this way ulcers may be cauterized, or limited incisions made with perfect insensibility, and by the employment of this agent any irritable condition of the mouth and throat may be relieved. I have operated for cleft of the soft palate in an adult with i^erfect anaesthesia by this method. In minor surgical operations upon the extremities, a prolonged and perfect ansesthesia may be secured by the method of Corning, which con- sists in injecting the fluid into the tissues of the part to be anaesthetized, waiting from two to five minutes for absorption of the solution by the vessels, and then keeping the cocaine in the tissues, by arresting the cir- culation, with a rubber tourniquet applied between the injection and the heart. The efficiency of this method has been amply demonstrated. The twenty or thirty minims of 4-per-cent solution should be distributed equally in the line of the incision. A single puncture with the hypoder- mic needle will suffice to allow the fluid to be thro^^^l over an area an inch in length, and the effect is so rapid that the second puncture can be made through the anaesthetized skin. The needle, after j)assing through the integument, travels along just beneath it to its full length. One or two minims are then forced out, the needle vdthdrawn a quarter or half inch, and a like quantity discharged. If a deep incision is re- quired, the needle should go into the deeper tissues. One advantage of this method is that a smaller quantity of cocaine will produce a greater degree of anaesthesia, and with less constitutional effect. When as much as thirty minims are used, the excess may be squeezed or pressed out of the part, or washed out with the irrigator. As to the length of time for which a tourniquet may safely remain holding the part beyond full of stagnant blood, I would say that a half-hour would be within the limit of safety. I have constricted the penis continuously for an hour in cir- cumcision, the great toes on several occasions for more than half an hour in removing ingrowing nails, and the arm for half an hour in a number of cases. It is, however, not always necessary to entirely arrest the cii'- culation of a part, for, if the elastic be applied close behind the part to be incised, the superficial compression will retard the flow at this point, while the deeper vessels and remote capillaries are not materially inter- fered with. In minor operations upon the trunk, face, head, and neck, greater precaution must be taken, for here the solution is carried du'ectly to the center. This is especially necessary in the head and face, for reasons above given. A weaker solution should be employed. The deeper injections into muscle and around the ends of broken bones are equally efficient, though of necessity infrequent, since no for- midable operation should be undertaken which would require the use of a large quantity of cocaine. The details to be observed in special opera-