693 MUSCULAR TORTICOLLIS, upon the skin of the forehead should be made of strong adhesive plas- ter (as advised by Prof. Sayre). The tension on the rubber muscle may be increa,sed from day to day, if necessary. If this method does not succeed, the apparatus of Reynders & Co. (Fig. 669) should be tried. The mechanism is well shown in the accompanying cut, the correction of the deformity being effected by means of a series of Joints situated at the back of the neck, which are worked by a key, and can be fixed at any angle of flexion and rotation. The operative procedures include stretching or division of the muscle or muscles affected, tenotomy, neurectomy, division of the fascia, and the free dissection of cicatricial tissue. Of these operations, tenotomy of the sterno-mastoideus is most frequently demanded. A puncture is made a little to the outer side of the clavicular tendon of this muscle, and a long, probe-pointed tenotome slid flatwise (the cutting-edge down- ward) upon the outer anterior surface of the clavicle. As soon as the point of the instrument has passed between the clavicular and sternal origins, the edge is turned outward, making the muscle tense, and the tendon is divided subcutaneously. The sternal origin is divided by an additional puncture. After tenotomy the prothetic apparatus should be employed until recovery is complete. In dividing the body of this mus- cle, or the trapezius, splenius, or levator-anguli scapulae, the open method should be followed. Violent and sudden stretching of the muscles, with or without anaes- thesia, is not advisable. Exsection of that portion of the spinal acces- sory nerve which is supplied to the sterno-mastoid and trapezius mus- cles is occasionally performed in order to paralyze the permanently con- tracted muscles. It is preferable to a simple division or to stretching of the nerve, for the reason that a divided nerve may reunite, and, after stretching, the function of the nerve is only temporarily impaired. In order to expose this nerve, make an incision about four inches in length, following the posterior border of the sterno-mastoideus muscle, and commencing on a level with a point half-way between the lobule of the ear and the angle of the jaw. The fibers of the muscle should be sought, and, recognizing these, the posterior edge is exposed. By keep- ing the wound dry, and working close to the under surface of the muscle, the vessels will be avoided and the nerve will be seen running obliquely downward and outward, and passing into the muscle. One or two superficial nerves are sometimes seen radiating from the cer- vical plexus. From one half to one inch of the nerve should be ex- cised. After this operation, mechanical treatment should be instituted for a short time. In torticollis due to cicatrices, simple division of the contracting tis- sue affords only temporary benefit. The only legitimate method is to dissect out the offending tissue, slide sound skin over the wound thus made, and use mechanical treatment until the deformity is overcome. Deformities due to dislocations and fractures of the cervical verte- brae have been considered, and those resulting from caries of this portion of the spine will be given hereafter.