AMPUTATIONS. 119 Index-Finger—At the Metacarpo-Phalangeal Joint—First Method. —When possible, the following method should be adopted, the object ,being to preserve the tactile sense and to leave the scar less prominent: I From the ulnar side of the knuckle, and Just over the joint, make an incision which extends from this point forward as far as the web between the index and middle finger, and, in case of a large knuckle, a little beyond this point at the side of the digit. From the anterior end of this incision make a second cut directly across the palmar aspect of the phalanx until the middle of the radial side of the finger is reached, and complete the flap by cutting in a straight line from this point to the commencement of the first incision. When the disarticulation is com- pleted, the dorsalis and radialis indicis arteries, and the external digital branches, tied with fine catgut, the corner of the fiap is carried into the receding angle on the dorsal surface of the metacarpal bone 'and secured by sutures. When the head of the metacarpus is to be removed, the section of this bone should be slightly oblique, and the line of incision a partial oval, beginning at the web between the two ifingers, and traveling along the crease formed by flexion of the finger on the metacarpus well up on the dorsum of this bone, about three fourths of an inch back of the joint. An incision, almost in a straight line, should now be made between the ends of this curved line (Fig. 166). Dissect the flaps clear and without making a disarticulation, expose the bone, and with a fine saw divide it obliquely from before backward, and from the ulnar toward the radial aspect. In amputation of the middle ;or the ring finger, the following method should be preferred: Fig. 169.—(After Esmarch.) Middle Finger.—Locate the articulation exactly, and over this point make a transverse incision extending on either side to the middle of the depression between this digit and the index- and ring-fingers (Fig. 166). From either end of this cut carry a lateral incision directly forward about