586 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. mendable for its lightness, strength, and smooth action. "With the heavier instruments the sense of touch is not so delicate and acute. The lighter lithotrite is strong enough to crush any calculus which may be safely removed by this opera- tion. Moreover, it is especially to be commended for the fenes- trated jaw in the female blade (Fig. 582), which allows the male blade to pass entirely through, and thus avoids the danger of choking and fouling. It consists of a male blade (Fig. 583), or sliding rod, which fits into a fixed or female blade (Fig. 584), which is deeply hollowed out for its reception. Fig. 582.- CTItfyl/iN,! CO. -Fenestrated jaws of Thompson's lithotrite. G.TIEMflNN &.C0 Fig. 583.—Male blade of Thompson's lithotrite. Fig. 584.—Female blade of Thompson's lithotrite. The seizing and crushing action of the lithotrite is double. "When the male blade is carried through the hollow handle into the slot in the female blade, a simple and rapid to-and-fro movement can be executed by push- ing or pulling on the male blade with the right hand, while the left Fig. 585.—Thompson's lithotrite adjusted. steadies the female blade, to which the handle is attached. This move- ment can be made very effective in seizing the stone and in crushing the smaller fragments without taking the extra time in sliding the catch which throws on the screw-motion of the instrument. When, however, a stone is caught in its grasp by the sliding move- ment Just described, and is so solid and resisting that a sufficient and safe crushing force can not be employed, the catch on the top of the handle is slipped upward. The sliding movement is now impossible, and the more powerful screw-motion substituted. By turning the wheel at the end of the male blade to the right, the stone can be felt to give way under the crushing force. In the removal of vesical calculi by this operation two procedures are recognized, viz., complete and incomplete lithotrity. In the former, or Bigelow's method, ether narcosis is required ; the stone is entirely crushed, and the fragments washed out at a single