A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 638 tube is carefully dissected out from its attachment beneath and be- tween the two corpora cavernosa for this distance, and is turned down on to the perinseum through the slit in the posterior wall of the scrotum. The urethra should next be split along the median line of its roof for a distance of half an inch back from the end, and the edges stitched to the mar- gins of the wound in the integument of the perinseum. The oper- ation is completed by closing the posterior slit through the scro- tum, and stitching the margin of the wound in the skin of the an- terior wall of the scro- tum to that of the belly at the root of the penis, so as to cover in and include the stump of the am- putated corpora cav- ernosa. The appear- ance of the parts aft- er this operation is shown in Fig. 646. Sarcoma of the pe- FiG. 646.—Humphrey's operation. (From a case of tlie author's, at . . t i Mount Sinai Hospital.) uisISexceedmgly rare. It may be recognized by its rapid development, the absence of glandular enlargement, the gen- eral invasion of the cavernous bodies—in certain cases producing a con- tinuous and painful erection of the organ—and by its resemblance to the well-known appearance and behavior of sarcomatous tumors in other portions of the body. The treatment should consist in immediate am- putation. PJiimosis, or inability to retract the prepuce behind the corona glan- dis, is a fre(^uent condition of childhood, and occasionally met with in adult life. It is both a congenital and an acquired affection, and may be partial or complete. The prepuce may be adherent to the glans, or phimosis may exist without adhesions, the opening in the foreskin being so narrow that retraction is impossible. A prepuce ordinarily retractile may become irretractible as a result of any inflammatory pro- cess of the glans and foreskin. This condition is not infrequently met with in gonorrhoea and with chancroid. Congenital phimosis is an unfortunate affection, preventing perfect cleanliness by retention and decomposition of the retained secretions