A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 352 l-to-3000 sublimate solution, and again filled. Extension by the weight and pulley, in the dorsal decubitus, is necessary for from three to six weeks after the operation, unless the child is strapped in the wire breeches recommended by Prof. Sayre (Fig. 387) immediately after the exsection. The chief recommendation of this apparatus is that it allows the patient to be carried out of doors, or about the house, with perfect freedom from motion or pain. The chief objection is its costliness, which puts it out of the reach of many patients. The ex- tension in bed is very satisfactory in its results, and, with attention to ventilation and the amusement and entertainment of the little patient, the confinement need not be a formidable objection. When the wire apparatus is used the following directions should be carried out: Pad the instru- ment well, so that too great pressure at any one point may not occur. Place the patient in it so that the anus will project well over the crotch of the breeches. It is well to insert a piece of protective under the sacrum and buttocks to prevent soiling. Fasten the well leg and the body to the instrument by rollers. Lay the extremity of the affect- ed side in its splint, and screw the foot-piece up until it touch- es the sole. Apply two strips of adhesive plaster in the same manner as heretofore given, at- tach these to the foot-piece, and make the necessary extension by turning the screw in the proper direction (Fig. 388). Passive motion to the ankle and knee should be made at the end of two or three weeks, and repeated weekly. Af- ter from four to six weeks, no matter whether the wire apparatus is used or extension in bed employed, the long splint, high shoe and crutches should be adjusted, and the case treated as given for the first stage. Within the last few years the operation of drill- ing into the neck and head of the femur, in cer- tain cases where the initial lesion is an ostitis, has been advocated and performed in a number of instances by Mr. namara.'* The results so far have been of a nature to encourage a repetition of this procedure. The object of the operation is to give es- cape to, and secure drainage of, the products of the inflammatory pro- FiG. 387.—(After Sayre.) Fig. 388.—(After Sayre.) Mac- * " Gibney on the Hip." Bermingliam & Co., New York, 1884.