636 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. buds of newly formed cells and capillaries, giving it an appearance not unlike a cauliflower (Fig. 645). Ulceration occurs at various portions of tlie mass, and a dirty quality of pus is exuded. The odor from the de- composing tissues is peculiarly penetrating and offensive. Within a period of time, varying from two to six or eight months, enlargement of the inguinal glands is observed. This enlargement may be inflammatory or metastatic. As a rule, metastasis is not rapid in epithelioma of the penis, and induration of the glands does not, on this account, preclude the hope of cure after amputation. The principal cause of epithelioma of the penis is prolonged irrita- tion of the glans and prepuce from retained secretions. All the cases which have come under my observation have occurred in patients with unusually long and tight prepuces.'^' It is usually met with in the mid- dle-aged and old, although it sometimes occurs in early adult life. The diagnosis of epithelioma is not very difficult after ulceration takes place. The indurated sinuous and everted borders of the ulcer, the red, cauliflower-like appearance of the mass, and the steady progress of the disease in the destruction of all the tissues in its j)ath, are symj)- toms not met with in any other lesion of this organ. Warty growths (papillomata), when not seen early in their development, may at times simulate epithelioma, especially when these vegetations are luxuriant, are undergoing ulceration, are covered with purulent matter, and are the seat of repeated haemorrhages. No matter how wide-spread the pap- illomatous neoplasm may be, at the outskirts of the mass will be found tufts or minute warts sufficiently isolated to be recognized. In the very earliest stages of development of the ulcer of epithelioma, it is scarcely possible to make a positive diagnosis between it and chancroid, or even a simple ulcer of the prepuce and glans penis. Treatment and Prognosis.—The only justiflable treatment of epithe- lioma of the penis is an immediate excision of the neoplasm by ampu- tation. The line of amputation should always be wide of the limit of the disease. If the induration of the ulcer is well defined, and is lim- ited closely to the margins of the erosion, the amputation may be made with one inch of sound tissue intervening. If the inguinal glands are enlarged, and if the surgeon has reason to be satisfied that the enlarge- ment is due rather to inflammatory engorgement than to metastasis, the operation is still advisable, and the prognosis not altogether unfavorable. When metastasis of the glands is unmistakable, amputation may be done to rid the patient of the foul and ulcerating mass, although a favor- able prognosis can not be entertained. In the earlier development of the growth, where a sufficient extent of healthy tissue intervenes between the induration and the line of excision, amputation offers a strong hope of permanent relief. In the earlier period of development of the ulcer, if doubt exists as to its character, it is advisable to administer the * In an experience of several years in attendance at Mount Sinai Hospital, T have not met with a case of epithelioma of the penis in an individual upon whom in early life circumcision had been performed.