514 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Acquired fistulse not infrequently heal spontaneously. The opera- tion consists in cutting down upon the opening in the gut and lay- ing freely open all sinuses which communicate with the fistulous outlet. As the track of the fistula is often tortuous, it is at times ex- ceedingly difiicult to follow it. A repetition of the method employed in the following case will be of service in the more complicated oper- ations : In 1880 a young man came under my observation on account of a pistol-shot wound. The ball had entered the abdomen on a level with and about one and a half inch to the inner side of the left anterior su- perior spine of the ilium. From the direction in which the weapon was aimed, the missile was thought to have passed directly back and lodged in the iliac fossa. There were no immediate symptoms of perforation of the intestine. An abscess formed which discharged from the wound of entrance, and, about six weeks after the receipt of the injury, a fecal fistula was established. The fistulous track was so long and tortuous that it could not be followed. After the anaesthesia was complete, warn milk was thrown into the bowel until it ran out at the opening. The stream of milk was then followed without diSiculty, and the opening discovered. All communicating sinuses were laid open and packed with carbolized gauze. The wound closed within a month, and the patient was cured. It will be advisable, in attempting to close the fistula, for the patient to maintain a position which will prevent the gravitation of ingested matter into the opening. Closure of the external orifice by means of sutures is not advisable, since it may induce fecal infiltration. A recovery is usually hastened when the margins of the wound in the integument can be stitched to the edges of the opening into the bowel, as directed in enterostomy. Colostomy.—The establishment of a fecal fistula between the colon and the abdominal wall is usually performed in the coecum or first few inches of the ascending portion, the lower part of the descend- ing colon, or in the sigmoid flexure. In the first two locations the operation is retro-peritoneal; in the last the cavity of the peritonaeum is opened. Colostomy is indicated as a palliative measure in occlusion of the alimentary canal on the anal side of the operation by stricture, neo- plasms, volvulus, intussusception, or any lesion for the relief of which exsection is not permissible. In chronic colitis or proctitis, it is a cura- tive operation in giving complete rest to the diseased bowel until recov- ery ensues. In selecting the place of operation, the right or left lumbar region should be chosen, not so much for the reason that the gut may be ex- posed in a part uncovered by peritonaeum (for opening into this cavity is no longer the dangerous procedure it was supposed to be), but because the situation of the opening here is the most suitable for wearing a pro- tecting apparatus, and secures a greater degree of cleanliness in the after-management of the fistula.