BANDAGING. " 17 cling turn upon the sides of the head, near the Fig. 23. breasts require support, the second may be bandaged in the same way by an additional roller, or, as shown in Fig. 22, a single bandage may be thrown around the thorax and neck in fig- ure-of-8 fashion, so as to support both organs. Bandages for the Head and Face.— For retaining ice-caps, or other dressings to the head, the hood-bandage will be found convenient, while its modifications will suffice to keep a dressing upon any limited portion of the scalp (Fig. 23). To apply this, take a roller twelve yards long and two and a half inches in width, rolled from both ends to the center. Hold- ing one head of the roller in each hand, the surgeon, standing behind the patient and laying the middle of the bandage across the forehead just over the eyebrows, car- ries one roller in the right and the other fig. 22.—(After Fischer.) in the left hand around the head, above the ears, and crosses them under the occiput, so that the roller which went to the rear in the left hand will travel again to the front over the same path. The roller in the right hand is then carried over the head, in the median line, from the occiput to the nose, and at this point it is caught and held down by the encircling turn carried in the left hand. Then carry the roller which came over the median line of the head back again to the rear, so that its right edge will rest on the middle of the first turn. It is again caught under the encircling turn at the occiput, is carried to the front on the opposite side, and continues to travel from before backward in an ellipse that is con- stantly increasing, until it blends with the encir- ears. Each successive turn of the elliptic should leave about one third of the turn that preceded it uncovered in the cen- ter. Of course, the ends will meet at the same point, before and behind, where the reverses are made. If it is only required to maintain a dressing in the median line of the scalp, it will suffice to carry a circular turn or two around the head, just above the eyebrows and ears, and below the occiput, while an antero- posterior strip is pinned to this in front and behind. The Head and Chin Bandage (Fig. 24) may be made to serve sev- eral purposes—namely, to retain a dressing on the chin and lower face, the same upon the scalp at any portion, and also for temporary fixa- tion of the lower jaw after fracture of this bone. It is applied as follows: 2