379 REGIOXAL SURGERY.—THE HEAD. Rolando, and to certain disturbances of the mind and the senses chieliy located in the cortex of the brain. According to Lucas-Championniere,'" who adopts the conclusions of Charcot and Pitres, our knowledge of this subject may be summarized as follows : " In a lesion followed by paraly- sis of the loioer extremity the trephine should expose the summit of the ascending parietal convolution, on both sides of the upper end of the fissure of Rolando (Fig. 414). Of the upper extrem ity, the middle third of the ascending frontal convolution, also on both sides of the center of the fissure ; upper and lower extremities, })otli regions just given; upper extremity alone, with motor apliasia, foot of tJiird frontal and lower third of ascending f rontal convolutions, in zone marked motor apliasia in Fig. 414. Facial paralysis, lower third of the ascending frontal and foot of second frontal convolutions. Aphasia alone, foot of third frontaiy After a careful analysis of all the cases of cortical lesions of the brain published in America, and a thorough review of the results of foreign investigators. Prof. Starr an-ives at the following conclusions : f '"1. Various powers of the mind are to be connected with activity in various regions of the brain, the surface of the organ being the seat of conscious mental action. " 2. The highest qualities of the mind—intellect, judgment, reason, self-control—requii-e for their normal display integrity of the entii-e brain, but especially of the fi'ontal lobes. A change of disposition and charac- ter may be considered as symptomatic of disease of the brain, and, in the absence of other symptoms, of disease of the frontal lobes. " 3. The power of sensory perception is distributed over the various regions of the brain with which the various sensory organs are anatomic- ally connected. In these regions objects are not only first consciously perceived, but are also subsequently recognized ; and hence it is in these regions that the memory pictures are stored, by whose aid the act of recognition is accomplished. {a) Disturbance of sight, whether in the form of actual lilindness, or of failure to recognize or to remember familiar objects, or of hallucina- tions of vision, may indicate disease in the occipital lobes. An examina- tion of the field of vision will indicate which lobe is affected, since blind- ness in the right half of both eyes may be due to destruction of the left lobe, and blindness of the left half of both eyes may be due to destruction of the right lobe. " ijb) Disturbance of hearing, either actual deafness in one ear or hal- lucinations of sound on one side (voices, music. etc.\ may indicate disease in the first temporal convolution of the opposite side. Failure to recog- nize or to remember spoken language is characteristic of disease in the first temporal convolution of the left side in right-handed persons, and of the right side in left-handed persons. Failure to recognize printed or * " La trepanation guidee par les localisations cerebrales." V. A. Delahave et Cie., Paris. 18T8. t " Cortical Lesions of the Brain." M. Allen Starr, from ''American Journal of the Medi- cal Sciences," July, 1884.