179 ARTERITIS. the contour of the adventitia. The wavy elastic layer is easily recognized, and in that portion of the artery in which the syphilitic inflammatory material is deposited the waves of the media are more numerous and shorter than in other portions of the vessel. In the center of the mass, occupying a portion of the caliber of the artery, is found a hyaline-look- ing spot which took the carmine stain more readily than the general mass of the thrombus. It contains embryonic cells in about the same quantity as the surrounding tissue. The adventitia is not regularly thickened, being three or four times as deep in some portions as in others, and pre- senting in the section a nodulated appearance. Viewed with a magnify- ing power of about five hundred diameters, that portion of the arterial wall external to the wavy line (the elastic layer), seen in Fig. 258, presents the following appearance: In the most external limit of the section of the adventitia there are found clusters of inflammatory corpuscles, true embryonic cells, round, and larger than the cells found in any other portion of the specimen external to the elastic lamina. These cells are somewhat smaller in size than those found in the new-formed tissue of the intima, though they differ in shape, since those in the intima appear both round and fusiform, while the cells in the outer edge of the externa appear almost invariably round. It may be possible that they are fusiform cells cut transversely in the section; though after careful examination I am led to conclude that they are round. At various points these cells do not exist, the external layer being that of fusiform cells arranged with great regularity parallel to the contour of the wall of the artery. Where the wall of the vessel external to the elastic lamina is thickest, these spindle cells are more numerous, and have a greater transverse diameter than at the narrower portions, where they seem to have elongated and become thinner—seem- ingly a true process of fibrillation and contraction of embryonic (inflam- matory) ceUs. Continuing the examination farther inward, as the white, wavy, elastic zone is crossed, just within and almost in exact apposition with this is a somewhat irregular and thin layer of cells, fusiform in section, varying in depth from a single row to two or three rows, and in some points entirely absent. These are doubtless a remnant of the original endothelia of the intima; just internal to these, and in fact continuous with them, is the great mass of new-formed, inflamma- tory tissue which juts into the lumen of the vessel. This mass is com- posed of large, mostly fusiform, cells, distinctly nucleated and occupy- ing about as much space as the intercellular substance in which they are imbedded. Syphilitic arteritis has been made the subject of special study by Cornil, Heubner, Greenfield, Barlow, Buzzard, Davidson, Simes, White, and others. Greenfield, in the '' Transactions of the London Pathological Society for 1877," gives an analysis of 22 cases of visceral syphilis. Of the 22 patients, 13 were females, 9 males. Their ages varied from 23 to 50 years. Of the females, 4 were between the ages of 23 and 25, 1