608 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. escape detection by this method, but the tumefaction it causes may be recognized by digital exploration per rectum. The interference with the escape of urine caused by calculi of the prostate is analogous to that which occurs with general hypertrophy of the body of this organ. The stream of urine is diminished, but remains about the same size, and escapes steadily throughout the act of urination. There is no sudden and complete interruption of the current, as in stone in the bladder, or in enlargement of the middle lobe of the prostate. Calculi of this organ may escape into the urethra and lodge there, or work their way back into the bladder, or pass out at the meatus. The treatment is palliative until operative interference is necessitated on account of dysuria. The incision is the same as given for median lithotomy. The prostate should not be incised if it can be avoided. The stone may be removed with the scoop or narrow forceps. Neuralgia of the prostate and neck of the bladder is occasionally met vdth. Pain is present in this organ when no symptoms of inflammation are discoverable. It is usually exaggerated during and immediately after micturition, and after a seminal emission. The introduction of a sound shows great tenderness of the deep urethra. The instrument car- ried into the bladder does not produce the tenesmus and pain common to cystitis. An examination of the urine will demonstrate the absence of pus, which will also serve to exclude inflammation of the bladder or prostate. The causes of this affection are as a rule obscure. Irregular or excessive venereal indulgence is considered to be one of the most frequent causes of neuralgia in this organ. The treatment involves the removal of every possible source of irritation. The constitutional meas- ures recommended in neuralgia in other parts of the body should be employed. Locally the galvanic current is especially indicated. If the urine is extremely acid and burning, benefit will be derived from the administration of large quantities of alkaline and diluent drinks. The Ueethea. Urethritis.—Inflammation of the urethra may be traumatic or idio- pathic, specific or non-specific, local or general. Among the more frequent causes of traumatic urethritis are direct violence from without, applied to the perinseum or penis ; violent and excessive sexual intercourse ; the introduction of instruments or corrosive substances; and the lodgment of foreign bodies carried in from without, or of vesical or prostatic cal- culi, etc. It is usually of short duration, mild in character, and involves only a limited portion of the canal. The treatment demanded is rest, the removal of the cause of the irritation, and the dilution of the urine by the exhibition of alkalies and diuretics. Specific urethritis (gonorrhoea) is a \aolently contagious disease affect- ing the mucous membrane of this canal, at times extending into the bladder and seminal vesicles, and along the vasa deferentia to the epi-