GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. 561 met with in individuals who suffer from acute or chronic nephritis. It is always fraught with great danger, demanding immediate relief, in the hope either of restoring the function of these organs at once, or of in- ducing a compensatory elimination of urea and the products of tissue- waste by the skin and mucous surfaces. The symptoms are unnatural dryness and heat of the skin; high febrile movement; quick, distended pulse; at times, headache ; pain in the lumbar region ; delirium, coma, and convulsions. These graver symp- toms are usually observed in the latter stages of complete suppression. If not relieved, the exhalations from the skin and air-passages have the odor of urine. Lastly, though not least in importance in diagnosis, is the absence of urine determined by catheterization. In all surgical operations the condition of the kidneys can not be too closely studied or too carefully watched. While nephritis, pyelitis, or any kidney lesion should not deter the surgeon from a necessary opera- tion, it should render his prognosis more guarded, and thus relieve him in great part from the responsibility of failure. The immediate indication in the treatment of suppression is chiefly to excite diaphoresis. Opium is a valuable remedy, for it not only relieves pain, which is at times intense, but excites perspiration. The steam- bath is also very useful, and should be given in the recumbent posture. A ready method is to generate the vapor in a tea-kettle and lead the steam under the bedclothes by a piece of tubing. Or hot water may be poured into a large vessel placed under the blanket which is next to the patient. Next to diaphoresis, mild purgation is advisable, although it should not be carried to the extent of exhaustion. The cautious employment of the muriate of pilocarpin is justifiable in extreme cases. The depress- ing effect of this drug upon the heart should not be overlooked. The dose should not be more than one twelfth of a grain, hypodermically, and repeated in half an hour if necessary. The hot-bath should be admin- istered at the same time. If there are no symptoms of acute nephritis, and if the kidneys do not resume their function within a few hours, diu- retics should be given. A decoction of scoparius, or extract of buchu, will be found useful. Operation for exploring the Kidney and for its Hemoval.—When the kidney becomes the seat of any disease which is progressive, and which, in the opinion of the surgeon, will immediately or remotely en- danger the life of the patient, operative interference is indicated. Exploration with the Aspirator-Needle.—In operations upon these organs the following anatomical points should be borne in mind: By reason of the large size of the liver, the right kidney occupies a position about one inch lower than the left; anteriorly it is partially overlapped by this organ ; its lower end is a little below the level of the umbilicus ; the ascending colon is in front. The left kidney has in front of it the descending colon ; the spleen at times may overlap its upper end; its lower end is a little above the level of the umbilicus. In exploring a diseased kidney percussion will serve to locate the colon so that it may be avoided. If fluctuation is present, the point at 36 , /