671 THE VESICUL^ SEMINALES. Little or no pain is experienced after the operation, and none in its per- formance. The ligature becomes encapsuled and remains harmless. In- flammation and suppuration are scarcely possible where the antiseptic de- tails are properly carried out. The tissues around and below the thread are indurated within a few hours, and remain so for a number of weeks, the coagulated blood undergoing gradual absorption. Recovery follows in a large proportion of cases. Catgut is not reliable as a ligature in this operation, on account of the danger of too rapid absorption. In one case I failed with this material, afterward effecting a cure with silk, which was employed at the suggestion of Prof. Keyes. Second Method—Ligature through an Open Wound.—Anaesthetize the patient, shave the parts thoroughly, and expose the cord by an in- cision several inches in length made along its anterior lateral aspect. Search for the vas deferens, which can be easily recognized after the skin is turned aside, by its cartilaginous feel; have this held to one side, and, with an aneurism-needle armed with good-sized catgut ligatures, tie the veins separately. In performing this operation it is advisable to leave one good-sized vein to convey the blood back from the testis, and to tie the others in several places. The wound should be closed with catgut, and a bone drain inserted. As stated before, this operation will only be justified in case of repeated failure by the former procedure. In very exceptional cases the scrotum may be so elongated that am- putation of the redundant portion is necessitated after the veins are tied. In performing this operation Henry's clamp (Fig. 663) will' be found of great service, which, if properly adjusted, allows the amputation to be made and the edges of the wound sewed with close silk sutures while the instrument is in position, thus avoiding all haemorrhage and the necessity for a single ligature in the line of amputation. If this instru- ment can not be obtained, the testicles may be pushed up into the rings and the amputation effected by cutting across the scrotum below the fingers of an assistant which, by grasping the tissues properly, control all bleeding. The VesiculcB Seminales and Vas Deferens.—The seminal vesicles are occasionally wanting, from failure of development, or from atrophy as a result of inflammation. Wounds of these organs are rare. If incised or punctured, temporary fistula may result, with subsequent atrophy. Inflammation of the vesiculse seminales occasionally occurs by exten-