456 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. whole length of the bronchus has been searched. If the foreign body is not found, it will be judicious to search in the opposite bronchus, for it is possible for it to have been dislodged in the course of the exiDloration, and carried by the respiratory effort into the trachea and down into the other tube. If proper forceps can not be obtained, a loop of silver wire may be used. The exploration of the trachea should be done with great care not to inflict unnecessary violence upon the mucous membrane. The search should not be prolonged more than from thirty minutes to one hour. If the body is removed, the wound may be left to heal by granulation, simply closing it with adhesive strips, or, if the patient has borne the ansesthetic well, it will be better to stitch the trachea with catgut, and the edges of the wound separately with the same substance. If the object is not found, the tracheal wound should be kept open by inserting a large trachea-tube, or by sewing the tracheal rings to the edges of the divided integument and keeping the wound open by tying the strings behind the neck. Figs. 522 and 523 exactly represent an air-gun dart which was lodged in the right bronchus of a boy twelve years old, who came under my care in 1884.* In the act of fllling his lungs to project the dart from the gun it was carried into the trachea. Spasm of the laryngeal muscles fol- lowed for a few moments, with marked cyanosis. After this there were no symptoms of disturbance beyond a slight cough. I performed tracheot- omy at the lowest point joossible, dis- lodged the body by forceps carried into the bronchus, when it was eject- ed during a violent paroxysm of coughing. The wound was left to close by granulation. Laryngectomy^ or exsection of the larynx, although a formidable operation, is, under certain conditions, justifiable. It may be partial or complete. According to Cohen's excellent article,! complete laryngec- tomy has been performed ninety-one times. The gravity of the procedure may be estimated from the fact that over one third of all the cases died within eight days of the operation. The conditions which justify the operation are, the invasion of this organ by malignant neoplasm, and, in rare instances, destructive chon- dritis, with infiltration and threatened occlusion of the respiratory tract. If, after a careful study of the case, the surgeon is convinced that there is a fair probability of relief from pain and prolongation of life by the removal of the diseased structures, greater than he would be likely to Fio. 522.—Dart, as it came from the bronchus. Fig. 523.—The same, before it entered. * " New York Medical Journal," November, 1884, p. 487. t Ashhurst's " Eacyclopsedia of Surgery," vol. v. William Wood & Co., New York.