719 GENU VALGUM. The -diagnosis rests upon tlie recognition of the symptoms just detailed, and the prognosis is generally favorable when judicious and persistent treatment is instituted. Constitutional remedies and mechanical appliances are indicated early in the disease, and opera- tive interference is justifiable when mechanical treatment can not effect a cure. The first indication is met in out-of-door life, good food, diversion, tonics, cod-liver oil, and the hypophosphites of lime and soda. The mechanical treatment should be insisted upon in all cases of chil- dren in which the deformity is not exaggerated, and should be persisted in for several years, if necessary. Any mechan- ism which is applicable in this deformity must afford a fixed point, opposite to and on the ex- ternal aspect of the region of the knee-joint, from which constant traction may be made. The appa- ratus of Prof. Sayre (Fig. 698) will be found of great use in meeting the chief indications. It consists of a pelvic belt of steel, padded so as not to excoriate, and a bar of steel hinged at the knee, and passing down from the belt to the sole of the shoe, where it is fastened, as in the long hip-splint already described. Opposite each knee, and just above and be- low the joints—in order to distribute the press- ure over a wider area, and thus prevent chafing or excoriations—are padded belts or bands which surround the limb ; these are attached to the side-bars, and may be tightened at will in exer- cising the required traction to overcome the deformity. Elastic tension by means of rubber bands or webbing may also be utilized in this man- ner. The hinges at the knees allow the patient to bend these joints in walking and when it is desired to assume the sitting posture. The instrument should be worn during the waking hours, and at night it win be advisable to make extension from both legs by Buck's method. The cost of this apparatus places it beyond the reach of many patients, and in this class of cases renders early operative interference more jus- tifiable. Osteotomy of the femur for the correction of chronic cases of genu valgum is an operation practically free from danger, and yields excel- lent results. The section should be made above the joint, and away from it a sufficient distance to avoid all danger of entering the articula- tion or injuring the epiphysis. Linear section should be preferred, since it is simpler than cuneiform osteotomy, and is equal to the correction of all cases excepting those in which there is extreme angularity at the seat of deformity. Such conditions rarely, if ever, occur in the femur. The older operations of Ogston, Reeves, Chiene, and Macewen, which in- volved the joint, are practically discarded. They are objectionable in this, that they invade the joint and endanger the functions of this im- Fio. 698.—Sayre's apparatus for the correction of knock-knee. (After Sayre.)