737 IN-GROWING NAIL. the fissures on the under surface. They are caused by friction of opposing surfaces and moisture. Bunions and hard corns are to be treated by relieving the unnatural pressure which caused them. Comfortably fitting, yet not necessarily loose shoes, of soft leather^ should be worn. Pieces of Canton flannel, cut into rings and laid upon each other so that the pressure will be dis- tributed to the surfaces near the corn, will be advisable, in simple cases, even when loose shoes are adopted. A small tuft of cotton dipped in vaseline will aid in softening the hard covering. Soft corns may be readily cured by inserting pellets of absorbent cotton moistened with borax dissolved in glycerine, and applied so as to protect the raw sur- faces and prevent friction. In-growing nail is one of the commonest affections of the feet, and is almost always met with in the great toe. The palliative treatment is to ■cut away portions of the nail near the inflamed surface and protect this by a small pellet of lint moistened in the borax and glycerine mixture. The employment of cocaine, however, enables the surgeon to remove the offending nail without a particle of pain, and in this way a permanent and radical cure is readily effected. I have performed this operation repeatedly after the following method: The foot and toes should be cleansed and thoroughly disinfected. An elastic ligature should be thrown around the toe, as close to the metatarsal junction as possible. The anaesthesia is effected by introducing the hypodermic needle of the ■cocaine-syringe beneath the skin on the dorsum of the toe, half an inch behind the nearest surface of the nail—i. e., just about the posterior bor- der of the matrix. Three or four drops of a 4-per-cent solution are forced out here and the needle pushed under the skin, to right and left, until from fifteen to twenty minims have been injected across the toe and on either side of the nail toward the tip of the toe. The line of this injec- tion is in the shape of a horseshoe. The needle should now be removed, and reinserted through the anaesthetized skin, and carried thence subcu- taneously until the anaesthesia is complete at all points around the nail. Forty minims of a 4-per-cent solution may be emj)loyed. In from three to five minutes insensibility is perfect. An incision is first made from the middle of the posterior margin of the nail directly backward for half an inch. A second incision across the top of the toe, extending as low down as the most inferior portion of the nail, on either side, uniting the perpendicular cut, gives the entire wound a T-shape. The two quadri- lateral flaps of skin are now dissected up, turned one to the right and ■one to the left side, and held away by the weight of an artery-forceps or Tjy retractors. The nail should next be split from before backward in the middle line, the incision extending through the matrix as far back as the transverse incision through the skin. Both halves and the matrix should be thoroughly extirj^ated, all granulation-tissue scraped out, and the foot dipped into a basin of warm sublimate solution, 1-2000. At this juncture the elastic tourniquet should be removed, and the wound allowed to bleed for a minute. By this means the excess of cocaine solu- tion is washed out of the tissues. The ligature should then be reapplied. 4T