584 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. cess of ulceration into the walls, and be partially or completely sur- rounded by a newly formed inflammatory tissue, or it may have been lodged in the ureter near its termination. Again, a stone may be caught in the upper portion of the bladder without being sacculated. In sounding for stone in adults, ether narcosis is not always required, especially where there are no symptoms of severe cystitis and tenesmus. In children an anaesthetic should always be em- ployed. When the calculus can not be felt after careful search, it is at times a successful expedient to introduce the finger into the rectum and make upward pressure upon the base of the bladder, and firm pressure downward upon the abdomen, just above the symphysis pubis. Vesical calculus may be suspected in a patient who has had renal colic, or has passed by the urethra particles of gravel, and afterward develops a cystitis. Not infrequently, however, a concretion goes from the kidney into the bladder without attracting the attention of the patient. If it'lodges here, and increases slowly in size, it may remain for months or years without giving any symptoms of cystitis, or marked annoyance. Usually, however, when a stone is present, and is so light and smooth that it does not affect the mucous membrane of the bladder, it attracts attention by mechanical interference with the escape of urine, dropping at times into the orifice of the urethra, and suddenly shutting off the flow during micturition. • When a stone, by reason of its size, weight, and roughness, begins to cause cystitis, frequent micturition is a prominent symptom. A burning or smarting pain, referred to the end of the penis, is a frequent symptom in this, as in idiopathic inflammation of this organ. At times the pain is referred to the scrotum, penis, uterus, and other organs, or along the nerve-tracts in the lower extremities. In any Jolting movement, as in riding on horseback, or in vehicles without springs, or in walking about, the pain is increased. Tenesmus is often violent toward the end of urina- tion, when the stone is grasped by the contracting bladder. The urine almost always contains pus, and blood is frequently present. Hsematuria, with calculus, occurs chiefly during the waking hours, when the patient is moving about. It is more apt to be met with in oxalate-of-lime calculi than in the other varieties. In the rare instances in which stone exists with villous growths of the bladder, haemorrhage is often excessive. When a calculus is of large size, it may by pressure produce pain and symptoms of disturbance in other organs, as the vagina, uterus, or rec- tum. The size and character of a stone in the bladder may, in a measure, be determined by exploration with the sound, as well as by palpation. A large stone is usually felt as soon as the sound enters the neck of the bladder. The sense of resistance is greater, and a fair idea of its proportions may be made out by passing the metallic sound along its surfaces. A small stone is often with difiiculty recognized. Pressure above the symphysis pubis, and intra-vaginal or rectal exploration, are not without value in estimating the size of a calculus. If the click of the sound is sharp and clear, and if the surface is rough and grating to the sense of touch conveyed along the instrument, an oxalate-of-lime stone