132 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Fig. 198. Fir,. 199. point always in contact with, the periosteum, so that the vessels may be avoided. After the bones are sawn through, the lower flap is turned into position and suitably trimmed. The vessels are next secured, the sutures applied, and the drainage-tubes brought out at each side. At the Tarso-Metatarsal Articulation—First Metatarsal.—Amputa- tion of the great toe, with disarticulation of its metatarsal bone at the tarsal joint, is effected as follows : At a point about half an inch behind the articulation of the metatarsal bone with the internal cuneiform, and immediately between the dorsal and internal lateral aspects of this bone, commence an incision which is carried forward to the phalangeal junction. Thence it is continued around the base of the toe, across its plantar sur- face, and back through the web between the first and second digits, and back to the end of the straight incision over the metatarso-jDhalangeal joint (Fig. 198). Dissect the soft parts closely from the bone, taking care not to wound the plantar vessels, and disarticulate. The preservation of the posterior portion of the first metatarsal bone is always desirable, on account of its giving insertion to the peroneus-longus and partially to the tibialis-anticus muscle, the former being a strong supporter of the trans- verse arck of the foot, and the latter offering the chief resistance to the sural muscles. Fif til Metatarsal.—One fourth of an inch behind the tubercle of the fifth metatarsal, and over the center of the dorsal aspect of this bone, commence an incision, which is carried directly forward until near the first phalanx, when an oval is described around the base of the little toe (Fig. 199). Keep close to the bone in the dissection. The disarticulation is more easily effected by division of the peroneus brevis and peroneus tertius, and by entering the articulation from the outer side. The importance of the posterior portion of this bone is less than that of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, but it should never be needlessly sacrificed. One or more of the intervening metatarsal bones may be removed in ah amputation of their respective toes in practically the same manner as the preceding. The incision should be begun far enough behind the tarso-nietatarsal joint to thoroughly expose the ligaments and facilitate disarticulation—not an easy process when only a single bone is to be removed. The incision should be made exactly along the middle line of the dorsal aspect.