THE JAWS. 425 toses. The differentiation of these growths is extremely difficult, and, when doubt exists as to the character of the neoplasm, an exploratory operation for the purpose of positive diagnosis should be made. This is done by applying the trephine as just given. Non-malignant new formations may be removed by an osteoplastic operation, while malignant growths often require the sacrifice of the entire upper Jaw. Osteoplastic Operation for Removal of Benign Tumor from the An- trum of Highmore—LangenbecTc's Procedure.—From the junction of the wing of the nose with the lip an incision is carried outward parallel with the level of the teeth, and is made to divide the soft parts to the bone as far as the center of the malar prominence, where it is curved up- ward and inward, ending a quarter of an inch below the outer angle of the orbit. This is joined by a second incision, which is commenced about a quarter of an inch below the level of the orbit at the suture between the nasal bone and the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and is car- ried outward parallel with the lower margin of the orbital cavity. The tissues must not be lifted from the periosteum within this curved incision. The haemorrhage, which is always sharp, being arrested, with a blunt instrument carefully lift the eye from the floor of the orbital cavity until the finger can be carried into the anterior portion of the spheno-maxillary fissure. With this as a guide, insert a small, strong key-hole saw into the fissure and divide the ma- lar bone outward in the line of the incision (see Fig. 498). In moving the saw, keep the blade perpendicular, and limit the motion so that the point may not penetrate the temporal fossa and wound the vessels. Next insert the saw in the lower horizontal incision and divide the supe- rior maxilla into the cavity of the antrum and nose. In sawing on this line, keep the mouth Fig. 498. open and the finger inserted behind the palate to prevent the point of the instrument from penetrating too far back. The nasal process of the superior maxilla is now divided with a chisel at a point half way between the inferior orbital foramen and the inner angle of the orbit. The cutting-edge of the chisel should be directed slightly outward for fear of injuring the lachrymo-nasal duct. The lines of sec- tion in the bones are shown in Fig. 498. The point of exit of the infra- orbital nerve should be found and this branch of the trifacial divided at the foramen. An elevator is now placed in the fissure made by the saw through the malar bone and the mass dislocated inward, hinging on the undivided soft tissues. This force fractures the floor of the orbit and opens widely the antrum of Highmore. When the operation is finished, the bone is neatly replaced and the edges of the wound accurately ad- justed. Drainage may be secured through the wound, or a hole may be drilled through the edge of the alveolus. This same operation is advis- able in section of the second branch of the fifth nerve and extirpation of Meckel's ganglion. When the ganglion is the objective point, it may be