A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 62 submerged in a 5-per-cent carbolic-acid solution. The skin at the point to be punctured should be washed with sublimate solution and ether, and the needle pushed in so as not to wound any vessels or nerves. If it has entered the cavity, upon withdrawing the piston the pus will escape into the chamber. The fluid, if any doubt exist, should then be placed under the microscope. As the needle is withdrawn, the wound should be covered with sublimate gauze, held in place with a roller or adhesive strip. In cold abscess the inflammatory and septic phenomena are absent, and fluctuation may or may not be appreciable. Aspiration will deter- mine the character of the swelling. Treatment.—When an acute abscess, either circumscribed or diffuse, exists, it should be freely evacuated, and the sooner the better. When the abscess is situated in a portion of the body where there are no impor- tant vessels or organs in danger of being wounded, a sharp-pointed, curved bistoury should be carried through the wall, and the cavity opened by cutting outward. These minor operations may be done with cocaine anaesthesia. In the neck or other vascular regions, or where an abscess complicates a hernia or other important viscus, a careful dissec- tion should be made from without inward. The point of greatest impor- tance is to have the opening or openings in such a position that the drainage will be from the mast dependent portion of the cavity. In cutting down upon an abscess it is often necessary to insert a small-sized aspirator-needle and determine the exact distance to the pus. The needle should be left in place as a guide. In some of these cases, in order to avoid haemorrhage, a very good use may be made of the ordi- nary dressing-forceps, by closing the jaws of the instrument and pushing it through the tissues into the pus, and then stretching the puncture thus made by forcibly separating the handles. As soon as an abscess is opened the nozzle of the irrigator should be introduced, and the cavity well washed out with sublimate (1 to 3,000). After this rubber drains should be inserted, and a thick dressing of subli- mate gauze applied. When an abscess occurs in parts of the body where it is desirable to avoid leaving a scar, as the neck or face, and where the symptoms of sepsis are not marked, a cure may be effected by means of the aspirator. For this operation the instrument represented in Fig. 123 is preferable. It consists of a syringe, with a glass cylinder, armed with a double tip, a stop-cock, and two adjustable rubber tubes—to one of which the needle is tightly screwed. When about to be used, the apparatus should be thoroughly cleansed in 1 to 20 carbolic-acid solution, and, if the needle has been used in any suspicious matter, it should be heated to a red heat over a spirit-lamp, and cooled off in 1 to 20 carbolic-acid solution. The method of hyper-distention of an abscess with an antiseptic fluid was first prominently brought before the profession by Mr. Callender. The cylinder should be filled Avith the solution, and then, while holding the needle upward so that any air which may have entered by accident will escape first, the contents should be forced out until only about one third of the