657 DIAGNOSIS OF SYPHILIS. ing tissues, nor to the integument. Eacli body may be distinctly made out by palpation and moved beneath the skin independently. There is no tenderness, and the gland is leathery to the touch. Even when the sore is mixed, if the phagedenic or inflammatory process is not severe, the adenitis is more apt to be specific than inflammatory, and will pos- sess the features of syphilitic bubo in a sufficient degree to admit of recognition. When the specific infection is complicated with a typical phagedenic ulcer or gonorrhoea, the resulting bubo does not possess a single appreciable feature of syphilitic adenitis. The eruption of syphilis is, of all the symptoms of this disease, the most reliable. When the sore is mixed, and the character of the ade- nitis doubtful, the early cutaneous and mucous lesions are, in the vast majority of cases, appreciable and unmistakable. Headache, rise in tem- perature, pains in the back, etc., are confirmatory symptoms, but inde- pendently of no value. The same may be said of dryness or soreness of the mouth, pharynx, and fauces. Lastly, general adenitis, which occurs in a varying degree in all cases of syphilis in which mercurialization has not been efl'ected at a very early date, is a strong confirmatory symptom, and of great value in diagnosis if all the other lesions have escai:)ed ob- servation. The greatest importance is attached to induration of the epitrochlear, and to the occipital and post-mastoid glands. The former can scarcely be recognized in their normal state. In general adenitis a single body, feeling like a small bean in shape, may be recognized at the inner aspect of the arm just above the elbow, where it lies superficial, and internal to the basilic vein. When any inflammatory process exists in the member beyond the elbow, the enlarged gland possesses no spe- cific diagnostic value. In like manner lesions of the scalp, face, or mouth may cause enlargement of the occipital or mastoid lymphatic glands. A diagnosis of syphilis in the tertiary period must depend upon a careful study of the history of the case and the presence of one or more of the lesions which belong to this stage, and which have been fully de- scribed. Prognosis.—A favorable prognosis in syphilis will depend upon—1, the physical condition of the individual affected at the time of inocula- tion ; 2, the recognition of the disease within the first two or three months after the appearance of the ulcer; 3, the faithful and energetic co-operation of the physician and patient in carrying out the measures to be given. That syphilis is a curable disease there can be no doubt. Under favorable conditions the symptoms disappear, leaving little or no trace of the infection. In common with all diseases, its severe or fatal results are seen in patients with an inherited or acquired dyscrasia, and in those whose nutrition is seriously impaired. Even in the worst class of cases the prognosis is not wholly unfavorable if proper treatment is instituted and maintained. The recognition of the disease and the institution of treatment at the time of, or immediately after, the appearance of the eruption, is impor- 42