77 WOUNDS. clothing intervenes, the venom is likely to be in part arrested, and the effect less severe. Pain of a sharp or stinging character is usually felt in the wound. Fright or shock may mask this symptom. Swelling rapidly ensues, and in rattlesnake-bite ecchymosis is not uncommon. The swelling extends in all directions, but is most marked in the line of the lymphatics toward the center. Headache, fever, rigors, irregular breathing, and a low, fee- ble pulse, with nausea, may be present. Adenitis, abscess, or sloughing usually occur. If death does not ensue, the case may terminate favor- ably in two or three days, or last for weeks and months. Treatment.—The immediate indication is the removal of the venom. Labial suction is an efficient method, and may be safely practiced, pro- vided that there is no abrasion on the lips or contiguous mucous sur- faces. Inoculation is more dangerous about the mouth and neck than elsewhere, since the great swelling may close the trachea or larynx. Next in order of readiness is free and immediate excision of the tissues within a radius of half or three fourths of an inch from the puncture, or free incisions may be made so that the flow of blood may wash the venom out. Permanganate of potassium is probably the best chemical, and whisky (or alcohol in some other form) the best physiological antidote. Dr. de Lacerda,* of Brazil, recommends the immediate injection in and around the wound of a 1-per-cent (gr. v to 5 j) solution of the permanganate in water, and also an intra-venous injection if the venom has had time to enter the circulation. Dr. Robert Fletcher f states that Richards, of Cal- cutta, after repeating Lacerda's experiments, recommends a 5-per-cent solution in cobra-poison ; 3 j to 3 iv of a solution, varying from gr. v to gr. X to water § j, would be about the safest treatment for rattlesnake- venom ; and the weaker solutions for copper-head and moccasin bites. It must not be forgotten that this salt is toxic in overdoses. Vulpian pro- duced death in a small dog with an injection of gr. vij. Whisky, or any form of alcohol, is a favorite cardiac stimulant, and may be taken in adults in large quantities without intoxication. Care must be taken in administering alcohol to children, since it has occasionally proved fatal. When great swelling occurs, and gangrene is threatened on account of tension, free incisions or punctures should be made. The venom of some of the lizard family, as the Gila monster:}: {Helo- derma s uspectum) and the toad * {Bufo tiulgaris), also possesses toxic properties. The treatment should be about the same as given above for serpent-venom, though not quite so energetic. Venom introduced with the sting of the scorpion not infrequently causes death in the Orient, although the sting of the North American scorpion is not dangerous. I have failed to hear of a death from this * " Gazette des liopitaux," 1881, pp. 597 and 891. Also, a valuable paper by Dr. H. C. Yar- row, "American Journal of the Medical Sciences," April, 1884. t "American Journal of the Medical Sciences," July, 1883. I Mitchell and Reichert, "Medical Fews," Philadelphia, 1883. * " Gazette des hopitaux," 1881, p. 598.