A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 568 to the peritonaeum and pelvic fascia. An acute cystitis ending in rapid recovery rarely leads to hypertrophy or thickening of the walls of the bladder. In chronic cystitis thickening is the rule. Hypertrophy of the bladder may be true or false. In true hypertrophy the thickening is caused by an increase of the muscular elements of the organ ; in false hypertrophy it is due to new-formed connective tissue, which has in great part taken the place of the muscular fibers. When the walls are thickened and the cavity is smaller than normal, the hypertrophy is called concentric; when the cavity is increased and the walls thickened, eccentric. Cystitis may be caused by a blow upon the lower portion of the ab- domen, or in the perineal or ischio-rectal region, or by the direct con- tact of an instrument or any liquid or solid substance carried into the cavity of the bladder. Inflammation of this organ always exists with calculus. It may become involved by extension of an inflammatory process from the urethra or prostate, from the vagina, the kidneys, or "ureters. Certain abnormal conditions of the urine, excessive indulgence in drinking or eating, the pressure of another organ or a neoplasm, or the presence of a new formation or parasites within the cavity or in the walls of this viscus {Bilharzia hcematoMa), etc., may also produce cys- titis. To these various causes may be added stricture of the urethra or the prolonged retention of urine. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—Pain, and a desire to urinate frequently, are the earliest signs of acute cystitis. The character of the pain is burning as felt in the bladder and deep urethra, and lancinating as re- ferred to the meatus. It often increases with the close of the effort at urination, developing into marked tenesmus as the last few drops are forced out. It is exaggerated by direct pressure upon the abdomen, in the perinseum, rectum, or vagina. The febrile movement varies with the severity of the disease. A well- marked chill or a succession of rigors may occur with the rise in tem- perature and be present at various times in the progress of the disease. Microscopical examination of the urine will reveal the presence of epi- thelia and pus-corpuscles in varying quantity. The urine is usually alkaline, and, aside from all diseases of the kidneys, will contain a cer- tain proportion of albumen, which is always found when this fluid is mixed with pus. In severe and unusual cases, shreds of bladder-tissue may be voided with the urine. Treatment.—Rest in bed, and in that position which gives the fullest sense of comfort to the patient, is essential. When the inflammation is confined to the neck and anterior portion of the floor of the bladder, it is advisable to elevate the foot of the bed" from four to six inches, and to place a pillow under the patient's hips. By these means the intes- tines and other organs are carried by gravity away from the diseased viscus, and at the same time the urine is to some extent distributed over a wider and less inflamed surface. Morphine is invaluable in the alleviation of pain and the enforcement of quiet. Hot or cold applications—as found most agreeable to the pa-