219 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. have been already detailed will serve as a guide to proper differentiation. Ditficnlty may arise, even after the aneurismal character of the swelling has been recognized, in determining from what vessel the tumor springs. As has been said, the progress of aortic aneurism gives rise to pulsation and pressure symptoms, located in the thorax for a considerable period prior to the approach or appearance of the tumor at the root of the neck. In fact, aneurism of the aorta, in many instances, produces death before it attains such magnitude. On the right side, this knowledge will aid materially in recognizing the seat of the lesion, and, fortunately, aneu- rism of the arch and subclavian occurs most often on this side of the body. The differentiation of aneurism of the thoracic portion of the left artery, from the same lesion of the arch, near the origin of the subclavian, is somewhat more difficult. When the tumor involves the subclavian its appearance in the neck is more rapid than in aortic aneurism, while in- terference with the return circulation in the arm, which may appear early in the history of subclavian aneurism, is rare when the aorta is the seat of this lesion. Again, in aneurism of the second or third portion of the arch, which does not involve the subclavian, the pulse-wave in the left radial wiU be of equal force and synchronous with that of the right side. The treatment of subclavian aneurism is a subject of great importance, and one which, from a study of a number of cases, has led to great diver- sity of opinion and practice. The methods may be divided into the surgical; the postural, medical, and dietetic ; and the palliative or expectant. The employment of any of these means will, again, be in great part determined by the portion of the artery involved in the disease. The surgical treatment comprises the ligature on the cardiac or distal side ; compression on the distal side, or applied directly to the sac ; and massage. The innominate artery has been tied on account of subclavian aneu- rism seventeen times with sixteen deaths. The operators and results were as follows : V. Mott, died twenty-sixth day, haemorrhage from distal side. Gfraefe, died sixty-seventh day, haemor- rhage from distal side of ligature. Norman, died third day, haemorrhage. Arendt, eighth day, pneumonia. Hall, fifth day, exhaustion and venesec- tion. Bland, eighteenth day, haemorrhage from distal side of ligature. Lizars, twenty-second day, haemorrhage from distal side. Gore, seven- teenth day, haemorrhage from cardiac side of ligature. Cooper, eighth day. Cooper, thirty-fourth day, haemorrhage. Pirogoff, two days, jDneumonia. A. B. Mott, twenty-third day, haemorrhage, sac burst into pleura. Bick- ersteth, sixth day, haemorrhage from distal side of ligature. Thomson, forty-second day, haemorrhage from distal side of ligature. Smyth, recov- ered, after ligature of innominate and carotid at first operation, and the vertebral fifty-four days later, to arrest violent bleeding. This patient died, ten years later, from haemorrhage from the sac of the old aneurism. Thomson, died forty-second day, exhaustion from repeated haemorrhage from distal side of ligature. Bull, thirty-third day, haemorrhage from proximal side of ligature on thirtieth and thirty-third days ; right carotid and vertebral also tied at same time with the innominate.