A TEXT-BOOK ON SFRGERY. T14 iliac crest than on the sound side, a condition which does not exist when the anchylosis is simply due to muscular contractions. On account of muscular rigidity the exact condition of anchylosis can not usually be determined without ether narcosis. A certain degree of mobility is present as a rule. Treatment.—When the malposition is such that usefulness is im- paired, or comfort interfered with, an effort to relieve the deformity by operation is justifiable, provided that all local inflammatory symptoms are absent and that the general condition of the patient is such that no risk is incurred by the procedure. Under ordinary conditions the opera- tion is not attended with danger. In osteotomy at the hip for the relief of deformity three procedures may be entertained : Section of the neck of the femur, just above the great trochanter (Adams, Pig, 691); the inter-trochanteric section of Sayre (Fig. 692); or the sub-trochanteric operation of Gant (Fig. 693). Tig. 691.—Adams's line of sec- Fig. 692.—Sayre's inter-trochan- Fig. 693.—Gant's sub-trochanterio tion. (After Poore.) teric line of section. line of section. (After Poore.) The objections to Adams's line of section is that often, on account of dis- appearance of the head and neck of the bone, it is impossible ; and, sec- ondly and chiefly, if disease has existed at the joint, this line of section is so near the old seat of osteo-arthritis that the process of inflammation may be re-established. In anchylosis, without osteo-arthritis at the hip, it is to be preferred. In the vast majority of cases. Grant's section—just at the lower portion of the lesser trochanter—is preferable. The objects to be accomplished are, a section of the bone at this point at a right angle to the axis of the shaft, rotation of the femur into its normal posi- tion, and abduction. 8ub-trochanteric Osteotomy at the Hip.—The patient is placed on the sound side, so that the femur to be divided is well exposed. The strict details of antisepsis should be carried out. The upper surface of the great trochanter is felt, and the femur grasped between the thumb and finger. Upon the outer portion of the