A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. T02 Spinal abscess is usually single, occasionally double. AATien occur- ring in the upper dorsal region it may be arrested by the diaphragm, or pass behind this into the sheath or fascia of the psoas muscle. Abscess in ostitis of the bodies almost always travels downward on one or the other side of the antero-lateral aspect of the spine. When the articular processes or laminae are involved, the i)us may penetrate the dorsal mus- cles and point posteriorly. In occipito-cervical or upper cervical spondylitis, the pus collection often appears at the posterior wall of the pharynx {retropTiaryngeal abscess), where it may be recognized by inspection or digital exploration. Interference with deglutition and phonation is not infrequent. The con- tents of an abscess resulting from destructive ostitis of the cervical ver- tebrae may also descend along the deep fascia of the neck and pass into the thorax or the mediastinum. In this manner it occasionally finds its way into the pericardium. Amyloid changes of the viscera are among the late symptoms of chronic spondylitis. Diagnosis.—In general the recognition of the disease will depend upon a history in accordance with most of the symptoms just detailed. As to the portion of the column involved, the appreciation of localized pain by direct or indirect pressure is an indication of value. When the efferent nerves are involved by pressure from the products of inflamma- tion, certain disturbances in their course or distribution are of diagnostic importance. Spasm of the larynx, pharynx, diaphragm, pain down the arm, etc., naturally attract attention to the points of exit of the nerves supplying these parts. When tenderness in the region of the psoas muscles is evidenced by habitual indisposition to extend the thighs, lumbar ostitis may be suspected. When the gibbosity is recognized, a diagnosis is no longer doubtful. The early recognition of abscess in the abdominal region is possible only by palpation under profound narcosis. If the articular processes are diseased, bending of the spinal column backward will increase the pain. Placing the patient on the abdomen, with the head and lower extremities depressed, wUl diminish it. When the bodies and intervertebral disks are involved, bending the spine back- ward will relieve the pressure symptoms. Treatment.—In the mechanical treatment the indications are to se- cure fixation of the spinal column in the position of least discomfort to the patient. Judicious medication, good food, and pure air are the indications in the constitutional treatment. The character of the mech- anism to be used will depend in good part upon the portion of the vertebral column involved. It is essential, in order that any apparatus may fully meet the indications, that not only shall the diseased bones and the healthy tissues be held practically immovable, but the super- incumbent weight must in whole or part be lifted. Fixation may be accomplished by any form of well-adjusted apparatus, but lifting the weight of the body, which is above the seat of disease, is a more difficult undertaking.