THE URETHRA—STRICTURE. .619 usually begins from within, but may originate in the deeper tissues of the penis and involve the urethra secondarily. In a typical case there is first an increased vascularity of the submu- cous area, followed by emigration of leucocytes and cell-proliferation. The lining membrane becomes puffy and swollen, and the diameter of the canal is diminished. As the acute inflammation subsides, the puffi- ness disappears, but the caliber of the tube is again diminished by the contraction which takes place in the newly formed connective-tissue ele- ments (cicatrization). Causes.—Among the causes of stricture, specific urethritis ranks first, and it is highly probable that the precedence which gonorrhoea enjoys in the aetiology of stricture is due rather to the improper management of the urethritis than to the efl'ects of the inflammation proper. The employment of corrosive and irritating injections, the introduction of instruments (syringe-nozzles, bougies, etc.) upon an inflamed surface, to- gether with the unnecessary exposure of the person in the uninterrupted pursuit of business or pleasure, combine to make gonorrhoea one of the most dangerous of the venereal diseases. Any violence inflicted upon the urethra, either from without, as by a blow upon the perinseum or penis, or from within, as by the reckless use of instruments, the lodgment of calculi or other foreign bodies, may also cause a stricture. Chancroidal ulcer within the meatus is a rare cause of this lesion. Certain medicines, as cahtharides, if administered in large doses and for a prolonged period, induce inflammation of the urinary tract, and thus may cause stricture. Location.—The most frequent seat of organic stricture is in that portion of the urethra limited behind by the compressor-urethrse mus- cle, and in front by the suspensory ligament at the junction of the penile with the perineal urethra. Next in order is the first inch within the meatus. Stricture in the prostatic portion is rare. As stated in the consideration of diseases of the prostate, it may occur in general hyper- trophy of this organ. Diagnosis.—The symptoms of stricture are a gleety discharge, inter- ference with the escape of urine or semen, and pain. A, muco-purulent discharge continuing for several months is almost ]3athognomonic of this lesion, and justifies exploration in order to determine the presence of stricture. Interference with the escape of urine from the bladder when atony of this organ and hypertrophy of the prostate are eliminated, are also symptoms of importance. A twisted or forked stream, when not of diminished volume, has no significance, for this may exist with a jDer- fectly normal canal. Pain is not often a symptom of organic stricture, but, when present, is not without value as an indication of localized in- flammation. No matter what symptoms may exist, a diagnosis can only be arrived at by instrumental exploration, which can be done without pain, and by which means the exact location and character of the stricture can be made positive.