GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. 565 iabitual retention of urine, and, at the same time, some form of intestinal hernia. The bladder becomes top-heavy and flabby, and readily pro- lapses into the patulous inguinal or femoral canal, as the case may be. The diagnosis is evident if the tumor diminishes with the evacuation of the organ by catheterization, and becomes distended by injection through the urethra. If it should become strangulated, aspiration with the finest needle, and microscopic examination of the fluid withdrawn, will confirm the diagnosis of cystocele. Treatment.—Hernia of the bladder should be reduced by taxis, and prevented from recurrence by a truss. If it should become strangulated, and gangrene occur, an incision should be made, and the wound treated antiseptically. A fistula resulting from this practice will close by granu- lation, or can be cured by a subsequent operation. Wounds.—A solution of continuity in the v/alls of the bladder may be caused by penetration from without, as in the case of a shot- or stab- wound, by rupture from over-distention, by violent concussion, or by direct injury from displaced fragments of bone in fractures of the pel- vis. Penetrating wounds of the bladder are rare, not only on account of the protection afforded by the pelvic bones, but because its usual condi- tion is that of only partial distention. This is especially true of wounds received in military practice, since soldiers going into action almost in- variably empty this organ. The diagnosis of a penetrating wound of the bladder depends upon the escape of urine through the opening, or the sudden appearance of blood or particles of clothing, or other foreign matter, in the urine. Shock is usually profound. Haemorrhage is not severe, unless some of the iliac arteries or their larger branches are involved. The prognosis is always grave, though not necessarily fatal. The immediate danger is from haemorrhage and shock. Peritonitis is in- evitable if the wound is above the attachment of this membrane to the bladder. If below this line, the infiltration will lead to pelvic cellulitis. The indications in treatment are to arrest haemorrhage, and to prevent infiltration and sepsis by free incision and drainage. When the large vessels of the pelvis are wounded, an effort should be made to arrest the bleeding by compression and the ligature. If extravasation of urine into the cavity of the peritonaeum has taken place, the abdomen should be opened and thoroughly irrigated with warm Thiersch's solution. If this is not convenient, warm sublimate solution, 1 to 20000, may be employed, or warm water. The entire cavity should be filled with the fluid, and should afterward be thoroughly dried out with clean, soft sponges. In a case which came under my observation, the bladder was wounded at its summit, and urine escaped freely into the cavity of the peritonaeum. The abdomen was flooded with l-to-20000 sublimate solution, and carefully sponged out. The patient recovered without a symptom of peritonitis. In this case the edges of the incision in the linea alba were held open by retractors, and the warm solution poured in from a pitcher.