97 GANGRENE. ing. Either of these methods should take the place of the old practice of burning such ulcers with escharotics. Supporting the edges of-the sore with well-adjusted strips of diachylon plaster is also a commendable practice. The strips should be cut about three fourths of an inch wide, and crossed in a spiral manner (Fig. 153). Irritable ulcers require rest and soothing applications. Iodoform- vaseline ointment (3 J to § j) will be found of value. It should be applied on soft canton-tlannel or lint, and not strapped down tightly. The con- stitutional treatment of all patients suffering from ulcers is of first im- portance. Gangrene is death of a part of the body from the gradual or sudden arrest of its nutrition. It is usually applied to the process of mortifica- tion in the softer structures. The analogous condition of bone is called necrosis. Animal tissues have two modes of dying—the one is molecu- lar^ or death by granular metamorphosis, in which no trace of the ana- tomical or histological properties of the tissues remains; the other is death in hulk, in which, although the tissues deprived of life undergo rapid decomposition and ultimate disintegration, they retain for a time something of their original form. It is to denote this last variety of tis- sue-death that the term gangrene is employed. There are three varieties—namely, the acute, or moist; the chronic, senile, or dry; and the contagious, phagedenic, or hospital gangrene. Acute Gangrene.—The chief cause of moist gangrene is the sudden obstruction of the afferent or elferent vessels of a part. Whether the artery is alone occluded, as by an embolus, the ligature, or an accidental solution of its continuity ; or whether the venous current is arrested while the artery is permeable ; or whether the arrest in both systems is simultaneous, as by the constriction of a finger with a ring, or in the case of a strangulated hernia—the part beyond the lesion is charged with blood which, arrested in its flow, loses its vitality and takes an early part in the work of decomposition which ensues. When an artery is obliterated, the vitality of the tissues on the perijjh- eral side of the occlusion depends upon the integrity of the collateral cir- culation. If the occlusion is gradual, the enlargement of the collateral branches is usually sufiicient to carry the necessary supply of blood. There is scarcely a point in the arterial system where a collateral route may not be established, provided that the process of obliteration is not too sudden, and that the blood has not, by reason of constitutional dis- turbance, been deprived of its nutritive properties. When these condi- tions do not prevail, mortification ensues with a rapidity proportionate to the partial or total arrest of nutrition. Pallor is the immediate and earliest symptom of arterial obstruction, followed by coldness of the skin, and pain, which is usually not acute. Beginning in the parts farthest removed from the heart, the phenomena of death extend toward the center until the border-line is reached between the living and dying tissues. Congestion and swelling are not marked features of arterial gangrene. The normal contractility of the tissues, an elevated position, a,nd the influence of the return current in veins with which those of the 7