HEMATOMA—PERIORCHITIS AND PERISPERMATITIS. 663 EpWielioma is more frequently seen than either of the foregoing neoplasms, and calls for immediate excision. Fistulce, or sinuses of the scrotum, may be caused by abscess of the tunica vaginalis testis, or by any lesion of the testicle. Abscess of the perinseum or urinary fistula may also cause fistula of the scrotum. Stony concretions are occasionally met with in fistulse of the scrotum through which the urine makes its escape. The treatment should be directed to a relief of the cause of the fis- tulous tracks. If tliis is accomplished, the sinuses should be laid open and allowed to close by granulation. HcBmatoma.—Extravasation of blood may occur either in the tunica funiculi, in the tunica vaginalis testis, or in both. In the former it may be diffuse or circumscribed. It is usually diffuse, the extravasation ex- tending from the abdominal opening to the epididymis. When only a portion of the sheath is involved, the hsematoma is generally confined to the upper segment. The chief causes of extravasation are rupture of one or more vessels by direct traumatism, or by over-distention from j^rolonged strain, which retards the return circulation, causing rupture of a vein. Hsematoma of the tunica vaginalis testis is rare, except as a compli- cation of chronic jperiorcliitis serosa (hydrocele) or direct violence. The diagnosis of ha^matoma in either of these positions depends upon its sudden development, the tendency to enlarge progressively, and pain from the sudden distention. The tumor is not translucent. The exact nature may be determined by aspiration. Serous effusion (hydrocele) into the sheath of the cord or testis pro- gresses slowly and painlessly. The tumor is translucent. Exploration with the hypodermic needle and syringe is a safe, painless, and positive means of diagnosis. Hernia may be eliminated by a consideration of the history of the case and the absence of impulse in the tumor upon coughing. Treatment.—Hsematocele may be, treated by the expectant method, or by surgical interference. Simple and limited extravasation requires rest in the dorsal decu- bitus, and the ice-bag locally. After the haemorrhage is arrested, absorp- tion may be expedited by Judicious and well-applied pressure by strap- ping. When the extravasation is extensive, an incision should be made under strict antisepsis, the clot turned out, the bleeding-point ligated, drainage secured, and the wound closed. Death has followed in some instances where operative procedure has been too long delayed. PeriorcMtis and Perispermatitis.—Inflammation of the serous in- vestments of the spermatic cord and testicle may be circumscribed or difi'use. An inflammation commencing from a lesion of the external or scrotal layer usually involves the entire does the similar process beginning on the visceral reflection of the tunica. Perispermatitis may be acute or chronic. A type of the acute in- flammation is seen in severe forms of epididymitis, or as the result of direct violence. The transudation of serum may be limited, and, as in