A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 740 exsection of a portion of the sound bone and reunion of the divided sur- faces by wire sutures might be entertained. Club-Hand.—Distortions of the hand, not unlike those already de- tailed as occurring in the foot, yet far less common, may be met with. The deformity may be at the wrist-joint, in the intercarpal or carpo- metacarpal articulations, and may be due to failure of development in the bones of the forearm or hand, to muscular paralysis, to fracture, dislocations, or cicatricial contractions. In the congenital deficiencies, the radius is more often wanting, or only partially developed, allowing the hand to be carried toward the ra- dial side. The carpus is occasionally deficient. Not infrequently the congenital cases are symmetrical, and the lower extremities are also in- volved. The muscles are deficient in some of these cases of osseous maKorma- tion. The usual condition in paralysis is that of flexion of the carpus and metacarpus upon the forearm. This variety is termed 'palmar ; the opposite, dorsal club - hand. When the displacement is lateral it is called radial or ulnar, as the hand is carried outward or inward. As in club-foot, there are compound forms of club-hand. As to frequency in the congenital types, the radius being chiefly at fault, the radial distortion is most frequent. When from any cause the equilibrium between the muscles is impaired, the hand is usually flexed upon the forearm, and the condition is known as palmar club-hand. With this there may be radio-palmar or ulno-palmar deformity. Fracture of the radius (Colles's), or epiphyseal separation, may induce a mild form of radial club-hand. Unreduced dislocations will, of course, cause deformity. Deformities due to cicatricial contraction, as after burns (Fig. 148), extensive phlegmons, etc., are occasionally met with. The treatment of all these different varieties of club-hand will depend upon the particular cause. In the worst form of congenital deformity, amputation at or shortly after birth should be performed. Other and milder cases may be improved by mechanical apparatus constructed to meet the indications. In muscular paralysis the same general rules of practice as laid down in club-foot due to this cause should be followed. Tenotomy may be necessary. The extensors may be subcutaneously divided about the middle of the metacarpal bones. The flexors slightly above the wrist- joint. The lateral deformities also will justify in some cases division of the contracting muscles. The rule to be followed is to do subcutaneous tenotomy when the tendon to be divided is far enough away from any important nerve or vessel to allow a perfectly safe and sure division of the tendon ; if not, the tendons should be exposed by incision under strict antisepsis, and each one picked up on an aneurism-needle and divided in plain view. The propriety of breaking up adhesion in anchylosis with malposition, or of resection, should be determined by the condition of the parts and of the patient, and the necessities of the case.