662 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. with catgut sutures, the edges of the opening in the tunica should be included. A small bone or catgut drain should be inserted into the cavity and emerge at the lower angle of the incision. Contusions should be treated by rest in the horizontal posture, cold applications and mechanical support beneath the posterior aspect of the scrotum. (Edema of the scrotum occurs with general anasarca and with ascites. The integument is tense, pale, and doughy ; pits upon pressure, and, after puncture with the hypodermic needle, a clear, watery serum es- capes. Besides the indications for constitutional treatment directed to the disease proper, puncture with the lancet in several points will tem- porarily relieve the tension and danger of gangrene. Eczema and other cutaneous lesions of the scrotum do not demand especial consideration. The same general principles of treatment apply with equal force to all the cutaneous surface. The prognosis is unfavor- able on account of the irritation to which this organ is subjected from friction with the clothing and thighs, and especially owing to the peris- taltic movements of the dartos and cremaster muscle. Cysts, due chiefly to the retention of sebum, are occasionally seen in the scrotum. They are usually situated near the raphe, or laterally and posteriorly upon the base of the scrotum. When large enough to cause inconvenience, incision and extirpation of the sac are demanded. Erysipelas, although rare in this portion of the body, is met with, and is often obstinate under treatment. Gangrene is one of the chief dangers, and must be guarded against by free incision as soon as the tension is great. Phlegmon of the scrotum should be treated by warm applications, poultices, etc., and by early incisions to relieve tension and give escape to septic matter. Free drainage and sublimate irrigation are Indicated. Elephantiasis scroti, comparatively of rare occurrence in the tem- perate and colder zones, is frequently met with near the equator ; and in some of the West Indies and the islands of the South Pacific Ocean it occurs with great frequency. The pathology of this form of connective-tissue hyjDerplasia has been given. The cause is undoubtedly one of prolonged irritation. The only treatment is extirpation with the knife. No fixed rule of operating can be laid down. The penis is at times buried in the neoplasm, and should be carefully dissected out. The incisions should be made so as to give a cutaneous flap in front and behind sufiiciently large to contain the testes and cord without pressure after the connective-tissue new formation has been dissected out. When the penis is included in the new growth, the integument should be saved, to cover this organ. If this can not be done, flaps may be turned from the thighs and abdomen. The haemorrhage in this procedure may be controlled by working be- tween fixation-forceps, or by the adjustment of an elastic tourniquet around the scrotum near its attachment to the perinseum. Angioma of the scrotum is rare, and demands treatment similar to that advised in the chapter on these vascular formations.