518 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Diagnosis.—Intra-peritoneal abscess must be differentiated from neo- plasms, cysts, fecal impaction, with coecitis or colitis, all tumors resulting from obstruction, hydronephrosis, aneurism, haematoma, and abscess within the solid viscera. The characteristic features of neoplasms, fecal impaction, and the various lesions which induce intestinal occlusion, have just been considered. Hydronephrosis develops slowly, and has a his- tory of obstruction of the ureter or urethra which can not be mistaken, while the expansile pulsation and hruit of an aneurism render it easy of recognition. Abscess develops quickly, and follows an injury or oc- curs in the course of some inflammatory process. If, after a blow in the hypochondriac region, or a severe fall, tenderness is developed along the upper surface of the liver or spleen, accompanied by the well-known constitutional symptoms of pus-formation, perihepatic or perisplenic ab- scess may be suspected. The same symptoms, occurring in the course of typhlitis or perityphlitis, point to suppuration in the region of the coecum. In like manner ovaritis, metritis, salpingitis, cystitis, and pelvic cellulitis are conditions which not infrequently induce abscess in the pelvic peritongeum. Induration and fluctuation are scarcely appreciable in the earlier stages of abscess between the liver or spleen and diaphragm on account of the resistance offered by the ribs. Localized pleuritis and pain in the re- spiratory act should not be without signiticance when considered with other symptoms. In perityphlitic abscess induration is felt early in the inflammatory process, tenderness is well marked, while muscular rigidity, especially of the right side of the abdomen, is present. There are dull- ness on percussion and oedema of the skin. As the inflammatory process extends, the induration becomes more superficial or descends along the iliac fossa. Fluctuation is deep-seated and difficult of recognition until there is either pus in large quantity, or the wall of the abscess has risen in close proximity to the integument. In abscess within the pelvis, ex- ploration by the rectum or vagina will aid in a correct diagnosis. Treatment.—In perihepatic abscess the pus should be evacuated by means of the aspirator. The needle should be of sufficient caliber to allow the pus to come away freely, and should be introduced in the same opening and to the same depth of the smaller needle which was employed in arriving at a, diagnosis. Washing out the cavity of the abscess, when it is of recent formation, is not advisable for fear of over- distention and rupture of the sac. Incision and free drainage may be employed when the abscess is large, the pus supei-ficial, and when ad- hesions have occurred which will prevent infiltration into the general cavity of the abdomen or pleura. Perityphlitic abscess demands operative interference as soon as the symptoms point to a collection of pus. If the presence of this fluid can be demonstrated by the employment of the smaller aspirator-needle, the procedure is much simplified. In- stances will, however, occur in which the needle fails to find the cavity of the abscess, and in which the characteristic symptoms of this lesion are present, and in these cases it is equally important to operate. The