353 DISEASES OF SPECIAL JOINTS. cess, at or near the epiphysis, and thus prevent disintegration of the bone and invasion of the joint. To be beneficial it must be done early in the process. The operation is neither dangerous nor difficult. A longitudinal in- cision, from two to three inches in extent, is made along the middle of the trochanter, down to the bone. The wound should be deep enough to permit the fingers to locate the neck of the femur, on its upper and lat- eral surfaces, so that the drill may be directed along its center. The chief danger to be avoided is entering the cavity of the joint by carrying the drill too far. In the single case in which I performed this oj)era- tion, in a boy about eight years old, a button of bone was removed by the trephine from the compact substance of the femur, just below the tro- chanter. A drill, about three sixteenths of an inch in diameter, was then carried up through the neck, a distance of one inch and a quarter. The dii'ection of the neck was readily made out by keeping the index-finger applied to the upper surface of the neck and capsule. After the opera- tion a rubber tube was inserted, and through this drainage maintained until all discharge ceased. Knee-Joint.—Acute synovitis of the knee is frequently of traumatic origin, resulting from the excessive strain to which this joint is subjected, and also on account of its exposed position. It may occur in the history of gout, rheumatism, gonorrhoea, and other diseases. The chief symptoms are pain and swelling. Pain may be elicited by motion, or by direct pressure at any part of the joint, but it is, as a rule, emphasized over the coronoid ligaments, along the articular margin of the tibia, on either side of the ligamentwm patellar. The treatment consists of rest and fixation. As a rule, the most agreeable position is that of slight flexion, with the limb elevated and the leg resting over a pillow. Fixation may be best secured by exten- sion from adhesive strips, reaching from just below the knee to beyond the sole. The strips are applied in the same manner as above given. The weight will vary from three to fifteen pounds, according to the age of the patient. Cold, applied by means of the ice-bag, is a most useful remedy during the acute stage of inflammation. When pain is very severe, and when the capsule is greatly distended, aspiration is indicated. This should be done with all antiseptic precautions, and with great care in preventing the entrance of air. The proper instrument is shown at page 63. The needle may be introduced on either side of the patella, at the point of greatest distention, or where fluctuation is most marked. The diagnosis may be made positive by the exploring hypodermic needle and small aspirator (page 61). Or, when the tumefaction is evident above the patella, the needle may be carried from above downward, behind this bone. After the excess of fluid is withdrawn a fair degree of compres- sion should be exercised by enveloping the joint with borated cotton, held firmly down by a roller. Passive motion of the joint may be omitted for as long as four weeks, but should be made weekly after this. When an acute synovitis of the knee becomes rapidly suppurative, with the symptoms of sepsis, which are common to this form of disease,