552 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. tention of urine is apt to follow for a day or two, necessitating tlie nse of the catheter. Permanent incontinence of faeces rarely results from this procedure. It is more apt to occur in females, and this danger should be avoided by a limited divulsion of the sphincter. When the base of a hsemorrhoidal tumor is more than one inch in its long axis, it is best to insert two sets of ligatures rather than to include too much tissue in the grasp of a single thread. Half-way between the two sets of threads a perpendicular incision should be made through to the base of the tumor, so that the central ligatures may be sunk to the same level as the others. If this precaution is not taken, an uneven surface will be left when the ligatures come away. The operation with the clamp and cautery is performed as follows: The tumor is drawn out and grasped at its base between the jaws of the clamp (Fig. 563), and the blades closed by tightening the screw in the handles until the hsemorrhoid is strangulated. With the scissors the mass is cut away about one fourth of an inch external to the clamp^ and the cut surface thoroughly cauterized with the Paquelin or the act- ual cautery. The ivory plates upon the jaws of the clamp protect the mucous membrane of the bowel from being burned. When this is done, the blades should be slowly separated, and, if any oozing is seen, the bleeding point should be again touched with the cautery. The after- treatment is the same as for the preceding operation. Injection with Carbolic Acid.—The hsemorrhoid to be operated upon should be exposed with the speculum or drawn well out with the fingers. If it is a long pedunculated tumor, the needle should be introduced from the point to near its base. If it is round or oval in shape, the needle should pass through the longer diameter of the mass near the level of the mucous membrane of the bowel. The mucous membrane and integument should be well covered with vaseline to prevent excoria- tion from the acid which may leak from the syringe or ooze out of the tumor. The ordinary hypodermic syringe will answer every purpose if one or two extra long and fine needles are secured. In Fig. 563 is shown an apparatus especially designed for this operation. From ten to twenty minims of a 4-per-cent cocaine solution (the quan- tity being determined by the size of the tumor) are first thrown in, and j the instrument unscrewed from the needle, leaving this sticking in the i tumor. The carbolic-acid solution is now drawn into the syringe, and this is again screwed on to the needle. After from one to three minutes Fig. 562.—Smith's hfemorrhoidal clamp (ivory-plated).