582 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. The neutral p7iosphate-of-lime calculus is rare. It may form in the kidney, though it originates chiefly in the bladder. All the phosphatic calculi are chiefly vesical in origin, being found with ammoniacal urine, which is present with chronic vesical catarrh. The ammonio-magnesian phosphatic concretion is equally rare, and differs very slightly in its chemical and physical characters from that just described. Other and still rarer forms of urinary concretions are the following: Cystin.—This variety is usually smooth, occasionally corrugated, yellow in color when fresh, inclining to a greenish hue when long removed. They break readily, do not show a marked concentric arrange- ment, and are somewhat greasy to the feel. Xanthic or uric-oxide calculi have only been reported in two or three instances. They are of concentric formation, smooth and greasy to the feel, and vary in color from gray to brown. Carhonate-of-lime calculi are usually multiple, and are light-gray in color and chalky in consistence. Organic calculi, consisting of epithelia, blood, etc., are not infrequent as nuclei for other varieties, but exceedingly rare as independent forms. Stone in the bladder is a misfortune that may befall every age and condition of human life, from the foetus in utero, to the old and decrepit. The period of greatest exemption is from twenty to fifty years of age. It is comparatively frequent in children, and here must be of renal origin and due to the excess of inorganic elements in the urine, since obstruc- tion and inflammatory diseases of the urinary tract rarely exist at this age. After fifty, when prostatic, cystic, and urethral obstruction are more frequently met with, the formation of calculi, vesical in origin, is more common. As to sex, stone is more frequent in males. It was formerly argued that there was no difference in the frequency of stone in the sexes, but that the short and dilatable urethra of the female allowed a ready escape to the concretion before it became sufficiently large to produce any organic disturbance. When, regardless of the statisti- cal evidence which shows that the number of deaths in males from urinary calculus is ten times greater than in females, we consider that one of the most frequent causes of stone is the gouty diathesis, and that gout is more frequent in men ; and, again, that prostatic and urethral obstruction is peculiar to this sex—it must be conceded that the conditions for the formation of calculi are more frequently present in males. In the (Etiology of stone in the bladder two great factors are recog- nized : The one includes all conditions of the economy which favor pre- cipitation of the inorganic elements of the urine; the second all ob- structive and inflammatory lesions which produce decomposition of the urine in the bladder, the detachment of epithelia, and the accumulation of other organic elements which serve as nuclei around which the salts of the urine are congregated. In the first category are hereditary tendencies, such as gout and rheu- matism. Certain conditions of mal-nutrition undoubtedly lead to a pre- cipitation of the urinary salts, for children poorly fed and cared for are