INTUSSUSCEPTION. 485 struction is in tlie small intestine, and later when the large intestine is involved. Tenesmus exists in a certain proportion of cases, and is especially apt to occur in intussusception in the colon. Fecal matter may pass in complete obstruction above the colon until the contents of the large intestine are evacuated, and may persist throughout the attack when the occlusion of the gut is only partial. Mucus and blood are dis- charged in those cases in which tenesmus is extreme. The symptoms of shock and collapse are present early in the history of a majority of all cases. The tumefaction caused by the invagination may be felt through the abdominal wall or jper rectum. The distention of the abdomen is not great when the lesion is in the jejunum or ileum. It is apt to be present when the colon is affected. The prognosis is always grave. Death occurs in 70 per cent of all cases, being about equal in both sexes (Treves). The only methods of recovery, if left to nature, are accidental reduction, sloughing and elimi- nation of the invaginated gut, or fecal fistula. Accidental reduction can only take place in the milder varieties and in the earlier stages, be- fore adhesions or strangulation have occurred. Distention of the intestine by gas, or assuming a suitable position, might reduce the invagination. Sloughing occurs in a certain proportion of cases, the dead gut being passed by the rectum. Fecal fistula may form in very exceptional instances. Treatment.—The conservative treatment consists in the administra- tion of an anodyne to relieve pain and spasm, and the introduction of tepid water in volume into the rectum and colon, with inversion of the patient, or the employment of gas or air in a like manner. If the lesion is recent, and if it is located in the large intestine, this practice should be tried. As it is often impossible, and under all conditions extremely difiicult, to overcome the resistance of the ileo-coecal valve, it is an un- justifiable waste of time to attemjDt a reduction by these measures in in- tussusception above the ileo-colic junction. The objections to this method of treatment may be formulated thus : 1. The administration of opium masks the symptoms by dulling sensi- hility, and may induce a dangerous if not fatal procrastination of more radical and certain measures. 2. Distention from below by water, gas, or air—within the limit of safety from rupture—fails to reduce an invagi- nation in which strangulation or adhesions have occurred. In all proba- bility only the mildest forms are reducible by this method, even when no adhesions exist. 3. It fails in such a vast majority of cases that it induces a procrastination in surgical interference, and of itself induces a certain amount of shock, which in a measure detracts from the prog- nosis after abdominal section. The only means of decreasing the heavy mortality following intussus- ception is in abdominal section. It is important that the operation be not deferred too long; in fact, not longer than the recognition of the lesion. Within the first twenty-four hours the prognosis will be much more favorable, and the danger of a fatal termination will be increased "with each day thereafter.