642 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. and the glans. It begins as a vesicular eruption. There may be one or many. Multiple herpetic vesicles may be scattered.or in clusters, linear, semilunar, or circular in arrangement. In the recent state the herpetic vesicle is round at its base, measuring from one twelfth to one twenty- fifth of an inch in width. It consists of a thin investing membrane rest- ing upon a slightly red and irritated base, and containing a clear, serous fluid, which often escapes by rupture of the membrane before the vesicle is observed. Upon the skin they rapidly dry on account of evaporation of the fluid contents, and the floor of the patch becomes covered over with a light incrustation. Upon the mucous and moist surfaces, in- crustation does not occur. The circumference of the base exposed after rupture of the vesicle is usually round, with well-defined walls leading perpendicularly down to the bottom of a shallow excavation. In typical cases of genital herpes, the morbid process ends here, the sore healing without suppuration. Not infrequently, however, the floor becomes covered with a layer of pus, the walls are undermined and break down, forming an ulcer which is phagedenic in character. The character of the pain varies. . In some instances there is a sting- ing, burning, sensation felt in the part affected; in others there exists total insensibility. Herpes is a neurosis due to a local irritation of the nerve termina- tions in the part attacked. In some instances a severe neuralgia of the branches of the sacral or lumbar plexuses exists at the time of the erup- tion on the glans and prepuce. Uncleanliness is a frequent cause of this disease. Any irritation of the glans or prepuce may induce it, and one attack is apt to be followed by a second. In mild and ordinary cases it runs its course in from ten days to two or three weeks. In other forms, especially when inoculation occurs, it may last for a number of weeks, and is usually complicated by lymphan- gitis and adenitis. Phagedenic ulcer of the genital organs was formerly held to be the result of the inoculation of a specific poison—the virus of "chancroid"; but, since ulcers which in appearance and behavior do not differ from the so-called chancroidal ulcer have been produced by inoculation with corpuscles taken from the pustules of acne, from gonorrhoea! pus, etc., the specific nature of this virus can not be maintained. Even the spe- cific ulcer of syphilis will, as a result of repeated and prolonged irrita- tion, take on a phagedenic character. This ulcer results most frequently from direct contagion, the pus-cor- puscles which contain the virus being lodged in an abrasion of the in- tegument, prepuce, or glans The period of incubation—that is, the length of time between the date of the contact and the recognition of the sore—will vary in different individuals. It has been seen within twenty-four hours, and, in rare instances, as much as twenty days have elapsed. In a very large majority of cases the inflammation is observed within the first nine days after the inoculation. The rapidity of its ap- pearance depends in part upon the quantity and virulence of the pus, but chiefly upon the thoroughness with which it is brought into con-