A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 598 or muscular and connective-tissue structure of tMs complex organ. Pros- tatitis rarely originates in the substance of this body, being usually involved by extension of an inflammation from the bladder, urethra, or other organs and tissues in its immediate neighborhood. Urethritis, cystitis, epidydimitis, and proctitis are among the more common causes of prostatitis. To these may be added excessive venereal excitement, all forms of traumatism, whether by violence applied to the rectal or perineal regions, or by instruments in the urethra, and the presence of calcareous or amylaceous concretions. The symptoms are usually well marked. Pain in the acute form of inflammation is usually intense and burning in character. There is a sense of fullness and throbbing in the organ. With the finger in the rectum its enlargement may be appreciated, together with abnormal heat and throbbing of the arteries along its base. Pain is increased by direct pressure in the perinseum or rectum, and also in the act of urination. Fever is present in proportion to the severity of the local process. Sup- puration and the formation of abscess are usually indicated by exacerba- tions of temperature and by interference with micturition. The first indication in the treatment of this painful affection is rest in the recumbent posture. The bowels should be kept open. The ice-bag to the perinseum will be found agreeable and of value. If retention of urine occurs, it should be relieved by the use of the smaller soft catheter. Supra-pubic aspiration may be demanded in severe cases. Scarification of the perinseum and the application of cups are highly recommended as local measures. If abscess exists, it should be evacuated by the aspirator. Rupture may occur into the urethra, or the abscess may find an opening through the perinseum or rectum. Fig. 599.—Longitudinal section of hypertropliied prostate, in a patient seventy-four years of age ; showing a false passage tunneled by a catheter. J, Line of transverse sec- tion sliown in Fig. 600. a, Duct of vesicula seminalis. (Af- ter Socin.) a HypertropJiy.—Chronic progressive enlargement of the prostate occurs in about one third of all males who live through the period from fifty to seventy-five years of age. The increase in volume is not a true hy- perplasia, for the glandular functions, as well as the muscular power of the or- gan, decrease with the hy- pertrophy. In some por- tions of the mass the mus- cular tissue is increased, but the bulk of the enlarge- ment is due to the presence of newly formed connective tissue. The induration is in