445 THE NECK. same position as at the time when the missile penetrated. If this is not done, the muscles and fascia become displaced, and the track of the wound obstructed. Gunshot wounds traversing the outer lateral and superficial posterior regions of the neck are not, as a rule, dangerous. If the vertebral column is involved, the prognosis becomes grave. A mis- sile traversing the tissues of the neck laterally, and in front of the ver- tebral column, is apt to intiict fatal injury. Abscess.—Abscess of the neck occurs most frequently in children, and may follow an injury, or result from an idiopathic inflammation of the tissues of this region. It occurs very frequently as a result of adenitis, or periadenitis, tonsillitis, and in caries of the upper cervical vertebrae, or base of the skull (retro-pharyngeal abscess). It may also follow the lodgment of a foreign body in the oesophagus. Collections of pus in the upper cervical regions, and in the superficial portions of the root of the neck, tend to become encapsuled, or may open ultimately through the integument. Retro-pharyngeal abscess, if left alone, not infrequently travels downward along the deep fascia of the neck, and may open into the mediastinum. The diagnosis of abscess in the neck, from the various tumors which are found in this region, depends upon the febrile movement present in ab- scess, the acute and persistent character of the pain, and fluctuation. The value of exploration, with an aspirator-needle large enough to carry pus, should not be lost sight of in the efl'ort to arrive at a positive diagnosis. The treatment is evacuation, either by the method of aspiration and hyper-distention already given, or by puncture or incision, and free drain- age. When the abscess is situated in a portion of the neck rich in ves- sels, it should be opened by cutting carefully down upon it, so that any haemorrhage encountered may be immediately and readily controlled. If a puncture is determined upon, the knife should be introduced in the part farthest from the vessels, and along the aspirator- or exploring-needle as a guide. As soon as the sac is entered by the instrument it is withdrawn and a dull-pointed dressing-forceps, tightly closed, is carried into the ab- scess, when, by forcible separation of the jaws, the puncture is enlarged. The finger may now be introduced, or, if this can not be done, the forceps will indicate the size and most dependent portion of the sac. If the first opening has not been made at the lowest part of the abscess, or is not so situated that thorough drainage is secured, it should be enlarged so as to extend this far, or a counter-opening made by boring through with the forceps until the skin is distended over the point of the instru- ment, when it can be safely incised. Drainage should be maintained, and the cavity irrigated with l-to-3000 sublimate solution. The diagnosis of retro-pharyngeal abscess depends upon the follow- ing symptoms: Pain, a feeling of soreness and stiffness in the neck, swelling, with protrusion of the posterior wall of the pharynx if the dis- ease is high up, interference with deglutition and respiration. In the earlier stages all of these symptoms will not be present, but as soon as this dangerous condition is suspected an effort should be made to locate the abscess by palpation and aspiration.