656 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. In the later or tertiary lesions of the skin in syphilis, the infiltration is deeper. Cutaneous gummata consist of aggregations of the cell-ele- ments heretofore described, which are crowded into the subcutaneous areolar tissue, into the connective tissue of the true skin, in the walls of and Just outside the vessels, while the endothelia of these vessels under- go proliferation and aid in their occlusion. Ulceration ensues from the rapid arrest of nutrition, and the process of necrobiosis is aided by the depressed condition of the tissues which usually exists in the tertiary stage of syphilis. The tertiary lesions of the mucous surfaces are analo- gous to those of the integument. The pathology of visceral syphilis presents two distinct morbid pro- cesses : (1) the hyperplasia of the connective-tissue stroma of the organs (cirrhosis); and (2) the aggregation of the syphilitic embryonic cells (gumma). The character of these changes in the different organs has been given. Diagnosis.—In a typical case of acquired syphilis a diagnosis may be made upon the following symptoms: 1, an ulcer in appearance and behavior like that described as belonging to the initial lesion of this disease, the sore occurring not less than ten days, and usually about the twentieth day, after an exposure ; 2, induration and enlargement of the nearest lymphatic glands occurring in from eight to fourteen days after the appearance of the ulcer; 3, after from two to four weeks of seeming arrest of the infection, the development of headache, pain in the back, slight febrile movement, with an eruption (sixth to seventh week after the api3earance of the sore) over all or a portion of the body, accom- panied with an unusual sense of dryness or soreness of the mouth, phar- ynx, or fauces ; 4, following or occurring with these symptoms, general adenitis. In the majority of cases, excluding even those in which the sore is concealed, as in the urethra, etc., little value can be placed upon the ai)pearance of the ulcer at the point of infection. The classical "initial lesion" of syphilis, with its well-defined margin of induration, feeling like a "split pea" or piece of cartilage when grasped between the thumb and finger; the absence of pain and peripheral inflammation; the pe- culiar " scooped-out" concavity of the sore, the surface of which is cov- ered with a scanty, serous transudation, is so frequently absent in cases in which the later and unmistakable signs of this disease are developed, that it alone can not be relied upon in arriving at a diagnosis. As stated heretofore, the syphilitic virus may be lodged in and absorbed from a phagedenic ulcer in which not a single feature of the specific sore is present. The same is true of the herpetic ulcer, or that resulting from traumatism or the inoculation of any form of virus. All of these ulcers are grouped under the heading of "mixed sores." Induration of the glands is more reliable in a diagnostic sense. When the typical initial lesion is present, the ensuing adenitis is also typical. In the inguinal region one gland of the group after another is enlarged and becomes indurated. Tlie process is slow and deliberate. There is no periadenitis, the glands do not adhere to each other and the interven-