SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 215 from pulmonary gangrene, five months later. Consolidation was also almost complete in this case. Bryant's patient was living one year after the operation, and there was evidence of solidification in the tumor. While it is scarcely possible to base a definite opinion upon a study of such a limited number of cases, the evidence seems to be in favor of the operation of tying the subclavian in preference to the carotid for innominate aneurism. It would be natural to infer that the danger from cerebral embolism would be great after such a procedure, yet it evidently did not occur in either of these instances. Deligation of the right carotid alone is demonstrated to be so dangerous an operation that I should hesitate to perform it until all other expedients had failed. In aneurism involving both the innominate and the aortic arch, the double distal operation is recorded in eight instances. In the following cases the two vessels were tied at the same operation, excepting one in which there was an interval of only twenty-four hours. Mr. Banvell, in one instance, with a recovery and very great improvement. The patient died, nineteen months later, from bronchitis. The tumor was firmly con- solidated. The same surgeon, in a second case (with an interval of twenty-four hours), with recovery and great improvement. Death from broncho-pneumonia three months later. The tumor, as large as a tennis- ball, was solid, excepting a central globular cavity one inch in diameter. The same surgeon, in a third case, which ended fa.tally, from asphyxia, in thirty hours. Mr. Holmes's patient died from exhaustion two months after operation. The sac was full of recent clot. Mr. Lane's case termi- nated fatally within three months, from rupture of the sac. The patient operated upon by Mr. Hodges died, with symj)toms of broncho-pneu- monia, on the twelfth day. There was no sacculated aneurism, but an extensive fusiform dilatation of the innominate and aorta. Ransohoff's case ended fatally, from asphyxia, in seven days. lu one instance Mr. Bickersteth operated, "with an interv'al of forty-nine days, but without benefit, as the patient died from the progress of the disease in three months. The results in these cases do not encourage a rejjetition of this oj)era- tion in well-marked instances of aorto-innominate aneurism. The con- servative methods offer the best hope of palliation. The deligation of one of the primitive carotids has been performed in six instances for the relief of aneurism involving the innominate, compli- cated with dilatation of the aorta or the first portion of the right sub- clavian or carotid. PirogofE tied the left carotid in two cases. One died within a week, from hemiplegia and coma ; the sac was completely filled with clot. The other recovered, and was improved up to two months, when the history ceases. In the remaining four cases the right carotid was tied. The operation by Hewson teiminated fatally on the tenth day, from asphyxia, due to pressure from the consolidated tum^or. The two terminal branches of the innominate were also involved. Campbell's patient sufl'ered a like fate, from the same cause, while Key's was also fatal in four hours, from coma. Hutchison's died on the forty-first