A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Y64 LympTiadenoma has been given under the heading of "Malignant ^Neoplasms." Many forms of enlargement of the lymphatic glands are not true tumors, since they are not composed of new-made gland-tissue, are due to cancerous infiltration, to tubercle, to syphilitic adenitis, tubercu- lar deposit, etc. Tubercular lymphomata should always be extirpated when tuberculosis of the deeper organs can be excluded, provided that the operation of removal does not involve a too great risk of life. The removal of enlarged glands from metastasis in cancer should also be done when there is a reasonable hope of cutting off the disease from the centers. Cliondroma. —ISTew formations of cartilage develop in and from the connective-tissue cells of any portions of the body, excepting from carti- lage proper. The bones and periosteum are favorite points of origin for these neoplasms. Developing from vdthin the bone, a cartilaginous new formation is termed an encJiondroma ; if from the periosteum, 2u perichon- droma. Quite a number of chondromata have been observed in the testi- cles and in the parotid glands. They may assume all sorts of shapes, growing into more or less spherical tumors, or the new tissue may be generally diffused in the normal tissues. In the bones of the hand and fingers they give rise to marked de- formities and to considerable pain, from displacement of the normal structures, and interference with nutrition (Fig. 771). Fig. 771.—Diffuse choadroma of the phalanges and metacarpal bones. (After Nelaton.) The new formation of cartilage is preceded by an inflammatory pro- cess varying in intensity, usually of a mild nature, yet resulting in the proliferation of the cells of the part involved, and the formation of an embryonic tissue from which the cartilage is formed, as in the normal development of this tissue. Some of these cells become the cartilage- cells proper, and are collected in groups of different sizes, while others form a connective-tissue stroma around the collections of cartilage-cells. The vessels find their way along these bundles of connective tissue.