A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 338 If in this manoeuvre the bone slips into the thyroid foramen, the manipulation given for this luxation should be practiced. By Extension and Gaunter-Extension—Hamilton's Method.—Place the patient upon the edge of a bed or table, so that the injured limb may / / . / Fig. 379.—Eeduction of dislocation upon the pubes by extension and counter-extension. (Hamilton.) fall slightly over the edge. Extension is made from the thigh, and counter-extension from the perinseum and groin, in the direction indi- cated in Fig. 379. The after-treatment of hip-luxation involves fixation of the muscles about the joint for from two to six weeks. A gutta-percha, heavy pasteboard, or leather splint, molded to the side of the pelvis, thigh, and down to the ankle, applied upon, a thin layer of absorbent cot- ton, and held in place by a leg-, thigh-, and s^Dica-bandage, should be employed. prognosis as to rapid restoration of function is not always favor- able. The injury to the capsule, and more especially to the muscles around the joint, may lead to an impairment of the hip, more or less permanent. In permanent luxations, in some instances, a fair degree of mobility may be developed. Reduction has been successfully performed as late as four and six months after the injury. The treatment of congenital dislocations of the hip, and of pathologi- cal luxations, will be given later. Dislocations at the Knee—The Tihia from the Femur.—Displace- ment of the femoral end of the tibia may occur as a result of congenital malformation., disease., or accident. Congenital luxation is rare, and is usually partial. As a rule, the tibia is displaced forward, although the opposite condition may prevail. Absence of the patella has been observed in several of these cases. Pathological dislocations will be given under the head of diseases of this joint. Traumatic luxation at the knee is comparatively rare. The tibia may be completely or partially displaced, and in any direction. Partial dislocation is the rule. Complete luxation is apt to be complicated with a wound. A compound dislocation usually occurs forward or backward. The cause is direct violence. A blow upon the anterior aspect of the tibia, near the joint, or the posterior-inferior portion of the femur, may