760 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. teeth, etc. They occupy by preference the ovary, but are met with in all parts of the body. Mucous cysts are usually seen upon the lips, buccal cavity, vulva, and anus. They may occur in any portion of the alimentary or respira- tory passages, or in any of the cavities lined by mucous membrane. The wall is thin, lined with epithelium, and adherent to the surrounding structures. The contents are a viscid mucus, resembling the white of an egg. The cause of the tumor is obstruction of the normal excretory duct. The character of the tumor may be suspected from the location and the spherical shape. A slight puncture, with compression, will re- veal the mucous character of the contents. Serous Cysts.—Cysts of the smaller serous cavities may result from hypersecretion of the normal fluid by the epithelia lining the serous membrane, ia which the excess is not reabsorbed. The swellings often observed upon the back of the wrist and hand, and sometimes upon the dorsal aspect of the foot, are typical serous cysts, and result from hyper- distention of normal serous bursse. Lipoma.—A fatty tumor is a circumscribed collection of adipose tis- sue growing independently of the other tissues. Lipomata usually de- velop in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and are frequently met with about the back of the neck and shoulders. From this location they occa- sionally are carried by gravity toward the sacrum, slipping downward between the integument and deep fascia. Situated superficially, they grow to be irregular and spherical or pyriform tumors of varying size; are usually single, but may be multiple. Less often they are met with in the glands, muscles, bones, and in the abdominal viscera. Microscopically, they are composed of vesicles filled with oil or fat. The vesicles are connective-tissue corpuscles, the nuclei of which are dis- placed to the periphery and compressed against the investing membrane of the vesicle. These vesicles are held together in clusters of various size by a stroma of fibrous tissue, in the meshes of which the blood-vessels run. The whole tumor is in turn encapsuled. Various names have been given to certain complex fatty tumors; when the inter-vesicular substance is myxomatous, myxo-lipoma; when the connective tissue is excessive, fibro-lipoma; in bone, osteo-lipoma / when very vascular, angeio-lipoma, etc. Lipomata may undergo granular and calcareous metamorphosis, and may also become inflamed and break down as a very offensive and slough- ing mass. They are altogether benign, and can only cause death by ulceration, sepsis, and haemorrhage, or by pressure upon important or- gans. The diagnosis depends upon the soft, uneven feel and the mobility of the mass. It is only to be differentiated from old abscesses or cystic tu- mors. If the history does not point to the diagnosis, the aspirator-needle will be of service. The treatment is removal with the knife. The incision may be straight for a small tumor, but should be elliptical for large growths, in order to do away with redundancy after the tumor is turned out. The capsule