A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 522 opened by direct incision, its contents allowed to escape, tlie sac thor- oughly irrigated with l-to-5000 sublimate, and a drainage-tube inserted. If, after cutting down to the wall of the abscess, it is discovered that adhesions have not occurred, the sac should not be opened. The wound should be packed with sublimate gauze, and, in four or five days after adhesions have been established, it may be incised, Hydatid Tumors.—Cystic tumors caused by the presence of the echi- nococcus hominis, the larva of the taenia echinococcus or tape-worm, occur in the liver more frequently than in all other portions of the body. They vary in size, may be multiple or single, and may be lodged in any portion of the organ. The capsule or periphery of the cyst is firm and dense, and may undergo calcification. Developing in the liver, hydatid cysts may perforate the diaphragm, rupture, and pour their contents into the pleura or lung ; or they may extend into the abdomi- nal cavity as far down as the pelvis. In rare instances they open into the stomach, vena cava, duodenum, or colon. The diagnosis of hydatids of the liver may be made from abscess by recognizing an elastic fluctuating tumor, which is free from tenderness or any of the symptoms of inflammation or septicaemia which are always present in abscess; from cancer of the liver by its fluctuation, cancer being solid, hard, and nodulated. The cachexia of cancer does not occur in hydatids. In distention of the gall-bladder Jaundice is apt to exist, while it is an exceptional complication of hydatid cysts. Aspiration with a deli- cate needle will be necessary to positive diagnosis. Hydatid cysts con- tain a watery liquid, nearly clear or of a light straw-color. In some in- stances fragments of the booklets and other contents of the cysts may be discovered. Treatment.—The contents should be drawn off with the aspirator, and the operation repeated if necessary. A single evacuation not infre- quently effects a cure. The needle should be introduced into the most superficial portion of the tumor. As the cyst is being emptied, the abdominal wall imme- diately around the needle should be pressed toward the tumor, and, when the operation is finished, this should be continued by a compress of sublimate gauze, held snugly in place by a bandage. The object of this is to prevent infiltration of the fluid into the peritoneal cavity. In performing this operation an ansesthetic should not be administered, on account of the danger of rupture of the cyst from vomiting. Cocaine may be employed locally. Complete rest in the recumbent posture should be enforced for at least a week after the aspiration. If at any time suppuration is precipitated, direct incision and free drainage are imperative. If repeated aspirations fail to effect a cure, adhesions being formed as a result of the frequent introduction of the needle, an incision may be made, or the operation of Verneuil performed. This consists in the introduction of a large trocar and canula, evacuating the contents, and inserting for prolonged drainage a large rubber tube through the canula, which is then withdrawn, leaving the tube in position.