WOUNDS. - 67 developed special cells for vascular new formation, which he has called " vessel-forming cells." 4. By escape of leucocytes from the capillaries, these emigrant cells invade the new tissue, passing between the celfs of the embryonic protoplasm. In their wake the red corpuscles and liquor sanguinis follow, and, by pressure upon the circumjacent embryonic cells, these become the investing membrane, and develop into the capil- lary-wall (Fig. 125). With the establishment of a capillary system in the granulation tissue of a wound the process of contraction or cicatrization follows. As before stated, some of the embryonic cells undergo fatty degeneration and are absorbed, or die and are washed away in the fluid which exudes from the surfaces of the wound. Other cells develop into connective-tissue elements, and form the con- tracting or cicatricial tissue of a wound. As shown in Fig. 126, the first Fig. 126.—(After Paget.) change is in the nucleus, which is more readily defined, assumes an oval shape, and shows within it one or more nucleoli. The cells become v granular and more fusiform, finally changing into a series of wavy bundles of connective tissue (Paget). This process of attenuation or contraction is of course accompanied by obliteration of many of the new- formed capillaries, and a more than normal bleaching of the cicatrix, as is frequently observed in scars upon the integument, where, although the epithelium is reproduced, the hair and sebaceous follicles are not found. In the process of repair in some wounds, especially in those which are slight and are subcutaneous, or are thoroughly cleansed and their walls brought and held in apposition by well-sustained pressure, reunion may be secured without pus-formation, with great rapidity, and without any constitutional disturbance. Cell-proliferation under such favorable con- ditions is limited, the process more nearly physiological, and, while many of the leucocytes and embryonic cells may die, the mode of death is by granular metamorphosis, with absorption of the granular matter. Finally, all wounds heal by one process of repair, and that involves inflammation and cell-proliferation. It may differ in degree of intensity as the injury is more or less severe, or as the tissues implicated are in a condition to resist disease. Treatment.—The arrest of haemorrhage is the first indication. Incised wounds bleed most freely, and are more dangerous in this particular than