516 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. In from three to seven days the stitches can be removed, and, after the wound is healed, a compress and belt should be worn to prevent the escape of faeces until the convenience of the patient is suited. If in the search for the colon the cavity of the peritonaeum is opened, it should be immediately sewed up with continuous catgut sutures. If, after colostomy, prolapse of the intestine occurs, it may be re- turned and held in place by a properly adjusted compress of gauze. If the opening contracts to such an extent that the escape of fecal matter is hindered, it should be dilated with the finger or by means of a gum or sponge tent. Amussat's operation, or rigTit lumhar colostomy, is performed in the same manner as the procedure just given, upon the opposite side of the body. Littre's operation is performed by opening into the peritoneal cavity by an incision in the abdominal wall just internal to the left ante- rior spine of the ilium over the sigmoid flexure. The small intestines are displaced to the right, while the sigmoid flexure is brought up to the wound and fastened by two rows of sutures. The first, of fine silk, attach the edge of the parietal peritonaeum to the peritoneal layer of the gut, while those of the second row pass through the integument and into the lumen of the intestine, as in colostomy. A like operation may be done upon the transverse colon, although either of these pro- cedures will be rarely indicated. Peritonitis.—In properly selected cases, abdominal section for the relief of peritonitis with effusion has, within late years, become a recog- nized operation. It is more applicable to cases of local peritonitis, and in chronic inflammation of this membrane, than in acute general perito- nitis. The operation is justifiable in the acute infiammation which fol- lows perforation of the alimentary canal, in which closure of the 2"»erfo- ration, and a thorough cleansing of the cavity of the peritonaeum, are essential. Left without operation, these cases, almost without exception, end fatally. Also in chronic local peritonitis, due to any cause in which the symptoms of septic absorption are prominent. The same principle should apply in these cases as in chronic effusions into the pleural cavity. Mr. Treves, in his excellent monograph, cites a series of cases: one in which Mr. Hancock opened the abdomen for chronic local peritonitis, due to disease of the vermiform appendix ; Mr. Tait, in several cases of chronic peritonitis ; Dr. Savage, in eight cases of pelvic peritonitis treated by laparotomy ; Dr. Playfair, in one case of chronic puerperal perito- nitis—all ending in recovery, f When the incision is made, any effused liquid or pus should be removed by means of soft Thiersch sponges on holders, and the cavity of the peritonaeum flooded with warm Thiersch solution or l-to-20000 sublimate solution, or, if neither of these can be had, with clean warm water at a temperature of about 100° F. As soon as it is introduced it should be removed with the sponges, and the irri- gation repeated until it comes away clear. * " Intestinal Obstruction." Lea, Sons & Co., Philadelphia, 1884. t Ibid.