517 ABSCESS OF THE ABDOMINAL REGION. In two instances I have seen the sublimate sohition employed in this manner in disinfection of the entire peritoneal cavity with success. In severe and obstinate cases, drainage should be established in the same manner as described in the after-treatment of certain ovarian tumors. In the diagnosis of peritonitis, pain is in the majority of instances an early and prominent symptom. It is intense in character, almost constant, being first noticed in a given point and extending later with the progress of the inflammation to any portion of the abdominal cavity. Tympanites exists in a varying degree, the patient generally lying upon the back, with the legs drawn up and the thighs flexed upon the abdo- men. The abdominal muscles are usually rigid, taking no part in the respiratory act. Constipation is the rule in a large majority of cases. Vomiting is not so common a feature, though often occurring in perito- nitis. DiflSculty in iirinating, or complete retention, occurs in some cases, especially in those in which the inflammatory process is marked in the pelvic region. The pulse is increased in frequency. Peritonitis is in almost all instances secondary to a lesion of one or more of the abdominal viscera. Abscess in the Abdominal Region.—Abscess may occur between the parietal layer of the peritonseum and the muscular walls of the abdo- men, within any circumscribed area of the peritoneal cavity, in the loose tissues behind the peritonaeum (retro-peritoneal abscess), and in the sub- stance or within the capsules of any of the viscera. The diagnosis of extra-peritoneal abscess will in part depend upon the localized pain or tenderness under pressure, and the induration and cedema which are characteristic of acute inflammation with pus-forma- tion, together with the usual exacerbations of temperature, with or with- out rigors or a chill. Fluctuation may be appreciable in extra-peritoneal abscess in patients vdth thin abdominal walls, and, if situated between the muscles or in the subcutaneous tissues, is usually diagnosticated without difiiculty. The employment of the exploring-needle and aspi- rator is always invaluable in the recognition of an abscess. The imme- diate indication in treatment is to cut down upon the tumor, using the needle which has indicated the presence of pus as a guide, until the sac is reached, puncturing this sufliciently to admit the point of the closed dressing-forceps, and enlarging the opening by separating the handles of the instrument. The principles of irrigation and free drainage apply here as to other recent collections of pus. Intra-peritoneal abscess is usually single, although in exceptional instances there may be two or more different centers of suppuration. The most frequent locations are the iliac regions and the pelvis. In- flammation of the coecum and vermiform appendix, and the peritonaeum immediately aboiit these organs (typhlitis and perityphlitis)., is a not infrequent cause of abscess. All of the lesions considered under the head of intestinal obstruction may induce the formation of pus in the cavity of the peritonaeum. Abscess occasionally forms between the upper surface of the liver and spleen and the diaphragm as a result of tearing loose portions of the suspensory ligaments of these organs.