355 DISEASES OF SPECIAL JOINTS. ruptures, and a sinus gives exit to the products of inflammation. Opera- tive interference is usually indicated as soon as erosion of the articular surfaces can be made out, or as soon as the symptoms point to the com- munication of a focus of ostitis with the cavity of the joint. The recog- nized methods of procedure may be given as follows: (1) Fixation of the joint without drainage ; (2) fixation with drainage ; (3) opening into the joint, with removal of the diseased tissues—exsection or gouging. The first method is of the most conservative character, and is only justifiable in the mUder class of cases, where pain is not severe, and where sepsis is practically absent. If the leg can be brought into the straight position it should be enveloped in a plaster-of-Paris cast, and allowed to remain motionless for six or twelve weeks, if no urgent symptoms appear. The dressing should then be removed for inspec- tion, and reapplied. This may be continued until a cure results, with anchylosis. If, on account of subluxation, the straight position can not be secured, extension in two directions (Fig. 889) should be practiced until the sub- luxation is reduced, or until it is demonstrated that this can not be done without operation. When the condition of the joint demands drainage the same method of fixation may be practiced, adding only one or more windows for out- lets to the drainage-tubes. Operative invasion of the joint may consist either of removal of the ends of the bones by the saw or gouge. The former is the prefer- able operation, and is now no longer the formidable and complicated method of a few years back. Carefully and properly performed, it is, in my opinion, to be ranked with the conservative operations at the knee, and is entitled to a consideration in the earliest stages of osteo- arthritis. Diseases of the Ankle-Joint.—The pathology, causes, and symptoms of disease at the ankle do not diifer from those at the articulation just considered. Synovitis is oftener traumatic than idiopathic. The exposed position of this articulation, which is called upon not only to sustain the entire body-weight, but is also frequently subjected to great lateral strain, ren- ders it exceedingly liable to injury. i Fig. 389.—(After Sayre.)