SYPHILIS. 649 is more marked. The eruption disappears by absorption of the cells which have infiltrated the papillae and corium, and this may occur with or without desiccation or scaling. The scaling sypMUde, or so-called psoriasis syphilitica^ is at times with difficulty difl'erentiated from true psoriasis, especially when the venereal inoculation is denied. The msicular syphilide is peculiar to, the second stage, and is seldom observed. The vesicles, like the papules, may be small, pointed, and gathered in clusters, as in herpes ; or larger, like the vesicles of chicken- 1 pox, and scattered at varying intervals over the entire body. Commenc- ing as vesicles, they may become pustules, which, as evaporation occurs, are covered with small crusts or scabs. The pustular syphilide may be met with on all parts of the body, and may originate as a pustule, or, as stated above, become pustular from a vesicular or papular origin. This variety of cutaneous lesion, j while most common in secondary, is not infrequently seen in tertiary syphilis. The smaller-sized, more' superficial pustules, belong naturally to the earlier period ; those with wide bases and more extensive tissue- I destruction, to the later manifestations. The pustular syphilide originates' around and in the hair-follicles. In mild cases, and when of small size, the limit of infiltration and pus- tulation is immediately around the follicle. In other cases the infiltra- tion is wider, and the destructive process more extensive. Scabbing, with underlying ulceration varying in extent, is the com- mon history of all pustular syphilides, although extensive molecular death of tissue is less apt to occur in the secondary than in the tertiary stage. The color of the crusts varies from black to a brownish-copper color. If the scab is removed, the walls of the ulcer will be seen to be precipitate and curvilinear in outline, while the floor is covered with a varying amount of fluid and detritus. The tubercular syphilide is so rarely a lesion of secondary syphilis ; that it will be described with the symptoms of the third stage of this disease. It is exceedingly rare to observe all of the foregoing syphilides in any single individual. The macular and papular eruptions are fre- quently met with together, while the pustular syphilide usually exists alone. Alopecia occurs in a varying degree in most cases of syphilis, j Though noticed chiefly in the scalp and beard, all the hairy portions of the body are involved. Except in the case of the pustular syphilide, the follicles are rarely destroyed, so that, as the violence of the attack is I diminished, the hairs are reproduced. Alopecia, from general sebor- I rhoea, is one of the later manifestations of syphilis. I Fever.—Elevations of temperature occur in the second stage of syphi- j lis in a large proportion of cases. In mild attacks it may not be ob- I served, but in many instances the thermometer will register from one to I two or three degrees above the normal. The febrile movement usually ; begins when the virus has passed through the first network of lymphat- ics and is being disseminated throughout the tissues. It may precede