66 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. If the edges of the wound have not been approximated, the space left by the separation of the tissues begins to be filled in a few days with embryonic or granulation tissue. The same process of cell-proliferation occurs in the walls of the wound, and extends as far back as the zone of inflammation. The most essential feature of the earlier process of repair is the new formation of capillaries, upon which the integrity of the more advanced embryonic cells depends. It has been stated that not only the white blood-cells, but all the stable cells of a part involved in an inflammatory process, take a more or less active part in the general proliferation which results in the formation of the common embryonic tissue. The cells of the capillary-walls are among the first to take part in this general proliferation. The new tissue projects in minute tufts or granulation buds from the sides and bottom of the wound. In this tissue the line of capillaries is advancing ; but in general the supply of nutrition is not suflBcient to maintain the vitality of the more advanced or superficial layers of cells, and these may perish by a process of granular degeneration, or, if more suddenly deprived of the necessary quantity of blood, by gangrene, more or less limited. The dead tissue floats off in the liquor puris. The new formation of capillaries in the embryonic tissue of a wound undergoing repair may occur in any of the following ways: 1. From the nearest capillary arch or loop, one or more vascular buds are pro- jected into the embryonic mass, as shown in Fig. 124. The contact and fusion of these buds form new loops, which process continues until, as the process of repair nears completion, the arches from one side meet and fuse with those advancing from the other, and thus establish direct communication across the track of the wound. 2. It is also probable that some new capOlaries are formed by canalization of anastomosing cells, a process analogous to the formation of vascular channels in the normal embryonic tissue, especially in those parts where the anastomos- ing plasmatic cells are found. 3. It is claimed by Ranvier that there are