GASTRO-ENTEROSTOMY. 481 of small intestine opposite to the mesenteric attachment. The posterior wall of the wound in the intestine was first stitched to the corresponding edge of the incision in the stomach, and the operation completed by uniting the anterior walls. Car- bolized flat sponges were placed beneath the organs during the op- eration. The incision in the abdominal wall in this procedure may be the same as that for exsection of the pylorus, or a free longitudinal in- cision in the linea alba may be em- ployed. Exsection of the pylorus is a difficult operation, requiring a most perfect knowledge of the anatomy j,,^ 532.-W6lfler's operation forgastro-enterostomy. of the parts involved, and a thor- ough drilling in the practice of intestinal suture and the management of intra-abdominal wounds. The long duration of the operation, together with the already weak condition of the patient, renders a fatal termi- nation very probable ; and if done for malignant disease, and recovery follow, the recurrence of the neoplasm is almost certain. For malignant neoplasm it is scarcely justifiable ; for non-malignant stricture limited in extent, its propriety may be entertained. The operation of Wolfler (^g astro-enter ostomy) is more simple, requires less time in its execution, and offers a better chance of recovery and pro- longation of life. By this procedure the food acted upon by the gastric juice passes into the small intestine and then meets with the bile, pan- creatic and intestinal juices. As far as can be determined by the study of a limited number of cases, dilatation of non-malignant stricture of the pylorus is a justifiable operation. If the stenosis recurs within one or two years, and if the contraction is limited in extent, the surgeon should choose between pylorectomy and gastro-enterostomy. If the cause of the stenosis is cancer, dilatation can only produce a temporary relief. The danger of the operation is practically as great as in gastro-enterostomy, and this last procedure, if successful, offers the best hope of prolonging life and lessening suffering. When, as a result of pyloric stenosis, life is en- dangered to such an extent that operative interference is determined upon, the abdominal wall should be opened by the curved incision above given, and a careful examination made. If malignant disease is discovered, and if from the size and appearance of the neoplasm in- filtration of the neighboring tissues has taken place, or if the neoplasm involves the stomach, necessitating if exsected the removal of a portion of this organ, exsection should be abandoned and gastro-enterostomy performed. Duodenum.—Operations upon this organ must be chiefly confined to the upper portion on account of the relations of the bile and pancreatic 31