TALIPES CALCANEUS. .725 to the edge of the tendon by traction upon the integument, and the tenotome introduced, with its Hat surface toward the tendon. The ten- sion upon the tissues is now relaxed, and the edge of the knife turned toward the parts to be divided; the tarsus is flexed strongly upon the leg, and the tendon again made tense, when the knife is pressed forward and outward through the tendon, which separates with a very audible snap. The thumb of the operator being placed over the tendon exter- nally, acts as a guide and support, preventing the blade from passing through the integument and causing an open wound, an accident which should be carefully avoided. As soon as the division of the tissues is effected, the blade of the knife should be withdrawn, flatwise, and the thumb of the operator slipped over the slight puncture, which is at once covered with one or two strips of adhesive plaster ; the plantar fascia can be divided in a similar manner, if desirable, the whole foot being then enveloped in cotton, and a snug roller bandage applied. The foot is now secured, by mechanical appliances, at a right angle to the leg, as hereto- fore described. Division of the extensor tendons of the toes is not often required. The best point of section is Just over the metatarso-phalangeal articulation. Talipes Calcaneus.—In this rare form of club-foot the toes are drawn upward and the tarsus flexed upon the tibia; impairment of function exists in one or more of the sural Fig. 711.—Congenital talipes calcaneus. Fig. 712.—Acquired talipes calcaneus. (After Churchill.) (After Churchill.) or acquired (Figs. 711, 712). It is usually met with in children, or may occur at any period of life, from rupture of the tendo Achillis, or paral- ysis of the muscles of the calf of the leg, ununited fracture of the os calcis, etc. In this condition the mechanical and surgical appliances and treatment are exactly opposite to those of the preceding variety. An ununited section of the tendo Achillis should be corrected by cutting down upon this tendon at the seat of the division, freshening the divided