542 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. When the stricture i§ situated more than four inches above the anus, rectotomy is not permissible on account of the proximity of the hirge hsemorrhoidal vessels, the peritonfeum, and pelvic fascia. Dilatation with the soft-rubber bougies (Fig. 561) may be tried, and, if this fails, a rectotomy may be done as high as the limit already given, which will allow the introduction of the hand to this point and the finger into the stricture. This may now be nicked with the bistoury, as above de- scribed, and digital or instrumental dilatation effected. Rectal bougies before being used should be made thoroughly flexible by immersion in warm water. In their employment only a mild degree of force should be exercised, for fear of perforating the wall of the intestine. When all other measures fail, left lumbar colotomy is the last resort. Neoplasms or the Rectum and Atstus. Carcinoma.—Of the malignant new formations which are found in this organ, epithelioma is the most common, scirrTius and enceplialoid cancer being next in order of frequency. The latter is com23aratively rare. Cancer of the rectum occurs about equally in the sexes, and almost always in the middle-aged and old, although in exceptional in- stances it has been observed before the age of twenty-five. Epithelioma begins in the mucous membrane, scirrhus and encepha- loid carcinoma in the submucous tissues. The former is slower in develoj^ment and less apt to recur after re- moval. The most common location of cancer of the lower bowel is at the upi^er margin of the sphincter muscle. The prognosis is grave, the duration of life varying from one to two or three years, and in exceptional cases longer. Usually the earliest symptom of cancer of the rectum is pain with the act of defecation. If the disease is located at the margin of the anus, it can be recognized before there is any interference with the discharge of fecal matter. Later, hfemorrhage is of frequent occurrence, although, as a rule, it is not profuse in character. After an evacuation of the contents of the bowel, the pain, though less intense, remains for some time. A sense of fullness or '' bearing down " is a marked feature of this disease in the majority of cases. Diagnosis.—If operative interference is to be undertaken, it is im- portant that an early diagnosis be made. Epithelioma, as has been said, begins in the mucous membrane, the cells of the new formation break down early, the ulcer being present in some instances before there is marked induration. On the other hand, induration and thick- ening are observed early in the history of scirrhus and enceplialoid. Non-malignant stricture of the rectum is always preceded by a his- tory of chronic inflammation. To the touch, the cicatricial character of the tissue may be recognized by its firmness and sharp borders. It is not nodular, like cancer, nor is there a deep and wide infiltration of the surrounding tissues in simple stricture, which condition is common to