SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 217 culation is only temporarily interrupted, cerebral embolism may occur. The animal ligature, witli antiseptic cleanliness, offers the safest means at our disposal. The operation varies with the seat of the tnmor. It may be divided into deligation upon the distal and cardiac side of the aneurism. The distal ligature has been applied in seven recorded instances—five on the right and two on the left carotid. Two deaths occurred from haemorrhage ; one from the distal side of the (silk) ligature on the sixty- first day, the second case from rupture of the aneurism on the sixty- seventh day. A third case recovered, but the progress of the disease was not arrested, and death followed the rupture of the sac on the ninety- first day. The remaining four cases were either much improved or cured. The use of the catgut ligature would probably have saved the patient operated upon by Lambert, in which silk was used, causing death from haemor- rhage on the sixty-first day. Deligation upon the cardiac side is always preferable when a sufficient extent of sound artery can be secured around which to apply the ligature. In my "Essays on the Surgery and Anatomy of the Great Vessels of the JSTeck" I have recorded 106 cases in which the artery was tied on the cardiac side of the aneurism ; 69 recovered ; rate of mortality, 35 per cent. For aneurism of the external carotid or its branches, 17 recoveries and 5 deaths. Of the 17 recoveries 16 were cured. For aneurism involving the common carotid alone, the death-rate was 44 per cent. When the aneu- rism involves the common, external, and internal carotids, the ligature should be applied to the common trunk, on the cardiac side, while the distal ligature may be applied to the external trunk, at the same time securing the larger branches derived from this vessel between the ligature a,nd the bifurcation. By this operation the circulation through the tumor, and in the direction of the brain, is practically arrested. Aneurism of the external carotid demands the deligation of this vessel and no other, when by a careful dissection it is discovered that there is a half or three quarters of an inch of this trunk between the bifurcation and the sac. In the event that this method is impracticable, the common trunk must be tied. Aneurism of the internal carotid, in the neck, should be treated by the deligation of this vessel, between the sac and the common trunk, if possible. When a sufficient surface of healthy artery can not be obtained, the common and external carotids should be tied, together with all branches derived from the external, on the cardiac side of the ligature. I performed this operation in one instance, resulting in the rapid and permanent cure of a large extra-cranial aneurism of the internal carotid. The common trunk was first tied, with a nerve ligature, after which cat- gut was applied to the superior thyroid, and external carotid, just above its origin. Aneurism of the internal carotid may occur in the cavernous or cere bral portions of this vessel. In the petrous canal dilatation is practically impossible. Not infrequently an arterio-cavernous aneurism occurs from