CHAPTER X. AISTEUEISM. An aneurism is a sacculated tumor, the cavity of whicti communicates with, an artery, and in rare instances also with a vein. They may be classified as spherical, fusiform, and dissecting. A spherical aneurism is one in which the tumor is well defined, the diameter of its cavity being larger than the diameter of the opening of communication with the vessel. It may spring from any portion of the A dissecting aneurism is one in which, owing to pathological changes in the intima, with necrosis, the blood insinuates itself between the inner coat and the adventitia, dissects the intima from the media and adven- titia, and re-enters the vessel at a distant opening. Aneurisms are further divided into the true and false. To the former belong all tumors the walls of which are composed of the walls of the vessels from which they spring;. to the latter belong those tumors the walls of which are composed of infiammatory new-formed tissue. Cause.—A true aneurism is always preceded by arteritis, which results in atheromatous degeneration of the normal elements which compose the arterial wall. The pathology of arteritis and the relation of this condition to various dyscrasise—as syphilis, nephritis, gout, rheumatism, etc.—have been fully dwelt on in a preceding chapter. These are among the diseases which are favorable to the development of aneurism. The relation of violence to these tumors must not be lost sight of. No matter how severe the dyscrasia and the general condition of arteritis, which is a part of it, it is well known that in the large majority of cases aneurisms develop at those points in the arterial system which are subjected to the greatest a arterial wall (Fig. 270, e), or, in rare instances, the vessel-walls may yield in all directions to form the tumor (Fig. 270, c). Fig. 270. A fusiform aneurism is one in which there is a gradual and gen- eral dilatation of an artery in its entire circumference (Fig. 270, a, h). A spherical aneurism may oc- casionally develop from the wall of a fusiform dilatation.