WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 525 I Non-penetrating incised, punctured, or shot wounds of this region do not demand especial consideration. The former should be closed, while it is usually safer to treat the punctured and shot wounds by placing a sublimate compress over the opening. Penetrating Wounds. —Wounds of the abdomen which penetrate without wounding any internal organ should be closed in the same man- ner as directed for the closure of surgical wounds through the belly. If an internal organ is involved, the abdomen should be opened, the charac- ter of the lesion ascertained, and proper surgical treatment instituted. Among the symptoms which aid in arriving at a diagnosis are the follow- ing : If the injury is followed by the vomiting of blood, it is fair to con- clude that the stomach or duodenum is involved ; if blood is passed by the rectum, that the wound is farther along the bowel; or, if hjematuria exists, that the kidney, ureter, or bladder is injured. If the odor of intestinal gas or fgeces is present, the inference is clear that the aliment- ary canal is opened. BUe, gastric juice, or recently ingested matter seen in the wound or recognized by the sense of smell, indicates the character of the injury and the location of the perforation. The crackling sound peculiar to emphysema, elicited by palpation, indicates the presence of intestinal gas in the loose tissues, beneath the peritonaeum (Dennis). Tympanitic resonance over the liver, which has appeared suddenly and which is persistent, is a diagnostic sign of perforation of considerable value. Shock is usually severe, although in some cases it may be slight and of short duration. In shot-wounds the location of the wound of entrance (and exit, if it exists), together with the known direction of the missile and the force with which it was propelled, will be of aid in determining the character of the lesion within. A bullet passing directly or obliquely into the abdomen, at or below the level of the umbilicus (Fig. 530), can scarcely miss the intestinal tube, and will be more apt to make a number of holes than a single wound. Above this point the chances of escape are more favorable, yet so fortunate a result is exceptional. The direction and depth of a stab-wound may also be determined by the appearance of the wound and an examination of the instrument with which it was inflicted. The persistence of pain in a given point within the abdomen is a recog- nized symptom of a penetrating wound. Many of the foregoing symptoms may not be present within the first few hours after the receipt of a wound which has penetrated the aliment- ary canal, and, beyond the external wound and a varying degree of shock, there may be no symptom of perforation. Temporary contraction of the muscular fibers of the stomach or intestine, or prolapse of the mucous ; membrane into the wound, may prevent, for a time, the escape of gas or ; ingested matter, and the appearance of the more pronounced symptoms j' of perforating wounds of the alimentary canal. Treatment.—When a wound exists in the wall of the abdomen, the j immediate indication is to determine whether it opens into the cavity. In order to do this the disinfected finger, or the light and porcelain-tipped Kelaton probe, should be introduced, and, if necessary, the opening