A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 32 of ether is placed in a flat-bottomed basin containing warm water, which causes rapid vaporization of the anesthetic, the vapor passing into the rectum, where it is absorbed by the vessels. The quantity can be regu- lated by pressure upon the tube and removal of the warm water. An unpleasant sensation is at first experienced, and this is soon followed by the constitutional effects of the agent. Rectal etherization is a dangerous practice, and should not be undertaken under ordinary circumstances. Several deaths occurred in New York city within a few months after the method was put in practice. In one case rupture through a rectal ulcer occurred from the over-distention caused by the gas, and in others there was marked injection of the colon and rectum. If practiced at all, it should be reserved for those extensive operations about the mouth and pharynx, in which the presence of the inhaler seriously interferes with the performance of the operation. Even here the narcosis should be first effected by inhalation, and then, if necessary, maintained by the rectum. Chloroform.—Pure chloroform is a colorless volatile liquid, with a specific gravity of 1 "480, not highly inflammable ; it has a peculiar odor, at first sweetish to the taste, and afterward burning and pungent. Ap- plied to the skin, and prevented from rapid evaporation, it produces red- ness and vesication. When shaken with pure sulphuric acid in equal parts, no discoloration ensues. Impure chloroform, on the other hand, colors the acid brown. The preparations for chloroform narcosis differ in no essential feat- ures from those just given. Since this anaesthetic is more powerful, a much smaller quantity is used. A simple napkin folded into a square of five or six inches will sufiice as an inhaler. The apparatus of Esmarch (Fig. 46) is, however, preferable. It is composed of a wire frame sha23ed Fio. 46.—(Esmarch.) to fit over the nose and mouth, the center wire extending up an inch or more, and bent into a hook. Over this a piece of canton-flannel or soft cloth is stretched so tightly that the threads are parted sufficiently to allow the free passage of air through the covering. To the upper end or hook a tape is attached, and tied around the head in such a position that