ABDOMINAL SECTION FOR INTESTINAL OCCLUSION. 489 tion. Stricture occurs in adults, of forty years or more, oftener tlian in the young, being rarely met with in children under ten years of age. Women suffer from this lesion in a far greater proportion than men. No portion of the alimentary canal, from the pylorus to the anus, is exempt, yet stricture of the duodenum and upper jejunum is compara- tively rare ; the ileum, near the coecum, is more frequently attacked, while the large intestine, and especially the sigmoid flexure and rectum, is the most common seat of this grave and painful affection. The symptoms of stricture are those of progressive narrowing of the intestine. The intensity of the symptoms will be proportionate to the rapidity with which stenosis results and to the portion of the canal in- volved. Pain is not marked until the narrowing has arrived at a point where ingested matter passes through with difiiculty. It is spasmodic in character, and occurs at varying intervals. Distention of the intes- tine above the seat of stricture, with consequent hypertrophy of the wall, follows sooner or later in all cases. The continued irritation of the bowel from the pressure of fecal matter induces ulceration of the mucous and submucous tissues at and above the seat of stenosis, and perforation may occur. Vomiting is an earlier symptom in stricture of the ileum and jejunum than when the colon is involved. There may be diarrhoea or constipa- tion, or these conditions may alternate, and are therefore of no diagnos- tic value. Tenesmus is rare, and tlie abdomen is not distended except in case of peritonitis. As far as the previous history may be of value in locating the seat of the lesion, it is known that dysenteric ulcers are usually found in the rectum, sigmoid flexure, and coecum, and in the order of frequency in which these organs are given; typhoid ulcers (which rarely cause stricture) in the lower ileum and coecum ; those of chronic catarrh in the colon ; syjihilis (gumma) in the rectum and ileum ; and tubercular ulcers in the lower ileum (Treves). The diagnosis of stricture must be based upon a study of the symp- toms above given, except the cases in which the lesion is in the rectum or lower part of the sigmoid flexure, where digital or instrumental ex- ploration may be made. Treatment.—Stricture of the rectum and lower part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon should be treated by dilatation or division. Above this point the only hope of cure is by exsection of the part involved. Enterostomy and colostomy are palliative surgical measures. ABDOMmAL Section foe Intestinal Occlusion. In all lesions of the small intestines and of the transverse colon in which it becomes necessary to invade the abdominal cavity, the incis- ion should be made in the linea alba, between the umbilicus and the symphysis pubis. When the seat of the obstruction can not be deter- mined without exploration, the same incision should be practiced. The coecum, ascending and descending colon, can be more directly approached