1 446 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. In evacuating the pus an incision should be made in the pharynx, as near the median line as possible. When a large quantity of tiuid is present the head should be inclined downward as the incision is made, so that the contents of the abscess may not gravitate into the larynx. This danger may be obviated by partially emptying the sac by the aspi- rator before the incision is made. When the sac extends low down the neck it should be entered and drained from beloAv. Deep retro-pharyn- geal abscess may be reached, as a rule, by the incision and dissection laid down in the operation of cesopTiagotomy. Phlegmon of the neck demands free incision in all cases, when such incision does not encroach upon the important organs of this region. Tumors of the Neck—Solid and Cystic—Lymphoma.—Pathological changes in the lymphatics of the neck account for the large majority of swellings in this region. Lymphoma of the neck may be solid or cystic, benign or malignant. Tumors of the cervical glands may comprise simple lymphoma, the result of hypertrophy and hyperplasia ; tubercular lymphoma, lympho- sarcoma and lymphangiectasis. Lymphoma occurs most frequently in the submaxillary and upper ca- rotid triangle, and next in order of frequency along the line of the great vessels beneath the mastoideus, and lastly in the subclavian region. lu some instances these tumors attain enormous proportions, filling in the neck to the level of the lower jaw and clavicle, and, if not removed, pro- duce death by pressure upon the respiratory apparatus or the oesophagus. Fatty tumors are apt to occur upon the posterior aspect of the neck, and occasionally in the clavicular region. They are comparatively rare in the anterior and upper triangles. Cystic Tumors.—Cysts of the neck are congenital and acquired. Congenital cysts are rare. The form most frequently observed is that already mentioned as a dilatation and hypertrophy of the lymphatic ves- sels (lymphangiectasis). They are usually multilocular, and may extend deeply and, at times, assume enormous proportions. Acquired cysts are seen chiefly along the line of the mastoid muscles, having a tendency to occur in the neighborhood of the parotid gland, less frequently in the subclavian triangle. Cysts resulting from extravasations of blood may also occur here, and occasionally distention of the bursse in the thyro-hyoid region produces cystic tumors. Thyroid Body.—Hypertrophy or hyperplasia of this organ may be partial or complete. All, or a part, of one lateral lobe is usually af- fected ; less frequently the isthmus is alone involved. The oifshoots of this body which are met with at times near the hyoid bone, near the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and occasionally dipping down behind the oesophagus, may also become enlarged. Goitre, or hroncho- cele, is usually endemic, and attacks females more often than males. No climate or condition of living affords a positive immunity from this dis- ease, although in certain localities, as in the valleys of Switzerland, it is frequently met with. The cause of goitre is unknown. It is undoubtedly