THORAX. ■ "467 and offers the speediest and surest means of cure. The incision should be parallel with the direction of the galactiferous ducts. When the cavity is opened, the nozzle of the irrigator should be introduced and the abscess thoroughly washed out with l-to-3000 sublimate solution. Drainage should be secured, and a loose dressing applied. The point of incision should be made in the lower portion of the sac, so that drain- age may be free. At times it may be necessary to make a counter-open- ing. Less frequently abscess may form in front of the glandular tissue beneath the integument or between the capsule of the gland and the thorax. Ostitis or periostitis of the ribs may be the cause of deep- seated submammary abscess. Hypertrophy of the mammary gland is a normal process, usually occurring at puberty and during pregnancy and lactation. In rare instances there is an extensive hyperplasia of the connectiVe-tissue ele- ments of this organ, resulting in great enlargement. The diagnosis may be based upon the hard character of the mass, there being none of the softness and elasticity which belong to the normal breast. The hyper- plasia is general, involving the entire frameAvork of the organ, which will render it easy of differentiation from any form of neoplasm, for these grow from recognized centers of induration. The diagnosis meets with confirmation if the enlargement takes place after puberty, and in a non- pregnant woman. In the treatment of this condition the hyperplasia may be arrested in the earlier stages by well-adjusted and prolonged compression. This may be effected by a thick layer of absorbent cotton laid over the breast and held firmly down upon it by a roller, applied as directed on pages 16 and 17. In advanced cases, a free excision of the organ is demanded. Tumors of the Breast.—New formations in the mammary gland are among the more frequent surgical diseases. The microscojDical charac- ters of tumors are elsewhere described. Unfortunately, they are more frequently mMlignant than benign. Although tumors of the breast occur chiefly in females, they are not uncommon in males. Among the non- malignant tumors are adenoma, myxoma, fibroma, and enchondroma., Yarious forms of cysts are also met with, while syphilitic gumma and tubercular deposits may occur in this organ. Carcinoma (scirrhus, en- cephaloid, colloid, and epithelioma) and sarcoma are the malignant neo- plasms which are found in the breast. Adenoma of the mammary gland is rare. The pathological change, a hyperplasia of the glandular tissue proper, is usually circumscribed. The tumor is generally of small size, freely movable with the breast, and does not form adhesions with the capsule, integument, or submammary fascia. There is no inflammatory process connected with its develop- ment, no enlargement of the axillary glands, no dilatation of the veins of this region, and little or no pain. It is found in nursing women as a rule, but may occur in early puberty and in women who have not borne children. It is not the rule for cystic degeneration to take place in this neoplasm, although such cysts may be met with in rare instances as a