376 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Hydrocephalus is primarily a disease of the araclinoid and pia. mater. It is a disease of childhood, resulting from inherited tubercu- losis. The gross lesion is a transudation of a serous liuid from the pia and arachnoid into the cavities of the ventricles, the arachnoid, and sub- arachnoid spaces. Distention of the ventricles, compression of the brain- substance, separation of the sutures, enlargement and deformity of the head, projection of the eyeballs, downward squint, and loss of cerebral function, are the symptoms, invariably ending in death. Treatment.—Tapping will at times relieve the more urgent symp- toms of distention and compression. Careful antisepsis should be prac- ticed, and the aspiration made through one of the lateral angles of the anterior fontanella. A small needle should be introduced, and three or four ounces slowly withdrawn, the operation occupying from fifteen to thirty minutes. This treatment is palliative, and is only justifi- able in the effort to relieve the suifering of the patient. A cure is impossible. Wounds of the scalp should be treated as wounds of other parts of the integument. Incised wounds should be rendered aseptic, and may be closed by sutures, or the edges brought into apposition by a sublimate- gauze compress and bandage, according to the extent and location of the injury. Sutures are as well tolerated here as elsewhere. When there is no especial desire to avoid a scar, sutures may be omitted, unless the wound is so extensive and gaping that apposition can not be effected by com- pression. Silk is preferable in stitching wounds of the scalp. The hair should be trimmed for a fourth or half inch from the edges of the wound. When no large vessels have been divided, the introduction of the sutures will suffice to arrest the bleeding. It is a safe precaution to insert a small twist of catgut into one angle of the wound to secure drainage in case of suppuration. Lacerated wounds of the scalp are at times very extensive and for- midable. Several instances are reported of complete avulsion of the female scalp from the entanglement of the hair in machinery. In such cases transplantation of integument becomes necessary, in order to pre- vent ostitis from denudation of the calvaria. Ordinary lacerated wounds should be rendered aseptic, and treated by a compress of sublimate gauze. No sutures should be employed, except when a scar is to be avoided, and then only after the torn and bruised edges have been trimmed off with the scissors. Contused wounds of the scalp are usually followed by marked swell- ing, due to extravasation of blood (hsematoma) beneath the pericranium. The treatment consists in cold applications, by means of the ice-bag or cloths taken from ice-water. If suppuration occurs, incision should be promptly made. A form of serous cyst sometimes results from haema- toma of the scalp. It should be treated by aspiration, and, if one or two evacuations do not effect a cure, it should be incised, and the cyst-wall dissected out. Ounsliot wounds in this part require no especial consideration. Punctured wounds of the scalp are not serious, as a rule, when no