A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 176 This condition of atrophy of the elastic lamina is well shown in Fig. 354, which was drawn from one of my specimens. Calcification of arteries has been especially studied by Dr. W. L. Wardwell, of New York city, in Conheim's Laboratory. His experience includes examinations made sometimes the media, sometimes the interna (its outermost layer), is affected, and that in them the lime salts are deposited. Moreover, that this deposit of lime takes place here because these tunics have been sub- jected to the greatest strain. Weigert*' describes a " hitherto nndescribed" process known as co- agulation necrosis. Beginning with the theory of Schmidt concern- ing the coagulation of the blood, in which the white corpuscles play the leading part, he argues that all tissues have the power of spontaneously coagulating, it being necessary for such an occurrence that the cells should die, give up their ferment and fibrino-plastic material, and then become saturated with a fibrinogen-holding lymph. This morbid process he holds may occur in tissues the most diverse in character, as in cheesy glands, infarcts of the spleen or kidneys, tumors, the inflammatory ma- terial around parasites, tubercle, etc. Macroscopically, these coagulated spots have a peculiar, stiff appearance, and, microscopically, they are recognized by the fact that the cell nuclei have disappeared, and can not be made to appear by reagents or by the material used for staining in microscopical examination. Following the line of research indicated by Conheim and Weigert, it may be concluded : 1. That in the arteries of middle-aged or old persons IFi&. 255.—Arteritis with primary calcification. Section from human radial artery, showing at b primary calcification of the media, c. a, the intima comparatively unchanged. (Drawn from specimens prepared by Dr. W. L. Ward- well, at Conheim's Laboratory. Magnified about 350 diameters.) from twenty-five cases at the request of Conheim, who as- sents to his conclusions. Dr. Wardwell says all authorities recognize a morbid change in the arteries known as calcifi- cation, and the majority look upon it as a change second- ary to atheroma or endarte- ritis. Few of these recognize a primary calcification not dependent upon a preceding inflammation. This condi- tion is, however, the chief change in the senile calcifi- cation of arteries. The mi- croscopic appearances of pri- mary calcification are well shown in Fig. 255. Conheim states that in senile arterial calcification * Virchow's " Archiv," Bd. Ixxix, S. 87.