285 FRACTURES. splints, made of gutta-percha strips, cut about one inch and a half in length, from one fourth to one half of an inch in width, and about one fourth of an inch in thickness, are sometimes employed to fix the molar teeth immovably, and at the same time to separate the anterior teeth enough to allow of the introduction of liquid food. These strips should also be softened, and, when placed between the teeth, the crowns of the molars are pressed into the rubber by the dressing. When the fracture is through the molar region, the strip on the broken side is placed on either side of the fracture. The most suitable apparatus is that of Prof. Hamilton, seen in Pig. 311. It consists of a chin-and-head strap, made of strong, soft leather. This piece, where it passes under the chin, is shaped so that while it may not cause uncomfortable pressure at the base of the tongue, it is wide enough, as it passes up on to the side of the face, to include the angle of the jaw in its support. Prom this point it is gradually narrowed, until at the temple it is an inch in width, and the same where it is buckled at the fronto-parietal suture. A piece of cloth, fashioned so as to fit like a cup over the chin, is sewed on to this. A second strip is buckled around the head, across the forehead and beneath the occiput, and from this point an antero- posterior strap passes forward to the max- illary piece, to which it is attached at the fronto-parietal Junction. By shortening or elongating this strap the direction of the pressure on tne jaw can De changed, while it prevents the maxillary strip from pulling forward. A piece of soft lint or cotton should be pJaced under each buckle. If, after the apparatus is applied, the teeth fit so closely together that it is impos- sible to introduce liquid nourishment, inter-dental splints of gutta-percha should be employed. A patient with a fractured jaw should not be allowed to talk, and, when in bed, should be required to rest in the dorsal decubitus, so as not to press laterally upon the injured bone. The prognosis is usually favorable. Pixation by ossification occurs in from two to five weeks. In some cases later, while in a small number, in which proper treatment has been delayed, or the character of the in- jury severe, or the condition of repair in the patient unfavorable, union is delayed or fails utterly. In instances of delayed union fixation should be faithfully tried. If this fails, and the function of the jaw is seriously impaired, the point of fracture should be exposed by incision, the broken edges scraped, one or two holes drilled through each fragment, one foui th of an inch from the edges, and fixation secured by means of silver wires. Fracture of the cartilages of the larynx is of rare occurrence. Sim- ple fracture heals vnthout retentive apparatus, quiet being the chief indi- FiG. 311.—(After Hamilton.)