A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 668 sac is readied, and incise this to about the same extent as for the wound in the integument, allow the fluid to escape, and, with a good-sized cat- - gut continuous suture, stitch the cut edge of the parietal layer of the tunica vaginalis testis to the edge of the wound in the skin, making an opening not unlike a button-hole. Irrigate the sac with l-to-3000 subli- mate solution, and insert a rubber drainage-tube into the upper and lower portions of the cavity, and apply a sublimate-gauze dressing. In all antiseptic dressings about the penis it is essential to isolate this organ so that the urine or the usual unclean condition of this or- gan may not infect the wound. To do this after the drainage is secured and the first gauze is placed around the tubes along the edges of the button-hole, make a hole in all the layers of sublimate gauze and the sheet of protective large enough for the penis to pass through without constriction. Lastly, tuck the dressing well up under the scrotum close to the perinseum, to keep the gases and fecal discharges from infecting the wound. This operation will cure any case of hydrocele which will not yield to the more conservative procedure of Levis. It can only be dangerous by neglect of careful drainage. In very large sacs a counter- opening should be made through the lower portion. Such wounds rarely require more than one or two changes in the dressings, and only then, as in all surgical wounds, when the discharge soils the dressings, escapes beyond the area of antisepsis, and becomes offensive by decom- position, or when the rise in temperature indicates the presence of sep- tic absorption. Bone-drains may be used in the smaller tumors, but rubber gives a better guarantee of perfect drainage. Suppurating periorchitis, or pus in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, may be treated by two methods: If the temperature is high, the sac painful, and the scrotum swollen, the indications are for free incision, irrigation, and drainage. Under less threatening conditions, the aspira- tor may be employed, the sac emptied and repeatedly injected and washed out with l-to-5000 sublimate solution, and compression applied afterward. In this way obliteration of the sac may be achieved, as in the treatment of cold abscesses. Varicocele.—Varicosities of the veins of the spermatic plexus are not uncommon. Varicocele is chiefly caused by gravity and the mechanical interference with the return of blood through the spermatic veins. It occurs with greater frequency on the left side, where the vessels are pressed upon by the sigmoid flexure of the colon with its almost constant weight of fecal matter. In addition to this, the greater length of the left spermatic vein, which enters the renal vein at a right angle to its axis, and is poorly protected by valves, are causes which serve to produce varicosities upon this side more frequently than in the right plexus. Any occupation which necessitates the erect posture is apt to add to the susceptibility of this disease. Hereditary tendencies must be considered in its setiology, for frequently members of a family through several gen- erations will be affected. The earlier symptoms are a feeling of heaviness or dragging down on