GENU VARUM. 721 It by making strong extension. The wound should now be irrigated with 1'3600 sublimate, a sponge applied as a compress, held in place by a roller, and the tourniquet removed. In five minutes, if no bleeding of impor- tance occurs, the sponge may be removed and a dressing of iodoform and sublimate gauze applied. The limb should be brought into the straight position by extension, and steadily held until a plaster-of-Paris bandage is put on and hardened. This dressing is allowed to remain for four or five weeks, as in simple fracture, when it is removed, and passive motion made at the Joint. It is reapplied for a week longer, and then, as a rule, may be discontinued. MacCormac's procedure is practically the same as the above, with the exception that the section is made from the outer side of the femur. Of these two operations the incision from the outer side (MacCormac's) is preferable, for the reason that there are no vessels in the way. On the inner side the long saphenous vein and the anastomotica magna artery are endangered. Moreover, it does not matter from which side the bone proper is divided, as far as the correction of the deformity is concerned. When the tibia and fibula are involved in the deformity, section of these bones may be required at the same or a sub- sequent operation. Genu Varum.—In bow-leg, or outward curvature of the lower ex- tremity, one or both members may be involved. The bones of the leg are usually alone involved, although in some instances the femur may take part in the deformity (Fig. 704). The principal cause of bow-legs is rickets, the softened bones yielding to the weight of the body or to muscu- lar contractions. Genu varum is usu- ally met with in childhood, but may occur in adults who are rachitic. In treatment, the indications are the same as for knock-knee. The adjustment of any mechanical apparatus is, how- ever, more difiicult. Splints should be adjusted to prevent further deform- ity, or the patient should be jjrevent- a -I • • ,1 • -I , />ii Fig- 704.—Genu varum, or bow-legs. ed trom bringing the weight of the (After Poore.) body upon the diseased bones. In the mean while every eifort should be made to correct the dyscrasia. As long as the bones remain in the softened condition of rickets, oper- ative interference is not indicated. Osteotomy of the tibia and fibula at the point where the outward curve is most pronounced will, in the majority of instances, correct the deformity. In extreme cases it may be necessary to make sections at two or more points. If the femur is involved it should also be divided, although this complication will rarely be met with. The details of the operation and the after-treatment are practicall}^ the same as for genu valgum. Osteoclasis should be substituted for osteotomy only in those cases 46