A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 180 was 35, 1 was 38, the remainder between 40 and 50. Of the males, 4 were between 30 and 40, the rest between 40 and 50. These patients did not all die from syphilis, some perishing from other and concomitant diseases. Of those who died from the eifects of syphUis, the greater number were comparatively young. Of the four females under twenty-five years of age, two died from the eifects of thrombosis of the cerebral arteries, one from syphilitic disease of the larynx, and one from accident. Of the six males under forty, one died fi-om syphi- litic disease of the cerebral arteries, one from gummata of the brain and dura mater, one from pneumonia due to syphilitic disease of the larynx and trachea, one from renal disease consequent upon stricture, and another by accident. In the total of twenty-two cases, the condition of the vascular system was noted in all but six. In one case there was no lesion of the arteries. In the remaining fifteen cases the arteries were more or less seriously involved. In other words, out of sixteen cases in which the condition of the arteries was noted, in fifteen these vessels were diseased. The author says that the condition of the aorta and large vessels, as regards atheroma, is of importance in connection with the dependence of aneurism upon syphilis, and that, as regards the smaller vessels, the nature of the disease of the cerebral arteries is of the greatest interest. In three females, aged twenty-three, twenty-five, and twenty-five, there was marked atheroma of the aorta. In one, the atheroma was general in the aorta and its larger branches, the condition being that of diffused, irregular swelling, with but little fatty degeneration. In one female, aged twenty-five, in the first part of the arch of the aorta were several patches, rounded, prominent in the center, and thicker than usual. On section these appeared homogeneous, and presented scarcely any fatty degeneration. Throughout the rest of the aorta there was general athe- roma, with no peculiar characters. In another female, aged thirty-five, there were large patches of endarteritis deformans in the abdominal aorta. In several other cases there was marked atheroma, and in most cases where there was no renal disease the patches were much raised, some- times almost hemispherical, at other times with sharply defined edges of gelatinous appearance and pearly luster; and on section there Avas but little fatty degeneration or calcification. Whether in these cases the disease would have gone on to the forma- tion of aneurism, can not of course be decided ; but it is evident that a marked tendency to the occurrence of endarteritis deformans at an early age, and in an advanced degree, exists in visceral syphilis. The cerebral arteries were very markedly affected with syphilitic dis- ease in five cases, and in a sixth were probably diseased. As to the pathological changes which syphilitic arteritis causes, they are given by Dr. Greenfield in two cases of disease of the cerebral arteries. The specimens were taken from the middle cerebral and basilar arte- ries. They are typical, and probably represent two different stages of the process. In the first case the disease is seen in the earlier forai, in which it consists almost entirely of a cell-growth which has as yet under-