510 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. be kept between the finger and the femoral vein, and the edge of the nail against Gimbernat's ligament, just at its insertion at the os pubis. A long, probe-pointed knife is now carried flatwise along the palmar side of the finger, with the cutting edge directed toward the median line. The constriction is relieved by lifting or scraping the attachment of (ximber- nat's ligament from the os pubis, and in doing this the cutting edge of the knife should not be carried beyond this ligament, nor should it have any other direction than inward toward the symphysis. If these precau- tions are not observed, a dangerous complication may arise in the di^dsion of the obturator artery (or vein), in cases in which it is derived from the epigastric branch of the external iliac. In eight fatal cases of this char- acter the patients were females. This abnormal derivation occurs in women in nearly 50 per cent of cases, and in 25 per cent in men, while the vein is in relation to the femoral ring m a larger proportion of cases. - The manner in which the artery arches over the crural ring is shown in Fig. 539. When the strangulation is released, and the contents of the sac returned into the abdomen, an effort should be made to effect a radi- cal cure as above directed. TJiribilical Hernia.—The diagnosis between this form of hernia and other tumors of the umbilical region will depend chiefly upon the im- pulse conveyed to the hernia in the act of coughing, or in crying in children. If the hernia is made up of omentum—and this is not un- common in adults—it will be doughy to the feel and flat or dull on per- cussion. Intestine will be more or less resonant on percussion. If the mass is reducible in the recumbent posture, and under direct manipula- tion the diagnosis of hernia is evident. Cyst of the omphalo-mesenteric duct would be translucent, and fluctuation would be present. In con- genital hernia the extreme thinness of the covering renders the recog- nition of the character of the tumor easy. Treatment.—When an umbilical hernia which is only covered by the thin membrane of the cord exists at birth, it should be returned at once, and the opening closed by carefully adjusted sutures, supported by ad- hesive strips, drawn in dove-tail fashion across the abdomen at the weak point. If covered over with integument, it should be reduced, a small, firm compress placed in the opening, and secured in place by a band of adhesive plaster carried around the child's belly. The acquired form is treated in the same general way. It should be reduced by posture, aided by careful taxis if necessary, and a truss worn day and night. In mild cases a light rubber belt wiU sufiice after retiring for the night, but the heavier apparatus should be adjusted before leaving the recum- bent posture. Irreducible hernia, not. strangulated, may be held in position by a properly adjusted cup-shaped compress. The danger of strangulation is always present, and the question of the advisability of operating to relieve the incarceration, and of sewing * The author's " Essays in Surgical Anatomy and Surgery." William Wood & Co., 1878. "Few York Medical Record," October, 1877.