THE TESTICLE. &73 stituted. The application of from three to six leeches will at times relieve the local congestion. Usually rest in bed will alone snfiice to effect a cure. In some in- •stances operative interference is indicated. When the tension is great and the pain extreme, the happiest results will follow multiple puncture. Proceed as follows : Take a sharp, narrow knife and push it through a €ork until from a quarter to half an inch of the point is exposed. Hold the organ in the left hand so as to expose the posterior aspect of the •epididymis and make the skin fairly tense, and plunge the blade in up to the cork in from two to six or ten points along the most swollen and in- durated portions of the tumor. A free escape of dark blood follows. The operation is very painful, but the relief is marked and immediate. A suspensory bandage should be worn during convalescence. The treat- ment of chronic epididymitis will be considered with that of orchitis. The Testicle.—Wounds of this organ do not demand especial consid- eration. Hernia of the tubules not infrequently occurs from incision or puncture of the tunica albuginea. Reduction is practically impossible. The protruded portion should be tied off with a catgut ligature, the ex- cess of substance beyond the thread cut off, and the organ returned to the normal position. Inflammation of the testis (orchitis) may result from direct violence, from the extension of an epididymitis, or from metastasis. Orchitis is frequently met with as a symptom of "mumps," but the relation between these two processes is not understood. The symptoms are enlargement of the organ, with pain usually in- tense. The swelling is slow on account of the great resistance offered I)y the tunica albuginea. The skin over the organ is tense and reddened, and at times oedematous, especially when an epididymitis precedes the inflammatory process in the testicle. In severe cases gangrene may ensue, and the tunica vaginalis and scrotal walls may become involved. In mild cases the pathological ■changes are chiefly hyperaemia and the formation of a limited amount of ■embryonic tissue along the blood-vessels and in the connective-tissue septa of this organ. In the severer forms this process is greatly exag- gerated, and as a result of the extensive hyperplasia the circulation is arrested, and death of the tubular structure ensues. Or, if gangrene does not occur, atrophy of the secretory apparatus follows as a result of contraction of the products of inflammation. In some instances the swelling subsides, leaving no marked changes in the organ. The prognosis is in exact relation to the symptoms. Mild cases, especially in the forms occurring with urethral epididymitis, generally terminate in one or two weeks in recovery and restoration of the organ to its normal condition. In cases where the symptoms are severe from the start, the prognosis is grave unless early relief is afforded, and even then it is not always favorable. Treatment.—Rest in the dorsal decubitus should be insisted upon in ■even the mildest cases, for not infrequently dangerous orchitis is pro- voked by neglect of this precaution. 43