A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 546 Diseases of the bladder and prostate, uterus and ovaries, pregnancy, or the presence of a tumor, are also to be considered as exciting causes of this lesion. Finally, the weak and infirm are more liable to be afi:ected than the robust. When prolajDsus occurs it is accompanied with a sense of distention, heaviness, and dragging down, which causes great pain and anxiety to the patient. In recent cases in which there is only an eversion of the mucous membrane, this will be seen projecting beyond the limit of the anus on one or both sides, or in severer cases including its entire cir- cumference. The prolapsed fold or ring is of a reddish-purple color, varying with the degree of strangulation, and is broken at intervals by furrows or depressions which, in the main, seem to radiate from the center of the protrusion. When complicated with haemorrhoids, these will be easily recognized by their shape and color, giving a swollen and nodulated appearance, which could not exist in simple eversion. In differentiating partial from complete prolapsus, the chief points are the thinness of the prolapsed ring in the partial form, and the radiating direction of the furrows. In complete prolapse the mass is markedly thicker, more strangulated, and the folds of mucous membrane are more nearly circular in arrangement. Treatment.—In acute prolapsus the immediate indication is to relieve the strangulation and restore the prolapsed portion to its normal posi- tion. The removal of the cause or causes of the accident is next in importance. The first indication is met by placing the patient upon the left side, with the pelvis well elevated, the shoulders and head de- pressed, or in the knee-shoulder position, in either of which the return of the bowel is aided by gravity. The fingers of the operator and the protruded mass should now be well lubricated, and steady and gentle pressure exercised upon the tumor in the direction of the normal posi- tion of the bowel. In almost all cases this practice will succeed. When, on account of spasm of the sphincter, the strangulation is so great that gangrene is threatened and reduction impossible, an anajsthetic should be administered and forcible dilatation effected by the thumbs of the operator, after which the mass will readily return within the amis. Once reduced, the greatest pains must be observed to prevent the reiDetition of the accident. Fecal accumulation and straining should be prevented by the injection of cold water when there is a need or desire for an evacuation, and by the use of the bed-pan. In children it is essential that they should not be allowed to squat upon a low vessel, or place themselves in a constrained position at stool. The position assumed should be one where gravitation will not carry the intestines toward the anus. Lying upon the side, with the buttocks slightly projecting over the edge of the bed or table, or defecating in the knee-elbow position, should be insisted upon. Any condition which contributes to the cause of prolapse must be removed or palliated. When, despite all conserva- tive methods, the prolapse becomes chronic, growing progressively worse, operative interference becomes imperative. The preparation of the pa- tient is the same as for other operations about the rectum. After the