D. APPLETON & CO., 1, 3, & 5 Bond Street, New York. THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY. CONDUCTED BY E. L. AXD W. J. YOUMANS. The Popular Science Monthly will continue, as heretofore, to supply its readers with the results of the latest investigation and the most valuable thought in the various departments of scientific inquiry. Leaving the dry and technical details of science, which are of chief concern to specialists, to the journals devoted to them, the Monthly deals with those more general and practical subjects which are of the greatest interest and importance to the public at large. In this work it has achieved a foremost position, and is now the acknowl- edged organ of progressive scientific ideas in this country. The wide range of its discussions includes, among other topics : The bearing of science upon education ; Questions relating to the prevention of disease and the improve- ment of sanitary conditions ; Subjects of domestic and social economy, including the introduc- tion of better ways of living, and improved applications in the arts of every kind ; The phenomena and laws of the larger social organizations, with the new standard of ethics, based on scientific principles ; The subjects of personal and household hygiene, medicine, and architecture, as exemplified in the adaptation of public buildings and private houses to the wants of those who use them ; Agriculture and the improvement of food-products ; The study of man, with what appears from time to time in the departments of anthropology and archaeology that may throw light upon the development of the race from its primitive conditions. Whatever of real advance is made in chemistry, geography, astron- omy, physiology, psychology, botany, zoology, paleontology, geol- ogy, or such other department as may have been the field of research, is recorded monthly. Special attention is also called to the biographies, with portraits, of representative scientific men, in which are recorded their most marked achievements in science, and the general bearing of their work in- dicated and its value estimated. Terms: $5.00 per annum, in advance. The New York Medical Journal and The Popular Science Monthly to the same address, $9.00 per annum (full price, $10.00).