DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 389 Phlyctenular conjunctivitis, as has been stated, is almost always an expression of a constitutional disease, as syphilis, tuberculosis, etc., and requires, in addition to local measures, a course of treatment for the palliation or cure of the dyscrasia which prevails. The local treatment of the phlyctenulcB is to dust the inflamed spots once a day with calo- mel, or to introduce between the lids a small quantity of calomel oint- ment (grs. j-ij to 3 j of cosraoline). Astringents, as already described in chronic conjunctivitis, should also be employed to cause absorption of the products of inflammation. Symblepharon, or adhesion of the lids to the globe of the eye, may fol- low any form of conjunctivitis. The treatment in mild and recent cases consists in repeatedly breaking up the adhesions until the epithelium of the conjunctiva is developed over the raw surfaces, or the edges of the wound left by the dissection may be brought together by sutures. In severe cases, after the adhesions are dissected loose, a cure may be effected by making a plastic operation, which consists in sliding the contiguous healthy mucous membrane across the raw surface and se- curing it by fine silk sutures. Ectropion, or eversion of the lid, usually follows chronic conjuncti- vitis and blepharitis, or is caused by cicatricial contractions after injuries located in the tissues near the eye. The treatment is chiefly operative, and consists in the relief of the ten- sion which is causing the displace- ment. When cicatricial contractions have produced the deformity, a par- tial or complete restoration of the function and position of the lid may be obtained by a careful and thor- ough dissection of the cicatrix, and immediately filling in the wound by transplantation of skin. The integument about the eye is remarkably tolerant in plastic opera- tions, and, with care and skill, relief will follow in almost every instance. The operation known as sliding was done in the case of the patient from whom Fig. 421 was taken, as repre- senting a typical traumatic ectro- pion. The eversion was caused by an injury to the integument of the naso-maxillary region, with fracture of the nasal process of the superior maxilla. The first operation consist- ed in a removal of the cicatrix from near the inner canthus and side of the nose! Two incisions were then made—one parallel with and about 1 Fig. 421.—Ectropion due to cicatricial contrac- tions following a wound of the naso-maxillary region.