WOUNDS. 85 terrible disease, and it has been observed that the epidemic form of tetanns is more likely to occur when, added to an injury, the atmospheric conditions are unfavorable. It is more frequently met with in hot than in temperate climates. Thus, as cited by Gross and Hamilton, among the wounded of Aber- crombie's command, who, after the defeat at Fort Ticonderoga, in the summer of 1758, were exposed to inclement weather, in open boats upon Lake George, during the entire night following the engagement, an epi- demic of tetanus prevailed, in which nine cases died. Sadden and pro- longed exposure to cold or in a damp atmosphere after a wound always adds to the danger of being attacked by this disease. The impression prevails among the inhabitants of Long Island, especially along the east shore, that they are especially susceptible to lock-jaw ; and that this is more than conjecture I am convinced, for I know personally of several cases occurring in this vicinity. The time which may elapse between the receipt of the injury and the appearance of the muscular spasms varies from a few hours to several weeks ; usually within the first three weeks after the injury. The earlier symptoms refer to an unusual degree of irritation and pain in the wound, which is apt to be out of proportion to the degree of inflammation present. The sense of pain is often referred along the sensory tracts toward the centers. Irritability, a sense of unusual muscular excitability, a feeling of malaise and apprehension, are among the symptoms which precede the convulsive attacks. The muscles supplied by the motor filaments of the fifth nerve are among the earliest to respond to this abnormal stimulus, hence the commonly accepted term of lock-jaw. In the milder cases the tonic spasms may be altogether confined to these muscles. In severer cases the sense of distress is referred to the epigastric region, and this is followed by tonic muscular contraction, commencing with the diaphragm, and involving in quick succession the muscles of the jaws, larynx, and back of the neck and dorso-lumbar region. Respiration is interrupted, the expression of distress is extreme, the face becomes cyanotic, and death may occur from fixation of the respiratory muscles. The chief distortion is that of more or less complete extension of the spine {ppis-