81 WOUNDS. isms. Hsemorrhagic infarctions and oedema are frequent symptoms. When the disease results from the ingestion of the poison, the diagnosis is difficult. Swelling and puffiness of the face have been observed, With high febrile movement and great prostration. Treatment.—Local and constitutional measures are demanded—ex- cision or free incision, and the application of a strong sublimate solution (1 to 1,000). Supporting measures are demanded when the infection is general and prostration is threatened. Dissection Wounds.—A wound is not apt to become poisoned from contact with the tissues of a cadaver which has been thoroughly injected with chloride of zinc, arseniate of soda, or sublimate solution. Septic matter from non-injected subjects is always a source of danger when brought in contact with abrasions of the skin or mucous surfaces. The contents of the peritoneal and pleural cavities are especially virulent. The fluids from persons dead from any septic or malignant disease, such as erysipelas, small-pox, etc., are unusually dangerous. Patients suffering from suppurative arthritis, with general sepsis, are dangerous subjects. In a recent case of this nature in Mount Sinai Hospital, a colleague and one member of the house-staff and the nurse were all seriously inoculated from the same operation. Susceptibility varies with the individual. Some enjoy lasting immunity under all conditions of exposure, while others are easily inoculated. Symptoms.—Inflammation and soreness at the wound are first noticed. In a few days lines of redness extend in the route of the lymphatics, and the arm (since the hand is usually the seat of the primary lesion) becomes painful, stiff, and hot. The epitrochlear and axillary glands enlarge, and in many cases suppurate. Rigors, fever, headache, aching of the joints, coated tongue, and other symptoms of sepsis follow. The patient may pass into a low typhoid state, or general metastatic abscesses may occur, ending in death. Treatment.—Ablution of the wound in sublimate solution (1 to 500) and suction should be instantly performed, or suction alone may remove the poison. It should be kept open and washed frequently. Cold cloths or the ice-bag will be found very grateful in the lymphangitis and adenitis which follow the inoculation. Caustics, or covering in an abra- sion with liquor gutta-perchse, collodion, or plaster (except for protec- tion against further inoculation), is an absurd and dangerous practice. If abscesses form, early incision is demanded. The constitutional reme- dies are quinia, tonics, stimulants, antipyrine, judiciotis feeding, and ventilation. Erysipelas.—Erysipelas is a contagious as weU as an infectious dis- ease, caused by the invasion through an abrasion of the integument, or by the mucous surfaces, of a specific poison or virus. The presence of an almost constant micrococcus in the inflammatory area of erysipelas has led some observers to consider this organism as the cause of the disease; but the fact that it has been wanting in some instances ex- amined by careful investigators would seem to disprove this theory. It may spread from one infected person directly to another, or indirectly 6 \