FRACTURES. 293 the same splint as just described. It is advisable to place a compress of cotton or lint in front of the condyle, in order to increase the pressure backward. For the external condyle, bend the forearm as before, and place the hand-palm upward. In all these lesions plaster-of-Paris or liquid-glass dressings may be used, although a well-made and well-applied gutta- percha, shellac, leather, or pasteboard shoulder, arm, and forearm splint is preferable. Separation of the epicondyles is of rare occurrence, and demands no especial mention. The indications for treatment are similar, and the prognosis more favorable than for fracture of the condyles. Forearm—Ulna.—Fracture of the olecranon process usually occurs as a result of a fall on the elbow, when the forearm is in strong flex- ion. It is occasionally caused by contraction of the triceps. The line of fracture is most frequently at the epiphyseal junction. The displace- ment is upward, in the line of the triceps (Fig. 321). The diagnosis may be determined by loss of function, crepitus, which may be obtained when the forearm is fully extended, or by appreciation of the separation of the two frag- ments. Treatment.—Extend the forearm to the fullest degree consistent with comfort. Make a soft-board splint, two or three inches wide, and long enough to extend from within two inches of the carpus to the same dis- tance from the axilla. Cut a deep notch on either side, three inches below the level of the line of fracture. Pad the splint with batting, making it twice as thick in the bend of the elbow as elsewhere, and wrap it with a roller. Lay the splint on the anterior sur- face of the arm and forearm, and secure it near the ends by sev- eral turns of the roll- er. Next, take a flan- nel bandage (on ac- count of its elasticity), and, commencing below, cover the forearm and splint by circular turns until the notch is reached, at which moment the roller is carried well above the upper fragment, around the posterior Fig. 321.—Displacement of the upper fragment m fracture of the olecranon. (After Gray.) Hamilton.)