3 SURGICAL DRESSINGS. nary dry box, and need not be rendered aseptic for operations on the palate. >. Silver wire is invaluable as a suture-material. Beyond the operations upon the genito-urinary organs of the female, where it is indispensable, it is preferable to silk in many wounds of other portions of the body. The sizes most required range from Nos. 24 to 31, inclusive. A most convenient way of carrying silver for immediate use is to cut it in pieces about ten inches in length, and place it in a metal cylinder (Fig. 3), which is ^^^^ divided into three or four compartments, and closed by a screw-top. Or the wire loops may be wrapped in protective or blotting-paper, and thus kept free from moisture in order to prevent rust. They are rendered aseptic by immersion in 1 to 20 carbolic acid one half-hour before using them. Solutions. — For irrigating wounds, submerging instru- ments, and disinfecting in general, solutions of corrosive sub- limate and carbolic acid are necessary, and pure alcohol, iodo- form, and chloride-of-zinc solutions may at times be used. Koch has demonstrated that, as a germ-killer, corrosive sublimate excels all known agents. The sublimate solutions vary in the proportion of one part of the bichloride to five hundred parts of distilled water by weight, or 1 to 600, 1 to 1,000, 1 to 2,000, 1 to 3,000 for use outside of the great cavi- ties, and 1 to 8,000, 1 to 15,000, and 1 to 20,000 within the cavities. The sublimate solutions are only used for irrigation and for disinfecting the hands, sponges, and gauze. All instru- ments are submerged in carbolic-acid solutions or in alcohol. The stronger solutions, 1 to 500 and 1 to 1,000, are rarely employed in irrigation, and then only when the part exposed has been made bloodless by the Esmarch bandage. Even when thus employed for the disinfection of an abscess cav- ity, ulcer, or sinus, the excess of sublimate should be imme- diately washed away by flooding the part with the 1 to 3,000 solution. In any ordinary operation no stronger sublimate than 1 to 3,000 will be required; a 1 to 10,000 solution may be used in the peritoneal or thoracic cavity where the con- ditions are such that the fluid may run out or be removed at once by sponges. I have filled the entire abdominal cavity Fig. 3. with warm sublimate, 1 to 18,000, mopping it out with sponges, and repeating this procedure three times without any bad symptom resulting. For convenience, any required solution may be made from the follow- ing : Corrosive sublimate, gr. xxx ; water and glycerin, each, § ss. Some add to this about gr. x of table-salt. One teaspoonful of this solution added to a pint of water approximates 1 to 2,000. Water containing lime should not be used. Tablets of corrosive sublimate are now manufact- ured, and are very convenient for transportation. Each tablet contains