294 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. aspect of the arm, and down again, to be secured in the notch on the opposite side of the splint. This oblique turn is repeated until the frag- ments are in apposition, when the whole is secured by as many circular turns as are needed (Fig. 323). Within a week the fracture should be inspected, by removing a portion of the dressing, and additional turns applied if any separation has occurred. After four or five weeks the splint should be removed, and careful passive motion made, while the fragments are supported by the operator. The union is apt to be liga- mentous. Fracture of the coronoid process is exceedingly rare. The diagnosis is difficult—often impossible. If the lesion is strongly suspected, secure quiet by applying a splint in extreme flexion. Fracture of the ulna, in its shaft, occurs in the effort to ward off a blow, or as a result of a fall directly upon the bone. The diagnosis is usually not difficult, even when displacement is slight. In suspected fracture of one of the bones of the forearm, if compression be made by grasping both bones at a point remote from the suspected break, and pain or abnormal mobility be caused at that point, the diag- nosis of fracture is fairly clear. If crepitus is obtained, all doubt is dissi- pated. Displacement of the upper fragment is always slight. The lower may be drawn toward the radius by the pronator quadratus. The obliquity of the cleavage, and the direction of the force which produced the lesion, will almost always determine the displacement. Radius.—Fracture of the radius above the bicipital tuberosity is one of the rarest forms of injury, and, when present, is with great difficulty recognized. The cause is direct violence. Displacement of the upper fragment wiU be slight, unless the fracture is complicated with a disloca- tion at the radio-humeral joint. The action of the biceps will tend to draw the lower fragment forward. The best position for treatment is to flex the forearm on the arm, with the palm turned upward, and to apply an anterior splint, wider than the arm, and provided with an interosseous pad. If the displacement forward is extreme, a compress may be em- ployed. Fracture of the radius between the bicipital tuberosity and the in- sertion of the pronator radii teres is also usually from a direct blow, although it may result from a faU „ T^- , . ^.v- , .p * on the hand, or from muscular ac- Fio. 324.—Displacement of the Iragments in fracture ' . » - of the radius in its lower third. (After Gray.) tioU.* While the obliquity of the line of fracture will in great part determine the displacement, the tendency is for the lower fragment to be carried toward the ulna by the conjoined action of the pronator quadratus and pronator radii teres muscles, while the upper fragment is * Packard, in Ashhurst's " Encyclopaedia," vol. iv. William Wood & Co., New Yoi'k.