334 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. When the dislocation occurs on the puhes there is abduction, slight flexion, and slight outward rotation. The foot is carried away from that of the sound side, and the toes are pointed outward. The chief diagnostic feature of this displacement is the presence of the head of the bone at Poupart's ligament (Fig. 369). The differential diagnosis is between muscular spasm or rigidity and fracture. Spasm or rigidity of the muscles about the hip may occur as a re- sult of an acute or subacute inflammatory process in the joint, or in the periarticular tissues, or in certain cases of ostitis of the lumbar vertebrae, sacrum, or ilium, in the neighborhood of the psoas and ilia- cus muscles. This condition of partial immobility may be dift'erentiated from that of dislocation by the absence of the shortening, which is present in the displacement on the dorsum ilii and into the ischiatic notch, the lengthening in the thyroid luxation, while the head of the bone on the pubes will determine the character of this lesion. The absence of the characteristic deformity of each of these forms of dislo- cation will determine the diagnosis of muscular spasm or rigidity. The symptoms of fracture near the hip have been given. Shortening, pre- ternatural mobility, and crepitus are to be chiefly relied upon in difl'er- entiation. Reduction—Dislocation on the Dorsum Ilii—Bigelow's Method.— In complete ether narcosis, place the patient upon a strong, low table, or upon the floor, in the dorsal decubitus. Grasp the leg of the dislocated side, just above the ankle, with one hand, and near the knee with the other, flex the leg on the thigh, and the thigh on the abdomen, to nearly an angle of 90° with the surface of the floor, ad- duct the thigh until the knee of this side is carried to about the middle of the sound thigh, and then cause the knee to describe a circle outward and downward until the leg is brought to the floor in its normal position (Fig. 370). If the luxation is not reduced the manoeuvre should be careful- ly repeated. This method of reduction by manipulation is based upon the resist- ance to reduction which is made by the ilio-femoral ligament (when this is not torn). The normal position of this ligament is shown in Fig. 371, and its relaxation by flexing the dislocated thigh upon the abdomen is shown in Fig. 372; and it is readily seen that if, with the thigh in this position, abduction, with outward rota- tion, is practiced, the head of the bone will be lifted over the margin of the acetabulum and carried in the direction of the socket. Fig. 370.—Reduction of dislocation on the dorsum ilii by manipulation. (After Bigelow.)