CHAPTER YIIL AMPUTATIONS. A]vr amputation is the complete separation of any projecting organ or member from tlie body. Wliile the term may be applied to operations in which the breast, penis, scrotum, cervix uteri, etc., are cut away, by long usage and common consent it is now restricted to removal of the extremities or their subdivisions. An amputation may be accidental^ as when a limb is torn, cut, or crushed off by machinery ; natural, when, as in senile gangrene from gradual failure of the heart, or pathological changes in the arteries, the dead portion is separated at the line of demarkation ; or surgical^ when scientifically performed. When in an amputation the line of section is through the substance of the bone, the operation is said to be in continuity, and when through an articulation, in contiguity. The removal of a part which is useless or deformed, the presence of which, however, does not threaten the life of the individual, is called an amputation of expediency / under more urgent conditions, the operation is one of necessity. Amputations of necessity are further subdivided into those after accident and those after disease. In amputations after accident, the period in which the operation may be performed is divided into the immediate, primary, and secondary. An immediate amputation is done during the prevalence of shock, and usually within from two to six hours after the receipt of the injury neces- sitating the oj)eration ; primary, after reaction from shock, and before inflammation is established—usually within twenty-four hours after the injury ; secondary, when performed after this limit, and during the preva- lence of inflammation. The danger of death after amputation depends chiefly upon the character of the injury, and the locaiion of the line of section. The prognosis becomes grave in proportion to the exhaustion of the patient as a result of haemorrhage, shock, sepsis, or of any dyscrasia or inter- current disease. As to the line of section, there are practically no exceptions to the law that the rate of mortality is proportionate to the diameter of the part divided and the proximity of the section to the trunk. Thus, amputa- tions of the lower extremity are more fatal than those of the upper, those of the hip more fatal than through the middle and lower third or through the leg, while the same comparison holds good from the shoulder out.