FRACTURES. 291 a piece of paper to fit over the shoulder and down the arm. It should be large enough to spread over a part of the scapular and pectoral region, and to embrace two thirds of the circumference of the arm. The paste- board, gutta-percha, or leather is cut to correspond to this, and is im- mersed in hot water until it is soft and pliable, when it is lined with a thin layer of absorbent cotton and molded over the arm and shoulder, where it is secured by a roller, applied as above. The inner side of the arm is protected by cotton or cloth. The forearm and hand should be bandaged, and held in front of the ensiform cartilage by means of a sling. If the dressing becomes loose, an additional roller should be applied. Any dressing for this fracture should be worn continuously for at least four weeks. In order to prevent contraction of the biceps, it will be ad- visable to fully extend the forearm every two or three days. Fractures of the shaft of the humerus, although chiefly caused by di- rect violence, are not infrequently the result of a fall on the hand or elbow, and may, in rare instances, be caused by muscular action alone. The dis- placement, which is usually not marked, will in great part be determined by the direction of the line of fracture. If the break is above the inser- tion of the deltoid, while the lower fragment is drawn upward by the del- toid and the long muscles extending from the scapula to the elbow, the upper fragment is apt to be drawn toward the thorax by the pectoralis major and minor and latissimus dorsi muscles (Fig. 318). If the break is below the deltoid tubercle, the dis- placement and overlapping will, in gen- eral, follow the obliquity of the fract- ure. The lower fragment is apt to be drawn behind the upper longer piece. The treatment is practically the same as that just given. If the cup-shaped splint is used it should be made long- er, and an extra short, narrow, internal splint may be added (Fig. 319). The plaster-of-Paris dressing is very satis- factory in this region of the arm. Fracture at the condyloid extremity of the humerus may be divided into : 1, transverse fracture above the con- dyles, caused by violence applied to the elbow ; 2, epiphyseal separation (on a plane lower than the above); 3, trans- verse fracture, with a longitudinal split into the joint (inter-condyloid) ; 4, fract- ure of the external condyle; 5, of the in- ternal condyle; 6, of the external epicondyle ; 7, the internal epicondyle. In transverse fracture above the condyles the obliquity is usually from behind forward and downward (Fig. 320), the inferior short frag- ment being carried up behind the longer. When the lower fragment is split into the joint, the displacement is the same. Fig. 319.—Apparatus for fracture of the hu- merus at any point above the condyles. ( After Hamilton.)