A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 322 glenoid cavity in a partial dislocation, or, if the capsule is torn, it (usu- ally) slips in front of the long tendon of the triceps, and is lodged upon the axillary border of the scapula, immediately below the articular sur- Fia. 353. — Subacro- mial and subspi nous. (Bryant.) Fig. 354.—Subglenoid (Bryant.) Fig. 355.—Subcoracoid. (Bryant.) Fig. 356.—Subcla- vicular. (Bryant.) Fig. 357.—Subglenoid. (Bryant.) face (Fig. 354). The supra-spinatus muscle is severely stretched, and either suffers rupture of its tendon or substance, or, rather than yield, it may tear off a rim of the upper facet of the greater tuberosity. The long head of the biceps and the coraco- brachialis are also subjected to great strain or rupture, while the tension of the deltoid holds the arm in a position with the elbow slightly tilted from the side of the body. Among the less frequent complica- tions of this lesion may be mentioned pressure upon the circumflex and axil- lary nerves, and injury or rupture of the great vessels. The cause of this dislocation is vio- lence applied to the shoulder in a direc- tion from above downward, or indirectly to the hand, forearm, or elbow, with the humerus raised at or beyond an angle of 90° to the axis of the trunk. The diagnosis of a subglenoid luxation will depend upon the follow- ing symptoms : The acromion process is unusually prominent, the head of the bone is not in its normal relation to this process, and may be felt low down in the axillary space. There is a depression in the anterior axillary fold in these subjects. The arm is fixed in such a manner that the elbow points directly outward from the side of the body (Fig. 357). As in all the shoulder dislocations, the arm is so held that, if the hand of the injured side be placed on the opposite shoulder, the elbow can not be made to drop down upon the wall of the thorax. This, the test of Dugas, is important in differentiation from fracture in which there is such a considerable degree of motion possible that the arm can be brought well down upon the chest. There is always preternatural immobility in