545 PROLAPSUS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. I yillous polypus may be safely removed by transfixing its base with a I double silk ligature, tying these, and allowing the mass to slough away; or, with the sphincter fully dilated, the tumor may be removed by the curette. The haemorrhage is not severe, and may be arrested by packing with gauze. The pedunculated tumors may be twisted off with the forceps or clipped closely with the curved scissors. The stump should be touched with lunar caustic or burned with nitric acid or the cautery. Neuralgia.—Pain, neuralgic in character, is occasionally felt in the rectum or about the anus. In some instances it is caused by displace- I ment of the coccyx, the bone in the abnormal position pressing upon the i fifth sacral or coccygeal nerve, or directly against the wall of the bowel. The diagnosis is readily made out by direct examination. The only means of cure is by removal of the displaced bone. ! The operation is performed as follows: The patient is placed upon the side, an incision is made in the median line, from the tip of the coc- cyx to about one inch above the sacro-coccygeal articulation. The tissues j are first lifted directly from the dorsal aspect of the bone, and then the i anterior surface is exposed by beginning at the tip and keeping close to the smooth face of the coccyx. There is no danger of wounding the bowel if this precaution is taken. When the dissection is completed, the bone should be divided at the sacro-coccygeal junction with the cut- ting-forceps or chisel. Idiopathic neuralgia of the rectum and anus may occur as in other portions of the body. Spasm of the sphincter is occasionally due to this cause. Prolapsus Recti.—Protrusion of the rectum may be complete or in- complete. In the incomplete variety the lining membrane of the bowel is alone protruded. The everted portion may include a narrow ring of the mucous membrane near the anus, or it may measure an inch or more I in width. In the complete prolapsus more or less of the entire thick-- ness of the wall of the rectum is dragged downward and everted. The process commences usually near the anus, and in the complete form the fascia which attaches the rectum to the promontory of the sacrum is elongated, and the peritonaeum dragged down toward the anal aperture. In the pocket thus formed a loop of intestine may descend and become strangulated. i Prolapsus recti may occur at any period of life, although usually met ' with in children. In a varying degree it exists as a complication in all cases of chronic haemorrhoids. It is chiefly caused by frequent and pro- longed straining at stool. A predisposing cause in adults is habitual constipation, with the over-distention of the bowel which is the result I of this condition. In children, it is thought that the peculiar shaj^e of the sacrum, the curve of which is much less pronounced than in adults, renders this class of patients more liable to prolapsus. It is probable that indiscretions in diet, the lack of restraint, and the low, squatting posture too often permitted in children in the act of defecation, are more responsible for this accident than the straight position of the bowel. 35