618 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. The methods of procedure will be given in full in the treatment of strict- ure of the urethra. In chronic follicular urethritis a most excellent method of treatment is the application of cold by means of the double closed silver catheter passes down one side and up the other without coming in contact with the mucous membrane. It is advisable to employ a catheter large enough to fairly distend the urethra. Nos. 14, 16, and 18 (U. S. scale) will be more generally useful. It should be oiled and introduced as far back as the pros- tatic urethra. A rubber tube leading from an irrigator filled with cracked ice and water is attached to one of the two outer mouths of the catheter. A second tube is fastened to the other opening and leads into a basin. The water is turned on slowly at first, and is allowed to run in from five to ten minutes, and the catheter is then removed. The sensation is slightly painful for a few seconds, but anaesthesia soon su- pervenes. The operation may be repeated in from three to six days. If the reaction is severe, the interval may be longer between the appli- cations. Stricture of the Male Urethra.—'^ivictvLxeB of the urethra may be di- vided into two classes: true or organic, and false or spasmodic. A diminution of the caliber of this canal, as a result of an inflamma- tory process, constitutes a true or organic stricture. A spasmodic strict- ure exists when the normal caliber is diminished as a result of contrac- tion of the voluntary or involuntary muscular elements connected with the urethra. Congenital non-inflammatory narrowing of the meatus does not constitute a stricture. The normal contraction of the com- pressor-uretlirse or "cut-off" muscle is also excluded in the definition of spasmodic stricture. An organic stricture may be lateral, annular, or tortuous. In lateral stricture the entire circumference of the urethral cylinder is not involved, the cicatricial contraction being confined to a limited arc of the circle. It is comparatively rare. In annular, or ring stricture, the cicatricial contraction involves the entire cii'cumference. It may vary in width from a line to one inch. In tortuous, or irregular stricture, an inch or more of the urethral canal is involved. Two or more annular or lateral strictures may unite to form a tortuous or irregular stricture. The pathology of stricture of the urethra is that of an inflammation of variable intensity involving the epithelial and submucous basement membrane of this canal, together with the deeper tissues of the corpus spongiosum, and occasionally of the corpora cavernosa. This process (Fig. 617). This instru- ment has the ordinary curve of the male cathe- ter, is hollow, with a cen- tral partition which does not quite extend to the tip, and it is completely closed, so that the water