408 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. when the operation is performed early in the history of the disease a cure may be eifected. In many cases where recurrence after operation is probable, life may be prolonged and rendered more endurable by ex- cision of the ulcet". After a primary excision the patient should be kej^t under close observation, and, upon the reappearance of the neoplasm in the scar or lymphatics, a second operation should be performed. In 1884 I removed a large number of infiltrated glands from the neck of a man about fifty years old, who had had an epithelioma of the lip excised twelve years previous to that date. Five years after the first operation a gland at the lower edge of the Jaw became enlarged and was extirj^ated. Six years later the glands beneath the jaw began to swell, and a year later, when' I saw him, metastasis had seemingly occurred in all the lymphatics as far down as the lower third of the neck on one side. The infiltration was so extensive and deep that it took two operations, each lasting about three hours, to effect the removal. The examination of the glands demonstrated the malignant character of the disease. At this date, two years from the last operation, the patient is living and healthy. Lupus.—Lupus erythematosus and vulgaris usually attack the tis- sues of the nose, cheeks, and lips, at times producing extensive loss of substance. The erythematous variety is first seen as small red papules, projecting slightly above the epidermis, and covered with scales. It is a disease of the sebaceous glands and ducts, causing chronic inflamma- tion of the skin and atrophy of all the elements of the cutis. Its prog- ress is slow, and the prognosis is usually favorable when the disease is confined to a limited area. It does not affect the general health of the patient, and often heals spontaneously, leaving a flat, smooth scar. When disseminated it is more dangerous, not infrequently ending in fatal complications. The treatment requires generous diet, tonics, and out-of-door life. Among the local agents recommended in lupus ery- thematosus is green soap, which should be spread on lint and pressed closely upon the affected part, or rubbed in with the finger every day. Prof. A. R. Robinson, in addition to the above, also recommends a 10- per-cent solution of oleate of mercury brushed over the diseased surface. If the disease does not yield to these milder measures, the sharp spoon should be employed and the broken-down tissue thoroughly scooped out. Emollients, cold applications, or poultices may be used afterward, according to the requirements of the case. Lupus vulgaris is a more formidable affection. In its earlier stages it consists of a number of soft red dots in the deeper layers of the in- tegument, which gradually appear as papules upon the surface. The characteristic lesion is the infiltration of the skin with an abundant small ceU new-growth. It is believed to be a tuberculosis of the skin. The integument breaks down and is cast off as a slough. The new- formed cells also undergo granular metamorphosis, and disappear with the other destroyed tissues. The only disease likely to be mistaken for common lupus in the adult is epithelioma. Lupus begins usually in childhood, while epithelioma is exceedingly rare before the age of thirty.