540 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. trization after dysenteric ulcers and those of the tertiary stage of syphi- lis. The accidents of parturition not infrequently tend to stricture, and this may account for the greater prevalence of this lesion in females than in males. Stricture of the rectum may be narroio or linear, or long and tortuous. The usual location is about two inches above the mar- gin of the anus, although any part of the organ may be involved. The earlier symji- toms of this lesion are interference with the act of defecation, pain with the passage of fseces, and the presence of blood or mucus in the discharges. In some instances the fseces are tape-like, or are abnormally shaped, although this symptom may not be present when the stricture is high up, since the fecal matter, after it passes through the constriction, may assume the shape of the bowel below. If the constriction is situ- ated within the first four inches of the bowel, its presence and caliber may be de- termined by digital exploration. When with difiiculty reached by the finger, the patient should be directed to strain as if at stool, in order to force the obstruction nearer the anus. Beyond this limit the bulbous bougies must be relied upon. These instruments are of all sizes, each consisting of an oval bulb of hard rubber, attached to the end of a flexible whalebone staff. In introducing them the patient should rest upon the back while the bougie, warmed and oiled, is guided up the bowel, upon the index-finger of the left hand, which is carried its full length into the rectum (Fig. 560). If resistance is met with, only careful and gentle pressure should be ex- ercised, for undue vio- lence may drive the bulb through the wall of the gut. The inferior limit of the stricture is indi- cated by the first obstruc- tion encountered. If the bulb can be carried through the constriction, the resistance ceases, but is again experienced when, upon withdrawing it, the shoulder of the instrument catches at the upper limit of the Fig. 559.—Stricture of the rectum from connective-tissue new-formation in the submucous layer. (After Bushe.) Fig. 660.—Method of introducing the bulbous bougie in explora- tion of tTie rectum. (After Bushe.)