SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 43 Two good-sized silver grooved directors, 6 to 7 inches long and from I to Y^g^ of an inch in width (Fig. 98). G.TIEMANN 4 L'O Fiu. "J8.—Grodvud director. Other instrnments will be given in the text, with the operations for which they are especially designed. Place of Operation.—In the performance of a surgical operation, light and a free supply of fresh air are of first im- portance. The supply of light, in order to be most effective, should fall upon the operating-table from points above the I level of the patient. In the open air and in daylight, when protected from the direct rays of the sun, the best conditions for light and air prevail. Under shelter, a sky-light, or a. tall, wide window, are preferable. At night, gas, lamps, candles, or torches, must often do the best service possible in an emergency. The Edison electric light, in which the incandescent carbon is held within an air-tight globe, fur- nishes the safest and most effective artificial light. It is always desirable to control the temperature of an operating-room, and to keep it at a figure above that neces- sary, or even comfortable, to the operator and attendants. The patient's body is almost always in part exposed, and, in addition, is apt to be deprived of the normal body-heat by haemorrhage and shock. Moreover, in the event of as- phyxia, the rapid introduction of fresh air from the open windows may be imperative, and the temperature lowered to a dangerous degree, if the room is not provided with the proper means of heating. The room in which an operation is to be performed should be large enough to hold all the necessary apparatus and furniture, and to allow the free and rapid movements of the attendants in the execution of orders. The floor should be of wood, tiles, asphalt, or marble, uncarpeted and clean; the walls and ceilings equally clean, and free from unnecessary drapery. In a dusty country the steam-spray (1 to 20 carbolic acid) should be used before and during an operation (see Fig. 4), and likewise in all conditions of exposure to infec- tion, such as a room in or near which a contagious disease has once appeared, etc. The furniture required consists of an operat- ing-table, at least two side-tables, or cabinets, for Adjustable stool. holding trays of instruments, sponges, dressings,