PERIORCHITIS. 665 Chronic epididymitis and orchitis should rank as first in the aetiology of hydrocele. The interference of the return circulation here will pro- duce the transudation of fluid in the same way as ascites occurs in cir- rhosis of the liver. In like manner varicosities in the veins of the sper- matic plexus may induce hydrocele. The pathological changes consist in a general thickening of the visceral and parietal layers of the tunica, due to the development of connective-tissue elements in which new ves- sels are formed. IS'ot infrequently little pearl-like bodies are seen attached to the vis- ceral surface of the thickened tunica, or they may be found floating free in the fluid of the sac. They are made up of connective-tissue and flat- tened epithelial elements. Occasionally they undergo the calcareous metamorphosis. The sac of a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis is almost always unilocular (Fig. 658), but in rare instances it is bilocular, with a narrow opening of communication between the sacs (Fig. 659). The dividing septum is made up of the products of inflammation. The fluid of hydrocele is amber in color, or, if blood has been ex- travasated and mixed with it, it may be brownish-black or red. Under the microscope it is seen to contain compound granular corpuscles, leu- cocytes, swollen endothelia, and at times crystals of cholesterin and red- blood disks. Symptoms.—Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis is usually single —at times double. In shape the tumor is usually pyriform or oval, with the largest diameter of the swelling below. It may, however, assume a conical shape, with the apex downward, as shown in Fig. 660. The his- tory is generally that of a slow and painless swelling, first noticed in the lower portion of the scrotum, and gradually extending upward. In size it may vary from a mass having a long diameter of an inch or two, Fig. 659.—Bilocular hydrocele. Tc, Parietal layer of tunica. S, Spermatic cord. Nh, Epididymis. H. Testis. Z», Cavity of diverticulum. Tv, Cavity of the tunica vaginalis proprius. Zz, Inflammatory new formation between the visceral and parietal layers. (After Kocher.) Fig. 658.—Usual form of hydrocele. (After Kocher.)