If, as frequently occurs, one side is so much Fig. 462.—(After Linhart.) A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 412 knife prick the integument of the lip at a, 6, c, d, and e (Fig. 462), as guides to the deep incision. Then the operator, standing in the position which best suits his convenience, seizes the lip between his thumb and finger, so as to control hemorrhage, and, while the opposite side is held by an assist- ant, transfixes it at a, cuts from a to c, by smooth, short strokes of the knife, removes and reinserts the blade at d, and cuts into the angle at c. This manoeuvre is repeated in the line a, &, e. With a strong, blunt pair of scis- sors the soft tissues are freely lifted from the bone, untU the edges of the wound can be ap- proximated without any degree of tension. thicker than the other that difficulty is expe- rienced in keeping the approximated edges on the same plane, a part of the under surface of the thicker side should be clipped off with the scis- sors. Strong silver hare-lip pins (from two to four in number, owing to the length of the in- cision) are then inserted, being made to enter about one fourth of an inch from the cut edge, passing through the entire thickness of the lip, and out at a corresponding point on the oppo- site side. A figure-of-8 silk thread is wound about these, and one or two silk sutures are in- serted, to secure a perfect approximation at all points. The pins should be about one fourth of fio- 463.—(After Lmbart.) an inch from each other, and the lowest should be about this distance from the vermilion border. The last suture should pass through the vermilion border (Fig. 463). In adults a light loose dressing of sublimate gauze will suffice in the ^fter-treatment. In children it is always wise to support the sutures by narrow strips of adhesive plaster, carried from the angle of the jaw across the wound to the opposite side of the face. The pins and sutures are removed between the third and fifth days. No rule can be laid down, but the removal should be made as soon as union has taken place. For the few days im- mediately following the operation the muscles of the face should be kept as quiet as possible. Silk sutures may be employed if the pins are not at hand. When the fissure is wider, the an- gles 1) and c should be made deeper, as shown in Fig. 464. When approximation is completed, c and l> unite, while the points d and e project below the level of the normal lip. Any re- Fia. 4G4. dundancy of tissue or overlapping should be allowed to remain until all shrinkage has oc- curred, when the excess may be trimmed off at the level of the lip.