2 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Fig. 1. contains enough pure oil of juniper-berries to completely cover them. The vessel should be tightly corked to prevent evaporation. Within twenty-four hours the material is safely aseptic, and will remain so in- definitely if kept immersed in the fluid. The strength of the gut is not impaired, while its firmness is in- creased by the oil. If oil of juniper can not be obtained, 95 per cent alcohol is equally aseptic, and may be used instead. Alcohol, however, softens the strings more than Juni- per, and is not to be preferred. Fig. 1 represents a convenient apparatus for holding these ligatures. It consists of a glass Jar or bottle, with a wide mouth, in which a perforated cork is fitted. Within the bottle are ■If""'several glass spools upon which the ligatures have been 1hH"'^I - wound. The ends project through the perforation in the cork, and are held here by a smaller cork fitted, into the perforation. Upon removing the smaller plug, the threads may be drawn out and cut off as required. Another vessel is pictured in Fig. 2. In this the ligatures are wound around a central shaft, which is pulled completely out of the bottle when the threads are needed. Macewen has introduced a chromic-acid catgut liga- ture, which resists absorption much longer than Juniper or alcohol gut. His method is: chromic acid one part, water five parts (by weight). To one part of this solution add twenty parts of glycerin, and allow the violin-strings to remain immersed for seven or eight months. They are then preserved in carbolic acid one part, to glycerin ten (1 to 10). Thus prepared, catgut will resist absorption from twenty to sixty days. Silk is invaluable for sutures. It is not to be used for ligatures, ex- cept in certain operations within the abdominal cavity, or in wounds which are to be treated by the open method. This material should be selected of all sizes. I prefer the twisted to the braided threads, although, the latter is less likely to become tangled. The very finest Maclt iron- dyed silk is needed in the plastic surgery of the neck and face, in the white individual. White sutures often become so discolored that they are with difficulty found when the time for their removal arrives. The larger silk sutures, such as those employed in tying hsemorrhoidal mass- es, should be so strong that any ordinary force can not break them. All silk threads should be kept dry, and well wrapped in protective or oil- silk, or corked in Jars. A half-hour before using them they should be soaked in a 5-per-cent solution of carbolic acid. Sillc-worm gut comes in bristles, or stiff threads, about ten inches in length. It may be used as a suture in any part of the economy, but it is essential only in the operation for cleft palate. It is not absorbable, is very strong, ties easily, and does not slip. It should be kept in an ordi- Fio. 2.