196 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY, elephantiasis. Small spots of ulceration occur as a result of malnutri tion, and, coalescing, form the large and obstinate ulcers seen so fre- quently in varix of the legs. Even a new formation of bone may result from the irritation of a neighboring varicosity (Cornil and E,anvier). The veins become greatly elongated and assume different shapes, irregu- larly sinuous or corkscrew-like, twisted upon their axes, and frequentlj^, on account of perivascular inflammation, matted together by new-formed connective tissue into venous tumors. Occlusion of varicose veins may result from thrombosis, and a cure may thus ensue. Frequently concre- tions are found in varicose veins, at times adherent to the waUs. These concretions are called phlehoUtJies or plilebolites (Dunglison). They are laminated on section, and are said to contain by analysis 20 per cent of protein matter, with phosphate and sulphate of lime and sulphate of potassium (Franklin and Bryant), and, according to Gross, a trace of oxide of iron. They are found most frequently in the veins of the pelvis, about the bladder and prostate, especially when the latter is enlarged. Hodgson says that they are formed in other tissues, and work their way into the vessels. This theory would seem to receive a partial support from the statement just made, that they are most frequently found near the prostate, and when this organ is diseased. It is well known that small calculi are frequent in this body. Phlebolites are also found in veins not subject to varix. Cruveilhier believed that they were developed from coagula (Holmes). Treatment.—Varicose veins are to be treated chiefly by artificial sup- port to the weakened and dilated walls. Eczema and the various forms of ulcer occurring in connection mth varix are relieved by proper sup- port. The varix, however, is not often cured by this means alone, which is merely palliative. Martin's elastic bandage is of great use. Bandages of muslin or flannel, properly applied, give great relief. The elastic silk apparatus, for constant, equable pressure, cleanliness, and comfort, can not be surpassed in the treatment of varix. The relief of pressure by position is always advisable. All supporting apparatus should be re- moved at bedtime and adjusted before rising. The only method of radical cure is by occlusion. The use of a subcutaneous catgut ligature, passed at several points under and not through the veins, is the most approved method. With careful antisepsis and the use of cocaine this procedure is painless and not dangerous. The cases are, however, exceedingly rare where such procedures are necessary. Moles. Closely connected vtath the more superficial forms of vascular tumor are the abnormal, circumscribed hypertrophies of the skin, which are known as moles. They may be, and usually are, congenital, or they may be developed at any period of extra-uterine life. All portions of the cutaneous surface may be the seat of this form of hypertrophy, but the exposed surfaces, such as the face, neck, and hands, are most fre-