457 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. obtain by the palliative operation of tracheotomy, he is justified in ad- vising the operation. When the tissues about the larynx are widely infiltrated with the malignant neoplasm, the operation is not justifiable. It is performed as follows : The patient is anaesthetized with ether, by the mouth, and, when once fully ansesthetized, the narcosis should be continued by the rectum. The first step is to reach the trachea at a point sufficiently low to be well out of the diseased zone. An incision is made as in tracheotomy, and a Trendelen- burg's tube (Fig. 624) is introduced. The end of this tube, which is car- ried into the tra- chea, is surround- ed by a rubber bal- loon, which, after its introduction, is inflated, thus com- pletely tamponing the trachea and Fig. 524.—Trendelenburg's trachea-tampon, with inhaling-apparatus attached. preventing the es- cape of blood into the bronchi. The attachment for inhalation of ether may be used if needed. The organ is best exposed by a crucial incision, and all bleeding should be arrested as the operation proceeds. It is best to seize all vessels between two forceps, divide and tie them as directed in the operation for the removal of goitre. A trachea-tube should be inserted after the exsection is completed. Alimentation is carried on through an oesophageal tube, or by introduc- tion into the rectum. Partial laryngectomy is performed in the same general way as tlie preceding operation. Neoplasms of the Larynx and Trachea.—Almost every form of new growth has been removed from the larynx. No portion of the organ is exempt. The symptoms are referable to the location of the neoplasm and to its size, and in a certain sense to its shape. Those situated upon the vocal bands are first noticed, on account of interference with the voice. A neoplasm may develop in the ventricle, and not be noticed until it encroaches upon the cords. Dyspncea occurs earlier when the tumor is situated upon the rima glottidis. Cough is not a prominent symptom, for the reason that the slow and progressive development of the neoplasm gradually accustoms the larynx to its presence. Spasmodic cough does, however, occur in pedunculated growths, which are moved to and fro as the air rushes in and out of the larynx. The diagnosis may be made from the symptoms detailed, but chiefly by palpation and the laryngoscope. The location is simple, but the dif- ferentiation as to the character of the growth is at times difficult. Papil- lomata are most frequently met with, and papilloma in the larynx pos- sesses the same general properties observed in these growths in more exposed quarters. They are most commonly found upon the vocal