SYPHILIS, 653 palate is frequently destroyed, the bony septum between the mouth and nose is perforated, while in extreme cases the pillars of the fauces and the pharynx are involved. Other lesions of the pharynx do not differ from those of the buccal cavity. ^(9?^(7?^e.—Grummatous deposits may occur in any portion of this organ, causing local or general tumefaction. Whether superficial or deep, they tend to break down, giving rise to ulcers varying in size and depth. The other principal lesion of the tongue in the tertiary period is more or less widely diffused connective-tissue hyperplasia, giving rise to a varying degree of enlargement. As the new-formed tissue contracts it gives to the organ a lobulated appearance, the boundaries of the lobules ! being well-marked fissures in the line of the contracting bands. ' (Esophagus.—Partial or complete occlusion of the oesophagus may i occur from—(1) connective-tissue hyperplasia in its walls, or the contrac- tion following ulcer (organic stricture); (2) the mechanical obstruction from gummatous deposits in the walls or in the immediate neighborhood of the oesophagus ; (3) pressure from exostoses, aneurisms, enlarged glands, etc. Syphilitic ulcers of the stomach and alimentary canal have been observed, though rarely. Gummata form here, however, with a certain degree of frequency, and stricture of the pylorus, and of the in- testinal canal above the rectum, is known to occur in a certain propor- tion of cases. The rectum is especially liable to become seriously in- volved in the late manifestations of syphilis. Here, as elsewhere, strict- ure may result from fibrillation and contraction of the inflammatory tissue with which the walls of this organ and the peri-rectal tissues may be- come infiltrated. Again, ulcers originating within the gut, or extending from a like inflammatory process about the anus and the external tissues, or the presence of gummatous material, may all induce more or less serious contraction of the lumen of the rectum. Of the solid abdominal viscera, the limr is most seriously affected. The pathological changes are—(1) connective-tissue hyperplasia or chronic interstitial hepatitis or syphilitic cirrhosis, which may be general or local; (2) gummata in any portion of the organ ; (3) waxy degeneration from long-continued general sepsis. The spleen may undergo similar changes. Slight enlargement may occur from the excess of white corpuscles (leucocythsemia), which is the rule in this disease. • The pancreas is rarely affected. Genito-urinary System.—Amyloid degeneration of the kidneys oc- curs as a result of the long-continued sepsis of syphilis, as with other chronic iforms of blood-poisoning. In like manner, under conditions fa- vorable to connective-tissue hyperplasia, the fibrous stroma of this organ becomes thickened, with consequent atrophy of the excretory or glandu- lar elements (chronic interstitial nephritis). Gummata of the kidney is not as common as in other viscera. Orchitis, although occurring while some of the secondary symptoms may be present, is essentially a late manifestation of this disease. It is important to recognize it, since several varieties of sarcocele require im-