TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 659 of the eyes, especially at night, sudden changes in temperature, and all articles of diet which are not readily digestible. Of the preparations of mercury, preference should be given to the protoiodide. It is conveniently administered in pills of one-quarter grain each. To begin with, one of these pills should be given three times a day one hour after eating. The indications for a diminution in the quan- tity are pain of a cramp-like nature in the stomach or bowels, with or without diarrhoea, and the occurrence of salivation. If diarrhoea results, it will be advisable to administer about one-quarter grain of opium with each pill of protoiodide, or to reduce the daily number of the pills. Under such conditions, inunctions with mercurial ointment are of great value. Salivation may be guarded against by careful observation of the gums. At the earliest indications of tenderness felt when the teeth are firmly pressed together, or when direct pressure is made iipon the alve- olus, the dose should be diminished, or, if necessary, discontinued for a few days. It will usually suffice to administer one-quarter grain three times a day for the first month, and at the expiration of this time to increase the daily quantity to gr. j. It will rarely be necessary to give more than this quantity, although in some cases the full beneficial effects of the remedy may not be realized until a larger daily dose is given. The mer- cury should be continued without interruption—excepting for the reasons Just given—for the first six months after commencing the treatment. At the expiration of this period it is a good plan to discontinue the proto- iodide for two weeks, and then administer the iodide of potassium in doses of grs. x-xx three times a day for one month. This should in time be stopped, and the pills resorted to for a period of two months, and so on, alternating these two remedies to the end of the first year of treatment. For the first six months of the second year the alternation should be equal—i. e., one month of the potassium salt, and the next the protoiodide. For the last six months of treatment a greater propor- tion of the iodide of potassium should be given. In addition to the foregoing it is of great importance that tonics should be administered from the commencement of the disease, and especially in delicate patients. In carrying out this part of the treat- ment much better results will be obtained in the alternate exhibition of several tonics rather than in the continued use of a single remedy. A preparation of iron, quinia, and strychnia on one day, given in the proper dose immediately after each meal; an emulsion of cod-liver oil with the hypophosphites of lime and soda, each gr. j to the tablespoonf ul on the next day ; and tincture of the chloride of iron on the third day, will be found a convenient and useful method of rotation. When protoiodide of mercury can not be obtained, the biniodide, in doses of gr. to or chloride of mercury (corrosive sublimate), gr. id \^ li^ t>e substituted. If, for any reasons, mercurial inunctions become necessary, proceed as follows: Take about a teaspoonful of mercurial ointment and rub it well into the skin of the groin and under the arms. Or spread the oint-