610 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. discharge, but to direct invasion by contagion. As a result of sucli extensive infiltration, the penis is subjected to various deformities, pain- ful in an extreme degree, and not without danger to the integrity of this organ. CTiordee, or bowing of the penis, is a common symptom. The organ is in part or wholly erected, and on account of the infiltration of the vascular spaces of the corpus spongiosum with the embryonic inflamma- tory tissue, it fails to expand with the corpora cavernosa. Balano-posthitis, in the case of a long and tightly fitting prejDuce, becomes at times an annoying if not a serious complication. Complete phimosis may occur as a result of the swollen condition of the prepuce, or, when the foreskin is slipped behind the corona glandis, parapliimosis may ensue. If not relieved, gangrene in most cases is imminent. These complications are as a rule a part of the second stage of gonor- rhoea, occurring within the first eighteen days of an attack, and gradually disappearing during the third stage. Patliology.—Strictly speaking, the morbid process is an inflammation of the mucous membrane of the urethra and the submucous connective tissue. The extension to other organs is purely accidental. It com- mences at the meatus and travels backward. The epithelium is swollen, there is marked hypersemia of the submucous tissue, ■n-ith the escape of leucocytes and the formation of the common embryonic tissue of inflam- mation. In milder cases the products of inflammation undergo retro- gressive changes, and are absorbed ; while in other instances connective- tissue development is precipitated, ending in cicatrization and the forma- tion of stricture. The organic elements of gonorrhceal pus are leucocytes, embryonic cells, epithelia, and blood-corpuscles. The diagnosis of specific urethritis may be made out from the suc- cession of symptoms given. It can rarely be mistaken. It is at times necessary to difi'erentiate gonorrhoea from simple or non-specific urethri- tis. The latter disease lacks every symptom of virulence which is char- acteristic of the former. Within the first few days of an attack it is not always easy to make a positive diagnosis, but after the first week is passed the symptoms are evident. Treatment.—Gonorrhoea is a self-limited disease, running a given course, and under favorable conditions ending in recovery without the aid of medication. Efforts to abort the disease by the injection of corrosive substances are not justifiable. Any substance capable of destroying the virus of gonorrhoea is also capaWe of doing damage to the urethra, more serious in its consequences than those of the worst forms of the disease left with- out medical interference. When specific urethritis is recognized in its earlier stages, the pa- tient should be impressed with the importance of rest, and the regu- lation of his diet and manner of living. It is important that the danger of inoculation of the conjunctiva, or other mucous surfaces, with the virus, should be emphasized. If necessity compels the patient to take the increased risk which exercise implies, the physician should relieve