208 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. compression of the right bronclius. This condition will be recognized by the hissing rales distributed over the area of the right lung. Aneurism of the transverse arch is usually first recognized to the left of the sternum on about the same plane as for the ascending segment. Laryngoscopical examination will demonstrate that whatever of muscular paresis exists is confined to the left vocal bands. If the tumor rises into the neck, its appearance will have been preceded by pressure-symptoms of longer duration and greater severity than in either innominate, carotid, or sub- clavian aneurism. Innominate aneurism usually appears at the upper margin of the sternum in the space between the two tendons of origin of the right sterno-mastoid muscle, or in the interclavicular notch. The disturbance of the circulation through this vessel so afi'ected may be recognized by the difference in the force and character of the pulse-wave in the radial arteries of the two arms. In aortic aneurism, when the innominate is not compressed by the tumor, the pulse-wave will be the same in both arms. It must, however, be borne in mind that in sacculated aneurisms, springing, as they not infrequently do, from the arch in immediate prox- imity to the orifice of the innominate, and rising to the root of the neck, in front of or behind this artery, a positive diagnosis is scarcely possible. The pressure on the innominate may retard or weaken the right radial pulse, when this vessel is not involved, while the aneurismal bruit is present in the exact location of this vessel. Aneurism of the left carotid artery will first appear at the left sterno- clavicular articulation in the line of this vessel. The murmur will be transmitted toward the distribution of this vessel, and will not be heard in its fellow opposite. When the left subclavian is involved, the swelling will usually appear to the left of the stemo-mastoid muscle, and the pulse in the left radial will differ from that of the right. When the descending aorta is the seat of aneurism, the diagnosis is still more obscure. The peculiar murmur is most easily recognized by placing the stethoscope to the left of the vertebral column in the interscapular space. The chief pressure-symp- toms are those which affect deglutition and lift the heart forward. The clinical history of aneurism of the thoracic aorta usually ends in the death of the individual. In addition to the symptoms given in the method of diagnosis, the gradual expansion of the tumor leads to more painful and graver conditions. Anxiety, loss of sleep, pain, and cough usually prostrate the patient; erosions of the ribs, sternum, clavicles, and vertebrae occur, and sloughing, septic absorption, or haemorrhage may produce a fatal termination. The medical treatment is rest in bed, and the safe and Judicious com- bination of Valsalva's and Tufnell's methods as given. The surgical treatment is of the most heroic order, and should not be instituted until a reasonable trial of the other methods has proved them as inefficient, as death is inevitable. This treatment is the deligation of one or more of the great vessels which are derived directly or indirectly from the arch— i. e., the distal operation.