A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 590 is experienced in recognizing the wall of this organ, it can readily be done by introducing a sound by the urethra, and bringing the point up above the pubis, where it may be felt. While it is still distended, a tenaculum is inserted into the anterior w^all, and firmly held, while an assistant introduces a catheter and empties the contents. A stout silk ligature is now introduced through the wall of the bladder on either side of the tenaculum. These threads serve as retractors in controlling the organ. The bladder should next be incised parallel with the linea alba, between the sutures, and for a distance of about one inch and a half. If the wound is now well dilated, and a good light concentrated upon it, a full view of the cavity of the organ may be obtained. If the incision should prove to be too small, it should be enlarged. If the peritoneal cavity is opened, the incision in this membrane should be closed at once by catgut sutures. The stone may be located by inspec- tion or by digital exploration, and picked out with an ordinary dressing- forceps. The edges of the wound in the bladder are now carefully stitched to the margins of the incision in the integument, and a loose dressing applied. The urine is discharged by the wound for from ten days to three weeks, when it closes by granulation. The continuous employment of a catheter through the urethra is not indicated. The immediate closure of the bladder may be successful in some instances, but involves far greater danger than the operation first advised. It may be necessary to lift the bladder upward by the introduction of a rubber bulb into the rectum, which is carried in empty, and afterward distended with warm water. A Barnes dilator can be utilized in this procedure. Perineal UtTiotomy, or the low operation, may be done by three methods—the lateral, bilateral, and median operations. A combina- tion of the median and lateral incisions is sometimes performed, and is known as the medio-lateral procedure. Lateral lithotomy is thus performed : Two hours before the operation the rectum should be emptied by a free enema of tepid water, and the peringeum cleanly shaved. The patient should be placed upon the back, the sacrum resting near the edge of the table, the thighs flexed toward the abdomen, slightly abducted, the feet brought down and secured to the hands and wrists by several turns of a roller. Each leg is intrusted to an assistant, while a third, selected for his special fitness, and upon whom the duty of hold- - ^■^ft'^'^g^^^ ing the guide devolves, stands beside the jDa- tient's abdomen, facing 587.—Fergusson's guide for lateral lithotomy. the Operator. If the bladder is not fairly distended with urine, a Nelaton's catheter should be introduced, and about a pint of fluid injected. A Fergusson's guide, grooved laterally (Fig. 587), is next carried into the bladder. The probabilities are that the stone will be felt by the sound. If the calculus has been recognized within a day or two, and if in the mean time the urine has been carefully watched and no 4