134 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Pirogoff. Chopart. vessels are tied and the sutures adjusted, leaving the drainage-tubes out at each angle. One point of precaution is essential, namely, to avoid division of that part of the tendon of the tibialis anticus which is inserted into the internal cuneiform near its metatarsal articulation. One of the objections to this operation is the elevation of the heel, and the consequent depres- sion of the stump by the action of the sural muscles, which action is practically unopposed if the inser- tion of the tibialis anticus is divided. Should this occur, or should the heel be too greatly elevated, the tendo Achillis should be divided as in talipes equinus. The line of sec- tion through the internal cuneiform bone is shown in Fig. 202. This— the operation of Hey—is objection- able for two reasons. In the first place, it cuts away a part of the bony framework of the foot, which need not be sacrificed ; and, sec- ondly, it completely severs the at- tachment of the tibialis - anticus muscle. Through the Tarsus.—When re- moval of any part of the anterior row of tarsal bones is required, the - fol- lowing rules should be adojDted : If the internal cuneiform is involved only on its anterior articular surface, it may be sawn through on the line of Hey (Fig. 202). If a section pos- terior to this plane is necessary, dis- articulation at the scaphoid should be done. If the middle or external cuneiform is involved only to a limited extent upon its anterior por- tion, as much as one fourth of an inch of this surface may be sawn or scraped off. Behind this limit a disarticulation from the scaphoid the cuboid the line of section may pass the middle of this bone—the line of Forbes Fio. 202. Through to should be made at any point anterior (Fig. 202). For'bes's Method.—Disarticulation of the three cuneiform bones from the scaphoid, and section of the cuboid parallel with the plane of the anterior surface of the scaphoid (Fig. 202). The dorsal and plantar in- cisions are slightly anterior to and practically the same as in Chopart's amputation. The dissection should be made closely from the bones, and