A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 588 f I ? STOHLM, der, separate the blades, turn the shaft haK over to the right, and then close the blades. If the stone is seized, hold it steady, adjust the screw- motion, tighten the grip by a slight turn of the wheel, and carry the instrument back to the middle line with the beak pointing upward. If it does not move freely, the indication is that the bladder has been picked up, and of course the blades must be separated and another effort made. With the instrument shown there is little danger of this accident. The same manoeuvre may be tried on the opposite side. If there is prostatic enlargement, it may be necessary to turn the beak downward into the pocket on the floor of the bladder. If, after a half-hour's search, the seizure has not been effected, the operation should be discontinued. When the stone has been seized and broken once, the same manoeuvres should be carefully yet rapidly repeated until no large pieces remain. It will usually be found easy to crush the smaller pieces by the sliding movement alone. The instrument should now be closed until the blades have the same relation as when introduced, and then withdrawn. The evacuator consists of a rubber bulb capable of holding about one pint. At the upper end is a funnel and stop-cock for filling and closing the appa- ratus. Below is attached a glass globe, in which the particles of stone gravitate as fast as they are drawn into the evacuator. Between this and the rnbber bulb is a sec- ond stop-cock, and a place for attaching the catheter. It is advisable to insert a piece of rubber tubing, about five inches in length, between the catheter and the evacuator, in order to prevent the jarring motion impart- ed to the bulb from being conveyed to the instrument in the bladder. The catheters (Fig. 586) are of different sizes and shapes, ranging from No. 14 to No. 25, U. S. The evacuation is much more rapid with the larger instruments. However, the urethra should not be over-distended. In general, the catheters which are only slightly curved near the tip, with the eye at the extremity, are preferable. In filling the bulb, in order to exclude the air, the glass ball is first detached, filled with clean warm water, and readjusted. Both stop-cocks are now opened, the end of the tube closed with the finger, and water poured into the funnel until the bulb and tube are filled to overflowing. The cocks are then closed, and the instrument intrusted to an assistant. The catheter, well oiled, is car- ried into the bladder, and as the water is escaping the lower end of the rubber tube attached to the evacuator is slipped over the end of the instrument. The bulb is grasped between the thumbs and fingers of both hands and squeezed, thus forcing the greater part of its contents Fig. 586.—Thompson's improved evacU' ator and catheters.