A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 162 while their connective tissue varies in quantity in different parts of the body. The sinuses of the dura mater, the veins in bones, and those of the retina, have no muscular fibers, while the Jugulars, subclavians, and venae cavse have a relatively small quantity, or are entirely devoid of this tissue. Again, the arrangement of the muscular tissue differs in different veins. The inferior vena cava and the portal and renal veins have an inner, circular, and an external, longitudinal layer, while the femoral and popliteal veins have the longitudinal fibers more internal. This tissue is still more complicated in the saphenous veins, where the internal layers are arranged longitudinally, with a number of alternating, or transverse and longitudinal, layers placed externally to these. The elastic layer begins immediately external to the basement sub- stance which supports the endothelial layer, and is here somewhat iso- lated and well defined; but from the external surface of this central, elastic lamina springs a net-work of elastic fibers, through the loops and in the meshes of which are woven the muscular and connective-tissue fibers. The vasa vasorum follow the connective-tissue bundles in their distri- bution to the tissues of the wall down to the elastic layer. Nerves from the sympathetic system have been demonstrated in the larger veins. The valves are delicate reduplications of the internal coat, having a well-defined, elastic reticulum, especially on their distal or convex sur- face (Heitzmann), and muscular fibers at the point of attachment to the venous wall. The vascular area—the outer and middle layers—is first concerned in the inflammatory process. The endothelial tunic, as a result of these structural changes, is subsequently involved in the process. It then appears cloudy, thickened, and rough, and may become separated in shreds. (Frey.) In the vascular area, during the earlier stages, the capillaries of the vasa vasorum become swollen, the white corpuscles migrate into the extra-vascular spaces, and the normal connective-tissue cells are stimu- lated into rapid proliferation, resulting in a thickening of the wall, due to the presence of these embryonic cells, and the excessive hyperaemia. As in arteritis, the vitality of the endothelial tunic becomes impaired, and it is more or less projected into the cavity of the vein, the endothelia undergoing rapid proliferation. After a few days, granulation-buds push out from this embryonic tissue of the endothelia, and new capillaries are developed in the granulation - masses, anastomosing and becoming a part of the circulation of the vasa vasorum, as well as leading into the coagulum which occupies the caliber of the vein. At the point of contact of the outer surface of the thickened endo- thelial layer with the internal surface of the middle (elastic) layer, large sinuses are developed, which receive the blood from the capillaries of the middle tunic. These sinuses are lined with an endothelial layer, which rests upon the contiguous connective tissue. From these large vessels fine capillaries are given off, which permeate the thickened internal layer, and some of which pass into the organizing coagulum.