SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 225 the sac, with the arterial pulse, will enable the careful observer to arrive at a correct diagnosis. The treatment is chiefly expectant. The method of Tuffnel, combined with interrupted compression by means of the tourniquet, should be em- ployed. Pressure may be cardiac, direct, or distal, the former being preferable, if the location of the tumor renders it possible. If operative interference is demanded, the introduction of juniperized catgut ligatures through the canula, heretofore described, would be advisable. Anaesthesia is required, and the duration of compression may vary from fifteen min- utes to one hour. Deligation of the aorta for aneurism of the same is scarcely possible. Aneurism of the BrancJces of the Abdominal Aorta.—Aneurism of any of the visceral or parietal branches of the abdominal aorta may occur. The location of the tumor and the characteristic symptoms of aneurism will point to the vessel aifected. When treatment is necessary, the same method should be employed as for aneurism of the main trunk. Explo- ration under strict antisepsis may be made, and deligation with the ani- mal ligature practiced, if the tumor is sufficiently removed from the aorta to allow the application of the ligature to non-diseased tissue. Aneurism of the Iliac Arteries.—Aneurism of the common, external, or internal iliac arteries is, fortunately, of rare occurrence. The diagnosis may be made by a study of the history of the individual case, and by abdomi- nal palpation, coupled with physical exploration by the rectum or vagina. In the treatment of aneurism of the common iliac, compression of the abdominal aorta should be faithfully tried. With this may be combined the treatment by rest and restricted diet, and carefully graduated direct pressure. Should these methods prove useless, and death be imminent from rapid expansion and threatened rupture of the sac, deligation of the abdom- inal aorta may be performed, or the external iliac or femoral may be tied. The abdominal aorta has been tied in the following cases of iliac aneurism: * No. Operator. Date. Sex. Age, Astley Cooper. James Murray Monteiro South. . . McGuire. 1817 1829 1834 1842 1856 Watson. Stokes.. 1869 1869 M. M. M. M. M. M. M. M. 38 44 33 31 50 EesuJt. Died in forty hours. Ligature applied three fourths of an inch above bifurcation of aorta. Tumor measured eight inches in long axis. Died in three and one half hours. Femoral tied thirty-three days before aorta. Tumor increased in size and aoi-ta tied. Liga- ture applied seven eighths of an inch above bifurcation. Died in twenty-three hours. Tumor extended as high as the umbilicus. External iliac involved. Gangrene was threat- ened. Ligature half an inch above bifurcation. Died in ten days. Large diffuse aneurism of femoral. Aorta ulcerated at seat of ligature, and death took place from haemorrhage. Died in forty-three hours. External and common iliac involved. Died in eleven hours. Sac, which involved both common iliacs, burst during operation, when a hasty ligature was thrown around the aorta. Died in sixty-five hours. Nine weeks after ligature of common iliac hfemorrhage occurred, when aorta, external and internal iliacs were tied. No hemorrhage after operation. Died in twelve hours. Eight common and external iliac and femoral involved. 15 Gross's " System of Surgery."