368 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Fia. 404.—Longitudinal section through tlie shoulder-joint, showing the relations of the bones, ligaments, and mus- cles immediately about the articulation. 1, The capsu- lar ligament. 2, The acromion. 3, Epiphysis. (After Braune.) vided close to the tuberosities with the curved blunt scissors. The sheath for the long head of the biceps should be laid open, and this tendon held aside. If the exsector is used, the bone should now be divided at the limit of the disease. When the section is completed a strong hook should be fastened into the end of the upper fragment, in order to lift it and facili- tate the separation of the soft tissues on the inner and un- der surface from the bone and capsule. The capsular liga- ment should be trimmed from the margins of the glenoid cavity and removed with the head of the humerus. All diseased tissues should be dissected out vdth the curved scissors, and, if the head of the scapula is involved, aU disorganized bone should be scraped away with the spoon or rongeur. If the exsector can not be had, the capsule should be di- vided and the head of the bone dislocated upward through the wound. The division is then made with a narrow saw, taking the precaution to protect the soft parts from injury. Upon examining the wound left after this operation, it will be seen that the deepest portion is behind and to the outer side of the end of the shaft. Into this depression carry a closed dressing-forceps, and bore through to the skin, pointing the in- strument to the inferior and outer aspect of the arm. Divide the sldn over the point of the forceps, dilate the opening by separation of the handles, and draw a drainage-tube from below upward through the hole. A second shorter tube should make its exit through the anterior and lower angle of the wound of incision, and the wound closed throughout with catgut. The forearm should be held in a sling or fastened across the abdomen. The application of Esmarch's bandage, and the rubber tubing in the axilla and over the clavicle and scapula, renders this oper- ation practically bloodless. The rate of mortality is exceedingly low. With careful antisepsis it is practically without dan- ger to life. A second oper- ation for the removal of dead bone is occasionally required. The Elbow-Joint. —Flex the forearm on the arm and Fm. 405. make a straight incision, commencing in the middle of the posterior aspect of the humerus, about one inch above the condyles, and extending over the center of the olec-