A TEXT-BOOK OIT SURGERY. 50 upon the blade carries it through the tougher tissues with less exertion. When, however, a careful dissection is required—as in clearing out the axillary space—the second method, similar to that in which a pen is held, is preferable. It is always necessary to stretch, and thus steady, the integu- ment with the thumb and index of the other hand when an incision is made (Fig. 110). Irrigation may be continuous or interrupted, owing to the demands of each case. Operations in the joints, or near an ulcer, sinus, abscess, or any inflamed area, require excei)tional precautions. In clean opera- tions, such as an amputation in continuity, where no inflammation exists, or the removal of a benign tumor, etc., interrupted irrigation, or flushing the wound thoroughly every five minutes, will keep the wound aseptic. In an operation which opens into any of the cavities the irrigator can not be used for fear that the solution may remain, and poisoning result from absorption of the corrosive sublimate. Asepsis must be here secured by mopping the surfaces of the wound with wet sponges. The stronger sublimate solutions can not be brought in contact with the eye without annoying inflammation resulting. The methods of licemostasis differ in different parts of the body, and under varying conditions. Thus, when amputating an extremity ren- dered bloodless by Esmarch's elastic bandage, or when the limb has been elevated and an ordinary tourniquet adjusted, the ligatures are not ap- plied until the wound is completed and the bone divided. On the other hand, when operating without the tourniquet, it is essential that each bleeding point be secured as soon as possible ; or that the vessels be tied with double ligatures and afterward divided between them. This excel- lent practice not only serves to prevent excessive loss of blood, but keeps the wound dry and clear, enabling the operator to make a more intelligent dissection. In order to be explicit in detail, take, for exam- ple, any major amputation by the bloodless method. The flaps having been made, the soft tissues are cut clearly through, and the bone divided with the saw. The stump is now thoroughly cleansed by irrigation, the cut surfaces dried off with sponges, and the ends of the vessels sought for in their known positions. In picking up the end of an artery or vein it is necessary to exclude all other tissues, and especially the nerves, from the grasp of the forceps and ligatures. To accomplish this, catch the vessel by one edge with a delicate-pointed forceps, draw it out from the wall of the wound, and from its sheath, and wdth a dull instrument, such as the point of a grooved director, strip the tissues backward from the artery until about one fourth of an inch of the tube is exposed. A large, round-pointed forceps (Fig. 82) may now be applied, and the liga-