A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 530 Treatment.—The indications are to establish an opening as near the natural position of the anus as possible. If the blind pouch can be reached by the exploring aspii-ator, the needle should be left in place as a guide. The operative procedure is to dissect gradually toward the supposed location of the end of the gut, keeping an open and clear wound by using retractors and arresting all hsemorrhage. The incision through the in- tegument should be in the median line, with its center just in front of the tip of the sacrum and coccyx, for, if the sphincter ani is present, even in an imperfect condition, it is important to preserve it to aid in the voluntary control of the bowel when the operation is completed. When there exists only a thin septum, this muscle is usually well de- veloped, and the operation is a simple incision and divulsion of the mem- brane. In more formidable operations, the location of the urethra and bladder, and in females the vagina and uterus, must be kept well in mind, for in infants the pelvic diameters are very small, varying from one to one and a half inch. It is a safe rule to proceed cautiously along the sacral curve. Moreover, it is wiser to dispense with an anaes- thetic, since the expulsive efforts in crying may aid in finding the end of the gut. When it is reached, if it is possible, the end should be loosened, drawn down, and sutured to the integument at the edges of the incision. If this is not done, the opening usually contracts, necessitating repeated dilatation by the use of the finger, tents, or a divulsor. In some in- stances it has been found necessary to remove the coccyx in order to effect the union of the bowel with the skin. When, after proceeding as far as the immediate safety of the infant will justify, the bowel can not be discovered, the propriety of colostomy or enterostomy may be entertained. If determined upon, right lumbar colostomy is indicated, on account of the probability of absence or mal- position of the descending colon. When the intestine ends directly in the uterus or vagina, and there is no pouching behind these organs to- ward the perinseum, it is best not to interfere. If, however, the bladder or urethra is involved, an opening should be made or colostomy per- formed. In exceptional cases the anus is present in a condition of more or less perfect development, while at the same time the rectum does not com- municate with it, but terminates in a blind pouch at a varying distance from the perinseum. The effort should be made to establish a communication between the two pockets by dissection through the tissues which intervene. When the opening from the rectum is abnormally small (a congenital stricture), dilatation, incision, or divulsion should be performed. The unfavorable prognosis in all these cases should not be concealed. Inflammation, visceral complications, dilatation of the bowel above with retained ingesta, insufficient assimilation, pain, etc., render a favorable issue exceedingly improbable. Pruritus Ani.—Persistent itching about the anus may be caused by a variety of skin-diseases, as eczema, herpes, pityriasis, and erythema, 1