A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 218 the giving way of the septum between these two vessels. The cause may be traumatic, as in fracture at the base of the skull, or the communica- tion may be established without appreciable cause. The symptoms of aneurismal dilatation here are of two kinds : those referable to pressure upon the brain and nerves, and those due to inter- ference with the return venous current through the ophthalmic vein. If the arterio-venous communication has occurred, exophthalmus is marked, and the eyeball is projected forward with each arterial pulse. Singing in the ears, dizziness, with varying loss of function due to pressure, are other symptoms of this condition. The ophthalmic artery may be the seat of aneurism, within the cranial cavity or in the orbit. True sacculated intra-orbital aneurism of this artery is extremely rare, only two cases being recorded,* although pul- sating tumors, as arterio-venous aneurisms, angeiomata, cirsoid arterial tumors, etc., are not infrequent in this locality. The chief point in the diagnosis, and the one which has an important bearing in treatment, is compression of the carotid. If pulsation ceases, and the other symptoms disappear, the indication is direct that the ligature should be applied to this vessel. The common trunk should be tied, in order to cut off the free communication between the branches of the external carotid and the ophthalmic in the orbit. In my Essays are given fifty-two instances in which this operation was done for pulsating non-malignant tumors of the orbit, with a death-rate of Hi per cent.f About 75 per cent of recoveries after this operation result in cures. In severe cases extirpation may be necessitated. Aneurism of any branch or branches of the external carotid should be treated by compression on the cardiac side, when this is practicable, or by the ligature of the trunk involved, or the external trunk. Aneurism of the Suhdaman Arteries.—The subclavian arteries may be affected in any portion of their extent, although, on accoimt of the pressure exercised by the two scaleni muscles, between which their second portion lies, this division is less frequently involved in aneurismal dilata- tion. The seat of this disease is by preference in the third portion, the first division being next in order. Exposure to violence or muscular effort undoubtedly has much to do with the development of subclavian aneurism, since males are very much more frequently affected than females, while the tumor is found on the rigM side, in the great majority of cases. The first portion of the right subclavian is not infrequently involved in the progress of an innominate aneurism. Upon the left side aneurism of the thoracic portion of this vessel is rare. Subclavian aneurism, as it usually develops, is first recognized as a pulsating tumor, felt rather than seen behind the clavicle, and to the outer side, or behind the sterno-mastoid muscle. It may be mistaken for a glandular or other tumor of the softer tissues. The symptoms which * Prof. Sattler's classical paper in Graefe and Saeuiiscli's " Handbucli der gesammter Augenheilkunde," Leipsic, 1880. t "Prize Essays of the American Medical Association,- 1878," William Wood & Co., New York.