FRACTURES. 295 rotated outward by tlie biceps. When the bone is broken below this point the lower fragment tends toward the ulna. The upper may be held out by the biceps, or carried toward the ulna if the pronator radii teres is contracted (Fig. 324). Treatment.—The position which renders the approximation of the fragments most easy is that of supination; but in this position the two bones are almost in apposition, and the danger of osseous union between them, with loss of lateral motion, is increased. For this reason it is safer to fix the limb half way between supination and pronation (with the thumb pointing upward). (The application of the splint is the same as for fracture of both bones.) Fracture at tlie Carpal End of the Radius.—Fracture through the cancellous expansion of the lower end of the radius is the most frequent of all fractures ; that of the clavicle next in order. The line of fracture is in general transverse, and within one inch of the articular surface, being usually nearer the anterior margin of the articular surface, and running obliquely upward, on to the dorsal aspect of the bone, at a dis- tance varying from one fourth to one inch above the posterior lip. In very exceptional instances the posterior lip or rim is split off, the line of fracture leading from the articular surface upward, on to the dorsal aspect of the bone (Barton's fracture). The styloid process is also occa- sionally broken off, or, when the violence of the fall is great, the bone may be split in its long axis by the first impact of the carpus, and after- ward transversely fractured by the forced extension and strain on the anterior ligaments. Though a fall on the back of the hand has been known to produce a transverse fracture of the cancellous expansion of the carpal end of the radius in a few instances, in the vast majority of cases the force is first received upon the palmar aspects of the fingers and the palm, with the hand in forced extension. The mechanism of this lesion is this: In the act of falling, the hand is thrown out, and the force of the fall is received first upon the palm, and chiefly upon the anterior extremity of the metacarpus, whence it is transmitted backward to the carpus, and to the anterior radio-carpal Fig. 325.—Displacement of fragments in Colles's fracture. (After Gray.) ligaments. As the extension is continued, the strain on this ligament is increased, until the bone begins to yield on its anterior aspect, close to and parallel with the radial attachment of the ligament, and, as the force