92 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. ally at the edges until it is merged in the general granulating mass. Grafts situated near the skin will unite and proliferate more rapidly and surely than those farther out in the- wound. Dr. J. H. Girdner"^ has demonstrated that pieces of skin taken from a healthy man six hours after death by accident "cut into a great many small pieces," and laid upon a healthy granulating- surface, will become revitalized. The results of this demonstration are very valuable (Fig. 150). Transplantations of skin in large pieces by entire removal, or with a ped- icle left until the vascular supply is established between the granulating sur- face and the transplanted integument, may also be successfully accomplished. It is essential that the skin which is completely detached should be clipped or scraped on its under surface until only the Malpighian layer and epider- mis are left. The presence of fat on the reticulated corium will prevent success. When sliding is attempted, it is essen- tial that the pedicle should be of good width, and that the tension on it should not be great, so that the integrity of the blood-supply may not be inter- fered with, and sloughing ensue. Upon the face and neck, where the vascularity is so great, a smaller pedicle may be used, and greater tension employed than on other portions of the body. When there is not sufficient integument immediately about a burn to supply the want, the flap may be secured from some other portion of the body. Thus in a case of extensive destruction of the integument on the front of the leg, I have succeeded in covering in the surface by turning a flap from the posterior aspect of the opposite leg, leaving a wide pedicle, and fastening the two members in an immovable position, so that the flap remained in its proper place and free from strain. After about ten days the pedicle may be divided. In the case of a boy who had been severely burned in the hand and forearm, and where the cicatricial con- tractions displaced the fingers, deformed the hand, and threatened am- putation of the member by obstruction of the radial and ulnar, I did the following operation with success : All the cicatricial tissue about the wrist and arm was dissected off down to the tendons and bones, which were in good condition. Two parallel incisions, six or seven inches long and four inches apart, were then made from the ensiform cartilage dovm Fig. 150. * "Medical Record," vol. xx, p. 119.