EPITHELIOMA. 751 tissues in its neighborhood, death ensues from hsemorrhage, sepsis, or metastasis. Pain is always a symptom of this disease. Lymphatic en- gorgement may occur in the first few weeks, but usually from four to eight months, and even a longer time, may elapse. Examined microscopically, this form of epithelioma is seen to be composed of flattened cells, containing one or several nuclei, with a tend- ency on the part of the elements to form themselves in concentric layers (Fig. 757). In the center of these spheres of flattened epithelia are frequently seen a few cells which have undergone the colloid change. Farther out the surrounding cell-elements are more embryonic in character, cylindri- cal, spherical, or polygonal from lateral compression, the mass being limited ex- ternally by a stroma of connective tissue, varying in quantity, which separates one epithelial nest from the others composing the entire neoplasm. In the process of ulceration an epithelioma is surrounded by a zone of embryonic tissue due to the cell-proliferation of the inflammatory pro- cess. Flat or Rounds and Columnar or Cylindrical-Cell Epithelioma. —Tubular epitheliomata are somewhat less malig- nant than the lobular or bird's-nest variety Just described. After reach- ing a certain stage in their development, they may remain stationary; but, in the majority of instan'ces, the tendency is to grow, as well as to recur after removal. They are usually situated upon the skin, where they originate in the sweat-glands or upon the mucous membranes, where they spring from the follicles of these surfaces. The antrum maxillare is occasionally the seat of this variety of neoplasm. Microscopically, the flat-celled epitheliomata are composed of pavement or tesselated cells, crowded in tubules or cylinders, which are long, more or less irregular in shape, at times anas- tomosing vsdth each other, and are held togeth- er by a stroma of connective tissue (Fig. 758). The general shape of these neoplasms is oval or round. They grow more slowly than the preceding variety. Columnar-celled cylindrical epithelioma is met with in the deeper organs, as the aliment- ary canal and other abdominal viscera, uterus, Fig. 757.—Lobular or spherical epitheli- oma, 250 diameters. (After Cornil and Eanvier.) Fia. 758.—Tubular epithelioma. a, Tubules or cylinders cut ob- epitr aders liquely. A, Connective-tissue stroma. (After Cornil and Kanvier.)