SPONDYLITIS. 703 The downward pressure upon the bodies when, as is usual, these structures are involved and breaking down, can be in great part obviated by extension or backward bending of the spine, in which manoeuvre the pressure is transferred from the bodies and intervertebral disks to the articular processes and pedicles. Much of the apparatus devised for the arrest and cure of Pott's dis- ease is based upon this principle. Another method is based upon the principle of lifting the parts above the seat of the lesion, and removing the pressure in a greater or less degree not only from the bodies but also from the articular processes (extension and counter-extension, or sus- pension). To accomplish the former the spinal braces of Drs. Davis, Taylor, and Shaffer have been constructed. For complete extension or lifting, the plaster-of-Paris jacket or the jury-mast of Prof. Sayre, and the suspen- sion-carriage of Dr. Meigs Case, more nearly meet all the indications. In appropriate cases each of these forms of apparatus, if properly adjusted and intelligently worn, will accomplish all that is possible in the mechanical treatment of Pott's disease. Much of the discredit which is brought upon particular apparatus can justly be charged to the lack of judgment in the selection of cases, want of skill in the adjustment of the instrument, and failure on the part of the attendant or patient in persisting in its use a sufficient length of time. The selection of the apparatus best adapted to succeed will depend upon the location of the disease and the age and conformation of the patient. Clinically the spinal column is divisible into three regions: 1, embracing the occipito-cervical articulation, the cervical vertebrae, and down to the third dorsal; 2, from the third to the tenth dorsal; 3, from the tenth dorsal to the sacro-lumbar articulation. The lower region is more amen- able to treatment, the upper next, while the middle region, which is most frequently involved in osti- tis, is the most difficult to man- age. Third Region.—In the mechan- ical treatment of Pott's disease in the third region, Sayre's plaster- of-Paris jacket, of light make and properly adjusted, is preferable. In its application the following articles are essential: 1, a suspen- sion apparatus; 2, a tight-fitting, seamless, knit shirt; 3, plaster-of- Paris bandages. The suspension apparatus of Reynders & Co. (Fig. 682) gives perfect satisfaction. It consists of an iron cross-bar from Fig. 682.—Suspension apparatus for applying plas- ter-of-Faris jacket. ( After Sayre.)