82 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. by means of the clothing or hands of an intermediate party. It is char- acterized by an inflammation of the skin or mucous surfaces, of the sub- cutaneous and submucous tissues, and at times, passing the baiTier of the deep fascia, it attacks the muscles and deeper organs. The period of incubation varies from eight to twelve hours to three or four days. For constitutional or even marked local symptoms to occur within twenty- four hours, however, after exposure of a wound to the \di'us, is the excep- tion rather than the rule. In the large majority of cases the symptoms declare themselves usually between twenty-four and forty-eight hours. Locally the part becomes hot, throbbing, tense, and painful, especially on direct pressure. The color varies from a pale rose to a bright red hue. In well-marked cases the inflamed integument appears to be glazed, and the limit of redness is regularly and sharply defined. When the inflammatory process is rapid, and the integrity of the circulation markedly impaired, the bright flush of the skin gives way to a dull mottled discoloration. Pressed by the tip of the finger, the skin becomes pale, but the color returns and the indentation is soon e£faced, except in those cases of marked oedema. Lymphangitis and occasionally phle- bitis occur. The spread of these complications is indicated by lines of redness and tenderness leading in the route of these vessels. In some instances vesicles or buUse form beneath the epidermis. An attack of erysipelas is almost always ushered in by one or more chills, or by dif- ferent and recurring chilly sensations or rigors. The exacerbation of temperature varies from 100° to 104° or 105° F. The pulse is propor- tionately increased in frequency. The febrile movement and constitu- tional symptoms vary with the character of the attack. In simple cutaneous erysipelas the clinical history is usually mild. In the cellulo- cutaneous or phlegmonous variety severe and fatal sepsis is not uncom- mon. Gangrene is occasionally met with about the center of the in- flamed zone, and, when attacking an extremity, the circulation may be arrested and the part beyond the disease sacrificed. The duration may be from seven to ten days in mild cases to several weeks in the severer and not fatal forms. Diagnosis.—Erysipelas, within the first twenty-four or forty-eight hours of its appearance, may be taken for dermatitis, or simple erythema, phlebitis, lymphangitis, or cellulo-dermatitis. Dermatitis occurs, as a rule, from local irritation, and is not accom- panied by any of the constitutional disturbances which always occur with erysipelas. In simple inflammation of the skin the color is red, but it never has the glazed appearance which is always present in a typical erysipelas. Erythema, a mild form of dermatitis, may also be mistaken for erysipelas. In erythema papulatum the exposed and extensor sur- faces, as the dorsum of the hand and the posterior aspect of the forearm, are apt to be involved. There is no wound of inoculation; very slight, if any, infiltration of the skin proper. Children and younger adults suffer most frequently. It lasts for only a few days, then fades away, leaving a dry scale to indicate the location of the papule. Owing to the various shapes and the different shades of color assumed by the papules, and