THORAX. 473 made as high as the clavicle if necessary. When a hard gland is found lying directly upon the sheath of the vein, it may be removed by the thumb and finger-nail. When working close to the axillary vein and artery, all haemorrhage may be avoided by applying forceps on each side of the track of the incision before the scissors are used, and immedi- ately tying the tissues grasped with catgut. Occasionally the vein will be found so studded with metastatic foci that removal without injury to this vessel's wall is impossible. When this condition exists, either the operation will have to be abandoned or the vein and its branches tied above and below the neoplasm, and the intermediate portion exsected. In one of my cases this operation was performed. The axillary vein was tied near the clavicle, and the brachial just below the tendon of the pectoralis major, and double ligatures to all intervening branches. The neoplasm had not recurred two years after the operation. The venous circulation was well established through the cephalic vein. The patient was in excellent health. When the operation is com2)leted, a drainage-hole should be made from the deepest portion of the wound (estimating this from the position the patient is to assume after the operation) by carrying the tip of a closed dressing-forceps through the tissues until the skin along the axillary border of' the scapula is lifted by the instrument. This should be incised and the hole enlarged by separating the jaws of the forceps. A good-sized rubber di-ainage-tube should be pulled through from beloAv as the forceps are T^ithdi'awn. As much of the wound is closed by sutures as possible, a final irrigation of l-to-3000 sublimate is made, a loose dressing placed in the open portion of the wound, and the usual dressing of gauze and borated cotton, and protective placed over all. When a benign tumor is to be enucleated from the breast, the incision may usually be made along the crescentic fold at the lower border of this organ, the gland turned up, the tumor removed, and the breast re- stored to its former position. The scar is concealed in the natural fold between the integument of the thorax and the breast. Abscess of the thoracic walls usually results from ostitis of the clavi- cle, sternum, ribs, scapulae, or vertebrae, or enchondritis of the costal cartilages. If not incised, they open spontaneously through the integu- ment and discharge pus and at times particles of bone and other de- tritus. Spontaneous cure may occur, although this is the exception. Sinuses usually result, and continue until the diseased tissues are ex- cised. The most common seat of ostitis is in the sternum and the sternal ends of the ribs. The indications in treatment are to lay the sinuses open, carefully following each to its terminus, scrape the indurated lining membrane away with a scoop, and remove all dead bone by scraping vtath the Volkmann spoon or exsection in mass. Opening into the pleura or mediastinum should be avoided. When the abscess leads behind the sternum, as in a case which came under my care, a segment of this bone should be removed in order to expose and drain the cavity. In exsection of a portion of one or more ribs, the incision should be made along the center of the bone, the periosteum lifted with the ele-