216 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. day, from asphyxia, due to pressure of the enlarged and consolidated aneurism. Thus, in six cases, five died within a few days after the operation, and three of these seem to have ended fatally from consolidation of the aneit- rism, the very object for which it was perfoi-med. Aneurism of the Common Carotid Artery.—Aneurism of the carotid may occur in any part of the course of this vessel, being in rare instances intra-thoracic (when the left trunk is involved). The diagnosis of aneurism of the left carotid, low down, depends upon the presence of the aneurismal bruit at the spot of the tumor, this mur- mur being carried along in the distribution of the artery. Pressure- symptoms are referable to laryngeal interference fi'om compression upon the pneumogastric ; or distention of the left internal jugular, and in rare instances the left subclavian vein. The presence of the swelling is usu- ally first recognized in the space between the two tendons of origin of the left sterno-mastoid muscle. Aneurism of the right carotid, within the first inch of its course, gives rise to the ordinary symptoms of this lesion, just beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, at and immediately above its clavicular origin. Aneurism of the vertebral artery, in its lower portion, may be differ- entiated from that of the carotid by compression of this latter vessel high up. If the thumb be placed over the carotid, at its bifurcation, and pressed firmly and directly backward against the vertebral column, such compression will not affect the circulation in the sac of a vertebral aneu- rism, while if involving the carotid it w^onld be visibly affected. Then, again, vertebral aneurism is, in nearly every instance, of traumatic origin, and the traumatism is usually a stab wound, while aneurism of the carotid is almost always idiopathic. In the differential diagnosis of these two lesions higher in the neck, the same method is applicable. It should not be forgotten, in the effort to form a diagnosis, that careless manipulation of a cervical aneurism is not allowable, on account of the danger of detaching a clot, which may pass itp into the brain. If the tumor involve the carotid or its branches, compression of the primitive trunk, low down, will arrest the pulsation in the sac. This is best accomplished by relaxing the sterno-mastoid muscle of that side, and grasping the vessel between the thumb and finger carried behind the muscle. On account of the deep seat of the vertebral artery its compression by this manoeuvre is impossible. This last vessel may be compressed by placing the thumb one inch directly below the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and pressing backward. Above this point it is impossible, since the vessel runs into the vertebral foramina. The treatment of carotid aneurism is surgical and palliative. The last method refers to the postural, dietetic, and medicinal treatment of aneu- risms in general. The only surgical procedure which should be recom- mended is the ligature. While it is true that some cases are recorded as cured by digital compression, I can not but consider this method as dan- gerous, for the reason that, in the process of consolidation where the cir-