A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 86 thotonos). An exaggerated illustration of this condition is given in Fig. 148, from the well-known picture of Sir Charles Bell. When the tonic spasms are confined to the anterior muscles, and the body is bent forward, the condition is known as emprostJiotonos, and if curved laterally, pleu- rothotonos. The spasm continues until the muscles are unable longer to contract, when a gradual and partial relaxation occurs. Successive attacks follow rapidly, being precipitated by the slightest cause, as the jar communicated by walking upon the floor, or the contact of the hair or clothing upon the hypergesthetic integument. Notwithstanding the violent nature of this affection, the mind, in the great majority of cases, remains clear until carbonic-acid poisoning occurs from prolonged fixation of the respiratory muscles. The pulse and tem- perature vary between great extremes, records of the former running from the normal up to 160 beats per minute, and of the latter from 98 "S*^ to 112° F. The intense heat which is premonitory of a fatal termination, and which continues for a considerable while after death, is supposed to be due to coagulation of the albuminoid principle of muscle, the myosin (Fricke). Death may take place in a single paroxysm, or the patient may survive a number of attacks. Prognosis.—The danger of death diminishes if the patient survives the fifth day, although the vast majority of cases end fatally before this. The gravity of the prognosis usually depends upon the violence of the paroxysms, the rise in pulse and temperature being also proportional to the severity of the convulsions. The period which elapses between the receipt of the accident and the appearance of the tetanic spasms is not without importance in prognosis, the chances of recovery being increased with the longer interval. The death-rate in those cases in which tonic spasms occurred within two weeks after the injury is 62 per cent; from 14 to 21 days, 17 per cent; 21 to 44 days, 17 per cent; 50 per cent of all fatal cases terminate within 5 days after the first paroxysm ; 33 per cent from the fifth to the tenth day. Diagnosis.—Hysteria is more apt to be mistaken for tetanus than any other disease. In hysteria there is usually no elevation of tempera- ture, and the symptoms of great and acute distress are wanting. Hys- teria occurs chiefly in females ; tetanus, in a large majority of cases, in the opposite sex. It may be necessary at times to differentiate between the tetanoid spasms of strychnia-poisoning and true tetanus. Strychnia tetanus ensues within a few minutes after the poison has been taken; the muscles of the jaw are not first affected as in tetanus, and are not always rigid during the attack. The convulsive movements in strychnia-poison are of short duration, and complete relaxation occurs, while in tetanus the muscular rigidity is continuous. Hydrophobia may be distinguished from tetanus in the character of the lesion which causes it, the peculiar clonic or interrupted spasm of the muscles, especially those of the larynx, and in the generally longer period of incubation in rabies. Pathology.—The lesion of tetanus is believed to be a myelitis. The