438 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. and down the neck, should be examined and removed if metastasis has occurred. When the floor of the mouth, together with the anterior two thirds of the organ, are involved, and metastasis is evident in the deeper lym- phatics, the propriety of surgical interference is questionable. A cure is not probable, and the operation formidable and dangerous. The re- moval of the ulcerating portion may be done as a palliative measure. Without regard to the manner in which the operation is to be per- formed, the ether should be administered at flrst through the mouth, and, after the narcosis is complete, when it becomes necessary to work within this cavity, the angesthesia should be carefully continued by the rectum. It is essential for the teeth to be held widely separated by the gag (Fig. 36), and the lips held out of the way by flat, blunt retractors. In mild cases, where the disease is situated near the tip of the organ, and where the floor of the mouth is not involved, the operation may be done with the galvano-cautery loop, as follows : The tongue should be drawn well out of the mouth and transfixed from its under surface with a strong needle (armed with a heavy silk thread) at a point in the healthy tissue where the section is to be made. One end of the wire of a galvano-cautery battery is fastened to the thread, drawn through the tongue, attached to the ecraseur apparatus, and the loop tightened so as to grasp the organ in the direction it is desired to make the section. When it is not divided entirely across, the antero-posterior section is first made. The wire is now slowly heated to a red color, and the loop is very slowly tightened and drawn through the organ. If it is made to cut through quickly, the vessels may not be occluded. The transverse section is next made in the same way, and, if any attachments to the floor of the mouth remain, these may also be divided by throwing the loop around them. If the cautery battery is not at hand, the Paquelin thermo cautery may be employed. If neither of these more modern instruments are to be had, the ecra- seur will suffice. It is not only efficient, but is less apt to get out of order than the other apparatus. When the lingual arteries have not been tied, haemorrhage is apt to occur after section with either of these instruments. It may be arrested and controlled as directed in wounds of this organ. When a more extensive operation is required, the following method will be advisable : A careful examination of the lymphatic glands of the submaxillary and cervical regions should be made, and if any induration is discovered they should be removed as the first step in the operation. If the dis- ease has existed for several months, in all probability metastasis has occurred, even when the enlargement of the glands can not be detected by palpation. This condition is especially apt to exist in the glands cor- responding to that side of the tongue upon which the disease originated. It is, therefore, a wise precaution to tie the lingual artery of that side, since this not only lessens the danger of haemorrhage in the removal of