644 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Treatment.—Simple ulcer of the penis, if left without interference, usually heals within a few weeks; the ulcer of herpes is usually more obstinate. The process of repair may be greatly facilitated by a careful removal of all sources of irritation. Strict cleanliness is essential, no matter what form the ulcer may assume. Soaking the part in warm black wash (calomel 3 J to lime-water Oj) two or three times a day is an excellent method of treatment. The local use of liquor plumbi subaceta- tis dilutum is also advisable. In addition to the foregoing, it is essential to keep the sore uncov- ered by the prepuce, which should be worn back behind the corona. Circumcision may at times become necessary to obtain a permanent cure. If the simpler remedies Just given do not succeed, the local use of the nitrate-of-silver pencil is indicated. In phagedenic ulcer, as a rule, more vigorous measures are necessary. The severity in local treatment will depend, however, upon the rapidity of molecular death which the poison is causing in the tissues. If its progress is slow, and the inflammation mild in character, recovery may be brought about by the treatment laid down for simple and herpetic ulcer. If within the first few days of its appearance the spread of the sore is rapid, or if, when first brought to the notice of the physician, it is more than a quarter of an inch in diameter, and the zone of redness spreads well out into the tissues, it should be treated as follows : By the introduction of a delicate hypodermic needle through the sound tissues, after which its point should be carried under the base of the ulcer, from fifteen to twenty minims of a 4-per-cent solution of cocaine should be injected, by which means complete anaesthesia may be secured. The pus should now be removed from the bottom of the sore with a pellet of absorbent cotton on the end of a small piece of wood. The parts im- mediately about the ulcer should be coated over with vaseline or oil, to protect them from excoriation. A small quantity of carbonate of soda should be on hand to neutralize any excess of acid. In applying pure nitric acid, the ulcer should, if jDossible, be held so that it will con- tain the acid without letting it run over the edges. It is best applied by means of a wooden match or tooth-pick dipped in the acid, and the point immediately carried into the floor of the ulcer. It should be con- veyed into every portion of the sore, and allowed to remain in contact vdth the virus for one or two minutes. The excess may now be soaked out with the cotton pellets, and the ulcer filled with soda. A piece of lint moistened in vaseline will serve as a dressing. When nitric acid can not be had, the actual cautery should be employed. Iodoform may be dispensed with, on account of the disagreeable odor of this substance. When phagedenic ulcer occurs beneath an irretractible prepuce, this should be incised and the sore treated as above. Ulcer of the meatus should also be burned with nitric acid. Complete rest is essential, and constitutional measures looking to the improved nutrition of the tissues are strongly indicated. If suppuration occurs in the glands of the in- guinal region, free incision should be made and free drainage estab-