I 742 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. or four weeks, until the hole made by the ligature is lined with epider- mis. A second puncture should now be made about one inch in front of the first, the ligature passed through this, and the ends tied. The con- stant traction of the elastic gradually cuts through the web, yet so slowly that the track of the wound becomes covered with epidermis. This pro- cedure should be repeated until all the web is divided. When the fingers are solidly united, the method of Didot should be preferred. An incision is made down the palmar surface of one finger (the index, Fig. 747) and along the dorsal surface of the adjoining mem- ber (the middle finger). The flaps are dissected up so that the one removed from the palmar surface of the index-finger remains attached to the middle finger, while the posterior flap is attached along the dorsum of the index-finger. They are then sutured in position (Fig. 748). In those cases in which the bones are only slightly united, the line of union may be sawed through. When the bones are fused into one solid mass, an operation is not indicated. Chronic fiexion of one or more fingers may result from paralysis of the extensor muscles, spastic contraction of the fiexors, or to contractions of the palmar and digital fascia. Paralysis of the extensors may be temporary or permanent. Lead-poisoning not infrequently leads to tem- porary impairment of the function of this group of muscles. In neglected cases of chronic extensor paralysis, permanent shorten- ing of the opposing muscles, with contraction of the palmar fascia, occurs. The indications in treatment are to restore, if possible the functions of the paralyzed muscles, and to prevent deformity by the adjustment of an apparatus which will keep the fingers extended. Contraction of the palmar fascia, as a result of any inflammatory pro- Fio. 747.—Didot's method of operating for web-flngers. (After Fort and Noble Smith.) Fig. 748.—Transverse sections of the webbed fingers, showing in the upper figure the line of separation between the two flaps ; in the middle, the outUne of the sepa- rated flaps; below, the sutures are ap- plied. (After Fort and Noble Smith.)