533 FISTULA OF THE ANUS AND RECTUM. The chief causes of peri-rectal abscess are the irritation which follows the lodgment of fecal matter and undigested substances in the rectum; the over-distention of this organ as a result of constipation ; the presence of hsemorrhoidal tumors; the introduction of hard bodies, as the nozzle of a syringe, etc., through the anus ; and, lastly, direct injury by a blow from without. Abscess in this region occurs by preference in the weak and debilitated, in those suffering from the tubercular diathesis, and is rarely met with before the twenty-fifth year of life. Fig. 556.—Complete fistula Fig. 557.—Incomplete external Fig. 558.—Incomplete in recto. fistula. internal fistula. Suppuration begins as a rule in the loose areolar tissue around the rectum. Although the inflammation may originate in the mucous mem- brane and wall of the bowel, perforation of the wall is rare until the process of suppuration is well established in the connective tissues of the ischio-rectal fossa. As the pus accumulates the tissues break down, and the abscess opens into the bowel or through the integument. A complete fistula may be developed from either of the incomplete varieties by partial occlusion of the original opening, thus causing the pus to seek an outlet elsewhere. Abscess of this region may be sujDerficial or deep. When superficial, it is apt to open through the mucous membrane, just above the junction of the skin and mucous membrane. When the deep variety opens into the rectum, it is usually at a point from three fourths of an inch to two Inches from the margin of the anus. A single abscess may have one or more openings into the rectum or through the skin. The diagnosis of fistula in ano is not difficult. It depends upon the history of an abscess followed by a constant or frequently recurring dis- charge of pus, the pain being severe until the abscess is evacuated, and recurring in a varying degree with the temporary closure of the out- let. An area of induration usually exists, and the opening may be dis- covered either through the skin or within the anus. If an external opening exists through which gas or fecal matter escapes, a complete fistula is demonstrated., When an external opening is formed, unless the abscess is very recent, there is almost always an internal opening, although it may not be found. The diagnosis maybe further made clear by exploration with a probe, an operation which is rendered practically painless by the injection of a 4-per-cent solution of cocaine hydrochlo- rate into the abscess cavity. If a single injection does not sufficiently dull the sensibility, it should be repeated. No matter where the external opening is situated, the track will, in the great majority of instances, run just beneath the skin toward the anus. The probe should be allowed almost to find its own way, and,