A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 182 fusiform shape, and several layers of these cells closely packed together form the innermost part of the new growth, the most internal, super- ficial layer (that in immediate contact with the blood-current) forming a continuous layer, which corresponds in its functions to normal endo- thelium. The other specimen (Fig. 260) appears to have undergone dilferent changes. The coats of the vessel are enormously thickened, and the lumen of the vessel correspondingly diminished, so as to become a nar- row chink (the section is somewhat obliquely made). The thickening of the wall is found to present great variations, at points of the vessel not farther apart than one twelfth of an inch, other sections at that distance from the one represented in the cut not being more than one half as thick, the external diameter of the vessel remaining almost constant. The adventitia (e) is slightly thickened and infiltrated by a cell-growth. The muscular coat {d) is of pretty uniform thickness, except at some points where invaded with cell-infiltration from the adventitia. The inner coat is enormously thickened, and presents the apj^earance of two concentric rings, the boundary between which is more or less defined. Examined with a higher power (Fig. 261), the lumen of the vessel is 9 1 Fig. 261.—Syphilitic arteritis. Segment of the preceding; specimen, magnified ITO diameters, a, lumen of vessel: 6, fenestrated membrane; «, c, tliickened intima; d, muscular coat; adventitia; new- formed imperfect elastic lamina. (After Greenfield.) found free from thrombus. The membrana fenestrata is well defined. The muscular layer presents very much its normal appearance at some points, except that the fiber-cells are somewhat granular. At some points it is encroached upon by the cell-growth from the outer coat, between which and the muscular coat there is no distinct line of demaikation. The outer coat is somewhat irregularly thickened by cell-growth, which is especially abundant around the vasa vasorum, which are very numer- ous and much more developed than usual. At some points small vessels traverse the muscular and elastic coats, going into the deeper portions of the thickened intima. The inner coat measures twice the thickness of the outer and middle