■627 THE URETHRA—STRICTURE. This bougie may be employed with perfect safety. When fully in- troduced, the filiform portion passes into the bladder, and, if this organ is empty, it curls upon itself from the resistance of the vesical wall. It is especially adapted to close strictures of the deep perineal and mem- branous urethra. If, after careful trial, it is impossible to get the filiform into the opening, the patient should be put to bed and given the benefit of a full dose of quinia and morphia. If the urine can not be passed, supra- pubic aspiration is indicated. After from twelve to twenty-four hours it will usually be discovered that the filiform will slip readily into the bladder. As soon as the dilatation is sufiicient to admit the urethrotome, the operation of internal urethrotomy should be performed. Fig. 626.—Gum fllifonn bougies. In continuous dilatation, the filiform bougie (Figs. 626, 627), or a small gum bougie, is insinuated through the stricture and tied in position in the urethra by fixing a narrow strip of adhesive plaster around the prepuce behind the corona glandis, and attaching from this to the end of the bougie three or four silk threads (Fig. 628). G.TiEMANi: Sc cn Fig. 627.—Wlialebono flliform bougies. Fig. 628.—Bougie tied in for continuous dilatation. The walls of the stricture break down under the constant pressure of the whalebone or elastic instrument, and it will be found that a bougie, with difiiculty introduced and tightly held by the stricture soon after it is carried through, will, within twenty-four hours, become loose and easily movable, and a larger instrument will readily pass into the same opening. As soon as the dilatation has proceeded to the required ex- tent, the urethrotome should be employed and a division effected. Strictures of the Membranous Urethra.—Strictures of the deep ure- thra are amenable to treatment by modified internal urethrotomy and by external urethrotomy or perineal section. The former method consists in the rapid dilatation of the stricture with the dilating filiform bougie until the Otis urethrotome can be intro- duced. The straight instrument shown in Fig. 624 can be readily em- ployed in this portion of the urethra. It is carried into the stricture until the knife is at its posterior limit, when, without separating the bars of the urethrotome—that is, without dilatation—the blade is care-