213 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. Aneurism.'^—Prof. J. L. Little performed this operation in 1877. The patient recovered, was much improved, and died from pleuritis, not asso- ciated with the aneurism, three years later. The carotid and subclavian were slightly involved. Durham's patient died on the sixth day, as was reported, from "shock." The possibility of cerebral embolism is worthy of consideration in explaining the sudden death of this patient. M'Car- thy's case died, on the fifteenth day, from haemorrhage on the proximal side of the subclavian ligature. Prof. Eliot's patient died, on the twenty- sixth day, from haemorrhage from the sac. Prof. L. A. Stimson's patient recovered, with marked improvement and consolidation of the aneurism. The tumor became very much smaller, and the symptoms were relieved. Death occurred, twenty-one months after the operation, from phthisis. The sac was filled with firm clot. In the case operated upon by Prof. R. F. Weir, death resulted, from rupture of the sac, on the fifteenth day. Rossi's patient died on the sixth day, most probably from cerebral anae- mia, since, at the necropsy, the left vertebral was the only pervious artery leading to the brain. Ensor's case ended in death, from rupture of the sac, on the sixty-fifth day. Barwell operated, with recovery and marked improvement. King's patient died, from haemorrhage from the aneurism near the carotid ligature, on the one hundred and eleventh day. Gerster's case recovered, with gradual improvement.! Of these eleven cases, recovery, with a cure more or less perfect, took place in four, while death occurred in seven. It is very probable that, if in some of these fatal cases the operation had been performed earlier, the rate of mortality would have been lower. The double distal operation, with varying intervals between the deli- gation of the carotid and the subclavian arteries, has been performed in the following instances : Prof. A. B. Mott tied the subclavian artery in a patient who had had the right carotid deligated one year previously. The patient died, three years after the last operation, from phthisis. The aneurism was cured. In Heath's case the carotid was first tied, with tem- porary amelioration of symptoms. Two years later the subclavian was opera^ted upon. The aneurismal bruit disappeared, and the urgent symp- toms disappeared. Four months later the patient died from traumatic pleuritis, caused by a fall while drunk. The tumor was consolidated. In Wickham's case the interval was two months and nine days. Imme- diate and temporary relief followed both operations. Death ensued from rupture of the sac on the forty-fourth day. Malgaigne's patient was not materiaUy benefited by the first operation. Three months later the subclavian was tied, followed by death, from rupture of the sac, on the twenty-first day. A glance at these cases, and a careful study of their more complete histories, can not but impress one with the gravity of the surgical pro- cedure under consideration. The postural, dietetic, and medicinal method should be thoroughly tried in all cases where the disease has not * For more complete details, see preceding reference, t " German Hospital Records," 1883-'84, New York city.