DUPUYTREN'S CONTRACTION.—SNAP-FINGER. - 743 cess, gives rise to the most common deformity of the lingers. Penetrat- ing wounds of the palm, or idiopathic phlegmon, are exceedingly apt to result in fascial contraction and chronic mal- position of the fingers. This process takes place at times in per- sons of the gouty or rheumatic diathesis with- out any marked symptom of local inflamma- tion. The tendons are not affected, as a rule, Fig. 749. — Dupuytren's con- traction in the fascia of the palm and of the little finger. (After Noble Smith.) Fio. 750.—The same, in the middle and ring fingers, a, Contract- ed band of palmar fascia, h, Flexor tendons (not involved), c, Sheath of tendons, d. Digital prolongations of palmar fas- cia. (After W. Adams and Noble Smith.) in the earlier stages of Dupuytren^s contraction. In old cases the mus- cles are shortened. The fascial contractions are well shown in Figs. 749 and 750. Treatment.—In mild cases, taken early in the commencement of the affection, a cure may be effected by repeated stretching of the fascia by fully extending the fingers involved. In obstinate cases, fasciotomy is demanded. Division of the palmar fascia should be done as follows: The hand should be rendered thoroughly aseptic by washing in subli- mate solution, and rendered bloodless by Esmarch's bandage. I'he hy- podermic injection of 4-per-cent cocaine solution renders the operation painless. The delicate fascia-knife (Fig. 59) should be introduced be- neath the bands of fascia, which can be made prominent by extreme ex- tension of the fingers, the edge turned upward, and a thorough division effected, taking care not to allow the knife to cut through the skin. Every resisting band should be divided until the fingers can be readily brought into a position of over-correction. Two or three lines of section may be made in the palm and one or two through the digital prolon- gations of the fingers involved. By carefully inserting the knife closely beneath the fascia, the vessels of the palm and fingers may be avoided. The palm should be covered with a thick layer of sublimate gauze, and a splint applied in order to keep the fingers perfectly straight. This should be worn for two or three weeks, at which time passive motion should be made and the splint reapplied for another week. After it is removed, thorough extension should be practiced at least once a day for several months. Snap- or Jerk-Finger.—This name has been used to designate a condi- tion in which free extension and flexion of one or more fingers is more or less interrupted. As the affected digit is being flexed or extended,