THE NOSE. 399 After the wire-loop has been passed around the tumor, and slipped up to the pedicle, it should be slowly tightened, since by this method the danger of haemorrhage which always follows the use of the forceps is avoided. From one to two hours may be consumed in the division of the growth, the screw being turned from time to time. Nitric acid or the cautery should be applied to the stump in all cases, since without this recurrence is almost certain. Fibromata^ or fibrous polypi^ are much less frequent than the myxomata. As a rule they are deeper situated. They re- quire the same treatment as above given. Occasionally large tumors of the nasal cavities require for their complete removal section of the nasal and superior maxillary bones. In this procedure the skin and periosteum should be left intact, and osteoplasty performed in order to prevent necrosis. Papillomata, or warts, which occur at the junction of the mucous membrane of the nares with the integument, should be clipped off with curved scissors and their bases burned with pure nitric acid. Hypertrophy of the turbinated tufts may exist to such an extent as to demand interference. Such enlargement should be treated exactly as one would treat true polypus. Fissures of the nares may be relieved by the repeated local use of the lunar-caustic pencil. Ozcena.—Ozsena is the name given to a chronic inflamma- tion of one or more of the nasal cavities, or the sinuses com- municating with them. It may be confined to a process of ulceration of the soft tissues alone, but not infrequently there is an ostitis. Syphilitic ozsena is probably the most common form. It frequently occurs with other dyscrasise. It is accom- panied by a fetid odor and a muco-purulent discharge, par- tially liquid and partially solid. Atrophy, or destruction of the turbinated tufts, is not infrequent, so that there is abnor- mal space within the nares. The treatment is local and general. The removal of dis- eased or dead bone is imperative, and irrigation with the weaker sublimate or boracic-acid solutions should be regularly made. Dobbell's solution will be found of use: Carbolic acid, gr. X; biborate and bicarbonate of soda, each, 3j; glycerin, 3 X; to this add water to make § x. This should be used five or six times a day as a douche. The general condition of the patient should be improved by the administration of well- selected tonics and food, and by out-of-door life. Superficiat epitJielioma, situated upon the nose or face, should be destroyed by the application of Marsden's paste. It is made of arsenious acid and powdered gum acacia, equal parts, with enough water to make a fairly soft paste. It may be left on from twelve to twenty-four hours— V