189 VASCULAR TUMORS. Gribson,* Buclianan,f Sydney Jones,:}: Warren,* Weitzer,* Gueniot,* and Hart.* The latter froze the tumor, and cut well into sound tissue ; little blood was lost. The late Prof. Spence, of Edinburgh, cured a deep-seated erectile tumor of the hand by galvano-puncture. || Nelaton operated in a cirsoid tumor of the forehead in a similar way, and with like success. Barwell operates upon vascular tumors by what is termed the scarless method.^ Having carefully made out the limits of the tumor, a needle armed with a silver wire is passed under the skin, and subcutaneously around the outskirts of the tumor, to a point opposite the place of entrance. The needle is again introduced at the point from which it has just emerged, and is carried around the remainder of the tumor, and out at the first point of entrance. The base of the tumor is thus looped by a wire which can be tightened beneath the skin at will. Barwell uses a slot of vulcanized rubber, which he slides down upon the wire to tighten it around the tumor. If the growth be very large, he advises the needle to be brought out at frequent intervals. Direct local compression has been tried by patient and expert sur- geons, but has not met with success. Gosselin^ in his classical paper reports several successful cases in which he employed hypodermic injections of perchloride of iron into the mass. This idea was original with Broca, who applied the styptic ender- mically with success. Pitha, of Prague, and Schuh, following Broca, thus cured three cases (Gosselin). BergerJ reports a case of cirsoid aneurism of the hand treated by this method. Velpeau, Gherini, and Demarquay have performed the same operation. In Demarquay's case, the radial and ulnar arteries had been tied. The method of procedure is as follows : The tumor must be com- pressed, so that, while the circulation ceases, the growth remains full of blood. This condition must be maintained for at least ten minutes after the injection. The syringe being filled, the air is carefully excluded, and the needle is introduced about a quarter of an inch into the mass, when the solution is discharged. Kneading, to disseminate the fluid, is then practiced, and the finger is placed upon the hole made by the needle, or the needle and syringe may be left in, during the ten minutes. Pain is immediately present, and persists for several hours. After an interval of ten or fifteen days, the operation may be rej^eated, if neces- sary. Eight or more operations have been required to efl'ect a final cure. Ulceration may follow, but it is usually limited. At times, unhealthy granulations bud up from these ulcerating patches, requiring repeated burning with nitrate of silver or with the actual cautery. * Holmes's "System of Surgery," second edition, vol. iii, p. 540. t "British Medical Journal," June, 1875, p. 835. X "Lancet," 1882. * See the author's "Essays in Surgical Anatomy and Surgery," New York, 1879. li " Medical Times and Gazette," August 21, 1875, p. 209. ^ "Lancet," May 8, 1875, p. 642. ^ "Archives gen. de medecine," tom. ii, 1867, pp. 636-659, X " Gazette des hopitaux," 1882, p. 1082.