ANESTHESIA. 25 a light or cautery point to be brought within five or six feet of the ether cone or flask. Although I have used ether many times with artificial light, I have never seen an accident, and do not hesitate to recommend its invariable employment for night-work. The question of bulk or quantity can only come up in remote military or frontier practice, where transportation is difiicult. The Administration of Etlier.—Complete narcosis may be obtained from ether administered by inlialaf ion, or by being introduced into the rectum. The latter method is rarely practiced. The following points are essential in the successful administration of ether: Only the best quality of ether fortior should be employed. That manufactured by Dr. Squibb is universally adopted in America. It should have a specific gravity not greater than 0"728, should boil violently when.placed in a test-tube, subjected to the heat of the hand, and a bit of glass is dropped into it. The quantity to be used will depend in part upon the length of time required for the performance of the operation, the construction of the inhaler, and the idiosyncrasy of the patient. As ordinarily given with the Allis inhaler, which allows of a free admixture of air and considerable evaporation, to maintain complete narcosis for one hour will consume from six to twelve ounces. The prepa- ration of the patient is important. As just stated, solid or coagulable food should be forbidden for at least eight hours before an operation. The bowels should be moved by a laxative on the night before the an- aesthetic is to be given, and, if necessary, by enema on the morning of the same day. Great care should always be given in the selection of proper nourishment for the patient for several days at least prior to the operation. Solid food, with the exception of the eight-hour limit, is not contra-indicated unless the abdominal viscera are involved in the opera- tion. A half-hour before the anaesthesia is commenced, about two table- spoonfuls of rye whisky or brandy in a teacupful of water should be taken into the stomach. If the patient is unusually nervous and ex- citable, or suffering great pain or any marked irritation of the air-pas- sages, from one fourth to one third of a grain of morphia should be injected hypodermically about twenty minutes before the inhalation. It is important to explain to the patient the action of the agent, and, above all, to impress upon him the entire absence of danger; that, although it will at first cause him to experience a sense of strangulation or suffoca- tion, yet this will last only for a minute. Finally, artificial teeth or any loose substance should be removed from the mouth, and the clothing loosened about the neck, chest, and abdomen. Upon a table, within reach of the etherizer or his assistant, the following articles should be arranged in order: 1. A wedge- or screw-shaped piece of wood for forcing and holding the jaws apart (Fig. 34). A Sayre's periosteal elevator is a good substitute. Fig. 34.—Hard-rubber oral .screw.