SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 49 be covered with sleeves of the same material, pinned at the shoulders and extending half-way between the elbow and wrist (Fig. 107). A linen coat will also suffice, but will not always protect the person from the irrigat- ing solutions. The attendants should all be clad in clean gowns. Everything being in readiness, and the patient anaesthetized, brought in, and placed upon the table, the following arrangement and assignment of duties should be made : The table must be so turned that the best light falls upon the field of operation. All parts of the body out of this field should be well wrapped up and protected from getting wet by blankets, and an oil-cloth over all. The parts within range of the operation are now washed with ether, and then with 1 to 3,000 sublimate. If the tourniquet is to be applied, say, to an extremity, towels dipped in warm sublimate, 1 to 3,000, are wrapped about the part, over this a sheet of protective, and the elastic bandage applied over these. When the bandage is removed up to the point where the limb is to remain constricted, this and all parts near the wound should be covered over with warm sublimate towels. The assistants should be as follows: A trained etherizer, and a first assistant to sponge and immediately help the operator, who stands usu- ally Just opposite him. A second assistant, to stand conveniently to the instruments and the operator, whose duty it is to hand each instrument or article as called for with promptness, and as promptly to remove those which have been laid aside. A third assistant attends to the irrigation, regulating the supply at the indication of the chief. One supernumerary, for holding retractors, or performing any duty which may be required. A nurse to rinse the sponges and hand them to the first assistant. A second nurse to assist the etherizer. A supernumerary nurse for general usefulness. When the knife (or other instrument) is lifted from the solution, the assistant, before handing it to the operator, shakes from it the few drops of fluid which adhere, for the acid irritates the skin and obscures to some extent the incision. Dift'erent methods of holding the scalpel in making an incision are rep- resented in Figs. 108 and 109. Holding the handle between the thumb and middle finger, while the tip of the index- finger rests upon the back of the blade, will be found most useful in cutting through the skin, and in rapid work in parts of the body away from the more important vessels and nerves, such as the removal of the breast. The advantages of this position are, that more of the cutting-edge is utilized, while the pressure