604 A TEXT-BOOK ON SIJRGERT. manent urinary fistula, may become necessary. The various methods of performing this operation have ah-eady been described. ProstatorrTicea.—Chronic prostatitis, or catarrh of the prostate, in a majority of cases follows an acute inflammation of this organ. Its chief cause is, therefore, an extension of a cystitis or urethritis to the epi- thelial lining of the glandular portions of this body. In a certain pro- portion of cases it originates as a subacute inflammatory process located in the glandular substance. It is in this form most frequently seen in weak, scrofulous, or tubercular adults about the period of puberty. Prostatorrhoea is a symptom of general hypertrophy of this organ in the earlier stages of enlargement, gradually diminishing as the connect- ive-tissue hyperplasia encroaches upon and destroys by compression the glandular apparatus. The leading symptom of this disease is the discharge of a small quantity of bluish-white fluid from the meatus. It is noticed particu- larly by the patient before the first micturition in the morning, having accumulated during the night. A drop or two may be squeezed from the urethra by pressure along the under surface of the penis from the perinseum forward. It is carried out with the first flow of urine, and, if not observed previously, usually escapes notice. In the severer type of cases the prostatic fluid may be seen immediately after urinating or during the intervals of micturition, as a bluish mucus, moisten- ing the meatus and prepuce, and slightly tenacious and stringy when wiped off. This fluid is also frequently observed when the contents of the rectum are discharged, especially if the faeces are hard and fully formed. Prostatorrhoea occurs in excessive or prolonged venereal ex- citement. The diagnosis of this affection depends upon the exclusion of sper- matorrhoea and urethritis. The symptoms of spermatorrhoea are in gen- eral so similar to those of prostatorrhoea, that a positive differentiation can only be made by microscopical examination. The fluid which es- capes may be examined alone, or the first ounce or two of urine passed after a comparatively long interval in urinating may be caught in a sepa- rate vessel, allowed to settle, and a drop of the sediment placed upon the slide. The presence of spermatozoa will confirm the diagnosis of spermatorrhoea. The urine first passed after a discharge of semen should not be examined, since under such conditions these elements are found in perfectly normal subjects. In differentiating between prostatorrhoea and gleet, the exploration of the urethra will be necessary. The absence of a stricture or of marked tenderness in the canal in front of the pros- tatic portion will exclude urethritis, with the exception of a rare form of chronic follicular urethritis, which, as will be seen further on, may or may not be preceded by a gonorrhoea or stricture. In follicular ure- thritis, tenderness is not marked. If a large-sized bulbous wire bougie is carried back to the membranous portion of the urethra, and is then withdrawn while the urethra is held in close contact with it, the yellow- ish-white flakes or plugs of cheesy material will be squeezed out of the follicles and be seen adhering to the bulb.