CHAPTER IX. the surgical diseases, and surgery of the lymphatic vessels, veins, and arteries. The Lymphatic System.—Lymphangitis. The pathological conditions in inflammation of the lymphatic vessels closely resemble those of the veins, with which they are intimately asso- ciated. The histology of the two systems is almost identical. One essen- tial point of ditference, and one which has a pathological significance, is that the lymphatic vessels are practically closed tubes, since at varying intervals in their route to the center each trunk breaks up into small and smaller branches, until they end in closed capillaries in the substance of a lymphatic gland. Although it is not yet positively proven that there is no direct communication between the afferent and efferent vessels, the weight of evidence is in favor of the theory that the vessels end and begin as closed tubes. It follows that whatever of septic or inflammatory matter may pass into these vessels, it can not rapidly enter the systemic circulation. Each lymphatic gland is a sieve which arrests its progress and modifies its effect. In the venous system, however, there is no resistance to rapid and direct systemic infection. We conclude, then, on anatomical grounds, as well as from clinical experience, that the effects of phlebitis are more rapidly felt, and in general more disastrous, than those of lymphangitis. LymjpTiangitis means an inflammation of all the structures which make up the wall of a lymph-carrying vessel; the endothelial lining, the muscular and connective tissues, are involved. Hyperaemia and thicken- ing occur, with or without coagulation of the lymph and occlusion of the ducts. As in other inflammatory processes, the native and wandering cells undergo proliferation, and form in the extra-vascular spaces a com- mon embryonic tissue, which, under certain favorable conditions, may undergo granular metamorjDhosis and absorption (resolution), or, if the process be violent and the tissues of a low order of vitality, suppuration may occur. Lymphangitis may be traumatic in origin, or result as a part of some idiopathic inflammation. It may also be described as an acute, subacute, and chronic disease, involving the superficial or deep vessels, or both. The symptoms of acute lymphangitis, while varying in intensity pro- portionate to the virulence of the cause and the condition of the tissues