A TEXT-BOOK ON SFRGERY. 220 Thie subclavian artery has been tied in its first surgical division for the relief of aneurism involving this vessel, or its third portion, conjointly with the iirst part of the axillary (subclavio-axillary), in the following instances: CoUes, death on fourth day, from haemorrhage at seat of liga- ture. V. Mott, death on eighteenth day, haemorrhage. Bayer, death in twenty-four hours, from bursting of sac. Hayden, death on twelfth day, from haemorrhage at seat of ligature. O'Reilly, death on thirteenth day, haemorrhage. Partridge, death on fourth day, pericarditis, pleuritis, pyaemia. Liston, death on thirty-sixth day, haemorrhage from distal side. Rodgers, death on fifteenth day, haemorrhage from distal side of ligatiire. Auvert, death on eleventh day, haemorrhage, distal side. Auvert, death on twenty-second day, haemorrhage from distal side. Liston, death on thirteenth day, haemorrhage (right carotid tied at same time). Parker, death on forty-second day, haemorrhage from distal side of ligature (right carotid tied at same operation). Of these twelve cases all died soon after the ligature. Only in one case (Rodgers) was the left subclavian tied. For subclavian or subclavio-axillary aneurism the ligature has been 'applied in the second portion in four cases. Liston, death on fourteenth day, haemorrhage at seat of ligature. Nichols, recovered, cured. Au- chincloss, death on third day, from cerebral complications. Warren, recovered, cured. Gay, death on ninth day, bronchitis and pneumonia. Giving four cases, with two deaths and two cures. Deligation of the subclavian artery, in its third portion, for subclavio- axillary or axillary aneurism, has been performed one hundred and tliir- teen times, with forty-seven deaths.* Naturally the mortality is greater in proportion to the proximity of the aneurism to the heart and to the seat of the ligature. Thus, in thirty-four of these cases the disease in- volved the third portion of the subclavian or the axillary, or both (prop- erly named subclavio-axillary aneurism). As a result of the operation exactly one half perished. Of the seventeen recoveries, thirteen are re- ported cured. For aneurism of the axillary proper I have the histories of seventy- nine cases in which the ligature has been applied to the third portion of the subclavian, with thirty deaths, forty-nine recoveries, and forty-six of these reported as cured. In seven of the fatal cases the aneurism was traumatic, and resulted from gunshot wounds (six in military, one in civil practice). The value of the expectant plan may be estimated in the foUovring cases: Sti^gpsis of 22 Cases of Subclavian Aneurism in which "no Treatment" was undertaken. 18 deaths, U spontaneous cures. Eighteen fatal cases. Dates of death after tumor was noticed (and when surgical interference might have been undertaken). * Author's Essays, already cited.