FRACTURES. 299 Fractures of the Phalanges.—In the treatment of fractures of these bones the same principles are involved as for the metacarpus. The chief precaution is to prevent stiffening of the finger from adhesion of the tendons to their sheaths. Passive motion should be made as early as the sixth day. The Sternum—Ribs— Yertehrce.—Y^^ sternum may be broken by direct or indirect violence. In recent cases reposition may be effected by pressure, or by lifting with an elevator. In the treatment of these cases the most perfect quiet should be enforced. Necrosis occasionally follows this accident, necessitating operative interference. Fracture of the ribs or of their cartilages may result from (1) indirect violence, as a blow upon the sternum ; (2) from a direct injury ; or (3) from muscular contraction. The longer ribs are most liable to fracture. When the force is applied to the sternum, the break most frequently occurs at or Just anterior to the middle of the bone. The displacement is usually slight. Haemorrhage from division of the intercostal vessels is one of the immediate dangers, while localized inflam- mation of the parietal pleura is inevitable. The diagnosis will depend upon pain, elicited by pressure on the bone, at a point remote from the fracture, and occasionally by a peculiar click or crepitus felt by the hand applied over the lesion during a full respiratory act. The respiratory movement is less free upon the affected side. Treatment.—Fixation of the chest-wall, as far as is possible, is the indication in treatment. To this end, the affected side should be shaved, and adhesive strips, cut one inch and a half in width and long enough to reach fro"m the sternum to the vertebral spines, are tightly applied, ex- tending far enough above and below the broken rib to cover the three or four adjacent bones. The strips should overlap about one half of their width. The body of a vertebra may be broken by indirect violence, as a fall from a height, the patient striking on the head, feet, or buttocks, or the bone may be crushed by extreme anterior flexion (occasionally due to muscular action), or by direct injury, with or without penetration. The character of the injury, pain, and symptoms of pressure upon the cord or nerves will lead to a correct diagnosis. The treatment is quiet in bed, with extension and counter-extension in the earlier stages, and later, the plaster Jacket, with Jury-mast head- extension for all lesions above the tenth dorsal vertebra. Below this point the Jacket, from the pelvis to the axilla, will suffice. In the case of the patient from whom the accompanying cut (Fig. 328) was taken there was a fracture at the dorso-lumbar Junction, which involved the eleventh and twelfth dorsal, and first lumbar ver- tebrae. There was a sharp knuckle at 'the last dorsal and first lumbar spines. He was injured by an elevator descending upon him and vio- lently flexing the spine. Paraplegia resulted, with incontinence of faeces and urine. I treated him by extension and the plaster-of-Paris Jacket. The symptoms of paralysis gradually disappeared, and now, ten