308 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. patients are not easily controlled and kept quiet by the use of the ordi- nary apparatus.* Patella.—Fracture of the patella may be caused by violent contrac- tion of the quadriceps extensor muscle, or by a blow or fall upon this bone, or both of these factors may combine to cause this lesion. The line of cleavage is usually transverse, and in the majority of instances just below the middle of the patella. It may, however, be broken in an oblique or longitudinal direction, or in several directions at once—" stel- late fracture." When muscular contraction is the chief or sole factor in this break, the line of cleavage is usually transverse. Longitudinal and stellate fractures are the result of direct violence. Fracture of the patella is usually complete, the separation of the fragments varying from a small fraction of an inch up to two or more inches. The separation is generally more marked on the internal than the external border. In rare instances incomplete fracture may occur, the cartilage not giving way. Such cases are scarcely rec- ognizable without exploration, the few recorded being seen post-mortem. Fracture of the patella is more frequent in men than in women, and occurs mostly in the decades from the twentieth to the fortieth years. The diagnosis may be made from loss of function, pain at the seat of injury, and separation of the frag- ments. Inability to extend the leg, or marked impair- ment of function, is always present. The limb may, however, be used to support the body if it is allowed to fall into the straight position. One of my patients, with a separation of three fourths of an inch, walked, unaided, a quar- ter of a mile immediately after the accident. Haemorrhage between the fragments occurs in all cases, and therefore communicates with the syno- vial membranes, which are interposed between the posterior surface of the patella and the general cavity of the joint, and, in cases where the separation is well marked (from half to one inch and over), it is more than probable that the reflection of the synovial lining, from the low- er anterior portion of the joint below the patella upward and forward to the front of the intercondyloid notch, is torn, and that whatever of extravasation occurs is into the general cavity of the joint. This occurred in the only knee I have opened, immediately after this fract- ure. More or less effusion into the joint follows in the large majority of cases. In longitudinal and stellate fractures the separation is usually slight. Treatment.—A patient with a broken knee-pan should be immediately Fig. 340. — Displace- ment of fragments in fracture of the pa- tella. (After Gray.) * In one instance, in the case of a child tliree and a half years old, with a fracture at the middle of the thigh, chloroform narcosis was obtained during natural sleep, the child not be- coming conscious while passing under the influence of the anaesthetic.