A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 648 When the ulcer is situated upon the lips, tongue, or mouth, the sub- maxillary plexus becomes enlarged. Adenitis of the epitrochlear and axillary glands follows inoculation upon the lingers, hand, or forearm. Second Stage.—Cutaneous and mucous lesions, alopecia, fever, head- ache, arteritis, lymphangitis, adenitis, iritis, and osteitis. The cutaneous lesions of syphilis {sypJiilides) may be macular, papular, vesicular, pustular, and tubercular. Of these forms of erup- tion, some are peculiar to the secondary period, others to the tertiary, whOe, as will be seen, some are met with in both the second and third stages. The macular syphilide is usually first seen occurring as indistinct spots or stains, not elevated, and varying from a light red to a slate or copper color. They appear very frequently at the limit of the first stage of syphilis, about the sixth or seventh week after the ulcer occurs, but often later than this period. The portion of the body where the macule are usually first seen is upon the abdomen, whence they may extend over the entire cutaneous surface. In size they vary from a pin-head to round or oval spots a half-inch or more in diameter. The papular syphilide occurs in several forms which may be present in the secondary or tertiary period. The mucous surfaces, as well as the integument proper, are affected. Not infrequently the papulfe are preceded or accompanied by maculae. The papulae assume various shapes, some being small and pointed, others broader at the base and flat on top, in shape like a truncated cone. Upon mucous surfaces the papular character of the eruption may be observed if seen early in its appearance; but, on account of the moisture present, the papules soon disappear, leaving patches which may be elevated or depressed. Mucous patches, when recent, are red in color, but later become covered with a grayish film. The papular syphilide, which occurs near the junction of the skin and mucous surfaces, or in the deep folds, as those below the mammary trunk is chiefly occupied ; the face, hands, and feet escaping. The mar- gins of the papulae are well defined, varying in size as did the maculae, and also in color. In the main they are darker, and the pigmentation glands in women, and the thighs and gluteal regions in fleshy in- dividuals of either sex, not in- frequently, as a result of un- cleanliness and irritation, be- comes developed into papillary or warty growths known as con- dylomata (Fig. 652). Fig. 652.—Vegetating condylomata of the vulva. (After Bumstead and Jullien.) The eruption comes out in some cases over the entire body; in others the face is exempt. The palms of the hands and the soles of the feet are not infre- quently invaded. At times the