221 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 1 case. Aneurism had existed for " some time." Died twelve weeks after admis- sion to hospital. 1 case. Not known how long aneurism had existed. 1 case. Lived " some months." Died of exhaustion and suppuration caused by pressure of sac. 1 case. Died of rupture of sac twenty-four years after recognition of aneurism. 1 case. Died from asphyxia caused by pressure of sac, eight years. 1 case. Died from external rupture of sac two years and eight months after recog- nition of aneurism. 1 case. Died from exhaustion from pressure of sac, two years after recognition. 1 case. Died from dyspn(Ba from pressure of sac, two years after recognition. 1 case. Died from dyspnoea and exhaustion from pressure of sac, one year and a half after repognition. 1 case. Died from rupture of sac into lungs, one year and a half after recognition. 1 case. Died from rupture of sac into lungs eight months and a half after recog- nition. 1 case. Died from rupture of sac into tissues, becoming diffused, and causing death by pressure, five months and a half after recognition. 1 case. Died from rupture of sac, death by pressure, five months after recognition. 1 case. Died suddenly (probably from cerebral clot) one year and a half after recognition. 1 case. Died suddenly, cause not stated, not rupture of sac. 2 cases. Died from rupture of popliteal aneurisms. 1 case. Died from typhoid pneumonia, three years after recognition. Of the four cures, three remained well; one died about four years later from rupture of an aortic aneurism. Of these eighteen fatal cases in which no treatment was undertaken, three died of other disease than the aneurism. Of the thirteen cases in which the duration of life is noted after the recognition of the aneurism, the sum total is forty-seven years and nine months. The sum of life in the thirteen cases after deligation of the innominate is about eight months, a difference in favor of non-interference (in an equal number of cases) of about forty-seven years of life. Synopsis of 14 Cases treated by Valsalva's Method. {More or less modified.) 1 case. M. ; R. Subclavian aneurism. Size, hen's egg. Venesection ; cold and lead lotion locally. Recovered. Two and a half years later was work- ing as a carter in the city. 1 case. M. ; R. Subclavian. Immense size. Venesection. Cold and astringents locally. Tumor reduced in size and firmer ; lost sight of while in pro- cess of cure. 1 case. M. ; R. Subclavian (syphilitic). Valsalva's method and antisyphilitics. Cure complete. 1 case. M. ; R.; age forty-five. Subclavian (syphilitic). Valsalva's method and antisyphilitics. Cured and seen well six years later.