83 WOUNDS. efflorescence of the erythema, it has been divided into erytTiema annu- lare^ erythema gyratum, and erythema iris* In erythema intertrigo there is a general redness of the skin in parts subjected to friction or irritation from perspiration. Erythe^na nodo- sum is almost peculiar to chlorotic females. The color, at first bright red, soon changes to a dark hue. The patches are oval, elevated, and nodular. Phlebitis and lymphangitis are more severe forms of inflammation than those just given, and are accompanied with constitutional symptoms not unlike those present in a typical erysipelas. The chief point of diag- nostic value relates to the anatomical arrangement of the vessels, for in phlebitis and lymphangitis the lines of inflammation and discoloration travel along the course of the vessels without the general and wide-spread efflorescence of erysipelas. Diffuse cellulitis occurring from a poisoned wound, as with a dissect- ing-knife, or after the bite of a serpent, will offer no difficulty in diagnosis. It may, however, occur without a recognized cause. The subcutaneous tissues are first attacked, and the skin may or may not be involved in the process of inflammation. There is swelling and painful tension of the part affected, and, if the process be uninterrupted, transudation of serum occurs, causing oedema, and giving a doughy feeling on pressure. Pus may be formed in quantity, and infiltration become extensive. This result is more apt to occur in diffuse non-specific cellulitis than in phlegmonous erysipelas. This condition, especially when the skin be- comes involved, offers considerable difficulty to a positive diagnosis. If, however, the peculiar symptoms heretofore given be carefully considered, and a comparison instituted between them and the phenomena of the various diseases which may simulate or complicate erysipelas, it will be found that, in the great majority of cases, a correct diagnosis may be made. Prognosis.—Simple cutaneous erysipelas, as a rule, is not a dangerous disease. In several epidemics in hospital practice I have never seen a fatal case. Occurring about the face, head, or neck, the prognosis is less favorable than when the inoculation occurs elsewhere. When it compli- cates a wound in a patient already prostrated by hjemorrhage or surgical fever, it may hasten a fatal issue. In phlegmonous or cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas the prognosis is not so favorable. Suppuration and the general infiltration of the tissues with pus and inflammatory products induce a condition of septicaemia often rajoidly fatal. Treatment.—In an outbreak of erysipelas the treatment in those attacked is both local and constitutional, while in others strict measures of prophylaxis should be instituted. Immediate isolation should be effected, and the greatest care observed to prevent contact with other subjects. All bedding, furniture, and apparatus used upon or about an erysipelatous patient should be burned, or thoroughly scrubbed and soaked in a solution of corrosive sublimate varying in strength from 1 to * Neumann, Hand-Book of Skin Diseases." Bulkley. D. Appleton & Co., 1872.