634 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. made on either side of the opening through the skin, the intervening strip of integument carefully dissected up for sliding, and the edges brought together by sutures of fine iron-dyed silk. The long axis of the strips may be parallel with the canal, or have a horizontal direction, as may be best suited to the closure of the fistula (Figs. 640, 641, 642, 643). The sutures should be not farther than one eighth of an inch apart. The catheter should be left in position for five or ten days, until union is complete. The sutures may be removed about the seventh day. The outer wounds are left to close by granulation. Interrupted dilatation with the straight steel sounds should be made every three or four days for several months after the catheter is removed. Neoplasms.—Papillomata and fibromata are occasionally met with growing from the mucous membrane of the nrethra. They produce symptoms of obstruction varying with their shape, size, and point of attachment. When situated near the meatus, they may be observed by means of the urethral speculum (Fig. 644). When deeply located, the Fig. 644.—Urethral speculum of H. Marion-Sims. obstruction may be recognized by the bulbous bougie. The only treat- ment is removal, which may be done by the wire snare or by torsion with forceps. In extreme cases, a longitudinal incision may be required in the median line of the floor of the penis in order to effect removal. Cancer may originate in this canal, or more frequently extend here from malignant disease of the prepuce and glans. Tuberculosis also occasionally attacks the urethra. The Penis.—The congenital malformations of the urethra Just given may be included with deformities of the penis. The corpus spongiosum is at times arrested in development, while the corpora cavernosa are fully formed, causing the organ to bow when an erection occurs. One cavern- ous body is, in rare instances, not fully formed, and, when an erection takes place, the curve is lateral, with the concavity toward the afi'ected side. The penis is occasionally double, with separate urethrae. In her- maphrodites it is rudimentary. Inflamviation of this organ is rare, except as a result of traumatism. It occasionally becomes involved by the extension of a phlegmonous or erysipelatous process from the scrotum or abdomen, or from urethritis and posthitis. The organ becomes greatly swollen, and a painful con- dition of chordee is almost constant. Retention of urine jnay occur, as well as suppuration or gangrene. In the treatment of mild inflammation of this organ, local applica- tions will usually prove sufiicient. The tendency to erection should be controlled by the use of opium or chloral and potassium bromide in full