PROSTATORRHCEA. ^ 605 * Treatment.—The correction of any diathesis which predisposes to a catarrhal condition of the mucous membranes is an important step in the general treatment of prostatorrhoea. Among the local measures, distention of the prostatic urethra by the introduction of steel sounds, is advisable. The larger sizes should be Fig. 610.—Van Buren's cupped sound. employed, and if the meatus is so narrow that it will not admit No. 20 or 21 (U. S.), it should be incised up to this point as a preparatory measure. When stricture exists, internal urethrotomy should be performed. The dilatation may be commenced with No. 17 and increased to No. 21 at a single operation ; or, if the procedure is attended with pain of a severe nature, the larger numbers may be used at the third or fourth introduction. The point of the sound should not be carried farther than the neck of the blad- der, which is between seven and eight inches from the meatus. The operation should be repeated from two to three times a week—not often enough to cause a general urethritis. Local medication is at times of great value. The cupped sound (Fig. 610), which consists of an ordinary instrument vsdth from six to eight spoon-shaped depressions just be- yond the curve, is a valuable instrument. In employing it, a stilf salve must be made by mixing the medicine re- quired with simple cerate. Lard melts too rapidly, and is therefore objectionable. The cups are filled just to the level of the surface, the instrument thoroughly lubricated and rapidly carried down to the prostate, where it is allowed to remain for several minutes, until the heat of the part melts the salve. Tannic acid (grs. x-xx, or xxx to § j) or acetate of lead or nitrate of silver, in proper proportions, may be thus employed. Another method is the introduction of silver nitrate or other escharotics or astringents by means of the canulated sound (Fig. 611), which consists of a metal tube shaped like a catheter, through which a stylet-piston plays. A sufii- cient quantity of the ointment is placed in the cylinder near its open end, and the piston introduced. When the tip of the instrument arrives at the prostate it is emptied (AfterTidf) by forcing the piston down, at the same time slightly with- drawing the catheter in order to distribute the contents over the entire prostatic surface.