A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 344 part, leaving a small space exposed at the point where the needle is to be inserted. Wash out the instrument and needle with o-per-cent carbolic- acid solution. Exhaust the aspii'ator, push the needle into the joint without wounding the cartilage, and turn on the stop-cock which leads into the vacuum. When the flow ceases, close the cock, empty the cylin- der and fill it with 1-to-lOOOO corrosive-sublimate solution, and force this into the capsule, to its full distention ; then exhaust it, place on an anti- septic dressing, and compress and lock the joint with plaster of Paris, liquid-glass, or some fixed apparatus or splint. This operation may be repeated as often as needed, always guarding against the admission of air to the capsule, which may usually be prevented by keeping the cylin- der of the aspirator higher than the needle. The air will rise and remain in the upper chamber of the instrument. The joint should be kept quiet for about six weeks, and the dressing then removed to allow careful passive motion. If the fluid has re-accumulated, repeat the operation. Not infrequently a synovitis passes uninterruptedly on into an arth- ritis^ in the manner already described. In the majority of instances, however, the destructive lesions of the joints, which obstinately resist all ordinary methods of treatment, commence in the cancellous tissue of the bone in the immediate vicinity of the epiphyses ; in other words, destruc- tive arthritis is secondary to ostitis, and this inflammation of bone is almost always the result of a dyscrasia and an accident of nutrition. The opinion which has prevailed—namely, that almost all lesions of the joints were caused by a traumatism—has been proved by the accumu- lated experience of many accurate and conscientious surgeons to be un- scientific and without foundation in fact. The pathology of ostitis has been dwelt upon on a previous page. That form of inflammation of bone which leads into arthritis begins in an interference with the normal nutrition of the growing bones. As stated, the primary lesion is capillary rupture in the cancellous expan- sions, near the articular surfaces. It is known that in growing bones rupture of a vessel, with extravasation of blood, is very common, even in healthy children. It must be still more frequent in those children sufi'ering from any dyscrasia which not only renders the capillary walls less strong, but lessens the reparative power of the tissues involved in the area of extravasation. I am not inclined to accept the opinion which prevails to a considerable extent, especially with German surgeons, that tuberculosis is so frequently the cause of ostitis as is asserted. Tubercu- lar ostitis is not rare, but non-tubercular ostitis is believed to be more frequent. Diseases of Special Joints. Of the Hip.—Arthritis of the hip, hip-joint disease {morhus coxcb^ or morbus coxarius\ is a frequent and formidable affection, and one which, in many instances, vsdll baffle the best medical and surgical care through months and years of suffering, ending in destruction of the joint, and frequently in death.