SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 51 ture tied over this. The ligature should be appropriate to the size of the vessel to be secured, as heretofore given. In making the knot, one of two methods may be selected, namely, the single knot, or the double or friction knot. The former is so well represented in Fig. Ill that it will not require description. A little practice will show the superiority of this over the false knot shown in Fig. 112, which is more apt to slip. In Fio. 111.—Kecf knot. Fig. 112.—False knot. Fig. 113.—Friction knot. the friction or double knot (Fig. 113) the end of one side is passed twice under and over the other for the first loop, instead of once, as just given. When the ends of the ligature are drawn upon, and the vessel con- stricted, the first knot holds without danger of slipping until a second single knot is added to it. As to the application of one or the other of these loops, the single knot will sufiice for all vessels which are freely exposed and superficial, where the surgeon can be assured that the first turn holds fast until the second has secured it. In deep wounds, where the knot must be run down with the finger-tips, as in the deligation of an artery in its continuity, the double knot should be preferred. After being tied, the ends are cut with the scissors about one quarter of an inch from the knot. As to how much force it is necessary or proper to exert in the application of a ligature to an artery it is impossible to say. This point will be fully discussed in the chapter on Surgery of the Arteries. It is always better to use too much than too little force, for one of the greatest possible annoyances to the operator is to be compelled to open a wound. When a vessel can not be otherwise found, its presence may be demonstrated by squeezing the flap and pressing out the small quantity of blood remaining in it. In this way all vessels of any size or conse- quence can be secured before the tourniquet is loosened. Before this is done the wound should be thoroughly irrigated, the flaps opened and filled with squeezed-out antiseptic sponges, the whole covered with warm sublimate towels, and compression made with the hands while the stump is elevated and the tourniquet loosened. After five or ten minutes the wound is opened and the sponges removed, one at a time. Any bleed- ing points w^hich may have been overlooked will now be easily seen, and should be grasped with the forceps and tied. In applying the forceps to these points it is impossible to exclude the tissues immediately around the vessels from the grasp of the instrument and the ligature. When using the broad-shouldered forceps, if the catgut-thread is tied around the jaws of the instrument and the loop tightened, the thread slides along to the tip, and, in slipping off to constrict the bleeding vessel, pushes the other soft tissues to one side. In tying such a ligature care