A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 660 ment on lint and apply it to these parts, holding it in place by lightly fitting clothes or bandages. It should be used only at night, and re- moved upon rising by washing with warm water and soap. The hypodermic injection of corrosive sublimate in the treatment of syphilis is objectionable on account of the annoyance produced by the insertion of the solution beneath the integument. It is an unnecessarj' practice, for the best results can be obtained from the internal adminis- tration of the protoiodide. In the treatment of the tertiary lesions of syphilis, practically the same rule of practice should be adopted as Just given for the second year following the appearance of the initial lesion. The employment of iodide of potassium in full doses hastens the absorption of the inflamma- tory products of this stage, while the protoiodide destroys the potency of the virus. Both remedies should be administered in doses as large as can be borne without interfering with the functions of the digestive organs or producing any serious constitutional disturbances. Inherited SypMlis.—The fcetus may become syphilitic from a syphi- litic father or mother. If pregnancy occurs within the first year, and especially in the first six months of the disease in the mother, the child becomes inoculated, either dying in utero, or, if carried to term, usually perishes within a few weeks after its birth. If, however, the disease is recognized and proper treatment instituted, a more favorable prognosis may be made. In the second year after infection, if properly treated, a mother may bear a non-syphilitic child, although the chances are against complete immunity. During the third and each succeeding year, under Judicious management, the prognosis is still more favorable. A female patient should be advised of the great danger of pregnancy within the two years immediately following inoculation. When she has been under constant and proper treatment for this length of time, and has been perfectly free from symptoms for one year, the gravity of the danger is diminished. If she has not been treated, she should under no circumstances be made liable to pregnancy. In case such a woman should become pregnant, she should be treated carefully for syphilis, and in this way the infection of the child may be modified, if not prevented. The virus of syphilis may be conveyed by the spermatic elements, and the embryo thus become inoculated.'^^ The prognosis is more favor- able in proportion to the length of time which has elapsed after the initial lesion, and to the thoroughness of the treatment instituted. A syphilitic man should not beget a child within two years after the initial sore, nor at any later period unless thorough treatment has been insti- tuted and one year has elapsed since the disappearance of all symp- toms of the disease. * As heretofore stated, a non-sypliilitic mother may be inoculated from a syphilitic child in the act of parturition. That the mother is also subjected to the influence of this virus from carrying the offspring of a syphilitic father is proved by Colles's law, which is, that a previously healthy mother of such a child can nurse it without danger of chancre of the nipple and syphi- litic infection, while a non-syphilitic nurse will become inoculated.