CESOPHAGUS. 461 body may be felt and removed by the alligator-forceps. It is usual to leave the wound open. For the first three or four days after the opera- tion the patient must be fed by a tube introduced through the mouth and beyond the wound. Stricture.—-Stricture of the oesophagus may be spasmodic or organic. The irritation caused by an organic stricture may not only exaggerate the degree of constriction by exciting spasm of the muscular fibers of this tube in the immediate vicinity of the stricture, but also at points remote from the seat of the organic lesion. Organic stricture is comparatively rare. It may result from inflammation of the oesophagus caused by the ingestion of scalding water, strong acids, or alkalies, the lodgment of foreign bodies, by wounds of the neck, the presence of a neo- plasm, an aneurism, or by the local expression of some gen- eral dyscrasia, as in syphilis. The diagnosis is determined by interference with degluti- tion and by physical exploration with the bulbous bougies. The prognosis is unfavorable, although a fatal termina- tion may not be reached for a considerable period. The treatment consists in dilating the stricture by means of elastic bougies, introduced at intervals of two or three days. These instruments should be softened by being placed in warm water for a few minutes before they are used. The mechanism of introduction is the same as for the bulbous bougies just described. Internal oesophagotomy is a justifiable procedure in cases of organic stricture which will not yield to careful and per- sistent efforts at dilatation. In its performance the oesopha- gotome of Prof. Sands (Fig. 527) should be preferred. As described by this surgeon,"- the shank of the instrument, which is fifteen inches and a half in length and four milli- metres in diameter, is a flexible tube, made of narrow, spiral steel plate, secured within by two pieces of fine wire, in order to prevent stretching or separation of the spiral coil. The in- strument is provided with a variable number of steel bulbs, each bulb being furnished with a corresponding knife-blade. The bulb is firmly fastened by a screw to the distal end of the shank, and the knife is attached to an inner flexible steel rod, manipulated by a thumb-screw at the proximal end of the instrument. By turning this screw, the knife is drawn out from its concealed position within the bulb, the back of the blade sliding over a firm inclined plane. An index on a Fig. 527. Prof. Sands's oesophago- tome. dial-plate indicates the amount of projection of the blade, the maximum being two millimetres and a half. A small sliding ring on the spiral tube is used to indicate the distance of the strict- ure from the incisor teeth. The bulb being conical, the operator can * "New York Medical Journa]," February, 1884.