650 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. tlie eruption or occur with it, and, as a rule, continues after the eruption fades away. Headache^ usually referred to the frontal region, at times to the ver- tex or base, occurs during the period of fever, and is generally propor- tionate to the intensity of the febrile movement. Arteritis^ lympTiangitis, and general adenitis occur in the second stage, and, in neglected cases, continue until the third stage. Iritis is not uncommon in secondary syi^hilis. It is usually unilateral, and may be recognized by immobility of the iris, photophobia, and by the injec- tion of the membrane. Pathological changes in the bones do not occur, as a rule, in the ear- lier stages of syphilis. Pain, usually mild in character, is present in some cases in the second stage, but lesions of the osseous structures be- long especially to the last stage of this disease. Third Stage.-—The lesions of tertiary syphilis manifest themselves not earlier than the second year of the disease. Once present they may continue for a while, and disappear, to return at varying intervals during the life of the individual. No tissue or organ is exempt from the grave pathological changes induced by the syphilitic virus in this stage. Skin.—Externally, the changes in the skin are chiefly those of ulcera- tion. Nodules, resulting from cell-proliferation and accumulation in the deeper layers of the skin, and at times in the subcutaneous tissues {gum- mata)., appear, and after existing for a variable period of time may, by interference with the nutrition of the part, lead to molecular death of the adjacent tissues, or, failing in this, undergo fatty metamorphosis and absorption. If an ulcer exists, it has the usual shape of the syphilitic sore—round, oval, or curvilinear, with regular edges, not ragged or in- dented. When granular degeneration of the new tissue occurs, the skin immediately over the tubercle has a stretched or glazed appearance, and is slightly discolored. A not infrequent pustular cutaneous lesion of the third stage of syphilis is known as rupia sypliilitica. In very rare instances a pus- tular syphilide, similar in appearance and with difiiculty differentiated from rupia, occurs as a secondary lesion. I presented one such case, with an unmistakable history of acute syphilis, to the New York Patho- logical Society in 1884. The pustules in rupia syiDhilitiea are usually circular or oval in shape, appear as slight elevations or blebs, which soon break open. The sero-purulent contents ooze out; evaporation and scab- bing occur; the crusts, by reason of the new deposit underneath, are gradually lifted, and give to the scab a laminated, rough appearance, not unlike that of an oyster-shell. The crusts have a dark-brown or slightly greenish hue. When the late cutaneous lesions of syphilis attack the fingers, the nail or matrix is affected (paronychia), causing a roughened condition of the nail and a swollen matrix, leading frequently to temporary, and occa- sionally to permanent, loss of the organ. In like manner, permanent alopecia may occur from destruction of the hair-follicles.