39 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. it is essential to have the saw well sharj^ened. The original instrument was modeled by Mr. Gowan, of London, but it was so complicated^ in its mechanism that I have had it extensively modified and at the same time simplified. As now manufactured, it consists of a four-jointed forceps, the jaws of which are at a right angle to the !' ' handles. At Ti is seen a shield which not only ro- \l tates, but is reversible and readily shifted to one ii i or the other side. The saw, t, is chisel-shaped. i| I The outer edge of the last tooth is dulled to \- prevent wounding the soft parts surrounding the bone. The handles are held closed by a clamp,After the periosteum has been lifted, separate the jaws to the required extent, and slip them on between the periosteum and bone until the latter is well in the grasp of the instrument. Close the handles sufliciently tight to hold the bone steady without crushing it, and lock them in the required position with the clamp. The saw is now slid into the flanges upon the shield until it rests upon the bone, when, by a short lateral sawing motion, it may be made to travel rapidly through the bone. A very little care will prevent the adjacent soft parts from being injured. The best trephine for all purposes is that of Gfalt (Fig. 80), the burr of which is conical. A convenient size is one which measures five eighths of an inch in diameter at the cutting teeth, and gradually enlarges to Fig. 80. seven eighths of an inch in diameter at the base where the spiral teeth terminate. The mechanism of this instrument is such that, as soon as the resistance in front ceases, the side-teeth take hold so greedily that the further rotation of the trephine is difiicult. The resistance is, how- ever, not so great that it may not be overcome, and the teeth driven on into the dura mater and brain, yet it is sufficient to warn the operator that the section is complete. For the prevention or arrest of haemorrhage there are needed a tour- niquet, elastic ligatures, various forms of forceps, and a wire ecraseur or clamp.