A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 72 Fig. 135. Fig. 137. the walls of the divided tissues, great care should be taken to aA'oid transfixing these. In deeper wounds, an initial row of catgut sutures may be used by passing the curved needle into the tissues of the two sides well below the integument, and tying these before the super- ficial threads are inserted. These deep sutures are rarely necessary, however, since the surfaces may be held in apposition by the bandag- ing. Of the various forms of suture, that known as the interrupted is the most useful and satisfactory. As shown in Fig. 135, the stitches may all be on the same plane, or there may be a wide and deep, and an intermediate and more superficial row, as shown in Fig. 136. What- ever form is employed, care should be taken that as the knot is tightened the cutaneous edges of the opposing side should be exactly on the same level. In order to effect this, it is often necessary to lift one side with a director or hook, or depress the other to the proper level with a dull instrument. No fat or shred of tissue should be allowed to bulge up between the edges, but should be pushed out of sight with a probe or forceps while the suture is tied. In order to prevent slipping, the first knot should be the double friction-loop (see page 51), which is the only one that will hold its grip while the second single loop is being tied to secure the knot. It is best to keep the knots away from the line of the approximated edges. In tightening the sutures the effort should be made to bring the lips of the wound together nicely without sufficient tension to pucker or wrinkle the skin, or to cause it to be infolded or to be turned white from too much pressure. When expedition rather than nice adjustment is desired, the continuous suture (Fig. 137) may be practiced. The needle is always passed at a right angle to the axis of the wound, although that part of the suture which is visible crosses it obliquely. The mattress suture, shown in Fig. 138, and the C[uill suture, at Fig. 139, are practically obsolete. They possess no advantages which do not belong to the interrupted or continuous methods. The silver-wire suture is always interrupted. The application is well shown in Fig. 140. After the proper apposition is secured by the first Fig. 136.