342 A TEXT-BOOK OX SURGERY. in a forward dislocation, so that the chin points to the side opposite to that upon which the injury exists. When the luxation is backward, the face is turned toward the seat of injury. In the case of a young lady which came under my observation, the right articular process of the fourth cervical vertebra was displaced for- ward by sudden and violent muscular contraction. Pain was acute at the seat of luxation, and numbness down the right arm indicated com- pression of some of the fUaments forming the brachial plexus. Reduction was effected as follows: The patient being seated in a chair, the shoul- ders were held immovable and the head further rotated to the left; then strong extension was made by lifting the patient from under the chin and occiput, at the same time carrying the head back to the right. Relief was immediate and permanent. In bilateral luxation careful extension and du-ect pressure and counter- pressure should be practiced. Dislocation of the condyles of the occipital bone from the atlas is probably always fatal. Luxation at the atlo-axoid joint, with fracture of the odontoid, is also fatal. JRlbs.—The ribs may be displaced from their vertebral articulations. The cause is direct violence, and the displacement usually forward. The true ribs may be dislocated at the junction of these organs vdXh. their cartilages, near the sternum. The treatment for these luxations is the same as for fracture. Diseases of the Joints in General. The simplest form of inflammation in a joint is that of the synovial membrane with which it is lined, or synovitis. A similar condition of the sheaths of the tendons of certain muscles is known as tliecitis. When the ligaments of a joint become involved in the inflammatory process the condition is known as syndesmitis; when all the struct- ures of the articulation—as bone, cartilage, ligaments, synovial mem- branes, etc.—are involved, it is an artliritis, or, as it is sometimes called, osteo-arthritis. Synovitis may be circumscribed or general. It may precede or follow a syndesmitis: If the process of inflammation in the lining membrane is not very mUd, lasting only a few hours, it must of necessity involve the ligaments upon which its basement-substance rests. On the other hand, a peri-arthritis which invades the ligamentous structures of a joint will also produce a synovitis. The process of inflammation in synovitis is primarily confined to the joint capsule, since the lining membrane is not reflected on to the articu- lar cartilaginous surfaces. Hyperemia and dilatation of the capillaries in the basement membrane occurs, followed by escape of leucocytes into the inter-capillary spaces and into the capsule, proliferation of the normal epithelia, and general effusion into the cavity of the joint. The synovial fluid is increased in quantity, richer in cell-elements than normal, and may be discolored by the escape of red blood-corpuscles or