CHAPTER Y. INFLAMMATION. Literally defined, inflammation means a preternatural heat. In surgery it is applied to a condition of animal tissues which are undergo- ing certain disturbances in nutrition which produce abnormal hypercEmia^ heat, redness, swelling, and pain. Taken singly, none of these features of the inflammatory process can be said to express this morbid condition ; they must all be present. It is well known that each of these conditions may exist without inflammation, and, indeed, some of them are present in purely physio- logical processes. Thus, vascular tumors and the dilated capillary net-works of certain forms of nsevi, though characterized by permanent hypersemia and red- ness, are not inflammatory conditions. Blushing, which is associated as part of the expression of certain emotions, is accompanied with no other symptom of a morbid process than that of redness. The temperature of the blood in the hepatic vein in conditions strictly physiological has been registered as high as 107° F., and this extraordinary heat is not inflammatory. Swelling is present in non-inflammatory processes, such as oedema and emphysema, while pain is not infrequent in certain neuroses, where all other symptoms of inflammation are absent. Whether the cause of inflammation be one of direct injury and irritation of a part, or whether it be due to lesions of the inhibitory nerves or trophic centers remote from the local expression of the morbid process, the pathological changes are practically the same. The activity and violence of the process will depend in part upon the character and extent of the injury, as well as upon the anatomical character of the part involved, together with the ability of the tissues to resist death, and to repair the damage inflicted. The study of the phenomena of inflammation may, with propriety, be arranged in the following order: 1, irritation; 2, contraction ; and 3, dilatation of the vessels ; 4, acceleration of the current and hypersemia ; 5, retardation, partial or complete; 6, redness ; 7, swelling; 8, heat; 9, pain; 10, escape of vessel contents; 11, general cell-proliferation ; 12, formation of j)us ; 13, reorganization and repair ; 14, cicatrization. It is known that when a vascular living animal tissue is subjected to irritation, the vessels in the zone of irritation undergo an instant con- traction, and almost instantly thereafter become abnormally dilated.