REGIONAL SURGERY.—THE HEAD. 375 of the bone should be cut away with the rongeur to permit the free escape of all of the products of inflammation. The patient should be required to rest in the position which secures most perfect drainage. A loose antiseptic dressing should be applied. Osteoma^ or exostosis, occurs quite frequently upon the bones of the skull. When not due to syphilis they should be removed early, by the gouge or chisel, as there is always danger of pressure ujion imjiortant organs if allowed to remain. Syphilitic hyperostosis requires the specific treatment given for this dyscrasia. Bucephalocele, or hernia cerebri, is a protrusion of the brain-substance through an opening in the calvaria. This condition usually occurs in children suffering from hydrocephalus, the protrusion taking place through the abnormally enlarged fontanelles. The diira mater sur- rounds and is carried in front of the mass, lying in contact with the j^eri- cranium. When the meninges alone protrude, the tumor is known as a meningocele. Hernia cerebri may occur after perforation of the skull from any cause, as fracture or necrosis. More fre- quently the mass which protrudes is made up of a granulation-tissue containing no ele- ments from the brain-substance, while at times these masses are composed of both brain- and granulation-tissue (Fig. 412). The character of the tumor will be recognized from its rapid development after perforation of the calvaria. Treatment.—When the mass is small, and is just beginning to project, compression should be employed to prevent a further protrusion. It is not safe to attempt a re- duction of the tumor. The hair should be shaved from the scalp near the opening and disinfection accomplished by sublimate irri- gation, and a compress of sublimate gauze and absorbent cotton applied. If the tumor does not rapidly slough away, it should be removed at the level of the scalp with the elastic ligature or the actual cautery. Sarcoma of the dura mater is a grave condition, fortunately of infre- quent occurrence. In the process of development the tumor is apt to cause absorption of the calvaria, and finally perforation. This usu- ally occurs long after symptoms of pressure from within have been de- veloped. If the patient survive the compression of the brain, the tumor ultimately undergoes necrosis and breaks down into a dirty mass, in which the process of ulceration is accompanied by frequent haemorrhage. Carcinoma of the meninges may occur as a result of metastasis, al- though rarely if ever occurring primarily in this situation. In sarcoma and carcinoma of the dura mater little more can be done than to relieve pain by the employment of narcotics. Fig. 41^.—Ma^s cuuiiinseJ of brain- substance and granulation-tissue, removed by Dr.'E. J. Beall from a boy wJiose skull had been fract- ured. Exact size.