110 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. for five minutes, when it will be seen that all bleeding has iDractically ceased. The general oozing, especially that from the end of the bone, may be controlled by pressure and position after the sutures are applied. In sewing up the cutf, alternate deep and superficial sutures should be employed; the former, about half an inch apart, should enter the skin from one half to three fourths of an inch fi-om the edge of the wound, pass about the same depth through all the tissues, and emerge at the same distance from the wound on the opposite side. The intervening row should be half way between the deeper sutures, and should be intro- duced to a depth of one fourth of an inch. In tying the sutures the double or friction knot should be employed for the first loop, for this holds and keeps the edges from separating while the second knot is being tied. The knots should be kept to one side of the line of apposition. A considerable degree of care is essential in bringing the edges nicely and accurately in apposition, for if the skin is infolded and the epidermal surfaces brought in contact, bad union will result, and the same is true if any of the subcutaneous tissues project between the edges. As the threads are being tightened, infolding may be obviated by lifting the edges with a grooved director, while the same instrument may be employed to push any projecting fat or other tissues back under the skin. In tying the knots, the degree of traction should just be suffi- cient to bring the plane surfaces of the wound together without wrink- ling. The drainage-tubes should be inserted as the wound is being closed, and should be numerous enough to drain the cuff at all points. In clean amputations Neuber's bone-drains should always be used. In cutting through inflamed or infiltrated tissues, the rubber tubes are safer. If (as is preferable) the stump is kept elevated after the operation, it will be necessary to bring at least one of the tabes out at the upper end of the longitudinal incision, while another may project at the tip of the stump. No matter what style of flap is used, the tubes should always lead from the deepest portion of the wound, and have exit at such declination that the free outflow of all fluids will take place into the dress- ings. A safety-pin should be passed through one side of the tube to prevent its being pressed into the wound by the bandaging, or a suture may serve to hold it in position. The nozzle of the irrigator should now be introduced into one of the tubes and the cuff flooded until the water runs out clear and until the entire flap has been well distended. The excess of the solution is squeezed out, a strip of iodoformized gauze is wound around the tubes (not obstructing their caliber), and carried along the line of approximation, extending about three fourths of an inch on either side. The stump is now wiped off with sponges and immedi- ately enveloped with sublimate gauze to the thickness of about one inch. This should be applied in layers, starting from well above the end of the stump, by carrying a layer around the limb, and following this with a second, which overlaps the first about two inches, and so on until the last layer projects well beyond the end of the stump. Over the end a large, thick sheet of gauze is laid. A layer of absorbent cotton, about one inch thick, is now wrapped around and over the end, and this