A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 544 beyond this limit, the operation will be much more rapidly and satis- factorily performed if the tissues are divided throughout between two forceps and catgut ligatures applied at once. It is best not to encroach upon the vagina or urethra and bladder any more than is essential to the thorough removal of the disease, but to utilize the ischio-rectal fossa in securing room for the deeper dissection. As soon as the lower end of the rectum is freed, the wound should be packed temporarily with gauze, the sponges removed, and the bowel closed by tying a strong silk liga- ture around it. It is essential to the complete success of the operation that the gut be dissected loose, not only an inch above the upper limit of the disease where it is ultimately to be divided, but to a sufficient extent beyond this point to permit its being drawn down until it can be stitched to the margin of the incision in the integument around the anus. When this is accomplished the gut should be drawn down, a strong silk suture carried through the integument on each side and into the wall of the intestine, just above the line of section, and secured. The gut should now be cut off with the scissors, and other sutures inserted. A drain- age-tube should be placed in the ischio-rectal fossa, the end projecting on one side of the anus. A sublimate dressing should be apj)lied, leaving a tube in the bowel for the escape of gas. In the after-treatment opium should be administered to prevent a movement of the bowels for a week or ten days. Polypus.—Three distinct forms of polypi are found in the rectum, namely—the mllous, mucous, and fibrous. The first of these is the more important, for, while essentially benign in the earlier stages of its development, it not infrequently, as a result of the irritation to which it is subjected, becomes malignant. It is com- posed of .new-formed villi, which resemble the normal villi of the rectum. They are very vascular, and differ from the mucous or fibrous polypus not only in their minute structure, but in gross appearances and the character of their attachment to the mucous membrane. While these latter are pedunculated, often hanging by a narrow stem, the vUlous growth has a broad attachment frequently as thick as the tumor is long. The mucous or soft, and the fibrous or hard, polypus of the rectum does not differ in any essential particular from that already described in affections of the nasal cavities. In some instances the deeper portions of the tumor undergo cystic degeneration, forming the so-called cystic polypus. Polypi of the rectum may occur at any period of life, being compara- tively frequent in childhood. The most common location of these tumors is on the posterior wall of the bowel, just above the internal sphincter. The pedunculated variety in some instances protrude through the anus, causing violent tenesmus. When not removed these neoplasms may break down, causing ulcer or fissure of the bowel, severe haemorrhage, or by their weight cause prolapse of the mucous membrane. The diagnosis is readily made by inspection or digital exploration, after the rectum is thoroughly cleansed by an enema. The treatment consists in removal of the tumor by the forceps, scissors, or ligature. li