WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 527 The proper distance of the sutures from each other is shown iu Fig. 548. While the sutures are being inserted, the intestine should be laid upon towels spread over the abdomen, near the incision. The escape of fecal matter into the cavity of the peritonaeum should be prevented by flat sponges placed around the margins of the wound. If the wound in the wall of the gut is so extensive that, in closing it, the lumen of the tube will be seriously constricted, the injured portion should be exsected. After all wounds are stitched and haemorrhage is arrested, the cavity of the peritonaeum should be carefully cleansed. This is effected by sponges, attached to holders, carried into all parts of the cavity. When fecal extravasation has occurred, it will be advisable to flood the entire cavity with warm Thiersch's solution, remove it with sponges, and repeat the irrigation until the liquid comes away free from odor or color. A drain- age-tube should be employed in this worst class of cases. The Sims tube is to be preferred, and the end of this should be carried down to the most dependent portion of the cavity (usually in the pelvis, in the cul-de-sac). The method of employing this excellent instrument is described in the article on ovarian tumors. The intestines should now be returned and the wound closed. Irriga- tion through the drainage-tube may be made when indicated by the tem- perature, tympanites, etc. No especial treatment can be laid down for wounds of the solid viscera or of the great vessels. The arrest of haemorrhage, the removal of ex- travasated blood, and the establishment of drainage when needed are the indications. The argument in favor of operative interference in penetrating or supposed penetrating wounds of the abdomen may be briefly stated, as follows: 1. The enlargement of a wound sufiiciently to demonstrate its opening (or not opening) into the cavity of the peritonaeum is a simple procedure, practically without danger. 2. Abdominal section is not a difficult, nor, when skillfully and prop- erly performed, a dangerous operation. 3. A penetrating wound of the abdomen, left without surgical inter- ference, is attended always with great danger. 4. If any vessels of size are divided, haemorrhage is an immediate danger, and peritonitis a serious and probably fatal complication. 5. If the alimentary canal is opened, death is almost inevitable. The few recorded cases of recovery form such an infinitesimal proportion of the whole, that they should* carry no weight against interference.