FRACTURES. 277 undergoing proliferation, develop into a secondary embryonic tissue, which is formed directly into bone. If, however, air is admitted to a wound in bone, the process of ossification in the embryonic tissue is more rapid and direct, since the intermediate stage of cartilage-cell formation does not occur. A portion of this new-formed tissue, which results from the irritation following a fracture, undergoes a process of calcification by the absorp- tion of inorganic material from the blood, and is then known as callus. That portion which lies around and on the outer side is the ensTieathing callus ; between the fragments, the intermediate; and within the medul- lary canal, the central or callus. In an adult or middle-aged person, commencing within the first few hours succeeding a fracture, the embryonic tissue, which is formed in varying quantity, remains soft and yielding until about the tenth day, when the cells begin to be infiltrated with calcareous matter. The pro- • cess of solidification in the callus is complete at a period varying usually from fifteen to thirty days. It is more rapid in children, and slower in the old. When complete displacement with overlapping occurs, or when an aponeurosis or tendon, or other dense tissue, separates the broken ends, the process of callus-building is interfered with, and failure of ossification may result. Usually a greater portion of the callus becomes absorbed within from thirty to sixty days after the fracture. This is especially true of the ensheathing layer and the central callus. That portion which intervened between the opposing surfaces becomes organized into permanent bone. The pin callus remains for a while, and may completely occlude the medullary canal, but usually at a later period undergoes absorption. In some cases the medullary canal is not re-established. Fig. 307 shows a section of a broken femur in which, after a considerable lapse of time, the canal was still occluded. The peculiar stalactite (exostosis) occurred at the seat of fracture. The permanency of the external callus and its de- velopment into exostoses depends chiefly upon the disturbed nutrition of the part (Fig. 308). It has been noticed that when a fracture occurs near the insertion of a group of muscles (as at or near the trochanter), exostosis is the rule, and may be very extensive. Prognosis and Treatment in General.—The prognosis of a simple fracture in a healthy child or adult is always favorable. The danger is increased with the multiplicity and complications of the accident. A compound fracture is sufficiently grave to demand the greatest attention. Death may result from sepsis or fatty embolism. A longitudinal fracture is a more serious injury, especially grave, as far as the integrity of the member is concerned, when a joint is implicated. In all forms of fracture the prognosis increases in gravity with each decade beyond the third. When the fracture is complete, and displace- ment has occurred, exact reposition is impossible, and shortening almost inevitable. The exceptions are extremely rare, especially in the single bones, as the femur, humerus, and clavicle.