STONE IN THE BLADDER. 583 much more apt to suffer from calculus than those which are well fed and comfortably clothed and sheltered. It can scarcely be doubted that residence exercises a causative influ- ence upon the formation of calculus. In the United States, Northern Alabama, Tennessee, and Kentucky afford a large number of this class of cases, while in I^ew York and the New England States stone in the bladder is exceedingly rare. In the group of local causes may be classed all cystic diseases in which the products of inflammation collect in the bladder and form nuclei, around which concretions occur ; prostatic enlargement induc- ing retention, cystitis, and decomposition of urine; stricture, and all obstructive and inflammatory lesions of the urethra which may involve or affect the integrity of the bladder; the presence of any foreign matter in the bladder, or paralysis of the bladder from any cause. The Symptoms and Diagnosis.—It may be stated at once that, how- ever much has been and may be said of the value of the various symptoms of stone, the diagnosis rests upon one simple expedient, the introduction of a metallic instrument into the bladder, and in contact with the stone. For this purpose the ordinary steel sound is usually sufficient. The bladder should be allowed to contain about half a pint of fluid, and when the instrument is introduced it should be manipulated so that the convexity of the curve will glide over the floor of the bladder back and forth from the neck to the posterior wall of the organ, at the same time depressing the bladder toward the rectum. By this manoeuvre the stone will be induced to gravitate to the deeper portions in contact with the instrument, or so close to it that a sharp, quick turn to right or left will bring the calculus and metal into appreciable contact. In certain cases of prostatic hypertrophy the calculus may remain concealed immediately behind the enlarged organ, and in such a position that the sound can not be brought in contact with it. Under such conditions Thompson's searcher (Fig. 581) will be found useful. The objection to this instrument is the Fig. 581.—Thompson's searcher. difiiculty of its introduction from the abrupt nature of the curve near the tip. When once introduced its value is readily appreciated. Turning its point downward and moving as if to withdraw it, there is no portion of the floor that it will not thoroughly search. When a stone can not be appreciated with a full or half-flUed bladder it may be felt if this organ is completely emptied. Not only is the cal- culus driven toward the neck of the bladder when it is emptied of urine, but the hardness and weight are more readily appreciated, since it is held in the grasp of the organ, and can not slip away when the sound touches it. In some forms of vesical calculus the stone becomes partially or completely encysted in some portion of the bladder-wall. The calculus may drop into an abnormal pouch in the bladder ; it may sink by a pro-