748 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Fig. 756. —Stroma of cancer from which the cell-elements have been removed. (After Cornil and Ranvier.) is often of large size, at times occupying tlie greater portion of the cell- space. The nucleoli are especially prominent. The cell-elements of car- cinoma are contained within the alveoli, and float in or are in contact with a juice of varying quantity and consistence. The walls of the alveoli are comjjosed of a fibrillated structure of modified connective tissue. In old tumors the fibers of the stroma are closely packed together, while in more recent neoplasms connective-tissue cor- puscles are frequently observed be- tween the clusters of cells (Fig. 755). The alveolar arrangement of the stroma is well shown in Fig. 756, in which the cancer-cells have been removed. The alveoli are not isolated cavi- ties, but communicate more or less freely. In the connective-tissue walls of the alveoli the blood-vessels and lymph-channels are lodged. In the development of a carcinoma the pro- liferation among the cells proper of the neoplasm excites a similar condi- tion in the connective-tissue cells of the neighboring and involved tissues, and, coincident with the multiplica- tion of the cancer-elements, the connective-tissue elements are developed. In this way the stroma is formed around and among the cancer-cells, and in rare instances this proliferation is so rapid that clusters of adipose cells are caught within the neoplasm and remain as such in the process of growth in the tumor. Carcinomata spread by direct invasion of contiguous tissues, and along the route of the lymph-channels. It is not uncommon (as established by Cornil and Ranvier) for indu- ration and hypertrophy of the ganglia of the nearest lymph-plexus to occur before metastasis has taken place, a fact of great interest to the surgeon. This early glandular hyperplasia is due to the irritation caused by the neoplasm, and though less acute is not unlike the adenitis of an ordinary inflammatory process. Three chief varieties of cancer are recognized—the scirrlius, encepha- loid, and mucoid or colloid. EpitJielioma will also be included under this heading. Scirrhus, or hard cancer, is distinguished by the greater proportion and thickness of the stroma, in comparison with the cell-elements. Many of the cells in this variety of nebplasm, especially those more deeply situ- ated, undergo extensive granular metamorphosis, and appear as granular corpuscles, having lost all the characteristics of the cancer-elements. Encephaloid, soft, or medullary cancer is rich in cells and cancer- juice, while the stroma is very thin. It is more vascular, and in gross appearance is like broken-up brain-matter ; hence the name encephaloid.