A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 178 ing aneurism), and in the smaller arteries (especially those of the brain) from occlusion or atheroma. Even in the initial lesion of syphilis (the chancre), according to Biesiadecki, the capillaries of the papillae have in their thickened walls many nuclei, some of which are seen to project into the lumen of the vessel. The arteries of the base of the brain, especially the basilar and those at the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius, are often seriously in- volved. I have seen two cases in private practice in which death resulted from anaemia of the medulla, due to a more or less complete thrombosis of the basilar artery. A patient of Dr. Weber's, to whom I was called, died in my presence. A few days previous to his death he had com- plained of dizziness, and of a sensation as of insects crawling over the integument of the extremities. Death was quite sudden, and was due to respiratory failure. He became quickly unconscious, the respiratory movements were irregular, and co-ordination of movement between the expiratory and inspiratory muscles was seemingly lost. The mode of death was different from anything I had ever witnessed. At the autopsy, the basilar, just where it divided into the two posterior cerebrals, was found almost completely occluded by a thrombus. There was no other lesion which could have accounted for death. Syphilis had existed for several years. In the second case syphilis had existed for nineteen years, with right hemiplegia for the last sixteen years of life. This patient was under my care for nearly five years. She would never consent to take the iodides or any medicine. Her mind was clear up to the time I last saw her before death, which occurred suddenly one night. I did not see her until life was extinct, but, from the description of the mode of death given me by Dr. F. J. Ives, who was present, I was led to express the belief that a similar condition existed as in the case first referred to. On examination, I found a thrombosis of the basilar artery in exactly the same location. Fig. 268 repre- sents a section of the artery near the thrombus. The lumen of the vessel is seen to be about two thirds occluded. The adventitia is slightly thickened, and the cell-elements in it are distinctly fusiform, and regularly parallel with each other and with B-. Fig 258.—Syphilitic arteritis. Section of basilar; e, lumen of vessel about two thirds filled with new formation at a b ; o, media; d, muscular layer and adventitia. From a patient dead from syphilis. (Specimen of the author's, drawn by Dr. Wardwcil. Magnified about 40 diameters.)