LIGATION OF ARTERIES. 249 For anatomical reasons, in lesions of this artery the external ca- rotid should be tied, just above the posterior belly of the digastric, between its origin and that of the occipital. It runs under the pa- rotid gland, is crossed by the facial nerve, and has beneath it the spinal accessory. Ligation of tfie Temporal and Internal 3IaxiUary Arteries—Anat- omy.—The temporal and internal maxillary arteries begin at the termi-. nal bifurcation of the external carotid, in the substance of the parotid gland, at an average distance of two inches and nine tenths from the thyroid notch. Operation.—The temporal artery may be secured by a perpendicu- lar incision immediately in front of the ti^agus of the ear, where it crosses the zygoma superficially (Fig. 291). For lesions of this vessel above the temporal fossa, and often in wounds in this region, the ligature will be unnecessary, since direct compression, by means of the knotted bandage, will suffice. When either this artery or the internal maxil- lary are wounded in the substance of the parotid gland, the external ca- rotid should be tied at the posterior belly of the digastric. The same procedure is indicated in lesions of the internal ma.xilla/ry, in its deep- er portions. Ligation of the Internal Jugular Yein.~The intimate relation of this vein to the internal and common carotid arteries renders it accessible by the same incisions laid do^^^l for the ligation of the arteries. The vein is conriguous to the artery, and is external and slightly superficial to it. On the left side, at the root of the neck, the jugular comes more to the front, while on the right side it tends to the outer side. The rules which apply to the ligation of arteries aj^ply with equal force to the ligation of veins. The jugulars should be encircled vrLth an animal ligature, not ried with a lateral loop, as has been practiced. The aneurism-needle should be passed fi'om the inner side."* The anterior, external, and posterior jugular, and other veins of the neck, do not demand especial consideration. When, in operations in the neck, it becomes necessary to divide them, a double catgut should be applied, and the vessel divided between the two ligatures. The Subcla,xian Arteries and their BroMches—Anatomy.—The rigid suhclai'ian, larger, shorter, and more superficial at its origin than the left, is derived from the innominate behind the origin of the carotid, about the level of the upper margin of the clavicle (more frequently above than below this line), behind the interval between the two tendons of the sterno-mastoideus. It is the direct continuation backward, upward, and outward of the arch of the innominate, and is continuous with the axil- lary artery, at the lower edge of the first rib. Its average length is 2 "83 inches. The left suhclaMan, derived 1"23 inch beyond, to the left of, and more deeply situated in the thorax than, the innominate, travels almost verti- * See Prof. S. W. Gross's admirable article in American Journal of the Medical Sci- ences," 1867.