212 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. In the study of cases in which one or the other primitive carotid has been tied for uncomplicated aortic aneurism I am enabled to collect but nine instances. In the limits of a text-book it will be impossible to give a detail of such cases, however interesting to the student. I refer him to my article on this subject in the " American Journal of the Medical Sciences," January, 1881. The operators were Montgomery, T. Holmes, Barwell, Tillanus, Rigen, O'Shaugnessy, Annandale, Heath, and Bryant. The left carotid was tied in six cases, and all recovered. Montgomery's patient died, four months after operation, from purulent j)ericarditis. The tumor had solidified and sloughed. Holmes's case was much improved, and, in answer to my inquiry concerning this case, in 1880, five years after the operation, he writes that the patient is still living, that there is pulsation and bruit in the thoracic portion of the aneurism, but there is no longer any tumor perceptible in the neck. Barwell's case was greatly relieved, dying four months later of another affection. Tillanus's operation was followed by recovery and diminution of the tumor, dying suddenly five months later (probably from cerebral embolism). The sac was completely filled with coagulum. Rigen tied the carotid, February 21, 1829. The patient was relieved, and the tumor diminished considerably in volume. On May 9th was operated on for strangulated hernia, and died June 13th, as was supposed, fi'om asthma. The tumor was solidified. In Heath's case the relief for a long period was marked and undoubted. The patient lived nearly four years, dying ultimately of rupture of the sac. O'Shaugnessy tied the right carotid, with fatal rupture of the aneurism into the mediastinum on the tenth day. Annandale performed the same operation with immediate relief and success. Mr. Bryant's patient died on the tenth day. The right carotid was tied, with no effect on the aneurism. The results in these instances also lead me to conclude that, in sacculated aneurisms of the aorta, near the origin of the innominate and left carotid, deligation of one carotid, especially the left, is a justi- fiable procedure when the conservative method of rest and restricted diet has failed. Aneurism of the thoracic aorta beyond the transverse segment is not amenable to surgical treatment. Aneurism of the Innominate Artery.—The symptoms of this for- midable lesion have been given on a preceding page. It is frequent- ly complicated with aneurismal dilatation of the aorta, or of the two vessels into which it usually bifurcates. It mil be interesting to study the results of operative procedures under the following sub- divisions : 1. Innominate Aneurism,. 2. Aortic innominate Aneurism.—For in- nominate aneurism, (a) the double simultaneous distal ligature (carotid and third division of the subclavian); (?;) the double non-simultaneous distal operation; (c) distal deligation of the carotid artery alone; id) distal deligation of the subclavian artery alone. Simultaneous Deligation of tlie Right Common Carotid and the Might Bubclaman Artery {Third Dims ion) for the Relief of Innominate