A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 284 Fracture of tlie inferior maxilla may occur in rare instances tlirough the symphysis mentis but mucli more frequently external to this and near the opening of the mental foramen. The majority of all fractures are of the body, and within the first inch and a half leading backward fi-om the symphysis. Fracture of the angle or ramus is infrequent, and is usually the result of a blow upon the side of the Jaw. The coronoid process is rarely if ever broken, except by penetrating bodies. The condyle may be broken through its neck by a fall or blow on the chin, or by force applied later- ally at or near the angle. Diagnosis.—Among the symptoms of this lesion are pain at the point of fracture and loss of function. If the break is complete, the diagnosis is made evident in the displacement which usually occurs, and by the presence of crepitus. This bone may, however, be broken without dis- placement, and where crepitus is not present. Under such conditions, while a diagnosis may not be positive until the swelling which indicates the formation of callus ensues, the jaw should be kept at rest by one of the methods to be described. When the fracture occurs at or posterior to the mental foramen, the temporary loss of function of the inferior dental nerve, which is not infrequent, points almost unerringly to a recognition of the character of the lesion. When the neck of the condyle is broken, the chief symptom is pain in this region, with partial or com- plete loss of function. Crepitus is with difficulty elicited by the surgeon, although it may be evident to the patient. Treatment and Prognosis.—Immediate reposition of the broken and displaced surfaces, and as perfect a degree of rest as possible, are the first and chief indications for treatment. When the presence of a par- tially displaced tooth ofl:ers an obstacle to close adaptation it should be removed. When reduction is efl'ected, one among the following methods may be employed: A simple and ready method, which may be used until a more secure apparatus is constructed, is found in the four-tailed bandage (Fig. 32). The fragments being carefully adjusted, the bandage is applied as already given on page 20. The figure-of-8 chin and head bandage (Fig. 24) is also an excellent emergency dressing for fracture of the lower jaw. If this is intended to be used permanently, a leather or gutta-percha cup should be constructed, to fit over the chin and well along the body of the Jaw. The material should be cut from three to three and a half inches wide and about six to seven inches in length, and split from each end in its long axis to within three fourths of an inch of the center. One strip should be about half an inch narrower than the other. If gutta-percha is used, this should be dipped in warm water for a minute or two, untU it becomes softened. It is then laid across the chin, the upper and nar- row ends are turned back over and parallel with the body of the Jaw, while the lower ends are turned upward and made to cross outside the horizontal ends. The bandage is applied over this cup, which soon hardens into an unyielding dressing. Leather may be prepared in the same way, but requires to be soaked longer than the rubber. Inter-dental