LAPAROTOMY FOR THE REMOVAL OF TUMORS. 689 Fig. 666. — Showino: the manner in which the two threads of a double hga- ture should be crossed in the center of the ped- icle. ion; and, if it is cystic, hold it so that with the aid of sponges placed around the margins of the incision none of the fluid can escape into the peritoneal cavity. Introduce the large trocar and evacuate the fluid contents. As the sac is being emptied, drag it farther out of the incis- ion, and, when all the fluid escapes, free the tumor of all adhesions to the intestines or other structures. All large adhesions may be tied with the double catgut ligature, and cut between, while small adhesions, or those so situated that the ligature is impossible, should be torn through. Great care is required in separating the sac from the wall of the intes- tine. As soon as the pedicle is freed, the sac should be grasped with a long-Jawed pedicle forceps (Spencer Wells's sac-forceps) and cut away. The pedicle should be transfixed near its middle with an aneurism-needle armed with a large double silk ligature and the two threads drawn through. In tying the threads on either side of the pedicle cross them, as shown in Fig. 666, and tie firmly. If the pedicle does not bleed, the ligatures should be cut short. The ovary of the opposite side should be examined. The cavity of the peritonaeum should be carefully washed out with Thiersch's solu- tion, with the aid of sponges on holders, and the wound closed as directed in laparotomy for intestinal obstruction. If a solid tumor is encountered, and when a cystic tumor has such thickened walls that it can not be readily brought out at the wound, the incision may be enlarged. It is, however, advisable to keep the abdominal wound as small as possible when the small size of the opening does not interfere with the safe manipulation within the abdomen. Derm- oid cysts are usually so solid that they are removed without an efi^ort at tapping. A cyst of the broad ligament, in which there is no pedicle, requires to be stripped out of the capsule, the capsule stitched to the margins of the abdominal incision, the cyst-wall beyond the line of sutures cut away, and a drainage-tube inserted. The tube of Dr. H. Marion-Sims is a most satisfactory apparatus for draining the pel- vis after laparotomy for any jDurpose for which after-drainage is indicated (Fig. 667). "It consists of a large and a small tube made of hard rubber. The smaller tube is inside of the larger one, running along the posterior wall and terminating about an eighth of an inch from the bot- tom. The large tube is perforated on the sides and curved at the tojj, so that, when in the abdominal wound, the top of the tube projects nearly over the symphysis pubis. To this a rubber tube, of sufiicient 44 Fig. 667.—Dr. H. Marlon-Sims's drainage-tube.