A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 260 rib, taking care not to puncture the pleura. When the point of the needle is felt at the upper margin of the bone, another puncture is made to allow its escape. The needle is now armed with, a strong cat- gut and withdrawn. A pellet of sublimate gauze is laid over the skin, between the points of exit and entrance, around which the ligatiire is tied. In exceptional cases it may be necessary to remove a portion of the rib. Ligation of the Abdominal Aorta—Anatomy.—The aorta usually bifurcates upon the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, a little to the left of the median line. This point is on a level with the high- est point of the iliac crests, and is a little to the left of and below the umbilicus. The point of election is one inch above the bifurca- tion. Operation, Median.—In the Unea alba make an incision, six inches long, the center of which corresponds to the umbilicus. When within an inch of the navel, curve to the left three fourths of an inch, and one inch farther on regain the middle line. Divide all the tissues down to the parietal peritonaeum, and then arrest all bleeding before opening this. After opening into the cavity, the transverse colon should be displaced upward, and the small intestines brought out through the wound and secured in a soft rubber cloth, kept warm with sublimate towels. With the finger-nail or a blunt director scratch through the peritonseum and expose the aorta, around which a large animal (or silk) ligature should be passed from the right side. Lateral Incision.—From the free end of the left eleventh rib com- mence an incision, which carry downward to within three fourths of an inch of the anterior superior iliac spine, thence parallel with Poupart's ligament to its middle. Divide the three abdominal muscles down to the parietal peritonseum. When this is reached, use the fingers, the nails of which have been closely pared, and lift the peritonaeum from the posterior abdominal wall. Passing over the posterior iliac crests and into the iliac fossa, the ridge formed by the psose muscles is reached and must be crossed. The lumbar nerves and ureter should be avoided, and, by a free dilatation of the wound and concentration of light, the aorta may be seen and tied, about three inches above the lumbo-sacral junc- tion. Of these two procedures the former is anatomically and surgically preferable. * Ligation of tlie Common Iliac Artery—Anatomy.—The common iliac arteries extend from the left side of the body of the fourth lum- bar to the sacro-lumbar Junction. It is crossed by the ureter in front, near its bifurcation, and by some filaments of the sympathetic nerve higher up. The left common iliac vein lies wholly internal, and is on a plane somewhat deeper than the artery. The inferior mesen- teric vein crosses the left artery, but is within the peritoneal folds. The right iliac artery crosses in front of both the iliac veins, passing at a right angle to the left vein and obliquely over the right, until * The abdominal aorta has been tied ten times, all fatal.