Few York: D. APPLETON & 00., 1, 3, & 5 Bond Street. ]SrOW READY, A NEW EDITION OF LECTURES OlSr ORTHOPEDIC SUR- GERY AND DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. By LEWIS A. SAYRE, M. D., Professor of Orthopedic Surgery and Clinical Surgery in Bellevue Hospital Medical Col- lege ; Consulting Surgeon to Bellevue Hospital,.Charity Hospital, St. Elizabeth's Hospital, Northwestern Dispensary, etc., etc. ■ Illustrated with 324 Engravings on Wood. 1 vol., 8vo. Clotli, $5.00 ; sheep, $6.00. " This edition has beea thoroughly revised and rearranged, and the subjects classified in the anatomical and pathological order of their development. Many of the chapters have been entirely rewritten, and several new ones added, and the whole work brought up to the present time, with all the new improvements that have been developed in this department of surgery. Many new engravings have been added, ea'ch illustrating some special point in practice."—Author. NOTICES OF FORMER EDITIONS. " The name of the author is a sufficient guarantee of its excellence, as no man in America or elsewhere has devoted such unremitting attention for the past thirty years to this department of surgery, or given to the profession so many new truths and laws as applying to the pathology and treatment of deformities."— Western Lancet. " Dr. Sayre has stamped his individuality on every part of his book. Possessed of a taste for mechanics, he has admirably utilized it in so modifying the inventions of others as to make them of far greater practical value. The care, patience, and perseverance which he exhibits in fulfilling all the conditions necessary for success in the treatment of this troublesome class of cases are worthy of all praise and imitation."—Detroit Review o f Medicine. ' . ' " Its teaching is sound, and the originality throughout very pleasing; in a word, no man should attempt the treatment of deformities of joint affections without being familiar with the views contained in these lectures."—Canada Medical and Surgical Journal. RECENTLY ISSUED, A NEW EDITION OF A PRACTICAL MAI^UAL 0^^ THE TREATMENT OF CLUB-FOOT. Fourth edition. Enlarged and corrected. By LEWIS A. SAYRE, M. D., Professor of Orthopedic Surgery in Bellevue Hospital Medical College ; Surgeon to Belle- vue and Chanty Hospitals, etc. 1 vol., 12mo. Illustrated. Cloth, $1.25. " The object of this work is to convey, in as concise a manner as possible, all the practical information and instruction necessary to enable the general practi- tioner to apply that plan of treatment which has been so successful in my own hands."—Preface. " The book will very well satisfy the wants of the majority of general practitioners, for whose use, as stated, it is intended."—New York Medical Journal.