120 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. half way up the first phalanx, and connect these by a transverse incision across the palmar aspect of the digit (Fig. 167). Disarticulate and fold the palmar end of the flap back upon the dorsal transverse incision where it is stitched. Another method is the oval incision, shown in Figs. 169 and 170. By the first method the tactile surface is better preserved. The head of the metacarpal bone should be left intact for the laboring classes. When the round expansion of this bone is removed, the gap between the index- and ring-fingers is not so wide. The bone should be sawed squarely across a half inch behind the articular surface. All that has been said of this digit applies with equal force to the ring-finger. Little Finger.—The method recom- Os. mended in amputation of the index at \\ / s'l metacarpal joint should be pre- ¥\^i if ferred in removing the little finger at \N, \ M same level. The flap should be so \VJ ' I shaped that the cicatrix will fall on the \ I I I dorsum and toward the ring-finger. \ ' J When the metacarpal bone is to be di- i vided it should be cut with a slight ob- I 1 liquity. In this operation the oval in- ' ' cision shown in Fig. 171 should be made. Fig. iro.-(After Esmarch.) When two or more fingers require fig. 171. to be removed at the metacarpo-phalan- geal joint, each one may be amputated by the methods described as especially suited to it, or a common antero-posterior flap may be made. As to the propriety of removing the ends of the metacarpal bones, the same rules apply as already given for the single amputations. Through the Metacarpus.—When the end of the metacarpus can not be saved, these bones should be divided at any point three fourths of an inch or more anterior to the carpo-metacarpal articulation. If the injury extends behind this line, it is better to disarticulate at the carpo-meta- carpal junction. In amputation through the metacarpus, the flap should be made chiefly from the palmar tissues, so that the line of sutures and the scar will be well on the dorsum of the hand, and as much of the tactile sense preserved as is possible. Garpo-Metaoarpal Disarticulation.—When all the bones of the meta- carpus require to be removed, on account of a lesion not involving the anterior row of the carpus, the amputation should be made through the metacarpo-carpal line. If the anterior row is involved, the entire carpus should be removed. When the thumb is intact, and the metacarpal bones of the four fingers require removal, the incision as given by Esmarch should be followed. A curved incision is made across the palm, beginning at the middle of the web between the thumb and index-finger, and carried outward to the ulnar side of the base of the fifth metacarpal bone (Fig. 172). The dorsal incision commences at the web between the thumb and finger, and is carried obliquely upward toward the carpus