709 SPONDYLITIS. pelvic base forms a sufficient support for the apparatus, and it becomes quite frequently necessary to apply perineal pads to prevent the moving upward of the apparatus, rather than to adjust shoulder-pieces to keep the appliance from slipping down. "To prepare and adjust the apparatus: 1. Take two light bars of annealed steel, of a length which corresponds to the distance between the commencement of the anal commissure and the spinous process of the second dorsal vertebrae. These form the uprights. 2. A piece of sheet- steel, about one inch wide and long enough to reach from the top of one trochanter major to the other ; bend it to correspond with the transverse sacro-iliac region, and cover with chamois or other soft material. This forms the hip-band. 3. Two cross-pieces, four or five inches long, which are riveted to the uprights at points which correspond to the lower border of the axilla and the inferior angle of the scapula. 4. Two small pieces of light bar-steel, about two and a half inches long, which are covered and riveted to the upper end of the uprights, at an angle of about 45°, and bent as shown in the engraving. Buckles are now attached to the ends of the shoulder-pieces, the cross-pieces, and the pelvic band. The distance between the uprights should be about one inch and a quarter, or sufficient to avoid any pressure upon the spinous processes. These com- ponent parts being riveted together, two rolls of Canton flannel, about three eighths of an inch thick, and a little wider than the upright bar, are now prepared. They should reach from about one inch above the pelvic band to the lower cross-piece. Two broad webbing-bands, as shown at / and L (Fig. 687), are then made ready.* " The patient is placed upon two tables of equal height, and the tables are then separated so that the parts selected for the zone may be freely accessible from all sides. One assistant grasps the patient under the axillae, the other makes steady but easy traction at the thighs. While the patient is in this prone position, the operator fits the uprights to the line of the transverse processes ; in other words, adjusts the apparatus to the deformity. A pair of ' monkey-wrenches' may be easily used as a pair of levers with which to bend the annealed steel uprights into any position. It takes but a few moments to adapt the uprights to the deformity. In the mean time the patient is quiet. He does not struggle nor cry. The traction is affording relief, and is not producing any injury. While he lies quietly, and the Canton flannel pads are sewed on, we pass a piece of Canton flannel, or merino gauze, around the body over the projection. Then, the plaster bandages and everything being in readiness, the appa- ratus is laid on the back accurately, traction is steadily maintained, the thoracic and pelvic straps are fastened, and the plaster zone is snugly applied. The axillary straps are left until the plaster is hardened, and '' Messrs. Tiemann & Co., No. 67 Chatham Street, New York, will furnish this apparatus at a cost of from five to seven dollars, according to size. It would also be well, in sending the measurements, to inclose an outline of the spinal column, from the spinous process of the second dorsal down. This may be done by placing a strip of lead along the spinous processes, and molding it accurately to the outline presented. By transferring this lead carefully to a sheet of paper, an accurate profile of the spine may be obtained with a lead-pencil tracing.