735 HALLUX VALGUS. line of the foot. The middle toes may be flexed in one joint, extended in another, or crossed over each other. Hallux valgus^ or displacement of the great-toe toward the fibular or outer side of the foot, is a common deformity (Fig. 738). In exagger- ated instances mechanical or surgical interference is demanded. Hallux valgus is caused chiefly by shoes which are pointed at the tip and are too short for the foot. It may also occur with club-foot, and generally with talipes varus and planus. The action of the muscles inserted into the base of the great-toe must not be altogether overlooked in the aetiology of this deformity. Of the five muscles which arise from the tarsus and metatarsus and are inserted into this toe, all but one tend to carry it to- ward the fibular side of the foot. In being displaced, the great-toe usually is carried above the second or third toe, occasionally beneath it. The phalanx is more or less com- pletely dislocated from the original articular surface of the metatarsal bone, being twisted around to its outer lateral aspect. The cartilage of the old portion disappears, and a new Joint-surface is developed on the external aspect of the metatarsal bone. Prom pressure, a callosity of varying thickness develops over the tip of the metacarpus, adding greatly to the appearance of deformity. Treatment.-—Mild cases of hallux valgus may be cured by elastic ten- sion steadily applied, as follows: A soft kid or chamois-skin cover is made for the affected toe, and to the end of Pig. 737.—Sayre's method of treating Fig. 738.—Hallux valgus. (From a Fig. 739.—The same, hallux valgus. (After Sayre.) patient at Mount Sinai Hospital.) after operation. outer side of the foot in such a way that the webbing is made to draw the toe outward (Fig. 787). In severe cases, operative interference can, alone restore the toe to its normal position. The operation consists in an incision made along the inner side of the foot, the center of which is over the angular projection at the end of the metatarsal bone. The callosity should be removed, the joint opened, a wedge-shaped segment removed from the end of the metatarsal bone and the phalanx. Enough should be removed with the exsector or metacarpal saw to permit the bones to be brought into proper