386 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. met with in the newly born {ophthalmia neonatorum): gonorrhoeal and diphtheritic ophthalmia. Treatment.—Acute simple conjunctivitis, whether traumatic or idio- pathic, should be treated by perfect rest to the parts involved. When a foreign body is lodged upon the cornea, sclerotic, or conjunctiva, its removal is essential. The employment of cocaine (2-4-iDer-cent solu- tion) renders the operation painless, and is useful in other forms of conjunctivitis. Recovery is always much more rapid if the i^atient is confined in a dark or dimly lighted apartment. Bits of borated cot- ton or lint, wet in cold water, or taken from a block of ice, and laid over the organ, will hasten recovery. If pus should be present and collect in the angles of the lids, it should be mopped out with pellets of borated cotton moistened in boracic-acid solution, grs. x-xv to § j of water. Chronic conjunctivitis (granular lids or trachoma) may follow any form of acute inflammation of this membrane. The pathology of this condition, from whatever cause it may result, is practically the same. The conjunctiva is injected with newly formed capillary loops and thick- ened by the formation of an embryonic tissue, the result of cell-prolifera- tion. This granulation-tissue may be confined to the mucous membrane alone, or it may involve the submucous tissue, the cartilages, cornea, and sclerotic. Ulceration occurs in a certain proportion of cases; in others cicatricial contractions take place, leading to distortions of the lids, or adhesions between the lids and globe. The treatment is local and general. The local treatment looks to the absorption of the products of the inflammatory process; the general treatment, to the improvement of the patient's nutrition. The application of solid sulphate of copper is a remedy of unequaled excellence. It is far preferable to nitrate of silver on account of the danger of the latter of staining the cornea when the excess is not immedlateh^ washed off. Before using the blue-stone the eye should be deprived of its sensi- bility by dropping two or three minims of 4-per-cent cocaine into the organ at intervals of five minutes for from twenty to thirty minutes. The upper lid should be everted by directing the patient to look down, while the operator with the thumb and index-finger seizes the lid with the cilise at its margin, and depresses it further. The upper margin of the cartilage should now be fixed by the tip of one of the fingers of the other hand, while the lid is suddenly turned up. Or, when the lid is depressed, lay a probe parallel with the upper margin of the cartilage, and evert the lid over this. The copper pencil may now be swept over the granulations. The extent to which the caustic is used will depend upon the condition of the organ. If the granulations are not exuberant, it may be lightly swept over the surface, and the excess washed off by boracic-acid solution. If the injection is deep and the vascularity great, the point may be more slowly carried over the membrane, and the wash- ing omitted. The cocaine should, however, be continued, in order to prevent the severe pain which otherwise follows the application. As a rule, it is better to use the milder treatment at frequent intervals rather