560 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. The symptoms of renal cyst are usually obscure until the tumor be- comes large enough to exercise pressure on neighboring viscera or to appear as a swelling in the lumbar region. Fluctuation or aspiration will determine the cystic character of the tumor. The treatment of renal cysts is conservative so long as life is not endangered by the pressure of the tumor. The danger of rupture into the peritonaeum is not to be overlooked as a possible and fatal accident. Opening into the retroperitoneal space is also an exceedingly danger- ous complication. It may be put down as a safe rule of practice that when a tumor of the kidney becomes large enough to be appreciated by palpation or inspection, and is proved to be cystic in character, the con- tents should be evacuated by incision. Carcinoma may be* primary in the kidney or secondary by extension from a contiguous organ, or by metastasis. In primary cancer only one organ is affected. When the disease extends from the bladder it is likely to involve both organs, and the same is true of secondary deposits by metastasis. The adenoid or encephaloid variety is most frequently met with. All ages are liable to this disease. The tumefaction is often very rapid, and may reach enormous proportions, death resulting from asthe- nia due to the mechanical presence of the mass, as well as to the general dissemination of the disease. The diagnosis of cancer of the kidney will depend upon the appre- ciation of the tumor and a careful study of the history of the case. The differentiation between the solid and cystic tumors, which has already been given, will eliminate hydatids or obstruction to the outflow of urine and cystic degeneration. The recognition of the cancer must de- pend upon the presence of the peculiar cachexia. The treatment should be directed to the alleviation of pain. The removal of the organ is scarcely justifiable, since metastasis will in great probability have oc- ourred before the character of the disease can be recognized. Sarcoma of the kidney is a rare form of disease, and this is espe- cially true of primary sarcoma. The presence of this neoplasm, danger- ous in any portion of the economy, is especially so in the kidney, where its deep location renders an early diagnosis almost impossible. Adenoma^ lymphadenoma, and papilloma may also be found in this organ. Adenoma and papilloma can scarcely be recognized. The same may be said of lymphadenoma, as far as the kidney proper is concerned, for it can scarcely be recognized during life, the diagnosis depending upon the general condition of lymphadenoma and leucaemia. Angio- mata of the cavernous variety has been noted in the kidney in rare in- stances. Rhabdomyoma of the kidney, an unusual form of neoplasm, which has lately been described, may be also mentioned here. It is sup- posed to be congenital, and is composed of striped muscle-tissue. Suppression of Urine.—Not infrequently after a surgical operation, especially upon the rectum and genito-urinary organs, the function of the kidneys is partially or completely suspended. Suppression may also follow an injury to any portion of the body, or any violent emotion. It may occur in patients with healthy kidneys, but is especially apt to be