174 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. arterial lesion, is the condition known as atheromatous degeneration (Fig. 253). It is essentially a disease of malnutrition. It is a senile change, not of necessity co-existent with another disease. It is, as wiR be proved hereafter, prone to attack the arteries, especially those of the brain, in Fig. 253.—Atheroma following arteritis. Section of aorta undergoing the atheromatous change, showing the cellular intiltration of the deeper layers of the inner coat, and consequent bulging inward of the iutima. The new tissue has undergone more or less fatty degeneration. There is some cellular infiltration of the middle coat, i, the internal; m, the middle ; e, the external tunic. Magnified 50 diameters and reduced one half. (Green.) syphilis, and the larger arteries in other affections. The fatty degenera- tion of endarteritis is a primary lesion, that of chronic arteritis is sec- ondary. The one is local, the other general. Recovery from the one is possible, and the danger of death is slight. Shreds of fatty material may be carried by the blood and lodged in the cerebral or other remote ves- sels, doing great injury; but this accident is rare. The possibilities of chronic arteritis with atheroma are always grave. Above the dangers of thrombosis and embolism, and of calcification, are those of aneurism and of haemorrhage. The early recognition of this condition, though exceed- ingly difficult, is no less important. Atheroma commences in the deeper tissues of the arterial wall, and, advancing in the line of blood-supply, taps the sources of nutrition of the deeper tunics, causing their loss of function, death, and disappearance. It is a true necrobiosis. The fatty degeneration of atheroma not only involves the innermost layer of the intima (as does that form of degeneration which follows endarteritis), but the muscular-fiber cells undergo complete metamor- phosis, while the elastic lamina is the seat of extensive infiltration. In severe cases the work of destruction is complete, the normal tissues dis- appearing, and leaving nothing but a granular debris. Atheroma does not usually destroy an extensive area of the intima. The patches may be numerous, but not large. The molecular disintegra- tion is confined to certain well-defined spots, in the center of which is found the softened, broken-down "pulp" which has given rise to the term "atheroma." Examined under the microscope, the contents of these pulp-cavities will be found to consist of fat granules, granular corpuscles, and cholesterin crystals, exactly analogous to those some- times found in abscesses of long duration. Shreds of fibrous tissue may