267 LIGATION OF ARTERIES. sartorius, which, is incised and the muscle displaced ontward. Imme- diately upon opening the posterior layer of the sheath of the muscle, the oblique aponeurotic fibers which pass from the adductor magnus to the vastus iuternus—forming the anterior wall of Hunter's canal—are seen. These may be divided on a director, or the sheath opened half an inch above this point. The saphenous nerve is on the sheath, and the vein is behind and to the outer side (Fig. 304). The Common Femoral above the Prof unda.—Make an incision in the femoral line, from three fourths of an inch above Poupart's ligament downward for three inches and a half. Do not divide the ligament, but approach the artery one half inch below. The superficial epigastric vein and artery may be wounded. Divide the fascia lata, and pass the -^^^-^Tt^"^j^^ ligature from within out. (Dissec- ~ "iSC^^ tion shown in Figs. 302, .303.) ' "" The Profunda Femoris. — Make an incision in the femoral line, three inches and a half long, the center opposite a point one inch and a half to two inches below Poupart's ligament. As above, approach the common trunk and search along its outer border for the origin of the profunda* (Fig. 303). Pass the ligature from with- in out, one inch from its origin. •Avoid the branches of the ante- rior crural nerve. In wounds of the posterior fem- oral region it may be necessary to tie this vessel as well as for aneurism. Ligation of the com- mon femoral is rarely called for, and should only be done in ex- treme cases. In modern surgical practice, deligation of the super- ficial femoral is comparatively free from danger. Ligation of the Popliteal— Operation.—Place the patient on his belly, with the popliteal space looking upward. Make an incision, four inches long, beginning two inches and a half above the level of the joint, at the outer edge of the semi-membranosus tendon, and extending down through the middle of the space. Dividing the dense, deep fascia, the areolar tissue which sur- FiG. 304.—Liii-ntioii ol' the ])opIiteal artery. Eelations of contents in the left lower extremity. * In a large majority of subjects I Iiave found this branch given off one inch and a half be- low the ligament.