A TEXT-BOOK OX SURGERY. 296 is contiimed, the line of fracture travels upward and backward. The same force which produced the fracture by forced extension and impact of the body will, if continued, produce the usual displacement, causing the lower fragment to ride backward upon the upper, and frequently causing impaction of the compact posterior rim of the upper, into the spongy substance of the lower fragment (Fig. 325). The diagnosis of Colles's fracture is not difficult. The " silver-fork" deformity, the history of the accident, and pain at the seat of the lesion, point to the character of the fracture. When backward displacement occurs it will be recognized by palpation. Crepitus may or may not be elicited. The hand is directed to the radial side, and the styloid process of the ulna is unusually prominent. Treatment.—When, after careful examination, there is found any degree of displacement of the lower fragment, upward and backward upon the upper, proceed as follows : With the back of the patient's hand turned upward, the operator with one hand grasps the forearm in such a way that, while the radius is firmly held, the thumb is immediately above the line of fracture. With the other, the hand of the patient is grasped so that his (the surgeon's) thumb (or index-finger, if preferred) presses firmly upon the back of the lower fragment. The hand is now carried strongly back toward the dorsal aspect of the radius (forced and extreme extension), and while in this position the lower fragment becomes un- locked, and may be pushed into place by the thumb, while at the same time the hand, under strong extension, is carried into the straight j)osition. If this mancEuvre fails it should be repeated, and under ether if there is great pain or muscular resistance. Too much stress can not be laid upon this. The cause of so much deformity after this accident is in many cases due to imperfect reposition. If no displacement exists, extension or the employment of any force is contra-indicated. Injections of 2-per-cent cocaine solution, after Coming's method, into the tissues about the line of fracture will usually produce a suflBcient anaesthesia. In aged patients, who have considerable impaction, it is not advisable to break up the im- paction, but deformity and impaired usefulness should be prognosti- cated. In cases with little or no displacement and deformity all exten- sion or manipulation should be abstained from. In many instances, however, deformity will inevitably remain. The shortening which may result from the accident, or, in the young, the injury to the epiphysis, which may retard the growth of the bone in its long axis, causes a deflection of the hand to the radial side, and an ab- normal projection of the styloid process of the ulna. When, as in some exceptional instances, the radio-ulnar ligaments are torn, and, as de- scribed by Prof. Moore, of Rochester, the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris is displaced, the tendency to deformity is even greater. When proper reduction is obtained, any dressing which keeps the parts at rest will secure a good result. Within the last few years a large number of cases of Colles's fracture have been treated with Prof. Pilcher's dressing, slightly modified. The results have been very satisfactory. It is as follows : Roll two pieces of a