BANDAGING. 11 The rederse-spiral turn (Fig. 13) is applied as follows : Taking the left arm to be bandaged, hold the roller in the right hand, with its convexity toward the limb, and carry it from the inner or ulnar border, by the front, to the outer or radial border, and thus around the arm by two circular turns to secure the roller. Then, having carried the bandage to the outer side, ascending the limb gradually, lay the thumb of the left hand upon the lower edge of the bandage, press it firmly against the limb to prevent slipping, loosen the roller considerably in the right hand, at the same time turning it one-half turn toward the operator. This process is to be repeated as often as necessary, keeping the reverses well upon the outer border and anterior aspect of the extremity. The Simple Figure - of- 8 Turn.—After the bandage is se- cured, as heretofore described, ascend the limb sharply, from the inner to the outer border, so that at this outer border the lower edge of the roller shall be several inches above the start- ing-point. Carry the roller di- rectly across and heJiind the limb to the same point on the opposite side; then obliquely downward in front, crossing the ascending turn at a right angle. When the outer border is again reached, carry the roller behind and directly across the limb to the starting-point (see Fig. 14). The Figure-of-8 Meverse.— Commence exactly as for the simple figure-of-8 until the band- age has passed across the pos- terior aspect of the limb, and is about to descend obliquely along the inner aspect to the front. With the index-finger of the unoc- cupied hand hold the lower edge of the bandage tightly against the part, while the roller is slackened and turned half over in a direction away from the limb. This reverse in the figure-of-8 may also be made ante- riorly, and, when the conformation of the part demands it, may be made both anteriorly and posteriorly. Of these four methods, the simple spiral is more readily applied. When the diameter of the extremity increases rapidly it will not suffice, since it grasps the part at the upper edge of the roller while the lower stands out free and loose. For all purposes the spiral reverse is more generally useful. In competent hands it can be applied to all portions of the body except where the members join the trunk, when it must give place to the simple Fig. 14.—The flgure-of-8 method.