629 THE URETHRA—STRICTURE. ing has not ceased, the woiind should be packed temporarily with sub- limate gauze, held in position by a T-bandage. When there is no hsem- orrhage, a loose dressing should be applied. The urine usually escapes through the wound for the tirst few days, and afterward partly through the wound and urethra. In rare instances it escapes uninterruptedly through the urethra. The after-treatment consists in the introduction of the sounds or bougies (as above directed) through the urethra as far as the neck of the bladder. This opera- tion should be repeated every three or four days until the urine ceases to escape through the wound, and once a week thereafter for several months. Interrupted Dilatation.—In the treatment of stricture of the urethra by this method, there are required steel sounds and Jlexible bougies. Steel sounds are of two patterns, the straight and curved. The former are preferable for dilating strictures anterior to the membranous portion, while beyond this point the curved instruments are necessary. The most satisfactory instruments are those constructed upon the United States scale,* which commences with the smallest steel instrument, -^-^ of an Fig. 629. inch in diameter, and increases ^\ of an inch in diameter for each suc- cessive sound to No. 25 inclusive, equal to of an inch. Nos. 1 to 8, inclusive, are filiform and elastic bougies. A straight sound should be six inches in length clear of the handle, slightly conical from the tip, back for a distance of one and a half inch. This conicity should increase one size for every half-inch for this distance. Thus, a sound which measures No. 17 at the tip increases to No. 18 one half inch back, to No. 19 at one inch, and is No. 20 at one and a haK inch from the point, and continues this size for the entire shaft. A curved sound should be nine inches long clear of the handle. The curve should involve only the last two inches. The conicity extends also one and a half inch from the tip, increasing one size for every half- incli until the full size is reached at one and a half inch from the point. * The unit of the French scale is one third of a millimetre (about yV of an inch), and each size up to No. 30, inclusive, increases one third of a millimetre in diameter. Divide any given number of this scale by three, subtract the quotient, and the remainder approximates the cor- responding size on the above scale. Thus, No. 30, French, divided by 3 = 10; 30 — 10 = 20; or, No. 30, French = No. 20, U. S.