71 WOUNDS. 3,000 sublimate solution, and thoroughly cleansed of all clots or foreign matter. Next to sublimate, 1 to 20 carbolic acid is preferable, and, wlien neither of these solutions can be obtained, the purest water should be freely used. It rarely occurs in an extensive wound that all haemorrhage can be stopped, for a general oozing takes place from capillaries too numerous to tie. Haemorrhage of this character may be arrested by elevation of the part, or pressure either by approximation of the walls of the wound, by packing, or by general compression of the part with a bandage. If the edges are to be closed with sutures, the pack- ing must be temporary. It is most successfully practiced by crowding the wound full of sponges, which have just been taken out of a basin of hot sublimate, and well pressed between the fingers. A hot sub- limate towel is laid over these, and firm pressure made for about five or ten minutes with the hand or a roller. General compression of a limb is only well adapted to a wound which has been made or cleansed under Esraarch's bandage. After the important vessels are secured, the wound is closed, drainage-tubes inserted, a sublimate gauze dress- ing applied, and over this cotton wadding about one inch in thickness. A layer of protective is placed over this, and the necessary pressure employed by means of an ordinary roller. It is impossible to convey an idea of the amount of compression to be used in applying the roller. It should be tightly drawn, and as long as the tips of the toes or fingers are left out for constant inspection, so that any arrest of the circulation may be immediately discovered, no danger is incurred. In closing a wound by sutures, the points of chief importance are to secure drainage and to bring all parts of the opposing surfaces together with equally distributed pressure. A wound which gapes at the top or bottom, or in the middle, is not well dressed. As for drainage, the material for which has been already discussed, the cardinal law is that, in the position in which the part must rest after the operation, the fluids should readily gravitate from the deepest portion of the wound out into the dressings. Before approximating wounded surfaces, if lacerations have occurred, the shreds of tissue, which will probably slough, should be trimmed off with the scissors, and the walls rendered as fresh and smooth as circumstances will admit. It is always desirable that the edges of the wound in the skin should be perfectly smooth, so that a close adaptation may be secured and an ugly scar avoided. This is especially essential upon the face, neck, and hands. In closing shallow wounds, or those of not more than one or two inches in depth, it will usually sufiice to pass the needle from one fourth to one half of an inch from the edge, and down into the tissues, so that it will emerge well down toward the bottom of the wound. It should now be entered in the opposite wall of the wound at the same depth, and brought up through the integument at a point corresponding to that where the needle originally entered. When a suture inserted in this manner is tied, it is readily seen that in approximating the wounded surfaces the pressure is equally distributed at the surface and in the deeper portions. When important vessels and nerves are in relation to