VASCULAR TUMORS. 187 or circumscribed. A single arteriole may be affected, as shown in a drawing in the Museum of St. George's Hospital, copied in Holmes's " System of Surgery," or many arterioles may be involved, as in Mus- sey's remarkable case. The term cirsoid aneurism was introduced by Breschet, in a paper presented to the Academy of Medicine, at Paris, in 1832. By him it was applied to the condition of varicosity involving the larger arterial trunks, theii" branches, and the termmal arterioles. Robia, at a later date, intro- duced the name of cirsoid arterial tumors, and defined these as varicosi- ties of the terminal (subcutaneous) arterioles. English writers have adopted the term em^Dloyed by Breschet. By them it is usually considered "a form of disease which consists in a simultaneous elongation and dilatation of an artery. The structure of its wall exhibits in the beginning no alteration, although the coats become thinned duiing the progress of the enlargement. The middle coat of the artery is especially affected. It becomes pale and thin, so that the arteries look like veins. The dilatation is commonly equal throughout the circumference of the artery. In more severe cases the artery is greatly dilated, and presents unequal, saccular pouches, which are in fact so many true aneurisms, projecting usually toward the surface of the skin " (Holmes). Gosselin * adopts the nomenclature of Robin, and considers the dis- ease heretofore known as cirsoid aneurism as only involving the terminal arterioles. The causes of cirsoid arterial tumors are not positively known. They occur most frequently upon exposed surfaces of the body, as on the neck, head, and hands. The face and head are most frequently the seat of all forms of vascular subcutaneous and cutaneous tumors. Excluding those of the orbit, I have collected more than ninety cases in which the carotid arteries were tied for these lesions. Polaillon reports fourteen cases of cirsoid aneurism of the hand. The influence of exposure of an unprotected surface to atmospheric changes is worthy of consideration. Either peripheral or central disturbances of the functions of the vaso-motor nerves may lead to loss of tone in the muscular walls of the arteries. Frost-bite and blows have been mentioned as causes of cirsoid aneurism. Berger reports a case of cirsoid tumor of the hand caused by irritation, from constant pressure of an instrument which the patient used in his trade. The disease may also be congenital, or may result from the increased growth of a cutaneous naev^^s. Gosselin cites two cases of this kind. He holds that the presence of nsevus indi- cates a congenital predisposition to vascular dilatation, and is not sure but that a subcutaneous arterial dilatation, at first not recognized, may exist simultaneously. According to Holmes, cu'soid arterial tumor occurs most frequently between the ages of fifteen and thirty. Wardrop's patient, whose case is given by Gosselin as one of cirsoid arterial growth, was operated upon the sixth week after birth. Wardrop gives the case as one of '' erectile * Archives generales de medecine," 1867.