512 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. prognosis is unfavorable, and the gravity is increased as operative inter- ference is delayed. The recognition of gluteal hernia is also difficult. If with the symp- toms of obstruction there is pain in the region of the sciatic notch, or in the distribution of the gluteal or sciatic nerves, which is increased by direct pressure, the presence of gluteal hernia is usually certain. If a tumor is appreciable, it is still more positive. To locate the notch, place the patient on his belly and hold the leg perfectly straight, with the toes pointing directly downward. A line, drawn from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the upper sur- face of the great trochanter, will cross over the foramen. The incision should be free, and the fibers of the gluteal muscles separated with the finger. The vessels should be located before the con- striction is divided. OMurator hernia may be present without any appreciable tumor. It may be recognized by digital exploration through the rectum or vagina. Pressure iipon the obturator nerve may produce pain in the hip or knee. If the symptoms of obstruction are present, the hand should be intro- duced through an incision in the linea alba, when, by careful explora- tion of the pelvis, the character of the lesion can be determined. In the efl'ort at reduction by traction from within, the thigh should be ro- tated outward to relax the obturator muscle. If necessary, an incision may be made immediately over the foramen, and the constriction divided from below. The point at which the intestine usually escapes is in the adult between two and two and a half inches external to the symphysis pubis, and on a line with the inner border of the femoral or iliac vein. When the fibers of the pectineus muscle are divided, the tumor will be encountered. Lumbar and vaginal hernia do not demand especial consideration. The diagnosis will depend upon the appearance of the tumor, with the symptoms of strangulation, when the constriction is sufllicient. The return of the mass which follows prolapsus of the uterus into the vagina may be effected by direct reposition of the uterus, or by conjoined manipulation with one hand introduced through an opening in the linea alba. Fecal Fistula.—A fecal fistula may exist between any portion of the intestinal canal and the external muscle through the integument; from the intestine into a normal cavity, as the bladder or uterus, and thence to the exterior; into an abnormal cavity, as an abscess, and thence out through one of the hollow organs or directly to the skin; or it may lead into a cul-de-sac or blind pocket. Fecal fistulse are congenital and acquired. Imperforate anus is the most frequent cause of congenital fistula. The pressure of accumulated matter at the extremity of the canal in- duces inflammation, ulceration, and perforation, with extravasation of the bowel contents. If the congenital obstruction is low down, the open- ing may occur through the perinjeum, bladder, or vagina. If higher up, the fistula may open through the abdominal wall at the umbilicus, or