EXSECTIONS OF THE JOINTS. 363 and, at the same time, to afford a sufficiently broad surface for the appo- sition and fixation of the two divided bones. The ligament of Winslow should now be divided along the posterior aspect of the femur, and the soft tissues lifted—by keeping close to the bone with a dull instrument (dry dissector)—to a point slightly above the plane of section of the bone. A cloth retractor should be folded so as to protect the soft parts, and the section made at an angle of 90° to the axis of the shaft of the femur. This will require the removal of from one fourth to one half inch more of the inner than the outer condyle. The posterior ligament is next dis- sected from the upper margin of the tibia, and the soft tissues lifted, down to the line of section in this bone, in its entire circumference. It is sawn through also at an angle of 90° to the shaft. It is important, especially in operating upon children and young adults, that the section should not involve or too nearly approach the epiphyseal lines of these bones, and when the disease runs, in one or more limited spots, deeply into the cancellous tissue, it is prefer- able to scrape these out with Volkmann's spoon rather than make a second section through the entire bone, at a level that would sacrifice the epiphysis. As soon as it is found that the sawn surfaces fit snugly, in such a way that the extremity is perfectly straight, the capsule and all diseased synovial sacs should be dissected out with the forceps and curved scissors. Great care must be taken in working near the large vessels at the posterior portion of the joint. If there are any sinuses communicating with the wound, they should be scraped out and disinfected with strong sublimate solution (1-1000), taking care to wash out the excess of sublimate by irrigation with a weak solution (1-3000). Fig. 395. At this stage of the operation a careful search should be made for any divided vessels, which, if found, should be secured at once with juniperized catgut. After a thorough irrigation with 1-3000 sub- limate, the bones are brought together and fastened by transfixion with three steel drills or spikes. The spike is shown in Fig. 395, and the drills in Fig. 396. The former have been much used in late years in this operation, and are highly recommended. I prefer the drills on account of their easier and more accurate adjustment, and they have given perfect satisfaction in my service. The first employed were Fig. 396.—Wyeth's drills, with adjustable handle, for fixation of the bones in knee-joint exsection.