A TEXT-BOOK ON SUKXtERY. 280 to the suspicion of fracture of the skull. If the basilar process of the occipital bone is involved, extravasation will not unlikely be present in this region. Loss of vision or the sense of smell indicate lesion of the anterior fossa. In many instances the diagnosis must rest wholly upon subjective symptoms. Based upon no objective symptoms, the differentiation between con- cussion and compression of the brain is difficult, and often impossible. In general, it may be said that the symptoms of comjyression are those of paralysis, usually unilateral and more profound than the symptoms of concussion. In simple concussion the patient may be aroused to partial conscious- ness, the respiratory movements of the muscles of the face will be sym- metrica], equality of the pupils is maintained, and vomiting is of frequent occurrence. In compression, stupor is apt to be prolonged and pro- found, the facial muscles are drawn to one side, and the buccinator of the atfected side is apt to puff out with the expiratory effort. There may be inequality of the pupils, and vomiting is absent. In the treatment of concussion of the brain the first indication is rest. The recumbent posture, with the head elevated, should be maintained. If there is marked coldness of the skin, and evidence of great prostration or impending collapse, warmth should be applied locally, and stimulants hypodermically. Stimulants must, however, be given with discretion, since the fever of reaction may be increased by their excessive use. After the shock passes off, cold applications to the head are essential. The treatment of fractures at the base is altogether expectant. Sur- gical interference is rarely if ever called for. In fractures of the vault, with depression, in adults, the trephine should be applied as soon after the injury as is consistent with the patient's safety. If shock is present without serious compression, it will be wise to wait until reaction is es- tablished. When, however, dangerous depression exists, immediate ojv eration, even without an anaesthetic, is demanded. When the symptoms of depression are not prominent, an exploratory incision is justifiable in order to determine with certainty whether there is compression of the brain or meninges. With antiseptic precautions this operation adds little to the gravity of the patient's condition. A comminuted fracture in an adult always demands the elevation and removal of the fragments. A linear fracture, with depression, even if this is thought to be confined to the outer plate, also demands the trephine as far as the diploe, and, if the depression involves the inner table, this should also be raised and the fragments removed. A fracture made by a narrow instrument, or other penetrating substance, as a gunshot missile, etc., demands the trephine at the point of entrance. In children, the tol- eration of the brain to pressure is such as to justify delay in elevation of the fragments unless alarming symptoms supervene. Localized paralysis, coming on immediately after an injury to the skull, calls for trephining at once. It is always better to operate early than to defer interference until inflammatory symptoms are present. The danger is enhanced by such delay. The disrepute which this opera-