538 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. peculiar appearance of the ulcer, together witli the probabilities of in- fection from a contiguous venereal ulcer. The hard syphilitic or true chancre is rarely observed in this region, and, when met with, is usually confined to the anal margin. It possesses here the same well-recognized features of the specific ulcer of the genital organs, from which source the virus is conveyed usually by the nails, and occasionally by immediate contagion. Ulcers of the rectum resulting from the breaking down of the gumma- tous deposits of tertiary syphilis are chiefly seen just along the upper margin of the sphincter muscle. From this point they extend upward, and may involve the entire rectum and invade the colon. These ulcers are usually multiple, varying in size from a small point to a half-inch or more in diameter, and in depth may involve only the mucous mem- brane, or the muscular and connective-tissue stroma may be destroyed, and in some instances perforation may occur. The process of destruc- tion is greater in the older ulcers, and the various stages may be observed by examining the bowel from below upward. The appearance of the ulcers as above described, together with the history of syphilis, will en- able the observer to arrive at a correct diagnosis. Traumatic ulcers, and those resulting from the breaking down of hsemorrhoidal tumors, will be recognized by the appearance of the sore and the history of an acci- dent or haemorrhoids. As far as a cure of the ulcer is concerned, a favorable prognosis may be made in all ulcers of the rectum except the tubercular. These may be relieved by treatment, but, being expressions of an incurable dyscrasia, permanent relief can not be expected. A more remote, as well as greater evil which often results from ulcer, is stricture of the rectum, and the danger of stricture is usually proportionate to the extent of the destructive process. Phagedenic chancroidal ulcer, and the ulcers of gumma and dysentery, are especially prone to induce stricture. Treatment.—The common indication in the treatment of all forms of ulcer of the rectum is to keep the bowel in as complete repose as possi- ble. Every effort should be made to keep it clear of fecal matter. This may be accomplished by the repeated employment of enemata, and by the administration of proper articles of diet, all of which should be capable of absorption in the stomach and small intestines. Milk, beef- tea, meat-juice, soft-boiled eggs, wine-jelly, rice, corn-meal mush, etc., will alford variety and sustain the patient's nutrition. In irrigation of the diseased surface, warm or cold water may be used at the temperature which is most agreeable to the patient. The best apparatus for this purpose is the fountain-syringe. The smallest glass nozzle, thoroughly warmed and oiled, should be employed, and from one to two pints of fluid may be introduced at one injection. A larger quan- tity may be employed when the colon is involved. If the patient is placed upon the left side, with the buttocks elevated, a greater degree of tolerance will be obtained in the rectum. The fluid should be re- tained for a few minutes, if possible.