235 LIGATION OF ARTERIES. and with this the thin platysma myoides^ some iilaments of the super- ficialis colli nerve, of no importance, and some small veins passing from the anterior, either to the internal or external jugular veins. About the center of the wound the edge of the mastoideus will be seen, and below this (usually) the anterior belly of the omo-hyoideus (Fig. 280, lower half). The sheath of the carotid and jugular vein is now exposed, often crossed by the thyroid veins, and the cermcalis descendens artery, the descendens noni nerve almost invariably lying upon the center of the sheath, being parallel with the axis of the common and internal carotids. In two instances I have seen the superior thyroid artery turn directly down, in front of the common trunk, for an inch or more, and then turn abruptly inward to be distributed to the thyroid body. Under such ab- normal conditions this vessel would probably be divided. The communi- cans noni is occasionally found crossing the sheath from without inward, to anastomose with the descendens. These nerves will be drawn to the outer or inner side of the wound, as is most convenient. The sheath should be opened on its tracheal side, as far as possible from the jugu- lar vein, and the needle passed from without inward, being kept close to the artery in order to avoid wounding the tjein or including the pneumo- gastric or sympathetic nerves. The sheath should be well opened, and the artery clearly exposed, so that the needle may be manipulated with more of certainty and less danger from these too common and unfortu- nate accidents. In several instances the artery has been transfixed; the jugular has been wounded; the pneumogastric or sympathetic nerves included in the ligature, for want of precision in separating the artery from the vein. Certainly the danger of slough in the artery is not so great as the dangers above enumerated. Just as the needle is being in- troduced, pressure above upon the vein would empty it of blood, and of course diminish the danger of wounding it. The operation of tying the carotid. Just below or behind the omo hyoid, is practically the same as that just described (Fig. 280). In order to secure this vessel at the root of the neck, an incision should be made in the carotid line, extending from the sterno-clavicular articu- lation upward a distance of three or four inches, and between the two heads of origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle. This will divide the integu- ment, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia, and some descending superficial nerves. The fibers of the sterno-mastoid may be separated and held to either side by retractors. Immediately beneath it will be found the anterior Jugular vein, and some small branches emptying into it. If not easily displaced, they should be secured with a double liga- ture, and divided between the threads. The fibers of the sterno-hyoid or sterno-thyroid muscles should next be divided on a grooved director, and turned aside or separated in the line of the artery. The vessel will be seen deeply situated in the line already given. The ligature should be passed from the outer side. Or an L-shaped incision, similar to that made for deligation of the innominate (Fig. 279), may be made, and the carotid found by separating the sternal tendon of the mastoideus muscle and turning this outward. For the left carotid see Fig. 281.