329 DISLOCATIONS. order to disengage the olecranon process from the coronoid fossa, and, when this is effected, make direct pressure downward upon the anterior aspect of the forearm, near the elbow. After the bones slip seemingly into position, careful examination should be made to see that the radius is in its proper relation to the external condyle, for the ridge between the two sigmoid cavities of the ulna may lodge in the groove between the trochlear surface and the articular surface for the head of the radius. In the outward lateral dislocation the luxation is usually partial. The cause is direct violence applied to the inner aspect of the forearm, near the joint, or to the outer aspect of the humerus, low down, or to force applied simultaneously, in opposite directions, upon these two surfaces. The diagnosis will rest chiefly upon the increased prominence of the inner condyle, and the difficulty of recognizing the outer condyle by pal- pation. The angle at the elbow is about 120°, motion is wanting, and the hand is pronated. Reduction is best effected by strong extension from the forearm, counter-extension from the humerus, and direct lateral pressure in the direction of the displacement. Inward dislocation is always incomplete (Hamilton). The causes are direct violence in the opposite direction to that given for the luxation outward. The internal condyle will be less prominent, the external more prominent, the olecranon will be seen crowded over to the inner aspect of the joint, while the head of the radius rests near the middle of the articular surface of the humerus. The position of the forearm is that of flexion. Reduction is difficult, and should be effected in ether narcosis. Extension and counter-extension should be made in the flexed position, and the arm gradually brought out straight, while at the same time direct pressure is made, in proper and opposite directions, upon the humerus and forearm, near the joint. Dislocation of both bones backward is the most frequent form of dis- placement at the elbow. Incomplete external and incomplete internal luxation are next in order of frequency, while the forward dislocation is most infrequent. In the posterior variety the direction of the force may be such that a deviation to one or the other side may occur. The treatment is practi- cally the same. Direct lateral pressure in the line of the normal position of the bone may be required in addition to the mechanism of reduction above given. Partial anchylosis is not infrequent after these lesions. Passive motion should be begun within two weeks after the injury, and repeated daily if no acute inflammation is produced. Wrist-Joint.—Dislocations at the carpo-radial joint are very rare. Only a few instances of complete hackward or forward luxation of the carpus are on record. Lateral dislocations are considered impossible without fracture of the styloid process of the radius or ulna. The two principal displacements occur with about equal frequency. In the hacli- ward variety the anterior aspect of the carpus rests upon the dorsal rim of the cancellous expansion of the radius, the reverse being true in the dislocation forward. The anterior and posterior ligaments are partially