CHAPTEE XVII. THE ABDOMEN. TTie Stomach.—Gastrostomy,'^ which operation has been described in the article on oesophageal stricture, is required occasionally in the removal of foreign bodies which have been carried into the stomach and can not find an exit through the pylorus or be ejected in the act of vomiting. Although a considerable degree of tolerance may be present, if the size and shape of the foreign body are such that the jDrobability of its re- moval by natural means is remote, the stomach should be opened. The method of procedure is the same as that already described. Since the oesophagus is patent, the stomach should be thoroughly washed out with warm water introduced by means of the oesophageal tube and the pump. JSTo solid food should be allowed within twelve hours of the incision into the wall of this organ. This double precaution will pre- vent the otherwise possible escape of ingested matter into the peritoneal cavity. The stomach should not be opened until it has been securely stitched to the edges of the wound in the abdominal wall, as heretofore directed. The foreign body may be felt with the finger and extracted with a pair of dressing-forceps. The opening should not be closed at once, but allowed to heal by granulation. Gastrostomy may also be justifiable in certain cases of stricture of the pylorus, in which at least temporary benefit may be obtained, by dilatation of the stricture by the finger introduced through the stomach, or by mechanical means used in the same way. An incision about five inches in length should be made from the apex of the ensiform cartilage downward and to the right, parallel with and about one inch below the curve of the right costal cartilages. On account of the over-distention of the organ, the pylorus may be farther to the right of the linea alba than normal. The incision in the abdominal wall should be free ; the stomach drawn into the wound, and a longitudinal incision from one to one and a half inch in extent made on its anterior wall near the pylorus. The finger should be introduced gradually and forcibly into the stricture. If the stenosis is so great that the finger can not be used, the dressing- forceps or any dilating instrument may be substituted. After the dila- * The operations of gastrostomy and gastrotomy differ only in this, that the former is inteaded to be more or less permanently used for the introduction of nourishment, while the latter is either closed at once or allowed to close in a short time.