562 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. wMcli it is most superficial should be selected for puncture. In general, the organ will be reached most safely three and a half inches from the spines of the vertebrae. If an exploratory aspiration demonstrates the presence of fluid (other than blood), an incision should follow, for the reason that the escape of liquid into the retroperitoneal space, or into the peritonaeum, is a danger to be avoided by incision and drainage through the lumbar region. NepTirotomy is performed by making an incision from the last rib to near the iliac crest, parallel to and three and a half inches from the ver- tebral spines. Dividing the integument, fasciae, and fat, the edge of the quadratus lumborum is sought, and the aponeurotic extension of the transversalis muscle divided, when the finger can be passed into the re- troperitoneal space behind the colon and directly upon the kidney. AU haemorrhage should be arrested as it occurs. By drawing the edges of the wound wide apart with flat retractors, the fatty capsule may be sepa- rated with the fingers or handle of the scalpel, and the exact condition of the organ determined. If an abscess be discovered, or any lesion de- manding incision and drainage, this should be done. If the pelvis is blocked with stone, or if there is a calculus in the kidney, which may be determined by digital exploration, it should be removed by incision. The operation is known as nephrolithotomy. The incision should be left open and drained. When the kidney has suffered displacement, and is causing distress by dragging upon its vessels, if it is otherwise normal it should be carried as nearly into its former posi- tion as possible and its capsule stitched to the edges of the wound through the abdominal walls. Catgut sutures of large size should be used, and these passed well into the fatty capsule which surrounds this organ. The fibrous capsule proper of the kidney should not be perfo- rated by the needle. The patient must be kept in the dorsal decubitus until adhesions have been formed sufficient to hold the organ in place. Neplirectomy, or removal of the kidney, has been successfully per- formed so often of late years that its advisability in certain diseases of this organ is unquestioned. Before undertaking this operation the pre- caution should be observed of determining not only the presence of a second organ, but its condition. A fatal result has followed the removal of a single or "horse-shoe" kidney. It is equally important to deter- mine, if possible, whether the opposite organ is capable of carrying on the necessary excretion of urine. The presence of a second organ may be made out by palpation. That it is performing its function satisfac- torily may be determined by a quantitative and qualitative analysis of the urine discharged. The quantity of the fluid and urea eliminated should approximate the normal. If albumen is present, and there is no pus in the urine, the gravity of the prognosis is increased. Any symp- toms of uraemia should contraindicate the operation. The organ is reached by the same incision given for nephrotomy. When necessary to secure the vessels at the hilus, the wound may be enlarged by a limited transverse incision. All bleeding should be ar- rested as it occurs. When the fatty capsule is reached, it should be