1 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. CHAPTER I. SURGICAL DRESSINGS. The materials used in the performance of a surgical operation, and in its after-treatment, form snch an important part of the surgeon's outfit that I have determined to devote the initial chapter of this book to a description of the methods of preparing and preserving the apparatus needed for dressing wounds in the antiseptic practice of to-day. This practice, which embodies the great principles of cleanliness and carefulness in surgery, is now so well established among the best sur- geons in America and Europe that any argument in its favor, as compared with the methods of one or two decades ago, I consider to be wholly unnecessary. Ligatures and Sutures.—Catgut, silk, silk-worm gut, and silver wire will meet every requirement in tying vessels and closing wounds. Catgut has practically superseded all other substances as a ligature. The con- ditions which would justify the application of a silk, metal, or any non- absorbable ligature to an artery are rarely present. Strings or cords made from animal tissues, as buckskin, ox-aorta, nerve, tendon, and whalebone, known under the general name of " broad ligatures," have been successfully employed in the occlusion of the larger vessels, but their use is limited in comparison with that of the violin-strings, which are easily obtained, prepared and preserved, and are, moreover, cheap. In the preparation of catgut select four sizes of the best quality of violin-strings in about this proportion: one dozen each of the E and A strings, six D strings, and two or three harp-strings about twice as large as that of D, violin. The smaller sizes are most generally needed for the smaller vessels and bleeding points, the D string is best adapted to ves- sels as large as the radials, ulnars, or tibials, while the larger or harp- stiings should be used upon the iliacs, subclavians, common carotids, and femorals. Preparation.—Cut and remove the small red threads which are tied around each bunch, and place the catgut in a glass bottle or jar which