••609 URETHRITIS. didymis and testicle. The exact nature of tlie virus is unknown. It is claimed that the pus-corpuscles of the gonorrhoeal discharge contain an organism (gonococcus) peculiar to themselves; but this claim is not as yet satisfactorily demonstrated nor widely accepted. When the virus is brought into contact with a mucous surface, the period of time which elapses before the local symptoms of inflammation are noticeable will vary in different individuals, a^nd even in the same patient at different inoculations. It is very probable that the condition of the mucous membrane at the time of the contact has more to do with the rapid appearance of the inflammation than any variableness in the quality of the virus. The period of incubation may range from a few hours to several days, and in some very exceptional instances as much as two weeks have elapsed between the contact and the recognition of the inflammatory process. The limit between twenty-four hours and three days will include a large majority of cases of specific urethritis. Usually the earliest symjDtom of gonorrhoea is a burning sensation at the meatus, which is more acute as the urine is escaping. The lips of the meatus soon become swollen and unusually prominent and red. If care- fully separated, a film of muco-pus will be seen to coat over the mucous membrane. The first stage of the disease may be considered as beginning with the date of contact with the virus, and ending with the first appearance of the suppuration. The average duration of this stage is from two to ten days. From this period the inflammatory symptoms increase for from three or four days to as much as two weeks. The quantity of pus discharged varies from a few drops to several drachms in the twenty-four hours. It is increased by exercise as well as by improper diet. The color varies from the bluish-white hue of the first few drops to the yellow or yellowish-green tinge of that discharged during the height of the inflammatory process. In some instances it becomes stained with blood, as a result of the rupture of capillaries in the engorged mucous membrane. The second stage^ or that of increasing inflammation and suppura- tion^ lasts usually about twelve days, and is followed by the third stage, or that of decreasing inflammation and suppuration, the duration of which period is usually from three to six weeks. In addition to the purulent discharge and the pain which characterizes the second stage of this disease, there is also a diminution in the size of the stream of urine, due to the swollen and puffy condition of the mucous membrane of the urethra. In the milder forms of gonorrhoea no oth- er symptoms are present in the second stage. Not infrequently, how- ever, the inflammatory process extends into the prostatic urethra, and thence to the bladder or along the seminal ducts to the vesicles and testes. Infiltration of the vascular erectile tissue of the corpus spon- giosum occurs in a varying degree in all instances, and occasionally the exudation extends into the corpora cavernosa. A more frequent com- plication of gonorrhoea is inflammation of the glans penis (balanitis) and of the prepuce {posthitis), due not only to the mechanical effects of the 39