WOUNDS. 79 health, as well as from one noticeably affected with rabies. In man and other animals it may occur at any season of the year, and in all climes. The wound inflicted always heals slowly, even without regard to-the inoculation of the specific virus, for, in addition to being contused and lacerated, it is infected by contact with the saliva, which even in man Sternberg * has shown will produce fatal sepsis when injected into the tissues of animals. The period of incubation in rabies in man varies from five days to as many months, and in exceptional instances to as long as one or two years. The symptoms of its approach are often vague. Pain in the track of the sensory nerves leading from the wound, and in and about the wound or scar, is given as among the earlier indications. Irregular heart-action occurs, together with respiratory disturbance of a convulsive character. The face expresses a sense of actual suffering, or of anxiety in the anticipation of impending disaster. Nausea, increased flow of saliva, and vomiting occur, and often are followed by general or partial convulsive movements. Death ensues usually between the second and fifth day. Prof. Flint f is of the opinion that no well-authenticated case has ended in recovery. In three out of seven cases examined by Southam X sugar was present in the urine, which fact indicates irritation of the medulla, and is corroborative of Pasteur's * statement that the gray mat- ter of the brain and cord, and especially the medulla oblongata, is affected by the poison (microbes) of rabies. Treatment.—Preventive measures are of first importance. If Pasteur is correct in his deductions—and there is little doubt of his success with animals—enforced inoculation (vaccination) of all dogs and cats should be practiced. The wound inflicted by any animal, and especially one either suspected or known to be suffering from rabies, should be immediately and freely excised, or the parts in and around the wound destroyed by the actual cautery, or by a penetrating escharotic. When situated upon a part of the body which can be brought in contact with the mouth, the blood, and with it the virus, may be removed by labial suction. After absorption has occurred, and with the appearance of the convulsive stage, chloral hydrate and opium by the stomach, and chloroform or ether by inhalation, may be given, as required. Cannabis Indica is reported as successful in a single case. || Glanders.—This name has been given to a contagious disease which attacks animals, chiefly horses, and is communicated to man by inocu- lation of the peculiar virus upon a mucous membrane or a cutaneous wound. In horses the mucous membranes of the throat and nose are first affected, and this is followed by enlargement and breaking down of the lymphatic glands of the neck, and by symptoms of general sepsis, meta- static abscesses, and cutaneous ulcers. It is not only communicable from * " American Journal of the Medical Sciences," 1882, p. 69. t Flint's "Practice of Medicine." X " Medical Eecord," vol. xxi, p. 128. * Loc. cit. I "Medical Record," vol. xxi, p. 179.