A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 30 tongue has been wounded by the teeth, coagulated blood may get into the.larynx, and require removal by the sponges. When vomiting occurs in ether anaesthesia, it is preceded by a number of spasmodic movements of the muscles of deglutition and of the abdomi- nal walls. Upon the supervention of these symptoms the patient should be turned well over to one side, and the head further rotated and de- pressed, so that any ejected matter will gravitate readily out of the mouth and into a basin held in readiness for this emergency. Not infre- quently food ingested against the advice of the surgeon, or more than eight hours before an operation, remains in the stomach undigested, and is vomited during the anaesthesia. This accident occurs usually late in the narcosis, and is often caused either by elevating the patient's head too much, or by allowing him to come partially out of the narcosis. If a clot of blood, or any occluding substance, be carried into the larynx or trachea, and fatal asphyxia becomes imminent, proceed rapidly as fol- lows : Direct the windows to be opened, so that all the oxygen possible may be admitted; slide the patient over the end of the table until the head hangs down, and tilt the foot of the table up by placing the lower legs upon a stool or chair. Direct an assistant to stimulate the resj^ira- tory movements by bi-manual compression of the thorax at intervals of from five to ten seconds, while the operator does a rapid tracheotomy and inserts the tube, grasping the edges of the wound with forceps to arrest bleeding. If a tube is not at hand, the windpipe should be held open by ■ retractors, which will also compress the bleeding vessels. The method of Fig. 44. Sylvester should now be carried out: Standing at the patient's head, as he rests upon the inclined table, the operator seizes the arms, at or near the elbow, and presses them down upon the thoracic walls, thus forcibly emptying the lungs (Fig. 44), and immediately thereafter extends them