762 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. wholly or in part in the embryo or foetus. Dermoid cysts at times con- tain traces of striated muscle. A diagnosis can only be made out by the recognition, under the mi- croscope, of the characteristic striated muscular fiber. prognosis is favorable, owing to the benign nature of the tumor, which, nevertheless, should be removed as soon as recognized. In the non-striated myoma the fusiform elements are arranged in all directions, either in bundles or groups which interlace, or there may be a general interlacing of the separate elements without fascicular arrange- ment, as in many of the organs in which the smooth muscle is found. Between these bundles true connective-tissue cells exist, and in these spaces the vessels are found. The nuclei of these new-formed elements, as well as the muscle-elements proper, do not differ materially from the normal non-striated muscular fibers. Non-striated myomata are often met with in the uterus. In many of these neoplasms there is a variable quantity of connective tissue, more or less organized, and for this reason the term fibro-myoma has been given to these tumors. They may grow from the wall of the uterus, toward the peritonaeum {extra-mural), or develop in the substance of the uterine muscle, become encapsuled {inter-mural\ or project from the internal surface into the cavity of this organ {sub-mucous myoma). This variety of neoj)lasm has also been seen in various other localities, as the skin, alimentary canal at various points, the prostate, scrotum, etc. The diagnosis depends upon the recognition of the characteristic fusiform elements under the microscope. The method advocated by Cornil and Ranvier is to macerate the sections in azotic acid, twenty parts to one hundred of water, or caustic potassa, forty parts to one hundred of water. By this process the connective-tissue stroma is dissolved and the muscular elements liberated. The prognosis in this form of myoma is favorable as far as recurrence is concerned when the removal has been thorough. They not infrequently produce death, either directly by pressure and interference with the normal functions of organs necessary to life, or indirectly by causing haemorrhage, rendering the individual more likely to perish from some intercurrent affection. Treatment.—They should be removed, when this can be done with a justifiable degree of safety. Neuroma.—A tumor composed of new-formed nerve-tissue is rarely met with. Many so-called neuromata are connective-tissue neoplasms springing from the neurilemma. They may be made up of nerve-cells or nerve-fibers (Fig. 769). The former are even rarer than the latter. Small particles of gray matter have been seen in dermoid cysts, and in a few instances neo- plasms of this variety have been seen in the brain and spinal cord. Fascicular neuromata may occur in the nerves. They exist as slight elliptical swellings or enlargements of the nerve involved, may be single, or there may be a succession of nodosities in the course of the nerve. The symptoms, in addition to the tumor, which may at times be made