A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 276 or together with excessive and uncontrollable muscular action, renders them liable to break. I have seen one specimen of this nature in which every rib was broken, and some of these in two or more places. As hereto- fore stated, fracture is common in the disease knoAvn as osteomalacia, and may occur, though less likely, in rachitis. Sex, vocation, and manual preference also predispose to fracture. Men suffer much more frequently than women, and any vocation which exposes to violence increases the proportion of fractures. The bones of the right, the pre- ferred side, are more frequently broken than the left. Symptoms.—The symptoms of fracture are: Loss of function ; ab- sence of normal contour ; preternatural moMlity / crepitus. A broken bone which is not impacted no longer acts as a support, or sustains mus- cular contraction. The natural shape or outline is more or less distorted by displacement and overlapping of the fragments. Careful manipula- tion will determine the overriding, measurement will show shortening, while comparison with the uninjured side will determine the degree of asymmetry. Crepitus, which is not always necessary to correct diagnosis, is the sensation imparted to the touch, and occasionally recognized by the ear, when the rough fragments are moved so as to grate upon each other. The diagnosis of an impacted fracture is more difficult, since crepitus and mobility are absent. Shortening must of necessity exist, which, with partial loss of function and more or less pain and thickening at the point of fracture, will lead to the recognition of the lesion. A longitudinal fracture or fissure is often with difficulty recognized, and may escape detection. Process of Repair.—The first and immediate result of a fracture is haemorrhage, which occurs from the arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules, and veins of the medulla, compact substance, periosteum, and any surrounding soft parts which may be involved in the injury. As a result of the irritation determined by the accident and hsemorrhage, in- flammation is precipitated. Hypersemia of the bone and contiguous soft tissues ensues. As in ostitis, absorption of the bony walls of the Haver- sian canals occurs with the dilatation of the vessels, and general cell-pro- liferation follows. In the medullary cavity proper, in the medullary spaces of the Haversian systems, in the periosteum, and the inflamed surrounding tissues, this process is common. As in all inflammatory processes, the leucocytes are present in great numbers. The medullo- cells, myeloplaxes, osteoblasts, periosteal cells, and connective-tissue corpuscles, undergo rapid proliferation, resulting in the formation of a mass of common embryonic cells, which infiltrate the clot between and around the fragments. New-formed capillaries are projected into and through this granulation-tissue in the same manner as in the process of repair in wounds of the soft parts. It the broken ends do not come in contact with the air—that is, if the fracture is not compound—the process of repair in bone after an injury is similar to the physiological process of development of this tissue— namely, the embryonic tissue is developed into cartilage-cells, and these.