BURNS AND SCALDS. 91 excess will unnecessarily add to the fever of reaction, which always fol- lows if the patient should rally from the shock. The clothing should be carefully removed, and the burned sui?ace shielded from the atmosphere by an immediate application of a mixture containing equal parts of linseed-oil and lime-water. If this preparation can not be obtained, a coating of ordinary white-lead, as mixed for use in painting dwellings, is an efficient protective when poured over the burn. Flour sprinkled over until all the excoriated surface is well hidden is a method of treatment which may be carried out in almost any emergency. Rubber-tissue protective laid over the raw surface, and cotton batting applied on top of this, is equally efficient. Lint dipped in 2-per-cent car- bolized oil may be used directly on the wound. Any great degree of pressure should not be permitted upon the excoriated surfaces. In the not infrequent form of burn in which the back and posterior aspects of the extremities are chiefly involved, the prone position should be main- tained. When suppuration and sloughing commence, great cleanliness should be observed, to prevent the absorption of septic matter. The dressings should be changed as often as the thermometer indicates septicaemia, but not oftener. Absorbent cotton pellets moistened in 1 to 3,000 sublimate should be used in cleansing the burned surface. A mixture of vaseline (the white variety is preferable) and iodoform, in the proportion of § J of the former to 3 J of the latter, is a useful dressing in the stage of granula- tion. This should be applied on surgeon's lint, and covered over with rubber protective. It often becomes necessary to arrest exuberant granu- lations by the free use of lunar caustic, or the projecting buds may be clipped off with the scissors—a method objectionable, however, in the bleeding which always follows this practice. Compression by strips of adhesive (diachylon) plaster is a better method of repressing the over- grown granulation-tissue. When the destruction of integument has been so extensive that cicatrization can not be effected on account of the ten- sion of the part involved, the transplantation of skin should be practiced. The various methods are grafting, sliding, or transplantation in mass. Grafting may be done by clippings about one twentieth of an inch in diameter, and cut out so that only the epidermis and Malpighian layers are included. The epidermis is pinched up with a pair of mouse-toothed forceps, and clipped off close to the forceps with sharp curved scissors. A spot of the granulating surface free from pus is selected, and the graft laid on bottom-side down and pressed snugly into the granulating bed. A similar graft for every quarter-inch of surface will suffice. These should be left uncovered from one half to one hour. A layer of pro- tective is then laid over the entire surface, and a light sublimate-gauze dressing applied, held on with a roller or adhesive strips. This dressing should remain unmolested for at least forty-eight hours, in order to give the grafts time to take hold, and, when the dressing is changed, great care should be taken to prevent their dislodgment. Water should not be used in the dressing. At the end of about the third day, if the graft has "taken," a bluish white spot will be seen, the color fading away gradu-