THE TONGUE AND BUCCAL CAVITY. 437 at an early diagnosis of the disease. The late manifestations of syphilis (ulcers, gumma, fissures), ulcers of tuberculosis, and some specific ulcers, and papilloma, may be mistaken for this neoplasm. If a patient has a syphilitic history, gumma or specific ulcer will naturally be suspected. If large doses of potassium iodide be adminis- tered for two or three weeks, the specific ulcer will respond to this rem- edy. If no impression is made upon it, it should be treated as ma- lignant. As regards all other suspicious sores of this organ, it will be the wiser practice to treat them also as malignant growths, for it is a well-recognized fact that papillomatous, tuberculous, and simple ulcers of the tongue (as elsewhere), chronic in character, are capable of trans- formation into epithelioma. If these sores are removed early in their history, no mutilation is required, the operation is without danger, only a small portion of the organ need be sacrificed, and the focus of dis- ease is removed before its malignant nature is declared or metastasis occurs. If an epitheliomatous ulcer exists, its character may be deter- mined by microscopical examination, as given by Butlin. * If the scrap- ing from a tuberculous, syphilitic, or simple ulcer is placed in a drop of water on a slide, pus- and blood-corpuscles, particles of food, bacteria, and a few normal or almost normal epithelial cells, are observed. If the scraping from an epitheliomatous ulcer be examined, in addition to the above will be seen a great number of abnormal epithelia, varying in size and shape, some flattened scales, others round or oval, others elon- gated, with caudate prolongations. The cells are generally granular, and possess from two to three or more nuclei, much larger than the normal nuclei of these cells. In some instances the " swallow's-nest" arrange- ment may be observed. If no ulcer is present, a section for microscopical examination may be removed from the indurated mass. Operation.—The method of procedure must be determined by the extent of the organ to be removed. If the induration is confined to the tip, and does not extend more than one inch behind this point, the line of section should be at or near the center of the tongue. It should al- ways be well away from the disease. An inch from the nearest indura- tion will be safer than to allow the line of section to approach the neo- plasm in order to save more of the tongue. When the lateral aspect of thQ anterior half is involved, the line of section need not pass at right angles to the axis of the organ, but may curve around parallel with the limit of induration at a sufiicient distance from it. In this way the an- terior portion of the opposite half may be, in part, preserved. If the floor of the mouth is infiltrated, it should be dissected from its attach- ments to the jaw, and the diseased part removed with the tongue. If the disease extends to the middle of the tongue, and involves its entire width, the organ should be removed at its base, and the floor of the mouth thoroughly cleared of all suspicious tissue. The lymphatics in the middle line below the symphysis menti, in the submaxillary region * " Diseases of the Tongue," Lea Brothers & Co., Philadelphia, 1885.