695 STONE IN THE BLADDER^LITHOTOMY. weeks, and gradually resumes tlie urethral channel as the incision closes by granulation. In some cases the urine passes through the urethra un- interruptedly. The patient should remain in bed for two or three weeks. The anatomical relations of the parts involved in this operation are shown in Fig. 596. Bilateral Lithotomy.—In performing this operation a curved incision is made, beginning half-way between the tuberosity of the ischium and the anus on one side, and terminating at a corresponding point on the other. The incision crosses the median raphe of the perinseum from one half to three quarters of an inch in front of the anus. The guide used in this operation should be grooved deeply in the middle of its convex surface. As soon as this instrument is reached, the urethra is opened in the membranous portion, and the finger-nail carried into the groove on the sound. The bisector—a probe-pointed two-edged lithotome—is in- troduced by sliding the tip of the instrument along the nail into the groove. The operator now takes hold of the staff, depresses the handle of the bisector, and, keeping the probe-point in the groove, pushes the knife into the bladder directly in the median line. In this operation the prostate is divided equally on both sides of the urethra. Median Lithotomy.—The position of the patient is the same as in the two preceding operations. The best staff or guide is that of Prof. Little (Fig. 697), which has a deep, wide groove. It is introduced and held in such a position that the shaft is perpen- dicular to the plane of the body, the tip well in the bladder, with the convexity of the instrument pressing firmly and steadily toward the perinseum. The finger is now carried into the rectum in order to guard against puncture of the anterior wall of this organ. The knife (Fig. 53) is entered just about a half-inch anterior to the anus in the median line, the edge of the blade directed upward, and is pushed straight inward until the point strikes into the concavity of the groove in the staff at the anterior limit of the prostate. It is then made to cut forward and upward until the membranous portion is divided, and, as it is with- drawn, the incision in the perinseum is lengthened in all about one and a half inch. The finger is now introduced, the sound withdrawn, and the wound, prostatic portion of the urethra, and neck of the bladder dilated until the stone can be felt and extracted with a slender forceps. Of the four methods of cutting for stone just described, the lateral and supra-pubic operations are preferable. The bilateral procedure is