New York: D. APPLETON & CO., 1, 3, & 5 Bond Street. REASONS WHY PHYSICIANS SHOULD SUBSCRIBE FOR THE I]ew York LQedical Jouri]al, Edited by FRANK P. FOSTER, M. D., Published by D. APPLET ON d CO., New York. TDECAUSE : It is the LEADING JOURNAL of America and contains more reading, matter than any other journal of its class. "gECAUSE: It is the exponent of the most advanced scientific medical thought. J^ECAUSE : Its contributors are among the most learned medical men of this country. "DECAUSE: Its "Original Articles" are the results of scientific observation and rc- search, and are of infinite practical value to the general practitioner. "DECAUSE: The "Reports on the Progress of Medicine," which arc published from time to time, contain the most recent discoveries in the various departments of medicine, and are written by practitioners especially qualified for the purpose. T)ECAUSE: The column devoted in each number to " Therapeutical Notes " contains a resume of the practical application of the most recent therapeutic novelties. "DECAUSE: The Society Proceedings, of which each number contains one or more, are reports of the practical experience of prominent physicians who thus give to the profession the results of certain modes of treatment in given cases. "DECAUSE : The Editorial Columns are controlled only by the desire to promote the welfare, honor, and advancement of the science of medicine, as viewed from a standpoint looking to the best interests of the profession. "DECAUSE: Nothing is admitted to its columns that has not some bearing on medicine, or is not possessed of some practical value. "DECAUSE: It is published solely in the interests of medicine, and for the upholding of the elevated position occupied by the profession of America. The volumes begin with January and July of each year. Subscriptions can be arranged to begin with the volume. Subscription Price, ^^.oo per Anmim. The Popular Science Monthly and the New York Medical Journal to the same address, $9.00 per Annum (full price, $10.00).