347 DISEASES OF SPECIAL JOINTS. Fig. 383.—(After Suyre.) Fig. 384.—( After Sayre.) manner: If the patient be stripped and laid flat on the back, on a hard, level surface, and both legs drawn up (Fig. 382), it will be seen that the sacrum, spines of the vertebrse, the scapulae, and occiput rest in contact with the table. If the sound leg be now ex- tended and the pop- liteal space brought well down against the surface of the table, the lumbar spine is only very slightly, if at all, lifted from the table (Fig. 383). If there be rigidity of the mus- cles named, as a result of hip-disease, on the suspected side, when the effort is made to bring this leg into a position parallel with the sound one, it will be seen that extension of the thigh is limited, and that the motion of the hip-joint is transferred to the lumbar verte- brae, so that when the popliteal space touch- es the table the lumbar spines are lifted from one to three inches from its surface (Fig. 384). The duration of the first stage varies from two or three months to as much as one year, and in exceptional cases longer. In the second stage the thigh is further flexed on the abdomen, adduc- tion is more pronounced, and shortening is present in a degree varying with the extent of destructive ostitis in the acetabulum, or head and neck of the femur, and to the character of the luxation. In the usual position of the foot of the affected side, in this stage, the great toe or inner surface of the tarsus rests upon the dorsum of the well foot, or on the spine of the tibia. The shortening—which may be determined by measuring from the anterior-superior spine of the ilium to the inner malleolus—will vary from half an inch to several inches. Nelaton's or Callaway's test— already given in the article on fractures of the femur—will demonstrate that the shortening has occurred above the trochanter. Suppuration occurs, the capsule gives way, and sooner or later, if surgical interference is delayed, sinuses open through the skin, about the trochanter, or in the groin. Perforation of the acetabulum takes place in a certain proportion of cases. Diagnosis.—Disease of the hip-joint may be differentiated from bur- sitis, peri-articular inflammation, rheumatism, neuralgia, sacro-iliac dis- ease, or ostitis of the trochanter or ilium. It is also important to deter- mine whether the initial lesion is a synovitis or an ostitis. Synovitis may be caused by excessive use of the joint, by strain or concussion, by sudden exposure to cold, or it may result as a symptom of gout or rheumatism. It is a painful affection from its incipiency, and