I THE NOSE. 397 the drainage established a few hours later, when the haemorrhage has ceased, by substituting a loose dressing. The Nose. Acquired Lesions.—Fracture of the bones of the nose has been already considered. Epistaxis, or haemorrhage from the nose, is often severe enough to demand surgical interference. The bleeding may at times be arrested by diminishing the blood-pressure in the vessels of the nose by ligation of the extremities. This consists in applying an elastic bandage (or an ordinary roller, if the rubber can not be obtained) around the thighs and arms close to the trunk, and making the pressure strong enough to arrest, in great part, the return of blood through the veins without arresting the circulation in the arteries. When the haemorrhage ceases the ligatures should be gradually loosened, so that the volume of blood which has been confined in the extremities may not be too suddenly returned to the^ heart. Plugging or tamponing the nares, if properly done, will succeed if all other methods fail. First, determine accurately the nostril in which the bleeding is occurring. Take a piece of fine sponge at least an inch in diameter when dry (and it should be introduced without being moistened, so that when in position in the posterior nares it will expand as the blood moistens it), and tie around its center three strong silk threads. A soft catheter or boiigie is now introduced into the nostril from the front, keeping the point of the instrument well on the floor of the nose. As soon as the end is seen or felt behind the soft palate, it is drawn out at the mouth by the forceps or fingers. Two of the three threads are attached to the point of the instrument, which is then pulled back through the nostril. When the threads come out of the nose in front they are seized by the fingers of one hand while the sponge is care- fully guided into position tehind the soft palate with the other. Once well in the posterior naris it is held in position and made to exert the necessary compression by tying the two anterior strings over a softened sponge packed into the nostril in front. The third thread is brought out of the mouth, and is to be used in dislodging the tampon when the haemor- rhage has ceased. Lint, soft rags, or cotton may be used for plugs when a sponge can not be obtained. A long probe or a loop of soft wire may be used instead of the bougie. The application of a 4-to-8 per cent solution of cocaine hydrochlorate to the mucous membrane of the nose may prove useful as a haemostatic, since Bosworth has demonstrated that it causes marked diminution in the caliber of the vessels of the lining membrane. Foreign Bodies.—Buttons, seeds, and other substances are often lodged in the cavity of the nose. The usual seat of lodgment is in the anterior part of the inferior meatus, or between the lower turbinated bone and the septum, and occasionally they are pushed beyond this into the middle meatus. When allowed to remain, inflammation of the lining membrane always ensues, and ostitis is not infrequent.