STONE IN THE BLADDER. 581 particles, such as epithelia, mucus, and various inflammatory products, often enter into the formation of calculi. When an aggregation of the urinary salts occurs within the kidney-tubules, the probabilities are that the stone so formed will remain imprisoned in this organ (renal calculus) until removed by ulceration or operation. Forming in the larger straight tubes of the pyramids, a urinary concretion may, while yet minute, es- cape into the calix and pelvis, and pass down the ureter into the blad- der, or remain lodged in the pelvis or excretory duct. It is, moreover, probable that the majority of calculi found in the bladder, or passed by the urethra, originate as concretions in the straight tubes, calices, or pelves of the kidneys, whence they drift outward to the bladder, and there by continued accretion become large enough to attract attention, even if the transit along the ureter was unnoticed. Undoubtedly a fair proportion of vesical calculi are formed in this organ proper, and the greater number of these may be grouped in the class of calculi which form around nuclei composed of foreign substances, or animal matter, such as epithelia, inflammatory products, etc. Conversely, it is admitted that animal matter may form the nucleus of a kidney or pelvic concretion, while a bladder calculus may also be formed by accre- tion of the purely inorganic elements of the urine. A calculus is rarely of uniform composition, more frequently com- bining two or more inorganic as well as organic elements in its forma- tion. In the nomenclature it is the practice to give to the stone the name of the preponderating element. That most commonly observed is composed principally of tiric acid and the urates. These stones are of fair consistency, yellowish or light-brown in color, not very smooth when single, yet not so rough as oxalate-of-lime concretions. They may attain a diameter of two or three inches. As a rule, they form in urine which is distinctly acid in reaction. The mulberry or oxalate-of-lime calculus is next in order of fre- quency, and relatively more so in children than in adults. They may exist in all sizes, and vary greatly in color. The smaller concretions are light in color and fairly smooth ; the larger are exceedingly rough, with jagged edges, and are dark-brown in color, in rare instances white. Oxalate-of-lime calculi usually commence in the kidney, and pass as small particles to the bladder. The most severe forms of '' renal colic " are due to the slow and painful i^assage of these rougher concretions along the ureters. PhospTiatic calculi come next in order of frequency, and are divis- ible into three classes : the ammonio-magnesian and phospJiate-of-lime (fusible) calculus, neutral phosphate of lime, and ammonio-magnesian calculus. Fusible calculi are more often met with than the other two forms of phosphatic concretions. They are gray or white in color, readily friable, and light. The hardness is proportionate to the lime phosphate present. They attain large size, and, conform themselves to the shape of the bladder.