AMPUTATIONS. 131 Fig. 197. Pia. 196. scalpel, while the ligaments are made phalanx is involved, section tlirougli the bone should be preferred to disarticulation at the metatarso-phalangeal joint, provided that the line of section is through the anterior thii'd of the phalanx. Disarticula- tion of two or more consecutive toes at the metatarso-phalangeal joint may be elfected by a continuous incision. Amputation of all the toes at this articulation is performed as follows : Grasp and forcibly flex the toes, and make an incision, commencing just posterior to the inner aspect of the metatarsal joint of the great toe, curving forward along the side of the first phalanx to a point as far advanced as the web between the toes, and then across the base of each digit on this ])lane until the outer side of the metatarsal bone of the fifth toe is reached at a point corresponding to that at which the incision was begun. With the toes now fully extended, a symmetrical flap is next cut along the plantar as- pect by an incision which almost merges into the first line at the ante- rior margin of the web (Figs. 196,197). Dissect up each flap as far back as the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, leaving the tendons to be divided at this point. The disarticulation may be best effected with a strong narrow tense by forced flexion. Second Method.—A separate amputation may be made for each toe. Through the Metatarsus.—When the loss of tissue requires an ampu- tation behind the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, section of one, or even all, of the metatarsal bones should be effected rather than unneces- sarily sacrifice any portion of the foot by disarticulation at the tarso- metatarsal joint. The line of section should always be as near the anterior extremity as possible, and when it falls within three fourths of an inch from the tarso-metatarsal joint, a disarticulation should be made at this point. Amputation through the entire metatarsus should be made with a long plantar and short dorsal flap, so that the scar will fall on the dorsum of the foot and away from pressure. The dorsal incision should be made almost directly across the foot, and on a line with the plane of section through the bones. The plantar flap should begin on the inner side of the first metatarsal bone, and follow this forward as far as is necessary to secure a flap of suflicient length. It is always wise to make this a little too long, so that it may be trimmed down and made to fit j nicely as the sutures are being adjusted. The incision is next carried j across the sole of the foot to the outer surface of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and back along this to the point of junction with the end of the dorsal cut. All of the tissues should be divided directly down to the bones in this incision, and the fiap dissected up, keeping the knife-