84 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 500 to 1 to 1,000. Any instrament subjected to contamination should be submerged in 1 to 10 to 1 to 20 carbolic acid, and afterward thoroughly- dried. The walls and floors of a ward or room in which an outbreak has occurred should be mopped and w^ashed in the sublimate solution. The attendants upon such cases should be excluded fi'om all j)ossible contact with other individuals. When a physician is compelled to visit a case of erysipelas, he should wear clothing which should be changed immediately after leaving the room, which precaution should be emj)hasized by a thorough disinfection of his hands, face, beard, and hair in 1 to 3,000 sublimate solution. The local measures always include as of first impor- tance the investment of the part involved with sublimate gauze and a moist dressing. Continuous irrigation of cold, tepid, or warm sublimate (1 to 5,000) may be added to the loose gauze dressing, or not, as may be determined by the demands of any case. This method is mainly prophy- lactic. Cold irrigation will be most generally grateful. Extreme heat or cold, however, should be used with caution in all cases where the circu- lation of the part is seriously impaired by the inflammatory process. When an extremity is affected, elevation of the part is indicated. Ten- sion should always be relieved by puncture or incision, even when sup- puration and pus infiltration are not evident. The principle of drainage applies here as in other wounds, and the free outlet of all purulent mat- ter is essential. Incisions, when practiced, should be in the direction of the veins of the part, so that these need not be divided, and should always extend deep enough to relieve tension and to give free exit to all septic matter. The method of injecting carbolic acid into the skin and subcutaneous tissues, at a distance of from one to two inches from the red limit of the erysipelatous flush, in order to check the further invasion of the disease, is of doubtful efiicacy and propriety. The same should apply to "firing" with the actual cautery or lunar caustic for the same purpose. The constitutional measures look to the support of the patient, and to the antagonism of the specific poison. Since constipation and gastric disturbance are the rule, a saline laxative should be given, but not to the extent of producing exhaustive diarrhoea. Purgation is not indicated in enfeebled and emaciated subjects. For the rapid pulse, tincture of aco- nite-root may be employed, and antipyrine, 10 to 20 grains every two or three hours until the temperature falls to about the normal. Tincture of the chloride of iron, 8 to 15 drops three or four times a day, has long enjoyed a high reputation in the treatment of this disease, and the same is true of quinia in full doses. Tetanus.—Tiaumsitic or surgical tetanus differs from the idiopathic variety of this affection only in the presence of a wound, which is the starting-point of the irritation which ends in myelitis. Any lesion, how- ever small or seemingly insignificant, and upon any portion of the body, may serve as the starting-point of this affection. Wounds, however, of the plantar and palmar surfaces, and in the distribution of the trifacial nerves, are believed to be especially liable to induce a central myelitis. Irritation, however, vsdthout a solution of continuity, may produce this