THE NECK. 447 prone to occur in those whose surroundings are damp and unwholesome, and among the poorly fed. The influence of heredity is recognized in the occurrence of this disease in the children of patients affected with bronchocele. A goitre may be solid or cystic. In solid goitre the enlargement may be caused by a general hypertrophy of the normal elements which com- pose this body, or some of these elements may undergo proliferation and increase at the expense of the others. When the tumor is hard and tense, it is called fibrous goitre, and in this form the chief pathological change is an increase in the connective-tissue elements of the stroma. In cystic goitre the tumor is caused by the accumulation of a dark- brown fluid within the substance of the organ. There may be one or more separate collections of fluid, although a multilocular arrangement is most common. The diagnosis of goitre is not difficult. The presence of a tumor in the region of the thyroid body, usually unilateral, occasionally bilateral, moving with the trachea in the act of deglutition, capable of very percep- tible enlargement during coughing or any prolonged and violent expira- tory effort, are symptoms which point quite clearly to bronchocele. As to determining the character of the tumor, one must depend upon pal- pation in great part, and also upon exploration with the aspirator. Fi- brous goitre is dense, hard, very slightly elastic, often presenting irregu- larities in surface. Cystic bronchocele is round, smooth, elastic, movable, and, even when the capsule is greatly distended, fluctuation is percepti- ble. The use of the exploring-needle, and the withdrawal of a portion of the fluid contents for microscopical examination, is important in diag- nosis. The fluid from a cystic goitre varies in color from amber to dark brown and almost black. Under the microscope crystals of cholesterin, crenated red blood-corpuscles, large compound granular cells, leuco- cytes, etc., are seen. The characteristic contents of hydatid cysts are easily recognized and excluded. Fibro-cystic, or mixed goitres, possess some of the characteristics of both the foregoing varieties. The feeling of solidity is not so great as in the fibrous, and is less elastic and with a less appreciable sense of fluctuation than in cystic bronchocele. Sarcoma and carcinoma of this organ are hard, solid tumors of rapid development, steadily increasing in size, and in their growth binding the invaded organ to the integument, muscles, and fascia of the neck. Abscess would have a previous history of inflammation, pain, and febrile movement. Aneurism of the carotid appears usually to the outer side of the thyroid region, and presents the symptoms of expansion with the heart's systole, the aneurismal thrill and murmur, all of which symp- toms disappear after pressure upon the artery on the cardiac side of the tumor. The diagnosis of other cervical tumors may be considered here. Tu- bercular lymphomata are recognized by their anatomical locations, by their slow process of development, together with the personal and family history of the individual.