470 A TEXT-BOOK OX SURGERY. which have become cut off from the general cuTulation through the tumor. The diagnosis of sarcoma of the breast depends upon the age of the patient, the rapidity of its growth, and the absence of axillary engorge- ment. The treatment consists in free excision. Carcinoma is by far the most common form of neoplasm met with in the breast. The order of prevalence of the four varieties is scirrhus, encepJialoid, colloid, and epithelioma. Cancer of the mammary gland occurs in rare instances in males. In women it is met with most fre- quently in the period from the fortieth to the sixtieth years of life. It may occur later than this, and is rarely seen earlier than the age of thirty. Women who have never been pregnant are affected, though probably not so liable as those who have borne children. Scirrhus of the breast appears usually as a single hard nodule or lump, situated in the substance of the gland, movable within this organ, but firmly imbedded in it; or two or more nodules may appear simul- taneously in different parts of the gland, which eventually approach each other so as to form a nodulated mass. The growth of scirrhus is, as a rule, not rapid in the earlier stages of its development, but, after reaching a certain size, it spreads with increasing rapidity. The length of time which may elapse between the commencement of the neoplasm and metastasis in the subpectoral and axillary lymphatics varies in dif- ferent individuals. It is, however, in general proportionate to the rapid- ity of the growth of the neoplasm. Pain, which is a symptom of this disease, is lancinating in character rather than dull and continuous. It is usually more severe in tumors which develop rapidly. Cancer of the breast may assume the form of a single large, rounded, and nodular mass, or nodules of various sizes may develop in the organ or be scattered in knots or groups beneath the integument, in the pec- toral muscles, or along the line of lymphatics leading into the axilla. If left unmolested, scirrhus soon invades the tissues around the breast, the muscles of the chest becoming infiltrated, the skin attached to the mass, and the nipple retracted. On account of pressure the circulation in the most remote portions of the invaded gland is interfered with, and ulceration ensues, giving rise to a more or less extensive granulating sur- face, from which there is a discharge of a serous-like fluid containing blood-corpuscles, embryonic, pus, and cancer cells. In the later stages lymphatic engorgement is more extensive, and the effects of compres- sion upon the thoracic and axillary nerves more evident. Not infre- quently the subclavicular, supraclavicular, and cervical lymphatics be- come engorged. Pressure-symptoms are not alone confined to the nerves, but the interference with the return circulation in the axillary vein may produce general oedema of the extremity. EncepTialoid cancer of the breast differs only in degree from the scirrhous variety. It is softer under pressure, grows with much greater rapidity, ulcerates earlier and more extensively, is more prone to hsem- orrhages, and tends to a more rapidly fatal termination. It is more apt to recur after removal.