15 BANDAGING. Fig. 19. heel's convexity, and on to the starting-point. Next, make another turn around the ankle, carrying the posterior edge of the bandage qyer the center of the turn that has just preceded it, and make one or two other turns in front of this until the heel is completely covered (Fig. 18). The bandage is then carried around the heel in the same direction, so that its anterior border rests on the middle of the first turn, and the roller is carried from the fibular side of the heel across the dorsum of the foot to the tibial side of the great toe. It then travels under the bases of the toes to the little toe, making a couple of complete turns around the foot at this point, and, when the roller has again reached the fibular side of the little toe, it is made to cross the dorsum of the foot obliquely to the tibial side of the heel, keeping the lower edge of the band- age about a quarter of an inch above the bottom of the heel. Repeat this figure- of-8 turn until the entire foot is thor- oughly concealed. It is best to cut with the scissors each turn of the roller about half through just when it crosses the front of the ankle, so that the accumu- lation of the bandage at this point may not interfere with the movements of the ankle-joint. The crossings of the figure-of-8 band- age on the dorsum of the foot should be kept a little to the fibular side of the median line. When the ankle is reached, the band- age should be carried up the leg by the spiral reverse until the sudden promi- nence of the muscles of the calf is reached, when, if necessary, the figure- of-8 reverse should be practiced to just below the knee. From this point up to the trochanter the simple figure-of-8, spi- ral, or spiral reverse, may be employed, according to the shape of the limb. When the level of the gluteal fold is reached, carry the roller obliquely upward and outward about half-way between the trochanter major and anterior iliac spine, on across the sacro-lumbar region to just above the upper margin of the iliac crest of the side opposite the limb being band- aged, thence downward across the abdomen and the groin to the front and outer side of the thigh, and back behind to the inner side at the point of starting. This manoeuvre is repeated until the entire hip and groin are covered, when the roller is carried spirally around the pelvis