THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. 455 of Sylvester (page 30). As soon as this danger is obviated, the removal of the foreign body may be undertaken. It is well to remember that in a few instances symptoms of asphyxia have been produced from the epiglottis having been drawn into the rima glottidis by a powerful in- spiratory effort. When fatal asphyxia is not threatened, no immediate operation is in- dicated. The patient should be turned head downward and violently shaken, and at the same time made to cough or sneeze. If the substance is smooth or heavy, it may be dislodged and expelled in this manner. If this procedure is unsuccessful, the question of operative interfer- ence should be considered. If the body can be located in the larynx, it can readily be removed by the operation of thyrotomy if the patient is a child, or by laryngotomy and the introduction of the little finger into the organ through the wound in the adult, pushing the offending sub- stance upward into the pharynx. Either of these procedures is prac- tically free from danger. When the foreign body has passed into the trachea or bronchi, the necessity for operative interference will depend upon its size, shape, and location. If it is small, and produces no marked disturbance of respiration, and is deeply lodged, no effort should be made to remove it, for the following reasons : When small, it is not apt to inflict serious damage ; the tracheotomy and the introduction of in- struments into the respiratory tract are dangerous operations ; lastly, the uncertainty of finding or dislodging a small body should be taken into consideration. When, however, the character of the foreign body is such that its presence is a source of great danger to the patient, and it can not be re- moved without operation, surgical interference is demanded. The posi- tion for the patient is the same as for tracheotomy, and this operation should be done as low down as possible. When the tra- chea is opened, the little Fm. 521.—Forceps for removing foreign bodies n T T T • T Irom the trachea and bronciii. nnger should be carried downward to the bifurca- tion in the hope of locating the body, and, if discovered, it should be grasped with a pair of forceps and removed. If it is not encountered below, the upper portion of the tube should be examined in the same way. If it can not be reached by the finger, the angular alligator-forceps (Fig. 521) should be carried into the bronchial tubes, carefully regarding any arrest in the progress of the instrument. A solid or large body may be felt and seized without great difficulty. A small, light substance may be touched without any sense of resistance to the hand of the operator. If it can not be recognized, the point of the instrument should be carried into the bronchus in which the body is located, the Jaws separated, and, while open, carried about half an inch further in, and then closed and withdrawn in order to see if the object has been grasped. This manoeuvre is repeated several times until the