416 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. inserted, tlie bony projection should be seized witli a strong forceps and forced back into a safer position, or broken off with a chisel. The edges of the central tip must be trimmed or freshened. The length of the in- cision, a h (Fig. 477), and the extent of the dissection of the lip from the jaw, will depend upon the space to be covered in. The margin from a to the root of the nose is not freshened, since it forms the floor of the nostril when the operation is completed. The condition of the parts when ready for the sutures (pins are not used where a central piece is preserved) is shown in Fig. 478. The points h b meet in the median line of the lip, while a a are sewed to the central piece. Cheiloplasty—Upper Lip.—In addition to congenital deficiency of the lips, not infrequently as a result of accident or disease, or the re- moval of abnormal growths or cicatrices, the surgeon is called upon to relieve the deformity and inconvenience resulting from this loss of tissue. In the upper lip, when the loss of substance is not extensive, as in Fig. 479, the unsightly appearance may be remedied by making two in- cisions, curved as represented by the lines ad., ad., from the side of each Fig. 479.—(Alter Eoser.) Fig. 480.—(Alter Eoser.) ala nasi downward and inward to the apex of the fissure. The soft tis- sues should be dissected up and brouglit into position by sutures applied as in Fig. 480. If after the dissection the tension is still so great that the parts do not come well into position, a horizontal incision should be made on either side, beginning near the root of the nose, and carried directly outward, or slightly outAvard, and downward, as the shape of the flap may require. Where there is greater loss of sub- stance, Burrows's method is advisable (Fig. 481). Make a horizontal incision on each side, commencing in the angle of the mouth, and going entirely through the lip, a 5, c d., and unite these at Tc and j. Dis- sect out the triangular piece y a 5, Tc c d. Make now two other h orizon tal in cision s, wh ich run into the nasal cavity g li and /e, and dissect out two smaller triangles, fern and gTil. The proximal edges of the quadrilateral flaps glicd and efah should now 481.—(After Linhart.)