LIGATION OF ARTERIES. 231 in the same manner. As soon as the wall of the artery is exposed the sharp-pointed instruments should be laid aside. A dull-pointed aneu- rism-needle (Fig. 63), or a flexible sUver probe, should now be passed between the sheath and the vessel, and carried carefully around the artery, keeping the point close to the wall of the vessel. When a nerve or vein is in close relation, the instrument should be introduced on the side nearest these, thus insuring their exclusion. The dull-pointed probe, bent to the proper curve, may be used to great advantage in almost all operations upon the arteries. After the point is carried around the vessel and brought up out of the sheath, the ligature may be tied over the slight bulbous expansion of this instrument, which, when withdrawn, leaves the ligature around the vessel. In tying the catgut the double loop (see Fig. 112) should be used for the first, and the single loop for the second knot. The force employed should be sufiicient to occlude the vessel, yet not enough to inflict unne- cessary violence upon its walls. The ends of the string should be cut off for one fourth to one half of an inch from the knot, and the wound closed for a permanent dressing. Ligation oftlie Innominate Artery—Anatomy.—The arteria-innomi- nata is derived from the transverse segment of the arch of the aorta, immediately in front of the trachea, just behind the middle of the ster- num, at a level varying from one half to one and a half inches below the upper margin of the manubrium. From this origin it travels obliquely upward, backward, and to the right (crossing the trachea from its center), and bifurcates, near the upper margin of the clavicle, between the sternal and clavicular origins of the sterno-mastoideus into the carotid and subclaman arteries, the flrst of these coming from its anterior aspect, the last a direct continuation of the arcTi of the innominate. The innominata in rare instances originates to the left of the trachea ; more frequently it is given off before it reaches the windpipe. As a rule, it is longer in females than in males. In twenty-eight cases in which I measured the distance of the origin of the innominate from the commencement of the aorta, the average was three inches and a half. In thirty-seven measurements made to determine the length of the innominate artery, the average was one inch and a half, the .shortest specimens being three fourths and the longest two inches. Operation.—Place a firm cushion crosswise beneath the shoulder- blades, so that the head will fall well back, and thus draw the artery upward. Have an assistant draw the arm and shoulder of the right side forcibly downward, while the chin is elevated and the face turned slightly to the left. With the patient completely anaesthetized, and every arrangement made for expedition, make, from the center of the interclavicular notch, an incision about three inches in extent along the clavicle. A second incision, commencing at the inner border of the sterno-mastoideus, about two inches and a half above the clavicle, is made to unite with the first incision at the middle of the interclavicular notch. Dissect the flap up- ward until the sterno-mastoid muscle is exposed, the sternal and two