FISSURE AND ULCER OF THE ANUS AND RECTUM. 537 thumbs, introduces one and then the other to their full length, and stretches the opening directly to the right and left until the palmar as- pect of each thumb is in contact with the inner surface of the tuber ischii. A towel, held in place by a roller or T-bandage, should be applied to prevent soiling. The rest obtained by the paralysis of the sphincter [ allows the fissure to heal. The function of the muscle is restored in from eight to twelve days. Ulqers.—The traumatic causes of ulcer of the rectum are the same I as those given for fissure of the anus. Ulcer may also result from any I acute or chronic inflammatory process of the lower bowel. It is a not infrequent sequence of dysentery, and may be met with in that { form of proctitis which results from prolonged diarrhoea. Inflamma- tion of a hsemorrhoidal tumor will produce ulcer of the rectum, and the same is true of the gummatous deposits of the late stages of syph- I ills. A primary chancre or a chancroid may be located at the anal margin, and less frequently in the bowel. These two varieties of ulcer are usually seen in women suffering with pudendal chancre or chan- croid, and in males the subjects of pederasty. Tubercular deposits in the rectum may also break down, and thus cause ulceration in the wall of this organ. The symptoms of ulcer of the rectum vary with the character of the sore and with its location. If the lesion is situated within the grasp of the sphincter muscles, tenesmus is apt to be a marked feature. The ulcer from a traumatism, or following an acute inflammatory process, I is more apt to be painful than that which is a part of a subacute or chronic catarrh, or which occurs with tuberculosis or syphilis. A com- mon symptom of all ulcers of this organ is the presence of more or less blood and mucus or pus in the discharges. The diagnosis may be con- j firmed by inspection with the speculum, and by digital exploration. Tubercular ulcer of the rectum very rarely exists before the symptoms of deposits in the lungs are present. Upon inspection they are recog- I nized by their yellowish color, usually small size, and their dissemina- tion over a considerable area of the mucous membrane. In the more fully developed ulcers the caseous degeneration of the inflammatory products may be observed. Mr. AUingham describes a rare form of ulcer which he has occasion- ally observed in the rectum, and which he has named lupoid, or rodent ulcer, of this organ. Its usual location is near the anus. It tends to spread widely, the floor of the ulcer is red and dry, the margins irregular I and precipitous. It is very probably tubercular in character. Chancroidal ulcer of the rectum may be recognized by the precipitous margins of these sores, and by the rapidity with which they spread. In patients affected with phagedenic ulcers of the genital organs, the inoculation may occur by direct contact of the secretion of the venereal sore, or the virus may be conveyed through the medium of the nails in the act of scratching. Under such conditions the sore usually first ap- pears upon the mucous membrane of the margins of the anus, and ex- i tends later into the rectum. The diagnosis must be based upon the