DISLOCATIONS. 331 / Iliac / 50 Pubic \ T \ \ Ischiatic \ JO Obturator II / luxations: (1) Upon the dorsum ilii; (2) into the ischiatic notch; (3) into the obturator foramen; (4) upon the os pubis. Practically these lesions occur in each of the quadrants of a circle, the center of which is the center of the acetabulum. As shown in Fig. 366, about 50 per cent of all luxations at the hip occur in the iliac quadrant, 30 per cent in the ischiatic, 11 per cent in the obturator, and 7 per cent in the pubic. Two per cent occur beyond these regions. Cases are on record where the head of the bone was lodged on the tuber ischii, in the perinaeum, and just beneath the anterior-superior spine of the ilium. The capsule is usually torn at its inferior and posterior sur- face. It may be a slit or tear in the long axis of the liga- ment, or frequently a broad rupture occurs along the edge of the cotyloid cavity. Jhe ligamentum teres (when pres- ent) is always torn. The ilio- femoral (or Y) ligament is very rarely completely ruptured. The injury to the muscles and sur- rounding structures is always severe, and varies in proportion to the degree of violence which caused the luxation, together with the particular direction of the displace- ment. In the displacement upon the dorsum ilii the glutei muscles may be lacerated, bruised, or lifted from the ilium by the head of the bone, but not by tension on their tendons, for, with the exception of the lower fibers of the maximus, their axes are slightly shortened in the new posi- tion. The obturator internus, externus, gemelli, and quadratus femoris are greatly stretched, or torn entirely loose. The pyriformis is not so apt to suffer. The pectineus, iliacus, and psoas are carried upward and outward. When the head of the bone is projected into the ischiatic notch, the conditions as to the muscles are practically unchanged. The sciatic nerve and vessels are pressed upon and may be contused or lacer- ated. In the displacement upon the pubes the psoas and iliacus may be injured, while the femoral vessels and anterior crural nerve are more or less pressed upon. When the head of the bone is lodged in the obturator foramen, the obturator externus muscle and the obturator vessels and nerves are more or less contused, while the glutei and the remaining external rotators are put upon the stretch. Causes.—Dislocations at the hip may be congenital, pathological, or traumatic in cause. Congenital luxations, rare in occurrence, are the result of interference Fig. 366.—Showing the proportion of displacement in the four quadrants of a circle about the acetabulum.