.579 HEMATURIA. If bloody urine is allowed to stand without being agitated, the cor- puscles settle to the bottom of the vessel, and may be recognized by their red or amber color. Under the microscope they may assume different shapes. In acid urine the disks retain their bi-concave conformation for a long time. When the haemorrhage is slight, they float isolated ; if pro- fuse, they may be caught in coagula or collect in rouleaux. If the re- action is feebly acid, or where the corpuscles are submitted for a consid- erable time fco the action of the urine, they lose their bi-concave shape, and become distended, swollen, and spherical. They may be recognized from pus-corpuscles by their smaller size, transparency, and in not con- taining granular bodies. At times they retain their flat shape and appear with serrated edges. Blood-casts usually come from the kidney-tubules, and are composed of fibrin in which the red disks are entangled in varying proportion. In some, large clusters or groups of blood-corpuscles are seen, with an occasional epithelial cell from the kidney or urinary passages. When the disks have been completely destroyed, as in the decomposition of the coloring-matter in ammoniacal urine, and the organic elements of the blood are not recognizable with the microscope, the spectroscope may be relied upon to demonstrate the presence of the coloring-matter. In determining the source of blood in hsematuria the following points should be considered : When the bleeding is urethral, the first discharge of urine is most deeply colored. A clot of blood j^receding or accom- panying the discharge of urine indicates urethral haemorrhage. In males, if spermatozoa are entangled in the coagula, the suspicion of haemor- rhage from the 'easa deferentia or prostatic apparatus is entitled to con- sideration, although the fact must not be overlooked that these elements may mingle in the urethra with blood from any part of the urinary passages. When the bleeding is from the pelvis of the kidney, pain and other symptoms of stone or pyelitis will often precede the hsematuria. Not infrequently, however, the haemorrhage is, next to the presence of pus in the urine, the first indication of pyelitis. In haemorrhage from the bladder there are often symptoms of cystitis which will point directly to this organ as the source of the bleeding. In differentiating the origin of blood from the kidneys, ureters, and the bladder, the method of Thompson and Yan Buren may be resorted to with success. Introduce a soft catheter just within the neck of the bladder, draw off the contained urine, and wash out the organ with clean water. If, during the irrigation, the water which flows away contains blood, the haemorrhage is from the bladder-walls. If it flows away clear, then empty the bladder, place the finger over the end of the catheter, allow it to remain introduced, and wait until a small quantity of urine has accumulated. This is drawn off, and, if it is bloody, and if the clear water now thrown in comes out unstained, the inference is fair that the bleeding is from the ureters or beyond. Haemorrhage from the urethra is rare except from violence, the lodg- ment of calculi, or from ulceration.