CHAPTER XXL TUMOES. The word tumor (from tumere, to swell) was formerly applied to any abnormal formation or collection of matter within the body. The over- accumulation of fecal matter in the colon, the swelling due to extravasa- tion of blood, or to the retraction of a muscle after rupture of its tendon; an abscess, a retention-cyst, a hernia, a floating or displaced kidney, as well as all the recognized non-inflammatory neoplasms, as sarcoma, fibro- ma, lipoma, carcinoma, etc., were ranged under the comprehensive head- ing of tumors. Of late years the application of the term has been more restricted. A tumor is now defined to be a circumscribed, non-inflammatory mass, composed of new-formed elements wMcTi, having tlieir type in tlie nor- mal embryonic or adult tissues, are dependent upon these for nutrition, and yet are not amenable to the laws regulating and limiting the devel- opment of the normal structures. Circumscribed, because a general or wide-spread hypertrophy or hy- perplasia does not convey to the eye or touch the idea of a swelling or tumor. The accumulation of fat in obesity can not be called a tumor, yet the fat so deposited over a wide area differs in no essential particular from that which forms a lipoma. Non-inflammatory, for the reason that this most clearly separates true neoplasms from the cell-proliferation of the ordinary inflammatory process, with its characteristic heat, pain, and redness, as well as swell- ing. New formations in this, that although the law established by Johan- nes Miiller—that the elements of all tumors, no matter how changed from the normal, spring from and have their types in the normal tissues of embryonic or adult life—stands unquestioned, yet these elements, in their changed conditions, tend to persist or to grow indefinitely, in utter disregard of the laws of limitation in the development of normal tissues. The efforts at classification of tumors upon a histological basis have not been generally satisfactory. Virchow, Foerster, Cornil and Ranvier, and other pathologists, vdth the same end in view, have arrived at con- clusions scarcely reconcilable. A discussion of these various classifica- tions belongs more properly to special works on pathology. Clinically, they admit of division into two heads—the malignant and non-malig- nant.