^ 567 GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. cially if the organ be fully or partially distended, and the blow inflicted over the lower abdominal region. Fracture of the pelvis is not infre- quently complicated with this grave accident. Fragments of bone may be driven through the walls of the bladder, or the rupture may occur from compression alone. The location of the rupture is, fortunately, in the majority of cases, through portions of the organ not covered by peritonaeum. The anterior- inferior or sub-pubic portion and the neighborhood of the trigonum vesi- cae are most apt to give way. The symptoms of rupture are not always prominent. When violence may be eliminated, there is usually a history of over-distention, a desire to urinate, a feeling as if something had given way, with partial or com- plete relief from the pressure within the bladder. When the rupture is extra-peritoneal, the signs of infiltration in the perinseum and perirectal tissues are early recognized. Direct external palpation, or the introduc- tion of the finger into the rectum, will recognize the doughy condition of the tissues. If the hypodermic needle is introduced, a few drops of bloody urine may be withdrawn. When the rupture is so situated that urine escapes into the peritoneal cavity, the'earlier signs are shock, of a severe type, with dullness on percussion in the hypogastric and inguinal regions. In confirming a diagnosis based upon any of the foregoing symptoms, an examination of the bladder by the sound or catheter is essential. The passage of this instrument through an opening, so that it may be felt beneath the abdominal walls, is a demonstration of rupture. The passage of a small amount of bloody urine, with or without the catheter, is a suspicious sign, and if this small quantity is passed with each respiratory act the evidence is almost convincing. The exploration of the pelvic region with the aspirator-needle will determine the presence of urine in the tissues outside of the bladder. Treatment.—In extra-peritoneal rupture immediate and free incision should be made into the infiltrated zone, and, while this is being done under ether, the bladder should be incised as in lateral lithotomy. The free escape of urine through this incision arrests infiltration and keeps the bladder in repose, thus facilitating a closure of the rupture. The treatment of rupture of the bladder into the cavity of the peri- tonseum has just been given in penetrating wounds of this organ. The comparatively slight risk involved in an exploratory incision through the linea alba into the cavity of the peritonaeum should encour- age the surgeon, even in cases in which there may be some doubt as to the correctness of the diagnosis, to perform this operation. The knowl- edge that death has so far resulted in every case of intra-peritoneal rupt- ure of the bladder in which surgical interference has not been made, adds an additional justification to the exploration of this cavity. Cystitis.—Inflammation of the bladder is one of the most common surgical diseases. It may be acute or chronic. In the majority of in- stances only the mucous membrane of the neck and floor of this,organ is affected. Less frequently the entire mucous lining is attacked. In extreme cases the inflammation attacks the muscular walls, and spreads