RECENT PUBLICATIONS. New York: D. APPLETON & CO., 1, 3, & 5 Bond Street. A Text-Book of Medicine for Students a^d Practitioners. By Adolf Strumpell. Translated from the third German edition, by Heeman F. Viokery, A. B., M. D., and Philip 0. Knapp, a. M., M. D. With Editorial Notes by Fekdeeiok C. Shattuok, A. M., M. D. In two volumes. With Illustrations. {Nearly ready.) Tl\e Use of the Microscope in Clinical ar\d Pat]:\ological Examinations. By Dr. Gael Friedlaendee, Pri- vat-Docent in Pathological Anatomy in Berlin. Translated from the en- larged and improved second edition, by Henet C. Coe, M. D., etc. With a Chromo-Lithograph. 12mo, 195 pages, with copious Index. Cloth, $1.00. " This is the very book on microscopy that the general run of practitioners have long been wanting."—Virginia Medical Monthly. "For the student and practitioner we know of no better work than this, dealing as it does largely in clinical examination, which to the busy doctor is what is badly needed."— Texas Courier-Record of Medicine, " We are glad to see that a good translation of this valuable little book has been made. The author is well known for his original work, and we can feel assured that what he writes must have come from practical experience in the laboratory, and is not simply a product of the 'library-table.' "—Boston Medical and Surgical Journal. Ar( Atlas of Clinical Microscopy. By Alexander Peyee, M. D. Translated and edited by Alfred C. GiRARD, M. D., Assistant Surgeon, United States Army. First American, from the Manuscript of the second German edition, with Additions. Ninety Plates, with 105 Illustrations, Chromo-Lithographs. Square 8vo vol. Cloth, $6.00. , . " All who are interested in clinical microscopy will be pleased with the design and execution of this work, and will feel under obligation to the author, translator, and pub- lishers for placing so valuable a work in their hands. The plates in which are figured the various urinary inorganic deposits are especially fine, and the various forms of tube-casts, hyaline, waxy, epithelial, and raucous, are depicted with great fidelity and accuracy."— FMladelphia Medical Times. "To those students and practitioners of medicine who are interested in microscopical work and who are familiar with the use of this valuable aid to human vision in the study of nature, the present work will prove of incalculable value, since it represents the origi- nal work of an accomplished microscopist and artist. Accompanying the plates is a text of explanatory notes showing the various methods of working with the microscope and the significance of what is observed. The plates have been most handsomely printed. We have seen nothing in this special line of study that will compare in point of accuracy of detail and artistic effect to the work under consideration."—Maryland Medical Journal.