A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 432 to swallow sufficient nourishment, and to gain the additional advantage of pressure of the united lip, which aids in approximation of the edges of the cleft in the hard palate. The most suitable age for operating is within the first three years of life, if the infant is sufficiently strong and well nourished to endure so formidable a procedure. One of the most discouraging features of this operation, if postponed until later, is that, owing to the shortening and failure of development in the palate muscles, it is practically impossible to acquire a natural articulation, even after the fissure has been success- fully closed. When the cleft is general—that is, entirely through the soft and hard palate—it is advisable to close the soft portion first and finish the re- mainder in one or more sittings, as may be found necessary. In chil- dren, chloroform should be used; in adults, a sufficient degree of local ansesthesia may be obtained by the employment of hydrochlorate of co- caine to enable the operation to be done with the very valuable aid of the patient. In a case operated upon by myself, the parts to be incised were brushed over with a 4-per-cent solution of cocaine at intervals of two or three minutes for half an hour preceding, and about every five minutes during, the operation. The anaesthesia was perfectly satisfactory, and complete union resulted after the first operation. Operation of StapliylorrapJiy.—The first object in this operation is to keep the mouth of the patient widely opened. For this jDurpose Goodwillie's gag is the best of all instruments (Figs. 35 and 36). The tongue may be depressed with a spatula if neces- sary. If an anaesthetic is employed, the condition of narcosis should not be pro- found, for, if laryngeal sen- sibility is completely lost, blood or mucus may pass into the larynx and trachea instead of being swallowed. The patient's head being firmly held by an assistant, the soft palate is seized by a mouse-tooth fixation- forceps, and with a blunt- pointed, long narrow knife (Fig. 56) a strip, about one eighth to one sixteenth of an inch wide, is removed from the edges of the fis- sure, in its entire length (Fig. 507). In order to steady the palate, a silk thread may be inserted on either angle, or a second forceps applied, although this is not always Fig. 507.—Freshening the margin of the cleft in the operation of staphylorrapliy. (After Malgaigue.)