THE PENIS.—SIMPLE AMPUTATION. 637 iodide of potassium, together with protoiodide of mercury, for a num- ber of weeks. In this way the differentiation between the later mani- festations of syphilis and epithelioma may be assured. Operation.—Amputation of the penis may be performed by two methods: 1, simple amputation ; 2, amputation with transplantation of the urethra to the perinseum. In the selection of the method, the opera- tor must be guided by the nearness of the disease to the pubes and scro- tum. Ordinarily, when the induration is limited to the glans, a simple amputation may be made at a point about one inch posterior to this. If the line of amputation must be chosen at or very near the level of the pubes, the second method will be preferable, for the reason that re- traction of the stump will always occur, and the urine escaping over the scrotum will keep ui3 a constant and annoying excoriation and condition of uncleanliness. In the operation with transplantation of the urethra, the urine is voided in the squatting posture, and escapes freely behind the scrotum.* Simple Amputation.—Having shaved and thoroughly cleansed the pubes, scrotum, and penis, throw an elastic ligature around the organ at the level of the pubes. If the line of amputation is very near the liga- ture, this may be prevented from slipping by transfixing the penis with a large needle Just in front of the tourniquet. Seize the mass with a double hook, and, holding it steady, with a long, thin-bladed knife cut the organ smoothly off at a point at least one inch behind the disease. A tenaculum should be in readiness to prevent the erectile tissue from retracting. The tube of the urethra should now be dissected up for half an inch, and the tissues of both cavernous bodies again divided on a level with the point to which the dissection of the spongiosum has been carried. The urethra is now split by passing the knife through its roof and floor, and a silk suture carried through the end of each lateral half. A thread is also passed through the dense capsule of the corpora caver- nosa to prevent their retraction when the elastic ligature is removed. All vessels which may be recognized before loosening the rubber band should now be secured with catgut ligatures, and the remaining bleed- ing points caught up as the tourniquet is gradually loosened. The su- tures passed through each half of the urethra are now carried through the edge of the incision in the skin to which it is sewed. A simple dressing completes the operation. Humphrey^s Operation.—The elastic ligature is carried around the penis close up to the level of the pubes, as in the preceding operation, and the organ severed as near the ligature as possible. The vessels in the corpora cavernosa should be tied at once. An incision should now be made through the skin along the under surface of the corpus spon- giosum, back to and splitting through the base of the scrotum, so as to expose the tube of the urethra for about two and a half inches. This * I have performed this, the operation of Humphrey, three times, and in none of these patients has any unpleasant symptom followed. Two of the cases are still under observation three years after the operation.