FRACTURES. 317 The fracture-box may be employed when plaster can not be ob- tained. Foot.—The bones of the tarsus may be broken by direct or indirect violence. The diagnosis is not always easily made. The best method of treat- ment is fixation with a plaster-of-Paris dressing, after all danger of swell- ing has passed. When the os calcis is broken, and the tuberosity drawn up by the sural muscles, the leg should be flexed well upon the thigh, and the tarsus extended in order to relax this group of muscles. Fracture of the metatarsal bones and phalanges should be treated in the same manner as the corresponding bones of the upper extremity. Ununited Fractures—Fibrous Union.—In a certain proportion of cases union between the ends of broken bones is delayed beyond the time usually required for ossification, and may remain permanently ununited. The causes of ununited fracture are: (1) Failure to secure immobility ; (2) presence of muscle, tendon, nerve, or other substance between the fragments; (3) violent and prolonged inflammation of the broken bones and the surrounding soft parts ; (4) any intercurrent disease which inter- feres with nutrition ; (5) a too great separation of the fragments. If the ends of broken bones are not kept in contact, and at the same time im- movable, fibrous union may result, for by motion the provisional callus is injured, and may disappear by absorption as a result of continued irritation. If the fragments overlap, so that no portion of the broken surface of one side is in contact with that of the opposite end, no matter how well adapted the dressing may be, muscular contraction may retard or prevent union. The intervention of any of the soft tissues, or any foreign substance, may prevent the formation of callus, and lead to fibrous union. Ostitis after fracture may lead, to destruction of the fragments, and of the shafts of bone, to such an extent that union can not occur. Instances are on record where, resulting from fracture, rarefying ostitis has de- stroyed the entire bone. Any general condition of impaired nutrition increases the liability to fibrous union. Rickets, osteomalacia, syphilis, scrofula, tuberculosis, or any acute febrile disease supervening upon fracture, tends to interfere with or to delay bony union after fracture. When by any reason the broken surfaces are separated, osseous union wiU probably not occur. This accident and result are exemplified in fracture of the patella, where fibrous or ligamentous union is the great rule. The diagnosis of fibrous union is determined from continued preter- natural mobility at the seat of fracture after two months have elapsed. Crepitus is not to be depended upon, as the ends of the fragments may be rounded ofl" by absorption, and covered over with inflammatory newly formed material, or at times with cartilage. Treatment.—The immediate indication is to correct any constitutional condition which may be present, and to increase general nutrition. Syphilis, or any recognized dyscrasia, must be specially treated. In the