361 EXSECTIONS OF THE JOINTS. Fig. .392.-1, Ligamentum teres. 2, External obturator muscle and obturator ^■essols. 3, Circumflex vessels. 4, Conjoined tendon or psoas and iliacus. (After Braune.) The Knee-Joint.—Apply Esmarcli's bandage as high up as the middle of the thigh. Make a transverse incis- ion from the level of the posterior articular surface of the tibia on one side, across the front of the knee, over the middle of the patella, to a corresponding point on the opposite side of the joint (Fig. 393). This in- cision extends fully three fourths of the circumference of the extremity at this level, and should divide all the tissues down to the ligaments, and the anterior surface of the patella. The upper flap should be carefully dis- sected and drawn upward as fast as it is lifted until a point is reached well above the upper margin of the patella. In like manner the inferior flap is turned down to about half an inch below the articular plane of the tibia. The leg should now be strongly flexed upon the thigh, and the Joint opened by dividing the ligamentum patellcB and capsular ligament just even with the interarticular fibro-car- tilages. The lateral ligaments are next severed, when, by inserting a strong hook into the piece of ligament still attached to the patella, and drawing this forci- bly upward, the crucial ligaments are ex- posed. These should be divided by care- ful touches with the point of the scalpel, the proximity of the popliteal vessels being borne well in mind. In remov- ing the patella and the soft tissues con- nected with it, the upper flap should be rolled up, and at a i3oint about half an inch above the superior margin of the patella a transverse cut made to divide everything down to the anterior surface of the femur. The soft parts below this line should now be dissected off, togeth- er with the patella, and any portion of the synovial sac which may be above this line should be carefully removed with the curved scissors. Careful inspection of the diseased Fig. 393, surfaccs sliould be made, in order to