515 COLOSTOMY. When the recti^m and lower portion of the sigmoid flexure are in- volved, the left luinbar region should be selected; if the descending or transverse colon are involved, the right lumbar incision is preferable. CalUsen's Operation—Left Lumhar Colostomy.—Place the patient on the right side, inclined well over npon the abdomen. The objective point is the posterior surface of the descending colon, at a point situated half- way between the crest of the ilium and the last rib, and half-way be- tween the spinous process of the third lumbar vertebra and the ante- rior superior spine of the ilium. Make an incision about five inches in length, the center of which shall strike this point, commencing about one inch from the vertebral spines. The direction of this incision should be obliquely from above downward and forward—that is, parallel with the lumbar vessels and nerves. Dividing the skin and fascia, the poste- rior border of the abdominal muscles and the anterior border of the quadratus lumborum muscle will be seen. The posterior wall of the colon—that portion which is not included in the peritonaeum—will be found a little posterior to the border of this muscle. A safe guide is to insert the finger along the edge of the quadratus muscle and feel for the kidney. The gut is immediately in front of this organ. It is important to keep well toward the spine in order to avoid opening into the perito- naeum. Usually at this juncture, with the wound perfectly dry, the wall of the intestine can be picked up with the finger and lifted toward and into the wound. If it has receded, deep pressure upon the anterior wall of the abdomen will bring it into view. If the cavity of the peri- tonaeum is not opened, it is scarcely possible to get hold of the small intestine. The colon may be recognized by its large size and by its sac- culated wall. If there is any doubt as to the large intestine being the one which presents, the expedient of pumping air into the rectum may be resorted to, the immediate distention of the colon proving its close relation to the rectum. As soon as the bowel is brought into the wound, it should be transfixed by two strong silk sutures, introduced about an inch apart, through the integument of one side into the intestine for about one half an inch and out again and up through the margin of the incision in the integument on the opposite side. The colon is now held well up into the wound by traction on the sutures in the hands of an assistant, while the operator makes a longitudinal incision in the wall of the gut superficial to the threads which have transfixed it. When this is done, the center of the ligatures is drawn out by a tenaculum, divided, and the four threads tied securely. From two to four addi- tional sutures may be introduced on each side, to guard against the infiltration of fecal matter. The wound in the integument should now be closed from each end down to or very near the level of the opening in the colon. If there is much escape of fecal matter immediately following the operation, a dressing need not be applied. The patient should be made to lie upon the back, in which position gravity favors the escape of the bowel contents. At times it is convenient to apply an iodoform- ized and sublimate gauze dressing, with a bandage around the abdomen.