DEFORMITIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY: - 713 DEFORMITIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The deformities of tlie lower extremity may be divided into those— 1, of the coxo-femoral region; 2, of the shaft of the femur in its en- tirety ; 3, of the condyles; 4, of the tibia and fibula; 5, of the tarsus and metatarsus ; and, 6, of the phalanges. In this classification, distortions of the pelvis, such as in malacosteon and rachitis, are excluded, since they concern the obstetrician rather than the surgeon. At the Mp there may exist preternatural mobility, or partial or com- plete immobility with malposition. Preternatural mobility may be due to the following causes : Arrest of development in the bones which form the acetabulum; congenital failure of development of the head of the femur, or atrophy of this portion ; to both of these conditions combined ; abnormal length of the capsular ligament, and absence of the ligamen- tum teres. Immobility with malposition results from infiammation of the joint and anchylosis, with or without destructive ostitis and loss of substance. Contraction of the psoas and iliacus or other muscles about the hip which are not overcome before anchylosis ensues is the chief cause of deformity. Dislocation with failure at reduction always induces de- formity, and the same is true of fracture when not properly treated. In preternatural mobility at the hip-joint (congenital dislocation) the symptoms are chiefly a peculiar rolling gait, or oscillation to right and left in the act of walking, especially when the deformity is bilateral. While standing erect, the trochanters will be closer to the iliac crest than normal, which condition can be accurately determined by Nela- ton's or Bryant's test. In these cases the anterior convexity of the curve in the lumbar region is exaggerated, giving the patient a sway-back ap- pearance. If extension is made from the feet, while the trunk is fixed in the recumbent posture, the length of the patient will be considerably increased over that measured in the erect position. Absence of the head of the femur may be determined by palpation with outward rota- tion. Perforation of the acetabulum may also be made out by digital exploration per rectum. Treatment.—Locomotion in some cases may be much improved by persistent effort on the part of the patient to train the muscles to hold the femur well up in the acetabulum in the act of walking. In this man- ner the rolling character of gait may be in great part corrected. One im- portant indication in the treatment of these cases in children is to keep the head of the femur from too great pressure against the soft structures placed in the bottom of the cavity of the acetabulum. The double hip- splint of Dr. Sayre will accomplish the necessary extension, while locomo- tion may be effected by crutches, or Dr. Case's carriage. In anchylosis at the hip with malposition the thigh is generally flexed upon the abdomen and adducted with outward rotation. When destruc- tive osteo-arthritis has occurred the trochanter will be seen nearer to the