TALIPES VARUS AND EQUINO-VARUS. 731 posticus is best effected by an incision parallel with, the inner border of the tibia just above the internal malleolus, where it lies in close relation to this surface of the bone. As soon as it is exposed, an aneurism-needle should be passed beneath it, when it can be drawn out through the wound and divided with the scissors. Subcutaneous section of this tendon is a very difficult and uncertain procedure, while no mistake is possible through an open wound. If careful antisepsis is practiced, and if the wound is at once closed with catgut sutures, no suppuration can occur. The plantar fascia should be divided by introducing the tenotome flat- wise under the fascia from the inner border of the foot, turning the edge outward, and cutting the fascia as it is made tense. Several lines of section through this fascia may be made when necessary. Bits of adhe- sive plaster should be placed over each puncture. Tarsotomy.—In exaggerated and chronic cases of congenital talipes equino-varus, a wedge-shaped exsection of a portion of the tarsus wiH at times permit a restoration of the foot to its normal position, and serve to restore in great part the usefulness of the member. In two recent cases in which I performed this operation, the most gratifying results were obtained. In each case the patient walked with the dorsum of the foot on the floor, and, in one instance, the toes pointed directly back- ward. After Esmarch's bandage has been applied, a free incision is made along the fibular side of the foot, extending from below the external malleolus to the tarso-metatarsal junction. All the tissues should be lifted from the bones by the periosteal elevator, and the wedge-shaped section of the tarsus removed by the gouge or chisel. The anterior por- tion of the astragalus will require to be removed, and as much of the tarsus should be exsected as is needed to permit the restoration of the foot to the natural position; for it is not only necessary to evert the foot, but to make at the same time a marked rotation of that part of the member anterior to the line of section. The tendo Achillis should now be divided, and, as soon as the proper position is obtained, the wound should be irrigated with sublimate solution, the incision closed and covered with iodoformized gauze, and a light sublimate dressing and compression-bandage applied tight enough to arrest all oozing. A plaster-of-Paris dressing is now put on, and the foot held in position until this hardens. This last procedure can be facilitated by adjusting two strips of adhesive plaster, one of which will serve to hold the foot at a right angle to the axis of the leg, and the other to keep it rotated outward while the plaster is being applied and is hardening. The dress- ing may be removed not earlier than the fifteenth day, and should not be disturbed for a month unless from soiling or smelling it is necessi- tated. Talipes Valgus.—In this deformity the normal arch of the foot is lost, and the foot is everted (Figs. 729, 730, 731, 732). The contracted muscles are the peroneus longns and brevis, while the paralysis, as a rule, affects the tibialis posticus, anticus, and flexor muscles. When the tarsal arch gives way, the plantar fascia, calcaneo-cuboid ligaments, and