448 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. In many instances these tumors of the glands remain quiet for a period, and, responding to some irritation, an adenitis and periade- nitis are developed, which rapidly lead to the foiToation of abscess. They are found most frequently along the lower border of the inferior maxilla in the lower parotid region, along the under surface and poste- rior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and in the subclavian triangle. Metastatic lymphoma, secondary to epithelioma or other malignant dis- ease of the face, will be recognized by the history of the case. Lympho- sarcoma of the neck is, in its earlier stages of development, with difficulty differentiated from simple adenoma. It grows, however, with much greater rapidity, and, by its tendency to become fixed to the surround- ing tissues, suggests its malignant nature. It is most usually located about the center of the neck and beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle. Treatment.—Cystic goitre does not yield to constitutional measures. Solid tumors should be treated by the administration of full doses of potassium iodide. If marked diminution in the size of the tumor does not follow within the first few weeks of this treatment it should be dis- continued. Bronchocele, either solid or cystic, which is small in size and not per- ceptibly increasing, does not demand surgical interference. Such tumors should be kept under observation, and if at any time there is a marked increase in size operative interference is called for, before the mass has assumed such proportions that its removal involves considerable danger to life. According to Kocher, another contra-indication to surgical inter- ference is the presence of a goitre involving the entire organ, since—al- though the operation may be recovered from—death results in from one to two years, from the development of a strumous condition not unlike that known as myxoedenia. Physiological experiments have shown that a like condition results from the total extirpation of the thyroid body in animals. Under no circumstances, therefore, is a complete removal of this body justifiable. One side and the isthmus may be removed, and in extreme cases both lobes may be extirpated, provided the isthmus is left undisturbed. Another contra-indication is calcareous degeneration of a considerable portion of the mass, causing a condition of friability in the vessels which renders their deligation unsafe. Operation — Cystic Goitre. — Make a perpendicular incision, about three inches in length, over the center of the tumor. Divide the integu- ment, fascia, and intervening muscles down to the sac. Upon approach- ing this, the dissection should be carried on between two anatomical for- ceps, lifting only a thin bit of tissue at each grasp of the instruments, and looking closely for any vessels which may run upon or through the anterior wall of the tumor. When the wall is reached it should be divided in the same manner, and, upon the escape of the contents through the opening, this should be enlarged by introducing the dressing-forceps and dilating. The opening in the wall should be about one inch long. A continuous catgut suture should be carried through the integument, stitching this to the edges of the sac. The cyst should now be well irri-