A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 580 Hsematuria due to parasitic lodgment in the walls of the bladder is exceedingly rare in this country. In 1883 a young man of white parents —a native of Natal, Africa—came under my care on account of chronic hfematuria. He was at this time twenty-six years of age, and had had bloody urine at intervals for thirteen years. His health was not seriously impaired. The urine was faintly acid ; specific gravity 1 -020, with only a trace of albumen, which was readily accounted for by the slight amount of blood. About the middle and toward the last stage of the act of mic- turition, a few strings of clotted blood were dis- charged. Placing these under the microscope, I discovered a number of bodies (Fig. 580) shaped much like a watermelon-seed, except that the small end was more pointed. These were evidently the eggs of the parasite known as Bilharzia TitBmato- Ma, the hsematuria resulting from the rupture of ^'"yjf h^iikobil°^2,'cre- Capillaries caused by the presence of nests of these nated blood- disks. 3, in the mucous membrane of the bladder. This Epithelium. 4, Pus-cell. (From the author's case.) disease is frcqucut iu Africa and Asia, but almost unknown in North America. The body of the male parasite is about four lines in length, thread-like, and flattened ante- riorly (Aitken); the female a little shorter and more delicate. They inhabit by preference the portal vein and the walls of the bladder. In treating my patient I saturated him with large doses of santonin for a week, and injected the bladder daily with alcohol, beginning with a l-to-20 solution, and increasing it to the extreme degree of tolerance by the bladder. The patient improved in every respect, but the haematu- ria was not entirely arrested when he returned to Africa in November, 1883, since which time I have not heard from him. The parent distoma is killed by high febrile movement, and with its death the hsematuria ceases. The treatment of hsematuria must be directed to the disease of which it is a symptom. The patient should be required to remain in the re- cumbent posture. The administration of the fluid extract of ergot, 3 j-ij, is highly recommended without regard to the source of the bleeding. Large doses of citrate of potash will prove beneficial in rendering the urine less irritating. Opium is advisable, not only on account of the relief from pain it affords, but because it secures complete quiet, which is essential, and prevents the too frequent evacuation of the bladder. When the hsemorrhage is from this organ, and does not yield to the measures above given, the injection of cold or hot water, or of astringent solutions, may be employed. If villous growths are present, they should be removed by cystotomy. Stone in the Bladder. Urinary calculi may form in any portion of the kidney, in the pelvis or ureters, in the bladder or urethra. They are concretions of the va- rious inorganic substances which are common to the urine. Organic