ANESTHESIA. 23 tions, such as amputation of a finger or toe, circumcision, extirpation of ingrowing toe-nails, etc., will be given under the headings to which these • various procedures belong. Another method of producing local anaesthesia is by means of ether spray. For this purpose the ordinary Richardson's atomizer (Fig. 33) will suffice. In purchasing this apparatus, secure one with a silver tube, not of glass, for this is too fragile, nor of gutta-percha, which is always getting stopped up. The minute atomization of the ether, and the con- sequent rapid evaporation, produces an intense cold, retards or arrests temporarily the capillary circulation, and thus paralyzes the end organs of the sensory nerves. Everything being in readiness, an assistant com- mences the atomization, holding the end of the tube from three to six inches distant from the skin, so that the shower of vapor will fall upon the area to be incised. The first sensation is one of ex- treme cold, and is at times quite painful, but this is soon followed by a sense of numbness, and later by a loss of all sensation. When this is occurring, the skin under the spray changes from the normal flush to a whitish- purple, which, by a continu- fi&. 33. ation or sudden increase of the force of the spray, will turn white and become stifi" and frozen. This last condition is to be avoid- ed in general, for the reaction from it is painful and sloughing may occur, while a sufiicient anaesthesia may be obtained without real freezing. When, by pinching with the forceps or pricking with the knife, insensibility is assured, the operation should begin, and the spray be continued. Ether spray can not be employed about the eye, on account of the irritation it produces, nor about the nose and mouth, on account of its being inhaled. It is in general inferior to cocaine ansesthesia, because the latter secures a more complete insensibility, and the reaction is far less painful. RM- goUne may be used instead of ether, but it is so difficult to obtain that it has been superseded by the ether. A mixture of equal parts of cracked ice or snow, and salt, applied directly to a part or wrapped in a thin cloth and laid upon the skin, will produce perfect local anaesthesia, and is a fair substitute when neither the cocaine nor ether can be secured, and the emergency demands opera- tive interference. For fear of over-freezing, the mixture should be lifted frequently and the part inspected. General AncestJiesia.—For any simple operation which must of neces- sity be prolonged, and for all formidable procedures in surgery, complete and general narcosis should be secured. The deliberate conduct of an operation which is scarcely possible Avhen a patient is not profoundly anaesthetized, gives an assurance of success not to be hoped for under -Eichardson's atomizer, for the production of local anesthesia.