EXSECTIONS OF THE JOINTS. 369 ranon process, along the ulnar, for from two to three inches (Fig. 405). The tissues should be carefully lifted from the bone and capsule, and held to either side by blunt retractors. When the trough between the olecranon and internal condyle is approached, extra care should be taken not to wound the ulnar nerve, which passes in this groove. It may be avoided by keeping close to the bones with the knife or elevator. After the posterior ligament is divided, the olecranon may be displaced, and, if involved in the destructive ostitis, may now be sawn off in order to facilitate the operation. The articular end of the humerus should be exposed, as high as the point of section, by peeling off the soft tissues with the periosteum, after which a retractor is applied and the bone divided with a Butcher's saw or the exsector. This line of section should be at an angle of 90° to the shaft of the humerus. The ends of the ulna and radius may now be readily displaced backward, exposed to the point of section, and divided on a line parallel with that through the humerus. Fia. 406.—Longitudinal section tbrousli the elbow-joint. 1, Kadiul nerve. Superficially on tlie flexor surface the median basilic vein is seen cut across. (After Braune.) As in all the Joint exsections, a careful dissection of all the diseased cap- sule and soft parts must be made. The wound is drained from the most dependent portion, and closed with catgut sutures. An anterior splint, previously fitted to the arm and forearm, and fashioned so as to hold the forearm half way between flexion at a right angle and complete extension, is wrapped with gauze and laid on the anterior aspect of the extremity, and fixed by a roller to the arm and forearm, to within a few inches of the incision. A sublimate dressing is next applied to the wound, with cotton and protective, and a bandage over this to effect compression and to hold it in position. When a change of dressing is required, this last bandage only is removed. The rule in this exsection is fibrous anchylosis, with limited motion of the joint and function of the extremity. Exsection of the elbow is not a dangerous procedure, and, although not usually attended with the success which follows some other opera- 24