A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 658 tant in securing a favorable result; for, if this is done, the \dolence of the infection may be modified and the deeper lesions rendered less severe. Treatment.—The treatment of syphilis is divided into—1, measures which tend to destroy the potency of the virus and aid in absorption of the inflammatory products of this disease ; and, 2, those which tend to improve the nutrition of the tissues. Both are essential to the successful management of this formidable affection. To the former belong the preparations of mercury and iodine in com- bination with potassium; to the latter tonics, the careful regulation of the habits of living, nutritious diet, and healthful and moderate exercise. Nothing is more satisfactorily demonstrated in scientific medicine than the power of mercury to neutralize and destroy the virus of syphi- lis. Its administration should usually begin with the positive recog- nition of the disease at the appearance of the eruption (usually about the sixth or ninth week). It is always advisable to wait until the diagnosis is assured, rather than to begin treatment with the recognition of the sore or bubo. It has been stated that these symptoms are often not reliable, while the early cutaneous and mucous lesions are practically pathognomonic. The greatest objection to the early institution of treat- ment is the doubt which may be left in the mind of both physician and patient of the correctness of the diagnosis by the early disappearance of the initial lesion and the local adenitis. The individual affected, as well as the practitioner, is too often lulled into a sense of security by the rapid disappearance of the early symptoms ; treatment is either discon- tinued or carelessly carried out until, after several weeks or months, it is discovered that the disease has taken a firm hold upon the tissues. Commencing with this date, the management of a case of syphilis should be carried on for a period of two years. ' It is of the utmost importance that the person affected should be im- pressed with the gravity of the situation and the certainty of disaster if the rules laid down by the medical adviser are not strictly obeyed. With the proviso of obedience, the prognosis should be as encouraging as pos- sible. Responsibility for the result of treatment in this disease should not be assumed unless the patient consents to keep himself under ob- servation for the period above given. All excesses should be prohibited. The use of tobacco should not be permitted. Alcohol in any shape is scarcely allowable. In certain cases, where digestion and assimilation are impaired, a small quantity of whisky, claret, or sherry may be taken with the heaviest daily meal. Sexual indulgence, if from no other than humanitarian motives, should cease for at least a year from the appear- ance of the initial lesion. The child of parents, either of whom is within, the first year of syphilitic inoculation, becomes the victim of a dyscrasia which, if not fatal to life, is fatal to the perfect usefulness of its pos- sessor. In addition to the danger of direct inoculation during the prevalence of the chancre, is that of infection to the mother from the foetus in utero or the child in the act of parturition. A patient under treatment for syphilis should retire early and at a regular hour, avoid excessive use