A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 130 sected up from the periosteum and capsule, and disarticulation accom- plished by cutting the capsule as close to the margin of the glenoid cavity as possible (Fig. 194). The vessels are now secured, and the wound sutured and drained, as shown in Fig. 195. This method is a modifi- cation of the old operation of Larrey,* to which it is much superior. Esmarch has still fur- ther modified this amputation by sawing the bone immediate- ly after the circular incision is completed, and then disarticu- lating. LowEE Extremity. Amputation of the Toes.— The same methods given for the fingers should be employed in amputations of the toes. The long plantar flap is always pref- erable in these operations, not so much for the preservation of the more perfect tactile sense Fig. 195. of this surface in covering the stump, but "chiefly in order to bring the cicatrix on top and away from pressure. When an amputa- tion is necessitated for a lesion near the articulation between the first and second phalanges in which only the anterior extremity of the first * Larrey''s Method.—A straight incision, dividing all the tissues down through the capsule to the bone, extending from the tip of the acromion process to about one inch below the articu- lar surface of the head of the humerus. From the center of this cut an incision on either side of the arm, running obliquely downward and forward, dividing all the tissues down to the peri- osteum, and extending about two thirds of the distance from the apex of the shoulder to the axilla. Elevate the tissues so as to fully expose the joint, press the arm upward, in order to dislocate the head of the bone through the incision in the capsule, carry a long, thin knife across and through the capsule, and complete the oval flap by cutting along the under surface of the humerus in the line of the oblique incisions already made. Dupuytren's Method.—Place the arm to be amputated at a right angle to the trunk, grasp and raise the deltoid with the left hand, and transfix the shoulder from before backward with a long knife, which is introduced anterior to the axillary vessels, perforates the capsule, and emerges on the posterior aspect of the arm. A long {deltoid) flap is now made by cutting down- ward, close to the bone, to near the deltoid tubercle. While an assistant holds this flap up out of the way, the arm is carried to the side of the body, and the humerus pressed upward, in order to facilitate its dislocation. The long head of the biceps, and the tendons, inserted into the tuberosities, are now divided, and, if necessary, the incision in the capsule lengthened. After the luxation is accomplished, insert the knife as in the opei'ation of Larrey, making the posterior flap by the same manoeuvre. [Many other methods have been devised for the performance of this oper.ation, but the method first given meets all the indications so fully that it must supersede all others.]