CARCINOMA—SARCOMA TESTIS. 677 ment of the tumor is of itself an indication of the gravity of the lesion, the matter of exact recognition of adenoma is not important. In all of these rapid and threatening neoplasms, especially when a single testicle or epididymis is involved, the safest course is in early and prompt ex- cision. Carcinoma.—Both scirrhus and medullary cancer may develop pri- marily in the testicle or epididymis. The encephaloid variety is most fre- quently encountered. The micro- scopical characters of these different varieties of cancer vnll be given in the chapter on tumors. Carcinoma of the testis is apt to occur about the age of puberty, al- though it may be met with later in life. One organ is affected rule. It is more apt to begin in the tes- ticle than in the epididymis. In the early stages of the development can- cer of the testes is not painful, but as the disease advances the suffer- ing may be intense. Early removal offers the only hope of cure, and this, unfortunately, is not great. Sarcoma testis occurs at all ages, but is chiefly confined to childhood and early manhood. Following rhe general law of sarcomata, that of the testicle is rapid in growth, attaining at times an enormous si2e. This is one of the chief diagnostic points of this tumor, which is hard, usually pyriform in shape, and of comparatively smooth contour. Castration . offers the only hope of relief. It will be seen from the foregoing that accurate diagnosis of the va- rious neoplasms which develop in the testicle is difficult and often im- possible. Almost all of these morbid processes lead to destruction of the organ and loss of function, and immediately or remotely threaten the life of the individual. Thus tuberculosis, adenoma, carcinoma, and sarcoma may be classed as malignant. Enchondroma, although not intrinsically malignant, leads to loss of function, and in this particular justifies operative interference. The same applies with greater force to cystic degeneration of this organ, since cysts often develop in malignant neoplasms of the testicle. In view of these facts, when only a single organ is involved, it will be advisable in the early history of any neoplasm of this organ to consider the^pro- priety of castration. The operation is thus performed : Shave the scrotum and pubes, and make an incision extending from the external abdominal ring along the anterior surface of the cord and testicle to the base of the scrotum. Fig. 664.—Cystic degeneration of adenoma of the testicle (cysto-adenoma). (Alter Kocher.)