WOUNDS. 75 Fig. 146. Bischoff injected § xl into the radial artery of a woman, the operation lasting one hour, and the patient recovered. Szamann and many others have successfully employed this method by injecting into a vein. In a case in the practice of my colleague, Prof. Munde, I introduced ^ viij through the median-cephalic vein within ten minutes. This quantity was twice repeated in twelve hours. The ap- paratus I employed is shown in Fig. 146. It consists of a funnel, to the tip of which a rubber tube is attached. To the end of the tube is a canula for introduction into the vein. Open the vein, or utilize one al- ready opened, in the wound if this is pos- sible. Warm the solution to about 100° F., fill the apparatus, and allow a small quantity to escape through the pipette in order to be sure that no air is introduced. If then the stop-cock is turned, or the rub- ber tube compressed, the canula will be held full of fluid. After it is carried into the vein it should be held in place by a ligature tied around the vessel just behind the expansion at the nozzle. If the stop- cock is now turned on, the fluid gravitates into the vein. The quantity and rapidity of the injection may be regulated by press- ure upon the tube, or by elevation of the funnel. The introduction should be slow- ly and gradually accomplished. Any ordi- nary syringe, if thoroughly cleansed, may be employed. Care should always be taken to prevent the introduction of air. The aspirator heretofore figured is an ex- cellent instrument for transfusion into a vein or artery. The older methods of transfusion with defibrinated blood, or direct transmission from the arm of the giver to that of the patient, are now completely superseded by the saline solution. Successful transfusion of simple water at the temperature of the blood has also been accomplished. Poisoned Wounds.—When a venom or mrus is introduced into the tissues through a solution of continuity, it is called a poisoned wound. Snake-Bite.—The venom of certain reptiles carried into the circulation through a wound produces alarming and, at times, fatal results. The intensity of its action is in proportion to the quality and quantity of the poison absorbed, as well as to the rapidity of its introduction. Thus, the venom of the cobra and rattlesnake is more fatal than that of many other forms. Again, the venom lodged in the skin and subcutaneous areolar tissues, and absorbed by the lymph-vessels and capillaries, is far