359 EXSECTIONS OF THE JOINTS. rence. It is usually traiimatic in origin, occasionally idiopathic. It may attack the synovial sac between the ulna and radius ; that between the radius and the fibro-cartilage and the first carpal row ; the general syno- vial sac between the first and second rows and the metacarpus ; or that between the base of the first metacarpal bone and the trapezius (Fig. 390). Inflammation of the sheaths of the tendons on the dorsum of the carpus or on the palmar surface may also complicate a carpal synovitis, or exist * alone. The contiguity of these various structures renders a positive diag- nosis of great difficulty. If, when the bones of the forearm are grasped near theii' center and pressed together, sharp pain is elicited at the AA-rist, synovitis of the radio-carpal sac is indicated. When the swelling is well defined at the edge of the ar- ticular end of the radius, extends across the wrist, and is limited to the situation of the first row of the carpus, the radio-carpal sac is prob- ably alone involved. When the several capsules are involved the swelling is general. In tliecitis the pain is superficial, and usual- ly extends for some distance along the tendons above and below the joint. Contraction of the mus- cles, the tendons of which are in- volved, will point to the location of the inflammation. Differentiation of synovitis from Colles's fracture wiU depend upon a study of the symptoms of this lesion ah'eady given. Osteo-arthritis in its earlier stages is comparatively a painless process, and even after the capsule is invaded is rarely as painful as an acute synovitis. Treatment.—Synovitis of the wrist does not demand separate con- sideration. Destructive osteo-arthritis requires gouging or exsection. Synovitis of the metacarpal or interphalangeal joints should be treated on general principles of rest and iixation. Exsectiojsts of the Joints. The Hip—Sayre\s Operation.—Place the patient on the sound side; ■carry the point of a strong scalpel perj^endicularly down to the bone exactly half-way between the anterior-superior spine of the ilium and the tip of the trochanter major; * cut along the neck of the femur, keeping the knife firmly in contact with the bone, carrying the in- * The extremity should be held parallel with the axis of the spine, with the foot normally rotated outward.