A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 320 forward and are engaged partly beneath the zygoma, in front of the emi- nentia articular is, and partly between the zygoma and the temporal fossa. Muscular action alone may produce this luxation, or it may be caused by external violence. The symptoms are great pain, difficult deglutition, and indistinct articulation (especially of the labial sounds). The lower teeth are unusu- ally advanced, the mouth is widely opened, and the saliva trickles over the lips. In unilateral luxation the chin points toward the sound side, and the teeth are less widely separated. In the diagnosis the chief point of differentiation is fracture at or near the condyle. In fracture the condyle may possibly be recognized in its normal position by palpation ; immobility is not marked ; the mouth is not opened ; crepitus may be obtained. Reduction.—In bilateral displacement, wrap the thumbs with sev- eral layers of bandage or cloth, to protect them from being bitten when reduction is accomplished. Place one thumb along the inferior molars of each side, and the lingers beneath the body of the jaw ; press down- ward and backward with the thumbs, while the fingers lift the chin upward. Or place a thick roll of leather, piece of wood, or firm cork, between the upper and lower posterior molars of each side, and upon these, as a fulcrum, lift the chin upward, and at the same time push backward in the direction of the socket. If both of these methods fail, they should be repeated under ether. It may sometimes be advisable to attempt the reduction of one side by either of the above methods, and retain it in position while reducing the other. After reduction is completed put on a head and chin figure-of-8 bandage, and allow it to remain for a week (Fig. 24), or apply Hamil- ton's head-stall for fracture of the lower jaw (Fig. 311). In several in- stances, where the dislocation has become permanent, the symptoms have gradually subsided, and a fair degree of motion and usefulness acquired through the false joint. Clavicle.—The sternal end may be displaced forward on the manu- brium, upward above the sternum, backward behind the manubrium. The last two varieties are rare. The cause of the first form is usually force applied to the shoulder with the arm thrown backward. In the case of a boy fifteen years old, treated by myself, the displacement was caused by a comrade catching him by both shoulders, placing his knee in the middle of the back, between the shoulder-blades, and violently pulling the shoulders back. The diagnosis is not difficult, the reduction easy, but the maintenance of the bone in position difficult. A compress, covered with adhesive plaster to prevent slipping, placed upon the bone after reduction, and firmly held in place by a roller, is a proper method of treatment. The arm should be fixed with Sayre's apparatus for fractured clavicle, in order to prevent a repetition of the luxation.