FRACTURES. 301 singly, or all may be involved in a common lesion at the acetabulum. The force causing the fracture may be directly applied, or, less frequently, by an indirect blow, as a fall on the foot or great trochanter, in which the head of the femur may be driven into the acetabulum with such violence as to cause fracture. When the fracture is confined to the iliac crest the diagnosis will be determined by preternatural mobility, crepitus, and pain, in conjunction with the history of the case. When the bones of the deeper basin are broken, exploration by the rectum or vagina will be necessary. The treatment demands reposition and rest. When the acetabulum is involved, extension to the foot and leg (Buck's method), with the foot of the bed elevated, should be practiced. When possible, the bed should be so arranged that defecation may be accomplished without lifting the pelvis. A modification of Crosby's fracture-bed would answer this pur- pose well. Fixation of one or both thighs, including the pelvis and lower portion of the abdomen and spine, could be well effected by surround- ing these parts with a plaster-of-Paris dressing. The prognosis will de- pend, in great part, upon the extent of the injury sustained by the pelvic viscera. Fractures of the femur may be best studied in three groups, viz.: (1) of the upper extremity (including the neck and trochanter); (2) of the shaft; (3) of the lower or condyloid extremity. Fracture of the necli of the femur may take place wholly within, partly within and partly without, or wholly outside of the capsule. This accident rarely occurs in the young and middle-aged. It is a lesion of old age, and women suffer more than men. The anatomical cause is chiefly a condition of senile rarefaction, which begins usually about the fiftieth year.* It has been demonstrated that the change in the relation of the axis of the neck to that of the shaft in the aged is not enough to account for the greater prevalence of this accident in the old, nor is there a marked diminution of the animal constituents of bone at this time of life. The change is one of senile atrophy. Fracture of the neck of the femur is usually caused by force trans- mitted from below upward, and along the shaft of the femur. In many instances the accident is trivial. The specimen shown in Figs. 329 and 330 was taken from a patient who broke her femur while in the act of kneeling in church, f It has been known to occur even whUe turning over in bed. The line of fracture may be at any part of the neck, and in exceptional cases is through the epiphysis. When the fracture is near the trochanteric line, or when these tuberosities are involved, it is usual- ly the result of direct violence—that is, a fall or blow upon the hip. The diagnosis of fracture of the neck of the femur may be determined by a study of the history and the symptoms. If, after a fall upon the * Prof. L. A. Stimson, " Treatise on Fractures." Henry 0. Lea's Son & Co. t This patient was treated by Dr. Selden, of Norfolk, Va., and, from the history of the case, together with the appearance of the specimen, I consider it an intracapsular fracture, with osseous union. Prof. F. H. Hamilton, to whom I showed the specimen, considered it rather a condition of senile atrophy.