SPECIAL FORMS OF SARCOMA. 755 Fig. Tb3.—Sarcoma of the scalp and neck. From the foregoing it is evident that the prognosis in any of the vari- eties of sarcoma is unfavorable. The gravity is increased with the dura- tion of the tumor, its location near the trunk, and with the rapidity of its growth. The round-celled, especially those- which have undergone the melanotic, mucoid, or alveolar change, are most 'dangerous ; next, the spindle-celled, and, lastly, the myeloid or giant-celled variety. TJie Treatment.—Situated superfi- cially, or in the soft parts, they should be excised as soon as observed. The incision should always be wide of the suspected limit, and the skin and all the tissues should be removed well be- yond the tumor. When a bone is the seat of the new formation, no effort should be made to preserve the peri- . osteum. The bone should be divided as far beyond the lesion as may be deemed consistent with the safety of the patient and the preservation of the function of the part involved. When a sarcoma is developed upon an extremity, if it be small or of very recent date, a wide extirpation should be undertaken ; but, if there is at any time thereafter an indication of recurrence, amputation should be considered. Sarcoma of the bones of the extremity calls for immediate amputa- tion. If the tibia is involved, disarticulation at the knee is indicated. If the neoplasm is located in the femur below the middle, the bone should be removed at the hip. If the soft parts are not involved, a long flap should be made, and the femoral vessels divided as low down as possible. Special Forms of Sarcoma—Mound-Cell Variety.— The. cells are analogous to the embryonic elements of the ordinary inflammatory process from which they can not be distinguished. They possess one or more nuclei and nucleoli, and are spherical, or with slightly irregular out- lines from reciprocal pressure. The intercellular sub- stance is homogeneous, and either very scanty or entirely absent (Fig. 764). The vessels and blood-channels have been described. This variety of sarcoma occurs every- where. In the neuroglia of the brain and the neurilemma elsewhere it has been called neuro-sarcoma or glioma. Spindle-Cell Sarcoma.—The cells of this variety are elongated or fusiform in shape, containing usually one, at times several, nuclei. The ends of the spindle may be single or bifurcated (Fig. 765). The cells vary in size from g^^o o to of an inch in diameter, and are arranged in bundles running in various directions (Fig. 766). liiiBlHiSl Fig. 're*.—Eound- cell sarcoma. (After Green.)