A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 274 mation, the trephine, rongeur, gouge, or chisel should be freely used to effect easy escape to any pus which may be imprisoned in the bony tissues. In osteo-myelitis this method of treatment is imperative. Ab- scess of bone should be treated upon the princij^les of immediate opera- tion and free drainage. When necrosis or caries is evident, the removal of the dead tissue is necessary, since its presence as a foreign body is a constant menace to the contiguous healthy structures. A free incision should be made, down to and along the diseased line, the first and only cut going down to the dead bone, dividing the thickened periosteum with the skin. Then, with the elevator—preferably Sayre's oyster-knife—carefully peel up the peri- osteum until the healthy bone is reached. If the dead bone can not be lifted out it should be divided with the exsector or the cutting-forceps. For lifting a sequestrum the forceps of Hamilton or other grasping in- strument will suffice. In chronic ostitis of the spongy substance Yolk- mann's spoon-scraper is an excellent instrument. Osteomalacia—RacMtis.—Osteomalacia, sometimes known as mol- lities ossium, is a rare affection. It is a disease of adult life, and is especially apt to occur in child-bearing women. The chief pathological change is the disappearance of the earthy constituents from the bones, and their presence in the blood and excretions in abnormal proportion. Softening is often present to such an extent that marked distortions occur from muscular contraction and superincumbent weight. The me- dulla of the bones is the seat of congestion, often resulting in rupture of the vessels and extravasation of blood. In the later stages the bony lamellae disappear by absorption, the process commencing from within. The treatment consists in the prevention of fracture and deformity by proper precaution, and the restoration of the osseous system to its normal condition by generous diet, studied hygiene, tonics, and the administra- tion of the hypophosphites of lime and soda, with cod-liver oil and iron. MacJiitis, or '■^ rickets,''^ is a more frequent and graver affection. It is strictly a disease of childhood and youth, inducing deformities more or less extensive. Although it attacks the entire osseous system, its disas- trous effects are chietiy observed in the bones of the skull and the long bones of the lower extremities. The bones of the skull become thickened and prominent, the sternum is advanced and angular ("pigeon-breast"), and the bones of the lower extremities are curved antero-posteriorly or laterally. While the diameter of a rachitic bone is usually increased at all points, the enlargement is most marked near the extremities. Rickets is a disease of malnutrition. Its chief pathological feature is the forma- tion of an embryonic tissue, which in normal condition is converted into bone, but in the rachitic diathesis only partially (if at all) undergoes ossi- fication. The cells of the periosteum are unusually active in this pro- liferation, as are the cartilage bone-making cells; yet this new tissue remains in great part embryonic, without the formation of the osseous lamellse. The treatment of rickets is, first, to prevent deformity, and, secondly, to relieve the dyscrasia. Rachitic children should be kept in the recum-