118 A TEXT-BOOK ON SFRGERT. At the Metaearjpo-Plialangeal Joint—Thumb.—When the condition of the soft parts will permit, proceed as foUows : First Method.—Just over the Joint, and in the middle of the dorsal aspect of the thumb, commence an incision and carry it along the surface next to the index-finger until half the circumference of the member is included. Along the dorsal and palmar aspects carry parallel incisions forward until near the interphalangeal Joint, and connect these by a straight transverse cut across the palmar surface. Dissect the flap back, divide all tendons opposite the Joint, disarticulate, tie the dorsales pollicis (one on either side of the back of the thumb), and the arteria princeps pollicis^ which lies along the side of the metacarpal bone near- est the index-finger and divides into its terminal branches opposite the metacarpo-plialangeal Joint. When the flap is stitched, the scar will be in good part concealed on the ulnar aspect of the stump. Second Method.—A transverse dorsal incision is made over the articu- lation, extending half around and ending at opposite points on the external and internal lateral aspects of the thumb. Parallel lateral incisions are made as far forward as the interphalangeal Joint, and the anterior ex- tremities of these are Joined by a transverse palmar cut (Fig. 166). The end of the metacarpal bone of the thumb should be left undisturbed, when not necrosed, when there is sound skin enough to cover it in. Under other conditions it may be divided with a fine saw or the exsector. The question of the appearance of the stump should be secondary to the usefulness of the member. It is especially important to a laborer that the end of the metacarpal bone of the thumb be preserved (Fig. 167). When the operation is performed upon one not compelled to do manual work, a more symmetrical appearance may be obtained by an oblique section of the metacarpal bone about half an inch behind the articular surface. When this is intended, the incision through the skin should be such that the long part of the flap is obtained from the radial and palmar aspect of the thumb, while the line of sutures is situated well on the dorsal surface of the stump (Fig. 168). Fig. 166. Fw. 167. Fig. 168.