A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 536 and is easy of execution. The new method is more difficult, and is only applicable to the milder cases. The failure to close even a small part of the wound in the rectal wall would insure failure, while a like result would be apt to follow if the entire wounded surfaces were not in perfect coaptation. This operation would be applicable in those cases where, as a result of incision, there was serious impairment in the function of the sphincter ani. Operative interference is contraindicated in multiple fistulse in the aged, or in patients in a weak and debilitated condition. "When the tubercular diathesis is well marked, an operation should not be done unless great discomfort is caused by the fistula, and, when performed, the prognosis should be guarded. Fissure.—Fissure of the anus is most frequently met with on the posterior portion of the outlet. It may, however, exist at any part of the anal circumference, or in the rectum above the sphincter. The tear is usually through the mucous membrane, although the muscular fibers may be more or less involved. The chief cause is over-distention of the anus in the evacuation of hardened faeces, together with the presence of sharp substances in the matter discharged. In like manner, foreign bodies introduced into the rectum may produce it. Fissure may result from the inflammation and ulceration of a hsemorrhoid, or from any chronic inflammatory process in the rectum. The chief symptom is pain of an acute character, exaggerated by an evacuation of the bowel, and continuing some time after the act in a violent spasm of the sphincter muscle. By careful and gentle dilata- tion of the anus, it may be seen or recognized by the toiich as a line of induration running parallel with the axis of the bowel. The employment of cocaine will render the exploration more thorough, and will peimit the introduction of the speculum. Treatment.—The administration of laxatives, and the employment of enemata of warm water and olive-oil, will remove the chief source of irritation, while the stimulating efl'ect of the lunar-caustic pencil applied in the fissure, and repeated every two or three days, will usually efi'ect a cure. Cocaine should be employed to deaden the sensibility before the silver is applied. If a more radical jjrocedure is necessary, it will con- sist in—1, a partial division of the sphincter in the line of the fissure; or, 2, temporary paralysis of this muscle by divulsion. As the second operation requires ether narcosis, the partial division should be first employed. In its performance local anaesthesia should be obtained by the application of 4-per-cent cocaine to the inflamed sur- face, together with the injection of this fluid by introducing the needle just beneath the fissure in its entire extent. The sphincter should now be made tense by separating the sides of the speculum, and an incision made through the depth of the fissure, dividing about half of the thick- ness of the muscle. In the after-treatment, the bowels should be kept open. Divulsion of the sphincter is performed as follows: The patient, fully anaesthetized, is placed upon the back, with the thighs separated and flexed on the abdomen. The operator, having lubricated bothj