A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 332 with normal development. Failure to complete the process of ossification in the three bones which compose the acetabulum leaves a soft and fibro- cartilaginous cup or sac, through which, when the weight of the body is sufficient, the head of the femur is more or less completely disjilaced into the pelvic cavity. Absence of the ligamentum teres is not alone sufficient to account for displacement when the bones, capsule, and muscles are normal, for it is not infrequently absent in cases which have never suf- fered a luxation. Moreover, the majority of cases in which this ligament has been ruptured by one luxation do not suffer a second displacement. An abnormally long, loose, or relaxed capsule will lead to sub-luxation or displacement without rupture of the capsule. Failure of development from the cervical epiphysis is another cause of congenital dislocation at the hip. Patliological dislocations are caused by chronic arthritis. The bones are more or less destroyed, and the capsule breaks down, permitting dis- location of the head of the bone as a result of muscular action or slight violence. Traumatic luxations are direct or indi- rect. The most frequent cause is a fall from a height, or from a carriage in mo- tion, the person striking upon the foot or knee, with the thigh carried in such a di- rection that its axis is at a considerable angle to that of the spinal column. Anatomically considered, the most fa- vorable position for the two posterior, and by far the most frequent displacements, is when the thigh is flexed at about an angle of 90° to the axis of the body. If the thigh be adducted, the tendency is to rupt- ure the capsule on its posterior-inferior surface, with escape of the head on to the dorsum ilii, or into the ischiatic notcli. When in a position of abduction, the rupt- ure is likely to occur on the lower anterior aspect of the capsule. A fall directly upon the trochanter, with the thigh in adduction or abduction, with extreme outward or inward rotation, is apt to produce rupture of the capsule and lux- ation. Symptoms. — In dislocation upon the dorsum Uii, with the patient standing erect upon the uninjured extremity, the trochan- ter of the displaced femur will be nearer the anterior-superior spine of the ilium than that of the opposite side ; the thigh is slightly flexed upon the abdomen, adducted, and rotated inward. The head of the bone may be appreciated Fig. 3671—Position of extremity in dis- location of the head of the femur upon the dorsum ilii. (After Hamilton.)