722 A TEXT-BOOK ON SUKGERY, in whicli the fracture may be accomplished with little force and with the hands of the operator. It is objectionable when performed Avith the osteoclast, for the reason that the soft tissues are bruised to an extent which does not occur in osteotomy. Moreover, the line of fracture can not be directed with the same accuracy as in cutting with the chisel. The necessity for the exclusion of air no longer exists in the use of sub- limate irrigation and the antiseptic dressing. Anchylosis at the Knee, with Malposition.—For the correction of this deformity osteotomy is at times performed. When the degree of malposition is extreme, it may become necessary to divide the femur at a point from three to four inches above the most dependent portion of the articular surface of this bone. If after this section the limb can not be brought out straight, division of the tibia just below the tuberosity may be done. Exsection of the knee is, however, a preferable operation; and, since in modern practice the danger of this precedure is so greatly diminished, it is believed that the operation through the articulation will supersede section of the bone in continuity. Talipes.—Club-foot is a deformity in which there exists either an abnormal relation between the bones of the foot to each other, or to the tibia and fibula. There are six simple and several compound forms of talipes. The simple varieties are talipes equinus, calcaneus, varus, valgus, cavus, and j)lanus. Among the compound forms are those of equino-valgus, equino-varus, calcaneo-valgus, calcaneo-varus, etc. In talipes equinus the heel is drawn up, and the weight of the body falls upon the plantar aspect of the metatarsus, the toes and phalanges ; the gastrocnemius and soleus are shortened, the tendo Achillis tense, and in extreme cases the heel can not be brought down to the ground. Callosities are formed upon the sole of the foot along the metatarso- phalangeal line. When paralysis of the anterior muscles of the leg has taken place, the toes are turned under, as in Fig. 708. In this condition Fia. 705. Fig. 706. Congenital talipes equinus. (After Churchill.)