STONE IN THE BLADDER—LITHOTOMY. 589 into the bladder. It is now allowed to expand, the water rushes back out of the bladder and brings with it the smaller particles of stone which fall down into the glass sphere. This part of the operation may be expedited by rapidly half emptying the bulb into the bladder, and as rapidly allowing it to expand. When it is seen that particles of the calculus cease to fall into the receiver, the catheter should be withdrawn, the lithotrite reintroduced, and a second crushing done. The bladder is again washed out, and these operations should be alternated until all detritus is removed, unless alarming symptoms should supervene, when of course all operative measures should be discontinued. If the glass receiver becomes filled, it should be detached and emptied. At times particles of calculus become lodged in the catheter or tube, and require to be dislodged with a stylet. From- one to two hours may be allowed for this operation from the commencement of the anesthesia. The prog- nosis will be more favorable with the shorter period, but it is wiser to proceed carefully and remove the stone thoroughly, even if a longer time is required. The absence of all fragments can be recognized by placing the ear over the bladder at the symphysis while the evacuator is being worked. The click of any fragments against the catheter can be dis- tinctly heard. The introduction of a sound will also determine the presence of any pieces. In the after-treatment opium is essential to relieve pain and tenesmus. Citrate of potash, grs. xx, three or four times a day, with flaxseed-tea, will render the urine less irritating. The soft catheter may need to be employed to evacuate the bladder. In incomplete lithotrity the crushing is done in the same manner as just described. A fair degree of anesthesia may be secured by, the em- ployment of cocaine. The lithotrite is only introduced once, and not more than five or ten minutes are consumed in the operation. The evacuator is not employed, the detritus being expelled in the act of urination. Cystotomy or Lithotomy.—Cutting into the bladder for the removal of stone is performed through the perinseum or through the abdominal wall, just above the symphysis pubis. Incision through the rectum in males is no longer a recognized procedure, while the vesico-vaginal opera- tion is rarely indicated. Supra-puMc litJiotomy, or the Tiigli operation, is performed as follows: The pubes should be shaved and washed with sublimate solution, the pelvis raised, as in lithotrity, so that the intestines will gravitate toward the diaphragm. The bladder should be thoroughly irrigated with a warm solution of boracic acid (grs. x- 5 j), and from a pint to a pint and a half of this liquid left in the organ, in order to lift the anterior redupli- cation of the peritonaeum well above the level of the pelvis. The incision should be made in the linea alba, commencing three and a half inches above the symphysis, and extending slightly below the upper margin of the pubic bones. All the tissues should be divided down to the anterior wall of the bladder, haemorrhage arrested, the wound packed with sub- limate sponges, and the bladder again well irrigated. If any difficulty