407 THE LIPS AND CHEEKS. mation here. Adhesive strips are not reliable. In children one or two pin-sutures should be preferred, as they best resist the constant strain to which sutures of the parts are subjected in the act of crying. Diseases of the Lips.—Among the diseases which involve the lips and the contiguous structures are epithelioma, lupus, papilloma, ncevus, cysts, lipoma, adenoma, phlegmon, ulcers, and general hypertrophy and fissures. Epithelioma.—One of the most frequent causes of removal of portions of the lips is the presence of epithelioma. It is a disease of middle and old age, involves usually the lower lip, and occurs in the great majority of instances in males. Epithelioma may attack the lip without any ap- preciable cause, but in most cases the appearance of the neoplasm is preceded by prolonged irritation at the place involved. A jagged or projecting tooth, the habitual use of a pipe-stem or cigar, are frequent causes of this disease. It will also result from the irritation caused by chronic fissure or ulcer of the lip. Symptoms.—It begins as a small ulcer with rather abrupt margins, in the bottom of which is a dirty granulation-tissue partially hidden by thin pus. In its earlier stages it is not readily distinguished from the benign ulcer which is found upon the lip. The preceding history of a prolonged irritation should always suggest epithelioma, especially if it occurs after the age of thirty, and upon the lower lip. Ulcer is apt to occur in one of the scrofulous or tubercular diathesis. If grave doubt exists as to its malignant nature, the application of the solid stick of nitrate of silver should be made. An ordinary ulcer will heal rapidly under this stimulus, while the epithelioma is not affected. Labial chancre may be differentiated by the indurated base, which is characteristic of this lesion. Adenitis in the line of lymphatics along the lower jaw comes on in the earlier stages of syphilis, while in epithelioma the sore may exist for months without perceptible enlargement of the lymphatic glands. In syphilis the appearance of the eruption, together with the history of the case, will lead to correct differentiation. Epithelioma of the lip is a dangerous affection. Left alone, it de- stroys life within a period varying from one to four years. It spreads at times with rapidity, eating away the tissues in all directions. It may confine itself to the soft parts, or attack the maxillary and nasal bones. Engorgement of the submental, sublingual, submaxillary, and cervical glands is almost inevitable if the disease is not extirpated in the first few months of its history. The glandular enlargement is at first not always due to metastasis, but may result from simple adenitis following the in- flammatory process in the margins of the ulcer. Treatment.—The early excision of the diseased tissue is imperative. The knife should always be preferred to the use of corrosive substances. The incision should be wide of the diseased area—at least half an inch from the infiltrated margin. If the disease has existed long enough to have caused lymphatic enlargement, the infiltrated glands must also be extirpated. The prognosis as to a permanent cure is always doubtful, although