CHAPTER XIV. REGIONAL SURGERY.—THE HEAD. Tumors of the Scalp.—The most common tumors of the scalp are cysts. They are congenital and acquired. Congenital cysts are rare as compared with the acquired. They are deeply situated, being beneath the skin, and not infrequently below the fascia and muscles. Their contents are chiefly white or yellow fluid, and at times hairs. Each tumor ma!y consist of a single cyst, or there may be several grouped together (multilocular), the mass rarely attaining a size greater than an inch in diameter. If left alone they may ulcerate from pressure or injury, or, in rare instances, may cause atrophy and perfora- tion of the calvaria and dura mater. They should be remoA'ed in early childhood. The operation consists in dissecting out the sac, with its contents. As a rule, small wounds of the scalp, situated where a scar will not be apparent, do not need to be stitched. The edges should be approximated and held thus by a dressing of sublimate gauze and a bandage. Acquired cysts, commonly called " wens," are of two varieties, one due to retention of sebum in a sebaceous follicle, the duct of which has been obstructed ; the other caused by extravasation of blood, where the clot has been absorbed, leaving the serum more or less stained by the decomposition of hsematin. They are round, smooth tumors, are super- ficial, and found most frequently upon the upper and posterior portion of the scalp. They are mostly multiple, are unilocular, and contain a granular, cheesy substance. The treatment is removal with the knife. The hair should be shaved from the tumor, and for a slight distance be- yond its base. Complete anaesthesia can be obtained by injecting about Til XX of a 2-per-cent solution of cocaine in the line of incision, and around the base of the tumor. With a sharp bistoury transfix the mass through its base, and lay it open. The integument over the center of the tumor will be found exceedingly thin (not thicker than ordinary writing-paper), and may be easily separated from the thickened sac, which should now be seized with a strong pair of forceps and torn out of its bed. If any strong adhesions are found they should be divided with the blunt scissors. Sebaceous cysts occasionally become inflamed, the capsule breaks down, the contents escape, and a mass of granulation-tissue replaces the original tumor. The new-formed capillaries in this tissue frequently give