CHAPTER III. ANAESTHESIA. AncestTiesia.—Ansestliesia means loss of sensibility. It may be local or general. In the former, the sensibility of a limited portion of the body is more or less completely lost, while the patient remains conscious ; in J the latter, both consciousness and sensibility are lost. Local anaesthesia may be obtained in a remarkable degree by the ju- dicious employment of the hydrochlorate of cocaine, for the aiDplication of which agent to surgical use the world will ever be indebted to the Austrian, KoUer. The 1-, 2-, and 4-per-cent solutions are chiefly used. Apjilied to the cornea, conjunctiva, or any mucous surface, cocaine is rapidly absorbed, the capillaries are contracted, and the end organs of the sensory nerves paralyzed. Upon the unbroken integument it produces no effect what- ever. Injected into the tissues, it produces anaesthesia wherever it reaches —in bone, muscle, or the subcutaneous structures. Thrown into the sub- stance of a nerve, or immediately around it, it is readily absorbed, and produces anaesthesia in all parts in the range of distribution of the nerve- trunk beyond the point of injection. The quantity which can be safely used has not yet been determined. Applied to the eye, there is no dan- ger of absorption of a quantity capable of doing harm. Upon the mucous surfaces of the buccal cavity and pharynx several drachms of a 4-per-cent solution may be brushed with acamel's-hair pencil in the course of an operation lasting an hour, for here the excess is washed off and diluted with the saliva, which, of course, should not be swallowed. Injected into the deeper tissues, below the face and neck, from twenty to thirty minims of a 4-per-cent solution should be the limit within at least one hour before the dose is repeated. The larger quantity should be used with great care in the selection of cases. Partial respiratory paralysis has occurred in several instances after the injection of fifteen minims of a 4-per-cent solution in the supra-orbital region, and in other portions of the face. Artificial respiration was necessary for about fifteen minutes. Within the distribution of the fifth nerve its administration should be especially cautious. Chloroform or ether narcosis should never be per- mitted while a patient is under the influence of cocaine. For the eye, drop two or three minims of a 4-per-cent solution into this organ every four or five minutes until from twenty to thirty minutes have elapsed. For light work, such as the removal of a foreign body, or