THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 159 ' affected, are the same in the essential features in every case. Following an inoculation with any septic matter, within a few hours there is a sense of uneasiness and burning in the immediate vicinity of the wound. Pain is not usually severe until the swelling is well marked. At the end of from twenty-four to thirty-six hours the injection of the superficial vessels which lead from the local inllammation toward the center may be recognized. These red lines give a peculiar sensation to the touch. While the outline of the vessel can rarely be made out by palpation, there is often an appreciable thickening and tension in the tissues imme- diately over and around it. Pain is present in some instances, while in others even direct and strong pressure causes little or no disturbance. When the nearest gland or plexus is reached by the inflammatory pro- cess, by pressure upon these a sharp sense of pain is experienced. The febrile movement, which may ensue within twenty-four hours, though usually not well marked at this early period, is generally introduced by a chill or a series of chilly sensations, characterized by pallor and the "picked-goose" roughness of the skin. The temperature rises rapidly above the normal, and may reach a high degree. Nausea, vomiting, delirium, and the train of symptoms which accompany septicaemia may follow; but this is, fortunately, the exception. If the conditions are unfavorable to the progress of the disease, the temperature declines gradu- ally, resolution occurs, and the symptoms of inflammation disappear in from one to two weeks. In the diagnosis of lymphangitis it is well to bear in mind that in pTilehitis the lines of red discoloration are wider than in the disease under consideration, that there is a more general condition of oedema, that the lines of inflammation follow well-known and appreciable veins, that these veins are very painful to pressure, and that they are easily recognized as hard, semi-elastic, knotty cords. In erythema, erysipelas, and dermatitis the discoloration is deep and diffuse, and the superficial lymphangitis which exists can not be made out in the general staining. It is evident, however, in one unfailing symptom—adenitis in the glands in the direct route of the vessels. The treatment is local and general. Cold applications are preferable, if cold is agreeable to the patient. Employ the ice or cold-water bag, or cold cloths. Heat may be applied, in a similar manner. The sense of comfort experienced is the only criterion in determining the employment of these agencies. The lead and opium wash is a valuable remedy. When an extremity is affected it should be kept in perfect repose and in an elevated position. If suppuration occurs, the pus should be evacu- ated. If celhditis and great tension complicate the lymphangitis, make free parallel incisions to obviate threatened strangulation. The consti- tutional remedies look to the regulation of the alimentary apparatus— quinia, iron, etc., and, above all, pure air and cheerful surroundings. Subacute and chronic lymphangitis are associated with forms of gen- eral systemic infection, as in syphilis, which is typical of the subacute variety, and in "Hodgkin's disease" and the so-caUed scrofulous dys- crasia, which are chronic forms of this disease.