SPONDYLITIS. §99 Posterior curvature of the spine, lordosis or "sway-back," is far less frequent than the condition just described. It occurs almost always in the lumbar region. In the later months of pregnancy it is a common condition, and is met with in individuals with unusual development of the stomach and abdominal viscera, or in cases of chronic abdominal tumor (fibroid, etc.). Spondylitis.—Destructive ostitis of the vertebrae, commonly known as Pott's disease, occurs usually between the third and fifteenth year of life. In exceptional instances it is observed prior to three years of age, while not more than one fifth of all cases occar after the fifteenth year. It is therefore eminently a disease of the growing period, when rapid nutritive changes are taking place in the bones. While no portion of the spine is exempt, the disease is much more frequent in the dorsal vertebrfe, which are involved in about two thirds of all cases. The lumbar and cervical portions of the column are about equally liable to destructive ostitis. Occipito-cervical disease is rare. Ostitis in the lower cervical region is apt to involve the upper dorsal by extension, and the same is true of ostitis of the lower dorsal in their relation to the lumbar vertebrae. Lumbo-sacral disease is not altogether uncommon. Destructive ostitis of the spine is divided into occipito- eervical, cernical^ cermco-dorsal, dorsal, dorso-lumbar, lumbar, and lumbo-sacral, according to the recognized location of the disease. Causes—Predisposing and Exciting.—Any disturbance of the nor- mal process of nutrition in the tissues in general—as in the syphilitic, tubercular, gouty, or rheumatic dyscrasia—or the impairment of vitality resulting from any acute disease, predisposes to inflammatory changes in the bones, and especially in the cancellous tissue of the vertebrae.* These bones, together with the sternum and ribs, are the last to take on the changes which occur in the adult bones—-the bones of completed growth and full development. In the pathology of ostitis it has been pointed out that the medulla of these bones remains in its red or embry- onic condition long after that in the other bones has undergone the adult change, and that, consequently, they are for a prolonged period liable to accidents consequent upon rapid nutritive changes, and especially to capillary rupture and extravasation, f How much more liable to acci- dent and disastrous inflammation are these structures when they are weakened in the general impairment of nutrition? The chief exciting cause is violence, either directly or indirectly applied. A fall upon the feet, buttocks, or hands, or violent flexion or extension of the vertebral column, a blow upon the sternum or ribs, or a penetrating wound, may each lead to destructive ostitis. Carcinoma, sarcoma, and aneurism may also cause destruction of one or more vertebrae. It is believed that as * "Les tubercules des os s'sobserventhabituellement dans lestissu spongieux desos longs et dans les os courts, raais leur si6ge de predilection est le corps des vei'tebres, le sternum et les cotes."—CORNIL ET Ranvier. t "Les OS des jeunes sujets et ceux qui chez I'adulte contiennent encore la moelle foetale comine le sternum et les corps vert^braux sont particulierement expose aux troubles patho- logiques nutritifs ou formateurs."—Cornil et Ranvier.