CHAPTER XVL THOEAX. Mammary Gland—Congenital Defects.—One or both of these organs may be absent; one may develop fully while the other remains in its primitive condition; there may be three, four, or five, the supernumerary glands being placed upon the back, abdomen, axilla, or thigh. The nipple may be absent or retracted, and may be bifid or multiple, as many as a half-dozen occurring within the limit of the areola. Inflammation of the nipple is usually traumatic, occurring at the early period of lactation, and being caused by pressure from the gums of the infant. It may also be involved in the extension of a mammitis along the galactiferous ducts. The first indication in treatment is to give the organ rest. A rubber shield may be used to prevent injury while nursing, or the child kept away from the breast, the distention of the gland being relieved by arti- ficial means. Poultices of flax-seed or other emollients should be applied during the acute inflammatory process. Abscess of the nipple and the contiguous skin and subcutaneous tis- sue is an occasional sequence of inflammation of the nipple. The treatment is evacuation of the pus by one or more incisions made in the axis of the efferent ducts. Eczema, or fissure of the nipple, is of frequent occurrence during lac- tation. It is always annoying, and at times causes severe pain. Every source of irritation should be removed. If the integument is inflamed, poultices should be applied, and, after the acute inflammation subsides, the closure of the fissures may be hastened by the local use of glycerite of tannin or other astringent. Chronic inflammatory processes of the nipple which are intractable, resisting all constitutional and local reme- dies, demand free incision and ablation of the diseased area. Epithelioma is the most frequent form of malignant neoplasm of the nipple. The treatment is free excision. Papilloma, fibroma, angioma, cysts, etc., may occur in this organ, and should be removed by the knife as soon as discovered. Mastitis.—Inflammation of the breast may be acute or chronic, trau- matic or idiopathic. A single lobule or subdivision of the gland or the entire organ may be involved. In the more severe forms of inflammation the process may extend along the ducts to the nipple and backward into the submammary connective tissues. 3n