500 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. tended veins feel like worms. The tumor has none of the elasticity of hernia. In the recumbent posture a varicocele and a non-incarcerated inguinal hernia will both disappear. If after the disappearance fimi pressure is made with the fingers, and the patient is directed to resume the upright posture, the varicocele will return, while the hernia can not descend. Coughing does not affect varicocele. The accumulation of fluid in hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis is first noticed in the most inferior portion of the scrotum; the swelling is spherical at first, and becomes pyriform after the cord is involved. Hydrocele is translucent, and fluct- uation may be detected. Encysted hydrocele of the cord near the external ring or within the inguinal canal may make differentiation more difficult. The impulse from coughing is not marked in hydrocele, the sense of weakness is absent, the cyst is small and usually remains so. If, after full consideration, doubt still exists, aspiration with the finest hypodermic needle will clear up the diagnosis. Bubo.—In chronic adenitis the glandular character of the swelling can be made out distinctly. In acute adenitis, although the peri-lymphatic infiltration is so exten- sive that the glands can not be recognized, the redness of the skin, the great tenderness on pressure, and the superficial character of the pain, with the coexistence of a urethritis or sore upon the penis or scrotum, will serve to establish the character of the lesion. Incarcerated testicle may be suspected if there is absence of the organ on that side. If the testicle is not extensively atrophied, pressure will give the peculiar and characteristic sense of pain experienced in in- jury of this organ. In neoplasms there is a history of progressive development entirely disassociated from that of hernia as heretofore detailed. Abscess, which not infrequently appears above Poupart's ligament, is accompanied with inflammatory and septic symptoms which do not accompany hernia. Abscess of this region occurs with adenitis, as just stated, and with ostitis of the vertebrae or ilium. The recognition of either of these lesions will lead to the diagnosis of abscess. In the manipulation of a hernial tumor the sensation imparted to the fingers will vary with the contents of the sac and the condition of the mass. If it contain only omentum, it is doughy to the feel, and will yield dullness on percussion ; if the mass is composed of intestine, it is elastic, and more or less tympanitic on percussion. The "colicky" pain felt when the intestine is firmly compressed is of diagnostic value in determining the presence of a hernia. Whether a hernia is reducible or not, there is always a perceptible impulse imparted to the tumor in coughing or sneezing. In strangulated hernia the diagnosis rests first upon the existence of a tumor, which is present in almost all cases. In very exceptional instances there is no pro- trusion noticeable. The next symptom is pain at the seat of the hernia.' In character it is compared to that of intestinal colic, and, when not in- tensified in the neighborhood of the strangulation, it is usually referred to