59 INFLAMMATION. piece of tubing may be used as a siphon to the flow, regulated by a safety-pin clamp. A coil of rubber tubing wound around or upon an inflamed surface, through which cold water is allowed to run continuously, is an effective method of applying cold (Fig. 118). This apparatus is objectionable in some instances on account of its weight. Submerging an inflamed ex- tremity in a vessel of cold water m^ay also be efficacious. Heat may be applied by employing the same apparatus as for cold. The ice-bag may be filled with hot water, or hot irrigation used. Cloths rinsed in hot water and laid over the inflamed surface is one of the readiest and best methods of utilizing heat in the treatment of inflammation. Poultices of flaxseed-meal, or of bread, applied and kept moist and warm, are also useful local applications. A poultice used on a broken surface should be made with 1 to 10,000 sublimate solution. In determining whether heat or cold will be used in any given case, the surgeon must be guided in part by the sensibility of the patient, for that which is most grateful to the part inflamed will usually produce the most satisfactory results. Counter-irritants, such as blisters, sinapisms, or the cautery, are use- ful at times in the therapy of inflammation, especially in chronic pro- cesses in the joints and deeper tissues. Internal Medication.—As far as the constitutional treatment of inflam- mation is concerned, each case will be a law unto itself. In the stronger and plethoric patients a saline or a calomel purge is indicated in the beginning of the process, and restricted diet should be insisted upon. For the more feeble class of cases, tonics, cod-liver oil, good air, and well- directed nourishment are essential. To counteract the high febrile move- ment and rapid pulse, antipyrine in doses of gr. x to xx, repeated in two hours, is an excellent remedy. Aconite tincture, gtt. ij, and one drop additional every half-hour until the pulse falls, is also to be recom- mended. Quinia in doses of gr. x twice a day, or even oftener, in case of chills or rigors. Morphia, or one of the hypnotics, should be given when positively indicated by the patient's sufferings from pain or loss of sleep. Suppuration.—In its recent state, pus is a cream-like fluid, in specific gravity varying from 1 "020 to 1 -040, and at times higher. In closed cavi- ties in the tissues it is usually alkaline in reaction, but when exposed to the atmosphere (and in some instances even within the tissues, where it is protected from the air) it becomes acid. Chemically it may contain para- globulin, myosin, fatty acids, leucin, tyrosin, cholesterin, chloride of sodium, and phosphates. Healthy pus is odorless, but when decompo- sition has occurred the odor is often exceedingly offensive. Examined microscopically, numerous corpuscles, varying in size from Wo¥ to xbVtt of an inch, are seen floating in a transparent fluid—the liquor puris. These cells have no limiting membrane, contain one or several nuclei, and at times a number of fine granules, and can not be differen- tiated from the white blood-corpuscle or the common embryonic cell. Another cell-like body found in pus, especially in older abscesses, or