400 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. as long as the patient can endure the pain. Poultices are applied after- ward. If the first application is not sufficient, it should be repeated. The loss of substance caused by the destructive action of the paste nia,y be repaired by a plastic operation ; but this should not be done until cicatrization has occurred. The f rontal sinus may be involved in some of the diseases which affect the nose. New growths, abscess, or ostitis may demand the appli- cation of the trephine in the removal of a neoplasm or dead bone, or the evacuation of pus. Demation of the nose from the median line may be congenital or acquired. The septum alone may project to one side, or the entire organ be displaced laterally or upward. When the distortion is due to malfor- mation of the bones, these must be forced into position, with or without fracture. Deviation of the soft parts which form the ti\) of the nose, sufficient to produce deformity, may be corrected by the method of Prof. John B. Roberts. In case the tip of this organ is turned to the right, proceed as follows: With a scalpel perforate the cartilaginous septum at its upper and back part, and make a long incision through it, in a direction down- ward and forward. This incision should allow the operator to push the whole cartilaginous portion of the nose to the left. To retain the parts in this position, introduce a steel pin, about one inch and a fourth long, into the right nostril, and pass it comj^letely through the anterior and upper segment of the divided septum, near the columella. By carrying the head of the pin to the left, the anterior portion of the nose will be also carried in this direction, and may be retained by imbedding the point of the pin deeply in the immovable cartilaginous septum and mu- cous membrane at the back of the left naris. The pin may be removed as soon as firm adhesions have formed, usually in from five to ten days. Deviations of the septum alone may be corrected by the same method. Hypertrophy of the nose, due to increased vascularity, may be cor- rected by repeated incisions across the track of the enlarged vessels, by galvano-puncture, or by causing their obliteration by injections of 50-per- cent carbolic-acid solution, as for ncevus. Plastic Surgery or the Nose. Loss of substance may occur from the accidental or surgical ablation of all or a,portion of this organ, or from its destruction by disease. The diseases which most frequently produce loss of substance are syphilis and lupus. Carcinoma, sarcoma, elephantiasis, or any neoplasm, may in- volve the nose and cause loss of tissue in their removal, but lupus locates itself by preference here, while one of the most common lesions of tertiary syphilis is necrosis of the cartilages and bones of the nose, resulting in great disfigurement. Occasionally sloughing occurs, from the presence of a phagedenic syphilide during the second stage of this disease. This accident occurred in the patient from which Fig. 447 was taken.