251 LIGATION OF ARTERIES. The second portion of tlie right suhclaman averaged '58 incli, tlie same division of the left subclavian being -56 inch in length. The third portion of the right artery is a little less ; the same division of the left subclavian a little more than 111 inch in length. Nine important branches arise directly or indirectly from the subcla- vian arteries : the vertebral^ internal mammary^ transversalis colli, suprascapular, inferior thyroid, cervicalis ascendens, superior inter- costal, profunda cervicis, and posterior scapular. The right vertebral, the branch most constant in origin, arises from the superior and posterior aspect of the main trunk (Fig. 293) and passes upward to the verte- bral foramen, in the sixth cervical verte- bra ; at times to the fifth; less frequently to the fourth. The relation of this branch is important. In the vast majority of sub- jects it will be found between one fourth and three fourths of an inch to the inner side of the inner mar- gin of the scalenus anticus. The left vertebral (Fig. 292) arises, in 4 per cent of cases, from the aorta. In most subjects it will be found within three fourths of an inch of the left scalenus muscle. The internal mammary artery arises at the inner border of the sca- lenus anticus. It is occasionally from the thyroid axis. The phrenic nerve passes usually in front, occasionally behind it. Behind the costal cartilages it runs parallel with the edge of the sternum, about half an inch external to it. The thyroid axis arises also just within the scalenus. The inferior thyroid branch arises from the axis, in almost every case on the left side. On the right, in twenty-six cases examined, it originated from the in- nominate in three, and directly from the subclavian in three instances. It passes upward (inclining at first a little inward) until it arrives at a point between the third and seventh (incomplete) rings of the trachea, where it turns abruptly inward, going behind the common carotid and jugular, in front of the vertebral, and is distributed chiefly to the lower portion of the thyroid body. The transversalis colli passes outward in front of the scalenus muscle and the phrenic nerve, underneath the omo-hyoid, and in front of or Fig. 293.—Plan of the right subclavian artery and its branches. From the author's dissections. (After Quain.)