CHAPTER XX. DEFORMITIES. DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINAL C0LU3IN. AwT noticeable deviation from the normal curvatures of the vertebral column constitutes a deformity. They are congenital and acquired, tem- porary ox permanent. They are divisible into two great classes, namely, those due to lesions of the column (bones or cartilages), and those due to lesions of the soft tissues (muscles and ligaments). To the former belong dislocations, fractures, destructive ostitis, and spina bifida ; to the latter, muscular torticollis, lateral or rotary-lateral curvature (scoliosis), stoop-shoulder {cyphosis), curvature from pleuritic adhesions, collapse of the lung, contractions of cicatrices following burns, scalds, phleg- mon, etc. Lateral and Rotary-lateral Curvature.—Simple lateral curvature of the spine—that is, a bowing to one side without rotation of the vertebrae— Is extremely rare. It may occur in any portion of the column to a slight extent, although rotation is very apt to take place with the curvature. It is more often observed in the cervical region than elsewhere, and is known as torticollis, or wry-necJc.^' The causes of wry-neck are—1, loss of parallelism, or balance of power between opposing muscles, and 2, cicatricial contractions. Muscular torticollis is by far the most frequent form, and, in common with all de- formities resulting from lesions of the mus- cles, the right side is usually affected. The right sterno-mastoideus muscle is the prin- cipal seat of tonic spasm, causing this or- gan to stand out in relief ; the right ear is drawn down toward the clavicle of that side, while the chin points well to the left (Fig. 668). The trapezius not unfrequently is con- tracted with the mastoid muscle. The sple- nius, scaleni, platysma myoides, or levator- ees.-Muscuiar torticoius. anguli scapulge, are less frequently involved. (After Sayie.) Loss of equilibrium between the muscles of the two sides occurs chiefly in chlorotic patients in which the normal muscular tone is greatly diminished, rendering the organs of the left (or