ARTERITIS. 173 Emigrant corpuscles could only reach this location by traversing the media, for as yet the capillaries have not been projected into the inner tunic. Nor is it probable that leucocytes, from the blood-current within the artery involved, migrate through the endothelia into the proliferat- ing mass. The adventitia does not long remain undisturbed by the pathological changes which have occurred in the intima. It takes on an inflammatory process in a varying degree, and this tunic is found thickened from the proliferation of its connective-tissue cells. If the process be obstinate and persistent, a true arteritis is developed, and all the pathological con- ditions which have been described on a previous page may be present. The media is not greatly altered in the early stages of endarteritis or periarteritis, though in calcification it is apt to be first attacked, as it is likewise in fatty infiltration and degeneration. Acute endarteritis may terminate in recovery, leaving no permanent trace of its having existed, or it may pass into a chronic inflammation, which usually ends in fatty de- generation. This degeneration begins in the endarteritis proper, and trav- els toward the media. The ap- pearances of an artery which has undergone this change are well shown in Fig. 253. Fatty degeneration, in its mi- croscopic appearances, resembles very much the atheroma which is, at times, found in the intima. It can, however, by gentle and care- ful scraping, be removed, reveal- ing the more or less normal tissues underneath, while in advanced atheroma, which involves the deeper structures first, no trace of the normal tissues can be dis- covered. Chronic arteritis may follow an acute endarteritis, as has been indi- cated above, although the chronic arterial lesions, as a rule, begin with periarteritis or mesarteritis. II. Nok-Traitmatic or Idiopathic Arteritis.—The inflammatory process in idiopathic arteritis differs only in degree from that heretofore described as occurring in traumatic arteritis. When not due to syphilis, gout, rheumatism, nephritis, or some dyscrasia, it is usually a j^art of an inflammation of the tissues immediately surrounding an artery. The process commences in the adventitia, and is analogous to that of trau- matic arteritis. Atheroma and Calcification.-—One of the frequent and most serious terminations of chronic arteritis, no matter what may have produced the '""f'mi Fig. 252.—ArteritLs with fatty degeneration. Fatty de- generation of the internal coat of the arteries from a thin layer stripped from this membrane, a, Fat granules in irregular patches over the surface. The granules have resulted from fatty degeneratioQ of the cells of the intima. Fibrillated tissue. Mag- nified 200 diameters. (Cornil and Eanvier.)