428 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. bone is tlie seat of a neoplasm, depends upon the character of the new formation. If there is any doubt as to the benign character of the tumor, a piece should be removed and examined microscopically before operation. In sarcoma, cancer, and enchondroma of the jaw, the sub-periosteal operation can not be performed, since the sound tissues must be included in the ablation, in order to secure immunity from recurrence. Enchon- droma, though not intrinsically malignant, tends to recur if not freely excised. Operation.—When it is safe and possible, the diseased portion of the lower jaw should be removed without breaking the continuity of the bone. If a portion of the entire thickness of the organ is removed, the tendency to displacement is inward, thereby interfering with mastica- tion. The entire thickness of the jaw should be included in exsection for malignant neoplasm. Partial resection of the upper or alveolar portion of the body of the lower jaw in front may be accomplished, in mild cases, from wdthin the buccal cavity. When the disease is extensive, proceed as follows : At a distance from the alveolar margin sufficient to permit the exposure of all diseased bone make an incision parallel with the margin of the lip, and also parallel with the inferior border of the jaw. This incision should extend in depth to the bone and in length beyond the area of disease. The bone is next divided by the chisel and mallet, the key-hole saw, or removed in small pieces by the ron- geur, in the line indicated in Fig. 500. The operation is concluded by bringing the flap back into place with silk sutures. When the disease is more gen- eral, necessitating a removal of the Fig. 500.—Line of section in removing tLe alveo- lus of the lower jaw. (After Eoser.) entire thickness of the bone, a more extensive incision is required. The lip is divided in the median line down to the under surface of the chin, and thence along the lower border of the jaw (Fig. 501). When the ramus and articular process require removal, tlie line of incision may be carried to the angle and up the ramus. In disarticulation, while the incision through the skin can be safely carried as high as the zj^goma, the incision down to the bone should not extend farther than on a level with the tip of Fig. 501.—(After Eoser.)