188 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. tumor." Chelius operated for " aneurismal varix of the temporal region " in a child of twelve months. Symptoms.—The clinical history of cirsoid arterial tumors does not commence with the pathological changes which occur in the terminal arterioles. Dilatation begins before there is any appreciable projection of the skin, or pulsation, or twisting of the arterioles. At a later period the physical signs are present, and the diagnosis easy. Direct pressure will arrest the pulsation and empty the tumor. The consistency of these tumors varies with the amount of the connective tissue developed around the arterioles, as a result of the inflammatory process. Petit describes the sensation imparted to the palm of the hand pressed upon an arterial cirsoid as similar to the vermicular motion of a mass of earth-worms. With the stethoscope, a bruit de souffle is distinctly audible. Pain is not constant, and is only due to the pressure of the growth upon the cutaneous nerves. As the tumor progresses in size, more marked inflam- matory changes occur; adhesions to the skin take place ; and ulcerations, with alarming haemorrhages, are not infrequent. In some instances, especially in cirsoid tumor of the scalp, pressure of the growth upon the calvaria may interfere with the nutrition of the skull. Treatment.—It may be said of the treatment of cirsoid arterial tumors, in common with arterial, capillary, and venous cutaneous tumors, that no method is as safe or sure as direct local treatment. The study of a large number of cases leads me to this conclusion. For a long time deU- gation of the main trunk or trunks was the favorite practice. Sometimes this was done to arrest haemorrhage due to ulceration or accident, in some few cases to arrest haemorrhage after or during an attempt at removal, but most frequently the intention was to cut off the blood-supply. Since the vast majority of vascular tumors occupy the neck, face, and scalp, the carotids have been often tied in the treatment of these growths. In my "Essays in Surgical Anatomy and Surgery"* I have collected 98 cases of ligature of the carotid for vascular growth above the clavicle, and chiefly of the head. This number does not include 60 cases of pulsating vascular tumor within the orbit. The results are not such as to encourage the careful operator in a repetition of the procedure. Even in the nine cases in which both common trunks were tied,t only one was cured (not, however, until after compression was made over the tumor), and two were improved. Mussey's patient was only improved after the second ligation, but was cured after a bloody excision. The tumor was exceedingly large, and the dilated arteries were tied one by one. More than twenty ligatures were applied, and the haemorrhage is said to have been dangerously profuse. Other surgeons besides Mussey X who have practiced excision of cir- soid arterial and other "vascular tumors" are Busch,:}: Heine,^ Graefe,* * New York, 1879. t The operators were Blackman, Gunderloch and Miiller, Kuhl, Mussey, Pirogoff, Robert, Rodgers and Van Buren, Ullman, and Warren. X See the author's " Essays in Surgical Anatomy and Surgery," New York, 1879. * Holmes's " System of Surgery," second edition, vol. iii, p. 540.