A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 680 the wound, and the deep sutures are passed (Fig. 665). These should be of silver wire, because they are cleaner and hold more unyieldingly than silk. They should be close enough to control hsemorrhage and secure accurate adjustment of the sides of the wound. They should enter the peritoneal covering about half an inch from the edge of the wound, and pass through it and the muscular wall to the decidua, which must not be included in the suture ; then across to the other side through the muscular and serous coats. After twisting the silver su- tures, the superficial sutures of fine silk are introduced. These are to be from twenty to thirty in number, and are employed to secure perfect coaptation of the serous. edges of the incision. They are introduced in the same way as Lembert's suture of the intestine. Lastly the twisted silver wires are cut oif about one-half inch from the level of the incision in the uterus, and the ends turned down parallel with the surface of this organ. The incision in the abdominal wall is closed, as after ovariotomy. There are certain conditions which can only be determined by inspec- tion through the incision in the abdominal wall which may contraindi- cate the operation just given, and necessitate a modified procedure. If the patient has been long in labor, and considerable time has elapsed after the membranes have ruptured ; if there is a putrid dis- charge from the vagina; if the symptoms of septic fever are present, with the perimetrium dulled and adherent to the muscular wall of the uterus, Porro's operation—amputation of the uterus at the os internum— is indicated. If malignant disease of the cervix is present, Freund's operation is to be preferred. If the pregnant uterus be the seat of a fibro-myoma, and so situated as to render delivery impossible, or if a rupture of the walls of the uterus has occurred, which is so ragged in outline that it can not be sutured, Porro's operation is indicated. The objects aimed at in aU operations for the artificial delivery of children at term are, preservation of the mother's life and future health, with, if possible, the non-mutilation of her generative organs and the delivery of a living child.* Porro's Operation^—Hysterectorhy during Pregnancy.—The abdom- inal incision is similar to that just given. It must not be overlooked that the bladder is high up and in good part uncovered by the peritonaeum. As soon as the uterus is exposed it should be drawn out of the abdomen. Place around the cervix a large piece of rubber tubing if an ecraseur or clamp is to be used; or a rubber ligature, if that is to be permanent. Pro- tect the intestines with warm towels wet in Thiersch's solution. Under the uterus and over the abdominal incision spread a large piece of rubber cloth, protecting the peritoneal cavity from the entrance into it of blood, etc. Tighten the rubber ligature around the cervix, and immediately in- cise the uterus and rapidly extract the child. The incision in the uterus may be made in any direction convenient. The next step is to cut off * As regards statistics, Saenger gives thirty CaBsarean sections performed as above de- scribed, with a mortality of 26-7 per cent. + The mortality after this operation is greater than that after hysterotomy.