,635 THE PENIS. doses. When gangrene is threatened, free incisions in the long axis of the organ should be practiced. Wounds of the penis, involving more than the integument, always bleed profusely. Haemorrhage may be controlled by direct compression with a roller, or by throwing a few turns of an elastic ligature around this organ near the pubic junction. When the urethra is divided in whole or in part, it is best to stitch the separated walls together by close sutures of delicate silk. Catgut, though more preferable in one sense, is too readily absorbed to hold the edges of the wound in contact for a length of time sufficient to secure union. It is not usually necessary to insert a catheter, and it is best to dispense with this on account of the irrita- tion it causes. Any tendency to stricture may be treated later. When the dense capsule of the corpus cavernosum is divided, this should be included in the sutures which are carried through the wound in the in- tegument. A guarded prognosis should be made in all deep injuries of the penis. Distortion during erection, and stricture, are frequent results of such lesions. Fracture of the corpora cavernosa, an accident which occurs in rare instances as a result of great violence to the erected organ, is a difficult injury to treat. Deformity, with more or less loss of function, is apt to ensue. The organ should be laid up on the abdomen, and kept in a condition of as perfect quiet as possible. Cold applications are indi- cated, and, in case of strangulation from ef- fusion of blood or from any other cause, free longitudinal incisions may be necessitated. Carcinoma.—Epithe- lioma of the penis is not an uncommon affection. It commences as a small pimple or erosion on the mucous surface of the prepuce or on the glans, gradually spread- ing until, if left alone, the entire organ is in- volved and destroyed. The margins of the ulcer are indurated, elevated, sinuous, and slightly everted. The indura- tion, as a rule, is con- fined to the immediate —Carcinoma of the penis. (From a case in Mount Sinai Hospital.) borders of the sore, not extending into the deeper tissues unless inflammation supervenes. As the disease progresses, the center of the surface becomes studded with