A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 356 The symptoms of acute traumatic synovitis at tlie ankle are usually not obscure. Swelling, pain, and heat, following prolonged or violent exertion, a twist, sprain, or other injury, bear strong evidence of inflam- mation within the joint. The injury most difficult to differentiate from intra-articular synovitis, and one which frequently complicates synovitis here, is inliammation of the sheaths of the tendons which play around the joint. The evidence of thecitis is pain in the track of the tendon, either elicited by direct pressure or by placing the foot slowly in a position which ^\dll cause the greatest tension of the tendons, and then requiring the patient to move the foot in various directions which are resisted by the operator. To test the peronei muscles, carry the foot well inward, hold it firmly, and ask the patient to turn the foot out. Thecitis in the track of these tendons will arrest the effort at abduction and outward rotation. The reverse of this manoeuvre will serve to demonstrate a similar condition in the flexors and internal rotators. IdiopatJiic synovitis of the ankle-joint is less painful and comes on slowly. Synovitis from exposure to cold, gout, or rheumatism is fre- quently symmetrical, attacking either both ankles at the same time, or first one and then the other. Traumatic synovitis, on the other hand, is almost always unilateral. The prognosis of simple synovitis of the ankle, when proper, vigor- ous, and prompt treatment is instituted, is iu general favorable. If left alone it frequently ends in anchylosis or destructive osteo-arthritis. Treatment.—Acute synovitis, whether of traumatic or idiopathic ori- gin, demands rest, with an elevated position of the foot. Simple cases will require no more than this, with hot or cold applications, or lead-and- opium wash, applied by soft cloths laid loosely around the ankle, or blotting-paper kept wet with vinegar. The employment of compression will depend upon the sense of relief it may give the patient. Absorbent cotton or soft sponges may be used, applied carefully with a flannel or muslin roller. Aspiration of the joint to relieve extreme tension from effusion ap- plies here as in other articulations. The needle should be entered in front, between the anterior margin of the external malleolus and the con- tiguous surface of the tibia, away from the vessels and nerves which are opposite the middle of the joint. In subacute or chronic synovitis, compression is alwaj^s indicated, and will often cause absorption of the excessive effusion in the joint. It is especially demanded after aspiration, to give support to the parts, and to prevent a further effusion. Extension is indicated when its employment gives relief from pain, which rest and fixation without extension do not afford. Fixation with liquid glass or plaster of Paris secures rest to the joint in most cases, and permits of locomotion on crutches. Arthritis of the ankle is often due to ostitis of the tibia or the astragalus. The symptoms are those of ostitis, elsewhere given, and the diagnosis