666 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. to as mucli as ten or twelve inches. In recent cases the walls are thin, fluctuation is easily made out, and the testicle may be recognized in the lower posterior portion of the swelling. In old cases the waUs may measure half an inch or more in thickness, and are so tense and in- elastic that to the touch the tumor seems wholly solid. The differentia- tion includes hydrocele of the cord, encysted hydrocele of the testis, hernia, varicocele, and va- rious neoplasms or swellings of the testis and epididymis. Hydrocele of the cord is ob- long or spherical in shape, usu- ally of small size, and gives a his- tory of a swelling commencing above the testicle, which organ can be made out by palpation be- low the tumor. Encysted hydro- cele of the testicle can only defi- nitely be made out by puncture with the aspirator-needle and ex- amination of the contents with the microscope. The presence of' the spermatozoa will determine the encysted character of the tu- mor. In hernia the swelling be- gins at the inguinal ring, and travels progressively downward. If reducible, it can be made to disappear by assuming the dor- sal decubitus, while a hydrocele would be unaffected by this ma- noeuvre. Percussion upon an in- testinal hernia will yield resonance, while that upon the tumor of hydro- cele gives dullness. Omental hernia is doughy to the feel, while hydro- cele is tense and resisting. Varicocele can be eliminated by" the peculiar impression conveyed to the fingers when the worm-like veins are grasped. The solid character of neoplasms of the testis or epididymis can be recognized by palpation. Of most importance, however, is the employ- ment of the exploring aspirator, which safely and easily demonstrates the liquid character of the contents of hydrocele. Treatment.—The cure of hydrocele is effected in almost all cases by operative interference. The transudation of serum into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis, symptomatic of specific disease, or any acute local affection, may disappear by absorption under proper medi- cal treatment, or after the disappearance of the acute trouble. These cases are, however, exceptional ; and, if absorption does not occur within the first few weeks of the history of the affection, operation is demanded. Fio. 660.—Double hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis. (From a patient operated upon at Moiuit Sinai Hospital.)