502 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. order to get an exact outline of the surface to which the truss is to be applied, and trace this directly upon a sheet of paper. The instrument- maker in using this tracing can model the spring to fit more comfortably, and after this temper the metal to make the required pressure. When a direct and indirect hernise exist upon the same side, a single pad prop- erly adjusted will suffice to secure both openings. When there exists a bilateral hernia, a double truss should be worn. A fair temporary truss may be made as follows: A piece of cloth or a tuft of wool, cotton, or oakum is rolled into a compress about half the size of the fist, covered with adhesive plaster (the adhesive surface being external), and is laid immediately over the inguinal canal, after the hernia has been reduced ; and while the patient is in the recumbent posture a spica bandage is carried around the pelvis and thigh so that the compress is held firmly in position. It is prevented from slipping out of place by the adhesive plaster. When an inguinal hernia can not be retained by a truss, operative interference is indicated. Of the various procedures which have been introduced, that known as Heaton's operation is the simplest in execu- tion, involves less danger and annoyance, and offers fully as great a prospect of success. It is performed as follows : The integument within a radius of three or four inches of the internal ring is cleanly shaved and washed with soap, then with ether, and, lastly, with sublimate solution, 1 to 2000. The patient is placed in the recum- bent posture, with the pelvis elevated on pillows until gravity carries the intestines away from the vicinity of the inner ring. A syringe made for this purpose (Fig. 544), having been thoroughly disinfected by immer- f iG. 544.—Syringe for Heaton's operation. sion in 1 to 20 carbolic-acid solution, is filled with nineteen minims of the following solution, to which one minim of carbolic acid is added: Extract of quercus alba, fourteen grains; fluid extract of quercus alba, half ounce. Mix over a hot-water bath. One eighth grain of sulphate of morphia may be added to each injection. An angesthetic is not required. The needle of this syringe is sharp at the end, and one eighth of an inch from the point are two holes, from which the fluid escapes. In order to insure the exclusion of air, the instrument is held perpendicu- larly and the piston forced up until a bead of the injection-fluid stands on the point of the needle. Being thus prepared, the operator carries the index-finger of the hand most convenient to himself into the canal, invaginating the skin through the external ring, and up the canal undl the outlines of the inner ring are appreciated by the finger-tip. With this finger resting here, the point of the needle is introduced exactly over the center of the internal ring, and enters perpendicularly to the plane of the abdomen at this point. When the impact of the needle-point is