143 AMPUTATIONS. the leg, so as to make a slightly curved flap, with its convexity below ; when the incision passes over the prominent part of the leg toward the posterior surface, incline it upward until the middle of the limb is reached, where it should be continued directly up to the point at which the bone is to be divided ; make a similar incision on the opposite side (Pig. 227); the flaps, consisting of the skin and fascia, are dissected up- ward about an inch, at which point the muscles are divided squarely down to the bones. After the bones are divided, the hood is brought over the stump and sutured, leaving the drainage at the upj^er part of the posterior incision. In very emaciated subjects, to forestall the liability of sloughing in the flaps, the flrst circular cut should go directly through all the tissues down to the bones, and the perpendicular incision along the fibula also down to this bone. All the tissues should then be lifted closely from the peri- osteum and interosseous membrane, forming a solid flap, reflected up to the point at which the bones are to be divided. When the line of amputation approaches nearer than three inches from the upper articular surface of the tibia, a complete disarticulation at the knee shoiild be performed. At or below this point the upper por- tion of the bone should be preserved, and the fibula exsected. After recovery from the operation it will be found that the tibia is flexed upon the femur, so that, in the adjustment of an artiflcial limb, the chief pressure may be comfortably borne upon the normal tissues in front of the patella and the tuberosity of the tibia. The greater pressure in any prothetic apparatus used after amputation, at or above the knee, falls upon the ischio-perineal region."* * The older operations, which consisted in making a long and a short flap on opposite sides of the leg, are now fallen into general disuse. The requirements will be better ful- filled by any one of the methods already de- scribed than by the more complicated meth- ods of Teale, Lee, Sedillot, and others. Method of Teale—Long and Short Rec- tangular Flaps.—The long flap, folding over the end of the bone, is formed of parts gen- erally devoid of large blood-vessels and nerves, which structures are left in the short flap. The size of the long flap is determined by the circumference of the limb at the place of amputation, its length and breadth being each equal