A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 54 The cause of this contraction is supposed to be due to stimulus of the vaso-motor nerves, while the dilatation is explained as due to paralysis of the vessel-walls from injury to the inhibitory nerves, to changes in the walls proper, as the result of irritation, or to fatigue and relaxation after the primary contraction. With these changes in the vessels which occur in such rapid succession, the blood-current is accelerated ; hyperse- mia ensues, and this, in turn, is followed by more or less complete blood- stasis. This last condition is most marked in the center of the inflamed zone, and when complete arrest occurs it is first seen here. At this stage leucocytes, in greatly increased proportion in the blood, appear in the venules and capillaries, to the walls of which they adhere, and through which they are seen to pass by active amoeboid movement, until they wander free in the intervascular spaces (wandering or emigrant cells). The bi-concave disks and liquor sanguinis also escape in the wake of the white corpuscles. Conheim has shown that the points of escape are in the intervals between the flat cells of which the vessel-walls are composed. In the area of complete stasis emigration does not occur. Stasis is very probably due to a pathological change in the walls of the vessels, which in turn induces in the blood of the inflamed area cer- tain changes whereby the "normal equilibrium existing between the blood and the containing vessels, which is physiologically essential to the integrity of the circulation, is impaired or lost." The presence of the white corpuscles should not be overlooked in seeking for an explana- tion of stasis, for paraglobulin, the coagulation factor of the blood, is the normal property of the leucocytes, and, as stated, they are present in increased numbers. Redness, swelling, local increase of temperature and pain, occur with, and as a result of, inflammatory hypersemia. The discoloration is due to hsematin in increased quantity, not only within the vessels, but in the spaces between the capillaries. Tumefaction is due to increased blood- supply, to extravasation, and cell-proliferation. Abnormal heat is caused by increased cell activity and the abnormal condition of the blood with- in the inflamed area, while pain is due to pressure upon the end organs of the sensory nerves. With the appearance of the leucocytes in increased numbers, and the escape of these into the intervascular spaces of the inflamed area, cell- proliferation occurs, resulting in the formation of a common embryonic tissue. Examined microscopically, this embryonic tissue is seen to be com- posed of protoplasmic bodies or cells, spherical in shape, or slightly polygonal from reciprocal pressure, varying in size from about 3-3V0 to ^/o-g- of an inch, and often larger than this. They may be nucleated, but usually ajDpear as slightly cloudy or granular protoplasmic bodies with no distinct nucleus or nucleolus. Of the normal cells, which are most active in proliferation, and there- fore chiefly involved in the formation of the new tissue, it is difiicult in the present condition of pathological research to say. The followers of Conheim hold with him that the leucocyte is the chief factor in this