A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 526 should be enlarged. Cocaine anaesthesia may be sufficient for this pro- cedure. If the wound is confined to the abdominal wall, it should be treated in the aseptic method advised for ordinary wounds of the soft tissues. If it extends through the wall, the abdomen should be opened, and the condition of the viscera examined. As to whether the incision should be an enlargement of the accidental wound, or made in the median line, the location and direction of the wound must determine. The sec- tion should be, preferably, through the linea alba. If the lesion is not more than six inches from this line, and if the direction of the wound is backward or tending toward the center, the median incision should be chosen. Under other conditions the section may be through the wound of entrance. In this procedure the details of the antiseptic method should be car- ried out, as directed in operation for the relief of Intestinal obstruction. When the peritoneal cavity is opened, if it contain clotted blood which is known not to have entered from the wound of operation, or ingested matter, or if gas escape through the opening, the penetrating character of the wound is evident. If none of these signs are present, the disin- fected hand should be introduced and the internal surface of the wall examined at the supposed point of entrance. In examining the intestinal canal, it is advisable to begin with the loops of small intestine which pre- sent at the incision. These should be carefully drawn out through the opening, and, as fast as inspected, surrounded with towels moistened in warm Thiersch solution, and supported in the hands of an assistant, who will not allow them to drag heavily upon the exposed mesentery. If an opening be found in the gut, it may be at once closed, or noted and passed over until the entire canal and cavity have been examined. If a cutting or puncturing sharp instrument has inflicted the wound, its edges will be found sufficiently smooth to be sutured at once, Fig. 549 Fig. 548.—Lembert's suture for clos- ing wounds of the intestines. (After Esmarch.) and should be brought together by Lem- bert's suture (Fig. 548). If the hole has been made by a bullet, and has rough and torn borders, as in Fig. 549, its edges should be trimmed smooth, with curved scissors, and then closed. When only a narrow strip of tissue separates two openings (Fig. 549), they should be converted into a single elliptical wound, and sutured.