ABSCESS OF THE ABDOMINAL REGION. 519 incision should be free, with its center over that part of the swelling in which the pus seems nearest the surface. If the exploring-needle has been successfully tried, it should be left in position as a guide to the pus. The dissection should be made with great care, to avoid opening into the peritoneal cavity, either directly or through the wall of the ab- scess. After a small puncture is made in the sac, the dressing-forceps should be employed to dilate the opening. Irrigation with 1-to-lOOOO sublimate solution should be made, and a drainage-tube inserted. In a certain proportion of cases fecal fistula will occur in the course of peri- typhlitic abscess. It should be treated as heretofore directed. As to the propriety of operative interference when, in the course of perityphlitis, perforation of the appendix or rupture of an abscess into the cavity of the peritonaeum takes place, there exists a diversity of opinion. The hopelessness of the case, when left alone, would seem to justify an effort at cleansing the peritoneal cavity and closing the per- foration or establishing drainage to the outside. Retroperitoneal Abscess.—Abscess behind the peritonaeum is usually circumscribed, although it may be diffuse. Commencing at any portion of the posterior abdominal wall, pus is apt to dissect up the loose tissues behind the peritonaeum, and to travel downward, pointing ultimately in one of the following situations: Above Poupart's ligament, external to its center; beneath this ligament, in Scarpa's space ; over the iliac crest; in the gluteal or lumbar region; at the obturator foramen, or less frequently it may emptj into the colon, rectum, bladder, uterus, vagina, or pass out through the perinseum. Occasionally the dissec- tion is upward into the pleura, or it may pass across the spine to the opposite side. Causes.—Ostitis of the vertebrae, ribs, or bones of the pelvis, rupture of the psoas or iliacus muscles; lesions of the kidneys or supra-renal capsules (cysts, neoplasms, calculi, pyelitis, rupture with the extravasa- tion of blood and urine); diseases of the pancreas, liver, spleen, duo- denum, colon, and rectum ; the pelvic viscera, or tubercular changes in the lymphatics of this region—may cause retroperitoneal abscess. Diagnosis.—The physical signs of the earlier stages of pus-forma- tion behind the peritonaeum are not well marked. With the muscles fully relaxed, deep pressure upon the abdomen from before backward may demonstrate the presence of the swelling. Rigidity of the muscles of the affected side is apt to be present, and in walking there is usually a perceptible limp. When the inflammatory process is situated in the region of the iliacus and psoas nluscles, flexion of the thigh on the ab- domen, however slight, is apt to occur. The constitutional symptoms of acute abscess will be the chief reliance in arriving at a correct diag- nosis. The history of an injury, or the presence of a lesion of any of the organs situated in this region, will suggest the probability of abscess. Extravasation of blood (haematoma), as far as the swelling is con- cerned, may simulate abscess, and in one particular may mislead, since the blood dissects up the loose tissues, and the tumor may present at