679 HYSTEROTOMY. chiefly owing to the labors of Saenger and Leopold. It is indicated wlien at full term, labor having begun, it is found impossible, on account of insurmountable disproportion between the diameters of the pelvic outlet and the child, to effect delivery by the vagina. When this condition is evident, proceed as rapidly as possible in the following manner: If the membranes are not already ruptured, break them. Disinfect the vagina and genitals with sublimate solution, 1 to 3500. Prepare the abdomen as for an ovariotomy, and make a long abdominal incision, controlling all bleeding with catgut ligatures as the operation proceeds. Having entered the abdominal cavity and made the opening large enough, place three or four silk sutures at the upper end of the wound in order to narrow the opening as soon as the uterus is drawn out of the incision, thus avoiding extrusion of the intestines. Drag the uterus outside the abdominal cavity, and close the upper portion of the wound by tightening the sutures already in position. If the intestines should be protruded, protect them with warm towels wrung out of Thiersch's solution, and beneath the uterus pass a piece of rubber cloth, disinfected in the same solution, to protect the abdominal cavity from the entrance of blood. Around the cervix uteri pass a stout piece of elastic tubing, and draw it tight. Immediately incise the uterus in the median line and in its long axis, limiting the incision below to the peritoneal reflec- tion, thus avoiding the large circular sinuses about the os internum, and extending it upward if necessary. Remove the child, and hand it to an assistant to resuscitate. The uterus will now usually contract. Intro- duce the hand into the uterus and remove the placenta. The uterine cavity is to be next disinfected with a l-to-5000 sublimate solution. Un- less the cervical canal is widely dilated (and this should be ascertained before the operation), the use of a utero-vaginal drainage-tube is indi- cated, and this latter must be of stiff rubber. The next step in the operation is the insertion of the sutures in the wall of the uterus. First ascertain whether the peritoneal covering of this organ is sufficiently Fig. 665.—Sutures in Caesarean section. Method of passing the sutures in closing the wall of the uterus after hysterotomy, cr, The peritoneal covering dissected up along the edge of the incision and in- verted by the catgut suture, after the method of Lembert. b, The muscular substance, with the silver-wire suture passed through, c, Decidua. (Drawn by Dr. W. E. Pryor.) movable to allow it to be folded in between the sides of the incision. If need ■ be, dissect it up from its attachment to the muscular fibers a slight distance. The peritonaeum is next folded in between the lips of