148 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. for the condyles, and that upon the internal aspect it should have addi- tional fullness for the purpose of insuring sufficient fap for the internal or larger condyle " (Smith). After the flaps are stitched the drain- age-tube makes its exit through the upper posterior angle of the wound.* Fig. 236.—(After Esmarch.) TMgJi.—The method to be selected in amputations through the lower two thirds of the thigh will depend upon the size of the mem- ber at the point of election. In limbs of ordinary size, and particu- larly in emaciated persons, the operation advised in the arm should be followed here. First Method.—Below the line of section through the femur, at a dis- tance sufficient to furnish an ample flap, by a circular incision divide the integument down to the muscles, allow the skin to retract, and at the line of retraction divide the remaining soft tissues down to the bone. On the anterior and external aspect of the thigh, by a jDerpendicular incision extending as high as the point of section of the bone, divide everything to the bone, and from the periosteum, with a dry dissector, lift the solid flap. Apply the cloth retractor and saw through the bone. As the stump is placed in an elevated position, with the thigh also abducted and rotated outward, the drainage is naturally at the upper angle of the perpendicular incision. This same procedure may be carried out in this class of cases in all parts of the thigh, and in disarticulation at the hip-joint as well. When the diameter of the limb is great, or when there is abundant subcutaneous areolar tissue, the modified circular skin-flap operation is preferable. * The method of Garden—namely, long anterior skin-flap, and the short posterior skin and muscular flap, made by the long knife carried througli the joint—is inferior in every respect to either of the foregoing operations. Garden recommended section through the condyles. Gritti introduced an osteoplastic modification by making a long rectangular skin-flap from the front of the knee and leg, which is dissected up deeply, lifting the patella in the flap. Behind, a short flap is made similar to that in Carden's method. Section is made through the bone about an inch above the tip of the internal condyle, and the articular surface of the patella is then sawn off. This procedure may be best accomplished by grasping the flap with the left hand and stretching it over the knuckles, so that the articular surface of the patella looks directly upward, where it is fixed quite immovably. As the flaps are adjusted, the sawn surface of this bone is brought into contact with that of the femur. Some operators secure it here by transfixing with an ivory pin. The whole procedure is not only diflicult and tedious, but wholly unnecessary.