DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 385 ging down of the lid will follow in these operations when carefully per- formed. Sebaceous tumors (retention-cysts) are occasionally met with on the outer surface of the lids, and in the skin about the orbit. They should be removed by thorough dissection of the sac. When situated upon the lids they rest between the integument and the tarsal cartilage. The line of incision should be parallel with the free border of the lid, to avoid dividing the horizontal fibers of the orbicularis muscle. A more frequent swelling of the edge of the lid, commonly known as a stye {hordeolum), results from an inflammation of the sebaceous and hair follicles at the palpebral margin. It is a furuncle of the lid. The treatment consists in early evacuation of the contents of the boil by pricking with a needle or lancet. Warm or emollient api^lications hasten the suppurative process and soften the covering of epidermis. Obstruction of one or more of the ducts of the Meibomian glands oauses a swelling and inflammation of the gland, or tube behind the point of obstruction. These protrusions appear on the conjunctival surface of the tarsal cartilage, and should be treated by puncture, with evacuation of their contents by pressure ] or by pressure on both surfaces of the lid, directed from the base toward the free border, in the efl'ort to squeeze out the plug and thus restore the normal condition of the excretory duct. Any incision, on the under surface of the lids should be made parallel with the ducts of these glands. A rare form of cystic tumor, known as chalazion, occasionally develops in the substance of the tarsal cartilage. It may be cured by incision and destruction of the sac, or by evacuating the contents and injecting one minim of 50-per-cent carbolic acid into the cyst. Blepharitis or inflammation of the lids may affect all or a limited portion of these organs. It most frequently involves the ciliary margins, and is known as blepharitis ciliaris. In rare instances the cartilages are involved. Acute blepharitis demands rest and local antiphlogistic appli- cations. Cloths dipped, in warm water are in general more agreeable. In chronic blepharitis ciliaris the scaly covering of the inflamed borders of the lids should be removed by the prolonged use of warm boracic-acid water and a mop of soft lint, having first trimmed the lashes closely. When this is done the inflamed surface should be lightly touched with a pencil of lunar caustic. At night the lids should be lubricated with a small quantity of cosmoline. Conjunctivitis or inflammation of the ocular and palpebral conjunc- tiva may be acute or chronic in character. The causes are traumatic, idiopathic, and contagious. A severe form of this disease, in which the formation of pus is abundant, is known as purulent conjuncti- vitis. Another form, known as phlyctenular conjunctivitis, is charac- terized by the appearance of one or several centers of inflammation, each spot being somewhat elevated above the general surface. This variety is almost always met with in children suffering from an inherited dyscrasia. Among the more common forms of contagious conjunctivitis are those 25