348 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. the pain increases with the march of the effusion into the joint and the distention of the capsule. Motion increases the pain, which is usually so severe that all movement of the joint is firmly resisted. The cause may usually be traced to an injury. Synovitis due to gout or rheuma- tism occurs usually in adults; coxitis is practically a disease of child- hood. When ostitis is the initial lesion, the approach of the disease is insidi- ous and much less painful. When present, the pain in ostitis of the head and neck of the femur is deep-seated and dull, and motion is compara- tively free. Rotation and pressure of the head upon the capsule and in the acetabulum do not produce the sharp sense of pain felt in synovitis. Ostitis is the rule in children, synovitis in adults. Bursitis about the hip is rare. The sac between the capsule and the conjoined tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles, and those sitiiated between the tendons of the gluteus maximus, medius and minimus and the great trochanter, and that between the quadratus femoris and the lesser trochanter, may one or all be involved. Inflammation in one or more of these bursge may be recognized by the limited extent, as well as the acuteness of the pain elicited by direct digital pressure immediately over the known position of the sac. Pain in the knee is not present in bursitis at the hip. Rigidity is not general in the muscles about the joint. Peri-articular inflammation is a painful affection, causing marked lameness from the start; it is accomjjanied by local swelling and tender- ness if superficial, and by exacerbations of temperature, all of which will render it easy of recognition. Muscular rheumatism is rarely confined to the muscles of the hip. It is an expression of a constitutional condition which can not but be elicited by a careful history and study of the case. The pain is more severe and more early recognized than in coxitis. The painful territory may be outlined by fixation of the joint and digital pressure upon the muscles involved. Neuralgia occurs very rarely in children, in the period when hip- disease is most likely to appear. The exacerbations of pain are more sudden in development and acute in character, and occur with greater frequency and regularity than in hip-disease. Motion is tolerated better in neuralgia than in coxitis. The symptoms of ostitis which lead to arthritis, if carefully studied, will show a wide difference from neuralgia about the hip. In arthritis or ostitis at the sacro-iliac junction pain is caused by forcibly pressing the ilium against the sacrum. The same symptoms may be elicited by direct pressure posteriorly over the ^acro-iliac articu- lation. Motion at the hip is only slightly if at all embarrassed. Prognosis.—In hip-joint disease commencing—as is the rule—in ostitis or epiphysitis., the prognosis is bad as regards restoration of function. Partial or complete anchylosis, with a variable degree of shortening, will result, in the vast majority of cases, no matter how skillfully treated. The proportion of fatal cases can scarcely be de-