A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY, 8 ous points, so as to project at the lower angles or in such positions as will secure the most perfect drainage. The hair is taken from the mane or tail, washed clean, and immersed for twenty-four hours in oil of juniper. It is twisted in the same manner as the catgut. Protective.—Thin rubber tissue, oil-silk, or MackintosTi cloth, may be used to protect the part from atmospheric changes, and to prevent the evaporation and volatilization of the antiseptic agents. The former is preferable, and the oil-silk is next in order. Rubber tissue must be kept in a cool, dry spot, and should be dipped in 1 to 3,000 sublimate before it is applied. Gauze.—Ordinary cotton muslin of light texture, commonly known as cheese-cloth, impregnated with corrosive sublimate or iodoform, is widely used as antiseptic gauze. Garbolized gauze has passed out of use. To make sublimate gauze proceed as follows: Cut a bolt of cheese- cloth into pieces a yard long, and place in boiling water for eight hours. Then rinse thoroughly in cold water, and bleach in liquor sodse chlorinatse (one part to five of water) for twenty-four hours. Rinse again in clear water, and leave the cloth in a tightly covered jar or tank of 1 to 500 sublimate indefinitely. When the gauze is about to be used, squeeze the water out of it and wet it in fresh 1 to 3,000 solution, and again squeeze it until it is only fairly moistened, not dripping, with the solution. Am Ende's sublimate pink gauze is an excellent preparation. It is stained with eosine, which is a color-test upon the purity of the gauze, for, if the mercury is decomposed or volatilized, the eosine goes with it and the gauze is left white. lodoformized gauze is made by moistening the washed cheese-cloth in 1 to 3,000 sublimate, sprinkling it with powdered iodoform from a pepper-box, and then working the powder into the meshes of the cloth until it is a golden-yellow color. It should be made fresh, although it may be preserved for one or two weeks in tight glass jars, wrapped in red or blue paper to prevent the decomposition of light. Borated absorbent cotton is now almost indispensable in surgical practice. It is used not only to protect the part and to exercise com- pression, but, for purposes of cleansing and dressing wounds, it has en- tirely superseded sponges, and is not only cheaper, but preferable in every respect. It is so difficult to prepare, however, that the practitioner is almost compelled to patronize the manufacturer. When an emergency demands it, ordinary ginned cotton of clean fiber may be bleached and softened by treating it in the same way as given for the cheese-cloth. It can be charged with boracic acid by immersing it in a solution con- taining gr. XV to 5 j of water. It is then dried and wrapped in protect- ive until needed for use. Well-prepared borated cotton is, next to gauze, the most suitable ab- sorbent of discharges from wounds. Beyond these two substances noth- ing is really needed. Pads or bags of peat, sawdust, jute, wood-wooly etc., are practically useless.