744 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. motion is arrested in a certain position, and, if a violent effort is made, or if flexion is continued by aid from the other hand, a perceptible jerk occurs as the obstruction is overcome. A nodular swelling, to the touch resembling the ganglia often met with on the back of the wrist, may be felt along the line of the tendon at or near the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. Snap-finger may be due to a circumscribed thickening of the ten- don, or a disproportion between the size of the tendon and sheath for a limited area. This condition is believed to exist, especially in the thumb, where the jerk occurs in one third of all cases. Mr. Reeves thinks that in the fingers it is chiefly due to the synovial fringes catching upon the transverse process of the palmar fascia. This may occur not only "from thickening of this process of fascia, but also from rolling up or displace- ment of the synovial sheaths." Snap-finger may be traumatic or idiopathic in origin. Strains on the tendons and fascia in the act of lifting, direct violence, as well as the gouty and rheumatic inflammations, are noted in the aetiology. The treatment consists in passive motion, and internal medication to correct any dyscrasia. If relief does not follow ordinary measures, an incision should be made and the enlargement dissected out. In certain cases in which adhesion of the tendons to their sheaths and to the palmar and digital fascia occur chiefly as a result of penetrating wounds, it will—in order to relieve the deformity—be required to make an open dissection and divide the adhesions in plain view. Such opera- tions can be done with impunity, and with an extraordinary degree of success, if the strict antiseptic precautions are observed. Esmarch's bandage is essential to the operation, and cocaine anaesthesia I have fre- quently demonstrated to be perfectly satisfactory in these procedures. The wound should be closed at once with fine silk sutures. Catgut is not sufficiently reliable in this region. The danger of inflammation and contractions of the fascia from opening into the hand under sublimate irrigation and careful antisepsis are exceedingly remote. Even the most extensive injuries of the hand may be made to heal with as little deform- ity as often follows a simple wound in which inflammation and suppu-