328 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. these symptoms the diagnosis can be readily made. If swelling has ensued, and the tumefaction is great, it is not always easy or possible to recognize the character of the injury. Under such conditions it is wise to reduce the swelling by rest and local application for a few days, until the exact character of the luxation may be determined. Treatment—Reduction—Method ofAstley Cooper.—With the patient seated in a chair, the operator places his foot on the seat so that the anterior aspect of the patient's forearm will be brought in contact with the anterior sur- face of the surgeon's knee. The forearm should now be grasx:)ed near the wrist and forced flexion made, using the knee as a fulcrum, and at the same time as a point of resistance to the extension made by pull- ing upon the forearm (Fig. 364). Flexion unlocks the coronoid process from the olecranon fossa, and extension carries both bones forward into position. Unless the operator is positive that perfect reduction has been accomplished, the joint should be freely flexed and extended to test its working capacity. Care must be taken to hold the muscles in check while this manipulation is going on, for fear the bones may again slip out of place. Band- age the arm and forearm, and apply a Fig. 364.—(Erichsen.) spliut, which should be wom for a week or two. When an anaesthetic is used the recumbent posture should be maintained. The bare foot may be utilized instead of the knee. A cloth or sheet folded around the arm, just above the elbow, may be used for counter-extension. Liston advised strong extension from the forearm, and counter-exten- sion from the shoulder, with the arm and forearm held straight. Dislocation of the radius and ulna forward, without fracture of the olecranon, is of rare occurrence, and is always the result of great violence. Rupture of the posterior and lateral ligaments occurs, and the triceps tendon is torn or greatly stretched, while the brachialis anticus and biceps are relaxed. The posterior portion of the olecranon rests upon the ante- rior articular aspect of the humerus, or may slip into the coronoid fossa. The forearm is bent at an angle varying from 90° to 120° to the anterior surface of the humerus, and is well supinated. Motion is painful and limited. The character of the injury may be determined by the absence of the olecranon projection, the smooth, broad, posterior surface of the lower end of the humerus being readily appreciated. Treatment.—An anaesthetic is usually required. With the forearm held at about a right angle to the arm, make extension from the wrist, and counter-extension from the lower anterior surface of the humerus, in