STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. 541 obstruction. The lower border of the stricture, is again indicated when all resistance ceases in withdrawing the bulb. Treatment.—The surgical treatment of stricture of the rectum may comprise dilatation or division of the cicatricial tissue or colotomy. The character of the obstruction and its location will determine the means to be employed. When the stricture is linear, and is located near the anus, relief may be obtained by dilatation. For this purpose the finger should be employed, and the operation repeated at necessary intervals until a sufiicient opening is secured. If the cicatricial tissue is dense, and does not yield in the effort at dilatation, it should be in- cised to a slight depth at four or five points of its circumference, and the finger again introduced. The incisions may be made with a probe- pointed bistoury, carried along the finger as a guide, or the anus and bowel may be stretched with the Sims rectal speculum up to the point of obstruction, and the knife introduced without a guide. If this pro- cedure is not successful, the only alternative is posterior linear rectoto- my. In performing this operation the patient is placed upon the back, with the anus at the edge of the table, and the legs drawn up and sepa- rated. The parts below the obstruction are dilated with the speculum. A long, curved, sharp-pointed bistoury is carried through the stricture, keeping the cutting edge toward the posterior median line of the gut. As soon as the point is beyond the obstruction, hut not more tlian four inches from the anus., it is carried through the wall of the bowel, which, with the stricture, is completely divided out through the anus. If the first incision does not permit the introduction of the first two fingers side by side, it should be made deeper. Haemorrhage is readily stopped by packing the wound and bowel with gauze, taking the precaution to insert a stiff rubber tube in the middle of the dressing to allow the escape of gas from the intestine. If any important vessel is divided, it may be secured with the forceps or by transfixion with a tenaculum. The dressing is allowed to remain in place for four or five days, and is not replaced after the bowels are moved unless bleeding should occur. Continence of faeces is restored after from three to six weeks. No matter how thoroughly divided, the tendency is to recurrence, Fig. 561.—Soft-rubber rectal bougies (twelve sizes). which necessitates interrupted dilatation at intervals of from three to six weeks during the life of the patient. It is usually not neces- sary to practice dilatation within the first six or eight weeks after the operation.