324 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Fig. 360.—(After Hamilton.) in tlie direction of least resistance. When it is at a right angle to the axis of the body, strong traction is made, with slight axial rota- tion. If the manoeuvre is still unsuccessful, carry the arm higher, until extension is made in the line of the axillary border of the scapula (Fig. 359). Third Method.—Place the patient in a chair, so that, with the foot of the opera- tor on the edge of the seat, his knee will come snugly into the axilla. Place one hand upon the shoulder to steady it, while the other seizes the arm near the elbow. With the knee as a fulcrum, use the hu- merus as a lever, which, being depressed, carries the head of the bone into position (Fig. 360). Extension from the forearm, and counter-extension through the me- dium of the opposite arm, may also be employed. Suhcoracoid and Subclavicular Dislo- cation.—In the first of these two disloca- tions the head of the humerus rests upon and in front of the inner rim of the gle- noid cavity, and just underneath and in contact with the coracoid pro- cess (Fig. 355). The strain upon the long head of the biceps and supra- spinatus is not so great as in the preceding variety, whOe that upon the infra-spinatus is more severe. The ten- dons of the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps rest anterior to and upon the displaced head. The rupture of the capsule is below and in front. The cause of this displacement is violence applied directly to the shoulder, from vnthout inward and forward, or to the elbow or hand when held in an extended position. The symptoms and methods of diagno- sis are in general the same as those of the subglenoid luxation, the principal difference being in the appreciable location of the head of the bone just below the coracoid pro- cess, and on a plane considerably higher than in the lower displacement (Fig. 361). The distance from the acro- mion to the olecranon is shorter in this than in the subglenoid dis- placement. The subclamcular variety of this forward dislocation is only an exag- geration of the subcoracoid, in which the head of the bone slips under- neath and internal to the coracoid, and rests against the serratus mag- nus and behind the pectoralis minor, below the clavicle (Fig. 356). The causes are the same, and the symptoms differ in little else than the pres- FiG. 361.—Subcoracoid. (Bryant.)