OSTEOMA. 765 The proportion of connective-tissue stroma varies in different tumors. When the cartilage-cells and groups are plentiful, with a limited quan- tity of intervening fibrous tissue, the mass is strictly a chondroma. When the stroma preponderates, it is termed a fibro-cJiondroma. In certain forms of these tumors there is a paucity of connective-tissue fibers as well as cartilage-cells, although both are present in quantity sufficient for recognition. The mass of tissue may be emhryonic, and, under such conditions, the tumor may be sarcomatous in character. Simple chon- droma is benign, but a mixed chondroma of an embryonic-tissue type must be classed with the malignant neoplasms. Chondromata may undergo fatty or granular degeneration, may ossify in part, may become infiltrated with calcareous matter, or undergo the mucoid change. Treatment.—Removal is indicated when pain is unbearable, or when the sarcomatous nature of the neoplasm is evident. Osteoma.—Tumors of new-formed bone-tissue may develop from the normal bone and periosteum, or in the tissues removed from the bones. There are three varieties—the ehurnated, compact, and spongy. In the first, or ivory-like neoplasms, the bone is exceedingly dense and hard, and contains bone-corpuscles and canaliculi which, though well marked, are more irregular in arrangement than in normal forms. This new-formed bone-tissue, however, does not possess blood-vessels. These tumors are especially apt to be observed upon the bones of the skull, notably those of the frontal and parietal regions. The compact or spongy neoplasms are in structure analogous to the normal compact or spongy bone-substance. In the latter the bony frame- work is light, and the meduUary spaces larger than normal. An osteoma formed upon the outside of an old bone is called an exos- tosis ; developed within the medullary space, an enostosis. Exostoses grow as more or less well-rounded tumors beneath the peri- osteum, or as sharp spikes or thorns projecting oat from the bone. Such spines are in the great majority of instances directed upward (stalag- mites) in the axis of the tendon in and about which they develop. In rare instances the direction is downward, as seen in the stalactite (Fig. 307). Bony neoplasms may also develop in any of the cartilaginous tissues of the body, and this change is usually one of senility. Beyond this, bone may form in the muscles, choroid, the serous membranes in all lo- cations, and in the integument. Osteomata are always benign. If dangerous at all, it is from com- pression of important organs.' Those developed from the internal surface of the cranial bones and along the vertebral canal are especially danger- ous in this respect. Treatment.—Interference is not called for, unless pressure upon im- portant organs renders it necessary.