706 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. "In a very short time the plaster sets with sufficient firmness, so that the patient can be removed from the suspending apparatus, and laid upon his face or back on a hair mattress, or—what is preferable, espe- cially when there is much projection of the spinous processes or sternum —an air-bed. Before the plaster has completely set, the dinner-pad is to be removed, and the plaster gently pressed in with the hand in front of each iliac spinous process, for the purpose of widening the jacket over the bony projections. In the case of a young child with a small pelvis it may happen that the circumference of the body at the umbilicus is as great as around the pelvis, but, as the soft parts in the lumbar region allow us to mold the plaster as we choose, you can still obtain a point of support at the pelvis; if, as the Jacket hardens, you will press it in at the sides above the ilium, and in front and rear above the pubes, the an- tero-posterior diameter above will be the longer, while below it will be the transverse one." When the angular projection is extreme, or when an ulcer exists, it will be advisable to cut a hole in the Jacket at this point, large enough to prevent any undue pressure. In case of abscess, a window of sufficient size to aUow free drainage, and a frequent change of dressing, should be made. The commendable features of this plan of treatment are the extension obtained by suspension, fixation by the plaster while in the most favor- able position, and the cheapness and readiness with which it may be em- ployed. The objections are, uncleanliness by reason of the immovable nature of the apparatus, and the excoriations which are a cause of considerable complaint. The first objection may be met by splitting the corset down in front, and reapplying it while the patient is suspended, and making it tight by a roller carried around the body several times. As for excoria- tions, it may be said that no apparatus which grasps the body tight enough to secure fixation is free from this danger. When they occur with the plaster Jacket, the fault generally lies either in the improper manner of its application or carelessness on the part of the attendant. Second Region.—When the middle or dorsal region is involved, the plaster Jacket is not so serviceable as in ostitis of the vertebrae in the lower region of the spine, although much good will be accomplished by the partial fixation of the thorax as high as to the level of the axillae. The efficacy of this method diminishes the higher the diseased process is located, and, when the lesion invades the sixth dorsal, or above this point, the Jacket without head-suspension is almost useless. In all cases of Pott's disease above the tenth dorsal, suspension of the head is an essential feature of treatment. A favorable result would be achieved in a greater proportion of cases if this point were insisted upon, and the prejudice against the suspension apparatus overcome. In its application the patient should be suspended as Just described, and a plaster Jacket applied from Just above the trochanters up as high as the axillae. After two layers of the plaster bandages have been ap- plied, the Jury-mast is adjusted, and its framework covered in with the