NEW FORMATIONS AND TUMORS OF THE BLADDER. 575 near the outlet of the bladder, it may interfere with the escape of urine. Hsematuria is of frequent occurrence in connection with this variety of tumor, and is due to rupture of the capillaries from ulceration caused by the action of the urine upon the tufts. An exacerbation of haemorrhage is apt to follow the introduction of the sound. An examination of the urine may demonstrate the presence of particles of the papillomatous tissue. If a sound be introduced while the bladder is fairly distended, so as to eiface the folds into which the mucous membrane is thrown when the organ is contracted, the presence of the tumor may be recog- nized by the resistance offered as the convexity of the sound is swept along the floor and sides of the organ. The treatment is to open into the bladder, through the perinseum as in median or medio-lateral, or supra-pubic lithotomy, and remove the growths with the wire snare, twist them off with the forceps, or scrape them off with Volkmanu's spoon, guided by the finger. The prognosis is not favorable, owing to the haemorrhage and cystitis caused by the operation, and the danger of recurrence owing to incomplete removal. Fibroma and myxoma of the bladder may be considered as next in order of frequency. They belong to the connective-tissue type of new formations, are less vascular, and of slower development, although at times they attain considerable size. The base of the organ is the usual location of the tumor. The symptoms are about the same as those in papilloma, excepting haemorrhage. The diagnosis will depend uj)on the appreciation of the growth by the sound, or by rectal palpation with the sound in the bladder. If the character of the lesion can not be ac- curately determined, and the symptoms of irritation are present, a peri- neal exploratory incision may be made. The treatment consists in the removal of the mass by the operation Just given. Other forms of benign tumors of the bladder are so rare as scarcely to deserve mention. Among the new formations myoma is occasionally found, while of the tumors hydatid cysts are sometimes met with. These formations are amenable to the same rules of treatment as above laid down. Of the malignant diseases of this organ, sarcoma is extremely rare; while of the carcinomata, the epithelial variety is by far the most fre- quent. Scirrhus may, however, originate here. The symptoms differ only in degree in the malignant as compared with the benign tumors Just described. The gradual development of the cachexia, which is a part of cancer, may alone lead to a positive diagnosis. Exploration with the sound and rectal examination may determine the suspicious character of the disease by the extent of the infiltration in the tissues around the bladder. Operative interference is rarely Justifiable, for the reason that the disease is almost of necessity so far advanced before it is recognized that a thorough removal is impossible. The Urine—Quantity.—The average quantity of urine excreted by the kidneys of the normal adult is about fifty-six ounces in twenty-four hours. This quantity varies with the amount of fluids ingested, the ac-