A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 380 written language has accompanied disease of the angular gyrus at the junction of the temporal and occipital regions of the left side in three foreign and in one American case. " (c) Disturbance of smell, either as an hallucination or as a loss of power to perceive odors, may possibly indicate disease in the temporo- sphenoidal region on the base of the brain. " ((^) Disturbance of taste can not, as yet, be connected with disease in any region. This is due to lack of care in testing this sense in cases of brain disease. " (e) Disturbance of general sensation—including the senses of touch, pressure, pain, and temperature, together with the sense of the location of a limb—may occur either in the form of subjective perceptions of such sensations without objective cause, or in the form of impairment of these sensations. In either case it indicates a disease in the central convolu- tions, and possibly in the adjacent portion of the parietal lobules. " 4. The power of voluntary motion of the muscles of the opposite side of the body is located in the two central convolutions which border the fissure of Rolando. Motions of the face and tongue originate in the lower third of this region ; motions of the arm, in the middle third ; motions of the leg, in the upper third. " Spasms in a single group of muscles, or paralysis of a single group of muscles, may indicate disease of its motor area. Extensive spasms or paralysis may indicate a large area of disease in this region; but if more marked in a single group of muscles than in others it may indicate a small focus of disease in the motor area of that group, affecting other motor areas indirectly and coincidently. Paralysis following spasm in one group of muscles is a characteristic symptom of disease in the central region. "5. Disturbance of the power of speech indicates disease in the convo- lutions about the fissure of Sylvius, on the left side in right-handed persons, and on the right side in left-handed persons. If the patient can under- stand a question and can recall the words needed for a reply, but is un- able to initiate the necessary motions involved in speaking, the disease is probably in the third frontal convolution, and in the adjacent portion of the anterior central convolution. If the patient can not recognize spoken language, but can repeat words after another, or can use exclamations on being irritated, the disease is probably in the first temporal convolu- tion. If the patient can understand and can talk, but replaces a word desired by one that is unexpected, the disease is probably situated deep within the Sylvian fissure, or in the white substance of the brain, and involves the association fibers which join the convolutions just named. " In making a diagnosis of cortical disease care must be taken to dis- tinguish between direct and indirect local symptoms; and also to sepa- rate clearly lesions of the cortex from those of the various white tracts within the substance of the brain." As far as the disturbances of motion are concerned, these points of interest bear such close relation to the fissure of Rolando that it is neces- sary to determine approximately its location. Championniere's line is as