613 BALANITIS. from the third to the fifth week of the disease. In the acute stages, while the inflammatory symptoms are prominent, they are contraindi- cated. The oil of sandal-wood and balsam of copaiba are the more useful remedies of this class. The former, in doses of five to ten drops, from five to ten times a day, is more readily borne by the stomach, and does not cause the rash which not infrequently follows the administration of copaiba. These remedies, however, very often can not be taken, and should not be persisted in when they interfere with the functions of the stomach. Even when thus carefully managed, the annoying symptoms of gonorrhoea continue for from four to eight weeks, and in most cases there is a slight watery or mucous discharge for several weeks after the case passes out from the immediate notice of the practitioner. Upon the whole, the effect of treatment upon the duration of this disease is not entirely satisfactory. Among the unpleasant complications of gonorrhoea are balanitis, pos- thitis, paraphimosis, prostatitis, cystitis, epididymitis, orchitis, bubo, ophthalmia, and retention of urine. Balanitis and posthitis, inflammation of the glans and prepuce, are conditions existing in a varying degree in almost all cases of gonorrhoea. Among the circumcised, or those with short and retracted foreskins, j)osthitis need not occur, but the acrid discharge will always affect the epithelial covering of the glans in the immediate neighborhood of the meatus. When the foreskin is long and adherent, or not readily drawn behind the glans, it usually becomes swollen and tense, retains the irritating discharge, and inaugurates an exceedingly painful and annoying condition of phimosis. Even when thus swollen, if the pre- puce can be retracted, it is apt to be caught behind the corona and become irreducible, with ensuing strangulation, if not relieved by oper- ative interference. Preputial sloughing will occur in a certain propor- tion of neglected cases. In the treatment of gonorrhoea certain measures were detailed looking to the prevention of these complications. When, however, they are present in a mild degree, balanitis and posthitis disappear with proper attention to cleanliness. The glans and prepuce should be irrigated by being submerged in a vessel of warm water. Soap should not be em- ployed. The hip-bath, already given as useful in the general management of the disease, is especially so in this complication. The inflammatory phimosis of gonorrhoea, as of non-specific halano- postliitis, demands active measures of treatment. In milder cases it may suffice to maintain cleanliness by the frequent sub-preputial injection of tepid water. For this purpose a syringe with a delicate dull point or nozzle, about an inch in length, is needed. It should be oiled, carefully introduced between the glans and prepuce, and the contents slowly dis- charged. An irrigating apparatus may also be attached to the nozzle, and a continuous current applied, which does away with the irritation of repeated introductions of the nozzle. If these milder measures do not relieve the pain, tension, and threatened strangulation, an incision should be made. The prepuce may be nicked in several places, or a director