508 A TEXT-BOOK OX SURGERY. granulation. The instrument used in this operation is, in shape, not unlike a pair of forceps, with flat, roughened jaws, and long handles, which can be locked with a clamp. The jaws are introduced at first for a slight distance only, one going into the ascendmg and the other into the descending part of the loop of intestine, when they are closed and clamped in such a manner that the walls of the promontory are held firm- ly in contact (Fig. 547). The instru- ment is allowed to remain in position. Adhesion occurs in the contiguous peri- toneal coverings of the gut, while that part of the promontory firmly grasped by the instrument is crushed or sloughs away. As soon as the projection is sufiiciently broken down the fistulous opening may be allowed to close. This procedure has been successful in a number of cases sufficient to jus- tify its employment. If a cure is not etfected, or if stricture should result, ' exsection should be perfonned. Inguinal hernia in the female has the same relation to the epigastric ves- sels as in the male subject. In the Fig. 547.—Dupuytren's clamp. (After Gross.) complete form the COUteUtS may dc- scend into the labium. The treatment does not differ materially from that just given. Cysts of the canal of Nuck not infrequently simulate a hernial tumor. Occasionally the ovary descends into the canal. Femoral Hernia—Treatment.—ThSs, form of hernia is more difficult to retain in place with a truss, and is more likely to become incarcerated and strangulated, than any other variety. The prognosis is, therefore, more unfavorable. The diagnosis depends upon the presence of a tumor in the location already given (Fig. 540), the neck of which can be traced to an opening at the inner side of the thigh, just external to the spine of the pubes, and below Poupart's ligament. The impulse in coughing is present, though usually less perceptible than in inguinal hernia. Cysts are less apt to complicate a femoral than an inguinal hernia. Enlarge- ment of the lymphatic glands will not be apt to mislead, since there will have been a history of adenitis, a gradual increase in the size of the glands, which may be recognized as a group. The absence of impulse with the act of coughing will further aid in the exclusion of hernia. The symptoms of strangulation differ in no essential features from those in inguinal hernia. Treatment.—A reducible femoral hernia should be retained within the abdomen by a truss, the pad of Avhich presses firmly over the femoral ring, just external to the spine of the pubis. The pad should be small, so that it may not compress the femoral vein, and the spring should be