ANGIOMA.—LYMPHANGIOMA. 763 Fig. 769.—Neuromata developed in the divided nerve-tissues after amputation of the member. (After Cornil and Eanvier.) out by palpation, are those of pain or interference with the function of the pari involved. A careful analysis with the microscope alone can determine an accurate diagnosis. The prognosis is not grave, in so far as the life of the patient is concerned, but the removal of the neoplasm may of necessity involve an injury of the trunk in or upon which it is located, and in this manner may add an element of gravity to the result. They should be extirpated, and, where (as will almost always be the case) the posi- tively benign character of the neo- plasm is not evident, a section of the nerve below and above the tu- mor, as well as a portion of the surrounding tissues, should be re- moved. Angioma.—The angiomata are tumors of new-formed vessels, cap- illaries, arterioles, or veins. They are frequently congenital, and may also appear at any period after birth. Microscopically, the simple forms are made up of capillaries, arte- rioles, and veinules in plexuses richer than the normal, and held to- gether by a connective-tissue stroma of varying thickness. In the more formi- dable tumors—cavernous ncevi—the ves- sels are larger, with thickened walls of dense connective tissue, and at times a quantity of non-striated muscular fibers. The vasa vasorum are also met with in the walls of the sinuses. The former variety appear as red or bluish spots or stains in the skin, of various sizes and shapes, at times rising above the level of the integument. The method of treatment is fully described in the chapter upon diseases of the vascular system. Lymphangioma.—Tumors composed of new-formed lymphatic vessels are very rarely met with. In their construction they do not materially differ from the angiomata. The new tissue consists of a capillary net- work of lymph-channels, in arrangement analogous to the capillary ves- sels in the smaller angiomata. In other instances the lymph-canals have a cavernous arrangement comparable to the structure of the cavernous nsevus above given. Fig. 770.- -Angioma (cirsoid aneurism) of the temporal region.