487 CONSTRICTION BY BANDS—DIVERTICULA. Constriction hy Bands.—Bands of cicatricial tissue resulting from peritonitis cause intestinal obstruction in a certain proportion of cases. This accident occurs chiefly in adults, about equally in both sexes, being due to pelvic inflammations in women and to tyi)hlitis and traumatic peritonitis in men (Treves). The bands vary in length, breadth, and points of attachment. The lower Jejunum and ileum are involved in almost all cases. The symptoms are in general those of acute obstruc- tion of the small intestine. Pain is violent in the beginning, and in the majority of cases is referred to the part involved. Vomiting is an early and persistent symptom, and, as is common in obstruction above the ileo-coecal valve, is apt to be stercoraceous. Shock is usually more prominent in this form of occlusion than in those heretofore given. The urine is diminished in quantity. The abdomen is not tympanitic as a rule, although the constricted loop may be greatly distended, and may be recognized as a distinct tumor by palpation or percussion, or by vagi- nal or rectal exploration. The diagnosis must be made from the history of a former peritonitis and the presence of the symptoms above given. The prognosis is fatal, and the indication for treatment is early operative interference. In addition to inflammatory bands, intestinal occlusion is occasionally caused by the pedicle of an ovarian or uterine tumor, or the Fallopian tube may act in the same manner. Adhesions between contiguous loops of intestine, resulting from peri- tonitis, may occur in such a manner as to lead to occlusion. The symp- toms do not differ materially from those just given, and the treatment is the same. Strangutation through Slits in the Omentum and Mesentery.—Occa- sionally a loop of intestine slips through an opening in the omentum or mesentery, becomes imprisoned and strangulated. The rent may be con- genital or result from an injury, penetrating or non-penetrating. The small intestine (ileum) is most frequently involved, and the aperture oc- curs as a rule in the mesentery of the last part of this organ. Strangula- tion of the colon in this manner is exceedingly uncommon. With the exception of the presence of a tumor, the symptoms are the same as those in hernia of the small intestine with strangulation. Early opera- tive interference offers the only hope of relief. Constriction by Diverticula. — Pouches or cavities communicating with or attached to the intestines may be true or false—i. e., congenital or acquired. Meckel's diverticulum, which is attached to the last two or three feet of the ileum, may remain patulous and open at the umbilicus, or more frequently it ends in a blind extremity which may be continued as a cord to the umbilicus. When it exists it represents the vitelline duct of the embryo, in which the normal process of closure and oblitera- tion has not taken place. The vermifonn apj)endix may also be classed with the true diverticula. False diverticula occur in both the small and large intestine, being slightly more common in the colon. Their mode of origin is not as yet satisfactorily explained. They are found to pro- ject between the two layers of peritonaeum along the mesenteric border