A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 718 or hereditary dyscrasia. As to the causes, we must look chiefly to changes in the bones at or near the knee-joint. Any interference with the normal processes of nutrition and development in the bones will account for most cases of knock-knee, and the chief pathological condition is either that of rachitis, or one so closely allied to it that a distinction is difficult. The most classical osseous lesion in genu valgum is the enlargement of the internal condyle as compared to the external, and the resulting increase of the normal obliquity of the tibio-femoral articulation. This increased obliquity may be due to hypertrophy of the inner condyle ; or to hypertrophy of the inner half of the upper tibial epiphysis; to atrophy of the outer condyle, or atrophy of the outer half of the upper tibial epiphysis ; to a combination of two or more of these conditions ; to a curve of the femur (convexity inward) from rickets, and to a like curve of the tibia and fibula. There is no anatomical reason why the internal condyle should enjoy a better nutrition and greater development than the outer. There is, however, a very good mechanical explanation in this, that by reason of the marked obliquity of the femoral axis and the perpendicular direction of the tibial shaft when the subject is standing erect, the line of gravity brings the greater weight upon the outer facet of the tibia and the cor- responding condyle of the femur. The distribution of this pressure equally over the entire articular surface belongs to the muscles control- ling this joint; but owing to the excessive number and greater power in the adductor as compared to the abductor group, the internal obliquity is maintained and the pressure upon the outer articular surfaces increased. In the rachitic condition the bones are softened, and become distorted under pressure, and as a result of muscular action, while such deformi- ties are resisted by the normal bones. Knock-knee from incurvation of the shaft of the os femoris alone is exceedingly rare. When not due to abnormal changes in the condyles, the cause of this deformity will usually be found in rachitic disease of the tibia and fibula, in which these bones are bent inward at the middle or lower third. The principal changes in the soft parts are elongation of the internal lateral ligaments, and a contractured condition of the biceps and popliteus muscles. Symptoms.—The symptoms of knock-knee vary in different stages of the deformity. The approximation of the knees is a less noticeable feature than the divergence of the tibiae. With the lower extremities fully extended, and the knees in contact, it will be noticed that the inner malleoli are separated from a few inches to a foot or more. When the lesion is due to changes in the inner condyle of the femur, it will be observed that, if the leg is flexed upon the thigh at an angle of 90°, the deformity is less apparent; and if complete flexion is made in mild cases of in-knee, it will disappear altogether ; i. e., the tibia in extreme flexion will be parallel with the femur. The patella is displaced outward, and locomotion is more or less impaired. Pain is often present, from the unnatural strain upon the tissues, and fatigue with the slightest exertion is often noticed.