315 FRACTURES. heel and ankle by an assistant. A dry muslin or flannel roller is first applied, and the plaster bandages laid on over this. A thin layer of ab- sorbent cotton is at times placed between the first dry roller and the leg (Pig. 349). If swelling should occur, the plaster cast should be split down the middle line, in front and behind, and replaced, but not so tightly. When such a dressing requires frequent removal it is best to line the cut Fig. 349.—Plaster-of-Paris dressing m fracture of leg. edges of the cast with adhesive strips, and to make hinges along the pos- terior seam out of the same material. At the end of four weeks all splints should be removed, passive motion made at the knee and ankle, and the apparatus reapplied and worn for at least two weeks more. Passive motion should be repeated each week. In applying the plaster in PoWs fracture the eversion needs to be overcome and the straight position maintained while the gypsum is hard- ening. To accomplish this a piece of adhesive plaster about two inches wide is laid along the fibula side of the leg, as high as the upper two thirds, extending down over the external malleolus, and across the sole of the foot to the inner side. A muslin roller is next passed around the ankle over the inner malleolus. These tuberosities should be protected by bits of absorbent cotton. An assistant steadies the ankle by traction on the roller, while the foot is brought into straight position by traction on the adhesive strip. The plaster is now applied, and the foot held in position until the cast hardens. When plaster of Paris can not be had, starch is next in order, or splints of felt, leather, book-binder's board, metal, or wood may be em- ployed. Compound fractures of the leg are treated by immediate reduction of the deformity, by free drainage, and strict antiseptic precautions. For perfect fixation, and at the same time leaving the wound open for irriga- tion and inspection, the interrupted or the fenestrated ]3laster-of-Pa,ris dressing is the most generally useful. If the injury is slight and lim- ited, the fenestrated dressing is preferable. Extension is made from the foot, and, after reposition and drainage are secured, the plaster band- ages are applied. As soon as the dressing sets, windows large enough to permit of free inspection are cut immediately over the wound and at the points of exit of the drainage-tubes below. A wire loop, worked into the plaster or tied around the leg after hardening has taken place, will serve as a medium for suspending the limb at any required height (Fig. 850).