4 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. enough sublimate to make, when dissolved in a pint of water, a 1 to 1,000 solution. It is best to make fresh solutions when needed, for, un- less kept tightly corked and away from light, they deteriorate in value. Carbolic acid (1 to 20, or a 5-per-cent solution) is employed for the cleansing and submersion of all instruments used in a surgical opera- the operation is to commence, and is allowed to run until that time. The strength of the solution in the bottle is 1 to 20. As ordinarily sold, carbolic acid is dissolved in alcohol, and is about 95 per cent strong. In this condition an ounce by measurement is an ounce by weight. To this quantity add glycerin 5,h water 5xix, which will make a 1 to 20, or 5-per-cent solution. All instruments are immersed in this solution a half-hour before the operation, except the blades of the knives, which should be dipped in only a minute or two before being used. Piire alcohol is also used for this purpose by some operators who dis- like the benumbing effects of the acid. Iodoform, one part dissolved in seven parts of ether, is used at times to wash the parts where an operative wound is to be made. It is not an uncommon practice with some of the Grerman surgeons to immerse all the ligatures and suture-material in this solution for about twenty minutes before the operation is begun. Chloride-of-zinc solution in water (1 to 12, about 8 per cent) may be used to wash out ulcers or old sinuses which are in the neighborhood of, or communicate with, the wound of operation. This and the iodoform solution are not, however, essential, and are now rarely employed. Irrigators.—A rubber bag, capable of holding two quarts of solution, with extra long tubing attached, makes a convenient irrigator for use and transportation. The ordinary fountain-syringe, represented in Fig. 5, is commonly used. The nozzles should be of smooth glass, sufficiently heavy to resist breakage, about three or four inches in length, not more than a quarter of an inch in gross diameter, slightly pointed, and with a lumen of one eighth of an inch. Sublimate solution should not be allowed to remain in contact with rubber for any considerable time on account of Fi&. 4.—Weir's antiseptic spray-machine. tion. It is not used in irrigation on account of its UTitating properties. The steam and carbolic spray so much in vogue a few years since is now only used to lay the dust, or as an aid to- ward the more thorough cleansing of operating- rooms and wards which are especially exposed to infection. The spray- machine (Fig. 4) is start- ed one half-hour before