TUBERCULOSIS OF THE TESTICLE. ^5 In orchitis the surface of the enlargement is smooth, spherical, and of like consistence at all points ; often in periorchitis ridges of new tissue can be made out; there are soft spots or depressions which can be recog- nized by careful palpation. If syphilitic orchitis is suspected (even if the history of this disease is denied), it will be advisable to administer the protoiodide of mercury and the iodide of potassium for several weeks. The marked diminution of the tumor will be coniirmatory of the suspicion of the syphilitic dys- crasia. The extraordinary weight of a syphilitic testicle should be borne in mind. Tuberculosis testis is usually preceded by the deposit of tuberculous matter in the epididymis. Pain in this affection is insignificant and en- tirely disproportionate to the rapidity of the infiltration and enlarge- ment. Moreover, orchitis and epididymitis may usually be traced to some direct and exciting cause which is absent in tubercular disease. The indications in treatment are, first of all, to remove every cause of irritation, to keep up the tone of the system by judicious feeding and medication, and to support the heavy organ by suspension. When these measures fail to arrest the disease, or when the pain becomes so great that the patient's comfort is interfered with, or when the disinte- gration of the organ is threatened, castration may be entertained. Be- fore carrying out such an extreme measure, the precaution should be taken to explore the organ through an incision in the scrotum, in order to determine its exact condition before removing it. Taherculosis of the Testicle and Epididymis.—True miliary tuber- culosis of the testicle and epididymis is comparatively rare. Many cases which have been recorded as tuberculosis must, upon analysis, be classed with a non-tubercular inflammation, the embryonic tissue of which has undergone caseous degeneration. Tubercular disease of the testicle alone is the exception. The epi- didymis is usually first invaded, and from this point the new tissue spreads into the testicle, and not infrequently along the vas deferens to the seminal vesicles, as well as to the tunica funiculi and tunica vagi- nalis testis. While it may be slow in some instances, as a rule the invasion is rapid, occupying from two to eight weeks in a general infiltration of both organs. The symptoms are, upon the whole, obscure. One point of great diagnostic value is that the pain is entirely disproportionate to the rapidity and extent of the tumefaction. In simple orchitis and epi- didymitis, pain is extreme and pressure unbearable. In tubercular or- chitis pain is, as a rule, slight, and may not be present at all. In a certain proportion of cases there will be sudden and recurring exacer- bations of pain, indicating a circumscribed acute orchitis, the result of irritation from the presence of the cell-elements of the tubercular pro- cess. Ulceration and the formation of fistulse occur in a certain propor- tion of cases. In simple orchitis and epididymitis, the cord is not involved, while not infrequently in tuberculosis the deposit rapidly travels along the 1