183 ARTERITIS. coats together. Starting from the fenestrated membrane, in its neigh- borhood there is fonnd a rather abundant cell-growth traversed by capil- laries. Nearer the intima is found a fibrous tissue, formed of elongated, fusiform cells and delicate, interlacing fibrils of connective tissue, the whole constituting an imperfectly developed fibrous tissue. Internal to this are seen more numerous, rounded cells, some of which are of larger size. Nearer to the lumen are seen elongated, oval nuclei, smaller and more highly refractile, and more closely packed together (Greenfield). It will be seen, by reference to my own case already given, that in the .changes which occurred in the intima it was analogous to Dr. Greenfield's first case, while in the irregular, nodulated condition of the muscular layer it was analogous to his second. According to Greenfield, the inflammatory matter in and around the perivascular canals in syphilis is entirely different from that in tuber- cular infiltration of these canals. In vessels examined by Barlow, the same changes are Reported as those given above (Figs. 262, 263). The adventitia and muscular coats were more or less affected, "but obviously the jDrincipal changes have taken place in the intima." Davidson and Buzzard are led to the same conclusions with the foregoing, as is Green in his " Pathology and Mor- bid Anatomy." Rheumatic ArteritU.—Arteritis may occur in connection with acute rheumatism. Bryant states that this is a rare form of disease. Rheu- matic endocarditis is not so rare, and it is possible that endarteritis may exist in the aorta in many cases of endocarditis. This and the arteritis of gout and nephritis (Fig. 264) belong to the domain of medicine rather than to that of surgery, and will not therefore be considered in this work. Fig. 263.—Syphilitic arteritis. Section from a .small artery of the pia mater cut trans- ver.=;ely, showinc; the inner coat mucli thick- ened, a dimiimtion of the lumen of the vessel, and a considerable infiltration of the adventitia. A clot is seen to occupy a great part of the lumen of the vessel. (From Barlow's Specimens, Green's "Pa- FiG. 2R2.—Syphilitic arteritis. Transverse section of a segment of the middle cerebral artery of a syphilitic patient, i, the thickened intima; e, the endothelium ; y, the fenestrated membrane; TO, the muscular coat; «, the adventitia. (From Barlow's Specimens, Green's '• Pathology.") thology.")