577 THE URINE—ALBUMEN—SUGAR. while the salt water rushes in to take its place. Allow the tube to re- main in this position about six hours, or until the bubbling entirely ceases. The volume of gas which rises to the top of the tube represents the proportion of urea in the specimen examined. If a half-drachm is used, every cubic inch of displacement of the liquid within the tube is equal to 0'645 of a grain of urea. Multiplying this by the inches or fractions of an inch of gas will give the quantity of urea in 3 ss. of urine. Albumen.—Albumen in the urine of one in health is exceedingly rare. It is said not to indicate disease if present in small quantity soon after the excessive ingestion of albuminous foods. In isolated cases its presence is ephemeral. In a case presented be- fore the New York Pathological Society, by Prof. Janeway, albuminuria could be produced at will by increased mental activity. In a condition of repose no trace was discoverable. Albumen is always present in urine which contains pus, independent of any alfection of the kidneys. It may be recognized by the tests with heat and nitric acid. To em- ploy the heat-test, fill a tube half full of urine, to which, if alkaline or faintly acid in reaction, one or two drops of acetic acid should be added. Hold the tube so that the flame of the spirit-lamp will heat the upper inch of urine. If, just before the boiling-point is reached, a cloudy white film pervades the heated mass, the presence of albumen is demon- strated. The nitric-acid test is not so reliable as the preceding. When albu- men is thought to be demonstrated by its use, the heat-test should be applied to confirm it. Into a small test-tube drop from fii x-xx of pure nitric acid. Hold the tube slanting and allow the urine from a glass pipette to run gently down the side until it floats upon the acid. Albu- men is indicated by a white or cloudy ring formed in the layer of urine immediately in contact with the acid. Sugar.—The urine of diabetes mellitus has a high specific gravity, is passed in great quantity, and has a characteristic sweet odor. This form of sugar may be recognized by Trommefs test, in which an oxide of cop- per is produced by boiling diabetic urine (grape-sugar) with a solution of potash and copper. Fill a test-tube for one inch with the suspected urine, and add one or two drops of a solution of sulphate of copper— just enough to give the whole a pale-blue tint. Add the potash solution in quantity equal to one half the urine. When sugar is present, a pale- blue hydrated oxide of copper will be thrown down and immediately re- dissolved. If the mixture is now slowly heated to near the boiling- point, a reddish-brown suboxide of copper will be precipitated. I When a quantitative analysis is desired, the fermentation-test will be j found simple and sufficiently accurate for practical use. Fill a wide- mouthed bottle with the urine, and register the specific gravity at the time. Place a small piece of yeast in the urine, and set it aside in a warm place for from twelve to eighteen hours until fermentation has occurred, and again take the specific gravity. The difference in degrees of the uri- 37