HEMORRHOIDS. 547 narcosis is complete, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, with the pelvis elevated to such an extent that the intestines will gravitate toward the diaphragm, the mass returned, and a large sponge introduced well up into the bowel. The sphincter ani and rectum should now be widely dilated with the speculum until the walls of the bowel are brought clearly into view. The Paquelin cautery-knife, heated to a light-red color, is carried into the bowel as high as the limit of the prolapsed portion, and drawn straight down the wall of the gut to the margins of the anus, burning its way through the mucous membrane. The depth of the furrow must be determined by the extent of the prolapse. If j the entire thickness of the rectal wall is involved, as in complete pro- ! lapsus, the wound should extend well into the muscular layer. In par- ! tial prolapse it will suffice to go down to the muscle. From four to six incisions should be made at equal distances from each other. Partial divulsion of the sphincter should be made before or after the operation, in order to prevent spasm and to secure rest. A complete recovery will follow in the large majority of cases. If the Paquelin cautery can not j be obtained, strong iron wire, or rod-iron, may be used by heating in the ordinary furnace. The after-treatment is to keep the patient quiet with mild opium narcosis, and after live or six days to move the bowels with a cold-water enema, keeping the patient in the recumbent posture. The cure is effected by the formation of inflammatory adhesions between the mucous membrane and muscle, and between the outer wall of the rectum and the peri-rectal connective tissues and fascise. The older operation of excising a Y-shaped piece of the mucous membrane and afterward uniting the edges by sutures, is bloody and troublesome, and not to be compared to the procedure above given. In chronic prolapsus, the operation is the same, provided that reduc- j tion can be effected. The incisions with the cautery-knife must extend I deeply, as above indicated. When reduction is impossible, owing to the inflammatory thickening of the protruded mass, there is no alternative but in excision. In this operation the integrity of the sphincter must not be impaired. Preferably, the mass should be cut off with a delicate cautery- knife, keeping Just outside the sphincter, which is usually slightly drawn out with the gut. The line of incision should be circular, and, by allow- ing the knife to burn its way slowly, aU danger of hseraorrhage is avoid- ed. The after-treatment is the same as in the preceding operation. Another method is to insert a series of ligatures of strong silk around the prolapsed mass at the level of the anus. These extend through both thicknesses of the gut. When tied tightly, strangulation of the portion beyond the ligatures occurs, and this should be cut off to within a quar- ter of an inch of the ligatures. ! H^MOEEHOIDS. Haemorrhoids, or "piles," are vascular tumors formed beneath the mucous membrane of the rectum and anus. They are divided anatom- ically into external and internal haemorrhoids. Internal haemorrhoids i