A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 104 As to the age of the patient, it may be said that the death-rate gradu- ally increases with each decade of life. Operations of expediency^ when properly performed, may be consid- ered as practically free from danger, for the reasons that the general con- dition of the patient is good, and the section through clean and healthy tissues. Amputations after non-malignant disease, such as destructive arthritis and osteitis, are comparatively free from danger, provided that general sepsis and consequent exhaustion have not occurred prior to the operation. Amputations necessitated by malignant neoplasms are espe- cially dangerous only in proportion to the degree of malignancy in the tumor, together with the general deterioration of the tissues as a result of the prevailing cachexia. Amputations after accident are most fatal, and the statistics show that primary operations are, in general, more dangerous than those done in the secondary period. Lastly, the value of the bloodless operation, together with the safety from inflammation and sepsis, which a thorough knowledge and prac- tice of the antiseptic metliod guarantees, can not be overestimated in diminishing the death-rate after amputation. The employment of Es- march's bandage, the deligation of the vessels, the use of sublimate irrigation, and the permanent antiseptic dressings, have been heretofore described. Amputations are much less frequent now than formerly, and there is little doubt that, in the present rapid advance in the science of surgery, and the greater perfection in its art, the time is not far removed when amputations for other cause than gangrene will be comparatively rare. To the consummation of this hope the education of the laity becomes the first duty of the practitioner. Yery few deformities would lead to the necessity of amputation if in their incipiency the services of a skillful surgeon were obtained. And this is equally true of those lesions of the joints and bones for which the necessity of amputation would be excep- tional if, at the earliest symptoms of disease, the proper treatment were instituted. Even when, from neglect, extensive necrosis or destructive arthritis shall have occurred, exsections of the diseased tissues should always be preferred to amputation, notwithstanding the shortening which may result, for a stiff joint and a short limb, capable of even limited motion and body support or function, is far better than the most perfect prothetic apparatus. Malignant or non-malignant neoplasms often unnecessarily lead to amputation when an early and wide excision of the growth would in great probability have arrested the disease and saved the limb. In cases even of doubtful diagnosis, in the earlier days of the appearance of the tumor, the benefit of the doubt should be given to the ultimate safety of the part, and the knife freely used. As to the propriety of performing an immediate amputation after in- jury, it is exceedingly questionable. The conditions which would justify this practice will rarely prevail. Even primary operations should be exceptional in this age when the value of drainage is so fully appreciated,