303 FRACTURES. mined by comparative measurement of the two sides, from the ante- rior superior spine of the ilium to the inner malleohis. The internal malleoli should be made to touch, and should be directly in a line with the symphysis pubis, umbilicus, and interclavicular notch. The end of the tape should be held on the thumb-nail, and pressed well into the notch. Just under the anterior superior spine. It is then carried along the inner side of the thigh, knee, and leg, to the under edge of the inner malleolus. The degree of shortening will vary from one fourth of an inch up to two or more inches. The occasional normal inequality in the length of the two lower extremities should not be lost sight of. This varies from one eighth to, in some instances, as much as one inch and over. To determine that the shortening is between the trochanter and the acetabulum, apply Nelaton^s test; a line drawn from the tuber- osity of the ischium to the anterior superior spine of the ilium passes over the upper surface of the great trochanter. The distance the tip of the trochanter may be above this line will give the degree of shortening. Bryant's test is, with the patient resting upon the back, the legs parallel and extended, to drop a line from the anterior superior spine and to measure the distance between this line, at its nearest point to the tro- chanter and this tuberosity. If the fracture is above the trochanter the tuberosity will be found nearer the line than on the sound side. Crepitus can not always be obtained. In the cases of impaction it is not possible without the employment of force sufficient to unlock the fragments, and in many cases of fracture above the trochanteric line, without impaction, crepitus is not felt. Any unnecessary manipulation of the hip is contrary to the best rules of practice, and an effort to elicit crepitus should, therefore, not be made. It is difficult, and at times impossible, to determine at what particular portion of the neck the fracture has occurred. Prac- tically it makes little difference, as the treatment is the same. Treatment.—'Rest in the dorsal decu- bitus, with fixation of the pelvis and the affected limb, are the immediate indica- tions. To secure fixation, extension in a limited degree is desirable. To obtain this, place the patient upon a hard mat- tress. If the bed is too soft and yielding, place wide boards underneath the top mat- tress in order to hold it smooth and firm. Elevate the foot of the bedstead from six to ten inches, by placing the legs at this end upon blocks of wood or bricks. Cut two strips of strong adhesive plaster (Maw's moleskin is preferable) about two inches wide and long enough to extend from the hip to be- yond the sole. Lay one of these upon the inner and outer surface of the Fig. 332.—Fracture of the neck of the femur, with impaction. (Bigelow.)