LIGATION OF ARTERIES. 255 The subclavian arteries have been tied behind the scalenus anticus thirteen times, with four recoveries. All of the fatal cases were on the right side. In one of the "Prize Essays" of the American Medical Association I published the histories of two hundred and fifty-one ligations of the sub- clavian artery in its third surgical division, of which one hundred and thirty-four ended fatally. As far as these histories relate to aneurism they have been given. A study of the remaining cases led me to con- clude that in all lesions causing dangerous haemorrhage in the upper brachial or axillary regions an effort should be made to control the bleed- ing at the seat of injury. Failing in this, deligation of the subclavian, in its third division, is demanded. Ligation of the Yertebral Artery—Operation.—Locate by pressure the carotid tubercle (the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra). The point at which the artery is to be secured is one inch directly below this bony prominence, which must be the center of a perpendicular in- cision, four inches in length. Commence the incision at the outer bor- der of the sterno-mastoid muscle, where the external jugular vein crosses. The internal jugular is seen and drawn inward. The transverse cervical artery, and one or two smaller veins, are met with next, and dravm to the outer side of the wound. The scalenus anticus muscle is now brought into view, and to the inner side of this a depression be- tween this muscle and the longus colli. In this sulcus the artery lies, the vein being in front of it. In my case I had to tie the vein with a double ligature, divide, and turn the ends aside in order to secure the artery. Ligation of the Internal Mammary—Operation.—This vessel may be secured, as has been described, close to the parent trunk, or it may be tied in one of the intercostal spaces. In the third or fourth space make an incision, about two inches in length, obliquely from without inward and downward, the center of which should be about half an inch external to the edge of the sternum. Divide the fibers of the pectoralis major and the intercostal muscle, and clear away the tissues with a blunt-pointed instrument. The artery, with its vense comites, will be seen in front of the fibers of the triangularis sterni, which sepa- rates it from the pleura on the right and the mediastinum on the left side. In separating the veins from the artery, care should be taken not to break through the thin structure between the vessel and the cavity. The other branches of the subclavian artery do not require especial consideration. The inferior thyroid is often tied in the removal of goitre. I have, in six operations, found and deligated it prior to ab- lation of a bronchocele. It will usually be seen on the tracheal side of the common carotid., just below the anterior belly of the omo- hyoid. Ligation of the Axillary Artery—Anatomy.—This artery may be tied at any part of its course. On account, however, of the difficulty of approach of that portion beneath the pectoralis minor, it is usually