A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 462 readily perceive when it comes in contact with the stricture, before he projects the blade. In operating, a bulb must be employed which ex- actly fits the stricture ; the dej)th of the incision Avill then just equal the distance to which the blade is projected by the action of the screw in the handle. The bulb is introduced beyond the stricture, and the instrument withdrawn until the shoulder of the bulb indicates that it is in contact with the inferior or gastric border of the stricture. It is then turned so that the knife is posterior, the screw in the handle which projects the blade is turned to the required extent, and the constricting band divided by pulling the instrument outward until resistance ceases. The blade is then concealed and the cesophagotome withdrawn. The dilating bougies may be introduced at once, or this may be postponed for twenty-four hoxirs. The danger to be guarded against is an incision through the wall of the CBSophagus. With the instrument of Prof. Sands this is scarcely possible, especially Avhen the smaller bulbs are used, since the greatest projection of the blade is only a little more than one tweKth of an inch. When the occlusion is so complete that the cesophagotome can not be employed, or if for any reason this method of procedure is contra- indicated and inanition is threatened, the operation of gastrotomy is im- perative. It is not only to be commended in permanent occlusion of the oesophagus from stricture, a diverticulum, or neoplasm, but in those cases in -which extensive inflammation has resulted from the ingestion of corrosive substances. In this last condition the operation is intended to keep the organ at rest during the process of repair, in which nothing but water is passed through the oesophagus. Operation.—Beginning near the xiphoid appendix, an incision four inches in length is made, parallel with and from one half to one inch distant from the costal cartilages of the left side. Strict antisepsis should be employed, and all bleeding thoroughly stopped before the parietal layer of the peritonaeum is divided. When this is done the index-finger should be introduced and the stomach sought for. If the obstruction to the oesophagus is of long standing, the organ will be found contracted and much smaller than normal. When the anterior wall is made out, it should be seized with a forceps or tenaculum, drawn up to the wound in the abdomen, and held in this position by an assistant. The wound in the abdominal wall should now be closed from each end, leaving an opening from one and a half to two inches in length. The sutures should be of silk or silver wire, and should pass through the integument and the parietal reflection of the peritonaeum wherever the serous membrane has been divided. The anterior wall of the stomach is now secured to the margins of the wound in the following manner: Fine sutures of iron-dyed silk are carried at intervals of from one eighth to one quarter of an inch through the integument at a like distance from the edge of the incision, passing through the parietal peritonaeum and into the wall of the stomach, be- tween the muscular and peritoneal layers of this organ. The needle should run beneath the peritoneal layer of the stomach for about one