CHAPTER VII. BTJKNS AND SCALDS.—FROST-BITE. Burns and scalds are classified in degrees varying from the mildest form, which produces a simj)le inflammation of the epidermis, to the most severe form, which destroys all the tissues or organs of a part. The gravity of the prognosis is usually in proportion to the extent of surface of the integument destroyed rather than to the depth of the destructive process. Burns of the head and face are most dangerous; those of the extremities least grave. Recovery is exceptional after destruction of one third of the cutaneous surface. Death may result from shock, ulcer of the duodenum, or exhaustion from prolonged suppuration and septic absorption. The history of a slight burn or scald involving only a limited area of the integument, and not extending beyond the skin, is simply one of local disturbance. Cold-water immersion is the indication in treatment. ' When, however, a considerable extent of tissue is involved, symptoms of profound constitutional disturbance rapidly supervene. The patient is seized with chills or rigors, suffers excruciating pain, betrays in his expression the extreme anxiety felt as to his condition, and sinks into a condition of collapse, which is often the prelude to a fatal issue. When not rapidly fatal, the duration of this stage is from six to thirty-six hours. It is followed by the stage of reaction and inflammation. The character of the febrile movement depends upon the extent of the destruc- tion of the tissues, and upon the concurrence of certain lesions of the thoracic and abdominal viscera. Inflammation of the duodenal glands, and the formation of ulcer with perforation, is not of infrequent occur- rence during the second week after the accident. Peritonitis, pleuritis, or pneumonitis may add to the gravity of the prognosis. Laryngitis and bronchitis are apt to follow the efforts at inspiration in the presence . of scalding steam. Treatment.—The immediate indication is to relieve pain by the admin- istration of morphia hypodermically, or some form of opium by the rec- tum or stomach. Stimulation with whisky or brandy by enema, or by the mouth, is also indicated to prevent collapse, or to modify the intensity of shock which is apt to follow a scald or burn. The use of both opium and alcohol should be made with a certain degree of caution, for there is danger from a too profound narcosis with the former, while alcohol in