661 INHERITED SYPHILIS. Symptoms.—The symptoms of specific infection in the child manifest themselves usually within the first eight or twelve weeks after birth. Oc- casionally the disease is latent, and the symptoms do not appear until a variable period has elapsed. Even puberty may be reached before it is evident. Excepting the chancre, the local lymphangitis and adenitis, the evolution of the symptoms of inherited syphilis is not unlike those of the acquired form. The lesions are cutaneous, mucous, and visceral. The macular or papular syphilide occurs in most cases, and may be distributed over the general surface or confined to certain limits. It is usually first seen upon the abdomen, and from this starting-point it be- comes more or less widely distributed. At the muco-cutaneous margins, and in the folds of the skin where irritation is greater and moisture exists, condylomata are not infrequent, and are often persistent. Vas- cular, pustular, and tubercular syphilides occur in a certain proportion of cases. The tubercular form is rare. The pustular form (syphilitic pemphigus) indicates a low order of tissue vitality, and Justifies an un- favorable prognosis. Lesions of the mucous surfaces occur either before or with the cuta- neous lesions. Papules and excoriations (mucous patches) are found in the buccal cavity, on the tongue, fauces, and pharynx. Fissures of the lips are not uncommon, and especially in the angles of the mouth. The infection of the mucous membrane of the nose and air-passages leads to the distressing coryza and cough so often noticed in syphilitic infants. Gummata of the skin and of all organs occur in the same manner and with the same pathological significance as in the acquired form. Treatment.—The preparations of mercury antagonize the virus in this as in the acquired form of syphilis. The careful mercurialization of the mother during pregnancy is important in preventing the development of the disease in its severer forms. Inunction with the ointment of mer- cury should be first faithfully tried in the treatment of syphilis in the newly-born. One drachm of mercury to one ounce of lard is the pro- portion recommended by Brodie. This is spread upon a soft flannel belt and worn continuously around the patient's waist. The ointment should be renewed as needed. If the beneficial effects of the mercury are not secured by this method, the internal administration may be resorted to, but in no case until after a thorough trial of the inunctions. The bin- iodide of mercury, in doses of grain, in combination with one-quar- ter grain of the iodide of potassium, is advisable to begin with. The dose may be carefully increased if necessary. The nourishment of the child should be most carefully attended to, and it should have the bene- fit of pure air and comfortable surroundings. Scrotum.— Wounds of the scrotum should be treated as similar le- sions elsewhere. On account of the great vascularity of the tissues, re- pair is usually rapid. The contractility of the dartos and cremaster muscles will prevent early union unless the stitches are closely applied. If the testicle is protruded, it should be disinfected with 1-to-lOOOO sub- limate, returned to its normal position, and the cavity of the tunica vagi- nalis also washed out with the sublimate solution. In closing the wound