STONE IN THE BLADDER. 585 may be suspected, and, if the patient is a child, the suspicion is strength- ened. Hsematuria, and all the symptoms of cystitis, are, as a rule, in- creased with this form of calculus. In patients with the gouty or rheu- matic diathesis, uric-acid stone is the rule. The acidity of the urine in a measure excludes phosphatic calculus. In the exceptional instances in which a portion of the surface of the bladder has become incrusted with the inorganic elements of the urine, this condition may be determined by the immobility of the concretion when the sound is brought in contact with it. The absence of a spherical calculus can be determined by digital exploration through the rectum or vagina, combined with pressure from above the symphysis pubis. Treatment and Prognosis.—The attempts to dissolve vesical calculi by the administration of remedies by the mouth, or by solutions thrown into the bladder, have not met with encouraging success. While there is little doubt that the correction of a dyscrasia which is favorable to the formation of stone may prevent or retard the further growth of an ex- isting concretion, there is no evidence to prove that a stone in the blad- der was ever removed by this plan of treatment, j The proper treatment of stone in the bladder may be divided into the curative and palliative. To the former belong the operations of lithot- omy and UtJiotrity; to the latter are systematic medication and hy- giene, together with the employment of all local means calculated to relieve pain and prolong life. In determining upon the proper method to be adopted, the following points should be duly considered : In male patients under the age of seventeen the cutting operation is preferable, for the reasons that (1) the caliber of the urethra is usually too small to admit of the instrumentation necessary to lithotrity ; (2) the mortality rate after lithotomy in this class of patients is very low—about 5 per cent. After this period, as between lithotomy and lithotrity, the former operation is demanded (1) in all cases of stricture of the urethra, where the caliber of this tube is narrowed to such an extent that the re- peated introduction of the lithotrite and washing-apparatus is difficult or impossible ; (2) in prostatic disease, with hypertrophy to such an extent that it offers an impediment to the introduction of the instruments, and renders the seizure of the stone or fragments difficult of accomplishment; (3) when the stone is more than one inch in diameter; (4) when it is so hard (oxalate of lime) that it can not be crushed by the employment of a reasonable degree of force ; (5) when chronic cystitis and vesical intoler- ance exist; (6) in a patient suffering from any form of nephritis. Lithotrity.—If the symptoms are not so distressing as to demand immediate interference, from ten days to two weeks should be devoted to the careful preparation of the patient. It is not only important to improve the general condition, but also to accustom the urethra to the introduction of the sound. The instruments required are the lithotrite and an apparatus for wash- ing out' the detritus. Of the various crushing-instruments which have been introduced, that of Sir Henry Thompson is to be preferred (Figs. 582-585). It is com-