623 THE URETHRA—STRICTURE. recontraction of the opening, it is necessary to dilate the meatus at in- tervals of from two to four days for five or six weeks after the operation. In strictures of very small caliber, and in long and tortuous strictures, the oval bulbs can not be used. The extent of such strictures can not be made out with accuracy until, by the use of filiform bougies and care- ful dilatation, the smaller searchers can be introduced. In certain rare cases of lateral stricture, the exact location of that portion of the urethral circumference involved in the contraction may be determined by employing the indicator (Fig. 633), which is practically d. BEYNDERS -CO. Fig. 623.—Indicator for locating lateral strictures of the urethra. a section of half of an ordinary bulb. If this instrument is introduced with the smooth surface directed toward the projecting band, it will pass in and out with equal facility. If, however, it is turned with the opposite side toward the stricture, it will be perceptibly arrested as it is withdrawn. The knob on the handle which corresponds to the shoulder of the bulb will indicate the part of the urethral wall in which the strict- ure is situated. Treatment.—The treatment of organic stricture of the urethra may be by dimsion or dilatation. In the former operation the stricture is incised from within {internal uretTirotomy), or from without {external urethrotomy). In the latter, the stricture is gradually dilated by the introduction of bougies or sounds. Dilatation may be continuous or interrupted. Immediate dilatation, or dixiulsion of a stricture, as com- pared to urethrotomy, is an unscientific and unsafe procedure, and is rarely, if ever, justifiable. With the urethrotome, the contraction is di- vided with accuracy and precision ; with the divulsor, the force is blindly applied, and the depth and direction of the tear is not safely within the control of the operator. It is difficult to lay down any rule for the selection of the method of treatment to be followed in any given stricture. In general it may be said that internal uretTirotomy is preferable in all strictures anterior to the membranous portion, and some form of dilatation in those situated in this portion, or in the rare cases behind it. The exceptions to this rule will be presently considered. The method of interrupted dilatation by the frequent introduction of sounds or bougies may be successfully applied to narrow annular strict- ures of comparatively recent date, but division of the stricture and sub- sequent dilatation not only offers the quickest and surest means of relief, but is much less painful than dilatation without incision. The employ- ment of cocaine in urethral surgery has removed two great obstacles to the cutting operation, namely—the patient's dread of pain on the one hand, and that of ether narcosis on the other. Many strictures are, however, of such small caliber that a urethro- tome can not be introduced, and it becomes necessary to dilate them up to a size sufficient to admit the urethrotome, or to divide the stricture by