381 REGIONAL SURGERY.—THE HEAD. follows: From the posterior border of tlie malar process of the frontal bone, at the upper outer angle of the orbit A (Fig. 415) draw a line A B, directly backward, a distance of two and four fifths inches. From B draw a perpendicular line, one inch and one fifth long, to C, then from C, upward and backward, to D, which shall terminate in the sagittal suture, two and one fifth inches directly behind the junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures, ^. The point of junction of the sagittal and coronal sutures is not always easily recognized in the adult. If, however, the distance from the root of the nose (the naso-frontal suture) to the poste- rior-inferior border of the occipital protuberance be measured, the jDoint I D (Fig. 415) will be found to vary from three quarters of an inch to an Fig. 415.—(Modified after Championniere.) inch posterior to the center of this line. The junction of the sagittal and coronal sutures is directly above the external opening of the auditory canal. The researches of Championniere may practically be applied as follows : In complete and persistent hemiplegia, where the history of the case may exclude extravasation in the deeper ganglia, the center or bit of a large-sized trephine should be placed in the middle of this line, at 2 (Fig. 415), on the side opposite to the paralysis. If there is loss of mo- tion or convulsive movements of the lower extremity alone, the trephine should be applied in the upper third of the line, at 3. When the upper extremity alone is involved (the lesion being probably in the middle third of the ascending frontal convolution), the operation should be performed opposite to the middle and in front of this line. When simple aphasia is present, the trephine is to be applied at the lower end, and well in front of this line, 1. If, when the button of bone is removed, the cause of the compression is not revealed, the opening should be enlarged by the ron- geur, or by reapplying the trephine. The after-treatment is the same as given in trephining for injuries of the skull.