A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 190 - In one of Gosselin's cases, haemorrhage was so frequent and persistent that deligation of the parent vessel—the femoral—was at one time con- sidered ; but this was happily avoided by repeated use of the actual cautery.* The results of this method of treating cirsoid vascular tumors are gratifying, and the operation is worthy of repetition. In growths of smaE size I should prefer to try the method of Barwell, and, if this failed, then the injection of perchloride of iron or other coagulating solution. The success achieved by Spence and Nelaton with galvano-puncture was such as to justify further trial of this method. Cases of spontaneous cure of vascular tumors are reported. Dr. Krackowizer presented to the New York Pathological Society a patient in whom pulsation had entirely ceased in a cirsoid tumor which was contracted, solid, and shriveled at various points; the peculiar rustling noise, also, of which the patient had complained, was now entirely absent when he was quiet. The man was forty-five years of age ; the tumor was congenital, and had grown to a considerable size, but mthout pain or haemorrhage. Dr. Krackowizer referred to two other cases re- corded by Orfila and Chevalier. * Gosselin's cases were three in number: Case I.— Cirsoid Arterial Tumor of the Left Leg.—The patient was a woman, aged twenty- five. At birth she had a small red stain or spot in the skin at the upper and anterior part of the left leg, which up to her twelfth year had grown about as large as an almond. At fifteen she first noticed that pulsation began in it. After this date it grew more rapidly, projecting, however, very slightly from the surface, until, at the age of twenty-two, it began to ulcerate without any assignable cause. Hemorrhage occurred, which ceased by compression, but not until syncope had ensued. Repeated bleedings occurred up to her twenty-fifth year, when the injections were commenced. From July 12th to August 23d, seven injections were made. Ulceration began, and frequent haemorrhages occurred between October 12th and 18th, which were arrested by the actual cautery and compression. Cure resulted at the end of eleven months. Case II.— Cirsoid Arterial Tumor of the Forehead with Arterial Varices; Hemorrhage during Many Years ; Four Injections of Perchloride of Iron ; Cure.—Patient was a man, aged thirty-nine; was born with a red mark on his forehead, which disappeared at his tenth year. About nineteen years later, when in his twenty-ninth year, a tumor was noticed in the same place, about as large as a cherry-stone, and two years later he felt it begin to pulsate. After that time it continued to grow, and was the source of frequent hemorrhages without any direct injury or known cause. The patient had controlled the bleeding by compression. At the time of operation, the growth was about two inches in diameter, and projected from tlie skin about one third of an inch. February 12th, while pressure was made on both primitive carotids, injections were made with two syringes, one needle being introduced on each side of the tumor. The compression of the carotids was continued ten minutes. The tumor still pulsated at points. Compress applied > pain was severe during the day of operation and the next day following. Operation repeated on the 1st of March. March 13th, tumor was solid and without pulsation throughout two thirds of its extent. Two injections made. March 20th, tumor began to ulcerate at two limited points, which were soon filled with exuberant granula- tions. These resisted alcoholic dressings and the application of nitriite of silver. March 24th, pulsation reappeared at one point, and the injection was repeated. May 20th, the granula- tions persisting, actual cautery was applied. Same on June 6th. July 8th, patient discharged, cured. Case III does not differ materially from the two preceding cases, either as to its clinical history or as to its treatment.