513 FECAL FISTULA. below this point in the linea alba, or posteriorly near the spine. A rare cause of congenital fistula is the presence of the omphalo-mesenteric duct, or Meckel's diverticulum, which, as heretofore stated, opens at the umbilicus. Acquired fecal fistulse may be surgical or accidental. Colostomy and enterostomy are examples of the former, while the latter result from perforating wounds of the intestinal canal, either from the exterior, as by gun-shot or punctured wounds, or by the passage of some ingested sharp or hard body through the intestinal wall; or by perforation of the intestine by an ulcer or abscess, or from gangrene due to strangulation, contusions, etc. The diagnosis of a fecal fistula which communicates directly with the exterior is made evident by the escape of gas and ingested matter. Indirect fistulse can also be determined by the careful examination of the discharges from the organs through which they pass. In a case re- ported by Dr. Krackowitzer, in the "Transactions of the New York Pathological Society," an ulcer of the appendix vermiformis had opened into the bladder. The diagnosis of entero-vesical fistula was established by the escape of a lumbricoid worm from the urethra. Blind fistulse can not often be made out until demonstrated by exploration. In determining what portion of the intestinal canal the fistula opens into one must consider, first, the character of the discharge ; second, the •distance from the rectum, as determined by injections. In congenital fistula: opening into the peringeum the inference is natural and generally correct that the lower portion of the large intestine is involved. If bile is freely discharged through a congenital or ac- quired fistula, it is safe to conclude that the opening is not very far removed from the duodenum or upper portion of the jejunum. The •odor of gas or ingesta escaping from the large intestine is usually more offensive than that from the small bowel. When caused by a wound, the known direction and character of the penetrating body will aid in arriving at a correct idea of the gut pene- trated. A fistula resulting from perityphlitic abscess occurs almost always in the coecum, more rarely in the lower portion of the ascending colon or lower ileum. When the colon is involved the location may be deter- mined by slowly injecting milk j^er rectum, having measured the quan- tity injected until it begins to fiow out at the external opening. The prognosis of fecal fistula depends upon its character. Congeni- tal fistulse are obstinate under treatment. Acquired fistulse may be cured in the majority of instances. Treatment.—Congenital fistulse, resulting from imperforate anus, can only be healed by the establishment of an opening in the perinseum which shall communicate with the most dependent jjortion of the blind gut. When this is done, a pad worn over the fistulous opening will lead to its gradual occlusion. When the fistula is the result of a patu- lous omphalo-mesenteric canal, it may be closed by sutures or by a com- press. 33