273 THE SURGICAL DISEASES. It is probable that the initial lesion, in the great majority of instances, is the rupture of a capillary, and haemorrhage in the cancellous tissue. It has been shown by Cornil and Ranvier that the protection of the capil- laries, in bone which is undergoing active development, is so deficient that extravasation occurs with such frequency that the process may be almost considered as physiological. This is especially true of the short, spongy bones, the epiphyseal regions of the long bones, the sternum, and vertebrae. If to this be added the fact that these bones are the most frequent seat of the inflammatory change, and that the period of life in which ostitis usually occurs is the period of greatest nutritive activity, it is not ditiicult to conceive that an extravasation of blood which would be practically harmless in a vigorous and healthful condition of the bones might induce serious inflammatory changes in tissues already deficient in nutrition. Symptoms.—Osteo-periostitis, whether acute or chronic, is usually characterized by pain at the seat of inflammation before any tumefaction is recognized. The severity of the pain is in proportion to the intensity of the morbid process. It is markedly increased on pressure, and is usually more severe at night. The symptoms of pressure upon the end- organs of the sensory nerves are coincident with the remarkably rapid development of the embryonic tissue from proliferation, chiefly of the cells of the periosteum, the new formation lifting the covering from the bone. The disease may be ushered in with or without a chill or rigors. The exacerbations of temperature rule, not so high in osteo-peri- ostitis as in osteo-myelitis. In this latter form of ostitis the symptoms are more grave in charac- ter. The sense of pain is deep-seated and intense in most instances, while in all the febrile movement is high. The soft parts become swollen, red, and oedematous, and, as a rule, septic absorption becomes, in the early history of the case, a prominent and dangerous symptom, terminating in pyaemia, and not infrequently in death. Treatment.—The earliest indication in the treatment of acute perios- titis is rest in bed, with the part involved in the position of least discom- fort. Hot applications, by means of the rubber water-bag, or cloths dipped in hot water and partially wrung out, or the cold ice-bag or cloths, as may seem most agreeable to the patient, will be found of value. When the inflammatory symptoms are severe, as determined by pain, swelling, and high febrile movement, and especially when the suspicion of pus under the periosteum has been confirmed by exploration with a good-sized hypodermic needle and aspirator, a free incision is demanded. This procedure should not be delayed, for not infrequently irreparable damage may follow the lifting of the periosteum by the inflammatory process. It is better to err on the safe side, if the diagnosis is in doubt, and make the incision down and through to the bone, an operation which is exceedingly simple when Esmarch's bandage is employed, and practi- cally free from danger. All such wounds should be tilled with sublimate-gauze dressings. When ostitis exists, if the symptoms point to severe or extensive inflam- 18