A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 382 SUEGERY OF THE FaCE. Wounds.—Incised wounds of the face usually bleed profusely. The two essential features in treatment are to arrest hfemoiThage and secure repair with the least possible deformity. When the bleeding is only slight, bringing the edges together with tine silk sutures -nill arrest it. When ligatures are applied, catgut should invariably be employed. Every wound of the face should be treated with the strictest antisepsis. The approximation of the edges should be accomplished with exactness. The finest black iron-dyed silk is the best material, and the interrupted suture should be preferred. If the character of the haemorrhage necessi- tates central deligation, the external carotid (not the common trunk) should be tied. This necessity could scarcely arise in an incised wound, unless the internal maxillary or upper part of the external carotid was involved. Contusions of this region require, as in other parts of the body, local applications, usually of cold water or the ice-bag. Ecchymosis is, as a rule, present, and is persistent in the tissues about the eyes. Lacerated wounds of the face are serious, on account of the danger of disfigurement after repair. If the procedure does not involve much loss of tissue, the edges may be pared smoothly and united with silk sutures, under careful antisepsis. If there has been extensive contusion, a small catgut-twist drain should be left at each end, to guard against the danger of infiltration of pus in the subcutaneous tissue. In wounds which involve the circular muscles of the eyes and mouth, great care must be taken to guard against contractions and deformities. Punctured wounds require no special consideration. Deligation of the external carotid may be necessitated to arrest bleeding from deep wounds of the spheno-maxillary fossa. Shot wounds of the face are not, as a rule, dangerous to life, even in military jiractice. Of 3,312 cases, in which fracture of the bones of the face occurred as a result of shot wounds, as given in the "Medical and Surgical History of the Civil War," by Dr. George A. Otis, only 340 died, while of 4,914 flesh wounds only 58 died. In civil practice the rate of mortality is still lower. When the missile has penetrated the spheno-maxillary fossa, or di- vided any deep-seated vessels, the necessity of tying the external carotid may arise. A ball or any foreign body lodged in the bones or tissues of the face should be immediately removed, when this can be accomplished without an operation which may incur the danger of deformity. When, however, the missile is deeply lodged, and is of small size, it should not be molested until there is evidence that it will not remain encapsuled and harmless. Bones or fragments of bone which have been displaced in part, but not entirely stripped of periosteum and vascular attachments, must not be removed, since, if replaced and held in proper position, they usually become reunited to the sound bone.