300 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. years after the accident, he walks well, and does not suffer from incon- tinence. Fracture of the articular processes is of less frequent occurrence. This accident results from extreme extension (dorsal), or may occur from direct or indirect violence. When the spinous processes are broken, the lesion may occur near the extremity, but more frequently the laminated expansion is the seat of fracture. The indications in all forms of in- jury to the vertebral column are to relieve pressure upon the cord and nerveSy and insure all possible fixa- tion. While, from the anatomical construction of the spinal column, extension is limited and difficult of accomplishment, yet it may be ob- tained in a sufficient degree to re- lieve the injured structures from the greater part of the superincumbent weight. When the bodies are injured, dorsal extension throws, in part, the weight from the spongy bodies on to the compact processes. When the plaster jacket can not be worn, Taylor's or Shafer's brace may be em- ployed with advantage. Fractures of the sacrum are rare, and, when occurring, are due to direct violence by penetrating bodies, or to falls from such heights that other and serious complications render the prognosis grave. No treatment except enforced quiet is called for primarily. When ostitis and necrosis occur as a result of comminution, operative interfer- ence may be required. Fracture of the coccyx, with displacement forward, is not uncommon. The accident occurs from a fall or blow directly upon the tip of the spine. The symptoms are those of pressure upon the rectum, causing difficult defecation, proctitis, and at times fissure or ulcer. Pain is always pres- ent, and is due to inflammation as well as pressure upon the fifth sacral and coccygeal nerves (coccyodynia). The only treatment is removal of this bone, which is almost always followed by relief. The incision is made over the bone, in the posterior median line, the muscular attachment being divided close to the bone. Care must be taken to avoid wounding the posterior plexus of veins, or the rectum. The wound may be sewed in its upper portion, leaving the lower end open for drainage. Os Innominatum.—Though rarely fractured as compared with other portions of the skeleton, the ilium, ischium, or pubes may be broken