A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 398 The diagnosis depends upon physical exploration by means of the head-mirror, a strong light, and the metal probe. The presence of a body lodged in the nasal cavity may be at times indicated by the change of the voice from its natural to a nasal tone. Removal is urgent, and may be effected by inspiration through the mouth and forced expiration through the nose, with the mouth and nostril of the unaffected side closed. In adults the act of sneezing will sometimes succeed in dislodg- ing the substance. A strong, slender forceps, bent at an angle so that the hand of the operator will not shut out the light, is the most suit- able instrument to be employed in its removal. When the body is lodged well back it may be pushed through into the pharynx and eject- ed from there. RhinoUtes, or nasal calculi, are occasionally found in these cavities. It is probable that they come from the lachrymal apparatus, since they are found in the immediate neighborhood of the entrance of the nasal duct. Moreover, dachryolites. or lachrymal concretions, are not very infrequent in the lachrymo-nasal apparatus. These bodies should be removed with the forceps as soon as discovered. Neoplasms.—The most frequent variety of tumor within the nasal cavity is the myxoma, or so-called gelatinous polypus. jSText in order of frequency is the fibroma, or fibrous polypus. Both of these belong microscopically to the connective-tissue tumors, the myxomata being allied to the embryonic, the fibromata to the more developed connective- tissue tumors. Papillomata, or warts, are not infrequently seen at the edges of the mucous membrane of the nostrils. Lastly, there may be a general liypertropliy of the mucous membrane of the nose, causing a tumefaction of the turbinated tufts, and partial, or may be complete, occlusion of the nares. Gelatinous nasal polypi are usually pear-shaped, the bulk of the tumor tending toward the floor of the nose. The pedicle is attached to one of the thick velvety tufts, most frequently in the upper or middle meatus. There may be a single tumor, although the rule is for them to be multiple. They are of light grayish color, and are covered by a mucous exudation. The symptoms are chiefly those due to pressure and obstruction of the nares. Changes in the voice are not marked until the presence of the tumor has been suspected from pressure and irritation. This initation gives rise to an excessive secretion and discharge from the nose, and occasionally to prolonged and violent fits of sneezing. The diagnosis may be rendered positive by physical exploration. The shrinkage of the turbinated tufts, following the local use of cocaine hydrochlorate, renders inspection more easy. Treatment.—The only rational method of treatment is removal and destruction of the pedicle and contiguous mucous membrane. Avulsion may be effected bj^ seizing the growth with a long, delicate poly^DUS-for- ceps, and twisting the tumor around until the pedicle is wrung off, then applying pure nitric acid or the galvano-cautery to the stump. The wire ecraseur or snare of Jarvis is greatly to be preferred (Fig. 437).