647 SYPHILIS. the local inflammatory process is recognized. That the specific virus has passed into the neighboring lymph-channels before the appearance of the ulcer (chancre) seems satisfactorily proved in the .repeated ex- periment of freely excising the initial lesion at its earliest appearance, in which cases constitutional infection was not retarded or prevented. The ulcer of syphilis always appears at the point where absorption of the virus took place. From the inoculation to its appearance, the - lapse of time is usually about three weeks—not less than ten days ; occa- sionally delayed as many weeks. Its duration varies from two to ten weeks, occasionally longer. It often begins as a small papule, from the covering of which a clear serum escapes, or from the beginning it may exist as an erosion. There may be one or many, owing to the number of points simultaneously inoculated. An uncomplicated initial lesion, not subjected to irritation, does not tend to ulcerate. It is usually circular or oval in outline, is shallow, in- creasing gradually in depth from the periphery toward the center, and its surface is covered with a yellow serous transudation. Grasped between the thumb and finger, it is found to be indurated, not painful. The induration is closely limited to the sore, and termi- nates rather abruptly, not fading off gradually in a wide infiltration of the skin or neighboring tissues. When the specific ulcer of syphilis is inoculated with a virus which induces phagedena, its peculiar character is lost, and it becomes in ap- pearance and behavior a non-specific sore. If from friction or the appli- cation of corrosive substances, or the cautery, an acute inflammation is precipitated, the specific character of the lesion also disappears. Local lymphangitis and adenitis always occur in syphilis during the formation and existence of the initial ulcer. Commencing in the lymph- channels immediately around the lesion, the process travels in the direc- j tion of the nearest glands. If the sore is well on one side, the glands of that side are usually first affected. When situated in the median line, or if ulcers exist on both sides, the adenitis is apt to be bilateral. In s very exceptional cases, ulcer of one side is followed by unilateral ade- nitis on the opposite side of the body. Dating from the appearance of I the sore, from eight to fourteen days usually elapse before enlargement ! of the inguinal glands is noticed. Less frequently, three or four weeks intervene. j From one to seven distinct glandular nodules may be felt. They are I hard, yet slightly elastic to the touch, not painful under ordinary press- ure, and freely movable beneath the skin. The size varies from those which are so small as scarcely to be recognized up to a half-inch or more in diameter. There is no periadenitis, and, unless an acute or phage- denic inflammatory process is superadded, the glands do not become matted together in one hard, painful lump, nor does the integument be- come red and painful, as in the adenitis of phagedenic ulcer or gonor- rhoea. The primary adenitis continues into the second stage, in which indu- ration of the glands is general.