A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 74 the wound are held in apposition, laid directly across the line of approxi- mation. Another method, less frequently employed, yet useful at times, is to take a piece of plaster and fasten it to the skin parallel with the edge of the wound. A half-inch of this margin is folded back, and to this hooks are attached and elastic threads drawn directly across or in figure-of-8 fashion, graduating the pressure necessary to a proper apposition. The needles for carrying sutures should be of various patterns, and of all sizes, for different purposes. Some are straight and round, others are lance-shaped; some should be crescentic, others straight for the half or two thirds of the shaft nearest the eye, and curved toward the point. In general a needle should not cut laterally while it is being introduced, since the lance-pointed variety not infrequently causes annoying haemor- rhage by division of vessels, which the round, smooth needles would push to one side. A good needle-holder is one of the most useful instruments of the operator's outfit. It should have a handle large enough to be well grasped without cramping the fingers, and strong enough to stand any required force. The instrument shown in Fig. 88 will be found to be very satisfactory. It is readily locked and unlocked, and is to be com- mended for having at the tip a copper grip for curved as well as straight needles. After the wound is closed, and the final irrigation made, the antiseptic dressing heretofore described should be applied. When hcemorrJiage has been so profuse that death from syncope is imminent, the head should be lowered so that gravity will aid the flow of blood to the brain in the hope of maintaining its functions. The admin- istration of whisky by the mouth or hypodermically is indicated. If the bleeding is occurring internally, an effort must be made to confine as much blood as possible in the extremities, and to hold it there until, the pressure at the bleeding-point being relieved, stasis, coagulation, and arrest occur. This method I have practiced in several serious cases, and have seen its efficacy demonstrated. Both arms near the shoulder, and both thighs six inches below Poupart's Ugament, are constricted by towels, cloths, or bandages of muslin or rubber, which are tightened just enough to retard or arrest the return venous circulation, and not to interfere with the outgoing current in the arteries. In this way several pounds of blood may be held away from the bleeding-point and turned into the circulation when the haemorrhage ceases. Care mast be taken not to produce fatal syncope by keeping too much from the brain, and also not to return too much of the pent-up volume into the circulation at once. Fluid extract of ergot, tti xxx, hypodermically, every fifteen minutes until 3 j to 3 ij doses are given, is one of the best medical haemostatics. If, despite these efforts, fatal syncope is imminent, transfusion is imperative. The proper solution is : Sodium chloride, gr. xciij; liquor sodae, lU xx ; aquae, O ij. From 8 to 40 ounces of this mixture at the temperature of the blood have been successfully introduced. This simple and efiicient method of transfusion may be effected through a vein or an artery.