ANESTHESIA. 31 upward parallel with the long axis of the body, aiding in the free expan- sion of the chest (Fig. 45). This is repeated from ten to fifteen times a " minute, and kept up by relays of assistants, if necessary, until voluntary Fig. 45. respiration is established, or the heart has ceased to beat. All this while the mouth should be kept open, and the tongue pulled forward and out of the mouth. Heart-failure is exceedingly rare in the early stage of ether narcosis. A weak heart, as a rule, is stimulated by the ansesthetic. It is more apt to be a part of the later stage, and after a prolonged administration with loss of blood or the added shock of the operation. It is indicated by a gradual weakening in the force and an increased rapidity of the pulse, or by the rapid supervention of pallor from sudden stoppage of the heart. When the first condition prevails, pure rye whisky, or brandy, should be administered hypodermically, two or three syringefuls at once (each syringeful = 3 ss.), and repeated at intervals of a few minutes until improvement is noticed. A like result may be obtained by injecting a teacupful of warm water and whisky (equal parts) into the rectum. Elastic bandages should be thrown around the extremities in order to drive all the blood to the centers. When sudden syncope occurs, place the patient's head lower than the body by allowing it to hang over the upper end of the table, while the lower end is well elevated (Fig. 44). At the same time strike sharply upon the prsecordial region with the palm of the hand, and shower the chest and epigastrium with cold water. Ether narcosis may be also secured and maintained by administering this agent by the rectum. This method was introduced by Pirogoff about the year 1847. It consists in the introduction of the vapor of ether as follows: A graduated bottle is fitted with a perforated cork, through which passes a glass tube. To this pipe a rubber tube is at- tached, and at the other end is a glass tube for introduction into the anus. The anal tube being introduced Avell into the rectum, the bottle