US ULCERS OF THE PENIS. tact witli the tissues in an abrasion. The spread of the ulcer and its phagedenic character also depend upon the virulence of the poison and the condition of the tissues at the time of the invasion. The ulcer is usually located on the side of the penis, just behind the corona glandis at the preputial attachment, at the points where abrasions are most frequent. It may be on the cutaneous surface of the prepuce, upon the body of the penis, the scrotum, or within the meatus. There may be one or more, owing to the number of abrasions and the distribu- tion of the virus. A single ulcer may result from the confluence of sev- eral contiguous points of inoculation. It is first noticed as a light red- ness or flush, usually circular or elliptical in shape, or, if the abrasion is irregular in outline, it will conform to this. Within a few hours after the appearance of the redness, its center becomes elevated and a pustule is formed, which soon breaks down, discharging a small quantity of matter. If the sore is not seen early, the pustule may escape observation. When the inoculation occurs upon a surface denuded of its mucous mem- brane or epidermis, a pustule is not formed. The walls of a phage- denic ulcer are usually precipitous. At times the superficial layers of the skin resist disintegration longer than the deeper layers and subcu- taneous tissues, giving the edges an undermined appearance. It tends to spread in width rather than in depth, although in a certain propor- tion of cases extensive destruction of tissue may occur in all directions. The floor of the ulcer is covered with pus and broken-down tissues in various stages of decomposition. A small quantity of matter of creamy consistence may be removed with a pellet of cotton. A membrane or film of a yellowish-brown color usually adheres to the floor with con- siderable tenacity. A zone of redness extends along the edges of the ulcer in advance of the tissue-destruction. In many ulcers this is not more than a line in width. If the sore is subjected to irritation, the inflammatory redness and induration may spread widely into the surrounding tissues. Pain, which is always present, varies, as a rule, with the extent of the inflammatory process. In a typical phagedenic ulcer of the penis, lymphangitis and adenitis of the inguinal glands are always present in a varying degree. In the sim- pler forms, adenitis does not occur, although the lymphatic channels in the neighborhood of the sore may be involved. Inguinal bubo is always a painful complication. It may be lateral or bilateral. If the sore is in the median line, or if there are ulcers on both sides, both groups of ! glands will be affected. Suppuration of the inguinal bubo of phagedenic 1 ulcer is not uncommon. The violence of the inflammatory process here is subject to the same conditions as given for the primary ulcer. One or more glands may be involved and suppurate. In severe adenitis, the I inflammation extends to the tissues immediately surrounding the glands. The mass appears as one large swelling, over which the integument is red and a?dematous, and to which it is adherent. Phagedenic bubo is apt to follow a virulent phagedenic ulcer of the penis. li