A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 758 sesses a connective-tissue framework whicli supports one or more new- formed vascular loops, and the whole is covered in with one or several layers of epithelia. They may be met with upon the cutaneous, mucous, or serous sur- faces. The most frequent form of papilloma is the ordinary "wart." The hard or cutaneous wart is often seen upon the hands; the soft or mu- cous wart is frequently met with upon the prepuce, vulva, and anal margins. Corns are also classified as papillomata. Mucous warts grow more exuberantly than those of the skin. Upon the prepuce, where they are kept moist and are subjected to irritating secretions and to friction, they fonn at times enormous masses. Haem- orrhage is a common accident, and sloughing, with the emission of a most offensive odor, is the rule in these larger neoplasms. Essentially benign papillomata may, by long-continued irritation, be converted into, or replaced by, an embryonic neoplasm of a malignant type. Treatment.—The indication is to destroy them at once. The best method to pursue is to grasp them with forceps, clip them off with scis- sors close to the attached margin, and apply nitric acid to the bleeding base of the neoplasm. Anaesthesia is obtained by moistening them for several minutes with a 4-per-cent solution of cocaine hydrochlorate. The nitric acid leaves a yellow stain, which is objectionable when the growth is situated upon an exposed surface. Adenoma.—Adenomata are neoplasms the structure of which is analo- gous to gland-tissue. Following this analogy, they are of the racemose and tubular varieties. The racemose adenomata are extremely rare. Fio. 768.—Nasal polypus, a, Pavement epithelia, of which the deeper layers, c?, are cylindrical, and are arranged along the edges of the papillse, J. A vessel is shown at h. (After Cornil and Eanvier.) They are composed of collections of acini held together by a varying quantity of connective tissue, and lined with epithelium. They may develop in all parts of the economy where the racemose glands are