GANGRENE. 101 batting and oil-silk or protective, and placed in a position consistent with the comfort of the patient. No operative procedure is justifiable until a well-defined line of demarkation is established, unless septic absorption occurs to threaten the safety of the patient. The most important treat- ment is directed to the nutrition of the individual and the increased vigor of the heart. Opium, to relieve jmin, is as much of a necessity as stimulants and food. Contagious^ Phagedenic, or Hospital Gangrene.—Although this dis- ease occurs most frequently in hospitals crowded with wounded, where ventilation and drainage are deficient, instances are recorded of outbreaks where the most careful sanitary regulations had been enforced. No season of the year offers an immunity from its ravages, although a warm, moist atmosphere is most favorable to its development. It is intensely contagious. The inoculation may be effected not only through instru- ments, sponges, dressings, or the hands of the attendants, but through the medium of the atmosphere. As to its infectious character there exists a difference of opinion. It is held by observers equally competent and experienced that an abrasion is essential to the introduction of the disease, and, on the other hand, that it may result from inhalation of the germs, the vesicle and ulcer api)earuig as a local expression of the sys- temic infection. The epidemics of phagedenic gangrene may vary in severity. Appearing in a malignant form, it suffers no wound to escape, while less frequently only isolated cases may occur. While a healthy condition of the individual will favor a recovery from the effects of this malady, it affords no exemption from its inoculation upon the wounded surface. It may be ingrafted upon any form of abrasion, at any stage in the process of repair. Symptoms.—The effects of this disease may be studied as local and constitutional. When a recent puncture, or fresh and minute abrasion, is attacked, the first symptoms are the formation of a vesicle and the appearance of a limited zone of redness at its base. The rupture of the vesicle gives escape to a thin, serous fluid, and the excoriated base becomes covered with a grayish mold. The infected part becomes painful and swollen, and, if the disease is not immediately arrested in its progress, a rapid dissolution of the tissues ensues. The skin breaks down, leaving pre- cipitous margins to the diseased area. The underlying tissues are destroyed more rapidly than the integument, which frequently becomes undermined to such an extent that, if repeated careful explorations are not made, the true condition of the part may escape observation. If at the time of inoculation the wound is covered with a granulating surface, it will be observed that at various points the granulation-tissue loses its florid color, becomes pale, and this pallor is immediately followed by the appearance of a grayish-black mold, which rapidly spreads over the entire wound. The normal secretion gives way to a dirty, watery discharge. The odor emanating from the gangrenous sore is exceedingly offensive and peculiar. The constitutional symptoms are those of acute septicgemia, and are