559 GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. or physician. This is especially time if the body does not drop into the opening of the ureter. Sudden occlusion of this tube produces symp- toms of general disturbance. If the stone is small and smooth, it may pass into the outlet and find its way, by gravity and the pressure of urine from behind, into the bladder without attracting the attention of the patient. When a rough stone, or one large enough to distend the tube enters the ureter, symptoms of a more than usually painful nature appear. The pain is usually referred to the neighborhood of the im- pacted substance; it is violent to a degree rarely experienced in any other affection. It may be spasmodic or constant. In males the testicle of the affected side is drawn up toward the external ring, and not infre- quently the pain is felt in this organ, in the scrotum, penis, and down the thigh and leg. Yomiting may be present, and constipation is the rule. Suppression of urine follows in a small proportion of cases, and, on the other hand, in some instances the quantity excreted is greater than normal. In the majority of cases red blood-disks may be found in the urine. The duration of the attack varies from a few hours to days. When the stone escapes into the bladder, the relief is as sudden as the attack. In rare instances it becomes hopelessly impacted. The treatment of renal calculus is practically palUatme. The diath- esis of the individual must be corrected. The diet, mode of life, and surroundings which produce one stone in the kidney will cause the same lesion indefinitely. The character of the urine must be carefully studied and an effort made to dissolve the concretion in the pelvis. The object of this plan is to carry in contact with the stone, through the agency of the blood, certain reagents which are known to effect the dissolution of these concretions. The citrate of potash, in doses of from grs. xx-xxx, is a favorite remedy. It is especially commended in the uric-acid cal- culus, and should be. given several times a day, freely diluted with water or flax-seed tea, and continued for several months. In phosphatic calculi the benzoate of ammonia, in doses of grs. v-xx, should be em- ployed. When renal colic occurs, the chief indication is to alleviate pain, and for this purpose the hypodermic use of morphia is most efiicient. Ether narcosis may also be employed where morphia or opium is contraindi- cated. Pain is not only allayed by this means, but the relaxation of the muscular elements of the ureters secured and the passage of the calculus greatly facilitated. In case the calculus becomes permanently lodged in the ureter, the operation of nephrectomy may be necessitated. This procedure will be described hereafter. Cysts.—In addition to the form of cyst which is caused by obstruc- tion beyond the pelvis of the kidney, there may exist smaller cysts within the substance of this organ resulting from occlusion of one or more of the tubules. These cysts are usually small. When the obstruc- tion occurs near the apex of a pyramid, the entire tubular structure of that pyramid may be destroyed. Hydatid cysts, due to the lodgment of the ova of the tcenia echinococcus, are occasionally met with in the kidney.