A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 534 when well in, tlie point at which it impinges upon or opens into the bowel can be determined by the finger in the rectum. The treatment should be by free incision. In mild cases local anges- thesia, obtained by cocaine, is sufficient. One or two hypodermic syringes full of a 4-per-cent solution should first be thrown into the cavity of the sinus, and the direction of the opening into the bowel determined by the probe or grooved director. The cocaine should then be injected into the tissues by repeated introductions of the needle in the line of the proposed incision into the bowel. Thirty minims of this solution are usually sufficient in this last procedure, but as many as sixty may be injected if necessary. Of the quantity thrown into the abscess only a small proportion is absorbed, while of that injected into the tissues the larger part escapes with the blood which follows the incision. When the sinus is long and the cavity of the abscess extends more than one inch above the anus, the operation should be performed under ether narcosis. Operation.—A laxative should be administered the day before the operation, and an enema given two hours before the angesthetic. The perinseum and region of the anus should be cleanly shaved. The patient should be placed upon the back, with the sacrum resting on the edge of the table, the legs flexed on the thighs, and the thighs on the abdo- men, and separated ; or upon the side in the Sims position. The probe should be carried into the fistula, the lubricated index-finger of the left hand into the rectum, and the point noted at which the instrument strikes the rectum. The probe is now withdrawn, and the grooved di- rector introduced in the same track. If the opening into the bowel can not be found, the operator should determine by the touch the thinnest point on the intervening wall, and at this location bore through into the rectum, supporting the mucous membrane near the point of the instru- ment with the finger in the bowel. As soon as the director is felt in the cavity of the gut, the point should be brought out at the anus, the sharp- pointed curved bistoury carried along the groove, and the fistula laid open by dividing the intervening bridge of tissue. If a second sinus exists, it should be incised in the same way. The bleeding is usually insignificant, and may be arrested by pressure, or the ligature. The finger should now be carried into the wound, and, if it is discovered that the abscess extends higher along the wall of the rectum than the point at which the director was carried through, the intervening wall should be divided with the blunt scissors. It is important that the incision in the gut should extend to the depth of the abscess when this point is less than three inches from the anus. A careful search for any pockets or sinuses should be made, and these, if found, should be laid freely open. The fistulous track should now be scraped out with the sharp spoon, and the entire wound packed with sublimate gauze held in place by a compress and T-bandage. This dressing should be allowed to re- main in place for two or three days, when, with the first evacuation of the bowels, it is carried away. After this the wound is not repacked, but, for purposes of cleanliness, it may be washed out by allowing the patient