13 BANDAGING. Fig. 16. then under the wrist, by the front, to the radial side, and again over the dorsum of the hand around to the ulnar side of the same finger, repeat- ing the tigure-of-8, as before. Two turns are then thrown arOund the wrist to secure the former bandage, and the roller is carried in the same manner to the remaining fingers. When the index-finger is reached, on account of the great space be- tween its root and the thumb, it is advisable to make four or five extra figure-of-8 turns around its base, carrying the bandage a little lower with each successive layer toward the thumb. Having reached the thumb, the roller is carried spirally to its ex- tremity, as in the other fingers, but in returning, when the last, the in- terphalangeal, joint is reached, the figure-of-8 turn is commenced at this point, and continued until the ball of the thumb is completely covered. This method may be applied to the thumb alone, or to any one or more of the fingers, when the remainder of the hand does not need to be bandaged, and is equally efiicient in securing splints to these organs. One objection to it, and a very formidable one to the practitioner, is the length of time necessary to apply it. A more rapid and almost equally effective way is the hand-bandage by the second method (Fig. 16). Place pellets of cotton between the fingers, and a fair-sized tuft in the palm of the hand. Take a bandage from one to two inches in width, carry it one or two turns around the hand where the phalanges join the metacarpus, until it is secured, and then by nicely adjusted figure-of-8 turns (the crossings on the dorsal aspect of the fingers) cover the hand from the tips of the fingers back. When the bandage reaches the thumb in the crotch be- tween it and the index, and begins to roll up, it should be clipped with the scissors deeper and deeper along the edge nearest the thumb with each successive turn until the cut extends to the middle of the roller. Then a split should be made in the middle parallel with its long axis, and the thumb stuck through this ; the next split is nearer the distal edge, while with the succeeding turn it may be brought clear of the thumb on its carpal aspect. A spiral, with or without the reverse, will hold on the incline from the thumb to the carpus. The Forearm, Arm, and Shoulder.—From the carpus to the elbow the spiral reverse or figure-of-8 will usually be required, on account of the pyramidal shape of the part. When the elbow is reached, if the right-angle position (Fig. 17) is determined upon, the figure-of-8 around the humerus and forearm will suffice to climb along the elbow ; or the simple spiral, carried over the same ground in the flexure of the joint, and