A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 388 When the disease is declared, the pus should be gently removed from the eye by pellets of soft lint or absorbent cotton, dipped in warm boracic-acid solution, the lids everted, and nitrate-of-silver solution (grs. v-x to 5 J) applied to the inflamed surfaces by means of a camel's-hair brush. The excess should be immediately washed away by the free use of warm water. This should be repeated every day until the purulent discharge is notably diminished. Boracic acid water (grs. v-3 j) should be used several times each day after the application of the nitrate of silver. Gonorrhoeal OpMJialmia.—Conjunctivitis caused by the introduction of the virus of gonorrhoea into the eye should be treated with great care and persistency from the first symj)tom of this painful aifection. Usually a single organ is attacked. It is important that, while the effort to cure one is being made, the other should be protected from the contagion. To effect this, a watch-glass, to the edge of which adhesive plaster is at- tached, is placed over the sound eye and closely fastened to the skin about the orbit by the plaster, so that it is hermetically sealed. This should not be removed until the other eye is well. In the local treatment of the affected eye it is required to remove the purulent discharge by frequent irrigation with warm boracic-acid water or by the pellets of lint or absorbent cotton, and to brush over the everted lids once or twice a day, as the attack is light or severe, a solution of nitrate of silver (grs. xx to ^J). The excess should be immediately washed off with tepid water. Cold applications are of great importance, and a very efficient method is to apply frequent changes (every one or two minutes) of pieces of lint about two inches square, which are taken directly from a block of ice and laid over the inflamed organ. In this form of conjunctival inflammation, as in others where the injection is marked and the thickening great, and where painful Mepliarospasm occurs, or where a free discharge of purulent matter can not be effected by ordinary means, cantJioplasty is required. This operation consists in slitting the outer canthus in the direction of the ear, and in this way dividing the fibers of the orbicular muscle. In gonorrhoeal conjunctivitis the impairment of function in the mus- cle is not intended to be of long duration, and the wound is left open. In some cases of spasm of this muscle, and where a chronic inflammation exists, the mucous membrane is stitched to the skin along the edges of the wound, thus preventing a reunion. Reunion may be effected later by paring the edges and bringing the parts together after the lesion for which the canthoplasty was performed is healed. Cocaine should be used to relieve pain, and all adhesion between the ocular and palpebral mucous surfaces should be broken up as soon as discovered. DipMheriUc conjunctivitis is a rare form of disease in which the diphtheritic membrane is formed upon the conjunctiva. It should be treated by cold, applied as in gonorrhoeal conjunctivitis. The eyes should be cleansed with warm boracic-acid solution, as heretofore de- scribed, and nitrate-of-silver solution applied once a day, in the strength of grs. v-x to 5 j. .