THE LIPS AND CHEEKS. 411 composed of a portion of the lip and gum, with one or more rudi- mentary teeth, at a varying angle of projection. The central piece occasionally is attached to the nose. In incomplete single hare-lip the nostril is not flattened and deformed, as is the case when the fissure extends through the pre-maxillary bone and the palate and alveolar processes of the superior maxilla Fig. 460.—(After Koenig.) Fio. 461.—(After Koenig.) the first and second incisor teeth, and through the inter-maxillary bone, and not, as frequently given by some writers, between the second in- cisor and canine teeth, extending backward through the pre-maxillary suture. In double hare-lip the cleft in the palate is usually double, while the center-piece may be attached to the vomer (Fig. 461), or the pre-maxil- lary portion may be united to one side of the superior maxilla (Fig. 460). In rare instances the fissure passes obliquely upward and out- ward, involving the eyelid, orbit, and cranium, producing frightful de- formity, as shown in Fig. 455. Treatment.—The only relief from this deformity is in a plastic opera- tion. It should be done early, and, when possible, within the first few months of life. Hearty and well-nourished infants, with simple uni- lateral hare-lip, should be operated upon at birth. If they are feeble, an effort at forced nutrition should be made, and the operation postponed until the patient is brought into proper condition. Double or single hare-lip, with cleft palate, should be operated upon early, since by drawing the lip together the tension on the superior maxillary bones facilitates closure of the interosseous cleft. The methods of operating are numerous. The essential features of every operation are, to trim the edges of the fissure in such shape that, when they are approximated, the gap will be closed and no depression left in the vermilion border of the lip. Single Incomplete Hare-Lip—First Method.—Having estimated the extent of surface required to fill up the deficiency, with a long, sharp