SOLID TUMORS. 68r deposits in other viscera are found with these tumors. The symptoms of all solid tumors are so obscure that the exact character of any of these neoplasms can scarcely be determined, excepting by microscopic exami- nation. Symptoms.—Tumors of the ovary are usually first noticed upon one side of the pelvis. The ordinary cysto-adenoma is not painful until it is so large that it presses upon the pelvic and abdominal viscera. If inflam- mation supervenes from any cause, pain is a prominent symptom. Amen- orrhoea is the rule, although in a certain proportion of cases men- struation is normal. Menorrhagia is rare. If left without interference, pressure upon and displacement of the neighboring viscera is the rule, and, if peritonitis does not ensue, death ultimately results from sesthenia. Not infrequently adhesions are formed between the bladder and the neo- plasm to such an extent that, as the tumor grows, the bladder is dragged upward to the neighborhood of the umbilicus. In large tumors, dysp- noea, oedema of the lower extremities, enlargement of the superficial abdominal veins, and nephritis occur as a result of pressure. Upon examination, it is usually easy to detect the presence of the tumor. The uterus lies in front of the cyst, or is displaced laterally if the tumor be large enough to crowd it out of its normal position. The uterus is not increased in size, and is movable independently of the neoplasm. The latter is an important feature in differentiation, and may be best determined with the aid of the elevator carried into the uterus. When the cyst is large, the uterus is dragged high up and fixed against the symphysis pubis. The bladder may lie over the front of the tumor as high as the umbilicus. But when the tumor is so large as to have completely risen out of the pelvis, the bladder reaches, even when not adherent to the cyst, a point somewhat above the suprapubic notch. The enlargement of the cyst gives to the abdomen a rotundity not seen with distention from ascites alone. Ascites commonly coexists with large cysts. If not large and non-adherent, the tumor can be raised out of the pelvis without the uterus. It may also be depressed in the pelvis. When the secondary cysts are large and project from the surface of the main cyst, they may be quite readily distinguished. If one hand is laid fiat upon one side of the mass and the other side is given a sharp tap with the fingers, the fluid character of the contents of the neoplasm may be easily appreciated. When the walls of the tumor are very thick and the distention marked, fluctuation may not be felt. In solid ovarian neoplasms pain is apt to be present early in the history of the growth, and the general health of the patient may show signs of deterioration before there is any marked increase in the size of the tumor. This is especially true of malignant new formations. Fibro-myoma of the ovary is so often associated with similar changes in the uterus that the slight menorrhagia which occasionally accompanies these cases may reasonably be ascribed to uterine hyperplasia. Upon abdominal palpation, with vaginal exploration, a hard and usually mov- able tumor may be appreciated. At times it is attached to the surround- ing structures to such an extent that mobility is absent. The uterus is