441 THE TONGUE AND BUCCAL CAVITY. the opposite lingual is also tied. Through this opening the tongue is drawn out, dissected from its anterior and lateral attachments, sur- rounded with the cautery-loop and divided, or cut off with the ecraseur or scissors. In the after-treatment the trachea-tube is left in place, and the pharynx, mouth, and wound filled with sponges dipped in a 5-per-cent carbolic-acid solution, the excess of the acid being washed off with water before the sponges are applied. The wound is dressed twice a day, and liquid nourishment given at each change of the dressing. The operation of Kocher is objectionable on account of the extent of the dissection, the danger of submitting such a large wound to the proba- bility of septic infection from the mouth, and the complication of trache- otomy. The free inspection of the tissues of the neck which it permits, and the command of the base of the tongue which it allows, are in its favor. The operations in which the organ is removed through the mouth are simpler, require much less time in execution, and should be preferred. If the author's method of controlling haemorrhage is adopted, the pro- cedure is practically bloodless, and a preliminary tracheotomy is there- fore unnecessary. The conditions which would call for the operations of Grant, Billroth, or Kocher will rarely exist. The after-treatment consists in rinsing the mouth at frequent inter- vals with a warm solution of permanganate of potassa (gr. ss. to anodynes to relieve pain, and generous liquid diet. Hanula.—This name is applied to certain tumors, cystic in character, which are situated immediately beneath the anterior and lateral portions of the tongue. Ranula is usually acquired, although it may be congeni- tal. The tumor is almost always single ; occasionally there is one on either side of the organ. Commencing as a result of obstruction to the outlet of one of the subdivisions of the sublingual gland (rarely as a result of occlusion to one of the terminal ducts), it may grow, when left undisturbed, to great size, crowding the tongue out of its position, rising above the level of the teeth, and protruding through the muscles of the chin until it appears beneath the skin above the hyoid bone. The only method of treatment is to evacuate the contents and cause an obliteration of the sac by inflammatory adhesion. The Paquelin cau- tery is the best instrument to employ in their removal. Etherize the patient, introduce the gag, lift the tongue upward with the forceps, protect the lips and teeth by means of flat retractors, seize the wall of the cyst with a mouse-tooth forceps, and with the platinum-knife at a red heat dissect away the anterior wall. After the fluid escapes, dilate the cavity, and make a thoroiigh digital exploration of the sac. The cautery-knife should now be carried slowly back to the deepest portions, searing all sides of the cyst-wall. The wound should be well packed Avith a single piece of iodoformized gauze. The after-treatment consists in changing the packing every twenty-four to forty-eight hours, and at each dressing irrigating the cavity with l-to-2000 sublimate solution. If the Paquelin thermo-cautery is not convenient, seize the cyst-wall