GENITO-ITRINARY ORGANS. .557 from obstruction in the urinary track, beyond the pelvis of the kidney, is also strong evidence in favor of pyelitis, notwithstanding that the pus present is known to come from other sources. Added to the above, the febrile movement, and rigors of the inflammatory process, the frequent micturition, the exaggeration of pain upon pointed and deep pressure, and, in the later stages, the presence of a tumor, caused by the dilated organ, and the diagnosis of pyelitis may be determined. In cases of pyelitis with complete obstruction, pus is retained, and, together with the urine excreted by the tubules not yet destroyed, dis- tends the pelvis, together with the kidney, causing a hydro-pyo-nephro- sis, ultimately opening into the peritonaeum, pleura, or retroperitoneal space, or it may open through the integument in the lumbar region, or near Poupart's ligament. Treatment.—This must be directed to the relief of pain, to the removal of the cause of the disease, and to the maintenance of the patient's powers of resistance by judicious feeding. The relief of pain is obtained by the employment of anodynes and by counter-irritation, as by sinapisms, hot cloths, and cups to the lumbar region. When the disease is obstinate, and the destruction of the kidney is evident, incision should be made, and free drainage secured, or, if the patient's condition will justify a more formidable procedure, the diseased organ should be removed. Hydronephrosis is both a congenital and an acquired lesion. In the congenital form the arrest of development may be in the ureter or urethra, with partial or complete occlusion of one or the other of these organs. The urine, being unable to escape, accumulates and distends the pelvis and calices, causing destruction of the tubules and Malpighian tufts, and terminating, if the obstruction is sufficiently prolonged, in a cyst, the wall of which is composed of the pelvis and capsule of the kidney. As stated above, obstruction of the urethra usually causes inflammation of the pelvis, the result being not a simple hydronephrosis, but a hydro- pyo-nephrosis. Simple hydronephrosis occurs in rare cases, when the obstruction comes on gradually. In congenital occlusion the distention of the pelvis, the atrophy of the kidney, and the development of a large cyst may occur without inflammation. The character of the obstruction will vary. Calculus in the ureter, or stricture resulting from the inflam- mation caused by the descent of a stone to the bladder, pressure by a neoplasm or another organ, and all lesions of the bladder and urethra which retard or arrest the flow of urine, may produce this condition. At times the tumor is so small that it may escape observation, or it may almost fill the abdominal cavity. The diagnosis is rarely made unless the cyst is sufficiently large to attract attention. The presence of a fluctuating tumor in the lumbar region will serve to suggest hydronephrosis, and the exploration of the cyst with a very fine needle will exhaust, by aspiration, a fluid which, under the microscope, will demonstrate the exact nature of the tumor. In those cases where the obstruction is not permanent, but recurs at intervals, the disappearance of the swelling, with the discharge of an extraordinary quantity of urine, may be considered almost a positive