A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 626 three weeks, every fourth or fifth day for the same period of time, then once a week for three weeks, and twice a month for three or four months. It is essential to keep the walls of the incision apart until they are lined with new-formed epithelia. If cystitis, epididymitis, or orchitis ensue after urethrotomy, all operative measures should be discontinued until these symptoms disap- pear. The prognosis after urethrotomy should be guarded. Many cases do not recur, but a stricture of long standing, with extensive induration, no matter how thoroughly divided and carefully treated, tends to recur. It thus becomes necessary to employ dilatation, either with a sound in the hands of the surgeon, or a soft bougie if this duty is intrusted to the patient, at intervals of every two or three months, and in some in- stances oftener, during the life of the individual. That the milder forms of annular stricture may be permanently cured by judicious treatment is satisfactorily established. In a certain proportion of cases the stricture will be found so close or tight that the urethrotome can not be passed through it, and before the division can be etfected it is necessary to dilate the constriction until this instrument can be introduced. In accomplishing this purpose two excellent methods are at the disposal of the surgeon, by either of which, if patiently and skillfully utilized, the necessity of external urethi'otomy may be obviated in all but a very limited class of cases. The methods are, in order of excellence, (1) immediate dilatation with Banks's dilating filiform bougies, and (2) continuous dilatation by inserting and leaving in the urethra one or more whalebone filiforms, or a larger gum bougie. Of the procedures of Dr. E. A. Banks and Sir Henry Thompson, the former is by far the most satisfactory. Its adoption has left only a small proportion of strictures for continuous dilatation. The dilating filiform bougie (Fig. 625) is thus employed: The urethra is elongated by pulling upon the glans, and a small syringefal of sweet- FiG. 625.—Banks's dilating filiform bougies. oil is thrown into the canal. The filiform is introduced, and, when any resistance is encountered, it is slightly withdrawn and again pushed in. By this manoeuvre the small tip of the instrument may be insinuated through even a long and tortuous tight stricture. Once engaged in the opening, it should be carefully pushed down until it is felt in the grasp of the constriction, and then forced steadily through until the full dilat- ing capacity of the largest part of the bougie has traveled through the stricture. A larger size should be at once introduced, or the urethro- tome may be carried through the opening.