292 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. In epiphyseal separation the displacement is not great, unless the capsule is badly torn, as a result of extreme violence. The treatment of these three forms of fracture is the same. Reduction by exten- sion and the long L-shaped cup-splint of Hamilton should be preferred (Fig. 319). This splint is made of gutta-percha (leather or good card-board will suffice if the rubber can not be obtained). It should go from the shoulder to the wrist, and the measurements should be taken on the unbroken arm. The apparatus should be padded with a layer of absorbent cotton. Instead of holding the forearm at a right angle to the arm, as repre- sented in the cut, it is best to carry it about half way between this position and full ex- tension, in order to carry the olecranon pro- cess into the fossa, which, if allowed to fill Fig. 320.—Showing mechanism of dis- with callus, will prevent full exteusion of the placement in fracture above the « mi • • n i i • condyles. (After Gray.) lorearm. The proguosis IS more lavorable m the first variety, since the joint may not be involved in the injury. Destruction of the joint, requiring excision, may occur in epiphyseal separation. When the fracture is comminuted, and into the joint, anchylosis, more or less complete, may result. In all fractures about the elbow it is important to remove the splints at the end of the third week, steady the fragments above and below the line of fracture as well as possible, and make limited motion at the elbow- joint. The splints are again adjusted, and at the end of another week this manoeuvre is repeated, with an increased degree of motion. After this, every two or three days, until the greatest possible freedom of move- ment is secured. The internal condyle is broken much more frequently than the exter- nal. It is more prominent, and, in the act of falling backward, the arms are thrown out from the body in such a manner that the inner condyle first receives the force of the fall. The fracture m^ay be confined to the tip (extra-capsular), or it may include a portion of the internal epicon- dyle, and lead into the joint through the trochlear surface. Fracture of the external condyle is of rare occurrence. The line of cleavage usually commences about the middle of the external condyloid ridge, and runs obliquely to the articular surface, in the groove between the radial eminence and the trochlear surface, or through the center of this surface. The diagnosis is determined by the crepitus, degree of mobility of the fragment, and by the partial loss of function of the ex- tensor or flexor muscles (as the outer or internal condyle is affected). Treatment.—In fracture of the inner condyle, whether complete or incomplete, flex the forearm on the arm to an angle slightly less than 45°, and pronate the forearm until the back of the hand is uppermost. This position most fully relaxes the flexors and the pronotor radii teres. Use