669 VARICOCELE. the side affected, with the appearance of a small swelling in the line of the cord. Pain is variable, and is sometimes referred to the cord or to the inguinal region or down the leg. The testicle hangs lower than natural, and along the cord can be felt a network of turgid veins extend- ing from the epididymis toward the external ring. To the touch they seem not unlike a knot of earth-worms. The swelling is apt to be largest at the lower extremity (Fig. 661). The diagnosis is not difficult. The swelling of inguinal hernia is spherical, and, when composed of in- testine, it is resonant on percussion. If the hernia is reducible, and is re- turned into the cavity of the abdomen with the patient in the recumbent posture, and if the index-finger is car- ried into the internal ring and held there while the patient is made to stand erect, the veins will again refill and demonstrate the varicocele, while the hernia will be prevented from de- scending. Hsematoma, or hydrocele of the cord, can be recognized by as- piration with the hypodermic syringe. Treatment.—Very few cases of vari- cocele require operative interference. A well-adjusted suspensory apparatus constantly worn while in the erect post- nre will obviate the necessity for an operation in the vast majority of in- stances. This bag may be made to include and support only one half the scrotum and a single testicle, or the double elastic apparatus may be employed. When no palliative measures are effectual, operative interference is demanded. The procedures are two in number, namely—subcutaneous ligature (Keyes), or incision and ligature hy the open method. Of these two operations, the former is far preferable, and should be tried repeat- edly before resort is had to the incision. First Method—Reyes's Operation.—Shave the scrotum and pubes, and thoroughly wash these surfaces with ether and sublimate solution. The patient is made to stand erect, with the legs separated, in order to distend the veins. In cold weather it may be necessary to have him sit in a tub of hot water to induce full relaxation. By the injection of co- caine, local anaesthesia should be obtained in the parts where the ligature is to be inserted. From lU x-xx of a 4-per-cent solution will suffice. The ligature should be of Chinese twisted silk, not too large, but capable of bearing all the strain which will ordinarily be brought against