TALIPES VARUS AND EQUINO-VARUS. - 727 to the most exaggerated form in whicli the sole looks upward, while in the act of walking the dorsum rests upon the ground. The changes which the structures of the foot undergo are shortening of the plantar fascia and the internal lateral ligaments, together with Fig. 715. Fig. 716. Fig. 717. Three grades of talipes varus. (After Churchill.) a contractured condition of the tibialis anticus and posticus muscles. This deformity, therefore, places those muscles and ligaments upon the stretch which are situated upon the outer aspect of the leg, and re- sults from complete or partial paralysis of the peronei muscles. The displacement of the bones of the tarsus will correspond to the extent of the deformity; the astragalus being tilted downward, the scaphoid is displaced inward and downward by the action of the tibialis posti- cus, the tubercle on this bone becoming very prominent; there is in addition marked rotation at the astragalo-scaphoid and calcaneo-cuboid junctions, the displacement being especially marked in this last-named articulation. When the deformity exists at birth, if not corrected early, the bones will become ossified, and the deformity permanent. In these cases tar- sotomy and exsection are the only means of bringing the foot into its normal position. The treatment of talipes equino-varus in the infant consists in the application of small rubber bands or pieces of tubing, which will make constant and gradual traction in the line of the weakened or paralyzed muscles. This {BarwelT s) method is as follows : Cut a piece of strong adhesive plaster into the shape of a fan, which is split into four or five strips converging toward the apex of the fan (Fig. 718). "The apex of the triangle is passed through a wire loop with a ring in the top (Figs. 718, 719), brought back upon itself, and secured by sewing. The plaster is firmly secured to the foot in such a manner that the wire eye shall be at a point where we wish to imitate the inser- tion of tlie muscle, and that it shall draw evenly on all parts of the foot when the traction is applied. Secure this by other adhesive straps and a smoothly adjusted roller.