CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS OF THE URETHRA. 633 be extracted. In a case which came under my care, two strictures were divided with the urethrotome. From behind the first constriction two cal- culi were removed, and several after the second stricture was divided (Fig. 639). In this operation a scoop proved more serviceable than the forceps. In a second operation I found it necessary to perform external ure- throtomy, cutting directly doAvn upon the calculi (two in number), which were easily removed through the incision. The direct injection of cocaine Into the tissues secured complete anaesthesia. The wound should be left to close as in the ordinary operation of perineal urethrotomy. Congenital Malformations of the Urethra.—In extrophy of the blad- der the urethra is absent, and, in certain rare anomalies, it may open into the groin, upon the side of the glans penis, in the median line of the dorsum penis (epispadias), in the median line below at any j)oint on the corpus spongiosum (hypospadias). Hypospadias is the most common of the congenital deformities of the urethra. When the opening is within one inch of the normal position of the meatus, operative interference is not indicated. AVhen the oj^ening is so far back that in sexual intercourse the semen can not be ejaculated into the vagina, a plastic operation may be undertaken. The chances of failure are always so great that it is scarcely ever justifiable to under- take this operation in the effort to establish an artificial channel for the urine, for, even when the opening is as far back as the perinseum, soil- ing may be prevented by urinating in the squatting posture. The operation for the relief of hypospadias consists in introducing a long, delicate knife at the apex of the glans, and carrying it directly back along the normal position of the corpus spongiosum until it emerges in the anterior limit of the urethra at the abnormal opening. This arti- FiG. 640.—(After Linhart.) Kio. 641. Fig. 642. Fio. 643. ficial channel should be large enough to admit a straight catheter, which is now introduced through it and well into the urethra beyond the hy- pospadias. In closing the abnormal meatus the margins of the integument around it should be trimmed with delicate curved scissors, parallel incisions