THE URETHRA—STRICTURE. j621 This may be done with the ordinary hypodermic syringe, to which Otis's cocaine-tube (Fig. 621) is attached. It is not necessary to carry the point more than one inch beyond the meatus, when the syringe is emptied and the patient directed to grasp the glans and retain the injection after the tube is removed. In five minutes local anaesthesia is obtained. A bulb of medium size is selected and properly warmed and oiled. The wire is not curved in exploration of the urethra anterior to the membranous portion. The penis should be held at about a right angle to the plane of the body, and, as the instrument is being introduced, the organ should be elon- gated in order to obliterate any folds in the mucous membrane. This membrane is not so closely attached to the connective tissue of the cor- pus spongiosum but that it can be perceptibly displaced up and down and doubled upon itself if sufficient force is applied. If no stricture of caliber smaller than the bulb is encountered, it will glide smoothly and uninterruptedly down to a point about five inches from the meatus, where it will be arrested, having reached the end of the bulbous portion and lodged in a pocket Just in front of the anterior layer of the triangular ligament. Withdrawing the instrument, it will in all probability return as smoothly as it entered. If, however, a stricture exists, and the bulb used is about the size of the lumen of the stricture, as it is carried into the urethra a slight resistance will be felt. As the instrument is with- drawn, the broad shoulder of the oval will come in contact with the ob- struction, where it will be arrested. The penis should now be allowed to retract, and the thumb and finger of the left hand slipped down to the level of the meatus, where the wire is grasped and slightly bent. The instrument is steadily drawn through the stricture, and, as soon as the resistance ceases, the wire is again bent at the level of the meatus. The distance between the two points at which the wire is bent represents the extent of the stricture. When it becomes necessary to search the urethra beyond the bulb- ous portion, the wire should be bent to correspond to the normal curve of the deep urethra. The handle of the instrument should be bent in an opposite direction in order to prevent the possibility of getting the point of the bougie turned toward the perinseum. It is introduced in the same way as the catheter or steel sound. When the triangular ligament and compressor-urethrse muscle are encountered, by depressing the handle toward the thighs of the patient, the bulb is made to rise out of the pocket in front of the anterior layer of the liga- ment and to pass into the membranous portion. If a stricture is present the resistance, if not felt as the bulb goes through, will certainly be appreciated as it is withdrawn, if the instrument is large enough. It