THE PALATE. 433 necessary. The entire margin of the cleft must be carefully freshened, for if any point is left uncut union will fail. The bleeding is next arrested by small sponges, on staffs (Fig. 83), dipped in ice-water and squeezed dry. In uniting the freshened edges, Dr. Goodwillie's hollow needle (Fig. Fig. 508.—Goodwillie's hollow needle for silk-worm gut suture in the closure of cleft palate. 508) is the best instrument, while the silk-worm gut suture leaves noth- ing to be desired in this operation. To the shaft adjust one of the needles which, from its shape, is best adapted to the peculiar form of the fissure to be closed, and push one of the silk-worm bristles through from the butt to the point until it projects, and then draw it back one eighth of an inch within the eye of the needle. Seize the edge of the flap with the forceps, and at a point between one eighth and one fourth of an inch from the freshened margin of the fissure insert the needle from before backward, through the side corresponding to the operator's right hand (left side of the patient), and then through the opposite side, at a like point from behind forward. In order to facilitate the passage of the needle, the flap must be held steadily with the forceps. As soon as the needle has transfixed the second flap and the eye is visible, the operator pushes on the bristle at the butt of the needle-holder, causing the other end to come out of the eye of the needle, when it is seized with the forceps and drawn forward. Holding this end firmly, the needle is withdrawn, leaving the suture in position. The ends of this are now fastened together with a perforated shot, and held aside until all are inserted. The sutures should be about one fourth of an inch apart. When the last one is inserted, the operator ties one after another from above downward. The first knot is single, and this is run down tight and repeated with two additional knots to secure it. The ends are then cut off, one fourth of an inch from the knot. This material ties easily, does not slip or break, is not absorbable, and holds its place until removed. After the sutures are tied it will be observed that (as a result of the fissure, the levator palati and palato-pharyngeus muscles being shortened) there is now marked tension of the soft palate, which, if not relieved, will pull upon the sutures and cause separation of the edges of the wound. To obviate this, a sharp knife (Fig. 55) is thrust through the palate, about the center of the posterior margin of the horizontal plate of the palate-bone of that side, and an incision made, in a direction downward and outward, to within from one fourth to one half of an inch from the free border of the palate, near the hamular process, as in 28