i 350 A TEXT-BOOK ON SFRGERT. The extension-weiglit—varying from two to seven or eight pounds—is applied as in Buck's apparatus (page 304). The dorsal decubitus should be maintained, for, if the sitting posture is assumed, the iliacus and psoas muscles are not materially affected by the extension. To secure this result the long splint of Hamilton should be applied from the axilla along the thigh and leg, and firmly secured by a bandage carried around the chest, pelvis, and thigh. As soon as the thigh is fully extended the following mechanism should be adjusted. It consists of a long Sayre splint (Fig. 385) and the high shoe and crutches of Hutchi- son. The splint is composed of a long, hol- low steel shaft, attached above to a pelvic belt by a joint capable of motion in every direction. To the belt two perineal bands are attached. Opposite the knee a strap and pad are fixed, which serve to steady the leg at this joint. Fitting snugly within this hollow shaft is a bar of steel which may be slid up or down by a ratchet and key, and locked in any position. The lower end of this rod is turned at an angle of 90° to the shaft, and fitted with a spring-catch into a socket on the sole of the shoe. In applying the instrument shorten the shaft as much as possible, fasten the belt around the pelvis just above the trochanters, and then the perineal bands, one on either side. The shoe is put on, the spring-catch fixed in the socket at the sole, and the knee-pad buckled. The shaft of the instrument is now lengthened by the key until a fair and comfortable degree cff extension is secured. The shoe upon the foot of the sound side should be raised from one inch to one inch and a half, and the i)atient made to move about on crutches. Upon retiring for the night the extension employed at first should be resumed. This, the combination meth- od, is shown in Fig. 386. The effectiveness of this plan of treatment has been satisfactorily demonstrated in a number of instances. The advantages are : 1. The patient is able to move about and obtain the benefit of out-of-door life, while the hip is held in extension and practical- ly immovable. 2. The high shoe and crutches hold the lame foot and leg suspended. 3. In case of a fall, the splint prevents concussion in nation method. Fig. 385.