624 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. cutting down upon it througli the integument, an operation known as external urethrotomy. Internal Urethrotomy.—In performing this operation a sufficient de- gree of anaesthesia can be obtained by the use of cocaine in the vast ma- jority of cases. When the stricture is of small caliber, requiring a deep incision from one to two or more inches in length, ether narcosis is ad- visable. Operation.—Having injected 3 ss. of 4-per-cent cocaine into the ure- thra, the stricture should be accurately located, and its diameter and extent determined by the bulbous wire bougies, as just described. If it is of small caliber, thus necessitating a deep incision, a greater degree of insensibility may be required than can be obtained by cocaine applied to the mucous membrane of the urethra. This is readily obtained by carrying a delicate hypodermic needle into the tissues in the line of in- cision, and injecting from twenty to thirty minims of a 4-per-cent solution. The distance from the meatus to the posterior boundary of the strict- ure is then measured on the urethrotome, beginning at the point where the knife is projected, and extending toward the handle. One fourth of an inch should be added to this distance in order to make it certain that the knife is carried well behind the posterior limit of the contrac- tion. This point on the instrument is indicated by a small ring clipped from the end of a rubber tube and slipped over the shaft. It is now ready for introduction. In the selection of a urethrotome, the instrument of Otis will be found to fill all the indications more satisfactorily than any other (Fig. 624). It Fig. 624.—Otis's dilating urethrotome, witii the author's cog-wheel attachment. consists of a shaft, handle, and blades. The shaft is composed of two bars, which can be separated or closed by turning a screw at the handle, where there is arranged a dial which registers the exact degree of dila- tation effected by the separation of the bars. In the upper bar of the shaft is a slot or groove, along which the knife is carried. When it arrives near the point of the shaft, the blade sinks into a depression and disappears. I have added to this instrument a cog-wheel apparatus, attached near the handle, by the use of which the knife is carried steadily forward or backward, and is made to cut with mathematical precision. The operator should stand to the right side of the patient, who is resting on the back, with the legs fully extended. The knife should be carried forward until it disappears near the tip of the urethrotome, the bars of which are now closed and oiled as far as it is to be introduced. The glans penis is grasped between the thumb and finger of the left hand, the organ held in the same position as when the stricture was