A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 458 bands. The tumor may appear in the mirror as a single wart-like fun- gus, or pinkish-gray tuft upon the cords or laryngeal Avail, or there may be several which fill a great part of the opening. The fibroid laryngeal polypi {fibromata) are chiefly pyriform, j^edunculated, and smooth, in location and color resembling the papillomata. EncTiondromata of the larynx, less frequently observed than the two preceding neoplasms, are developed from the cartilage proper of the larynx. They are usually seen in the vicinity of the crico-arytenoid articulation. Cystic tumors are rare. Occlusion of the duct of the sac- culus laryngis will lead to the appearance of a tumor in the ventricle, between the true and false bands. Other cysts may result from simple follicular occlusion. Telangiectasis, or angioma, is a still rarer form of laryngeal tumor. Carcinoma {epitJielioma) is, unfortunately, not a rare disease of this organ. Sarcoma is very rarely met with. Epithelioma of the larynx, in common with all malignant (as well as benign) neoplasms, occurs chiefly at the upper portions of the organ. The treatment of all forms of benign tumors of the larynx is their removal with the knife, scissors, the snare, or caustics. Removal of malignant growths, to an extent sufficient to prevent recurrence, without a total or partial laryngectomy, is rarely possible. Benign growths, especially the smaller new formations, may be removed best by chromic- acid crystals directly applied, at frequent sittings. A small pellet of cotton is attached to the end of the applicator, and a particle of chromic acid, of convenient size, is picked up on this and carried down to the tumor. The crystals adhere to the lint until they come in contact with a moist surface. In carrying the instrument through the mouth, care must be taken to avoid touching the mucous surfaces. Epithelioma, in its early stages of development, may be successfully destroyed by this escharotic. The operator should take advantage of the aufesthetic properties of cocaine to render the pharynx and larynx tolerant of manipulation. Nitrate of silver may also be used, but is inferior to chromic acid. Avulsion, or tearing away the neoplasm, is a useful and frequently- employed method. For this purpose various forms of forceps have been used. Pedunculated tumors may be snared and cut away with the wire loop of Jarvis. Fibromata often adhere so tenaciously that they can not be torn away without damage to the larynx. Care should be taken to regulate the force so that injury to the vocal bands or the smaller cartilages may be avoided. The operation of tJiyrotomy—heretofore described—gives the best command of the cavity of this organ, and allows the more thorough and safe removal of the neoplasm. Neoplasms similar in character to those found in the larynx may occur in the trachea and bronchi. The location of the new growth may be determined from the physical signs. The treatment is strictly surgical, and involves physical exploration of the respiratory tract, with avulsion or excision of the growth, or the introduction of the trachea-tube to prevent asphyxia.