HEMORRHOIDS. 549 ing, which is spherical in shape, or it may be crescentic, occupying half of the anal margin. If not observed until after several days have elapsed, and when the tension or partial strangulation has not been re- lieved, ulceration may have occurred, with inflammation and induration of the tissues near the base of the tumor. In other instances which do not come under the observation of a physician, the patient goes to bed, pushes the tumor within the anus, the symptoms disappear within a day or two, to recur again and again under the same conditions. OTironic external JicBmorrhoids differ from the acute form Just de- scribed in the following particulars : They are brown or bluish in color, are not tense nor painful, are loose and flabby, and have a thickened, leathery feel when pinched between the fingers. Treatment.—The treatment may be palliative or curative. If the palliative treatment is determined upon, the immediate indication is to relieve the tension in the tumor by returning it within the anus. The patient should be placed in the left lateral or knee-shoulder position, the protruded portion and fingers of the operator thoroughly lubricated, and reduction effected by well-directed pressure, combined with slight dilatation of the sphincter. If the tumor is so large that it can not be reduced, relief may be obtained by the local application of the ice-bag, or cold water. The majority of cases will be relieved temporarily by this treatment, and a certain proportion may not suffer a relapse, but the rule is for the tumor to recur from time to time until it is cured finally by an operation. In operating for the cure of external piles, the ligature is rarely de- manded. If the tumor is recent and is inflamed, immediate relief may be obtained by incising it. This procedure may be rendered painless by the following method: The smallest hypodermic needle is attached to the syringe, containing about tt[ xv of a 4-per-cent solution of cocaine hydrochlorate. The needle is introduced into one side of the tumor at its base to the depth of about one eighth of an inch, and three or four minims of the solution forced out; a minute later it is carried farther, and the manoeuvre repeated until the needle has completely transfixed the mass, and all the fluid injected. Within five minutes the anaesthe- sia is usually so complete that the tumor can be laid open with the bistoury without pain. The bleeding is insignificant, and is easily ar- rested by packing a tuft of borated cotton or lint into the wound. No after-treatment is required. The wound heals after five or six days and the pile is cured. Old external piles may be removed by grasping the tumor with a pair of mouse-tooth forceps and clipping it off near its base with a pair of scissors curved on the fiat. Local anaesthesia should also be employed. Internal HcBmorrJioids.—Constipation, over-distention of the rectum, and prolonged straining at stool must also be considered as among the principal causes of internal as well as external jjiles. In addition to these, any disease of the liver which causes a retardation of the return of blood through the portal circulation will aid in producing internal haemorrhoids.