■688 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. not enlarged, is often displaced backward, and is generally freely mova- ble with small tumors. When malignant, the tumors are of rapid growth. Ovarian fibro-myoma grows slowly, gives little pain, never immediately influences the general health; is generally smooth, or with but a few nodules ; not very sensitive, and is usually freely movable independently of the uterus. Dermoid tumors may appear clinically as cystic or solid, according as their fluid or solid contents predominate. Adenocystomata and dermoid cysts are occasionally met with in young children. Lapaeotomy for the Removal of Tumoes of the Ovary and Fallopian Tube. The removal of a tumor of the ovary, broad ligament, or Fallopian tube, cystic or solid, is performed as follows : Preparation of the Patient.—For several days before the operation, the patient should be put on a fluid diet, and have a movement of the bowels every day for at least a week before the operation. For twelve hours before taking ether, the stomach should be kept perfectly free from any solid food or milk. About two ounces of whisky in an equal quantity of water should be taken a half-hour before the ansesthesia is commenced. All the details of the antiseptic method heretofore given should be carefully carried out. In hospital practice, and in the dusty season of the year, the carbolic-acid spray should be kept going in the operating-room for a half-hour prior to the entrance of the patient. The pubes and abdominal wall through which the incision is to be made should be shaved and disinfected, and the bladder emptied before the inhalation is begun, unless the nervous condition of the patient renders it advisable to postpone this part of the preparation for the operation until she is unconscious. The legs, arms, and chest should be carefully wrapped in warm flannels or blankets. The patient should rest upon the back, with the legs fully extended, or, as many operators prefer, with the sacrum resting near the end of the table, and the feet in a chair, with the thighs abducted and held by an assistant seated, between the feet, in the chair. The incision should be in the median line, about three inches in length, and should commence about five inches above the OS pubis. The recti muscles should be separated and all bleeding arrested by catgut ligatures before the peritonaeum is opened. When the parietal layer of the peritonaeum is reached, catch a small point of this membrane with a tenaculum or forceps, grasp this point between the thumb and finger, to make sure that no omentum or intestine is picked up, and make a small incision vsdth the scissors. Throiigli this opening introduce the broad-grooved director, and further divide the peritonaeum. Two fingers should now be carried into the abdomen, and a careful exploration made. A blunt, round instrument (a No. 20 United States urethral sound will suffice) carried in and swept over the tumor will demonstrate the presence of any adhesions between it and the ante- rior wall of the abdomen. If the tumor is free, drag it up to the incis-