A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 226 When the aneurism is located upon the external iliac, compression with the tourniquet may be employed over the aorta or common iliac artery. Prof. Sands has advised and practiced digital pressure of the common iliac by means of the hand introduced into the rectum. Pressure from vt^ithin the rectum may also be accomplished by means of a bougie or piece of v^ood properly padded (Davy's method). As a last resort the common iliac may be tied. This operation, though dangerous, has been successfully accomplished in several instances in late years. A patient recently operated upon by Dr. Lange, of New York, recovered and was cured. Aneurism of the internal trunk is amenable to treatment by com- pression of the aorta or common iliac, or by deligation of the primitive trunk. Aneurism of the branches of this vessel usually occurs in the gluteal and sciatic. The origin is almost invariably traumatic. The earliest symptoms are referable to the presence of the tumor. It must be distin- guished from abscess or hernia. Aspiration would determine the presence of the former, and the symptoms of hernia, with absence of pulsation, would indicate the escape of the viscera through the great sciatic fora- men. The treatment is difficult and often ineifectual. Direct compres- sion should be first tried. Incision into the sac, turning out the clot, and tying both ends, has been successful in four of six cases reported by Fischer. The ligature may also be applied between the sac and the point of exit of the artery, or, as a last effort, the common iliac may be tied. Aneurism of the Femoral Arteries.—Aneurism of the superficial femoral artery is comparatively frequent. It occurs by preference in the upper half of the artery, and in males in the great majority of in- stances. In rare instances the disease is symmetrical. The diagnosis is not difficult, since the expansUe pulsation of the tumor can, in most cases, be readily appreciated by palpation. A tumor in the line of the artery, with the characteristic pulsation, tremor, and murmur, all of which signs disappear when the iliac artery or aorta is firmly compressed, point almost unerringly to a diagnosis. The greatest danger of error lies in the presence of an abscess. Abscess is, however, of rare occurrence in this region, except as a sequence of spinal caries or hip-joint disease, and these conditions, existing with the other common symptoms of the development of abscess, would lead to its recognition. If doubt should still exist, after even the most careful survey of the case, the hypodermic needle would settle the diagnosis. Treatment.—Aneurism of the femoral artery wUl, in the vast majority of cases, yield to Judicious and patient compression. "When the tumor extends as high as Poupart's ligament, or above this point, the chances of success are diminished, since pressure will have to be applied to the common or external iliac or the aorta. Under such conditions direct compression, by means of Holmes's elastic ball, applied so gradually that inflammation of the sac will not be precipitated, should be first faithfully tried. Ligature of the common or external iliac should be deferred until all other remedies have failed, and, when there is a choice between these two procedures, the deligation of the external iliac should be preferred,