A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 166 the vessels in the direction of the heart. The veins become swollen, and are hard to the touch, resembling the normal veins when the return cir- culation is momentarily arrested, though more cord-like in feel and less elastic. Their course can be traced by the dull-red color of the skin immediately over the diseased vessels. Pain is generally constant, and is rendered more acute by pressure. The oedema of the parts on the distal side of the lesion is commensurate with the obstruction to the return circulation caused by the inflammatory process. The febrile movement varies with the violence of the attack, the rapidity of its progress, the intensity of the inflammation, and the capacity of the tissues to resist invasion. In the severe forms, the clinical history is similar to that of traumatic phlebitis, which will be fully described hereafter. Idiopathic phlebitis is not as dangerous to life as the trau- matic variety. It may run a short course, and tlie patient recover promptly, or it may assume a subacute or chronic form, and remain indeflnitely. II. Traumatic Phlebitis.—When a vein is injured, inflammation will result, if the vessel is penetrated to its cavity, or sufl'ers a solution of continuity in any portion of its wall. Examples of traumatic j^hlebitis, resulting in thrombosis and occlusion of the popliteal vein, are known to have been caused by prolonged forced flexion of the leg on the thigh. The simplest form of traumatic phlebitis is that resulting from the opera- tion of venesection. No matter what may be the character of the trau- matism, the pathological process is the same. The mode of termination of this process will depend upon the extent and severity of the lesion, and upon the recuperative powers of the tissues involved. Traumatic phlebitis extends from the original lesion along the vessels in the direction of the heart. In the deeper veins it is with difiiculty recognized in the earlier stages. The course of the inflammation is marked by a diill, coppery-red staining. Pain is invariably present, and upon pressure is acute. In severe cases the tumefaction spreads from the vessels to the surrounding tissues. (Edema of the parts on the distal side of the lesion will occur in a degree commensurate with the interference with the return circulation. The febrile movement is that of septic fever: chills or rigors, flushes of heat ending in cold and exhausting sweats, sleeplessness, hectic, anxious expression, and often the "pysemic breath." The rectal temperature is variable and high ; the pulse is thready and rapid, reaching in some instances 160. Sudden and dangerous symptoms may arise in the course of the disease, when particles from the venous thrombi are carried toward the heart. These usually lodge in the lungs, giving rise to sudden pul- monary complications, the result of infarction. The liver, in phlebitis of the veins which go into the portal circulation, is frequently the seat of embolic abscess. Hemorrhage from perforation of the venous wall, by ulceration or gangrene, is another source of danger in severe cases of phlebitis. Treatment of Phlehitis.—Positive and complete rest is the first great essential in the treatment of phlebitis. Manipulation or movement is dangerous, since interference will not only exaggerate the inflammatory