CYSTS. 759 found. A favorite location is the mammary gland, occasionally in the parotid, the lachrymal gland, and the roof of the mouth. They are slow in growth, are spherical in shape, and are freely movable in the structure in which they develop. Tubular adenoma is more frequently observed than the racemose va- riety. The tubules are in some cases separated by a layer of new-formed connective tissue, while in others there is no perceptible intertubular stroma. The tubules may be single, but are more frequently bifurcated, and, as in the normal glands, commence in blind extremities and open upon the mucous surface. They are lined with one or more layers of glandular epithelium. These tumors are seen in the rectum and colon, in the uterus, especially the cervix, and occasionally in the nose (Fig. 768). They are spherical or pyriform masses, covered with mucoas epithe- lium as long as they are contained within the cavities ; but when, by reason of excessive growth, they are exposed to the air, the covering be- comes hard and smooth, like the epidermis. Cysts.—A cyst is a tumor composed of a limiting membrane or cap- sule of connective tissue, lined by epithelium and tilled with fluid or semi-fluid contents. The contained matter may be mucoid or colloid material, or sebaceous matter and epithelial cells in various conditions of degeneration. Sebaceous cysts occur upon all portions of the external surface, and in rare instances develop in the deeper tissues. The external sebaceous tumors are seen very frequently upon the face and scalp, and vary in size, measuring at times an inch or more in diameter. They are spherical or flattened tumors, soft and elastic to the touch, and freely movable upon the subcutaneous tissues. The contents may be a white, cheesy matter or more fluid, and of an amber or brown color. Examined microscopically, it is seen to be com- posed of epithelial cells which have undergone a more or less complete granular metamorphosis, loose granules, compound granular corpuscles, cholesterine crystals, rudimentary hairs, etc. The wall of the cyst varies in thickness, being at times very thin and closely adherent to the sur- rounding structures, and at others thick and easily detached. Those upon the hairy scalp, commonly known as "we/2,5," are usually filled with an amber-colored, jelly-like mass, which escapes upon section or puncture of the cyst. Upon the face, or other cutaneous surface, the contents are apt to be cheesy in character. They are caused by cell-proliferation and the accumulation within the hair-follicle and communicating sebaceous gland of its normal secretion, which can not escape, owing to the partial or complete occlusion of the excretory duct. Cutaneous cysts, from direct violence, and often with- out any appreciable cause, may inflame and supj^urate. Dermoid cysts are closely analogous to the preceding, although situ- ated in the deeper structures. They consist of a limiting membrane, and liquid and solid contents. In addition to the changed epithelial cells and granular matter, these tumors often contain tufts of hair, rudimentary