214 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. progressed so far that death is imminent from pressure, or the suffering so intense that life becomes intolerable. Under these last conditions the operation is justifiable. If the conservative method, after a courageous and faithful trial, does not arrest the disease, then again the operation is demanded. There is little choice between the simultaneous deligation and the operation with an interval. The carotid should always be first tied, to prevent the danger of cerebral embolism. Innominate Aneurism treated hy Deligation of tlie Carotid^ or tlie Subclavian. {The Single Distal Operation.)—The records of surgical literature contain fourteen instances in which, for the relief of aneurism involving the innominate artery alone, the distal ligature was applied to the right carotid. In Hutton's case death occurred, on the seventh day, from rupture of the sac ; Neumeister's on the fifth day, from cerebral complications. One of Valentine Mott's patients died, from haemorrhage from the carotid, on the twentieth day. In Porta's case, which ended fatally in forty hours, the sac was found to have involved the origins of the right carotid and subclavian arteries. A similar condition was observed in the case oper- ated upon by Yilardebo, which terminated fatally on the twenty-first day. Fergusson's patient died on the seventh day. The autopsy showed that the origin of the subclavian was also involved. The case by Butcher ended in death on the fourth day. The innominate was the seat of a fusiform dilatation, while the sacculated aneurism was found to exist in the third portion of the subclavian artery. Holmes reports a case by Ordile, of Naples, which also proved fatal. A case by Scott was temporarily benefited, but did not long survive, dying from rupture of the sac. Nussbaum's patient was not benefited, and died from the progress of the disease. The case of Morrison, in which the aneurism involved the origin of the carotid, recovered, with improvement, but died suddenly one year and eight months later, after prolonged exertion. A second case by V. Mott recovered, with marked temporary improvement, but death ensued from pressure of the consoli- dated tumor on the trachea. Pu-ogoff's patient recovered, improved. The history of this case ceases after two months and a half. In one single instance (Evans's) a cure was effected, and this after suppuration occurred in the sac, which discharged twenty-four ounces of pus. Of the fourteen cases, eight ended fatally. Seven of these died between the second and twenty-first day, and in one of these it is evident that death was caused by the consolidation of the aneurism. Another surgical procedure for the relief of innominate aneurism, which has received the sanction of eminent practitioners, is that of single deligation of the subclavian artery in its third division. The operators are Wardrop, Broca, and Thomas Bryant. Each case recovered, with marked improvement. Wardrop's patient lived two years, and died partly from the effect of pressure of the aneurism and partly from general systemic failure. The tumor was firmly solidified, with the exception of a small central channel which led into the carotid. Broca's case died.