THE LOWER JAW. 429 the mastoid process, for fear of dividing the facial nerve. From this point the coracoid process and the articulation may be reached by w^ork- ing lip close to the surface of the bone, beneath the periosteum (if the disease is not malignant). The inferior dental artery should be secured when divided, and the other branches of the internal maxillary avoid- ed. The external carotid is left behind the ramus. In the act of dis- articulation it must be remembered that the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein enter the cranium just behind the vaginal process of the temporal bone, which forms the posterior wall of the articula- tion. As this process is only about one eighth of an inch thick, the walls of the vein and artery are in dangerous proximity to the attachment of the capsule. The anterior and outer wall of the capsule should be first separated, and then, while strong outward traction is made on the ramus, the inner wall of the capsule should be divided as close to the neck of the bone as possible. If ablation of the entire bone is demanded, this operation is repeated for the opposite side. It must not be forgotten that when the attachments of the hyoid muscles to the jaw are severed, the action of the remaining muscles, together with gravity, aid in carrying the base of the tongue backward upon the glottis, producing dangerous if not fatal asphyxia. The precaution of passing a thread through the tip of the tongue should not be overlooked. Resection of the inferior dental nerve may be performed at the men- tal foramen, or at the commencement of the dental canal at the angle of the jaw. The mental foramen is situated about half way between the inferior border of the bone and the alveolar border or necks of the teeth. A line let fall perpendicularly from the interspace between the two bicuspid teeth of the lower jaw will pass over the opening. A curved or crucial incision will expose the nerve at this point. The foramen of entrance of the inferior dental nerve is very near the center of the quadrilateral formed by the anterior and posterior margins of the ramus, the lower horizontal border of the angle, and an imaginary horizontal line on a level with the lowest portion of the sigmoid notch. An incision about two inches long and slightly curved is made so that its middle will be about the center of the parallelogram above de- scribed. The trephine should be applied over the center of the quadri- lateral. The best indication of having reached the nerve is the bleeding through the track of the trephine when it passes into the cancellous tis- sue of the jaw. This comes from the wounded infeiior dental vessels. An elevator placed in the cut will now lift the button of bone, and the nerve is exposed. The entire portion in the limit of the trephine should be excised. Temporary relief is almost invariably secured, although a recurrence of pain is not uncommon after several months. Anchylosis.—Motion of the jaw may be limited or entirely prevented by muscular rigidity, cicatricial contractions, or true anchylosis at the temporo-maxillary articulation. The area of motion in partial anchylosis may be increased by forcible separation of the lower from the upper jaw by the apparatus shown in