A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 360 cision midway between the center and posterior aspect of tlie trochan- ter, and then curving it slightly forward as it passes about an inch below the tuberosity (Fig. 391). Through this incision, which divides the capsule and thickened periosteum, insert the elevator and lift the periosteal investment from the diseased bone. When the trochanters are involved, the tendons, inserted into these eminences and into the digital fossa just above the great tuberosity, usu- ally require to be detached A\dth the knife, the point of which, in order to avoid wound- ing any vessels, should be kept in close con- tact with the bone. As soon as the perios- teum is freely raised, the bone should be divided, preferably with the exsector (Fig. 79), and the upper fragment lifted out with the elevator. If the exsector is not used, the chain- or key-hole saw or cutting- > 'i { if.y v\ I forceps may be employed. The sawn sur- face should be carefully inspected in order to see if the disease extends farther down the bone, necessitating a second division. The acetabulum should next be examined, thoroughly scraped with a Volkmann's spoon, and all dead tissue removed. Haem- orrhage is usually insignificant, and, if occurring, should be arrested as the oj^er- ation progresses. The wound should be thoroughly irrigated with l-to-3000 subli- mate, all shreds of tissue and particles of bone removed, and the entire cavity fiUed with sublimate gauze, well packed in, and held in place by a thigh and pelvic spica. Fig. 391. The patient should now be put to bed with an extension apparatus applied as given for the early treatment of hip-disease. Sand-bags may be laid along the leg to hold the foot in the proper degree of outward rotation, or a splint may be used. The long splint from the axilla to the heel is often required to prevent a child from sitting upright in bed. The first dress- ing is changed usually about one week after the operation, and once or twice a week thereafter. After four or five weeks the combination method should be employed, and the case treated as in the first stage. Prof. Sayre prefers, and frequently employs, the wire breeches for the first few weeks after the operation. This instrument can not always be obtained, and the extension in bed has proved perfectly satisfac- tory. In a certain proportion of cases the disease is not arrested by the first operation, and a second is required. The outline of the parts involved in this operation is well shown in Fig. 392.