A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 592 The integument and fasciae having been divided, the operator proceeds through the upper half of the wound by cutting down upon the guide, which may be readily felt with the finger. When this is nearly reached, the groove in this instrument will be made out, and, by pressing the nail of the left index-finger into it, the point of the knife can be guided through the urethral wall into the groove, making an opening about half an inch in extent. With the finger-nail kept steadily in the groove, the scalpel is laid aside, and the long probe-pointed lithotomy-knife (Fig. 54) taken up and its point guided into the groove of the guide. At this stage of the operation the sound is slightly lifted up, so that the pressure which has heretofore been made upon the floor of the urethra will be transferred to its roof. While doing this the probe-point of the knife should be firmly and steadily pressed upward against the instrument, for, unless this precaution is observed, it may slip out of its proper place. The operator now seizes the shaft of the sound with the left hand to assure himself, by moving this instrument slightly, and also by sliding the knife along the groove, that the two instruments are in actual contact, and then, turning the cutting edge of the knife obliquely toward the patient's left side, and more nearly parallel with the transverse than with the antero-posterior diameter of the patient's body, pushes it along the grooved guide into the bladder. In executing this manceuvre it is necessary to tilt the point of the knife upward and press it very firmly into the groove lest it slip out and cause confusion. When the probe- point arrives at the end of the groove and catches, the incision thi'ough the left lobe of the prostate may be lengthened by pushing the sound with the knife in the proper direction. As the incision is being made, a gush of urine takes place. The knife is now withdrawn, the finger car- ried into the bladder, and the stone located before the sound is removed. The size of the calculus should be determined, and, if necessary, the lower portion of the primary incision may be enlarged. While this is being accomplished, it is advisable to carry the index-finger into the rectum to avoid wounding this gut. The forceps (Fig. 590) should now be introduced and the stone re- moved. This instrument can not always be carried in through the wound if the finger is allowed to remain, and is at times difficult of introduc- FiG. 590.—Lithotomy-forceps. tion without a guide. To prevent delay, the conductor (Fig. 591) should be passed along the finger into the bladder and allowed to remain after the finger is withdrawn. If the blades of the forceps are now closed upon the flange of the conductor, the instrument can be made to slide