439 THE TONGUE AND BUCCAL CAVITY. the tongue, but exposes the glands of the submaxillary and upper cer- vical triangles, and facilitates their removal if involved. The operation • of tying this artery has been given on page 246. It can readily be secured opposite the central tendon of the digastric muscle, at v^^hich point it is almost always situated half way between the insertion of this tendon and the hypoglossal nerve, which is from a quarter to a half inch aboveo In two instances I have divided the posterior belly of this muscle in order to expose the vessel thoroughly. When this is accomplished, the wound should be irrigated with sublimate (1 to 3000), a drainage-tube inserted, and the sutures applied. The ether should at this stage of the operation be transferred to the rectum, the gag inserted, and the lips retracted. It is important, in dissecting out the floor of the mouth and the tongue, to be able to control all haemorrhage and at the same time to fix the tongue. This may be accomplished in a most satisfactory manner, and may be considered as the second step in this operation. An incision about an inch long is made in the median line, commencing at the liyoid bone and extending toward the symphysis. By this incision the integument and deep fascia are divided. A long steel needle, with the eye at the point (Peaslee's instrument will suffice), armed with a strong silk thread, is introduced through the wound, and, while the tongue is drawn well forward, the point of the needle is pushed along the inner surface of ■ the lower jaw into the mouth by the side of the tongue at its base. One end of the thread is pulled out through the mouth, the needle withdrawn, and the end of the thread projecting from the mouth is again carried through the eye of the needle. This is now introduced by the side of the base of the tongue exactly opposite the point at which it entered, and is brought out at the wound below the chin. A strong wire is fastened to one end of the thread and is pulled into the mouth and around the base of the tongue by withdrawing the sUk. The wire should now be fastened to an ecraseur and tightened just enough to con- trol the bleeding. In this manner all the vessels going to the tongue and the floor of the mouth are surrounded and controlled. The third stage of the procedure is the removal of the tongue and the tissues which form the floor of the mouth. In doing this the Paque- lin cautery-knife will be found exceedingly useful. If it is not at hand, the scissors or knife may be used. A strong silk thread should be passed through the sound tissues of the tongue near the end and intrusted to an assistant. It is to be used in lifting the organ as the dissection proceeds. The attachment along the lower jaw should first be divided and the tissues dissected up until the tongue can be lifted freely to a point at least one inch behind the induration. The ecraseur- loop should now be placed around the organ and the division made at the desired point. If at this time the wire loop which is around the base of the tongue is fairly tight, no bleeding will occur after the amputation. If gradually loosened, the bleeding points on the stump can be readily seized with the long-nosed narrow forceps and tied with silk ligatures. In the after-treatment no dressing is applied to the wound in the mouth.