^ 761 FIBROMA.—MYXOMA. should be opened, and the tumor may be turned out almost wholly with the fingers. Fibroma.—This variety of neoplasm is made up of fibrous tissue, the filaments of which are at times arranged in bundles which run in all directions ; at others, there is little or no fascicular arrangement, the fila- ments being entangled in all directions. In the interstices of the bundles, or between the fasciculi, are found connective-tissue cells, the poles of which communicate with each other. The vascular supply is limited. Fibromata develop chiefly in the skin and subcutaneous tissues and peri- osteum, but may exist in any other portion of the body. They are usually single and small, occasionally multiple, and this form of tumor may attain an enormous size. In shape, those developing from the deeper tissues are spherical, and are hard to the touch. In the skin they are often pedunculated and pyrif orm. Fibromata may undergo a mucoid, granular, or calcareous degeneration, and are subject to inflammation and suppu- ration, as are other neoplasms. Not possessing a high degree of vascu- larity, the danger of hemorrhage is not great, unless a rich granulation- tissue has sprung up as a result of prolonged irritation. Simple fibroma is benign, and the indications in treatment are removal by the knife. Myxoma.—This neoplasm is made up of primitive connective-tissue cells, similar to those observed in the umbilical cord at birth. The cell- elements are spherical and fusiform in shape. The former are isolated and float freely in the gelatinous-like intercellular substance. The latter may possess two or more poles, and anastomose freely with each other, forming a continuous network or stroma throughout the mass. The vascular supply is rich. These neoplasms occur, as a rule, in the skin and subcutaneous tissues and upon the mucous surfaces, especially in the nose (mucous or soft polypi). They may develop, however, in any portion of the body, and have been observed in the muscles, bones, and nerves, the mammary gland, kidney, brain, etc. In shape, they are usually spherical, of small size, and are soft and doughy to the touch, and not painful unless by accident the sensory nerves are pressed upon by the tumor. As a result of rupture of the blood-vessels, cysts fre- quently occur in this variety of neoplasm. The treatment is early and complete removal. Pure myxoma does not tend to recur after a thorough removal. In some instances, owing to the peculiar location of the neoplasm, a thorough extirpation is impos- sible, and in these cases the tumor may rapidly recur. The cases of gen- eral metastasis after supposed myxoma were probably instances in which the sarcomatous nature of the growth had been overlooked. Myoma is a tumor composed of new-formed muscular elements. There are two varieties, namely, those composed of striated or voluntary, and those of noii-striated or involuntary muscular fibers. The first variety are extremely rare, and are of less clinical importance than the non-striated myoma. In two instances the striated myoma has been seen in a congenital tumor of the testicle, and in a few other instances of tumors developed