ANEURISM. 201 described but readily appreciated, are symptoms which point in general to the diagnosis of aneurism. The stethoscope, applied to the tumor, conveys to the ear the peculiar sound {^^ bruit caused by the passage of the blood-current from the narrow vessel into the expanded aneurismal sac and out again. If the tumor be situated upon one of the arteries of the extremities, compression upon the cardiac side will cause a cessation of the pulse-tremor and bruit, and diminution of the swelling, while pressure upon the distal side will temporarily exaggerate these symp- toms. When an aneurism is developed as a result of a wound of an artery, the immediate symptoms of haemorrhage and swelling, with the pulsat- ing character of the tumor, will clearly indicate its presence. The differ- entiation is chiefly between solid or cystic tumors, which develop along the line of the artery, and are lifted by the arterial pulsation. Abscesses, or serous cysts, are the most difficult to recognize. In the formation of an abscess there is a previous history of inflammation. An aneurismal tumor expands equally in all directions, while any other tumor travels with the arterial pulse in one direction only—that of least resistance. In cases of great difficulty of diagnosis it will be Justifiable to aspirate the tumor with the finest hypodermic needle. Left to nature, the progress of an aneurism is, with rare exceptions, to a fatal termination. The deposit of fibrillated fibrin within, and the inflammatory new-formed tissue without, may retard, but rarely arrests, the progress of the disease. Added to the danger of death from rupture of the sac, or compression of neighboring organs, is that of inflammation and sloughing of the tumor and its contents. The hope of recovery is in the gradual deposition of fibrin within the sac, causing its ultimate occlu- sion, or that of the vessel or vessels immediately connected with it. The danger of gangrene in the parts beyond the tumor is lessened with the gradual establishment of the collateral circulation, while the sac and its contents are less apt to inflame than when the occlusion is sudden and the clot recent. The treatment of aneurism is constitutional and local. The constitu- tional treatment is directed toward the judicious support of the physical powers of the patient, the relief from pain, and the production of a con- dition of the blood favorable to a deposit of fibrillated fibrin in the tumor. The local measures are directed to the mechanical control and arrest, either gradual or immediate, of the circulation in the aneurism, with the same end in view, namely, the formation of fibrin within the sac. Constitutional measures alone offer little hope of a cure, and are appli- cable only to cases where the dangers of oi^erative interference are suffi- cient to contra-indicate any surgical procedure. In this plan of treatment rest in bed is the first and essential requirement. In conjunction with this there may be administered certain remedies which diminish the rapidity of the circulation, or affect the blood-vessels or blood in such a manner that the gradual deposit of fibrin in the sac is produced. Yal- salna's method of rest in bed, venesection, and gradual starvation, in