482 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. * ducts to the middle portion, and the body of the pancreas and great mesenteric vessels to the lower third. Duodenostomy has been performed in several instances for the relief of stenosis of the pylorus, but without success. The incision through the abdominal wall is the same as in pylorectomy. The opening should be made in the upper portion of the organ, after adhesions have been secured by stitching the intestine to the edges of the wound in the ab- dominal wall, as in gastrostomy. Digital or instrumental dilatation of the stricture is done through the fistulous opening. The benefit to be derived from this operation is less than that after gastro-enterostomy or dilatation of the pylorus, and is fully as dangerous. Obsteuctiois" of the Alimentary Canal below the Pylorits. Partial or complete occlusion of the alimentary canal may occur from a variety of causes, namely: 1, impaction of fecal matter; 2, foreign bodies; 3, intussusception; 4, volvulus; 5, constriction by bands ; 6, by adhesions; 7, omental and mesenteric slits ; 8, diverticula; 9, neo- plasms ; 10, stricture; 11, true hernia. The impaction of ingested matter may occur at any part of the ali- mentary canal, although this accident occurs in the great majority of cases in the large intestine. The coecum and ascending colon are the most common seats of fecal impaction, the sigmoid flexure next in order. The symptoms upon which a diagnosis is made are the presence of a tumor in the line of the colon, which is not painful on pressure, may be molded by firm and prolonged compression, is movable, has formed gradually, and has a history of constipation. In the sigmoid colon and rectum digital exploration will demonstrate the nature of the mass. Vomiting, tenderness, and shock, so common in acute obstruction, are absent, or, if present, only occur in the latter stages and in extreme cases. The treatment consists in the repeated injection of warm water until the bulk of the tumor is softened, when laxatives may be given by the mouth. The method of injection is as follows: Place the patient in the knee-elbow position, or upon the right side with the pelvis elevated. In this position the pressure is in great part taken off the rectum, and a greater degree of tolerance is obtained. If tenesmus results, a full hypo- dermic injection of morphia should be administered. The fountain-irri- gator is the best instrument, and from two to four pints or more may be thrown slowly in at one operation. The water should be allowed to remain in the colon as long as possible. When the impaction is near the anus, it may be removed with the finger or by a spoon. Foreign Bodies.—Indigestible substances of various kinds, intro- duced by accident or intentionally, at times pass through the stomach into the intestinal canal and become lodged. In rarer instances they are introduced through the anus.