THE PENIS—PHIMOSIS. 639 and urine, and inducing a condition of irritation which it were better to avoid by timely operative interference. Inflammatory or acquired phi- mosis always requires careful attention, and very frequently a surgical operation, to prevent gangrene or to expose a subpreputial chancroid. The operative measures may include: 1, amputation of the prepuce (circumcision); 2, dilatation of the preputial orifice with forced retrac- tion ; 3, incision of the anterior portion of the prepuce and retraction. The first of these procedures should be preferred in all cases in which there is no inflammatory process present, while the latter is advisable in phimosis with acute balano-posthitis. Operation.—In adults, circumcision may be done with perfect free- dom from pain by the proper employment of cocaine. In children under six years of age, chloroform narcosis is advisable. In adults, proceed as follows: Cleanse the parts to be operated upon with l-to-5000 sublimate solution, and throw an elastic ligature around the penis at the level of the pubis. From Trt xx-xxx of a 4-per-cent cocaine solution are now injected by inserting the needle at the margins of the preputial orifice, and carrying it back between the mucous mem- brane and integument of the prepuce a little behind the proposed line of section. In the middle of the dorsum three or four minims are forced out of the syringe, the needle 'partially withdrawn and carried a half- inch to right and left of this point, and a like quantity is injected, and so on until the entire line of amiDutation is an?esthetized. As a rule, it will suffice to insert the needle once in the median line above, and once at the frsenum, and from these two locations it may be thrust beneath the skin to either side until the prepuce is completely encircled. In selecting the line of incision, the best rule is to allow the parts to assume their normal relations, and mark the foreskin, by repeated punctures with the scalpel, parallel with and one fourth of an inch an- terior to the outline of the corona of the glans. A dull-pointed, grooved director should now be passed between the upper surface of the glans and the prepuce, in the median line, until the point is at the line of amputation. A sharp-pointed bistoury is next slipped along the groove in the director, thrust through, and the foreskin split by cutting from Fig. 64Y. Fig. 648. behind forward (Fig. 647). Or this incision may be made from be- fore backward with a pair of straight scissors. The edges of the flaps are now seized with a pair of mouse-tooth fixation-forceps, and trimmed