A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 488 of the small intestine, and into the appendices epiploicae of the colon (Treves). They are hernise of the mucous membrane projecting through an aperture in the muscular layer. Constriction and strangulation of a loop of intestine by Meckel's di- verticulum are much more apt to occur than by the false pouches. The vermiform appendix in rare instances may become twisted upon its axis and strangulated, or it may cause the constriction of a neighboring loop of the ileum. There are no symptoms peculiar to obstruction from true or false diverticula, and the nature of the lesion can only be discovered by abdominal section, which is indicated in this form of intestinal occlusion. Neoplasms.—Various new-formations, both benign and malignant ia character, may occur in the intestinal canal and lead to obstruction by projecting into the lumen of the gut, or by pressure from without or by development within the wall proper, producing narrowing or stricture. Fibroma., fihro-myoma, and lipoma are of rare occurrence. Angioma is also exceptional in this location. Adenoma is a more common form, developing from the glandular apparatus, and more particularly from the follicles of Lieberkiihn in the large intestine. Sarcoma and carcinoma are also met with, both as primary and secondary growths. The symptoms of obstruction are, as a rule, gradual in development, and the presence of a tumor may be recognized by pal- pation with the abdominal muscles in complete relaxation. Cancer is the most common of these new formations, and is apt to be located in the colon or rectum. According to Haussmann and Treves, the variety of cancer met with in the large majority of instances is a cylindrical epitJielioma, encephaloid and scirrhus being very exceptional. The growth may cause constriction by extending completely around the lumen of the tube, or, by developing on one side, cause stenosis by its bulk and by the contractions which result. The diagnosis of cancer may be made in those cases in which the disease is situated in the rec- tum or lower portion of the sigmoid flexure by digital examination or by the aid of the speculum. Situated higher up, the presence of a tumor, the age of the patient (over forty as a rule), and the peculiar cachexia, will aid in arriving at a correct diagnosis. Stricture.—The partial or complete occlusion of an intestine, by cica- tricial contractions following inflammation or ulceration of its mucous and submucous or muscular layers, constitutes a true intestinal stricture. Constriction by peritoneal bands, or the infiltration accompanying can- cer, is not considered as stricture proper. Any disease which produces loss of substance in the inner layers of the wall of the gut may produce stricture. The ulcers of typhoid fever, tuberculosis, dysentery, syphilis, and chronic intestinal catarrh, or those resulting from injury by ingested matter, by traumatism, or the necrosis following strangulated hernia, are the chief lesions which precede true stricture of the intestine. Cicatrization in an ulcer which has its long- est axis at a right angle to that of the intestine is more apt to lead to obstruction than one which has its long axis in an opposite direc-