486 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. In favor of abdominal section it may be said : 1. That a deatli-rate of 70 per cent in treatment without operation justifies surgical interference. 2. It is now well known that, in a patient not exhausted by asthenia or prolonged suffering, exploration of the abdominal cavity under careful antiseptic precautions is attended with little danger, and, in the earlier hours of intestinal obstruction, it does not add much to the gravity of the prognosis. 3. If recovery by sloughing occurs, stricture of the in- testine is always to be considered as a probable sequel. If the invagi- nation is reduced early, or if exsection is practiced, stenosis will rarely occur. 4. In the rare cases of recovery by fecal fistula, operative inter- ference is ultimately demanded. Volvulus, or twisting of a loop of intestine, occurs usually in the sig- moid flexure of the colon, although the remaining portions of the colon, or coecum and small intestine, may be occluded by this accident. The loop may become twisted upon itself at its mesenteric attachment, or one loop may be twisted over a second. The last variety is more apt to occur in the ileum and lower jejunum. The principal cause of volvulus is an abnormally long mesentery, allowing unusual freedom of motion to the loop of intestine which is attached to it. This defect may be congeni- tal or acquired. Constipation and the habitual distention of the sigmoid flexure by fecal matter is probably the most frequent cause of elongation of the meso-colon and increased length of this part of the large intestine. It occurs more frequently in men than in women, and is met Avith in adults more than in children. When the conditions are favorable, a suit- able position or an accident in movement is sufficient to rotate the loop on its axis, causing occlusion by the weight of the loop and mesentery brought to bear upon a limited surface. The symptoms of volvulus are those of acute intestinal obstruction. Pain similar to that of colic is pres- ent from the start. Constipation is the rule, and indicates the sigmoid colon as the seat of the lesion. Tenesmus is present in a certain number of cases, and is additional evidence that the colon is involved. Disten- tion of the abdomen to an extreme degree occurs in a large proportion of cases, developing more rapidly in volvulus of the colon. Vomiting is rarely present until late in the history of the case, and, when it appears early, it suggests obstruction in the small intestine. A condition of shock more or less profound supervenes if relief is not obtained. Diminution in the quantity of urine is present in a certain proportion of cases. The prognosis is fatal probably without exception in every case of complete volvulus. Strangulation of the loop and enormous distention of the part involved occur. Treatment.—If the symptoms point to the sigmoid flexure or colon as the seat of the twist, the introduction of warm water into the rectum is indicated. The patient should be placed in the knee-elbow position. The introduction should be made gradually, and may prove successful in recent cases where adhesions have not occurred, or where the disten- tion of the gut is not too great. If this measure is not successful within a few hours, abdominal section should be performed, the hand intro- duced, and the loop untwisted.