A TEXT-BOOK OX SURGERY. 466 Traumatic mastitis is usually circumscribed, the integument and sub- cutaneous areolar tissue being also involved. The deeper tissues escape unless great and unusual violence has been inflicted. IdiopatMc mastitis is almost always connected with lactation, occur- ring usually during the first few weeks after parturition. In rare cases it occurs at intervals in non-pregnant females, the symptoms of this dis- order being associated periodically with the menstrual function. Mas- titis is also a symptom of parotitis or mumps. The milder forms which occur during lactation are little more than exaggei^tions of the normal functions of this organ, while the more typical pathological process, commencing in the hypersemia of the secre- tory apparatus, is exaggerated by obstruction to the escape of the milk through the galactiferous ducts. This obstruction may occur at any por- tion of the efferent ducts, although the occlusion is iisually situated in or near the nipple. Distention of tlie duct and its subdivisions leading back to the acini follows, and inflammation ensues in the entire limit of obstruction. Symptoms.—The first indications of inflammation of the mammary gland are pain and localized induration. The pain is constant, and usually severe in character, and may extend along the ribs to the axilla. The induration is usually well defined, and may consist of one or more nodules. Injection of the skin is marked over the area of induration. The temperature is elevated one or two degrees, the pulse increased in frequency, and a well-pronounced chill or a series of rigors is apt to be a feature of the earlier stages of this disease. Treatment.—As soon as inflammation is threatened the breast should be supported by a bandage, or long, soft towel, or handkerchief thrown around the neck and shoulder and beneath the gland, holding it in the position of least discomfort. In the stage of hypersemia the application of alight ice-bag, with limited compression of the organ, is advisable. The nipple should be kept moistened wdth a tuft of cotton saturated with vaseline or oil, which is placed in position before the ice-bag is applied. Careful attention should be given to the frequent evacuation of the milk. When the nijDple is inflamed, artificial means should be employed to empty the breast. If the inflammatory process does not yield to this treatment after the first few days, it should be abandoned and warm poultices applied. It is important to recognize the earliest collection of pus, and to relieve it by aspiration or incision. Indeed, when the induration is localized and well marked, it is good practice to explore under cocaine with the large hypodermic needle to determine the presence of suppuration. If no pus be found, the puncture does no harm, and of itself often affords relief from tension. When abscess exists the pus should be freely evacuated by aspira- tion or incision. If the collection is deep-seated, requiring an incision through a considerable area of gland-tissue, aspiration may be tried and repeated for two or three times. By the relief of tension, resolution may be induced. When fluctuation is evident, and only the integument intervening, incision is preferable. This may be done without pain,