A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 576 tivity of the sweat-glands, and tlie elimination of liquids by tlie aliment- ary canal. It is of an amber- or straw-color, which, is due to the presence of indican and urobiline. The greater the quantity, as a rule, the lighter the color. It is dark in proportion to the intensity of the destructive changes in tissue, as in prolonged exertion, or during the progress ot fevers. Carbolic acid and bile turn the urine brown or greenish-black, and blood (hsematuria) gives it its characteristic tinge. The normal odor of urine is peculiar to itself. An artificial aroma is easily substituted by the ingestion of certain foods and drinks, as gaultheria, turpentine, as- paragus, etc. Reaction.—Healthy fresh urine is acid in reaction, changing litmus from blue to the faintest red or rose color. Acid urine will at times be- come alkaline within a few minutes after its discharge. The ingestion of alkaline substances in vegetable foods gives a neutral or alkaline character to the urine passed within a short time after eating. The same is true of the alkaline salts, potash, soda, etc. Urine, alkaline in reac- tion as it leaves the urethra—the alkalinity not due to food or medica- tion—is an indication of disease of the bladder or pelvis of the kidney. Specific Gravity. —The specific gravity varies in the normal condition from 1 "005 to 1 '030. Usually the increase in quantity is accompanied by a smaller proportion of solids and a consequent lower specific gravity. This is not the case in diabetes, where the quantity is abnormally large, while the urinometer may register as high as 1030-1040. It becomes a matter of great importance to determine through the chemical and microscopical analysis of the urine the condition of the organs which excrete this fluid and those through which it passes in its way to the exterior. Certain conditions of the kidneys, as in Bright's disease, render the prognosis of a surgical procedure more grave, and may justify a modification of the treatment.' Urea.—Urea is the result of destructive tissue metamorphosis. It is increased by the ingestion of nitrogenized food and by excessive muscu- lar exercise. The average daily quantity excreted by the urine is about four hundred and fifty grains, which, with the estimate of the daily urine at fifty-six ounces, is about gr. j of urea to 3 ] of the urine. Any marked diminution of this proportion indicates failure in the elimination of the products of waste in the tissues and the danger of urcBmia. The simplest quantitative test, and one sufficiently exact for practical purposes, is the following: To make it, it is required to have Labarraque's solution, metallic mercury, a saturated solution of common salt, and a graduated glass tube, with a capacity of several cubic inches, and of a caliber not so large but that the open end can be readily closed by the thumb. Fill the tube one third full of mercury; on top of this pour 3 ss. of urine, fill the balance of the tube with Labarraque's solution poured in quickly, and as quickly close the end of the tube with the thumb. In- vert the tube, carry the end well below the surface of the saturated solu- tion of salt, and then remove the thumb, allovnng the mercury to escape,