A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 524 In the extirpation of a wandering spleen, the incision should be by preference in the linea alba, when the tumor is near enough to be reached through an opening here. All adhesions should be divided between double catgut ligatures. The splenic vessels should be tied with a double ligature of strong silk, and divided between the knots. Pancreas.—Cystic tumors of large size are occasionally met with in this organ, and have been successfully removed by incision in the median line, the operation being practically the same as in ovariotomy. Wounds of the Abdomen. Injuries of the abdomen are divided into penetrating and non-pene- trating, and both of these varieties are again divisible into those w^hich involve the viscera and those in which the organs escape. Non-penetrating Wounds of the Abdominal Walls.—Contusions may involve the integument, produce extravasation in the subcutaneous tis- sues, rupture of the muscles, or displacement or rupture of a viscus and death without any external evidence of injury. Simple contused wounds of this region demand no especial considera- tion. If abscess occurs, the same rule of treatment which apjDlies to abscess elsewhere is applicable here. Rupture of one or more of the muscles may occur as the result of a blow on a muscle in tension, or by muscular action alone. The rectus abdominalis is most frequently torn. Hernia is apt to follow this injury. The treatment consists in perfect rest and well-adjusted pressure to hold the viscera within the cavity of the abdomen until cicatrization can take place. A support- er should be worn for some months after recovery, or permanently if necessary. Displacement or rupture of an organ (as the kidney, spleen, etc.) may be caused by direct violence or by a severe fall. The diagnosis will, in the first lesion, depend upon the absence of the organ from its normal place, and the recognition of the tumor in the new position. Laceration is followed by haemorrhage, at times profuse, which is evident from great pallor and a rapid and weak pulse. If the intestine is involved, the escape of gas or faeces is followed usually by profound shock, tym- panites, and peritonitis. Emphysematous crackling may be recognized on palpation. The first indication in treatment of a displaced viscus is to place the patient in such a posture that gravity will aid in the restoration of the organ to its normal position. A compress and bandage may be useful in some instances. In rupture of a solid organ, profound quiet should be maintained. When haemorrhage is alarming, deligation of the ex- tremities is advisable. Fluid extract of ergot hypodermically may be added. If the symptoms of rupture of the alimentary canal are pres- ent, the abdomen should be opened in the median line, the i-upture closed, or an artificial anus established, and the peritoneal cavity care- fully washed out.