A TEXT-BOOK ON SUEGERT. 144 Knee-Joint—First Method—Modified Circular Skin-Flap.—About three inches below the patella make a cu^cular sweep around the leg, dividing the skin and fascia. Join this by a perpendicular incision in the middle line of the posterior aspect of the limb, extending through the skin and fascia, and at least as high as to the level of the top of the patella. Dissect the skin back carefully, keeping close to the anterior surface of the patella, as the skin over this bone is us^^a^y very tliin. It is not necessary to dissect the cuff as high on the lateral and posterior aspects as in front, since the anterior incision is made to allow of the removal of the patella and dissection of the synovial sac just above it. Divide the tendon of the quadriceps at the upper limit of the patella, turn this down, cut the lateral ligaments and capsule along the edges of the condyles of the femur, flex the leg strongly on the thigh, divide the crucial ligaments, and, as soon as the posterior ligament of Winslow is exposed, introduce a long knife and remove the leg by cutting squarely through the soft tissues at the back of the articulation (Fig. 235). With the cutting-forceps round oiE the sharp edges of bone which mark the line between the articular and non-articular surfaces of the condyles, make a thorough removal of the synovial sac above the patella, wipe olf the articular surface with a sponge dipped in 1 to 3000 sublimate solu- tion, tie the vessels, and close the flap as in Fig. 236. There is really to half the circumference of the limb at this jioint. The short flap is one fourth as long as the other. The incisions and stump, after Teale's method, are shown in Fig. 228. Sedillofs Method—Long Fibular^ Short Tibial, Flap.—Opposite the point at which the bones are to be divided insert a long, thin, amputating-knife, the point of which shall graze tlie spine of the tibia and the outer surface of the fibula, and come out through the outer Fig. 229. aspect of the calf. Cut downward close to the bones, and make a long, rounded flap. The short flap is made by an incision with a slight downward convexity (Fig. 229). Fig. 230.—(Ashhurst's " Encyclopa?dia.") Lee's Method.—The length of the flaps is determined as in Teale's amputation. The long flap is posterior, and includes the skin and sural muscles. The deep muscles and the vessels are divided squarely at the base of the flap (Fig. 230).