223 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. (In one case given in preceding table, direct pressure was practiced with Valsalva's method.) Summary.—Five cases of "direct pressure" (without operative pro- cedures). Cured, four; died, one. Synopsis or Cases of Massage or Kneading in the Treatment or Subclavian Aneurism. Of this method there are six cases. Three cured; viz., by Fergusson, Little, and Porter. Three died ; viz., by Fergusson, Hilton, and Morgan. (See "Guy's Hospital Reports," vol. xvi, p. 42 et seq.) In addition, Mr. Bryant, in his " Practice of Surgery," p. 190, gives a case by Dutoit, of Berne, in which a subclavian aneurism was cured by in- jection of ergotin around the sac under the skin, and digital compression. • Poland cured one case by digital pressure on cardiac side. A third case was tried for forty-six hours and abandoned on account of pain from j)ress- ure. The patient died from exhaustion. Paget tried mechanical pressure in a fourth case, but abandoned it as a hopeless undertaking. A fifth case by Verneuil was improved, but lost sight of before a cure was effected. From the study of the foregoing history of subclavian, subclavio- axillary, and axillary aneurism, I have reached the following conclusions : Deligation of the innominate artery, or the subclavian in its first sur- gical division, are operations so dangerous that they should be under- taken only in extreme conditions. The first indication in the treatment of these lesions is pressure, judi- ciously applied. If possible, the compression should be exercised be- tween the tumor and the heart. Next in preference, direct pressure uj^on the body of the aneurism. Perfect and persistent rest should be enforced, and with this the method of Tulfnel offers the surest and safest means of palliation and cure. In making direct compression, the elastic ball introduced by Mr. Holmes seems best adapted. This should be applied gradually, in order to accustom the patient to its presence. Massage is so inferior to the plan just detailed that it may be omitted from practice. Should all these means fail after a persistent trial, should the sac by ulceration open and threaten instantaneous death, or should the surgeon, from the appearances, judge that this accident was on the eve of occur- ring, ligature of the innominate should be performed, provided that the ligature could not be applied to the subclavian proper. When the aneurism involves the last portion of the subclavian or the axillary, the ligature may be applied to the third division of the sub- clavian. Compression should always be tried in these, as in all other cases, before resorting to the ligature. Aneurism of the brachial, radial, and ulnar arteries, or their branches, is comparatively rare, and when seen is almost always the result of a wound. The diagnosis is not difficult. The treatment required is digital or mechanical compression on the cardiac side of the tumor. If this fail.