476 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Diagnosis.—Penetrating wounds of the chest, involving the lung, are accompanied almost always by bleeding from the mouth, dyspnoea, and by the passage of air in and out through the wound with each respira- tory act. The dyspnoea is due to blood in the bronchial tubes and trachea, and often to partial collapse of the lung, which is caused by the entrance of air through the wall of the thorax. The admission of air to the pleural sac does not, however, always follow a penetrating wound, on account of its small size or the valvular arrangement of the tissues through which it passes. Shock is usually profound if the lung is wounded. A wound of en- trance and exit, with the pleura and lung directly between, indicates lesion of these organs. Occasionally, however, a ball strikes against a rib, is deflected, and sweeps around the chest beneath the skin and makes its exit at a remote point without entering the pleural cavity. Treatment.—The arrest of haemorrhage is the immediate indication. This may be hastened by deligation of the extremities, already described on page 74. Any bleeding from the vessels of the thoracic wall should be arrested by the ligature. Foreign bodies, fragments of bone, etc., near the wound of entrance or exit, should be removed. When hernia of the lung occurs, if seen before strangulation has taken place, it should be irrigated with l-to-5000 sublimate solution and reduced. If gangrenous, the protruding mass should be tied with the elastic ligature and the dead portion re- moved. Uncomplicated wounds of small size should be closed at once by an iodoform and sublimate gauze dressing, well applied. If symptoms of empyema follow, an opening may be made for drainage, provided that the presence of pus is demonstrated by the aspirator. In complicated wounds, where the opening is large, or where frag- ments of bone, clothing, or any foreign substance has been driven into the pleura and lung, it should be kept open for drainage and treated by irrigation, as directed for empyema. In wounds of the heart the right auricle and ventricle are most fre- quently iajured. Punctured wounds are less apt to prove fatal than those produced by gun-missiles. Fischer has collected four hundred and fifty-two cases of wounds of the heart, with seventy-two recoveries.* The symptoms of injury to the heart are those of profound shock. The pulse is irregular, and, if there is haemorrhage into the pericardium and mediastinum, symptoms of pressure on the heart-muscle are soon evident. The means employed to arrest internal haemorrhage elsewhere may be used here. Quiet should be enforced. * " ArcMv fur klinische Chirurgie," 1868.