A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 490 from an opening in the lateral aspects of tlie abdomen immediately over these viscera. The sigmoid flexure and upper portion of the rectum may be well exposed by the median incision when the small intestines and mesentery are lifted to one side. In general, it may be said that the smaller the incision the better, yet the opening should always be sufficient to admit of thorough exploration, and, if necessary, large enough for insjDection. The patient should rest upon the back, with the head and shoulders slightly elevated, in order to relax the abdomi- nal muscles. Strict attention should be paid to the antiseptic details already given. An etfort should be made to strike the median line so exactly that the incision will pass between the two recti muscles. All bleeding should be arrested before the parietal peritonaeum is incised. This should be punctured, and a very dull-pointed, grooved director in- serted, and the peritonaeum divided on this instrument. The opening should be at least four inches in length. As soon as this is accom- plished, the hand, disinfected in sublimate solution, and afterward in Thiersch's solution, should be introduced and the seat of obstruction sought. The escape of intestines or omentum through the wound should be prevented by holding large flat sponges over these viscera and press- ing them back into the peritoneal cavity. All sponges, towels, etc., brought in contact with the viscera should be disinfected in Thiersch's solution, since the ordinary sublimate solutions are too iiTitating. If, upon exposing the small intestines, some of the coils are found to be greatly distended while others are collapsed, it is pretty safe to conclude that the obstruction is near at hand, and the coUajDsed loops should be carefully passed between the fingers up to the obstruction. It is scarcely possible, in the condition in which the viscera will be found, to determine exactly which is the upward or downward direction of the coils, and it may be necessary to begin at the caecum and work upward. If the coils which present are so enormously distended that they in- terfere with the exploration, the gas should be evacuated by multiple puncture with the finest hypodermic needle. The gas escapes through the needle, the hole made by which is so delicate that it is closed by contraction of the muscular fibers of the gut. If the coccum is found to be distended, the lesion is evidently in the colon, and this organ should be followed to the obstruction. If biliary calculi, a foreign body, or enterolithes are found, the part involved in the obstruction should if possible be brought out at the wound, protected by warm Thiersch towels, the escape of matter into the cavity of the peritonaeum prevented by flat sjDonges, and the body removed by an incision in the long axis of the gut, and, when possible, opposite the mesenteric attachment. The length of the opening should be sufficient to allow of the removal of the body without bruising or tearing. If the part can not be brought out, it should be laid upon a flat sponge and the peritonaeum in this way protected from the escape of fecal contents. This accident may be in great part prevented by compression of the gut above the obstruction. The wound in the intestinal wall is next closed by Lembert's suture.