DISEASES OF SPECIAL JOINTS. 357 and prognosis do not differ materially from similar lesions in other articulations. When osteo-arthritis is evident, operative interference is indicated, for the reasons that (1) early incision, by giving discharge to the contents of the capsule, retards or arrests the destructive process ; (2) the common experience of surgeons is that the invasion of this Joint is practically without danger to the patient's life. Complete exsection of the articular ends of the tibia and fibula, and of the upper half of the astragalus, is rarely called for. An incision upon the side which, from the symptoms present, will give the best access to the diseased bone, and the free use of Volkmann's spoon or the scalloped gouge (page 37) in removing the dead tissues, will usually sufiice. A counter-opening should be made, so that thorough drainage by means of the rubber tube may be maintained. The foot should be kept at rest, and the patient directed to go on crutches until several months after the discharge has ceased, and the sinus closed. The oper- ation of gouging is more successful in osteo-arthritis at the ankle than in any other articulation. Complete exsection is only admissible when the destruction is very extensive. Synovitis and osteo-arthritis of the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus are treated upon the same general principles as just given for the ankle. The Shoulder-Joint.—Synovitis of the shoulder is usually general; in rare instances it may be local. It may alfect the general synovial surface of the capsule, be reflected into the synovial sheath of the long head of the biceps, the bursa under the tendon of the subscapularis, or that beneath the infra-spinatus, or in rare instances, especially in the earlier stages, one or more of these bursse may be inflamed, while the joint is not invaded. The bursa between the deltoid and the cajjsule may also be the seat of bursitis, although this sac does not communicate with the joint. The diagnosis of inflammation in one or more of the bursse about the shoulder may be determined as follows : 1. Direct digi- tal pressure upon any single bursa will indicate the sensibility of the part. 2. Extend the forearm fully, grasp the hand and elbow of the patient, and, while the head of the humerus is pulled away from the glenoid cavity, direct the patient to make strong flexion, which the operator firmly resists. If inflammation of the sheath of the long head of the biceps exists, pain will be experienced in the anterior and outer portion of the joint as this tendon is made tense. 3. When the bursa under the infra-spinatus is inflamed, if the arm is rotated inward, and held in this position, pain will be felt when the tendon of this muscle is made to press strongly on the bursa, in any effort at outward rotation. An opposite manoeuvre will serve as a test for the bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapularis. In general synovitis each of these move- ments will be productive of pain, and the differentiation is chiefly between neuralgia and muscular rheumatism. In neuralgia the pain is of the peculiar neuralgic type. It is rarely constant, the exacerbation appear- ing at intervals of comparative regularity, and extending in the recog-