FRACTURES. 283 When the fracture is compound, and this is usually the case, the fragments may be lifted into place through the wound, by means of the bullet-screw elevator, or other instruments ; or, as advised by Hamilton, the finger or thumb may be passed underneath the lip to the zygomatic arch, which can be utilized as a point for pressure. At times, however, it may be necessary to enter the antrum maxillare by trephining or drill- ing through the anterior wall of the antrum. The point of entrance should be immediately above the first (or anterior molar) tooth, at a dis- tance of from one half to three fourths of an inch below the inferior mar- gin of the orbit. Fracture of the zygomatic process, either of the malar or temporal bones, may occur singly or as a complication of the fracture just treated. If the force which produces the lesion does not wound the temporal or maxillary arteries, the treatment is simple. If the depression is sufiicient to cause deformity, cut down to the arch, insert a hook elevator, and lift the bone into place. It may be necessary to limit mastication by the ap- plication of a bandage, as in fracture of the lower jaw. The superior maxilla may alone be broken, although it is usually complicated with fracture of other bones. A blow received at the roots of the teeth may drive the alveolar and palatal arch downward, or, if the direction of the impinging body is from before backward and upward, the antrum may be opened. The treatment is to cleanse the wound antiseptically and replace all pieces of bone as well as possible. The following case illustrates in a remarkable degree the vitality and reparative power in the bones of the face: In September, 1884, a robust Irishman, about forty years of age, came into my service at Mount Sinai Hospital. He had just been kicked by an unshod horse. The crescentic wound extended from the center of the forehead down by the nasal pro- cess, along the facial groove, and out beyond and below the malar bone. The soft tissues were lacerated, and the bones extensively comminuted. The wound was cleansed of particles of manure, straw, and pieces of hoof. Strict antisepsis was employed, thoroughly cleansing the wound and replacing every piece of bone. The torn edges were pared and closed by silk sutures. Rapid union ensued, without the exfoliation of any portion of the bone. The great desideratum is the prevention of a scar. Upon the face the greatest care must be taken to avoid deformity. If the soft tissues are torn and contused, the edges of the wound should be smoothly pared and nicely approximated by fine silk sutures. When the destruction of the bone is so extensive that, even after re- position of the pieces, the fragments will not remain in place, it may be necessary to use the lower jaw as a splint, by fixation of the two rows of teeth, with the head and chin figure-of-8 dressing, as for fracture of the lower jaw. The interposition between the teeth of short strips of gutta-percha, thoroughly softened in warm water, will firmly fix the broken to the unbroken bones, and admit of the introduction of liquid food between the upper and lower incisors.