531 PELVIC ORGANS. or by irritation of the end-organs of the sensory nerves from over-dis- tention in the act of defecation. It is also a symptom of haemorrhoids, fissure of the anus, or may be due to the presence of the thread-worm {ascar is verm ic ular is). The character of the itching is burning, pain- ful, and aggravating, and the desire to scratch is almost irresistible. The successful management of pruritus ani will depend upon the recognition of the disease of which it is a symptom. Eczema of the perinseum and anus is more apt to occur in a warm temperature, where perspiration is excessive, and in corpulent individ- uals where considerable friction occurs between the folds of integument of this region. The skin becomes infiltrated and thickened, fissures are formed, and the mucous membrane at the anal opening may become in- volved. Treatment.—The part affected should be kept clean and friction pre- vented as much as possible. In the acute eczema of the anal region a warm bath, without soap, should be taken two or three times a day, the parts thoroughly dried, and sprinkled with powdered starch or lycopo- dium. If excoriations exist, lead-and-opium wash should be tried. In chronic eczema of the anus, in order to effect a cure, it is often necessary to remove the accumulation of scales by the local use of green soap for a day or two, and then smearing the surface with diachylon-salve. Herpes may be recognized by the character of the eruiDtion, which is vesicular, the vesicles being grouped in bunches around the anus. Those which rupture and are subjected to irritation present flat and slightly ulcerating excoriations. The treatment consists in thoroughly washing the surface involved with a warm solution of boracic acid, grs. xv- 3 j of water, by means of pellets of absorbent cotton moistened in the solu- tion. This should be followed by applying an astringent ointment, com- posed as follows: plumbi acetatis, grs. iij; acid, tannic, gr. j; morphise sulph., grs. iij; adipis, §j. ErytJiema is a mild form of inflammation of the integument, occur- ring here as a result of friction between the folds of skin of the two sides and the irritation from perspiration or other fluids. The warm bath, fol- lowed by sprinkling the part affected with starch or lycopodium, will usually effect a cure. Pityriasis versicolor occasionally exists in the ischio-rectal region. This disease can be recognized by the brownish slate-color of the parts involved. The cause is a vegetable parasite, the spores and mycelia of which may be easily recognized by the microscope. It yields readily to pure sulphurous acid, which may be applied by means of a camel's-hair pencU. Corrosive sublimate (gr. j to water § j) may be applied by wrap- ping the parts with absorbent cotton dipped in this solution. When pruritus occurs with haemorrhoids or fissure, the treatment must be directed to these affections. If it is caused by over-distention or irritation of the rectum and anus, the use of enemata and laxatives will arrest the disease. The local application of a 4-per-cent solution of cocaine hydrochlorate will dull the sensibility of the part and tempo- rarily stop the pain and itching.