330 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. or completely ruptured, and the annular ligament, which binds the ten- dons down, may be torn and the tendons displaced. The cause of the backward displacement is a fall on the back of the hand, or a blow upon the dorsum of the radius, just above the wrist, while the hand is in extreme flexion. Violence of a similar character, applied in the opposite direction, will produce the forward luxation. The diagnosis must be made between Colles's fracture and disloca- tion. In dislocation the deformity from the over-riding carpus is much greater than after fracture. In Colles's fracture the swelling on the dorsum of the wrist is smooth and rounded. When impaction has not occurred crepitus may be obtained. Reduction is effected by extension and counter-extension from the forearm and hand, to which direct pressure in the line of displacement should be added. Dislocation of the metacarpal bones, at their carpal extremities, is rare. Luxation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb is most frequently met with. The carpal end of this bone may be displaced partially or completely, in a forward or backward direction. When the end of the bone rests upon the dorsum of the trapezius it can be easily recognized. Extension and counter-extension, with direct pressure, is usually suffi- cient to accomplish reposition. A clove-hitch or snare may be thrown around the thumb to insure extension. Reduction is at times difficult, and the history of this accident is not without a record of failure both as to replacement and retention when replaced. In the displacement forward, on account of the thickness of the soft parts, the end of the bone can not be easily recognized. An unusual depression may be observed on the radial and dorsal aspects of the wrist, just in front of the os trapezium. Strong extension with counter-extension is necessary, and to this should be added direct pressure, applied near the end of the displaced bone. Luxation of the remaining metacarpal bones occurs rarely, and, when met with, the displacement is usually partial, and toward the dorsum of the carpus. The phalanges may be dislocated either backward or forward at the metacarpal articulations, or at the interphalangeal joints. The character Fig. 365.—(After Hamilton.) of the lesion is easily recognized and the reduction not difficult. Exten- sion with a clove-hitch, or with the apparatus shown in Fig. 365, will effect reduction. Hip-Joint. —While the head of the femur may be displaced from the cotyloid cavity in any direction, it is customary to considerdistinct