EPIDIDYMITIS AND ORCHITIS. ^615 this support; or two thickly folded towels may be pinned together and carried tightly around the thighs, at the level of the perinseum. At times the tension of the parts is so great that, not only to relieve pain, but to prevent suppuration or possible gangrene, puncture or in- cision is imperative. The most immediate relief will follow this opera- tion. A sharp narrow blade is preferable, and, if the instrument is not made for this especial purpose, it may be extemporized by projecting the point of an ordinary sharp-pointed bistoury half an inch beyond the surface of a cork through which the knife is thrust. With this guard attached, the punctures may be made rapidly and without danger of penetrating too deeply. Although the procedure is very painful, it is usually so rapidly ac- complished that an anaesthetic is not necessary. The injection of a 2-per- cent cocaine solution will alford a fair degree of anassthesia. The opera- tor holds the scrotum and testicle so as to make tense the skin over the epididymis and to expose it properly to view, and then by well-directed and rapid thrusts punctures the organ in from two to four or six points, scattered over the induration. A free discharge of dark or black blood usually follows, and in from twenty to thirty minutes the pain is greatly if not entirely relieved. The antiseptic precautions should be carried out in this procedure. Partial or complete orcJiitis is not infrequent in gonorrhoea with epi- didymitis. The treatment is in general similar to that of the last-named disease. The diagnosis is readily made out by the touch, for, when hy- drocele does not coexist, the induration of the organ can not well be mistaken. Poultices of tobacco have long enjoyed a reputation in the treatment of orchitis and epididymitis, but when warm applications are indicated, well-saturated and frequently changed warm cloths will be found equally satisfactory in the effect produced, and much more cleanly than the poultices. In the majority of instances, cold will be more agree- able than heat. The ice-bag may be utilized in the following manner with great satisfaction: A bladder or rubber bag is filled with crushed ice, placed upon the three-cornered perineal cushion, and the inflamed organ allowed to rest upon it. If the cold is too great for comfort (and the patient may usually be relied upon to determine this), a layer or two of lint or cotton may be interposed. It occasionally becomes necessary to puncture or incise the tunica albuginea in orchitis somewhat after the fashion given in puncture for epididymitis. Two methods are em- ployed, namely: to carry a sharp-pointed, long knife through a single puncture of the scrotum down to the testicle, and incise the fibrous cap- sule in one or more places parallel with its long axis and along its an- terior surface ; or to use an instrument similar to that emj)loyed in epi- didymitis, and make several punctures through the scrotum and the anterior portion of the capsule. Inguinal adenitis^ or bubo, occurs in a considerable proportion of cases of specific urethritis, and is apt to be bilateral. The disease is readily recognized by the swelling in the groin. The inflammatory process is usually so rapid in its invasion that the different glands in