ARTERITIS. 167 process, but may possibly cause the separation of thrombi and produce infinite harm in remote organs. If the disease should assume the sup- purative form, the inflammation being diffuse and the cedema severe, free incisions parallel to the veins should be made in order to secure drainage. A wet dressing should be applied, and the wounds frequently irrigated with 1 to 10,000 sublimate solution until the more urgent symptoms have disappeared. Quinia is indicated, not only on account of its well-known tonic and antifebrile properties—although not strictly antiseptic in its action, the bacteria of septic fluids resisting its action to a great extent (Bartholow)—but because it exercises an inhibitory influence upon the emigrant corpuscles (Binz), important factors, as Conheim has shown, in the inflammatory process. The use of iron, careful feeding, and a free supply of pure air, will complete the constitutional treatment. If an extremity is involved it should be slightly elevated to favor the return circulation. Aeteeitis. Arteritis is a term applied to an inflammatory process which involves the entire thickness of the arterial wall. When the inflammatory change is confined to the inner coat, or intima, it is designated as endarteritis ; when to the outer coat, or adventitia, as periarteritis; and when to the middle coat, or media, as mesarteritis. Endarteritis, which does not rapidly disappear soon after its inception, is apt to result in lesions of the media and adventitia, and in like man- ner a lesion of the external tunic will in all probability involve, by the extension of the morbid process, the other coats. There are, however, certain well-defined, circumscribed lesions of the separate tunics. Endarteritis is, as an isolated lesion, capable of demon- stration. We shall see that a superficial inflammation of the endothelia, with its resultant fatty degeneration, is not infrequent. Again, mesar- teritis exists as a primary and separate inflammation, for primary calci- fication (denied by some pathologists), which is strictly a disease of the tunica media, precipitates an inflammation in this middle tunic. And since atheroma and other arterial lesions are due to interference with the blood-supply through the vasa vasorum, or to defect in the quality of the blood distributed to the adventitia through which the vessels ramify, we must recognize a periarteritis as the initial stage of this lesion. Inflammation may be established in any or all parts of the arterial system. One form of arteritis will involve the larger trunks, while another will pass these without molestation, and establish itself in the distant arterioles. Simple endarteritis is most apt to occur in the aorta and arteries of the second magnitude, while syphilitic arteritis, the most marked feature of which is an endarteritis, rarely attacks the larger trunks, chiefly confining itself to the more or less complete occlusion of the small and smallest arteries. The internal coat of the larger arteries is composed of two parts : 1. An endothelial lining membrane, consisting of a single layer of flat, po-