Ill AMPUTATIONS. enveloped by a large sheet of rubber-tissue protective. A roller is car- ried over all to hold the dressing in place, and to make compression sufficient to arrest oozing. It is impossible to say how much pressure should be employed, since this knowledge can only come from practice, but the bandage should be fairly tight. Over-pressure at the tip should be avoided, especially where the flap folds down on the end of the bone. As the last bandage is being applied, a short splint, the end of which projects a couple of inches beyond the stump, should be inserted. This steadies the limb, and is useful in keeping the stump elevated, especially when an amputation is made near the trunk. If the last roller is made wet before being applied, it will be less liable to slip. Such a dressing, under the strict antiseptic method, is not usually removed before the tenth or twentieth day, and in the majority of cases where an amputation is made through comparatively healthy tissues a single dressing is sufficient. The indications for its removal are haemor- rhage of an alarming nature, great pain, high febrile movement (not counting the reactionary fever which follows within twenty-four hours after the operation), and excessive discharge beyond the zone of anti- sepsis, with decomposition. Ordinary bleeding may be controlled and permanently arrested by an extra tight roller, or Esmarch bandage, loosely applied for an hour or two. A rise in the temperature of 102° to 103° on the second day, or later, suggests inflammation and sepsis. Lastly, when the serum or fluids from the stump seep under the dressing and decompose, the change is necessitated on account of the odor. When a new dressing is made, the same antiseptic precautions should be employed. Second Method—Oblique Solid Flaps by Transfixion.—Seize the arm with the left hand so that, as all the soft tissues are pinched up on its anterior aspect, the thumb and index-finger on opposite sides will be Just above the point at which it has been decided to divide the bone. The point of a long knife is pushed from the outer side (right arm) horizon- tally down until it impinges upon the center of the bone; the handle is depressed, the point grazes over the bone, the handle is now elevated, and the point made to project exactly opposite and on the same plane with the point of entrance (Fig. 159). By a long sawing movement the knife is made to cut directly along the bone until within from one half to one inch of the