AMPUTATIONS. 137 Amputation of the Foot—Tibio-Tar sal {Syme's).—When the astraga- lus must be removed, together with the foot, the amputation of Syme, which involves a disarticulation of the tibio-astragaloid joint, and a sub- sequent section of the articular surfaces of the tibia and fibula, should be made. In its successful performance certain precautions are neces- sary, chief among which is the preservation of the proper vascular sup- ply to the posterior flap. The failure to appreciate the importance of making the plantar incision far enough forward, as laid down by Syme, has brought this procedure somewhat into disrepute, for Prof, Stephen Smith, in his comprehensive report, says the necessity for re-amputation is 3 per cent greater in this than in any other amputation. In my " Prize Essay," published in 1876,* I demon- strated that the ar- terial distribution to the calcaneo- plantar flap was chiefly derived from the external plantar artery, and from the posterior tibial so near the bifurcation of this vessel into its ter- minal branches, that any line of in- cision in the forma- tion of this flap which necessitated the application of a ligature at or very near its bifurcation was not justiflable. I do not doubt that the sloughing so often met with at this point is caused by carrying this incision too far back toward the tuberosity of the calcaneum. The arte- rial supply is shown in Fig. 208, from my "Essays in Surgical Anatomy and Surgery." f Modified Procedure.—With the foot held at an angle of 90° to the axis of the leg, place the thumb at the tip of one malleolus, and the index at the other, and from the center of the malleolus internus carry an incision directly across the sole of the foot to a point one fourth of an inch anterior to the tip of the malleolus externus. This incision should divide all the tissues to the bones, and, as will be seen in Figs. 209 and 210, its perpendicular portion descends in a direction slightly anterior to * "American Journal of the Medical Sciences," April, 1876. t William Wood & Co., 1879. Fig. 208.—Diagram showing the arterial supply to the calcaneal! region, on the tibial side of the foot. (Drawn by the author, from the average of eighty-seven dissections.) m, Internal malleolus, pvicn, Tibio-tarsal quadrilateral, the surgical region of this articulation, k, Posterior tibial artery, o, Its point of bifurcation into g, Internal plantar, andEx- ternal plantar artery, i i i, Calcanean branches of external plantar, t, Articular branches from posterior tibial. A, Articular branch from in- ternal plantar, Tendon of tibialis posticus muscle, r, Tendon of flexor longus digitorum. «, Tendon of flexor longus poUicis. m c, The line of incision of Gross, m I, m d, m e, m e. Lines of incision showing that the nearer the incision approaches the heel, the more danger is in- curred of cutting off the principal blood-supply to the calcanean flap, in amputation. 'm n. Line crossing the usual point of bifurcation of the posterior tibial, ma, mb, Anterior incision.