451 THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. Laryngotomy without a Tube.—When a canula is not at hand, a needle, armed with fine, strong silk, should be passed, on either side, through the integument and cricoid membrane, brought out through the opening in the larynx, and the suture tied. It is best to employ two sutures in each side of the wound. These may be tied behind the neck, or attached to bits of adhesive plaster and fastened to the integument, so as to keep the wound open. A strip of plaster should be laid on each side of the wound, to prevent the thread from cutting into the integu- ment. Laryngo-tracheotomy (an operation rarely performed) consists in extending the incision of laryngotomy through the cricoid cartilage, and the upper one or two rings of the trachea. Tracheotomy is more frequently done than either of the operations just given. The trachea may be opened (1) above the isthmus of the thyroid body, the upper three or four rings being divided; (2) the isthmus may be tied with a double ligature, divided, and the trachea opened beneath it; (3) the opening into the tube may be altogether be- low the isthmus. It wiU rarely be found necessary to divide the isthmus. The opera- tion above the isthmus is simpler, and should be preferred in all cases where the obstruction is in the larynx. For the removal of a foreign body lodged in the bifurcation of the trachea, or in either bronchus, the lower procedure should be adopted. This op- eration should also be preferred in diphtheritic croup when all other measures have failed. The results achieved with the laryngeal tube of Dr. O'Dwyer, of New York, justifies a faithful trial with this instrument before resorting to the for- midable operation of tracheotomy in diphtheritic croup. Dr. O'Dwyer's directions are as follows: The tubes are of various sizes, and are constructed on a scale (Fig. 517) somewhat like the urethral sounds. No. 1 is intended for a child eighteen months old, or less ; No. 2, between eighteen months and three years ; No. 3, for the fourth year ; No. 4, for the fifth year, and so on. When the proper tube is selected for the case to be oper- ated on, a fine silk thread is passed through the small hole near its anterior angle, and left long enough to hang out of the mouth, its object being to remove the tube should it be found to have passed into the oesophagus instead of the larynx. The obturator is then screwed tightly to the intro- ducing instrument, to prevent the possibility of its rotating while being inserted, and passed into the tube. The child is held upright on the nurse's lap, with its arms secured by the sides or behind the back. An assistant holds the head, which he inclines backward at the proper time, while the operator, seated in front, inserts the gag (Fig. 518) well back between the teeth, in the left angle of the mouth, and opens it as widely as possible, without using undue force. He then inserts the index-finger of the left hand, which serves to Fig. 517. Scale.