686 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. more points the cyst-wall may be exceedingly thin or softened as a re- sult of the rupture of inter-cystic walls, those of the secondary cysts being thinner than that of the larger. Softening of the wall may also occur when the neoplasm is malignant; or as a result of interference with its nutrition from twisting of the pedicle; or from suppuration in the cyst-wall. In exceptional instances in old cysts there some- times exists a communication between the cyst-cavity and the bowel or bladder as a result of necrotic changes where the two have become adherent. In size cysto-adenomata of the ovary may vary from a few inches in diameter up to those of enormous size, weighing many pounds, and filling the entire abdomen. The veins lie both superficially as distinct vessels and deeply in the cyst-wall as sinuses; the arteries are more deeply situated and are large. This tumor may be generally adherent to the peritonaeum and other organs with which it comes in contact, or connected at various points by isolated bands. In rarer instances no adhesions may be met with. The pedicle of an adeno-cystoma may be attached to both sides of the uterus, two distinct tumors having met and coalesced. At times the tumor derives its nourishment from bands unit- ing it to the abdominal parietes or viscera, its own pedicle having been twisted off. A form of multilocular cyst, connected with the ovary, known as ^'"Mokitanskt/s tumor,has been observed in a few instances. It consists of a series of cysts containing a clear fluid. The cysts hang in bunches and are connected with each other by delicate fibrous bands. The entire mass does not usually reach a size larger than the fist. Dermoid cysts are not altogether infrequent in the ovary. These tu- mors have thick walls, are dark-colored, are filled with a dark fluid in which are found particles of hair, teeth, bone, etc. They may be mul- tilocular, or they may contain but one cyst. Hanging from the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube, or just beneath it, is also found a small, thin-walled cyst, with clear contents, called by some the "hydatid of Morgagni." If examined carefully while it is floated in clear water, it will be seen to be a continuation of the horizontal tube of the parovarium. Cyst of the Broad Ligament.—There is also met with a cyst of con- siderable size, with perfectly clear contents and very thin walls, which is sometimes peduncula.ted, but generally with a broad attachment located either upon the broad ligament or the uterus. A small cyst of a simi- lar nature may spring from the covering of the Fallopian tube and be pedunculated, or arise just beneath the Fallopian fimbriae, and be either sessile or pedunculated. Solid Tumors.—Fibro-myomata appear as smooth, firm bodies. They do not, as a rule, contract adhesions with neighboring structures. Sarcomata have about the same clinical appearance, except when very vascular, in which state they are softer and more elastic than are fibro- myomata. Carcinomata of the ovary are very nodular, and when large they may contain one or more cavities in their interiors. Secondary