692 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. non-preferred) side unable to resist the more developed muscles of the right half of the body. In other cases the lesion may be situated in the central nervous ganglia, or in the track of the nerve. Inflammation of the muscular substance (myositis), or of the tendons or sheaths of the muscles, is an occasional cause of wry-neck. Any in- flammatory process may lead to shortening of the muscles, and to con- tractions in the fasciae and connective tissues of the neck. Muscular torticollis is met with most frequently in the young, may exist at birth, is seen in females oftener than in males, and in this class of cases is apt to occur about the age of puberty. In some instances, in addition to the tonic spasm of the muscles involved, a clonic or irregular convulsive movement occurs. Diagnosis.—The recognition of torticollis is usually free from diffi- culty. The elimination of caries, dislocation, fracture, and wry-neck caused by cicatricial contractions, is determined from the history of the case and by inspection and manipulation. When one sterno-mastoid muscle is contracted, the chin is pointed to the opposite side, and the occiput made to approximate the clavicle of the side corresponding to the contracted muscle. The splenius capitis draws the mastoid process downward and backward toward the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra. The prognosis in muscular torticollis is usually favorable—less so in clonic than in tonic muscular spasm. In wry-neck due to contractions of the fas- ciae, tendons, etc., the deformity is with difiiculty relieved. Treatment.—Chlorosis, or any dys- crasia, should be treated by tonics and internal medication, by properly select- ed diet and out-of-door life. The devel- opment of the muscles of the left (or weaker) side is essential. Kneading, massage, and electricity will be found useful adjuvants. Mechanical appliances should be used in overcoming the con- tractions in the offending muscles. Arti- ficial muscles, composed of elastic bands or rubber tubing, more nearly fulfill the indications. The origin and insertion should correspond to that of the normal muscle. A thoracic belt or jacket of plaster of Paris, leather, or silicate of soda, properly adjusted, will serve for the points of fixation of the lower end of the elastic material. The upper in- sertion near the occiput is best secured by a stall carried around the head above the ears and across the fore- head. In order to prevent it from slipping, the portion which rests