AMPUTATIONS. 105 and the danger of sepsis diminished by the faithful employment of that cleanliness which is found in the antiseptic method. In extensive lacerations of the soft parts and fracture of bone, "the indications in treatment entitled to the first consideration may be stated as being: arrest of haemorrhage by the catgut ligature or direct pressure, through drainage, iodoform and sublimate dressings, fixation of the part —^usually in an elevated swing (Figs. 7, 114, 164)—with constant irriga- tion as a last resort. If, despite all these precautions, septicaemia should occur, or gangrene result, amputation is necessitated. The first general law in performing an amputation is that no more of the member should be cut away than is absolutely essential to the safety of the patient. Any exception to this rule will be given along with the special amputation to which it may apply. While it is always desirable to make an amputation wound through healthy tissues, this should not be done at the expense of the part in- volved, for flaps made through inflamed tissues heal readily enough, and offer no element of danger to the life of the patient when properly drained. Method of Operating.—In making an amputation, no matter what shape the incisions may take, the point of first importance is, that the soft parts which are to form the covering or hood for the bone shall be long enough to be free from tension after the sutures are adjusted and the dressing completed. It is always wiser to err on the safe side, and make the flaps a little too long than too short, for it is a simple matter to trim them down to the proper length. In doing this, some allowance must always be made for the additional retraction which occurs after the tourniquet is removed and consciousness is restored. The direction of the line of incision, and the shape of the cuff or flaps, will depend in pa.rt upon the shape of the limb at the point of section, as wen as the condition of the soft tissues from which the covering is to be made. While the rule just given—namely, to have plenty of flap—is essential, it is scarcely of less importance to guard against all interference with the nutrition of the integument which covers in the stump. To this end rough handling, and the employment of strong and irritating solu- tions, should be avoided. In general, that flap will unite most readily, and prove most satisfactory, in the formation of which the normal rela- tion of the skin to the subcutaneous soft tissues is least disturbed. Following this rule, preference should be given to solid flaps which are composed of all the soft tissues lifted from the periosteum. Again, it is always preferable to divide the skin, muscles, vessels, and other soft tissues squarely across, and not obliquely, as must of necessity be done in forming flaps by transfixion. This, the solid-flap method, is applica- ble to most amputations—as vsdll be shown farther on—in patients of slight muscular development, and with little or no subcutaneous areolar tissue, for a closely dissected skin-flap in this class of cases is always objectionable, on account of the danger of sloughing. When the soft tissues at the line of section are very thick, and when the integument is well guarded by a fair quantity of underlying fat, the solid flap will at