472 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. acter, the less radical operation of enucleation of tlie neoplasm may be undertaken. Any new formation so removed should be carefully exam- ined, and, if found to be malignant, a wider incision should be made, either at the first indication of recurrence, or preferably at once. Operation.—The patient is placed upon the table with the chest slightly elevated, the breast and axilla of the aifected side near the edge. The arm, intrusted to an assistant, should be held at a right angle to the body, and the head directed to the opposite side. The integument of the axilla and within the field of operation should be shaved, washed with soap and warm water, afterward with ether, and finally with l-to-2000 sublimate solution. The diseased organ should be handled as gently as possible. Sublimate towels should be laid over the exposed surface, leaving only the part to be removed in sight. The operator now carefully outlines the tumor, since it is essential that the incision should be from one to two inches outside of the limit of induration. On this line the skin and subcutaneous tissues should be divided directly down to the muscles. The fascial covering of the thoracic muscles should be dissected up with the gland. If the infiltra- tion has involved the deeper portions of the organ, the pectoral muscles within the line of incision should be dissected out, leaving nothing but the ribs and intercostal muscles. All vessels should be secured and tied with catgut as fast as divided. Oozing may be arrested by pressing sponges or sublimate towels into the wound as the operation proceeds. The dissection should be made and the mass lifted from the sternum toward the axilla. In this way the larger vessels (the long thoracic artery and branches) are not divided until the incision, which completely severs the tumor, is being made. All haemorrhage in the wound being arrested, and this filled -^vith warm sublimate towels to prevent oozing, the dissection should be con- tinued into the axilla. During this, the most difficult part of the opera- tion, the arm should be held immovably at an angle of 90° to the axis of the spine. From the end of the elliptical wound nearest the axilla, an incision is made along and below the border of the pectoralis major muscle, extending as far as the arm. The integument below this incision should be dissected up from the underlying areolar tissue down to the posterior fold of the axilla, blunt retractors placed above and below, and the edges of the wound separated as widely as possible. It is ad- visable to remove the adipose tissue which fills in this space along with the enlarged glands. The chief danger is the wounding of the axillary vein or one of its branches so close to the main trunk that air may be admitted or the ligature have to be applied to the axillary vein. If the dissection is made with blunt scissors curved on the flat, keeping the con- vex surface nearest the vein, and, if the vessel is approached from the scapular border, this danger may be avoided. In this region the sub- scapular vein is easily recognized, and may be followed toward the large trunk. In the lower jDortion of the axilla the brachial fascia protects the vein. If the enlarged glands extend high up in the axilla, the pec- toralis major and minor should be cut across and a clean dissection * ♦