A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 578 nometer, as registered before and after fermentation, will represent the number of grains of sugar in tlie ounce of urine. Pus- and Blood-Corpuscles—Bpithelia.—Pus-cells in the urine may- come from an inflammation in any portion of the urinary tract, from the kidney to the meatus, or from the communication of a sinus or abscess with the urinary apparatus. Urine containing pus may be acid, alka- line, or neutral in reaction. In acid urine the corpuscles are prominent and easily recognized; when the reaction is alkaline, they are usually destroyed, and appear as ropy or gelatinous strings, more resembling mucus than pus. If the urine is examined immediately after being passed, a few corpuscles may be recognized. When allowed to stand for some minutes, the pus-cells collect in the bottom of the vessel. Ex- amined with the microscope, they are seen to be spherical and faintly granular. On account of the absorption of water, they are swollen and less distinct than pus-cells from a recent abscess. The addition of acetic acid renders the nuclei more distinct. The source of pus found in the urine may frequently be determined from the symptoms present, to- gether with the microscopical appearances of the urine. If with the pus-corpuscles flat, large epithelia are abundant, the inflammatory pro- cess is in all probability situated in the bladder where these epithelia belong. In females a larger, flat epithelium from the vagina often finds its way into the urine. The cells from the vagina are more often disposed in drifts or groups than the bladder epithelia. Large spherical or po- lygonal cells may come from the kidney-tubules or the male urethra. They are about twice the size of a pus-corpuscle. Whether they are derived from the kidney or the urethra may in great part be determined by the presence or absence of urethritis. Conical or ham-shaped ceUs may come from the pelvis of the kidney, prostate, and glandular appa- ratus of the urethra. They are usually not so abundant as the other varieties. HcBviaturia.—Blood in the urine may come from traumatic or idio- pathic haemorrhage into the Malpighian tufts or kidney-tubules; from the pelvis or ureters as a result of calculi or ulceration ; from the bladder as a result of instrumentation, calculus, wounds, foreign body, neo- plasms, ulceration, parasites, or the hsemorrhagic diathesis; from the prostate or accessory organs and the urethra. The administration of certain remedies may account for the appear- ance of blood in the urine. Hsematuria occurs at times as a symp- tom of malarial fever, and, in women, as a form of vicarious men- struation. Blood in the urine may be recognized by its characteristic coagula, by the red or reddish-brown color it imparts to this fluid, the presence of the corpuscles under the microscope, or the fibrinous casts of the tubules of the kidney or ureters. In rare instances the blood-disks are entirely destroyed, and the coloring-matter set free. This condition is apt to occur in ammoniacal urine. When urine containing blood is boiled, a white or cloudy coagulum is formed, its density depending upon the quantity of blood present.