52 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. must be taken not to pull upon one end with more force than the other, for by so doing the vessel is torn off ; and also to apply the force to the thread on a level with the tip of the forceps, for if this is not done the vessel is also pulled out of the wound and torn away. When all haemorrhage has ceased, except the slight oozing which may occur at any part of the wound, and always does come from the bone, the irrigation is repeated, and a drainage-tube (the bone-drains are pref- erable) inserted at each angle of the wound at a point where, with the part in the position in which it must rest during repair, the drainage of serum or other fluid will be free and uninterrupted. The ilaps are adjusted by interrupted catgut sutures, and safety-pins placed in the ends of the tubes which project. The nozzle of the irrigator is now placed in the tube of one side and then the other, and the wound dis- tended with 1 to 3,000 sublimate, which is then thoroughly pressed out and the dressing applied as follows : A strip of sublimate gauze about two inches wide is button-holed, so as to fit over each of the tubes, and laid over the line of sutures, and on top of this several other pieces of the same size. The stump and thigh, up to the groin, is now enveloped in sublimate gauze in layers until the whole is about one inch thick. Over this a layer of absorbent cotton of the same thickness, and outside of this a sheet of protective which has been dipped in sublimate solution. The whole is held in position by bandages, which should be put on tight enough to hold the muscles quiet and arrest all oozing from the wound, and yet not press the flaps against the end of the bone, and thus cause sloughing. Such is the permanent antiseptic dressing, which remains unmolested unless pain or a rise in temperature indicates that, despite the precautions taken, inflammation and swelling or sepsis have occurred, or until the discharge from the wound has soaked through the dressings and has become offensive, hav- ing undergone decomposition beyond the zone of antisepsis. The after-treatment of a patient who has undergone a major surgical operation will depend a good deal upon the character of the operation. The immediate care should be to maintain the vitality of the tissues, which has been endangered by the shock of the procedure and loss of blood, by judicious stimulation and relief from pain. A hypodermic injection of morphia guarantees relief from pain. If the pulse is weak, and the temperature low, an enema of whisky or the hypodermic admin- istration of this agent will stimulate the heart, while hot applications will aid in the restoration of the normal temperature. One important point must not be lost sight of—namely, that after a surgical operation there is always a reaction, accompanied by increased heart-action and elevation of temperature, and that while stimulants are often necessary in the stage of depression, their administration should be guarded, so that they may not add to the fever of reaction. As long as the effects of the angesthesia last, a trained attendant should remain at the bedside to guard against the danger of asphyxia in case of vomiting, to restrain the patient from unnecessary movements, or it may be to guard against haemorrhage.