A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 672 sion from the urethra or from the epididymis and vas deferens, or with prostatitis or proctitis. Occlusion of the ejaculatory duct induces over-distention of these organs. Several cases of calculus of the duct have been recorded. The diagnosis in dilatation, hypertrophy, or inflammation of these cysts depends upon careful rectal exploration. The Tias deferens is more or less involved in all inflammatory pro- cesses which occur in the epididymis. It is also subject to invasion by inflammation from the urethra and prostate. Tuberculosis of this ves- sel may follow tuberculosis of the testes and epididymis. Lesions of this organ require no especial consideration. Epididymis.—Neoplasms of the sheath of the spermatic cord are rare. In his excellent monograph, Kocher mentions isolated cases of lipoma, fibroma, or myxo-fibroma and sarcoma. Epididymitis results occasionally from direct violence, but is chiefly due to urethritis and the extension of the inflammatory process along the vas deferens. Metastatic or "sympathetic" inflammation of this organ is very rare. It may be acute or chronic. The inflammatory pro- cess may be confined to the epididymis or invade the testicle. Acute epididymitis always involves the tunica vaginalis (with which it is in contact), and very frequently the testicle. Specific urethritis stands first in order in the causation of epididymitis. The introduction of a sound or catheter, the lodgment of a calculus in the urethra or prostate, strict- ure, cystitis, and prostatitis may also cause this disease. The symptoms of acute epididymitis are a sense of uneasiness or pain, varying in intensity in the organ affected, or in the cord or groin. It is increased by pressure, when the erect posture is assumed, or in walking. In severe cases a chill or rigors occur, followed by a marked rise in temperature. Upon inspection there will be more or less induration along the posterior border of the testicle, with heat, redness, and ten- sion. The testicle is more or less enlarged, and very frequently there is a serous transudation into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis. The pathological changes consist chiefly of hypersemia and infiltra- tion of the connective-tissue framework with embryonic cells. The epithelial lining membrane is also thickened and injected. The diagnosis depends upon the symptoms above given. The prog- nosis is usually favorable. One attack, however, predisposes to another. In some instances occlusion of the efferent apparatus results from con- traction of the products of inflammation, and sterility follows. Sper- matic fistula is the rule in these cases. The treatment consists in the administration of saline laxatives in order to empty the alimentary canal. The patient should be placed upon his back, and the inflamed organ supported by either a three-cor- nered pillow between the thighs, or a towel pinned around both thighs just below the base of the scrotum. Upon this a small bladder filled with crushed ice may be placed, and the inflamed organ allowed to rest upon it. If cold is not grateful, warm cloths or a poultice may be sub-