736 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. position, where they should be held by a silver-wire suture passed well into the bone a half-inch from the cut surface; or the bones may be held in apposition by transfixion with small steel drills. Fig. 738 is from a cast taken from a patient at Mount Sinai Hospital upon whom I did this operation in both feet. The degree of correction is shown in Fig. 789. This operation is preferable to that of osteotomy of the first metatar- sal bone just behind the articulation, for the reason that the callosity and projection opposite the joint can only be removed by excision. Hallux varus, or pigeon-toe, is a much rarer deformity, and occurs usually as a result of cicatricial contractions or from spastic action of the abductor-pollicis muscle. The treatment consists in adjusting a well- made shoe which will push the toe into its proper position. Division of any cicatricial tissue or the tendon of the abductor muscle may be necessary. Displacement of the little toe is usually inward and beneath the fourth. The same treatment may be applied in this deformity as given for hallux valgus. Flexion of tlie toes may be complete when there is paralysis of the extensor muscles. The most usual form is that in which the first phalanx is tilted upward, that is, seemingly extended, while the distal phalanx is drawn downward, so that the nail is to the front, and the tip of the toes rests upon the ground. This condition is also known as hammer-toes. The cause is chiefly one of improper shoeing, by which the toes are not allowed to be fully extended, and, being held in this cramped position by the shoe, the muscles and fasciae become permanently shortened. The plantar fascia is usually involved in chronic cases. The extensor mus- cles become shortened as well as the flexors, which are, however, the principal agents in producing the deformity. Extension of the toes beyond the normal line is a rare condition. It could only be caused by paralysis of the flexors. Treatment.—In mild cases of incipient hammer-toes a cure may be effected by wearing a shoe long enough to allow these members to be extended. In more chronic and obstinate cases, a metal sole should be adjusted so that an ordi- nary shoe can be worn over it. Just beneath the middle of the toes is a series of perforations in the sole, through which loops are passed. The toes are straightened by traction on the loops, which are tied below (Fig. 740). In some in- FiG. 740.—Apparatus for ham- . , . p , i t n n x mer-toes. (After Eeeves.) stauces teuotomy of the loug flexor and extensor muscles and of the plantar fascia is essential. The tendons of the extensor digitorum should be subcutaneously divided just over the bases of the toes ; the flexor tendons near the middle of the plantar surface of these members. Bunions are callosities resulting from intermittent pressure upon cer- tain portions of the foot. Corns are both hard and soft. A hard corn differs from a bunion only in size. Soft corns are small ulcers situated between the toes or in