401 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE NOSE. RMnoplasty may be partial or complete. Complete rliinoplasty is performed wlien the skin, cartilages, and bone of the nose have been carried away. In such cases nothing remains but an irregular sunken pit, leading almost directly into the pharynx. The operation consists (1) in paring the margins of the opening and the integument immediately around the opening, in apposition to which the transplanted flap is to be brought; (2) in the transportation of a properly shaped piece of skin, with its underlying tissues, from its nor- mal to the new position. The flap may be taken entirely from the forehead, or one half from each cheek, or from the arm. One of the most frequent causes of failure in this operation is the caving in of the ridge of the new nose, and, in order to better support this part, the end of one of the fingers may be utilized, as follows: First Method—Complete RMnoplasty from tJie Forehead and Finger. —Remove the nail and matrix of one finger of the left hand, split and dissect up the integument on the palmar surface of this finger, as far back as the last interphalangeal articulation, and sew this to the already freshened edges of the nasal opening. The arm, hand, and head should now be immovably fixed in a plaster-of-Paris dressing, in which position it remains for about four weeks. When the circulation is freely estab- lished between the vessels of the face and the transplanted finger, the latter should be amputated at the first or second interphalangeal articu- lations, as may be necessary to have it of sufiicient length to support the covering of integument. After several weeks' delay, to assure the permanent vitality of the transplant- ed phalanx, a flap may be turned from the forehead to the nose, as follows : Cut a piece of chamois-skin, or soft, thin leather, of the shape rep- resented in Fig. 438. Adjust this to the line of the nasal cavity, to see if it is large enough and of proper shape. Bear in mind the following points: 1. The flap once dissected up tends to contract. It should there- fore be slightly larger than a pattern which fits exactly. 2. The isthmus {d, Fig. 438) must not be too narrow, for fear that the vitality of the flap may be insufficient. It should al- ways be cut so as to include the an- gular artery. 3. The distance from the isthmus {d) to (e e), where the lower edge of the new nose is to be, should be considerably less than the distance from d to a c, in order to prevent tension of the flap and inter- ference with the circulation through the pedicle, d. Lay the pattern on 36 Fig. 438.—(After Linhart.)