GANGRENE. 99 skin is of a purplish hue from the start, pain is intense, and the swelling great, and, until coagulation is accomplished, there is .a sense of throb- bing in the affected part. There is at first an elevation of temperature, which, however, is of short duration. Blisters are more numerous, and putrefaction occurs more rapidly. Gangrene from combined arterial and venous occlusion has its type in a strangulated hernia, or in mortification of a finger which has been constricted by a ring. In this variety, arrest of the circulation and co- agulation of the blood are more abrux)t. The remaining features of this form of mortification do not differ materially from those heretofore described. Treatment of Moist Gangrene.—When an artery is obstructed, the first indication is to remove the obstruction. Failing in this, to promote the establishment of a collateral circulation, and to maintain the tempera- ture of the part affected. The position of the limb should be such that pressure upon the structures through which the anastomotic branches run should be avoided. Cotton-batting should be carefully wrapped about the part to the thickness of several inches, and oil-silk or rubber- tissue protective wrapped around this. No pressure by bandages should be employed. The application of hot water, directly or by bottles, is to be dej^recated, for heat is now known to produce capillary contraction. The extremity may be slightly lowered, in order to invite the flow of blood, although care should be taken to prevent obstruction of the veins. While these local measures are being adopted, certain constitutional remedies may be indicated. These relate primarily to cardiac stimula- tion, opium to relieve pain and palliate shock, and to an early improve- ment in the nutritive quality of the blood ; the administration of alcohol and beef-Juice, and the careful combination of those articles of food which are acceptable to the patient, and are known to be rich in nitrogen. Any intercurrent disease or complication will indicate a modification of the treatment to suit the emergency. As death progresses and the sloughing begins, all structures which can be removed easily and without pain should be cut away with dressing forceps and scissors. Iodoform, freely sprinkled over the sloughs, will prove a good deodorizer, or the dead part may be kept wrapped in sublimate gauze, soaked in 1 to 500 solution, and kept moist by protective. When the line of demarkation is formed, sublimate gauze (1 to 1,000) may be laid around this locality, to guard against septic absorption. Haemorrhage is rare in this variety of gangrene, yet when it does occur it demands the ligature or compression. The treatment of gangrene where the vein alone is obstructed, in which, as has been stated, the condition of engorgement is extreme, demands the elevation of the part in order to facilitate the escape of blood through the venous channels. The tension of the part may at times demand incisions through the deep fascia. The same precautions as to temperature must be taken here. The constitutional treatment will be less stimulating, yet supporting, and the local management of the dead part will be the same as given.