A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 548 are again divided into tenous, arterio-nenous, and capillary hsemor- rhoids. The veins wMch are involved in lisemorrtioids belong to two j^lexuses, between which, ordinarily, there is not a free anastomosis. The inferior or external hsemorrhoidal plexus is situated in the last portion of the rectum, within about one inch of the anus, and the blood from this part returns by way of the middle and inferior hsemorrhoidal veins to the Uiacs, and thence by the inferior cava to the heart. The superior or in- ternal plexus occupies the rectum above this point, and from this por- tion the blood returns by the portal system, passing through the liver. In their incipiency, external Ticemorrhoids are simple varicosities of the inferior plexus. Later, as a result of engorgement and repeated in- flammation, the walls become thickened from the presence of newly formed connective tissue, which, in the process of contraction pecuhar to this product of inflammation, often causes obliteration of the vein within the tumor. The remains of these tumors are seen in almost all casfes of chronic external haemorrhoids, where they appear as tags of thickened skin of variable size and shape, collected around the margin of the anus. Internal TicBmorrTioids of recent development are also varicosities of the internal or portal plexus, but when of long duration the tumors very frequently contain arterioles of considerable size. The mucous membrane of the deeper portions of the rectum is at times studded with small, raspberry-like elevations, which bleed profusely, are found to contain a rich network of capillaries, and for this reason are termed capillary licBmorrJioids. External HcEmorrlioids—Acute and OTironic.—This form of tumor, commonly known as "dry piles," is of frequent occurrence. Few indi- viduals live beyond the age of forty without being affected with this lesion. The chief cause is habitual constipation and the over-distention of the lower portion of the rectum in the act of defecation. Prolonged straining at stool, even without the discharge of fecal matter, will also aid in the development of piles. Gravitation by reason of the erect posture is also entitled to a consideration in the setiology of haemor- rhoids, since man is the only animal thus affected. Pressure upon the iliac veins or the inferior cava by the gravid uterus, or any form of tumor, will also aid in producing varicosities of the hsemorrhoidal veins as well as in those of the lower extremities. A patient who is suffering from an acute external hsemorrhoidal tu- mor will usually give a history of constipation and straining at stool, with an unnatural sense of fullness and heaviiiess about the anus, and of considerable pain while the evacuation is taking place, for several days before the protrusion is noticed. Immediately after an evacuation a swelling is noticed just outside of the anus which is painful to the touch, and which can not be pushed into the bowel. Upon inspection, a recent external hsemorrhoidal tumor usually ajjpears tense and glis- tening on the surface, and red or reddish-blue in color. It is partly within and partly outside of the anus. There may be a single swell-