FRACTURES. 275 bent posture, or, if allowed to stand or walk, artificial support should be given to the lower extremities and spine. The medical indications are nutritious diet, out-of-door life, and the administration of the hypophos- phites of lime and soda, with cod-liver oil and tonics. The correction of the deformities which may result from rickets will be considered in the article on Orthopaedic Surgery. Fractures.—A fracture is a sudden solution of continuity in bone or cartilage. The term is commonly applied to lesions of bone. A fracture may be partial or complete ; transverse, oblique, or longitudinal; single, double, or multiple; simple, comminuted, compound, and complicated. A partial fracture occurs when a bone breaks or splinters on one side (its convex surface) and bends on the opposite (green-stick fracture). In a complete fracture there is a total solution of continuity. A transverse fracture, or one in which the line of cleavage is, in general, at a right angle with the axis of the bone, is rare as compared with the oblique. A longitudinal fracture is a split in the long axis of a bone. It is frequently caused by penetrating wounds (gunshot), or may result from a fall with great violence upon the hands or feet, when the cleavage commences in the articular surface. In this way the astragalus may be driven between the fragments of a longitudinal fracture of the tibia, or a like accident occur at the knee or wrist. A single fracture is one break in one bone ; a double fracture is a so- lution of normal continuity in two bones of one member, as the ulna and radius, the tibia and fibula; multiple fracture is a term applied to two or more separate breaks in one or several bones. When a bone is broken in one direction, and at one point, without injury of any surrounding organ or perforation of the skin, it is termed a simple fracture ; if there are more than two fragments it is a comminuted fracture ; if any part of the fractured surface communicates with the atmosphere it is a com- pound ; and if it communicates with a Joint, or involves in the fracture the wound of any important organ, as a large artery or vein, or, as in fracture of a rib, occasionally the pleura or lung is wounded, it is a com- plicated fracture. An impacted fracture is one in which the fragments are splintered and interlocked with more or less complete immobility. A fracture may be caused by external violence, directly or indirectly applied, or by muscular action, or both factors may unite in the produc- tion of the lesion. As an example of direct violence, in the effort to ward off a blow from the head the ulna may be broken by the force of a cane immediately beneath the contusion of the soft parts. A blow on the vertex which fractures the base of the skull, or a fall on the foot which breaks the femur, are common examples of fracture from indirect vio- lence. Contraction of the quadriceps extensor may fracture the patella, or the same lesion may result from a fall on the knee, in which the direct violence and the action of this powerful muscle unite to cause the fracture. In addition to these direct agencies, certain conditions of the tissues pre- dispose to fracture. The bones of the aged break more readily and are slower in repair than the young and middle-aged. There is a not infre- quent condition of fragility in the bones of the insane which, either alone