172 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Vegetations from tlie heart ma extensive enough to pass through whatever source, carried along the of lodgment. m Fig. 250.—Arteritis with fatty deafeneration of the intima of the aorta. The nuclei of the normal cells are represented by the larger bodies, one of which is seen at m,; the smaller bodies, as at are fatty granules. Magnified 400 diameters. (From Cormi and Eanvier.) Y produce endarteritis when they are the aortic valves. Fragments from vessels, produce arteritis at the point Fig. 251.—a form of fatty degeneration after arteritis. Fatty degeneration of the hiternal coat of the aorta. Minute yellowish-white patches scattered over the lining membrane of the vessel. A very thin layer peeled off and magnified 200 diameters, showing fat molecules and the distribution of fat in the intima. (From Green.) If we examine the intima of an artery which has been the seat of recent endarteritis, it will be seen to be swollen, and thicker and softer than in healthy vessels. The swelling is not usually general and con- tinuous, but occurs in patches or hillocks of quite regular contour, which project into the lumen of the vessel. The intima is usually injected, and reddish in color, though, according to Cornil and Ranvier, when the in- flammation has been of a very severe type, the swollen intima is paler than normal. If the inflammation be of recent origin, these patches will present an unbroken surface ; but if softening has occurred, the centers of the elevations break down, resulting in erosions or ulcers, as they have been styled by some pathologists. Green says that they are due to soft- ening of the intercellular substance, and that the cells and granular matter, becoming loose from this softening, are washed out by the blood- current. These erosions resemble considerably the superficial erosions found often in the mucous membrane of the stomach. At times they are covered over with a layer of fibrin, which, upon close inspection, is found to be composed of one or more laminae of fibrillated fibrin, with corpus- cular elements entangled in or resting between them. Beneath the projecting intima is found a mass of inflammation-tissue, consisting of embryonic and large anastomosing cells resembling the normal connective-tissue cells of the most external structure of the intima. Hyperplasia of the normal cell-elements is more marked as we approach the inner layers of cells of which the intima is composed, the prolifera- tion growing gradually less extensive as the elastic lamina is neared. This condition is a feature of acute endarteritis, and difl'ers both fi'om the inflammation of the atheromatous process and from syphilitic endar- teritis. This mass of new-formed embryonic tissue is, in all probability, the immediate result of proliferation of the normal cell-elements of the intima.