A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 340 Dislocations at the AnJcle-Joint. — Dislocations at the tibio-tarsal articulation may occur in four directions, viz., forward, hacTcward, in- ward, and outward. In the last two forms fracture of one or the other malleolus is apt to occur. Dislocation of the tibia inward is caused by a fall upon the foot at a time when it is turned outward, the body-weight being brought to bear upon the inner aspect of the heel and great toe. This form of sprain is frequently caused by leaping from a wagon or car in motion. It may also result from a heavy blow upon the fibular side of the leg, near the ankle, when the foot is solidly fixed against the ground. The displace- ment is usually partiaL A complete luxation is apt to be compound. The symptoms of inward dislocation are the great prominence of the inner malleolus and the peculiar twist of the foot, so that the inner side of the heel and the great toe rest on the floor while the sole looks ob- liquely outward and upward. The only displacement it may be mistaken for is that of the astragalus from the os calcis. The treatment is to bring the foot into the normal position by pressure and counter-pressure, and fix it with a splint and bandage. On account of the great swelling which is likely to occur, an immovable dressing should not be applied until the acute symptoms of inflammation have subsided. The symptoms of outward displacement are the reverse of the inward, and can without difficulty be recognized. Displacement of the tendons of the long and short peronei muscles, from their sheaths behind the external malleolus, is likely to occur in this accident. After reduction at the joint these should be pushed into place, and an effort (rarely suc- cessful) made to hold them in position by a compress and bandage, ap- plied before the splint for the luxation is adjusted. Forward dislocation may occur as the result of a blow upon the back of the leg, near the ankle, while the foot is firmly placed upon the ground; by falling forward with great violence, when the momentum of the body is suddenly arrested by the foot striking against the ground ; or by fall- ing backward, with the foot so fixed that great and unusual extension of the tarsus takes place. The symptoms are unnatural prominence of the heel, shortening of the distance between the toes and the front of the tibia, on the displaced side. Reduction.—Place a clove-hitch around the heel and instep for exten- sion, and make counter-extension from the thigh. Flex the leg so as to relax the sural muscles, and make forcible extension from the foot. As soon as the extension is well begun the operator places his foot against the front of the patient's tibia, just above the ankle, and pulls forward on the foot, at the same time flexing it on the tibia. Backward displacement is caused by violence applied in a direction opposite to that which produces the forward luxation, and the symptoms are exactly the reverse. The treatment demands reduction by extension and counter-extension, and direct pressure. Dislocations at the ankle are often complicated with fracture, or may be compound. In any form of injury an effort should be made to save