298 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. thicker just over the carpus. After the fragments are reduced, the splints are applied, and held in place by bandages, as shown in Fig. 327. Fracture of the styloid process, and longitudinal fracture, should be treated by the modified Pilcher dressing. In fractures of both bones of the forearm proceed as follows : Pre- pare two splints of thin board, one, the posterior, to extend from with- in one inch of the olecranon to the ends of the fingers ; the anterior to extend from the elbow to the carpus; both wjder than the forearm at every point. Pad these with some soft material, considerably thicker in the center than elsewhere, to serve as an interosseous pad. Wrap each splint with a bandage to hold the padding in place. An assistant grasps the patient's hand and arm above the elbow, and, \\dth the forearm at a right angle to the humerus, held in a position half way between supina- tion and pronation, makes steady extension, while the operator makes a careful reposition of the fragments. Apply the splints so that the inter- osseous pads will push the muscles down and between the radius and ulna. Then fasten them by a bandage made tight enough to prevent slipping. If, in the course of a few days, the dressing becomes loosened, it can be tightened by applying an additional roller. The forearm is carried in a sling. The treatment should be continued for about four weeks, when passive motion at the elbow, and supination and pronation, should be made, and the dressing readjusted for another week. This simple dressing is sufficient for all fractures of one or both bones of the forearm (excepting Colles's or Barton's). Compound fractures of the bones of the forearm require fixation by this method, and the security of open wounds, free drainage, and strict antisepsis. Carpus—Metacarpus—Phalanges.—^Fractures of the carpus occur from great and direct violence, being almost invariably compound. The treatment should be fixation, rest, and drainage under antiseptic precau- tions. The metacarpal bones may be broken by direct violence or by blows or falls on their distal ends. This fracture is not uncommon with boxers. I had under observation three brothers, professional pugilists, each of whom had a metacarpal fracture, and one of whom had also a fracture of the radius, all received while sparring. In the young, in rare instances, separation may occur at the epiphyses, which are at the phalangeal ex- tremities of the metacarpal bones of the fingers, and at the carpal ex- tremity for that of the thumb. The fracture of a metacarpal bone, broken by indirect violence, is usually situated in its middle. The acci- dent is recognized by pain, displacement, or crepitus. The treatment is reduction by extension and counter-extension, with direct manipulation and the application of an anterior splint, padded and arched so as to fill the concavity of the palmar aspect of the bone, and to extend to the end of the finger. A posterior splint is also applied, both fastened by. a roller. The danger is from fixation of the extensor tendon as a result of inflammation. Passive motion of the finger every day will prevent this result.