116 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. material, so arranged that, as the water drips on it, it will pass through the gauze and over the raw surface. Fig. 164 shows a ready-made irrigator in use in my service at Mount Sinai Hospital. A piece of sheet-tin, about a foot wide and of any re- quired length, is shaped into a trough, the bott(>m of which is punched full of holes with an awl. A rubber tube leads the water from a tank into this trough, from which it trickles on to the wound in any required quantity. Or, as represented in the cut, the tube—which, in the case of the patient from whom the drawing was made, conveyed the irrigating fluid into a suppurating knee-joint—may also be employed to carry the water into the wound. Pure water should be used for irrigation. The danger of absorption from an extensive granulating surface precludes the sublimate or carbolic- acid solutions. The only objection to which this method is open is the slowness with which the process of repair goes on in its employment. This is, however, an objection of little weight when the ultimate recovery of the patient is secured. As soon as the temperature shows an absence of sepsis the irri- gation may cease, and the granulating flaps may be approximated grad- ually by bandages or adhesive strips. Special Amputations. Hand and Fingers.—A primary amputation of any portion of the hand is rarely if ever justifiable. If there is only a small strip of tissue, the integrity of which is evident, an effort at the restoration of the nutri- tion and function of the part beyond should be attempted. If any doubt exists as to the result, the benefit of this should be given to the side of conservatism. It is essential to arrest haemorrhage, cleanse the wounds under strict antisepsis, secure drainage, and place the parts in the best position for usefulness in case of recovery. Amputation may be done when necessitated by gangrene or necrosis. Fingers — Inter phalangeal Operations.—Between the second and third phalanges of the fingers, proceed,as follows: Flex the terminal phalanx at about an angle of 90° to the axis of the second bone, and, one eighth of an inch anterior to the angle on the dorsal aspect, with a small, sharp-pointed scalpel make a transverse incision, extending half way down the sides of the finger. From this point carry the incision forward, parallel with the axis of the digit, to within a quarter of an inch of the end, then across the palmar aspect of the tip to the opposite side, finishing the incision at the angle of the transverse cut (Fig. 165). Dissect the palmar flap up, keeping close to the bone, lifting the flexor tendon, with the skin, back to the articulation; divide the tendon opposite the joint, and dis- articulate. The flap is now turned back, trimmed with the scissors to fit Fw. i65.