A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 734 Fig. 735.—Oast of the right foot in ; case of talipes planus, at the Poly clinic. The plantar fascia and calcaneo-cuboid ligaments are stretched, the internal lateral ligaments of the ankle-joint are generally involved, while the tibialis anticus and the antero-posterior muscles of the plantar as- pect of the foot are elongated. The princi- pal cause of this deformity is the habitual carrying of heavy burdens, or pressure of the superincumbent weight of the body upon the arch of the foot, together with lack of tonicity in the muscles, and of strength in the ligaments and fascia. Treatment.—It is exceedingly difficult and in the majority of cases impossible to correct this deformity. The best method is to support the arch of the foot by a comfortable adjustment of pressure by inserting a piece of felt in the sole of the shoe. Just beneath the arch. The deformities of the toes are congenital and acquired. The con- genital deviations from the normal are the presence of one or more su- pernumerary toes {potydactylus)^ or the absence of one or more of these members {syndactylus). In polydactylus the most frequent supernumerary toe is one connected with the great-toe, attached usually on its inner or tibial aspect, near the Junction of the metatarsal bone and phalanx. In a rare case of this de- formity, reported by Prof. Sayre, there were eight toes on the right and ten on the left foot. Treatrnent.—All minor deformities the removal of which does not endanger the life of the individual, or diminish the usefulness of the member affected, demand amputation within the first year or two of life, before the patient is old enough to become conscious of possessing a de- formity. Syndactylus is a term applied not only to the partial or entire ab- sence of one or more fingers, but also to the condition known as congen- ital weh-toe. Web-toes may be treated in the same way as web-fingers. If neglected until the child is old enough to become accustomed to the deformity, operation is of doubtful propriety. When one or more toes are missing, as in Fig. 736, even when the deformity is offensive to the sight, the question of operative interference (except for relief from pain) should depend upon the de- gree of usefulness enjoyed by the deformed mem- ber. An important principle in the surgery of the foot is to save every particle of surface for the sup- port of the body. This conclusion gains additional force in the ability to conceal the deformity by a properly constructed shoe. The acquired deformities of the toes result in almost all cases from improperly adjusted shoes. The displacement may be in all directions, although those of the great and little toes are usually toward the median Fio. 736, Syndactj^lus in the right "foot of a boy. (After Reeves.)