HERNIA. 499 posture was assumed, or when strong upward pressure was made by the hand. If suddenly acquired, the presence of the tumor is noticed soon after a violent strain of the abdominal muscles. Pain is almost always pres- ent, and the patient is generally aware of the moment the rupture oc- curred. The diagnosis of inguinal hernia involves, (1) the differentiation be- tween the direct and indirect form, and (2) between inguinal and femoral hernise and the various swellings which may occur in this region ; vari- cocele, hydrocele, bubo, incarcerated testicle, new formations, abscess, and aneurism. A direct inguinal hernia is exceptional. The tumor formed by it is apt to be spherical (Fig. 541), is situated nearer the median line, and Fig. 5il.—Direct ingmnal hernia. (After Bryant.) Fig. 542.—Oblique inguinal hernia. (After Bryant.) the neck will be found to enter the abdominal cavity immediately be- hind the external ring. The tumor formed by an oblique inguinal hernia (Fig. 542) is oval or elliptical in the incomplete, and oval or pyriform in the complete variety. The history of the swelling, if gradually de- veloped, will indicate that the tumor com- ^ _,„^ menced at the middle of Poupart's ligament and traveled toward the pubes. In cases of long standing, and when the tumor is of large size, the diagnosis between the direct and in- direct form is scarcely possible, from the fact that the inner edge of the internal ring has been dragged down until it occupies a posi- tion just behind the external opening, A femoral hernia (Fig. 543) is situated be- low Poupart's ligament, and near its attach- ment to the spine of the pubes, to the inner side of the femoral vessels. In lean subjects the neck of the tumor can be readily traced to the canal at this point. In corpulent persons the diagnosis is more difficult. The swelling of varicocele commences in the lower posterior portion of the cord, and increases gradually upward. To the touch the dis- FiG. 543.—Femoral hernia. (After Bryant.)