164 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. by the agency of a third body, fibrin-ferment. A. Schmidt has carried experimentation further, and is led to believe that paraglobulin and fibrin-ferment both originate in the white blood-corpuscles. This theory is exceedingly seductive, and it can not be denied that actual pathology proves that around and within inflammatory areas where white blood- corpuscles are most abundant, coagulation and fibrillation are more apt to occur, and a study of thrombi, which have been gradually formed, reveals alternating layers of white corpuscles and fibrillated fibrin. (Green.) What may be the principle in the blood which is the factor of coagula- tion, or what reaction it may be which precipitates the fibrin, we can not in the present conditon of science positively assert. The facts, however, "point to the conclusion that when blood is contained in healthy, living blood-vessels, a certain relation or equilibrium exists between the blood and the containing vessels, of such a nature that, as long as this equilibrium is maintained, the blood remains fluid ; but when this equilibrium is disturbed by events in the blood or blood-vessels (or by the removal of the blood), it undergoes changes which result in coagu- lation." (Foster.) So delicate is the sensibility of the blood to mechanical irritation or hindrance in its flow, that the slightest injury or roughening of the endothelial lining membrane may produce a deposit of fibrillated fibrin. A delicate needle, or wire, or thread, thrust into the lumen of a healthy vessel, precipitates coagulation upon the foreign body. The white cor- puscles are found clustered in great numbers on the foreign body, and, when the mass is examined with the microscope, the corpuscles seem to serve as starting-points for the development of fibrin. (Reichert.) Causes and Clinical History of Phlebitis.—Phlebitis has been termed traumatic and idiopathic, and the latter term has been applied indiscriminately to all forms of phlebitis not directly due to an apj)re- ciable lesion. Idiopathic pMeMtis is comparatively a rare affection (Yirchow). It may occur without a traumatism, as from exposure to cold, or as a sequel to fevers and varicosities (Hamilton). It may occur as a complication of syphilis (Hutchinson), or as a result of the gouty diathesis (Paget). From whatever cause it may proceed, idiopathic phlebitis usually affects the veins of the lower extremities. Traumatic pJilehitis may be caused by a partial or complete solution of continuity of the venous walls, by contiguity of inflamed tissues, or by violent muscular action and pressure. The inflammation of the uterine sinuses during and after parturition, which Cornil and Ranvier style "la phlebite spontanee," is really a form of traumatic phlebitis, due to the irritation resulting from pressure and muscular action. Phlebitis has been described as acute and chronic (Gross); adhesive and suppurative (Bryant); gouty and diffuse (Hamilton). These ternas but express varying conditions of one pathological process, and whether this inflammatory process shall result in adhesion or suppuration, shall become diffused, or shall assume a chronic form, will depend solely upon