102 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. wholly dependent upon the absorption of poisonous material at the seat of the disease — headache, pain in the part affected, irregular febrile movement, hectic suffusion, followed by cold perspiration, rapid and weak pulse, and, as the malady progresses, great jDrostration, diarrhoea, delirium, and death, which results usually in from one to three weeks. Prognosis.—Once the dread and scourge of civil as well as militarj^ hospitals, contagious gangrene, in the achievement of modern surgery, has taken its place as a complication of a wound annoying and painful rather than dangerous to the life of the individual. A fatal termination may ensue when the wound is contiguous to important vessels, where haemorrhage may occur, either from death of the tissues from gangrene, or their destruction by caustics in the effort to arrest the disease. The prognosis may also be grave when, from the nature of the injury, the deeper portions of the slough can not be reached, and drainage secured. Under such conditions death is apt to ensue from septic absorption. Treatment.—As soon as a wound is attacked with gangrene it should be mopped with pure bromine or undiluted nitric acid. Care should be taken not to allow the escharotic to run over and burn the uninvaded skin. If the neighboring integument is protected with vaseline this acci- dent may be prevented. If the disease has been in progress for one or two days, and the wound is covered in with the pulpy mold peculiar to this malady, the entire wound should be scraped out with a Yolkmann's spoon, and the acid or bromine thoroughly applied. When the skin has been undermined, or the deeper tissues, as the muscles, involved, free incisions should be made in order to expose every portion of the diseased tissue to the action of the caustic. After this a plug of iodoform gauze should be laid in the bottom of the wound, and a pile of loose sublimate gauze (1 to 1,000) added to this. Where a penetrating wound, as a bullet or puncture, has become infected under conditions that will not permit incision, the entire track of wounded tissue must be subjected to the process of cauterization and disinfection. In order to accomplish this, the opening or openings of the wound may be enlarged, the cavity scraped thoroughly with sponges fastened to holders, and then the entire track inundated with bromine. Ether should be administered to relieve the pain of the applications, and opium afterward. The constitutional treatment looks to the nourishment of the patient. The sanitary management of a case is of the greatest importance. Isola- tion of the cases attacked, and the immediate removal of other patients from the same ward, tent, or locality, is urgent. All instruments should be disinfected in 10-per-cent carbolic-acid solution, or by being submitted to a red heat, and all sponges, dressings, etc., instantly burned. The floor, walls, and celling of a hospital-ward in which a case of phagedenic gangrene has occurred should be washed and irrigated with 1 to 1,000 sublimate solution, and the mattresses burned.