272 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. caverns of Howsliip. The cause of this absorption can not, as yet, be satisfactorily explained. Up to this point in the process of inflammation the progress is practi- cally the same in all forms of ostitis, whether acute or chronic, traumatic or idiopathic. If the ostitis is mild in character, and the tissues involved are in proper condition to resist disease, a portion of the mass of embryonic cells disappears by absorption, while the remainder becomes converted into new bone, which new formation is compensatory to the loss of tissue in the earlier stages of the inflammation. This result may occur in the periosteum, compact tissue, or endosteum. In exceptional cases the process of embryonic tissue-formation and absorption of the lamellae goes on indefinitely until the bone is more or less completely destroyed and replaced by granulation-tissue. This va- riety is known as rarefying ostitis {ostitis rarefaciens). When, in the process of repair, the new formation of bone-tissue is in excess of the original structure, it is termed productive ostitis {ostitis osteoplastica). In some of these new formations or exostoses the osseous structure resembles closely the parent bone, while in others the new product is more dense and ehurnated. To this variety the name of ostitis sclerosa has been given. Productive ostitis and ostitis sclerosa occur usually in the bones of the cranium and in the compact substance of the long bones. In rare instances the medullary cavity is filled with newly formed bone. If the inflammatory process is intense, and the condition of the tissues favorable to its development, not only the compact substance, but the medulla and cancellous tissue becomes rapidly infiltrated with pus, inducing a more or less extensive necrosis. This condition is termed osteo-myelitis. Sup- puration is especially apt to occur in ostitis affecting the spongy bones, as those of the tarsus and carpus, the terminations of the long bones, and the bodies of the vertebrae, although cases are not infrequently observed in which the embryonic granulation-tissue has filled the space fonnerly occupied by the spongy substance, and in which no pus is present {ostitis interna f ungosa). The inflammatory tissue occasionally undergoes caseous degeneration {ostitis interna caseosa), and in still rarer instances miliary tubercles are found in old inflammatory centers {tubercular ostitis). Causes.—^Inflammation of the periosteum and the underlying bone may result from direct or indirect violence. A fracture will produce a typical acute ostitis, while the same result may be secondary to an injury of a joint. Traumatic ostitis is almost always acute, while idiopathic inflammation is usually subacute in character. Ostitis and periostitis occur chiefly as expressions of a dyscrasia. They are frequently met with in patients suffering from tuberculosis, scrofula, and syphilis. Peri- ostitis osteoplastica, affecting the tibia and bones of the calvarium, re- sulting in nodes or exostoses, is frequent in this last disease. Ostitis is held by late pathologists to be a frequent result of tubercular deposits in the bones.