415 THE LIPS AND CHEEKS. In the milder cases the procedure of Colles may be undertaken. Upon one side of the fissure (usually the most perpendicular surface is selected) make an incision parallel with and about one eighth of an inch from its free border, a c (Fig. 475). This incision terminates short of the wing of the nose and the vermilion border, and is bisected a little nearer its upper than its lower end, b. The opposite surface is freshened by an incision in the line def (Fig. 475), this strip being entirely removed. When the soft parts are thoroughly dissected up, the edges are approximated, so that the flap 5 c is turned down, and its end is stitched to the line e f. The flap 5 a is turned up, its freshened surface being stitched to the upper part of the line e d, while its upper edge looks into the cavity of the nostril. Fig. 475.—(After Linhart, Colics.) Fig. 476.—(Modified from Koenig.) Second Method.—In the severer forms of complete unilateral hare- lip, proceed as follows: Freshen the edge of one side of the fissure on the line indicated by 5 a (Fig. 476), and upon the opposite side, as at c d, from d making a division of the lip outward and downward, d e, in the direction of the corner of the mouth, and as far as may be necessary. Dissect up the tissues freely from the bones, and make a horizontal in- cision on either side, as shown at 5 i, c 1 (Fig. 476). The length of these incisions will depend upon the degree of tension required to bring the flaps into apposition. When the wing of the nose is greatly flattened the deformity may be in good part relieved by carrying a curved incision, around the ala nasi, and dissecting loose the attachment from the maxillary bone. Double Hare-Lip.—The method of operation for double hare-lip will depend upon the size and position of the middle piece, and the width Fig. 477.—(After Koenig.) Fig. 478.—(Alter Koenig.) and depth of the lateral fissures. If the central piece is so prominent that it will exercise too great tension upon the lip when the sutures are