670 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. it. This should be thoroughly soaked in l-to-2000 sublimate solution for several hours before it is to be used. For passing the ligature around the mass of veins, Keyes's needle (Fig. 662) should be preferred. It is better, as will be seen, to have two of these instruments. If these can not be obtained, the long needle of Peaslee, or an ordinary darning- needle, may be substituted. With everything in readiness, proceed as Fig. 662.—Keyes's varicocele-needle. follows: The operator, by careful manipulation, finds the vas deferens as it is located in the posterior part of the cord near the level of the scrotal attachment to the perinseum, separates it from the mass of veins, and, by tightly pinching the scrotal walls between the thumb and finger of the left hand, holds this important duct behind and to the inner side of the veins. The vas deferens may be recognized by its dense and leathery feel. It rule, smaller than the veins, but, while these may be effaced by pressure, the vas deferens is so thick that it can not be obliterated, but will Jump from between the thumb and finger when tightly squeezed. Once eliminated and secured behind the veins, pressure should not be interrupted until the threaded needle is passed entirely through both waUs of the scrotum from before backward between the vas deferens and the plexus of veins. If two needles are on hand, the one now passed through should be left in position, and the pressure with the thumb and finger of the left hand being no longer needed, this hand may be used to facilitate the second step in the operation. The second needle, with- out being threaded, should now be made to enter by the side of and in the same opening with the first, and as soon as the point is well within the dartos—but not deep enough to puncture the veins—it should be carefully worked between the veins and dartos, around the mass to the outer side, and made to emerge behind at the same opening with the other instrument. The thread is now disengaged from the first needle and carried through the eye of the second, which, upon being withdrawn, completes the circuit of the ligature around the mass. It should now be tied slowly and securely. The single knot is preferable, since the fric- tion of the double knot is so great that the thread may break in the effort to draw it tight enough to constrict the veins (an accident which has twice happened to myself). The first needle should not be with- drawn until the ligature is secured, since, should the thread break, the second needle will alone have to be inserted. As the first loop of the knot is tightened, the mass within its grasp should be held by an assist- ant to prevent its slipping before the second loop is finished. When completed, the ends are cut close to the hole of entrance, and the walls of the scrotum separated when the knot and ends disappear inside the dar- tos. A light sublimate dressing is required. The patient should remain in bed one day, and keep quiet about the house for four or five more.