DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 387 than run the risk of inducing too great reaction by deeper cauterization. In the successful employment of this agent it is essential that it be car- ried into all the folds and pockets of the thickened conjunctiva. Buet, oO, or cosmoline should be rubbed on the edges of the lids to prevent adhesions. In severe cases of trachoma, which resist all conservative measures, three radical methods are recommended. The first of these is scarification of the lids, and is applicable when the granulations are con- fined chiefly to the palpebral conjunctiva. Anaesthesia should be induced by cocaine, as heretofore, the lids everted, and from two to eight lines of scarification through the granulations made by the lancet carried parallel with the free border of the lid. The division of the vessels and the cicatrization which ensues cause a diminution of the blood-supply, and absorption of the products of infiammation. ' When the ocular conjunctiva is also seriously involved, a cure may be effected by the induction of gonorrhoeal ophthalmia. A small quan- tity of the virus is placed upon the conjunctiva, and the resulting in- flammation is treated, as given hereafter, for this specific form of con- junctivitis. The use of jequirity-bean is at this date very popular with ophthalmic surgeons in the treatment oi pannus. Prof. Webster advises its employ- ment in one of the following ways : One jequirity-bean coarsely powdered is placed in an ounce of water for four hours. The patient is then re- quired to bathe the affected eye very freely with this solution for ten or fifteen minutes, letting some of it get into the eye. One thorough wash- ing will usually produce the characteristic membrane of the conjunctiva. If this does not succeed, the operation should be repeated. Or the bean, very finely pulver- ized, may be applied to the whole palpebral conjunctiva. It is desirable in all forms of conjunctivi- tis to shield the eye from the light. A con- ; venient shade or screen for this purpose is I shown in Fig. 420. Conjunctivitis in the new-born {opJithal- mia neonatorum) is a form of purulent oph- thalmia which usually results from the inocu- lation of the conjunctiva with septic matter present in the genital passages of the mother. It may come from carelessness on the part of ^ the nurse, herself affected with a leucorrhcEa, Fig. 420. etc., or from the lodgment of any virus in the eye of the child. The treatment is prophylactic as well as curative. The eyes of a child born of a mother known to be suffering from a vaginal discharge of a purulent character should, as soon as possible after birth, be washed or mopped out with clean warm water, or boracic- acid solution, to be followed with one or two drops of a 2-per-cent ni- trate-of-silver solution (grs. ijss.-f j) once or twice a day, for three or four days.