A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 306 of the uninjured limb rests upon a stool, a clove-hitcli or doable loop is thrown around the ankle, and to this a block and pulley is attached, the opposite end of which is fastened to the wall. Extension is then applied per, tin, or hoop-iron may be worked in with the plaster bandages if desired. The prognosis in this class of cases should always be guarded. Use- ful limbs result in a large majority of cases, but the function of the hip is not often fully restored. Fracture of the Trochanter.—Separation of the great trochan- ter is a rare accident. The cause is direct violence. A diagnosis must rest upon independent mobility of the tuberosity, with crepitus. The treatment should be fixation, firm compression by bandages, and rest. Fracture through the Trochanters.—Fracture through the trochan- ters is also comparatively of rare occurrence. The diagnosis may be determined by shortening, crepitus, pain, and loss of symmetry and func- tion. A strong diagnostic feature is, that a portion of the trochanter may remain attached to the neck.* The treatment does not differ from that just given. The prognosis is more favorable as to restoration of function. Occasionally enormous exostosis occurs after fracture at this locality. Fractures of the Shaft.—The shaft of the femur is usually broken by direct violence, or indirectly by a force transmitted from below upward. In exceptional instances the fracture is caused by muscular contraction alone. The line of fracture is generally oblique, and the displacement is determined chiefly by the direction of this line. In complete fracture overlapping is the rule. When the break is in the upper portion the lower fragment is drawn up by the long muscles extending from the pelvis to the neighborhood of the knee-joint, and, as shown in Fig. 338, Fio. 337. until, by measure- ment from the ante- rior superior spinous process of the ilium to the lowest point of the inner malleo- lus, the two legs are found to be of the same length. The pelvis, thigh, and leg are then covered with a dry roller, or a trousers' leg, or piece of soft blanket, and the plaster rollers applied. Accessory splints of zinc, cop- * Prof. L. A. Stimson, op. eit.