New York: D. APPLETON & CO., 1, 3, & 5 Bond Street, « LECTURES UPON DISEASES OF THE REC- TUM AND THE SURGERY OF THE LOWER BOWEL Delivered at the Bellevue Hospital Medical College by W. H. Van Bueen, M. D., late Professor of the Principles and Practice of Surgei-y in the Bellevue Hospital Medical College, etc., etc. Second edition, revised and enlarged. One volume, 8vo, 412 pages, with 27 Illustrations and complete Index. Cloth, $3'.00 ; sheep, $4.00. " The reviewer too often finds it a difficult task to discover points to praise, in order that his criticisms may not seem one-sided and unjust. These lectures, however, place him upon the other horn of the dilemma, viz., to find somewhat to criticise severely enough to clear himself of the charge of indiscriminating laudation. Of course, the author upholds some views which confiiot with other authorities, but he substantiates them by the most powerful of arguments, viz., a large experience, the results of which are enunciated by one vfho elsewliere shows that he can appreciate, and accord the due value to, the work and experience of others."—Archives of Medicine. " The present is a new volume rather than a new edition. Both its size and material are vastly beyond its predecessor. The same scholarly method, the same calm, convincing statement, the same wise, carefully matured counsel, pervade every paragraph. The dis- comfort and dangers of the diseases of the rectum call for greater consideration than they usually receive at the hands of the profession."—Detroit Lancet. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS, INCLUDING SYPHILIS. Designed as a Manual for Students and Practitioners. With Engravings and Cases. By W. H. Van Bueen, A. M., M. D., late Professor of Principles of Surgery, with Diseases of the Genito-Urinary System and Clinical Surgery, in Bellevue Hospital Medical College, etc., and E. L. Ketes, A. M., M. D., Professor of Dermatology in Bellevue Hospital Medical College; Surgeon to the Charity Hospital, Venereal Diseases, etc. One. volume, 8vo, 672 pages. Cloth, $5.00 ; sheep, $6.00. This work is really a compendium of, and a book of reference to, all modern works treating in any way of the surgical diseases of the genifo-urinary organs. At the same time, no other single book contains so large an array of original facts concerning the class of diseases with which it deals. These facts are largely drawn from the extensive and varied experience of the authors. Many important branches of genito-urinary diseases, as the cutaneous maladies of the penis and scrotum, receive a thorough and exhaustive treatment that the professional reader will search for elsewhere in vain. The subject of syphilis is included, of necessity, in this treatise. Although properly belonging to the department of Principles of Surgery, there is no disease falling within the limits of this work concerning which clear and correct ideas as to nature and treat- ment will, at the present time, so seriously influence success in practice. The work is elegantly and profusely illustrated, and enriched by fifty-five original cases, setting forth obscure and difficult points in diagnosis and treatment.