550 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Pressure upon the portal vein, or upon the inferior mesenteric vein, whether due to an overloaded condition of the alimentary canal, or a tumor, will produce the same effect. Symptoms.—Internal piles, as a rule, cause little or no pain or an- noyance until they are sufficiently developed to be caught in the grip of the sphincter, or are protruded through the anus. Previous to their descent, however, a variable amount of bleeding has usually occurred, often enough to attract the attention and excite the alarm of the patient. This is especially true of the arterio-venous and capillary tumor, al- though the venous tumor not infrequently gives rise to considerable haemorrhage. Upon digital examination the presence of the haemorrhoids may be easily recognized, and ocular demonstration may be made by the care- ful dilatation of the sphincter with the Sims rectal speculum. If a free enema of warm water be administered, the tumors will usually protrude with the discharge of the water if the patient is placed in the squatting posture, and is directed to make a strong expulsive effort. Treatment.—Yenous and arterio-venous internal haemorrhoids may be cured by one of three methods—the ligature, the clamp, and the in- jection of carbolic acid ; the capillary variety by the mild application of the cautery or nitric acid. Of the first methods mentioned there is little room for choice between the ligature and the clamp, and both of these are preferable to the car- bolic-acid injection. Operation by the ligature is deservedly the more popular, for the reason that it is not only simple, radical, and success- ful, but does not require any special or costly apparatus for its perform- ance. The objections to the operation with carbolic acid are, that it does not always succeed, it requires a long time—several weeks, and at times months—in effecting a cure, peri proctitis and abscess of the ischio- rectal fossa may ensue, and hepatic embolism, with abscess, is, however remote, a possibility. Not unfrequently ulcer of the bowel results, which of itself requires to be cured. In its favor it may be said that the treatment can be carried on without ether narcosis, in almost all cases without going to bed, and is not, as a rule, accompanied by great pain. Since the operation by the ligature is almost universally recognized by surgeons as the safer and more scientific procedure, it should be recom- mended. If the patient for any reason can not submit to it, the method of injection may be undertaken if, after a full explanation of the differ- ent methods, the operator is relieved of all responsibility. Operation hy the Ligature.—The preparation of the patient is the same as in other operations about the rectum. When fully anaesthe- tized, the lithotomy position should be preferred, or, if help is scarce, or the convenience of the operator is better suited, the patient may be placed iipon the left side, with the left arm behind the body and the thighs and legs flexed. The first step is the dilatation of the sphincter, which is accomplished by introducing the thumbs and stretching the muscle toward the tuber- osities of the ischia until relaxation is complete. A soft sponge is car-