TALIPES VARUS AND EQUINO-VARUS. 729 placing the upper end level with that of the plaster (Fig. 721). Secure this by passing the two strips above mentioned around the limb (Fig. 722), then turn the vertical strip of plaster upward upon the tin. A slit should be made in the plaster where it passes over the eye, in order that the latter may protrude. The roller should then be continued smoothly up the limb to the top of the tin. The plaster is again ^ reversed and brought down over the bandage, another slit being Q made for the eye, and the whole secured by a few turns of the fig. 723. roller. A small chain, a few inches in length, containing a dozen or twenty links for graduating the adjustment, is then ^ secured to the eye in the tin, "Intoeither end of a piece of ordinary India-rubber tubing, about one quarter of an inch in diameter and two to six inches in length, hooks of the pattern shown in Fig. 723 are fastened by a wire or other strong ligature. One hook (Fig. 722) is fast- ened to the wire loop on the plaster on the foot, and the other ^ to the chain above mentioned, the various links making the fig. 724. necessary changes in the adjustment. "The dressing, when complete, is shown in Fig. 722." (Sayre.) A roller should now be carefully and smoothly applied over the plas- ter and between the leg and the artificial muscles. When the muscles can not be obtained, and in mild cases, in which the foot may be brought readily into position, a correction may be effected by means of one or more strips of adhesive plaster as follows : One end of the strip is laid upon the dorsum of the foot, near the bases of the third and fourth toes, whence it is carried in a, slightly spiral direction to the inner border of the sole, and across the sole to the outer margin of the foot. As the foot is now brought into a normal position by the hand of the operator, the strip of plaster is laid along the outer and anterior aspect of the leg and thigh, and firmly secured by encircling strips of the same material. A bandage over all will hold the dressing in position. When the patient is able to walk, the club-foot shoe (Fig. 710) will give the greatest satisfaction. The rub- ber muscles should be applied and regulated in such a way that they will imitate as nearly as possible the nor- mal action of the muscles they are intended to assist. A less expensive instrument, one which yields good results in the milder forms of talipes equino-varus, and which may be readily made by any ordinary worker in iron, is shown in Fig. 725. It consists of a sole-piece of sheet-iron, which is riveted to a heel-piece of the same material, and is roomy enough to hold the heel of the patient without chafing. It should be nicely padded, Tig. 725 —Iron shoe to prevent the danger of excoriations. To this heel- and equino-varils! piece is attached, by a hinge-joint Avith limited forward and backward motion, an iron bar which extends to the padded iron collar around the leg, near the knee. The foot of the pa- tient is secured to the sole-piece by adhesive plaster, with the aid of the