246 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. sal nerve, which runs parallel with and above the artery. Depress the posterior belly of the digastric, insert a director beneath the posterior fibers of the hyo-glossiis, and divide these. The artery will be found just beneath this muscle, resting upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx. The ligation of this artery is frequently practiced preliminary to ex- cision of the tongue for malignant disease, and occasionally to arrest haemorrhage. Ligation of the Facial Artery—Anatomy.—The facial artery was present in one hundi^ed and twenty of one hundi'ed and twenty-one dis- sections. In the instance in which it was missing its facial distribution was taken by the transverse facial from the temporal, and its cervical by branches from the Ungual and the external carotid. Its origin is usually about one fourth of an inch above the Ungual. It is the long- est branch of the external carotid. In thirty-one of one hundred and twenty cases it arose in common with the lingual, and in two in- stances it was from a trunk in common with this artery and the supe- rior thyroid. Operation.—In its cervical distribution this vessel will require to be tied at or near its origin from the carotid. The incision along the axis of the carotid, as given before, with its center a quarter of an inch above the hyoid bone, will lead to the facial. The posterior belly of the digas- tricus will be found with its center usually above the origin, but soon crossing the artery. The ninth nerve is just below. For lesion of this vessel in the face it can be readily secured as it crosses the inferior maxilla in the depression at the anterior border of the masseter (Fig. 290). Before making the incision, which should be parallel with the horizontal portion of the inferior maxilla, the skin should be well pulled up from the neck, so that, after healing, the cicatrix will fall be- low the jaw. Ligation of the Ascending Pharyngeal—Anatomy.—This artery was derived from the external carotid in one hundred and eleven of one hundred and twenty-one cases, and from the internal ca- rotid in four others. It usually comes off at a point opposite the origin of the lingual, and occasionally from the bifurcation of the primitive carotid. A pharyngeal branch is not uncommon from the occipital. Operation.—The external carotid must be exposed by an incision the center of which is opposite the level of the hyoid bone. The vessel will be seen ascending between, and parallel with, the external and internal carotids. One fatal case is recorded from haemorrhage after a wound of the ascending pharyngeal. Ligation of the Occipital Artery—Anatomy.—The occipital was present in one hundred and twenty of one hundred and twenty-one dis- sections, and it was found to be opposite the facial in the majority of cases. In the subject in which it was missing, a large branch from the inferior thyroid (not the ascending cervical) took its distribution. Not