DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 383 SUEGERY AND StTRGICAL DISEASES OF THE EyELIDS AND OF THE Ob- BiTAL Cavity (not including Lesions of the Globe). Wounds of the eyelids and of the circular muscle of the eye scarcely require special consideration. In incised or lacerated wounds a careful approximation of the edges of such wounds with the finest silk sutures, and the maintenance of the parts in a condition of perfect quiet, are essential. The sublimate and carbolic-acid solutions can not be employed when the surface of the eye is exposed. A saturated solution (about grs. XV - 1 i of water) of boracic acid is to be preferred for purposes of clean- liness. Contusions about the eye should be treated by cold applications, using a very small and light ice-bag, or frequent changes of bits of linen cloth, taken from a block of ice. New Formations. — Vascular growths (nsevi or angeiomata), usually of the capillary variety, are not infrequent in the vicinity of the eye. When of small size, not exceeding a half or three fourths of an inch, they may be successfully destroyed by the hypodermic injection of from two to five minims of a 50-per-cent solution of carbolic acid. Great care should be taken not to allow any of the solution to enter the eye. Removal by free excision is not practicable when the tumor is of large size, and when the palpebral margins are involved, or when their shape and situation are such that deformity is apt to follow the excision. A careful application of the rules of plastic surgery to the region of the eye will often obviate deformity, even after extensive dissections with loss of tissue in the vicinity of this organ. What has been said of the excision of vascular growths applies equally to all forms of neoplasms in this region which—themselves a deformity, or malignant in character—require removal. When the lower lid is encroached upon, it is of the utmost importance that the palpebral margin be left intact for at least one eighth of an inch, Fig. 416. Fig. 417. and as much more as is consistent with the free excision of the tumor. One incision should be parallel with the border. The palpebral branch of the ophthalmic artery, which runs parallel with and about this dis-