616 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. this group of lymphatics can not be made out, the entire group being matted together in one mass of embryonic cells infiltrating the tissues around the glands as well as involving their substance. The gonorrhoeal bubo tends naturally to suppuration. In mild cases, and where the proper measures are taken at the early appearance of the adenitis, this disaster may be averted ; but in others, partly owing to the unfavorable condition of the tissues and to the continued irritation from motion, pus- formation can not be prevented. In the treatment of acute inflammatory bubo, perfect rest is impera- tive, and the dorsal decubitus should be maintained. Local medication is of little value. The employment of cold will be found agreeable in the earlier stages, and may serve to prevent suppuration. The ice-bag may be employed by laying it upon a circular pad placed around the bubo. In this way the pressure is entirely taken off the inflamed sur- face. After the formation of pus is inevitable, warm cloths or poultices should be substituted. When pus is formed, a free incision under co- caine anaesthesia should be made. CJironic suppuratim adenitis of the inguinal glands occasionally per- sists long after the gonorrhoea which caused it has disappeared. The only remedy is to dissect out the diseased glands with the curved scis- sors, or scrape them out with Yolkmann's spoon. Gonorrhoeal 'proctitis is a rare affection, and does not call for especial consideration. Ophthalmia, resulting from the inoculation of the conjunctiva with the virus of specific urethritis, has been considered with lesions of the eye. Gonorrhoeal Rheumatism.—In a certain proportion of individuals suffering from gonorrhoeal inoculation at a period varying from five or six days to several weeks from the date of the attack, symptoms not un- like those occurring in gout or rheumatism make their appearance in the joints, tendons, and bursse, and less frequently in the nerves and eye. The parts involved become more or less swollen and painful. The pain, however, is less than in ordinary rheumatism. The febrile move- ment is not high, and the character of the urine is unchanged, in both of which features it differs from ordinary rheumatism (Fournier). Neu- ralgia occasionally supervenes in the course of this disease. In a certain proportion of cases the eye is affected, but the ophthalmia here in no ways resembles that of gonorrhoeal conjunctivitis. The pathology of this disease is not understood, and the treatment is entirely expectant. Gonorrhoea in females is usually less severe than with males, and yields more readily to treatment. The chief seat of the inflammation is in the vagina. The urethra and bladder may also become involved. In the treatment, quiet is of first importance. The warm hip-bath should be employed several times a day, and the vagina irrigated at regular in- tervals with warm water thrown in from a fountain-syringe. As soon as the acute symptoms have subsided, injections of dilute subacetate of lead, with acetate of zinc (grs. ij-iv to § j), should be employed. Simple Urethritis.—There is occasionally met with in practice an acute inflammation of the urethra, attended by a slight muco-purulent