LIGATION OF ARTERIES. 253 artery in deep inspiration. A dull-pointed aneurism-needle may now be passed around the vessel, taking care not to wound the subclavian or innominate vein, or the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The tiertebral, internal mammary, and branches of the thyroid axis, should also be secured. The conditions which will justify this operation will rarely occur, yet, when the operation is demanded, every source of danger from haemor- rhage should be avoided. The necessity of securing the carotid at the same operation must be determined by the operator. I am of the opinion that it is safer to occlude this vessel also; The subclaman artery has been tied in its first surgical division eight- een times, and all fatal. In five of these cases the common carotid was also tied. In only one case was the left subclavian tied. Of the thirteen single operations, two (Ayres and B alien) were for the arrest of haemor- rhage from shot wounds in military practice, with one death in half an hour and one on the eighth day, from haemorrhage. The other eleven cases are given on page 221. In only five of these thirteen cases is the source of haemorrhage stated, and in each of these the bleeding was from the distal side of the ligature, the proximal side being closed.* A knowledge of this fact leads me to insist upon the ligation of the verte- bral and other branches of the first division. In five instances the right carotid was also tied simultaneously by Liston, Parker, Hobart, Cruveilhier, and Kiihl. In three of these, fatal haemorrhage ensued from the distal side of the ligature. The left subclavian artery was tied in its first division once by Rodgers, and fatal haemorrhage occurred from the distal end of the artery. Ligation of tJie Left Subclavian Artery in its First Surgical Divis- ion—Operation.—^'vom a point on the clavicle one fourth the distance from the center of the interclavicular notch to the acromion process com- mence an incision, and carry it to the inner border of the sternal tendon of the mastoid muscle. From the inner extremity of this line carry a second incision for three inches along the anterior border of the sterno- mastoideus. In dissecting this flap lift with it the mastoid muscle divided upon the director, then divide the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, and feel for the pulsation of the artery, which ascends deeply behind and a little outside the sterno-clavicular articulation. The internal jugular vein will be drawn outward, and, passing the finger along the inner bor- der of the scalenus muscle, the artery will be felt to pulsate (Fig. 281). The thoracic duct usually is to the right of and a little behind the artery opposite the upper border of the sternum. On a level with the insertion of the scalenus it arches to the left, crosses in front of the subclavian, in front of the scalenus, behind the internal jugular, and curves down- ward to empty into the subclavian at its junction with the jugular to form the left innominate vein. On account of the intimate relations of the thoracic duct to the left subclavian artery as this vessel goes behind * The author's "Essays," William Wood & Co., 1878.