OESOPHAGUS. 463 I eighth of an inch. These sutures are carried entirely around the ellip- I tical opening, in this way uniting the peritoneal layer of the stomach with that of the abdominal wall and the integument. It is best not to open into the stomach until after the expiration of from thirty-six to forty-eight hours, by which time union will have occurred between the contiguous layers of peritonseum, and the danger of infiltration into the cavity of the abdomen avoided. If the necessity for nourishment is extreme, and rectal alimentation can not be relied upon to sustain the patient, a quantity of milk or liquid food may be injected by means of a medium-sized aspirator-needle passed through the anterior wall of the stomach. When the incision is made it should be from three quarters to one inch in length. Liquid or semi-solid articles of food may be introduced directly into the stomach, or, as practiced in the remarkable case of Dr. L. L. Staton, of North Carolina, the food may be masticated and thus submitted to the action of the saliva, and may then be forced from the mouth into the stomach through a tube. New Formations.—Epithelioma is the most common neoplasm met with in the oesophagus. Colloid and medullary cancer and sarcoma are rare in this organ. Cancer occurs usually between the thirty-fifth and sixty-fifth year of life. The favorite location is near the diaphragm. The symptoms of malignant growth are chiefly those due to obstruction and the development of the cancerous cachexia. Non-malignant neoplasms are slower in development, and, beyond the dysphagia they may produce, do not affect the general condition of the patient. Treatment.—Malignant new growths of the oesophagus always justify a grave prognosis, especially so when situated in the lower portions of this organ. Beyond palliative treatment by dilatation with bougies, or gastrotomy after deglutition is seriously impaired or impossible, nothing can be done. Non-malignant neoplasms are also not amenable to surgi- cal interference when situated below the level of the upper border of the sternum. When the upper portion of the oesophagus is involved, opera- tion is indicated, not only to relieve dysphagia, but in the effort to re- move the disease. (Esophagectomy., or exsection of a portion of this organ, may occa- sionally be justified in the removal of a malignant growth of limited extent and situated in the upper portion of the tube. The probability that, before the character of the neoplasm is discovered, infiltration of the neighboring tissues will have occurred, almost precludes a favorable result, and is therefore a strong argument against the propriety of the operation. Dinerticula, or pouches communicating with the cavity of the oesoph- agus, are occasionally met with. They may be congenital, but are more frequently acquired. They communicate with the oesophagus usually on its posterior wall. Cervical oesophageal diverticula open into the main tube at the junction of the oesophagus with the pharynx, whence the pouch may extend between the vertebral column and the oesophagus