349 DISEASES OF SPECIAL JOINTS. termined. It is safe to say that at least twelve per cent of all cases in which the lesion begins as an ostitis end in death in from one to six years. In tranmatic synovitis of the hip the prognosis is favorable. A resto- ration of function is the rule. Treatment.—The treatment of hip-disease may be divided into me- chanical., operative, and constitutional. In the early stage of coxitis rest to the inflamed articulation, in the position of least discomfort, is essential. Fixation of the muscles which act upon and about this joint can be best secured by extension from the lower part of the thigh and the leg or foot, and counter-extension from the perinseum. To accomplish extension satisfactorily the limb should be brought into the straight position—that is, about parallel with the axis of the body. If a child with hip-disease be seen very early in the history of this affection, flexion of the thigh upon the abdomen will not have occurred to any extent, but, in cases where the inflammatory process has gone on for some time, the iliacus and psoas and adductor muscles will have be- come rigid and shortened to such an extent that the thigh can not be immediately brought out straight. In the former class of cases the apparatus about to be described can be at once adjusted ; in the latter, extension in the recumbent posture is necessary until the shortening in the ilio-psoas muscles is overcome. In fact, since in all cases some time must elapse between the discovery of the lesion and the preparation of the mechanical apparatus, it is a wise practice to put the patient to bed at once, and apply the extension as follows: Cut two strips of mole-skin plaster, from one inch and a half to two inches wide, and long enough to extend from six inches above the ' trochanter to below the sole of the foot. Adjust one to the outer and one to the inner aspect of the thigh, allowing the upper end, which is to be doubled back upon itself and woven in with the roller, to extend four or five inches above the level of the trochanters. Mold them carefully to the contour of the limb, bringing the strips exactly over the inner and outer condyles of the femur, and hold them by a well-adjusted bandage, beginning from above. In order to prevent the plaster from wrinkling, it is necessary to clip it, at intervals of an inch or two, with the scissors, obliquely upward from each edge. The strips should be made to adhere to the skin to within six inches of the malleoli, not so much that traction below the knee is necessary, but because the complete extension of the leg on the thigh enforces more perfect quiet. The bandage is commenced just at the level of the great trochanter, and that portion of the strips which extends above this is to be turned down and worked in with the roller. That part of the plaster which is exposed near the foot should be doubled by laying a second strip of equal width on this, the adhesive surfaces coming together. In this way it is not only strengthened, but is prevented from sticking to the dressing.