A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 98 part involved communicate, tend to empty the vessels beyond the seat of obstruction. Of necessity, however, a considerable quantity of blood remains, and when its flow is arrested its function is lost, and its elements join in the general decomposition which ensues. In the putrefactive process, gases, notably sulphuretted hydrogen and those resulting from decomposition of the fatty tissue, are evolved, and the coloring-matter of the blood is liberated. Myosin, the albuminous principle of muscle, coagulates, giving a temporary sense of rigidity, and the serum which remained in the vessels undergoes transudation, and is generally dis- tributed among the tissues. Cutaneous sensibility is soon lost, and the momentary pallor gives way to a grayish hue, which deepens into a greenish-black color. Though not so marked as in the condition result- ing from venous occlusion, the skin and subcutaneous tissues become infiltrated with fluid and gases, giving a doughy feel upon pressure, and at times the peculiar crackling of emphysema. Serum and hydrogen, in the effort to escape, may at various points be caught under the imper- vious epidermis, which is lifted up into blisters. In resisting gangrene, certain tissues retain their anatomical features longer than others. Bone and tendon are slow to disappear, and at times the arteries will resist destructive change, when the tissues through which they pass have been entirely destroyed. In a case which recently came under my observation, through the courtesy of Prof. Fluhrer, at Mount Sinai Hospital, in which gangrene was induced by a plaster-of-Paris dressing (applied in another institu- tion for supposed fracture of the humerus), mortification was present first in the thumb and the tip of the index-finger, gradually involving the other fingers and the back of the hand to the carpus, where the pro- cess seemed arrested in an apparent line of demarkation in the integu- ment. The gangrene continued, however, beneath the skin, involving the extensor muscles, which, after amputation above the elbow, were found to have entirely disappeared, while much of the integument over them retained its vitality. When once inaugurated, mortification extends to a point where nutritive changes in the tissues are sufficiently active to resist death. The irritation of the dead tissues produces inflammation and the formation of a zone of embryonic tissue between the living and dead structures. The line between this embryonic zone and the black- ened slough is called the line of demarkation. The line of demarkation is, as a rule, uTegular in extent. "When a part has been constricted until death ensues, the line of separation may be a well-defined circumference ; but in arterial occlusion this is a rare exception. Following the phenomena above detailed, rapid putrefactive changes occur; the soft parts drop away in offensive sloughs, leaving the bone projecting from the stump of this natural amputation. The symptoms of gangrene from nenous obstruction differ in some essential features from mortification after arterial occlusion. Engorgement is more marked, since the cardiac and arterial forces are at work in packing the tissues beyond the obstruction with blood. The