CARCINOMA. 749 Owing to the embryonic character of the new-formed blood-vessels and the lack of resistance from the scantily developed stroma, aneurismal dilatations of the vessels are common, and rupture frequently occurs. Colloid cancer is characterized by the presence within the alveoli of a fluid rich in mucin, which substance also appears in all the foci that may be developed by metastasis. Many of the cells disappear, and those which remain are unusually large and swollen. The alveoli are also dis- tended and the walls more translucent than in scirrhus. The changes which cancers undergo are chiefly granular metamorpho- sis and ulceration. The cells of the deeper portions of the neoplasm, de- prived of sufficient nourishment by reason of their central position, break down in a granular detritus, which is absorbed and carried away in part by the blood-vessels, but chiefly by the lymph-channels. In older tumors this gradual loss of cellular elements is followed by contraction of the stroma and sinking in or retraction of the integument. Inflammation and ulceration of a cancer may result from direct irritation from without, or may occur as a result of the growth of the neoplasm, which thus often cuts off its own nutrition. The process is not unlike ulceration in the normal tissues, only the granulations are often very exuberant and the death of tissue rapid. All forms of carcinoma are subject to the deposit of pigment, and under such conditions have been termed melanotic cancer. Causes.—Cancer is a disease of adult and of late adult life. Scirrhus, encephaloid, or colloid cancer, under twenty years of age, is exceedingly rare. It occurs chiefly in the period of life between thirty and sixty. Women are more frequently attacked than men. The influence of he- redity upon the production of carcinoma is believed to be established, although its importance has been greatly overestimated. Prolonged irritation is undoubtedly the chief exciting cause of the development of this neoplasm. In evidence of this conclusion is the fact that those por- tions of the body which are subjected to the greatest amount of irrita- tion are most often affected. The mammary gland, pylorus, rectum, and uterus, are the more common locations of cancer. Diagnosis.—The recognition of cancer is positive only by microscop- ical examination, and depends in part upon the peculiar characters of the cells already noted, but chiefly upon the appearance of the stroma. Clinically, the diagnosis will depend upon the age of the patient, the location of the tumor, its consistence, immobility, and the condition of the lymphatic glands in the line of the vessels toward the center. A tumor occurring between the ages of thirty and sixty, of a mildly pain- ful character, the pain sharp and lancinating, and increased when firm pressure is exercised; steadily, although at times slowly, enlarging, movable, it may be, beneath the skin or within the substance of the organ or part in which it is located, yet not freely so, should be looked upon with suspicion. If it has existed for several months, and there is retraction of the integument over a portion of the mass, together with induration of the nearest lymphatic glands, the diagnosis of cancer is almost positive. As between the three different forms of cancer, it may