539 ULCER AND STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. When the ulcer encroaches upon the sphincter muscle, causing pain- ful tenesmus, the hypodermic use of morphia or opium suppositories may be required to relieve the spasm. In obstinate cases divulsion or division of the sphincter may be done as a last resort. In the treatment of the ulcers which result from dysentery, catarrh of the rectum, an injury, or breaking down of haemorrhoids, the plan just given should be adopted. It is often advisable to add from grs. v-x of nitrate of silver to the pint of water thrown in, and, if the ulcer can be reached, recovery will be hastened by the local use of the lunar caus- tic. An excellent remedy for the alleviation of pain and the relief of tenesmus is a suppository composed of gr. ij each of iodoform and co- caine hydrochlorate, introduced from three to five times in twenty-four hours. As already stated, in obstinate and extreme cases, lumbar coloto- my may be necessitated. Chancroidal ulcer of the rectum requires the most energetic treat- ment. Ether should be administered, the sphincter divulsed, the ulcer exposed by the speculum, its surface scraped with the curette, and a thorough cauterization effected with nitric acid. The cocaine and iodo- form suppositories should be employed in the after-treatment. True syphilitic chancre of the rectum rarely demands local treat- ment. It yields readily to the constitutional remedies employed in syphilis. The specific ulcer of the later stages of syphilis requires the consti- tutional treatment recommended for the late manifestations of this dis- ease, and locally, irrigation and the cocaine and iodoform suppositories. Tubercular ulcers should be treated chiefly by the administration of cod-liver oil emulsion, the iron tonics, the hypophosphites of lime and soda, and carefully selected diet. Irrigation with warm water will be found useful. When pain and tenesmus exist, relief may be obtained by the means already given. In rodent, or lupoid ulcer, the Paquelin cautery-knife should be em- ployed, and a thorough excision of the diseased surface effected. Stricture of the Rectum.—Stricture of the rectum may be congenital or acquired. Partial and complete congenital occlusion of this organ has already been considered. Acquired stricture is usually the result of an ■ inflammatory process in the walls of the rectum, and at times in the tis- sues which surround this organ (Fig. 559). New formations (cancer, etc.) may also cause a partial or complete occlusion of the rectum, not only by reason of the bulk of the cells proper of the neoplasm, but on account of the inflammatory process which it causes in the connective- tissue elements of the bowel. The lumen of this portion of the intestine may be partially or com- pletely occluded by pressure of a tumor not connected with the bowel, or by the presence of some displaced organ, as the uterus, bladder, etc. Lastly, spasmodic stricture may occur from contraction of the circular muscular fibers of the rectum. As stated on a previous page, organic stricture frequently follows ulcer of the rectum, and is especially apt to occur in the process of cica-