DISLOCATIONS. 321 -Velpeau's bandage. Fig. 352.- (After The outer end of the clavicle may be displaced above or below the acromion process, and above or in front of the coracoid process. Dis- placements under the acromion and in front of the coracoid are very rare. The symptoms are very distinct, and the reduction not surrounded vsdth great difficulty. When replaced, however, the bone is with diffi- culty maintained in position. By drawing firmly outward upon the shoulder of the affected side, and pressing the clavicle downward into position, reduction will be successfully accomplished. Place a firm com- press over the end of the bone, bend the forearm at right angles to the arm, and carry one or two strong strips of adhesive plaster over the com- press, behind the shoulder, along the arm to the olecranon, and again by the front over the compress. Re-enforce this by a bandage, and place the arm in a sling. If luxation recurs, tighten the adhesive strips, and place the arm in a Velpeau's bandage. To apply this bandage, place the hand of the affected side almost upon the oppo- site shoulder, fixing a wad of cotton be- neath each axilla. Lay the end of a roller on the shoulder-blade of the sound side, and carry the bandage over the acromial end of the clavicle of the injured side, and the front of the arm for a short distance, passing obliquely to the under surface at the elbow, and around beneath the well ax- illa to the point of starting. Repeat this to secure the roller, and then carry the bandage horizontally around the chest and over the tip of the elbow. The oblique and horizontal turns are alternated until the shoulder and arm are completely enveloped (Fig. 352). Humerus, at the Shoulder.—Disloca- tion at the shoulder-joint is by far the most frequent. It may take place in three direc- tions—'backward, under the spine of the scapula {subacromial and subspinous) ; downward, below the glenoid cavity {subglenoid); and forward, be- neath the coracoid or clavicle {subcoracoid or subclavicular'). The first variety is of rare occurrence. The subacromial dislocation is only a partial displacement, and becomes complete when the head of the bone passes well beneath the spine of the scapula (Fig. 353). The sub- glenoid is comparatively frequent, occurring in about the same propor- tion of cases as the subcoracoid. Displacement forward under the clav- icle is rare. On account of the C(jraco-acromial ligament, and the addi- tional protection afforded to the joint above by the acromion process, dislocation directly upward can scarcely occur. In the subglenoid luxation the capsule is stretched or torn along its lower surface, and the head of the humerus rests upon the margin of the 21 Stimson.)