503 HERNIA. felt by the tip of the index-finger, which serves as a guide to the ring, the finger is slightly withdrawn, so that the skin, which has been carried ahead of it, may not be transfixed. The needle is now in front of the internal ring and outside of the peritonaeum. Pressure is made upon the piston, and about three minims of the fluid expelled, and this manoeuvre is repeated by carrying the point of the needle a half-inch to the right, left, above, and below this center. The finger is now withdrawn, and the needle is made to follow it down to the external ring, discharging the remainder of the fluid in its track. When the instrument is removed, a pellet of iodoformized gauze is placed over the puncture, and over this a compress of sublimate gauze, cotton, and a spica bandage. The patient retains the dorsal decubitus from ten days to two weeks, not even being allowed to sit up in bed. The pain is insignificant, and the inflammatory process which supervenes is mild. In three or four days a hard, round, indurated mass of embryonic cells will be found to occupy the canal and tissues immediately adjacent. This generally disappears, and at the end of a month all traces of the process will have disappeared. A truss, with -a wide, soft pad, should be worn for a period varying from three to six months after the operation. If success does not follow the first attempt, it may be repeated. The majority of cases are not cured. Incipient hernia, and those in which the canal has not been too widely stretched, offer a better prognosis. Even when the canal is so large that a cure can scarcely be hoped for, it may result in a contraction of the opening to such an extent that reten- i tion with a truss is secured. The operation for the radical cure of ingui- nal hernia by direct incision will be given in the operation for strangu- lated hernia. Irreducible (incarcerated) inguinal hernise, not strangulated, under certain conditions justify operative interference. If the patient can be kept under constant supervision, so that at the first indication of strangu- lation proper surgical aid can be obtained, the treatment should consist of some form of truss fitted over the tumor to prevent the further pro- trusion of the intestine. In the adaptation of such an apparatus, great care must be taken to avoid compression at the neck of the sac, for in this way strangulation might be precipitated. This plan of treatment will be more apt to prove satisfactory in those who are not compelled to do heavy labor. In elderly persons with large hernise, operative inter- ference is not justifiable on account of the danger it involves. The indications for operation are: 1, in those patients with small- sized hernise who must of necessity go upon long journeys, which take them out of reach of proper surgical aid in case of strangulation ; 2, in those upon whom a suitable apparatus has failed to prevent a further descent of intestine; 3, those who by reason of a hernia are incapaci- tated for work, and who consent to the operation after a full explanation of the dangers attending it. The procedure is the same as for strangu- lated hernia, although a much more favorable prognosis m.ay be made. Strangulated Inguinal Hernia.—With the first symptom of strangu- lation the patient should be placed in the dorsal decubitus, with the foot