471 THORAX. ^Epithelioma of the breast is rare. It commences in or near the nip- ple, and may extend along the epithelial lining of the lactiferous ducts, or spread along the integument of the areola. Although ulceration begins earlier, its progress is slower and less painful than in either of the forms of cancer just given, which attack the deeper structures of the gland. If not extirpated, the entire gland may be infiltrated, metas- tasis occurs, and death follows from general exhaustion. Prognosis and Treatment.—The prognosis of cancer of the breast is always grave, the gravity varying with the character of the neoplasm, the general condition of the patient, and the length of time the tumor has existed before excision. Left without surgical interference, a fatal termination is reached usually within from one to two years after the appearance of the disease. Encephaloid is most rapidly fatal, scirrhous next in order, and epithelioma last. Death ensues from exhaustion caused by suppuration, pain, anorexia, and infiltration of the various organs by metastasis. In isolated cases scirrhus of the breast reaches a certain point and remains stationary for a number of years before again enlarging and producing a fatal issue. With the operation as performed in modern practice, the prognosis is much more favorable. This practice implies early recognition of the presence and character of the neoplasm, immediate and wide extirpation of the invaded organ, and a careful dissection of all metastatic foci in the glands of the axillary plexus. As to the selection of cases in which operation is justifiable, it may be admitted that interference is called for in all cases in which the lymphatic engorgement has not extended beyond the axillary region, and in which the invasion of the x)ectoral and thoracic muscles is not so deep or extensive that a clean excision is possible without opening into the thorax. Even when metastasis of the cervical lymphatics has occurred, relief will be gained in those instances in which ulceration is taking place ; but, in these cases, the palliative operation should not include invasion of the axilla. It is well to bear in mind that a simple non-malignant enlargement of the glands may occur before true metastasis has taken place. It should be the practice in all cases of cancer of the mammary gland to open into the axilla in order to be sure of the condition of the glands, for these organs may be the seat of cancerous infiltration which can not be recognized without incision. As to treatment, the following line of practice should be adopted : A tumor of the breast occurring in either sex after the thirtieth year of life should he excised as soon as discovered. The contraindications to this procedure are: (1) a condition of prostration so extreme that a surgical operation would involve great and unusual risk to life ; (2) me- tastasis to such an extent that complete removal of the neoplasm is im- possible. The incision should he loell away from the limit of the tumor in the healthy tissues. When only a small portion of the organ is involved, it is advisable to extirpate the entire gland. When the patient is under thirty years of age, and when the tumor is thought to be benign in char-