ANEURISM. 199 Tiolence from heart-action, or muscular or mechanical pressure. Thus the arch of the aorta, and that portion of the arch in the direct axis of the left ventricle, is very prone to aneurism, as are the great vessels near their origin from the aortic curve. The popliteal arteries, subjected as they are to violence in forced flexion of the legs, are frequently the seat of aneurismal dilatations. From a study of the various conditions which produce aneurisms, it is evident that the normal wall of an artery can not form the sac of the aneurism. Some of the normal anatomical elements may be present in the sac, but the integrity of the whole is impaired; and it may be that, in the progress of an aneurism which began in atheromatous degeneration of a part of the elements of the vessel-wall, all of these elements will eventu- ally disappear, being replaced by an inflammatory new formation. A sacculated aneurism (Fig. 271) may in rare instances communicate with a vein {varicose aneurism). The direct communi- cation of a vein and artery without a sac is known as aneurismal varix. If an aneurismal tumor be examined, it will be found to contain coagulated blood in all stages of fibrillation. The peripheral portion of the clot is composed of irregu- lar laminae, and, if examined with the mi- croscope, the laminated appearance is found to be due to alternate layers of white cor- puscles, and upon these a deposit of fibrin {a condition which goes to sustain the theory of A. Schmidt, already cited, that fibrin ferment, the coagu- lation factor of the blood, is resident in the leucocytes). As the center of the tumor is approached, the coagulation is evidently more recent, while in the cavity of the aneurism a soft post-mortem clot is usually found. Fusiform aneurism occurs most frequently in the thoracic aorta, with especial preference for the arch. It may affect the entire aorta, and the great vessels derived from it. Not only is the diameter of the arteries increased, but the hypertrophy results in a considerable increase in their length. Not infrequently a group of fusiform expansions may be seen with strips of sound and non-dilated artery intervening. Calcareous deposits occur in patches, and seem to give strength to the walls, since those portions give way more readily which are not the seat of calcifica- tion. Coagulation is not apt to occur, as in sacculated aneurisms ; in fact, it is a rare condition. Fusiform aneurisms develop slowly, and, as a rule, are painful and dangerous only when, by reason of their large growth, they exercise undue pressure upon important organs. Thus, in dilata- tion of the transverse arch, or of the right subclavian, spasm of the glottis occurs from irritation of the recurrent laryngeal nerves, or respi- ration and deglutition may be seriously embarrassed by direct compres- Varicose Aneurism. Aneurismal Varix. Fig. 271.