RECENT PUBLICATIONS. New York: D. APPLETON & CO., 1, 3, & 5 Bond Street. A Text-Book of Opixthalmoscopy. By Edward G. Loeing, M. D. Part I. The Normal Eye, Determination of Refraction, and Diseases of the Media. 8vo, 267 pages, with 131 Il- lustrations, and Four Chromo-Lithograph Plates, containing Fourteen Figures. Cloth, $5.00. " The connection of its author's name with a most popular and excellent form of re- fraction ophthalmoscope adds to the interest felt in this long-promised work, which seems on the whole to be the best exposition of its subject that has so far appeared in medical literature. " It will be well worth its price to him who learns from it but the truth of this one sentence: ' Five sixths of the art of ophthalmoscopy are contained in a knowledge of the normal eye; the rest is a series of representations which can be read almost at sight.' "— American Journal of the Medical Sciences. Tl^e Metl^ods of Bacteriological Ii\vestigation. By Ferdinand Htdsppe, Docent in Hygiene and Bacteriology in the Chem- ical Laboratory of E. Fresenius, at Wiesbaden. Written at the request of Dr. Robert Koch. Translated by Hermann M. Biggs, M. D., Instructor in the Carnegie Laboratory, and Assistant to the Chair of Pathological Anatomy in Bellevue Hospital College. 8vo, 218 pages, 31 Illustrations. Cloth, $2.50. " This is the best book so far available in English, being better adapted to the gen- eral student who undertakes the study from first principles."—North Carolina Medical Journal. "All students of bacteriology will at once place this volume on their tables as indis- ■ pensable for their most accurate and rapid study."—American Lancet. "... Dr. Biggs has published articles of value on this subject, and has translated the work well, showing thorough knowledge of the text and theme."—Buffalo Medical and Surgical Journal. A Treatise ory Nervous Diseases: THEIR SYMPTOMS ARD TREATMENT. A Text-Book for Students and Practitioners. By S. G-. Webber, M. D., Clinical Instructor in Nerv- ous Diseases, Harvard Medical School: Visiting Physician for Diseases of the Nervous System at the Boston City Hospital, etc. One 8vo vol- ume, 415 pages, 15 Illustrations. Cloth, $3.00. " The book is well adapted to the use of students and young practitioners, and does not appall by a dazzling discussion of all the perplexing features in the clinical neurology and differential diagnosis.''—Alienist and Neurologist. " It fills a blank in medical literature."—Detroit Lancet.