AMPUTATIONS. 117 nicely, and stitched with catgut sutnres. By this method the acute tactile sense of the palmar aspect of the finger is preserved, and adds to the usefulness of the stump. This, and other amputations of the fingers, may be made without general an£esthesia, and with perfect in- sensibility, by the local use of cocaine. Just anterior to the second in- terphalangeal joint insert the needle of a hypodermic syringe, and inject in the entire circumference of the finger twenty minims of a 4-per-cent solution of cocaine hydrochlorate. Two minutes later constrict the root of the digit with an elastic ligature. In this way a painless and bloodless operation may be performed. If the insensibility is not com- plete at all points of the incision, inject additional cocaine in the line of the cut. Any danger of the constitutional effects of this drug may be obviated by squeezing the excess out through the cut before the sutures are applied. In dressing these amputations the pressure on the end of the stump should be light, for fear of slough in the long flap. Usually no vessels need to be tied. The covering of cartilage does not require to be scraped or sawn off. When only a slight portion of the anterior tip of the second phalanx is involved in a destructive osteitis or injury, the remaining portion should not be sacrificed by a disarticulation at the posterior interphalangeal joint. The line of section through the bone should be about at the junction of the middle and anterior third of the phalanx. The incisions and flap are made as in the preceding operation. In amputation with disarticulation at the posterior interphalangeal joint, flex at an angle of 90°, make a transverse incision over the dorsum of the finger, from one eighth to one fourth of an inch in front of the angle, which includes half the circumference of the member. From the ends of this line carry the incision directly forward on each lateral aspect of the finger to the crease on the palmar surface opposite the anterior interphalangeal joint. A second transverse incision in this fold com- pletes the rectangular flap, which is now dissected back, and the dis- articulation effected by placing the ligaments on the stretch and divid- ing these with a narrow, sharp scalpel. If any difficulty is found in entering the joint from the sides or front, it may be easily done by division of the extensor tendons over the dorsum, for these take the place of posterior ligaments. The method of amputation, as given for the operation at or near the articulation of the first and second pha- langes of the finger, applies also to the thumb in amputation at the last joint, or through the first phalanx, within one fourth of an inch of its anterior extremity. This plan of making the flaps is far superior to that advised by Erichsen, Esmarch, and other authors who recom- mend cutting down and through the joint from the dorsum, and then forward along the palmar aspect of the phalanx, making the disarticu- lation and flap with a single stroke. In the first place, this is done vsdth no little difiiculty, for, however thin the blade, the character of the joint will scarcely allow an easy passage to the knife. Secondly, by the method of transfixion the flap is apt to be cut too pointed and bev- eled at the end.