346 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. dyscrasia wliicli impairs nutrition in general, tends to destrnctive ostitis in children, and consequently to the resulting arthi'itis. Traumatism may, and undoubtedly does, precipitate the inflammatory process in many cases, yet the ordinary violence to which this joint is subjected will rarely induce coxitis, except in children afi'ected with some constitu- tional disease. Excessive use or a blow may produce synovitis, but, in a healthy patient, rapid recovery is almost certain. If diastasis occurs as a result of accident, ostitis ensues, and destruction of the joint is apt to follow ; yet this is an exceedingly rare injury. Rupture of the liga- mentum teres, which must occur in a traumatic luxation, rarely leads to destructive arthritis in an otherwise healthy individual. The symptoms of hip-disease are divisible into two stages. The first stage embraces all the phenomena of inflammation, up to a positive and appreciable destruction of the structures which enter into the formation of this joint. The second stage embraces the phenomena of destruction, namely, shortening of the neck, diastasis, rupture of the ligamentum teres and capsular ligament, and luxation. Among the earlier signs of this disease is pain, referred directly to the hip, or it may be to the hip- and knee-joint, of the affected side, and in some instances the pain is felt wholly in the knee of the same side. This symptom is most exaggerated at night and in the early morning hours, and after the child begins to move about may disappear. The distribu- tion of the obturator nerve to both articulations will account for the reflex sensibility in the knee. In a certain number of cases the patients will deny all sense of pain, and even under pressure may not exhibit signs of suffering. In children this effort at concealment (not uncommon) is incited by the fear of being subjected to surgical treatment. If, however, a careful exami- nation is made, rigidity of the muscles about the hip will be evident. In standing erect, the weight of the body will be brought upon the sound extremity, the gluteal fold on the affected side is partially obliter- ated (Fig. 381), and in walking there is almost always Fig. 382.—(After Sayre.) a perceptible limp. The iliacus, psoas, and adductor muscles are usually in an abnormal state of tension ; hence the initial flexion of the thigh, and outward rotation or eversion of the foot. Eigidity of the psoas and iliacus muscles—one of the more positive early symptoms of hip-disease—-may be demonstrated in the following Fig. 381.—(After Sayre.)