304 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. thigh and leg, exactly opposite each other, and hold them in place by a well-adjusted roller. The strips can be more nicely applied if they are partially divided with the scissors, in a diiection upward and inward, at intervals of about two inches. AVhen within four inches of the ankle the bandage is interposed between the strips and the integument. In order to prevent pressure upon the malleoli, a stick about six inches in length is placed between the ends of the adhesive strips, and the exten- sion-weight is attached to this. A piece of board provided with a pulley is next fastened to the foot of the bed, so that the tip of the pulley will be on a level with the malleoli. The weight will vary from two or three up to eighteen pounds. A pound for every year of life up to eighteen is the rule ; but this is too much for fracture above the trochanter. About ten pounds is sufficient for all ordinary cases. Shot in a bag, or smoothing-irons, are usually employed for the extension-weight, which is tied to the string (Fig. 333). The pa- tient's body serves as the counter-extending force, the gravitation toward the head of the bed being about counteracted by the weight attached to the foot. Additional benefit and comfort may be obtained by laying small, long bags, filled with sand, on either side of the thigh and leg. When the limb tends too strongly to outward rotation (or inversion) this may be corrected by the sand-bags, or by Prof. Hamilton's long splint, which is shown in Fig. 333, and which is tied by strips of bandage from the axilla to the ankle. The foregoing is practically Buck's ex- tension, to which may be added Hamilton's long splint. In some instances it may be found advantageous to use Volkmann's sliding foot-piece, seen in Fig. 334. This consists of a posterior splint for the leg, to which is attached a foot-piece having the angle shown in the cut. This splint should be perforated for the heel, and rest upon two cross-bars of wood, which in turn slide uj) and down on a rectangular frame. Upon the upper edge of these parallel bars a tongue is cut, and