A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 628 fully drawn along the roof of the urethra, making a shallow incision in the wall of the stricture. It should now be concealed, and the dilatins' power of the urethrotome employed. These shallow incisions may be made on the lateral aspects of the canal as well as along its roof. By this operation the stricture is nicked and then dilated. If the incision were made when the bars of the urethrotome had put the stricture on the stretch, the large vessels of this part of the urethra would be en- dangered. The steel sounds should be used as advised after internal urethrotomy in the anterior portion of the canal. External urethrotomy^ or 'perineal section, is an operation for the relief of close organic stricture of the bulbous or membranous portions of the urethra which can not be reached through the urethra. With the exception of those cases where urinary fistula or chronic abscess exists as a result of stricture, the conditions which justify this operation are extremely rare. It is performed with or without a guide. When a sound or bougie can be carried through the obstruction into the bladder, the procedure is much simplified. Without this guide the operation is surrounded with considerable difficalty. In external urethrotomy, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, being prepared as for this operation. After the anaesthesia is complete, a careful and final effort should be made to carry a filiform or soft bougie through the stricture and into the bladder. If this can not be done, a good-sized sound should be car- ried down to the obstruction, and this will serve to guide the operator to the commencement of the stricture. An incision is then made exactly in the median line, the anterior limit being slightly in front of the ascertained commencement of the stricture, the posterior extending toward the anus a sufficient distance. In making this incision the scrotum should be held up by an assistant, who is di- rected not to displace the median raphe to either side. The legs must also be held in the same relative position. The bleeding is usually considerable, as the vascular tissue of the bulb is divided. All vessels should be secured; but the oozing, which is general, need not retard the operation. As soon as the sound or fili- form, at the anterior margin of the constriction, is seen, the division should continue along the guide until the healthy urethra is reached be- yond the stricture. If no guide has been introduced, the dissection should be carried back in the known direction of the base of the blad- der, guided by the location of the prostate with the finger introduced into the rectum. The first indication that the canal is reached behind the stricture will be a gush of urine. On account of the obstruction, the urethra between it and the bladder is widely dilated, and for tbis reason is more readily found. It is essential to the success of this operation that all cicatricial tissue be dissected out. A large-sized steel sound should now be introduced through the meatus and into the bladder. If any diflBculty is met with in introducing tbis instrument, a flexible bougie may be substituted. It is not advisable to leave the instrument in the urethra. If the bleed-