A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 574 canula (Fig. 578) is guided along the finger to a point just beyond the prostate, where it is turned directly upward and forced through the floor of the bladder. The trocar is withdrawn and the urine allowed to escape. If this opening is not sufficient to allow of the satisfactory drain- age of the bladder, it may be enlarged. Incontinence of Urine.—Incontinence of urine occurs when the com- pressor urethree and the muscular elements of the prostate are paralyzed. It is present in a proportion of cases of prolonged over-distention of the bladder, the pressure from behind overcoming the normal resistance of these muscles. Irritation of the bladder from any cause may produce tenesmus of this organ and consequent in- ability to retain the urine. This is especial- ly apt to occur in children during sleep, in the earlier hours of morning, when the blad- der is full. Women are more frequently affected with incontinence than men, which fact is ex- plained not only in the better tone of the muscular system in males, but in the absence of the prostatic muscle in females, which, ac- cording to Henle, is of great aid in holding the urethra closed. The general relaxation of the pelvic muscles as a result of partu- rition may also account for'the more frequent occurrence of incontinence of urine in women. The palliative treatment consists in applying a urinal for the recep- tion of the water as it dribbles away (Fig. 579). Curative measures should be directed to a removal of the cause of incontinence. These will be given with the various lesions of which it is a symptom. In the nocturnal incontinence of children the habit may be corrected by causing the patient to be awakened and the bladder emp- tied once or twice during the night. Fig. 579.—Female and male urinals, for incontinence. New Foemations and Tumoks of the Bladder. Papillomata, or "villous growths," are among the more frequent neoplasms of this organ. They are located usually upon the floor and lower portions of the lining membrane. There may be one or more. As many as forty of these neoplasms have been removed from a single bladder. Microscopically, they are composed of a series of vascular loops or network, covered with epithelia of the same type as the normal cells of the mucous membrane, only of more luxuriant growth. The symptoms which present themselves in the earlier stages of the development of vesical papilloma are obscure. When a single tumor exists, and is not of rapid growth, the bladder may become tolerant of its presence. Under other conditions, symptoms of irritation, frequent micturition, and tenesmus may be present. If the growth be situated