A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 106 limes be found to be objectionable, and flaps composed of skin and tlie subcutaneous tissues, down to tlie deep fascia, preferable. The methods of amputating an extremity may therefore be: First, solid flap, composed of all the soft tissues lifted from the periosteum ; second, sJcinflap, composed of the integument and the subcutaneous tissue, down to the deep fascia; third, mixed flap, composed of skin on one side, and of all the soft tissues on the other. Flaps composed of the integument, together with all the underlying soft tissues, may be made by the circular method, forming a single cuff, or by the double-beveled flap, made by transfixion and cutting from within out, or by cutting directly down from the surface. Circular Solid Flap, witli Perpendicular Slit—First Metliod.—Sup- posing that the section is through the right humerus, at the junction of the middle and lower thirds, proceed as follows: Place the patient so that the member to be removed projects well over the edge of the table. Envelop the rest of the body with necessary wraps, and cover all in with rubber-cloth, so arranged that the irrigating fluid wDl not reach any por- tion but the arm. If folded properly into a trough-shape, the solution will be conducted into a vessel beside the table. The entire hand and arm should be washed with soap and water, cleanly shaved for six inches above and below the line of section, and in succession washed with sul- phuric ether and a solution of corrosive sublimate (1 to 3,000). If any inflamed or suppurating surfaces are exposed, close to the line of am- putation, these should be irrigated with sublimate, and thoroughly scraped out and again irrigated, after the Esmarch bandage has been applied. Towels wet in warm (1 to 3,000) sublimate solution are now vn?apped about the hand, forearm, and arm, the extremity elevated, in order to facilitate gravitation of blood toward the center, and the Esmarch bandage tightly applied, from the finger-tips to the axilla. As soon as the constricting band is secured at or close to the axilla, the bandage beyond is removed, and all exposed parts not in the field of operation covered with fresh, warm sublimate towels. The assignment of positions about the table are shown in Fig. 154. The operator stands so that the non-preferred hand (usually the left) grasps the member between the line of section and the trunk, and thus steadying the tissues, the instruments are used by the right hand. The first assistant stands where he can most easily reach the wound, for purposes of sponging, retracting flaps, etc.; the second is placed directly between the operator and the instrument-trays; the tTiird attends to the anaesthetic, holding the cone so that the expired air and ether vapor will not annoy the opera- tor ; the fourth holds the member to be removed, grasping the elbow with his left hand, and the wrist and forearm with the right; the fifth attends to the irrigator; the sixth and seventh are intrusted with the sponges, one of whom holds in one hand a basin of freshly squeezed out sponges, and in the other a second basin for those which have become soiled or bloody. Both should be within easy reach of the first assistant. The duty of the seventh assistant is chiefly to rinse the sponges, procure fresh towels, etc. When possible, it is always convenient to have two extra orderlies or