612 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. yellow, thick, and profuse pus of acute gonorrhoea, to the scant, whitish, milky fluid of the later stages of the inflammation, and, with this, the painful symptoms have also disappeared. It is not until this period is reached that the use of an injection should be entertained. Nitrate of silver, locally applied, possesses more curative properties than any other agent, but it is objectionable on account of the discoloration it produces. The injection which is least objectionable is composed of acetate of zinc in dilute solution of subacetate of lead. From gr. j to iij of the zinc may be used to §j of the lead solution. The weaker preparation is in general to be preferred. Fig. 614.—The proper syringe for gonorrhoea. "^^^ Urethral Syrfuge should be selected with great care. Fig. 614 represents a proper instrument. It contains about 3 ij, has a conical nozzle, and can be used with one hand. The long-noz- zled, pointed syringe should never be employed. In its use the point strikes against the mucous membrane, causing an exaggeration of the in- flammatory process at this point, not infrequently resulting in stricture. An injection should be performed as follows, and each patient should be th-oroughly schooled before he is intrusted with its employment upon himself: The bladder should not be emptied. The bottle containing the injection-fluid should be shaken, and a quantity sufficient to fill the syringe twice emptied into a cup, and drawn into the instrument as needed. The syringe is now held with the point upward, and the piston pushed up until the air which may have entered with the fluid is expelled. A small quantity of oil or vaseline is rubbed upon the tip of the syringe, the patient lies upon his back, the glans penis is held between the fingers of the left hand, and the index-finger is carried through the ring on the end of the piston, while tlie cylinder is grasped between the thumb and middle finger. The conical end of the syringe is now introduced into the meatus, and pressed in with sufiicient firmness to prevent the escape of the fluid while the contents of the cylinder are slowly emptied into the urethra. With a syringe of this capacity there is little danger of over- coming the resistance of the compressor-muscle, and thus forcing the injection-material back into the bladder. Should this accident occur, the urine which is in this organ will dilute the zinc so freely that its irritating properties will be lost. In making an injection the urethra should be well distended, so that all parts of the mucous surface, as well as the fol- licles, may be brought in contact with the fluid. After holding the injec- tion in the urethra for from one to three minutes it may be allowed to run out, and the patient directed to empty his bladder. A second quan- tity, about one third less than the first, is again injected. These injec- tions should be repeated night and morning, and, if convenient, at noon. Upon the supervention of any marked symptoms of irritation, as cystitis or an increase of the urethral inflammation, or epididymitis, etc., they should be immediately discontinued. The period in the history of a gonorrhoea when internal medication may be used with advantage varies