716 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. points. The free incision advised is safer than to use the osteotome through a narrow wound. Forcible breaking up of adhesions or fracture at the joint is not permissible. Adams's section is made through an in- cision in the line advised for hip-joint exsection. Its center should cor- respond to a point just above the great trochanter. The chisel should be preferred to the saw in making the section, on account of the bone- dust and detritus left by this latter instrument. Sayre's line is half-way between Adams's and Gant's lines. The bone should be divided squarely across. The attempt to form an arti- ficial ball-and-socket joint by making a concavity in the upper fragment, or rounding off the upper extremity of the lower fragment, is not justi- fiable, because it prolongs the operation, and is apt to be followed by necrosis, with ultimate anchylosis. It is better to accomplish reunion at once. The deformities of the shaft of the femur are also congenital and acquired. An occasional congenital malformation is due to failure of development of this bone in its long axis. The femur may not be more than six inches in length, while the tibia and fibula are normal in devel- opment. As a consequence of rickets, the femur is occasionally curved outward, causing genu varum, or bow-legs, although, as will be seen later, the bones of the leg are chiefly involved in this deformity. Shortening, with or without angular malposition, is sometimes seen after badly united fractures. For the relief of these deformities osteotomy and osteoclasis may be done when the deformity is sufficient to justify the operation. In oste- otomy the incision should be along the anterior and external aspect of the thigh farthest removed from the vessels. The only artery of im- portance here is the descending branch of the external circumflex. Oste- oclasis is not permissible unless the fracture can be effected by manual force. In recent and badly united fractures, and in rachitic subjects, this may be done. The osteotome is preferable to the osteoclast. In over- lapping fractures, with marked shortening (two to five inches), if the union is not angular, the deformity may be corrected and lateral spinal curvature obviated by a compensating high shoe. If for sesthetic reasons the patient insists upon it, a section may be taken from the sound femur and the ends brought together, as was done by Weir in one instance. The conditions which will justify this procedure are, however, rare. Occasionally overlapping and badly united fractures of the thigh will be met with in which the callus, which persists, is so extensive that operation at the seat of fracture is impossible. The deformities of the lower extremity of the femur are those of hypertrophy or elongation of one or the other condyle. The outer condyle is only exceptionally enlarged. The consideration of these pathological changes belongs properly to genu tiolgum and varum. Genu Valgum.—When a normal subject stands erect, the inclination of the femur of each side is inward and toward its fellow, until the inter- nal condyles are almost in contact. In other words, by actual measure- ment in a descent of eighteen inches from the head to the condyloid