94 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. from that of the granulating surfaces of bums and scalds from fire, boil- ing water, or steam. Frost-Bite.—The effect of prolonged and extreme cold upon the animal tissues is to cause occlusion of the capillaries, loss of sensation, and death by gangrene. The treatment is to attempt a gradual restoration of the circulation by friction in a low temperature. A part of the body benumbed by cold should never be submitted suddenly to a high temperature, but should be bathed and rubbed in snow or cold water, the temperature of which is slowly elevated. When gangrene results, amputation is demanded after the line of demarkation is established. Furuncle. — A boil is a circumscribed inflammation, commencing usually in the hair follicles and sebaceous glands, and extending to the subcutaneous tissues, in which it may at times originate. The chief cause is either a traumatic or idiopathic inflammation in the glandular apparatus of the skin, and the arrest of the nutrition of the part by obstruction of the capillaries by pressure from without or by embolism or thrombosis from within. The inflammation spreads to the surround- ing tissues, and localized gangrene ensues. Boils occur very frequently during the history of certain diseases, as diabetes mellitus, tuberculosis, scrofula, derangements of nutrition, etc. The diagnosis is not difficult, being chiefly between carbuncle and the localized necrosis in certain forms of syphilitic gumma of the skin. From carbuncle it may be differentiated by the more acute inflammatory process of the furuncle, the single point of suppuration, the well-defined limit of the redness, and the acute character of the pain. In carbuncle the inflammation extends more widely and deeper, the induration is greater, there are several points of suppuration, and the febrile symptoms more appreciable. The syphilitic lesions will be recognized from the history of the disease. The treatment looks to an early relief from tension in the integument, and the separation and discharge of the slough and pus. Incision should be performed at once. The Judicious use of cocaine hypodermically will prevent pain, and much suffering will be avoided by prompt action. The application of cold or heat is at times useful. Poultices are almost universally employed to soften the skin and hasten the discharge of the dead tissue. It is a waste of time to wait for so slow a process. After incision a warm, moist sublimate flaxseed poul- tice or dressing should be applied, and continued until a cure is effected. The constitutional treatment should be directed to the correction of any existing dyscrasia. The preparations of iron and mercury are, in my opinion, the best general remedies. Tonics, good food, regulation of the alimentary apparatus, and good hygiene, are essential. Sulphide of calcium, gr. to \, three or four times a day ; arsenic, the iodides, cod- liver oil, with the hypophosphites of lime and soda, are among the remedies most recommended. Carbuncle.—This disease—which, as Prof. A. R. Robinson* Justly * " Manual of Dermatology," 1884.