.607 PROSTATIC CONCRETIONS. aged and old it is more likely to occur by invasion from a neighboring organ, as the rectum. In the earlier stages the symptoms of this disease do not dilfer mate- rially from those of simple hypertrophy. As simple hypertrophy is rare in the young and middle-aged, the presence of a tumor of this organ at this time of life should be regarded with a suspicion of malignancy. The absence of the symptoms of abscess is in some degree a confirma- tion of this suspicion. If the tumor develops rapidly, carcinoma or sarcoma may be diagnosticated, for, although the disease may continue for one or two years, or even longer, the invaded organ soon assumes a size not met with in non-malignant hypertrophy. Haemorrhage of a pro- fuse character is apt to follow the introduction of a sound or catheter when carcinoma or sarcoma is present. Sarcoma is also rare in this organ (Fig. 612). It is more apt to oc- cur in the young than in the middle-aged and old. The symptoms differ in no essential feature from those present in cancer. The prognosis of both diseases is grave, and the treatment palliative. Prostatic Concretions. —Concre- EiG. 612.—Sarcoma of tte prostate and neck of Fig. 613.—Calculi m the prostatic follicies. the bladder, with obstruction. The catheter (After Sooin.) has tunneled the neoplasm., (After Socin.) The former are small bodies which frequently exist in the follicles of the prostate. Their mode of origin is unknown. They give the well- known amyloid reaction with iodine. Stone in the prostate may origi- nate in the deposit of inorganic elements from the blood and fluids of this organ, either in the follicles originally (Fig. 613) or as accretions upon the amyloid bodies just described. The symptoms of prostatic concretions are chiefly those due to the inflammatiou or enlargement which they produce. Corpora amylacea not infrequently exist in the prostate, causing little or no discomfort. When of large size, especially when they grow by reason of a deposit of inorganic substances, they cause inflammation of the follicles and destruction of the glandular epithelia. A positive diagnosis can only be made by bringing a sound or catheter in contact with the concretion. When the stone is situated in the deeper portions of the organ, it will