200 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. sion of the trachea or oesophagus. Fusiform dilatation of the abdominal aorta may produce serious results from disturbance of the vaso-motor system, by compression of the sympathetic ganglia near the diaphragm, by partial or complete occlusion of the thoracic duct, etc. Dissecting aneurisms are rare as compared with the other two varieties. The dissection or lifting of the thin lining membrane of the artery from the media usually occurs in the long axis of the vessel. If the middle and outer coats do not become involved in the degeneration which has affected the inner coat, this form of aneurism may continue indefinitely, without leading to a fatal termination, although the danger of embolism can not be overlooked. If the other layers give way, a sacculated aneurism is formed, ^vith the adventitia for the sac, or rupture may occur, leading to fatal extravasa- tion. A false, or so-called '■'■diffuse,''^ aneurism results from the solution of continuity in all the coats of the vessel-wall, and the sudden diffu- sion of blood into the peri - arterial tissues. The extravasation con- tinues until the resistance of the surrounding tissues is equal to the pressure of the column of blood within the vessel. As a result of the extravasation, an inflammatory process, of variable intensity, is estab- lished, which results in the formation of a limiting membrane, or aneu- rismal sac. The prognosis in aneurism varies under widely differing conditions. In general it is a grave afi'ection, the gravity depending, in a great de- gree, upon the location and character of the tumor and the physical con- dition of the individual alfected. An aneurism of the cranial cavity will produce rapidly serious effects by compression of the brain. The gravity of a prognosis diminishes as the location of the tumor is removed from the cavities. Aneurism (especially the sacculated variety) of the aorta, innominate, subclavian, or iliac arteries, is an exceedingly dangerous affection, while the same condition in the distal arteries yields readily and safely to surgical interference in the great majority of cases. The prognosis may also, in part, depend upon the degree of discomfort expe- rienced by the patient, from the effects of pressure upon contiguous organs. Neuralgia of the most painful and obstinate kind, resulting from pressure of the tumor upon a neighboring nerve, may hasten a fatal termination by loss of sleep and rest, and the general impairment of nutrition. Occlusion of the accompanying vein may occur, producing oedema and gangrene. Again, the gravity of the prognosis is increased when, by reason of its location, the sac of an aneurism is in contact with a bony surface, since rupture is not infrequently precipitated by attrition against the roughened bone. The symptoms of aneurism are, in great part, local. They refer to the direct development and effect of the tumor. A sense of unusual throb- bing pain, more or less severe, and swelling in the line of an artery (when the aneurism is outside of a cavity) which pulsates with the cardiac systole, which, when not resting upon a hard surface, is expansile in all directions, and which gives to the sense of touch a tremor not easOy