HEMORRHOIDS. 551 ried into the rectum above the piles in order to prevent the descent of fecal matter. The hsemorrhoidal tumors are now carefully examined and drawn downward. If the tumors are of considerable thickness through their bases, it is best to use a double ligature. In narrow, pe- dunculated haemorrhoids a single thread will suffice. The operator, hold- ing the tumor steady and tense by means of a forceps or hook, with a knife or scissors divides the mucous membrane all around the base of the tumor, going well down to the submucous layer and making a fur- row in which the ligature is to rest as it constricts the tumor. This incision not only hastens the separation of the mass, but diminishes greatly the pain which would otherwise be felt if the end-organs of the sensory nerves distributed in the mucous membrane were caught in the grasp of the ligature. When an internal hsemorrhoidal tumor is com- plicated by an external pile—that is, when the tumor is mixed—the in- tegument around the tumor should also be incised. The ligatures should be of the very best silk, so large and strong that they can not be broken in tying. If they are well waxed, they will be less apt to slip when the knot is being made. If a single thread is to be employed, it may be thrown around the pedicle of the tumor and tied. It is almost always advisable to use the double ligature. This may be carried through the base of the hsemorrhoid by means of a good-sized half-curved needle, or Peaslee's needle may be used. If the tumor is not complicated with an external hsemorrhoid—that is, if its base is well within the anus—^it may be transfixed directly through its base, the thread divided at the eye of the needle, and this instrument removed. The two ligatures are now separately identified—one for the lower and one for the upper half of the mass—and are then crossed by carrying the lower end of one side once over the upper and back to its place. By this manoeuvre the two loops are interlocked, and, when tied, all the tissues in the grasp of both threads are crowded to the center. As the ligatures are being tied, care must be taken to see that the threads fall into the track of the incision already made through the mucous membrane (or integument). If the threads have been waxed, the "reef-knot" (Fig. 110) should be preferred, since a more complete strangulation can be secured with less strain on the silk than when the "friction-knot" (Fig. 112) is employed. When wax is not used, this last knot is preferable, for the reason that it is less apt to slip. The force employed should be sufficient to arrest the circulation in the tumor, which, when this is done, immediately becomes purple and very tense. When all the tumors have been deligated, they should be clipped oif with the curved scissors about a quarter of an inch from the ligatures, and the threads cut short. The sponge should next be removed, a gauze dressing or pad laid over the anal region, and a T-bandage applied. It is usually advisable to administer morphia hypodermically at the close of the operation, and to continue this for two or three days. The bowels may be moved on the fourth day. The dressing should be changed as often as cleanliness requires. The ligatures come away between the .sixth and tenth days. In this, as in all operations about the rectum, re-