FISTULA OF THE ANUS AND RECTUM. 535 to sit in a basin of warm water once or twice a day, or by irrigation, and an outside dressing applied. The wound rapidly heals by granulation, and, in the vast majority of cases, a cure is effected by a' single operation. Temporary inconti- nence of faeces results in all cases where both sphincters are divided, but a permanent loss of function is exceptional. It is more apt to occur in females, and for this reason a more guarded prognosis should be made in this class of patients. In the rare instances in which an internal in- complete fistula is present, the cavity of the abscess should be opened by incision through the skin, and the operation completed as Just given. A division of the external sphincter is not necessary in the mildest class of cases, in which the abscess is recent and small, and in which the sinus runs Just beneath the skin and opens at the margin of the anus. Under all other conditions it should be partially or completely divided. The immediate closure of the fistulous track is an operation which has been recently performed in a number of instances. After the fistula is incised, the wall of the abscess is dissected out and the two perfectly healthy surfaces are brought together with sutures. An older method consists in the introduction of an elastic ligature through the external opening into the bowel and out through the anus, where the ends are tied together. The loop is allowed to cut through slowly, and it may be necessary to tighten it from time to time. Prophylaxis.—Upon the first appearance of infiammafcion in the ischio-rectal or perineal region, the integument immediately over the most superficial point of the induration should be incised, and a free puncture made into the inflamed tissues. This should be followed by the application of poultices and complete rest in the recumbent post- ure. Too great distention of the rectum should be prevented by the administration of laxatives, and an enema of warm water should be given Just before the bowel is emptied. By this method the tension is relieved and an outlet given to the products of inflammation before the process extends into the deeper tissues. A cure without further opera- tion will be effected in a fair proportion of cases. After an abscess is once formed, whether the fistula opens into the rectum or through the integument, or has both outlets, the case demands operative interference. The proportion of cures by the use of injections into the fistula, or the application of stimulating remedies, is so very small and such valuable time is lost, that their employment is unjusti- fiable. Of the radical operations, preference should always be given to that of free incision. The elastic ligature should only be tried on pa- tients who are unwilling to remain in bed, or to be operated upon with the knife, to whom the merits of the two operations have been explained, and who relieve the surgeon of the probabilities of failure. It is also applicable to those cases in which the fistula enters the rectum so high up that incision is impracticable. A guarded prognosis should be made in this class of patients. Operation by immediate closure should not be preferred to the open method, for the reasons that the old operation cures almost all cases,