ARTERITIS. 171 soon after the operation, probably within a few hours. The intima was not broken, but simply bruised within the grasp of the ligature. Active proliferation of the cells of the intima had resulted from this irritation. JSTot only is the intima seen to bulge into the lumen of the vessel, but the mass of embryonic tissue en- croaches outward upon the b media, which is thinner at this point than elsewhere. At one point the media has entirely disappeared, leaving the intima and externa in actual contact. The adven- titia has not undergone much change. A few inflamma- tory corpuscles are found among the connective-tissue bundles. If, after an inju- ry which induces arteritis, the vessel be not occluded throughout the extent of the lesion, and the injury or re- sulting inflammation be so severe and intense that rapid occlusion of the capillaries in the arterial wall takes place, suppuration and ulceration of the wall occur, with haemorrhage. Or septic matter may pass into the vessel from the surrounding, inflamed tissue, and lead to infarction and pyaemia. The same condition may result from an extension of in- flammation from the surrounding tissues into the arterial wall, as in phagedsena. Treatment.—'^o unvarying plan of treatment can be laid out for traumatic arteritis. The circumstances of each case must be separately considered. To prevent gangrene, and to guard against haemorrhage, are the indications most to be regarded. Rest, position, quiet, and care- ful nutrition, are the most important points of treatment. Fig. 249.—Traumatic endarteritis. Section from the common carotid of a liorse, tied -with a broad nerve-lisrature, show- ing at EE the proliferation of the intima. The inflamma- tory new formation is projected into the lumen of the ves- sel, and has caused partial atrophy of the media, c; ab, the intima; be, portion of the intima in the grasp of the ligature; d, the adventitia, slightly changed, with small- (Drawn by Dr. W. L. Wardwell, from cell infiltration, the author's specimen, Magnified about 40 diameters.) Traumatic arteritis resulting from causes witliin the vessels usually begins as an endarteritis. It may never involve any other tunic than the intima. Many cases of acute traumatic endarteritis are described as idiopathic inflammations. They are none the less due to violence—to the impinging force of the blood-current; for this lesion occurs at those points in the arterial system where the pressure is greatest. Endarteritis and the fatty degeneration resulting from it (Figs. 260, 251) are most frequently seen in the sinus magnus of the aorta, in the transverse seg- ment of the arch of the aorta, at the aortic bifurcation into the two common iliacs, and in the arch of the innominate. The arteries of athletes, which are subjected to prolonged distention, resulting from violent muscular exercise, are prone to suffer from this disease.