312 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY, and a half in extension (Fig. 344); yet this patient has perfect nse of the limb. No approximation of the fragments was ever attempted in this patient. He was kept in bed, with the leg elevated, for six weeks, and an ordinary roller applied after this, without any effort at bringing the fragments together. Longitudinal fractures of the patella should be treated by fixation of the muscles of the thigh and leg, and lateral approximation of the frag- ments by flannel bandages, well applied over a thin layer of absorbent cotton. Stellate fractures, in which the air is not admitted to the joint, should be treated by Hamilton's method. In compound fractures of the patella in which the joint is laid open, the cavity of the joint should be carefully di-ained and strict antisepsis employed. If the fragments are widely separated, and can not be kept in approximation, strong catgut or fine wire sutures may be employed to hold them in position. Such instances will rarely occur. Z/ep'.—Fracture of one or both bones of the leg occurs next in fre- quency to that of the radius and ulna. The upper end of the tibia is usually broken by direct violence, although a fall from a height upon the foot may produce a longitudinal or oblique fracture communicating with the joint. The separation sometimes takes place through the epiphysis. The most common point of fracture is the junction of the middle and lower third. The fibula may be broken at the same level, or at a point removed from the line of fracture in the tibia, or this last bone alone may be broken. Near the ankle-joint fracture of one or both bones is not uncommon. While a complete double fracture below the junction of the middle and lower third is rare, a partial fracture of the tibia (malleolus) and a com- plete break of the fibula is comparatively frequent. In this (Pott's) fracture (called also railroad or street-car fracture, since it is often caused by jumping from a car in motion) the foot is powerfully everted, the inner malleolus bent forcibly inward, and the strain falls uj)on the inter- nal lateral ligament of the ankle joint, the internal malleolus, the external malleolus, and outer tip of the articular surface of the tibia. As the force is continued, either the internal lateral ligament or the inner malleolus must yield, and, as usual in this test between ligament and bone, the latter yields. As a rule, the osseous rim is torn off with the ligament, or the entire malleolus is wrenched off at a higher point. The pressure upon the inner aspect of the external malleolus forces this outward, and the fibula above is bent inward and usually breaks at between two and three inches above the tip of the malleolus. If great force is exercised in the production of this fracture, the inferior tibio-fibular ligament may be torn away, or, more likely, the outer lip of the articular surface of the tibia broken off. In exceptional instances, inversion of the foot wiU produce fracture of the inner malleolus by direct pressure of the astragalus, and of the external malleolus or fibula by traction on the external lateral ligament. In fracture of the tibia alone the displacement will be determined by