NEOPLASMS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 543 scirrlms and encephaloid, and the later stages of epitlielionia. In doubt- ful cases it will be advisable to remove a portion of the mass for micro- scopical examination. The treatment of cancer of the rectum may be palliatwe or radical. The former looks to the prolongation of life and the alleviation of pain by the employment of careful dietetic and medicinal measures. The Tegular daily introduction of warm water will prevent the lodgment of fecal matter and secure the greatest possible immunity from irritation. The iodoform and cocaine suppositories will be found useful in alleviat- ing pain, and morphia may be employed if all other measures fail. As the disease progresses it will be found necessary to j)ractice dilatation of the stricture at intervals which should be as far removed as possible, or partial or complete division may be required. The radical treatment consists in the free excision of the neoplasm. The death-rate after this operation is exceedingly heavy, and, when the dissection is extensive and recovery follows, the condition of fecal in- continence is deplorable. Moreover, the tendency to recurrence is so great that this knowledge should deter the surgeon from undertaking the operation in other than the mildest cases. When the disease extends higher than three inches from the anus, it is of doubtful propriety, and in scirrhus and encephaloid cancer, on account of the rapid and wide infiltration which occurs with these neoplasms, the operation does not offer a prospect of relief suflicient to Justify the danger which is in- curred. Excision is Justifiable and should be done in all cases of epithelioma situated within three inches of the anus which have been discovered before infiltration is deep, or before metastasis has occurred. When undertaken, the dissection should be carried on well away from the dis- ease, in the perfectly healthy tissues. It is performed as follows : The patient should be prepared for the operation by being placed upon liquid diet for one week, and the lower bowel should be thoroughly cleansed by repeated injections of tepid water. A good light should be secured, the patient placed in the lithotomy position, and the parts in the field of operation shaved. The rectum should be well packed with sponges to prevent the escape of fluids or other matter from the bowel into the wound. The number of sponges should be noted, so that the operator may be sure that none are left in after the excision is completed. In order to secure as great a degree of continence after the operation as possible, all or a portion of the external sphincter should be i^reserved. However, if the disease involves this muscle, it should be removed. An elliptical incision is first made around the anus along the Junction of the skin and mucous membrane (or wider than this if the extent of the disease demands it), and the dissection carried up through the inner fibers of the external sphincter, the posterior insertion of which should be split as far back as the tip of the coccyx, in order to give more room. When the disease is approached, the dissection should be kept well out from the gut in the healthy tissues. Within the first inch of the dissec- tion the bleeding points may be readily secured by the forceps, but,