CHAPTER XIX. GENITO-UEIKART OEGAlSrS. Kidneys.—Certain diseased conditions of the kidneys, resulting cMefly from traumatism, but in some instances idiopathic in origin, demand a careful consideration, and at times active interference, at the hands of the surgeon. Wounds.—Solutions of continuity in these organs, either as a result of concussion or from the penetration of a foreign body, are among the most dangerous visceral lesions. Rupture of the kidney occurs not only from violence applied immediately over the anatomical seat of this organ, but indirectly, as from a fall on the head or feet. The conditions which result are practically identical, whether there is a penetrating wound or not. Haemorrhage is immediate, and is proportionate to the extent of kidney involved and to the vascularity of the part injured. Shock is usually well marked. Vomiting is present, with pallor, cold perspira- tion, rapid and weak pulse. Pain, if severe, is felt in the region of the organ, and is transmitted in the direction of the ureters, down the leg, and into the testicle of the injured side in the male, which organ is usu- ally drawn up toward the external ring. Extravasation of urine takes place, and, when the capsule is torn, finds its way into the loose areolar tissue of the retroperitoneal space. Haemorrhage occurs in the same way, as well as into the uriniferous tubules and pelvis of the kidney. The organ may be displaced by concussion, usually traveling downward and toward the median line. The symptoms., although varying with the extent of the lesion, are usually those of profound shock. Pain, not only local, but extending in the direction just described, together with the presence of bloody urine, in a patient who has received a wound in the lumbar region, or a severe concussion, and who has no bladder or urethral disease to account for hsematuria, are symptoms which point quite clearly to the nature of the injury. Partial suppression of urine is not uncommon. A marked elevation of temperature usually follows the reaction from shock. The febrile movement is chiefly due to the inflammation which follows the escape of urine into the retroperitoneal space. With the advent of pus-formation, local tenderness is increased, the area of inflammation spreads, the more superficial structures become tense, the integument is reddened, and rigors or chills occur, followed by exacerbations of tem- perature.