DISLOCATIONS. 341 tlie foot and joint. The ankle is exceedingly tolerant of surgical inter- ference, and, with strict cleanliness and antisepsis, amputation on account of complicated or compound dislocation will be rarely necessary. The fibula may be displaced from its articulation with the tibia at its upper or lower end. At the upper end it is usually luxated forward, as a result of direct violence from behind, although it is possible to have the reverse occur. The bone will be felt in the abnormal and anterior posi- tion, and may be pushed directly back into place. In the backward dis- placement the biceps muscle may produce the luxation, or it may be from violence applied from the front. Strong and continued pressure must be employed to retain the bone in position until adhesions occur. During the treatment the leg should be flexed on the thigh in order to relax the biceps. At the lower end dislocation of the fibula alone, without the tibia, is exceedingly rare. Anatomically, it may occur in both directions. Re- duction may be effected by direct pressure. The fibula may be displaced outward from the tibia by the astragalus being driven upward between these bones. Dislocations of the Bones of the Tarsus.—The astragalus may be partially or completely dislocated forward, backward, outward, or in- ward. The luxation is usually incomplete. On account of the great violence necessary to its production it not infrequently is compound, or complicated with a fracture. Violence of the same character as that which produces displacement of the tibia will cause dislocation of the astragalus. Treatment.—Luxation of the astragalus is a serious accident. The efforts at reduction do not always succeed, and, even when reduction is effected, the injury to the joint may be such that loss of function results. Direct pressure and counter-pressure, while the patient is lorofoundly ana3sthetized, offer the best means of successful reduction. Displace- ments of the metatarsal bones and phalanges of the toes are treated in the same general way as described for similar lesions of the hand. The Vertehrce.—Dislocation may occur at any articular surface of the vertebral column. The accident is always serious, the gravity being pro- portionate to the degree of displacement and the injury to the cord and nerves. Luxations are more common in the cervical region. One or both articular processes may be displaced forward or backward upon the ver- tebra below. In the unilateral displacement the fibro-cartilage between the bodies is only slightly involved, and, while there is pressure upon the nerves passing out of the intervertebral foramen, there is no pressure upon the cord. In the bilateral form the cartilage is torn, the body more or less involved in the luxation, and the cord compressed. The causes are muscular contraction, or violent twisting.of the neck by accident. The symptoms of unilateral displacement are pain—which may be referred to the distribution of the nerves passing through the interverte- bral foramen involved—at the seat of luxation and rotation of the head,