.701 SPONDYLITIS. and by concussion of the column transmitted from the head downward. When the bodies alone are involved (the usual condition) it may be less- ened or made to disappear entirely by suspension of the patient from a portion of the column above the lesion ; by bending the spine backward, thus throwing the weight upon the healthy articular processes ; or by laying the patient face downward across the surgeon's lap, and making extension by separating the knees. Muscular rigidity is recognizable in a majority of instances, and in children may be observed as a symptom of pain, when the presence of pain is denied. Fixation of the dorsal muscles is evident in the stiff and unusual manner in which the back is held as the patient moves about, and in the awkward posture assumed while sitting down. If directed to bend the vertebral column, as in stooping to pick up some- thing from the floor, the movements are cautious and constrained, alto- gether lacking in the celerity and suppleness which are seen in flexion and extension of the vertebral column in health. In the earlier stages pain is dull and steady in character, and is usually local, being confined to the neighborhood of the part affected. Elevation of temperature may be present at any stage of Pott's dis- ease. It is, as a rule, the index of the extent and rapidity of the inflam- matory and destructive processes. The thermometer may register from the normal as high as 101°-102° F., and only in exceptional instances as high as 104°. In a fair proportion of cases in the early stages, and espe- cially in the dry form of ostitis, no elevation of temperature can be detected. The second stage of the disease, that of deformity, may be present in the course of a few weeks after the appearance of the first stage, or sev- eral months may elapse. All of the symptoms of the preceding stage are present in the second stage of Pott's disease. If proper treatment has not been instituted, interference with the functions of the cord at and below the seat of lesion, or of the nerves which pass out between the diseased vertebrae, is apt to occur, from displacement of the bones or as a result of inflammatory products pressing upon the spinal cord and nerves. Paralysis of motion and sensation, in a varying degree, occurs in a certain proportion of cases. When deformity occurs the convexity of the curve is posterior in about 95 per cent of all cases. The "knuckle" may consist of a single spinous process (Fig. 328), or several spines may project, as in Fig. 670. The degree of deformity depends upon the location of the disease, its extent, and in part to general relaxation of the erector muscles. It is greater when the lower cervical and upper dorsal vertebrje are involved. The formation of pus and the resulting abscess and sinuses belong chiefly to the last stage of ostitis of the spine. The abscess may travel along the psoas muscle, opening near the middle of the groin above or beneath Poupart's ligament, the pus may escape through the inguinal canal, over the iliac crest, or through the sacro-sciatic notch ; or it may be arrested at a higher point and escape recognition, unless careful examination is made under ether narcosis.