A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY 664 pleurisy, adhesions may occur with, obliteration of the sac, or suppura- tion may ensue; or, passing into a subacute and chronic stage, a condi- tion of true hydrocele of the cord ensues {'perispermatitis chronica serosa). Effusion into the sheath of the cord may communicate with the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis (Fig. 654), or with the peritoneal cavity (congenital hydrocele) (Fig. 655), but these conditions are rare. It is usually confined to the tunica funiculi (Fig. 656). The diagnosis of this form of hydrocele rests upon the recognition of a fluctuating tumor in the line of the cord, and the exclusion of hsema- tocele, varicocele, and hernia. The symptoms of hsematocele have Just been given. The peculiar feel of a varicocele, so well compared to the sensation felt in grasping a mass of earth-worms between the fingers, can scarcely be mistaken. If the recumbent posture is assumed, the varicose veins are emptied and the tumor disappears. This can not occur in cyst of the cord. A hernial tumor gives the .characteristic impulse upon coughing ; a cyst does not. A reducible hernia will disappear in the recumbent posture, and if, when reduced, the finger is pressed into the internal ring, it will not recur, while, despite this precaution, a varicocele will reappear. Exploration with a hypodermic needle will disclose the character of the contents. The treatment of hydrocele of the spermatic cord is practically the same as that for hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis. Periorchitis may also be acute or chronic. In acute infiammation the quantity of serous transudation may be large or small. When the in- flammatory process is acute, and the transudation of serum so limited that the opposing surfaces of the two walls are not kept apart, adhe- sions may occur, with partial or complete obliteration of the sac. The causes include all lesions of the scrotum, the testicle, and epi- didymis, the process naturally extending to the delicate lining membrane. Fig. 654.—Hydrocele of the cord communicating with the tunica vaginalis testis. The instrument is passed through the membrane which separates the fluid from the peritonseum. a. Testis. (After Linhart.) Fig. 655.—c, Hydro- cele of the cord com- municatuig with the peritoneal cavity, o, Testis. (After Lin- hart. ) Fig. 656.—Encysted hydrocele of the cord. Fig. 657.—Hydrocele of the tunica vagi- nalis testis. (Alter Linhart.)