244 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. the death-rate after ligature of the common trunk, for the same period, was 41 per cent. Ligation of the Superior Thyroid Artery—Anatomy.—This branch was present in every instance in one hundred and twenty-one dissec- tions. It originated almost invariably on a level with the thyroid notch. In one of twenty-five cases it will be found to have a com- mon origin with the lingual, or the lingual and facial. See Fig. 287, 1, 2. Operation.—With the neck in the surgical position, i. e., "Rith the head thrown back and the face turned to the opposite side, make an in- cision two inches long, parallel with, and one fourth of an inch in front of, the carotid line. The center of this incision must be on a level with the thyroid notch. Immediately beneath the skin and platysma myoides will be seen the thyroid, lingual, hyoid, and other veins, which may assume either of the forms or relations shown in Fig. 285, A, B, being most common. These being tied and divided, the artery will be found opposite the point above indicated. The thyro-hyoid nerve will occasionally be seen passing across this artery, although usually nearer the median line. The external laryngeal passes beneath it. Ligation of the Lingual Artery—Anatomy.—From its origin, usu- ally opposite the cornu of the hyoid bone, it ascends obliquely upward and inward, and is superficial until it passes underneath the stylo- hyoideus and digastricus (posterior belly), and then more deeply behind the hyo-glossus. In two of one hundred and twenty-one cases it originated in common with the superior thyroid, and in two other instances with this vessel and the facial. In thirty-one of one hundred and twenty-one cases it arose from a trunk common to it and the facial, being abnormally associated in one in every three and a half dissections. Operation.—The lingual artery may be secured either below the digastric or above this point, where it passes beneath the hyo-glossus. For the low operation make an incision as in the case of the superior thyroid, except that its center should be opposite the os hyoides. The artery will be found in the lingual triangle, bounded posteriorly by the external carotid, above by the digastric muscle, below by the os hyoides. The middle constrictor muscle is behind it; the platysma myoides in front, and under this the veins above noted. The hypoglossal nerve is usually just above it as it crosses the carotid, while the thyro-hyoid branch of this nerve crosses the artery on its way to the muscle it supplies. The high operation is one of considerable difficulty. The face should be well turned to the opposite side, the chin elevated, and held per- fectly immovable. Beginning immediately over the os hyoides, near the median line of the neck, an incision is made outward, and parallel with this bone as far as the great cornu, where it is curved upward to the angle of the Jaw (Fig. 289). This crescentic flap is turned up, and with it the sub-maxillary gland, in a groove on the under surface of which ^1