674 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. The position of the testicle should be elevated, as in epididymitis. The local application of cold is grateful and advantageous in most cases. The organ is, however, so sensitive that no pressure is tolerated. This can be obviated by making a ring of cloths wrapped around a small hoop, leaving a lumen large enough to include the scrotum and penis. The ice-bag is laid upon this ring, which prevents any pressure upon the inflamed organ. When the eiiusion is rapid, causing dangerous tension of the fibrous capsule, surgical interference is imperative. The operation consists in seizing the organ with the left hand, so as to render it steady and the skin tense, puncturing the scrotum and'pa- rietal layer of the tunica vaginalis testis, and thus subcutaneously making a series of incisions through the tunica albuginea on its anterior and antero-lateral aspects. The incisions should be about half an inch in length, and are much preferable to simple puncture. The danger of hernia testis does not contraindicate this procedure. Chronic orchitis, not due to syphilis, is comparatively rare. When it occurs, it usually follows an acute inflammation. The pathological change consists in a thickening of the tunica albuginea and of the con- nective-tissue septa. Embryonic cells, collected in groups or nests, in various stages of development, are crowded along and around the blood- vessels and seminiferous tubules, as well as scattered about in the inter- tubular spaces. As the process continues, the tubules disappear under the pressure of the new inflammation-tissue. In a certain proportion of cases cysts form in the following manner: The peripheral cells of one or more foci of the embryonic tissue organize into connective tissue and aid in forming the investing capsule. The cells within this new capsule un- dergo granular metamorphosis, and later liquefaction, by absorption of fluid from the surrounding vessels. In other cases foci of suppuration (multiple abscess of the testicle) may remain from an acute inflammation and be present in chronic orchitis long after the acute symptoms have subsided. The contents of these foci may also undergo caseous degen- eration. The symptoms of chronic orchitis are those of progressive enlarge- ment of this organ. In some instances pain is wanting, in others it is present, though less intense than in the acute form, while in a third cate- gory may be classed cases of chronic orchitis with intercurrent attacks of acute inflammation and the accompanying exacerbations of pain. The organ varies in size from two to four or five inches in its greatest diameter. Much annoyance is occasioned in the larger tumors by the dragging upon the cord. The diagnosis is between hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, inflam- mation of the walls of this cavity, with exudation and thickening and adhesion to the testicle, syphilitic orchitis, and tuberculosis testis. Hy- drocele is easily excluded by fluctuation, translucency, and aspiration. In periorchitis with exudation and adhesions, differentiation will at times be difficult. The obliteration of the cavity of the tunica vaginalis renders the superficial tissues less freely movable upon the body of the testis.