752 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. ovaries, etc. It differs from the preceding in the shape of the epithelia which line the tubules. The cells are columnar, set on end, contain one or more nuclei, and may exist in a single layer or as several rows of cells piled on each other. The framework or stroma is composed of connective tissue, which may have a fibrillated arrangement, or it may remain in an embryonic condition (Fig. 759). The prognosis of these tumors is unfavorable. They are rarely rec- ognized at a period early enough in their history to allow of a thorough removal. Those of the os and cervix uteri, ovaries, rectum, and nose are most easily removed. Lympliadenoma.—This variety of neoplasm is entitled to be classed with the malignant tumors. It consists of new-formed lymphatic gland- tissue, and may occur in pre-existing glands or in any of the tissues of the body. The liver, spleen, and kidneys, the testicle, the alimentary €anal, the bones and integument, may all be the seat of these new forma- tions. Coincident with the development of these neoplasms, the pro- portion of white blood-corpuscles in the volume of blood is enormously increased, until death ensues from leucocythsemia. These tumors may be of any size, from a millet-seed up to several inches in diameter, are soft to the touch, and usually not well defined. They can not be diag- nosticated from other gland-tissues unless examined microscopically, when they are seen to consist of a connective-tissue framework or reticu- lum, along the fibrillse of which run the capillaries, and in the meshes of the reticulum the lymph-corpuscles are situated (Fig. 760). The prognosis is grave, and the condition does not Justify surgical in- terference. Sarcomata.—A sarcoma is a tumor the elements of which have their type in the normal connective tissues. The cells of a sarcoma may be purely embryonic, or may, in a certain sense, resemble the more devel- oped elements. They are, however, not capable of organization into a permanent tissue. Classified according to the shape and size of the cell-elements which 'EiQ. 759.—Tubular epithelioma with cylindrical ele- ments, a. Tubule cut across. J, Tubule cut in its long axis. Cj Cylindrical epithelia. (After Cornil and Eanvier.) Fig. 760.—Eetioular structure of a lymphatic in- testinal follicle, a b, Capillary vessels with nuclei in their walls, c, Meshes of the retic- ular structure containing lymphatic corpus- cles. (After Frey.)