358 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. nized course of the nerves. Motion is not painful in the degree wliich characterizes either synovitis or rheumatism, and, if persisted in, the sense of pain may entirely disappear. Pressure upon the nerves, which lead to and beyond the articulation, will at times cause pain similar to those felt in neuralgia of the Joint. Swelling is not a feature of a neurosis. In rheumatism of the muscles about the Joint the pain is supei'ficial, and may be elicited by digital pressure upon the substance of the muscles. In rheumatism redness is more apt to be present, and the area of swell- ing extends farther than in synovitis. The treatment of synovitis is the same at all Joints. Artificial exten- sion is rarely needed, since the weight of the extremity is sufficient. Aspiration is a safe and efficient means of relief from pain, and is indicated when there is marked capsular tension. The needle should be entered through the center of the Joint in front. Fixation of the Joint by a shoulder-cap of felt, card-board, or leather, should be secured im- mediately after aspiration (page 291). When ready for application, lay upon the surface of the board which is to be nearest the skin a layer of absorbent cotton, which shall be wide enough to extend entirely around the arm and over the shoulder, place it in position, and se- cure snugly by a figure-of-8 bandage around the arm and shoulder (see Fig. 17). Acute suppurative synovitis demands an immediate evacuation of the purulent contents of the capsule by means of the aspirator, and, if the Joint refills rapidly, and the pain and temperature continue or are exag- gerated, it should be opened and thoroughly cleansed and drained. The incision is the same as for excision of the head of the humerus, namely, from the anterior internal tip of the acromion, parallel with the fibers of the deltoid along the anterior margin of the great external tuberosity. The capsule is opened external to the long head of the biceps, and, whOe traction is firmly made upon the edges, the cavity may be thoroughly explored and cleansed. It is of vital importance that in this, as in every cavity which is the seat of purulent inflammation, drainage should, when possible, be established from that portion of the wound which is most dependent. As the patient rests in bed the posterior and outer part of the capsule is lowest. A dull-pointed dressing-forceps should be car- ried into the capsule through the anterior incision and bored through the inferior posterior wall and all the tissues to the skin, and when this is pushed ahead of the instrument an incision should be made to allow the escape of the instrument. The wound is stretched by opening the Jaws of the instrument, and a rubber tube pulled into place as the in- strument is withdrawn. In osteo-arthritis of the shoulder-Joint exsection is demanded. Tlie Mlbow-Joint.—^ynoYitiB of this articulation need not be sepa- rately considered. The same general principles of diagnosis and treat- ment apply here as in other Joints. Destructive osteo-arthritis demands gouging or exsection. The operation will be given hereafter. The Wrist-Joint.—Inflammation of the synovial membranes of the wrist or in the immediate neighborhood of this Joint is of frequent occur-