325 DISLOCATIONS. Fig. 363.—(Bryant.) Fig. 362.—(Bryant.) ence of the head of the humerus nearer to the clavicle. The arm stands slightly out from the body, and the elbow is tilted backward. The ten- sion on the posterior scapular muscles is greater, and rupture of their attachments often occurs, while the anterior insertion of the subscapu- laris may be dissected up. Pressure on the axillary vessels and nerves is more marked in this luxation. The rupture of the capsule occurs on its anterior-inferior aspect. The treatment of the subclavicular variety consists in judicious exten- sion and counter-extension in the line of displacement, until the head of the bone is carried into the subcoracoid position. The subcoracoid dislocation may be reduced by the method just de- scribed for the subglenoid ; that is, with the foot in the axilla as a ful- crum. This will rarely fail, and, if the patient is etherized, is easily accom plished. The subglenoid and subcoracoid luxations may be reduced by manipu- lation, as follows: With the patient fully anesthetized (for the right side), grasp the shoulder with the right hand, placing the thumb upon the head of the bone, and the lingers over the clavicle and spine of the scapula, and the flexed forearm, near the elbow, with the left hand. Carry the elbow out from the side, make firm extension, and slowly rotate the humerus outward on its axis (Fig. 362). The elbow should now be raised and the arm made to describe a semicircle in the direc- tion of the sternum and face, and then suddenly brought down to the side of the thorax, the head of the humerus at the same time being ro- tated inw^ard (Fig. 363). The thumb of the opposite hand should give the right direction to the head of the bone. (Thomas Bryant.) The subacromial and subspinous dislocations are reducible by exten- sion and counter-extension in the line of displacement. Counter-exten- sion may be made by an assistant holding the arm of the sound side, or by the folded sheet (already described) applied just in the axilla. The operator makes extension from the arm and forearm, imparting to the humerus a slight axial rotation. General Considerations.—Recent dislocations at the shoulder may not always be reduced, and some which are readily replaced are with