12 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. figure-of-8 turn. Thus, the spica at the groin and shoulder, the occiput and chin dressings, and the neck and shoulder bandages, must describe this shape. The figure-of-8 reverse is of great use in getting over the calf of the leg in very muscular subjects, w^here not infrequently all the other methods will fail to hold. The important rule in bandaging is to equalize t?ie pressure from periphery to center. The cii'cumstances of the case will determine the degree of compression. It requires a great deal of study and practice to become expert in applying dressings. One should thoroughly familiarize one's self with each of the methods, for not infrequently a part to be dressed will require a combination of several methods. The question of how tight to apply the bandage may in part be left to the sense of the patient when an ansesthetic is not employed. After an extensive opera- tion, in which Esmarch's bandage has been applied, a very considerable degree of compression is often requii'ed to prevent the oozing which otherwise would follow the use of this tourniquet. No amount of de- scription will impart this sense to the inquirer; it can only come from personal experience. One precaution is imperative : the tips of the fin- gers or toes of the extremity bandaged must always be left open for observation, for if strangulation is threatened it will always be earliest indicated here. A watch should be set on every case where there is ground for anxiety, with direc- tions to slit the dressing with the appearance of any symptom of strangulation. Special Bandages—T7ie Hand and Fingers by the First Method (Fig. 15).—Take a roller between three fourths and one inch in width, and ten yards in length. Let the hand to be bandaged be pronated, and commence by tak- ing two or three turns of the roller around the carpus, going from the radial over the back of the wrist to the ulnar side. Having in this manner secured the roller, carry it from the radial side of the wrist obliquely across the dorsum of the hand to the ulnar border of the root of the little finger, then spi- rally around the little finger two turns to its extremity. Next, re- FiG. 15.-Hand-, thumb-, and flnger-bandage. (The tum by Careful Spiral tumS, Or a author's modification of the old method.) Spiral reverse, if necessary, to the root of the finger, covering it equal- ly and nicely. From the radial border of the base of the finger the band- age is carried over the back of the hand to the ulnar side of the carpus,