ARTERITIS. 177 ^- A Fig. 256.—Arteritis with coagulation-necrosis. Section from human artery treated with acetic acid, showing at d spots of coagulation-necrosis which contained calcareous salts before being treated with the acid; a, intima; b, media; c, adventitia. (Drawn from specimen prepared by Dr. W. L. Wardwell. Magnitiod about 40 diameters.) there are often found spots of diseased tissue which present all the ap- pearances of having undergone a '•'•coagulation necrosis.'''' 2. That in these spots there is a tendency to the deposition of lime salts. 3. That in primary calcification the media is always first affected, the intima and adventitia only secondarily and by contiguity. 4. That this change is in- dependent of a preceding in- flammation. 5. That, on the contrary, these calcified spots act as foreign bodies, setting up a secondary inflammation in theii- vicinity, and leading sometimes to thickening of the intima. 6. That one of the changes in atheroma of the arteries is coagulation-necrosis, that lime salts are often deposited in such necrotic spots, that the position of such spots is in the intima instead of the media, viz., in the newly formed inflammatory tissue. 7. That primary calcification attacks the small arteries rather than the larger, and especially those portions of the arteries which are subject- ed to the greatest strain.* These conditions are shown in Figs. 256 and 257. Syphilitic Arteritis. —Arteritis is a part of the pathology of syphUis. The first danger to life in this disease comes from the changes in the ca- pacity of the arteries. No part of the arterial system is exempt, though the most serious lesions are found in the vessels of the brain, and next in the aorta. They become grave in the larger trunks on account of the athero- ma resulting from the syphilitic poison (induc- m ;2) Fig. 257.—Posterior tibial artery. Section showing coagulation-ne- crosis. A, intima; b, media; c, adventitia; d, spot of coagu- lation-necrosis. Magnified 360 diameters. (From a specimen prepared by Dr. W. X. Wardwell.) * For these conclusions the author is indebted to Dr. "W. L. Wardwell. 12