A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 18 accident, although I have made personal inquiry from numerous prac- titioners in the South and West, who have had much experience with these cases. In a personal experience, in which I was stung by a scor- pion in the palm of the hand, no unpleasant symptom followed. As soon as the insect was brushed off, the venom was removed by sucking the wound, and by expression. The venom of the tarantula, and other spiders, is occasionally fatal. In a private communication, Dr. Thomas A. Pope, of Texas, who has seen many cases of tarantula-bite, reports one fatal case. Death did not ensue, however, from the changes induced in the blood by the venom, but from asphyxia due to closure of the larynx and trachea from great swelling, the man having been bitten in the neck. The swelling is usually severe, and an erythematous rash occurs about the second day. This may occupy one half or all of the body. Slough- ing at the wound almost always occurs. The stings of bees, wasps, hornets, etc., possess a venom which, while rarely fatal, is painful and annoying. The application of an alkaline solution will, if immediately used, neutralize the pain and the tendency to swelling. Clay moistened into a paste with the saliva is an effective remedy used by the negroes in the Southern States. The sting should be removed if it has remained in the wound. In the case of a negro child, three years old, who had just a minute or two before been stung by about forty bees, no serious symptom ensued. The treatment followed was brushing the insects off with a sheet, and thoroughly sponging the entire body with a solution of a teacupful of ordinary saleratus in two quarts of water. The venom of the centipede scarcely deserves mention. I am told by physicians practicing in the sections infested by these Myriapoda that their toxic power is much exaggerated. The slight effects which follow their foot-marks and the bite of the tarantula should be treated by per- manganate of potassium locally and stimulants internally. Hydrophobia.—The bite of certain animals, as the wolf, dog, fox, and cat, is at times followed by alarming, and often fatal symptoms, due to the absorption of a specilic virus. It was formerly thought that the saliva alone was the menstruum for this poison, but Pasteur * has recently claimed that he has produced rabies in animals inoculated with the cephalo-racliidian fluid, and the nerve-matter of the medulla oblongata of other animals suffering from this disease. He also claims that by successive cultures of the specific germ of this disease, and inoculations with the cultures, immunity from rabies may be secured. While any statement from this great scientist is entitled to credence—and while the report of the commission appointed by the French Government fully proves the success of Pasteur's method in animals—it is not yet fully determined that vaccination will give immunity to man, nor prevent the development of rabies after inoculation. Hydrophobia may follow the bite of an animal seemingly in perfect * " Gazette des hopitaux," 1881, p. 502. Hid., 1884, p. 733.