511 HERNIA. up tlie opening, must be determined by the circumstances of each par- ticular case. As a rule, an operation is not indicated unless strangula- tion is threatened, and this is especially the case when the patient is situated within the easy call of a competent operator. Under other con- ditions operative interference may be seriously considered. With the first symptoms of strangulation the patient should be etherized, and a final effort at reduction made by careful taxis. If this does not succeed, kelotomy should be at once performed. The incision should be vertical, with its center corresponding to the neck of the her- nia. On account of the exceeding thinness of the integument and other coverings, great care should be exercised in cutting down upon the tumor. As soon as the sac is punctured, the dull director is introduced, and the sac divided sufficiently to allow the introduction of the finger, upon which the further division of the sac is made. If the finger-nail can now be insinuated between the neck of the hernia and the constrict- ing ring, it should be done, holding the palmar aspect of the finger toward the pubes. The probe-pointed bistoury is now introduced fiat- wise, and the constriction divided for not more than a quarter of an inch at first. The direction of this cut should be in the median line, and toward the pubes; or the constriction may be incised on the upper aspect of the neck if more convenient to the operator. The management of the strangulated bowel or omentum should be the same as advised in inguinal hernia. The sac should be transfixed with a strong double catgut ligature, tied each way, the part beyond the ligatures cut off, and the stump returned within the abdomen. The radical cure should be attempted by introducing a flat Thiersch sponge through the opening, which will prevent blood or other matter from en- tering the peritoneal cavity. The margins of the opening should now be trimmed so as to secure freshened edges for approximation. When all bleeding has ceased, the sponge should be removed. The parietal layer of peritonaeum should be stitched by a separate row of catgut sutures, and the fascia, aponeuroses of the muscles, and integument brought together by silk or silver-wire sutures. If for any reason the separate row of sutures are not introduced, the outside row should trans- fix the peritoneal layer of the abdominal wall about one fourth of an inch from the margin of the wound, so that, when the sutures are tied, this much of the peritoneal surface of the two sides will be brought into apposition. Ventral hernia is amenable to the same general treatment as the acquired umbilical variety. In operation for the cure of hernia after laparotomy, the parietal peritonseiim should be first closed with catgut. In closing the remainder of the wound the sutures should be made to include both layers of the dense sheath of the rectus muscle. In diaphragmatic hernia the diagnosis must be based upon the symp- toms of obstruction. Pleuritis will be present in a varying degree. The only means of arriving at a positive diagnosis is to make the median incision, with manual exploration. The hernia may be reduced by trac- tion, with or without dilatation of the opening in the diaphragm. The