SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 227 on account of the anastomoses of the branches of the internal iliac with the vessels of the thigh. Direct compression of the sac was once success- fully practiced by Dr. Brown, of Boston, in a case of femoral aneurism at Poupart's ligament. The weight employed may be as much as twelve pounds. Iron balls were used in this case. The patient was confined to bed for ten months. When the tumor is so far away from Poupart's ligament that digital or mechanical compression of the femoral upon the OS pubis is possible, this treatment should be adopted. Extreme flexion of the thigh upon the abdomen has succeeded in producing a cure in a few instances. Direct pressure upon the tumor, with the limb ex- tended, is less painful and equally efficacious. When the necessity for the application of the ligature occurs, the efl'ort should be made to reach the artery below the origin of the profunda femoris, since the danger of gangrene is much less if this great collateral route is open. The treatment of aneurism of the lower portion of the femoral does not materially differ from the above. Aneurism of the prof unda femoris is rare, occurring usually as a complication of this condition in the common trunk, or as a result of a punctured wound. The treatment will include pressure on the cardiac side, or direct compression, and, as a last report, ligature of the common femoral, or iliac. Aneurism of the Popliteal Artery.—About one fourth of all aneurisms occur in this vessel. Subjected, by reason of its unfortunate location, to the accidents of compression in extreme flexion of the leg, it frequently suffers those pathological changes which end in aneurismal dilatation, and is only second in order of frequency to the aortic arch, which yields to the violence of the cardiac systole. As with aneurism in other loca- tions, it occurs most frequently in males, and in the active period of life, being rare in childhood and youth, and most common in the years from twenty-five to fifty. Diagnosis.—On account of the infrequency of tumors in this region, other than aneurism, the diagnosis is not difficult. The characteristic symptoms of this malady will determine its difl'erentiation from glandular enlargements, exostoses, over-distended bursse, or abscess. Treatment.—In the treatment of popliteal aneurism the patient should . be placed in the recumbent posture, with the leg of the affected side slightly flexed. A soft mattress should be used, and the thigh and leg held in a comfortable and fixed position by means of a pillow under the popliteal space, and sand-bags laterally. Under the influence of an opiate, or in extreme cases complete etherization, digital or mechanical pressure should be employed upon that portion of the artery lying in Scarpa's triangle (Fig. 273). Within this limit the point of compression may be shifted, in order to prevent too great local irritation. In obstinate cases compression on the cardiac side may be re-enforced by forced flexion of the leg on the thigh, or by direct pressure upon the tumor. The instances will be exceedingly rare where a patient and skill- ful employment of these methods of compression wiU not succeed in