AMPUTATIONS. 109 In applying the saw, it is best to place the center of this instrument against the bone close up to the retractor, always holding its bladje in such relation to the bone that the sawn surface will be perpendicular to the axis of the bone. A few short strokes will suffice to cut a trench or hold for the saw, which may then be more rapidly used. The operator steadies the member with his left hand on the central side of the wound, while the assistant holds the extremity. As the section is about being completed, he is directed to cease all traction, simply supporting the weight of the limb, and thus splintering may be avoided. The last few strokes of the saw should be very lightly and carefully made, to avoid the same accident. The retractor is allowed to remain after the bone is divided and the amputated part removed, and until, with a bone-cutter or cartilage-knife, the circumference of the cut surface is smoothed and rounded off. In doing this, the force applied should always be toward the center of the bone, to prevent stripping up the periosteum or splin- tering. The practice of dissecting a periosteal cuff, at one time recommended for the purpose of covering over the end of the bone, is now justly abandoned. While it succeeded in some instances, in many it gave rise to great annoyance, necessitating a second operation on account of ex- ostosis or necrosis. The retractor is now removed, the stump irrigated, and the surface then thoroughly dried with sponges, so that the vessels may be secured. The larger arteries and veins may be readily found, and the ends seized with the forceps. All the tissues should be care- fully stripped from these by a blunt instrument (grooved director), and, when the catgut is thus applied, the operator is sure that no nerve- tissue is caught along with the vessel. For the larger vessels the double or friction loop (Fig. 113) should be employed ; the single knot will suffice for the smaller. When ligatures have been applied to all the vessels which can be recognized by the eye, other " bleeding points" may be discovered by grasping the limb a few inches above the line of section and then forcing out the small quantity of blood which remains after Esmarch's bandage. As it oozes out over the cut surface, its point of exit may be caught up by the broad-Jawed forceps, and in doing this it is usually necessary to pick up a small bit of whatever tissue may be immediately about the vessel. In tying a catgut thread around these vessels, the loop should be tightened upon the jaws of the instru- ment on the slope nearest the point, for as it is further tightened it grasps the metal closely and slides over the end, including no tissue but that already in the grasp of the forceps. Having proceeded thus far, the stump being elevated, the wound should be filled with clean warm sponges, covered with sublimate towels, and firmly compressed by the operator while the assistant removes the tourniquet. After waiting two or three minutes for the vessels to fill, one by one the sponges are care- fully removed, and any bleeding points caught with the forceps. When these shall have been tied, the wound should again be flooded with warni 1 to 3,000 sublimate, packed with sponges well squeezed out, the whole covered in with sublimate towels, and bimanual compression employed