A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 186 * "Gaz. des h6pitaux," 1882, p. 1083. The process is usually so gradual that the collateral circulation is established before occlusion of the main trunk (jccurs. This may, in- deed, escape observation until the enlarging superficial arteries attract attention. The thrombus formed under such conditions differs from the organized thrombus at the seat of a ligature, inasmuch as the i^assing blood-current furnishes fibrin-making white corpuscles with accompanying fibrin-deposit in the one, while this can not occur after a ligature is applied. The causes of thrombosis may be summed uj) as follows : 1. Occlusion of the vessel as by a ligature. 2. Inflammation of the intima (arteritis). 3. Dilatation of the vessels (as in aneurism). 4. An abnormal condition of the blood. 5. Heart failure. 6. Narrowing of the caliber of an arteiy by pressure. Vascular Tumors. We may recognize six varieties of vascular tumor, apart from true aneurism. These are: 1. Arterial varix; 2. Cirsoid arterial tumor, or cirsoid aneurism ; 3. Arterial cutaneous tumor; 4. Capillary cutaneous tumor; 5. Venous cutaneous tumor (these three varieties are usually classed together under the name of angeiomata); and 6. Venous varix, or simply varix (varicose vein). Arterial Varix may be defined as a dilatation and elongation of an artery of the second magnitude (as the external iliac or common carotid), of the third (as the external carotid or posterior tibial), or of the fourth (as the temporal, facial, superior thyroid, or palmar branches of the radial and ulnar). Cruveilhier has reported a case of arterial varix of the external iliac artery. I have made one dissection of arterial varix of the superior thyroid artery, in which this vessel was greatly elongated, and as large as the external or internal carotid. It was tortuous, but not sacculated, the dilatation being general. Tillaux* reports a case of cirsoid aneurism of the hand, with dilatation of the arteries of the fore- arm and humeral region. Treatment.—Arterial varix may be treated by compression, or by the ligature, when such a procedure becomes necessary. In a case which I saw after the patient's death, and in which the superior thyroid artery was involved, the ligature would have been advisable. The artery was in a healthy condition, with the exception of its increased length and caliber. When connected with cirsoid arterial tumors, the solidification of these by ligature, cautery, or injection, will usually cure or palliate the arterial varix. Cirsoid Arterial Tumor, or Cirsoid Aneurism.—The cirsoid arterial tumor I would define, after Robin and Grosselin, as being an elongation and dilatation of the terminal subcutaneous arterioles (normally of a diameter of about one fiftieth of an inch). These tumors may be general