A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 720 portant articulation.* Transverse section above the epiphyseal line, from the outside (MacCormac) or inner side (Macewen), should be preferred (Fig. 703). Macewen''s Operation. —In this procedure it is intended to divide the femur at a right angle to its axis through two thirds to three fourths of its thickness, at a point well above the level of the lower epiphysis. In a child ten years old the line of section should be one and three quarter inch above the most dependent portion of the articular surface of the internal condyle, and in an adult two and a half inches. Strict antiseptic precautions should be taken. If Esmarch's bandage is applied as high as the mid- dle of the thigh, the wound will be kept dry and the operation greatly facilitated. Flex the leg on the thigh and rotate the thigh outward so as to bring the inner aspect of the joint upward. Make an incision one inch long, following the direction of the internal condyloid ridge. The center of this in- cision should be opposite the point of section above given. The internal sphenous vein and the anas- tomotica magna artery should be avoided, and the tubercle for the insertion of the tendon of the adductor magnus felt. As soon as the bone is reached the chisel is carried down to it, parallel with the incision, and immediately turned with its cutting edge at a right angle to the axis of the femur. The inner and anterior sheU of compact tissue should be first divided, and when the posterior portion is cut through the osteotome should be directed to the front so that when struck with the mallet it will be carried away from the vessels. As soon as the bone is cut through two thirds of its thickness, the remaining piece may be fractured by grasping the limb above and below the section, and using the other hand for a fulcrum and the leg as a lever, which is carried outward. As soon as the bone snaps, the leg is handed to an assistant, who is directed to steady Fig. 703.—a, MaoCormao's line. A, Miicewcn's line. * Figs. 699-702. (After Poore.) Fig. 699.—Ogston. Fio. 700.—Reeves. Fig. 701.—Chiene. Fig. 702.—Mueewen.