SURGERY OF THE EAR. 395 multiple, and, when of sufficient size to fill the canal and become con- stricted, may break down and cause a foetid discharge. Occasionally the auditory canal is occupied by a parasite known as aspergilliis, the spores of which are developed with great rapidity, fill- ing up the canal and causing intiammation, obstruction, and more or less interference with hearing. Finely powdered boracic acid should be blown deeply into the canal at repeated intervals until the fungus is destroyed. Middle Ear—Memhrana Tympani.—The drum of the ear may be- come involved by extension of an inflammation from the auditory canal, or it may be secondary to an otitis media, or it may in rare instances be inflamed without either of the foregoing complications. Inflammation of the middle ear is in most cases preceded by pharyn- gitis, and is thus affected by invasion through the Eustachian tube. It may be produced by traumatism, or the initial lesion may be situated within the cavity of the tympanum, or in the mastoid cells, which com- municate with the cavity. Otitis media is not uncommon in children as a sequel of scarlatina or rubeola. The earliest symptom of this affection is pain of a severe character, accompanied by partial arrest of hearing. Fever is present, and may be preceded by a chill or rigors. When suppuration occurs, and the mastoid cells are involved, the pain is intensified and the febrile move- ment at times very high. In of this character which I saw, and in which the operation of puncture and trephining the mastoid process had been delayed, fatal pyaemia occurred. In specimens of blood taken from this patient just before death, the red blood-disks were seen to be filled with bacteria. Percussion with the finger-tip over the mastoid region exaggerates the sense of pain. Upon examination with the oto- scope and head-light, the drum of the ear will be seen to be more opaque than normal, its vascularity increased and bulging toward the meatus if there is pus in the middle ear. The treatment of otitis media should be directed to the arrest of the inflammatory process by warm fomentations, by the application of leeches to the temples and mastoid region. Quinia, iron, stimulants, and well-selected diet are indicated in the effort to improve the general condition of the patient. It is of great moment that the tension of the tympanum and of the mastoid cells should be relieved early in the progress of the disease, and, even when there is a doubt as to the pres- ence of pus, explorative puncture of the memhrana tympani should be Fia. 436.—PoHtzer's tympanum-perforator, angular. made. The operation is without danger, is not difficult of accomplish- ment, and, even when suppuration has not occurred, will often give great and immediate relief. A proper instrument for this procedure is