ARTERITIS. 175 be present. It can be readily conceived bow tbe rupture of one or more of tbese pulp-cavities, together with the weakened state of the middle and outer coats, would lead to the formation of aneurism. This danger is not so imminent when the inflammatory process has advanced slowly, for the reason that secondary calciflcation (a conservative process) is more apt to take place. The same may be said of primary calcifica- tion where the lime salts are deposited in the "coagulation necrosis" of the media. The atheromatous and calcareous degenerations may exist in the same location and at the same time. While the cell-structure of the intima is being transformed into granular matter, the fibrillated basement sub- stance nearest the media is the seat of calcareous deposit, at first granular, the granules adhering to form clusters or flakes. At the same time, the nuclei of the muscular-fiber cells are filled in and around with calcareous matter. The entire muscular coat may be converted into a calcified cylinder, or, as is most usual, the process may be confined to isolated patches. In either case, the entire thickness of the wall may eventually undergo the same morbid changes. When the layer of cells between the calcareous deposits and the blood- current has been broken down by the atheromatous process, it may dis- appear in the blood and leave the flakes of calcareous matter exposed to view from within. These in turn may be carried away, or they may be undermined by the blood-current and lead to aneurismal pouches by dissection. With atheroma, calcareous degeneration may invade the entire arterial system, the arteries of the extremities becoming brittle and unyielding. The smaller arteries are most apt to be involved, esiDecially those of the brain. In many cases of atheromatous and calcareous degeneration in the aged, enormous dilatations occur. The dilatation is not uniform, as a rule, but the walls of the dilated artery (usually the aorta and the arte- ries of the second class) are pouched in many places. The calcareous matter will be found to be thickest in those portions of the wall which are less dilated, while the dilated pouches have undergone a more com- plete fatty degeneration. This condition is common- — * ly known as arteritis de- formans. The middle coat may be in places entirely de- stroyed, when the changed intima will be joined with the adventitia by a con- nective-tissue new-forma- tion, which (see Fig. 247) contains vessels passing di- rectly to the intima. Loss of the elastic tunic is one of the immediate causes of spontaneous aneurism (Cornil and Ranvier). Fig. 254.—Showing calcareous degeneration of the media, a, intima; o c, media; d, adventitia; b b, calcareous patches. L'lnar artery. Magnified about 60 diameters. (From a speci- men prepared by Dr. W. L. Wardwell.)