700 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. between the predisposing and exciting causes of Pott's disease, the for- mer deserve by far the greater consideration. Clinically, destructive ostitis is met with in two forms—the dry and the suppurative. The latter variety is more common. In dry ostitis the bone-cells undergo granular metamorphosis, and, together with the inor- ganic salts of this tissue, are absorbed. Suppuration, if present, is lim- ited, and the products of inflammation undergo fatty degeneration. In these cases the breaking down of the bodies of the vertebrae, to the ex- tent of marked deformity, may occur without recognized febrile move- ment. In the suppurative form the destructive process is more rapid, and is accompanied by the formation of a variable quantity of embryonic tissue, the bone breaks down in bulk, and particles varying in size ap- pear in the pus which results from the inflammatory process. The ear- liest pathological change in such cases is in the cancellous tissue of the body. In rarer instances the lesion commences as a synovitis in the costo-vertebral or interarticular joints, whence the disease may invade the intervertebral disks and bodies. Primary inflammation of the inter- vertebral fibro-cartilage is believed to be very rare. As the destructive process continues, the cancellous tissue of the body, and chiefly of the anterior portions of the column, breaks down (Fig. 679), causing abnoimal Fig. 679.—Destructive ostitis Fio. 680.—The same process Fig. 681.—Deformity resultmg of the anterior portion of in the posterior portion of from fracture of a vertebra, the bodies of the vertebrae. the bodies of the vertebrae. (Alter Noble Smith.) (After Noble Smith.) (After Noble Smith.) curvature, with sharp projection of the spinous processes. The angular deformity is less apt to be present when the disease attacks the posterior portion of the body, where the superincumbent weight in great part falls upon the articular processes (Fig. 680). Symptoms.—The clinical history of Pott's disease may be divided into two stages : The first stage includes all the phenomena which occur up to the time when deformity is recognized ; the second stage embraces all the changes met with after deformity. The usual symptoms of the first stage are pain and muscular rigidity, with varying exacerbations of temperature. Pain may be elicited when the patient assumes the erect posture, by direct pressure upon the spines of the vertebrae involved,