A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 256 secured in the axilla, below this point, or between the upper margin of this muscle and the lower border of the first rib. Operation.—With the head thrown back and the shoulders elevated, allow the arm to remain by the side of the body. About two inches from the sternal end of the clavicle, and half an inch below its inferior border, carry an incision outward, parallel with this bone, a distance of from three to four inches. This incision may divide a superficial vein which passes from the cephalic over the clavicle. The clavicular fibers of the pectoralis major and the costo-coracoid membrane are divided upon the director. The axillary vein will then be seen in the anterior por- tion of the wound, lying in front of the artery, which may be felt to pulsate, or seen just external to it. More external still may be seen the anterior cord of the brachial plexus, while in the lower portion of the wound the cephalic vein crosses over to empty into the axillary, below the clavicle. Beneath the clavicle the subclavius muscle may be seen. The needle should be passed from before backward. If necessary, a second incision may be made, beginning in the center of the first and carried in the direction of the axilla, as recommended by Cham- berlain. This operation is somewhat more difficult than ligation of the suh- claman in its third division, but it is preferable, on account of being farther removed from the heart. Delpech advised an incision beginning at the junction' of the middle and outer third of the clavicle, and sepa- rating the deltoid and pectoralis muscles. Operation below tlie Pectoralis Minor.—Shave and cleanse the axilla, and extend the arm at a right angle to the body. Divide the dis- tance between the two folds of the axilla into thirds, and the junction of the anterior and middle thirds will indicate the position of the artery. On this line make an incision in the axis of the arm, well up into the ax- illa. Cutting through the skin and fasciae, the contents of this space will Fig. 294.—Ligation of the axillary in its lower third.