DISLOCATIONS. 339 cause a hacTcward displacement of the tibia, while violence from opposite directions may produce a forward dislocation. The same force applied laterally may also produce the lateral displacements. A favorable condi- tion for luxation is the application of violence when the leg is in extreme flexion. A sudden twisting or wrenching of the femur upon the tibia when the foot is so caught that rotation on the heel is impossible, is favorable to rupture of the ligaments, and lateral or oblique incomplete luxation. The symptoms of dislocation at the knee are usually clear. In the hackward variety the antero-posterior diameter of the knee is increased, the tibia projects into the popliteal space, and the condyles of the femur are unusually prominent. In the forward variety the antero-posterior measurements are also increased, the anterior edges of the tibia are easily detected in the advanced position of this bone, while the condyles of the femur are unusually prominent posteriorly. The tibia may be rotated upon its axis. In the lateral displacements the condyle of the femur is recognized as projecting on one side, while the flat end of the tibia is felt on the opposite side. The transverse diameter of the joint is increased in proportion to the degree of displacement, which is, however, rarely complete. Treatment.—Reduction is readily effected by extension and counter- extension, with direct pressure and counter-pressure in the proper direc- tions. Once reduced, fixation should be secured by Buck's extension, with sand-bags applied to the limb, or an investing splint should be employed. The prognosis after this injury is unfavorable. The function of the joint is rarely fully restored. The question of amputation after disloca- tions of the knee, where there is extensive injury of the surrounding structures, is one of great importance. Shock is more profound in this luxation than in dislocation at any other joint. A primary ami^utation will rarely be justified except after laceration of the popliteal vessels. All antiseptic measures should be emj)loyed, and amjDutation only advised after every effort consistent with the safety of the patient's life has been made. Dislocation of the Patella.—This bone may be displaced by muscular action, without the aid of external violence, or by an injury alone. When the ligamentum patellae is ruptured, it is carried upward for a varying distance by the contraction of the quadriceps. It can only be displaced downward by a blow received upon its upper margin sufficient to tear it loose from its muscular attachments. Dislocation outward is the more frequent variety, and occurs as a result of muscular contraction and from violence. Displacement imoard is the result of a blow received upon the outer margin of the bone. In the lateral dislocations, in rare instances, the patella is turned obliquely on its edge, or it may possibly be com- pletely inverted. The symptoms of these various luxations are unmistakable, and the reduction, by relaxing the quadriceps and pressure, not difficult. The after-treatment is directed to the prevention of recurrence.