520 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. any of the locations named for the pointing of the abscess. The sud- denness of the tumefaction in haemorrhage, the history of an injury (or it may be aneurism), and the absence of septic fever, are sufficient to ex- clude abscess. Lesions of the kidnej^s may be recognized by a careful study of the urine. In hydronephrosis the swelling will occur without marked pain or fever, comes on gradually, while a history of obstruc- tion will be given. Tenderness along the spines of the vertebrae sug- gests abscess. Lastly, the aspirator-needle introduced from behind will determine the character of the swelling. Treatment.—Incision and free drainage should be the rule of prac- tice in acute retroperitoneal abscess. When the pus is deep-seated, opera- tion should be delayed, provided that the symptoms of septic absorption are not too urgent. The patient should be kept quiet and in bed, and in the dorsal decubitus. The operation and after-treatment are practically the same as in extra-peritoneal abscess. The Liver, Hepatic Abscess.—A circumscribed collection of pus within the sub- stance of the liver is comparatively rare. Usually single, there may be two or more separate abscesses, which vary in size from a few lines in diameter to enormous cavities holding a gallon or more of pus. They may be deep or superficial, and, while no portion of the liver-substance is exempt, the most frequent location is in the deeper portions of the right lobe. Causes.—Contusions, lacerations, penetrating wounds, and the lodg- ment of foreign bodies are among the traumatic causes of suppurative inflammation of the liver. Laceration of the capsule along the attached portion of the suspensory and coronary ligaments not only leads to peri- hepatic abscess, but may induce suppuration in the deeper portions of this organ. Foreign bodies causing hepatic abscess not only enter through the integument, but ingested substances, as bones, needles, etc., have been known to pass from the alimentary canal into the liver, pro- ducing circumscribed inflammation and suppuration. Abscess of the liver may also occur secondary to an inflammatory process in any of the abdominal organs the blood from which is returned by the portal vein. Lastly, it may occur in the course of acute hepatitis, where neither in- jiiry or metastasis has occurred. As this disease is almost altogether confined to tropical climates, it will be understood why hepatic abscess is so much more frequent there than in the colder zones. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—The early recognition of hepatic abscess is exceedingly difficult, especially when the deeper portions of the organ are involved. Pain is not a prominent symptom, unless there exists a perihepatitis, in which case it is exaggerated. There is a sense of heavi- ness or fullness about the liver, exacerbations of temperature occur, with general impairment of health. Jaundice is not present unless the bile-duct is compressed by the tumor. Cancer of the liver develops