A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 596 at this time rarely performed. In the extraction of an ordinary stone the incision through one lobe of the prostate will be sufficient. When the calculus is so large that a wider incision is required, the right lobe may be readily incised through the lateral wound. The median opera- tion is objectionable on account of the danger of injuring the prostate and neck of the bladder, in the necessary dilatation, or in efforts at extrac- tion. It is only applicable to the removal of the very smallest calculi in children or youths in whom a lithotrite and evacuating-catheter can not be introduced. Even in this class of cases the lateral operation should be given the preference. The supra-pubic incision has, within late years, become a more popular operation. It is applicable (1) when the stone is of large size—from one and a half to two inches and over in diame- ter—the removal of which by a perineal incision would involve an ex- tensive incision or laceration of the neck of the bladder and prostate; (2) where the calculus is lodged high up behind the pubes, either with or without enlargement of the prostate and concentric hypertrophy of the neck and base of the bladder, since in these conditions a stone can be reached through the perinseum only at great depth and with much difficulty. On the other hand, it is readily found through a supra-pubic incision. The high operation is indicated in deformity of the pelvis, with narrowing of the inferior strait. The difficulty and danger of this procedure are increased in corpulent and fat persons. Stone in the Bladder of Females.—Yesic2i\. calculi are not met with in females as frequently as in males. Many conditions which con- duce to the lodgment or formation of stone in the male bladder, and are common in this sex, are either impossible to, or rarely occur in, females. Among these causes may be mentioned hypertrophy of the prostate with obstruction, and chronic cystitis and organic stricture of the urethra. Another explanation of the comparative infrequency of stone in fe- males is the short and dilatable urethra, allowing the escape of many small concretions which in men would lodge in the cul-de-sac behind the prostate. The symptoms do not differ from those given in stone in the bladders of males. The diagnosis rests upon exploration with a searcher, combined with digital exploration per vaginam, and direct pressure over the pubes. Treatment.—The large majority of calculi found in the bladders of females may be readily removed by lithotrity. The short and distensi- ble urethra permits of the introduction of the largest evacuating-cathe- ter, and greatly facilitates the operation. The crushing operation is preferable in small stones to the older method of dilatation or divulsion of the urethra and extraction in mass by forceps. A much larger stone may be crushed and removed from the female bladder than can possibly be done from the male organ within the limit of safety at a single opera- tion. When lithotomy becomes necessary, the operator must choose between the vesico-xaginal and supra-pubic incision. In the former a second operation for vesico-vaginal fistula is essential. In case the pa- tient is very fat, the low operation will be advisable. In ordinary sub-