A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 654 mediate surgical interference. Syphilitic orchitis should be suspected in all cases of tumor of this organ in which there is a history of specific infection. In syphilis, the enlargement is apt to occur in both organs about the same time. The growth is smooth and spherical, and when lifted conveys the sense of unusual weight. It is not painful, excepting always the sense of dragging, which is at times annoying. Slight hydro- cele not infrequently accompanies this form of orchitis. The testicles are not exempted from gummatous deposits. In rare in- stances these break down, causing more or less destruction of the sub- stance of these organs. The penis is occasionally the seat of syphilitic infiltration in the later stages of this affection. The Eye.—Syphilitic iritis has been given as occurring in the second stage of this disease. It may also occur as a later manifestation. In- flammation of the sclera, choroid and ciliary bodies, lens and capsule, retina, and (though rarely) of the optic nerve, are of varying frequency in the tertiary period. Lesions of the muscles may be due to connective- tissue new formations between the fasciculi, resulting in granular degen- eration of the muscle-substance and contraction of the new tissue. It may occur in the second as well as the third stage of this disease. These contractions, if not relieved, may result in anchylosis of the joint in im- mediate anatomical relation to the muscles involved. Gummata are not of frequent occurrence. They terminate by suppuration or by absorp- tion. Inflammation in the tendons and their sheaths may also occur. Fingers and Toes.—The fingers and toes, during the tertiary period of syph- ills, in a certain proportion of cases be- come the seat of gummatous deposits, the skin and subcutaneous tissues may be infiltrated, or the bones and cartilages \\ jj^g^y involved. When the infiltration is confined to the soft parts, the entu-e JTiG. 653.—Syphilitic dactylitis. -, i (After Bergh and Bumstead.) orgau Will appear swolleu and purple or reddish in color. When the bone is the seat of the deposit, it may be limited to a single phalanx (Fig. 653) or invade all the bones of the finger. The process terminates in ulcer, necrosis, or granular degeneration of the cells of the new tissue, and absorption. Pathology of Syphilis.—The chief feature in the pathology of syphi- lis in all of its stages is the proliferation of an embryonic tissue, usually of a type so low that it is not capable of organization into a definite tissue. From the initial lesion and the primary lymphangitis and ade- nitis to the final lesions of the viscera, this cell-proliferation continues, and the different effects witnessed in different individuals, or in the same individual, in the various stages of the disease, depend chiefly upon the degree of impairment in the nutrition of the tissues. The cell-accumu- lation in and around the capillary loops of the cutaneous papillae, which produce a macular or papular syphilide in one individual whose tissues are in a condition of perfect nutrition, will produce a squamous or vesic-