80 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. an animal to man, but from one person to another. Schutz and Loftier, in Koch's laboratory, have recently announced the discovery of the bacil- lus of glanders, which is said to resemble the bacillus tuberculosis. These organisms were seen by Wassilieff in the blood of a man sick -with this disease. Inoculated with this virus, the parts about a wound become rapidly inilamed and swoUen. Cellulitis, lymphangitis, and adenitis ensue, with high febrile movement and the usual conditions of septi- caemia. Inoculated upon a mucous surface, the morbid process is prac- tically the same. The inflammation spreads rapidly, and the adenitis and ulcerations occur in man as in animals. In severe cases metastatic nodules occur in the skin, not iufrequently breaking down into pustules. Abscesses may be general. In the severer cases death is the rule. The indications in treatment are to support the tissues by all possible measures of nutrition. A wound freshly inoculated should be treated as advised in rabies. Malignant Pustule.—This disease in man results from the inoculation of a peculiar virus which is found in the tissues of animals infected with a micro-organism, the anthrax bacillus (Fig. 147). This bacillus is believed to be the disease-germ. Garnimra are rarely susceptible. The virus is intensely toxic, and exceedingly contagious. By some it is held that an abrasion of the integument or mucous surfaces is not always necessary to the invasion of the germ.* The bite of an insect which has been feeding upon anthrax carrion, or the in- gestion of infected meat, or the mere contact with Fig. wr.—(After Sternberg.) the hair, wool, boues, or any part of an animal dead with anthrax, is dangerous, f Tanners, butch- ers, and furriers are more often the sufferers from this disease than oth- ers. The virus retains its potency almost indefinitely. Sheep allowed to graze in localities where carcasses of cattle dead with anthrax have been buried many years acquire the disease by ingestion of germs lodged upon the grass, and in the earth over these graves. Contagious from animal to animal, and from animal to man, it is likewise contagious from one in- dividual to another. The face and hands are, on account of exposure, most frequently the seat of the inoculation. The symptoms are redness, swelling, induration, a throbbing sensation and pain at the point of contact of the virus. Within twenty-four hours an ulcer usually is de- veloped in the center of the indurated area, soon followed by lymphan- gitis and adenitis. High temperature, rapid pulse, headache, nausea, and the usual condition of general septicaemia, foUow as the disease pro- gresses. Microscopical research has demonstrated bacilli, in great numbers, not only in the tissues immediately around the seat of contagion, but, also in the later stages of the disease, a general dissemination of these organ- * A^ew's " Surgery," vol. i, p. 214. t " New York Medical Journal," 1884, p. 410.