HERNIA. 509 I strong, for this form of hernia is not only ditScult to retain, but is doubly dangerous when it escapes by the side of the pad. In reducing femoral hernia, position is invaluable, and taxis may be of aid. The best position without taxis is the knee-shoulder posture, in which the abdominal muscles and fascia lata are relaxed, and the contents of the abdomen gravitate toward the diaphragm. Or the dorsal decubitus may suffice, with the pelvis elevated, as well as the foot of the bed, and the thighs flexed upon the abdomen. In performing taxis it must be remembered that the bulk of the hernia must pass directly backward to clear the falciform process of the fascia lata, and then upward in the direction of the femoral canal (Fig. 540). No operation for the radical j cure of femoral hernia is justifiable unless it is positively demonstrated that the tumor can not be retained by any prothetic apparatus. If an operation is necessitated, the femoral ring should be exposed by a perpendicular incision, and the outlet closed by stitching the cribriform fascia and the falciform process to the edges of the ring with strong cat- gut sutures. A sublimate gauze compress should be applied after the j operation, and the patient kept in the recumbent posture for two weeks. A truss should be worn for at least a year after the operation, and, when discarded, should be resumed at the first indication of weakness in the j canal. : . Irreducible (not strangulated) femoral hernia may be treated as ad- vised for the same form of inguinal rupture. Operative interference is, I however, more justifiable, from the fact that strangulation is more apt to [ occur, and that a compress to prevent a further descent of the mass is rarely successful. In strangulated femoral hernia operative interference is indicated Immediately upon the first symptoms of this condition. So rapid are 1 the changes which occur in the contents of the sac that early operation, I always commendable in every form of strangulated hernia, is especially so in the variety under consideration. Taxis should not be performed until the patient is fully anesthetized. The preparation for the opera- tion is identical with that for inguinal hernia. When narcosis is com- plete, the patient should be lifted by the legs in such a way that the thighs will be flexed upon the abdomen, and the pelvis raised consider- ably higher than the thorax. While in this position taxis, in a direction at first slightly backward and then upward, should be practiced. If reduction is not effected in from five to ten minutes, it should be discon- tinued. The incision should be vertical in direction, along the middle of the tumor, with its center over the femoral ring. The length will vary with the size of the protrusion, but three or four inches will usually suffice. It should be made by cutting directly down upon the sac, and, when this is reached, the dissection should be continued between two dissecting- forceps. When the sac is opened and the fluid escapes, the index-finger should be introduced and carried upward until the end passes beneath the falciform process, and the nail is under the sharp constricting edge of Gimbernat's ligament. At this stage of the operation the hernia must 32*