194 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. have all been practiced. Vaccination over tlie growth has etfected a cnre in a few cases. In treating superficial angeiomata, not too extensive, and not situated where the cicatrix would prove a deformity, 50 per cent carbolic-acid in- jections should be employed. In many cases coagulation of the blood- contents and ultimate absorption will occur without a scar. For extensive simple and cavernous angeiomata, he recommends the knife or scissors. Hsemorrhage is to be controlled by pressure, rapid use of forceps, or preliminary ligature. Angeioma of the face, or of any exposed surface where a scar is to be avoided, is best relieved by the clean cut of the knife, since the cicatrix is less deforming than that produced by other modes of treatment. I have removed a number of these growths from the scalp and face. The incision should be made one fourth of an inch from the edge of the tumor, cutting only through healthy tissue. When this precaution is taken, haemorrhage is not dangerous. Of course the operation is not justifiable if telangiectasis involves more surface than can be covered by stretching or sliding the sound integument. In cavernous tumors of large size the method of Erichsen is advisable. A long, straight, or slight- tions of from five to twenty minims of a 50-per-cent solution of carbolic acid, at intervals of several days, have succeeded in several cases of small nsevi about the lips and eyelids. Venous Yarix, Varix, or Varicose Vein.—This variety of "vascular tumor" consists of a dilatation and elongation of the deep or subcutane- ous veins. This condition may exist in any portion of the body, even in the bones (Cornil and Ranvier). It may involve a small portion of one vein, superficial or deep, or, as is most usual, a chain of veins. It is most frequently observed in the superficial veins, though Verneuil says that varix is really as common in the deep-seated as in the superficial vessels (Bryant). It is especially prone to occur in the saphena veins. Haemor- rhoids and varicoceles are common forms of varix. Unusual types are the dilatation of the jugulars from stenosis of the vena cava descendens, and that of the superficial abdominal veins from stenosis of the ascending FiQ. 269.—Erichsen's method of introducing the double ligature for the cure of vascular tumors. ly curved needle, armed with a double thread, one half of which is stained black, is passed through the tumor at its base, and deeply from side to side. This process is repeated at in- tervals of three quarters of an inch, until the entire mass is transfixed with threads which are parallel with each other (Fig. 269). The loops are then divided —the black on one side and the white on the other—and tied tightly until the strangulation is complete. Repeated injec-