A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 18 The end of a bandage from one inch and a half to two inches in width is held about half-way between the left ear and the occipital j)rotuber- ance, while the roller is carried to the front and obliquely across the head, just in front of the right ear, under the chin, up in front of the left ear, then across the scalp, passing backward between the right ear and occiput to beneath this protuberance, when it is carried beneath the left ear straight across the front or labial aspect of the chin, and around by the right side to the point of commencing. This manoeuvre should be repeated several times, and the dressing then completed by carrying the roller twice around the head above the ears and eyebrows, and be- neath the occiput, and pinning a Fm. 24. ' Fig. 25.—(After Berkeley Hill.) ployed in the arrest of haemorrhage from wounds of the temporal and other vessels of the scalp. ^ Take a piece of cork or wood, about an inch in diameter and one quarter of an inch in thickness, and wrap it with sublimate gauze or lint to make a compress. Apply this to the bleeding point, and lay over it the center of a double-headed roller, carrying the turns around the head, above the ears. They are then crossed over the compress, one end is carried under the chin, the other over the top of the head, and are again crossed on the opposite temple. Having carried the rollers again around the head, and crossed them firmly over the compress, the ends are pinned securely and cut off. A horizontal slip may then be pinned to the anterior, middle, and posterior slips of the knotted bandage, be- ginning in the median line on the forehead, then back to the center of the middle slip, and then to the slip underneath the occiput, to hold the dressing securely in position. To bandage the eye (the left, for example), hold the end of the strip half-way between the right ear and occiput, and bring the roller forward over the left eye and malar eminence, and around backward beneath the ear and occiput to the point of starting, and repeat once. When the second turn arrives at the right ear it should pass above this and com-