AMPUTATIONS. 133 to the metatarso-phalangeal joint, Fig. 200. Fig. 201. Amputation of the entire metatarsus should always be made through the articular plane (Lisfranc). The modification of this procedure by Hey, which consisted in disarticulating the four outer metatarsal bones and sawing the end of the internal cuneiform off at the line of the second metatarsal bone, is altogether unnecessary. MethodsBorsal Incision.^Flsice the thumb and index of one hand respectively half an inch behind the articulations of the first and fifth metatarsal bones with the cuneiform and cuboid, and at the most con- venient one of these points commence the dorsal incision, carrying it directly forward to the base of the metatarsus, and then across the foot one fourth of an inch in front of the tarso-metatarsal articulation, finish- ing at the opposite side (Fig. 200). This incision should have a slight forward convexity, and should di- vide all tissues down to the bones. Dissect the flap closely from the periosteum to about one fourth of an inch behind the line of articula- tion. Plantar Flap.—From the same point as for the dorsal incision, carry the knife directly forward on the lat- eral aspect of the metatarsal bone where the line of incision should begin to describe a curve until the interdigital web is reached, along which it travels across the foot, and thence back along the opposite metatarsal bone to the level of the tarsus (Fig. 201). This flap should be lifted by deep dissection, keeping close to the under surface of the bones, in order to interfere as little as possible with the vascular supply. An assistant should now hold both flaps well back, while with a narrow, short scalpel the disarticulation is effected as follows: Grasp the metatarsus with one hand and forcibly depress it until the ligaments are put upon the stretch. Enter the knife just behind the tip of the fifth metatarsal bone and carry it inward with a slight forward inclination, disarticulating on this plane, and in succession the fifth, fourth, and third bones, until the knife is arrested by the outer surface of the second metatarsal. The line of this articulation is almost parallel with that just followed, but it is placed from one eighth to one fourth of an inch posterior to it, and may be readily found by moving the meta- tarsal bone upon the cuneiform. The joint between the metatarsal bone of the great toe and the internal cuneiform is about one fourth of an inch anterior to that of its fellow, being continuous with the line of the three outer bones. The flaps should now be trimmed and nicely fitted, and any ragged ends of tendons clipped off by the scissors, after which the