ANESTHESIA. 27 passed. The instrument is only about four inches long and three inches at its greatest width, and yet it consumes more than three yards of band- age when passed between all the wires. By further reference to the fig- ure it will be seen that each section of the bandage is separate from the adjoining one, thus permitting the air to pass freely to both sides of it. "Its advantages are these: The ether being very thoroughly mixed with air, the patient does not suffer from the suffocation usually felt at first inhaling ; there is a large evaporating surface. A very much smaller quantity of ether is used, and less escapes into the room than with the usual mode of giving this anjesthetic; the ether can be droj)ped from a bottle on the distal end of the inhaler without removing it from the face ; the mask is soft and pliable, fitting accurately to the nose and mouth ; and, lastly, it is of very simple construction, and can not get out of order. "Over this frame is drawn a piece of stout sheet India rubber, or patent leather, which has been stitched together at the edges, so as to make a cov- ering for the frame, projecting over one end two inches, to form the mask, and at the other one inch. The ether is poured on the bandage, which forms a close, well-made artificial sponge." A very efficient inhaler is represented in Fig. 40, consisting of a rubber flange, or mouth- and nose-piece, about 3 inches in diameter and 2 in width, slipped over the larger end of an ordinary lamp-chimney. A sponge is placed in the expan- sion of the chimney, into which the ether is sprin- kled, without removing the apparatus, and through which the proper quantity of air can pass in and out. In an emergency an inhaler can be made by cutting a piece of pasteboard, 12 inches long by 7 vnde, shaping and pinning it in into a cylinder, and lining it with a folded towel, or other cloth. A notch should be cut out to fit over the nose, and the edges softened by wetting. Thickly folded newspaper will serve the same purpose. A hat- crown, with a segment removed and the top perforated, will answer. The cloth and paper cone should not be employed, being objectionable in not allowing a sufficient admixture of air, and in having to be lifted from the face when additional ether is required. In commencing the administration, which should be done in a room away from the preparations for the operation, a teaspoonf ul of ether is sprinkled into the inhaler, and the apparatus held about two inches from the lips, the assistant standing at and above the patient's head. After a minute or two a teaspoonful more is added, and the rim is now allowed to rest on the face. The patient is directed to breathe freely and to force all the air out of the lungs, to blow through the inhaler, and to inspire deeply. No talking should be permitted within hearing, except the Fig. 40.—H. M. Sims' ether-inhaler.