HYSTERECTOMY. 681 the uterus close to the ligature. Curette out the cervical canal, or burn it and the stump with the cautery. Cleanse the peritoneal sac of blood and serum. See that no blood has collected between the cervix and pubes. Transfix the stump with long steel pins just above the ligature, and otherwise treat the stump as should be done after hysterectomy for fibro-myomata. The drainage-tube (see Fig. 667) should be employed in all these cases, as a guarantee against peritonitis and sepsis. The stump should be dusted with iodoform, as heretofore directed. Freund's Operation.—Removal of the uterus for malignant disease of this organ is thus performed : The patient is prepared as for an ovari- otomy. The vagina is cleansed and rendered aseptic. The abdomen is opened, the uterus found and drawn up to the incision. It is then pulled to one side and the broad ligament of the opposite side ligated in such a way that the ovarian artery, Fallopian tube, and round ligament are in- cluded in the grasp of the ligature. The ligament of the other side is in the same way tied off. The uterine arteries are next deligated by means of a ligature passed through the fornix vaginae. If it be desired to remove the entire organ, the bladder is separated from the cervix, and the tissues around the cervix are cut through. Freund originally left the ligatures long, and brought them out of the vaginal opening. If it is desired to make a stump of the cervix, as in the case of cancer of the fundus uteri, the uterus is cut off just above the utero-vaginal junction, the two lips of the cervix brought together with deep sutures, the peri- tonaeum carefully adjusted over them, the ligatures cut short, and the peritoneal cavity closed. Hysterectomy for the Removal of Fibro-myomata—ScJiroedefs Op- eration.—After opening the abdomen the uterus and fibroids are freed from adhesions. A temporary elastic ligature is tied around the cervix, and the tumors and uterus cut away, leaving the stump in the shape of a Y. The blood-vessels are now ligated with catgut (Schroeder does not insist upon this), and the sides of the cone brought together by layers of close sutures which begin at the bottom of the cavity. This mode of suturing is continued until the top is reached, when the peritonseum is carefully adjusted over the stump and the elastic ligature removed. Or the pedicle may, if small, be transfixed, ligated, and dropped. The peritonaeum is cleansed of blood, etc., and the abdomen closed. If the myoma is pedunculated and the uterus itself is not the seat of multiple growths, the tumor is cut off, and the suturing done at the point where the tumor grew. Or, if the tumor is sessile, so that the elastic ligature can not be employed, it is advised to incise the capsule, enucleate the tumor, and bring the flaps together as above directed. Keith and Hegar have the smallest mortality after hysterectomy, and it is their custom to treat the pedicle by the extra-peritoneal method. But there are tumors which can not be so treated ; these Schroeder enucleates as described. Hysterectomy for Fibro-myoma ; tlie Stump being hrougJtt out at the Wound and attached there.—After the organ is exposed and all adhe- sions tied with double ligatures and divided between these, or broken loose where the double ligature can not be utilized, the elastic liga-