343 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. free hffimatm. The result of this process is distention of the capsule and communicating bursse, infiltration of the basement membrane with em- bryonic cells, which are the common product of all the proliferating cell- elements in the tissues involved. Synovitis may terminate in various ways. If the process is acute yet mild, and all the conditions of the individual tissues favorable to rapid repair, resolution may occur without invasion of the ligaments, cartilages, or bones. The escaped corpuscular elements undergo fatty metamor- phosis, together with those of the embryonic tissue, and these elements, with the excessive fluid in the capsule, are absorbed. The functions of the joint are soon restored. Under less favorable conditions the acute process may pass into a sub- acute and chronic synovitis; the embryonic granulation-tissue remains, the normal epithelial lining disappears, giving way to a dirty fungus-like granulation-tissue, which thickens the entire capsule and projects on all sides into the cavity of the joint. The ligaments may soften and ulti- mately break down, the cartilages become eroded, or a periostitis and ostitis may be precipitated by invasion of the bone, from the point of junction between the synovial membrane and the osseous tissue—a true arthritis. The causes of synovitis are predisposing and direct. It may be said that any dyscrasia (which in itself indicates a low order of tissue-nutri- tion) encourages the development of a synovitis, and, once inaugurated, feebly resists its progress. Tuberculosis, syphilis, gout, rheumatism, the eruptive fevers, traumatic septicaemia, and gonorrhoea may be mentioned as the chief predisposing conditions, while excessive use, a blow or a sprain, or exposure to cold, are common exciting causes of synovitis. The chief symptoms are pain and swelling. Under direct pressure or motion the former is increased. Both are due to hypersemia and the distention of the capsule from the effusion. Local elevation of tempera- ture is present. The treatment is local and constitutional. Rest, in the position of greatest comfort, is essential. Mild extension, to a degree to insure fixa- tion, affords marked relief in most cases. Cold, applied by means of the ice-bag, is invaluable. Heat may be used, as hot cloths, the hot-water bag, or immersion in hot water, if cold is distasteful to the patient. Ex- treme pain, with marked distention, should be immediately relieved by aspiration. Among the many useful local medical remedies are lead- and-opium wash, vinegar, solution of the subacetate of lead, and various liniments. Compression by means of absorbent cotton and a flannel bandage is useful after the acute symptoms have subsided. The constitutional treatment looks to the correction of any existing disease, the administration of well-selected articles of food, and tonics. When synovitis becomes a chronic affection, aspiration and irriga- tion of the capsule and joint are the most effectual methods of treatment. The manner of operating is as follows: Shave the joint to be operated upon thoroughly, and wash it with ether and with l-to-3000 sublimate solution, and apply a disinfected rubber or flannel bandage around the