A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 254 the scalenus, the ligature should not be attempted close to this muscle, nor should the dissection be carried fully to the scalenus. The artery " should be tied as low down as possible, the duct being less likely to be injured here, since in passing behind the aorta it is deeper than the artery. It will be found behind and to the right, the iDneumogastric in front and to the right, the left vena innominata crossing in front, while the pleura is directly behind. The vertebral and other branches of the left subclavian are in such proximity to the thoracic duct that it will be dangerous to attempt to tie them at this point. Ligation of the Subclavian Arteries in tJieir Second and Third Sur- gical Divisions—Operation.—The procedure is essentially the same on the two sides. Place the shoulders upon a cushion, pull downward on the arm of the side to be operated upon, and turn the patient's face to the opposite side. Find the location of the scalenus anticus, as in the pre- ceding operation. Slide the skin well down upon the clavicle, and along this bone make an incision three or four inches in length, commencing one inch to the inner side of the scalenus muscle and terminating near the anterior edge of the trapezius. Allowing the skin to resume its nor- mal relations, the incision will be carried above the clavicle. Upon a director divide the outermost of the clavicular fibers of the mastoid muscle. The internal jugular vein, seen in the anterior portion of the wound, will be carefully drawn to the inner side, the operator keeping well above the junction of this with the subclavian, and thus avoiding the lymphatic duct. A prominent plexus or group of veins, viz., the external jugular, transversalis colli, and suprascapular, will be seen traversing the wound, coming from their respective origins, toward the subclavian, near the jugular. These should be secured with a double ligature, and divided, or held aside. Dissecting carefully, the suprascapular and transversalis colli arteries will be observed running, in general, in the direction of the first incision. The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid may be found in the upper margin of the wound, crossing the scalenus at about a right angle. The transversalis colli and the suprascapular may be secured or held to one side, the finger passed along the scalenus until the tubercle on the first rib is felt, immediately behind which the artery will be found. If it shall have been determined to tie the artery in its second portion, the scalenus anticus muscle will be cut upon a direc- tor, the operator being careful to avoid the phrenic nerve, which crosses the muscle in front, coming from above downward and inward. (It is between the layers of the sheath of this muscle.) The ligature is next passed around the artery from before backward, care being taken not to wound the pleura. If the third division of the artery is to be secured, the part of the above operation relating to the division of the scalenus will be omit- ted. The nearest cord of the brachial plexus must be carefully ex- cluded, posteriorly to the artery ; the subclavian vein in front and be- low (Fig. 289).