PHLEBITIS. 165 the character and cause of the disease, and upon the capacity of the tissues to resist its progress. 1. Idiopathic Phlebitis. 1. Syphilitic Phlebitis.—Mr. Hutchinson has called attention to the very few cases of syphilitic phlebitis which have been recorded, and yet he says that most surgeons are familiar with the fact that inflammations around varices, and even about otherwise healthy veins, are not infrequent in syphilitic subjects.* Mr. Hutchin- son further says: "I think also that I have seen several cases in which the thrombosis and phlebitis were attended by other conditions sufficiently peculiar to justify a belief that they were of specific origin. In some there has been great excess of inflammation, a large hard mass forming in the cellular tissue, and threatening to slough, much as subcutaneous gummata often do. These cases are much benefited by the iodide of po- tassium, so far as prevention of sloughing is concerned, but the thrombotic plugging remains." f 2. Gouty PhleMtis. —Subjects (says Mr. Bryant) who are gouty from hereditary or acquired causes are liable to phlebitis. Paget has described the affection in his "Clinical Lectures," and Mr. Gay has written upon it. In such cases the phlebitis may have no intrinsic characters by which to distinguish it, yet not rarely it has peculiar marks, especially in its symmetry, apparent metastases, and frequent recurrences. Like other forms, it is more common in the lower than in the upper extremities, yet it may be found anywhere. It affects the superficial rather than the deep veins, and often occurs in patches, affecting on one day, for example, a short piece of the saphenous vein, and the next another portion of the same vein, some other distant vein, or a corresponding piece of the oppo- site vein. The inflamed portions of the vein usually feel hard and are painful to the touch. The soft parts covering the vein become slightly thickened, and often have a dusky, reddish tint. When the deep veins are involved, cedema appears, with the well-recognized results of obstruction : the limb becomes big, clumsy, featureless, heavy, and stiff; its skin is cool, and may be pale, but more often has a slightly livid tint, which may be recog- nized by comparison with the other limb ; and it has mottlings from small cutaneous veins, visibly distended. The limb, thus enlarged, feels cedematous throughout, but firm and tight-skinned, not yielding easily to pressure, and not pitting very deeply. The constitutional symptoms associated with this affection vary from some slight febrile condition to those met with in acute gout. Complete recovery may take place in this as in other forms of phlebitis, the veins becoming pervious in some cases and obstructed in others. The risks of embolism are also the same. (Bryant.) 3. Acute Idiopathic Phlebitis (not gouty or syphilitic).—This form of venous inflammation—caused, as has been said, by exposure to cold, due to the presence of a varicosity, or coming in the course of a severe febrile attack—may involve one or more veins. The disease travels along * J. H. C. Simes and J. William White, in Cornil on Syphilis. t Ibid.