.617 THE URETHRA—GLEET. discharge, in patients who have not been subjected to the specific con- tagion of gonorrhoea. It is well established that urethritis in the male may be caused by exposure to cold, and by the irritation of a vaginal or uterine discharge in a woman not affected with gonorrhoea. Simple urethritis dilfers in many respects from the specific disease. In color, the pus is white, and in consistency it is thinner, and resembles rather the discharge of gleet. The itching or burning sensation of the more violent afllection, if not entirely absent, is much less annoying in simple urethritis. Chordee, epididymitis, orchitis, and cystitis are rarely present, and, when occurring, are milder in degree than when these affections compli- cate a gonorrhoea. The history of the disease is short, even when left without treatment. In the treatment of simple urethritis, mild astrin- gent injections are usually indicated in the earlier stages of the inflam- mation, unless the process is more than ordinarily violent, under which conditions the measures advised for the first stage of specific urethritis should be adopted. The warm hip-bath should be advised, and alkaline drinks administered. Dilute subacetate of lead, § J, with acetate of zinc, gr. J, will be about the proper strength for the injection. The oil of sandal-wood should be given after the fourth or fifth day. The duration of simple urethritis varies from three or four days to two weeks. Gleet^ or Chronic Urethritis.—Gleet is a name given to the prolonged discharge from the urethra of a variable quantity of muco-purulent, bluish-white fluid. This discharge is a transudation from the mucous and glandular epithelia of the urethra. In gleet, all or any limited portion of this tube may be aifected. The pathological change is a puf- finess of the lining membrane, due to hypersemia of the sub-epithelial vascular area, with a tendency to embryonic and connective-tissue for- mation. In some points patches of erosions or tissue-necrosis occur. The epithelia lining the glandular apparatus—as those of the prostate, Cowper's glands, and the urethral follicles—become more or less in- volved. Not infrequently the outlets to these follicles become ob- structed by the superficial inflammatory process, resulting in the forma- tion of one or more retention-cysts, which project into the lumen of the tube. Any form of acute urethritis may pass into this chronic condition of gleet, or a urethritis, subacute in its character from the beginning, may continue as a gleet. Although chronic urethritis may exist without the presence of strict- ure of the urethra—as in follicular urethritis—the exceptions to this rule are extremely rare. Any chronic interference with the normal cali- ber of the urethra serves to induce a catarrhal condition of the mucous membrane of this canal, which, commencing near the seat of stricture, may involve any portion of the tube. The treatment of gleet involves, primarily, the removal of the cause. Taking stricture as the chief cause, urethrotomy with dilatation, or dila- tation without cutting, is demanded. In mild cases without close organic stricture, the introduction of the steel sound will often effect a cure.