A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 726 ends, and sewing them together with silk sutures. Mild cases of calca- neus may be relieved by the wearing of a well^fitting, laced shoe, the weight of the body aiding in correcting the defonnity. When the toes can not be brought down without the aid of additional pressure, the apparatus in construction similar to the one recommended for flat-foot can be applied. The object to be obtained is to elevate the heel and depress the toes by mechanical means. For this purpose, the shoe as devised by Dr. Sayre (Fig. 713) is admirably adapted. This is a strong, laced shoe, with steel rods running up on either side of the leg to a collar below the knee, the rods being hinged at the ankle to allow of free motion at this joint; from the heel of the shoe a small steel spur is seen, to which is secured a strong piece of elastic, passing up to the collar around the leg. This rubber artificial muscle, taking the place of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, if made of sufiicient tension, will elevate the beel and restore the foot to its normal position. There are, how- ever, various instruments for the correc- tion of this deformity, the surgeon modi- fying the shoe as may be required to suit each case. In addition to the mechani- cal appliances, the after-treatment, by electricity, massage, etc., should be car- FiG. Y13.- -Sayro's shoe for talipes calcaneus. (After Sayre.) ried out as in other forms of club-foot where atrophy of the muscles and loss of power exist. Talipes Varus and Equino-Varus.— These deformities consist of an inward rotation of the foot, and are the most common forms of talipes (Figs. 714^717). The majority of cases are those in which spastic contraction of the sural muscles also occurs (equino-varus). Talipes varus and equino-varus are more often congenital, but are frequently acquired, one or both feet being in- volved. The degree of deformity varies from slight inversion of the foot Fig. 714.—Talipes eqnino-varu.s in an adult. (After Churchill.)