606 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. It is readily understood that, locally applied, no agent is carried to the deeper portions of the glandular substance, but the inflammation precipitated in the more superficial glands and the ducts of those more deeply situated, may readily travel along the epithelial lining until the entire gland-tissue is involved. Beyond the danger of a temporary elevation of temperature which may occur in patients subjected to urethral exploration, the additional dangers of cystitis and epididymitis should not be disregarded. The use of the double-current closed catheter, with hot or cold water, is one of the most satisfactory and safe methods of treating this disease. Its employment will be described in the treatment of chronic follicular urethritis. The prognosis in prostatorrhoea should be guarded, for many cases obstinately resist the most careful and energetic measures of treat- ment. SpermatorrTioea.—This term is used to designate the escape of semen from the ejacnlatory ducts without an orgasm. This fluid may find its way into the bladder, but usually escapes by the meatus. The symp- toms of this disease do not differ materially from those given in pros- tatorrhoea. The diagnosis can only be made certain by the recognition of the spermatozoa with the aid of the microscope. It occurs at times in conditions of great physical prostration, as a result of excessive and un- natural venereal indulgence, and from interference with the function of the muscular elements of the prostate. The treatment is general and local. Measures looking to the im- provement of the moral and physical condition of the patient shoiild be adopted. The local treatment is the same as that given for prostator- rhoea. Aspermatism.—The spermatozoa are wanting in adults whose testi- cles have been removed or destroyed by disease, in patients in whom both organs have failed to descend and have undergone atroj)hy ; in all cases of complete obstruction of the -oasa deferentia or ejaculatory ducts, and in certain cases of senile atrophy of these organs. These conditions are rarely amenable to surgical treatment. Tuberculosis of the Prostate.— Tubercular disease of this organ, though rarely observed, may be primary, or more frequently is second- ary, to tubercular deposit in other viscera, as the testis, epididymis, lungs, etc. It is more apt to occur in the young and middle-aged than in the old. The diagnosis can not, as a rule, be easily made. In some cases there are no symptoms of tuberculosis. If with a subacute or chronic lesion of this organ there is a history of phthisis, the deposit of tubercular matter may be suspected. When the febrile movement, hec- tic, profuse sweats and emaciation of this disease are present, a correct diagnosis is readily made. The enlargement and nodular character of the prostate may be made out by digital exploration by the rectum. The treatment is altogether palliative. Carcinoma.—Cancer of the prostate is also rare. It is more apt to occur primarily than by metastasis. Primary cancer of this organ is more frequently seen in young adults than in the old. In the middle-