204 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Mechanical.—A method less tiresome to the operator, no more annoy- ing to the patient, and almost, if not equally, as effective, is as follows: One or two sticks of hard wood about an inch in diameter, and from four to six feet in length (small-sized hoop-poles or a crutch will suffice), are covered at one end with an India-rubber tip, or compress of some soft substance. The other end is tied to the ceiling with a string or to a bar over the bed, and allowed to descend until the tipped exti'emity rests with the required weight upon the vessel to be compressed (Fig. 273). It may be convenient to employ two poles, so that one may press a few inches lower down than the other. If one is employed, the assistant or patient can be directed to change the point of pressure at intervals, in and with varying success. Among the better of these instruments is Dr. Briddon's compressor (Fig. 274). Compression with the mechanism just described may also be em- ployed on the distal side of the aneurism, although vdth less hoj^e of success than in pressure on the cardiac side, which is among the most successful of the conservative methods at the surgeon's command. Direct pressure upon the aneurismal tumor has been employed in a few instances with a fair degree of success. Six cases of subclavian aneurism treated in this manner will be given hereafter, with description of the mechanism. Pressure on both the distal and cardiac sides, with or without direct pressure on the tumor, has been practiced by the employment of Es- march's bandage. The patient being ansesthetized, the bandage is ap- plied, beginning at the extremity, and emptying the vessels by using sufficient force in its application, until the lower border of the tumor is reached. In passing over the aneurism, about one half the pressure is employed, it being intended to leave a certain quantity of blood within the sac. As soon as the upper boundary is reached, the same degree of pressure is applied as below, and the bandage is left on, or the tubing may be tightened around the limb above, and the bandage removed. Cures have been effected within an hour by this practice, while the com- pression has been exercised for several hours with negative, and in some order to prevent pain or ex- coriation. For this same pur- pose the late Prof. Alpheus B. Crosby successfully em- ployed an elastic tube par- tially filled with shot to give it the requisite weight. The tube was suspended above the bed and the pressure regulated by the quantity of shot. Fig. 274. Yarioas tourniquets, with one, two, or three compres- sion-pads, have been used with the same object in view,