LIGATION OF ARTERIES. 233 origins of the sterno-Tiyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles will be reached, and, when these are divided carefully upon the director, the right carotid will be seen near the center of the wound. Following this down, the arteria innominata will be found just behind the sterno-clamcular articu- lation (Fig. 279). Being exposed with the scalpel-handle, or any dry dis- sector not likely to wound the vessel, the aneurism-needle should be passed from right to left behind the artery, care being taken to avoid wounding the right mna innominata and the pneumogastric nerm, or puncturing the pleura, in which the artery is partly imbedded. It is well to bear in mind that the left innominate vein crosses this artery, although usually very low down. When the aorta is situated low in the thorax, it may be necessary to remove the sternal end of the clavicle and a segment of the sternum, as was done by Cooper, of San Francisco, in two instances. An element of danger in this operation is the origin of an abnormal branch from the innominate. In the cases of Lizars and V. Mott this anomaly existed, and death was caused by hcemorrhage at the seat of the ligature. In thirty-four consecutive subjects which I examined as to this feature, I found an abnormal branch to be derived from the innomi- nate in five. When the necessity for occlusion of the arteria innominata arises, and the conditions are such as to permit it, the following method should be followed: The right common carotid should first be tied, one inch above its origin. By a careful dissection the first division of the subclavian and its branches should then be exposed, drawing the internal jugular to the outer side until the vertebral is secured. Avoiding the phrenic nerve, as it descends to the inner side of the scalenus anticus, the internal mammary and branches of the thyroid axis should be secured, and finally a ligature of large, smooth catgut, or prepared nerve placed around the subclavian artery, about the middle of its first portion. A careful study of the anatomy and surgery of this region leads me to con- clude that this procedure, though difiicult of execution, offers a better prospect of success than deligation of the larger and primitive trunk, nearer the heart. In the operation and after-treatment of the wound the most careful antisepsis should be practiced, and perfect drainage maintained. Ligation of tlie Common Carotid Arteries and the Internal Jugular Vein—Anatomy.—In one hundred and twenty dissections I found the common carotid artery to bifurcate on a level with the notch between the two alse of the thyroid cartilage in one hundred and sixteen. The anoma- lies of this vessel are so rare that they do not deserve mention in this work. Operation.—A firm cushion should be placed under the shoulders and lower part of the neck, with the chin elevated, and the face turned in the direction away from the side upon which the operation is to be per- formed. A line extending from the tragus of the ear to the sterno-cla- vicular articulation will cover, and be parallel with, the internal and common carotid arteries in their surgical length. This line will strike the center of bifurcation of the primitive carotid almost invariably on a level with the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoideus from one inch and a quarter to one and a half