564 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. The treatment is chiefly palliative, and consists in the apj)lication of an apparatus to drain the urine oif and prevent excoriations. A suitable instrument is shown in Fig. 564. The operative treatment consists in an effort to cover in the protruding mass by integument borrowed from the immediate vicinity of the tumor. No definite line of procedure can be advised. The skin may be turned from the abdomen, thighs, and perinseum. The ox)eration is not without danger to life, and, when not fatal, fre- quently fails to benefit the patient. The chief diflSculty lies in protecting the flaps from con- tact with the urine. To obviate this, the pro- cedure of Levis more nearly meets the indica- tions. It consists in establishing a false urethra from that portion of the partly developed blad- der near the orifices of the ureters through to the perinseum. A large and long needle, armed with a good- sized thread or wire, is carried through the wall of the bladder. Just at the openings of the ure- ters, and brought out in the perinseum, about an Fig. 564. iuch in frout of the anus. The wire is allowed to remain as a seton, and through the fistula thus established the urine begins to flow. The false urethra is enlarged, by gradual dilatation with bougies, until it is of sufficient size to carry off all the urine. When this is accomplished, the second stage of the operation consists in covering the exstrophy with integument turned over from the immediate neighborhood of the deformity. In males, one in- cision may be carried from near the center of Poupart's ligament, curving downward along the inner side of the thigh, across the scrotum or peri- nseum, as the case may demand, and terminating at a corresponding jjoint upon the opposite side. This flap is dissected up toward the edges of the exstrophy, leaving a line of attachment sufficient to supply nutrition to it. A second flap is turned down from the abdomen, and the two are sewed together, the raw surfaces being now external, while the epidermis is internal, and in contact with the mucous surface of the deformed blad- der. If the penis is sufficiently developed, a hole should be cut in the lower flap and this organ drawn through. The outer raw surface may be left alone to cicatrize, although it should be covered over at a subsequent operation, if there is enough integument left to borrow from. If not, the granulating surface may be covered with grafts. In females the same method of operation may be used, modifying the flap to suit the deformity, and to preserve as much of the functions of the genital organs as possible. Hernia Vesicce, or Gystocele.—Hernia of the bladder is a very rare accident. It is more apt to occur in connection vdth a perforating wound of the pelvis or supra-pubic region. Idiopathic cystocele occurs chiefly in the aged, and in those who have atony of the walls of this organ from