^■569 GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. tient—are useful. The free administration of Vichy water, or citrate of potash (grs. x-xx) at frequent intervals, is advisable. The rectum should be thoroughly emptied every day by a cold-water enema. In chronic cystitis the treatment must be directed to the cause of the disease. Unfortunately, it is too often incurable, and then only pallia- tive measures may be adopted. In paralysis or atony of the muscular walls, or in the enlarged pros- tate of old men, retention may be relieved by the em- ployment of the soft catheter, and the condition of the or- gan improved by irrigation. When it is desired simply to 566.-Nflaton's catheter. empty the bladder without washing it out afterward, the soft-rubber catheter of Nelaton (Fig. 566) should be introduced. An instrument of good size—Nos. 12 to 14, U. S. scale—with a perfectly smooth point, should be selected. It should be thoroughly warmed and oiled, and introduced with the pa- FiG. 567.—Velvet-eyed gum catheters, curved and straight. tient resting on the back. It should not pass beyond the neck of the bladder. When it is desired to irrigate the bladder, the double-cur- rent soft catheter (Fig. 568) should be used. A warm solution of boracic acid (grs. x- § j of water) is an excellent remedy. From one to two pints are poured into a fountain-syringe, and a small quantity is allowed to run out at the end of the tube to drive out the air. The catheter is next introduced down to the constrictor urethrse muscle, when the tube from the syringe should be connected with the larger end of the catheter and a small quantity of water allowed to run in until it fills the instrument and flows out at the smaller tube. By this manoeuvre the air is com- pletely expelled, and the catheter should immediately be pushed into the bladder. The mechanism of this apparatus is such that it permits a constant and steady current of water to flow in and out of the organ without over-distention. As soon as the fluid comes out perfectly clear, the operation should cease. It may be repeated every day, and oftener when necessary. If the double catheter can not be obtained, an ordi-