GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. 563 scratched through with the finger-nail, or torn between two forceps. As soon as the hilus is exposed, the vessels should be tied with double-strong silk threads, divided between the ligatures, and the organ removed. The wound should be irrigated with sublimate solution, drainage-tubes in- serted, and an antiseptic dressing applied. The Ureters.—The diseases which affect the ureters do not demand especial consideration. The inflammatory processes are those which ex- tend downward from the pelvis of the kidney or upward from the blad- der. The same may be said of neoplasms. Partial or complete occlusion from pressure within the canal, as from a migrating or impacted calcu- lus, or by pressure from a tumor from without (as by an aneurism or neoplasm), may demand surgical interference. Bladder.—Among the congenital lesions of the bladder to which the attention of the surgeon is called, exstrophy is most frequently observed. More rarely there are several sacs, eacli with a ureter, or there may be a central septum dividing the bladder into two chambers of about equal size, with a ureter emptying into each. The bladder is at times absent, the ureters opening into the alimentary canal, vagina, or perinseum, or into the pelvis, at a point corresponding to the normal position of the bladder. Exstrophy, or eversion of the bladder, is almost always met with in males. It is caused by a failure of development in the anterior pelvic and abdominal regions. The integument, muscles, pubic bones, and anterior part of the bladder-wall are missing. Through this gap the part of the bladder which may be present is protruded, as a mass of variable size (depending upon the extent of the deformity and upon the position of the patient), from one inch up to three or four inches in diameter. In the erect posture it is always largest, being pushed out by the descent of the abdominal viscera, and complicated by hernia of the intestine. The mucous membrane, which covers the mass, is in appearance not un- like a recent non-strangulated prolapsus ani. The orifices of the ureters may be found opening at some point on the lower portion of the protru- sion, and are often considerably dilated. In all cases of exstrophy the genital apparatus is rudimentary. The penis is wholly or in great part wanting. The urethra may be seen as a simple groove, into which the seminal ducts enter. The scrotum, at times entirely absent, may in other cases be present, lodging the testicles, or it may be bifid, with one organ in each sac, or entirely missing, the testes remaining in the abdomen, or lodged in the groin or thigh. The degree of exstrophy varies in proportion to the extent of the malformation. In the more favorable cases the pubic bones are almost united at the symphysis, and the protrusion consequently small. In females the genital organs are also rudimentary. The clitoris, nymphse, vagina, and uterus may be absent or displaced, and only par- tially developed. The general appearances of the tumor are the same in both sexes. Exstrophy of the bladder, even in a mild foim, is a source of great annoyance.