A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 326 diiRculty held in position. Rupture of any muscle, or group of muscles, renders the luxation subject to recurrence, since there is no antagonism to the remaining muscles. Even when reposition is effected and main- tained, the function of the joiat maybe permanently impaired on account of injury to the surrounding structures. Injury of the cu'cumflex nerve has been follovs^ed by atrophy of the deltoid and teres minor, while trau- matism of the great cords of the axillary plexus and injury of the vessels have led to impairment or loss of function in the extremity. Ligature of the subclavian artery and amputation have been necessitated after dislo- cation of the shoulder-joint. These injuries may occur at the time of the displacement, or they may be produced by a lack of skill or the employment of too great force in the efforts at reduction. After one or two days from the date of a luxation at the shoulder (as elsewhere) the diflBculties of reduction increase, and are in general pro- portionate to the length of time which has elapsed since the accident. At the expiration of the first week inflammatory adhesions occur, and the cavity of the joint is in part tilled with the products of inflammation. In rare cases reduction has been accomplished at the end of three, six, and twelve months. The propriety of attempting reduction in ancient shoulder luxations will depend upon the individual case. It will frequently occur that, in the new position, attachments are formed, with ligaments, cartUage, and synovial membrane, with fair, yet limited, motion in the false joint, which, together with the free mobility of the scapula upon the thorax, gives a useful degree of motion to the arm. Under such conditions any attempt at reposition is unnecessary. In well-selected cases, where an ancient dislocation can not be reduced by any other means consistent with safety to the tissues about the joint, and where motion is so limited that the usefulness of the arm is seriously impaired, direct incision, under strict antiseptic precautions, may be employed, and reduction thus effected, vrith or without excision of the head of the humerus. After the head of the bone is returned to its nor- mal position, drainage should be secured through the rent or incision in the capsule. A Neiibefs bone-drain, or a soft rubber tube, may be em- ployed, and should be so placed that it will lead downward from the most dependent portion of the capsule. Dislocations at the Elbow-Joint.—The upper end of the radius may be displaced forward on to the anterior surface of the humerus, near the coronoid fossa, or backward upon the olecranon process. The anterior displacement is met with somewhat more frequently than the posterior. In the displacement forward the orbicular and a portion of the external lateral and anterior ligaments are ruptured; in the opposite luxation only the first two are lacerated. The forward displacement is caused by direct violence applied to the posterior aspect of the upper end of the radius, or by falling upon the palm of the hand while the forearm is completely extended, the full force