640 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. off with scissors, being careful to follow the line already indicated (Fig. 648). When these incisions are completed, it will be observed that the edge of the divided mucous membrane remains at the level of the incision— namely, a quarter of an inch in front of the outline of the corona glan- dis—while the skin retracts beyond the corona. The mucous membrane should now be turned back, and its edge stitched to that of the incision in the skin. '■ ■ ^Jix ^ Fine catgut should be used, and an interrupt- f ''-^m^^^^h^ ed or continuous suture employed. The for- mer is somewhat more accurate, although it requires much more time in its insertion than the latter. It is important, in the effort to secure immediate union, that at all points the approximation is carefully made between the margins of the integument and mucous mem- brane. After the sutures are inserted, the mucous membrane rolls back, leaving the stitches behind the corona (Fig. 649). The elastic ligature is now removed, and a light dressing applied over the line of sutures. This operation is entirely bloodless. The patient should be directed to prevent the urine from getting into the wound. The sutures disappear by absorption, and the union is complete in from four to ten days. When the prepuce is adherent to the glans, it will be found impossible to in- troduce the grooved director as above Fig. 649.—1,After Malgaigne.; Fig. 650.—Girdnor's pbimosis-forceps. unless the adhesions are first broken up. Under these conditions, the following operation should be per- formed : Carry the phi- mosis-forceps (Fig. 650) into the opening of the prepuce, and allow the blades to expand so that the hooklets at the tip will catch in the mucous membrane. The fore- skin is now drawn well to the front by an assist- ant, while the operator slips the thumb and fin- ger of the left hand along the penis and grasps the foreskin just in front of the meatus. In young children, considerable care is necessary to prevent cutting off a portion of the glans with the pre-