VASCULAR TUMORS. 195 cava. Such conditions are described by some authors as simple hyper- trophies or dilatations of veins. Any long-continued dilatation consti- tutes a varix. Hyjjerplasia of the normal tissues of the venous wall is the natural sequence of prolonged pressure and increased function. The hypertrophy of the wall is not always equal to the resistance of the in- creased pressure ; hence sacculated pouches occur when the vessel-wall becomes much thinner than normal, not infrequently resulting in rupture. Yarix is of frequent occurrence in women who have had repeated preg- nancies (Billroth). Poorly-fed and hard-worked persons, especially those who work in the upright posture, are more prone to varix than others. There can be no doubt that gravitation is the chief and immediate cause of this disease. The veins most subject to the greatest, prolonged blood-weight, and least protected by pressure, are involved in the great majority of cases. Pa- ralysis of the muscular walls, either by atrophy of the muscles or inter- ference with the function of the nervi tiasorum, may cause varix. This is proved by the fact that a small segment of a single vein in the upper por- tion of the body, where the anastomosis is free and gravitation can not be considered as a factor in the dilatation, may be the seat of this affection. In well-marked varix the veins are greatly increased in caliber and in length, so that they seem coiled and twisted upon themselves in knotted masses. They are narrowed in caliber at frequent intervals, these contractions opening into expanded pouches, in general appearance not unlike the sacculated large intestine. The valves are wholly ineffi- cient, often flattened against the wall, or at times partially destroyed. At the level of the valves the walls are exceptionally thickened. The thickening is due to a multiplication of the muscular elements and hyper- plasia of the connective tissue. The connective-tissue new formation is abundantly distributed in the meshes of the elastic net-work, and the bundles of fibers are usually arranged parallel with the long axis of the vessel. This accounts for the longitudinal ridges seen on the inner sur- face of the affected veins (Cornil and Ranvier). Even the nutrient vessels of the walls of these varicose veins—the tasa vasorum—^have undergone hypertrophy, and are themselves the seat of varix, forming at times venous caverns in the wall of the vessel, which communicate with the vein. The internal tunic is not, properly speaking, thickened, except at the points of attachment of the valves, or when a thrombus has formed. Immediately external to the middle elastic tunic, the muscular tissue appears increased in quantity, arranged in transverse and perpendicular laminae, separated by bundles of hypertrophied connective tissue, which are not infrequently stained with granular pigment. Calcareous deposits occur primarily within or between these connective-tissue bundles (Cornil and Ranvier).* Hyperplasia of the connective and other tissues in the immediate vicinity of a varix of long standing presents the usual appearances of * In the arteries, these deposits occur first around and within the nucleus of the unstriped muscle, and gradually increase until they fill the cell, which becomes converted into a small calcareous flake (Green). See section on "Arteritis."