625 THE URETHRA—STRICTURE. located, and the instrument carried in until the rubber ring touches the meatus. The left hand, releasing the penis, is made to grasp the handle of the urethrotome and steady it, while with the right the dilating-screw is turned until the arrow on the dial indicates a separation of the bars equal to the diameter of the bulb which located the stricture. By turn- ing the cog-wheel the knife is now made to travel through the more su- perficial portions of the stricture from behind forward and along the median line of the roof of the urethra. The incision should commence a quarter of an inch behind the stricture, and should terminate the same distance in front of the anterior boundary. Without changing the position of the urethrotome, the knife is rapidly run back to its original position, the dilatation increased one size more, and the knife again carried more deeply through the track of the first incision. This manoeuvre is repeated until the stricture is divided up to Nos. 21 to 23 (U. S.). The instrument is now withdrawn after the knife is concealed and the blades half-closed. If the bars are brought closely together, the mucous membrane may be caught between them. In order to dem- onstrate a perfect division of all the bands, the larger bulbs should be introduced, and, if these catch at any point, a further incision is required. Or a full-sized sound (Nos. 21 to 23) may be carried through the strict- ure, and any undivided fibers torn or stretched. Haemorrhage after internal urethrotomy is usually slight. When the incision has been made in the pendulous part of the urethra, it may be readily arrested by turning the penis up on the belly, laying a handful of cotton or gauze over the organ, and strapping it down with a band- age carried around the pelvis. Behind this portion, a compress along the perinseum, or a large gum bougie in the canal, will control the bleed- ing. The patient should be put to bed at once, and required to remain quiet for several days. Wot infrequently within twenty-four hours after urethrotomy, or the introduction of a sound or other instrument into the urethra, the patient is seized with rigors or a pronounced chill, followed by a variable rise in temperature, or the fever may occur without any premonitory chill. When the thermometer registers 100° F., it is a wise precaution to ad- minister antipyrin in doses of from grs. x-xx, and repeat this every hour until the decline in temperature is below 100°. If the pulse is cor- respondingly increased, tincture of aconite-root should be given at the same time. The repeated introduction of steel sounds or gum bougies is essen- tial to the successful after-treatment of internal urethrotomy. If there is no marked febrile movement, the dilatation should be commenced on the second or third day after the operation. If fever exists, the use of the sounds should be postponed. Cocaine should be employed, for, as a rule, the introduction of the sound is more painful than the incision. The urethra should be stretched to the full size of the sound introduced after the cutting. It is well to begin with No. 17, and follow this with N"os. 19, 20, and 21, or higher, if the urethra is unusually capacious. This should be repeated every second or third day for a period of about 40