279 FRACTURES. it may aj^pear, in rare instances the inner table is broken, while the outer plate is not depressed. More frequently both tables are involved. Fractures of the skull may be simple, compound, comminuted, compli- cated, single, or multiple. They are chiefly divisible into those of the vertex and those of the hase. Fractures of the base are usu- ally due to indirect^ those of the vault to direct^ violence. A blow on the top of the head may pro- duce a fracture only at the base, or at both the apex and base. Usu- ally the break occurs at a point di- rectly in the line of the force which causes the lesion. Aran demon- strated, by dropping cadavers from a height, that when the frontal re- gion received the blow the fracture usually took place in the anterior fossa, the middle parietal and the occipital region giving the key to a fracture respectively in the middle and posterior fossse. A blow on the chin has been known to pro- duce a fracture by driving the in- ferior maxilla against the temporal bone. A fall on the buttocks may produce a comminuted fracture, the force being transmitted through the vertebral column. Fig. 309 is a copy from a specimen I placed in the Wood Museum of Bellevue Hospital. The patient, a heavy man, a sail- or, fell through the hatchway to the hold of the ship, a distance of about twenty feet, striking on the buttocks. Death occurred instantly. The head was not bruised. The cause of death was a comminuted fracture, extending through the temporal, occipital, and sphenoid bones. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of fracture of the vertex may be readily determined when an open wound exists. In many instances a depression may be determined by palpation, even when the scalp is unbroken. Symptoms of compression of the brain are not reliable aids in the diag- nosis of fracture in the first few days after an injury, for the reason that any violence sufficient to produce a fracture is also likely to produce symptoms of concussion which might easily be mistaken for compres- sion. The escape of brain-substance or the ventricular fluids is of course an unmistakable sign. At the base, one of the most reliable symptoms of fracture, yet not always a positive indication of this lesion, is haemorrhage, or the escape of a serous fluid from the ears. This only occurs, however, when the line of fracture passes through the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Swelling of the vault of the pharynx is not without significance when any violence has been suffered which leads FiQ. 309.—Comitiinuted fracture at the base of the skull, from a fall on the buttocks. (From a speci- men of the author's in the Wood Museum.)