ULCERS OF THE PENIS—SYPHILIS. 645 lished. Phagedenic bubo should be treated in the same manner as the phagedenic ulcer. The Specific Ulcer {Chancre)—Syphilis.—Syphilis is a disease affect- ing in a varying degree the nutrition of all the tissues of the human body. It is caused by the introduction into the blood of a specific virus. In practice, tvs^o distinct forms are met with, namely—the acquired and the inherited. Acquired syphilis ensues when the specific virus is carried into the lymph or blood-channels of a human being not syphilitic at the time of inoculation. Of the physical or chemical properties of this virus practically noth- ing is known. The claims that it exists as a dwarfed or crippled leuco- cyte, a fungus, a special form of pus, a peculiar bacillus, etc., have not been substantiated nor accepted. While it is generally believed that an abrasion of the skin or mucous surface is essential to the absorption of the syphilitic virus, it is ex- tremely probable that, if it is brought and kept in contact with the thin unbroken skin or mucous membranes, absorption may occur. A disease the germs of which are transported within the spermatic elements, and with such potency that the impregnated ovum is afl'ected, can, under favorable conditions, in all probability be transmitted from unbroken cutaneous or mucous surfaces through which it is demonstrable that the absorption of other elements occurs. The chief source of the contagion is in the fluid which transudes from the surface of the initial lesion or ulcer (chancre), and, next in order, that from mucous patches. The blood of a syphilitic patient also carries the poison and produces the disease if injected into or inoculated upon the tissues of another. The same is true of the matter or fluid from the cutaneous lesion of the secondary stage of syphilis. It is doubtful if the lesions of tertiary syphilis are capable of reproducing the disease. Saliva from a syphilitic subject, unmixed vdth the discharge from mucous patches, fails to produce syphilis. Seminal fluid from a syphi- litic man, in any of the stages of the disease, is held to be not directly contagious. However, the mother may acquire the disease from a child in utero, the child being syphilitic from the spermatozoa. Milk from a woman in any stage of syphilis will not produce the disease if injected into the tissues or ingested as food. The transudation from a fissure in the nipple of a syphilitic nurse will, if lodged in an abrasion upon the lips, tongue, or buccal wall of the child, produce the specific disease in a non-syphilitic subject. On the other hand, a syphilitic child may inoculate a healthy nurse. The urine, tears, and sweat of syphilitic patients do not convey the specific virus. Pus from a vaccine pustule on a syphilitic subject does not con- vey the virus of this disease even when the vaccination is successful. If, however, blood or the fluid from any early syphilitic lesion is mingled with the pus, syphilis results. While the most frequent seat of inoculation is upon the genital or- gans, or in their immediate vicinity, it may occur at any part of the