A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 682 ture should be thrown around the uterus at the cervix, the rubber pass- ing under the ovaries and compressing the broad ligament against the cervix. This ligature is dravrn tight and tied, the second part of the knot being over a coarse silk thread.. When the last knot of the elastic ligature is made, the silk thread is tied around this to prevent slipping. The fibroid is then held up and cut off above the elastic ligature. The stump is next grasped by strong forceps and trimmed. Sutures are then passed, first through the parietal peritonaeum near the incision and then through the stump below the ligature, in such a way that when drawn tight the lower part of the incision will surround the stump just below the ligature, with the peritoneal surface of the incision fastened to that of the stump. Steel pins or skewers should be passed through the stump above the ligature. The sutures around the stump are then drawn tight, the wound closed as after ovariotomy, the stump dusted freely with iodoform, and the dressing applied. The indications for pelvic drainage will be the same as after an ovariotomy. The cervical canal in the stump should be curetted before passing the steel pins ; otherwise, a fistulous opening may persist through the vagina, uterine stump, and the line of incision. Frequently the fibroid is attached to the unen- larged uterus, and has a narrow pedicle. In such a case, the uterus and appendages are left, and the new growth removed, forming the stump where the tumor joined the uterus. Surgical Diseases of the Fallopian Tubes—Salpingitis.—Inflamma- tion of the Fallopian tubes may demand surgical interference when peri- tonitis is precipitated, or when from occlusion of one or both outlets of this organ the products of inflammation are retained, and the tube is dis- tended, forming a cyst-like tumor. The most prominent symptom of salpingitis is pain. When peritoni- tis does not exist, it is confined to the affected side. It is usually con- tinuous, with exacerbations of severity, which are especially marked just before, during, and after the menstrual flow. In some instances, when the flow is established, the suffering is less intense. The menstrual dis- charge rule, increased in quantity. Salpingitis, in the vast majority of cases, results from the direct extension of some inflamma- tory process from the uterus. Endometritis or metritis following gonor- rhoea, abortion, normal parturition, or that resulting from a chronic in- flammation due to malposition of this organ or other cause, are the chief conditions which precede this affection. By direct palpation over the abdomen of the affected side, it will be seen that the muscles of this side are abnormally tense, and that acute pain is present confined to a limited and well-marked area, which corresponds to the normal position of the tube. In the vagina, a leu- oorrhoeal discharge is usually observed, and diligent examination will reveal great tenderness near the cervix, upon the side involved. The uterus may be normally situated, but is laterally displaced when the tumor is at all large. With bimanual examination, often necessary under ether, there will be found an elastic, if not fluctuating, tumor, springing from one or the other uterine cornu, and directly attached to the uterus;