87 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. gray matter of the cord and medulla is found deeply injected, or it may have undergone granular degeneration. In some instances no appreciable interference with the nutrition of the gray matter can be discovered? Treatment.—The local measures should be employed to reduce the irritation in the v^^ound. Relief of all tension should be secured by inci- sions, if necessary, and free discharge should be maintained, if there is septic matter in the tissues. Amputation when the wound is situated upon one of the extremities, stretching or division of the sensory nerve leading to the spine, excision of the wound, and other surgical measures, have been tried, but without a success which would warrant a repetition of these measures. The most perfect quiet is to be maintained, and the administration of concentrated nourishment must be insisted upon in the intervals of the attacks ; and rectal alimentation should be practiced if there is inability to swallow. Chloral hydrate in large doses has been successful in some cases. From thirty to forty grains have been given and repeated at intervals of one hour and a half.* The inhalation of chloroform is also highly recom- mended. The extract of cannabis Indica (Squires) in doses of gr. ss. every two hours, together with the application of ice to the spine, is a plan of treatment highly recommended. Chinshot Wounds.—Wounds of this variety may properly be divided into those in civil and those in military practice. In civil life the wounds inflicted by the shot-gun, small-bore hunting-rifle, pocket-pis- tol, and toy guns, are much less dangerous than those made by the more formidable weapons employed in warfare. With the exception of the charge projected by the shot-gun and the small hunting-rifle, all missiles now used are conoidal or oblong in shape (Fig. 149). Projectiles fired from ordnance are both round and conoidal, solid and hollow, the latter being usually explosive. Grape, canister, bombs, and some solid shot, are spherical, while most of the shells are cylindro- conoidal. A gunshot wound is always contused or lacerated. It may be simple or complicated: simple when the missile alone passes through the tissues ; complicated when fragments of cartridge, wadding, powder, clothing, or other foreign matters are carried in with it. The degree of laceration made by a gun-projectile is, as a rule, in an inverse ratio to the rapidity of its projection. It may also depend upon the shape of the missile, and the additional destruction caused by dis- placed fragments of bone, etc. A conoidal projectile is more destructive than one which is spherical, for when in its transit the point meets with resistance, it tends to turn over and over on its long axis, loses in great part its axial rotation, and thus plunges through the tissues. When a ball passes in and out of the body, it will be found that the wound of entrance is smaller than that of exit, and is seemingly much smaller * Hammond, " Diseases of the Nervous System." D. Appleton & Co.