427 THE LOWER JAW. The center of this cut should be over the infra-orbital foramen, which I is just half way l)etween the outer and inner angle of the orbit. The nerve may be exsected here or stretched by pulling on the central end. It may be reached at a point considerably behind this by trephining the antrum. Make a curved incision, beginning about half an inch below the inner canthus, passing downward to the level of the end of the nose, ' thence upward to a point about half an inch below the outer canthus. Dissect this flap upward, apply the trephine so that its upper edge will cut Just below the foramen and enter the antrum. The nerve runs di- rectly backward, and may be followed by keeping it as a guide and breaking off the lower shell of the canal as far back as the posterior wall of the antrum, where it is divided. The operation for the removal of Meckel's ganglion has already been given. The Lower Jaw. j Ostitis of the inferior maxilla is of frequent occurrence. I Various forms of fibroma, fibro-myxoma, encysted fibroma, enchon- droma, and, in rare instances, angioma, have been observed in this bone, but of new formations sarcoma is most frequent. Cystic formations resulting from failure of normal development of the teeth are not un- common. Ostitis occurs most frequently in children. It may be an expression of a dyscrasia, or an accident of nutrition, or be secondary to disease of the teeth, or the inhalation of the fumes of phosphorus. While this process may be located at any portion of the jaw, the neighborhood of the angle seems to be most frequently affected. The symptoms are pain, followed by swelling of the jaw and contigu- ous soft tissues, ending in abscess, which, if left alone, eventually opens i and discharges. Treatment.—As soon as the character of the disease is evident, an incision or puncture should be made through the overlying tissues and periosteum, in order to give free exit to pus and loose particles of bone. The operation for removal of the dead bone may be delayed for several weeks until exfoliation has taken place. Incision should always be made below the line of the jaw if this is feasible, so that the resulting scar will be less apparent. Usually by following the track of the abscess it will lead directly to the dead bone surrounded by an vmolucrum,. This often requires to be chiseled or forced open to allow the extraction of the sequestrum, which may be readily removed with ordinary bone- or dressing-forceps. The cavity should be well scraped with a Yolkmann's spoon, a drainage-tube left in, and the edges of the wound adjusted with silk sutures. The deformity due to the rich deposit of callus disappears with the absorption of this material. When" all or any portion of the entire thickness of the jaw requires removal for ostitis, the sub-perios- teal operation is imperative, since by this means alone is it possible to have a reproduction of the bone. The method of procedure, when the