CHAPTER II. BAKDAGIKG. Bandages are employed in surgical practice to retain dressings in position, to secure compression and support to any portion of the body, to maintain any required degree of immobility, and to render an extremity partially or completely bloodless. They are made of cotton muslin of various degrees of fineness, crino- line, woolen goods, and India rubber. Cotton bandages are most gener- ally employed, but, on account of the greater elasticity of flannel, these are preferable for certain special dressings. Crinoline is only used for plaster-of-Paris bandages. Martin's rubber bandage and Esmarch's blood- less tourniquet are very useful in maintaining the firm compression of a part, either as a means of support or of emptying the vessels. The muslin should be soft, not starched, and of two kinds—a fairly heavy quality, and the light cheese-cloth. Both should be cut in pieces from eight to ten yards in length. The former can be torn; the latter must be cut. The selvage edge is removed, and the cloth divided into strips varying in width from four, three, two and a half, and two inches, with some one inch or less in width. For the chest and abdomen the wide bandages are needed, the two- and three-inch strips for the arms, legs, head, and neck, and the narrow strips for the hands and fingers. All the loose ravelings along the edges should be pulled off, and the bandages made into compact, smooth rollers. Bandages may be rolled by hand, yet it is a tedious and tiresome business, and an utter waste of time, when the work can be better and more rapidly done by machinery. In Fig. 11 is pictured a bandage- roUer, simple in construction and cheap. It should be fastened to the edge of a solid table by screws or movable clamps. The end of the strip to be wound is passed in and out over the four bars at the base and apex of the machine, and then Fig. ii. around the shaft, so that one edge of the bandage touches the end of the upright. As the crank is turned, the strip is held tightly, and, as it runs over the rods, wrinkling or fold- ing is prevented. A home-made apparatus may be constructed as fol-