76 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. less potent for evil than that which is injected into a vein, overwhelming the heart and sensorium by its rapid introduction. The order of toxicity in serpent-venom, so far as known at this date, is as follows : 1. Cobra (JVaia tripudians\ a native of India ; rattlesnake {Crotalus durissus and C. adamanteus), of southern North America; Bothrop jararacassa and B. jararaca, closely allied, according to Dr. Robert Fletcher,* in the intensity of its venom to its congener, the North American rattlesnake ; American copper-head {Trigonocephalus contor- trix); the American moccasin {ToxicopMs atrapiscus and T.piscivorus); the spreading adder, of the order Vipera herus. The venom of snakes is excreted by a gland situated near the eye. In the act of striking or biting it is forced by a compressor muscle along a channel, or groove, in the fang. In the quiescent state the fangs (one on either side) are folded backward, and are buried in grooves in the mucous membrane of the roof of the mouth. When ready for use, they are drawn forward by erector muscles. Rattlesnake-venom, according to Dr. S. Weir Mitchell, f has a specific gravity of 1*044, and an invariably acid reaction. Its color is from a greenish to a straw tint. Conjointly with Dr. Edward T. Reichert,:}; he has isolated three proteids—namely, venom-peptone, venom-globulin, and venom-albumen. Yenom-globulin is intensely toxic, producing rapid extravasations of blood ; venom-pep- tone is less poisonous, but produces, when injected into the breasts of pigeons, intense sloughing. The albumen-venom is not yet fully under- stood. Bromine, iodine, sodium, and potassium hydrate and potassium permanganate destroy chemically the toxic jDroperty of the venom of the rattlesnake, copper-head, and moccasin. Serpent - venom produces no poisonous effect in the tissues of the reptile which produces it, or in the tissues of any venom-producing reptile. As just stated, the symptoms resulting from snake-bite in man vary with the toxicity of the venom, the amount introduced, and with the rapidity with which it is carried into the circulation. A keeper in the London Zoological Gardens was bitten on the nose by a cobra, and died in a little more than one hour.* Dr. Wainwright, of New York city, died within six hours after being bitten by a rattlesnake. || Dr. Gr. A. Kunkler ^ reports the case of a boy six years old, who died during a convulsion on the fourth day, after being bitten on the foot by a copper- head. The venom is seemingly as potent in cold as in warm weather. Dr. E. P. King ^ treated a patient in whom weU-marked toxic symptoms were developed after being bitten by a copper-head which, although torpid, had recovered its activity under the influence of heat. When the * "American Journal of the Medical Sciences," July, 1883. t Smithsonian Contributions, 1860. "New York Medical Journal," 1868. \ "Philadelphia Medical News,"' 1883. * Bryant's "Surgery." II Hamilton's " Surgery." "Cincinnati Lancet and Observer," 1859. "American Journal of the Medical Sciences," April, 1883. 0 "American Journal of the Medical Sciences," April, 1884, p. 428.