724 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. with adhesive plaster in such a way that the sticking surface is next to the skin. This is laid along the sole of the foot, to which it is fastened by adhesive strips, and a light bandage, leaving the end of the board to project a little beyond the toes. From the end of the board traction may be made by a strip of plaster carried upward and fastened along the front of the leg near the knee, sufficient tension being exercised to draw the foot into its natural position. Or, if deemed necessary, arti- ficial muscles (rubber tubing) may be attached from the tip of the board to insertions fastened near the knee on the antero-lateral aspects of the leg. The apparatus must be carefully readjusted whenever it becomes loose or causes pain. When the patient is able to walk, simple cases of equinus may be corrected by wearing a stiff, solid, and well-constructed laced shoe, which will hold the instep well down and keep the sole of the foot in close contact with the sole of the shoe. The weight of the body, falling upon the anterior portion of the foot, will aid in carrying the heel to the ground with each step. In more obstinate cases the Sayre shoe (Fig. 710) more nearly meets the mechanical indications than any other apparatus. When there is no inversion of the foot (varus), the lateral rub- ber muscle 6^ is unnecessary. In ordering this shoe it is advisable to send to the instrument- maker the shoe at the time worn by the pa- tient, and with this the distance from the sole of the heel to the upper articular margin of the tibia, as well as the circumference of the leg at this point. To this may be added the measure- ments around the foot, at the bases of the toes, and around the malleoli. In all cases of talipes in walking children and adults, it is important that all excoriations be healed before any appli- ance is adjusted. The idea must not, however, be entertained that the simple application of the shoe, or any mechanical appliance, will correct the deformity. The after-treatment is a most important feature in these cases. Electrici- ty and massage are important adjuvants. The weaker galvanic current should be preferred, the positive pole being placed along the track of the nerve which supplies the affected muscles, while the negative sponge is carried over the bellies of these muscles. The application should be made about twice each week, while massage should be employed twice daily. In those cases where tenotomy is deemed advisable, the operation is performed as follows: The patient being placed under the influence of an anaesthetic, the tarsus is flexed forcibly upon the leg, in order to place the tendo Achillis and plantar fascia upon the stretch ; a slight puncture of the skin is then made, a little anterior to the tendon, and on the inner side of the leg, slightly above the malleolus ; this opening is now carried Fig. 'TlO.—Sayre's club-foot shoe. (Aiter Sayre.)