A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 504 of the bed elevated about twelve inches, the pelvis raised upon a pillow, the legs flexed on the thighs, and the thighs on the abdomen, so that the intestines and omentum will gravitate toward the diaphragm; or the knee-shoulder position may be assumed. Opium narcosis should be secured at once to relieve pain and to relax the muscles of the abdo- men. Towels dipped in hot water and partially squeezed should be laid upon the tumor. If v^ithin an hour or two the hernia is not re- duced, direct and careful pressure with the fingers may be added. The neck of the tumor should be grasped and steadied between the thumb and fingers of one hand, and the contents pushed gently in the dii-ec- tion of the canal with the other. Taxis should not be continued longer than five or ten minutes at any one effort. It may be repeated at in- tervals of a half-hour or hour within the first six hours of the his- tory of strangulation. The manipulation of a hernial tumor (taxis) after the first six hours of strangulation is of doubtful propriety, and after twelve hours should not be attempted. It is not only to be condemned for the injury inflicted upon the parts involved by this procedure, but on account of the procrastination in operative interference which it invites. It is true that occasionally reduction is effected after symp- toms of strangulation lasting for a longer period than this, but these cases are so extremely rare, and the danger of a fatal termination so much increased by the delay, that it will be wiser to proceed at once to the operation. In justification of early operation, it may be said that the large ma- jority of cases which end fatally are those in which strangulation has existed for from twelve to twenty-four hours and upward before surgical interference ; and that abdominal section in a patient not exhausted by suffering or disease is almost free from danger. The high rate of mor- tality after kelotomy will only be materially reduced when it is per- formed not later than twelve hours, and, better still, within the first six hours of strangulation. Operation.—The pubes, scrotum, and integument near the tumor should be shaved, washed with ether, and finally with 1 to 3000 subli- mate solution. The patient, fully anaesthetized with ether, should be placed upon a table nearest the edge most convenient to the operator, with the pelvis slightly elevated. Before proceeding with the operation, a final effort at reduction should be made. An assistant is directed to place the legs of the patient over his shoulders, and to lift him until nothing but the shoulders and occiput rest upon the table. While in this position careful taxis should be made. If, after five minutes, reduc- tion is not effected, the attempt should be abandoned. The parts about the field of operation should be covered with warm sublimate towels (1 to 3000), leaving a space about six by eight inches uncovered. The incision should be in the long axis of the tumor, and may be made by cutting directly down upon the mass, or by pinching up the skin and fat immediately over the swelling, transfixing it and cutting outward. It should be of good length, with the center a little below the internal ring. All bleeding should be arrested at once with catgut liga-