A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 652 exfoliation, a portion of the bone-substance undergoing absorption, giving to the part involved a porous or worm-eaten appearance. Hypertrophy of the bones, even to a remarkable degree, is not un- common, and may be due to the development of compact substance beneath the periosteum, or the entire cancellous jDortion may be replaced by this eburnated tissue. On the other hand, the hypertrophy is in some cases entirely cancellous in character, the bone taking on two or three times its natural thickness. Joints.—The pathological changes in bone may also be accompanied by like changes in the articulations. Synomtis, with thickening of the membrane and surrounding cap- sule, is present, accompanied by impairment of motion and pain of a dull character. In severer cases, the cartilages and bones become involved, leading to osteo-arthritis and destruction of the joint. Heart and Vessels.—Fatty degeneration of the heart-muscle, follow- ing syphilitic myocarditis, and the formation of gummata upon the peri- cardium or within the muscular walls, are the chief lesions of this organ in the tertiary period. The pericardium may also be affected, and in like manner the endocardium, which may undergo atheromatous degen- eration or give rise to vegetations. Of the vessels, the capillaries always affected in the first and second stages, are not so seriously involved in the last stage as the arteries. The veins are rarely affected. Arteritis, especially the variety known as endarteritis obliterans, is one of the most common and grave lesions of chronic syphilis. While the larger trunks are involved, the more characteristic changes occur in the terminal arteries and arterioles. The cerebral vessels are especially susceptible. Lymphatics.—-Gummatous deposits occasionally take place in the lymphatic glands in tertiary syphilis. The superficial set may break down and discharge their contents. The deep glands undergo granular degeneration with absorption, or the gummatous material undergoes the caseous or calcareous degeneration. Respiratory System—Nose.—The mucous membrane may be thick- ened, or may be more or less destroyed by ulceration. The cartilage and bony framework of this organ are very often destroyed. Larynx.—The mucous membrane of the larynx may also be thick- ened, or the seat of ulcers or vegetations. Chondritis and perichondritis are not infrequent; and, as a result of the chronic inflammation, stricture and stenosis, more or less complete, may occur from cicatricial contrac- tion. It may also be the seat of gummata. The trachea and bronchi are subject to similar lesions, inducing stricture. In the lungs the principal lesions are—(1) chronic interstitial or fibrous pneumonia; (3) more or less widely disseminated gummatous deposits, usually in the lower portions of these organs. Digestine System—Mouth.—Superficial ulcers of the walls of the buccal cavity are not infrequent; deep, destructive ulcers are rare. This can not, however, be said with truth concerning the palate, where, as a result of gummatous deposits or general infiltration, the most rapid and irreparable destruction of tissue may occur. The curtain of the soft