566 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. If the wound in the bladder is so situated that its edges can be stitched to the edges of the opening in the abdomen, this should be done. Silk sutures should be employed, and the needle passed through the integu- ment, and then through the muscular layers of the bladder, down to the mucous lining. It is safer not to penetrate entirely through the wall. The urine is discharged through the wound, for a variable time, until it closes by granulation. When it is impossible to bring the edges of the wound in the bladder up to the abdominal wall, it should be closed at once. Fine interrupted silk sutures should be inserted, about one eighth of an inch apart. They should be introduced after the method of Lembert in suture of the intes- tines. The drainage-tube of Dr. H. Marion-Sims should be employed, as a precaution against peritonitis. In the after-treatment it is important that the urine be drawn with the catheter, at frequent intervals, and over- distention thus prevented. If the wound is situated at the symphysis, and is extra-peritoneal, its edges should be stitched to the integument as above. When the wound ^^^^^^^ " -^^^ process of dilatation, until, af- FiG. 565.—The relations of the pentonsemn to the blad- tcr a SuddeU eXCeSSive aCCUmU- der when distended. (After Tarnier.) 1, The situ- n , „ t_ ation of the trigonum vesie*. 2, Prostatic urethra. latlOU, rUpturC OCCUrS. lU rare instances the bladder-wall is weakened by ulceration to such an extent that it gives way. Rupture of a diseased or normal bladder may follow a violent concussion, espe- is through the perineal region, free incision should be made at once, in order to divide aU the muscles and fasciae down to the bladder, so that the urine may escape to the outside without infiltration. In these cases re- covery takes place in the same way as after lithotomy. i Rupture of the Bladder.— This accident is much more fre- quent with men than women. When occurring in females it is usually during parturition, or from continuous pressure of this organ by uterine or ovarian tu- mors. Obstruction of the ure- thra is the chief cause of idio- pathic rupture. In enlarged prostate, or close stricture of long standing, the bladder be- comes gradually accustomed to the presence of an abnormal quantity of urine, its walls be- come thin and weak under the