STONE IN THE BLADDER—LITHOTRITY. -587 operation. In the latter, ansesthesia is not employed ; the calculus is only partially comminuted, and the fragments are left to pass oS. with the urine. Complete lithotrity has almost entirely superseded the older operation. It is preferable in all cases where the condition of the patient justifies the risk of shock from a capital operation under ether narcosis. Operation.—The patient, being narcotized, is placed upon the operat- ing-table, in the dorsal decubitus, with the pelvis raised about half a foot, by pillows placed under the sacrum. If the bladder has not been emptied I just before the operation, the urine is now drawn off and about one pint I of tepid water injected, thus distending this organ and rendering the mucous membrane less liable to injury from being picked up by the in- strument. The lithotrite, having been properly warmed, oiled, and tested as to its working capacity and strength, is now prepared for introduction, by sliding the male blade completely down until its tip passes into the fenestra of the female blade. As the convexity of the male blade is serrated, great care must be taken not to push the rough surface beyond the level of the female blade, since the introduction of the instrument, improperly adjusted, would do unnecessary violence to the floor of the urethra. A right-handed operator should stand at the patient's right side. The • instrument is locked and carried into the bladder by the same manoeuvres as given for the introduction of the sound or metal catheter. When the beak is well into the bladder, it is carried along the floor, with the tip pointing upward, until it meets with the resistance of the posterior wall of the bladder, when it should be slightly withdrawn. The handle should now be elevated, in order to depress the floor of the bladder with the con- vexity of the curve. Held firmly in this position, the lithotrite is opened by withdrawing the male blade about two inches. The operator should now strike the handle of the instrument with the knuckles or hand, 3 hard enough to carry the concussion to the bladder, in order to dislodge the calculus and allow it to fall into the lowest portion of the organ, and within the grasp of the lithotrite, which is now closed by pushing the male blade down. If the stone is seized, it will be made evident by the failure to close the blades, and, when caught, it should be firmly held, the screw-movement adjusted, and the wheel rotated slowly. Having thus secured the stone, the instrument should be moved to and fro, in order to assure the operator that the wall of the bladder is not caught. In crushing a calculus, the rapidity with which it is done should be de- termined by the sense of resistance experienced. It is not safe to employ force sufficient to spring the blades. A stone which can be safely crushed will yield perceptibly under a few turns of the screw. Phosphatic stone can often be rapidly comminuted without adjusting the screw. Uric-acid calculi require more power, while the oxalate-of-lime at tiro.es can not be crushed at all. If the manoeuvre above described fails after being several times care- fully repeated, search must be made in other quarters. Holding the instrument beak upward, the convexity still upon the floor of the blad-