A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 532 Ascarides, or " thread-worms," are not an uncommon cause of pru- ritus ani. They vary in length from a quarter to half an inch, are some- what lighter in color than the mucous membrane, and are not readily seen unless this membrane is everted and carefully examined. Santo- nin in full doses should be administered for two or three days, followed by a free purgation. When this is accomplished the bowel should be distended with an enema of lime-water, retained for fifteen minutes, if possible, and repeated. As soon as the last injection is evacuated, a pint of water, in which grs. xx of carbolic acid are thoroughly dissolved, should be thrown into the rectum and retained for about five minutes. The injection of lime-water and carbolic acid in solution should be re- peated for several days to insure a thorough destruction of these annoy- ing parasites. Enemata of the infusion of quassia are also highly recommended in the extermination of the ascaris vermicularis. Foreign Bodies.—Foreign bodies in the rectum are usually intro- duced through the anus, and not infrequently lodge here, having passed through the alimentary canal. Their presence may be recognized by digital exploration, or, when of small size, the speculum may be em- ployed. Digital exploration of the rectum may be performed with the mini- mum of discomfort by curving the thoroughly lubricated finger to con- form to the shape of the lower portion of the bowel. The direction from the anus is upward and for- ward for the first inch and a half, and then upward and slightly backward. If a speculum is employed, that of Sims (Fig. 555) should be preferred. A small body may be readily removed by seizing | it with a long forceps after dilatation with this instru- ment. A large substance may require angesthesia, with forcible divnl- sion of the sphincter, or a posterior linear rectotomy before it can be removed. When the object is made of glass or any fragile substance, great care should be taken to prevent its breaking. Fistula in Ano.—A fistula of the anus or rectum may be complete or incomplete. The last variety is further. divided into the incomplete ex- ternal and the incomplete internal fistula. In the complete form the track of the fistula, more or less sinu- ous, leads from the wall of the rectum or the anal margin out through the integument of the perineal, ischio-rectal, or gluteal regions (Fig. 556). In the incomplete external variety, the track opens through the skin, but does not communicate with the rectum (Fig. 557) ; while m the incomplete internal fistula the track opens into the bowel only (Fig. 558).