A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 492 Exsection of the colon is somewhat more difficult than the operation upon the small intestine, on account of its irregularity in size and the deeper location of all of this organ except the transverse portion. It should be brought into or out of the incision if possible, or, if this can not be done, the opening in the linea alba may be enlarged in the direc- tion best suited to the case. If, after exploration through an incision in the linea alba, the obstruction is found to be in the coecum, ascending or descending colon, and the part involved is so tirmly fixed that it can neither be brought into view through the wound in the median line nor by an additional transverse incision of two or three inches, it will be advisable to close this opening and expose the part by an incision imme- diately over it. Fecal fistula is established by bringing the loop or portion of intes- tine which is involved in the obstruction into the wound and stitching it to the edges of the incision as directed in gastrostomy. Strangulated and necrotic portions should be cut away. If the obstruction is due to volvulus, it will be indicated by unusual distention of the twisted loop, which, in case the sigmoid flexure is involved, is enormous. An effort should be made to untwist the gut without puncture; but if this can not be accomplished, the hypodermic needle should be employed as above directed. In case of gangrene or adhesions amounting to stricture at the point of crossing of the two por- tions of the gut, the operation of exsection or for fecal fistula should be done. When the constriction is caused by peritoneal bands, these should be divided and the intestine liberated. If a loo]3 of intestine has been caught beneath the pedicle of a tumor (of the ovary, uterus. Fallopian tubes, etc.), the occlusion may be relieved with or without removal of the offending body. In adhesions of the contiguous peritoneal surfaces of a loop of intes- tine, or the matting together of several loops in such a manner that obstruction occurs, exsection or the formation of a fecal fistula is indi- cated. If the adhesions are limited, they may be dissected apart; but this procedure is not unattended with danger from sloughing or a recur- rence of the lesion. Strangulation or constriction of a loop of gut in a slit of the mesen- tery or omentum should be treated by enlarging the slit, reduction of the loop, and closure of the opening by catgut sutures. If necrosis has resulted, exsection or the formation of a fistula may be done. In limited necrosis the dead portion may be cut away and the hole closed by Lem- bert's suture, provided that the lumen of the gut is not too greatly occluded by this operation, and always provided that the margins through which the sutures pass are sound. Intestinal obstruction due to diverticula should be treated by division of the constricting tissues. A false diverticulum can scarcely be removed with safety, but, if necessary, Meckel's diverticulum or the vermiform appendix may be excised. In closing the stump of the appendix, the peritoneal coat should be turned in by Lembert's suture.