HYPERTROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. -.599 Fig. 600.—Transverse section through the center of the prostate of a patient seventy-four years old. Hypertrophy of fourteen years' duration, a, Ure- thra, b, Caput gallinaguinis. (After Socin.) proportion to the excess of the new tissue over the normal muscular and glandular elements. In some instances, though rarely, the glandular elements are increased; but this is, in great probability, only observed in the earlier stages of hypertrophy, before the connective-tissue elements are in suf- ficient quantity to cause atrophy of the glandular apparatus. The enlargement may be local or general. In general hy- pertrophy, while the increase in size is in all directions, it is more marked in the posterior portions, where it encroaches upon the neck of the bladder. Not in- frequently one lateral lobe is greatly en- larged, or the hypertrophy may be cen- tral, resulting in the development of a middle or third lobe, which, by progres- sive enlargement, not only changes the axis of the normal urethra, but occludes, in a variable degree, the outlet of the bladder. This last condition is well shown in Fig. 599, and that of general hypertrophy of the muscular, fibrous, and glandular tissues, with narrowing of the urethra, in Fig 600. Symptoms.—The increase in size is usually so gradual that the condi- tion of hypertrophy does not attract the attention of the patient until interference with the flow of urine occurs. As a result of retention the bladder is distended, the contractility of its muscular walls is diminished, and chronic cystitis inevitably ensues. The changes which take place in this organ—thickening of the walls, occasional sacculation, the formation of calculi, dilatation of the ureters, etc.—have been given. In severe oases the functions of the rectum may be interfered with. The diagnosis may be determined by the presence of the symptoms just given, by digital exploration by the rectum, and the introduction of a sound or bougie by the urethra. The treatment is chiefly pallia- tive. When recognized early in its history, every source of irritation should be removed from this organ. The bowels should be kept open, the irritability of the urine dimin- ished by the administration of alka- line diluents, and all venereal ex- citement prohibited. In those af- fected with gout or rheumatism, Jig. 601.—Showing the relations of the floor of ^-r^A ■^^Ai^^4-i^,„ ™„„ the bladder to the prostatic urethra in the JUdlClOUS diet and medlCatlOU may normal condition of this body. The bristle arrest, Or at least retard, the prog- is passed irom the ejaoulatory duct into the ' ' J:' o urethra. (After Socin.) ress of the disease in the prostate.