A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 474 Tator (first from tlie anterior surface and then from behind), and the bone divided with the exsector or cutting-forceps. All of these wounds should be packed with sublimate gauze. Fig. 528.—Portions of the left clavicle removed on account of ostitis. Exsection of the clavicle may be demanded in ostitis of this bone. In a case operated upon by myself for necrosis resulting from a disloca- tion at the sternal end, the incision extended the entire length of the bone, and the excision was subpe- riosteal throughout. A new and strong clavicle formed, Avith perfect motion at the sternal and acromial articulations. The shortening was a little less than one inch. Six years after the operation the function of the injured side is perfect (Figs. 628, 529). Empyema.—Pus may collect in the pleural sac as a circumscribed abscess, or exist in the general cav- ity of the pleura. The diagnosis may be determined from the elevation -of temperature usually present, by dullness on per- cussion over the fluid, iind by aspi- ration, using the smaller needles. The treatment consists in evacuation Fig. 529.—The author's ease, in which a new olav- „ , , ^ ^ -^-i icle was formed after subperiosteal excision. 01 the puruleut Contents With the aS- pirator, or by incision. If the symp- toms of septic absorption are not urgent, aspiration may be tried and repeated at intervals until recovery ensues, or until a failure of this method is demonstrated. The contents of the pleural cavity should not be too rapidly evacuated. Fatal syncope has occurred in several in- stances during this operation. Incision should be done in all urgent cases, and in those instances in which aspiration fails. The object of this operation is to drain the cavity of the abscess at its most dependent portion. An efl'ort should be made to determine the lowest point by the introduction of the needle in several of the intercostal spaces. The opening should be made about opposite the center of the rib, preferably a little posterior to the middle. The incision should be in the intercostal space, half-way between the ribs. When the costal pleura is divided, it vdll be indicated by the escape of pus and the entrance of aii'. Partial