THE URETHRA—FOREIGN BODIES. 631 Fig. 632. Fig. 633. Fig. 634. Fig. 635. ployed. The black French bougie is preferable. The filiform instru- ment has already been described. In dilating a stricture with the conical steel sound, the method of in- troduction is identical with that given in using the metal catheter. In the interrupted dilata- tion a mild degree of force is exercised, and the seance is repeated on every second, third, or fourth day. The length of the: interval between the introduc- tions must be deter- mined by the symp- toms in each case, the object being to accom- plish moderate divul- sion at each sitting with- out producing marked inflammation. The sound should never be carried beyond the point where its full dilating power is applied to the strict- ure. In this way irritation of the prostatic urethra and neck of the bladder may be avoided in all save the deepest variety of strictures. The dilatation of strictures by the use of conical steel sounds should be limited to those cases in which the stricture is of sufficient caliber to admit at least No. 15, U. S., and is narrow or linear in character, so that it may be made to give way without the employment of too great force. The smaller sounds are capable of penetrating the walls of the urethra unless they are used with great skill and carefulness, while the larger instruments will not, within the limit of safety, succeed in the dilatation or rupture of a broad or tortuous stricture. Incision with the urethrotome is a safer and les^ painful operation, and the sounds serve an admirable purpose in the after-treatment. In using the soft bougies in the anterior portion of the urethra, they may be passed in straight; but, when the deeper portion is invaded, they should be curved as much as possible, to correspond to the sub- pubic curve of this canal. Foreign Bodies in the Uretlira.—Calculi occasionally lodge in the urethra, and substances introduced through the meatus—as fragments of a catheter, etc.—may require removal by the surgeon. The diagnosis will be evident from the symptoms of obstruction to the escape of urine, by recognition of the body by digital pressure along the canal, and by exploration through the meatus. Stone may be made out by the grating sound which is emitted, or by the sense of friction upon a rough and hard surface which is conveyed to the fingers along the sound. A me- tallic substance may also be recognized by the peculiar click which is elicited when it is brought in contact with the exploring instrument. Removal may be effected through the meatus, or by incision directly through the floor of the urethra at the point of lodgment. It is always