603 HYPERTROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. The propriety of operative interference, beyond catheterization or puncture of the bladder, may be entertained in a certain proportion of cases. When the obstruction is due to hypertrophy of the middle lobe (Figs. 602, 603, and 608), relief may be obtained by the operation of Mer- cier. The excisor is shown in Fig. 609. In con- struction it resembles the lithotrite, with the ex- ception that the beaks are shorter and are not serrated. The mechanism of the instrument is practically the same. The operation is performed as follows : The kiotome is closed, oiled, and car- ried into the bladder, which should be fairly dis- tended. The operator should inove the instrument about freely, and turn it on its axis, in order to be assured that it is well within the organ. Fia. 608.—A ridge of hypertrophied prostate seen from within the bladder. (After Socin.) It is then withdrawn, with the beak pointing upward, until it is felt to be arrested at the open- ing into the urethra. While in this position the blades are separated a half-inch, the instrument forced to one side (the patient's right), then stead- ily turned to the left and closed. If the obstruc- tion is seized by this manoeuvre the screw-move- ment is adjusted and the part grasped is cut off and withdrawn with the closed instrument. Mer- cier's procedure, although not frequently per- formed, has met with a success which justifies its repetition. In well-selected cases it can not but be useful, and when the urethra and bladder are care- fully accustomed to the use of a catheter, it gives little pain or inconvenience. The employment of an anaesthetic is not indicated, the sensation of the patient being of value in aiding the surgeon to determine when the tissue is grasped. In hopeless cases of cystitis resulting from obstruction of the urethra, from prostatic hypertrojohy, cystotomy, with the establishment of a per- FiG. 609.—Mercier's instru- ment for the removal of portions of the hypertro- phied prostate. I'he cut- tino; portion (J) is life size. (After Sooin.)