A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 310 upon a sofa or chair about the room. After four weeks he may be per- mitted to move about on crutches. Except when passive motion is being made, the splint should be worn night and day for the lirst ten weeks after the injury. After this it may be removed after retiring for the night and adjusted before rising. The long splint and iigure-of-eight bandaging about the knee should be worn for six months, to prevent a re-separation. After six months it may be shortened to a length of eighteen inches, and this or a strong leather flexion-check should be worn for the next twelve months. After eighteen months of careful watching, such a ligamentous union will not give way, except under conditions which would break the bone. In two cases which came under my ob- servation (the patients both males, one forty and the other about fifty- five years old) the ligamentous union was so strong that, several years after the first accident, they suffered a second injury, and the ujoper frag- ment parted transversely, the ligament holding intact. The foregoing method, which is practically that of Prof. Hamilton, is by far the most preferable treatment for this injury. Many innovations have been made in the treatment of this fracture, some of which are unnecessary, others unjustifiable. Among the former may be mentioned aspiration of the elfusion into the joint and between the fragments. This should only be done when the capsule is distended in an extraordinary degree. The most unjustifiable method of treatment ever introduced in this fracture is that of opening into the joint and wiring the fragments together. Unjustifiable because, first of all, it is dangerous ; secondly, it is unnecessary. A careful observance of the rule of practice just laid down will secure a ligamentous union, with a resto- ration of the function of the extremity, equally as good in many cases as that enjoyed before the injury, and in the vast majority of cases equal to "all the ordinary requirements of the limb, and this is accomplished without the slightest risk to the patient's life, and with no disturbance of his comfort beyond confinement to bed for two weeks, to the room for four weeks, and to his crutches and cane for about six months. On the other hand, although an osseous union may, in the majority of cases, be obtained, the restoration of function is not more complete, the confinement in bed is longer, and the danger to life and the integrity of the part sufficiently great to deter the surgeon from employing this method of practice. In September, 1881, induced by the reported successes after this operation, I wired a fractured patella on the twentieth day after the ac- cident, in the case of a woman twenty years old. The strictest antisep- tic precautions were employed, and free drainage was secured. Osteo- arthritis with destruction of the joint resulted, and the patient barelj^ es- caped with her life, the limb having been amputated in the lower third of the thigh.* Another patient, in the hands of a New York surgeon, died as a result of this operation. If the full histories of all these cases * For a full report of this case, and a synopsis of other cases, see the author's paper in the " Medical Record," vol. xxi, 1882.