160 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Adenitis, or inflammation of a lymphatic gland, usually exists with the disease just considered, or it may be independent of it. The pathological changes vary as the process is acute, subacute, or chronic. In acute adenitis the cells of the reticulum and the leucocytes proliferate with great rapidity, resulting in pressure upon, and occlusion of, the periglandular blood-vessels, and consequent suppuration. In the subacute and chronic forms the proliferation is confined chiefly to the connective-tissue cells of the reticulum, or net-work of the gland, causing an abnormal thickening of the stroma, and a diminution of the corpuscu- lar elements of the gland. Acute adenitis may result from a blow, from excessive muscular action, or, as above stated, it may follow an acute lymphangitis. The symptoms are a sense of soreness and tension, sharp throbbing pain, increased on slight pressure, swelling, and redness of the super- jacent skin. The suppuration commences in the center of the gland, and gradually extends until the tissues around are involved. The con- stitutional symptoms are similar to those given in lymphangitis. If the inflammatory process be of the subacute form, the enlargement is more gradual, and pain and the other symptoms of acute adenitis are absent. Examined microscopically, the tumor will be found to be composed of cellular elements, varying in size and conformation from that of the normal lymphatic corpuscle to the giant cell. Later in the history of this process fatty and caseous degenerations may occur, ending in resolu- tion or suppuration. In chronic adenitis the tumors are more solid and firmer to the touch, since the enlargement is due in greater part to the proliferation and hyperplasia of the connective-tissue stroma. In the treatment of acute adenitis perfect quiet must be enforced. Local applications are indicated as in lymphangitis. If suppuration is evident, early incision is indicated. The process of repair is usually slow. Frequently one after another of the glands in a group breaks down in the process of suppuration, forming sinuses which undermine the neighbor- ing tissues, when it is necessary to lay each abscess open freely and scrape out every particle of diseased tissue with a Yolkmann's spoon. Thus treated, the wound should be packed with sublimate gauze, and treated as an open wound throughout. Chronic enlargements of the lymphatic glands require chiefly consti- tutional treatment. Local measures may be deemed advisable, in order to protect the part from pressure. Plasters of mercury, belladonna, or galbanum, are among the most useful remedies of this kind. The plaster may be changed at intervals of two or three days. Painting with tincture of iodine is painful, and of doubtful benefit. Among constitutional reme- dies the protoiodide of mercury, combined with tonics and proper ali- mentation, will in general prove most satisfactory. Wounds of the lymphatic vessels may occur in common with solutions of continuity in other tissues. The escape of lymph, and occlusion of the vessels involved, back to the first collateral branch, is the rule, as with the blood-vessels. If the vessel be large, as when the deeper channels of the leg or the thoracic duct is divided, the ligature or compression of the