28 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. words of direction and encouragement from the one in authority. If at the start an inhaler is surcharged with ether, and placed closely over the mouth and nose, the irritation is so great that spasm of the glottis, with violent coughing, occurs, and a sense of strangulation, which frightens the patient, and causes an unnecessary struggle and commotion. Indiscrimi- nate conversation in the presence of a patient who is being anaesthetized should be forbidden, since it often induces boisterous conduct or un- guarded expressions from the half-intoxicated subject. In the course of five or six minutes the degree of tolerance established will allow the ad- dition of 3 J to 3 ij of the anaesthetic, and this may be repeated in three or four minutes. At this period, about ten or fifteen minutes after com- mencing the inhalation, the face becomes flushed from capillary disten- tion, the jDulse is considerably increased in power and frequency, accom- panied by delirium varying in character and degree. If the patient should now begin to struggle and resist the inhalation, the assistants should hold the arms and legs firmly against the bed or table. When help is scarce, this feature should be anticipated, and a leather strap or rope passed around the table or bed and over the legs, just above and below the knees, which should be tightened at the proper time. The arms should be held against the bed close to the sides in full extension and supination. Every few minutes from twenty to thirty drops of the anaesthetic should be sprinkled into the inhaler. In from fifteen to twenty minutes all movements of volition cease, the respirations are regular and soft, the pulse is slightly full and accelerated; the pupil, which at first contracted, is now dilated, and the finger, rubbed along the eyelashes or over the cornea and conjunctiva, produces no spasm of the orbicular muscle of the eye ; the arms fall limp and helpless, and remain in any position in which they may be placed. The patient is now in the second stage^ and it should be the aim of the etherizer to keep the nar- cosis just a little beyond consciousness. If he is thoroughly trained, this can almost always be done; and to the operator the sense of security from the danger of asphyxia, on the one hand, and the annoyance of the patient's becoming conscious, on the other, is invaluable. In operating without a tourniquet, the color of the blood which escapes should be noticed, for black blood indicates asphyxia, its sudden cessation heart- failure. When in the course of narcosis the respiration becomes markedly ir- regular and infrequent, and the breathing stertorous in character, the indications are those of too profound paralysis, and the ether should be temporarily discontinued. Lividity of the face indicates asphyxia, and demands immediate attention. Asphyxia may occur from several causes, and in any stage of etherization. In the first stage, or stage of excite- ment, from muscular fixation, the respiratory muscles may be seized with tonic spasm, the chest and abdominal walls remain immovable, and the teeth clenched by the contraction of the muscles of mastication. The veins of the forehead, face, and neck become enormously distended, and the skin blue. This condition is not infrequent in subjects addicted to chronic alcoholism. It is rare in other patients when the narcosis is gradu-