SARCOMATA. 753 preponderate in their composition, they are called—1, round; 2, spindle; 3, giant-cell sarcoma. The cell-elements of the sarcomata not only vary in size and shape, but in the number of their nuclei, of which there may be from one to thirty or more. In the more fully developed or spindle-celled neoplasm, the elements are arranged in bundles which run in all directions. These tumors possess little or no intercellular substance, the elements resting in contact or separated by the blood-vessels which freely permeate them. The richness of the blood-supply and the proportion of the tumor occu- pied by these channels are well shown in Fig. 761. The size and number of the blood-channels depend upon the structure of the tumor, the round- cell sarcoma being most vascular, while the vessels are less numerous and of smaller caliber in the spindle- cell variety. The intercellular substance also varies in quantity, being scarcely perceptible in the round-cell tumor, and more distinct in the spindle or „ .„ . , T <. .1 Fig. 761.—Iniection of the vascular network of an lUSlIOrm variety. In some OI the osteb-sarcoma. (After Billroth.) sarcomata normal connective-tissue fibers may exist, and these are believed to have been caught in the de- velopment of the neoplasm. The sarcomata in general develop with great rapidity, and tend to in- vade or infiltrate the structures in their immediate neighborhood. In this the different forms of tumor also difl'er. The round-celled neoplasm grows more rapidly than the others, and is more apt to invade the sur- rounding tissues than the fusiform-cell variety. It is not the rule for these neoplasms to become encapsuled, although this may occur in the spindle- or giant-cell variety. The three varieties of cells may exist in the same tumor. According to Cornil and Ranvier, a careful search will reveal the presence of giant cells in varying numbers in almost all sarcomata. The retrogressive changes which these tumors undergo are fatty and calcareous degeneration. The deeper cells of tumors of considerable size —in other words, those farthest removed from the supply of nutrition— very commonly undergo the fatty or granular metamorphosis. Not in- frequently this granular metamorphosis proceeds so rapidly that the blood-vessels of the tumor become occluded with the fatty detritus (gran- ular infarction). In this way the nutrition in certain portions of the growth is interfered with, increasing the area of fatty metamorphosis, or inducing gangrene from a sudden arrest of the blood-current. Calcareous degeneration occurs in certain of the sarcomata irrespect- ive of their being situated in the neighborhood of bone. Pigmentation occasionally occurs, and this form is at times separately classified as me- 48