309 FRACTURES. put to bed, in the dorsal decubitus, the affected limb kept straight, and the foot and leg elevated on pillows. In case of swelling and inflamma- tion at the knee, cold cloths or the ice-bag should be applied. The mechanical treatment should commence at once. A posterior splint is made to extend from near the heel to the gluteal fold. Shellac-board is best suited for this purpose, but sole-leather, gutta-percha, or a piece of plank will suffice, if these lighter articles can not be obtained. If either of the first three articles is employed, the piece should be cut wide enough to envelop from one half to two thirds of the circumference of the limb. Three inches above and below the center of the knee-joint a tongue, one inch wide and two inches long, should be cut, and turned out so that the attached end is nearest the joint. The splint is dipped in warm water until soft enough to be molded to the part, when it is lined with a sheet of absorbent cotton and applied on the posterior aspect of the limb. The cotton or padding material should be consider- ably thicker opposite the popliteal space, in order to prevent complete extension of the leg. Secure the upper and lower ends by turns of the roller thrown around the thigh and leg, and next begin the oblique or approximating turns by carrying a flannel bandage around the leg, so that it catches behind the lower tongue, whence it is carried obliquely upward above the upper fragment, across the quadriceps, and back to the starting-point. This is con- tinued untU the upper frag- ment is brought into appo- sition with the lower. For the lower fragment the bandage is made to catch behind the upper tongue upon the splint. When the fragments are approximated the entire limb is invested by the roller. After the dressing is applied the same position is maintained for two weeks. The portion of the bandage immediately over the fracture should be opened on the fifth or sixth day, and a careful inspection made, in order to determine whether the roller has slipped and re-separation oc- curred. If the bandage is at all loose it should be tightened, but never drawn so tightly that it produces any discomfort. This inspection should be repeated every five or six days, but the splint is never taken off until the fourth week, when passive motion at the knee-joint should be made. In doing this the surgeon should grasp the patella between the thumbs and fingers, in order to hold the frag- ments firmly in contact, and while thus held should have an assistant move the leg back and forth, not flexing it for the first time more than 15° or 20°. This should be repeated each week until the ninth week, and twice a week after this for the next two or three months. After the first two weeks the patient may be allowed to sit up in bed, or to be moved Fig. 341.—Hamilton's apparatus for fracture of the patella. (Hamilton.)