ANEURISM. 205 instances with fatal, results. The method is inferior to digital or me- chanical compression on the cardiac side of the tumor, and is decidedly more dangerous. Esmarch reports two cases of femoral aneurism in which the bandage failed, while the pole or stick compressors were subsequently successful in each instance. In the application of the ligature the method of Hunter is generally preferable. The advantages of this method over that of Anel may be enumerated as follows : The ligature is applied at a distance from the aneurism where the artery is more apt to be in a healthy condition, thus diminishing the danger of secondary haemorrhage. The existence of one or more collateral branches between the ligature and the tumor renders the process of coagulation in the sac less rapid, and consequently less liable to inflammation and sloughing. The only objection to this method of operating is the possibility of failure due to too free anastomosis, whereby the necessary diminution of the circulation is prevented. The method of Anel is at this date rarely performed, except in those instances where, on account of the location of the tumor, other methods are impossible. Deligation upon both sides of, and close to, the tumor (method of Antyllus) is not a recognized practice except in peculiar cases, where other and less radical methods have failed. It is especially .adapted to cases of aneurismal tumors which have numerous anastomoses connecting directly with the cavity of the sac, as is not infrequent in popliteal aneu- rism. That part of the operation of Antyllus which consisted in incision of the tumor and packing the sac is seldom considered necessary, the double ligature being sufficient. The operations of deligation upon the distal side of an aneurism, so close to the tumor that no collateral branch intervenes (Brasdor), or at a point more remote with one or more collateral branches intervening (Wardrop), are procedures which have been frequently employed, espe- cially within the last few years. Preference is given to Wardrop's opera- tion over that of Brasdor, for the same reasons advanced in favor of Hunter's operation, as compared to that of Anel on the cardiac side, to which it may be likened. There is no evidence that Brasdor ever did more than suggest the distal operation. Deschamp was the first to per- form it (Oct. 6, 1798), but without success. Wardrop modified the opera- tion and established it by successful practice in 1825.* The general results of this procedure have been such as to encourage its repetition, although the manner in which a 'partial arrest of the circulation through an aneurism by deligation on the distal side of the tumor induces coagu- lation in the sac is difficult of explanation. As has been said in the chapter on " Surgical Dressings," none but animal ligatures should be applied to arteries. Antiseptic catgut of the largest size for the larger vessels will be found most convenient, * See article by the author, " American Journal of the Medical Sciences," January, 1881, p. 155; and " Prize Essay of the American Medical Association," 1878, p. 94.