A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 698 in front. Perforations may be made between the springs with a wad- ding-punch. This apparatus, when properly made, fits accurately about the body in the most favorable position for the correction of the deform- ity. It can be removed at night upon retiring and for bathing, changes of clothing, massage, and electricity. It is lighter and cleaner than the plaster-of-Paris Jacket. When the necessary materials can not be had, the plaster jacket should be employed. Operative interference in muscular scoliosis is rarely called for. In extreme cases, when the latissimus dorsi of one side is greatly shortened and increased in development, correction of the curvature may be expe- dited by the subcutaneous division of this muscle. When lateral or rotary-lateral curvature of the spine results from in- equality in the length of the lower extremities, the first indication in treatment is to elevate the shoe of the short side, and thus bring the plane of the iliac crests at a right angle to the axis of the vertebral column. If the deformity is not entirely corrected by this plan, the measures Just detailed should be also employed. When the deformity is caused by superficial cicatricial contractions, their division is essential. In pleuritic adhesions, with collapse of the lung, the treatment given for rotary-lateral curvature due to muscular asymmetry should be adopted. Anterior and Posterior Curvature of the Spine.—Anterior curvature, or "stoop-shoulder," usually occurs in the dorso-cervical regions; occa- sionally the entire column is involved. It may be caused by—1, partial or complete paralysis of the erector muscles of the back ; 2, tonic spasm of the abdominal muscles ; 3, from inadvertence, as in the habit of allow- ing the shoulders to droop forward, with or without the carrying of bur- dens ; 4, cicatricial contractions in the anterior thoracic and abdominal regions ; 5, heredity. Complete paralysis of the muscles of the back is exceedingly rare. Unilateral paresis is not altogether uncommon. The most frequent condition is one of general impairment of muscular tone, the head and Fig. 678.—Nyrop's spring-brace. (After Reeves.) COrrect the deformity by the USe of braces, and to increase the tone of the muscles the nutrition of which is impaired. To meet the former, in mild cases a double elastic brace, such as is shown in Fig. 678, will be sufficient. Massage, electricity, tonics, and out-of-door life are also essential features of treatment. upper spine gravitating forward as the muscles yield, until the posterior ligaments are elongated and the anterior margins of the intervertebral disks narrowed by compression. The habit of car- rying a heavy burden upon one shoulder is more likely to in- duce rotary-lateral curvature than cyphosis. The indications are to