A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 436 cation may be required in rapid enlargement of this organ from engorge- ment of the vessels. Hypertrophy of the tongue is both congenital and acquired. It may exist in adult life, although it is in general a condition of childhood. The enlargement is due to hypertrophy of the lymphatic plexuses of this organ and to a general hyperplasia of the connective-tissue elements. The muscular substance undergoes granular metamorphosis. The cause of this disease is not understood. The organ may become so large that it protrudes from the mouth, pushes the teeth out of their normal po- sition, and interferes with deglutition and respiration to such an extent that its partial or complete removal becomes necessary. Cystic tumors of the tongue may be mistaken for hypertrophy. A diagnosis may be made by exploration with a good-sized aspirator-needle. In mOd cases deligation of the lingual artery of one or both sides may be done, and this may be followed by excision of a portion of the organ. The tip may be amputated, or a triangular section may be re- moved from the central portion, the sides being brought together by sutures. Atrophy is a rare disease, and is due to diminution of the blood- supply, or to lesions of the trophic nerves of this organ. Cystic tumors of the tongue may be caused by closure of the outlet to any portion of the follicular apparatus (retention-cysts), or less fre- quently by the lodgment in this organ of a parasite, the cysticercus. The diagnosis is made positive by exploration. The treatment re- quired is excision of the sac with the scissors, or the less bloody oper- ation of opening it with the Paquelin cautery, burning the lining mem- brane thoroughly, and packing the cavity with iodoformized gauze. The precaution should be taken to make the packing from one piece of gauze, and of securing it by a thread attached outside, in order to pre- vent its accidental escape backward. Angioma of the tongue is rare. When present, the treatment is re- moval by the ligature, or by injection with 50-per-cent carbolic-acid solution. Abscess of the tongue should be treated by aspiration, and hyper- distention of the sac with l-to-3000 sublimate solution. If this does not succeed, an incision should be made and drainage secured. Ulcers of the tongue appear as a symptom of various conditions. They occur in syphilis with great frequency. They may occur as a result of general catarrh of the pharynx and mouth, or as a result of any violence. If an ulcer exists as an expression of a dyscrasia, the treat- ment must be chiefly constitutional. The local treatment consists in cleanliness and the application of nitrate of silver, or other stimulating remedies. The tongue is at times the seat of papilloma, lipoma, fibroma, sar- coma, and one or two instances of enchondroma in this organ are re- ported. Epithelioma is not infrequent, and is the most important of the neoplasms of this organ, not only on account of its greater frequency, but also on account of its grave character and the necessity of arriving