A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 138 the axis of the tibia. The ends of this cut are united by a second, which arches sharply upward about on the line of section of the bones, and should also divide tendons and all intervening structures, opening into the joint. The foot should now be firmly grasped and extended, so as Fig. 209. Fig. 210. to make tense the anterior ligament of the ankle, which is easily divided. Carrying the knife to either side of the articular surfaces of the astra- galus, the lateral ligaments are cut, and the Joint thus widely exposed. An assistant now holds and depresses the foot, while the operator care- fully dissects the tissues closely from the astragalus and calcaneum. Care should be taken not to bruise the flap by too great traction. In dissecting along the inner surface of the ankle, the knife should be kept close to the bones, so that when the lesser process of the calcaneum is reached it will slide behind and under this process, passing between it and the flexor tendon and the vessels. If this precaution is not taken, the arteries may be wounded and the nutrition of the flap seriously im- paired. As the dissection proceeds, i I I the foot is further depressed, and the I I I tendo Achillis separated from its in- II sertion into the tuberosity of the cal- caneum, in doing which care must be taken not to button-hole the flap. The posterior portion of the os calcis may now be brought through the joint, and the dissection continued in this direc- tion or finished by working back along the under surface of this bone. After the foot is removed, the flaps are lifted from the tibia and fibula until a sec- tion of these bones can be made just on the level of the anterior articular margin of the tibia (Fig. 211). It is not necessary to remove the articular surface. The flaps should now be trimmed and fitted, and the vessels tied. As the sutures are applied, it will be noticed that there is a redundancy of tissue in the long flap, leav- ing a cup-shaped cavity; but this can be thoroughly drained from the angles of the wound, and disappears when the stump is healed (Fig. 212). Fig. 211. Fio. 212. —Stuinp after Syme's amputation. (After Malguigne.)