THE NECK. 449 gated with l-to-5000 sublimate solution, and rubber drainage-tubes intro- duced, one into the deepest and another in the upper portion of the sac. A loose sublimate dressing should be applied. The indications for changing the dressing are haemorrhage, rise in temperature above 103° after the second day, and for purposes of cleanliness. In two of my cases in which larger cysts were evacuated there was considerable febrile move- ment for the first week after the operation. As the cyst becomes filled with granulation-tissue the tubes should be gradually shortened. In the removal of a solid goitre a crucial incision is preferable. This should be very free, in order to give a full view of the wound. The dissection should expose the entire anterior surface of the mass before attempting to get beneath it at any point. Care must be taken not to tear or incise the substance of the tumor, since it bleeds profusely, and is often so friable that it will not hold a ligature. Whenever a vessel is seen in the track of the dissection, it should be seized in two places with forceps (the narrow-jawed instrument, Fig. 82, is preferable), divided be- tween them, and each end tied with stout catgut. In lifting the tumor the operator should work along the outer side, and pass under the mass from this aspect. In this way the superior and inferior thyroid vessels may be ligatured in the earlier stages of the operation, and the chief source of bleeding controlled. The presence of the recurrent laryngeal nerves, as they pass upward on either side, in the space between the trachea and (Esophagus, should not be forgotten. It is not always possible to avoid them, but by keeping close to the capsule of the tumor the least risk will be incurred. The veins passing into the mass are at times of great size, and the walls of those in the tumor are in some cases very friable, causing much annoyance and delay, in repeatedly breaking down under the ligature and recurring haemorrhage. In one of my cases the internal Jugular vein was involved in the mass to such an extent that it was necessary to tie this vessel above and below, and divide it. When all of the tumor is free, except the isthmus, this should be surrounded with a small elastic ligature, and divided. The edges of the wound are now closed with catgut, the drainage-tube and rubber ligature brought out at the most dependent portion of the incision, and a subli- mate dressing applied. The ligature comes away by drawing upon it about the eighth day. The prognosis from this operation is favorable in the large majority of cases. It only becomes grave in the larger tumors, and the chief ele- ment of gravity here is the exhausted condition of the patient, resulting from pressure of the mass. It must, however, be classed among the more formidable operations. Hydatid cysts may occasionally be met with in this organ. They should be treated by incision and drainage, or by aspiration and disten- tion of the sac, with l-to-20 carbolic-acid solution, withdrawing the solu- tion and applying compression. Carcinoma and sarcoma of this body are treated in the same manner as solid goitre. When their removal is possible, the dissection should be carried well into the healthy tissues beyond the neoplasm, 29