424 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. the antrum, or pathological changes within the bone proper. Ostitis of the maxilla is more apt to occur in children, and especially in those of a strumous diathesis. Phosphorus-poisoning and the syphilitic dyscrasia lead also to inflammation and caries of this bone. The symptoms of ostitis and abscess here do not differ from those already given in the general chapter on bone diseases. Pain is, perhaps, more acute in ostitis within the distribution of the trifacial nerve. It is elicited by direct pressure, and, when the process is associated with a carious tooth or its roots, the exact location may be determined by striking the tooth sharply with a metallic substance. The treatment is to relieve the tension by puncture or incision, or by extraction of one or more teeth in case they are connected \AW the diseased surface. The removal of dead bone is demanded, although it is wise not to operate too early. When exfoliation has occurred, the oper- ation is much simplified. If free drainage is secured by early incision, the arrest of the spread of the disease is practically insured. CJironic alveolar abscess is often cured by extraction of an offending tooth. When this fails, the diseased surface should be exposed by incision, and a thorough removal accomplished. When possible, all sequestra should be removed from within the oval cavity in order to avoid a scar upon the face. Syphilitic ostitis, and that variety which occurs from absorption of the fumes of phosphorus, require specific constitutional treatment as well as operative interference. Abscess of the antrum of Highmore may occur as the result of an inflammatory process in the mucous membrane lining this cavity, or in connection with ostitis of the upper jaw, or from the presence of foreign bodies or neoplasms within its cavity. The chief symptom is pain, re- ferred to the region of the antrum. The febrile movement of acute ab- scess is usually present. The pus may force its way through the open- ing into the meatus, or cause necrosis in the bone and discharge in any direction. Treatment.—Free drainage must be established in all cases. The extraction of the first or second molar and the application of a drill to enlarge the opening may sufiice. If necessary, a portion of the alveolar process should be gnawed away with the forceps. In extreme cases an incision should be made through the skin just above the situation of the first molar tooth, and a thorough opening made with a trephine or gouge. It is important to explore the cavity with the finger in order to determine the presence of dead bone or any offending substance. Free drainage must be maintained until recovery is secured. In a case which came under my observation, I found the cause of an abscess of thii'teen years' duration to be a supernumerary molar tooth which was lying loose in the antrum. The same operation will be most essential in those cases of hydrops antri, or retention of fluid, and in the cure of cysts of this cavity. Among the many other diseases to which the antrum is subject are myxoma, fibroma, papilloma, sarcoma, carcinoma, and various hyperos-