A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 142 cept that of the great toe, which should be sawn through at any point anterior to its middle. If a section posterior to this is requiied, disar- ticulate from the metatarsal bone. What has been said of the second phalanx of the great toe applies with equal force to the proximal phalanges of all the other toes. None of the metatarsal bones should be disarticulated fi-om the tarsus when a section is possible from not less than three fourths of an inch anterior to each tarso-metatarsal joint. When a section posterior to this line is required, a tarso-metatarsal dis- FiG. 226. articulation should be effected. Hey^s operation is only justifiable when the anterior face of the internal cuneiform is diseased. As much as the an- terior fourth of each cuneiform bone, and the anterior half of the cuboid, may be sawn off, in preference to the unnecessary sacrifice of the bony frame-work, by Forbes's or Chopart's operation. When the cuneiform bones must be removed, and the posterior half of the cuboid is sound, Forbes's operation should be preferred to Cho- part's. Chopart's procedure is next in order. The sub-astragaloid operation should always be preferred to a tibio-tarsal (Syme's) amputa- tion. If the condition of the parts is such that the vitality of the flap is assured, the operations of Le Fort and Pirogoff, carefull^^ and skillfully done, should be preferred to the tibio-tarsal disarticulation. Even at the risk of a second operation being required, an effort to preserve the greatest possible portion of the foot is justifiable, except when it may seriously threaten the life of the patient. The value of a surface accustomed to pressure can only be thoroughly appreciated in the after-adjustment of an artificial apparatus. Leg.—Amputation at any portion of the leg above the line of section, in Syme's operation, should be made by one of two methods. 1. Modified Circular Skin-Flap.—At a sufficient distance beyond the point at which the bones are to be divided make a circular cut through to the deep fascia, split the fiap directly over the fibula, up to the point of section through the bones, and carefully dissect up the cuff. When the flap is reflected, at the level of its base divide all the soft tissues squarely down to the bones, which are next sawn through. The spine of the tibia should be trimmed down, to prevent too acute pressure and sloughing of the skin at this point, a not infrequent occurrence when tliis precaution is omitted. The drainage is at the fibular side, and, as the leg should be elevated, the tube should come out at the highest point of the perpendicular incision. When the bones are sawn through within six inches of the knee-joint, the remainder of the fibula should be exsected. 2. Method of Prof. Stephen Smith.—Commence an incision in the center of the anterior surface, and carry it downward along the side of