A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 364 made by Mr. Ford, at my suggestion. They vary in length from three to live and six inches, are between one sixteenth and one eighth of an inch in diameter, with the points smaller than the shaft, so that as they are made to enter and transfix the bones they become jammed, and are held immovable and secure. Everything being in readiness for the drills, a rubber drainage-tube is carried through the wound, so that when the bones touch each other the tube is behind these, with an end projecting on each side of the knee, or two short pieces may be inserted from either side. The sawn surfaces of the bones are now brought together, and held perfectly steady by a skilled assistant. The operator approximates the edges of the wound temporarily, fixes a drill into the handle of the instru- ment, and, at a point about one inch, or one inch and a half, below the end of the tibia, and upon the anterior and lateral aspect of the leg, makes a puncture in the skin. In this puncture the point of the drill is carried, passing obliquely down to and into the bone, in such a way that it will traverse a portion of the tibia, cross the line of approximation, enter the femur, and pass into this bone as far as its periosteum. The handle is now removed and a second drill introduced, in the same man- ner, from the opposite side of the tibia, crossing the first at about an angle of 90°. A third point is next introduced, on the anterior surface of the femur, and is made to travel almost directly down into the tibia. The bones are now firmlj^ fastened together, and the extremity may be lifted from the foot as if it were anchylosed at the knee. The wound is next closed with catgut sutures, and finally irrigated, dressed with sublimate gauze, and, outside of this, a thick layer of borated cotton, with protective over all. In order to steady the limb, pieces of tin or hoop-iron (or a wooden splint) may be worked in as the bandage is being applied. The roller should be firmly drawn, so that a considerable press- ure may be exercised upon the part, to prevent the oozing usually so pro- fuse after Esmarch's bandage has been applied. The elasticity of the cotton distributes the pressure equally, and controls haemorrhage without Fig. 397. causing discomfort. It is the practice of some surgeons not to apply a single ligature in this operation, but to rely wholly upon compression for the control of bleeding. It is better to search for and tie the larger