THE SPLEEN. 523 The Spleen. Abscess—Abscess of this organ is much less frequent than in the liver. It may exist in the substance of the spleen or in the perisplenic tissues. Abscess of the spleen may be caused by violence, as from a pene- trating wound, a contusion with laceration, or a more or less extensive rupture of the capsule and spleen-substance near the attachment of the suspensory ligament. Idiopathic abscess of this organ may be caused by embolism, or fol- low in the course of any disease which interferes with its nutrition. The prognosis of splenic abscess is unfavorable. If left without sur- gical interference, the contents may escape into the alimentary canal (as the colon or stomach); into the pleural cavity and lung; or, in excep- tional instances, open through the integument. Occasionally abscess of the spleen reaches a certain size, remains passive, and becomes a chronic or cold abscess. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—Traumatic abscess may be suspected when, after an injury, persistent tenderness is felt in the region of this organ, and when to this symptom is added the constitutional disturbance which is a part of the history of acute abscess. In general, the tender- ness is more marked in perisplenic abscess than in that which is deep- seated. Swelling, with induration, possibly fluctuation and oedema when the abscess is near the surface, are confirmatory symptoms of suppura- tion, which may be substantiated by the exploring-needle and aspirator. In idiopathic abscess the symptoms of suj)puration may be masked by the febrile movement in the disease in the course of which it occurs. The treatment is the same as for hepatic abscess. Cysts.—The diagnosis and treatment of cysts of the spleen do not differ in any essential features from similar lesions in the liver. Hernia of this organ may occur. through a wound in the abdomen, or through an opening resulting from extensive sloughing. If the hernia is recent, and the prolapsed portion is not strangulated, it should be thoroughly cleansed in l-to-5000 sublimate solution and returned into its normal position. The structure of the spleen is so delicate that it breaks down readily if undue force is employed. If the organ is lacerated, it will be advisable to throw an elastic ligature around it at the level of the skin, apply an antiseptic dressing, and allow the mass to be removed by sloughing or by the scissors, as soon as adhesions have occurred at the opening. When strangulation has taken place, the ligature will not be required. Complete splenectomy may be demanded in displacement of this organ, followed by interference with the function of other viscera, or for the relief of pain caused by the spleen in an abnormal position. It has been performed in several instances on account of the enlargement of this organ in leucocythaemia, but without the success which would en- courage a repetition of the operation.