MOLES. 197 quently affected. The hypertrophy which constitutes the mole may involve all or any one of the tissues which enter into the anatomy of the integument. The most frequent variety is that which occupies the face, as a simple elevation from which a few stiff hairs grow. It is not stained with pigment, and differs very slightly, if at all, in color from the normal skin. The lesion here is a true hypertrophy of all the tissues of the skin, chiefly in the derma and papillary layer. The vascularity is slightly increased, and the sebaceous glands connected with the hair-follicles take part in the hypertrophy. On other portions of the body this form of mole (ncevus vulgaris) will have no hairs growing from its surface. Navus pigmentosus is not usually a thickening of the entire cutis, as is the simple mole just described, but its pathological condition is an excessive deposit of pigment in the Malpighian layer and in the epider- mis. It varies in color from a slate-gray to a blue, mahogany, reddish- brown, or wine-color. At times the pigment mole will extend over a large area, occupying as much as one third or one half of the face. The lobule of the ear, and the integument between the eyes and over the temple, is the most common location of this deformity. Another name for these spots is port-wine marTc.^'' When the hypertrophied area of skin is studded with hairs, it is known as ncevus pilosus, or hairy mole. It follows from the name that this form of hypertrophy can only occur on those portions of the cutis in which the hairs grow. The plantar surfaces of the feet and the palms of the hands are never affected. They may or may not be stained with pigment. The majority of hairy moles are not colored. Moles, whether simple, hairy, or pigmented, are benign. As a result of irritation, they may inflame and become ulcerated, or may develop into malignant growths. Carcinomata, especially of the melanotic variety, are frequently described as having resulted from inflamed pigment moles. Alarming haemorrhage has been known to occur from a mole more than usually vascular, in which ulceration had been established by friction of the clothing. Treatment.—A.B long as no deformity or inconvenience results from these formations, it is better to let them alone. When situated upon the face, of such size or position that they become offensive to the eye, they may be removed by simple excision. The incision should be elliptical, and well away from the growth, going entirely through the thickness of the skin. The wound should be closed with fine sutures, or drawn nicely together with adhesive strips. The simplest method of procedure is to produce local anaesthesia by cocaine, and operate quickly. Port- wine marJcs may also be excised. If a mole should at any time take on inflammatory action, or give any indication of malignant proliferation, immediate excision would be im- perative, and the incision should be wide of the supposed area of the disease. The employment of caustics or irritants of any kind is to be deprecated, as they would increase the tendency to malignant change in these growths.