558 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. symptom of this condition. When the cause is vesical or urethral, both kidneys will be affected. Ursemic symptoms may occur, and are present in the latter stages, when the destruction of the tubules is general. If the obstruction is gradual, the tolerance of uraemia is at times great, and when only a single Ividney is affected, especially if the unilateral occlu- sion is not sudden, the other organ will, in most cases, assume a functional activity sufficient for the work of both kidneys. Hydronephrosis may be mistaken for hydatid cysts of this organ, for ovarian cysts, cyst of the pancreas and spleen, or for abdominal dropsy. In abdominal dropsy the fluid gravitates to the pelvis and changes with the different positions assumed. Liver-disease almost always precedes ascites. Cysts of the spleen and pancreas are rare, and the early history of their development will point to an origin away from the kidney. In hydatid cysts of the kidney the only positive differentiation is in the recognition of the hydatid vesicles in the urine. Treatment.—In mild cases, whether the disease is double or single, operative interference is not demanded. In stricture of the urethra or enlarged prostate, the removal of the obstruction is imperative. Symp- toms of uraemia call for the warm bath and free perspiration in the effort to eliminate by the skin the necessary quantity of urea. To this, mild purgation may be added. When the cyst is large enough to interfere with the comfort or to threaten the life of the patient, it should be aspirated or cut down upon and drained by incision, or completely re- moved. In introducing the aspirator-needle, the most prominent joart of the protrusion near the last rib should be punctured. If the con- dition of the patient will permit, preference should be given to incision and free drainage of the cyst. If the cyst-wall has not adhered firmly to the surrounding tissues, the dissection should be carried down to the cyst and the wound packed with sublimate gauze for a day or two until adhesions have taken place, after which the contents may be evacuated. Renal Calculus. —Stone in the kidney may be formed by an aggre- gation of urinary crystals in the tubules, calices, or pelvis of this organ. To the composition of these bodies epithelia, mucous and other organic substances contribute. Although chiefly composed of uric acid in va- rious combinations, and oxalic acid in combination with lime, renal cal- culi may be as variable as those to be considered in connection with dis- eases of the bladder. The symptoms of stone in the pelvis or the kidney are referable to the degree of inflammation (pyelitis) caused by its presence, and to the interference with the escape of urine into the ureter. The condition of pyelitis is in great part determined by the shape and composition of the calculus. A mulberry calculus (oxalate of lime) produces here, as in the blad- der, a more acute and therefore more perceptible inflammatory process than the smooth uric-acid or phosphatic stones. Stones with smooth surfaces and of slow formation may remain months in the pelvis with- out causing a disturbance sufficient to attract the attention of the patient