611 SPECIFIC URETHRITIS. himself of this much of responsibility by insisting upon the minimum of physical exertion. The diet should be nutritious, yet simple, and stimulating beverages, as coffee and the alcoholic group, should be for- bidden. Tea is not so objectionable as coffee, except when it induces sleeplessness. The bowels should be kept open by the use of fruits and the administration of the mild, laxative waters. The administration of citrate of potash, in doses of grs. xx, four or five times a day, will have a beneficial effect upon the urine and the urethra. It may be conveniently taken in a glass of water to which the juice of half a lemon has been added. A hip-bath in warm water every night and morning not only insures a degree of cleanliness which is desirable, but is not without value as an antiphlogistic. In addition to these general features of treatment to be carried out during the first and second stages of gonorrhoea, certain local measures are equally important. One of the chief of these is to secure free dis- charge of the pus from the urethra and prepuce. The penis should be kept pendent, and, if possible, the prepuce worn so as to leave the gland exposed. The common practice of stuffing a piece of lint or a tuft of absorbent cotton over the meatus and beneath the prepuce, and then pressing the foreskin over this to hold the plug in place, thus stopping up the urethra when free drainage is essential, and holding the acrid dis- charge in contact with the glans and prepuce when these should be pro- tected, is exceedingly objectionable. Scarcely less so is the habit of tying rags, lint, or cotton about the penis, for these dressings interfere with the circulation in this organ. A bag of oiled-silk, rubber tissue, or, if these can not be obtained, of ordinary cloth, should be made large and long enough to fit loosely over the penis. It is held in place by strings which pass up to a belt Avorn around the waist. A pellet of absorbent cotton in the bottom of this bag suffices to catch the pus which drips from the meatus. It is usually necessary to have two of these bags, for purposes of cleanliness. The various complications of gonorrhoea, as cystitis, prostatitis, epididymitis, orchitis, etc., have been, or will be, considered under their respective heads. For the control or relief of chordee the following rule of practice will suffice : The patient should be advised to refrain from sleeping on the back, and should be directed to empty his bladder at more frequent in- tervals than ordinary. When the attack is precipitated, standing with the naked back in contact with the wall, or some cold surface, will often cause the erection to disappear. The same may be said of the local use of ice or cold water. A full dose of bromide of potassium and chloral- hydrate at bedtime, and repeated at intervals, if necessary, is, however, the surest way to control the more annoying and obstinate cases. Injections of the urethra in gonorrhoea should be made with great care. They are contraindicated in the acute inflammatory and suppu- rative stages of this disease. Usually, from the tenth to the twentieth day after suppuration is noticed, if the foregoing measures have been faithfully carried out, the character of the discharge is changed from the