SUB-TROCHANTERIC OSTEOTOMY AT THE HIP. Tl5 femur an incision is made, commencing about one inch below the most superior surface of the trochanter major, and extending downward about one inch and a half. When the bone is exposed, the wound is held open by retractors, and the bluntest of Macewen's bone-chisels introduced flatwise with the incision until the bone is reached, when it is turned so that the cutting edge is across the axis of the femur. In a child twelve years old the lower portion of the lesser trochanter (the line of section) is about one and a half inch below the tip of the great trochanter. While the limb is steadied by an assistant, a few blows with the mallet drives the chisel through the outer rim, when a thinner chisel is •inserted and the bone cut from one half to three fourths through. Grasp- ing the thigh near the knee with one hand, while the other steadies the part above the section, the remaining portion is readily fractured by carrying the thigh toward the median line. The wound is now thor- oughly irrigated and closed with catgut sutures, leaving a bone-drain out at the lower angle. A sublimate dressing is applied. The thigh is rotated slightly inward, abducted to about five degrees from the axis of the spine, and flexed on the ab- domen so that the axis of the femur joins that of the body at an angle of fifteen de- grees (Fig. 694). If in the position of de- formity the thigh is abducted—a condition which rarely exists—the corrected position should be that of adduction about five de- grees beyond the normal. The after-treat- ment is the same as for fracture at this point, namely, Buck's extension and Ham- ilton's long splint (page 304). In order to secure the necessary five de- grees of abduction, the padding to the splint should be made several inches thicker op- posite the acetabulum than at the knee, and the thigh and leg should be elevated upon pillows enough to secure the fifteen degrees of flexion required. When consolidation occurs with the extremity in this position, locomotion is good and more comfort ex- perienced in the sitting posture than when the leg is perfectly straight. At the end of four or five weeks the patient may be al- lowed to go about on crutches, and in eight or ten weeks to walk with- out them. The result to be achieved is osseous reunion at the point of fracture with the limb in the improved position. A false or new joint is not desirable. Esmarch's bandage is not essential in the performance of the operation, although it may be employed if desired. The haemorrhage is usually slight, and a few catgut ligatures readily control all bleeding Fig, 694.—The proper position of the extremity after sub-trochanteric os- teotomy. (After Poore.)