TALIPES CAYUS.—TALIPES PLANUS. 733 Fig. 733.—Nyrop's shoe for talipes valgus. (After Eeeves.) When tenotomy of the peronei muscles is indicated, they should be divided subcutaneously from three quarters to one and a half inch (owing to the age of the patient) above the external malleolus. Cuneiform tar- sotomy may be applied to the correction of this de- formity in exaggerated cases in adults. When the bones are thoroughly ossified it will be impossible to change the shape of these organs and restore the normal shape of the part by any mechanical appa- ratus, no matter how persistent in its use. The in- cision is made along the inner side of the foot, and the apex of the conical section must be at the outer border of the tarsus. The details of the operation and the after-treatment are practically the same as given for equino-varus. Talipes Cavus.—Hollow-foot is almost always an acquired deformity, although it may be congenital. It occurs with talipes calcaneus, equinus, and, in a mild degree, may complicate varus and equino-varus. In this deformity the antero-posterior arch of the foot is exaggerated, the plantar fascia and the muscles of the plantar region which have their origin behind the medio-tarsal joint, and are inserted anterior to this articula- tion, are shortened. The plantar fascia I and the calcaneo-cuboid ligaments are also shortened. The sole of the foot ,, no longer rests upon the floor, as in the normal condition (Fig. 734), but touch- es only at the heel and along the meta- tarso-phalangeal line. Any inflammatory process of the plantar region may induce contrac- tion of the fascia or ligaments ; or spastic contraction of the muscles of this region from local or remote causes may jjroduce this deformity. Com- mencing before the bones are softened, the distortion of the foot is apt to become permanent unless exsection or crushing is performed. Of these two procedures, tarsoclasis is the most readily accomplished; but, when the tarsoclast can not be had, section through the tarsus, with a thorough division of the plantar fascia, will be justifiable. For- tunately, few instances will occur where such harsh procedures will be called for. In recent cases the deformity may be relieved by wearing a plain shoe with a low, broad heel and straight, thick sole. The plantar fascia should be divided in all cases which do not readily yield to mechanical treatment. Talipes Planus.—Flat-foot has been partially considered with talipes valgus, with which condition it is almost always associated. The antero- posterior arch of the foot is more or less obliterated, and in severe cases the anterior portion of the sole spreads out or widens in its transverse diameter (Fig. 735). Fig. 734.—Showing the surface of the solo which, rests upon the floor in a normal foot. (After Sayre.)