VASCULAR TUMORS. 193 quently, the lung very rarely, involved. In bones, this disease exhibits the same erectile characters as in other structures (Fig. 268). It occurs in the flat bones by preference, especially those of the cranium, jaws, and scapula, being often very painful, and grave as to prognosis. Angeiomata are not infrequently situated on the labia of women. Holmes Coote has observed serous cysts in connection with these vascular growths. An explanation of their forma- tion is, that communication of a portion of one dilated vessel with other vessels is cut oif, and that the corpus- cles and coloring matter of the blood disappear, the se- rum remaining as a cystic fluid. The question of the rela- tion of these tumors to carcinomata and sarcomata is worthy of consider- ation. J. Miiller has reported a malignant (recurrent) angeioma. A case of melanotic degeneration of a congenital nsevus in a woman aged forty has been reported by Dr. Styles. The vascular dilatations in osteo-sarco- mata, and in other forms of carcinoma and sarcoma, are analogous to those found in cavernous angeiomata. Some of the malignant tumors pulsate like the angeiomata. An angeioma may be diffuse or encapsulated. The prognosis depends upon the size and location of the neoplasm. The diagnosis is not difficult in the superficial tumors, but in those deeply situated, and in the track of large vessels, the differentiation from aneurism is not easy. The arterial and capillary cutaneous tumors are almost always con- genital ; the venous tumors are rarely so. Angeiomata may be distin- guished from osteo-sarcomata, which have perceptible pulsation, by the crackling impression conveyed to the sense of touch from the malignant tumors of bone. Several consecutive telangiectases may occur in the same individual. Hutchinson, of London, reports the case of a child which had over one hundred nsevi, all distinct and superficial. Vascular tumors on the scalp have an element of danger not present in angeiomata elsewhere, in that they at times grow to such an extent as to cause necrosis of the calvaria. Treatment.—Angeiomata have been known to heal without surgical interference, as a result of an idiopathic inflammation. Transfixion and multiple deligation is one of the most radical and successful methods of treatment. Direct and prolonged pressure has been employed, though not with encouraging results. Perforation with hot needles, either with or without the galvanic current, injection of coagulating fluids, particu- larly Monsel's solution, 50 per cent carbolic acid, or of ergot, local appli- cations of nitric acid or other escharotics, and extirpation by the knife, 13