A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 646 body. The contagion may be direct or indirect. In the former, the virus of a specific ulcer is brought directly in contact with an abrasion npon a non-syphilitic subject. In the latter, the poison adheres to some intermediate agent, and thence is conveyed to the abrasion.* The clinical history of a typical case of acquired syphilis left without treatment, and in a certain proportion of cases in which treatment is in- stituted, is divided by usage into three stages—primary, secondary, and tertiary. In a majority of cases, when properly managed, the later mani- festations may be eliminated, and the secondary stage made shorter and less severe. The primary stage includes : 1, absorption of the virus ; 2, the ulcer; 3, local lymphangitis and adenitis. The symptoms which belong to the second stage are the cutaneous eruptions, mucous patches, fever, arteritis, condylomata, alopecia, iritis, and general adenitis. In the tertiary stage, the pathological changes are chiefly confined to the arteries, viscera, bones, the integument, and the subcutaneous and submucous connective tissues. This is the period of gummy tumors, connective-tissue formations, arterial occlusion, and deep ulcers of the skin and mucous membranes. The usual duration of the first stage is from six to nine weeks. Sec- ondary symptoms may, however, appear at the fifth or sixth week from the date of inoculation. On the other hand, in rare instances, they may be delayed to between the third and sixth month. The limitation of the stages of this disease is in great part arbitrary. The duration of the second stage varies from the fifth or sixth week (or in delayed cases the sixth month after contact) to about the end of the first year after the inoculation. The tertiary stage begins at the end of the preceding stage, and may last indefinitely. First Stage.—When the specific virus is brought in contact with a broken cutaneous or mucous surface, absorption may begin at once or be delayed for a considerable period. The abrasion may be so insignifi- cant that the patient's attention is not attracted to it, and, although the virus is lodged in it, it may heal over within a few days. If subjected to irritation by friction, or the simultaneous inoculation with the virus of phagedenic ulcer or other virus, inflammation supervenes, and an ulcer more or less phagedenic in character appears. Absorption takes place chiefly through the lymphatics. It may occur through the blood-vessels, and it is possible that in those cases in which constitutional symptoms appear with great rapidity and severity, the dissemination of the virus takes place in this way. The rapidity of lymphatic absorption varies. There is usually a pe- riod of about three weeks from the time of lodgment of the virus until * In one of my cases the inoculation occurred in a fissure of the lip in the person of a mer- chant who was using a glass in common with a customer in sampling wines. In 1883 a patient presented himself at the clinic who had had a specific ulcer and syphilis resulting from being tattooed upon tlie arm. The operator moistened the point of the needle with saliva in which the virus from mucous patches was mingled, and thus conveyed it into the integument.