61 INFLAMMATION. usually disappear from abscesses of long standing—tlie cold abscesses. Their chief significance is that they give to pus a septic power, or that pus which contains them injected or absorbed into the blood prodaices septic fever—a condition which does not follow the injection of pus which does not contain these elements. As before stated, pus-corpuscles may disappear by granular metamorphosis, the liquor puris is carried off by the tissues, and in many abscesses of long standing nothing remains but a half-dried mass of cheesy-looking granular matter. When pus collects in any part of the body in a recognizable quantity, such collection is called an abscess. If it is well defined, held in a given position by a limiting membrane or wall, it is a circumscribed abscess, and diffuse when it widely infiltrates the tissues. A rapid and recent collection of pus is called an acute abscess ; a slow, chronic, and ancient collection, a cold abscess. The limiting membrane or wall of a circum- scribed abscess is a new formation of inflammatory origin, a granulation tissue, studded with capillary loops, as in the embryonic tissue of a wound under- going repair (Fig. 121). It is in part a pyogenic membrane, since it furnishes the dead embryonic cells which float off into the abscess, while the leu- cocytes wander in from the capillary circulation. A diffuse abscess results from the property which Fig. 121.—(After Agnew.) pus possesses under certain conditions of dissolving all connective and embryonic tissue. It thus meets with no barrier to its progress, and general infiltration occurs. A chronic, subacute, or '•'•cold abscess''"' differs from the preceding in the slowness of its development, and usually in the absence of those symptoms of local and constitutional disturbance which characterize the acute formation of pus. They occur, as a rule, in diseases of bone and joints, and in individuals of low vitality. Cold abscess is not infrequent after caries of the spine, and after adenitis of the axillary region. Diagnosis.—The recognition of an acute abscess will depend upon certain symptoms of a local as well as a constitutional character. The local signs are those of inflammation, which precedes as well as co-exists with the pus formation. Heat, pain, redness, and swelling are therefore among the earlier symptoms. Fluctuation is also present in well-advanced cases. The integument and subcutaneous tissues about an abscess are Fig. 122.—Exploring-needle and syringe. often (Edematous and doughy, becoming pale, and pitting under the finger. The positive test as to the presence of pus in quantity is aspira- tion. For this purpose the hypodermic syringe, with an extra large and long needle (Fig. 122), is invaluable. The following precautions should be practiced : The entire instrument should be thoroughly cleansed and