SYPHILIS. .651 Nermus System—Brain.—Paralysis is one of the more frequent le- sions of tertiary syphilis, and may result from one of several causes, namely—pressure of a gumma developed within the brain-substance proper or upon the investments ; pressure from syphilitic exostosis of the skull; destruction of brain-cells by connective-tissue hyperplasia in the neuroglia, with consequent cicatrization and contraction; more or less complete occlusion of the arteries {endarteritis obliterans). Hemiplegia, partial or complete, is the rule. Occasionally the center of language is alone affected. Dementia may ensue as a result of soft- ening or pressure, and epilepsy may be classed among the late manifesta- tions of this disease. Chronic meningitis is an occasional symptom of late syphilis. It is accompanied by headache, dull and persisting in character, impairment of intellect, interference with the functions of one or more of the cranial nerves by extension of the morbid process, resulting at times in ptosis, strabismus, or impairment of vision, hearing, taste, smell, etc. The more serious cases progress gradually to coma and death. There is in all an elevation of temperature, loss or impairment of appetite, and derangement of the entire digestive apparatus. The spinal cord and its membranes, though less frequently attacked than the brain, may be involved as a result of similar pathological con- ditions. Paraplegia more or less complete ensues, involving at times the bladder and rectum. In milder cases co-ordination is disturbed, with little or no loss of muscular power. Pain may be present, referred to the back at or near the seat of the lesion, or along the distribution of the sensory nerves, or anaesthesia may occur. One or more of the nerves, sensory or motor, may in like manner be affected as a result of the development of giimmata, or connective-tissue changes in the neurilemma, or the pressure of exostoses or other neo- plasms. Bones.—Periostitis and ostitis, especially in those portions of the skeleton most exposed to sudden changes in temperature and to direct violence, are among the more frequent lesions of tertiary syphilis. The bones of the skull, the spine of the tibia, and the clavicle, are more often involved. The swelling caused by the inflammatory exudation may be readily appreciated by palpation, and pain or tenderness is present on direct pressure. The tumefaction results from the formation of new bone (exostosis), which in some instances persists indefinitely. Gummata are developed upon or beneath the periosteum, forming soft, semi-fluctuating swellings, usually circular in shape, and from a half-inch to an inch .or two in diameter. These tumors or nodes, while not very painful under ordinary pressure, are the seat of exacerba- tions of pain which are usually experienced at night. They frequent- ly break down in a process of ulceration which involves the underly- ing bone. When the inflammatory process is violent, extensive necrosis may occur. A peculiar type of ostitis in the later manifestations of syphilis is that known as osteitis rarefaciens, in which there is no suppuration or