641 ULCERS OF THE PENIS. puce. Tlie foreskin is next amputated with the scissors just in front of the finger and thumb (Pig. 651). As retraction takes place, it will be seen that the line of section in the skin is near the corona, while that in the mucous membrane is only a little back of the meatus. This should be seized with the mouse-tooth forceps, and the adhesions broken loose or divided with the scissors. The mucous lining should now be pared back to a sufficient distance, and, if necessary, a second division of the pre- puce made. The sutures are applied as in the preceding operation. Dilatation or dimdsion of the prepuce is rarely, if ever, indicated. It is performed by introducing the point of a small, closed dressing-for- ceps into the opening of the foreskin, and stretching or tearing this by forced separation of the blades. The operation is completed by retract- ing the prepuce and breaking up all adhesions. In the after-treatment it is essential to move the foreskin back and forth over the gians once j or twice daily to prevent the re-formation of adhesions, i Incision limited to the anterior half-inch of the foreskin, and in the median line of the dorsum, is a more advisable operation when circum- cision is contraindicated. Retraction should be immediately effected, i Ulcers of the Penis.—Sores may occur upon the integument of the penis, usually near the prepuce; upon the mucous lining of the fore- skin ; the glans ; within the meatus; and along the urethra. Venereal ' sores are occasionally met with upon the integument of the scrotum, abdomen, perinseum, and thighs. Ulcers of the penis only will be con- sidered here. They are divisible into two classes—namely, the non- specific and the specific ulcer. To the former belong the sores which follow abrasions and the eruption of herpes. They are more or less phagedenic in character, the extent and rapidity of the process of ne- crobiosis being due to the degree of virulence of the inoculating pus- corpuscles, the thoroughness of the inoculation, and the impoverished condition of the tissues attacked. The chancroid belongs to this group. In the second class belongs the specific ulcer of syphilis. Non-specific Ulcers.—A simple ulcer of the penis is extremely rare. It may occur here, as in other parts of the body, as a result of trauma- tism, or an inflammatory process not due to the inoculation of a virus. 1 Thus, the molecular death of a variable extent of tissue may follow a simple abrasion if the part involved is not kept free from all irritation, and if there prevails a condition of impaired nutrition, in which, as is well known, the tissues yield readily to the destructive process. Under more healthful conditions, an abrasion of the glans or prepuce under- goes the simple process of repair seen in similar lesions of the integu- ment and mucous surfaces elsewhere. Abrasions usually occur on the sides of the penis, close to the attachment of the prepuce, just behind the corona or near the frsenum. The glans is rarely involved, although the meatus, especially at its lower angle, may be torn. Bleeding suffi- cient to attract the attention of the patient is rare, unless extensive I laceration has occurred. The idcer of herpes is usually situated upon the surface of the mu- cous lining of the prepuce, less frequently u]3on its cutaneous surface, 41