SURGICAL ()pp:rations. 47 For purposes of convenience, the tin tray may be divided into compart- ments for the several outfits—one for the haemostatic apparatus, another for knives, a third for bone instruments, and a fourth for odds and ends. Every basin so used, and each compart- ment, should have a turned corner like the mouth of a pitch- er for readily emp- tying the solution when necessary (Figs. 103, 104, 105). Fio. 1":;.—li. M. Sims's instriiment-trav. Fig. 104. Fig. 105. g. ti em ann & co Fig. 106. Pus-hasins (Fig. 106) are very useful for receiving vomited matter or for catching pus, irrigating solu- tions, etc. Such vessels should be made of tin or brass, and not of hard rubber, for these are easily broken, and can not be repaired. Larger vessels, such as bottles or pitchers, of glass or porcelain, or clean wood, should be lilled with the various solutions to be used, and kept at a temperature between 100° and 110° F. As the operation is about to begin, the irrigator should be filled with sublimate (1 to 3,000), and the sponges placed in a warm solution of the same strength from which they are taken as required. The dressings to be applied should be cut and laid in order, so that no delay may be experienced. Ligatures and sutures should also be cut beforehand and placed in appropriate receptacles, the catgut in oil of juniper, the silk or wire in 1 to 20 carbolic acid. The preparation of a patient has a moral as well as a physical aspect. The surgeon and attendants should labor judiciously to dispel anxiety by assuring the patient of the safety of ether, and the freedom from pain which follows even the inost extensive incisions. The question as to whether an unfavorable prognosis should be made known to the patient must be determined by the circumstances which prevail. The jDrofes- sional obligation is discharged when the nearest relations and friends are so informed. If the temperament of the individual is such that great depression would probably follow the knowledge of impending disaster, and thus add to the dangers of the case, it will be wise to advise the friends to withhold the information. The surroundings of all such pa-