327 DISLOCATIONS. of the contraction of the biceps being thus added to the force transmitted along the shaft of the bone. Symptoms.—Careful palpation will reveal the abnormal presence of the head of the radius near the center of the humerus, while pressure along the outer condyle will demonstrate its absence from its natural position. The forearm is semiflexed and slightly pronated. Treatment.—Flex the arm and push the head of the bone forcibly downward in the direction of the articulation. When reduction is ac- complished place a compress over the upper end of the bone and the external condyle, and bind it firmly in position. The arm should be snugly bandaged, and carried in a sling for several weeks. The backward dislocation is recognized by the presence of the head of the bone in an abnormal position near the olecranon, behind the external condyle. Treatment.—While an assistant makes strong extension and counter- extension from the hand and arm, the operator makes direct pressure upon the head of the bone, forcing it in the direction of the articulation. As the displacement is being corrected the assistant should carry the forearm in a position of supination. The after-treatment consists of a compress and bandage, worn for several weeks. The prognosis of this injury is generally not favorable, since it is very apt to recur after reduction, and may become permanent. A fair degree of usefulness is maintained, however, in many cases of chronic luxation of this end of the radius. Complete forward dislocation of the ulna alone, at the elbow, can not occur without fracture of the radius or extensive laceration of the radio- ulnar ligaments. Dislocation of both radius and ulna at the elbow may take place in all directions. The dislocation backward may be produced by falling upon the hand with the forearm almost extended ; by a blow upon the anterior aspect of the forearm, near the elbow, a blow upon the posterior surface of the humerus, in its lower portion, or force applied at the same time, in oppo- site directions, upon these surfaces. The coronoid process will be found lodged in the olecranon fossa, the upper end of the radius resting on the posterior aspect of the external condyle. The anterior ligament and the anterior fasciculi of the external and in- ternal lateral ligaments are torn loose, and in extreme cases the orbicular ligament may give way, although the yielding of the external ligament usually saves the circular ligament from being torn. The tendon of the brachialis anticus is stretched or is broken loose from the coronoid pro- cess. Pressure upon the brachial artery may be so great that pulsation at the wrist is diminished or absent, while in extreme cases the median^ ulnar, or musculo-spiral nerves may be injured. The usual position of the forearm is one of almost complete extension, with pronation. Measurement from the inner condyle to the styloid process of the ulna will demonstrate shortening. Muscular rigidity is marked, and motion of the displaced bones difficult and painful. From