A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 16 and abdomen as higli as the umbilicus. The completed bandage is shown in Fig, 19. The portion of this bandage which goes around the thigh, groin, and pelvis is called the single spica for the groin, and is admira- bly adapted to the retention of a dressing upon a bubo or wound of this region, and also makes an efficient temporary compress for the sup- port of an inguinal hernia. A double spica with a single roller may be made by carrying the roller, which has already partially covered in the groin and hip of one side, directly across the back to a point half-way between the trochanter and anterior iliac spine of the opposite side, over the front of the thigh to the inner side, and thence behind and outward, describing a figure-of-8 around the thigh and pelvis in a direction the reverse of the preceding (Fig. 20). The abdomen and thorax should be bandaged by the simple or re- verse spiral until the axilla is reached in the male, and the mammary gland in the female. Fig. 20.—(After Fischer.) Fig. 21.—(After Fischer.) To bandage the mammary gland it is best to place a thin layer of absorbent cotton over this organ, and under the axilla as well. The roller, about three inches wide, should be carried two or three times around the thorax Just below the breast, which, if pendulous, should be lifted well up toward the clavicle. If the right breast is to be bandaged, the operator, standing in front, should carry the roller from the patient's right to the left side, around the body, and then obliquely upward across the front of the chest, catching the under surface of the gland, passing over the left clavicle, making a figure-of-8 around the shoulder and axilla, and then across the back to the starting-point (see Fig. 21). It is now carried directly around the chest, and, when the circuit is completed, again travels obliquely upward on a plane about one inch higher than the preceding turn. This is repeated until the organ is entirely covered. When both