114 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. Fifth Method—Double Rectangular.—The first step is to go around the limb just as if a circular operation were intended. This being done, two incisions, one on either side and exactly opposite to each other, are made perpendicular to the circular cut, and extending up the limb to a point on a level with the line of section through the muscles and bone (Fig. 163). The two flaps are now dissected up to this line, and the ampu- tation completed as before. The commendable features of this procedure are the rapidity with which it may be accomplished, the small degi-ee of violence inflicted in manipulating the flaps, and the readiness with which a stump is drained when the proximal angles of the lateral incisions are used as outlets for the tubes. Mixed Flaps., composed of integument alone on one side and of all the soft tissues on the other, are the least commendable of all meth- ods. The proper apposition of surfaces so uneven is difficult. When from any cause this operation is adopted, care must be taken to give proper support to the heavy solid flap to prevent dragging upon the sutures. Resume.—The solid flaps should be preferred to the sTiln flaps, for the reasons that the nutrition of the skin is least disturbed by this method. In thin and emaciated subjects, and in the arm and thigh regions (as will be seen hereafter), it is especially applicable. In limbs of large diameter and a goodly quantity of subcutaneous tissue, the skin-flaps are prefer- able, since a covering under such conditions can be obtained with less sacrifice in the length of the bone. Of the solid flaps, the circular method is better than the oblique, since it divides all the tissues squarely. In making oblique flaps, transfixion is better than cutting from without inward. Of the skin-flaps, the circular with a single longitudinal incision should be preferred to the other methods where the limb is not very large; the double rectangular flaps where the stump is to be elevated and there is a large surface to drain. Open Method.—When an amputation is made through tissues infil- trated with pus or other inflammatory products, where, in the judgment of the surgeon, the dangers of sepsis would be increased if the wound were closed, the open method should be employed, with constant or in- terrupted irrigation.