192 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. (Fig. 267). They do not adhere to the walls of the vessels. This is con- sidered as proof of a rapid circulation, since in veins where the circulation is weakened or retarded the leucocytes tend to adhere to the walls. After excision, the vessels contract, forcing out their contents, and the mass shrinks to a comparatively small size. These tumors are not all erectile, and some which have been erectile for a time lose this property. Gross describes a form of nsevoid tumor as n(£void elephantiasis^ consisting of a hypertrophied condition of the skin and subcutaneous connective tis- sue. The affection, which is either con- genital or comes on soon after biith, is found usually in the lower extremities, though it may occur elsewhere. The theories as to the origin of these neoplasms are various. Some hold that simple dilatation of contiguous veins oc- curs when, the sacculated vessels coming in contact, the walls are absorbed, and no. UBY.—uavernous angeioma 01 uie liver. . . i • i j> Section made after the tumor had been thUS many CaVltieS, WlllCh formerly Were immediately submerged in alooliol. a, x. ^ t: „ i cavernous spaces filild with biood-cor- Separate, may form one or more large, ^^Lt^ZI^:^'^^- mnltilocular, cavernous tumors. These nil and Eaavier.) dilatatious occur uot ouly iu the skin and subcutaneous tissues, but also in bone and muscle. No tissue can be considered exempt. Rokitansky holds that they originate in the areolar tissue, from embryonic, new-formation tis- sue, and that the vascularization of this new tissue is one of the last processes of its development. He compares the alveoli of the cavernous angeioma to those of carcinoma. Rindfieisch believes that the appearance of these tumors is preceded by a proliferation of embryonic material in the intervascular spaces, and that this material, undergoing the usual process of cicatrization and con- traction, causes a shrinkage in the intervascular areas, when the vessels dilate to occupy the space left vacant by the contracting tissues (Billroth). Cornil and Ranvier say that in the active development of angeiomata there is a proliferation of embryonic tissue, rich in new-formed vessels, which, increasing rapidly in size, come in contact and communicate with each other by absorption of contiguous surfaces. Angeiomata may develop in fatty and other neoplasms. Billroth mentions a case in which a large cavernous angeioma was found in a lipoma removed from the scapular region. They have been known to originate as a result of injury. Gross cites a case, reported by Dr. J. Mason Warren, of a man thirty-six years old, who had a large aneurism by anastomosis, situated on the lobe of the ear, which resulted from a frost-bite which the patient had suffered in his sixteenth year. In addi- tion to the tissues already mentioned in which angeiomata are developed may be mentioned the sj^leen, kidney, liver, and lung. The liver is fre-