A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 622 the patient is not narcotized, spasmodic contraction of the compressor muscle may arrest the bulb, and, in a certain sense, simulate stricture. In the resistance of the muscle there is a roundness, smoothness, and elasticity which differs from the rough surface of cicatricial tissue and the inelastic grip of a stricture. When the obstruction is felt, the same method of measurement and location is to be observed. A stricture may be roughly estimated by the introduction of a catheter, ordinary bougie, or steel sound, but it can not be intelligently or satisfactorily defined without the oval bulbs. Not infrequently it will be found that the meatus is too narrow to admit a bulb of sufficient size to define the stricture, necessitating divis- ion of the meatus {meatomy). This operation may be done with an ordinary scalpel or bistoury, but with nothing like the exactness and freedom from pain which is secured when the urethrotome is employed. The incision should be made in the median line, and should correspond to the floor of the urethra. It should not extend deep enough to wound the artery of the frgenum, nor should it be any deeper than is sufficient to admit the larger bougies. If the bistoury is employed, the operator grasps the glans between the thumb and finger of the left hand, introduces the knife, cutting-edge downward, a distance of a half-inch, and cuts carefully outward. The injection of cocaine solution into the tissues of the part incised will render the operation perfectly painless. The urethrotome of Dr. E. A. Banks, in addition to its usefulness in dividing deeper strictures, is especially serviceable in performing meatomy. It consists of a handle, shaft, and a series of bulbs. The shaft is graduated and hollow, and has extending through it a rod connecting with the blade. The bulbs are of various sizes, are fenestrated, and are screwed on to the tip in such a way that the window falls directly over the blade which is to be pro- jected through it. Upon the handle is a sliding-knob for sheathing or projecting the knife, and, at the end, a screw-gauge which sets the blade for cutting to any desired depth (Fig. 622). Pig. 622.—Dr. E. A. Banks's urethrotome, a, Screw-gauge. 4, Sliding-knob. Bulb, Knife. The operation is performed as follows : A bulb is selected which will fit the meatus fairly tight, and screwed on to the shaft. The gauge should next be set to allow the knife to cut one eighth of an inch in depth. The blade is now concealed, the bulb oiled and introduced until the knife, pointing directly to the middle line of the floor, is half an inch from the meatus. While the glans is held tightly between the thumb and finger of the left hand, the blade is projected as far as the gauge will allow, and the instrument quickly pulled out of the urethra. Even when cocaine is not employed, this incision gives scarcely any pain. The bulbous bougie should now be introduced, and, if the meatus is still too narrow, the incision should be made deeper. In order to prevent a