55 INFLAMMATION. process. Others look to the connective-tissue cells as of equal impor- tance with the leucocytes ; while a third theory is that all cells ^of a part responding to the general stimulus of the inflammatory process undergo proliferation, and that the embryonic tissue is a common product. From this it is probably a safe and wise deduction to consider that the chief role in the inflammatory process is played by the leucocytes; that they not only proliferate, but by their presence stimulate active nutritive changes and proliferation in the cells in general, and that the embryonic tissue is in truth a product of all these elements, varying in degree of fertility. This conclusion seems to me rational, inasmuch as it rests upon a physiological foundation, for since the normal role of every cell element of the body—whether in the Malpighian layer of the coverings, or the endothelium, medullo-cell, or connective-tissue corpus- cle—is one of proliferation and the formation of a new element to replace one which has finished its life-history, it seems reasonable to infer that a more rapid proliferation of the same cells would occur under conditions of increased hypersemia and nutrition. The products of the inflammatory process may be organized into a permanent tissue, or, failing in this, may perish. The peculiar type of the new tissue is probably determined (1) by the nature of the original cell from which it sprung. Thus the experiments of Goujon showed that the Tuedullo-cells and myeloplaxes of bones in young animals, when injected into the muscular tissue, developed into bone even remote from the parent tissue. (2) By the location and function of the new tissue, as is shown in the development of exostoses from a common embryonic tissue near the insertion of tendon into bone. When the inflammatory process is rapid and severe, the new tissue perishes suddenly, and with it occurs the rapid death or gangrene of the old tissues involved. Under milder conditions the supply of nutrition may be more gradually diminished, and the embryonic cells undergo fatty degeneration and absorption. It is then said to have undergone resolution. Again, and not uncommonly, the cells of the new tissue, partly granular and partly unchanged, are found floating in a fluid, the liquor puris. Symptoms.—In the milder forms of inflammation no symptoms may be observed beyond the local disturbance. In other and severer types the elevation of temperature is often well marked, and not infrequently preceded by or accompanied with a series of rigors, or a pronounced chill. This is especially apt to occur in erysipelas, dermatitis, and any form of phlegmon. The pulse is accelerated, the tongue is dry and coated, thirst, anorexia, and headache follow in the train of symptoms which are com- mon in septic fever—the fever of inflammation. Treatment.—The measures to be employed are local and general. The immediate indication is rest of the part inflamed. If one of the extremi- ties is involved, an elevated position by means of a swinging cradle (Fig. 114), or upon a pillow, will, as a rule, give the greatest degree of comfort, especially in cases where, by reason of the swelling, the circulation in the