A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 136 the tendo Achillis (Fig. 206). Lift the plantar flap by deep and careful dissection from the bone, leaving nothing but the periosteum, until the Fig. 204.—(After Malgaigne.) Fig. 205.—(After Malgaigne.) Fig. 206.—(After Mal- gaigne.) calcaneo-astragaloid articulation is well exposed. The flaps being held by an assistant, the disarticulation is begun by opening the astragalo-scaphoid joint and removing the anterior part of the foot at the medio- tarsal Joint. The os calcis should now be seized with a lion-tooth forceps, and the disarticulation of this bone effected. The exposed tendons should be smooth- ly divided with the scissors at the higher portions of the incision. After deligation of the vessels the flap is properly trimmed and sutured, the cicatrix falling upon the dorsal and external lateral aspects of the stump.* * Hancock's modification of this procedure, or the subastragaloid- osteoplastic amputation, is as follows: One incision begins beneath and at the posterior angle of the outer malleolus, and is carried along the outer surface of the foot to a point a half-inch anterior to the pro- jecting base of the fifth metatarsal bone. A second incision is made along the inner border of the foot, commencing posteriorly about the center of the internal malleolus and terminating anteriorly at a spot opposite the end of the external incision. The anterior ends of both cuts are joined by a curved in- cision made with its convexity forward across the plantar aspect of the foot, and dividing all the tis- sues well down to the bone. Reflect this flap back as far as the projections at the under surface and in front of the tuberosity of the os calcis, and make a fourth incision across the dorsum of the foot imme- diately behind the head of the astragalus. Apply the saw upon the under surface of the calcaneum a little anterior to its center, and cut through the bone ob- liquely from below upward and backward (Fig. 207). "With the knife enter the mediotarsal joint, pass the instrument under the head of the astragalus, and, cut- ting from before backward, sever the interosseous ligament and detach the anterior part of the foot, together with the segment of the os calcis. Saw oflf the head of tlie astragalus, and with a shai'p bone-cutter (or saw) remove the two articular cartilages (and a thin slice of bone) from the under surface of the astragalus. As the flaps are adjusted, the sawn surface of the calca- neum is brought into apposition with the under surface of the astragalus. See "Lancet," September, 1866, p. 257. Fig. 207.—Section of os calcis and astragalus in Hancock's operation.