A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 750 be said that scirrhus is much the more common, is slower in growth, and harder to the feel. Colloid is -also hard, and grows slowly, and from palpation and inspection can not be dilferentiated from scirrhus with any certainty. It is comparatively rare. Encephaloid is a soft, elastic tumor, not always of uniform consistence, but generally of smooth surface, and always of rapid growth. Its vascularity is therefore much more noticeable than that of either of the other varieties, and metastasis is more rapid. As between sarcoma, the chief diagnostic points are the age of the patient, sarcoma being more common in the young, cancer in the old and middle-aged; the lymphatics are not involved in sarcoma, except when extensive ulceration and septic absorption occurs; in gen- eral, the superficial veins of sarcoma are more dilated and perceptible, and the tumor more elastic. As far as the treatment is concerned, the diiferentiation between car- cinoma and sarcoma is not essential. The indication, when operative interference is at all justifiable, is extirpation of the mass by a dissection which should be well away from the limits of the neoplasm. In cancer the neighboring lymphatic glands should be extirpated if metastasis has occurred, while in sarcoma this is not indicated. In fact, in all neoplasms not positively innocent, removal should be made imperative. The slight- est doubt of the character of the tumor is entitled to the interj)retation of malignancy, the Justification of this conclusion being found in the well- established fact that an innocent neoplasm may become malignant. The excision of a portion of a tumor for microscopical examination for purposes of diagnosis will rarely be justifiable. Any irritation of the mass is reprehensible, since metastasis is more apt to occur under such conditions. Epifhelioma.—An epithelioma may be defined as a neoplasm, the embryonic elements of which assume, in a varying degree, the shape and arrangement of the normal epithelium. Developing usually in the skin or mucous membranes, they at times originate in tissues remote from them, as in the bones. Malignant epitheliomata may be divided into two classes : 1, the lob- ular ; 2, the tubular. Tubular epithelioma may consist of {a) fiat or round cells, (5) columnar or cylindrical cells. The first variety is by far the more common, and of greatest clinical interest. It occurs by preference upon the muco-cutaneous surfaces, as the lips, prepuce, anus, vulva, etc., but may appear either upon the skin or mucous surfaces, remote from any line of union of these coverings, as the tongue, cheek, face, etc. Epithelioma usually begins as a nodule or induration of small size, slightly reddened at its margin, the center of which very early in its his- tory breaks down into a dirty ulcer which, when kept fairly clean, is reddish in color, and, when not cleansed, is covered with a grayish mass of pus and broken-down tissue, either solidified into a crust or scab, or in a softened state. The margins of the ulcer are sinuous, hard, and everted. It may limit itself to a small area, or develop steadily, and sometimes with great rapidity until, after extensive destruction of the