570 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. nary single instrument will suffice; but the exclusion of air is more diffi- cult. Chronic cystitis, due to stone in the bladder, pressure of other organs or a tumor, and stricture of the urethra, etc., will, as a rule, dis- appear with the cure of these various lesions. In cases which resist all conservative measures, incision through the perinseum, as in the median or lateral operations for stone, will be justi- fiable. This operation will be given with alfections of the prostate. Paralysis of the bladder may be partial or complete. It may be caused by violence inflicted directly to the organ or in its immediate neighborhood, by pathological changes in its muscular tissue, or by traumatic or idiopathic lesions of the cerebro-spinal axis ; or it may occur under the influence of certain emotions in which no lesion is rec- ognizable. A blow upon the hypogastric region has been known to cause tempo- rary paralysis of the bladder. The unskillful introduction of an instru- ment, and the prolonged over-distention of the organ which is common in prostatic hypertrophy, will induce the same condition. An ojDeration upon the genito-urinary apparatus is almost always followed by tempo- rary paresis of this organ. Operations upon other portions of the econ- omy under prolonged ether or chloroform narcosis are also frequently followed by loss of function in the bladder. The pressure of parturition may produce a like result. Severe concussion of the brain or cord, com- pression of one or both of these ganglia from fracture or displacement of their bony envelopes, haemorrhage, aneurism, or the presence of neo- plasms and various pathological changes in the meninges and in the gray and white matter of the cord and brain, will lead to paralysis of the bladder, varying in duration with the severity of the lesion. In the treatment of this affection the first indication is to prevent prolonged distention of the organ by catheterization, which should be repeated at least twice in twenty-four hours. If a catheter can not be introduced, supra-pubic aspiration should be practiced. Cystitis may be avoided if the urine is carefully and regularly drawn ofl". Attention should next be directed to the removal of the cause of the paralysis. Retention.—As just stated, paralysis of the muscular walls of the bladder is a cause of retention of urine. Lesions of the sensory nerves of this organ also induce retention, which is j)roportionate to the loss of sensibility. The chief cause of this condition, however, is some foim of obstruction at the neck of the bladder or in the urethra. As will be seen in treating of hypertrophy of the prostate, this is a frequent cause of retention. Organic stricture, spasm of the constrictor uretlirae (or "cut-ofl:") muscle, and mechanical occlusion of the urethra, are also com- mon causes of this atfection. Diagnosis.—Distention of the bladder may be determined by palpa- tion, percussion, and exploration. In this condition it rises well above the level of the symphysis pubis, at times as high as the umbilicus, and causes tension of the recti muscles or protrusion of the abdomen. By direct pressure, the desire on the part of the patient to urinate may usually be increased, and, if the abdominal walls are thin, the spherical