374 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. way, causing repeated hsemorrliage. They should be scraped out with a sharp spoon, and the sac removed by dissection. Horns, or dense epithelial outgrowths, are occasionally seen upon the scalp and face. Some of these excrescences attain large size. Thej'- should be removed by an elliptical incision around the point of attach- ment. The incision should remove the entire thickness of the integu- ment. Lipomata, or fatty tumors, are of infrequent occurrence beneath the scalp, and, on account of the dense integument, they grow very slowly, and rarely attain large size. The diagnosis between sebaceous and fatty tumors of this region is not always easy. The treatment is removal by dissection, which is easily effected by lifting the tumor from its cap- sule with the finger or the blunt scissors. The capsule need not be re- moved. NcEvi, port-wine marks, and other vascular tumors, are quite common upon the scalp. They have been treated of in a previous chapter. Papillomata, or warts, occasionally covering a large territory, are found in this region. In one case which came under my care a tiat papil- loma, two inohes in width, extended from the right temple to the middle line of the scalp. They should be clipped closely with the curved scis- sors, their bases burned with the actual cautery or nitric acid, and the operation repeated until a cure is effected. Elephantiasis, or general thickening of the scalp from connective- tissue new-formation, is, fortunately, rarely met Avith. Ligation of the vessels feeding the diseased area will afford temporary relief, and is a justifiable procedure. Hcematoma has been considered in the chapter on Wounds of the Scalp. Abscess of the scalp requires free incision, irrigation, and drainage. Any doubts as to the character of the swelling may be dissipated by ex- ploration with the hypodermic syringe and a good-sized needle. Pneumatocele, or air-tumor,occasionally met with beneath the scalp. It results from disease or fracture of some of the bones, permit- ting communication with the cavities, as the frontal sinus, or the Eusta- chian tube, etc., and the escape of air beneath the skin. Evacuation of the contents by pressure, with or without puncture, and a compress to prevent recurrence, will produce inflammatory adhesions and cause a cure. Ostitis, or periostitis, is not uncommon in the calvaria. The causes are the same as for ostitis elsewhere. Great care should be observed in the treatment, on account of the proximity of the meninges and brain. Ostitis with exfoliation demands early recognition and immediate opera- tive interference. A free horseshoe or crucial incision should be made, and all the diseased bone removed with the sharp spoon. When the exfoliation is confined to the outer table of the skull the prognosis is favorable. The wound should be kept open, well drained, and allowed to heal by granulation. If pus is found beneath the inner table, enough