396 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. shown in Fig. 436. The silver speculum and reflected light should be employed so as to bring the membrane into plain view, and, while the head of the patient is held motionless, the point of the perforator is carried against the drum on its posterior inferior quadrant, and barely pushed through. The puncture should not be more than one eighth of an inch in length. If there shall have been an effusion of serum, or if pus is present upon the withdrawal of the instrument, a small quantity of fluid will escape through the puncture. If necessary to the estab- lishment of free drainage, the opening may be enlarged. When otitis media is complicated with inflammation and suppuration of the mastoid cells, and when the communication with the tympanum is not sufficient to give ready discharge to the products of inflammation into the middle ear, and thence out through the puncture in the mem- hrana tympani, the cells should be opened and drainage secured at once - by removing the outer shell of the mastoid process. In children this pro- cedure is not always necessary on account of the very thin shell of bone which incloses the cavity of the mastoid antrum, and which leadily gives way and allows egress to the pus formed within. In drilling or trephining the mastoid cells, proceed as follows : • The skin over and near the mastoid process should be shaved and cleansed, and a free incision made in a vertical direction, the center of the cut being opposite the center of the auditory meatus and one fourth of an inch from the posterior wall of the bony canal. If any difficulty is experienced in lifting and reflecting the integument, a short trans- verse cut should be made backward from the middle of the perpendicu- lar incision. The periosteum should be scratched off at the point where the bone is to be perforated, unless necrosis has already occurred and only a thin shell of bone remains. In this condition the shell should be lifted off and the cells cleaned out. When the bone has a healthy appearance on the exterior it should be cut through with a trephine, gouge, chisel, or drill. The trephine employed should not be more than a quarter of an inch in diameter, and the center of the hole made (no matter what instrument is employed) should not be farther than a quar- ter of an inch posterior to the wall of the auditory canal on account of the proximity of the lateral sinus and the veins of the diploe which empty into it. After the instrument has traveled about an eighth of an inch into the bone it should be removed and the circular track in- spected. The entrance to the cells will be indicated by a slight haemor- rhage, and, if abscess is present, by a few drops of pus. As soon as the bleeding is seen the button of bone should be lifted by the elevator and the remaining cancellous tissue scooped out with the iron spoon or the scalloped gouge. The abscess should be irrigated with a l-to-3000 sublimate solution, and the wound dressed with a loose sublimate gauze dressing. If the trephine is not used, the scalloped gouge (Fig. 69), the bone-drill (Fig. 72), the scoop (Fig. 68), or the chisel and mallet may be substituted. If (as has occurred in several instances) marked bleeding occurs—probably from wounding some large vein near its entrance into the sinus—it may be arrested by packing with sublimate gauze and