96 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. and tlie indurated mass incised well down to the bottom in several direc- tions. Crucial cuts, or several parallel incisions, or lines radiating from the center, may be made as the location and size of the carbuncle may indicate. If undermining has been extensive, drainage-tubes should be employed. Hsemorrhage may be controlled by packing with sublimate gauze. The after-treatment should be hot or warm, sublimate-gauze dressings applied loosely, and covered in with, protective or oil-silk. Poultices, if employed, should-be made with sublimate solution, as here- tofore directed. Ulcers.—An ulcer is the result of molecular death in the integument or mucous membrane, and the underlying areolar or submucous tissue. The process of necrobiosis may at times extend below the deep fascia. Of whatever variety, an ulcer is caused by a failure of nutrition in the part affected. The arrest of nutrition may be local, as in the ulcer of chancroid or with a varicose condition of the veins, or constitutional, as in the late manifestations of syphilis, in scorbutus, etc. Occurring with a dyscrasia, ulcers are even then more apt to occur in parts of the body subjected to abnormal interference with the circulation. Specific ulcers will be considered with the diseases of which they form a part. Ulcers may be divided into two clinical groups—the active and indolent. In one, the material for repair is in excess ; in the other, it is deficient. The most frequent seat of ulcer is upon the anterior aspect of the tibia at its middle and lower portions. They occur almost always in the aged, and chiefly among the poorly fed and laboring classes, where the erect posture is of necessity maintained for many suc- cessive hours. Varicosities of the veins of the lower extremities must be put down as the most common non-specific cause of ulcers. The treatment of ulcers must be directed to the cause of the tissue destruction. In varicosities the in- tegrity of the circulation should be restored by sup- porting the vessels by mechanical means, or relieving the overpressure by position. For the former the elas- tic stocking, properly adjusted, is invaluable. Mar- tin' s elastic bandage is an excellent apparatus, but re- quires considerable care in its even and skillful appli- cation. When neither of these methods is available, pressure may be successfully employed by means of flannel or muslin bandages. An elevated position of the foot and leg should be maintained in all ulcers of the lower extremities. An indolent ulcer demands stimulation. This may be effected by the oakum-dressing. Soft, clean oakum should be well soaked in 1 to 3,000 sublimate, squeezed out, laid over the ulcer, and held well in place by a roller. It should be changed every three or four days. Fig. 153. Sublimate gauze is also an efficient stimulating dress-