501 HERNIA. the umbilical region. The symptoms of occlusion are more remote, and, while very strong in a diagnostic point of view, are not of such impor- tance practically, because a diagnosis should be made and treatment in- stituted before the effects of obstruction are made evident. The cessation of fecal discharges may not occur in intestinal obstruction for several days after the occlusion, when the small intestine alone is involved, since the contents of the bowel below the constricted point may be evacuated. The vomiting of recently ingested food or drinks, followed by stercora- ceous matter, is the last and strongest evidence of occlusion. Distention of the abdominal walls, with tympanitic resonance, is, when taken in connection with other symptoms, a strong link in the chain of symptoms which make the diagnosis conclusive. Hiccough is ]3resent in many cases, but is apt to be one of the later evidences of obstruction. Shock, that condition in which, as a result of an emotion or injury, the functions of the nerve-centers are more or less completely suspended, is present in a varying degree in almost all cases of strangulated hernia. It is evident in the rapid and weak pulse, occasionally missing a beat, or varying in exacerbations of rapidity and slowness; coldness of the skin, vsdth un- natural perspiration ; lack of facial mobility, the only expression being that of pain and anxiety. In omental hernia the pain is not so intense as in intestinal hernia, and the symptoms of occlusion are always absent. Treatment.—The treatment of inguinal hernia may be considered under three heads: 1, reducible; 2, irreducible (not strangulated); 3, strangulated. A reducible inguinal hernia should be returned to the abdominal cavity and retained there by the constant and careful employment of a truss or bandage and compress. In accomplishing the reduction the patient should rest upon the back, with the thighs flexed upon the abdo- men and the pelvis elevated. In this position gravity carries the intes- tine and omentum toward the diaphragm, and this traction from within readily reduces the mass. If this should not succeed, gentle pressure with the hand will suffice. Once reduced, an effort should be made to prevent a recurrence. For incomplete or slight hernia in patients who are not compelled to do heavy work, the elastic truss is most comfortable and safe. In all other cases the steel-spring truss must be worn. The pad will vary in size as the character of the rupture may require. The hard-rubber or wooden pads are preferable in the great majority of cases. A truss should be applied before leaving the recumbent posture, and should not be removed again until this posture is resumed. When ordering a steel- spring truss the following rule should be observed: Describe fully the character of the hernia. If the case is one of complete oblique inguinal hernia of the left side, take a lead-tape, lay one end directly over the internal ring of this side and carry the tape across the abdomen to the right, just below the anterior superior spine of the right ilium, and across the gluteal region back to the same point below the left superior spinous process. Press the maUeable lead closely to the integument in