SPECIAL ANETTRISMS. 207 be justifiable except as a last resort in cases where the ligature or com- pression is impossible. For its execution a pointed canula is usually employed, which, having been introduced into the sac, the wire or gut is pushed through. The quantity used varies from two or three feet up to several yards. More of the catgut may be introduced than of the metal, and the animal ligature should always be preferred if this x)rocediu'e is adopted. Acupuncture is the operation of introducing needles into the cavity of the sac, and allo's^ing them to remain for several hours until coagula- tion ensues. It is not a scientific procedure, and the same must be said of the injection of ergot, the iron solutions, or any coagulating substance into the cavity of the tissues around an aneurism. Special Ais^eueisms. Aneurism of the Thoracic Aorta.—The ascending and transverse portions of the arch are most frequently affected. If the dilatation is fusiform, both of these segments are apt to be involved : if it is a sac- culated aneurism, it is usually confined to one or the other segment. Sacculated aneurism of the ascending arch high up, or of the transverse arch, usually involves the orifice of one or more of the great vessels which originate here, although, as in the specimen figured below (see Fig. 275), not infrequently the mouth of the sac opens close to these ves- sels, but does not involve them. The diagnosis of aneurism of the arch is generally obscure until the dilatation has advanced to such an extent that pressure-symptoms are evident. Pain of varying intensity may be present in the earlier stages of development of both fusiform and sacculated aneurism. A symptom of great diagnostic value is disturbance of the laryngeal muscles, due to pressure upon the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the left side. This occurs in dilatation of the transverse or descending segment of the arch. The aneurismal bruit may be recognized as soon as the sacculation is well advanced. Interference with respiration, or deglutition, or the return circulation in the veins, is among other and important pressure-symp- toms. The appearance of a tumor with an expansile pulsation synchronous with the cardiac systole, in the upper thoi'acic region, detennines the diagnosis of aneurism. The differentiation of dilatation of the arch, fi'om a similar condition of the innominate, left carotid, or left subclavian in the thorax, is difficult, and at times impossible. A number of errors in aiagnosis by competent and honest observers are on record. The following points will aid in arriving at a diagnosis : The tumor in aneurism of the ascending arch is usually first appreciated to the right of the sternum, between the clavicle and the third rib. The pressure-symp- toms do not affect the voice until the tumor is recognizable in the right side of the root of the neck, where it involves the right recuiTent laryn- geal nerve. Respiration may be interfered with, or cough produced by