695 ROTARY-LATERAL CURVATURE. of sitting sidewise at the table or desk, with one shoulder drooping while the other is elevated. A large majority of those atfected are chlo- rotic girls, between thirteen and eighteen years of age. This deformity is occasionally met with in porters or laborers who habitually carry heavy weights upon one shoulder. The rotation most frequently com- mences in the lumbar region. The spines twist to the right, while the anterior aspect of the bodies of the vertebrae are made to look toward the left. The convexity of the curve is to the left, the right shoulder is prominent, the apex tilted outward, the angles of the ribs on this side project abnormally, and there is a folding in or wrinkling of the skin between the iliac 'crest and the thorax (Fig. 673). The chief agent in this distortion is believed to be the latissimus-dorsi muscle. Acting upon the tips of the long spines of the lumbar verte- brae from its insertion in the humerus (and indi- rectly through the pectoralis major, from the clavicle and sternum), the spines are twisted to the right, causing the rotation of the bodies to the left; the shoulder-blade is tilted outward, and the ribs are bent under the contraction of this long and comparatively powerful muscle. In some instances the abdominal muscles take part in the unilateral contraction, while in oth- ers the deformity commences with the rotation of the dorsal vertebrae by the action of the serratus-magnus and rhomboidei muscles. No matter where the primary curve takes place, a second or compensatory curve follows in all chronic cases. The diagnosis of rotary-lateral curvature will depend upon the promi- nence of the shoulder-blade, bulging of the ribs, and the approximation of the crest of the ilium and thorax of the right (or affected) side. Ca- ries of the spine may be eliminated by the absence of abnormal tempera- ture, freedom from pain when direct pressure is made from the head along the vertebral column, and absence of symptoms of compression of the cord or nerves in the intervertebral notches. Psoas abscess is pres- ent in a certain proportion of cases of ostitis of the vertebrae. In simple lateral curvature the ribs are not projected, as when rota- tion occurs, nor is the tip of the shoulder-blade so prominent. The prognosis varies with the character of the lesion. In recent lateral curvature, due to inequality of length in the extremities, it is favorable. In rotary-lateral curvature, within the first few months of the lesion, a cure may be effected. In old cases, while the deformity may be arrested, it is difficult and often impossible to restore the nor- mal contour of the spine and ribs. Treatment.—When the lesion is due to loss of equilibrium in the Fig. 6Y3.—Eotary-lateral curva- ture in a girl fifteen years of age.