THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. 453 not given, one assistant should liold the extremities immovable, while a second steadies the head. The operator should stand to the patient's right, facing the light. It is important that the head be held so that the nose and symphysis menti will .be directly in line with the inter- clavicular notch and umbilicus, for if this precaution is not taken the trachea may be displaced, an accident which might lead to great annoy- ance, especially in children, in whom this tube is always very small. The incision should be exactly in the median line, commencing at the center of the thyroid cartilage and extending downward one inch and a half, or more if necessary. The edges of the wound should be separated by retractors, and the incision continued down to the tube. All bleeding should be arrested by the forceps and ligature before the trachea is opened, for fear of suffocation from the entrance of blood. In some subjects it will be found that the isthmus of the thyroid body is situated so high that an opening sufficiently long can not be made without displacing it downward. This may be done by dividing with the curved scissors the muscular and ligamentous bands which are at- tached to the isthmus below, and the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage above. This section should be made on either side of the incision, oppo- site the first ring of the trachea. After all bleeding has ceased, the knife should be carried into the trachea with the edge directed upward, and the two or three upper rings divided. Low Operation.—The incision through the integument extends from the cricoid cartilage to the level of the inter-clavicular notch. Separate the sterno-thyroid muscles in the median line, and carry the dissection carefully down to the trachea, avoiding the isthmus of the thyroid body and the inferior thyroid vein, a branch of which is in front of this tube. The anterior jugular vein occasionally is in the median line. Any of these vessels coming within the line of incision should be secured with a double ligature before being divided. The trachea will be found deep- i ly situated, and should be incised through four or five rings, in the same manner as advised in the preceding operation. If a trachea-tube is not at hand, the operation may be completed, as advised in laryngotomy, with- out a tube. Foreign Bodies in the Larynx, Trachea, and Bronchi. Foreign bodies in the respiratory tract are, in almost all instances, introduced by way of the larynx, into which they may fall by gravity or be drawn in by the suction-force of the inspiratory effort. Occasion- ally they enter directly from without, as in stab- or gunshot wounds, or may make their way in from the oesophagus by perforation or from the . rupture of an aneurism or abscess. Pieces of coin, buttons, teeth, seeds, threads, pins, blow-gun darts, shot, particles of food, etc., are among the most frequent substances lodged in the air-passages. A foreign body may lodge just behind the epiglottis, across the rima glottidis, in the ventricle between the true and false bands, between the vocal cords, or, passing these, it may descend into the trachea or bronchus. If it be a