THE LIPS AND CHEEKS. 409 The ulcer of lupus is not so painful as that of epithelioma, nor its edges so hard and elevated. The treatment of this affection is often unavail- ing. The constitutional treatment is the same as for lupus erythemato- sus. Locally, a 10-per-cent ointment of pyrogallic acid, spread upon linen and closely laid upon the diseased surface, is a useful remedy. It should be applied twice daily for several days, and then poultices or ointments used until the slough is removed. In certain cases it is ad- visable to scrape the ulcer well with the sharp spoon, and then apply the pyrogallic acid for one or two days. Ncevus.—As has been stated in the article on diseases of the vascu- lar system, arterial, capillary, and cutaneous vascular tumors are occa- sionally located upon the lips and cheeks, and require removal by the knife, ligature, or injection. Their excision often causes extensive loss of tissue. When situated in the free border of the lips or nares, the 50-per-cent carbolic-acid injection should be tried before excision is prac- ticed. Moles are less formidable, and rarely require an extensive reparative operation after excision. Papilloma, lipoma, adenoma, and fibroma do not, as a rule, require extensive incisions and loss of tissue in their removal. Cystic tumors of the lip are not infrequent, occurring as spherical swellings beneath the mucous membrane. They are caused by obstruc- tion of the duct of a labial follicle, and contain a thick, ropy fluid. The treatment involves a careful and thorough excision of the sac. Fissures, or chaps''^ of the lip may occur independently of any constitutional disease. They may be cured by a local astringent, as alum, or caustic, as nitrate of silver, applied once a day for two or three days. When these more simple remedies are without avail, excision should be practiced. When fissure of the lip is allowed to remain, and the general condition of the patient is bad, necrosis of the mucous mem- brane immediately contiguous ensues, causing a grayish-red ulcer. The treatment consists in the local use of astringents and the improvement of the patient's nutrition. Phlegmon of the lip is rare. It is a painful and dangerous affection. The pathology of carbuncle has been given. The proper treatment is early and free incision through the skin, deep fascia, and muscles, and frequent irrigation with strong sublimate solution. Hypertrophy of the lip is occasionally met with. It may be confined to the mucous and submucous tissues, or the entire thickness of the lip may be involved. It occurs usually in the upper lip, but may be seen occasionally in the lower lip. When extensive enough to require operative interference, the proper method is to dissect out in the long axis of the lip a portion of the tissue between the skin and mucous membrane, and approximate the edges of the wound with silk sutures. Hair on the lAps of Women.—Permanent epilation maj^ be effected by introducing into the follicle of each hair the point of a fine platinum needle, which is afterward heated by the galvanic current. The employ- ment of cocaine renders this operation painless.