CHAPTER VI. WOUNDS. A WOUND is a sudden sol^^tion of continuity in one or more of the tissues of the body. By common consent, such lesions in bone and carti- lage are called fractures. Wounds are operative and accidental, and may be classified under four leading heads, namely, incised, punctured, lacerated, and contused. Any breach of continuity may become inoculated with a virus, or venom; it is then a poisoned wound. Perforating injuries, caused by missiles projected from guns, demand especial consideration as gunshot wounds. An incised wound is made by a clean cut with a sharp instrument. A punctured wound is caused by a narrow instrument which penetrates but does not cut laterally. A lacerated wound is made by a dull instrument which tears the tissues. A contused wound is one in which the tissues are more bruised than separated. The changes which occur in the tissues during the infliction of a wound, and in the process of repair, are as follows : Take, as an example, an incised wound across the anterior aspect of the middle of the thigh. As the section is made, the capillaries, arterioles, and venules within the field of irritation instantly contract, and immediately thereafter become dilated. With the impingement of the knife the tissues retract, and haemorrhage occurs. The wound fills with blood, and, if no large vessels are divided, the bleeding may cease spontaneously by coagulation. The chief factor in rapid coagulation after a wound is the presence, in increased quantity, of the white corpuscles, which increase, as before stated, always takes place within the irritated zone. Under the abnormal conditions present, coagulation results from a combination of the para- globulin of the leucocytes with the fibrinogen of the plasma. This pro- cess not only occurs in the blood extravasated, but extends along the capillaries back from the edge of the wound to the nearest anastomosis. Immediately following these changes, hyperemia, redness, swelling, heat, and pain occur in the edges of the wound, and general cell-prolifera- tion ensues, as described in the preceding chapter on Inflammation. No repair of tissue is possible without this inflammatory process. It may be mild in degree, yet it must of necessity exist. A reunion of atom to atom, capillary to capillary, and a resumption of function wdthout cell- proliferation, can not occur.