PAROTID GLAND AND DUCT. 421 and first molar teeth of the upper jaw. Introduce the probe, carrying it at first slightly outward. When it is arrested by the natural curve of the duct, pull the corner of the mouth and the cheek directly outward, thus straightening the tube. The general direction is backward, toward the auditory meatus. The diagnosis of salivary fistula or of obstructed duct may be deter- mined as follows: By means of absorbent cotton or lint remove all moisture from the mucous surface where the papilla is situated, and place some sapid or acid substance on the tongue. If there is no obstruction, the flow of saliva is immediately perceived. In case of fistula the secre- tion will flow out through it. Calculi of Steno's duct, or of any of the salivary ducts, should be removed by dilatation, if this is possible, and if not, by incision. In the treatment of salivary fistula the object aimed at is to stop the flow of saliva on the outside and turn it into the mouth. Arm a probe with a silk seton and carry it through the flstula into the buccal cavity, bring the thread out through the mouth, and tie the two ends together. I In about ten days the flow into the mouth will be fully established, when the seton should be removed and the outer opening closed by a compress until cicatrization occurs. It may, at times, be necessary to freshen the edges and bring them together with a suture. Riberi operated successfully by cutting through the integument down upon the duct behind the opening, passing a ligature around it, and carrying this and the end of the duct into the buccal cavity where it was left open. The wound in the integument was immediately su- tured. Fistula of the primary ducts within the substance of the gland may require the forced atrophy or ablation of this organ. An efl'ort at oc- clusion should be made by direct pressure upon the abnormal opening. Tumors of the Parotid.—About 30 per cent of all neoplasms of this organ are enchondromata, 25 carcinomata, while the remaining 45 per I cent are about equally divided between sarcomata, fibromata, myxomata, and cystomata. Simple hypertrophy is rare, although hyperplasia of the gland-tissue occurs in a varying degree in the progress of most of the neoplasms which attack this organ. Tumor of the parotid is rare prior to the thirtieth year of life, being met with chiefly between the thirtieth and flftieth years. As to the period when the various forms appear, it may be said that carcinoma occurs generally after the fiftieth year, while enchondroma, sarcoma, myxoma, and fibroma develop in the earlier decades. Sarcoma is apt to develop in childhood or early adult life. Diagnosis.—All forms of tumor of the parotid, as a rule, develop slowly. In the earlier stages of their development they are movable within the limited area of mobility of the gland. This is true of both the benign and malignant growths. Later, even the benign neoplasms may become fastened between the temporal bone and fascia and the ramus of the jaw, but not to the overlying integument. The malignant growths are more rapid in development, and earlier in their history are