A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 480 used are fine iron-dyed silk, small needles half-curved and perfectly round on section, and the needle-holder. The method of closure is by the Czerny-Lembert suture (Fig. 531). The first row are inserted from the inner side, the needle passing only through the mucous membrane and submucous tis- sue, but not including the peritonfeum. The pos- terior half of the wound should be closed first. The outer suture, which is that of Lembert, passes beneath the peritoneal covering, practically run- .o, T Txmg through the muscular laj^er, but does not Fig. 531.—The Czerny-Lem- o o j ■> bert suture. The upper pierce the mucous membrane. The needle is in- suture is Lembert's, the ^ -, , ■ t • i_ i- • i lower is Czerny's. troduccd ou oue Side three Sixteenths oi an inch from the cut edge of the viscus, and is made to emerge one sixteenth of an inch from the margin (passing about one eighth of an inch beneath the peritoneal coat). It is then carried to the opposite side and introduced in the same manner one sixteenth of an inch from the cut edge and brought out one eighth of an inch farther on. This suture should be repeated every eighth of an inch. As fast as in- troduced the ends should be tied together and intrusted to an assistant. The sutures are not finally tied until all are inserted, and are then secured from above downward. When the upper portion of the aperture in the stomach is closed, the sutures should be carried from the edges of the remaining aperture across to corresponding points upon the duodenum, and, when the entire cir- cumference is completed, should be tied and cut off close to the knot. After a careful cleaning of the peritoneal cavity, the edges of the peri- toneal layer of the abdominal wall are brought together with catgut sutures, while silver wire or strong silk sutures are carried through the integument, muscles, and fascia down to the peritonaeum, and the wound closed. The stomach should be kept at rest for the first day or two. An enema of beef-tea and whisky should be given every four or five hours. From two to four ounces of the former to 3j-ij of the latter may be administered at each injection. Crushed ice in moderate quan- tities may be given in the mouth. After two days, milk and liquid food in small quantities may be given by the mouth, and solid food by the tenth day. Gastro-enter ostomy is an operation in which an opening is established between the stomach and some point along the small intestine, usually the upper portion. On account of the position of the duodenum and its relations to the pancreas and great mesenteric vessels, it can not be util- ized. The nearest loop of the jejunum should be selected. In Wolfler's* operation (Fig. 532) the stomach was opened a finger's breadth above the attachment of the gastro-colic omentum to the greater curvature. The incision was in the long axis of the organ, and measured five centime- tres (about two inches). A similar incision was made in the nearest loop * This operation was performed in the case of a patient in whom there was a cancer of the pylorus too large to be excised. The man recovered and was much improved. " Oentralblatt filr Chirurgie," No. 45, 1881, p. 706.