684 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. ovary with cystic degeneration. Suppurating salpingitis (or pyo-salpinx) may be present with abscess of the ovary, and, in rare instances, by reason of fusion and rupture of the contiguous walls, there results a large single abscess. Multiple extravasation of blood may occur in ab- scess of this organ. If not relieved by operation, the pus may eventually find an exit through the vagina, bladder, or intestine. Adhesions, as a rule, occur between the ovary and one or more of the contiguous organs, or to the pelvic fascia. Symptoms.—In cystic degeneration and cirrhosis^ dysmenorrhoea is the most prominent symptom. It is more severe with the former, but is severe in the cirrhotic ovary. The pain usually precedes the menstrual flow from a few hours to several days, and in extreme cases may continue from one period to the next. It is usually referred to the groin of the affected side, and thence the painful sensations may radiate over the abdo- men and down the extremity. Hysterical convulsions are very apt to be present in the more severe cases. The menstrual flow is scanty or normal in amount when the ovaries are cirrhotic ; but with cystic degeneration the flow is generally increased, and haemorrhage may be the most promi- nent and dangerous symptom. The uterus is apt to be slightly above the normal size, with the ovaries in cystic degeneration, and somewhat smaller when these organs are cirrhotic. Not infrequently retroversion is observed as a symptom of cystic ovary, in which case this last-named organ is prolapsed. The uterus is commonly free and movable, unless hsematocele or peritonitis has occurred. If cystic, the ovary is easily felt, often low down in Douglas's pouch. If cirrhotic, it is hard to find. From clinical manifestations it appears that cystic degeneration is due to a degree of inflammatory action more severe than that which leads to cirrhosis, because peritonitis and pelvic hsematocele more often accom- pany the former. Cystic and cirrhotic ovaries are always sensitive to pressure. In ovarian abscess there is usually a history of gonorrhoea, puerperal, septicaemia, an acute exanthema, or a severe attack of metritis or peri- tonitis. When the abscesses are small, the symptoms do not greatly difi'er from those of cystic ovaries; but when at all large, the patient has hectic fever and rigors. The pain in the pelvis is constant, but is liable to exacerbations. Repeated attacks of pelvic peritonitis follow each other. When the ovary is converted into one large abscess, and the tube is not affected, dysmenorrhoea is not a constant symptom, and there is an absence of the nervous phenomena observed in the other forms of ovarian inflammation. The uterus is usually drawn to the affected side as a result of the pelvic peritonitis which usually accompanies these cases. The lateral fornix of the vagina is encroached upon when the abscess is large, and then fluctuation can be obtained. The abscess, whether large or small, is usually but part of the mass of inflamed tissue which occupies the pelvis on the affected side. The ovary is enlarged and low down. As abscess of the ovary does not often occur alone, and as the sole lesion of the pelvic organs and tissues, the symptoms which appear are partly