100 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. When all tlie vessels are subjected to pressure, it is essential to relieve the constriction as early as possible. However, the vitality of an organ seemingly dead should not be despaired of, since restoration of function after prolonged strangulation is occasionally witnessed. When, as in phlegmonous or other inflammation, the tension is so extreme that gan- grene is threatened by pressure of the exudation upon the capillaries or larger vessels, free incisions should be made, parallel with the general direction of the vessels, and of sufficient depth and number to relieve the tension. When, as in threatened gangrene of a finger, the swelling is severe, increasing, as it does, the tension of the organ and its own destruc- tion, incisions are also demanded, and may prevent mortification before the constricting body is removed. Chronic, Senile, or Dry Gangrene.—Dry gangrene may occur in any period of life. Although children and adults are occasionally attacked, it is in the vast majority of cases a disease of the aged ; hence it is called senile gangrene. Calcareous degeneration of the arteries, which is given as a cause of senile gangrene, is of itself a result of general impairment of nutrition; and it is to this failure of the heart to force the proper quantity and quality of blood to the tissues that we must look for the cause of this disease. With a circulating fluid so deficient in nutrition, and a heart so crippled in its action that its function is illy performed, it is not difficult to understand that the pressure of a shoe, a contusion of the foot, or the lodgment of atheromatous or calcareous particles in the terminal arte- rioles or capillaries, would precipitate a morbid process, scarcely awaiting even an accident for its inauguration. Symptoms.—In many cases of dry gangrene there is no history of an injury. Symptoms of constitutional debility from general imjaairment of nutrition usually precede the local expression of the disease. The lower extremities are most frequently affected. The patient suffers at times from coldness of the hands and feet. Shooting pains are not infre- quently felt, and cramps occur in the muscles of the feet and calf of the leg. In exceptional cases there are none of the above premonitory symp- toms, the first indication being the appearance of a brown or black dis- coloration on the foot or toe, or an insignificant excoriation may be the starting-point of the morbid process. From this the disease travels in the direction of the heart Avith vary- ing rapidity. If the condition of anaemia is extreme, there will be no infiammatory discoloration in front of the advancing line of mortification, the skin changing from its normal pale color into the black, dead hue of the mummified part. The putrescent odor of wet gangrene is absent, and, instead of the swollen, doughy appearance of acute mortification, the part involved becomes hard and shriveled. The march of the disease is comparatively slow, and not infrequently death from exhaustion ensues before the line of demarkation is formed. In exceptional instances the disease confines itself to the toes, or anterior part of the foot. Treatment.—The part affected should at once be enveloped in cotton-