PHLEBITIS. 161 - distal end is necessary to prevent a lymph fistula. It has been demon- strated that the lymph and chyle can be carried into the circulation by collateral routes, after occlusion even of the thoracic duct. Varicosities occur at times in the lymphatic vessels, as in the veins. The causes and treatment are essentially the same. As a result of ob- struction, in some instances, cystic dilatations occur, which, according to Bellamy,* are usually found in the tongue, lips, and about the neck. Hydromata of the neck are at times congenital. In their structure they are trabeculated, the caverns filled with lymph. The location is beneath the occiput, and the tumor is symmetrical, the cyst of each side of the median line being lined with lymphatic endothelia. New formations (lymphomata) of lymphatic vessels occur occasionally, and blood-vessels developing in these give rise to a mixed new growth, known as lympho-angeioma. Phlebitis, t DEFiNiTioisr AND MoEBiD AiSTATOMY.—PMeMtis meaus an inflamma- tion of all the tissues which enter into the formation of the walls of a vein. Endophlehitis, mesophlehitis, and periphlehitis are terms used to designate the inflammatory process involving respectively the internal, middle, and external layers of the venous wall. The progress of inflammation in the tissues of veins is closely analo- gous to that of the same process in all other structures, namely, irrita- tion, hypersemia, tumefaction, infiltration of the extra-vascular spaces with emigrant, embryonic, and pus cells; the process terminating in cicatrization (often with adhesions), calcareous degeneration, suppuration, or gangrene. The mode of termination will depend upon the severity of the attack, the character of the lesion, and the power of resistance and recuperation existing in the tissues. The inflammatory process involves a tubular structure, the walls of which are composed of an inner layer {intima), made up of flat, polygonal cells (the endothelia), a middle layer chiefly made up of elastic tissue, and an outer layer, containing elastic loops, connective tissue, and unstriped muscle. Blood-vessels and nerves traverse the outer and middle tunics, following the bundles of connective tissue. The cells of the lining membrane are smaller than the arterial endo- thelia, and are imbedded in a fibrillated, intercellular substance (Cornil and Ranvier). The elastic and muscular tissues are less developed than in the arteries (Heitzmann). These are so irregularly arranged that any division into middle and external coats is, in great part, artificial and imaginary. Moreover, many of the veins contain no muscular tissue, * " Encyclopaedia of Surgery," vol. iii, j). 34, Aslihurst. William Wood & Co., 1883. t That portion of tliis chapter between pages 161 and 198 is taken from my article in the " International Encycloptedia of Surgery," edited by Prof. John Ashhurst, Jr., M. D.; pub- lished by Messrs. William Wood & Co., of New York city, for whose kind permission to intro- duce it in this book in its original form the author begs to make his sincere acknowledgment. 11