181 ARTERITIS. gone but little organization. In the second case considerable changes have occurred, and a large part of the new growth is converted into more or less fuUy developed connective tissue. In the specimen sketched in Fig. 259, the artery is seen to be somewhat irregular in shape, this being due to obliquity of the section. The lumen {a) is very small, but is clearly defined, rounded, and free from thrombus. The outer coat appears somewhat thickened, and is infiltrated in con- tinuity with the pia mater (/"). The muscular coat {d) is distinctly seen at the upper and lower parts of the section, elsewhere being somewhat infiltrated, and not clearly separated from the adventitia. The fenestrated membrane is clearly seen at &, where it is indicated by the dark lines ; it could be clearly traced, on altering the focus, all around the vessel, lying as usual immediately internal to the muscular layers, and separating them from the inner coat. It is to that part of the vessel lying between a and b (Fig. 259) that attention must be specially directed, the thickened inner coat constituting the essential feature and the peculiarly character- istic element of the morbid change. With a higher power, the thicken- ing of the inner coat is seen to consist entirely of a cell-growth which closely resembles granulation-tissue. In the deeper parts, nearest the fenestrated membrane, the cells appear to be flattened, running parallel with the elastic layer, growing, however, more irregular in disposition toward the center. No distinct transition-line can be discovered between this deeper layer and the central part, in which, however, the cells appear to be larger, often branching and more loosely arranged, with more numerous capillaries running among them. Many of the cells in the intermediate layer appear to be rounded; but it is not improbable that they are fusiform cells cut transversely. In many parts of the thickened intima the capillaries are numerous and of large size. Toward the lumen of the vessel the cells again assume a flattened or FiQ. 259.—Syphilitic arteritis. Shows sec- tion of small cerebral artery near a gum- ma, magnified. 30 diameters, a, lumen of vessel; A, boundary of inner middle coats; c, thickened inner coat; rZ, mid- dle coat; «, external coat; /, infiltrated pia mater. (After Greenfield.) Fig. 260.—Syphilitic arteritis. Section of small artery of cerebellum, magnified 30 diameters, a, lumen of vessel; c, thickened inner coat; muscular coat; e, outer coat. (After Greenfield.)