553 HEMORRHOIDS. the anaesthesia will be complete, and the solution should be forced slowly into the tumor, being distributed in the line in which the cocaine was injected. It is advisable to operate upon a single hajmorrhoid at each operation. The strength of the solution and the quantity to be em- ployed will be determined by the size and condition of the tumor. If a Fia. 563.—Kelsey's hEemorrhoidal syringe. rapid sloughing of the mass is desired, this result may be secured by using a solution of equal parts glycerin and carbolic acid, and from five to twenty minims should be introduced unless the hsemorrhoid is un- usually large. After injecting a solution of this strength the tumor be- comes hard, and changes to a blue or bluish-gray color. In from twenty- four to forty-eight hours the mass sloughs away, and by the fourth or fifth day has disappeared, leaving only a small ulcer in the mucous mem- brane corresponding to the base of the hsemorrhoid. If a 10-per-cent solution is employed, sloughing rarely occurs, and a much greater quan- tity—from twenty to thirty minims—can be injected. A mild degree of inflammation is established, followed within a few days by a diminution in the size of the tumor, which, in a certain proportion of cases, grad- ually undergoes atrophy and entirely disappears. The degree of pain following the injection of the stronger solution, after the temjDorary anaesthesia secured by the cocaine has passed oif, varies with different individuals. In some of my cases it was so insignificant that the patients went immediately about their vocations. In others the same solution caused great annoyance and considerable, though never alarming, inflam- mation. The milder solutions are also painful at times, though in a less degree. In choosing between the weak and strong solutions just given, the operator must be guided chiefly by the time in w^hich it is desired to effect a cure. If expedition is demanded, the strong injections should be employed; if not, the weak solution is preferable to begin with, and, if necessary, this may be increased in strength at a subse- quent operation.