454 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. solid and smooth body, it wUl pass into the bronchus and continue to descend until the smaller diameter of the tube arrests its progress. Any substance with projecting, sharp edges, or long and pointed, as a pin or fish-bone, may become lodged across the windpipe at any point. The symptoms of foreign body in the air-passages are immediate and remote. Strangulation, cough, and cyanosis immediately after the escape of any substance backward from the mouth or nose, or matter which has been regurgitated from the stomach, always suggest the en- trance of foreign matter into the larynx or trachea. In some cases death ensues almost instantly from asphyxia. In others the symptoms of strangulation last for a few moments and then disappear, leading the patient or attendant to believe that the foreign body has been coughed out or swallowed. The momentary cyanosis and strangulation are caused by spasm of the laryngeal muscles, induced by direct ii'ritation from the foreign body. As soon as these relax a forcible inspiratory effort may carry the substance downward to the trachea or bronchus, or the expira- tory cough may have discharged it into the mouth. In any event, the symptoms of asphyxia disappear unless the otfending substance is so large that, even when sucked into the trachea, it completely occludes this tube. The remote symptoms of foreign bodies in the air-j^assages are chiefly inflammatory. Traumatic trachitis, bronchitis, pneumonia, gan- grene, and abscess may ensue. Abscess and gangTene are rare. Bron- chitis is inevitable, and localized or lobar pneumonia is not infrequent. The diagnosis may be determined by inspection, palpation (either direct or intermediate), and by auscultation, together with a due regard for the sensations experienced by the patient. Inspection is only possible with the laryngoscope. Direct palpation is only possible when the sub- stance is lodged in the larynx, since the tip of the finger can not be car- ried beyond this point. Auscultation is of great aid to diagnosis, especially when the body has passed deep into the respiratory tract. Diminution or absence of the normal vesicular murmur over one entire lung indicates the partial or complete occlusion of one primary bronchus by the foreign body. If this interference is limited to only a portion of the lung, the indication is that the body has passed into one of the subdivisions of the bronchus. The compensatory increase of the normal vesicular respiration in the opposite lung will be proportioned to the interference with the function of the affected side. AVhen a narrow body becomes lodged in the trachea or bronchus, its presence is indicated by a sibilant or hissing sound, heard with greatest intensity over the point of lodgment, and carried upward and downward with the expiratory or inspiratory movement. The presence of pain persisting in a given locality points to the seat of lodgment of the foreign substance. Persistent spasm of the larynx until tolerance is acquired suggests lodgment in the ventricle of this organ. Treatment.—The immediate indication is the prevention of fatal as- phyxia, and this may require rapid laryngotomy or tracheotomy, and, in exceptional instances, the resuscitation of the patient by the method