A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 712 tended by the cerebro-spinal fluid. The cord itself may be wholly or in part spread out, and compressed against the sac. Spina bifida is met with most frequently in the lumbo-sacral re- gion, next in frequency in the neck, rarely elsewhere. One fissure may exist below and one above in the same child, though it is very rarely multiple. The tumor may vary in size from one inch to six or eight inches in the longest diameter, and may be sessUe or pedunculated. It is elastic to the touch, and is usually covered by the integument, which is thinner than normal. In some instances the skin is wanting over the mass, the pro- truding dura mater forming the outside covering of the mass. The character of the swelling may be recognized by its congenital origin, its location in the median line of the back, almost always in the lumbo-sacral region, its smooth contour, elasticity, and chiefly by its variable size. It becomes larger and more tense during the act of crying, and by pressure its contents may in part be forced back into the spinal cord and ventricles of the brain. Convulsive movements may follow too great and prolonged compression of the tumor. The prognosis is, as a rule, very unfavorable. Ulceration of the integument over the mass, fol- lowed by rupture of the sac, is apt to occur, usually ending in death. A recovery after this accident is rare, although such cases are reported. Or the tumor may remain indefinitely in about the same condition as at birth. Paralysis, more or less complete, in the lower extremities, is the rule. The palliative treatment of spina bifida consists in the application of moderate compression over the tumor, at the same time protecting the integument from all irritation and injury. This plan of treatment should be followed out for one or two years, unless more radical measures are indicated by the fa^ilure of this method to arrest or greatly retard the growth of the swelling. When the tumor is suddenly increased in size and tension, temporary benefit may be obtained by drawing off a small quantity of the fluid. From 3 j to ยง j may be withdrawn by the aspira- tor. The smallest needle should be employed, and the contents slowly evacuated. The quantity of fluid to be removed will vary with the size and tension of the tumor, and the effect produced by the aspiration. Two or three drachms will usually sufiice. The operation may be repeated as often as the symptoms demand. It is advisable to introduce the needle through the .side of the tumor rather than in the middle line. In spina bifida when the tumor, is well pedunculated and the communication be- tween the sac and membranes of the cord is not large, a cure may be effected by the method of Morton, which consists in the injection of the following solution : iodine, grs. x ; iodide of potassium, grs. xxx ; glycer- ine, 5 j- From ยง ss to ยง j or more of the fiuid is withdrawn from the sac, and from 3 ss. to 3 iij of the iodine solution injected, and the punct- ure covered with collodion. This operation may be repeated if necessary. When the communication between the sac and the spinal cord is wide, and the tumor is sessile, operative interference is not indicated.