SPINA BIFIDA. Til stall of jury-mast is removed. In tlie worst class of cases it is advisable to employ the extension in bed until tlie symptoms of paralysis are relieved. Instead of the block and pulley, with weight, the extension may be made by elastic bands attached to the chin-and-occiput collar and the head of the bed, while, if necessary, fixation may be secured by elevating the head of the bed six or eight inches. The suspension-carriage of Dr. Meigs Case, which lifts from the axillae, chin, and occiput (Fig. 689), is a valuable apparatus in the treatment of Pott's disease in the cervical and upper dorsal region.. If the degree of elastic suspension from the chin and occiput which it affords during the waking hours is continued during sleep, by the method of extension in the recumbent posture above given, success would be achieved in the majority of cases. It is chiefly objectionable by reason of its high price, which places it beyond the reach of many who can obtain the jury-mast. The successful management of Pott's disease depends not only upon a thorough practical knowledge of the construction and application of the mechanical apparatus required, hut upon the careful and constant atten- tion of a competent surgeon during the entire time, from the incipiency of the spondylitis until several months have elapsed after consolidation is effected. The prevention of chafing and sores, the opening and drain- age of abscesses, the renewal or tightening of the apparatus, require just as much skill as in the diagnosis and first adjustment of the mechanism. As regards abscess in ostitis of the vertebral column, it may be said that incision and drainage are generally indicated, whether occurring on the back, in the way of the apparatus, or pointing near the groin (psoas abscess). Fresh air, well-selected articles of food, and tonics, are essen- tial. In the severer cases, in which a myelitis is developed from compres- sion by the products of inflammation, potassium iodide, in full and contin- ued doses, is recommend- ed by Professor Gibney. In all cases where the re- cumbent posture is as- sumed, an effort should be made to keep the pa- tient on the back, with a piUow so arranged that the spinal column is bent well backward, and the pressure on the bodies in this way partially relieved. The suspensory cradle of Reeves (Fig. 690) will accomplish this end more successfully. A splint or shell is made of gutta-percha or sole-leather, and molded accurately to the back, from the sacrum to the neck. With this held in position by a roller, the patient, while lying down, is supported by the swing, as shown in Fig. 690. Spina Bifida.—This condition results from a failure of development in the laminae and spines of one or more of the vertebrae. Through the opening left by this incomplete closure of the bony canal the membranes of the cord are protruded, forming a sac of variable size, which is dis- Fig. 690.—Reeves's suspensory cradle. (After Beeves.)