FRACTURES. 297 (After Hamilton.) and is stuffed moderately full of cotton, bandage, two inches and a half wide, into a compress about as thick as the little finger. After the reduction, place one along the inner aspect of the ulna, extending from the anterior margin of the carpus upward, the other exactly parallel with this, along the outer border of the radius, over its styloid process. While these are held firmly in position, secure them by strips of adhesive plaster, one inch in width, wound securely around the wrist and arm, from the lower end of the carpus to the end of the com- Fici. 326.— I'lastur-of-Paris dressing for Colles's fracture. presses. A pasteboard splint is then applied, along to the back of the hand, extending from the bases of the fingers to near the elbow. The hand and arm are carried in a sling. The dressing may be changed in two or three weeks. Gentle and careful motion of the fingers should be made daily. The dressing should be worn about four weeks. Another method is to envelop the forearm and hand, as far as the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, in a plaster-of-Paris dressing. In this treat- ment, after reposition of the fragments, the hand should be given a considerable declination to the ulnar side. If it is desired to examine the condition of the fracture, the plaster may be cut on the ulnar and radial sides, and reapplied as a modified Bavarian splint (Fig. 326). Prof. Hamilton's method is as fol- lows : A wooden splint, made from a box-top or shingle, is shaped to extend from a half inch in front of the elbow- Joint to the metacarpo-phalangeal artic- ulation. Its breadth is equal to that of the arm at its widest part. This splint is thrust into a muslin sack (the seam of which is kept away from the arm), wool, or hair. The packing should be a little thicker in the hollow of the palm and just above the lower end of the upper fragment. A straight dorsal splint may also be employed. It is stuffed in the same manner as the other, leaving the packing a little