390 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. one fourth of an inch from the edge of the everted lid, and a second about three quarters of an inch below this—out as far as the malar protuberance. This rectangular flap was dissected up and stretched across the gap already made, and stitched in position, as in Fig. 417. As this Avas done the lid was lifted high enough to permit the complete closure of the eye. The second operation consisted in the removal of a long elliptical strip from the thickened granulation-tissue which covered the everted conjunc- tiva. This was done by picking it up with fine mouse-tooth forceps and clipping the mass thus seized with the curved scissors. The long axis of this wound was parallel with the edge of the lid, and extended from the punctum lachrymale almost to the outer canthus. The edges of the con- junctiva were stitched with fine sDk sutures. It is of great importance that too great tension be not made upon the flap. If, after it is stitched across the gap to be covered, the circulation is interfered with, the ten- sion should be relieved, and that part of the wound left open should be filled by grafting or transplantation en masse. Eversion of the lid, with great thickening of the cartOage and conjunctiva from chronic blepha- ritis, may be in part corrected by the excision of an elliptical piece re- moved in the long axis of the lid. The section should include a portion of the cartilage, and the wound closed by bringing the edges of the con- junctiva together with fine silk sutures. Another procedure is to remove a kite-shaped segment, including all the tissues of the lid and skin near the orbit, as shown in Fig. 422, and then bringing the edges of the wound together by pin or silk sutures, as shown in Fig. 423. The section is made near the outer canthus. Entropion, or incurvation of the lids, may be relieved by removing an elliptical piece of the integument covering the lid. The Avidth of the section must be determined by the degree of inversion. When there is shortening of the lid in its long axis, much relief will be afl'orded by canthoplasty. In extreme cases, where the cartilage is greatly thickened, the section should include a strip of this substance. Ptosis, or inability to raise the upper eyelid, is due to paralysis of the levator palpehrce muscle. The medical treatment looks to the im- provement of the tone of this muscle, or to the cure of the central lesion Fig. 4-2i.—(After Gross.) Fig. 423.—(After Gross.)