620 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. For tMs purpose the bulbous bougie is invaluable. These instruments are of two kinds—the elastic or gum bougie of Dick (Fig. 618), and the oval-tipped wire bougie of Otis (Fig. 619). They should be made of all sizes, commencing with 'No. 6 and ending with Nos. 21 or 23 Jl^ (U. S. scale). For practical purposes every alternate size, from Nos. 6 to 23 inclusive, will suffice. The gum bougie is a safer Fig. 618. Dick's gum "bougie, with oval tip. Fig. 619.—Otis's oval-tipped wire bougie, for locating strictures of the urethra. instrument than that composed of metal, since it is incapable of doing harm under any circumstances. It is objectionable, how- ever, on account of its liability to be spoiled by heat, and of becoming fragile from age. It should always be slowly warmed to about the temperature of the body before being introduced. The wire bougies are thoroughly satisfactory instruments, and incapable of injury to the urethra if ordinary care is taken. The bulbs are oval, the wire is flexible, and is screwed into the bulb for security. The sizes are the same as for the gum bougies just given. Fig. 620.—Longitudinal section of the urethra, showing the diameter ot the canal at various points, a. Prostatic; b, membranous; c, penile portion. (After Thompson.) In the effort to locate a stricture, the different diameters of the normal urethra at various points in this canal must be borne in mind. The meatus is least dilatable, and the membranous por- tion next in order. Immediately behind the meatus there is an expansion into the fossa navicularis, and from this point to the suspensory ligament (the junction of the penile and perineal urethra), the diameter is about the same. From the suspensory ligament to the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, the diameter gradually increases. This, the bulbous portion, is the largest part of the canal. Behind the membranous portion there is a second expansion in the prostate (Fig. 620). The patient should be placed upon the table or bed in the dorsal decubitus. In order to secure insensibility, from twenty to thirty minims of a 4-per-cent solution of cocaine should be thrown into the urethra.