70 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. a stick, bayonet, sword, or gun-barrel, properly inserted (Fig. 127). The efficiency of this method of compression is increased by placing a pad over the main artery. Compression of an artery with the thiimb or finger, or a padded key or stick, will be of service in any emergency where a tourniquet can not be had. The tourniquet of Petit (Fig. 128) is one of the older and more useful instruments. Its application is illustrated in Fig. 129 (a and b). Esmarcli^s elastic bandage, or tourniquet, is the most generally useful of all the constricting haemostatic apparatus. It may be thro'^\Ti around a part, between the bleeding point and the heart, or it may be applied from the tip of the extremity, and over and on the cardiac side of the wound, and here se- cured, while the por- tion beyond is removed. In this way the limb is rendered bloodless (Figs. 130, 131, 132). This excellent appara- tus may be employed in compression of the Oiacs (Fig. 133) and the abdominal aorta (Fig. 134). ■ When the immedi- ate flow of blood is arrested by any of the foregoing, the perma- nent arrest of haemor- rhage must be secured by the ligature at the divided point. For this purpose the artery- forceps and the catgut- ligature, already de- scribed, will be found by far the most pref- erable. Torsion is not as safe as the liga- ture, and should not be employed when catgut can be had. The actual cautery^ packing with styptic cotton^ and acupressure are methods never to be employed when anything else can be done. If a wound must be packed, and if sublimate gauze can not be had for this purpose, use clean linen or cotton cloth. Cold water, or water lieated to about 120° to 130° F., will prove of value as a haemostatic. Elevation of a part, and weU-adjusted compression by dressing and bandage, will always be made available by the surgeon of experience. While the ligatures are being applied, and, in fact, before this time, the entire surface of the wound should be irrigated with 1 to Fi&. 133.—(After Esmarch.) Fig. 134.—(Aiter Esmarch.)