PERIORCHITIS. ^67 The operative procedures are two in number—1, by injection, and 2, by incision. The former method should be preferred in all cases of recent formation, in which there is not great thickening of the walls, and in which the sac is not very large. It may be safe to include in this category all cases in which the long diameter of the tumor is not more than five inches, and in which the depth of tissue between the integu- ment of the scrotum and the cavity of the sac is not more than half an inch. If this procedure fails, it should be repeated once or twice be- fore the more formidable procedure known as Yolkmann's operation is undertaken. First Method—Levis^s Operation.—Shave the tumor on its anterior aspect, and cleanse the integument thoroughly. Inject from th, x-xv of a 4-per-cent cocaine solution in such a way that local anaesthesia will be obtained through the depth of the wall of the sac throughout an area of half an inch in diameter. Twenty minims of pure carbolic acid should now be placed in the syringe, and a long needle attached. Place the patient upon the back, separate the thighs, have a pus-basin convenient, support the tumor with the left hand, making the parts tense by press- ure ; take a trocar-canula in the right hand, firmly seized between the thumb and finger one inch from the point (so that it may not possibly be thrust in farther than this limit); remember that the testicle is be- hind and below, and with a quick and accurate thrust carry the instru- ment through the anaesthetized zone into the cavity of the sac. The point of entrance should be about one third of the distance from the lower portion along the anterior aspect to the upper, and the direction of the shaft of the trocar should be upward and somewhat backward. Upon removal of the stylet the liquid rapidly escapes through the can- ula, any remnant being forced out by compression. Care must be taken not to shift the canula from its first position. When the fluid is emptied, carry the hypodermic needle into the canula, and force the carbolic acid into the sac; withdraw the needle, and then the canula, and knead the scrotum and sac so as to distribute the acid over the entire surface. This operation is almost without pain. In some instances a slight sense of faintness is experienced just as the acid is injected. The patient should be kept quiet on the day of the operation, but with proper sus- pension of the scrotum he may be allowed to move about after twenty- four hours. On the day following, and for about a week afterward, the tumor swells up as if it were refilling, and is solid or doughy to the feel. After this it begins to decrease until the sac is obliterated and a per- manent cure is efi'ected. A scrotal wall and the investing serous mem- brane of the testicle which is once thickened becomes somewhat thinner after the cure of the hydrocele, but never entirely resumes its natural thickness. Second Metliod—Yolkmann's Operation.—^Shave the scrotum and pubes, narcotize the patient with ether, and over the anterior middle line of the side affected make an incision varying in length with the size of the tumor and the thickness of the wall. Usually an incision from two to four inches in length will suffice." Cut directly down until the