A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 478 tation is completed the incision in tlie stomach should be closed by Lam- bert's suture. If the operation shall have proceeded thus far and the pylorus found to be occluded, or so nearly closed that the passage of. ingesta is impossible and its dilatation can not be successfully accom- plished, one of two procedures may be adopted: 1, exsection of the pylorus ; 2, gastro-enterostomy. Exsection of the pylorus {pylorectomy) for malignant disease involves almost of necessity a removal of a portion of the lesser end of the stom- ach {gastrectomy) with the diseased portion of the duodenum. Even for inflammatory stricture (contractions after ulcer, etc.) simple j)ylorectomy is scarcely possible. The operation is preceded by washing out the stomach vAth warm water once a day for several days, and a thorough irrigation just before it is incised. A purgative to clear out the intestinal canal is scarcely necessary, since, as a rule, only liquids pass through the stricture. The most careful antiseptic details should be carried out. The center of the incision through the abdominal wall should be immediately over the recognized position of the part to be excised. If a neoplasm is present, it may be readily located by palpation. If no appreciable tumor exists, the pylorus wiU be found just to the right of the median line about the level of the costal cartilages, curving downward on the right side of the ensiform appendix (Fig. 530); the incision should extend from near the appendix, parallel with and about one inch from the border of the cos- tal cartilages of the right side. It should be about five inches in length. All haemorrhage should be arrested before the parietal layer of the peritonaeum is incised. When this is done, the finger should be intro- duced and the pylorus located by following along the anterior smooth surface of the stomach, beneath the overlapping free border of the liver. If it be discovered that the incision is not su£3.ciently free, a large flat sponge should be placed in the abdomen between the edges of the wound and the viscera, to prevent the escape of blood into the cavity while the opening is being enlarged. The wound should be widely dilated, the liver and gall-bladder held up out of the way (care being taken not to wound this friable and vascular organ), and the parts to be removed brought into view. Having determined the extent of stomach and duodenum to be removed, these organs should be lifted as far as possible into the wound, and the omental attachments, on both curvatures, divided between two rows of catgut ligatures as far as the line of excision, and no farther. As soon as the peritoneal attachments are divided, a flat sponge, wdiich has been taken from a vessel containing Thiersch's solution warm (boracic acid, grs. iv; salicylic acid, gr. j; water, grs. 500), and squeezed faMy dry, should be placed under the parts to be excised in order to prevent blood or other matter from getting into the peritoneal cavity. The wall of the stomach is next cut through in a transverse direction, and, when a sufiicient opening has been made, all fluids or other matter should be removed by small soft sponges attached to holders. Some operators apply a clamp across the stomach just above, and to the duodenum just