ABDOMINAL SECTION FOR INTESTINAL OCCLUSION. 491 Wten intussusception exists, the invaginated portion should be brought into full view, and careful traction employed in the effort at reduction. If this can not be accomplished, or if strangiilation and necrosis exist, exsection of the necrosed portion should be made at once —if the condition of the patient is such as to justify a prolonged opera- tion. If not, the dead loop or portion should be brought out at the incision in the abdomen, cut away, and a fecal fistula established. The restoration of the intestinal canal may be accomplished at a subsequent operation. If the operation has not been too long postponed, it will be advisable to proceed with the exsection at once. Exsection—or, as it is sometimes called, resection—of the intestine is a very proper operation, and one which, when performed early enough, with the careful attention to details it requires, will succeed in the ma- jority of cases. The part to be removed should, if possible, be brought out at the abdominal incision, and protected as advised above. The same precau- tions should be observed to prevent the contents of the intestine from escaping into the cavity of the peritonaeum. At a distance of about one inch from the lines of section occlude the gut by a broad tape ligature, or, preferably, by a soft, rubber-tipped clamp. A triangular piece of the mesentery, the base of which corresponds exactly to the portion of intes- tine which is to be exsected, should be removed with the gut. The apex of the triangle should extend above the intestine far enough to prevent too great knotting of the mesentery and kinking of the gut after the ends are stitched together. The vessels should be secured by fine catgut ligatures before being divided. The line of section of the intestine should be through sound tissue, and squarely across the long axis of the gut. The edges of the divided mesentery should be first stitched together with silk sutures. In uniting the ends of the intestine the inner row of sutures (Czerny's), through the mucous and submucous tissues, should be first inserted and tied, and the outer row (Lembert's) afterward.* The for- mer should be about three sixteenths of an inch apart, and the latter one eighth of an inch distant from each other. Especial care should be exercised at th^ point where the mesenteric attachments of the two ends come in contact, and one or two extra sutures should be ajDplied here. The clamp or ligatures are now removed, the loop carefully cleansed in Thiersch's solution, and returned into the abdomen. The peritoneal cavity should always be cleansed with sponges moistened in this solution before the wound in the abdomen is closed. * In a case of resection of the small intestine, performed by Dr. R. S. Sutton, of Pitts- burg, Pa., a modification of Lambert's suture was employed. Upon one side the needle was introduced through the peritoneal layer one eighth of an inch from the edge of the incision, passed between the muscular and mucous layers, and emerged between these on the free bor- der of the divided intestine. It was then carried across to the opposite side, introduced between the mucous and muscular coats, and brought out through the peritoneal layer one eighth of an inch from the cut edge. By the courtesy of a colleague who did a laparotomy on this same patient several years later, I had the privilege of inspecting the line of union after the resection. The ends were firmly united, and there was scarcely any diminution io the caliber of the intestine.