507 HERNIA. irrigating fluid may not run into the peritoneal cavity. If omentum is contained in the hernia, it should be transfixed at the neck of the sac with a large double catgut ligature, tied both ways, and the mass beyond the ligature cut off. The stump should also be returned into the cavity, never stitched into the opening. This accomplished, the sac requires attention. It is also transfixed at the internal ring with a large double catgut and tied on both sides securely; all that part beyond the ligatures is cut off. The cut end of the sac is now stitched with catgut to the edges of the internal ring. In this operation strong catgut sutures are employed. In the first row the needle is made to transfix the edge of the ring, then through the sac and up through the opposite margin of the ring. These sutures are tied, and the ring tightly closed, so that the escape of fluids into the peritonaeum is impossible. The last sutures, which are of silk or silver wire, include all the tissues from the skin to the deepest portion of the wound. The wound is again thoroughly irri- gated, and a Neuber's bone-drain is inserted, so that the end leads out of the deepest portion. Sublimate gauze, borated cotton, and protective, held on with a spica bandage, complete the dressing. In case the intestinal wall is broken down, or is so nearly necrotic that its return into the cavity of the abdomen is attended with danger of rupture of the gut and escape of its contents, two alternatives present themselves, viz.: to leave the intestine protruding, and establish an arti- ficial anus ; or to exsect the dead portion and sew the ends together. If the patient is in good condition, and especially if in the prime of life and usefulness, exsection should be done. If, on the other hand, collapse is imminent, or if there is anything in the condition of the patient to contra- indicate a prolonged operation, the fecal fistula should be established. Exsection is performed as follows : Release the strangulation as above described, and draw out both ends of the bowel until six or eight inches of sound gut are exposed. Place a clamp or throw a loop of disinfected tape around each end of the intestine near the ring, to prevent the possi- bility of retraction or escape of the bowel or its contents inward. With sharp scissors divide the intestine squarely across at each end of the limit of necrosis, and cut a triangular piece from the mesentery, the base of which corresponds exactly to the section of intestine removed. Ligate all bleeding points in the mesentery. The operation is completed in the same manner as in exsection of the intestine, given on a preceding page. When it is desired to establish an artificial anus, the strangulation should be relieved as already directed, and the bowel incised. As a rule, it is not necessary to stitch the gut to the wound, on account of the adhesions which usually exist. In the course of a few weeks, after the patient has fully recovered from the effects of the strangulation and the operation, the canal may be restored, by opening the abdomen, exsecting the protruding and attached portion of intestine, and uniting the ends by stitches. Or the operation of Dupuytren may be undertaken. It consists in gradually breaking down the promontory formed by the contiguous walls of the incarcerated loop, and, when this is done, allowing the external wound to close by