676 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. vas deferens. Grasped between the fingers, the tubercular organ is felt to be hard, and its surface uneven and nodular. The initial morbid change is the deposit around the seminiferous tubes of clusters or nests of lymphoid cells. Within the tubes the endo- thelia are thickened and undergoing granular or caseous metamorphosis. Later, the connective-tissue septa become infiltrated with the new cells. The process ends in compression and destruction more or less complete of the tubules. The centers of these clusters of cells farthest removed from the vascular network undergo granular or caseous metamorphosis, form- ing at times cyst-like caverns, or at other times abscesses and fistulse. Treatment.—The prognosis of tubercular disease of these organs is so grave that when an early diagnosis can be made out, extirpation of the diseased tissues should be considered. If only one side is involved, and the other organ is fully developed, there should be no hesitation in advising the operation of castration. When the diagnosis is doubtful, it will be wise to keep the patient under constant observation, with especial regard to the advance of the disease along the cord, and when this is evident, and when there is no positive evidence of tubercular deposits elsewhere, extirpation is indi- cated in order to prevent invasion of the prostate and general dissemi- nation. When both organs are involved, the question of complete cas- tration is one of doubtful propriety. Enchondroma of the testicle is not altogether infrequent. It occurs most often after injury. While it is prone to originate in the organ, it may spread from the epididymis to the testicle. The volume of the organ varies, at times reaching a large size. Enchondroma testis, as with al- most all forms of neoplasm seated in this structure, is apt to undergo cystic degeneration. The diagnosis must be based upon the hard, elastic feel peculiar to this form of tumor. The treatment is either expectant or operative, as circumstances may demand. Castration is indicated when the disease is unilateral, and when the size of the tumor is such that the function of the opposite organ is threatened. Adenoma testis occurs chiefly from the twentieth to the fortieth year of life. It has so far not been observed during childhood. The development of the tumor is usually rapid, attaining a diameter of three or four inches or more. Only one organ is usually affected. Pain is not a prominent symptom in the earlier history of this neo- plasm, but, after the growth attains a sufficient bulk, it causes more or less pain by pressure and weight. To the touch it is soft and compres- sible. The formation of cysts in various portions of the neoplasm is frequent (cysto-adenoma) (Fig. 664). Under the microscope the epithelia of the seminiferous tubules are seen to be swollen, while their caliber is more or less completely occluded with the round cells of the new (adenoid) tissue. The prognosis is not favorable, and the diagnosis difficult. Since the function of the organ is wholly impaired, and since the rapid develop-