FRACTURES. 281 tion has fallen into has been chiefly due to too great procrastination in surgical interference. Operation.—Besides the ordinary cutting and haemostatic apparatus, a trephine and elevator will be found necessary, while a rongeur and sequestrum-forceps will be of great service. Of the various trephines, the conical instrument of Gfalt is preferable (Fig. 80). The scalp, within two or three inches of the wound, should be shaved perfectly clean, and it, together with the hair, washed with l-to-3000 sublimate solution. In cutting down to the bone, any wound which may exist should be utilized, and may be enlarged by a crucial incision, if found necessary. The bleeding is arrested by catgut ligatures. The periosteum should not be lifted. When the fracture is well exposed, if there is great comminution, and if the fragments are not tightly impacted, they may be lifted by the elevator without trephining. If this instrument is required, advance the central bit about one eighth of an inch beyond the level of the circular teeth, and fasten it tirmly here by turning the screw near the center of the shaft. The point of the bit should be applied upon the solid unfract- ured bone, about one fourth of an inch from the fissure, and the greater part of the button lifted from the uninjured bone. The instrument is now caused repeatedly to rotate for a half circle and back, and sufiicient pressure is made to carry the point and teeth into the calvarium. When the teeth have cut a circle a,bout one sixteenth of an inch in depth the instrument should be removed, and the bit slipped up the shaft to its original position. As the operation proceeds, the trephine should be removed every few turns and the ring cleaned out with a tooth-pick. A slight bleeding is apt to occur when the diploe is entered. As soon as the inner table is divided the instrument becomes locked and practically immovable. Wound- ing the dura mater is scarcely probable if the trephine is held perpendicular to the plane of the bone which is being cut. If the button does not come up with the instrument, it should be lift- ed out with the elevator or for- ceps. The elevator may now be carried carefully under the edge of the depressed bone, and, using the solid surface for a fulcrum, lifted into position, or, if comminuted, removed. It is always important to look for any fragments, however small, which are apt to be broken off from the vitreous table and driven between the dura mater and the skull. If the dura be torn, the bleeding should be arrested by catgut ligatures, FiQ. 310, Fragments removed by the trephine and ele- vator in a depressed fracture caused by a blow with a hammer. The beveling at the expense of the vit- reous table is well shown?