468 A TEXT-BOOK OX SURGERY. result of degeneration of the new-formed cells of the deeper portions of the growth. Adenoma, of itself a benign neoplasm, is thought by some patholo- gists to be capable either of developing into carcinoma, or of exciting the carcinomatous change in the organ. Not only in the simple circum- scribed form of this neoplasm, but in that variety sometimes called tubular adenoma, in which the hyperplasia of the glandular cells is not confined to the acini and terminal ducts, but extends into and in- volves the galactiferous ducts as far as the nipple, and Avhich is more generally diffused than in the simpler form above described, it is ad- mitted that the transformation into carcinoma is possible and at times rapid. Treatment.—The tumor should be excised. When a considerable portion of the gland is involved, the entire organ should be extu-pated on account of the tendency to recurrence in this neoplasm. If the tumor is small it may be removed by sacrificing only that part of the gland- tissue immediately around it. Upon the recurrence of the gi'owth, the entire breast should be excised. Myxoma is very rarely met with in the mammary gland. It may occur as a single nodule and develop slowly from a single center, or it may develop from several centers and rapidly invade the entire organ. It is not adherent to the skin until inflammatory adhesions occur pre- liminary to ulceration of the mass. Infiltration of the axillary glands occurs only as a result of inflammation. The nipple is not retracted. The prognosis is favorable if the tumor is discovered early in its development, and if in the excision a suflacient portion of healthy tissue is removed with the neoplasm. The treatment is free excision. The entire gland should be sacrificed, and, if the organ is wholly involved, the line of incision should be well out from the limits of the tumor in the healthy tissues. Fibroma of the mammary gland may occur at any period of life. It is rarer in the aged than in the young, occurring mostly in persons under forty, and occasionally under puberty. This form of connective-tissue hyperplasia may affect the entire organ (as in general hypertrophy, already described) or a circumscribed area. A nodular or cii'cum scribed fibroma is a hard, dense tumor, freely movable with the gland, and may or may not be painful. Shrinkage of the breast occurs at times as a result of the cicatricial contraction of the new-formed tissue, and, when near the nipple, its retraction may resemble that of scirrhus. As a rule, this variety of tumor is of slow development. Not infrequently it un- dergoes cystic degeneration. The axillary glands are not involved, nor do adhesions occur until after atrophy of the gland with retraction of the new-formed connective tissue. It should be removed by the same wide and free excision as recommended for myxoma. Enchondroma of the breast is very rare. It is apt to be cii'cnm- scribed. Calcification has been observed in some of the few recorded cases of this neoplasm. Occasionally it is found with carcinoma. En- chondroma of the breast should be freely excised.