282 A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. and the wound in this membrane closed by sutures of the same material (Fig. 310). The wound should be treated under strict antisepsis, and should be kept open with a light dressing of iodoformized and sublimate gauze. The trephine should not be applied over the track of the longitudinal or lateral sinuses and the middle meningeal artery. Depressed bone may be lifted from these vessels. Haemorrhage, if it occur, may be controlled by the ligature or by compression. Nasal Bones.—One or both nasal bones may be fractured and de- pressed, and in severe injuries the nasal processes of the superior maxilla and the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid are involved. Haemorrhage from within the nose is usually severe, and may require the tampon of the anterior and posterior nares. The reposition of the fragments should be effected with great care. A strong, blunt, and nar- row instrument passed along the septum nasi until it is in contact with the inner surface of the fragments, together with lateral pressure fi'om without and at the base of the nose, will best reduce the displaced pieces. In order to hold the fragments in position, the method of treatment in- troduced by Dr. Lewis D. Mason will be found preferable. After reposi- tion, as above described, a steel drill (a straight surgical needle will suf- fice) is passed directly across the nose, being entered through the line of fracture. Over the ends, which project through the integument on either side of the nose, a strip of pure rubber "is placed, across the bridge of the nose, by puncturing either end on the head and point of the needle, giving the rubber sufiicient tension to exert a gentle downward and lat- eral compression, but not enough to interfere with the circulation or to exert a degree of pressure on the fragments. The point and head of the needle may be protected by small pieces of cork."* The needle may be removed about the sixth to the tenth day. When the blow is received on the side of the nose, the fracture and depression may be unilateral. In such cases, replacement efl'ected after the manner just described ■ndll usually suffice, since the fragments are not likely to be displaced when once in position. At times, and especially in children, when the nasal arch is struck from the front, the fracture occurs at the naso-maxillary suture, and the nasal bones are driven in without comminution. In this variety of de- pression considerable force is needed to effect reduction. Such is the rapidity with which repair and union occur here, as in all the bones of the face, that, if the effort at reduction is delayed for more than twenty- four or forty-eight hours, it will be exceedingly difficult, if not impos- sible, to accomplish. Fracture of the malar bone occurs rarely, and is the result of violence so great that usually the upper Jaw and other bones are broken. Everj'^ effort should be made to restore the normal contour to the face by repo- sition of the fragments, none of which should be removed, since the vitality of the bones of the face is so great that necrosis after injury is exceptional. * "Annals of Anatomy and Surgery," vol. ii, pp. 110 and 199.