483 OBSTRUCTION OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. Biliary calculi whicli have passed through the common duct into the duodenum, or causing ulceration' of the gall-bladder and duodenal wall, enter the canal in this manner, may also cause intestinal occlu- sion. Again, obstruction has been caused in a number of instances by concretions (enterolithes) composed of magnesia, iron, or any inorganic matter administered for a long period of time. They are met with chiefly in the colon as a solid mass, or are precipitated upon organic and indi- gestible matter in the canal. The symptoms vary with the suddenness or completeness of the j obstruction, as well as with its location. Sudden occlusion is accom- panied by pain of a colicky and violent character, usually referred to the seat of the obstruction. Shock is also present in acute stoppage of the canal. Vomiting is an early and prominent symptom of occlu- sion of the small intestine, coming on at a much later period, when the colon is involved. On the other hand, constipation is a feature of stoppage in the large intestine, while fecal matter in varying quan- tity may continue to pass x^er anum for several days after occlusion above the ileo-coecal valve. In arriving at a diagnosis, palpation and percussion will be of value. The knowledge of the accident when a body has been swallowed will, of course, establish the character of the occlusion. Insane or hysterical individuals often indulge in such practices. Biliary colic not infrequently precedes occlusion from cal- culi which escape by the common duct, while tenderness in the region of the liver and duodenum must be present in a varying degree in cases of perforation of the duodenal wall by large calculi from the gall- bladder. Tenderness is also present in cases where delicate sharp objects (pins, needles, etc.) have passed through the walls of the intestine and are wandering in the cavity of the peritonaeum or in the pelvis. The treatment which should be instituted in obstruction by foreign j bodies will depend in great part upon the symptoms which ensue. If ' the occlusion is complete and the symptoms are alarming, operative in- terference should not be delayed. The only doubt which may be thrown upon the propriety of operating is the presence of shock or collapse in an extreme degree. If this condition is present, morphine and whisky hypodermically should be administered in the effort to bring about re- action. If no urgent symptoms follow the presence of a foreign body in the alimentary canal, expectant measures may be employed in the hope that it may pass out by the rectum. When a foreign body has been swallowed and has gone beyond the stomach, and its shape is known to be such that it may cause perforation of the intestinal wall, or that the possibility of its being passed through is remote, it is the wiser policy not to lose valuable time by procrastination, but to operate at once. When introduced through the anus or lodged in the rectum or lower portion of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, they may be removed through the natural opening. Intussusce2)tion, or the telescoping of one part of the intestinal canal into another, may occur at any portion of the bowel (Fig. 533). It is