A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 572 The introduction of a metal catheter or sound througli the normal urethra into the bladder is accomplished as follows: The patient is placed upon the back, with the lower extremities parallel with the body. If TTL XX of a 4-per-cent solution of cocaine hydrochlorate are introduced, the normal sensibility wiU be lost as far back as the compressor muscle. The catheter is placed in water at a temperature of about 105° to 110° F., and, when warmed through, is lubri- cated with sweet-oil or vaseline. If the operator is right-handed, it is best to stand on the left side of and facing the patient. The penis is seized with the left hand and held steady while the end of the catheter is carried into the meatus. At this stage of the procedure the shaft of the sound is parallel with Poupart's ligament, and, as soon as the first four inches have passed into the urethra, while it still descends, the handle is gradually brought toward the median line. The point is now engaged in the bulb, or at the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, and the shaft is about perpendicular to the plane of the abdomen. Without exercising any force to push the instrument in the direction of the bladder, the han- dle is slowly and steadily carried downward until the shaft is parallel with the anterior surface of the thighs. While this manoeuvre is being effected, the point is tilted from the floor of the bulb into the membra- nous portion which offers the greatest resistance, not only because it is the narrowest part of the canal, but because the compressor-urethrse muscle must be overcome. All the time that the instrument is being pushed toward the bladder the penis should be pulled over the catheter, for in this way the lining membrane is put upon the stretch and the intro- duction greatly facilitated. When the neck of the bladder is reached, the instrument will usually have penetrated a distance of eight or nine inches. It should be borne in mind that even a silver catheter is capable of doing great damage to the urethra if improper force is employed in its intro- duction. There is usually no resistance except by the compressor mus- cle, and this is only spasmodic. If the point of the instrument is kept well against the obstruction by depressing the handle between the thighs, it will slip by with the first relaxation of this muscle'. The methods of introducing an instrument into the bladder in abnormal conditions of the urethra and prostate will be given later. If it is found impossible to reach the bladder by the urethra, the urine should be evacuated by the aspirator. The apparatus shown in Fig 576 will give general satisfaction. The needle and entire instrument should be carefully cleansed and disinfected in l-to-20 carbolic-acid solu- tion, both before and after it is used. The smallest needle will suffice. If its introduction is preceded by a small hypodermic syringe-needle, and VI x-xx of 4-per-cent cocaine are injected, the operation will be pain- less. The pubes being shaved and disinfected, and everything in readi- ness, the needle is filled with the carbolic-acid solution and closed by