A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 754 lanotic sarcoma. It is apt to take place in the small, round-cell tumors. Acute inflammation in a sarcoma is almost always followed by the pro- liferation of an exuberant granulation-tissue, with more or less extensive gangrene and death of the mass. Excessive and at times fatal hssmor- rhage may occur in the process of sloughing. A common accident in the evolution of a sarcoma is the extravasation of blood from rupture of the walls of the new-formed vessels. Such is the crude condition of these tumors that even the cells which compose the vessels are embryonic, and readily give way, allowing the escape of blood among the cell-elements and intercellular spaces. The more nearly the development of the cells approaches a normal tissue, the less probability there is of extravasation. The blood thus escaped may be absorbed or become encapsuled by pressure upon the ceUs near the point of rupture and become converted into a blood-cyst. Mucoid degeneration is also occasionally met vtith in these neoplasms. The cells of certain portions of the tumor disappear, leaving cysts or alveoli varying in size from the smallest up to as large as two or three inches in diameter in large tumors. The cysts are occupied by an amber-colored or reddish-brown fluid, which, examined with the microscope, demon- strates the presence of blood-corpuscles in various conditions of degeneration. Chemically, the fluid yields mucin. The name alveolar sarcoma (Fig. 762) has been given to this form of tumor. Clinical Features.—Sarcomata may be met with in all conditions and at any period of life. Comparatively speaking, they are rare in old age, occurring chiefly in children and adults under thirty. Occasionally they are congenital. Both sexes are equally liable to be attacked. They are, as a rule, idiopathic in origin, in rare cases being due to, or at least fol- lowing, an injury to the part involved in the neoplasm. Sarcomata are among the most malignant new formations, not only recurring in loco after removal, but tending to be disseminated by the blood-vessels. Un- like the carcinomata, they have no lymph-channels, and metastasis must occur by the blood-vessels which enjoy free anastomoses with the caverns and sinuses of the neoplasms. The degree of malignancy of a sarcoma is, in general, in proportion to the embryonic character of the elements of which it is composed. Thus, the round-celled tumors of rapid development are most malignant, the spindle-celled next, the giant-celled last in this order. As to location, no tissue is exempt. They are frequently met with in the skin and subcutaneous tissues (Fig. 763); also the osseous tissues, especially the long bones, furnish a favorite seat for them. Those devel- oping from within are chiefly the myeloid or giant-celled variety ; those of periosteal origin are round- or spindle-celled. Sarcoma of the bones, according to Prof. S. W. Gross, who has writ- ten a most exhaustive paper upon this subject, is exceedingly malignant, being only second to cancer of the soft tissues. Fig. 762.—Alveolar sar- coma. (After Green.)