A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 112 limit of the flap, when it is turned rather abruptly out, sliaping a bhmt, rounded flap. This is held back by the operator's left hand, the point of the knife is insinuated between the muscles and the bone, is made to glide along the posterior surface of the bone, and to come out at or very near the periosteum on the opposite side. A second symmetrical flap is made in the same way as the first. The retractor is applied, and the operation and dressing completed as before. In making an amputation by transfixion, it is usually advised to cut the non-vascular flap first; but, with a safe tourniquet applied, this pi-e- caution is unnecessary. Third Method—Oblique Solid Flaps, hy cutting from the Surface.— Cutting from the surface toward the bone, the first crescentic incision out- lines one flap and goes down to the deep fascia (Fig. 160). After the skin retracts, the muscles and remaining soft tissues are divided from its edge obliquely down to the point of section through the bone. The opposite flap is made in the same manner, and the ojoeration completed as before. SJcin - Flaps — Circular, Modified Circular, Oval, Double Crescentic, and. Do able Rectangular. First Method—Circular.—Before commencing the incision, grasp the arm firmly near the line of incision, and slide the integument upward as far as it will go. In doing this operation, a good scalpel is preferable to the long knife. The incision should go straight down to the fascia which covers the muscles, and directly around the limb by successive strokes with the scalpel, so that the radius of the circle described will be at an angle of 90° with the axis of the humerus (Fig. 161 «). When this is completed, catch the edge of the flap with a mouse-tooth dissecting-forceps, put the connective tissues which attach it to the fascia about the muscles on the stretch by pulling the skin upward, and with well-directed strokes or touches with the point of the knife, which should be kept from wounding the skin, raise the flap throughout the entire circumference of the wound. As this dissection proceeds, the loosened sleeve of integument may be rolled up until the point where the muscles and bone are to be divided is reached (Fig. 161 b). Just at the margin of the reflected flap the soft tis- sues are now divided straight down to the bone, the line of section being