PATHOLOGY OF SYPHILIS. 655 ular eruption in another, or a pustular syphilide in a third who has the unfortunate inheritance of a gouty, scrofulous, or tubercular dyscrasia. Or a papular lesion of the first stage, in which the process of nutrition in the tissues is normal, may be replaced by a rupia in the tertiary pe- riod when assimilation is less perfect. If the initial lesion of syphilis is excised and examined with the mi- croscope, the following conditions will be observed: The epidermis in the immediate vicinity of the ulcer is more or less completely destroyed. The membrane which covers the floor of the ulcer is composed of pus- cells, fragments of epidermal cells, cells of the Malpighian layer, and fragments of connective-tissue and other detritus. These elements vary in proportion as the process of necrobiosis is limited or extensive. In the deeper portions of the Malpighian layer, and in and around the pa- pillae where these layers are not wholly destroyed, and in the connective- tissue layer of the skin, there is a general infiltration with the embry- onic cells of the syphilitic process. The arterioles, veins, and capillaries are more or less completely oc- cluded. The cell-proliferation is especially marked in the arterioles, the adventitia and intima are thickened, the thickening being more marked in the latter, while the lumen of the vessel is more or less encroached upon by the new-formed tissue. The venules undergo analogous changes. The walls of the lymph-channels are thickened, and many of these ves- sels are crowded with cells. The infiltration is, however, limited to the immediate borders of the ulcer, and the line between this and the unin- vaded tissue is sharply defined. As the mass of cells gradually obstruct the vessels, the nutrition of the new tissue is interfered with, and it either undergoes granular metamorphosis or breaks down more rapidly as a slough. The absence of pain in the chancre is also explained by the gradual pressure upon the terminal nerves and the comparative dryness of the typical sore to the arterial occlusion. The lymphatics immediately around the ulcer, and those leading from it to the nearest glands, are more or less filled with the new cells, and their walls appear thicker than normal. The changes which occur in the glands in the earlier stages of syphi- lis consist in a hyperplasia of the connective-tissue cells of the stroma and thickening of the fibrous framework, together with an increase in the cell-elements of the gland-substance proper. The cutaneous lesions of secondary syphilis result from the more or less complete obstruction of the capillary loops of the papillae by the cells of this indilferent tissue. The walls of the capillaries undergo de- generation ; the coloring-matter of the blood escapes, causing the pecul- iar staining of the syphilides. In the macular syphilide the abnormal cell-accumulation is less than in the papular eruption. The changes which occur in mucous patches differ very slightly from those described in the cutaneous lesions. The epidermis soon breaks down; the Malpig- hian layer and papilla? are infiltrated with the cell-elements ; while the capillaries, arterioles, and lymphatic vessels undergo changes almost identical with those described in the initial lesion.