A TEXT-BOOK ON SURGERY. 206 Barwell's* ox-aorta ligatures are safe and efficient, as are those made from nerves and first used upon the living subject by myself; but the catgut is more readily obtained and of more general application than any other material. I have used the broad ox-aorta (Mr. Barwell's) liga- ture successfully in tying the common carotid and the subclavian arteries, and have twice deligated the common carotid with success, employing the sciatic nerve of a calf ; f but the readiness with wiiich catgut is ob- tained, and the ease and comparative safety of its application, especially with the aid of antiseptic precautions, have led me to give to it the preference. Other methods of treatment of aneurisms which have almost, if not entirely, fallen into disuse are galtiano-puncture, massage or kneading^ flexion, the introduction of Tiorse-hair or wire into the sac, acupuncture^ and the injection of a coagulating substance into the sac or the tissues around it. In my opinion, the circumstances which would justify any of these methods are so rare—if, indeed, they ever exist—that they scarcely de- serve recognition in practical surgery. In galvano-puncture one or more needles, connected with both poles of a galvanic battery, are introduced into the cavity of the sac on oppo- site side or points of the tumor. They do not touch within the aneurism, the circuit being completed by the blood. A twenty-four-cell battery may be used, beginning with a few cells and gradually increasing the strength of the current until the usual pain is felt at the negative pole, or until signs of coagulation are evident. The objections to this method are that the clot is of rapid formation, may not be permanent, and may inflame and suppurate, causing death from haemorrhage or septicsemia. Massage or kneading has been successfully performed in a few in- stances. The aneurism is manipulated with the intention of detaching from the sac enough of the fibrillated clot to plug up the efferent vessel and thereby practically tie the artery on the distal side (Brasdor). It is a safer and surer method than galvano-puncture, though of doubtful propriety except in small aneurisms situated in the arms or legs. The danger of embolism in the cerebral circulation is too great to justify this or any similar procedure upon an aneurism connected with a vessel lead- ing toward the brain. Flexion or posture is practically a method of direct compression, using the normal tissues for a pad. It is employed in popliteal aneu- rism, where the knee is flexed and fastened so as to compress and par- tially occlude the tumor between the tibia and fibula, and the femur. It is a justifiable method in rare instances. The same practice may be instituted at the elbow, but is impracticable at the axilla on account of the arrangement of the nerves. The introduction of watch-spring wire, horse-hair, catgut-coil, or any other foreign solid substance into the cavity of an aneurism will rarely * See article by the author in "Archives of Medicine," June, 1882. G. P. Putnam's Sons, New York. t Ibid.