THE PALATE. 431 ing. The direction of traction is slightly inward for the lower teeth, and slightly outward for those of the upper jaw. Fracture of a root or shelving of the alveolus wOl occur at times in the most skillful hands, and abscess and necrosis may en- sue. Fragments of the teeth should be gouged out by using an elevator. Hgemor- rhage, usually insig- j nificant, may at times be dangerous, death having occurred from I this cause in one or ! more instances. Cold or heat, or packing the cavity with a compress of cotton or lint, will [ effect its arrest. In extreme cases the compress may be saturated with ' Monsel's solution, or alum, or any astringent, and left in for forty-eight hours. Anaesthetics may be employed with great safety in dental surgery. Nitrous oxide is of every-day use, and ether is both safe and effective. Chloroform is not to be employed unless, after full information, the pa- tient relieves the operator of all responsibility. When ether or chloro- form are administered, the patient should be placed in the recumbent posture. The Palate. Uvula.—On account of elongation or hypertrophy of this portion of the soft palate, its excision is at times required. It may be accomplished by taking hold of the tip with a mouse-tooth forceps, and with a long curved scissors removing as much as required. Complete local ansesthe- sia may be obtained by mopping the uvula with a small quantity of a 4-per-cent solution of cocaine hydrochlorate at intervals of three min- utes for fifteen minutes before the operation. Tumors of the palate, abscess, necrosis, and ulceration are not infre- quent, and demand the same treatment as in other portions of the body. Cleft palate may be confined to the soft palate ; it may include with this a portion or all of the hard palate and alveolus, or it may be con- fined to the hard palate alone. It is usually congenital, although it ' may be acquired, as in the perforations which ensue as a result of syj)hi- litic ulceration and necrosis. The cleft in the hard palate is most often single, the vomer being attached to one side of the palate-process of the superior maxilla (Fig. 460). Occasionally it is double, there being a central piece—the vomer— which runs forward and is attached to the jire-maxillary bone (Fig. 461). Treatment.—When a hare-lip exists as a complication of cleft palate, the operation on the lip should first be made in order to enable the child