203 CEEEBEAX XEETES. •a 53 72 t PortioDura or Facial Nerve. /'Connecting Branches—Auditory, Glosso-Pharyngeal, and to the Fifth Nerve its Superior and Inferior Maxillary Branches. Posterior Auricular, Dygastric, Stylo- Hyoid. Distributive Temporo-Facial—Gives off Tempo- Branches. • ral, Malar, and Infra-Orbital. \ Cervico-Facial-—Gives off Supra and k Infra Maxillary and Buccal, i PortioMollis or Auditory Nerve—Cochlear and \estibular. Connecting Branches—Sympathetic, Auricular Glosso- Branch to the Par Vagum and Facial. Pharyngeal. Distributive Branches—Tympanic, Pharyngeal, Lingual, Tonsillitic, Muscular. ' Connecting Branches—Spinal Accessory, Sym- pathetic, Ganglion Inferius of the Glosso- Pneumo- Pharyngeal, Auricular, and Lingual. Gastric. 1 Distributive Branches—Superior Laryngeal, Pharyngeal, Cardiac, Inferior Laryngeal or ^ recurrent, (Esophageal, Ac, ■ Connecting Branches—To the Pharyngeal and Spinal Superior Laryngeal Branches of the Vagus. Accessory. 1 Distributive Branches—To the Trapezius and w Sterno-mastoid Muscles. Connecting Branches—The Vagus, Sympathetic, Spinal Accessory, and first two Cervical Nerves, Distributive Branches—Descendens Noni, and the Terminal Muscular Filaments. !<< to ‘ 3 N inth or Lingual Nerves r 'Four upper Cervical 73 Nerves form the " 73 o > o r-> Cervical Zi !Zi 5 Plexus 32 zn 5 5 Four lower • H Cervical 3 with the > r-t .2 first Dorsal V o h 3 < form the - Brachial Plexus, whose l. Branches TABLE OF THE SPINAL NERVES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 'Ascending Superficial, are the Superficial Cer- vical, great Auricular, and smaller Occipital Branch. Descending Superficial are the Acromial and Clavicular. The Deep Branches are the Phrenic, communi- cating «fc Muscular; the latter supplying the Trapezius, Levator Anguli Scapula?, Rhonx- |_ boidti, and Rectus Anticus Major. rAbove the Clavicle are Phrenic, Rhomboid, Subclavian, Supra-scapular long or posterior Thoracic, and Branches to the Scaleni and Longus Colli Muscles. Below the Clavicle are the two short or Anterior Thoracic, Median, External and Internal Cutaneous, Nerve of Wrisberg, Ulnar, Sub- scapular, Circumflex, and Musculo Spiral . Branches. Posterior Primary Branches—To the Muscles & Integument at L the back of the Neck and Upper Dorsal Region.