22101451852Med K10539A>-/vo^ JjuJr^GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY FOR ENGLISH KITCHENS. WITH PRACTICAL DESCRIPTIONS OF THE ART OF COOKERY AS PERFORMED IN GERMANY ; INCLUDING SMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY; PRESERVING.; PICKLING. THE MAKING OF VINEGARS; LIQUEURS; AND BEVERAGES, WARM AND COLD. ALSO • THE MANUFACTURE OF THE VARIOUS GERMAN SAUSAGES. LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL, 193, PICCADILLY.LONDON: PRINTED HV VIRTL’E AND i O., CITY kOAD. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. OrINTRODUCTION. The scientific preparation of food for assimilation and diges- tion by human beings, however vai'ied by habit, taste, and the appliances within reach, must necessarily proceed upon some recognised first principles, which are nearly the same in all countries, although the modes and materials employed are different, as also the results produced. My object being to make this work complete in itself as a Cookery Book, it is needless to apologize for any techni- calities that may be found in it, common to all compila- tions upon the Art. There are many dishes, .the names of which it is impossible to translate. Indeed, it would deprive them of their nationality to give them English names. They are all reliably good in their way, and a trial may suffice to let them rest on their own merits, under the titles by which they are given. Several of the names, or terms, are local, and perhaps not to be found in a dictionary; they are never- theless standard dishes in certain districts, and as such they claim a place in the national catalogue. I have refeiTed to habit, taste, and appliances, as influen- tial in affecting the preparation of food. Few English men and women, except those who have resided for a long time in foreign countries, can form a fair judgment of the eft'jct ofINTRODUCTION. VI habit upon taste, as regards the table. We are, indeed, uncon- scious for how many things we like best in eating and drink- ing, our taste is an acquired one. Whoever began with liking pickles or pungent flavours of any kind ?—Olives, porter, claret, game gamey, mutton high, woodcocks’ trails, and many other delicacies ? In England, perhaps more than in any other country, we are apt to despise things to which we are unaccustomed; and, from reluctance to try strange flavours, many an excel- lent dish remains unknown to us. This reluctance, however, does not exist to the extent it formerly did; so many travel and bring home recollections of agreeable dishes which they would like to have produced at their own tables, but of the preparation of which they are ignorant. To supply this want, with regard to German cookery, and for the use of the vast numbers of Germans in England who have English cooks, this work has been compiled. I will conclude by observing that for the same expense at which ordinary family dinners are provided and served in England, or dinner parties given—with a little atten- tion to acquire the necessary knowledge, a little reflection upon what was yesterday and will be to-morrow, with the courage to defy mere routine, and to dare to be original— dinners may be served, attractive from novelty and very pleasing by their excellence and variety. It is hoped that this book on German National Cookery may assist in efl’ecting so desirable an object.COIs^TENTS. NOS. Chaptbr I.—Sours (pages 1—27). Fleisch Suppen Lleat Soups . 1— 29 Diirchgetriebene Suppen Puree Soups . 30— 36 Gemiise and Kraiiter Suppen . Vegetable and Herb Soups 36— 63 Fasten Suppen Lent or Fast-day Soups . 54— 60 Wasser Suppen Water Soups . 61— 73 Milch Suppen. . . . Milk Soups . 74— 83 Wein Suppen. . . . Wine Soups . 84— 91 Bier Suppen . . . . Beer Soups . 92— 98 Obst Suppen . . . . Fruit Soups . 99—104 CiLAi’TBE II.—Hors d’CEuvues (pages 28—31). 105—110 Chapter III.—Fish (pages 32— 46). 111—166 Chapter IV.—Sauces (pages 47 -73.) Verschiedene Saucen Various Sauces 166—210 Fisch Saucen . . . . Fish Sauces . 211—226 Kalte Saucen. . . | Cold Sauces and Condi- ments .... 226—247 Siisse Saucen . . . . Sweet Sauces. 248—270 Farce oder Fasch—Forcemeats (pages 69—73). 271—285 Chapter V.—Salads (pages 74- -83). Yerschiedene Salato Various Salads 286—320 Sulatc Saucen. . . . Salad Dressings 321—329Vlll CONTENTS. Chapter VI.—Meats (pages 84—133). Rindfleisch or Oxenfleisch Kalbfleisch Schdpfenfleisch . ’ . Lammfleisch . Schweinfleisch . Beef . Veal . Mutton . Lamb . Pork xo*. 330—361 382—424 42.5—4.19 440—449 450—489 Chapter VII.—Pouetra’ and Game (pages 134—151). Gefliigel Poultry . Wild Gefliigel and Wildpret . Game 490—521 522—541 Chapter VIII.—Vegetables (pages 152—166). Gemiise Vegetables 54.5—602 Chapter IX.—“BIalteschalen and Compotes” (pages 167—175). Kalteschalen . . . Kalteschalen . . 603—616 Triett . Triett . . 617—620 Compotes . . Compotes . 621—630 Chapter X.—Farinaceous Dishes (pages 176—213). Klosse or Knodeln . Klosse or Knodeln. 631—664 Susse Klosse . . Sweet Klosse. 665—677 Nudeln . . Nudels .... 678—689 Strudeln. . Strudels 690—693 Spatzen . . Sparrows,or Batter Flakes 694—696 Schmarren . Schmam 697—703 Sterz . Sterz .... 704—706 Farferl and Nockcrl . Farferl and Nockcrl 707—712 Eier Kuchen . . Egg Dishes . 713—726 Plinzen . . Fritters .... 727—729 Fkidcben . Thin Pancakes 730—736 Omelette . Omelets .... 737—< 43 Dampihudcln . . Dampfmidels . 744—747 Pfaunkuchcn, &c. . . Pancakes 1 A kind of German Souf- 748—750 Aufliiufe . I flees .... 751—759 Kbcho ( A kind of German Souf- \ lli-cs .... 760—776CONTENTS. Chaptbr XI.—Puddings and Pasties (pages 214—230). Puddings Pasteten Strassburg Ganseleber Pasteten Pasteten . . Puddings . Pasties ... Strasbourg Pates - de- Foies Gras . . Pasties . Chapter XII.—Large Fancy Cakes (pages 231—276). “ Torten and Kuchen ” Kleines Backwerk . . . Small Pastry . Kleines Backwerk and Zucker- Fancy Biscuits and Con werk fectionery . Chapter XIII.—Preserves and Pickles (pp. 277—296). Chapter XIV.—Vinegars and Beverages, Warm AND Cold (pages 297—315). Essige von Obst, Kniuter,. Vinegars of Fruits, Herbs Blumen, Zucker, &c. Liqueure . Warme Getriinke Kalte Getranke Vom Kaffee Flowers, Sugar, &c. . Liqueurs . . Warm Beverages . Cold Beverages . On Coffee . :] Chapter XV.—Sausages (pages 316—330). TTie Manufacture of all Varieties ix NOS. 777—797 798—799 800—805 806—818 819—396 897—930 931—989 990—10.56 1057—1067 1068—1083 1084—1096 1097—1116 1117—1123 1124—1165V r • ■*' • f.»•GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. Chapter I. SOUPS. 1. “ Klarc Ruuhiippe,” or “ Flcischhruhe "— Clear Soup. For ordinary soup from meat whicli is to be served the same day, set the beef on the lire in cold water. Let it come to a simmer only, for three or four hours, according to size, with any approved vegetables. When done, take out meat and vegetables, skim all fat off, and add any of the ai’ticles named hereafter to finish the soup. As an element for all good soups for family use, allow sLx pounds of beef, cover it with six quarts of water, set it on the fire to heat by slow degrees, and skim when it begins to simmer. Then throw in a head of celery, a carrot, one or two turnips, an onion, a few sprigs of parsley, and salt to taste. I'or a richer soup, put in with the beef either a couple of pounds of breast of veal or an old fowl, with a pound or two of liver or a ham-bone. Cover the pot closely, let it simmer slowly three or four hours. Strain it and take olT the fat. The quantity should bo reduced to less than a half in cooking. Divide the above portions according to the number at table. The meat may be used up by mincing for vario'us dishes. 2. “ Braanc Suppe”— Brown Soup. The bottom of an iron pot must be covered with very thin slices of fat bacon and sliced onion. Place over these a layer of lean beef-steak, together with any cuttings of meat and2 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. bones of roast meat you may happen to have. Add vege- tables and a faggot of herbs. Pour in enough water to cover the bottom of the stew-pan half an inch deep. Leave it over a gentle fire, partly uncovered, to stew slowly until, by evaporation, only a dark brown gravy is left, and this begins to thicken and dry away. Then pour in water, or clear broth, according to the quantity and quality desired. 3. Eiei-flddlen Suppe ”— Pancake Soup. Two tablespoonfuls of fiour, two eggs, and a little salt must be mixed well and thinned with milk to a creamy batter. Grease a hot frying-pan with a little suet, lard, or butter; pour in enough batter to run all over the pan, moving it quickly to let the batter spread thin as possible. When done yellow on one side, turn the pancake. Proceed thus till all the batter is fried ; ^ using very little friture each time, merely enough to grease the pan. Cut the pancakes into strips, diamonds, or any fancy shapes, with the smallest cutters. Give them a boil up in soup—No. 1 or 2. 4. “ Aal Suppe ”— Eel Soup. Skin a large eel; take out the bones; cut it in pieces; boU them and the bones in a little water, with vinegar, sage, onion, salt, pepper, and spice. Take out the eel and strain the gravy. When cool, take off the fat, and with this gra\y, some broth, and a little thickening, make sufficient soup; adding any sliced vegetables or herbs for flavour, and a cup of green peas. Boil it till the vegetables are soft. Chervil, sorrel, parsley, or any other herb, minced fine, may be added. Make fish-balls as ddected in “Fish Forcemeat; ” boil half of them in the soup ; fry the other half a pale bi'own. A\hisk the yolks of two or three eggs in a cup of sour cream or milk ; let the soup cease boiling ; stir in the cream ; add the eels and fried balls ; make them quite hot, and serve. 6. Eiergersten Sujjpe”—Egg-barley Soup. Boat one egg and the yolk of another; work in as much fine flour as the egg will take; knead it into a stifi’, bard ball; grate it on a coarse bread-grater, spreading it over the paste-board as you grate it. When dry, sprinkle it into boiling broth—No. 1—with a little finely cut chives, and grated nutmeg if approved.SOUPS. 6. “ Einlauf Suppe ”— Batter-flake Soup. One egg and a tablespoonful of milk to every table- spoonful of flour. One, two, or three, according to the quantity of soup required. Beat them into a smooth batter, and drop it from the spoon into soup No. 1, which must be kept boiling as the batter drops in. Ten minutes’ boiling is enough. When the flakes are all risen to the top of the soup, it is done. 7. “ Luft Suppe”—A Batter-cream Soup. Mix two or three tablespoonfuls of flour with water enough to make as thick a batter as you can stir, then add as many eggs as there are spoonfuls of flour, and stir it well. Have ready some boiling broth which has been seasoned and strained; pour it into the batter, stu-ring all the while; set it over the fire to boil a few minutes, and serve. 8. “ Suppe in File ”— Soup in Haste. Cut up two pounds of meat in very small pieces. Put an egg-sized piece of butter in a stew-pan; let it melt; throw in the pieces of meat and let them brown, dredging them occasionally with flom-, but do not let the meat dry or burn. Cut up a small head of celery, slice an onion, grate a carrot, and stir all into the meat. Cover closely, to stew a quarter of an hour; then pour in enough hot water to give sufficient soup. Let it boil twenty minutes. Put slices of toasted bread into the tureen, or the yolks of two or three eggs. Season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg; strain, and pour the boiling soup upon the eggs or toast. 9. “ Pommerische Supp>e ”—Pomeranian Soup. A quart of white heans must be boiled soft in water. Mash half of them; thin with broth and work them through a sieve. Let these boil with the broth to a smooth soup, in which has been boiled a head of celeiy cut small. Add the whole beans, a mild seasoning of sweet herbs, some parsley, salt, and pepper. Let all boil a quarter of an hour, and serve. 10. “ Pommerische Suppemit Ente ”—Pomeranian Soup with Duck. Set a duck and its giblets over the fire in cold water, ■with an onion, and let it simmer till tender ; then take it out4 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. and prepare a soup, by adding a small faggot of sweet herbs, parsley, celery, and some good beef-steak or gravy. Thicken it with flour, but not too much. Add salt and pepper. Have some very small potatoes half-boiled in water; add them to the soup ; let them boil until done through, but not broken. Cut up the meat of the duck and giblets, and ser\'e it in the tureen. 11. “ Gdnseklcin Sujtpc ”— Gihlet Soup. Goose giblets, prepared and stewed tender in enough water to cover them, then added to the Pomeranian soup. No. 9, makes an excellent soup. The giblets should be cut up in small portions before they are put in. 12. “ Gdnseklein Sitppe ”— Gihlet Soup. {Xo. 2.) Stew the giblets wmll, with a sprig of sage, a sprig of winter savory, a good-sized onion, salt and pepper. In the meantime, boil a quart of white beaus tender; mash half of them, and pass them through a sieve. Take up the giblets and cut them into small pieces. Mince the liver fine, or mb it smooth. Eetmn these to the gravy; add all the beans, and sufiicient broth or w'ater to form a thick, creamy soup. The beans should soak all night in plenty of cold Avater. The water in Avhich the beans were boiled must be put Avith them into the soup. 18. “ Yager Siippe"—Himter's Soup. Slice thin a large carrot, or tAvo or three small ones, a large onion, a head of celery, and some rather lean ham or bacon. Fry these, Avith some parsley, in butter. IVhen done yclloAV, dredge in plenty of flour and let it colour, but not a dark broAvn. Then add some good beef-broth, give it an active stir, and turn it into the soup cauldron ; add the requisite quantity of broth and a pint of red AA'ine. Leave it to simmer sloAvly. In the meantime, roast three or four partridges, basted Avith butter. Cut ofl’ the breasts in neat slices, and the other meat from the bones. Bruise the bones in a mortar, and throAV them into the soup. Boil it well, strain, season Avith salt and cayenne pepper, and make it hot again, but do not let it boil a second time. Add the meat, to be served in the soup.SOUPS. 5 14. “ Klare Suppe mit Parmesan Croutons"—Clear Soup with Parmesan Croutons. Celery, turnips, carrots, green leaks, or onions, and young cabbage-leaves, all cut in strips, are put in a stew-pan with a piece of butter and a little sugar, covered close and left to stew in their own steam over a slow fire. Shake them occasionally till soft and yellow. If the vegetables are not quite young they must be previously parboiled, else they impart too strong a flavour to the soup. Boil the pre- pared vegetables in good gravy soup, and then strain them away. Take slices of stale roll, and with a small round cutter no bigger than a shilling cut out little cakes, dip them in hot butter, and roll them in grated Parmesan cheese; bake them a bright yellow colour. Throw these croutons into the soup at the moment of serving. Parmesan croutons thus prepared may be used to give richness and variety to various fasting or other soups. 15. “ Klare Siippe von Fiindjieisch ”— Clear Soup of Beef. To make a good soup for a small table, about three-quarters of a pound of meat should be allowed for each person; but if the number to dine be large, half a pound to each is enough. Measure with your soup-ladle and tureen the quantity of water which you may require as soup; then allow double this quantity, to set'on cold with the meat, and let it simmer slowly from two to four hours, with any approved vegetables and herbs to flavour. It must be well skimmed while simmering, and the fat carefully taken off. Strain and salt it when done. Serve plain, or with “ Kncideln” or any other accompaniment. 16. “ Kaiser Suppe ”— Imperial Soup>. Beat five eggs well. Add to them a pint of rich, clear soup, some salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Pour it into a well- buttered pudding-mould or basin ; set this in boiling-water and let it boil an hour. Bo sure that water does not flow into the mould. When done, cut the mass into thin slices, or little pieces,, and serve in clear soup. Two or three fresh yolks may be beaten in the tureen, if approved.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. -:6 17. “ Krehs Suppe ”— Crayfish Soup. From twenty to fifty crayfish, according to the quantity ;of soup required, ,should be thrown into boiling water, and left to boil a quarter of an hour. Pick out the tails and rest 'of the fish, cover the meat, and set it aside. Pound the shells and small claws, adding, by degrees, three or four ounces of butter. Put this mass into a small stew-pan, and stir over the fire until the butter Ls red. Add then a pint of clear white soup and let it stew slowly, half an hour; then strain it off and add to it suflicient well-seasoned white soup, which, however, must have no strong or prominent flavour. Put in the tails and the pickings of the fish; make the soup quite hot; beat up the yolks of two or three eggs in the tureen, pour in the scalding soup, and serve with either “ Klosse,” macaroni, nudels, croutons, or toasted roll. Note.—Crayfish prepared as above are excellent in Kaiser soup. 18. “ Kalbfieisch Suppe ”— Veal Soup. Allow a pound of breast of veal to a quart of water; but, if knuckle is chosen, double the weight. Let it come slowly to a simmer; add salt and skim it well; continue simmering for two hours at least. Eice, sago, or Ivldsse may be used to give it substance. Ten minutes before serving, add, in small pieces, either cauliflower, scorzonera, or asparagus, previously cooked. Finely minced chives may be thrown in at last, or an onion may have been boiled in the soup and taken out before the other vegetable is added. 19. “ Kalbfieisch Suppe ”— Veal Soup. {No. 2.) For a delicate and good veal soup, strain off the broth in which a breast or knuckle of veal has been boiled for table. Add some boiled rice, some small pieces of cauliflower or scorzonera, salt, a grate of nutmeg, a little shred parsley, and have yolks of eggs in the tureen, into which pour the scalding soup. 20. “Kalbsbriise,” or “Kdlbermilch Suppe"—Strectbread Soup. Put a sweetbread on the fire in cold water, with a little salt. When it is warm, pour off the water and supply fresh cold ; repeat this a few times, as fast as it becomes warm, which process whitens the sweetbread. When it looks deli-7 SOUPS. catcly -white, just let it come to a simmer; then take it out and lay it in cold water. Take off the outer skin ; cut up the meat in small dice, or divide it into little marbles, and give it a boil up in good, white veal soup. If for brown soup, fry the little pieces of sweetbread rapidly in butter, and drain them on a napkin. They must only be coloured yellow. 21. “ Kalbskopf Suppe ”— Calf’s Head Soup. Having well washed and soaked the head, put it on the fire in cold water, and simmer it two hours and a half from the time of its coming to a scalding heat. When quite done, take it out. Cut the meat off in neat slices; slice the tongue also and take out the brains. Throw back the bones into the soup. Dry a pinch of saffron, rub it to powder, put it in the soup, with a small -wineglassful of pale vinegar, a tablespoonful of sugar, a little nutmeg, and salt to taste. Shred parsley may be added if approved. The brains, divided into small pieces, must be put into the tureen, with three or four yolks of eggs, beaten, and the scalding soup poured on them. Dip the slices of meat in egg and bread crumbs; fry them a delicate brown, in butter, and serve them after the soup, with any white vegetable. 22. “ Huhner Suppe ”— Chicken Soup. Pluck and singe a large fowl, a day or two before it is to be cooked. For soup, it must be laid in water a short time. Cut off the feet, scald and skin them, and chop off the claws. Head, feet, and gizzard must be put with the fowl into cold water, and set on the fire to simmer three hours. Make a thickening of a piece of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, and a little milk ; add this and the liver, cut in very small pieces, to be boiled a quarter of an hour; then add salt and parsley. Small pieces of either asparagus, cauliflower, or seakale, in lieu of scorzonera, may bo boiled first, drained, and thrown in just before serving. Have a couple of yolks of eggs and a grate of nutmeg in the tureen, to pour the soup on. 23. “ Verlorenes Hiihml Supj>e ”—Lost Chicken Soup. Cut one or two stale rolls in slices a good half-inch thick, and from these stamp out, with a little round cutter the size of a shilling, cakes without the crust; or cut the slices into small dice ; soak these in well-beaten eggs, mixed with8 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. finely minced chives, parsley, salt, and a little nutmeg. Have a good chicken or other soup boiling and ready to serve. Scatter the little cakes lightly in, and let it boil up until they float on the top. 24. “ Griesmehl Suppe ”—Fine Corn-grits Sonp. Have ready the requisite quantity of boiling broth, well seasoned. Strew in the grits (coarsely ground com or groats), allow two handfuls to a quart of soup; let it boil half an hour. Beat two or three eggs in the tureen with a little milk, some finely cut chives, and a grate of nutmeg. Pour in the soup boiling hot. 25. “ Beis Suppe"—Bice Soup. The rice must be well washed, first in cold, then in warm water. Two ounces is enough for five half-pints of soup. Boil the rice two hours, at least, either with some of the soup, or with water sufficient to boil it to a jelly; then add it to the soup. In the latter case, have the yolks of two or three eggs in the tureen. 2G. “ Sago Suppe"—Sago Soup. The stock must be ready seasoned, and quite boiling. Strew in the sago by degrees ; about tw^o ounces to a quart or five half-pints of soup. Boil a quarter of an hour, and finish as directed for other white soups. 27. “ Xiidcln Sappe ”— Xudel Soup. Nudels made of one egg (see “ Nudel Paste”) will be found sufficient for a family soup. Let this be boiling as you scatter the nudels in, a quarter of au hour before ser\'ing. "When they float on the top, allow them two or three minutes longer, and they are done. 28. “Macaroni Sup}>e niit Parnic.san Kdsc ”— With Partncsan Cheese. Boil macaroni in plenty of salted water until quite soft. Drain and cut it into smaller lengths, and throw it into good soup. To give additional richness, have the yolks of two or three eggs in the tureen, and stir them as the boiling soup is poured in. Hand grated Parmesan cheese at table.9 SOUPS. 29. “ Kastanien Suppe ”— Chestnut Soup. Boil from half a pound to a pound of chestnuts, until they ■will peel easily. Put them in a stew-pan, sprinkle with salt, and leave them to steam soft and mealy. Work them through a wire sieve. Put butter, half the size of an egg, in a stew-pan, and when it is melted add a small finely minced onion and a few mushrooms. Dredge in a tablespoonful of flour; put in the chestnuts ; and stir in enough white or brown soup to give it the consistency of a creamy batter. Let it boil up. iSeiwe with sippets of toast, or any other soup accompaniment. As a thickening or puree for any kind of good white soup, chestnuts ai’e very delicate. They take less time to cook if the outer rind is peeled olf first, and when they have had a scald ; scrape off the inner peel; boil, and steam them dry ; tiien pass them through a sieve. About a pint will thicken a soup for a small table. PUKEE SOUPS (“ Duechgetbiebene,” ok “ Gestossene Suppen ”) are those for which the chief substance is, after cooking, pounded to a smooth paste, and, with a wooden spoon, worked through a wire or other sieve, and afterwards thinned with broth or soup. Throughout Germany the word piirie is frequently used for these favourite soups ; the word is borrowed from the French. The recipes, however, difier from the French in several particulars. 80. “ Suppe mit Puree von Gejlugel”—Soup ivith Puree of Poultry. Remains of any land of poultry will do for this. Cut all the meat ofi the bones, free it from skin, and pound it smooth in a mortar. Soak a slice or two of bread without crust in as much milk as it will absorb ; add it, with the yolks of two or three eggs, to the pounded meat, and pass all through a sieve. While preparing the above, lot the broken-up bones have been boiling or stewing in some good meat broth. Strainlo GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. this, and mix with it the pounded meat. Give it one boil up, and serve with “ Huhner Klosse.” Observe.—Any kind of seasoning must be boiled with the bones. Herbs, vegetables, lemon-peel, salt, pepper, &c. 81. “ Suppe mit Puree von Wild Geflii/jel oder Wildpret”— Soup uith Puree of Game. Strip the meat from the bones of any remains of game. Hare also is especially good. Pound it in a mortar with a slice of toasted bread and the yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs. Break up the bones and stew them in brown, well-seasoned soup. Put some of the bastings or drippings of the game roast in a stew-pan; di'edge in a tablespoonful of flour, and add the pounded meat. Cover, and let it steam while the bones are stewing. Strain these off, stir in the soup to the pounded meat, and strain all together. Cut into little strips or flakes any tender breast meat, and give it a simmer in the soup before serving. Forcemeat balls, delicately browned, or stewed mush- rooms, may be added; as also thin slices of toasted roll, or other light bread. 82. “ Puree Suppe ‘ d la Peine ’ ”— Potape d la Peine. A fowl, two or three pounds of veal, an onion stuck with a dozen cloves, and h^f a pound of rice, must be boiled gently in clear white broth or water. When the meat is done take out the veal and fowl, as also the onion. Clear the meat from the bones, cutting OS’ the breast in thin slices, and divide these into little narrow strips an inch or two long. Pound the rest of the meat to a smooth paste ; moisten this with cream, milk, or clear broth. Work it through a wire sieve and add it to the rice soup. Season with salt, nut- meg, and, if approved, a httle flnely minced chives or parsley. Yolks of two or throe eggs in the tureen, stirred as the scalding soup is poured in, are a great improvement. 88. “ Puree d la Peine ”— Potage d la Peine. (No. 2.) An excellent “ Potage a la Roine ” is prepared as follows. Boil together an old fowl, three pounds of veal, and three pounds of beef, in six quarts of water. Skim it well, and add two turnips, a head of celery, and an onion. Put two11 SOUPS. ounces of rice in a small stew-pan to cook soft in some of the bouillon. When the fowl is done tender, take it out and strip all the meat off the bones. Return the latter to the soup-pot. Cut the breast, when cool, into thin slices, and these across in strips as narrow as possible. Pound a good handful of blanched almonds, then the rest of the fowl, with the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs and the rice. Mix and thin the mass with cream or good milk, and work it through a sieve. Let the bouillon boil down to three quarts or less ; strain it, and skim the fat off. Set it again over the fire to become hot, and stir in the pounded mass. Make the tureen quite hot, lay in the little strips of breast, with a few slices of hot, buttered toast, of light roll, and pour in the soup scalding hot. 34. “ Siippe niit Puree a la Peine ”— Potage a la Peine. {No. 8.) Boil a fowl, and two rolls with the crust pared off, in a white, well-seasoned soup. When quite tender, cut up and pound the meat of the fowl in a mortar, with the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs. Mix in the boiled bread, and pass it through a sieve. Return it to the soup ; make this scalding hot, but avoid boiling again. Pour it on thin slices of toasted roll in the tureen. 35. “ Suppe a la Peine von Puter oder Kapaun”—Potage d la Peine of Turkey or Capon. {No. 4.) When the greater part of a turkey remains from the previous day’s dinner, this and the broth in which it was boiled will give an excellent “ Potage a la Reine.” Having stripped the meat from the bones, put the latter into the bouillon with an onion, a small faggot of herbs, a few sprigs of parsley, a quarter of a small lemon-peel, a tui-nip sliced, a blade of mace, and a quarter of a pound of rice. Let it stew down to about three pints, while you blanch two ounces of almonds and pound them smooth, adding and pounding with them the white meat of the turkey and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs; or substitute for the almonds a pint of chestnuts, boiled, peeled, and pounded. Add a cup of cream, and work the mass through a wire sieve, thinningGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 12 with a little of the soup if too thick or stiff. Then strain the soup ; add the Puree; give it a boil up together; add salt and white pepper, and serve. If at hand, a small plate of broken-up cauliflower put into the tureen is much approved. 36. “ Braune Suppe mit Puree von Leber ”— Brown Soup with Puree of Liver. Slice half a pound of liver; dredge with flour and fry it brown in butter, with an onion cut in slices. Then pound the liver quite smooth. Season it with salt, black pepper, and a gi’ate of nutmeg. Stir into it about three pints of good brown soup, and boil it ten minutes with a French roll sliced in, crust included. Strain it, and again make the soup hot, nearly boiling. Pour it on two well-beaten eggs in the tureen. Offer lemon-juice and cayenne pepper at table. 37. “ Supp>e mit Blumenkohl Puree ”—Puree Soup of CauU- flower. The cauliflower must be of the whitest, boiled in salted water, taken up when half done, and boiled sufliciently in clear soup. Then break it up, and save the most perfect little tufts for the finishing. Pass the rest through a sieve. Thicken the soup to a creamy substance, with flour mixed with cream or milk; add to it some neatly cut little pieces of fowl or veal, and the Puree of cauliflower. Let it come to a boil. Beat a piece of fresh butter to a cream in the tureen, and well stir into it two or three eggs. Pour in the soup scalding hot, and add the little tufts of cauliflower. 38. “Suppe mit Weisse Riiben Puree"— Pi'irce Soup of Turnips. Peel and slice the turnips, put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and enough clear broth to cook them soft. Work them through a sieve, and add the Puree to a clear soup. Mix a tablespoonful or two of flour with a cup of cream or milk ; add this, ■with salt and white pepper; let it boil for two or three minutes before serving. 39. “ TAnsen Suppe ”— Ijrntils Soup. Lentils, a pint or so, must bo washed, and put on the fire in cold water. When they have boiled half an hour, strain13 SOUPS. the water away, and. set them on with fresh warm water; let them boil till soft; then strain and add them to any kind of meat soup. Thus prepared, lentils are especially good in soup made with a ham-bone, as directed in the following “ Bohnen soup. 40. “ Bohnen Suppe mit Geraiichertem. Schiceinefleisch ” — Bean Soup with Ham or Bacon. About a pound of lean ham or bacon must be well soaked. Pare away the under yellow skin, and boil it an hour. Meanwhile, have boiled some white beans (the kidney or French beans) quite soft. They must have been soaked the night before. Mash half of them; pass them through a coarse sieve and add them to the boiling bacon, with an onion, or chives, celery, chervil, &c. Take out the bacon ; peel the rind off, cut up the meat into thin slices ; I’eturn this, with the uubruised beans, to the pot, and give all a boil up together. The same quantity of fresh or salted pork, unsmoked, is, by some, preferred. 41. Boluicn Suppe"—Bean Soup. [Xo. 2.) Soak and boil half a pint of the little French beans, with the skin on. Have a piece of butter or slice of fat bacon in a stew-pan, and when it is melted, dredge in as much flour as it will absorb, and add to it some thinly sliced onions. "When this is delicately browned, strain the well- boiled beans, working them through a sieve, and add them to the thickening, as also the bean water, and some broth or soup. Season with vinegar, salt, and pepper; let it boil; then pour it over slices of toast in the tureen. Some of the beans may bo put in unmashed, if the skins are quite soft. 42. “Carfiol Suppe ”— Cauliflower Soup. Make a clear white soup, of beef, mutton, or veal, properly seasoned with salt and white pepper. Mix two or three spoonfuls of flour in milk to thicken the soup to the consist- ence of cream. Break up a cauliflower into small tufts; boil them in salted water; drain carefully and add them unbroken to the soup when about to serve. If extra rich- ness is desired, put the yolks of two or three eggs, stiiTcd with a little cream, in the tureen.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 14 43. “ Spargel Suppe ”—Asparagxu Soup. Have a soup ready as above. Cut a good-sized bunch of asparagus into pieces an inch long, as far as it is green; boil them carefully in salted water, and strain and add them to the soup just before serving; or boil them in the soup, and do not let them be done too much. Eggs may be added as above. 44. “ Grune Kom Suppe ”— Green Corn Soup. Boil unripe green corn in broth or water till quite soft; pass it through a sieve, in the manner of peas. Add it to some good broth, in which celery or parsley-roots have been boiled, or any flavouring herbs. Give it a quick boil and serve with Klosse or sippets of toast. The broth or soup should be clear and colourless, not to alter the green tint of the corn. A few spinach-leaves may be boiled with it, to give a deeper green. 45 “ Erauter Suppe ”—Hei-h Soup. A handful each of chervil, sorrel, spinach, and a few sprigs of parsley, must be washed, drained, and chopped small. Put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter to steam until soft. Stir in with them two tablespoonfuls of flour. Pour in sufficient clear soup, and let it simmer ten minutes. Add salt and a grate of nutmeg. Eggs may be added in the tui-een in any approved way. 46. “ Erauter Suppe mit Parmesan Croutons ”— Herb Soup icith Parmesan Croutons. Young celery, chervil, sorrel, a few sprigs of parsley, a small sprig of tarragon, ■ and some chives or leeks, if ap- proved, must be rinsed and drained. Cut in strips, but do not mince them fine. Throw them into good clear soup, only long enough to boil them tender before the soup is served. Put Parmesan croutons into the tureen at the last moment. (See No. 14.) 47. “ Sauerampfer Suppe ”— Sorrel Soup. A good quantity of sorrel-leaves must be picked from the stems and washed; then put into a stew-pan with a piece of butter to steam; no water is requisite. Dredge in, with15 SOUPS. continual stirring, a tablespoonful or two of flour, unless the soup is to bo clear. Add enough soup, already seasoned and flavoured. Serve with sippets or dice of toasted bread. 48. “ Sauerampfer Siippe mit Verlorenen Eiern ”— Sorrel Soup with Poached Eggs, Wash and strip a quantity of sorrel-leaves, in the same proportion as spinach; put them in a saucepan with a piece of butter and a sprinkle of salt. When they are softened and shrunk, turn them into boiling soup, which must be clear. There must be sorrel enough to thicken the soup. Serve with poached eggs or toast. 49. “ Kartoffel Suppe”—Potato Soup. Peal mealy potatoes; slice them, and dredge a little flour over them. Put them in a saucepan with a slice of butter, a few sprigs of parsley, an onion, a little water, salt, and pepper. When stewed quite soft, rub them through a sieve, and add them to a good soup. 50. “ Schwartz Brod Suppe”—Brown Bread Soup. This favourite soup is generally made with brown broth ; and the brown bread is either cut in thin slices and boiled a few minutes in the soup at last; crumbled and strewn in; toasted in thin slices, and thrown into the tureen; or cut into small dice, fried brown, and put into the tureen at the moment of serving, with finely minced chives or parsley. 51. “ Durchgetriebene Brod Suppe ”—Strained Broivn Bread Soup. Is the same brown bread, well boiled in the soup; the whole rubbed through a sieve, and caraway-seeds added. It should bo of a batter thickness, and made thoroughly hot before serving. 52. “ Parmesan Ease Suppe ”—Parmesan Cheese Soup. Grate two ounces of cheese ; toast thin slices of rolls ; dip them in cream; cover them with the cheese on both sides. Lay them in a tureen, and pour good soup over them. Or, instead of the toasted roll, use thin slices of brown bread, soaked in milk or cream, and covered with the grated cheese.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. l6 58. ‘‘ Erdartischocken Sitppe”—Jerusalem Artichoke Soup. Peel the artichokes and cut them into little dice. Put them into a stew-pan with a piece of butter, some salt, and a little parsley. Let them steam about a quarter of an hour, then dredge them with flour; add sufiicieut soup, and after a boil up, serve with sippets of toast. Or, boil the artichokes in salted w'ater; drain and mash them. Add them to a soup in which very little pieces of meat are floating. Or, boH and mash them; add them to a clear white soup; and thicken with a tablespoonful of flour stirred into a cup of cream or good milk. LENT OR FAST-DAY SOUPS. (“Fasten Suppen.”) 54. Fisch Suppc,” Weisse — Fish Soup, White. Use any kind of fish. Wash well, and set it on the fire in cold water enough to cover it. Add a small stick of celery, an onion or two, a few sprigs of parsley, a bay-leaf, six cloves, and a spray of ginger. Cover close, and leave it to simmer an hour; then add suflicient water for the requisite quantity of soup. Let it boil up together; strain it; add a cup of cream, and salt and white pepper to taste. Fry as many eggs in butter as the number at table may require; lay them in the tureen; pour over the soup, and serve with toasted bread. 55. “ Fisch Su2U><’, Kartoffdn"—Fish Soup with Potatoes. Prepare either salt or freshwater fish ; put it on the fire with celery, onion, parsley, a bay-leaf, salt, and iKjpper, and enough cold Avatcr for the quantity and quality of soup requii-ed. Boil it slowly an hour ; strain and return it to the soup-pan. Grate a number of cold boiled potatoes, and add them to the soup. Beat some eggs well, with Gyice their measure of cream or milk, and a little nutmeg; stir it into the soup and let it boil up. Serve w’ith Klbsse, croutons, or slices of toasted bread.17 SOUPS. 56. “ Braune Fisch Suppe ”— Fish Soup, Broun. The same ingredients prepared as in the white soup No. 54, leaving out the cream. Make a good browning in a stew-pan, with butter, sliced onion, and flour; toast some very thin slices of bread a dark brown ; put them in with the browning; add the soup, and when it boils up add salt and black pepper, and finish with the fried eggs. 57. “ Aal Suppe ”—Eel Soup. Put about two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, with a variety of any vegetables that are in season, cut thin, and any approved herbs. Cover closely, and let them stew by a slow fire till tender, stirring occasionally that they may not burn. Add a cup or two of water, and leave them to simmer. Skin two pounds of eels ; divide them into lengths of two inches ; fry them, in butter, a pale brown ; lay them on a dish; dredge plenty of flour in the frying-pan ; let it brown ; add water enough to make the thickening, and put it, with the eels, into the soup. 58. “ Cardinale Suppe ”— Cardinal Soup. Brown in a stew-pan two large spoonfuls of flour in “crayfish butter” (see Index, “Krebs butter.)” Stir into this a sufficient quantity of good, well-seasoned, fish soup. Add rice or meal-barley, previously boiled tender, but do not make the soup thick with it. Serve in the soup some delicate Klbsse of lobster or crayfish, and have some yolks of eggs in the tureen. 59. “ Erbsenhruhe ”—Pea Broth. Put a pint of split peas into two quarts of boiling-water, with some celery, carrots, onion, and parsley. When done, salt and strain it. This broth may form the substance of many fast-day soups. 60. ‘^Fasten Suppen”—Fast-day Soups. A great variety of these may be found among the following water soups, which, if well made, are vei’y much better than their name implies, and wholesome as well as economical and good. 0GEILMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. i8 WATER SOUPS. ' 61. “ Brod Suppe ”— Bread Soup. Wash and cut up any approved vegetables and herbs; put them in a stew-panjwith a piece of butter ; cover closely and let them stew in their own steam till tender; add then the requisite water, and some toasted slices of brown or white bread ; let it bod well for some minutes, during which throw in a little fresh parsley and chives minced fine. Beat a couple of eggs in the tureen, add salt and pepper, and serve. 62. “ Brod Suppe”—Bread Soup. {No. 2.) Put about two or three ounces of butter into a stew-pan; when it is melted, throw in a chopped onion and some little dice of stale bread; dredge in flour quickly, and let the whole brown, but not burn ; pour in a little water, stirring so as to make the thickening clotty rather than smooth. Add salt and pepper, with as much more water as you require ; throw in brown crusts of bread, or toasted slices ; let it boil some minutes. Serve, either with or mthout beaten eggs, minced chives, or parsley in the tureen. 63. “ Gehrannte Suppe”—Burnt or Brou7i Soup. Cut thin slices of stale roll or loaf-bread. Make a good- sized piece of butter hot in a stew-pan. Dredge the slices of bread with flom-, and fry them in the butter a rich brown. Pour over them the requisite quantity of water, and boil a quarter of an hour. Have beaten eggs in the tureen, with salt, pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and minced chives or parsle}\ Pour in the soup boiling hot. Grated herb-cheese or Par- mesan may be added at table. 64. “ Kartoffel Suppe ”— Potato Soup. Peel and slice potatoes; boil them to a mash ; rub all through a coarse sieve, and stir into them boiling water to the approved tbiclmess. Add a piece of butter, salt, chopped parsley, chervil, or any other herb. When taken ofi" the fire, stir in the yolks of a few eggs that have been beaten with a little cream or milk, and servo with sippets or dice of toasted bread, either in the tureen or dry.19 SOUPS. 65. “ Zwiehel Suppe ”— Onion Soup. Chop two or three large onions fine. Melt two or three ounces of butter in a stew-pan ; put in the onions ; dredge in some flour, and let them brown. Pour in sufficient water. Add salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg. Let it boil a few minutes. Serve with two or three eggs beaten in the tureen. 66. “Einbrenn Suppe”—A Broivn Sotip. Put two ounces of butter in a stew-pan; when melted, add two or three spoonfuls of flour, and let it become quite brown. Upon this pour as much boiling water as you require, keeping it stirred while pouring in. Let it boil well. Add salt and pepper. Pour it on toasted bread in the tui’een. An onion may be sliced fine and browned with the flour if approved. 67. “ Saure Rohm Suppe ”— Sour Cream Soup, Brown a minced onion and some flour in butter. Stir in a pint of good sour cream. Add a quart of pea-broth, some salt and nutmeg. Let it boil a few minutes and pour it over toasted bread in the tureen. 68. “ Graupen Suppe ”— Unground Corn Soup. A breakfast cup of wheat must be put into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter. Stir till the latter is melted. Add water, and simmer it until the grain is quite soft. Season it with salt and pepper, chervil, parsley, or any other herb, minced fine. Have yoUis of eggs in the tureen; grate in a very little nutmeg, and pour in the boiling soup. 69. “ Kiimmel Suppe ”— Caraway Soup. Put two or three ounces of butter in a stew-pan, and brown in it as much flour as it will take ; then pour in the requisite quantity of water. Slice in some celery, an onion, a carrot, and a turnip. Boil these tender; then add some salt, pepper, and a handful of caraway-seeds. Boil them a quarter of an hour. Toast thin slices of brown or white bread; lay them in the tureen, and either strain the soup over, or put it in as it is.20 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 70. “ Kiimmel Suppe ”— Caraway Soup. (Xo. 2.) Boil a few slices of brown bread, or white bread toasted brown, and with it a teaspoonful of caraway-seeds, in as much water as you require, for half an hour. Rub it through a coarse sieve. Stir a piece of fresh butter to a cream in the tureen; add and stir together some eggs and salt. Pour the scalding soup over. 71. “ Baunncolle Suppe”—A Creamy, Flaky Soup. Put vegetables and herbs to boil in water, as if for meat soup. When done, strain them away, and again set on the water to boil. Stir two or three ounces of butter to a cream. For each person allow one egg and a tablespoouful of flour, well beaten with the butter. Add salt, white pepper, and a little nutmeg, if approved. Let this batter run, in a fine stream, into the hoiling water, and in four or five minutes it is done. 72. “ Sellerie Suppe ”— Celery Soup. Two or three heads of celery must be well washed and cut into small pieces. The outer pai’ts, w'hich are stringy, must not be cut up, but boiled in the soup with a thread bound round them. Fii'st put about two ounces of butter in a saucepan; add as much flour as it absorbs, aud let it brown slightly ; then stir in a little cold water. Add the celery and a small onion ; stew them till quite soft, then add the requisite water. Season with salt and pepper. Beat two or three eggs in the tureen. Toast slices of bread, and butter them hot. Pour the boiling soup upon the eggs and throw in the toast. Cover a few minutes, aud serve. 73. “ Panade Suppe ”— Panada Soup. Cut three or four rolls in slices. Put them on the fire in cold water. When it has boiled a few minutes, pass it through a sieve. Set it again over the fire. Stir three ounces of butter to a cream. Beat the yolks of four eggs with half a pint of cream or milk, a little nutmeg and salt. When the panada boils, stir in the butter well. Take it off the fire, and then stir in the eggs, &c. ; it must not boil again.21 SOUPS. MILK SOUPS, SWEET. 74. “ Milch Suppe”—Milk Soup, Three pints of milk, the yolks of two eggs, a tablespoonful of fine flour, a couple of peach-leaves or some lemon-peel, a little salt, and sugar to taste. Keep these stirred over the fire till on the point of boiling over. Have the whites of the eggs whisked to a stifl’ snow, with a little sugar. When the soup is poured into the tureen, take dessert-spoonfuls of the snow, sprinkle powdered cinnamon over, throw them into the soup, and serve directly. 75. “ Milch Suppe”—Milk Soup. {No. 2.) Mix a tahlespoonful of flour with the yolks of two eggs and a little milk. Stir this into a quart of boiling milk; pour it over toasted bread ; and serve with salt or sugar. Or: Have a quart of milk boiling. Beat an egg with a pinch of salt, and flour enough to make a thick batter; drop this into the boiling milk, and simmer a few minutes. Add powdered cinnamon and sugar, or salt. 76. “ Milch Suppe mil Nudeln ”—Milk Soup with Nudels. Boil a piece of vanilla in milk, with a handful or two of nudels. Keep stirring for a quarter of an hour, and serve with sugar. 77. “Milch Suppe mit Mandelklosse”—Milk Soup with Almond Klosse. Boil the milk with cinnamon or lemon-peel. Make a thickening of flour and milk, with yolks of eggs and a little salt. When serving, add “ Mandelklosse,” or “ Rice Klosse.” 78. “ Schaum Milch Suppe ”—Frothed Milk Soup. Pound six bitter almonds, and boil them in two quarts of milk; or, instead of the almonds, use half a stick of vanilla. Add sugar to taste and a little salt. Beat separately four eggs ; the whites must be whisked to a stiff snow, then mixed with the yolks. Let the milk just cease boiling, and whisk in the eggs till it froths well, but not over the fire, or the eggs wiU curdle. Serve with small sponge biscuits.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 22 79. “ Kurhis Suppe ”— Pumpkin Soup. Slice the pumpkin thin ; boil it in milk or water to a pulp, then stii' it smooth; add a piece of butter and sufficient sugar; thin it with milk in which you have boiled cinnamon or lemon-peel; add a little salt. Whisk a couple of eggs to froth in the tureen, and pour in the soup at the moment of serving. 80. “ Chocolade Supine ”— Chocolate Soup. Grate two ounces of chocolate and boil it in a quart of milk, with a piece of vanilla or cinnamon, and sugar to sweeten. Pour it boiling into the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Serve with rusks or toast. 81. “ Mandel Suppe”—Almond Soup. Blanch and pound, with a few drops of milk, a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds. Set them over a slow fire, with a quart of milk and some sugar. When it boils, stir it into the yolks of two eggs. Serve with toast. 82. “ Hackereis ”— A Clotted 2Iilk Souj). Beat an egg with a knife, adding flour till it will absorb no more; then put it on the pasteboard, dredge with flour, and chop it as small as split peas. Spiinkle it into boiling milk, in which you have steeped a pinch of safli-on. Let it boil from five to ten minutes, stirring constantly. Serve with sugar or salt. 83. “ Milch Suppe mit Zwiebeln”—Milk Soup mth Onions. Peel and slice thin some small white onions. Steam them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, but do not let them brown. Add them to milk, with salt, white pepper, and a lump of sugar. Let all simmer a few minutes. Servo with yolks of eggs in the tureen.23 SOUPS. ■ WINE SOUPS. 84. TVein Suppe ”— Wine Soup. Melt two ounces of butter in a stew-pan ; brown in it two tablespoonfuls of flour; stir into this a pint of water ; add three or four ounces of sugar, the rind and juice of a lemon, a stick of cinnamon, and a bottle of wine. Let it simmer ten minutes. Have the yolks of six eggs in a tureen. Pour the wine soup slowly into them, and serve with sippets of toast. 85. “ Wein Suppe ”— TFtne Soup. {No. 2.) Beat the yolks of eight eggs and whites of two. Add a bottle of wine, an equal quantity of water, the peel of a lemon, a stick of cinnamon, and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar. Stir constantly till it simmers, and serve over toasted slices of French roll. 86. “ Kloster Wein Suppe ”—Monastery Wine Soup. Boil a quarter of a pound of rice in a pint and a half of water until quite soft, and with it the thin yellow rind of a lemon. Add, by degrees, a bottle of any white wine. Sweeten with three or four ounces of sugar; and whisk in the yolks of four eggs when ready to serve. 87. “ Wem Suppe"— Wine Soup. (No. 4.) Simmer together two pints of wine, a pint of water, a stick of cinnamon, and sugar to taste. When it is on the point of boiling, stir well into it the yolks of four or six eggs ; and serve with sippets of sugared toast or sponge cakes. 88. “ Wem Suppe mit Citronen ”— Wine Soup ivith Lemon. Cut two lemons in thin slices ; take out the seeds. Cover the slices with powdered sugar in a tureen. Melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan, and throw in a cupful of grated bread to brown; keep the crumbs shaken or stirred until they are crisp, then strew them over the lemon slices. Make a quart of wine with a pint of water and sufficient sugar boiling hot. Pour it over the lemon shoes ; cover closely for a few minutes, and serve with sponge cakes.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 24 89. “ Wein Schaum Suppe”—Frothed Wine Soup. Beat four eggs and tlie yolks of four others in a stew-pan ; add four to six ounces of sugar, half a pint of water, the grated peel and rind of a lemon, and a hottle of white wine. Place it over a slow fire, and whisk it continually till quite frothy and on the point of boiling, hut no farther. Serve as soon as it is ready, or the froth will subside. Hand sponge or other light cake with it. 90. “Wein Suppe mit Citronen und Semmel"—Wine Soup with Lemon and Rolls. Boil one or two French rolls in water, with the rind and juice of a lemon, to a thin paste. Pass it through a sieve and make it hot again, with a little salt, sugar enough to sweeten, and white wine according to taste. Stir it, seeding hot, into the yolks of beaten eggs in the tureen. 91. “Wein Suppe mit Corinihen und Brod"—Wine Soup icith Currants and Bread. White wine, water, sugar, cinnamon, lemon-peel, and bread crumbs, according to taste and the quantity of wine, must be put on the fire to simmer. Add currants well washed and scalded ; let it come to a boiling heat, then stir it into the yolks of eggs in a tureen. The soup must be of creamy thickness. BEER SOUPS. 92. “ Bier Suppe ”—Beer Soup. Two quarts of beer that is not bitter, a stick of cinnamon, a few cloves, the thin rind of a lemon, and sugar to sweeten, must be simmered together. Beat in a tureen or bowl the yolks of six eggs and half a pint of cream. Strain on these the scalding beer, stirring all to a foam with the wire whisk. Serve hot with toast. 93. “ Schaunihier Suppe "— Frothed Beer Soup. A quart of beer, a quart of water, four well-beaten eggs, two tablospoonfuls of fine flour, the grated peel of half a lemon,sugar to taste, half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon.25 SOUPS. the same of grated ginger, or, should there not he fresh pow- dered cinnamon at hand, half a small nutmeg. Stir all together with a wire whisk over a brisk fire till the soup reaches a boiling point. Pour it quickly into the tureen, and serve with toasted rolls. 94. “ Bier Suppe mil Sago ”—Beer Soup tvith Sago. Boil, for twenty minutes, three pints of ale, two ounces of sago, the peel of half a lemon, a few cloves or a stick of cinna- mon, and sugar to yom- taste. A few minutes before serving, slice in half a lemon, very thinly, and add a glass of rum or brandy. 95. Bier Suppe mit Brocl ”— Beer Soup ivith Bread. A couple of rolls or some slices of bread must be boiled soft in a little water, then strained and beaten smooth. Add currants, lemon-peel, spice, sugar, and the beer. Boil all together until the currants are soft; then stir it briskly into yolks of eggs in the tureen. 96. “ Bier Suppe mit Milk ”— Beer Soup ivith Milk. Allow as much milk as beer, a quart of each. Boil the milk apart, and stir it rapidly into the yolks of four eggs; then add the grated peel of half a lemon, two tablespoonfuls of flour, sufficient sugar, half a teaspoonful of grated ginger, and some cinnamon or nutmeg. Stir all together, with the wire-rod, over a good fire, till it is on the point of boiling over; then pour it quickly into the tureen, and serve with toasted rolls. 97. “ Bier Suppe mit Kiitnmel ”— Beer Soup with Caraways. Use brown bread for this if you have it; if not, a couple of rolls must be boiled in a little water, strained, and beaten well with a fork. Proceed as in No. 95, using the same ingredients, excepting the currants, which must be omitted, and a large teaspoonful or more of caraways substituted. 98. “ Polnischer Thee ”— Polish Tea. Simmer a quart of ale with a large stick of cinnamon. Mix a couple of tablespoonfuls of potato meal with a little white wine, and stir it into the beer. Add a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, with which you have rasped ofi’ the yellow rind26 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, of a lemon, and half a bottle of white wine, with the juice of the lemon. Whisk in the yolks of four or five eggs, previously beaten with a little wine; and when ready to serve, add a glass of maraschino, and more sugar if required. This must be well stirred from beginning to end, and served from large jugs into cups. A tablespoonful of arrowroot may be used instead of the potato flour. FEUIT SOUPS. (“ Obst Suppen.”) 99. “ Aepfel Suppe”—Apple Soup. Boil apples with their cores until qmte soft, with slices of bread and some lemon-peel in sufficient water. Strain it through a sieve. Add sugar, a glass of wine, and some powdered cinnamon or nutmeg. Stir in yolks of eggs or cream, if approved. 100. “Aepfel Suppe mil Corinthen ”— Apple Soup irith Currants. Proceed with apples, bread, and lemon-peel as in No. 99. After straining, boU it again with currants, a cup of milk, and the requisite sugar, with a small teaspoonful of aniseeds if approved. A few cloves with the first boiling is an improvement. Another way is to leave out the spice, and when the soup is ready for serving, stir in some pounded sweet and bitter almonds. 101. “ Birnen Suppe ”— Pear Soup. Peal and slice half-a-dozen large pears. Boil them soft in three pints of water with a few cloves and a sliced roll. Strain through a coarse sieve, and reboil with sugar, a glass or two of wine, and the juice of a lemon. Servo with sponge cake. 102. “ PJlaumen Suppe ”— Pluni Soup. Brown some flour in butter ; stir in water to thin it. Put in plums with some cinnamon or cloves. Lot them boil to a mash, strain them, and add sugar, with equal parts of wine27 SOUPS. and water—about a pint of each to a quart of plums. Throw in a few whole plums, and simmer again till these are softened, but not broken. Add slices of toast a minute or two before serving. 103. “ Kirschen Suppe ”— Cherry Soup. Use black cherries, and proceed as for plum soup. Put a few cloves in at first. A pound of cherries to a quart of water will be found very good. After straining, break some of the stones and put the kernels into the soup. Add also a few whole cherries, towai’ds the last, only long enough to soften them. 104. “ Erdheeren Suppe ”—Strawberry Soup, Boil ripe strawberries, wth some rusks or slices of roll, in sufficient water until dissolved. Stir through a sieve ; add wine and sugar to taste ; make a thickening of arrowroot or potato flour, and boil the mass up again. When about to be served, add a saucerful of ripe strawberries which have been sprinkled with plenty of powdered sugar an hour or two previously. Note.—Any fruit soups can be made according to the foregoing directions, adding, or leaving out, certain flavours. Sponge cakes and macaroons may be served with these soups.Chapter II. HOES D’CEUVEES. Hors d’ceuvres should be provocatives, of the choicest kind, for the appetite. They must be as piquant as possible, prepared and served in small portions, -with every claim to tastefulness in form and colour. They are to be handed immediately after the soup. The above name is generally used, as comprising distinctly this class of dishes. 105. “ Stolzer Heinrich ”—Stolzer Heinrich. Small ham or other sausages, well tied at the ends, must be put into a fitting stew-pan, with sufficient ale to cover them, and simmered for half an hour; then take them out, and boil down the ale till it is reduced to a brown sauce at the bottom of the pan, with the fat floating on the top. Skim this off carefully. Add a wineglass of fresh ale, the same of red wine, a ladle of good gravy, a little vine- gar, sugar, and lemon-peel, a teaspoonful of caraways, two handfuls of grated brown bread, and ample seasoning of salt and pepper. Boil all to a thick smooth sauce, and pass it through a strainer. Lay the sausages into the sauce. Make all quite hot, and garnish with slices of lemon and green pickles. lOG. “ Sardellen Schnitten”—Sardine Fritters. Cut slices of roll, or loaf-bread, into equal sized shapes. They must bo a good half-inch thick, and enough of them to form a ring round the edge of a small dish. Beat two or three eggs, and mix with them rather more than theirHORS D’OEUVRES. 2y measure of milk. Soak the bread slices in this, and fry them in butter a delicate pale brown. Lay the slices round the edge of your dish, letting one slice rest on the edge of the other. Lay poached eggs in the middle of the dish, and put on them the following sauce, which must be just thick enough to spread. Mince the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs quite small. Chop tine some parsley, a little sprig of tarragon, and some pimpernel or burnet. Melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan ; put in the minced herbs, and stu- them a few minutes to soften ; then add salt, pepper, and the minced eggs, with a dessert-spoonful of gravy, the same of lemon- juice or vinegar, a spoonful of capers whole, a little oil and mustard, and, if required, a few crumbs to thicken. Stir all together. Put a small tuft on each poached egg, and spread the rest on the wreath of sippets. Take about a dozen of sardines, bone them and mince them small with a piece of butter and a little cayenne pepper. Divide and spread this on the sippets. Place them to warm for a minute in the oven, and serve directly after the soup. 107. “ Croqnctten von HuJin ”— Croquettes of Fowl. Strip the meat from a fowl, and cut it into small dice. Prepare a sauce of good gravy, a spoonful of flour, a glass of white wine, some dissolved gelatine, lemon-juice, the yolks of two or three eggs, salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Mix the fowl with the sauce, and let it get cold. Then form, with the addition of a few grated bread-crumbs, dimi- nutive sausages. Eoll these in egg, grated bread, and Parmesan cheese. Fry them in butter, a delicate yellow colour. These croquettes may be used as a garnish to any delicate vegetable, for which purpose make them the size of dates. 108. “ Canapces von Sardellen ’’— Canapees of Sardines. Slices of rolls must be cut nicely into octagon or oval shapes. Fry them yellow, in oil or butter, or toast them slightly. Strip sardines from the bones. Lay half of them aside, and pound the other half with the yolks of three or four hard-boiled eggs and sufiicient butter to form a paste. Mix in a little mustard, pepper, minced parsley, chives, tarragon, and a little vinegar. When all is rubbed smooth together, spread it over the prepared slices of roll. Lay onGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 30 this the other half of the sardines, cut into small strips; and on each croquette lay tiny shoes of pickled gherkins, with here and there a shelled prawn. 109. “ Macaroniin Coquillen Schalen ”—Macaroni in Scollop Shells. Boil macaroni in salted water. When quite soft, throw it into cold water to cool. Drain it on a sieve ; then cut it into pieces half an inch long. Melt a quarter of a pound of butter; add to it the macaroni, with some rich gravy, salt, pepper, a grate of nutmeg, some httle squares of well-boiled tongue, or some grated Parmesan cheese. Stir the whole well together, and fill scollop-shells, or, instead of these tasteful primitive patty-pans, use any small fancy forms. Strew more Parmesan cheese on the top, and spread on each some cray-fish or sardine butter; or, strew with grated crumbs, and pour over some oiled butter. Bake them a pale colour in a quick oven, or colour them before the fii’e. 110. “ Coteletten von Hase ”— Hare Cutlets. Divide the whole hack of a hare into cutlets, leaving in the bones. Dry them, and rub them with an ample seasoning of salt and black pepper, with which you have ground two or three cloves. Then dip them in egg, and coat them with grated bread-crumbs mixed with a delicate seasoning of finely minced herbs and grated lemon-peel. Fry the cutlets in butter. Dish them tastefully, sprinkle over lemon-juice or Chili vinegar, and garnish them with slices of hard-boiled eggs and green pickles. The other parts of the hare can always be used up some other way. Various other dishes are served as “ Hors d’muvres,” which are given under the respective headings of the fish, flesh, or fowl that forms their chief ingredient or substance. Such as— “ Crepinettes,” among the veal dishes. “ Austern in Coquillen Schalen,” among the fish. “Fisch Bagout in Coquillen Schalen.” “ Austern Pastetchen.” “ Fisch Pastetchen.”HORS D’CEUVRES. 31 “ Caviar Schnitten.” “ Croquetten von Fisch.” “lOopps,” among beef and veal dishes. “ Fleisch Vogel,” among veal, &c. “ Scbinkenschnittchen,” among pork. “ Gerbstete Zunge,” among beef dishes. “ Wiirstchen in Bntterteig.” And several others which are also served as entrees.Chapter III, FISCH —FISH. In choosing fish, the same rules by which to know their degree of freshness apply to all. They should be firm and stifif. If they bend in a supple way, and feel soft and flabby, they are not fresh. The scales should he bright, the eyes clear and firm, and the gills red. If these are of a faded pink colour, reject the fish. 111. “ Gestovter Aal ”— Steiced Eels. Clean and skin them. Cut ofi" heads and tails, and lay them in salt and water a few minutes. Cut them in pieces two or three inches long. Melt a piece of buttej in a stew-pan; dredge in some flour and let it brown; then stir in a cup of cold water. Lay in the eels, Avith three or four sage-leaves, tAvo bay-leaves, a tablespoonful of vinegar, a little spice, a shalot or clove of garlic, finely minced, salt and pepper. Cover close, and let them simmer half an hour. They must not boil fast to break. Take out the eels carefully ; and haA-ing taken out the sage and hay-leaves, add some browning and more thickening to the sauce if required, and pour it over the eels. They are good either hot or cold. 112. Gestovter Aal"—Stewed Eels. (Xo. 2.) Prepare eels as above. Melt a piece of butter in a stew- pan, and lay them in, Avith salt, pepper, half a lemon sliced, a little nutmeg or mace, and a saucer of bread-crumbs strewn between and over them, with some little pieces of butter on the top. Pour over a cup of broth or Avater, coA’cr closely, and letFISH. 33 them simmer an hour ; hut not boil, or they will break to pieces. 113. “ Gestovter Aal mit Bier ”— Stewed Eels ivith Beer. Eels stewed as above, using beer instead of water, will be found excellent. 114. “ Gehackener Aal ”•— Fried Eels, Skin, and cut them up. Lay them in plenty of salt and water for half an hour. Drain and dry them. Mix some finely chopped parsley and sage-leaves with grated bread. Roll the eels in egg, then in the seasoned crumbs. Fry them in butter a delicate brown. Season with salt and pepper when dished. If the eels are small, fry them in rings, with head and tail skewered together. 115. “ Gebratener Aal ”— Baked Eels. Prepare and season as above. Lay them in a baking-dish, packed closely together. Put little pieces of butter on the top, and pour milk in the dish, enough to keep them from drying. They are excellent wrapt in sage-leaves and baked as above. 116. “ Marinirter Aal ”— Marinaded Eels. Having skinned and laid the eels in salted water for some time, dry them well; cut them into two-inch lengths, and fry them in butter or fine oil; then sprinkle with salt, and lay them on a napkin to di-ain. When cold, pack them in a jar. Add to the butter, or oil, left in the frying-pan, a cup of vinegar, some chips of lemon-peel, two or three sliced shalots or a good-sized onion, a couple of bay-leaves, some black pepper, a blade of mace, four cloves, and a spoonful of salt. Simmer these twenty minutes. Let the marinade get cold, and then pour it over the eels, which must be covered with it. Pour a little fresh oil on the. top. In three days they are ready for use. 117. “ Marinirter Aal ”—• Marinaded Eels. {No. 2.) Lay the prepared and cut eels in a stew-pan. Cover them with equal parts of vinegar and water. Add all the season- ings given for stewed eels. Lot them simmer half an hour, uGEEJ.IAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 34 and cool without removing. Then take them carefully out, place them in a jar, and pour the marinade over them. They are ready for use at once. 118. “ Aal in Aspic ”— Eels in Jelly. Skin, and cut the eels in two-inch lengths, and wash them in salted water. Lay them in a stew-pan, with two or three sage-leaves, two or three sprigs of parsley, a couple of small bay-leaves or one larger, a small clove of garlic or a shalot, as approved, salt, pepper, a little white wine, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and just enough water to keep them from drjdng. Cover closely, and let them cook slowly in their own steam till quite tender. Let them remain, covered, in the stew- pan till quite cold; then part them carefuUy. Put a little nice fish or meat jelly in a mould. Lay in the eels length- ways. Fill up with more of the dissolved jelly; and turn out when quite set. 119. “ Austern in Coquillen Schalen” — Oysters in Scollop Shells. Put oysters and their liquid in a stew-pan, over a gentle fire to become hot. Add some lemon-juice, and let them stand a few minutes ; then drain the oysters and take off their beards. Eeturn the oyster gravy to the stew-pan. Add a little meat gravy or cream, and a little white wine. Thicken the sauce with flour and butter; season with salt, white or cayenne pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Stir until it boils. It must be very thick. Put in the oysters, and with them the yolks of two or three eggs. Fill scollop shells ; strew grated bread and Parmesan cheese over them; sprinkle some oiled butter on them; and give them a delicate colour in the hot oven or before the fire. 120. “ Austern im Ticycl ”— Oysters in the Pan. Any approved herbs, and an onion, must be minced fine and cooked soft, in a quarter of a pound of “ krebs,” or “ sardcllen butter” (see Index). Two dozen of oysters, freshly opened, must bo added and stirred in with their liquor, a cup of cream, salt, and pepper. Strew bread-crumbs plentifully over, and put the dish in a quick oven, or before the fire, long enough to cook the oysters, and tinge the crumbs a pale brown. Serve in the baking-dish.35 FISH. 121. “ Austern in Schalen ”— Oysters in the Shell. When served in their shells, arrange them neatly. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon ; serve lemon in halves, to squeeze over them. 122. “ Oehratene Austern ”—Baked Oysters. Take off the beards. Have ready some grated bread, seasoned with salt, ample pepper, and a little nutmeg. Dip each oyster in egg, roll it in the crumbs, and return it to its lower shell. Put on each a small piece of butter, and bake them a few minutes in the oven, or in a Dutch oven before the fire. Sprinkle with lemon-juice when ready to serve. 123. “ Falsche Austern"—Mock Oysters. Boil a calf s sweetbread in salted water. Wash some lower oyster-shells in cold water, and on each one lay a little finely minced herring—the Dutch herring is best. Cut the sweet- bread into small pieces, and dip them in seasoned bread- crumbs, as directed in No. 122. Lay each piece in a shell. Sprinkle sufiicient of the crumbs over them, with here and there a tiny piece of herring, and put a little butter on each. Give them a delicate browning before the fire. 124. “ Barhe," or “ Barbel”—Mullet. Clean them as usual, but do not take out the inside. Fry them delicately in butter, or broil them in buttered paper. 125. “ Barse,” or “ Barsch ”—Perch. {The Dutch Way.) Clean and scale them. Let the milt and liver remain inside. Have but little water in the fish-kettle, and boil in this a faggot of parsley, some salt, and white pepper. When the parsley is done soft, lay in the fish, with a piece of butter. Boil them gently ten or twelve minutes, and serve them in the sauce they were boiled in ; to bo eaten with bread and butter. 126. “ Barsch ”— Perch. {No. 2.) Boil the fish in very little water, with an onion, a bay-leaf, and some pepper. Grate some bread fine. Chop two hard- boiled eggs and some parsley very fine; mix these with the crumbs, a grate of nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Dish the fish ;GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 36 strew the mixture thickly over them; sprinkle them with some of the water they were boiled in, and pour over some butter wai'med to an oil. 127. “ Beignets von Fiscli ”—[Beignets of Fish. Mince the remains of any cold fish. Mix with it some fine bread-crumbs, warmed butter, salt and pepper, a little grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, and an egg to bind the mass. Form shapes like small sausages. RoU them in egg and bread-crumbs; fry them in butter; grate Parmesan cheese over; and garnish with crisped parsley. 128. “ Caviar Schnitten”— Caviar Croutons. Toast and butter neat slices of roll, or bread ; cut them, after toasting, into fanciful slices. Spread caviar on them. 129. “ Steinbutte”—Turbot. Draw the fish carefully, so that the gall does not break. Scrape and clean it well. Set it on the fire in cold salted water, merely enough to cover the fish. Let it come to a boil gently, after which simmer ten minutes. Dish it with the white side up, or skin the dark side. Serve with sorrel sauce, or any other preferred. 130. “ St. Petersjisch ”—John Borg. This is a delicate fish, and requires the same care as turbot. Boil it in the same way. Garnish with lemon- slices, parsley, hard eggs minced, &c. “Holstein ” or other fish sauce to be served with it. 181. “ Cotclcttes von Fisch ”—Fish Cutlets. Clean and skin any fresh fish, take out the bones, and chop it small. Chop an onion small and put it in a little stew- pan, w'ith a good piece of butter, to steam till soft, but do not let it brown. Rub it smooth, or mince it fine. Mix it and the oiled butter with the fish. Add rf cup of grated bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, a gi-atc of nutmeg, and an egg or two to bind the whole. Flour a pasteboard or flat dish; spread out the mass a good half-inch thick. Cut out little cakes. Lay them gently in a stew-pan of boiling water. Let them simmer till set. Lay them on a sieve to drain dry; then egg and crumb them, and fiy a delicate brown.FISH. 37 A little finely minced parsley, or a delicate seasoning of any favourite herb, may be mixed with the mass, but not as a mle. 132. “ Forellen ”— Trout. To boil these, as indeed several other kinds of fish, put vinegar, salt, sliced onion, bay-leaf, spice, and pepper into the water. Let this boil, to win the flavours; sot it aside to cool a little ; then lay in the fish and simmer slowly till done. Garnish, and serve with any approved sauce. 133. “ Forellen in Aspic ”— Trout in Jelly. Wash the trout carefully. Form them into rings with the tail in the mouth. Boil water as above, with a little vinegar, salt, a shalot, or clove of garlic, and any approved seasoning. When this is cold, lay in the fish, and simmer a few minutes after the water has just come to a boil. Take out the fish carefully, and, when drained, baste them with clear fish jelly. When the first basting has set, repeat another, until they have a nice coating of jelly. Then arrange them gently and garnish to taste. Any other fish, such as haddocks, whitings, smelts, &c., are good in this way. 134. “ Gebackene Hdringe.”—Fried Dutch Herrings. Wash them and cut ofif the fins. Lay them in milk to draw out the salt; then wipe dry and lay them in a little wine. Dredge them with a little flour; egg and crumb them ; and fry them in butter. Sauerkraut, potato salad, or potatoes in any foi-m, may be served with them. 135. “ Gebackene Fiische Hdringe ”—Fried Fresh Herrings. Clean and dry them thoroughly. Lay them open and draw out the bones. Grate bread and mix with the ci’umbs some pepper and a little nutmeg. Egg and crumb the fish, as also the roes. The herrings must have been opened along the under thin side, so that the back skin is not broken. Having proceeded as above, fold them together and fry them in very little butter. Egg and crumb the roes and fry them apart. Drain well before serving. Potato salad is excellent with these, or plain boiled potatoes and sour sauce.38 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, 136. “ Marinirte Haringe”—Marinaded Herrings. Lay white, salted herrings in milk or water for some hours to draw out the salt. Open them flat and take out bones and roes; do not break the latter, but halve them lengthways. Cut each half herring, slanting, into four pieces. Put a single layer of these in a glass or earthen jar. Lay between them some thinly-sliced shalot or onion, thin slices of lemon cut in four with two-thirds of peel taken away, here and there a piece of bay-leaf and a clove, with some bruised white pepper- corns. Thus complete the jar, with alternate layers of the herring, the roes, and the seasonings, all uncooked. Fill up with cold vinegar. Pour salad oil a third of an inch deep on the wnegar, which must cover the fish. Have onion, &c., on the top of the last layer. In two or three days they will he ready, and they will keep good a long time, afi'ording a nice relish for bread and butter, cold meat, or salads. 137. “ Gediinsteter Hecht”—Steiced Pike. Having cleaned and scaled the pike, lay it in plenty of salted water. Put a good-sized piece of butter in a stew- pan, with a large tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and either a shalot, an onion, a clove of garlic or some minced chives, a couple of slices of lemon, two or three cloves, salt and pepper. Cut up the fish into good-sized pieces. A pike of about four pounds’ weight is best this way. Add a glass of wine, the same of \dnegar, and a large cup of broth or water, to the stewed herbs. Lay in the fish packed closely together, cover, and let it simmer about half an hour. Mix three or four yolks of eggs with a cup of milk or cream. Pour this over the fish; strew in bread-crumbs to thicken the sauce. Let it come to a boil. Dish the fish carefully, put a piece of butter to melt in the sauce, and pour it over. 138. “ Gespickter Hecht ”—Larded Pike. Choose a largo fish. When cleaned, lard it thickly over with fresh bacon. Put butter in a baking-dish with a little water. Lay in the fish, in a ring, with the tail in its mouth; and bake in a brisk oven. When half done, strew fine bread- crumbs over, Avith pepper and salt. Baste occasionally, and when done a delicate brown, move the fish carefully on to a flat dish. Pour into the baking-dish a brown caperFISH. 39 sauce, or a sardine sauce. Add a good sprinkling of lemon- juice. Scrape in the cmsting of the dish. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve. 1B9. “ Oebratencr Hecht mit saurer Saline ”—‘Baked Bike with Sour Cream. Cut the pike in neat slices. Place them in an earthen baking-dish, with some butter at the bottom. Divide two bay-leaves into pieces, and put them, with slices of onion, between the fish. Strew with salt, and pour over half a pint of sour cream. Bake about twenty minutes in a quick oven, basting at intervals. Then strew over some fine bread- crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese. Bake a few minutes more, till delicately coloured. Dish without breaking the slices ; but take away the bay-leaf and onion. Pour enough broth or water into the baking-dish to make a sauce. Add pepper, salt, lemon-juice or vinegar; stir well round the crusting, and pour it over the fish. 140. “ Carhonaden von Hecht ”— Carbonade of Pike. Slices of pike, neatly cut, and cleiired of skin and bone, must be coated with fine herbs and oiled butter. After which, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and lade over some beaten egg with a spoon. Bake them a pale brown, and serve with a good sprinkling of lemon-juice and a little gravy made in the baking-dish. Carbonaden may be thus made with any other solid fish. 141. “ Angeschlayener Hecht ”—A Coated Pike. Clean a good-sized pike or carp, take out the gills, cut the tail fin shorter. Cut off the solid fish, so that veiy little is left on the backbone, and the head and tail remain perfect on it. Prepare the white meat of this and another fish as directed for fish “ cotelettes.” Make the mass rather thick or stiff. Put some butter in a baking-dish. Lay in the skeleton pike, and cover this with the mince. Smooth it over to a fish shape. Coat it with egg and bread-crumbs, and with Parmesan cheese or not. Baste with oiled butter. Cover the head and tail with paper, to prevent browning before tbe body of the fish is done through. Bake it in a moderate oven, and serve with any good fish sauce.40 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. Small cod or large haddock are very nice cooked in this way. Keep the form of the fish as much as possible in spreading on the mince. 142. “ Karpfen init Polnischer Sauce”—Carp idlh Polish Sauce. Lay thin slices of parsnip, celerj'^, and onion in a stew- pan, with a good-sized piece of butter, some salt, pepper, two slices of lemon, two bay-leaves, and six cloves. Split open the carp, leaving the hack whole. Lay it flat on the seasoning, with the back uppermost. Lay the head, tail, liver, and milt on the top, and with these a couple of thick slices of brown gingerbread, broken up. Pour over a tablespoonful or two of vinegar, and beer enough to barely cover the fish. Simmer all, till the fish is well done. Take it up carefully. Put the head back into the sauce, and stew this to a rich brown. Season it to taste, and strain it over the fish, which must have a thick brown glazing. 148. “ Karpfen in Brauner Sauce ”—Carp in Brown Sauce. Cut the cai'p in pieces, and pack them in a deep dish, strewing between some salt, pepper, three pounded cloves, a bay-leaf, a couple of slices of lemon, and a small shalot minced. Pour over a glass of wine and the same of vinegar. Cover, and let them stand a few hours. Melt some butter in a stew-pan, and dredge in as much flour as it absorbs, to brown. Thin this with very little water, just to keep the thickening from burning to a cake. Mince a rasher or two of bacon, and a small onion. Put these in the stew-pan, and drain in the pickle from the fish. When the sauce boils, lay in the fish, and simmer gently till done. Dish the slices whole, and strain the sauce over them. 144. “ Krebse zu Sieden”—To Boil Crayfish. Choose the largest and blackest fish. Among the various ways of boiling them are :—Fii-st. Boil an onion sliced, a few sprigs of parsley, a large teaspoonful of caraway-seeds, salt, pepper, a wineglassful of vinegar and two of beer, in just water enough to cover the quantity of fish. Let this boil ten minutes, then strain, and return the water to the saucepan. AVhen it boils again throw in the fish and cover them close, shaking occasionally. Allow ten minutes’ gentleFISH. 4J boiling. Dish them on a napkin arranging them as a pyramid, the heads upright. Or : Proceed as above, and put in a good piece of butter to boil with the fish. When done, cut off the smaller claws, bruise these with a weight or in a mortar, and return them to the liquor the fish were boiled in. Let this simmer down to a sufficient quantity of sauce, which may be thickened with a little flour and butter, strained, and served with the fish hot. 145. “ Lacks zu Sieden"—To Boil Salmon. Put in the proper-sized kettle just enough water to cover the salmon, with a glass of vinegar, a good sprig of rosemary, two bay-leaves, a shaving of lemon-peel, salt, whole pepper, and six cloves. Cover, and let it boil; then lay in the fish and boil it gently about five or ten minutes, according to its size. Draw the fish-kettle back then and let it stand aside for a quarter of an hour. Serve the salmon with oiled butter and chopped parsley. If to be eaten cold :—Take out the salmon carefully. Let the liquor get cold, then strain ; add a little more vinegar and some Florence oil to it. Lay in the fish and serve thus. 146. “ Lacks zii Braten"—Fried Salmon. Cut the salmon in slices an inch and a half thick. Pepper them, bind a large sage-leaf on each side, and fry them in butter, or broil on the gridiron. Oil, lemon-juice, or vinegar may be served with it. 147. “ Marinirter Lacks"—MaHnaded Salmon. Cut slices a good inch thick, and spread fine oil over them. Fry them a delicate brown, not dark. When cold, lay them in a deep jar. Boil some vinegar with salt, pepper, a sprig of taragon, a couple of bay-leaves, a small onion, and bit of lemon-peel. When this marinade is cold, strain and pour it over the salmon j add a little fresh oil on the top, and keep it covered for use. 148. “ Lacks in Asjnc ”—Salmon in Jelly. Boil a nice piece of salmon in very little water, and in a saucepan that will just hold it, as too much water takes the flavour from fish. When cold, cut it in small square pieces. Have ready a well-seasoned, clear fish jelly, which must beGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 42 thick and bright. Dissolve the jelly. Put a little of it in a mould, or deep pie dish ; then arrange in it portions of fish, not too close together, reversing the skin and pink sides. Cover these with liquid jelly. Let this set; then fill up with fish and jelly. Turn it out when quite cold. 149. “ Kaheljau ”— Cod May be boiled plain and served with sorrel or other sauce, or dressed as directed for pike ; or they may be fried in slices a delicate brown, garnished with slices of lemon and parsley, and served with oiled butter. 150. “ Laberdan,” or “ Stockjisch ”— Salt Cod. Must be well soaked over night, to draw the salt out. Set it on the fire in cold water, and let it just come to a boiling heat; then simmer a few minutes, and serve with pieces of butter melted on it, and any approved sauce. 151. “ Panfisch ”—A Fish Rock. Remains of cod, or other boiled fish, to be cleared from skin and bone, then minced fine. Mince an onion. Put it in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, and steam it soft. Then put in the fish, with salt, white pepper, and finely mashed or gi'ated potatoes. Stir aU well together, with a piece of butter. Make it hot; serve it nicely raised, with crumbs browned in butter sprinkled over, or prettily ornamented with narrow strips of pickled beetroot. 152, “ Makrelen ”— Mackerel. Boil a mai’inade of three-fourths water and one of vine- gar ; with pepper, salt, an onion sliced, a sprig each of tar- ragon or fennel, basilicum, and thyme. Simmer these a few minutes ; then lay in the fish, and let them simmer together twenty minutes. Serve with “ Holstein sauce.” If to bo eaten cold :—Cook as above ; take them up when done, and lay them in a deep dish; let the marinade get cold; add a little more vinegar; and pour it over the fish. 153. “ Scezuvffen”—Soles. These are dressed plainly in the English way. If boiled, skin them and cut oflf head and fins; lay them in boiling Avater Avith some salt; let them simmer about ten minutes, and serve Avith any plain sauce.FISH. 43 If fried Dry well, and egg and crumb them._ Fry on both sides a delicate brown, in butter or oil; spiinkle with lemon-juice, and serve with a little good gravy, made piquant with lemon-juice and pepper. 154. “ Roidetten von Seezungcn ”— Roulettes of Soles. Choose fine ones, take off heads, fins, and tails. Strip them from the bone. Cut small oblong fillets; lay them in a marinade of salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and a grate of nutmeg for half an hour. Roll the fillets egg-shaped, and bind them with thread. Pack them closely together in a stew-pan, with a little broth or water, to which add lemon- juice and some butter. Cover closely, and stew gently till done. Serve in their own sauce, or glaze them brown and serve as ragout. 155. “ Stor ”— Sturgeon Is better kept in a cool place a day or two before cooking. Fresh from the sea it is tough. Clean and wash it well. Set it on the fire in cold salted water, and let it come to a boil. Skim it while simmering. Prepare a marinade of water enough to cover the fish, vinegar, an onion, two bay-leaves, some herbs, salt, pepper, and lemon-peel. Boil these long enough to draw out all the flavours. Strain the marinade, and when the fish has come to a boil, take it up and put it into this. Let it simmer in it half an hour. Serve with parsley or other sauce. Any remaius of the fish may be laid in some of the pickle it was boiled in, adding more vinegar, when it will make a very good salad. 156. “ Zander ”— Perch. By means of a string through the eyes and tail draw the fish round into a ring. It may be boiled in flavoured water, as directed for sturgeon ; or in plain salt and water, with or without a sliced onion. “ Siichsische ” sauce is best with it. Garnish with minced eggs and parsley. 157. “ Hummer zu Sieden ”— To Boil Lobsters. These are mostly boiled with a handful of salt and a handful of caraway-seeds in the water. When it boils, putGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 44 in the lobsters; cover closely, and boil them slowly from fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to their size. 158. “ Muscheln zu Sieden ”—To Boil Mussels. Boil salted water, in which you have put a handful of caraway-seeds. Have the mussels well washed. Throw them into the boiling water, when a very few minutes will cook them. Thay are done when the shells open. 159. “ Grediinstete Muscheln ”— Stewed Mussels. Wash them well, and put them on the fire without water. As they get thoroughly hot the shells open and they must then he taken from the fii’e. Save the li(juor or mussel gi’avy which the shells have let out in opening. Pull oS the beards of the fish, as also the little dark brown tongue, and the little threads of seaweed by which they are attached to the shell. Thicken the mussel gravy with flour and butter ; season it with salt, pepper, a little powdered mace or nutmeg, and stir in the mussels. Warm them thoroughly in the sauce, but do not let them boil. Serve with sippets of toast and lemon-juice. 160. “ Coquillen von Muscheln”—Scolloped Mussels. Well wash and drain the mussels. Put them in a deep dish or pan, and pour some milk over them; they will take in this and become white and fattened. Put them on the fire without water, two or three hours after the milk feed. Take them oflf as soon as the shells are opened. Pour their liquor into a basin to settle. Pull off the beards, tongues, and weed of the mussels, these being the indigestible parts. Pour the mussel gra%7- gently into a stew-pan, not disturbing the sediment in the basin. Make the liquor hot. Put in a piece of butter, some salt, ample pepper, a little nut- meg or mace, and as many bread-crumbs as the gravy will absorb to thicken it. Then stir in the mussels, and let them get quite hot, but not boil. Have well-cleaned, either scollop, large mussel, or deep oyster shells. Fill these with the stewed mussels; sprinkle over them a little oiled butter; give thorn a tinge of colour before the fire, or with a salamander; and serve with lemon-juice squeezed over.45 FISH. 161. “ Fisch Ragout in Coquillen Schalen”— Fish Ragout in Scollop Shells May be made of any uncooked fish, cleai’ed of skin and bone. Cut it into very small jneces, but do not mince it to a pulp. Melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan. Put in the fish, with some salt and lemon-juice, to stew gently till done. Prepare in another casserole a little good gravy, a small glass of white wine, some gi'ated ginger, a little nutmeg and grated lemon-peel, and a little cayenne pepper. Thicken this sauce with flour and butter to a good consistency, and keep stirring until it boils, and is quite thick, then add the fish and the yolks of two or three eggs, with a piece of “ crayfish,” or “ sardine butter.” Fill scollop-shells with the ragout; strew over a mixture of grated bread and Parmesan cheese, sprinkle over a little oiled butter and set them in a quick oven to colour a nice yellow. 162. “ Croquetten von Fisch ”— Croquettes of Fish. Prepare a fish ragout, as in No. 174. Put in it enough dissolved gelatine to bind it when cold and season so as to make it veiy savoury and piquant. Stir in with the warm ragout a handful of grated bread. "When quite cold, cut oblong pieces and roll them into small sausages. Dip these in egg and roll them in, or strew over them, mixed grated bread and Parmesan cheese. Let them be well coated with this. Fry them in butter a pale brown, and garnish them with sliced gi-een pickle and crimped parsley. 163. “ Krebs Butter"— Crayfish Butter. This is a great delicacy for sauces, and for giving colour, richness and flavour to those dishes for which it is recom- mended. When crayfish soup, or fricassee is to be prepared, pick out the meat of freshly boiled crayfish, pound the shells and small claws in a marble mortar, add butter, and pound all into a paste. Put the mass into a stew-pan, and stir it over a slow fire, till the butter boils and looks red. Then pour in a cup of boiling water, and let it simmer a few minutes. Strain through a hair-sieve. When cold, take the red butter off the top and press it into ajar for use. The water, being flavoured by the shells, should be used for the soup or fricassee.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 46 Two dozen of good-sized crayfisli will be found enough for half a pound of butter. 164. “ Sardellen Butter ”— Sardine Butter. Wash a dozen of sardines quickly in cold water. Scrape off any scales and take the bones out. Pound the prepared fish in a marble mortar, with a piece of fresh butter, adding by degrees more and more butter, until half a pound is mixed in. Add a little cayenne pepper and some salt, and work into a smooth paste. The sardines in oil, which are imported in small boxes or bottles, need not be washed; merely scrape off the scales and take out the bones. Ample salt must be added with the caj'enne pepper in the pounding. Press the paste into a jar or into small potting-pans. Sardine butter is excellent for sandwiches, or spread on toast, to be handed after the soup at dinner. 165. “ Anchovis Butter”—Anchovy Butter May be prepared in the same way as sardines, and is equally useful. A very little ground mace may be added with the cayenne pepper if.approved.Chapter IV. SAUCES. Where many sauces are required, it saves much time and expense to keep on hand the following “ Coulis,” or stock, which may become the foundation of, and be converted into, almost any sauce, taking the name of the chief ingredient added for its completion. 166. “ Braune Coulis ”— Brown Gravy Stock. Cut in small pieces a pound of lean veal or beef and half a pound of lean ham or bacon, both uncooked. Put them in a stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a carrot cut in slices, a root of celery and one or two of parsley, two or three shalots or an onion sliced, six cloves, and half a teaspoonful of pepper. Set these over a good fire, stirring occasionally till the whole begins to brown. Dredge in as much flour as the fat will absorb. Let this brown well; keep stimng that it may not burn; then add by degrees some plain broth and gravy, if you have any remains, to thin it. Cover closly, and let it simmer for an hour beside the fire. The stock must be thick as cream when done. Strain it through a sieve into an earthen vessel; leave it in a cool place, and take the fat off when cold. It will keep good two or three weeks in winter, and half the time in summer, if not covered closely, and if it is refreshed once or twice by giving it a boil. 167. “ Wcisse Coulis ”— White Gravy Stock Is made with veal, as above, excepting that the flour must bo added just as the gravy flrst drawn is beginning to turn yellow. Add clear broth before the flour has time to brown, and finish as directed.48 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. The broth used for this couUs may be made of any hones or cuttings of meat, with a milt or two, or some slices of ox liver. 168. “ Braune Kraft Sauce ”— Good Brown Sauce. Put some butter and sliced onion in a small casserole; let them brown, dredging in flour till it forms a crust and browns also. Add some sliced carrot, parsley, thi-ee cloves, a bay- leaf, some pepper and salt. When these have steamed awhile, pour over some broth or gravy. Add anj"^ finishing flavour to predominate; such as chopped anchovy or sardines, lemon peel and juice, catsup, capers or herbs, with a slight addition of Chili vinegar. Give the whole a boil, and strain it. 169. “ Weisse Kraft Sauce”— Strong White Sauce. The same ingredients as above, leaving out bay-leaf and cloves. Steam slowly instead of sufliering them to brown. Add a little cream or milk. 170. “ Mostrich Sauce ”—^Justard Sauce. Two tablespoonfuls of mustard, a teaspoonful of flour, the same of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, a teacupful of water, a spoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Mix these well. Melt two ounces of butter in a casserole, add to it the above ingredients, and stir unceasingly till the same boils. Add water or vinegar if too thick; it must pour creamy. A spoonful of tarragon vinegar is desirable in this sauce, or thinly sliced pickles of any choice kind may be added. Note—This sauce is excellent with any kind of meat or fish. 171. “Braune Mostrich Sauce”—Brown ]\Iustard Sauce. Melt two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, dredge in a spoonful of flour, and stir till it browns. Add two minced shalots, three tablespoonfuls of brown mustard mixed smooth with water, half a teacup of good vinegar, a cup of broth, water, or brown gravy, a little salt and sugar. Stir till the same boils. 172. “ Sen/ Sauce ”— Another Mwstard Sauce. Mix a tablespoonful of flour with a piece of butter; put it in a saucepan and stir till it is yellow, then add a cup of49 SAUCES. broth or water, a little vinegar, salt, pepper, and two table- spoonfuls of mustard. Give it a boil, and serve. 173. “ Sanerampfer Sauce"—Sorrel Sauce. Wash a few handfuls of sorrel-leaves and chop them small, together with a few chives or half a small onion. Put these with a piece of butter in a small cassei’ole, cover, and leave to. steam. Add sufficient broth or water, thickened with a tablespoonful of flour. Boil until the sorrel softens. Add salt and grate of nutmeg. 174. “ Sauerampfer Sauce ”— Sorrel Sauce. {No 2.) Make a plain melted butter of the usual thickness. Throw in a good handful of chopped sorrel-leaves. Have the yolks of two eggs in the sauce tureen, and when the sorrel is enough boiled, stir the sauce into the tureen. Add a spoonful of salt and some lemon-juice to taste. 175. “ G-urhen Sauce ”— Cucumber Sauce. Peel one or two cucumbers ; halve them longways and take out the seeds. Cut them in thin slices, and put them in a saucepan with clean broth or water sufficient, a piece of butter, a spoonful of flour mixed smooth with milk or cream, a shalot minced fine, a little vinegar or lemon-juice, and some salt. Boil tiU the cucumber is soft. 176. “ Kren," or “ Meerrettig Sauce"—Horseradish Sauce. Put half a pint of broth in a saucepan with a tablespoon- ful of flour, mixed with butter, to thicken. Wash and scrape a stick of horseradish ; grate it fine ; boil it in the above two or three minutes; and add a little sugar and vinegar or lemon- juice. 177. “ Meerrettig Sauce"—Horseradish Sauce. {No. 2.) Use milk instead of broth ; thicken it with flour and butter. Put in the horseradish with salt and a grate of nut- meg. Boil it a few minutes. if you wish the sauce very mild, use equal parts of horse- radish and grated bread. 178. “ Schnittlauch Sauce ”— Chives Sauce. Melt a piece of butter in a small stew-pan, and put in a spoonful of flour 6r a handful of bread-crumbs ; stir till it £50 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, turns yellow. Pour in sufficient broth; add finely minced chives, according to the thickness and strength of flavour desired. Salt, and let it boil a minute or two. Another way.—Boil bread-crumbs in broth till smooth and thick. Add then a piece of butter, salt, and plenty of minced chives. Stir well, and let it simmer a few minutes before serving. 179. “ Petersilien Sauce ”— Parsley Sauce. May be made as directed for the chives. A little finely minced shalot or onion may be boiled in from the begin- ning, and two or three tablespoonfuls of chopped pai-sley used. Another way.—Make a white butter sauce; when enough boiled and salted, throw in a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and let it boil up. 180. “ Butter Sauce ”—Butter Sauce. Put a cup of milk or water in a saucepan, with two ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of flour, a little salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Stir it over a gentle fire till it boils ; then take it off; add an ounce more of fresh butter, and keep stirring till it is melted. Let the stew-pan be large enough for plenty of stin'ing, that the butter may be light and creamy. Any adjuncts may be used with this, such as lemon-juice, tarragon nnegar, fish essences, &c. 181. “ Bechamel Sauce ”— Bechamel Sauce Is a favourite everywhere, and worth makmg well. Peel about a dozen small white onions, or an equal proportion of larger ones. Slice them very thin ; put them in a saucepan with a slice of lean ham, a few white peppercorns, and two or three ounces of fresh butter. Cover close, and let them steam over a gentle fire till soft, taking care that they do not brown. ML\ two tablespoonfuls of flour with a little cream and half a pint of good clear broth or white stock. Stir well till it becomes a smooth and nicely thickened sauce. Salt and strain it. 182. “ Sahneu Sauce''— Cream Sauce. The yolks of three eggs, an egg-sized piece of butter, a large teaspoonful of flour, half a pint of cream, a grate ofSAUCES. 51 1 nutmeg and a little salt, must be stirred constantly over the fire till the sauce thickens ; then take it ofif at once, for if it boils the eggs will curdle, and thus it will be spoiled. 183. “ Spargel Sauce”—Asparagus Sauce. Stir the yolks of two or three eggs with a little cream, a dessert-spoonful of flour, a little salt and nutmeg, an egg- sized piece of butter and half a pint of the water in which the asparagus was boiled. Stir continually till the sauce is thick. A little lemon-juice or vinegar maybe added, but not enough to taste acid. 184. “ Blumenkohl Sauce ”— Cauliflower Sauce. May be made exactly as above, using the water in which the vegetable was boiled. 185. “ HoUdndisehe Sauce mit Wein ”—Dutch Sauce. Stir the yolks of three eggs with a good teaspoonful of flour, a glass of white wine, the same quantity of water, a grate of nutmeg, and a little sugar. Stir till near boiling; add a quarter of a pound of butter, and the juice of half a lemon. Stir till the butter is melted, but do not let it boil. This sauce may receive any name by adding oysters, minced sardines, chives, capers, tarragon, or any other leading ingredient. 186. “ Kapern Sauce ”— Caper Sauce. Make a creamy butter sauce, with or without yolks of eggs. Add salt, a grate of nutmeg if approved, capers enough to thicken, and some of their vinegar or the juice of half a lemon. 187. “ Braune Kapern Sauce ”—Broivn Cagwr Sauce. Half a pint of good brown gravy, a glass of red wine, a little salt and lemon-juice. Use the usual brown thicken- ing, and two tablespoonfuls of capers. 188. “ Oli/ven Sauce ”— Olive Sauce. Prepare the same ingredients as for caper sauce 186. Cut one side of the olives, and take out the stones. Put them into the butter sauce, and simmer till the olives are tender. Add lemon-juice or vinegar-GEKMAJSr NATIONAL COOKERY, 52 189. “ Estragon,” or “ Bertram Sauce ”—Tarragon Sauce. Brown some flour in butter, and thin it with brown gravy. Add a teaspoonful of finely chopped tarragon-leaves, a glass of wine, the juice of a lemon, and salt to taste. Sim- mer it a few minutes. If green tarragon is not at hand, use minced parsley and tarragon vinegar. 190. “ Pomeranzen Sauce zu Wilden Enten, dec."—Orange Sauce for Wild Ducks, dc. Boil the peel of two Seville oranges until soft; drain, and cut them in very thin strips. Put these in a saucepan with a glass of white wine and a cup of clear gravy without spicy flavour. Squeeze in the juice of the oranges; add a little cayenne pepper, and, if not acid enough, some lemon- juice. Pour the sauce over the ducks when served. 191. “ Gelhe Riiben Sauce”—Carrot Sauce. Grate a large carrot; warm a piece of butter in a sauce- pan ; put in the caiTot; add some good soup or gravy, salt, j)epper, parsley chopped fine, and a little lemon-juice. Let it stew till quite smooth and thick. 192. “ Sauce zu Kalbskopf”—For Calf's Head. Steam two or three sliced onions or shalots in butter till they are brown. Add a large spoonful of flour and some brown stock or broth, a sliced caiTot, a parsley-root, a bay- ' leaf, the peel and juice of half a lemon, some white pepper, and salt. Let all simmer half an hour; then pass it through a coarse strainer. Eeturn it to the saucepan to make it hot. Add a piece of fresh butter, a lump of sugar, a small glass of white wine, and cayenne popper and lemon-juice enough to make it piquant. 198. “ Saure Eier Sauce "— Sour Egg Sauce. Mix half a pint of two-thirds water and one-third vinegar. Stir into this the yolks of three eggs, a teaspoonful of flour, about an ounce of butter, and a grate of nutmeg. Stir the sauce actively over a brisk fire till it thickens and is at a boiling point; then take it olf, and, continuing to stir, put in two or throe little pieces of butter, some salt, and a dust of white pepper. If not sour enough, add Icmon-juice.SAUCES. 53 194. “Sauce Tomato "—Tomato Sauce. Lay a slice or two of lean ham in the bottom of a small stew-pan, with a piece of butter. Cut ten or twelve tomatos in halves, and put them in with a shalot or small clove of garlic, two cloves, a bay-leaf, and a little pinch of cayenne pepper. Cover close, and let it steam till quite soft; then take out the ham and onion. Add a tittle stock or gravy, in which mix a teaspoonful of potato meal or flour. Add salt and a little lemon-juice. Simmer a few minutes, and pass it thi-ough a coarse strainer. 195. Saure Saline Sauce”—Saur Cream Sauce. Put a cup of cream or milk in a saucepan, with a piece of butter and a tablespoonful of flour. Keep stirring till it boils. Add salt and nutmeg. When about to serve, stir in quickly enough lemon-juice or white vinegar to taste rather acid. 196. “ Zwiehel Sauce ”— Onion Sauce. Cut in slices about six large onions. Steam them with a piece of butter in a covered saucepan till they are quite soft and turning yellow. Add a tablespoonful of flour, some broth, tarragon vinegar, a lump of sugar, and a glass of white wine. Stir until the same is smooth and thick. Pass it through a coarse strainer, make it hot again, and serve. 197. “ Zwiehel Sauce Piquant ”— Onion Sauce. The same as above; adding salt, white pepper, more vinegar, and a good teaspoonful of mustard flour. It should be highly seasoned. Is excellent with steaks, cut- lets, sausages, roast mutton, &c. 198. Zwiehel mit Kummel”— Onion Sauce with Caraways. Slice half a dozen onions. Boil them with a teaspoonful of caraway-seeds in broth till soft. Mix a spoonful of flour with butter and salt; add this, and let it boil a few minutes, stirring all the time. 199. “ Saure Zwiehel Sauce ”— Sour Onion Sauce. Chop three or four onions and brown them in butter; dredge a good spoonful of flour in; add a cup of broth or water, salt, pepper, mustard, and vinegar to tasto acid. Boil until quite smooth.54 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 200. “ 8peck Sauce zu Salute ”—Bacon Sauce. Cut a quarter of a pound of rather fat bacon into dice, no larger than a good-sized pea. Fry it a pale brown in a little saucepan. Mix a spoonful of flour with water. Stir into this the yolks of three eggs and a teacupful of water and vinegar in equal parts. Add salt and pepper. Pour all upon the bacon, and stir until it becomes a thick sauce, but not too thick to pour when cold. 201. “ Speck and Zwielel Sauce ”— Bacon and Onion Sauce. Eashers of streaked bacon or of ham, cut into very small dice, must be fried a minute slowly in a stew-pan ; then add two or three flnely chopped onions ; stir them amongst the bacon; dredge mth a little flour, and keep stirring till the onion is coloui'ed a pale brown. Add salt, pepper, a wine- glass of vinegar, and the same of water. Stir well for a minute or two and pour it over potatoes. This is eaten without meat. Small potatoes boiled in their skins, then peeled and sliced thin and the above poured over, gives a popular form of potato salad. Or the sauce served in a tureen is excellent wdth veal cutlet, boiled fowl, &c. 202. “ Truffel Sauce ”— Truffles Sauce. Wash and peel half-a-dozen truffles ; put them, sliced, in a stew-pan, with one or two shalots or a little onion and parsley, a piece of butter, some salt, and a glass of wine. Let them stew, closely covered, till reduced and soft; then add sufficient broth, or gravy and water, a little grated ginger, and some flour thickening. Boil again ten minutes and skim the fat oflf. This sauce may be made bro\vn or white, according to either of the methods alread}’ described. 208. “ Schwarze Sauce”—Black Sauce, for Game, Fish, Cutlets, d'c. Brown two tablespoonfuls of flour and a chopped onion in butter ; add some brown stock or gra\y, a bay-leaf, three cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, some salt and black pepper, a dozen crushed juniper-berries, two tablespoonfuls of black currant preserve, a tablcspoonful of vinegar, a glass of red wine and a spoonffll of Chili vinegar, or, instead of this, a little cayenne pepper. Boil a few minutes and strain the same.SAUCES. 55 204. “ Krauter Sauce”—Herb Sauce, for Veal, Poultry, Cutlets, d'C. Take sprigs of any green herbs, such as thyme, winter savoury or basilicum, marjoram, very little tarragon, and some parsley. Of the strong herbs, each must be used according to its strength. Wash them well, strip the leaves from the stems, and mince them fine. Mix them into a piece of butter and some flour, as if for thickening. Put them in a saucepan with some broth or gravy and water, and stir till it boils. Add salt, pepper, lemon-juice or vinegar. Let it all simmer a few minutes, then strain, and pour it scalding hot over the yolk of an egg. 205. “ Salbei Sauce ”— Saye Sauce. Mince very small six or eight large green 'sage-leaves, or a dozen smaller ones. Chop two onions fine. Put these together in a stew-pan with a small piece of butter ; dredge over a little flour, cover close, and let them steam a few minutes. Add a tablespoonful of vinegar and some broth or stock gravy, salt and pepper. Simmer till the onion is soft and smooth. Excellent with roast pork. 206. “ Morclieln Sauce ”—Morel Sauce. Wash a few morels and put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter. Cover close, and let them steam till soft. Brown some flour in butter; thin this with sufficient gravy or stock. Add the morels, and with them a little grated lemon- peel and some juice. 207. “ Schalotten Sauce”—Shalot Sauce. A dozen of sliced shalots and an egg-sized piece of butter must be covered in a stew-pan and steamed till soft; then add bread-crumbs or flour, with broth or water enough, salt and pepper. Stir well together and boil five minutes longer. 208. “ Schiller Sauce zu Wild, Coteletten, d'c.”— Schiller Sauce, for Game, Cutlets, dc. ■Use an enamelled stew-pan for this. Put in it a piece of butter and a couple of shalots or an onion sliced. Let them fry till soft and brown, but not burnt. Add half a pint of good brown stock or gravy drawn from lean beef, and a quarter of a pound of tamarinds, thi’oe cloves, a bay-leaf, a56 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. wineglassful of claret, a little cayenne pepper, and some salt. Cover, and let the sauce simmer twenty minutes. Add sugar browning to give a rich dark colour. If too acid, use a spoonful of brown sugar or molasses. Strain it, and ser\'e with venison, game, or cutlets. It is good either hot or cold. 209. Braune Champignon Sauce”— Broum 2Iushroom Sauce. Rinse and peel mushrooms; break them in pieces; fry them in butter in a small stew-pan a nice pale brown colour ; add some gravy or broth, lemon-juice, and salt. Or, brown some flour in butter, add 'water, salt, and pepper to this; pour it over the mushrooms, stew a few minutes, and serve. 210. “ Weisse Champignon Sauce ”—White Mushroom Sauce. Use only white and pink mushroons, or leave out the dark parts; cut them small and put them in a stew-pan with a cup of cream or milk, a piece of butter, and some white pepper. Cover close, and let them stew gently till soft; then add the requisite clear broth for the quantity desired ; mix with a little of the broth enough flour to thicken. Let the sauce remain simmering a few minutes longer; add salt to taste, and a grate of nutmeg. A handful of the small button mushrooms may be left whole, and stewed in the sauce from the first. FISH SAUCES. 211. “ Austern Sauce ”— Oijstcr Sauce. Let the oysters be opened so that their liquor can be sa%'ed. Cut off the beards and put them into a stew-pan with some good white stock, a few crushed white peppercorns, a hay- leaf, a chip of lemon-peel, and the liquor of the oysters. Boil this a few minutes and strain. Put a good sized piece of butter into the stew-pan, with flour, as usual, for thicken- ing, according to the quantity of sauce required. Add a little powdered mace or nutmeg, and the sauce; stir until thick and smooth. When it has boiled a minute or two set it back from the fire ; stir in the oysters with the juice of a lemon, aSAUCES. 57 glass of white wine (French or German), and some white pepper and salt; lastly, stir in the yolks of two or three eggs, and make all thoroughly hot, but not to boil, or the oysters will become hard. 212. “ Braune Austern Sauce ”— Brown Oyster Sauce. The same as above, but use brown stock instead of white, and brown the flour in butter with a finely minced shalot. Leave out the egg-yolks, and substitute red wine for white. A quarter of a hundred of oysters, prepared as above, is enough sauce for six or eight people. Halve the ingredients and use a dozen oysters for a smaller portion. 213. ‘^Butter Sauce"—Butter Sauce. Two or three ounces of butter and as many spoonfuls of flour mixed in, with salt and a grate of nutmeg. Add this to sufficient of the water in which the fish was boiled. Stir constantly till it boils and is of a creamy thickness. When serving, stir in the yolks of two eggs. 214. “ Muschel Sauce"—Mussel Sauce. Wash well two quarts of mussels. Put them in a sauce- pan without water, cover close, set them over the fire, and shake the saucepan occasionally. When the shells are open they are done. Turn them out into a dish, saving all the liquor. Take the beards off the fish, and also the little brown tongue to which is attached a piece of seaweed. Strain the liquor which was drained from them. Pour it gently into a stew-pan that no sediment may flow. Add to this a thicken- ing of flour and butter, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and a little nutmeg. Stir till it boils. Have in the tureen one or two yolks of eggs; stir the sauce into them. Put in the mussels, and let the whole get quite hot. A little white wine is an improvement. 215. “ Krebs Sauce ”— Crayfish Sauce. Pick a dozen crayfish, or more, according to the sauce re- quired. Crush the tails and little claws in a mortar. Put these and the rest of the shells in a stew-pan, with a good half-pint of water, and let them boil five minutes. In the meantime, pound the picked meat in a mortar, or mince it fine on a dish or marble slab. Delicacies of this sort shouldGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 58 not be minced on wood, because it absorbs the juices and flavours. Strain the water from the boiled shells, and wth this liquor put two ounces of butter mixed with a dessert- spoonful of flour. Stir the same till it boUs. Add salt, cayenne pepper, a little mace or nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon. Mix the yolk of an egg with the minced meat. Stir this well into the sauce, and make it quite hot, but do not boil it again. 216. “ Gamelen Sauce”—Prawn or Shrimp Sauce. Prawn or shrimp sauce may be made as directed above for crayfish. Pinse the fish in cold water before picking. Put the heads and other pickings in a stew-pan with as much hot water as you want for sauce. Boil them two or three minutes, then strain and let the liquor settle. Chop or pound part of the fish, put the rest in whole, proceeding in all else as above. 217. “ Holstein Sauce” for Boiled Fish — Holstein Sauce. Melt a good-sized piece of butter in a saucepan; stir into it a tablespoonful of flour, then a cup of the water in which the fish was boiled, and one-third as much white wine. Stir the sauce until it boils. If too thick, add more fish water. Season it with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Have the yolk of an egg in the tureen, and the juice of a lemon. Stir the boiling sauce into this, and put in a walnut-sized piece of butter, which may oil on the top. 218. “ Sardellen Sauce”—Sardine Sauce. Take the bones out of six or eight sardines. Prepare a butter-sauce, with broth or water, of the usual thickness. Boil in this the bones of the sardines, a finely minced shalot, a bay-leaf, some pepper, nutmeg or mace, and a little lemon- juice. IVhen the flavours are drawn, strain the sauce, and add to it the fish chopped small. “ Sardine Butter,” as directed under this heading, furnishes a fish sauce at the moment, both good and useful. 219. ‘Hyiimmel Sauce”—Caraira;/ Sauce. Make a plain melted butter sauce, rather thick. Put into it a teaspoonful of caraway-seeds, and a little sugar. Add vinegar or lemon-juice enough to give an agreeable acid.SAUCES. 59 Stir well till it boils again, then take it from the fire, and stir it into the yolks of two eggs. Good with whiting, smelts, or other delicate fish. 220. “ Sdchsische Sauce ”—Saxony Sauce. Put a piece of butter in a casserole, with a tablespoonful of flom', to thicken till almost haked. Then add the requisite quantity of water in which fish was hoiled, a minced shalot, a little white wine, a little pale vinegar, and a good teaspoonful of mustard; the latter should predomi- nate. Stir until it boils well. When about to be served, put into it some very thin slices of lemon and a piece of cold butter to make it oily. 221. “ Hilriny Sauce ”—Herring Sauce. Lay a Dutch herring in milk or water to soak out the salt, then take out the bones and mince it fine. Put a piece of butter in a stew-pan with two or three minced shalots or an onion; let them steam soft; then add a tablespoonful of flour to thicken, and j)our on it half a pint of broth or water. Add two hay-leaves, some pepper, and lemon-juice or vinegar, and let the sauce hoil five minutes. Then take out the bay- leaves ; put in the minced fish with a piece of cold butter ; let this warm, and when serving stir in the yolks of two eggs. 222. “ Fasten Sauce, Weiss”—Fust-day Sauce, White. Have a quarter of a pound of hutter, and three tahle- spoonfuls of flour, mixed smooth in a stew-pan. Stir into this a pint and a half of clear fish hroth, and boil it as usual. Have stewed, in another saucepan, in thin slices, an onion, a carrot, a head of celery, some parsley, and a piece of butter; these also must he cooked in a little fish hroth; and when they are done soft, add the butter sauce. Boil all well together, add any other seasoning, strain it, and it is ready for use in any quantity. Lemon-juice or white vinegar may be added at will. 223. “Fasten Sauce Braun”—Fast-day Sauce, Brown Is the same as above, except that the flour must be browned in the butter at first, and the roots also browned in butter before the fish broth is poured in.6o GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 224. “ HolldndiscJie Fisch Saxice ”— Dutch Fish Sauce, Put a cup of fish broth in a casserole wth two ounces of butter, the yolks of three eggs, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, the juice of a lemon, and some salt and white pepper. Stir it constantly till it boils; then take it from the &e, stirring on for a few seconds. Either pour it over the hot fish, or serve it in a sauce tureen. 225. “ Eier Sauce zu Fisch”—Egg Sauce for Fish. Beat four eggs well. Stir into them a pint of fish broth, which must not he scalding hot. Add the juice of a lemon or a tablespoonful of white vinegar. Stir it over the fire without ceasing until it boils and thickens. Add cayenne pepper and salt to taste. COLD SAUCES AND CONDIMENTS. (“ KALTE SAUCEN.”) 226 “ Kaiser Serif ”—Imperial Mustard. An ounce of sardines, an ounce of shalots, two ounces of capers, and a quarter of an ounce of garlic, all chopped small, must be boiled ten minutes, in half a pint of water. Press them as you strain this water off for use. Add to the water half a pint of tanragon vinegar and a gill of common vinegar; boU them up together. Scald with this a pound of mustard, half brown, half yellow. Stir it very smooth, and lastly add a large tablespoonful of salad oil, and a dessert-spoonful of sugar. Stir these in thoroughly, with a teaspoonful of salt. This mustard should be rather thicker than the usual table mustard. Put it into small pots or glasses, and tie bladders over them if there are not stoppers or corks to fit. In a fortnight the mustard will be ready for use. 227. “ Senf Piquant”—Piquant Mustard. Boil a pint of good pale vinegar, Avith a sprig of tarragon- leaves, two large bay-leaves, an onion sliced, two or three cloves of garlic sliced thin, some salt, a teaspoonful of wholeSAUCES. 6l black pepper crushed, and a dozen cloves. Keep it covered and let it stand till cold. Then mix with it the best mustard. If well corked in small mustard jars, this will keep a long time. Or the vinegar kept corked in a bottle will be ready for mixing the mustard as it is wanted. 228. “EierSenf”—Egg Mustard. The yolks of two hard-boiled eggs must be rubbed smooth. Add two tablespoonfuls of mustard, one of Florence oil, some salt, and enongh tarragon vinegar to work it into a smooth paste. 229. “ Gewurz Sen/”—Aromatic or Sjnced Mustard. Slice two good-sized onions and two cloves of garlic. Put them in a jar with four bay-leaves; pour over them a pint of tarragon vinegar, or put in a sprig of tarragon and use plain vinegar. Cover the jar close, and let it stand a day ; then boil all together. Strain the vinegar, add to it two ounces of crushed sugar-candy or loaf sugar, and make it scalding hot again. Mix in a basin two ounces of brown and two ounces of yellow mustard, two teaspoonfuls of salt, two drachms of Jamaica pepper, and half a drachm of cinnamon, finely powdered. Pour over these the scalding vinegar, stirring the whole with a wooden spoon till quite smooth and of a good thickness. Add more vinegar if required. Put it in small jars or wide-necked bottles, cork them well or cover them with bladder, and put them away in a cool place for a week or two before using. 230. “ Gewurz Sen/”—Spiced Mustard. [No. ^.) A pint of vinegar, a small handful of tarragon-leaves, an onion, and a large clove of garlic sliced, a drachm of black pepper, a dozen cloves crushed, a drachm of powdered cinnamon, three bay-leaves, a tablespoonful of sugar, and two teaspoonfuls of salt. Boil these slowly a few minutes, then strain the vinegar, and mix with it as much mustard as will make it rather thick. 231. “ Sardellen Senf'—Sardine Mustard. Carefully take out the bones of six sardines, and pound the fish with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. Mince a shalot fine and mix it with the paste. Add two table-62 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. spoonfuls of mustard mixed with vinegar, or made mustard of any kind, two fof vinegar, and two of salad oil, with a little salt and cayenne pepper. Eub all together quite smooth. 232. “ Kren," or “ Meerrettig. Sauce ”—Horseradish Sauce Lay a thick stick of horseradish in water for an hour, then scrape clean, and grate it fine (use a bread-grater); add a spoonful of salt, and, according to the quantity of horse- radish, one or two tablespoonfuls of Florence oil, with white vinegar enough to make a thick cream. To give this sauce a fine flavour, rub two or three small lumps of sugar on the peel of an orange. Squeeze the juice of the orange on this sugar to dissolve it, and mix it well with the rest. Add a little cayenne pepper. 233. “Kren,” or “Meerrettig Sauce”—Horseradish Sauce. {No. 2.) One or two yolks of hard-boiled eggs must be rubbed quite smooth with a little pale vinegar. Add equal quantities of salad oil and cream, a little sugar, some salt, and white pepper. Then mix in a stick of grated horseradish; add more vinegar or lemon-juice to give it an agreeable acid. If only one egg is used, and the horseradish not a very fine stick, one tablespoonful of oil is enough. 234. “ Meerrettig Sauce filr Fisch”— Horseradish. Sauce for Boiled Fish. A quarter of a pint of thick cream, and half as much pale vinegar, a little white sugar and salt. Mix these with grated horseradish, enough for a thick sauce. 235. “ Eicr Kren ”—Horseradish u ith Eggs. Pound yolks of hard-boiled eggs to a smooth cream with pale vinegar. Add grated horseradish and salt. 236. “ Acpfcl Kren”—Horseradish with Apples. Equal quantities of grated horseradish and grated or cooked apples, with fine vinegar, and a httlo sugar. Eub them smooth together.63 SAUCES. 237. “ Strasbourg Sauce ”— Strasbourg Sauce. Rub well in a mortar the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs with the juice of a lemon. Bone three sardines, and chop them very fine, with two shalots, and a dessert-spoonful of capers. Add these to the eggs, with two tablespoonfuls of mustard and one of sugar, some salt and cayenne pepper. Pound all quite smooth together; then add four table- spoonfuls of Florence oil; and when this is well mixed in, add by degrees half a pint of white vinegar. Strain through a coarse sieve, and bottle the sauce for use. It is good for cold meats or fish. 238. “ Krduter Sauce”—Herb Sauce. Scrape or slice^thin a large stick of horseradish. Strip the leaves from a sprig of winter savoury; the same of thjune, basilicum, marjoram, and a very little tarragon. Slice two shalots and a clove of garlic. Put all in a saucepan ■with a ,pint of water, a wineglassful of ■vinegar, and the juice of a lemon. Add half a teaspoonful of celery seed, ample salt, some black and cayenne pepper, with enough brown onion-chips to colour the sauce richly, or, instead of these, plenty of sugar bro^wning. Let all simmer ten minutes after coming to a boil; then strain it, and when cold, pour it into small bottles for use. This is a most convenient sauce, either for the plate or to add to gravies. 239. “ Ficttig Sauce ”—Radish Sauce. Black winter radishes are best. Peel and grate them, then mix quite smooth, with salt, oil, vinegar, and pepper. 240. “ Roth Rettig Sauce”—Red Radish Sauce. Grate crisp, red radishes, with one-third as much horse- radish, and some beetroot. Add salt, oil, and vinegar, and mix thoroughly. 241. “ Boretsch Sauce”—Boj-age Sauce. Wash and drain borage-leaves, mince them quite fine, or cut them into very thin strips. Add salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar. A little finely minced onion may be added at will.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 64 242. “ ScJmittlauch Sauce ”— Chives Sauce. Pound the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs very smooth, mix with them a teaspoonful of sugar, and the same of mustard flour. Add a teacupful of vinegar. Mince a good handful of chives, fresh and green ones, quite fine; add them to the eggs. Pour over a tablespoonful of salad oil, and mix all well. ' 243. “ Haring Sauce ”—Herring Sauce. Bone and skin a Dutch herring with a soft roe. Cut it up small. Cut up a large apple, as also a small onion. Pound these well all together with the yolks of four hard- boiled eggs, and thin the mass 'with oil and vinegar. 244. “ S/mce Remoulade"—BeinouJade Sauce. Mince and pound two lai’ge onions. Pound the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs; add a large teaspoonful of mustard flour, a tahlespoonful of sugar, four tahlespoonfuls of salad oil, pepper, salt, and a pint of vinegar. Rub all verj' smooth together, and pass it through a sieve. Bottle it for use if made before it is required. Four sardines may be pounded in if approved. 245. “ K7'en Sauce mit Saline"—Horseradish Sauce u-ith Cream. Stir a cup of thick cream with half a cup of pale vinegar, a teaspoonful of sugar, the same of salt, and enough grated horseradish to form a thick sauce. • 246. ''Mayonnaise Sauce”—Mayonnaise Sauce. Ingredients.—The yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, one raw yolk, two teaspoonfuls of mustard flour, a saltspoonful of white pepper, two teaspooufuls of sugar, the same of salt, the juice of a lemon, a quarter of a pint of good gra\y, the same of salad oil, the same of pale vinegar, and two shalots. First pound tho shalots in a mortar; then rub in the eggs and lemon-juice; after which, add, with constant stirring, the other ingredients in the following order. Enough of the vinegar to moisten tho above; the salt, pepper, sugar, and mustard ; the oil by degrees, thoroughly mixed ; tho rest of tlie vinegar, and the gravy.65 SAUCES. To a sauce Mayonnaise may be added any other flavour or variety, such as pounded anchovy or sardine, capers, tarragon, &c. 247. “ Sauce Mayonnaise"—Mayonnaise Sauce. (iV^o. 2.) Yolks of hard eggs rubbed smooth, mustard, salt, pepper, vinegar and oil, according to taste, with any flavour most approved. Some strong gravy or meat jelly is indispensable to a good Mayonnaise, which must always be a thick, smooth, piquant sauce, with a creamy softness, which nothing can give but very good stu-ring during the making. Salad creams, or dressings, are given, with full directions, with the salads. (See Index.) Note.—^English melted butter is the German “ butter sauce;” German melted, or “ Geschmolzene ” butter, means butter literally melted, or warmed to an oil. SWEET SAUCES. Any of the following Sweet sauces may be used either warm or cold, to “klosse,” “aufliiufe,” puddings, fritters, &c., &c. The wines used should be light German ones, not sherry. 248. “ Aepfel Sauce ”— Ap])le Sauce. Peel apples and quarter them, but do not cut out the kernels, as they give a fine flavour cooked with the apples. Put a very little water in a stew-pan, and the apples with or without a little orange or lemon peel. Add a glass of white wine, a small piece of butter, and sugar to sweeten. Pass the sauce through a strainer when done. 249. Aepfel Sauce"—Ap^Ae Sauce. [No. 2.) Stew the apples with a little water, a glass of wine, from six to twelve bitter almonds blanched and pounded, a hand- ful or two of currants picked and washed, a small piece of butter, and sugar to taste. A spoonful of flour, stirred into the wine, or water, gives it smoothness. S'GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 66 250. “Aprilwsen Sauce"—Apricot Sauce. Halve the apricots, and take out the stones; break these, crush the kernels, and stew them with the fruit in a little water. Add a glass of white wine, sugar to taste, and a spoonful of arrowroot or flour, mixed with water, to thicken. Strain before serving. 251. “ Chocolade Sauce ”— Chocolate Sauce. Grate two ounces of fine chocolate, and stir it into half a pint of cream and half a pint of milk till it boils. Use vanilla chocolate, or boil an inch of vanilla in the cream while making, and as much white sugar as will sweeten it. When it hofls, whisk or mill it with the yolks of four eggs till it froths well; then return it to the stew-pan and stir till it thickens, but do not let it boil. Take it from the fire. Have the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiflT snow, with a tablespoonful of sifted sugar. Stir this into the chocolate without breaking up the snow entirely. 252. “ Chaudeau,” or “ Weinscliaum Sauce"—Chaudeau Sauce. Hasp off the yellow of a lemon-peel, with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar. Put this in a stew-pan with three eggs, the yolks of three others, and a pint of white wine. Set it on the fire, and continue whisking until it thickens and is at a boiling point. Then take it from the fire, and serve directly, or the froth will sink. Xote.—Do not use sherry for these wine sauces, the flavour being too strong. Any light German or French wine will do. 253. “ Schotto Sauce ”— Chaudeau Sauce. (*Vo. 2.) Half a pint of wine, half a pint of water, the yolks of eight eggs, the peel of a lemon rasped off on sugar, the juice of a lemon, and four ounces of sugar, including the above, must ho well whisked in a stew-pan ; then set over the fire, and the whisking continued until the sauce thickens and is about to boil. 254. “ Eierschaum Sauce" — Epp Foam Sauce. Rasp off the yellow rmd of half a lemon, with an ounce and a half of loaf sugar. Put this, with throe eggs, and aSAUCES. 67 teaspoonful of arrowroot, in an enamelled stew-pan ; stir in a quarter of a pint of water, and a tablespoonful of either brandy, rum, or maraschino. Set it over the fii-e, and whisk it thoroughly, till the froth fills the stew-pan. This may be served with either warm or cold dishes. 255. “ Wein Sauce”— Wine Sauce. Mix a tablespoonful of fiour smooth in a little water, and the yolks of three or four eggs. Rub a few lumps of sugar on tie rind of a lemon. Add half a pint of wine, and stir briskly over the fire till it thickens. 256. “ Wein Sauce”— Wine Sauce. (No. 2.) Mix a tablespoonful of flour with two ounces of butter. Rasp off the yellow of a lemon with lumps of sugar. Stir the above into the yolks of four or five eggs and half a bottle of white wine. Sweeten to taste, and whisk till it thickens. 257. “ Arack Sauce ”— Arrack Sauce Is made in the same way and with the same ingredients as the preceding wine sauce, hut leaving out half the wine, and substituting water and a glass of arrack or rum. 258. “ Punsch Sauce ”—Punch Sauce Is the same as the last, adding the juice of a lemon and all its peel. Proceed as for Chaudeau. 259. “ Polnische Sauce ”— Polish Sauce. Put a piece of butter and a tablespoonful of sugar in a stew-pan, and when melted throw in a tablespoonful of flour and let it brown. Then stir in three-quarters of a pint of red wine; add a good handful of currants washed and picked, the same quantity of raisins stoned, a small handful of almonds blanched and sliced thin, a little grated lemon- peel, powdered cinnamon, and six bruised cloves. Let all simmer a quarter of an hour, or till the currants are plumped and soft. 260. “ Marmalade Sauce ”—Marmalade Sauce. Orange, quince, or other marmalade, may bo thinned with equal parts of wine and water. Add sugar, stir well,GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 68 and give it a boil up. Use arrowroot or potato floor to give it consistency. 261. “ Rodnen Sauce”—Currant Sauce. Melt two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, stir into it two tablespoonfuls of flour, and let it colour a pale brown. Pour in a little water to thin it and a glass of red wine. Add two ounces of currants washed and picked, a little grated ginger, the juice of half a lemon, and its yellow rind rasped off on lump sugar, enough to sweeten. Let all simmer till the currants are soft. 262. “ Milch ” or “ Rahm Sauce ”—Milk or Cream Sauce. To every half-pint of good milk or cream, allow a tea- spoonful of flour and the ji-olks of two eggs, with a little sugar, to be well stirred over the fire till near boiling. Any chosen flavour may he given—orange or lemon peel, cinnamon or vanilla, boiled in the cream, or two or three blanched and pounded bitter almonds may be added. 263. “ Vanille Sauce ”■— Vanilla Sauce. Boil a pint of milk with a piece of vanilla and some loaf sugar; take it from the fire, and stir into it the yolks of three eggs, and two teaspoonfuls of flour. Stir it over the fire till thick. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stifi" snow, with a spoonful of sifted sugar, and at the moment of serv- ing add the snow to the sauce, not broken up entirely, but just dipping partly under it. 264. “ Manclel Sauce”— Almond Sauce. Blanch and pound two ounces of almonds; put them in a stew-pan with two tablespoonfuls of flour, rubbed smooth in milk. Stir in the yolks of six eggs, and about a tablespoon- ful of sugar. Add a pint and a half of new milk, and stir it constantly over the fire till thick and smooth. 265. “ Himbeer Schaumsaucc”—Raspl>erry Sauce. Put into a stew-pan four well-beaten eggs, two teaspoonfuls of flour, a pint of fresh raspberry juice, and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Whisk this over the fire till it thickens and rises well. Serve while it is light and frothy.69 SAUCES. 266. Johannisbeer Schaumsauce”—Red Currant Sauce. Boil red currants for a few minutes ; press them and strain the juice. When cool, proceed as for raspberry sauce. More sugar is required for the currant sauce, 267. “ Hagebutten Sauce ”— Hips Sauce, The hips must he quite ripe. Take out the seeds, boil the fruit in a little water, and when quite soft strain the pulp through a coarse sieve. Add sugar enough to sweeten and boil it up again. Thin it with water or wine, 268. “ Kirschen Sauce ”— Cherry Sauce. Wash and stone the cherries ; put them on to stew, with a glass of red wine, a little water, a little powdered cinnamon, and a slice of toasted bread. Break the stones and boil them apart in just water enough to cover them. When the fruit is well done, pass all through a coarse sieve; strain it, and add the water from the stones. Sweeten to taste, and thin it with wine or water if too thick. 269. Pflaumen Sauce ”— Plum Sauce. Proceed mth plums in every particular as with the cherries in the preceding number. 270. “ Zwetschen Sauce”—Prune Sauce. Boil half a pound of prunes in a little water till soft, then take out the stones and break them in a mortar. Put fruit and crushed stones in a stew-pan, with a glass of wine, the jnice of a lemon, and a strip of its peel. Add half a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon, some sugar, and the syrup in which the prunes were boiled. Simmer a few minutes, then pass the sauce through a coarse sieve. If too thick, add a little more wine or water. “FARCE” OR “FASCH.”—FORCEMEATS. 271. “ Farce von Kalbfleisch ”—Forcemeat oj Veal. Ingredients.—Lean veal, free from skin or vein; a third of its weight in bread, and the same of either fat bacon, suet, marrow, or butter; the yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg.70 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. IMince the veal, and pound it in a mortar; then add the butter or fat, and mix them by pounding. Soak the bread in cold milk, and press it out as dry as you can. Add the bread and an egg well beaten, some salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Kub all smooth. Instead of one whole egg, two or three yolks are better, and with these grated bread, instead of soaked. This force- meat is either for little balls or stuffing. 272. “ Farce fiir Putem ”— Forcemeat for Turkeys, Three-quarters of a pound of finely minced veal, the same weight of pork, six ounces of butter warmed, three eggs well beaten, six ounces of bread soaked in cold water or milk and pressed out, half an ounce of morels prepared and chopped fine, salt, pepper, parsley, a grate of nutmeg, and some lemon-peel if approved. Mix these well. Parboil a veal sweetbread, cut it into pieces an inch square, and mix it with the mass. Fill the crop as well as the body, but not literally full. 273. “ Farce fiirHuhner oder Wild ”— Forcemeat for Poultry or Game. Soak bread in cold water and press it out. Boil the gizzard and mince it fine. Chop the liver raw, as also some rashers of bacon, which should be fat. Add to these a shalot and some parslqy, minced fine, the juice of a lemon and a third of its peel grated, a little cream, two or three eggs, salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Mix all well together. Put some in crop and body. 274. “ Brod Farce ”— Forcemeat of Bread for Pigeons. Half a pound of grated bread, two eggs, two ounces of butter stirred soft, or the same weight of fat bacon chopped fine, a little parsley, grated lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. 275. “ Hiihner Farce ”— Forcemeat of Ford. An old fowl will do. Strip the meat from the bones, chop, and then pound it. Soak half a pound of white bread in milk, press it out, and "with three ounces of butter rub it smooth in a mortar; then add, by degrees, the meat, the yolks of four eggs, a little nutmeg, salt to taste, and a little parsley if approved. This forcemeat may be71 SAUCES. made into balls for soups or pasties. If used for a white meat pasty, lay the stuffing on thin slices of ham, roll them up, and pack them between the meat. 276. “ Farce von Wild ”— Forcemeat of Game. Weigh the meat of game when stripped from the hones, and take a fourth of its weight in bacon. Mince both quite fine. Add shalot, capers, a few leaves of tarragon, and a little lemon-peel, all finely minced. Bread soaked and pressed out, yolks of eggs and their whites beaten to a snow, salt and pepper, must all be well mixed with the meat. Tarragon must be used sparingly, as its flavour is strong. 277. “Farce zu kalte^i Pasteien ”—Forcemeat for Cold Pasties. For nearly all cold savoury pies, whether of meat or poultry, the chief ingredients for forcemeat are the same. As a rule, veal or chicken must be used for pasties made of white meats. For game or beef pasties, use any kind of pork, game, or liver. 278. “ Farce von Leber ”— Forcmneat of Liver. Chop calf’s liver fine, removing all the skin ; then chop a third in quantity or weight of fat bacon. Slice an onion thin, as also a shalot or clove of garlic, if approved, and put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter ; cover, and let them steam soft. Soak bread without crust in cold water, and press it out; add it to the onion, with more butter if necessary, and stir it over the fire to a stiff paste. Then put it in a mortar with a couple of yolks of eggs, the minced liver and bacon, salt, pepper, and a little allspice, or nutmeg. Rub all smooth together, and work it through a sieve. 279. “ Fisch Farce ”— Forcemeat of Fish. Have a pound of solid fish cleared from skin and bone. Dry it in a napkin and mince it fine. Soak four or five ounces of bread without crust in milk, and press it out. Slice a small onion and steam it in butter till quite soft, but not brown; rub it smooth in a mortar, with the drainings of the butter it was stewed in. Add two ounces more of butter, and stir it soft. Then add the bread by degrees, two well- beaten eggs, salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, and lastly the fish. Mix all well together, and form little balls to fry or boil.72 GERRLA.N NATIONAL COOKERY. 280. —“ Farce von Mandeln ”— Forcemeat of Almonds. For a fine Capon or Turkey. Blanch and pound, with a little water or white of egg, half a pound of sweet almonds. Kub three ounces of butter to a cream, then add to it the yolks of three eggs, a little nut- meg, and a small teacupful of cream. Stir ;in the pounded almonds, and then about three-quarters of a pound of grated bread. Then beat the whites of the eggs to a snow, and stir it in lightly at the moment of using the filling. 281. “ Farce von Kastanien ”— Forcemeat of Chestnuts. Throw into boiling water two pounds of chestnuts. When boiled soft, peel and pound them. Mix them with half their quantity of hver forcemeat. No. 278, adding more salt. This is enough for a large tm’key. Another chestnut filling is as follows :— The same quantity of chestnuts, or rather more, boiled, peeled, then put into a stew-pan with butter, salt, and any approved mild seasoning, and shaken occasionally till soft, may be put into the turkey whole or simply mashed first. 282. “ Kneffs ” or “ Quenelles ”— QueneUes. These are formed.the size and shape of a large almond in the shell, from any of the foregoing well-made forcemeats, as follows :—Dip a teaspoon in wai-m water, fill it with force- meat, and smooth it over -with the point of a knife. Or form the quenelles between two wetted teaspoons. Turn them into a shallow stew-pan, laying in as many as it ^^'ill hold without touching. Carefully pour in a little broth or water, and let them simmer gently till done through. Name them after the meat which forms their chief ingredient, as— Itneffs or Quenelles— Von Kalbfleisch. Von Fleisch. . Von Brod. Von Huiin. Von Wild. Von Leber. Von Fisch Von Mandeln. . Von Kastanien. Of Veal. Of Meat. . Of Bread. . Of Fowl. Of Game. . Of Liver. Of Fish. . Of Almonds. . Of Chestnuts.73 SAUCES. 283. “ Bratenf ulle ”— Stuffings for Roasts. Most of these will be found fully described in the recipes given for the various roasts of meat and poultry, under their respective headings. Others may he prepared from force- meat ingredients, adding to them a greater proportion of bread. Among those which may be used for either goose, duck, turkey, or breast of veal, are the following :— 284. “ Erdapfelfiille"—Potato Stuffing. Cut up raw potatoes into little dice ; drain them dry, and put them in a stew-pan with butter, shred onion or shalot, parsley, salt and pepper, and a grate of nutmeg if approved. Cover close, and let them steam, shaking theta now and then. They must not be suffered to get soft enough to mash. Have some sausages fried, and when cold take off the skins and cut them into thin little slices. Mix these with the potatoes; or, instead of sausages, mince the raw liver of the goose, or some pig’s liver, fine, and stir it among the potatoes a few minutes before the stufling is used. 285. “ Reisfulle fiir Spanferkel ”—Rice Stuffing for Sucking- PVJ’ Boil and steam the rice soft and dry. Mix with it some finely minced ham or bacon and some split peas, also cooked as dry as possible; then mix the whole with a little butter, salt, and pepper. This stuffing is also used for breast of veal. Eggs, well-beaten, may bo used to bind it, when for the latter roast,Chapter V. SALADS. 286. Geixeral Rules. Fresh salads ought not to lie long in water; the withered only long enough to crisp them. The outside leaves are thrown away; the inner' ones parted, well rinsed, and examined, thrown into a cullender or salad-basket to drain, and thence into a napkin held by its four comers, and shaken lightly until it absorbs the water hanging about the leaves. Handle the salad as little as possible in cutting. Do not mix it with dressing until the moment of serving; and then it is usual to put the liquids at the bottom of the howl, and stir up at table. Salads of fish, meats, or potatoes are better made half an hour before they are used, excepting such as are mixed "with leaf-salad. Let chives or onions be handed apart when used, not mixed in. All salads may he garnished in a variety of ways, to give them a nice appearance, with such thiugs as beetroot, fresh and pickled, cut in stars or other thin slices, small, tufted watercress, thin rings of hard-boiled eggs, nasturtium leaves and flowers, fresh cucumber thinly sliced, radishes, &c. These aiTanged with taste, but not entirely covering the salad, have an enticing effect. 287. Vegetable Salads. Every kno^vn vegetable is, in Germany, when cooked plain, used cold for salad. The above rules for garnishing are applicable to all. They are cut up, when cold, according to taste, and the plainest dressing is of oil and vinegar, salt, pepper, and any approved herb.75 SALADS. 288. “ Enclivien Salat ”—Endive Salad. Only the inner yellowish leaves should be used. Cut 'out the stalks and thick ribs. Wash well, and shake the water out. Cut up, and serve it with plain dressing or either of the salad creams. Anchovies or sardines, cut in strips, are good as a garnish and accompaniment. 289. “ Eartoffel Salat"—Common Potato Salad. Small potatoes, which are wasteful to peel and cook with larger ones, should be sorted out for salads. Boil them in their skins, and, while warm, peel and slice them thin. IMince chives, parsley, or onion very line, and strew it over the potatoes in the salad-bowl. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, pour over two or three spoonfuls of oil, and moisten the whole with vinegar and water mixed, that it may not he too sour. Chives or onion may, of course, bo omitted. Several things are mixed with potato salad, both for flavour and appearance; such as pickled beetroot sliced, a fresh cucumber sliced as usual, a Dutch herring cut up small, or a few sardines minced. Only one of these things, be it understood, should be mixed with the potatoes before the oil and vinegar. 290. “ Eartoffel Salat ”—Potato Salad. (No. 2.) Another homely potato salad is made thus:—Having cooked and sliced the potatoes into a salad-bowl or vegetable- dish, cut two or three rashers of bacon into very little dice, and fry them a pale brown. When done, pour a small cup of vinegar and water into the frying-pan ; give the bacon a stir in it; add pepper and salt, and pour all over the potatoes. Minced onion or chives may be used with this salad if not objected to. In many parts of Germany, where geese are fattened for the sake of their lard or dripping, the latter is much preferred to olive oil for potato salads. If the potatoes have absorbed the moisture, pour over a little milk when serving, as this salad should not be dry. 291. “ Bolmen Salat ”—French Bean Salad. String and boil French beans as for table, in salted water. Drain them well, and, when cold, mix with them oil, vinegar.76 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. salt, pepper, finely chopped parsley, chives, or a little -winter savoury. This salad is very good with roast mutton. 292. “ Motile Mvhen in Essig”—Beetroot in Vinegar. Beetroots must be washed and boiled quite whole, -without cutting ofi" either end. Let them cool; then peel and cut them in thin slices. Lay them in an earthem or glass jar ; cover them with cold -vinegar which has been boiled with a handful of caraway seeds, and strained. Sliced horseradish should he laid -with the beetroot. Either mixed with other salads or alone, beetroot in this simple form is good -svith any kind of meats. 293. “ Mother Salat”—Med Salad. Boil small red potatoes in their skins; when cool, peel and slice them a httle thicker than a penny. Some of the inner tender part of a red cabbage must be sliced as thin as possible. Mix equal parts of potato, of cabbage, and beet- root boiled. The dressing must be oil poured over, salt, pepper, and of the above red vinegar enough to colour the potatoes. 294. “ Winter Salat ”— Winter SaJad. Prepare potatoes as in the preceding directions. Cut small slices of pickled beetroot, some apples, and celery, equal portions of each. Or any green pickle may be substi- tuted for celery. Mix these lightly in a salatiere -with treble the quantity of the sliced potatoes. Avoid breaking them. Mix a dressing of oil, sour cream, a little vinegar, salt, and pepper; pour it over the salad, and garnish -with a -wreath of water or garden cresses. Finely shred onion or chives may either be mixed in or handed with the salad. 295. “ Kloster Salat ”— Convent Salad. Slice boiled potatoes, warm or cold ; mix -with them a sliced cucumber and some minced chives or onions, with a small sprig of tarragon. Add salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and sour cream, mixed with a well-beaten egg. 29G. “ Capuziner odcr Blumen Salat ”— Capuchin or Bouquet Salad. Put equal quantities of oil and white -wine vinegar, with a little salt and powdered sugar, in the bottom of a salad-bowl.SALADS. 77 Throw in some sprigs of watercresses, and on these strew lightly the young leaves of the nasturtium, with enough cress to fill the howl rather high. Put round the edge of the bowl a wreath of nasturtium-leaves, laid one a little over the other. Inside this, put a wreath of the flowers ; within these, a wreath of slices of hard-boiled eggs. Then put a pretty tuft of the leaves and flowers in the centre. If this salad is not to be eaten as soon as made, put no dressing in the bowl, hut serve with either of the salad creams. The bouquet salad is as good a relish with various meats as it is a refreshing ornament to the table. 297. “ Briinnen oder Garten Kresse”—Brook or Garden Cress Salad. Use any of the salad-creams with this. Garden-cress should be sown about anywhere, even on flower-beds. The green tufts look pretty all the year round. The roots must not be pulled up for salad, but only the middling-sized leaves cut off. 298. “ Kohl Salat”— Winter Cabbage Salad. Boil an equal quantity of white and red close cabbage in plenty of water, each colour separate. They must only boil about five minutes. Then throw them, also apart, into cold water. Let them drain well. Cut the thin leaves into very narrow shreds. The ribs of the leaves must all be left out, as they are too hard for salad. Arrange the salad in alternate tufts of white and red, either in a dish or bowl. Garnish it in any approved way, and give it either No. 2 or 4 of the salad-creams when served. 299. “ Wdsser Kohl Salat ”— White Cabbage Salad. In autumn, when this cabbage is tender, with leaves thin and white, cut out the stalks and ribs ; put a number of the thinnest leaves together, and cut them into very narrow strips. Throw them lightly into the salad-howl. Cut two or three thin rashers of rather fat ham or bacon into very small dice ; fiy them till they begin to brown ; then take the pan from the fire, pour into it some vinegar, and the same quantity of water; add salt and pepper, and pour all warm over the salad. Serve with hot potatoes.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 78 300. “ Cichorien Salat"—Succory. The leaves that have become yellow may be cut up, and used with salt, oil, and vinegar. They are good and whole- some used with other leaf salads. 801. “ Winter Salat ”—Red Cabbage and Celery. [No. 2.) Choose a hard, solid red cabbage ; take oflf the outer leaves ; quarter and wash it well; drain it, and part the leaves ; cut out thin stalks and ribs, and cat the rest into very thin shreds. Prepare and cut up the tender parts of a root or two of celery, and mix it with the cabbage. Garnish in the middle with a tuft of green celery-tops. 302. “ G-urken Salat”—Cucumber Salad. "When cucumbers are bitter, cut off a good half-inch at the point, before peeling. Or, peel them from the stem down- wards, leaving the point untouched; as it is there the hitter lies, and is dispersed by the knife going through it. Shce them very thin ; a cucumber plane is best for this purpose. Serve them with any kind of dressing. They are especially good and wholesome with plain potato salad. 303. “ Polnischer Salat ”—Polish Salad. Cut up cold roast game or poultry in very small dice ; season it with pepper, salt, mustard, and finely minced chives; pour over equal parts of oil and vinegar. Have two or three eggs boiled three minutes ; stir in the yolks -with the meat; chop the whites very small, and stir in these, so that all is well mixed. At the time of serving, mix the above with cut-up lettuce or endive. 304. “ Haring Salat”—Herring Salad. No precise quantities or proportions can be given for this favourite salad, as the ingredients may be varied according to taste. Good, white, barrelled herrings must be chosen ; the Dutch arc best. Lay them in water or milk for an hour or two to take out the salt. Open them, take out the bones, and cut in small, thin slices, or chop them. An equal quantity of finely minced veal or other white meat is often added to the herring. Stir a small piece of butter to a cream, add to it some white or cayenne pepper, mustard, a79 SALADS. little white sugar, oil, and vinegar. Have ready, for a salad of two hen’ings, half-a-dozen potatoes boiled and cold, as for potato salad. Cut them into small dice, as also some sour juicy apples, about as much in proportion, when minced, as the herrings. First stir the dressing well in with the fish ; then the apples and the potatoes, lightly. The salad should be a little moist; if too dry or too sour, add some milk or plain broth. A little chives or shalot is an improvement, if the flavour is not objected to. 305. “Haring Salat”—Herring Salad. (No. 2.) Two Dutch herrings must be soaked in milk or water, boned, and cut into thin slices, and then into narrow strips. As much cold meat cut up the same way ; sour, juicy apples, the same in form and quantity; and rather less of pickled beetroot. Fresh beetroot, merely boiled, is quite as good. Mix the whole together; season with pepper and a small white onion minced very fine. Moisten the salad with equal parts of oil, vinegar, and cream or milk. 306. “ Haring Salat”—Herring Salad. [No. d.) Prepare two Dutch herrings as above dkected, and about half-a-dozen potatoes boiled in their skins and cut small. Mince two hard-boiled eggs. Mix the whole together, and dress with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper ; or moisten it with either of the salad creams. If the potatoes are boiled in salt water, use no salt in the seasoning. 307. “Haring Salat”—Hening Salad. [No. 4.) Boiled potatoes cut in slices, a herring or two chopped small, and chives or onion mixed fine. All well mixed, and dressed with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. As the herring salad should always be moist, milk is best to add for this purpose, or water with the vinegar. , 308. “ Hdnng Salat”—Herring Salad. [No. 5.) Three Dutch herrings soaked to take the salt out, two plates of cold potatoes, a plate of sour apples, a plate of boiled beetroot, and a plate of cold meat, must all be chopped small apart, or cut up into very little thin slices;8o GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, then carefully mixed together with a finely toinced onion, oil, vinegar, pepper, salt if requisite, and cream or milk to moisten. 309. “ Fisch Salat ”—Fish Salad. Cold fish of any kind must he divided neatly in flakes. A few shi-imps or oysters may be added, and a nice portion of hard-boiled eggs chopped small. All lightly stirred up together, with some thin slices of pickled gherkins or other green pickles. Pour over a salad cream, and garnish with parsley and lemon slices. 310. “ Sardellen Salat ”— Sardine Salad. Rub two or three sardines in a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Add equal quantities of vinegar, vdne, and cream or oU—about two tablespoonfuls of each— a little cayenne or white pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Break up remains of any cold fish with forks, that it may be flaky. Spread a layer of the fish on a dish ; strew over it some capers and thin slices of pickled gherkins, then thin slices of smoked or Bologna sausage, and on the top, neatly arranged, sardines in halves, opened the long way and the bones drawn out, if they are not dissolved. Stir up the cream you have made, pour it over the dish, and garnish with sliced eggs, a wreath of any fresh salad, and slices of lemon, 311. “ Hummer Salat mit Caviar Schnitten”—Lobster Salad with Caviar Sippets. Mix the soft part of the lobster in a basin, with the ingredients for salad cream No. 4, and add last the spawn of the lobster. Break up the white parts of the body and claws, and mix it with the rest in patches, that is, not thoroughly stirred together. Lay slices of hard eggs on the top, strew capers over, and hedge the dish with a border of three-cornered slices of toast, buttered and spread >vith caviar. 312. “ Lattich Salat, Warm ”—Lettuce Salad. Cut up good coss lettuce in the bowl. Fry little dice of bacon, with an onion minced fine. Do not let them brown, but just molt the bacon fat; then add vinegar, salt, and pepper to the bacon; pour the whole over the lettuce and8l SALADS. stir it up weir. This must be served as soon as made, or the lettuce will lose its crispness. 313. “ Erbsen, Linsen, or Bohnen Salat"—Salad of Peas, Lentils, or Beans. Dried peas, lentils, or white beans are boiled soft, well drained, mixed with chopped parsley, salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, garnished with cresses or endive, and served as salad. 314. “ Artischocken Salat ”—Artichoke Salad. The artichokes must be prepared and boiled as for table. Drain them dry without breaking; arrange them neatly. Pour over them the salad cream No. 3 or 4. Fish of any kind may be used as a garnish. 315. “ Schwarzwurzeln Salat"—Scorzonera Salad. Wash the scorzonera, scrape them quickly, and throw each one in water with some vinegar in it, to keep them white. Cut them in two-inch lengths; boil them soft; drain till cold ; then pile them lightly in the salatiere, and pour a good salad cream over them. 316. “ Weisse Bohnen Salat"— White Bean Salad. Put white beans on in cold water, and when boiled soft drain them till cold. Mix them with a dressing of white vinegar, oil, cream or a little milk, salt, and white pepper. Garnish with a wreath of red cabbage or beetroot. 317. “ Spargel Salat"—Asparagus Salad. Boil asparagus in salt water, not too soft. Drain it on a sieve, and when cold, pour over it a white salad cream, mixed with lemon-juice instead of vinegar. 318. “ Hopfen Salat”—Hop Salad. Young hops, before they are leafy, parboiled, and prepared as above, are esteemed as salad. 819. “ Blunienkohl Salat ”— Caidijloirer Salad. Boil cauliflowers in salt and water so that a fork will go through them, but not too soft. Lay them in cold water, and then di’ain them on a sieve. Divide them in tufts the GGERJMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 82 size of a walnut; arrange them neatly on a shallow dish with strips of beetroot between; and pour over, with a spoon, a good salad cream. 820. “ Fleisch Salat ”— Cold Meat Salad. Any kind of cold meat, such as beef or mutton, which has been boiled in broth or soup, may be cut into very small slices or dice. Llince an onion very fine, and cut up any sort of pickle small, such as beans, gherkins, or beetroot, in vinegar, and also a boiled carrot. Mix all together with the meat. Pepper it, and pour over enough of the salad dressing No. 2 to moisten the whole. Let it stand half an hour before using. Garnish with celery, watercress, or red pickle of cabbage or beetroot. 321. “ S(^lat Sauce ohne Oel"—-Salad Cream xcithout Oil. Thick, sour cream, salt, white or cayenne pepper, and a little white vinegar, must be well stirred together. A lump of sugar rubbed on a lemon, and dissolved in the vinegar or cream, may be also added if approved. This dressing is ex- cellent with coss lettuce or endive. 322. “ Salat Sauce ”—Salad Cream. (Ao. 2.) Beat an egg well; mix in by degrees a tahlespoonful of oil, the same quantity of vinegar, half a teaspoonful of mustard flour, the same of salt and sifted sugar. Stir all thoroughly. 323. “ Salat Sauce"—Salad Cream. (Ao. 8.) The yolks of two hard-boiled eggs rubbed smooth, with the juice of a lemon, two tablespoonfuls of oil, a tcaspoon- ful of flour mustard, the same of sugar and salt, and two tablespoonfuls of white wine. 324. Salat Sauce"—Salad Cream. (A"o. 4.) Rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs smooth, with a little vinegar. Add a raw egg, a tablespoonful of red -wine, a teaspoouful of mustard, a finely minced shalot, a salt- spoonful of tarragon leaves minced as fine as possible, a teaspoonful of sugar, salt, pepper, four tablcspoonfuls of oil, and, lastly, enough white wine vinegar not to make the dressing too sour. All well stirred.SALADS. 83 325. “ Salat Sauce”—Salad Cream. {No. 5.) The yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, two tablespoonfuls of oil, a teaspoonful of flour mustard, the same of sugar and salt, a little cayenne or white pepper, two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, and one of tarragon vinegar. Proceed as above directed. If preferred more acid, add the juice of a lemon or a little white vinegar, to taste. 326. “ Sauce zu Fisch Salat ”— Cream for Fish Salad. Rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs smooth in a mortar, with two sardines, the bones of which must be taken out if they are not dissolved. Then proceed as in the last cream, using the same ingredients. 327. “ Sauce zu Fisch Salat”—Dressing for Fish Salad. The same as above; adding, while pounding, a shalot and a spoonful of capers. If cream is not at hand, use milk and the yolk of an egg. 328. “ Von Salat Saucen”—On Salad Creams. They must be thoroughly well stirred, and the vinegar mixed in last, which prevents the oil from separating from the other ingredients. A little vinegar may be used, however, to rub the eggs with at flrst. Most salad creams \vill keep some time, bottled and corked. It is therefore economical to keep them in an incorporater, and put the cream to the salad on the plate. 329. “ Speck Sauce zu Salat ”— Bacon Salad Dressing. Let no one condemn this homely sauce without tasting it. Cut three or four ounces of streaked bacon into very small dice, and fry them in a stew-pan a pale colour but crisp. Beat the yolks of three eggs with a spoonful of flour, a small wineglass of vinegar, and half as much again water ; add a spoonful of made mustard, some salt and pepper. Put this to the bacon in the stew-pan, and stir it over the fire until thick and smooth. The bacon fat supplies the place of oil. When quite cold use it for potato or any other salad. It must be stirred while cooling. Should it be thicker than cream, thin it with a little vinegar and water, well stirred in.Chapteh VI. MEATS. “ EINDFLEISCH ’’—BEEF. 330. “ liindfleiscli zu Sieden ”—Beef to Boil. Ix Germany beef is almost invariably boiled with regard to soup ; and is used fresh instead of salted. Beat the piece of beef well; set it on the fire in cold water. Skim when it begins to simmer. Do not let it boil, or it will be hard. Simmer it from two to three hom-s, according to the size. When carrots and celery-roots are boiled with it, they require almost as long cooking as the beef. Herbs for seasoning should only be added half an hour before serving. Salt should be added when the meat is nearly done, as it hardens the beef when put in at fii-st. Prepare the soup ac- cording to any of the directions given under the respective headings of soups; and serve the meat either with horse- radish sauce, beetroot in vinegar, “ marinu-ter haringe,” or any approved hot or cold sauce. Cherries or plums, preserved in vinegar, are also serv-ed with the plain boiled beef. 331. “ Oxenfieisch zu Braten ”—Boast Beef. Beat the meat well with mallet or rolling-pin; rub over salt and pepper. Bake or roast it with strong heat, basting often. Dust it with flour "when nearly done, and pour over a cup of cream or milk. Skim ofl' the fat in the dripping- dish, and add hot water for gravy. 332. Sauerbrateu,” or “ Essiij Sclmorbraten "—Savoury Boast Beef. Lay a piece of beef in a deep dish, and pour a cup of vinegar over it. Let it remain in this from two to four85 MEATS. days, turning and basting it every day. To prepare for cook- ing, wipe it dry; cut strips of fat bacon the size of a little finger ; roll them in a mixed seasoning of salt, pepper, a nd pounded cloves. Make holes in the meat with a large skewer, and put in the pieces of bacon. Make butter hot in an iron pot or stew-pan, just large enough ; put in the beef, and set it over a brisk fire, letting the steam escape to hasten the browning. Dredge it with flour, and turn it whe n one side is brown. When the meat is nicely coloured, add about a pint of water, a couple of carrots quartered length- ways, a large onion or two sliced, two or three bay-leaves, a teaspoonful of whole pepper, a blade of mace, the quarter of a lemon-peel, and a good sprinkling of salt. Cover closely, and let it steam slowly from two to three hours, adding a little water when necessary. At serving time, take up the meat and keep it hot while you skim the fat off and strain the gravy. The unbroken carrots may be laid round the meat. Add lemon-juice or vinegar if the sauce requires more acid ; thicken with flour ; give it a boil up; pour a little over the meat, and serve the rest in a sauce tureen. 333. “ Qebeiztes Oxenfleisch ”— Roast Beef Piquant. The piece of beef may be larded, or not. Lay it in a fitting pan or deep dish, with a cup of vinegar, a few shalots or a large onion sliced, two bay-leaves, a dozen juniper berries, a third of a lemon in slices, six cloves, a good tea- spoonful of black pepper, and a dessert-spoonful of moist sugar. Turn the meat every day in this marinade for three or four days. When you cook it, make butter hot and pro- ceed as in the last I’ecipe to brown the meat; after which, add the pickle, with a pint of water, and some carrots. Cover close, and finish it as directed for the foregoing. 334. “ Milch Sauerbraten”—Piquant Beef. {No. d.) Beat thoroughly, and brown a piece of fresh beef, as above; then add sour, thick milk and the above seasoning. Finish as before directed. 335. “ Schmorfleisch”—A Cold Dish. A nice piece of beef must be larded in rows, browned in a deep stew-pan, and all the seasoning given for sauer- braten added, with a strong jelly of calves’ feet or gelatine86 GERilAN NATIONAL COOKERY. instead of water, sufficient vinegar, and a glass of rum. Cover, and let it stew slowly three or four hours. TVTien done, take up the meat carefully. Lay it, the best side down, in a suitable mould or deep dish. Strain the sauce and skim off the fat. Add wine or vinegar, and a little cayenne pepper, to make it nicely piquant. Give a boil up, and pour it over the meat. Let it stand a night to get quite cold. Stand the mould in hot water for a minute before turning out the meat. Garnish it prettUy with lemon and beetroot or pickles. 336. “ Gehackter Braten"—A Meat Porcupine. JMince together, not quite to a pulp, a couple of pounds of uncooked beef, and half its weight of pork, fat and lean. Season the mince well with salt, pepper, a grated shalot or clove of garlic, a little nutmeg, and either half an ounce of dis- solved gelatine or two well-beaten eggs. Mix all thoroughly. Form a smooth oval shape, and lard it like a porcupine. Have a good piece of butter hot in a stew-pan, in which lay the meat, and let it brown nicely on all sides. An honr will do it. Serve with a gravy. K for a cold dish, pour over it some rich brown glazing. 337. “ Roulade von Oxenfleisch ”— Rolled Beef. Cut the bones out of ribs of beef, which must not be too fat. Any other part which you can arrange in a long roll w'ill do. Mince very fine a clove of garlic and a large onion. Cut two or three rashers of fat bacon into small dice ; mix it with the onions, and a plentiful seasoning of salt, pepper, and a little powdered cloves or mace. Sprinkle this all over the meat; roll up and bind it with string and skewers. Lay the roulade in a stew-pan A\ith some butter to brown ; then pour over it a glass of wine, a glass of vinegar, and a little broth or water. Throw in at the same time a couple of hay-leaves, two or throe slices of lemon, an onion, three cloves, and some black pepper. Let it steam slowly from two and a half to three hours. '\Mien done, skim the fat off the gravy, and throw in a brown crust or slice of toasted bread ; when this is soft, strain the sauce through a coarse sieve, and serve it in a tureen. Garnish the meat with lemon, &c.MEATS. 87 338. “ Roulade von Oxenjieisch Kalt ”— Rolled Beef Cold. Choose a piece of thin flank or tops of the ribs for this. Rub it with a mixture of three parts salt and one of salt- petre ; turn and rub it every day for nearly a week. Beat it out flat for cooking; and spread over it a thick layer of seasoning, composed of parsley, onion or chives, lemon-peel, pepper, a little spice, and some bacon minced fine. Thin rashers of raw ham or bacon may be used instead of minced. Leave out, or add, any kind of seasoning. Roll and bind it in a nice shape. Cover close, and let it simmer three hours, in a deep stew-pan that should be just large enough to hold it, half covered with water; in which put salt, celery, or any roots and herbs to flavour. When done, press it between plates, under a weight, to get quite cold before the binding is removed. 339. “ O.eenjieisch in Bier (/eddmpft ”— Beef Stewed with Beer. A piece of brisket, if not too fat, is good this way ; but a pai’t of the round is better. Put in a saucepan two carrots, two onions, two bay-leaves, a rasher or two of bacon, a small sprig of tarragon, salt, pepper, and a little vinegar. Lay in the beef, with a pint of beer and a pint of water. Cover close, and let it stew slowly three hours at least. Take out the meat, skim the fat off the sauce, and thicken it with potato meal or corn-flower. Strain and serve it with the meat. 340. “ Rhidfleisch Rouletten ”— Beef Olives, or Beef Roulettes. Have steaks cut thin. Beat them well. Cut pieces three or four inches in diameter. Sprinkle over them some chopped sardines, onion, parsley, salt, and pepper. Lay over this a thin slice of bacon or ham on each. Roll them egg-shaped, and bind them round with twine or thread. Set a stew-pan with butter on the fire. Lay the roulettes close together, to fry a nice pale brown, turning them on all sides. When done, take them carefully up and keep them warm, while you pour ofi" the superfluous fat; dredge in some flour to thicken, and let it brown. Add a little wine, a couple of bay-leaves, some lemon sliced, three cloves, salt, pepper, and broth orGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 88 water enough to make the gra\'y. Put back the roulettes, and leave them to steam, not boil, an hour or more. Take them up carefully, unroll the thread, dish them neatly, and pour the gravy over them. 341. “ Gebratenes Binderjilet wie Hase”—Roast Fillet of Beef as Mock Hare. The underloin of heef which has hung a few days must be cleared of the gristle that runs along one side; but leave some fat on the other side. Take the skin off and lard it nicely with fat bacon. Either bake it in the oven with basting of butter, or put it in a stew-pan with roots and seasonings, as directed for sauerbraten, and finish in the same manner. 842. “ Pfeffer Potthast ”— Pepper Pot. For this dish, divide short ribs, and chop them across into square pieces. Set them on the fire in cold water enough to cover them well. Add salt, onions, plenty of pepper, half-a-dozen cloves, two bay-leaves, and, later, two or three slices of lemon. Simmer all gently an hour and a half. Brown a large tablespoonful of flour in butter, thin it with the stew gravy) and return this to the meat. Lay in a few forcemeat balls, a short time before serving. These, however, are not indispensable to the ragout. 343. “ Beefsteaks ”— Beefsteaks. Clear the underJoin of gristle and skin, leaving on enough fat. Cut slices an inch thick; beat them well on both sides with a heavy knife or cutlet bat. Dip each slice in oiled butter, having first shaped them round. Strew with salt and pepper, and broil them a nice brown, on both sides, over a clear fire ; or fry them in butter. Garnish ^vith slices of fried potatoes. Oyster or piquant sauce may be served with the steaks. 844. “Klopps”—Collops. Two pounds of beef, a quarter of a pound of fat bacon or fat of beef, a salted herring, and an onion, must all be minced quite fine; then add three well-beaten eggs, two ounces of warmed butter, half a pound of bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg. Mix all well together; form balls notMEATS. 89 larger than an egg. Have butter warmed in a shallow stew- pan ; turn the balls in it as you lay them in; add a cup or two of bouillon, made from the stewing of any bones or trimmings; throw in two or thi'ee slices of lemon; cover close, and stew them twenty minutes, turning them once dming the time. Serve in their own sauce, with fresh rasp- ings or fried crumbs stewn over. 345. “ Klojjjjs”—Collops. [No. 2.) Have equal parts of beef and fresh young pork minced very fine, the skin and gristle carefully removed (you may boil these down for gravy). Allow to a pound of minced meat two beaten eggs, two ounces of butter, and a quarter of a pound of grated bread. If the flavour be not objected to, mince a shalot fine ; put it in a small stew-pan with the butter to soften; and then add it to the meat with the eggs, bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and, if neces- sary, a little water to mix the whole. Form little halls. Put some broth or gravy in a stew-pan, and when it is hot lay in the klopps; let them stew ten minutes, then turn them, and stew them ten minutes longer. Break one, to see that they are done through. Take them up and keep them warm. Add to the sauce a few bread-crumbs, some shred green pickle or capers, a couple of sardines cut small, and two or three slices of lemon. Let the sauce boil up; lay in the klopps again to get thoroughly hot, and serve them in their sauce without straining the latter. 346. “ Kloj7ps”—Collops. [No. 3.) Form klopps the size of a small apple; flatten and smooth them with a knife dipped in water ; crossbar them with the back of the knife. Chop a handful of pai’sley, a small sprig of tarragon, a handful of chives or a shalot, and fry these a few minutes in butter, in a broad stew-pan. Add the juice of a lemon and a little wine. Lay in the klopps, cover close, and set them over a moderate fire. Twenty or twenty-five minutes will do them. They must be turned once. Arrange them in a wreath when dished. Add some sai'dino or other good sauce to that in the stew-pan; pour it over the klopps. Garnish with an outer wreath of sliced potatoes fried in butter, and a few of the same in the middle.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. go 347. “ Klopps ” — Collops. {No. 4.) Klopps of the usual ingredients may be formed round and flat, dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, and fried in butter a delicate brown. Serve with any approved sauce or gravy, and a nice vegetable. Note.—The chives or onion may be left out of either, and the klopps, well seasoned, may be served as hors d’ceuvres or entrees. 348. “ Oxenfleiscli Cotelettes”—Beef Cutlets. To every pound of lean beef, add a quarter of a pound of fat; suet will do. Mince it very fine, adding sufficient salt. Form small flat cakes, egg and crumb them, and fry them in butter a nice brown on both sides. 349. “ Gebratene Fricandelle'’—Fricandelles. Mince a pound and a half of beef with a quarter of a pound of suet or fat bacon, quite fine. Add four well-beaten eggs, three ounces of grated bread, salt and nutmeg. Mix the whole into a smooth mass with a little water. Form smooth oblong balls, roll them in raspings or grated bread, and fry them in boiling butter a delicate colour on all sides. After frying, lay them a little apaz't in a baking-dish, with a cup of water, and put them in the oven to soak through, but not to brown deeper. Baste occasionally, and let them crisp. 350. “ Polnisches Zrazxj ”— Polish Sraszt/. Take the underloin from a surloin of beef. Cut it through into cutlets a bare inch thick. Beat them with a cutlet bat or the blade of a beavj' knife till they are about half the thickness. Trim them a nice round shape. If underloin is not to be had, a fine rump-steak will do. Cut it into small round portions and beat them well, as above. Make a good- sized piece of butter quite hot in a stew-pan. Lay in the slices, with salt, pepper, a pinch of pounded cloves, and an onion or some shalots that have been minced and delicately browned in butter. Also, if not objected to, a very small clove of garlic pounded or bruised fine. Cover close, and let the sraszy steam in their own gravy till tender. Turn them when one side is coloured, and taste them occasionally. If the gravy dries away, add a little stock or soup. When91 MEATS. done quite tender, take up the slices. Skim off any super- fluous fat from the sauce; dust a little flour in ; darken the sauce with sugar browning ; let it cook for a minute ; then pour it over the meat, which garnish with sliced potatoes fried in butter. 351. Zrazy”—Sraszy. {No. 2.) Mince an onion or couple of shalots and a small clove of garlic. Put these in a stew-pan with about two ounces of butter, some bruised black pepper, and two or three crushed cloves. When the onion is done yellow, lay in the little steaks, prepared as above, strew salt and a dust of pepper over, cover the stew-pan, and let the zrazy steam tender in their own gravy. As this dries away, add a little stock soup or good gravy. The steaming must be slow. When quite tender, dish the sraszy and strain the gravy over them. Put a wreath of potato slices round the dish; they must have been fried a nice delicate brown in butter. Puree of potatoes is often served with the Polnisches Zrazy. 352. Fricandelle ”— Fricandelles. Use any remains of roast or other cooked beef. Mince it very fine, with a little onion, parsley, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and bread-crumbs, or pieces of bread soaked in cold water and pressed out, some fat meat or bacon, and an egg or two to bind the mass. Mix it well, and form balls the size and shape of an egg. Fry them in butter, or bake them a nice brown. Instead of bread, mashed potatoes may he used with all the above ingredients, and finished the same. 353. “ Frische Zunye ”— Fresh Ox Tongue Put the tongue on the fire in cold water. Let it simmer slowly till quite tender, then take the skin ofl’. Melt two ounces of butter in a stew-pan; dust in a tablespoonful of flour and as much grated bread as the butter will absorb and brown. Mince a few rashers of bacon small, as also an onion, and add them to the sauce with the juice of a lemon and a slice of its peel. Thin the sauce with a little broth, or water in which the tongue was boiled. Lay in the tongue, sprinkle it with salt, cover, and simmer it an hour slowly.GERJMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 92 354. Frische Zunge"—Fresh Ox Tongue. [No. 2.) Having boiled the tongue as above, brown some flour in butter, leaving out the bread-crumbs. Add a dessert-spoon- ful of capers, two sardines, an onion, and some parsley, all minced fine, and two or three slices of lemon. Thin the sauce with some of the water the tongue was boiled in, or some broth ; add a little wine, vinegar, salt, and some black pepper. 355. “Frische Zunge"—Fresh Ox Tongue. {Fo. 3.) An excellent way. Boil and skin the tongue as above. Brown some flour in two ounces of butter; thin this with broth or water. Add a glass of white wine, an onion stuck with a few cloves, salt, pepper, and broth or water to give a creamy sauce. Lay in the tongue to finish as in the previous recipes. It should simmer at least an hour in the sauce. « 356. “ Dresdener Zunge ”—Dresden Tongue. Pi-ocure a fresh bullock’s tongue, wash well, and wipe it quite dry. Put a large piece of butter in a stew-pan, which must be deep enough to close well. Dredge in some flour ; place the tongue in the stew-pan; let it brown nicely on one side, then turn it. When nicely browned all over, season it well; add a pint and a half of water. Cover close, and let it simmer, not boil, three hours and a half. Add more water if the gravy wastes much. There must be enough left to serve with the tongue, which is eaten hot with potatoes, or is equally good cold. Garnish, and serve with slices of lemon. 357. “ Ungarische Zunge"—Hungarian Tongue with Sauce. Put a fresh tongue on the fire in just cold water enough to cover it, and with it a carrot, an onion, a bay-leaf, a couple of slices of lemon, some black pepper, salt, and a little garlic. Let it simmer gently about two hours, till quite tender. Skin and trim it. Either servo it whole, or cut in slices and arranged in a ring, with the following thick sauce in the middle. Strain the sauce which the tongue was cooked in (this should bo reduced in the simmering to a mere gravy); brown a largo tablespoonful of flour in a good- sized piece of butter ; bruise two or three cloves of garlic, and lot them steam a little while in the browning ; then add93 MEATS. the strained gravy by degrees, stirring it quite smooth. Add a little lemon-juice or vinegar; and, whether-it be served whole or sliced, the sauce must be dished with the tongue. If garlic is objected to, make a thick sauce of grated horseradish, the carrot bruised fine, sorrel, capers, and a little wine. Garnish with lemon-slices and parsley. 358. “ Gerducherte Zimge ”—Smoked Tongue. Lay the tongue a night in water. Put it on the fire in cold water, and simmer until a skewer goes easily through it. Skin and trim it. Press it, while warm, into any shape you please. Garnish whole, or cut in thin slices, and arrange it in a wreath with cresses, beetroot, slices of lemon, or other garnish. 359. “ Saure Oxenzunge”—Sour Tongue. Put a fresh tongue from two to four days in a pickle of a wineglass of vinegar, two or three slices of lemon, and either an onion, garlic, or shalot sliced, six cloves, a tea- spoonful of black pepper, and two bay-leaves. When about to dress it, wipe the tongue dry. Melt an egg-sized piece of butter in a stew-pan; sprinkle in a good handful of bread- crumbs, and dredge in flour to brown. Mince, and add a couple of rashers of bacon. Strain in the pickle. Add broth or water enough to thin the sauce moderately. Lay in the tongue, and let it simmer till quite tender. If the sauce is not piquant enough, add lemon-juice or vinegar, a little ca) enne pepper, and a glass of claret. When the tongue is peeled, pour a little of the sauce over it, and serve the rest in a tureen. 360. “ Braunes Ragout von Zunge ”—Broun Ragout of Tongue. Piub a fresh tongue with salt, and wash it thoroughly. Put it in a stew-pan just large enough to hold it, with cold water barely covering it. Let it simmer about three hours, skin it, and cut ofi' the root. Slice it half an inch thick, and proceed as for brown ragout of poultry, or the same as “ Hasenpfeffer.” 361. “ Zungen Fricassee ”— Fricassee of Tongue. Boil a fresh tongue tender, as above. Trim and cut it in similar slices. Make a creamy sauce, by browning a table-94 GERilAN NATIONAL COOKERY. spoonful of flour in butter, with a finely minced onion. Add to this some of the liquor the tongue was boiled in, and some lemon-juice, nutmeg, white wine, pepper, and salt. Stir the yolks of two eggs into the sauce, and pour it over the tongue. 862, “ Gerdstete Oxmzunge ”—Fried Tongue. Boil a fresh tongue quite tender, and take the skin otf; cut slices a third of an inch thick ; rub them with salt and pepper, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in butter a delicate brown on both sides. Sprinkle wth lemon- juice before serving. 863, “ Plockjinken ”—A Smoked Meat Hash. Cut carrots into little dice or long strips; stew them quite soft in broth with butter and salt. Brown a little flour m butter, and drain into it the broth fi-om the carrots; add a little vinegar, sugar, and pepper; Stir and boil it to a creamy sauce. Cut up remains of smoked meat into small slices or dice ; add this to the carrots ; pour in the sauce; stir all to- gether, and leave it to stew a quarter of an hour. A minced onion may be stewed with the carrots if approved. Serve plockfinken with potatoes or klbsse. 364. “ Gehackter Braten"—Baked Mince. Mince together very fine two pounds of uncooked beef and one pound of pork. Mix it with three eggs, a quarter of a pound of warmed butter, two or three ounces of grated bread, a grated onion, a little allspice or nutmeg, and some salt and pepper. Shape the mass like a small loin of venison. Lard it with fat bacon in three straight rows. Lay it in a well-buttered baking-dish, and bake it in a brisk oven about three-quarters of an hour, basting now and then. Strew over a cup of grated bread as soon as the roast is coloured, then begin basting with a cup of sour cream or milk, and bake it another half-hour. Serve with a good sauce handed in a tureen. 865. “ Oxenschireife "— (Xr Tails. They must bo well soaked in water, divided at the joints in proper sizes for serving, and sot on the fire in cold water enough to cover them. As soon as they simmer, put to themMEATS. 95 any roots and herbs, celery, onion, or a clove or two of garlic, a carrot grated, a small bunch of herbs, a little spice, and sufficient salt and pepper. When the meat is quite tender, take out the pieces carefully, strain the sauce, add to it a glass of madeira, the juice of a lemon, some cayenne pepper, some capers or pickled gherkins cut small, a few very small shalots or button onions, and some brown thickening. *Put back the tails to simmer half an hour. The meat must be done enough to part from the bones, and the sauce thick and brown. 366. “ Oxengaumen ”— Ox Palates. Put them on in cold water and let them warm gradually. As soon as they are hot, take them up and pare off the hard white skin. Do not let them boil first, or the skin will be difficult to peel off. Put them on again in cold water, and let them simmer slowly about three hours. When tender, cut them in slices and serve as fricassee, in white savory sauce ; or cold in slices with a nice salad cream, and with or with- out salad. 367. “ Einds/uss ”— Cow Heel, or Neat’s Foot May be dressed in the same way as above. Or, when boiled, cut them in pieces ; melt butter in a stew-pan ; flour the pieces as you put them into it; add gravy, broth, or water enough to make a little thick sauce ; throw in some caraway-seeds, salt, and pepper, or, instead of the caraways, some shred parsley. 368. “ Eindehim zu Braten ”— Ox Brains. Lay the brains in plenty of lukewarm water to blanch. Put them into scalding water, with some salt, to boil slowly about half an hour. Take them up; drain, and divide them into small lumps ; dip these in a well-beaten egg ; sprinkle them with grated bread ; fry them in plenty of butter a delicate brown ; sprinkle with lemon-juice when done, and serve with slices of lemon as garnish. 369. “ Kaldaunen or Kutteljleclc ”— Trqie. Blanch the tripe in plenty of water. Set it on the fire in cold water, with onions and other roots, and a couple of bay- leaves. Let it boil till tender. Drain it, and when cold cut it in neat pieces, dip them in egg and crumbs, and fry them96 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. a pale brown. Or, instead of frying, serve the tripe in soar sauce. The latter may also be served with fried tripe. 370. “ Kaldaunen"—Tripe. (Ab, 2.) Tripe, well boiled In water, with onions and herbs, then cut out with various small cutters, may be used to advantage in fricassees of any kind. Or, cut into shapes, fried in egg and crumbs, sprinkled wdth lemon-juice, salt, and white* pepper, and garnished with parsley and lemon, it forms a pretty side-dish. 371. “Kaldaunen"—Tripe. (iVb. 3.) Boil the tripe in water merely to cover it, and with it an onion or two stuck with a few cloves. When done quite tender, drain and let it cool, then cut it into small dice. Brown two tablespoonfuls of flour in butter, thin it by stir- ring in a little broth ; or some of the water in which the tripe was boiled. Add some minced onions, a little \inegar, a bay- leaf, a couple of slices of lemon, and some salt and pepper. Let the sauce cook thoroughly, then pass it through a coarse sieve, and put it to the tripe, which must simmer in the sauce a short time before serving. 372. “ Kdnujsberger Fleck ”— Tripe. {No. 4.) Having blanched and boiled the tripe tender, cut two or three onions small and steam them soft in a good piece of butter. Mix a thickening of milk and flour or bread-crumbs, to make a thick sauce. Add some chopped parsley, a sprig of marjoram, a little nutmeg, some white pepper, and salt. Stir till it boils thick and smooth. Cut the tripe in long narrow strips, and let it simmer a little while in the sauce. 373. “ Hamburger Eindjleisch ”— Hamburg Beef to Pickle. Take the short ribs, brisket, and any parts from which the bones can be taken out; and to fifty or sixty pounds of these pieces use the following pickle :— Mix four pounds of salt with a quarter of a pound of saltpetre. B,ub some well into the beef, and keep the rest to sprinkle between the layers. Peel and slice a pound and a half of onions, half a pound of shalots, and an ounce of garlic. Mix with these two ounces of bruised white pepper, a good handful each of marjoram, thyme, and basilicum, all picked from the stems, a handful of bay-leaves, a quarter of97 MEATS. an ounce of cloves, the same of mace, and half an ounce of juniper berries. Have a pickling tub quite clean and sv/eet, rinse it with cold water at last, and sprinkle over the bottom with the seasonings. Lay in, closely wedged together, a layer of the beef, strew over this a fair portion of the season- ings ; over this again beef and seasonings, some of which must be left for the top. When all is closely packed and strewn, press the meat down hard with a heavy stamper ; put a cover over, and on this a heavy pressure. In a few days brine should cover the lid, if the meat is closely packed and pressed. Should this not appear, make a jug of strong brine and pour it over. In three or four weeks the moat will be enough pickled. Use the smaller pieces first. 374. “ Hamburger Eauchjieisch ”—Smoked Beef. Lay the piece of smoked meat in lukewarm water from six to twelve hours according to its size and ago, then scrape it, and pare off any blackened outside. Bind it with tape in the form you wish, and put it on the fire in plenty of cold water. Let it simmer very slowly from three to four hours. Unbind and trim the meat again before serving. Strew over it brown raspings, with a little nutmeg grated among them. Many boil roots and herbs with smoked beef to flavour it. The pickled Hamburg beef (see Index), may either be smoked out of the pickle, dried for grating, stewed, boiled, or baked and glazed, to cut cold. 375. “ Roastschnitten in Sauce ”— Hash. Brown flour in butter, slice onions in it, let them brown and soften, add a little water, broth, or gravy, wine, slices of lemon, a bay-leaf, salt, pepper, and a little vinegar. Sim- mer these a few minutes ; slice cold roast meat from a joint which is too large to use up. Lay the slices in the sauce to get hot, but do not suffer them to boil, or the meat will be- come hard and spoiled. Either strain the sauce to serve or merely take out the bay-leaf. 376. “ Rindfleiscli Ragout ”—Beef Ragout. Cut thin steaks into nice pieces. Boat them well. Chop onions rather small and stew them soft in butter. Lay in the meat, with salt, pepper, and a glass or two of wine. uGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 98 Cover, and leave it to steam thus for a quarter of an hour, then add some brown thickening, the juice of a lemon, and a cup of sour cream or some broth, and either a spoonful of capers or a little green pickle chopped small. Simmer a few minutes, and dish with a %vreath of fried potatoes round. 377. “ Schlachtbraten”—A Larded Beef Disk. Take for this a piece of the round; remove the skin, rub the meat over with salt, pepper, and a dozen pounded cloves. Lard it on the top thickly with nice bacon. Dredge it well with flour. Make a good-sized piece of butter hot in a stew- pan. Lay in the beef with an onion or two, a couple of bay- leaves, and the juice of a lemon, with a small piece of its peel. Cover close, and let the meat simmer till nicely browned, turning occasionally. MTien done, pour over some sour cream or milk. Add a sugar browning to the sauce ; serve it over the meat, and garnish with slices of lemon, one of which serve on each plate. 378. “Binder Cotelettes ”—Beef Cutlets {Viennese tray.) Choose a part of a well-hung loin of beef; have the back- bone chopped away, and the ribs chopped short ofi" as far as the fillet of meat extends. Divide these into cutlets an inch and a half thick; beat them out thinner with the chopper- blade or cutlet bat; sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge them with flour, and fry them w'ith butter a nice brown ; or having beaten and seasoned them, dip them in fresh oil or warmed butter, and broil them nicely. Make butter hot in a stew-pan, lay in the cutlets with enough broth or gravy to cover them, and an onion and any other vegetable to flavour the sauce, such as a grated carrot and some celerj-. Let all simmer gently till the vegetables are soft. Take out the cutlets carefully, skim ofl' the fat, and pass the sauce through a coarse sieve ; add to it a glass of white wine and a little sour cream if at hand ; stir until it boils, add a good spoon- ful of capers, and if necessary some brooming. Lay in the cutlets to get hot. "When you dish them divide them in proper portions to serve; lay these in their original form on the dish, put a little sauce on each, and the rest in a sauce tureen. Ser\e with potatoes fried in slices.99 MEATS. 879. “ PoIniscJies Sraszy ”—Polish Sraszy. Cut from the fillet, or underloin, or very best broiling part of beef, steaks about three-quarters of an inch thick; shape them round, and beat them well with the blade of a kitchen- knife or cutlet-bat. Put a good-sized piece of butter in a shallow stew-pan, and when it is thoroughly hot lay in the steaks. Add salt, pepper, and a good pinch of finely powdered cloves, from four to six in powder. Mince fine a large Spanish onion, or two or three smaller ones, and a small clove of garlic the size of a coffee-berry all together, put them in a small stew-pan apart with a piece of butter, and let them steam, covered, until soft and yellow, but not burnt. Add these to the steaks when the latter are done a nice delicate brown on both sides. Cover the pan, and let them steam until tender. Baste them now and then with their own gravy ; if this dries away add some broth, grav}', or water. Pour off the gravy a quarter of an hour before serving; take the fat off; thicken it with a little flour, and return it over the meat. Serve with potatoes fried in slices, or small whole ones, nicely browned in butter. 380. “ Bmif a la Mode — Beef d la Mode. Choose a nicely-formed piece of the round. Beat it well all over. Cut strips of bacon for larding, and roll these in a mixed spice of pounded cloves, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Lard the beef all over. Lay a few rashers of bacon in a stew-pan ; on these some slices of onion, or an onion halved, which can be taken out after if desirable ; a quarter of a lemon sliced, a couple of bay-leaves, and two or three brown crusts of bread. Lay the beef on these. Pour over a tumbler of claret, a wineglass of vinegar, and broth enough to half cover the meat. Cover closely, and leave it to simmer till the meat is tender ; then take it up carefully ; skim the fat off the sauce, and pass it through a coarse strainer. Return the sauce and meat to the stew-pan, and let it steam till served. Dish altogether. 381. “ Ochsenmaul"— Ox Cheek. An ox cheek and palate must be well washed in lukewarm water, then laid for some time in cold water. Set them on the fire in cold water, and simmer till tender; but first take upGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. lOO the cheek as soon as the water is scalding hot, and pare away any black and white skin from the palate. When the meat is cooked quite tender, take it up. Cut it in slices, brown some flour in butter, and make a nice thick sauce; using any approved seasoning of spice, herbs, &c. Stir in one or two yolks of eggs. Add lemon-juice, pour the sauce over the meat, and garnish with sUces of lemon. Or: Egg and breadcrumb the slices; grate a little nut- meg over, and fry them a delicate brown. Pepper and salt them when done. ' Or: Serwe the slices cold, with a good salad cream poured over; to be eaten with bread and butter. “ KALBFLEISCH ^T^AL. 882. “ Kalbsbraten ”— Roast Veal. Beat the meat well. Eub it with salt. Put it in a deep stew-pan, or iron saucepan, with rashers of bacon under and over ; or, rashers of bacon at the bottom and pieces of butter on the top. Let the meat brown on aU sides; then add half a pint or so of water, and an onion wth six cloves stuck in it. Baste the meat often, till thoroughly done. Should the steam at first retard the browning, do not cover it close, but keep the lid on after the water is put in. Skim and strain the gravy for serving. 883. “ Gefmite Kalbsbraten”—Roast Teal Stuffed. Having beaten the meat well, fill its most suitable part with forcemeat. Proceed to brown it as above with butter or bacon in a deep stew-pan ; add water by degrees for gravy, observing the rules given above. 384. “ Gespickte Kalbsschale ”— Sho^ilder of Veal Larded. Shoulder or fillet should have any movable bone taken out. Beat the meat all over ; skewer it into a neat shape. Lard it with fat bacon that does not look yellowish. Put butter in a deep stew-pan to melt, and in this lay the veal. When done a pale brown on all sides, add a cup of water or broth, a little vinegar, two or three slices of lemon with thelOI MEATS. peel, an onion, four cloves, salt, and pepper. Cover and let it stew in this gravy some time, put in a thickening of a tablespoonful of flour and milk, or water, and brown the sauce with sugar if required. Strain the gravy for serving. Sour cream poured over as basting is very good. Garnish with lemon slices and parsley. 385. “ Saurer Kalbsschlegel oder Schuller ”—Leg or Shoulder of Veal Marinaded, Lay the veal for a couple of days in a deep dish, with half a lemon sliced, two or three bay-leaves, salt, pepper, and a wineglass of vinegar. Baste it with its marinade several times and turn it. Lard it before dressing. Bake it with butter in the tin or dish, and a cup of water. When pale brown, and half done, add the marinade. Baste it often after this. Strain the gravy and take the fat ofi" at last. During the baking, enough water must be added by small degrees to give a nice gravy. 386. “ Kalbsbraten in Buttemilch ”— Veal in Buttermilk. If you wish to keep veal from four to eight days, lay it in butter-milk enough to cover it, changing the milk every other day or two. Do not take out the veal until about to roast it; then wipe it dry, and baste it over with hot butter ; salt and pepper it. Bake it in a deep stew-pan, with rashers of bacon, and suitable herbs for seasoning. Use milk instead of water to steam it in after browning, and baste it fre- quently. 387. “Kalbsschlegel, Kalt rnit Aspic"—Cold Boast Veal in Jelly. Take the hones out of the shoulder or leg of veal, and give it a nice oval form with binding or small skewers. Cut thin slices of raw fat bacon and lean ham; roll them up separately the size of a little finger. Make holes in the veal with a pointed stick ; pepper and salt the rolled ham and bacon, and lard the veal alternately with them ; making each hole in the meat as you go on. Lay some rashers of bacon at the bottom of a deep casserole, with two or three calves’ feet cut up, an onion, a couple of carrots, salt, pepper, half a pint of white Khine wine, or hock, a pint of good stock, a quarter of a pint of vinegar, and a little—very102 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. little—cayenne pepper. Lay the veal on these; cover the casserole, and let it cook slowly by the fire, or in the oven, about three hours. It must be nicely browned, but neither dried nor burnt. Let it steam soft, then take it up. Strain the gravy, clear it from fat, and add browning or beet-root juice to colour it deeper. When the meat is quite cold, take off its binding. Remove any fat on the cold jelly, warm enough of this to coat over the meat, pouring it over with a spoon a little at a time. Cut up the rest of the jelly into rocky pieces and lay them on the meat. 388. “ Roulade von Kalbshrmt mit Aspic ”—Roulade of Veal uith Jelly. Take the bones out of a breast of veal from the under side, without dividing the upper meat. Spread it out as wide as you can by beating with a rolling-pin or mallet. Make a forcemeat of a pound of veal from the leg, and half a pound of bacon minced fine, with a small onion or shalot, a few sprigs of parsley, an ounce of capers, some grated lemon- peel, a little finely powdered thjune, or very little winter savory ; a cup of bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, and the yolks of three eggs. Spread this forcemeat over the inside of the veal, and on this lay, lengthways, a few narrow strips of bacon, half an inch thick; and between these, here and there, a small pickled gherkin, and the yolk of a hard- boiled egg. Roll up the meat carefully, skewer and bind it with tape. Put the bones in a stew-pan with some good broth or stock, a little vinegar, lemon-peel, and any deli- cate herbs to flavour. Simmer the veal in this very slowly for about three hours, letting it brown by degrees. Take the meat up, cut the ends smooth if necessary ; leave it bound until quite cold; then take ofl’ the tape and glaze the meat with clear, rich jelly, as directed for the foregoing dish. Instead of calves’ feet for the jelly, it may be made with good stock, the veal gravy, and isinglass or gelatine, nicely coloured. Have enough to ornament the meat with little rocks of jelly. 889. “ Winkclbraten Gcdiimpftcn ”— Steamed Roast of Veal. Loin of veal must be chopped away from the back-bone, and have the rib bones taken out. Take off the kidneys and any superfluous fat. Make a good forcemeat of veal, &c.103 MEATS. Spread it thick over the inner side of the meat, roll and bind it in shape, or skewer it. Put it in a deep stew-pan, with butter, to brown on all sides ; then pour in water enough for sauce, a sliced carrot or two, a couple of bay-leaves, salt and pepper, and leave it, covered close, to steam an hour or two. The kidneys may be scored and browned with the meat. When ready to serve, take up the veal; strain the gravy, take the fat off, and add a cup of sour cream and two or three ounces of capers. Give it a boil, and pour some over the meat. 390. “ Brisolcttes ”— Veal Brisolettes. Brisolettes are nearly the same as “ Fleisch Vogel,” “ Fri- candellen,” or “ Klopps.” They are made, however, with raw cuttings of veal, minced fine, with one-third as much fat bacon, or suet. Soak some bread in cold water, and press it all out; season well, form small oval balls, roll them in egg and bread-crumb, and fry them in butter a delicate brown. 391. “ Pohmcher Bock ”—Polish Buck. Three or four pounds of the fillet of veal must be beaten with the rolling-pin or a heavy mallet, until the meat is quite soft, and spread out about an inch thick. Cut sardines and some fat bacon into small pieces, make holes in the veal here and there, big enough to admit these separately; rub the meat with slices of garlic or onion, grate here and there a very little lemon-peel over, pepper and salt it moderately; roll it up tight in a sausage form, bind it in a nice shape, spread warm butter all over, and roast it in a stew-pan. Ba^e it with milk and butter enough, tui’niug at times, until it is coloured a fine brown ; then cover close, and let it steam till the gravy is nearly dried away. Allow two hours at least for cooking. Do not take off the binding till quite cold. 392. “ Wiener Schnitzel ”— Viennese Cutlets. Divide veal cutlets into pieces of from two or three inches square. Beat them well. Turn them in well-beaten whites of eggs, and sprinkle with finely-grated bread. Fry them in fresh lard, and strew salt over when done.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 104 393. “ Kalbsbrust Fricassee ”— Breast of Veal Fricasseed. Lay a breast of veal in lukewarm water to whiten. Cut it neatly into pieces of a nice size to serve. Put butter in a stew-pan, with an onion sliced, a carrot, three or four cloves, some lemon-peel, and any favourite herb. Dredge the veal all over with plenty of flour, and put it in the stew-pan with a little water. Do not let the meat brown, but simmer it till the carrot is soft. When done, take out the veal with a slice. Skim the fat oflf the sauce, and strain it; add a little white wine, and stir in the yolks of two or three eggs. Put back the veal to get quite hot. Squeeze over the juice of a lemon. Serve with “ semmel kldsse.” 394. Kalbsbrust Fncassee, mit Blumenlcohl"—Breast of Veal Fricasseed uith Cauliflower. Make the fricassee as above. Let it have plenty of creamy sauce, to which end put in at the last a cup of milk with some flour in it;—a tablespoonful will do for a large cup of milk. Let this simmer awhile. Have ready a cauliflower, boiled in salted water, not too soft. Break this into small tufts, and throw them into the sauce. 395. Kalbs Fricandeau"—Fricandeau of Veal. A Cold Dish. Choose for this a large, well-formed piece of the fillet of veal; take the skin oAf, and beat it all over. Make holes in it with a pointed stick the size of a finger, and as you make each one fill it with a small slice of ham, tightly rolled, and, alternately, a piece of fat bacon, a good inch apart. Cover the bottom of a stew-pan with some rashers of bacon, an onion, and a carrot sliced, some whole pepper, a few juniper- berries, nearly a quart of strong veal broth or good stock, a couple of calves’ feet cut up, a glass or two of white wine, two or three slices of lemon, a wineglass of vinegar, and some salt. Lay the veal on these, and let all simmer, closely covered, three hours, basting now and then. Bo sure it does not boil to harden the meat; take this up carefully, and set it to get cold. If the gravy has not a fine brown colour, some sugar browning must be added; boil it then down to about half a pint. Strain the gravy, remove all fat from it, baste with it the cold veal until the latter has a fine coating of l)i-own jolly. Pour the rest of the gravy in a plate, and when set, cut it in small pieces, and gai’nish the veal with it.105 MEATS. 396. “ Kolbs Fiicandeaii"—Veal Fricandcau. A Hot Dish. (.Y0.2.) _ Proceed as directed in the last recipe with the same piece of veal. Bore and fill it in the same way ; and then lard it all over. When done, take up the veal, and keep it hot while preparing the gravy a^ above. Return the meat to the stew-pan, and baste it with the brown gi-avy till it has a rich brown coating and is nicely glazed. 397. “ Fncandeaux von Kalb ”— Veal Fricandeaux. Cut thick veal cutlets into neat oval shapes ; beat them well; lard them with a small larding-needle ; brown them in a casserole. Make a strong gravy as directed in former recipes. Simmer the fricandeaux in it until tender. Do not let the gravy cover them, but baste them often. They make a pretty dish cold, with the clear gravy jelly arranged on them. The trimmings of the cutlets may be thrown in to strengthen the gravy, or they may he used for Brisolettes. 398. “ Kalb Fricassee niit Schivarzwurzel”— Veal Fricassee with Scorzonei'a. Cut breast of veal into proper pieces for serving ; dredge them with flour all over; put them in a stew-pan with some butter; cover close, and let them steam half an hour, and add water enough to give plenty of sauce. Clean and cut scorzonera into lengths of two inches, as much in quantity as the meat, to which it must be added, with salt, a little grated nutmeg or mace, and some lemon-peel. Cover close, and let it stew till tender ; then pour off some of the sauce into a basin, and stir into this the yolks of two eggs. Return it to the stew, simmer a few minutes, and serve with slices of lemon as garnish. Instead of scorzonera, cauliflower broken into tufts, or cucumbers peeled, quartered, and their seeds taken out, may be used; taking care that the vegetable be not done too much. 399. “ Klops von Kalbjleisch ”— Veal Collops. Any part of loan veal, raw, must bo cleared from skin and vein, minced fine, and mixed with a third as much chopped suet or fat bacon, a handful or two of bread-crumbs, a couple of eggs, pepper, and salt. Mix thoroughly. Take portions theGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. io6 size of an egg ; form them square and smooth ; dip them in egg and grated bread ; mark them crossbarred with the hack of a knife, and fry or hake them a nice brown. If they are made of hard or tough meat, lay them in a stew-pan with a little broth or water at the bottom, and steam them until tender. Serve with a savoury gravy, and any kind of vegetable. 400. “ Kalbsbraten Wurfeln niit Rosinen”—Veal Mince with Currants. Cut roast veal into small dice. Melt butter in a stew-pan, brown some bread-crumbs or flour in it, add gravy or broth, a glass of white wine, some lemon-peel, salt, and a cup of well-washed cm'rants. When the latter are simmered soft, put the veal in the sauce, to get thoroughly hot, but not to boil. 401. “ Eingemachtes Kalbfleisch”—Stewed Veal. A delicate dish. Breast of veal is the best. Wash it in cold water. Beat it well, and divide it between each hone into narrow pieces. Put it in a stew-pan with a large cup of water and some flour and butter, mixed as if for thickening, an onion with six cloves stuck in it, some chopped parsley, a ha^'-leaf or a few juniper-berries, a couple of slices of lemon, a glass of white wine, a grate of nutmeg, and some salt. Enough water or broth and flour should be added to make plenty of creamy sauce, which must be strained when done. 402. “ Kalbskopf”—Calf's Head. Blanch the head by laying it in lukewarm water. Boil it tender in salted water. Brown it with butter in a casserole. Dish it laid open in halves, with the tongue halved and laid on each side. Sauce as per Index. 403. “ Kalbskopf Gcbraten ”— Calf’s Head Baked. Boil the head tender as above, cut ofi“ the meat in neat slices, lay them in a dish with butter, and strew salt between ; mix half a pint of sour cream, or milk, with the yolks of four eggs, and a grate of nutmeg. Grate Parmesan or green cheese over, and bake it in a quick oven. Or: Having boiled the head, lay it open, spread butter over, give it a coating of grated cheese, and colour it in the oven.107 MEATS. 404. “ GnlUrter Kalbskopf”— Calf’s Head Orilled. Cut slices from a well-boiled calf s head ; dip them in egg; strew them with grated bread, and fry them a pale brown in butter. Or : Dip the slices in a nice batter, fry them a delicate brown, and serve as an entree. 405. “ Kalbsfiisse”—Calves’ Feet. Boil them tender, with salt in the water. Take out the large bones. Brown a large tablespoonful of flour in butter, add to this some of the water the f^eet were boiled in, and a little white wine, salt, white pepper, a couple of slices of lemon, and a grate of nutmeg. Let the feet simmer in this half an hour. Add a little chopped parsley just before serving. 406. “ Kalbsbrieslein, Kalbsmilch, oder Midder ”— Sweetbread. Set the sweetbread over the fire in cold water, and when warm, pour it ofiT and put fresh cold. Repeat this till the sweetbread is quite white, then lay it in cold water. Dry and fry it in egg and bread-crumbs with plenty of butter; grate a very little nutmeg upon it, and squeeze the juice of half a lemon over it when done. Garnish with any fine vegetable. Or: Prepare it by blanching, as above, cut it into several pieces, and cook it in a good white sauce, or serve in fricas- sees. 407. “ Crepinettes ”— Baked Faggots. A pound and a half of calf s or pig’s liver, minced fine, as also half a pound of fresh fat pork, and an onion, must be steamed over a slow fire, with a little thyme, sage, basilicum, salt, and pepper, for half an hour. It must not brown. Drain all the fat away, and when the mince is cool, mix in by degrees three well-beaten eggs, and grated or fine bread- crumbs enough to bind it; add a grate of nutmeg, and mix thoroughly. Form round balls of the mass ; fold each in a piece of pig’s caul; or, without this, lay the balls close together in a buttered dish or stew-pan, moisten them with well-seasoned gravy, cover, and let them bake slowly till done a pale brown, but not dried. They should be glazed with rich gravy stock.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. io8 408. “ Kalbjleisch Pilau ”— Veal Pilau. Put a breast of veal in a stew-pan, with a quart of cold water, a large onion, and a root of celery. Cover close, and let it simmer slowly an hour, then add a blade of mace, some coriander and cardamom seeds, four cloves, salt, and pepper. Leave it simmering while you melt two or three ounces of butter in another pan, and stir into this three-quarters of a pound of dry, large-grained rice. Stir frequently till it has acquired a nice yellow colour, then take up the meat, keep it warm, strain the sauce and take all the fat off; add the sauce to the rice, cover and let it steam, shaking often, till the rice becomes well plumped, soft, and dry. Now cut up the meat in portions to serve, lay them in a pile on a dish, cover them with the rice in a neat raised form, and garnish it with slices of lemon and hard-boiled eggs. 409. Gefilllte Leber, or Kalbsnetzivurst ”— Savoury Liver Mince in Caul, to eat cold. Mix about two pounds of calf’s liver, minced fine, a small onion, minced and bruised, and six ounces of fat bacon, cut into small dice. Put a small piece of butter in a stew-pan with the bacon and onion, to soften. As soon as the bacon begins to fry, add the minced liver and some salt and pepper, to season it well. Stir it over the fire till the liver is no longer red, then turn it out in a dish to cool. Beat three or four eggs and stir them into the mass. Sew a caul into a bag, and fill it with the mince. Melt a piece of butter in a stew- pan and lay in the bag. Let it steam an hour, turning it occasionally, that it may be well done through. This mince may be done in a basin without the caul. 410. “ Netzivurst”—Savoury Liver Mince in Caul, to eat cold. (Xo. 2.) Mince a calf’s liver. Soak in cold water six ounces of bread, and press it out. Mince half a pound of fat bacon ; beat three eggs. Mix all these together with salt, pepper, grated lemon-peel, and a quarter of a pound of well-washed currants. Spread a caul over a deep dish (or fill the dish without the caul). Fill it with the mass, and skewer it together. Bake it sufficiently in a moderate oven. Pour off the liquid fat. Leave it to cool, then turn it out to cut in slices as it is wanted.109 MEATS. 411. “ Qrich ”— Calf's Pluck. A calfs heart, kidneys, liver, sweetbread, lights, and feet, must be cut into neat pieces. Melt two or three ounces of butter in a stew-pan, and throw in two tablespoonfuls of flour to brown ; stii’ into this a glass of wine, and water enough to give a thick sauce when boiled. Put in all the meat, excepting the liver and kidneys. Add salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, the juice of a lemon, and a third part of its peel. Close the lid, and let stew an hour ; then add all the liver and kidneys. Simmer all a quarter of an hour longer, stir in a cup of cream, or piece of fresh butter, and serve. 412. “Kalbsherz"—Calf's Heart. Lard the heart all over with good bacon, using a small larding-pin. Roast it a nice brown. Dredge it over with flour, salt, and pepper. Lay it in a small stew-pan with some gravy or broth, a chip of lemon-peel, three cloves, four juniper-berries, or a bay-leaf. Let it remain covered and slowly steaming for an hour. Add some sour cream, or lemon-juice, before serving. 413. “ Gefiilltes Herz "— Stuffed Heart. Make the filling of a rasher of fat bacon minced, a slice of bread soaked in cold water and pressed out, some shred parsley, a little thyme, and chives, a little grated lemon-peel, salt, pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and an egg, all well mixed. Fill the heart, sew, or skewer it close. Lard it all over. Roast it a rich brown, then put it in a saucepan just large enough to hold it. Pour over a glass of red wine and some gravy. Skim the fat off the sauce before serving, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over the heart. 414. “ Geddmpftes Kallfleisch "— Steamed Veal. Any part of veal wiU do for this. Make a good-sized piece of butter hot in a deep stew-pan. Lay in the veal, the best side down, to brown ; then turn and brown it all over. When nicely coloured, add some broth or water; baste it often; cover close, and let it steam over a slow fire. While the meat is browning, boil a carrot sliced, an onion, a little mace, thyme, and lemon-peel in a small covered sauce- pan with about half a pint of water. Strain this water overI lO GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. the veal, and leave it to simmer till tender; then take the fat off the sauce, which must he served in a tureen. Garnish the meat with slices of lemon and rashers of bacon. 415. “ Kalhsleber Geschmort ”— Calf's Liver Stewed. Skin a liver and cut it in thin slices. Slice some onions and steam them in butter till yellow ; then put in the liver, with pepper and salt, and let it simmer or steam slowly, till done through, stirring it occasionally. Take up the liver with a fork; add some broth or water to the onions, with lemon-juice or vinegar, a nice browning, and a handful of bread-crumbs to thicken the sauce ; boil and stir this smooth; put in the liver to get quite hot, and serve at once. 416. “ Kalhsgeliime ”— Calf's Brain. Lay the brains in cold water to whiten. Put them in a stew-pan with a little water, a tahlespoonful of vinegar, an onion, two or three cloves, a little white wine, salt, and white pepper. Simmer the brains half an hour, then lay them on a sieve to drain. When cold, cut them in slices, and dip them either in butter or egg and bread-crumbs, seasoned with salt and white pepper. Fry them in butter. Serve as a side- dish or accompaniment to any delicate vegetable. 417. “ Mayonnaise von Kalbsyehirne "— Mayonnaise of Calf's Brain, Prepare and cool the brains as directed in the foregoing recipe. Divide them in pieces the size of a small walnut. Arrange them on a dish. Pour over a thick sauce Mayonnaise (see Index). Garnish with aspic or green pickles. 418. “ Flsisch Vogel"—Meat Birds, or Veal Olives. Cutlets of veal, or beef-steak, must be cut two or three inches broad, and four or five long. Beat them well. Prepare a filling of minced bacon, a little suet or marrow, shalot or chives, parsley, gi-atcd lemon-peel, thyme, salt, pepper, a slice of broad soaked in cold water and pressed out, or grated bread-crumbs, and an egg to bind the whole. Spread a layer of the filling on each cutlet. Roll them up egg-shaped and hind them so with thread. Dredge with flour, and put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter or fat bacon. Let them brown on all sides; then dredge with111 MEATS. flour again. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over ; add salt, pepper, and sufficient water or broth to make plenty of sauce. Cover close, and let them steam an hour. Carefully take off the thread when dishing. 419. “ Gespickle Fleisch Vogel”—Meat Birds Larded. Proceed with cutlets as above. Lay a slice of ham on each, then the forcemeat. Koll and skewer them together. Lard them with a small larding-pin, and finish as directed for the others. 420. “ Fricamiell"— Fricandell. Mince a pound and a half of veal, a pound of bacon, and if the latter is not very fat, two ounces of suet small. Soak half a pound of bread in cold water, and press it out. Add the gi’ated peel and juice of half a lemon, salt, pepper, a little sweet herb, some parsley, and two or three eggs, to bind the whole. Mix all thoroughly, and bake it an hour in a buttered dish only half fiUed with the mass. When the top is pale brown mix a little flour with broth, gravy, or milk, and pour it over. Let it bake some time longer. Before serving, pour off’ what gravy swims on the top, mix it with the yolks of two eggs; pour it again over the meat, and again set it in the oven for a few minutes. 421. “ Fricandellen ”— Fricandells. The above mass; but instead of baking as directed, form oval balls, and either fry them or bake them on a tin dish. These can be made with any remains of cold meat or poultry ; indeed, of several difTerent remains of roast or boiled meats mixed together. For veal, use ham or bacon and the veal seasonings. For beef, add chives or onion and a little mace. For pork, use a little sage with onion. Half an hour’s baking is enough when the meat has been previously cooked. 422. “ Kalbslcopf in Sulze ”— Calf's Head in Jelly. Lay a calfs head, the heart, and two feet in cold water for an hour or two. Bet them on the fire in just enough cold water to cover the meat. Watch for the scum rising, and take it off. Throw in a teaspoonful of whole pepper, the same of allspice, two bay-leaves, two large onions, and some salt. When the meat has simmered quite tender take it upI 12 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. and cut it clear from the bones ; put the latter back to boil for half an hour. Cut the head, tongue, and heart in neat slices when cold enough. Put two or three slices of lemon to boil with the bones. Add a little cayenne pepper, and strain off the liquid jelly. Rinse a couple of moulds in cold water. Pour in a little of the jelly, then arrange the white and brown meat in them ; be sm-e that the jelly is salted enough ; fill up the moulds, and when quite cold, remove the fat from the top, if any remains, and turn out the jelly. 423. “ Kalbsleber Gespickte ”— Calf's Liver Larded. Skin the liver and lard it with a small larding-pin all over the oval side. Butter well a small dish; lay in the liver, and set it in a hot oven to brown somewhat. "When the bacon begins to colour, dredge it with flour thickly, to coat the liver well; let it remain in the oven long enough to colour the flour. MeanwhUe, have in a stew-pan over the fire two or three rashers of bacon and a large onion sliced, a bay-leaf, a little lemon-peel, and plentiful salt and pepper. Cover the stew-pan till the onion is a little softened ; then lay in the liver, put a httle water or broth in the baking- dish, to melt off’ any crusted gravy, pour this into the stew- pan, cover close, and let it steam quite tender, but avoid boil- ing it. When done, take up the liver, squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, strain the sauce, and if not thick enough add more flour; give it a boil, and pour it over the liver. 424. “Gespickte Leber Scliciben"—Calf's Liver Larded in Slices. Cut two or three rashers of rather fat bacon in small dice, and mince a couple of onions tine ; put bacon and onions together in a stew-pan, and set it over the tiro till the onions begin to colour. Cut calf’s liver in slices a good half-inch thick. Lard the slices through, not more than an inch apart; dredge them well with flour; lay them in the stew- pan, and let them do a nice brown on both sides over a quick fire. Take out the slices ; mix a thickening of flour and broth or water, stir it into the rest, season well with salt and popper, add enough vinegar to make it piquant, and pour the sauce over the well-arranged slices of liver. The sauce should bo thick and brown ; leave the onions and bacon in it.MEATS. I13 “ HAMMEL,” OR “ SCHOPFEN FLEISCH ’’—MUTTON. 425. Hammelbraten"—Hoast Mutton. Mutton must be hung as long as it will keep, before cooking. U a leg, take off the knuckle-bone. Beat the meat well; stick long slices of shalot all over it with the lard- ing-pin. Put butter in a baking-dish. Lay in the mutton, and sprinkle it with salt. Bake it in a moderate oven, with frequent basting, adding a little water now and then to the dish. When done, lake the fat off the gravy ; brown a little flour in butter, and add the gravy from the baking-pan to it. Or, rub a spoonful of potato-flour smooth, with water, and thicken the gravy with this, boiled a few minutes. 426. “ Hammelhraten 7)iit Kiiohlauch”—Roast Mutton ivith Garlic. Well beat a leg or shoulder of mutton and take the skin ofl’. Divide garlic into its smallest cloves, and wrap each one in a small leaf of green sage ; make holes in the meat, and put these deep in. Rub the meat with pepper and salt, and roast as usual. 427. “ Geschmorte Hammellmde'' — Leg of Mutton Steamed. Beat the leg of mutton and ruh it with salt. Butter a tin baking-dish, and spread over it the following seasoning :— Shalots or onions sliced, two bay-leaves divided, a few tarragon-leaves, a tcaspoonful of caraway-seeds, salt, pepper, a little vinegar, and half a pint of beer and water mixed, or water only. Lay in the meat and bake it in a brisk oven, basting and turning until it is well browned ; then put it in a fitting stew-pan, together with the sauce from the baking- dish ; having rinsed the latter round with more water. Keep the meat covered to steam over a slow fire for two hours at least, adding more beer or water as the gravy dries away. The meat must bo well glazed with the brown basting. Strain the sauce and take the fat ofl' before serving. If cucumbers are to bo had, one or two peeled, cut up, and stewed in the sauce, much improves it. IGERJMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 114 428. “ Hammelkeule wie Hose ”—Leg of Mutton as Hare. Let the mutton be well hung. Beat it well, and take off the skin. Rub it with black pepper, salt, and powdered cloves or a little allspice. Lard the meat all over, and roast it a rich brown, basting frequently with milk, and dredging with flour occasionally, till it is well coated. Serve with a rich sauce piquant. Garnish with lemon slices. 429. “ Marinirte Hammelkeule”—Mutton Marinaded. Beat a well-hung leg or shoulder of mutton and skin it. Cut up two carrots, a root of celery, a large onion or a few shalots, and a little garlic. Put these in a deep dish with a few juniper-berries, two or three bay-leaves, half-a-dozen cloves, a teaspoonful of black pepper, and a sprig of thyme or marjoram. Pour over a gill of vinegar and a glass of wine. Lay the mutton in this marinade four daj’s, turning and basting it twice every day. Roast or bake it a nice brovTi. In the meantime, put a cup of water to the in- gredients of the marinade and boil it twenty minutes ; then strain it, add some salt, and mth this baste the meat frequently. When done, skim the fat ofl’ the sauce, thicken it with flour or potato-meal, boil it up, and serve in a sauce- tureen. If you intend baking the meat, quarter the carrots into the marinade and cook them in the dish with the meat. Lay them round it when served. This joint is excellent larded with fat bacon before dressing. Either stewed cucumbers, French beans, or white haricot beans, are good with it as vegetable. 430. “ Ragout von Hammclflcisch ”—Ragout of ^futton. Cutlets from the neck or breast of mutton, cut in pieces, must be put on in enough cold water to cover them, and gently stowed for an hour. Take the fat oil', and thicken the sauce with flour. Season with a handful of parsley, chopped fine, salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, or a few caraway-seeds. Cover close and simmer till tender. 431. “ Gediimp/tc Hammehchale mit Gurken ”— Shoulder of Mutton uith Steurd Cueumlnn-s. After beating a shoulder well, take off the skm and super- fluous fat; rub it with salt and pepper. Lay it in a deepII5 MEATS. stew-pan with a pint of water, and keep it over a moderate fii’e, covered, until the water is nearly cooked away ; then let the meat brown on both sides with stronger heat. Pour off the fat, dredge in a little flour, and add water enough for gravy. Peel two or three large cucumbers, quarter them, and take out the seeds. Mince an onion, and put this, with the cucumbers, in with the meat. Let them simmer till yellow. Add a couple of tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Cover close and simmer till the sauce is smooth and rich. 432. “ Oefidlte Hammelschulter ”— Shoulder of Mutton Stuffed. Take the bones out of a shoulder of mutton without cutting through the upper skin. Kub it over with salt and pepper. Fill the inside with a savoury forcemeat; skewer it into a neat oval form, or bind it with tape. Lay it in a stew-pan, with two onions, two carrots, some herbs, a bay-leaf, pepper, salt, and a little broth or water. Stew it gently over a slow fire or in the oven, basting often. When nearly done, take off" the cover and let the meat brown in the oven. Before serving, take up the meat, carefully remove the binding, and place it on a dish to keep warm while you strain the gravy, take all the fat olf, and boil it down to a strong glazing. Pour this over the meat. Serve with “ gurken sauce.” 433. “ Hammelschale oder Kettle, wie Wild ”— Shoulder of Mutton prepared as Game. Hang a joint of mutton as long as it will keep. Beat it well and clear it of skin and fat. Lay it in the marinade directed for hare. Add to this a glass of red wine. Turn and baste the mutton every morning for eight days. Lard it with bacon, and cook it in every way as directed for hare. 484. “ Hammelbrust ”— Breast of Mutton. Slowly boil a breast of mutton in just water enough to cover it, with an onion or two and some parsley to flavour the meat. When done enough for the bones to slip out, take it up carefully, and while hot draw out the bones. Let the meat get cold, then cut it into nice pieces ; season them with salt and pepper, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in butter a delicate brown ; or make butter hot, beatI l6 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. up an egg with it, roll the slices of meat in this, and broil them on the gridiron. Sauce for this dish.—Chop the onions that were boiled with the mutton, add one or two fresh ones if necessary, add these to sufficient of the broth, with a teaspoonful of caraway-seeds, some salt, and pepper ; make a thickening of flour and butter, or bread-crumbs instead of flour. Boil it till it becomes thick and smooth. 435. Gedcimpftes Hammelcare"—Loin of Mutton Steiced. A piece of the loin of mutton must have the back-bone chopped away without mangling the meat. Trim oil' the superfluous fat. Make a little butter hot in a stew-pan, and lay the meat in, the bone side uppermost. When browned, turn it up, and add half a pint of water, an onion, a couple of bay-leaves, a small bunch of sweet herbs, three or four doves, any approved vegetable for flavour, salt, and pepper. Cover close, and let it stew slowly. As the gra\y wastes, add a little more water. When done, strain the gravy ; take the fat ofl’, add some rich browning, and serve quite hot. 436. “ Gerdstete Hammelcares"—Loin Cutlets. Prepare and cook the loin of mutton as in the last recipe. Let it get cold and then cut it into well-trimmed cutlets. Galt and pepper them; give them a coating of egg and crumbs, and broil them in buttered papers a delicate brown. 437. “ Hanmel Cotelettcs’’—Mutton Cutlets. The loin of mutton should be fine and well hung. Have the back-bone chopped away. Divide each cutlet between the rib bones; trim ofl’ skin and fat, beat them with a flat knife or cutlet hat, rub with salt and pepper; coat them with egg and crumbs, and fiy them in butter, or broil them in buttered papers. 438. “ Haschee ron Hammel ”— liagout of Mutton. Slice onions thin, put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, and let them steam until soft and yellow; then dredge in flour ; let this brown, add a tablespoonful of vinegar, the same of wine, a grate of nutmeg, some gra\y or broth, salt, and pepper. Let it simmer to a creamy sauce ; then strain it. Slice the cold mutton and clear it from skin and vein ;MEATS. II7 chop it small, but not so fine as a mince. Let the meat get thoroughly hot in the gravy, but it must not boil. Garnish it with poached eggs ; or make a wall of well-boiled rice round a dish, and put the hash in the middle. In the latter case, season the gravy higher. 439. “ Raaout von Hamrnelbraten ”— Ranout of Mutton. {No. 2.) Eemains of cold mutton may be used for this dish. Brown some flour in butter, and with it a minced onion or two, or a few shalots. After this has steamed awhile, add two or three slices of lemon in the peel, a bay-leaf, some chopped parsley, broth or gravy enough to form a sauce, a little tarragon or common vinegar, salt, pepper, and four cloves. Give it a rich colour with sugar browning, boil to a creamy sauce, then take out the bay-leaf and lemon- peel, or strain the sauce through a coarse sieve. Lay in this the slices of cold meat, and let them remain steaming, but not boiling, for some time by the fire. A little wine at last will add to the zest. 440. “ Lammbratcn ”— Roast Lamb. The fore or hind quarter should be roasted or baked about an hour and a half, and basted with butter frequently. Put a little water in the baking-pan that the gravy may not become too brown. Skim the fat off this when done, and add a little water and salt to the gravy. 441. “ Larnmbraten viit Rosmarin"—Roast Lamb with Rosemarij. Rub the lamb with salt and pepper. Lay it in a baking- dish with sprigs of rosemary at the bottom and a couple of bay-leaves. The baking-dish should be well buttered, and slices of butter laid on the meat. Put enough water in the dish to prevent burning. Baste frequently, and finish as above. 442. “ Lamm Carbonaden mit Krdutern ”— Lamb Chops with Herbs. Chop parsley and chives very fine. Having trimmed the lamb chops, dip them in warmed butter, strew them thickly over with the herbs, wrap them in buttered paper, broil themii8 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, over a clear fire ; put some brown piquant sauce on a hot dish, and arrange the chops with a nice garnish on it. Or baste the chops with warmed butter, broil or fry them dry, and lay them on a dish of any young vegetables stewed. 448. “ Lamm Ragout viit Sauerampfer ”— Lamb Ragout with Sorrel. Put any parts of the fore quarter in a stew-pan with cold water, and let them come to a simmer; take up ten minutes after. Cut up the meat in neat slices. Put in a stew-pan an onion sliced, a carrot, some celery, parsley, a sprig of basilicum, two or thi’ee cloves, and a piece of butter. "When these have steamed a few minutes, dredge some flour in, add some of the water in which the lamb was bleached, and let it simmer to a creamy sauce. Season with salt and pepper ; strain and pour it over the lamb, in another stew-pan. When the meat is done tender, take it out; stir the yolks of two or three eggs and some sour cream into the sauce. Wash a few handfuls of sorrel-leaves and strip them from the stems; put them in a stew-pan with a little butter, to steam soft, then add them to the sauce. Pour this again over the meat and make the ragout quite hot. 444. “ Lamm Fricassee mit Capern"—Fricasseed Lamb with Cajwrs. Breast of lamb is preferable. Cut it into small square pieces, and put them to steam with a piece of butter, an onion, a sprig of basilicum, two bay-leaves, four cloves, some white pepper, and salt. Cover close and let all steam half an hour, shaking it occasionally. Add a little warm water and lefive it covered to simmer an hour. Strain the sauce from the herbs; thicken it with flour. Add a tablespoonful of capers, and stir the sauce into the meat. Serve garnished with slices of lemon. 445. “ Latmnriicken trie Rehziemer”—Saddle of Lamb Venison Fashion. Hang a saddle of lamb as long as it will keep, having previously dqsted it all over with black pepper. After it has hung, chop together some shalots, a good-sized sprig of green rosemary, a small one of tarragon, or only a few small leaves of the latter strong herb, and a sprig of marjoram. PoimdII9 MEATS. together six cloves, six juniper-berries, and a teaspoonful of black pepper ; mix these with the herbs. Rub the mixture well into the lamb all over, and lay it in a deep dish; sprinkle over any remains of the seasoning; mix a glass of rod wine with a glass of vinegar, pour it over the meat, and let it lie in this marinade two or three days, turning and basting it every day. Before cooking, wipe off the herbs. Lard the joint if preferred. Put it in an earthen baking-pan and cover it with pieces of butter. Add a little broth or boiling water to the marinade in the pickling-dish. Put this on the fire to simmer a minute in a little saucepan, then strain and add some by degrees to baste the meat with, and when this is nicely browned, put the rest of the marinade in the baking- dish, with a good sprinkhng of salt in the sauce and over the meat. The latter must be frequently basted to prevent its drying. An hour and a half is long enough to bake it. Pour a cup of cream or good milk over it a few minutes before serving; stir this well round the crusting of the dish. Skim the fat off the sauce. Put the yolk of an egg in the sauce tureen, and stir the gravy boiling hot into it. Garnish the meat with slices of lemon. 446. “ Gef illlte Lamrnbrust ”— Breast of Lamb Filled. Take out the hones as well as you can without cutting through the upper skin of the breast. Put them on in a little water to stew for gr.avy. Make a delicate forcemeat as directed for veal; spread this over the under side of the breast, which must then be rolled and skewered in a neat oval form._ Make butter hot in a deep stew-pan. Lay in the meat, and set it over a brisk fire, to brown all over, turning it as soon as one side is coloured. When brown enough add the gravy from the bones, with salt and white pepper. An onion and some browning must have been added to the sauce whUe stewing. Strain before adding it to the meat. Cover close, and let it steam till soft and tender. Serve with spinach, peas, or asparagus. 447. “ Geriislele Lammbrml”— Breast of Lamb Broiled. Set on the breast of lamb in cold water, with a large onion, some parsley or celery, salt, pepper, and two or throe cloves, and a strip of lemon-peel. Let it simmer till nearly done ; then take out the meat, and when cold, divide it intoGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 120 narrow slices, according to the width of each bone. Warm butter on a plate, beat an egg into this; dip each slice of breast into it; strew over grated bread, and broil them a delicate colour. Dish them, as a garnish to vegetables. 448. “ LammsgescliUiige"—Lamb's Pluck. Must be well soaked in cold water. Put it on the fire in cold water enough to cover it, and with it onions and the usual soup herbs and vegetables to flavour. Simmer it for about two hours, and let aU get cold together in the broth. Then take out the pluck and cut all into slices half an inch thick ; having dried the meat first, some of these can be dipped in egg, coated with grated bread, and fried in butter; cut up the remaining slices smaller, and set them aside while you strain the broth; add to it a thickening of flour and butter, a finely minced shalot or some chives, some chopped parsley, a little fine herb, and some white pepper, and salt. Let this stew down, with a good handful of bread-crumbs, to a thick smooth sauce, part of which may be ser^’ed with the boiled parts ; stir in the cut-up meat with the rest, make it quite hot, squeeze some lemon-juice over, and serve with or without a garnish of bacon rashers. 449. “ Lamnisgeschlinge nnd KojiJ"—Lamb's Head and Pluck. Lay head and pluck some time in cold water. The head must be split in halves. Take out the eyes, bind the head together with a piece of tape, and put it on, with the pluck, in just enough w-ater to cover the w’hole. Let it boil very gently till all is done ; with the seasoning vegetables as directed above. Set all aside to let the meat get cold in its broth. Dry the head, lay it open, spread egg and bread- crumbs over, sprinkle with hot butter, and give it a delicate brown in the oven, while you boil down the broth with seasonings and white thickening to a rich creamy sauce. Mince the pluck, salt nnd pepper it, stir the j'olks of a couple of eggs into the sauce, add the mince, give it a simmer together, and serve the head garnished with brains in one dish, and the mince garnished with the tongue for a vis-a-vis.MEATS. I2I “ SCHWEINFLEISCH PORK. 450. “ Schiceinsbraten ”— Roast Pork. Beat the meat well, rub it with salt and pepper. Score the skin with a shai’p knife rather deep; cross the scoring diamond-ways. Bake or roast it a pale brown, with frequent basting. 451. “ Nierenhraten ”— Loin of Pork. Score the skin each way, sprinkle it with salt, and when half baked, strew it with caraway-seeds. There must be enough water in the baking-dish to keep the fat from burn- ing. Baste it frequently. When done pour off the fat in the baking-dish; add water and salt to the brown gravy, and strain it. 452. “ Gefullte Scliiveinsrippe ”— Stuffed Ribs of Pork. Choose a young loin of pork. Have the bones jointed. Peel and quarter several sour apples, with which fill the pork. Skewer or sew it, that the apples cannot escape. Rub a little butter over the meat, and bake or roast it a pale brown. Then transfer the meat to a stew-pan ; add a cup of boiling water; cover and let it steam above two hours. Supply a little water as the sauce diminishes, and baste the meat frequently. Draw out the thread when dishing. Pour the fat off, and salt the gravy. 453. “ Sanrer Schwemebraten ”—Sour Roast of Pork. Any part will do for this. Take the skin off. Lay the pork in a salting dish. Strew over it a tablespoonful of salt, some sliced onions, a handful of sage-leaves, some thyme and basilicum, six cloves, a dozen juniper-berries, and a plentiful dusting of pepper. Pour over a small cup of vinegar. Let it lie a few days in this marinade, turning and basting it twice a day. When ready for cooking, lay the meat in a baking-dish, with its pickle and ingredients. Baste the meat several times with this, but, before the leaves or onions burn, take the dish out of the oven and pour in some hot water, rinse it round, and strain the gravy; add this again to the dish, and return it to the oven. Baste the moat often until well done, then take the fat off the sauce, and add more water if necessary.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, 122 454. “ Saurer ScJmemehraten ”—Pork'Marinaded. (No. 2.) The shoulder of young pork is best for this. Do not skin it. Lay the meat in the salting-pan ; pour a teacupful of vinegar over it; shce half a lemon and two onions into the dish ; throw in twenty bruised peppercorns and twenty juniper-berries, two bay-leaves, six cloves, and a dessert- spoonful of salt. Turn and rub the pork daily with the seasoning. In four or five days it will he ready. Bake or roast it, basting frequently with its own pickle; but leave out paid of the lemon. Water enough must be added to the pickle to make gravy, which must he strained, and seasoned with salt and pepper. 455. “ Saurer Schu'einskopf ”—Pig's Head Piquant. Prepare the head with the above marinade. Dry it well; spread warmed butter over, and brown it in a deep stew- pan, but only a dark yellowish colour. Then pour in a little water to the marinade, and add it to the meat. Cover and let it steam an hour, at least, in its own sauce, basting now and then. Skim and strain the sauce for table. 456. “ Schweinsbraten mit Haringe ”—Boast Pork with Herring. Neck, breast, or loin of pork must be well beaten, and the bones taken out. Clean and hone a Dutch pickled herring, cut it in strips, pepper them, and vith a larding-pin stick them all over the meat. Roll it up with a few sUces of lemon outside. Skewer and bind it neatlj'. Put it in a stew-pan with butter to brown slowly; then add some water for basting. Serve wth its own sauce. Sauerkraut as accompaniment. 457 . “ Spanfcrkcl ”— Sucking Pig. A young pig for roasting should be about fourteen days old. One weighing from six to seven pounds is the best. When carefully scalded and cleaned by the butcher, draw out the inside without cutting the pig open all along. Take out the eyes, wash the pig, wipe it dry inside and out, and hang it for a day. ^\Tien dressing, boil the heart and lights in a little water ; then mince them fine, and with them the raw liver. Mix these with an equal quantity of fine bread-crumbs. Beat aMEATS. 123 quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, add three eggs to it, stirring them well together, and mix the mince in. Add a seasoning of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, six or eight sage- leaves, a sprig of thyme, and a sprig of basilicum ; let these herbs be finely powdered or minced ; add one or two onions softened in butter and chopped. Mix all well together; fill the pig with it, and sew it up. Prick the skin all over with the point of a larding-pin. Lay it in a baking-pan, on a low meat-stand, or some skewers placed across, so that the fore feet bend, kneeling, under the breast, and the hind ones are similarly bent. Put a gag of wood in the mouth to keep it open. As soon as the pig is warm in the oven, rub it over with butter. Put a little water, butter, and salt in the pan, and baste frequently with this till the skin has a rich pale brown. About an honr and a half will bake it. Add some broth or made gravy and water to the baking-dish. Stir it well ronnd ; take the fat off. Thicken the sauce with a little an'owroot, potato-meal, or flour; strain, and serve it in a tureen. Take the gag out of the pig’s mouth, and put in an apple or half a lemon. The pig may be roasted before the fire, either with or without the stuffing. Rub the inside first %vith maijoram, caraways, and pepper. Skewer the legs in a kneeling pos- ture. Prick the skin well. Rub it over with butter, and finish as above. 458. “ Roulade von Schiceinfleisch ”—Rolled Pork. Choose the spring of fresh young pork. Take out the small bones. Mix a teaspoonful of saltpetre with two table- spoonfuls of common salt, and sprinkle it over the pork ; roll it up, and leave it two or three days. When about to dress it, rinse off the salt, and wipe the meat dry. Lay on the inside small pickled gherkins and slices of any pickled tongue, bprinkle over some black pepper and a pinch of powdered cloves. Roll and bind the pork tightly in a nice shape. Put it in a deep stew-pan in enough cold water to cover it, and with it some onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, two bay-leaves, and a little spice. Simmer it slowly from two and a half to three hours. Press it between plates, to get quite cold, before you take off the binding. Cut ofl’ a top slice, and send it to table whole, nicely garnished. Or serve in well- arranged slices, with the sauce Remoulade, or without.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 124 459. “ Rouladen von Schweimjlcisch"—Rolled Pork Steakt. Cut thin small steaks of young pork ; salt and pepper them; roll them in neat oval forms, and bind leaves of green sage round them. Put them in a stew-pan, with very little water, and as this dries away, let them brown in their o^vn gravy, turning and basting occasionally. Squeeze lemon-juice over them when nearly done. Serve in their own sauce, garnished with slices of lemon. 460. “ Schinkensclmittchen"— Ham Fritters. The remains of a cooked ham, when no more good slices can be cut from it, are proper for this dish. Mince the ham, with a due proportion of its fat, quite fine. If you have a good plateful of the mince, mix it well with two eggs, a cup of fine bread-crumbs, and some white pepper. Beat two eggs into a quarter of a pint of milk. Cut little round slices of French roll, and pour over them as much of the milk and egg as they will absorb ; then fry them in butter a pale yellow, or just long enough to set the custard throughout them. Spread on both sides a thick layer of the ham forcemeat; smooth them with a knife ; strew wuth grated rusks or bread, and fry them pale in butter. They are good as a side-dish, or to hand after the soup. 461. “ Schweins Coteleltcs ”—Pork Chops. Divide the loin by each rib bone. Chop away the back- bones, and take ofi" any superfluous fat. Beat the cutlets to make them tender. Season with salt and pepper, and dip them in egg and bread-crumbs. Fry them in butter a pale brown. Or, when you have beaten them, dip them in hot butter, coat them with grated crumbs, and broil them on the gridiron. 462. “ Gefullter Schiveiuskopf ”— Stii/fcd Pip's Head. Cut open a fresh pig’s head longways, underneath ; take out all the bones carefully, without cutting through the skin. Spread open the head, with its skin side under. Strew salt and pepper over. Make a well-seasoned forcemeat of minced bacon and liver, onion in moderation, a little green sage, thyme, and basilicum, bread-crumbs, salt, pepi^r, and a grate of nutmeg. Use an egg or two to bind it. I\Iix well, and spread it a good half-inch thick over the head ; lay on this.MEATS. 125 longways, some strips of pork and the pig’s tongue sliced ; then, between these, some pickled gherkins and strips of fat bacon. Sprinkle over some finely minced shalot, or a clove of garlic, salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Then spread over another layer of the forcemeat, and, if there is room for more, a sliced kidney or two, or some slices of veal, and the rest of the forcemeat. Close the two halves of the head together, and sew them tight. Bind the snout round firmly, or sew it together. Smooth the forcemeat over the back of the head, and cover it with part of a large bladder that has been soaked in several waters. Sew this on to the head. Lay it in a deep stew-pot with four calves’ feet, the bones of the head, and cold water enough to cover it. Put in with it a little garlic or a few shalots, a root of celery, two or three bay-leaves, six cloves, a sprig of winter savoury or thyme, and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Let it simmer slowly about three hours. Take the stew-pan from the fire, and when neai’ly cold, take up the head carefully. When quite cold, draw the threads out; glaze the head with a rich, clear meat glazing; when this has set, cut a smooth slice off the neck paid of the head, to show its marbled contents, and garnish with some of the clear jelly and a spray of gi'een bay-leaves. 463. “ Gerciucherter Schweinskopf''— Smoked Pig's Head. Lay the head in plenty of water to soak all night. Put it on in cold water to cook. Cover close, and simmer three hours. Serve with sauerki’aut. 464. “ Presskopf"—Brawn, or Pressed Head. Divide the head in halves, lengthways. Put it in a stew- pan with the pig’s feet, a couple of onions, a sprig of sage, salt, pepper, two or three cloves, a small wineglass of vine- gar and water, and barley enough to cover it. Simmer till the bones will slip out, but not long enough for the meat to fall to pieces. Take up head and feet and take out all the bones ; set the meat to cool while you strain the liquid; take its fat o9‘, and boil it down thick. When the head is cool, cut away the inner meat, leaving the skin whole. Cut up the meat, with what you have of the feet, into small pieces. The tongue must have been boiled with the head, and taken up when tender ; cut this up also and mix it with the moat,126 GEILMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. seasoning it well. When the gravy has boiled down thick enough to form a jelly, let it get nearly cold ; then stir it into the meat. Lay a wet napkin on a deep dish, and on this—the skin under—one of the halves. Lay the meat on, and cover it with the other half, to form a head. Fold the napkin over, and wrap it round tightly. Pin it as firmly round as pos- sible. Put it in a bowl or pie-dish of its size, with a plate and weight on the top. Let it remain a night. Serve it sliced, garnished with pickles. 465. “Presshopf”—Brawn. (Wo. 2.) A pig’s head, a calf’s head, each cut in halves, and a pound or two of pickled pork, must be packed close in a stew-pan, with salt, pepper, ginger, onions, bay-leaves, a little spice, and a bunch of sweet herbs, including sage, and a clove or two of garlic if approved. Pour in cold water, just enough to cover the meat. Put on the lid of the stew- pan, and let it simmer till the bones will easily slip out. Take up the heads and cut the meat in thick slices, as also the tongues if you have cooked them, or instead of these, a well-boiled smoked tongue. Strain the liquor, and skim the fat ofif; let it boil down to a strong consistency ; then add the juice of a lemon, and half-a-pint of white -«-ine, plenty of salt, and white pepper, or cayenne. Put the meat into this. Let it simmer a few minutes ; turn it into a deep mould; and when it has stood a night, set the mould in hot water for a minute, and tuim it out on a proper dish. 466. “ Presskopf"—Braini. (Wo. 8.) Boil a pig’s head, tongue, and heart soft. They must be covered close, simmering gently in just enough water to keep them stewing. When tender, take up the meat, and cut it into small pieces. Bod down the liquor to a creamy thickness; add to it salt, pepper, grated lemon-peel, a little powdered clove.s or mace, a quarter of a pint of white wine, and the same of vinegar. Stir the meat into the sauce, and give it a simmer together. Put it into any kind of form. Turn it out next day. 467. “ Presskopf”—Brawn. (Wo. 4.) Cook the head as usual. Boil three or four smoked sausages; when cold, cut them in slices half an inch thick. Cut some cooked ham or bacon into small pieces. Bod downMEATS. 127 the liquor the head was cooked in to a creamy consistence. Add salt, pepper, vinegar, sage, and spice, or, instead of spice, an onion -with two or three cloves stuck in, which must be taken out after. Let this sauce boil down to half a pint; then stir in the meat; let it stand by the fire a few minutes. Put it in a mould, and set it in a cool place till next day. 4G8. “ Klopps von Schiveinefleisch ”— Pork CoUops. Mince a pound of young pork and two ounces of fat pork ! or bacon quite fine. If the pork has a good proportion of fat, no other is needed, but use more of the pork. Mix it with a quarter of a pound of grated bread and two well- beaten eggs. Season with salt and pepper. Form balls, and flatten them the size and shape of Normandy pippins. Dip them in egg, and fry them in hutter a delicate brown. 469. “ Geschmorte Klopps ”— Pork Collop)s Stewed. Having stewed any cuttings or bones of fresh pork for gravy, season it with pepper, salt, and any approved flavour; strain, and make it boiling hot in a stew-pan ; lay in the klopps, made as above, simmer them ten minutes on one side, then turn, and do them on the other. Take them out, and keep them warm while you add some nice thickening and a little shalot or some capers to the gravy. Or, make a white sauce, squeeze some lemon-juice over the klopps, and pour the sauce over.—They are good with cauliflower or other vegetable, and equally good eaten cold with salad. In the latter case, omit the white sauce. 470. “ Klopps in Krduter Sauce' ’— Poi'k CoUops in Herb Sauce. Shred parsley, chives or shalot, and a little sage, with a very little tarragon if approved. Steam these in butter a few minutes, keeping them stfired in a broad stew-pan. Add a little white wine and the juice of a lemon, with enough gravy or water to keep the klopps from burning. Lay them in; stew them on one side ten minutes; then turn and leave them to simmer a quarter of an hour on the other side. Servo them in a wreath, in the middle of which arrange some sliced potatoes delicately fried in bntter. Add enough well-seasoned gi’avy to that in which the klopps were cooked, and serve the sauce in a tureen.CtERjMAN national cookery. 128 Kemains of Cold Pork, roast or boiled, may be used for the following dishes :— 471. Wurstchen ”—Sausages. Mince the pork fine, fat and lean together ; soak bread in cold water, and press it out. Use an.equal quantity with the meat, or less bread if you prefer the sausages richer. Season with salt, pepper, chives, and sage, finely chopped, and a grate of nutmeg. Mix all well together, with an egg to bind it. Form small sausages, and fry them in butter, keeping them turned. The chives may be left out, and very httle shalot or onion used if approved. Serve with stewed cabbage. 472. “ Plaitenring ”—A Meat Cake of Pork. The pork must be minced very fine and mixed with chives or a little onion, salt, pepper, a little lemon-peel, and an egg. Dredge in enough flour to bind the mince. Form a thick round cake. Melt butter in a stew-pan ; lay in the cake; brown it on one side, then turn it and brown the other side. Take it out, and slice onions in the stew-pan, with more butter if required; dredge in flour to brown; add broth or water to thin the sauce; season it to taste; and lay in the cake to get hot through. 473. “ Fleischkuchen ”—Meat Cake of Pork. Chop cold pork veiy fine, grate a couple of potatoes, and a shalot or two. Beat two or three eggs. Mix all well to- gether, with salt, pepper, and a few spoonfuls of milk or sour cream. Fry as an omelette, or bake it in a flat dish. Garnish with pickles, &c. 474. “ Gchacktes Fleisch ”— Pork Minced. Mince the pork with onion, or a little sage and nutmeg. Dredge in a little flour. Put broth, gravy, or water in a stew-pan with a little butter. Season the mince, and put it in the stew-pan to steam half an hour, stirring occasionally. 475. Xetzwurst”—Minced Pork in Caul. Cut about a quarter of a pound of fat bacon into small dice. Chop together some green onions, or chives and parsley. Put these and the bacon in a stew-pan to steam a few minutes. Mince cold pork very fine, and with it two129 MEATS. hard-boiled eggs ; the latter should not be chopped so small as the meat. Season it with salt and pepper. Stir the mince into the herbs, with two well-beaten eggs, away from the fire. Put the mass in a caul; form it a neat oblong shape. Boil it half an hour, then brown it a pale colour in a quick oven, or before the fire. This makes a good cold dish. Put in a stew-pan a little water, wine, vinegar, spice, and bay-leaves, and Ijiy in the sausage without the caul, covering it closely, to cook in this. 476. “ Sulze”—Pu/s Head Jellied. (A Nice Supper or Luncheon Dish.) Put in a stew-pan a small pig’s head, the feet,, two calf s feet or a neat’s foot, and either a couple of shalots or an onion, with any approved herbs and seasoning, some vinegar or lemon-juice, and water barely covering the whole. Simmer until soft; then take out the meat, and remove all the bones. When nearly cold, cut up the meat in small pieces the size of a hazel-nut; and, in the same way, cut up any re- mains of poultry or cold tongue, as also a small proportion of roast or boiled meat. In the meantime, take the fat ofl' the liquor, strain, and boil it down to a thick jeUy consistency. Put the meat into it, with a few pickled gherkins, very little tarragon vinegar, plenty of salt and pepper, and a little mace or nutmeg. Stir all well together, and let it get quite hot through. In the bottom of a lai’ge basin, or other mould, put in a little clear gelatine, and let it flow round to coat the mould. Arrange at the bottom a star or spray of pickled beetroot and sliced green pickles, edged with minced parsley and hard-boiled eggs, white and yellow separate. Lay in carefully a few spoonfuls of the thinnest minced meat; let this set; then fill up with the rest. Let it stand a night. Put the mould in hot water, as with all jellies, before turning out. 477. “ Braticurst mit Apfeln ”— Sausages ivith Apples. Peel and core six or eight large apples, cutting each one in four quarters only. Strew sugar and a little powdered cinnamon over, and let them stand a few hours. Wash two ounces of currants and leave them to swell in warm water. Make a piece of butter hot in a stew-pan, and lay in it a pound of sausages, having first pricked them all over to K130 GERilAN NATIONAL COOKERY, prevent their breaking. Lay the apples between and on the sausages. Sprinkle the currants over. Cover close, and let them fry gently. Turn the apples carefully when one side is done ; take them out piece by piece before they are done to a mash, and keep them warm. Turn the sausages until well done; then pour a wineglass of claret into the stew-pan; stir it round the crusting ; dish the sausages in this sauce, and lay the apples neatly round them. 478. “ Bratwilrst in Bier”—Sausages cooked in Beer. Melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan. Prick and lay in the sausages. When they are done a delicate brown all over, add a glass of beer that is not bitter; cover close, and let the sausages stew slowly in this a good half-hour or more. 479. “ Gerducherte Wilrste”—Smoked Sausages. If the smoked sausages are very dry, lay them in warm water for several hom's. If not dried, merely boil them half an hour, and then transfer them to either of the following stewed vegetables: sour krout; stewed cabbage, red or white; stewed beans or peas; “ kartoffel brei,” or “ kartoffel ” soup. Let the sausages simmer in the vegetable for awhile. 480. “ Wilrstchen ohne Barm ”— Sausages irithout Skins. Mince raw pork fine, and season it well, as most approved. Add a moderate quantity of grated bread, and either a little cream, or an egg, to bind it. Mix the mass well, and form small sausages. Koll them in raspings, and fry them in butter. Serve with any vegetable. TO DRESS HAMS. (“ ScHIXKEN 7.V Bb;reiten.”) 481. “ Bier Schinken ”— Beer Ham. Choose the leg of a young, well-fed pig; rub it thoroughly with a quarter of a pound of salt and a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre in a suitable pan, turning it every day for a week. The day before it is dressed, slice an onion or a clove of garlic into the brine, and rub the meat with the slices. Dry the leg when taken out of the brine to roast.MEATS. 131 Prick or score the rind all over. Put a pint of good beer in the dripping-pan or baking-dish, and haste with it fre- quently. The rind must only be roasted or baked a pale brown. Skim the fat off the gravy, boil this down to a glazing, and pour it over the ham when half cold. This ham is ex- cellent eaten cold, or warm with roast pork accompani- ments. 482. “ Geriiueherter Schinken”—Smoked Ham. {No. 2.) If the ham is a dry one, soak it a night in water. If a new one, lay it in lukewarm water an hour; scrape well, and put it on the fii-e with the rind uppermost, in cold water enough to cover it. Let it come to a boil slowly, and simmer from two to three hours. When taken up, cut round the rind four inches from the knuckle and leave so much on; roll back the skin from this part, taking care not to break it. Keep the rind whole, to lay over the cut ham, as it preserves the colour and flavour. Either strew the ham with raspings or glaze it. 483. “ Mecklenburfiischer Schinken ”— Smoked Ham Mecklenburg icag. {No. 3.) Soak and boil the ham as above. Take off the rind, and while the ham is quite hot, sprinkle over it a thick layer of brown bread raspings, mixed with powdered cloves, sugar, and cinnamon. Use only a small quantity of the cloves, according to their strength. 484. Schinken"—Ham. (iYo. 4.) Put onions, pepper, sage-leaves, basil, and bay-leaves in the water to boil with the ham. When you take it up, peel the skin off, leaving it on as far as the knuckle, but score the latter diamondwise. Garnish the ham with rings of chopped parsley, carrots cut thin and stamped out with little fancy cutters, capers and pickles, and with or without strips of meat-jelly hero and there. 485. “ Schinken mit Kmsle "— Ham ivith Crust. Soak and boil the ham as previously directed. Scrape and trim it thoroughly when done, and take off the rind while it is hot; lay it in a baking-dish, spread over it a well-132 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. beaten egg; mix powdered cloves and sugar with grated bread, strew this thickly over the ham, and put it in a quick oven to brown. 486. “ Gebackener Schinken”—Baked Ham. , Soak a ham properly; pare away all the brown, smoked parts from the under side. Cut off the skin smoothly, and chop off’ the knuckle. Powder some dried sage, three or ■ four bay-leaves, according to their size, and pound fine a dozen of cloves; mix these seasonings with a large teaspoon- ful of fine pepper. Strew the seasoning all over the ham. Roll out bread-dough three-quarters of an inch thick, and cover the ham with it so closely that the meat juices cannot escape. Bake it in a moderate oven from three to four hours. Break off the crust before the ham is more than half cold. Glaze or garnish it as usual. 487. “ Gebackejier Schinken ”—Baked Ham. [No. 2.) Prepare the smoked ham for boiling, as above. Chop fine a mijfture of green herbs, especially chives, sage, thyme, parsley, basil or marjoram, and a few leaves of tarragon, but more of chives than the rest. Strew the herbs well over j the ham and case it in a thick bread-dough. See that the dough is so well closed all over that no juice can evaporate. Bake the ham from three to foui’ hours, according to its ■ size. A baker’s oven is best. i Finish as before directed. ; 488. “ Schinken in Burgunder"—Hatn in Burgundy. Having soaked the ham as usual, simmer it slowly three or four hours in just enough water to cover it. As soon as it simmers, put in with the ham two or three onions, a hand- « ful of sage, and a bunch of any other herbs, including bay- i leaves; throw in also a good spoonful of pepper. When the 5 ham is done take off the rind, and slice away any brown ; outside and superfluous fat. Lay the ham fat side upper- most in a baking-dish. Mix a pint of strong gravy or stock, a bottle of red wine, and three ounces of sugar. Let these come to a boiling heat in an enamelled stew-pan, then pour the sauce over the ham, set it in a hot oven and baste it | frequently until it is glazed a fine pale brown, and the grav’y | wasted to a syrup ; skim the fat off this. Add some brown IMEATS. 133 gravy and pepper, and serve it with the. ham. Onion sauce as an accompaniement. 489. “ Schinken wie Wildschweinsbraten ”— Leg of Pork Wild Boar fashion. Take the skin off a leg of young pork. Put in a pickling dish half a pint of red wine, a quarter of a pint of vinegar, two or three grated onions or a handful of pounded shalots, half a lemon sliced, three or four bay-leaves, a teaspoonful of juniper-berries, eight cloves, a little sprig of tarragon, two cloves of garlic, a good handful of salt, and a large teaspoon- ful of ground black pepper. Rub the pork with this pickle and turn it daily for a week. Put it in an earthen baking- dish with some butter, the liquid pickle, and an equal quantity of water, with which baste frequently, till the meat has a nice brown. Pour a cup of cream over it half an hour before serving, cover it close and let it steam tender. Skim the fat off the sauce when serving. Allow near three hours’ slow baking.Chaptek VII. GEFLUGEL—POULTRY. 490. “ Huhn zu Braten ”—Boast Fowl. Choose a fine fowl, lard it aU over with fresh bacon, fill the crop and body with forcemeat (see Index). Roast or bake it a delicate brown, basting frequently with butter. When it is nicely coloured transfer it to a deep stew-pan, with the bastings, any incrusting of which may be rinsed off with hot water and added. Put more butter on the fowl and sprinkle it with salt, add a cup of milk or water, cover close and let it steam over a slow fire an hour or more, till the flesh is quite tender. It must be basted at times, and done slowly. VTien dished skim the fat from the sauce, thicken this with potato flour[or arrowroot—about a teaspoon- ful of either—and serve garnished with slices of lemon. 491. “ Filter," oder “ Kapaun ”— Turkey, or Capon. They may he dressed as above, allowing more time for cooking. Fill with either of the forcemeats described imder their heading. A young turkey will require two hours’ or two hours and a hcJf’s roasting and steaming. A larger and older one three hours. 492. “ Junge HiiJmer zu Braten ”— Boast Chicken. Lard the breasts of the chicken or not. Put a piece of butter inside each ; make butter hot in an enamelled stew- pan. Lay in the chickens ; turn them occasionally till they are coloured a rich yellow. Half an hour before serving, sprinkle salt and a handful of grated bread or rusk over them.135 POULTRY AND GAME. When done, add a little water to their own sauce. Sprigs of parsley may, if approved, be put inside each with the butter before cooking. 493. “ Junge Hiihner in weisser Sauce”—Chickens in White Sauce. Wash your chickens well, to blanch them, in lukewarm water. Put them in a stew-pan with an onion, a carrot, a bay-leaf, some lemon-peel, and a little white pepper, with a pint of water. Let them sunmer slowly, well covered. When done tender, take them up and strain the sauce, which must have half cooked away. Mix a flour and butter thickening ; add this to the sauce and give it a boil. Beat two or three eggs well, mix these with a small cup of milk or cream, and stir the latter into the sauce, repeating the stirring till the sauce has a smooth creamy thickness, but not to boil. Quarter the chickens, pour the sauce over, and sprinkle them with parsley, chopped fine and softened in butter.' 494. “ Huhner mit Nudeln ”— Chickens with Nudels. Boil the chickens in just water enough to cover them, and with them set on in cold water an onion, some celery, a carrot, and a small bunch of sweet herbs ; when nearly done, throw in some parsley. Take up the chickens. Strain their broth, and in this put nudels or macaroni, previously boiled soft in water and drained. Set this on the fire with a piece of butter, and some salt. When the broth is quite wasted, leaving the macaroni thick and soft, lay the chickens in to get hot. Dish them with the macaroni piled upon them. Serve with grated Parmesan cheese, handed. 495. “ Kapaun oder Puter zu Sicden ”— Capon or Turkey Boiled. Lay slices of uncooked ham or bacon in the bottom of a deep stew-pan or braizing-pan that will just hold the turkey. Cut up a root of celery, a large carrot, three or four shalots, and a parsnip. Put these with a few cloves in the pan, lay in the turkey, and add water enough to cover it. Keep the lid closed and let it simmer slowly an hour and a half. Take it up and keep it warm while you strain the vegetables away.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 136 Season the gravy, and stir into it over the fire four well- beaten eggs till it thickens. Or prepare with it an oyster- sauce, well seasoned. Pour some over the turkey; serve the rest in a tureen. 496. “ Filter mit Kastanien ”— Turkey xjcith Chestnuts. Truss the turkey for roasting. Peel chestnuts enough to fill it; scald them and rub off their inner bro%vn skin. Sprinkle them with salt, and put them with a good-sized piece of butter in the crop and body of the turkey. If the latter is not large, steam the chestnuts in a stew-pan with a piece of butter tUl they begin to soften ; then fill them in and sew up the turkey. When it is done, take out the chestnuts with a spoon, and dish them apart with a little good white sauce pom-ed over them. The turkey must be well basted while roasting. Serve truffle or mushroom sauce with it. 497. “ Gansebratcn "—Roast Goose. When the goose is prepared for roasting, peel, wash, and wipe dry a plateful of good potatoes ; slice thin and cut them up into very little dice. Put two or three ounces of butter in a stew-pan, and when this .is hot put in the pota- toes, with a middling-sized onion minced fine, or very little garlic : a salt-spoonful when minced is enough of the latter. Cover the stew-pan and set it over the fire, shaking it often that none of the potatoes may burn. Steam them for a few minutes till half done, but not softened. Take them fi-om the fire and stm among them the finely minced raw liver of the goose; season well with salt and pepper, and a salt- spoonful of finely minced or powdered sage ; or, instead of the latter, a grate of nutmeg. Some prefer no flavour in this e.vceedingly good stuffing, but the potatoes, liver, a slight flavour of shalot or onion as above, and salt and pepper. 498. “ Gehratme Gaits "— Roast (roose. (A’o. 2.) Prepare the goose as usual for roasting. Peel and cut up apples into pieces the size of nuts or marbles. Fill the goose quite full with these, and close it with a skewer or sewing. Servo with a good made-gravy.POULTRY AND GAME. 137 499. “ Gehrateiie Gans, mit Kastanien”—Roast Goose with Chestnuts. (No. 3.) Scald the chestnuts, and peel off their outer and inner rind. Put them in a stew-pan, with a piece of butter and a little broth or water, to steam rather soft, then till the goose with them. The goose must be well basted while roasting. Pour the fat off the bastings, stir some broth or water round the dripping-pan, or baking-dish, season it with salt and pepper, and serve it either with or without gravy added. Currants, or sliced almonds, are sometimes mixed with the chestnut filling, as also with the apple. Prunes, half-stewed, and mixed with apples, are also used. 500. “ Pdkel Gans ”— Pickled Goose. Cut off the legs, and divide the breast from the back, by cutting through the middle of the body. Thus the goose is parted into four pieces. Eub them with salt and a little saltpetre. Pack them close together in a dish, and set them in a cool place. In a few days, the back and legs may be stewed and seasoned to taste. The breast should be dried, covered with paper, and smoked; to be eaten raw, in thin slices, with bread and butter. The legs are excellent smoked and cooked in sour krout or beans ; or only the breast and legs may be pickled. Cook the back with the giblets. 501. Pdkel Gans”—Pickled Goose. (iVo. 2.) Rub the breast and legs with half a pound of salt and half an ounce of saltpetre. Let them lie in this three days, turn- ing them every day. Take them, wet with brine, and cover them well with bran, rubbing it in so that each piece is well coated with it. Cover with thin paper and hang them six days in smoke; after which, hang them in a cool dry place. When to bo used, rub off the bran with a clean napkin. They are eaten raw, sliced thin, with pepper and salt. The outside should be yellow, the fat white, and the lean red. “ Gansebriiste ”—goose breasts—are eaten, as above, with bread and butter. 502. “ Gdnseklein”—Goose Giblets. To prepare them. Singe and scald the wings and head. Cut off part of the beak. Remove the eyes. Scald and138 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. peel tlie feet. Cut open, scald, and peel the inside of the gizzard. Cut the neck into three or four pieces. Divide the heart and liver. Stew the giblets very slowly in just water enough to cover them, with an onion and a parsley root. Take these out when the giblets are done, and thicken the sauce with bread- crumbs. Stew soft either some apples or pears, to which put a piece of butter, and beat them into a smooth sauce. Add it to the giblets and give all a simmer together. A carrot, a turnip, and a root of celery may be cut into little narrow strips and stewed partly in water, then drained and added to the giblets to stew soft, with an onion, salt and pepper. Leaving out the apples or pears, use butter and flour thickening as usual. 503. “ Odnseschwartz, Westjdlische "—Giblets Westphalian ivay. Prepare all the giblets as usual. Save the blood at killing- time if you can, and stir a little vinegar into it at once. Pour a little vinegar over the giblets and let them remain a day or two thus before cooking. Put them on to stew with water enough to cover them, two or three onions, two or three bay-leaves, four cloves, black pepper and salt, and two hand- fuls of prunes, stewed and the stones taken out. Add the blood if you have it, as it much improves the stew, both in thickness and flavour. Simmer gently till all is tender. Brown some flour in butter, thin it with some gravy from the stew, add it to the rest, and simmer ten minutes longer. 504. “ GdnseMeinmit Eiiben ”— Giblets irith Turnips. Having stewed the giblets till nearly done, slice in a couple of turnips, in pieces the size of a florin. \Mien the turnips are soft, they must not be allowed to boil to a mash. Pour off some of the gravy. Brown some flour in a piece of butter the size of an egg ; mix this with the above gravy, stir the thickening gently into the stow, simmer it a few minutes longer, and serve with potatoes. 605 “ Gdnseklein mil Aepfeln "— Giblets iriih Apples. Stow the giblets tender, in very little water, with an onion, in which stick four cloves, a few sprigs of parsley, and somePOULTRY AND GAME. 139 salt and peppei’. Peel and quarter some apples, steam them soft in a little water, some sugar, and a slice of lemon-peel. Before the apples are done to a mash, strain oil’ their s)'imp, and pour into this some of the gravy from the giblets. Brown a large tablespoonful of flour in butter, pour the sauce into this, and stir it over the Are till thick and smooth, then take out the onion and parsley, add the sauce to the giblets, and use sugar browning to give a rich colour. Wash well, and plump in hot water a good handful of currants, strew these among the giblets. Mix in the apple quarters without breaking them, and make all quite hot. 506; “ Gdnseklein mit Birnen ”— Giblets with Pears. Set the giblets on the Are, with a few slices of fresh or pickled pork, in enough cold water to cover them ; add some salt and pepper. Let them simmer slowly till quite tender. Pour away nearly all of their sauce, and put this in another stew-pan, with six cloves, and a saltspoonful of ground allspice (pimento). Peel and quarter some pears, and lay them in the sauce to stew till tender. Add a little sugar, and colour the sauce with sugar browning very dark. In the killing, the goose-blood should be caught, and a little vinegar stiiTed into it at once. This should be stirred among the giblets. Dish them and the pork. Lay the pears on the top, and pour over the sauce. Lay “ Weissbrod Kldsse ” round the edge of the dish. 507. “ Gdnseklein ”— Goose Giblets a ‘plainer way. The giblets must be left to simmer till done, in just enough water for the sauce. Chop a couple of onions small and steam them till yellow, in a small stew-pan, with butter only ; then add to them some gravy from the giblets, salt, pepper, and thyme enough to season highly. Add this sauce to the giblets, with a little flour, if necessary, to give a thick smooth sauce. Simmer all a quarter of an hour together. 508. “ Gdnseschmalz ”— Goose Lard. This much-esteemed and useful article should never bo wasted, as it usually is in English kitchens. Both lard and dripping serve many purposes in the Corman menage. Their preservation and uses wiU be pointed out by the General Index.140 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 509. “ Enten zu Braten ”— Boast DucJcs. ■ One of the nicest stuffings for ducks is that recommended I for geese in No. 1.—but the onion flavour should he very j delicate in it. Either roast, bake, or brown them in a j braizing-pan. Frequent basting must not fail. An hour and ^ a half will cook them. i I 510. “ Gebratene Ente ”— Boast Duck. {No. 2.) ^ Soak in cold water six ounces of bread, and press it out; ; warm two ounces of butter and mix it with the bread, add i two well-beaten eggs, a grated shalot, salt, pepper, and a ' little nutmeg. Chop the raw liver small, and stir it into the ! rest. This filling must be well mixed, and put into the duck, which must be cooked a delicate pale bro\vn. Allow \ an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half, by a brisk fire, \ according to the size of the duck. 1 511. Gebratene Ente”—Boast Duck. [No. S.) \ Fill the duck with apples, peeled and quartered ; and mixed i with these, two ounces of currants, well cleaned and plumped * in boiling water. Put a piece of butter in vith the apples. i Roast as usual. A chestnut filling is also good. The chestnuts must be scalded and peeled, then steamed soft in butter and gravy or milk, before stuffing the duck with them. 512. “ Geddmpfte Ente”-’— Steamed Duck. Rub the duck over with warmed butter, and tinge it a rich yellow colour either before the fire, in the oven, or in the stew-pan in which you cook it. Put any bastings from this in the stew-pan, with a sliced carrot, a root of celery, an onion, a few cloves, a bay-leaf, two or three leaves of sage, and a little broth or water. Lay the duck on these, breast upwards, cover, and let it steam till the vegetables are cooked well. Salt must be added, and more water, as it dries away. lYhen thoroughly done, take up the duck. Pass the vegetables and sauce through a sieve, and thicken this \rith brown flour. Skim olf the fat. Boil the sauce, and serve it with the duck.POULTRY AND GAME. 141 513. “ Ragout von Gans oder Ente ”— Ragout of Goose or Duck. Chop an onion or two. Put them in a stew-pan with a large tablespoonful of goose dripping. When this is hot, and the onions turned yellow and soft, dredge in some flour and let it brown. Add some broth, or gravy and water. Cut up any remains of goose or duck, and put them into the sauce, with salt, pepper, a glass of white wine, and a little tarragon vinegar to flavour. Cover and let all steam awhile, and serve with kldsse or any delicate vegetable. 514. “ Gans oder Ente in Asjric "— Goose or Duck in Jelly. Chop up two or three calf’s feet, and put them on the fire in a couple of quarts of water, to boil until dissolved ; then strain away the bones. Have a goose or a couple of ducks well cleaned. Lay—say the goose—in a deep stew-pan; pour over it the calf s-feet liquor, add salt, pepper, a couple of onions, two bay-leaves, some sprigs of thyme, basil, and a small one of tarragon; or, in lieu of this, some tarragon vinegar, half a lemon, six cloves, and a dozen bruised allspice. Pour in broth or water enough to cover the goose barely. Cover it close, and let it simmer about two hours, or until the meat will easily part from the bones. Cut ofl’ the meat in slices, stripping all the bones, which may be returned to the stew-pan and boiled down longer. Taste if the jelly be piquant and nicely flavoured. You may add cayenne pepper, lemon-juice, or vinegar. Strain it through a napkin or jelly-bag and take the fat off. Put a few spoonfuls of the jelly in a rather shallow mould or deep pie-dish. W hen the jelly has set, lay on it an ornamental device of different coloured things, such as a wreath of hard egg slices, the white rings and the yolks separate, green pickles, beetroot, capers, &c. Pour gently over these, with a spoon, some more liquid jelly. Wait till this has set firmly, then lay in the slices of meat, not too closely packed, and pour over these carefully the half-cold jelly. Let it stand a night, then warm the mould for a minute over hot water and tum out the jelly. This is an excellent dish for supper, luncheon, or break- fast. An ounce of pure gelatine dissolved, or softened in a142 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. little cold water, ■will do as well as the calfs feet, and save trouble. 515. “ Gefiugel in Aspic ”— Poultry in Jelly. For suppers or luncheon, this is by far the most elegant and economical way of serving poultry. A couple of ordinary-sized fowls wUl give two dishes, rendering much more to serve than by car\dng plain. Cut up an uncooked fowl, leaving the breast on its bone whole. Put all the parts in a stew-pan, including liver, heart, and' gizzard. Cover with nearly a quart of cold water and let it come slowly to a simmer ; then add four cloves, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, two or three of parsley, and three slices of lemon. Simmer all slowly for an hour, but do not let it boil fast, or the meat will be hard. When nearly done, add plenty of salt and white or cayenne pepper to taste. The meat must be cooked enough to part from the bones, yet not boiled to pieces. Take out the fowl. Cut the meat off the breast in four long slices; the other parts may be cut off in smaller pieces of any shape. When the bones are stripped, put them back into the gra'vy in the stew-pan, and add half an ounce of gelatine, or isinglass, previously soaked in a little cold water. Let the bones stew a little time longer, then strain off the liquid jelly through a napkin to clear it. Put a few spoonfuls to flow and congeal over the bottom of a deep pie-dish, about ten inches long. Cut a hard-boiled egg into three inner slices and two end ones, put the best slice in the middle of the dish, and the other slices uniform with this, two inches apart, the best side downwards. Lay the two best white slices of breast on each side of the centre slice of egg, and across, near the ends of the dish, lay the other two slices of breast, their best sides under. Between these and the egg, lay small slices of the darker liver or gizzard, with or ■without au ornamental arrangement of gi'een pickles. Pour a little of the half-cold jelly on this layer and allow it to congeal, then put in the rest of the meat, not too closely wedged together. Pour the jelly over, and set it in a cool place to stand a night before turning out. llemaius of turkey or game cut up, and their bones stewed as above, render nice cold dishes. Thin slices of ham or bacon may be rolled up and put between the meat.POULTRY AND GAME. 143 ’ 516. “Taubmi”—Pigeons. Pluck tkem as soon as they are killed; while yet warm the skin will not tear so easily. If cold, or hung any time in the feathers, dip them in hot water and pluck them at once. Draw, crop, and wash them. Take out the eyes, and cut off the feet. Do not throw away heart, liver, or gizzard ; cut open, scald, and clean the latter. 517. “Tauben in Speck Sauce ”— Pigeons in Bacon Sauce. Quarter each pigeon, make hutter hot in a stew-pan and lay them in to become pale hrown. Dredge in some flour to brown also. For four pigeons, cut a quarter of a pound of bacon'into very small dice, and throw this in when the flour begins to brown. As soon as the bacon begins to fry and colour, add the livers, &c., and a little broth or water, with salt, pepper, lemon-juice with a slice of peel, and a grate of nutmeg. A shalot or small onion may be added if approved. Cover close and simmer them till tender. 518. “ Tauben in saurer Sauce ”— Pigeons piquant. Lay them two days in the marinade for game. Old pigeons may lie six days in it. Wipe them dry outside. Lard the breast with a small larding-pin. Give them a pale brown, either before the fire or in a quick oven, basting them with butter. Prepare a sauce of bacon, &c., as in last recipe. Add the marinade. Lay in the pigeons with their bastings, and simmer] them half an hour. Add lemon-juice, cayenne pepper, and salt. 519. “ Gebratene Tauben ”— Roast Pigeons. Dry the pigeons. Put liver, heart, and gizzard inside, spread warm butter over, and dredge them with flour. Put rashers of bacon in a stew-pan. Lay the pigeons in, season them with salt and pepper ; and, with frequent basting, do them a nice yellow brown. Then keep the lid on, add water enough for gravy, and steam them a good half-hour. 520. “ Tauben in Weinlaub gebraten ”— Roast Pigeons in Vine-leaves. Spread butter over vine-leaves, hind them round the pigeons, and cook them, in aU particulars, as described in the above recipe.144 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 521. “ Gefullte Tauhen”— Filled Fiyeons. Chop livers, hearts, and gizzards small. Soak a roll in cold milk and press it out; mix it with the above mince, add salt, pepper, a very httle chives or onion if not objected to, and some parsley. Or, instead of any of the three latter, only a grate of nutmeg and a little bacon minced very fine. Mix all together, with an egg to bind it. Fill the crop from between the skin and flesh of the neck. Tie or sew over the neck, and roast as before directed. 522. “ Wilde Tauhen ”— Wild Pigeons. Lay them a few days in the marinade for game. Cut them in halves and lard them. Finish as dmected for pigeons piquant. 523. “ Wachteln ”— Quails. Quails and other small birds may be rubbed with salt and pepper, rolled up in rashers of bacon, put into a stew-pan with some butter, and done a delicate brown; then strew some bread-crumbs over, and when these are brown add gravy or water, a bay-leaf, a small onion, a little wine, salt, and pepper. Simmer gently till the birds are soft, and strain the gravy to serve. Or dress them without seasoning as in the following. 524. “ Schnepfen ”— Snipes. Having plucked them, skin the head, and take out the eyes. Singe them, and cut oflf their claws. Twist the legs, disjointing them, to bring the feet close to the thighs, and through these put the long beak as a skewer. The position w'ill indicate how the breast may be kept thrown up by pass- ing a twine round the joints and lower part of the bodj', to tie at the back. Put them in a stew-pan, just large enough to hold them, with butter enough to keep them basted; tmming as they are done on one side, till thej’ are tinged all over. About twentj' minutes, by a brisk heat, will cook them. Toast slices of bread, pour on these the butter they were cooked in, and serve the birds on them. Dressed in this way, they are not drawn before the trussing. 525. “Schnepfen”—Snipes. (Xo. 2.) Prepare the birds as above, but draw them, put the whole of the inside on a platter, open the gizzard to take out any145 POULTRY AND GAME. sand, and then chop all together with some fine bread-crumbs, warmed butter, salt, and pepper, and a grate of nutmeg also if approved. In the meantime let the birds be roasting. Spread the mince over slices of toasted bread, one for each bird, lay the slices in the oven, or in a Dutch oven, to bake for a few minutes, then dish the birds on them, and pour the butter-basting over. 626. “ Auerhahn"— Woodcock or Grouse. Let them be well hung in the feathers. When about to be dressed, lay them in a pan and pour hot water over or dip them quickly in scalding water and pluck them at once, while warm. Draw them, and, without washing, merely wipe the outside, and lay them three or four days in the marinade given for hare. Wipe dry and lard them for roasting. Fill them with the forcemeat recommended for turkey. Baste well with butter, and roast them an hour or less, according to your fire. Garnish with slices of lemon. 527. “ Gebratener Fasan ”— Roast Pheasant. Plunge the pheasant in hot water and pluck it warm. Wipe, but do not wash it. Cut ofl' head and neck, not too close, and chop off the feet half way. Either lard the breast or bind thin rashers of bacon over to prevent its browning too much. Half an hour by strong heat is enough for roast- ing. Make a gravy by adding a little broth or stock to the bast- ing gi’avy, which must be cleared of the fat. Many fill them with “Leber Farce,” liver stuffing, and truffles. Garnish with water-cresses and lemon slices. 528. “ Eebhuner”—Partridges. Pluck and truss them as other birds. Cover each breast with a vine-leaf, and over this bind a large rasher of bacon round the bird. Make butter hot in a stew-pan, lay in the birds and let them roast quickly a quarter of an hour, then pour over a little cream or milk. Brown some crumbs in butter, and sprinkle them over. Twenty minutes’ cooking is long enough. Serve the leaves and bacon with the birds. ' L146 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 529. “ Lerchen”—Larks. Larks, field-fares, or wheatears, do not require to be drawn, but are dressed as quails. Only the bead and gizzard are left when eaten. Brown them quickly in butter in a stew- pan, with a few juniper-berries, salt, and pepper; cover close, and steam them tender, adding a little water. 530. “ Wilde Enten ”— Wild Ducks. Lay them two or three days in a marinade of half a cup of vinegar, a bay-leaf, a few juniper-berries, a little garlic or onion sliced, black pepper, and three bruised cloves. Lard them for roasting. Baste frequently with butter. Put the marinade in the baking-dish, with a little water for sauce. Add salt, skim off the fat, and garnish with lemon slices. The above portions for marinade are for one duck. 531. “ Oebratener Hose ”—Roast Hare. Lay the hare two or three days in the following marinade : a quarter of a pint of vinegar, a sliced onion, two bay-leaves, twenty juniper-berries, and some black pepper. Turn and baste the hare in this twice a day. When it is to be cooked, truss and lard it. Lay it in an earthen baking-dish, sprinkle it with salt and pepper. Pour the maiinade over and put it in the oven. As soon as it is warm, put some butter on it, with which keep it well basted for an hour and a half, but, if a small hare, one hour will do it. Half an hour before it is done, pour over it a cup of sour cream, or new milk, for basting. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon over it when dished. Garnish with slices of lemon. Fine rabbits are excellent dressed the same waj*. 532. “ Hase auj Jdrjerart ”— Hare, Hunter's xray. Lay the hare in an iron saucepan, with plent}" of butter, the liver cut in pieces, three or four whole onions, salt, and pepper. Let it brown well, then pour in now and then a little water, and lot it steam, well covered, for two hours. 533. “ Hasen rfejfcr ”— Hare Pepper. Do not -wash the hare. Wipe the outside. Cut the legs OS’, and divide the back into four pieces on a dish, in which save the blood. Pour half a pint of red wine over it, cover147 POULTRY AND GAME. the dish, and let it stand a day or two in a cool place. When it is to be dressed, make butter hot in a stew-pan. Brown the hare in it, then take it out on a dish while you brown two lai-ge spoonfuls of flour in the butter. Thin this with water or broth. Put back the hare, with plenty of black pepper, salt, four cloves, half a lemon, two ounces of minced bacon, and the wine and drawings from the dish in which the hare lay. Cover the stew-pan, and simmer it slowly till tender. Serve with its own sauce, from which remove the cloves and lemon-peel. Garnish with lemon slices. 534. “ Hasen Pfcffer ” or “ Haseklein ”—Hare Pepper. {No. 2.) Having hastily rinsed the hare, lay it on a dish; cut off the head close to the shoulders, take off the fore-legs, and the hind ones to the first joint. Cut right through the breast and ribs, leaving the back with the thighs to form the most important dish, as described hereafter. Leave the kidneys in the loins. Put aside the back on a dry dish, and either cover it with butter-milk or stale milk, or leave it in marinade as before directed. (See Index.) It is with the cuttings we have now to do. Halve the head and divide the liver into three or four. Put a piece of butter in a stew-pan; cut up an onion or two and brown them in the butter. Dredge in some flour, and let this brown; then put in the pieces of hare and the red drainings of the dish, with seasonings of sweet herbs, bay-leaf, two or three cloves, lemon-peel, salt, and black pepper. Cover and let it simmer an hour. A rasher or two of bacon, and some slices of cooked meat, or pieces of steak cooked with it, will give substance and eat well. If no other meat is added, a few ounces of bacon, minced fine, is an improvement in the stewing. 535. Hasenbrateii”—Poast Hare. {No. 2.) The back and thighs of the hare, as left above, may either bo set aside with seasonings or without. It keeps longer marinaded, and is richer and more tender if rubbed all over with a tablespoonful of moist sugar, and left in this a day before the vinegar, &c., is added. For dressing, the thin skin may be flayed from the back or not. Lard it in rows with nicely cut bacon strips. Lay it in a stew-pan that will148 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. just hold it, with butter at the bottom, and set this in a hot oven without the lid. As soon as it is hot, begin basting till it is nicely browned. Or it may be browned before the tire and afterwards put in a stew-pan with the bastings, the marinade, salt and pepper, and covered close and left to steam till quite tender, basting occasionally. "WTien dkhed, squeeze half a lemon-juice over it. Strain, thicken, and serve its own sauce, to which add a little red wine if requisite. 536. “ Gehratene luininchen ”— Boast Babbits. Rabbits dressed as described for hare are very good. A fine one filled with the forcemeat recommended for poultry, larded over the back, and roasted with frequent basting, is excellent; especially when, after it has acquired a delicate brown, you lay it in a stew-pan, adding the bastings, some milk, salt, and white pepper. Cover and let it steam an hour in this. Serve with its own sauce. Garnish with lemon. 537. Hii'sch Braten"—Boast Venison. Let the venison hang about ten days or a fortnight in a cool dry place. Then wash and wipe it. Beat it well and flay the skin ofif. Lard all over the fleshy parts with bacon strips a good two inches long or more. Roast or bake it with constant basting, for which use sour cream, or butter and milk. For sauce, add some water to the bastings, skim and strain it, and add salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. 538. “ Hirsch Braten"—Boast Venison. {Xo. 2.) When the venison has hung at least a week, beat it well and lay it in a marinade as directed for hare. Lard it in the same way. Baste with sour cream, and finish in a similar manner. Parboil carrots ; slice and lay them in the baking- dish among the bastings, and serve them with the roast. Serve, as well as its own sauce of the marinade and basting, another made one as per Index. 539. “ Hh'scJn'iicIcen, Kriistirt"—Saddle of Venison Crusted. The venison must be hung some time, but not long enough to be high. After washing, lay it in a broad pan to cook, with cold water enough to cover it; and in this put a small tea-cup of vinegar, two or three carrots, onions, bay-leaves.149 POULTRY AND GAME. a good bunch of s-weet herbs, including basil, and a sprig of maijoram, some salt, pepper, about twenty juniper-berries, as many whole pimento, and six cloves. Let it come slowly to a scalding heat. Skim and leave it to simmer two hours or more according to the size; it must be done tender. Then take it up ; spread over it a beaten egg, and on this sprinkle a thick layer of bread-crumbs mixed with a table- spoonful of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of powdered cinna- mon, and half a dozen of pounded cloves. Brown bread is best for this. The coating must be a third of an inch thick or more. Skim olf a little of the fat boilings, and sprinkle over the crumbs with it. Put the venison in the oven, and let it bake a nice brown. Serve a good fruit sauce with it. 540. “ Klop}}s von Hirsch ”— Venison CoUops. Any remains of cold venison may be cleared of skin and vein, minced very fine, mixed with a third as much minced bacon, a beaten egg or two, a handful of crumbs, salt, pepper, and a little herb seasoning if approved. Mix all well. Form apple-sized balls ; flatten and dip them in egg, and crumb them, or dip them in warmed butter, and fry a nice pale brown. Serve with a good piquant sauce. 541. “ Ragout von Hirsch oder Reh ”— Ragout of Venison. The neck and other smaller parts may be blanched in tepid waters, stewed soft with savoury herbs and spices, and made as other ragouts are, but seasoned higher, and either some fruit-jelly, or lemon-juice, sugar, and red wine in the sauce. 542. “ Kaninchen Marmorirt ”—Marbled Rabbit. Two fine rabbits will make a large handsome dish, exceed' ingly nice cold. Draw out the livers and kidneys to keep them dark; steam them tender in a little stew-pan with a piece of butter. Lay the rabbits to blanch in two or three lukewarm waters. Put them in a stew-pan with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion with six cloves stuck in it, salt, pepper, and a bay-leaf. Pour in cold water enough to cover the rabbits, and let them simmer till tender. Cut the meat off back and legs in solid pieces, scrape the rest off the bones,GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, 150 and put the latter back to the liquor in the stew-pan, with half an ounce of gelatine previously soaked in cold water. Heads and necks, after scraping their meat off, must also be stewed with the other bones till you have about a pint of good gravy, which wiU now be a jelly. While the bones are stewing, lay in a few rashers of ham, bacon, or pork, to simmer till cooked, then take them out. Mince the scrapings and little pieces of meat very fine, with an equal quantity of bacon ; season this with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, thyme, and a grate of nutmeg ; bind it with an egg, and form little balls. Lay these also in with the bones to cook ten minutes; then take out the balls, and strain a little of the gravy into a deep dish or mould previously dipped in cold water, and let it flow round. Place in the pieces of rabbit, with balls be- tween, and here and there a half of a hard-boiled egg, a piece of dark-coloured liver or kidney, and a rasher of the ham or bacon, all arranged with contrast of colour, not too closely packed, till the mould is full. Season the jelly well; it should be piquant; strain it into the meat. When it has stood a night, scrape the fat off and turn it out. 543. “ Ganseschmalz zu bereiten ”— To prepare Goose Lard. When a goose is drawn, strip off all the fat from about the intestines, and any superfluous fat from the inside. Throw it into cold water in an earthen bowl; change the water after a few hours, and again at night. Let it stand in a cool place tfll next day ; then cut it into small pieces, and put it in a stew-pan, with a juicy apple or two cut in slices. Set it to melt on a slow fire', and when the pellets of fat are turning yellow, warm a sieve and strain the clear fat into a jar. Stir some salt in. Cover it when cold, and keep it in a cool place for use. 544 “Ganseschmalz"—Goose Lard. (Xo. 2.) Throw all the fat you can collect into cold water with a little salt, as soon as the goose is drawn. When the goose is half done, ladle ofl’ some of the dripping before it browns or becomes strong; and as the roasting proceed's, leave only enough dripping in the pan to baste with. Next day put the dripping with the fresh fat in a stew- pan, with slices of apple, and onion if approved. Add151 POULTRY AND GAME. salt and pepper. When done clear, strain and finish as above. Another way is to lay the fresh inner fat in cold water for an hour; then thi’ow it into the dripping-pan while the goose is roasting, and ladle it off as it clears into a small jar. Let it stand a night; then put the jar into a saucepan of water ; melt the fat to a boiling heat; salt and strain it.Chapter VIII. VEGETABLES. 545. “ Kartoffeln,” or “ Erdapfehi in saurem Rahm ”— Potatoes in Sour Cream. Peel, mash, and slice potatoes a quarter of an inch thick. Put them into a stew-pan with some butter or goose lard, salt, pepper, and minced chives, or an onion. Let them brown a little, and, as they colour, stir them from the bottom occasionally, without breaking the slices. "When nearly done, beat up the yolks of two eggs, with a cup of sour cream or milk : pour this over the potatoes, and let them stew five minutes longer. 546. “ Saure Kartoffeln ”— Sour Potatoes. Cut two or three rashers of rather fat bacon in small dice, and also an onion. Fry these yellow in a stew-pan. Add a tablespoonful of flour mixed in water or broth, some salt, pepper, vinegar, and a teaspoonful of sugar. When this boils, put in the potatoes, half boiled, and sliced. Let them simmer till done, but not to mash. Bay-leaves are often simmered in the sauce, which must be agreeably acid. 547. “ Petersilien Kartoffeln ”— Potatoes uith Parsley. Prepare a sauce as in the last recipe, leaving out the vinegar. Add a grate of nutmeg, and a very little thyme or maijoram. Put in the sliced potatoes, and strew among them a good handful of chopped parsley. Simmer them till tender, but not broken. Add milk if the sauce dries away.153 VEGETABLES. 548. Kart offeln in saurcr Bruhe"—Potatoes in Sour Sauce. Cut half-boiled potatoes in thin slices. Make two ounces of butter hot in a stew-pan. Chop an onion small and throw it in. Dredge a tablespoonful of flour into the butter, to brown and thicken. Pour in either pickle or plain vinegar enough to make the sauce rather sour, thin it with broth or gravy, add salt, pepper, and any approved flavouring. Let it boil up. Put in the sliced potatoes to simmer till done. 649. “ Kartoffcln zii Fischmi”—Potatoes for Fish. Peel equal-sized round potatoes, and boil them in salt and water. When nearly done, strain off the water. Put to them a good-sized piece of butter, and sprinkle among them some chopped parsley. Give them a shake together, and cover until done through, but not broken. 650. “ Beignets von Kartoff’eln"—Potato Bcignets. Mash a large plateful of mealy potatoes with two ounces of butter, and two well-beaten eggs. Rub them till no lumps remain. Spread the mass out smooth, not quite an inch thick; then cut out with a glass or cutters half-moons, round, oval, and thi’ce-cornered shapes. Coat them with egg and bread- crumbs, and grate Parmesan cheese over. Fry them in butter a delicate yellow, or put them in the oven to bake a nice pale colour, without drying. Serve them hot as a garnish to different dishes of meat, game, or poultry. 551. “ Gehaekene Kartoffeln ”— Baked Potatoes. Mix well-mashed hot potatoes, or grated cold ones, with a good-sized piece of butter, two or three eggs, and some salt. Butter a mould well, and sprinkle it with bread-crumbs. Fill in the potatoes, and bake them about three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Turn them out when ready to serve. 652. “ Gehaekene Kartoff eln mit Parmesan ”— Potatoes Baked uilh Parmesan. Mash potatoes with butter, eggs, and salt, as above. Shape them neatly on a small dish. Raise them in a pyramid, and having smoothed them over, make a sort of pineapple appear-GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 154 ance with the point of a knife or teaspoon. Grate cheese over, sprinkle •with warmed butter, and bake a delicate colour. 553. “ Kartoffel Brei ”— Masked Potatoes. Well-cooked mealy potatoes must be steamed dry, then mashed quite smooth with a good piece of butter, some salt, and milk enough to make them quite moist. Serve the Brei hot, with fricandells, sausages, or any dry meat. 554. “ Kartoffeln mit Schweinsrippe und saure 'Aepfel gebra- ten ”— Potatoes with Sparerib of Pork ami Sour Apples. Sparerib of pork must he set on the fire in a large stew- pan or iron saucepan, with nearly a pint of water and some salt. Cover close and let it simmer gently for an hour and a half, "WTien nicely browned, take it up and fill the bottom of the saucepan with small round potatoes, raw. Lay the sparerib on them 'with its round side upwards. Fill the hol- low of the pork -with sour apples, peeled and quartered. Add a little more water, hut not enough to sodden the potatoes. Cover the saucepan close, and simmer till the potatoes are done, when all -wall be ready. Dish the meat -vvith the pota- toes round it. 555. “ Haring Kartoffeln ”— Herringcd Potatoes. Boil potatoes in then- skins, not too soft. Peel and slice them. Keep them warm while j’^ou cut up an onion in a stew-pan, with a piece of butter, or some very thin fat bacon. When the onion begins to turn yellow, dredge it "with flour ; add some water, salt, pepper, two or three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and a hay-leaf. Leave this to simmer. Meanwhile, wash two Dutch herrings, take the bones out, cut the fish into small dice, add them to the sauce to simmer a few minutes ; then put in the potatoes. Stir all together gently, so as not to break the slices. Add a piece of butter and some milk to soften the stew, and serve it quite hot. 556. “ Kartoffeln mit Sardellen ”— Potatoes %i ith Sardines. Slice parboiled potatoes half an inch thick. Melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan and put in a layer of half the pota- toes. A couple of chopped onions and some parsley must be steamed, with a piece of butter, in a small stew-pan. Chop sardines, or anchovies, and stir them into the latter. Stew15^ VEGETABLES. for a few minutes, then spread them over the potatoes in the stew-pan. Cover with the other half of the potatoes, and stew them ten minutes. Or the whole may be done in the oven, with the dish covered. 557. “ Kartoffel Kuchen ”—Potato Pudding. Boil a dozen or fifteen mealy potatoes, mash them quite smooth with a little butter and salt, and set them to cool. Beat three eggs well, and thoroughly mix them with the potatoes. Have ready three-quarters of a pound of sausage-meat, or the same weight of minced ham. Butter a mould or basin, and strew in as many crumbs as will hang to the butter. Put in a third of the mashed potatoes ; spread on this half of the meat; lay over another third part of the potatoes, on this the rest of the meat, and cover the latter with the remaining potatoes. Put a little butter on the top, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. If the mould is large, a pound of minced meat is not too much. Sausages parboiled, cut in halves the long way, and laid between the potatoes, as above, answer well. 558. “ Kartoffel Ntideln ”—Potato Niidels. Grate a plateful of cold potatoes, mix them with three or four eggs, as many spoonfuls of milk, a little salt, and flour enougji dredged in to form a dough, just stiff enough to roll out rather thin. Cut out little round cakes. Put them in boiling water, to boil five minutes, then drain, and dry them on a napkin. Fry them a delicate brown. 559. “ Kartoffel, or SchUpf Nudeln ”—Potato Nudels. {No. 2.) Boil potatoes and let them get quite cold before they are used. Grate them on a coarse bread-grater. To a plate of grated potatoes, add a quarter as much flour; some use a third of flour. Mix a dough with a couple of eggs and a piece of warmed butter. Boll pieces of the paste into nudels, the size and shape of a finger, but a little pointed at both ends. Make butter hot in a flat stew-pan. Put in the nudels and shake them occasionally till all are tinged with colour. When done, beat up an egg or tv/o with a little milk or cream. Pour it among the nudels ; shake them up. Let them strain, and serve.GERM.\N NATIONAL COOKERY. 156 5G0. “ Kartoffel Krapfen”— Potato Turnovers, Masb, witli a piece of butter, some dry, mealy potatoes, while they are warm. Mix with them two or three beaten eggs, according to the quantity of potatoes. Dredge a paste- board, spread on it the potatoes a good half-inch thick. When cool, cut out squares or round cakes, five inches across. Put on each a large tablespoonful of any nicely seasoned minced meat; turn over half of the potatoes to cover it, coat them over with egg and bread-crumbs, and bake a delicate brown in a moderate oven. The minced meat for these should be cooked, or partly so. Ham or pork, roasted or boiled, is very good, seasoned sparingly with powdered sage and very little chives or onion. Mutton the same. Whatever the mince may be, fish, game, or poultry, it should have its appropriate seasoning. 561. “ Kartoffel Krapfen mit Haringe ”— Potato Turnovers * with Herring. Prepare potatoes as above. Soak two or three Dutch herrings for a few hours in plenty of fresh water. Take the bones out of the fish and mince them small. To each herring chop and add a hard-boiled egg. Season with minced parsley and pepper. Finish as above. 562. “ Erdbirnen, oder Erdartischocken”—Jerusalem Artichokes. Peel and throw the artichokes into cold water. Boil them soft in plenty of salt water, drain, and serve them with butter sauce,in which is a grate of nutmeg, poured over. Or, when peeled and washed, put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, some broth, and an onion stuck with a few cloves. Season, and serve with the soup over them. For artichoke soup, boil them as above. Rub them through a sieve, and boil them up with a good white soup, which should be thickened, creamy and smooth, with the artichokes. 563. “ Artischocken ”— Artichokes. Cut the stems off close, break off the outer hard leaves, pare thin places smooth, cut ofl’ the tips of the leaves, and lay them some time in cold water ; then throw them into boiling water with some salt, to boil an hour. Drain them. Scoop out the stringy parts inside carefully and rinse the arti-157 VEGETABLES. chokes in cold water. Put them in a stew-pan with some broth or water, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and a little butter, cover, and let them steam soft, but not too much so. When ready for serving, take them up carefully and turn them upside down to drain. Place them on a dish in their right position, and fill each with a white sauce, or thicken with flour and butter the gravy they were stewed in, and pour this into the hollows of the artichokes. 564. “ Endivien Gerniise”—Endive. Use only the yellowish white leaves, picked from the stalks. Boil them with some salt in plenty of water ; when done, throw them into cold water, strain and press them well. Make a little good white sauce in a stew-pan, with near two ounces of butter. Put in the endive, which must be chopped a little first. Season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg; and before serving, stir among it the yolks of two eggs. This is a delicate vegetable with cutlets, fricandells, sausages, broiled fowl, &c. 565. “ Brunnenkrcsse ”— Water-cresses. May be cooked in the same way! Or, instead of white sauce to finish, chop them a little after draining, brown flour and butter in a stew-pan, add the same seasoning, with a little gravy or water, and sufficient vinegar or lemon-juice to give an agi’eeable acid. Leave out the eggs. 566. Lattich Geniuse”—Lettuce. Lettuce renders an excellent vegetable cooked as above. Cut out all bitter stalks ; use green as well as white leaves. Boil only a few minutes. 567. “ Portulac ’’— Purslane. Pick the leaves from their stems, and proceed as above directed for endive, or water-cress. Serve it with the same kind of meats. 568. “ Gebackene ZiuieheJn ”— Baked Onions. Peel large onions; foreign ones are best. Boil them a quarter of an hour, in plenty of water, with salt; then throw them into cold water. Drain and cut them into slices half anGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 158 inch thick. Lay single slices on a well-buttered baking-dish or tin. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, baste with a little warmed butter and put them in a quick oven, to bake a delicate tinge of brown. Serve with roast of mutton or pork. 569. “ Zwiebeln mit Kdse ”— Onions with Cheese. Cut large onions into slices a good half-inch thick. Lay them on a buttered baking-tin as above directed, and bake them a nice yellow in a hot oven. "When coloured and rather soft, take them out, and sprinkle them with salt, and pepper ; cover each slice with a coating of grated cheese or put on each some thin slices of good cheese. Return them to the oven, long enough to melt the cheese. Dish them -with a fish-shce, to keep their form, and serve at once. 570. “ GefuUte Zivieheln ”—Stuffed Onions. Peel good-sized onions, and boil them ten or fifteen minutes. Drain them, take the middle leaves out, leaving in each a hole the size of a large walnut. Fill the hoUows with any approved minced meat, which must be well seasoned, minced very fine, and mixed with an egg to bind it. Set the onions close together in a baking-dish, baste them with hot butter, and bake them a delicate brown. 571. “ Zuckerschoten ”— Young Pea Pods. These are the same as zuckerschiifen; they are the flat pods before the peas are grown. String them like beans, snap and skin the shells. Put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, a little gravy or broth, salt, and pepper. Either a small onion, a little mint, or a sprig of thjTne, may be steamed with them if approved. They must only be moist enough to cook soft, without burning. (Excellent with lamb, veal, or early fowls.) 572. “ Durre Erbsen ”— Drg Peas. After washing and picking, put the peas into boiling water and let them boil till soft; then strain them. Put a good piece of butter and a chopped onion in a saucepan, and when the onion has steamed a few minutes, put in the peas, with salt and pepper. Let them stew till done, shaking oc- casionally.159 VEGETABLES. Or; When the peas are boiled soft, strain them dry, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dish them. Cut half a pound of bacon into little dice, fry it with a minced onion, and pour the whole over the peas. 573. “ Si^eck und Erhsen ”— Bacon and Peas. Soak the peas in water all night; put them in a saucepan with a piece of bacon or pork to stew. Season with salt, and pepper. 574. “ Linscn ”—• Lentils. They must be well examined and washed, put on the fire in cold water, and boiled soft; then drained in a sieve. Make butter hot in a saucepan, with a minced onion, if approved ; stir in a little gravy or broth to make a creamy sauce, put the lentils into this, and add salt, pepper, and a little vinegar. 575. “ Kastanien ”— CliestniUs. Peel off the outer rinds. Put them into boiling water when all are peeled, and let them stand near the fire, not boiling, till the second thin skin comes off easily. Take out a few at a time, and as they are peeled throw them into cold water. Make a sauce of gravy thickened with fiour, add butter and salt, let the chestnuts steam in this, over a slow fire, till soft. Or, instead of gravy, make a white sauce of milk—either of the creamy sauces already described—in which stew the chestnuts until soft. Or: Cut a little cross through the point of each chestnut. Put them into boiling water, and when soft, peel them. To roast them, cut a cross in the top of each, and put them in the oven or over the fire, with plenty of salt strewn among them. 57G. “ Sauerampfer ”— Sorrel. Pick the leaves from the stems, wash them well, and drain and put them in a saucepan with a piece of butter, to steam in their own juice. Make a thick sauce of flour, butter, gravy, or water, and the yolks of two or three eggs ; add it to the sorrel. Serve with roast lamb, cutlets, fricandeaux, or pan- cakes.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. i6o 577. “ Holldndische Bohnen” or '' Bttfbohnen”—Broad Beans. When fall grown, their white, leathery skins mast be peeled off and the inner green beans thrown into cold water. Boil them sbft in salt water; they reqaire the same time as green peas. Strain and ponr over them a parsley and batter saace. Or: When slipped oat of theii* skins, dress them as directed for French beans. If the broad beans are yoang and small, dress them whole as taken from the pod. Boil tender ; strain, and poar over them a soar cream or other sauce. They are good cold, as salad. 578. “ Brockelerhsm ”— Green Peas. Put the peas in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, a few very young carrots shced the long way and then cut into narrow strips. Add salt and pepper and let them cook in their own steam. W”hen the peas begin to wrinkle, dredge in some flour, shaking them the while. Add a little gravy or water, and let them stew by gentle heat until soft, but not broken. Lamb or mutton cutlets, half-broiled, and put in at first to steam tender with the peas, are good. 579. “ Zuckcrschdfen"—Youn^ Green Pea Pods. Choose those with the largest pods, before the peas are full grown. String the pods as you would French beans. Shell out the peas and, at the same time, snap each shell in the middle and peel oft’ the green rind from the inner skin. Thus prepared, the rinds are cooked with the peas, in the following manner. After rinsing and draining, put them into a stew- pan with a piece of butter, salt, pepper, and ver}*^ little water or gravJ^ Let them stew gentlj"-, shaking them up now and then, till soft; make a little thickening of flour and butter, and stir it lightly into the peas ; steam a few minutes and serve. 580. “ Schweitzer Kraut ”—Matirjold. It docs the marigold no harm to pluck off the leaves when growing, as they sprout out again. The young tender ones are cooked as spinach. When they arc older, strip the green from the stalks, boil those leaves in salt water, strain, and\ VEGETABI.es. 161 pour fresh water over theru, through the cullender. Chop, and finish the same as spinach, with butter, &c. 581. “ MHiu/old Stiele ”—Mangold Stalks. Peel the stallcs, cut theni in two.or three inch lengths, boil, them about an hour, dcain them and serve with white sauce, as for aspai^agim or s'corzonera. 682. “ Gelbe RuhenJ’or “ Mohren”— Crrois. Scrape, wash, and cut them into long narrow strips. Put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter and some salt. Let th^em steam till soYt, adding now and then a little water or broth, if they become dry. Dust a little flour over them, shaking occasional!)'. Finely minced chives or parsley may be added a quarter of an hour before serving. Sugar is some- times added. 583. “ Spaif/eR’— Asparagus. Cut away the lower part of the stalks as far as they are hard or wooden. Tie them in small bunches according to their size, hr, the smallest, being younger, will lose their heads before the larger ones are cooked. Put them into boiling water with salt. Allow them from ten to twenty minutes gentle boiHug. Pour the water from them. Make a sauce of two ounces of butter, a desserf-spoonful of flour, the yolks of two eggs, some broth or’milk, and salt. Or use some of the water in which the asparagus was boiled for the sauce. Arrange the asparagus like wheat sheaves, and pour the sauce over. 584. “ Sckwarzwurzeln ”—Scorzoncra. In choosing, break one, to see that they are white and firm inside. Scrape off the dark rind quickly, throwing each into water in which a little flour is mixed, or lukewarm milk and water, to keep them white,. Cut them’in pieces an inch and a half long. Boil tender ifii salt water ; strain, and give them a boil up in melted butter, or white sauce with a grate of nutmeg in it. • * 585. Weissc Ruben ”— Turnips. • Peel, and cut them in small, thin slices. Let th’em lie half an hour in cold water. Make a piece of butter hot in a stew- pan. Put in a chopped onion, and when it ha's steamed a few 'mGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. i62 minutes, put in the turnips with some salt. Let them steam till they are soft and yellow. Supply a little water to prevent their burning. 586. “ Geschmoi’te Gurken ”— Stewed Cucumbers. Peel large cucumbers, halve and quarter them, take out the seeds. Stew them till tender in a good white or brown sauce. They require but a short time to cook. 587. “ Sellerie Gerniise"—Stewed Celery. Cut the roots into nice pieces and boil them tender in just enough salt water to cover them. Then strain, and serve with a white sauce poured over. 588. “ Spinat ”— Spinach. Spinach requires to lie in water a little while, and to be several times rinsed in fresh water. Put it into boiling water with salt ; give it eight or ten minutes’ gentle boiling un- covered. If its earthy flavour is objected to, throw it into j)lenty of cold water when boiled enough ; then drain and press it dry. Chop it fine. Make butter hot; throw into it some grated bread-crumbs, then add the spinach. Or, make a thick butter sauce and stir the spinach into this to get thoroughly hot. Serve, garnished with either cutlets, sausages, hard-boiled eggs sliced and sippets of buttered toast, or poached eggs. If the full flavour of the spinach is liked, simply wash it well, clear it of the large stems, and drain it. Put a piece of butter in a saucepan, and when melted put in the spinach; cover, and as it shrinks put in more. Let it cook in its own juice. Sprinkle salt over as you put it in. 589. “ Spinat Stcngeln ”— Spinach Stalks. Spinach that has shot into seed renders a nice vegetable .still. Peel the stalks and cut them an inch or two long. Boil in salt water, strain, and pour over them a butter sauce, as for cauliflower. 590. “ S})inat mit Sardcllen"—Spinach trith Sardines. Boil spinach as above, with a minced onion among the leaves. Strain and chop it. Clear a few s.ordines from skin and bone; mince and stir them among the spinach. Melt a good-sized piece of butter in a stew-pan ; dredge inVEGETABLES. 163 as much flour as it will absorb, add a little broth or water, salt, and pepper. Stir it to a thick sauce, then stir in the spinach. When quite hot, serve with enough hard eggs sliced to garnish prettily. 591. “ Kraut," or “ Kohl ”— Cabbage. Cabbage of every kind, as cooked in Germany, is a much more delicate vegetable than as generally used in England. It is one of our most wholesome dishes; yet, how often it is rejected, on account of its strong flavour. It should be boiled in plenty of water ; this poured away when the cabbage is half done, and fresh water added. When boiled enough, throw it into cold water, but strain ofi' the boiling water first. Let the cabbage remain in the cold water, while you melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, and dredge in flour — as for a moderate thickening. Before this browns, drain the cabbage, and either cut it through several times, or chop it small. Put it into the butter sauce, and stir occasionally till quite hot. 592. “ Bairisches Kraut ”— Bavarian Cabbage. One or two full-grown white cabbages must be washed and stripped of their outer leaves. Quarter them, cut out the stalks, and slice the cabbage across in strips, as thin and fine as possible. Sprinkle among the shreds some salt and a few caraway-seeds. Let it stand an hour. Make two or three ounces of butter hot in a stew-pan. Put in the cabbage and let it stew till it is soft and yellow. Then pour in a glass of white wine and half the quantity of vinegar; there must not be enough of the latter to taste acid. Cover close, and let it stew slowly till quite soft. Half an hour before serving, dredge in a little flour and stir it well. 593. “Both Kraut"—Bed Cabbage. Prepare and cut it as directed for Bavarian cabbage; sprinkle the shreds with salt and two or three spoonfuls of vinegar. Put about half a pound of fat bacon or ham rashers in a stew-pan to fry; when they are crisped take them out, and put the cabbage into the fat. Pour over a little gravy or water and leave it, well covered, to stew slowly. After an hour add a glass of red wine, a spoonful of sugar, a few caraway-seeds, and dredge it with flour.164 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. must be soft when done, but not thin with liquid. Peel and quarter a few apples ; stew them slowly with a little sugar, butter, and very little wine; they must not be done to a mash. Dish the cabbage, as high as it will stand, in a flat dish, and garnish it \vith the quarters of apple, as unbroken as possible. Ked cabbage this way is excellent with roast goose, game, sausages, roast pork, “ beer ham,” pork cutlets, &c. 594. “ Weiss-Kraut ”— White Callage. Cut out the stalks of white winter cabbage, excepting in the tender leaves. Cut or pull them all to pieces. Put a good piece of butter, or goose dripping, into a stew-pan, with an onion chopped fine. When hot, put in the cabbage, sprinkle it with salt, and cover close to cook in its own steam till soft and yellow. Half an hour before serving, dredge in a little flour, add pepper and some caraway-seeds, if approved. See that it does not burn or become drj'. Thin it with a little milk or broth if necessary. 595. “ Rosen Kohl ”— Brussels Sprouts Must be well washed in salt and water, boiled till tender, thrown into cold water, strained, and warmed up in melted butter. 596. “ Kohlrabi ” or “ Kohlruhen ”— Callage Turnip or Cole Rape. This excellent vegetable is comparatively little known and cultivated in England. The flavour of the kohlrabi much resembles cauliflower. Peel them as turnips, cut them in halves and quarters, and boil them in salt and water till a fork goes easily through them. Boil the tenderest green leaves of the kohlrabi tops, and when done, strain and chop them like spinach, and return them to a stew-pan, with a little butter, to make them hot. Cut up the kohlrabi into small slices. Have some plain and rather thick melted butter, made with milk, in the saucepan. Put the slices into the sauce with a little salt and a grate of nutmeg if approved. Give them a boil up, and serve A\*ith the green laid round as a wreath.165 VEGETABLES. Put a good-sized piece of butter in a saucepan; let it melt; 597. “ Bhimenkohr’— Cauliflowers Are dressed as in England, with a white sauce poured over. The flower is generally divided into tufts, and yolks of eggs and nutmeg are sthred into the sauce if approved. 598. “ Sauerkraut ”— To pickle Sour Kraut. The finest and hardest white cabbages must be chosen. It improves their colour to let them he heaped together in a cool corner for several days before they are used. The cutting is usually done with an instrument, called a “ kohlhobel ” (cabbage-plane). Instead of this, a large knife will do. Throw away the outer leaves of the cabbages, halve and quarter them. Cut out the stalks and larger ribs of the leaves. Begin at the top of the head to cut them across in very narrow strips. Have I’eady a well-seasoned oak barrel, or pickling tub ; or an earthen bread-pan would do. Cover the bottom of the vessel with clean cabbage-leaves, throw in the cabbage as it is cut; sprinkle it with salt, equally dispersed as it is thrown in. Many scatter in a few juniper- berries, or caraway-seeds. As the shred cabbage is put into the tub, it should be stamped down hard with a club. When all is packed close, strew a little salt over the top, cover it with a few cabbage-leaves, and then with a clean Hnen cloth. Put on it a wooden lid that will fit inside the vessel, and lay on this a heavy stone. Do not put the “kraut stand ” in too cool a place until fermentation has begun; this may be known by small white globules forming on the brine, which ought to appear above the kraut after a day or two. If this is not the case, boil salt and water, let it get cold, and then pour it over. This latter must not be a strong brine. A good handful of salt is enough to allow for a large bucket or firkin of cut cabbage ; too much prevents fermentation. In a fortnight, the cloth on the top must be well washed in cold water, and spread over again. At the same time, the leaves on the top must either be well rinsed also or renewed. This washing must be done once every week, whether kraut is taken out or not. In two or three weeks it is pickled enough for use, and will keep good a year. 599. “ Sauerkraut"— To cook Sour Kraut.166 GEIUIAN NATIONAL COOKERY. then put in half of your sour kraut, and on this the meat in- tended to be cooked with it—either a piece of ham or bacon, soaked and pared, pork, or any kind of sausages. Lay over the other half of the kraut, pour in a glass of white wine, add occasionally a little water to moisten it; cover close, and let it stew gently till the kraut is soft and yellow. Take out the meat when sufficiently cooked. Dredge in a tablespoonful of floui’ to give smoothness'; let it stew half an hour longer; then lay in the meat again to get thoroughly hot. Be sure the ki-aut does not burn in the cooking; stir it occasionally with a wooden spoon. It is good warmed up next day, or a day or two after, with some other meat. Indeed it cannot be cooked too much, and requires at first from two and a half to three hours’ stewing. Sauerkraut, as an accompaniment to smoked meats, roast pork, sausages, &c., may be cooked as above, without the meat; in which case, make a flour and butter thickening to stir in half an hour before serving. A finely minced onion is often added in the stewing. 600. “ Qrune Bolinen ”—French Beans. String and cut them as usual. Make a piece of butter hot in a stew-pan. Put in the beans, with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, a sprig of winter savory (bohnenkraut), and a cup of broth or water. Let them stew till tender. 601. “ Bohnen”—Beans. Another icay. (iVo. 2.) When they are older, string, cut, and boil them in salt and water, with a sprig of savory or maijoram, till soft; then strain them. Brown some flour in butter, thin it with gravy or water, add salt, pepper, and chopped parsley if approved; give it a boil and add it to the beans. Let them stew till there is no fluid left. 602. “ Weisse Bohnen”— ir/t/fc Beans. Dry white beans must be soaked all night, or at least five or six hours, in cold water. Boil them soft, then strain, and return them to the saucepan with a piece of butter and some salt; or, make a white butter sauce, to which lemon-juice or white vinegar may be added, stir it into the beans, and let them simmer a few minutes.Chapter IX. “ KALTESCHALEN.” These refreshing preparations of summer fruits and other things might be acceptably substituted for pies and tarts at English tables, when pastry is objected to. It is difficult to give a nice translation of the compound word “ kalteschale.” Cold-bowl would neither sound well nor be expressive of what it is. We therefore advise our readers to pronounce the a in schale like our a in far and call it by its own old name. The kalteschale must be sent to table as cold as possible, either in a bowl, tureen, or glass dish. When wine is used, it should be thin claret or German white wine. Sherry has too distinct a flavour. 603. “ Apfelsinen oder Pomcranzcn Kalteschale ”— Orange Kalteschale. Rub off the yellow rind of six oranges with half a pound of lumps of sugar. Peel off the yellow rinds with a knife, and throw them into a pint and a half of cold water. Peel the white skins off, and slice the oranges thin, from the eye, as you would a lemon. Sprinkle the slices with powdered sugar, which must be strewn plentifully over them, in a china bowl or deep glass dish. Strain the water from the peels, and put the lumps of sugar to dissolve in it. Add to this the juice of three or four oranges and a bottle of light white wine. Pour it over the sliced oranges and keep it in a cold place till required. Servo with sponge-cakes or sippets of fancy bread.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 168 604. ‘‘ Apfehinen Kalteschale ”— Orange Kalteschale. (JVo. 2.) Peel off the yellow rind of half-a-dozen oranges as thin as possible; throw the peels into half a pint of water, with plenty of sugar, and when this is dissolved add half a pint of white wine. Peel the white off and shce the oranges thin. Lay them in a glass dish, one half over the other in a ring, -with sugar strewn between and over. Put a few slices in the centre, and then pour over the syrup, leaving the yellow peel as garnish. Set the dish in a cool place till wanted. Hand sponge-cake or fancy biscuits when served. 605. “ Aprikosen Kalteschale ”— Apricot Kalteschale. Skin the apricots and take out the stones, break these and boil the keniels with the fruit, in sufficient water and sugar, till soft. Put half of it in a bowl and strain the other half through a sieve. Add to this an equal quantity of white Avine, SAveeten to taste, and add it to the fi'uit. Let it get cold, and serve with rusks or sponge-cake. A stick of cinnamon might be boiled Avith the fruit. 606. “ Erdheer Kalteschale ”— Strawberry Kalteschale. Mash the strawberries Avith a fork; strew sugar over and let them stand an hour or tAVO. Add AA'hite wine enough to thin the fruit; and, if preferred smooth, pass it through a sieve. Put it in a cold place till served, and then garnish Avith Savoy biscuits or toasted sippets of light roll. 607. “ Erdheer Kalteschale"— Strawberry Kalteschale. (No. 2.) Small strawberries may be used. Take three pints, and pick out a pint of the best; sprinkle plenty of sugar over and put them in a cool place. Mash the other two pints quite smooth, adding a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a pint of light AA’iue. Stir well, and then strain this over the unbroken straAA'berries. Serve it in saucers, Avith sponge-cake or dessert biscuits handed. 608. “ Ilimbeer Kalteschale ”— Ka.spbern/ Kalteschale. Mash raspberries quite smooth; strcAV ample sugar over, and set them by in a cold place for an hour or tAvo. To a quart of raspbciTics add a pint of Avino and a pint of water in the boAvl or tureen in Avhich they are to be served. ^Yhen169 “ KALTESCHALEN. f} ■ about to place it on table, lay on the top some little sponge- drop cakes or Savoy biscuits. Any light cake or bread may be Wnded. 609. “ Johannisbeer Kalteschale"—Red Currant Kaltescluile. May either be made exactly as above ; or, boil a quart of ripe red currants ■with a pint of water and sugar to sweeten, till the fruit shrinks and is done. Then strain the liquid, put it iu the tureen or bowl ready for table, and set it in a cool place. When quite cold, add a pint of claret, and more sugar if required. Cut thin little uniform slices of roll; sugar them over and brown them delicately in the oven or before the fire; they must only be coloured yellowish and glazed. Throw them into the bowl at the moment of serving. 610. “ Kirschen Kalteschale ”— Cherry Kalteschale. Put two pounds of cherries in an earthen jar, with a pint of water and half a pound of sugar. Cover and set the jar in a saucepan of water. BoU this until the cherries are quite soft; then set the jar in a cool place till next day. liub the cherries through a strainer. Break the stones and boil them and the skins or strainings in a pint of water, with a stick of cinnamon and four bruised cloves, a quarter of an hour. Strain this into the fruit. Add equal quantities of wine and water with sugar to taste, so as to form a smooth syrup. Cut a light roll into thin sippets or dice, sift sugar over them, glaze them ■with a salamander, or in a hot oven, and when they and the fruit are quite cold, throw them in and serve. 611. “ Pfiaumen Kalteschale ”— Plum Kalteschale Is prepared in the same manner as cherries. Cut or break them open, put them in a jar with sugar, water, cloves, and cinnamon to cook the day before they are wanted ; then work them through a coarse strainer, and proceed as in the foregoing recipe with the stones, &c. For damsons or dark plums, use a light, red wine. For pale fruit, a whito wine ; serve with sugared sippets glazed. 612. “ Melone Kalteschale ”— Melon Kalteschale. Peel and slice a melon in very thin, almost transparent, slices, into a glass dish or china howl. Strew plenty of powdered sugar over and between ; sprinkle the juice of twoGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. I 70 lemons over, and leave it in a cool place to draw for an hour or two. Add sugar enough to make six ounces in all. Pour over a bottle of delicately flavoured white wine, and from half a pint to a pint of cold water. Give it a gentle stir. Serve with sponge-cake, either sliced into the bowl or handed. Note.—Any varieties of “ Kalteschalen ” may be prepared from summer fruits, after the preceding directions. In winter preserved syrups answer quite as well, the latter by thinning with water and wine, the former by scalding and straining the fruit. 618. “ Wein Kalteschale”— Wine Kalteschale. Rasp off the yellow rind of a lemon with a quarter of a pound of lumps of sugar. Add the juice of the lemon and half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon with the sugar to a pint of wine in a decanter. Shake well, and put it in a cool place ■ or ice for an hour or two. When required to ser\'e, lay rusks or sponge-cakes in a glass dish, and pour the wine over. 614. “ Sago Kalteschale ”— Sago Kalteschale. Boil about three ounces of sago in equal parts of wine and water, with half a lemon-peel grated, half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and enough loaf sugar to sweeten; keep stirring till it is clear and thick; then pour it out on a flat dish, when it will be not more than three-quarters of an inch thick ; and when cold it must form a stiff jeUy. Mix a pint of white wine with a pint of water; rasp off the yellow of a lemon with six ounces of lump sugar, and add them to the wine with the juice of two lemons, in the bowl or tureen meant for table. Set it in a cool place. Cut out with a small round cutter little balls of the sago jelly; or cut little almond-sized pieces with a teaspoon; and throw them into the wine mixture when about to serve. Either red or white wine will do. Red looks well, and so does yellow wine. 616, “ Seis Kalteschale ”— Jlice Kalteschale. Steam a quarter of a pound of rice till thoroughly done, but it must not be mashed or broken. Shako it to keep it light and whole. Put it in a tureeu, strew plenty of sugar and some powdered cinnamon over, and set it by in a cool“ KALTESCHALEN. place for an hour. Sprinkle over the juice of a lemon. Pour over equal pai’ts of wine and water sweetened, and serve. 616. “ Bier Kalteschale ”—■ Beer Kalteschale. Wash and pick a quarter of a pound of currants, and put them in a little water with some lemon-peel and sugar on the fire to boil plump and soft. Rasp off the yellow rind of a lemon, with a quarter of a pound of lumps of sugar, and throw them into the currants. AVhen they are dissolved, add the lemon, peeled close and cut into very thin slices. Turn all into a bowl. Pour over a quart of ale and a glass of brandy or rum, and sth- in a large cupful of grated bread- crumbs. Let it become thoroughly cold before serving. The ale used should not be bitter. Grated brown bread is very good with this. “ TRIETT.” This is very similar to the “ Kalteschale,” but not so liquid. Indeed, they are so much alike that the name Triett could be given to all varieties. In both more or less water or wine may be added, in proportion to the fruit juices. Triett is served in glass or compote dishes. The following are a few of the many that can be made with fruit- juices, &c. 617. “ Triett von Himbeeren ”— Triett of Baspberries. Boil a pint of raspberries five minutes, with a pint of water, half a pint of wine and six ounces of sugar. Strain it, and when quite cold, pour it over rusks, or sippets of light roll neatly arranged in a glass dish. The latter may be glazed by sifting sugar plentifully over and then toasting them. Another way is, to lay rusks or delicate sippets of toasted roll in a glass dish, sprinkle them with a little lemon- juice, moisten them with water or light wine, arranging them prettily, and pouring over raspberry syrup as they are laid in. 618. “ Triett von Erdbeeren”—Triett of Strawberries. Bruise strawberries, sprinkle sugar over, and let them stand a little while ; then press them through a fruit-sieve,GERJMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 172 and sweeten the juice. Cut uniform slices of French roll very thin ; sift sugar over, and toast or hake them to glaze and colour the sugar. Lay them in a glass dish, and pour the juice over. Or, give strawberries a boil in wine and water, with sugar to sweeten, and a stick of cinnamon. Let them get cold ; then strain them over tusks or sugared sippets. 619. “ Triett von Pomeranzen ”—Triett of Oranges. Peel off the yellow rind of half-a-dozen oranges, trans- parently thin, and in very narrow strips. Boil these a quarter of an hour in a pint of water; then add six ounces of sugar, and continue the boiling a few minutes longer. Let the liquid get cold ; then add half a pint of white wine and the pressed-out juice of the six oranges. Put either sponge- cake or rusks or sippets of roU in a glass dish ; pour the sjunp over, and garnish with the rings of yellow orange-peel. 620. “ Triett von Wein ”—Triett of Wine. Make about a pint of a sweet mulled wine, with a delicate flavouring of spice. Let it get quite cold. Ajrange thin sippets of toast, or either sponge-cakes or rusks, in a glass dish. Sugar them over, and pour over the wine, of which there should be enough for some to flow in the dish. An equal part of water may he added to the wine, if approved. Triett is preferred by many without wine ; it is then made by boiling and straining the fruit, and, while still warm, adding the requisite quantity of sugar, sufficient water having been allowed in boding the fruit. Bread in any form, as well as plain cake, may be used for the dish. “ COIMPOTES.” (stewed fruits.) These are indispensable at most German tables; and are really more wholesome than fruit tarts of rich paste. The compote is often served with the roast, but as frequently after it, Avith klbsse, pancakes, and other farinaceous dishes ; also, unaccompanied by any other dish. Many recipes are173 “ COMPOTES. if given for the various methods of preparing them. They are, however, very similar, and so simple that a few will explain the whole. Both fresh and diied fruits should he carefully stewed in an earthen or enamelled vessel, with just sufficient water, to which may be added wine, sugar, and any approved spice or flavour. They should be served in glass dishes, neatly arranged, and in clear thick syrup. 621. “ Comjjote von AejtJel ”— Compote of Apples. Pare middling-sized apples round and smooth, leaving the stems on. Scoop out the cores, put them close together in the stew-pan, stems uppermost. Pour in sufficient water and wine if preferred. Cover close to steam gently till the fruit is done through. Take them out carefully and arrange them for serving. Boil down the syrup if too thin, or thicken it with a little arrowroot or potato flour ; strain, and pour it over the fruit, which should be basted with the syrup when sent to table, to give it a fresh glazed appearance. 622. “ Compote von Bimen ”— Compote of Pears. Pears are done in the same way. Ked wine or cochineal may be used to colour them and the syrup, or beetroot stewed with them in slices, with cloves or cinnamon, and lemon-juice if required. Apples or pears may he ornamented with blanched and split almonds, stuck in when dished. 623. “ Compote von Erdbeei-en," or “ Himbeeren ”— Compote of Strawberries or Baspberries. Boil a syrup of sugar and water, with a little wine if approved. No spice is necessary for these fruits, which only require to have the scalding syrup poured over them, and then to be left in a cool place. 624. “ Compote von Melonen ”— Compote of Melons. A melon, or a pineapple that is unripe, will make a delicious compote. Boil a syrup of sugar, white wine, and water. Peel the fruit, and cut it into long slices. Give them a boil up in the syrup. When just soft enough, dish them carefully, and pour the syrup over. Sprinkle with lemon-juice if acid is necessary.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 174 625. “ Compote von Pfirsichen,” or “ Aprikoseii ”— Compote of Peaches or Apricots. Peel, and cut them in halves. Break the stones, and hlanch the kernels. Boil a clear syrup of sugar and water, with the kernels in it; then lay in the fruit to simmer for a minute or two. Pile up the fruit in a glass dish, and pour over the syrup, leaving in the kernels. 626. “ Compote von Eeineclanden ”— Compote of Green- gages. Ripe greengages, or strawberries whole, give a delicious compote, unboiled. Peel the greengages, or pick the straw- berries, and, as you put them in a glass dish, strew plenty of powdered sugar among and over them. Let them stand two or three hours in a cool place before using, when symp enough will be drawn from the fruit. 627. “ Compote von Pflaumen ”— Compote of Plums. Plums may be stoned and cooked as directed for peaches, or done whole. Prick the skins fii'st, as they must not be allowed to break. 628. “ Compote von Apfelsinen und Aepfeln ”—Compote of Oranges and Apples, mixed. Choose ripe, juicy apples. Peel, and cut them in very thin round slices, and strew them with powdered sugar. Slice half the number of oranges in their peels, also very thin, and sugar them. Lay in a glass dish alternate slices of orange and apple, one slanting half-way over the other, and so form rings of the fruit. This has a pretty effect if the apples are wiped well, and sliced with the peeling on. Strew sugar between and over them. Let the dish stand two or three hours before serving. A little white wine may be sprinkled over as soon as the dish is arranged and sugared, or syrup boiled and poured hot over the slices when arranged as above. Ser\e it quite cold. 629. “ Compote von Apfelsinen ”—Compote of Oranges. Peel oranges with a sharp knife, only as thick as the j'ellow rind. Peel all the white off, and slice the fruit. Strew plenty of powdered sugar between, and let it stand an hour; then strain olf the juice; add a little water and more sugar to the“ COMPOTES. 175 juice, and set it on to boil with the rings of yellow peel. When the syi'up is clear and of creamy thickness, arrange the fruit high in a glass dish. Pour the syrup over, and garnish with the rings of yellow peel. A spoonful of arrowi’oot may be boiled in the syrup to thicken it. 630. “ Compote von Getrocknetem Ohste ”— Compote of Dried Fruits. Dried fruits must be well washed in warm water, and set on the fire with water, wine, and spice, as approved; then covered close, and gently simmered until done soft, but not broken. Do not put in the sugar till the fruit is partly softened, as it has a hardening efl’ect at first.Chapter X. “ KLOSSE,” OK “ KNODELN.” (Various Little Light B.alls.) These purely national dishes claim a long descent. In England, instead of having refined on them, we have only had them handed down in the form of provincial dumplings, which are mostly heavy masses, evincing no relationship to the good old Saxon light and delicate klosse. Their chief ingredients were always eggs, bread, coarsely ground com, meat, and fish. In later periods, potatoes, rice, &c., have furnished varieties. No translation can be given of the names without depriving them of their traly distinctive qualities. 631. General Rules for Making Klosse. The bread used for them must be light, and without crust, either grated, crumbled, or soaked in cold milk or water. They must be lightly handled. Dip the fingers in water while forming them into balls the size of an egg, either egg- shaped or round. Lay them apart. Put them carefully into gently boiling soup, water, or milk. Wet the spoon as each one is dropped in. Chives, onions, parsley, or spice may be left out, and the flavour altered, in any of the recipes given. All klosse should bo served as soon as they are ready. Cold ones are good next day, sliced, dipped in egg, and fried. 632. “ Kartojfel Klosse"—Potato Klosse. Stir four ounces of butter to a creivm. Add by degrees three well-beaten eggs and three-quarters of a pound of grated potatoes, which must have been boiled some hours before.“KLOSSE. 177 tf Add salt and a little nutmeg. Mix all well together with a wooden spoon. Form little balls, and boil them gently nearly ten minutes. If in water, it must have salt in it, and be boUing as the klbsse are dropped in. Add them to soup when it is in the tm'een. 633. “ Kartoffel Klosse mit Kdse ”— Potato Klosse with Cheese. Stir four ounces of butter to a cream. Add three-quarters of a pound of grated potatoes, a quarter of a pound of grated bread, four eggs, leaving out two whites, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, ajittle salt, and nutmeg. Mix well, and take up portions the size and shape of an egg, for which purpose use a metal spoon, dipped in water each time. Boil them ten minutes. In the meantime, melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan, and crisp in it a few bread-crumbs a pale brown. Dish the klbsse ; sprinkle over them the crumbs and oiled butter, and serve dii-ectly. 634. “Kartoffel Klosse mit SchnittJuuch”—Kartoffel Klosse with Chives. With or without cheese. Grate three-quarters of a pound of potatoes. Soak a quarter of a pound of bread, and press it out. Mix it with the potato. Add salt, finely minced chives, a tablespoonful of flour, three well-beaten eggs, and a little nutmeg. Stir all well together; form klbsse with a metal spoon ; drop them into boiling water or broth to boil ten minutes. Take them out with a skimming-ladle; pour over them a little oiled butter with crisped bread-cnimbs as in No. 633. Or, cut very small a couple of rashers of fat bacon. Fry them crisp and pale brown, and strew them with their oil over the klbsse. 635. “ Fleisch Klosse ”—Meat Klosse. Mince fine any cold meat or poultry. Soak an equal quantity of bread, and press it out. Mince some parsley and chives, or onion. Cut up a slice or two of bacon into little dice, and fry them in a stew-pan; then add the above, with an egg stirred in. Let all cook a few minutes. Turn the mass out to cool. Mix in two more eggs, with salt and pepper, and either boil as before directed, or fry them. Serve with any piquant sauce or gravy. NGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 178 686. “ Leber Klusse ”— Liver Klosse. Stir three ounces of butter to a cream ; then beat four or five eggs ■with it. Add a pound of finely minced raw liver, a quarter of a pound of rather fat bacon chopped small, six ounces of gi-ated bread, salt, pepper, and whatever herb you may prefer to flavour. Mix the mass thoroughly ; throw a small hall of it into gently boiling water to see if it holds together; if not, add more grated bread. Form egg-sized klosse. Boil them in broth or water a good half-hour. Remains of these are good next day, sliced asunder, dipped in egg, sprinkled with crumbs, and fried. 637. “ Leber Klosse”—Liver lUbsse. {No. 2.) Mince half a pound of raw liver small. Soak in milk a good slice of bread; press out, and add it to the liver, with a little grated lemon-peel, parsley, chives, salt, pepper, or very little sage, and onion. Sprinkle in a tablespoouful of flour ; then add two well-beaten eggs. Form, with a spoon, egg-sized klosse. Boil them half an horn'. Put a little butter in a frying-pan or casserole ; crisp a little finely chopped bacon in it; pour this over the klosse, and serve at once. 638. “ Leber Klosse fur Sup2)en ”—Liver Klosse for Soujis. Half of a calfs liver cleared of skin and chopped veiy small, a rasped roll or slice of bread, soaked and pressed out, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped fine, the yolks of four eggs and whites of two added; well mix all together, with parsley, salt, pepper, and a saltspoouful of any approved herb powder. Sprinkle in gi’ated bread enough to bind the mass so that the balls may just hold together. Boil as directed for others, and serve in soup. 639. “ F'ranif irtcr Klosse ”—Frunhfoi't Klosse. Cut two or three stale rolls into dice. Pour ou the half of them as much milk as they will absor-b, but do not make them too wet. Fry the other half in butter a pale brown. Cut a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon into little dice ; put it in a stew-pan with a little minced onion and parsley. When done a pale yellow, add the fried and soaked bread, with salt, pepper, three beaten eggs, and enough flour or potato-flour to bind the mass, so that largo kliisse can be formed which will not run flat in an instant. They must bo rather larger than an“ KLOSSE.” 179 eg". Boil them a quarter of an hour in water, with a little salt. lu the meantime, melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan ; throw in a handful of crumbs, and let them crisp a pale brown. Take up the kldsse; cut them in halves ; lay the flat side downwards in the dish, and pour over the crumbs and oiled butter. Serve directly. 640. “ Bauern Kldsse ”—Fann-Jiouse Kldsse. Beat three eggs ; cut into little dice a quarter of a pound of streaked bacon ; fry this, and pour it over the eggs. Add half a pint of milk, and as much coarse flour and bread-crumbs as will bind the mass like a light dough. Boil small round kldsse in water with a little salt a quarter of an hour. 641. “ Bauern Kldsse"—Farm-house Kldsse. {No. 2.) Cut rashers of bacon or ham into little dice, and fry them, but not broAvn, with a minced onion. Pour over a pint of milk, and let it boil; then sprinkle in equal quantities of coarse oatmeal and mashed potatoes enough to form, with constant stin-ing, a stilf paste. Take it from the fire. Dip a spoon in hot butter as you fill it with egg-sized klosse; lay them on a buttered dish, and bake a pale brown in a quick oven. 642. “ Schwcmm Kldsse ”—Floating Kldsse. Six tablespoonfuls of flour, three eggs, and half a pint of milk stirred well. Put two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, and let it melt; pour in the butter, and stir it constantly till it boils thick and ceases to hang on the sides of the pan ; then take it from the fire, and stir frequently till nearly cold. Stir into it three more eggs and a little salt. Spread the mass a good half-inch thick on a flat dish. When required for table, take up small kldsse with a spoon. Put them gently into boiling water to cook five minutes. Take them up with a strainer, and put them immediately into the tureen of soup. 643. “ B^ei8 Kldsse ”— Bice Kldsse. Swell a quarter of a pound of rice in as much broth or clear soup as it will absorb. Shake it up occasionally. It must remain dry, though soft. Let it cool, then mix it with an equal quantity of minced fowl or veal, a little parsley, lemon, salt, nutmeg, or any approved seasoning, and an eggl8o GERiMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. or two to bind it. Form egg-sized klosse and boil them five minutes. 644. “ Reis Klosse ”— Rice Klosse. {No. 2.) Boil a quarter of a pound of rice in milk enough to soften it. Let it cool. Beat a quarter of a pound of butter and the yolks of six eggs to a frothy cream, stir the rice into this, and then the whites of three eggs whipped to a stiff snow. A little salt and nutmeg should be added before the snow. Shape oval klosse with a spoon, and boil them in milk, broth, or water. 645. “ Parmesan Kike Klosse”—Parmesan Cheese Klosse. Make them after the latter directions for rice klosse; but, leave out the nutmeg and mix in a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese. Boil them a few minutes, and when dished, grate over a little more Parmesan, and tinge them with a salamander, or in the oven. 646. “ Gansleher Klosse”— Goose-liver Klosse. Put about two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, -with four eggs, a little chopped parsley, salt, and nutmeg ; stir all over the fire till it begins to thicken, take it ofl’ and stir in a rasped roll which has been soaked in milk and pressed out. Chop the liver small, and add this, with a handful of grated crumbs, salt, pepper, and tbe yolks of two more eggs. Stir aU well together, and finish as other klosse. Boil or fry them. K the liver is a large one, six eggs and rather more butter may be used at first. 647. “ Semmel Klosse ”—Roll Klosse. A quarter of a pound of butter beaten to a cream, three well beaten eggs, six ounces of light crumbs, a little salt and nutmeg. Mix well, and boil them as soon as they are made. Serve at once in soup. 648. “ Hiihner Klosse ”— Fou l Klosse. The breast and other solid parts of an uncooked fowl must be chopped small, with three or four ounces of suet. Soak some slices of light bread in milk and press them out. Put the bread, meat, and suet in a mortar, and pound all together thoroughly. Add salt, nutmeg, a little parsley, and gratedi8i “KLOSSE.” lomon-peel. Mix the whole with two well-beaten eggs. Form kldsse, and boil them ten minutes in clear soup. Veal may be used as above. 649. “Mark Kldsse ”—Marrow Kldsse. Chop, but not too finely, half a pound of marrow. Beat the yolks of six eggs until frothy, add the marrow and stir them well together. Cut a light roll into thin slices, toast and cut them into small dice. Soak the crumb of an un- toasted roll in milk, just enough to damp the bread; mix with this a httle minced parsley and some salt. Dredge in two tahlespoonfuls of flour, add the other ingi*edients, stir the whole together, and form the kldsse. Boil them in broth or water. Lay them in the tureen, and pour the soup over. 650. “ Gehackene Mark Kldsse ”—Fried Kldsse. A quarter of a pound of chopped marrow. Two ounces of bread soaked in milk, two tablespoonfuls of flour, a little nutmeg, salt, and two well-beaten eggs ; if they are small, use three eggs. Mix the whole ; make walnut-sized kldsse. Fry them a nice yellow. Lay them on a fish-drainer or napkin to dry, and seiwe with hashes, ragouts, &c. 651. “ Kalbshirn Kldsse ”— Calf’s-hrain Kldsse. Boil the brain, lay it in cold water. Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, add four eggs and beat them well together. Chop the brain, not too small, add it to the cream with as much grated bread as will bind the whole to form kldsse. Salt, nutmeg, or whatever is preferred, may be added as seasoning, but the flavour must be delicate. Boil them as usual. 652. “ Butter Kndpflein''—Butter Buttons for Soups. Stir a quarter of a pound of butter creamy, then stir in three eggs, and, by degrees,, three large tablespoonfuls of flour, and salt enough. Have a clear soup ready and boiling gently. Lay small kldsse in with a spoon, and let them simmer a quarter of an hour before serving. 653. “ Sago Kldsse ”— Sago Kldsse. Boil sago in milk or broth, keeping it stirred until thick and clear. Pour it into a flat dish to got cold. The dish should be so large that the sago is an inch thick. Wheni82 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, quite cold, cut little klosse from the mass with a cutter or spoon. Have ready a couple of heaten eggs. Dip the klosse into the egg, and lay them carefully into the scalding soup the moment it is poured into the tureen. 654. “ Brod Klosse ”— Bread Klosse. Two ounces of butter beaten to a cream, the yolks of four eggs, a tablespoonful of flour, three-quarters of a pound of grated white bread, a teaspoonful of salt, and a little nutmeg or gi’ated ginger. Mix all well together. Whisk the egg whites to a stiff snow, and stir it into the mass. Let the klosse he no larger than an egg. Boil them a quarter of an hour, slowly, in milk or water, salted. 655. “ Krdutem Klosse ”— Green Herb Klosse. Take a good handful of mixed herbs, such as parsley, chervil, celerj'-tops, green onion, and verj^ little tarragon, with double the quantity of spinach-leaves. Throw them into boiling water enough to cover them, let them boil till soft, then put them into cold water with some salt in it. Strain and chop them quite fine. Mix them with anj- white forcemeats already seasoned; there must be enough herbs to give a nice green colour. Mould the klosse with two tea- spoons, remembering to dip them in water or broth each time. Boil them a few minutes in broth or salt water, and serve with soup or fricassee. 656, “ Geriihrte Klosse"—or Xockerl. Stir a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream. Add by degrees the yolks of four eggs, and whites of two ; then a quarter of a pound of flour, a little salt, and a grate of nut- meg. Make this two or three hours before dinner time. Put it on a flat dish, so that the mass may be about half an inch thick. Set it in a cool jdace. When near serving time, take up small klosse with a spoon dipped in water. L)\y them in boiling broth, milk, or water a little salted. Boil them gently from five to eight minutes; take them up with a strainer, grate a little cheese over them, and serve directly. 657. “ Urfen," or “ BiirmMusse"— Yeast Klosse. Mix with a pound of flour, a cup of lukewarm milk, two or three tablcspoonfuls of good yeast, a quarter of a“ KLOSSE. 183 pound of butter, warmed, three beaten eggs, a spoonful of sugar, a little salt, and very little nutmeg. Beat the mass well with a wooden spoon. It should be nearly as thick as bread dough. Cover with a napkin and leave it in a warm place to rise, then heat it together again. Dredge a pasteboard with flour, make little balls, lay them on the board and place it near warmth. When the balls have begun to rise, put them into a large saucepan of boiling water, and cover with the lid. Let them boil twenty minutes, and serve directly. 658. “ Eier Kldsse ”— Egg lUMsse. Beat three eggs Avell, mix them with half a pint of broth or milk, a little salt, nutmeg, and fine parsley. Pour this mixture into a well-buttered basin, and put this into a stew-pan of boiling water, which must he kept simmering until the custard is set; then take the basin out of the water. When the soup is put into the tureen, take up small spoonfuls of the custard, and put them in the soup. 659. “ Rindfleisch Kldsse ”— Beef Kldsse. Half a pound of half-cooked steak minced very fine, two ounces of butter and two eggs stirred to a cream, two ounces of bread soaked and pressed out, a little salt and nutmeg ; must be all well mixed together, and then whip the whites of two eggs to a snow ; stir in this. Make round klosse and give them five minutes gentle boiling before the soup is served. The mass for these, must not be very stiff, but just enough so to hold together; the klosse must be boiled in the soup. 660. “ Fisch Kldsse ”— Fish Kldsse. Melt three ounces of butter, and let a finely minced shalot fry in it to a pale yellow colour. Add three ounces of grated bread, two or three tablesponfuls of cream, and two eggs. Stir this mixture over the fire a few minutes, then turn it out to cool. Weigh half a pound of any uncooked fish, free from skin and bone, mince it fine with two ounces of fresh pork or bacon, season with salt, pepper, parsley, and a grate of nut- meg, and mix this and the former ingredients all well together. Form klosse with a spoon, and boil them ten minutes.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 184 661. Klosse of boiled Fish. Clear the fish from skin and hone, pound it in a mortar or mince it fine with a piece of butter, salt, white pepper, some shred parslej', a little grated ginger, as much grated bread as fish, and an egg or two to bind the whole. Put the klosse gently into boiling water with salt in it. Simmer ten minutes, and serve them with oiled butter, in which you have crisped a handful of crumbs yellow, poured over. 662. “ KrehsMosse ”— Crayfish Klosse. Take the meat out of a good-sized lobster, crab, or several crayfish, and mince it fine. Beat four ounces of crajldsh butter (see Index) to a cream, mix this with the yolks of four eggs, some salt, cayenne pepper, a httle nutmeg, the minced fish, and four or five ounces of bread, either grated or soaked in milk and pressed out. A very httle minced chives may be added if approved. When well mixed, form klosse of the size and shape of a small egg. Boh them a few minutes. Or: Beat the whites of the eggs to a stifi" snow; mix it with the above. Put little rocks of the mass on a well- buttered tin, and hake them a pale yeUow in a moderate oven. 663. “ Klosse mil Thymian ”— Klosse icith Thyme. Mix the usual mass of bread-crumbs, butter, eggs, flour, salt, and a little cream or mhk. Add sufficient of the herb to season well, and proceed as with other kinds. 664. “ Klosse mit Salbei ”—Klosse iriih Sage. Mince two or three slices of rather fat bacon and an onion fine; put these in a stew-pan to fry gently thl the onion is soft, then take it from the fire and mix in bread, a spoonful of flour, eggs, salt, pepper, and some finely minced or powdered sage. Boil klosse in salt water, and serve them with rashers of bacon and poached eggs.185 “ KLOSSE. SWEET KLOSSE. 6G5. “ Aepfel Klosse”—Apple Klosse. Peel and core half a dozen large apples; chop them in pieces the size of a hazel nut. Blanch and pound half an ounce of almonds with six bitter ones among them. Mix these with the apples, together with a little grated lemon- peel, four eggs, two ounces of wmrmed butter, a cup of milk, sugar to sweeten, and as much grated bread as will form a stiff mass. Take up klosse with a spoon, lay them carefully in boiling water, let them simmer half an hour. Serve with sugar strewn over and sweet wine sauce. Either lemon or almonds may be left out. 666. “ Aepfel Klusse”—Apple Klosse. (Wo. 2.) Prepare apples as above directed, mix them with a cup of milk or water, three or four eggs, a little salt, and flour enough to bind the whole. Form klosse. Put them into boiling water to cook half an hour. Dish them with hot butter poui'ed over, and well sti-ewn with sugar and cinnamon. 667. “ Birn Klosse ”—Pear Klosse. Proceed as with apple klosse, hut leave out the almonds and use cinnamon or nutmeg to flavour. Sugar and pow- dered cinnamon may be strewn over when dished. Serve milk sauce with them. 668. “ Mandel Klosse ”—Almond Klosse. Blanch two ounces of sweet and a quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds ; pound them with a little white of egg. Add the yolks of four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and two ounces of butter, liub all smooth and creamy. Mix in two good ounces of grated bread, then stir in lightly the whites of the eggs, whisked into a stiff snow. Have a well-buttered flat tin at hand. Set little rocks on it with a spoon. Bake them a pale yellow in a moderate oven, and serve in any sweet soup of milk or wine.i86 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 669. “ Mandel Klosse ”—Almond Klosse. (No. 2.) Soak half a pound of slices of bread without crust in milk, and press out any that is too much. Add a quarter of a pound of warmed butter, the yolks of four eggs and whites of two, three ounces of sweet, and an ounce of hitter almonds, blanched and pounded, an ounce of candied peel cut thin, a pinch of salt, and sugar to sweeten. Mix all well together; take up klosse with a spoon, fry them in a well-buttered pan; lay them on a warm napkin to drain, and serve with sweet sauce, or powdered sugar over. 670. " Mandel Klosse"—Almond Klosse. (No. S.) Blanch a quarter of a pound of almonds ; pound them with a little water. Soak a roll or slice of bread without crust in cold milk, press it out, and mix it with the almonds, adding two eggs and sugar to taste. Stir well, form klosse the size of a large walnut, and fry them in butter or boil them in milk. 671. “ Kapuziner Klosse ”— Capuchin Klosse. Cut narrow French rolls m slices and lay them on a dish. Mix two or three beaten eggs with a cup of milk and some sugar ; pour this over the roll slices, to soak them through. Fry the shces in butter a pale brown on each side. TMien dished, stick on the top of each some strips of blanched almonds, cut the long way, and pour a sweet sauce over. 672. “ Gehackcne Klosse ”— Fried Klosse. Stir two tablespoonfuls of good thick yeast, or an ounce of dry yeast, into half a pint of lukewarm milk ; add a little salt and two eggs, stir in half a pound of flour, and set the mixture to rise in a warm place. "When it has risen, add a quarter of a pound of warmed butter, two tablcspooufuls of sifted sugar, and another half-pound of flour. Beat it well to a dough and let it rise again. Form little balls, and lay them on a floured tin, or pasteboard, to rise a third time ; then fry them in butter, carefully, a pale brown on both sides. Serve with preserved or stowed fruit. 673. “ Brod Klosse"—Bread Klosse. (No. 2.) Crumble three inside rolls. Lay three others in as much milk as they will absorb. Beat four eggs and add them toi8? KLOSSE. the soaked bread, with two ounces of warmed butter, two ounces of currants, and two of raisins, each well washed and plumped in scalding water. Add the dry crumbs, a little salt, and a tablespoonful of flour. Mix all well. Lay kldsse in boiling water to cook half an hour. Servo them with any sweet soup, or sweet sauce ; or, pour over them some oiled butter, and strew them with ample sugar and powdered cinnamon ; or, crisp some crumbs in the butter and pour over. 674. “ Broscl Kldsse ”— Crumb JUdsse. Stir four ounces of butter to a cream. Beat in four eggs thoroughly well, and two tablespoonfuls of milk. Add as much finely crumbled bread as the moistui’e will absorb, salt it, and let it stand half an hour. Form knodeln the size of a walnut, to boil in soup or milk. Or, roll them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in rendered-dowu butter or lard. Sprinkle sugar and cinnamon over them. 675. “ Scliaum Klusse ”—Snoiv-balls. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff snow, with some sifted sugar. Lay spoonfuls, like snow-balls, on the already dished milk soup, or any sweet dish, and serve at once. 676. “ Gebackene Kartnffel Kldsse ”— Potato Kldsse, fried. Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream. Stir it well, with the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two. Add a little grated lemon-peel, sugar, salt, a handful of grated bread, and sufficient potato-flour to work the whole into a thick mass. Mould klosse the size of a small apple; dip them iu egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in butter, or bake them a pale brown. Serve them on a napkin, piled up as a pyramid. Sift sugar over them, and serve either with or without sweet sauce. 677. “ Schmarollen ”—Schmarolleu. Let a pint of new milk boil, stir in an ounce of sugar with flour enough to thicken it; boil until the mixture no longer hangs to the sides of the pan, then turn it out, and, when cool, stir in four well-beaten eggs. Have a pint and a half of milkGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. i88 boiling in a stew-pan, and, with a spoon dipped each time in water, cut klosse of the mass, and simmer them in the milk a few minutes. Turn all into a dish, cut two ounces of butter over, and bake it a pale brown in a quick oven. “ NUDELN NUDELS. These are home-made macaroni, and serve all the purposes for which the Italian paste is used. They may be appropriated to any sweet dishes, by first boiling them soft in milk or water, from ten to twenty minutes, and then mixing them with eggs, sugar, spice, preserves, &c. A straight rolling-pin and smooth pasteboard are indispen- sable in the manufacture of nudels. 678. “ Nudelteig ”— Nudel Paste. Beat two eggs. Work into them, by degrees, as much flour as they will take, and knead them into a smooth stiff dough. Cut this into four or six parts, make a ball of each, and roll it out as thin as possible (so thin, that, when they are transparent enough to read through, you may congratu- late yourself on having attained the perfection of nudel rolling). Lay each cake on a napkin as it is finished. They will resemble fine chamois leather. By the time you have rolled out the last cake the first one will be dry enough to cut, as follows :—Divide the cake into quarters by cutting straight across each way. Lay the pieces one on the other with their inner edges equal, and begin cutting them with a sharp knife into strips as narrow as twine, indeed as thread-like as you can, to the end. Then scatter them apart to dry, and proceed, in turn, wuth the other cakes. When you have rolled out one of the little balls to its full tension, turn in an edge, roll it up tightly, and thus cut it into little rings, which will open when thrown into the boiling soup or water. Little stars, &c., may be stamped out with small tin cutters. The cakes may be189 NUDELS. laid one on tlie other for cutting, and may be cut finer and quicker by using an ordinary ruler, as for ruling lines nearly close together. When allowed to dry well, they will keep any length of time in paper bags or canisters. 679. “ Breite Nuclein ”— Broad Nudels. Cut the nudel paste into tape widths, to he used for all the purposes of macaroni. If preferred perfectly white for any dish, use only the whites of eggs. Keep the pasteboard con- stantly dredged with dry flour while rolling nudels. 680. “ Nuclein mit Parmesan ”— Nudels ivith Parmesan. Boil broad nudels in water till soft. They must be thrown into boiling water with a little salt. From ten minutes to a quarter of an hour will bod them enough. Strain them when done. Butter a shallow dish thickly. Spread over a layer of nudels, lay little slices of butter over, and sprinkle over grated Parmesan cheese. Lay on another spreading of nudels, put oiled butter, and again cheese on the top. Set the dish in a quick oven a few minutes before serving, or brown it, a pale tinge, with a salamander. 681. “ Deutscher Macaroni ”— German Macaroni. Boil half a pound of nudels in salted water, till soft. Strain them diy. Beat two or three eggs with a cup of cream or milk, stir them into the nudels, with a good-sized piece of butter in a stew-pan. Add a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese stirred in gently, and let it steam by the fire a quarter of an hour. Dish it, and grate a little more cheese over the top. Give it a tinge of pale brown in the oven or before the fire. 682. “ Ahgeschmalzte Nuclein ”— Buttered Nudels. Boil and strain the nudels, as above directed. Pile them high in a dish. Put butter in a stew-pan, and when hot strew in a good handful of bread-crumbs, and let them brown; then strew them over the nudels. If the crumbs have absorbed nearly all the butter, melt a little more to oil, and pour it over.190 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 683. “ Nuclein Mus ”— A Niidel Dish. Use fresh-made nudels, cut fine, and straight, not rolled. Put butter in a stew-pan and brosvn the drj' nudels in it, shaking them occasionall3^ When they are nicelj’’ coloured, pour over them some good milk, and let them stew till soft. Add sugar to sweeten. Beat two or three eggs and stir them into the nudels. Cover and let them steam a few minutes before serving. 684. “ Krebs Nudeln ”— Crajifish Nudels. This is an excellent dish. Make nudel paste with the yolks only of two or three eggs, and a piece of “ krebs butter ” (see Index); roll and cut them as usual. Stew them soft in cream or good milk, let them cool a little ; then stir into them about two ounces of “ krebs butter,” some salt, the yolks of four eggs, and their whites beaten to a snow. Butter a mould with krebs butter, fill in the nudels, put more of the butter on the top, and bake it in a moderate oven till a deli- cate crust has formed. 685. “ GcfuUte Nudeln ”—Filled Nudels. Having kneaded nudel paste of two eggs with a little salt, divide it in pieces the size of a large walnut, and roll them out as thin as possible, oval shaped. Mince some uncooked ham or bacon very small, as also some parsley, chives, or a sbalot, and anj’ other herb. Mix the minced bacon and herbs together, and strew them over the paste. Boll each one up, and lay them side bj" side, almost touch- ing, in a stew-pan. Pom* over them a little broth salted. Cover close, and let them steam an hour. Or, instead of broth, allow enough water to steam the nudels in, and, when dished, strew over them a few crumbs browned in oiled butter. A little of the butter should flow over each nudel. 686. “ Milch Nudeln "—Milk Nudels. Make nudels of oue egg. Cut them either very fine, or in narrow tape widths. 8trew them into a quart of boiling milk. Add butter, sugar, and a little salt. Let them simmer a quarter of an hour. Dish, and strew' powdered sugar and cinnamon over them.191 NUDELS. 687. “ Nudeln Pudding"—Nudel Pudding. Sprinkle nndels, of two eggs, into boiling water, with a little salt, and let them simmer till soft. Strain them and stir a piece of butter among them while hot. Beat three ounces of butter to a cream, and stir into it the yolks of three eggs. Add this to the nudels. Have the -whites of the eggs whisked to a snow, and gently mix this with the rest. Butter a pudding mould, and strew it with as much rasp- ings as will hang to the sides. Fill the form with the nudels, and bake it in a moderate oven. 688. “ Nudeln Pudding mit Kdse ”— Nudel Pudding with Cheese. Prepare nudels as above. Instead of yolks of eggs, use four whole ones with the butter, and half a pint of sour cream. Mix in two ounces of grated cheese and salt to flavour. Bake it a pale colour in a well buttered mould. 689. “ Kdmtim- Nudeln"—Nudel Turnovers. Make a softer nudel paste, with an egg stirred in water. Beat and knead it well. Cut ofl’ pieces the size of an egg, and roll them out thin, in an oval shape. Either plums, pears, cherries, or apples, may be chopped small, and mixed with sugar, cinnamon, and bread-crumbs soaked in cream or hot butter. Put a largo tablespoonful of the filling on each nudel, turn its half over, and twist the edges together so that the filling cannot escape. Finish as dkected for “ Gefiillte Nudeln,” adding sugar when dished. » STRUDELN STRUDELS. This untranslated form of pastry can only be described by the English term roly-poly, in a very diminutive size. There are various ways of making the paste ; but they all agree in this one particular, that it must be worked into a tough dough, and very smooth. One way is :— Beat two eggs and the yolks of two others. Warm a piece of butter the size of an egg, and add it to the eggs, with a little salt. Work in, by degrees, as much fine flour as will192 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. form a dough; knead this till quite smooth, Di\ude the paste into small halls, roll them round in the hands ; then, with a smooth rolling-pin, roll them out as thin as possible: they should be the size of a saucer, but rather oval. Spread over them whatever they are to be called after. Roll them up, when the shape will be larger in the middle and tapering olf at both ends. Lay them an inch apart in a baking-tin or large stew-pan that has been well buttered; cover, and either bake them in the oven or over a slow fire, with red coals on the hd, to draw them. "When they are risen and beginning to colour, pom- some hot milk over, and finish baking a very- pale brown. 690. “ Fleisch Strudeln ”— Meat Strudels. Mince any kind of meat very fine ; season and flavour it to taste ; moisten with gravy or cream; spread it half-an-inch thick over the strudel: roll up, and finish as above directed. 691. “ Eahm Stnideln ”— Cream Stncdels. Spread over each strudel two tablespoonfuls of thick sour cream and a little salt; roll them together, put a small piece of butter on each, and hake as above. When they are risen, and about to colour, boil some milk and pour it over; then finish baking. If preferred sweet, mix sugar with the cream, and sift some over when dished. 692. “ Eahm Strudeln ”— Cream Strudels. {No. 2.) Boil a pint of milk wuth two ounces of butter, two of sugar, and six or seven ounces of flour; stir it until it becomes a thick paste, no longer clinging to the sides of the pan. Take it from the fire, and keep stirring till half cold; then mix in the yolks of four eggs and two whole ones. Have a stew-pan half full of boiling milk ready, flavoured with vanilla. Form from the mass long rolls the size of a finger. Lay them in the boiling milk to simmer five minutes ; take them up with a skimmiug-ladle, and lay them on a sieve to drain. They must have plenty of room in the boiling, and it is l>etter there- fore to boil a second part while the first is draining. When all arc done, lay them across each other in a well-buttered dish. Boil down the milk in a stew-pan ; stir the yolks of four eggs into it; sweeten, and pour it over the strudeln.FARINACEOUS DISHES. J93 Bake them in a moderate oven. They should have a nice glaze over them when done. Serve with vanilla-milk sauce. 693. “ Chocolade Strudeln"—Chocolate Strudels. Make strudel-paste as directed in the first recipe, and roll out the very thin cakes. Grate vanilla chocolate, and mix it with some pounded almonds and the yolks of two or tlnree eggs, with the whites beaten to a snow. Spread hot butter over the strudels, and then the chocolate, as thin as a knife- blade. Boll them up, strew sugar and chocolate over, and bake them. Pour some cream or milk over when they are nearly done. They must be kept a pale brown. The above methods will answer for any kinds of preserve, sweet rice, or other strudeln ; among which to be especially recommended are finely-minced ham, with yolks of eggs and a Httle cream; or shrimps, as for potting ; and varieties of poultiy, tongue, &c. “ SPATZEN.” (Sparrows, or Batter Flakes.) Stir flour into cold water or milk, with a little salt, to make a thick batter; beat it well with a wooden spoon. Drop little flakes or buttons into boiling water. This is easiest done by putting some of the batter on a trencher or flat plate, and flaking it quickly ofl' into the pot with a knife dipped con- stantly in the water. Boil them five minutes : they will swim on the top when done. Strain and dish them. Have ready a piece of butter melted in a stew-pan, and a handful of crumbs in it, crisped brown. Pour this over the spatzen, and serve while they are light and hot. A piece of butter may be stirred in as they are dished. If preferred richer, use an egg or two and milk for the batter. 694. “ Milch Spatzen ”— Milk Spatzen. Make a stiff batter with milk and flour. Drop flakes from a plate, with a wetted knife, into boiling milk, enough to oGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 194 prevent their clogging in a mass. In five or six minutes take them from the fire, and stir into them a piece of butter and a couple of beaten eggs. 695. “ Geprdgelte Spatzen”—Spatzen with Eggs. Make a stiff batter -with a couple of eggs and some milk. Beat it weU. Boil the flakes in salt water. When they float on the top, strain them. Make butter hot in a stew-pan ; put in the, drained spatzen; stir in a couple of eggs ; let them brown a little at the bottom; then shake them up, and serve. 696. “ Saure Eahm Spatzen ”—Sou?’ Cream Spatzen. Boil sour cream with flour enough to make a stiff paste. When it peels from the sides of the stew-pan, turn it into a dish to cool; stu- in two or three eggs and some salt; lay very small portions in boiling milk; when dishing, put a little butter here and there on the top. Any of these batter-flakes are good with roast meats and gi’avy, ■v\dth salads, or with preserves. “ SCHMARNTEIG,” OR “ SCHMARREN.” ScHMARN Batter. 697. Half a pound of flour, the yolks of four eggs, a little salt, sugar, either nutmeg or gi-ated lemon, and cream or milk enough to give a rather thick batter; must be briskly and well stirred. Then add the whites of the eggs, whisked to a snow; about two ounces of butter must be made quite hot in a stew-pan, and into this pour the batter, over a brisk fire. Cover, and let it remain till a nice brown crust has formed at the bottom, of not too dark a colour. As soon as this encrusting takes place, break up the scbmarn with a little iron spatula or fork, and let it sot and brown again; then break it up smaller by tearing it lightly apart, and serve it without delay. If salad is to he served with schmarn, leave out any flavour- ing of nutmeg, &c., if disapproved of, as also the sugar. To the above schmarn either cream, stewed prunes, or fruit-syrup may ho added at table.FARINACEOUS DISHES. 195 698. “Aepfel Schnarren"—Apple Schmarn. Peel apples and cut them away in little thin slices ; make butter hot in a stew-pan ; put in the apples, and leave them, covered, to steam rather soft. Then stir into them the above schmarn-batter; a large two-pronged iron fork is better than a spoon to use in breaking up the schmarn as it colours and sets. Currants plumped in hot water, and a little spice or lemon-peel, may be added to this, with sugar to taste. "When it has a thin peel of crust at the bottom, after the first breaking up, repeat the crumbling or tearing process, and serve. 699. “ Manclel Schmarn"—Almond Schmarn. Use a little less flour than is given in the first recipe, and an extra yolk or two, making a thinner batter; mix in an ounce or two of almonds, blanched and sliced. Add some plumped currants if approved. Let the egg-whites be whisked to a stifl’ snow before it is added. Put the mass into about two ounces of hot butter; break up the schmarn with two forks as soon as a thin delicate crusting has formed. Let it encrust a second time, and tear it apart. Serve with sifted sugar and a good handful of thinly-sliced almonds strewn over. 700. “ Kirschen Schmarn ”— Cherry Schmarn. Steam the cherries partly soft in very little water and sugar, shaking them gently once or twice. Stir them into the batter, and proceed as with other schmarn. When dished, strew over powdered sugar and cinnamon. 701. “ Semmcl Schmarn ”— Liijht Roll Schmarn. Pare the crust off three or four rolls. Allow to each roll an egg and teacup of milk thoroughly mixed. Slice the rolls thin ; pour over the custard and let them soak. Add a few currants and sultana raisins, sugar, lemon-peel or spice, and a few sliced almonds, if at hand. Have an egg-sized piece of butter hot in a stew-pan, turn in the mass, finish as directed for other schmarn, and servo with sugar and cinna- mon strewn over. 702. Kaiier Schmarn"—Imperial Schmarn. Whisk the yolks of five eggs with a pint of cream. Add an ounce of blanched almonds cut fine, an ounce of sultana196 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. raisins plumped and dried, a tablespoonfnl of sifted sugar, four ounces of flour, and the egg-whites whisked to a snow. Proceed as directed for other schmam, and strew over when dished the following. 703. “ Vanilla Zucker ”—Vanilla Sugar. Break up an inch or two of vanilla and pound it in a mortar, or rather ruh it smooth with the pestle, with sifted sugar. Sift it and pound again 'nuth sugar till the vanilla is all powdered. “HAIDEN STEEZ.” 704. “ Sterz”—Sterlz. Choose a saucepan that is not much broader than deep— one holding three quarts of water for the following “ sterz." Have three or four pints of water boiling. Let fall into this three-quarters of a pound of oatmeal, barley-meal, or flour. Cover close, and let it boil ten minutes. Then with a knife slid round loosen the paste from the sides of the pan, and, with a flat skimmer ladle, turn over the whole mass that the upper side may be under. Cover again with the lid, and leave it to boil another ten minutes. Once, in the mean- time, take off the lid of the saucepan and pierce through the middle of the mass with a spoon, that it maj' soak and become done thi-ough. Then pour ofifthe water, leaving in only a few spoonfuls. Warm two or three ounces of butter to an oU ; pour it over, and lightly break up the paste with a two- pronged fork. Sprinkle over a little salt, and let it stand, covered close, beside the fire for a quarter of an hour. Then break up the stertz into still smaller pieces. Pile them up on a dish, and pour over some oiled butter. Or, mince bacon very small, fry it a pale brown, and pour it over with its fat. 705. “ r/ann Slrrz”—Pan Stert:. Salt the requisite quantity of flour. Stir briskly into it as much boiling water as will render a light, flaky, crumbling dough. Have a stew-pan quite hot, wth almost boiling butter in it. Stir the paste lightly into it, cover, and let it set a little over a moderate fire. When it begins to colourFARINACEOUS DISHES. 197 at the bottom, break it up into rugged pieces, and dish it piled up. It may either be served \vitb soup, with sour or sweet cream, or with boiled milk. One of these must also accompany the “ Haiden Stertz.” 706. “ Schmankerlen"— Schmankeii. Stir into half a pint of milk two tablespoonfuls of flour, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and an ounce of butter warmed to an oil. Have ready a well-buttered flat tin, large enough to receive the batter spread out thin. Put it in the oven long enough to encrust the batter at the bottom without brown- ing the top. Scrape off, or scrape aside with a spoon any batter that is not set. Spread butter over the parts that are done, and cut them away with a wetted knife. While warm, roll them round a wooden-spoon handle, forming them into tubes, or quickly twist them into horn-shapes, pointed at the bottom. Should one part colour in the baking before the rest, cut it away and proceed as above. The batter may also be used broken up, or in flat slices. 707. “ Farferlteig ”— Farferl Paste. Beat an egg well with half a cup of water and a little salt, using a two-pronged fork, with which stir the above into half a pound of flour, rapidly breaking it up into flakes. They may be used for the following dishes. 708. “ Milch Farferl ”— Milk Farferl. The above quantity may be thrown into about three pints of boiling milk ; keep it boiling five or six minutes. Serve with either salt or sugar. 709. “ Zwiebel Farferl ”— Onion Farferl. Slice onions in a stew-pan with two or three ounces of butter, and when they are done yellow stir in the farferl. Continue the stirring over the fire for several minutes, but do not let them brown. Have boiling a saucepan of water with a handful of parsley and some salt in it. Throw the farferl into this, let them boil a few minutes; strain them through a cullender and serve. 710. “ Farferl in Siippe ”— Farferl in Soup. The farferl may bo fried a little, in just butter enough to keep them from clogging when they are stirred ; then throw them into boiling soup for six or eight minutes.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, ig8 711. “ Meld Nockerl ”— Flour Nocheii. Beat to a cream two ounces of butter, add the yolks of four eggs, then the whites whisked to a snow. Stir in flour enough to form a very thin dough or thickest batter, sprinkle in a little salt, spread the mass a good half-inch thick on a dish, and set it in a cool place for half an hour. A few minutes before serving, dip a tablespoon in the boiling soup, and cutout with it little oval-shaped nockerl, which will mostly be pointed at the ends. Lay them in the soup. IMien they rise to the top they should be larger, but retain their shape. They are now done, and must be dished at once. 712. “ Milch Nockerl.” Proceed as directed in the last recipe, laying the nockerl in hoiling milk. While they are boiling, put a piece of butter in a stew-pan with a large tablespoonful of powdered sugar. "V^Tien these are dissolved and the pan quite hot, lay in the nockerl with a perforated ladle, and leave them undisturbed to brown at the bottom and sides. Strew sugar over when serving them. Some of the milk they were boiled in can be converted into sauce by mixing in the yolk of an egg or two, with sugar, and a little nutmeg or powdered cinnamon. 713. “ Ein Eamaquin ”—A Eamakin or Cheese Pudding. Grate six ounces of good cheese on a coarse grater; dredge among it a tahlespoonful of flour ; add cream or milk enough to moisten the cheese, then stir in three eggs and a cup of milk; there must be enough of the milk and eggs to make a thin batter when mixed with the cheese. Butter a small dish which the cheese &c., Avill about half fill. Slice a little butter over and bake in a quick oven. When the pudding is a rich yellow and has risen in the dish it is done. Ten to fifteen minutes is enough to allow for baking. Serve it directly. 714. “ Anne Hitter ”— 7\)or Knights. Cut small rolls into slices. Lay them on a dish. Beat an egg with a little milk and sugar. Pour over the slices, by degrees, enough to soak them. Give them a coaling of egg and bread-crumbs. Fry them on both sides a nice yellow colour or pale brown. Strew sugar and powdered199 FARINACEOUS DISHES. cinnamon over when done. Or serve them either with sweet sauce, or with a tuft of preserve on each. By leaving out the sugar they are excellent with spinach, &c. 715. “ Nilrnhenjer Ei ”—Nuremberg Egg. Boil an egg hard and take off the shell. Dip it in batter and fry it pale brown in plenty of butter, keeping it turned in the pan. Dip it again and fry it rolling. Eepeat the coating of batter and frying till you have a large ball. Serve with wine-sauce poured over. 7IG. “ Oeschnittene Eier ”—Sliced Eggs. Melt butter in a frying-pan, strew in some chopped parsley or chives, and a handful of bread-crumbs. When these are a little crisped, stir in a small cup of sour cream and some salt. Slice hard-boiled eggs, and lay them in close together. Let them fry a minute, after sthring them gently into the cream. 717. “ Wiiidbeutel”—Eejjhyrs. Put a pound of water and half a pound of butter in a stew- pan over the fire. Stir in, by degrees, half a pound of fine flour, and stir on till the paste parts from the sides of the pan. Take it from the fire to get half cold, stirring now and then. Beat eight eggs thoroughly, and add to them some gi'ated lemon-peel; then, while the paste is still warm, stir the eggs well into it. Have a flat tin dusted Avith flour, and with a spoon dipped in water each time take up a ball of paste the size of a large walnut, and drop it quickly on the tin, leaving space between to allow of the balls puffing twice their first size. Put them instantly into a quick oven to bake a bright yellow. A short time will do them. Sift sugar over, and serve them while crisp. Note. —These very nice puffs may be varied by malcing a little incision on the top, as soon as they are taken from the oven, and putting in with a narrow spoon, or its handle, either a little lemon or other syrup, or fine preserve. 718. “ Ziiricher Kuclili"—Zurich Fritter Balls. Boil new milk with a Uttle salt in it. Dredge in flour, and stir till it is a stiff batter, and no longer hangs to the sides of the pan. Flour a flat dish, and turn out the paste on it. Have ready a frying-pan or iron skillet, with boiling butter inGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 200 it. Dip an iron spoon in flour, and take up little balls of paste, the size of a large walnut; drop them into the butter, and fry them a bright yellow. Strew mixed sugar and cinnamon over when they are done. 719. “ Ofenschlupfer ”—A Delicious Baked Pudding. Pound in a mortar four ounces of almonds; mix in two tablespoonfuls of sugar, the grated peel of a lemon, and a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Cut light rolls into thin slices, well butter a pie-dish, and cover the bottom with slices of roll. Strew over half of the almonds, cover them with slices of the roll; sprinkle the almonds again, and lay on slices at the top. Put little lumps of butter over all. Beat eight eggs, mix them with a quart of milk and sugar to sweeten. Pour it over the bread, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, slip a knife round to loosen the sides; turn it out on a flat dish, and pour wine sauce over. 720. “ Badcner Nockerl ”—Baden Xockerl. Stir a quarter of a pound of butter to a light cream. Add by degrees the yolks of six eggs, and stir well a quarter of an hour; then add as much fine flour as will make a thick batter. Boil in a wide stew-pan a pint and a half of milk, with a piece of butter half the size of an egg, and a little sugar and grated lemon-peel ; lay as many tablespoonfuls of the batter in the boiling milk as the stew-pan will hold without touching. Cover and let them boil slowly till the milk has nearly boiled away ; then sift sugar over them, put on the lid, and cover it with red coals to colour the nockerl, or put the stew-pan without its lid in a quick oven. When tinged a delicate brown, dish and serve them. 721. “ Gcstiirzte Eier ”— Ocertunied Eggs. Butter well anj' pretty little patty-pans; strew them with raspings or grated bread. Carefully break an egg into each, and bake them with underheat only. When the white is set turn them out of the pans, face downwards, on spinach, ragout, &c. 722. “ Ochsenaugen "— Ox-eges. Cut slices of roll, or any light bread, rather less than an inch thick ; and with a round cutter, three inches in diameter.FARINACEOUS DISHES. 201 stamp out cakes. Then take a smaller cutter of an inch and a half in diameter, and cut out the centre of each cake, lea\ung the ring unbroken. Fry these rings in butter, a bright yellow. Lay them in a well-buttered dish, pour over them a little sour cream, and carefully lay a raw egg in each ring. Sprinkle with salt, and put a very little cream on each egg. Cover them so that the whites cannot brown, and put them in the oven till these are set. The yolks must remain soft. Garnish with pai’sley or watercresses. 723. “ Eierhahcr”—A Batter Dish fried. Mix eight tablespoonfuls of flour, four eggs, a little salt, and milk enough for a thin batter. Make butter friture quite hot in a frying-pan, or shallow stew-pan; pour in the batter, and, as it begins to set, stir and break it up with an iron spoon into little lumps. Then let it set, and fry to a pale brown. Turn it and brown the other side. Serve it with salad. 724. “ Siisser Eierhaher ”— Sweet Eierhaber. The same batter, with currants and raisins, lemon, spice, and sugar, or apples sliced in. with chopped almonds, &c., must be broken up small in frying, and finished as above. It must be served on a flat dish, with sugar sifted over. 725. “ Gequirlte Eier, or Riihr Ei”—Stirred Eggs. Stir together four eggs, half a pint of milk, some salt, and finely minced chives. Melt butter in a frying-pan, pour in the eggs, and stir constantly till they are set. Then break them up with a knife, and let them colour a pale brown. Lay the stirred eggs fancifully on spinach." 72G. “ Blinis ”— Little Patties of Potato. Grate three-quarters of a pound of mealy potatoes to a fine flour, moisten this with a little milk. Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and add the potato to it. Boil half a pint of milk, short of that used before ; stir it boiling into the potato, and then stir it over the fire to a smooth paste. Take it ofl’ and mix in two well-beaten eggs. Let the mass cool, beat it up with the yolks of four eggs, whip their whitesGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 202 to a snow, and stir this gently into the hatter. Butter small patty-pans, and sift grated bread over, to line them as with a crust. Fill these with the batter. Bake them a deep yellow colour, in a quick oven, just before they are to be served. Send them quickly to table, with any piquant accompaniment of fish or fowl. “ PLINSEN ’’—THIN PANCAKES. 727. Four tablespoonfuls of flour, four eggs, two ounces of warmed butter, a little salt, a tablespoonful of sugar, and half a pint of cream, or lukewarm milk enough to make a thin batter; stir this well. Fry pancakes exceedingly thin a pale brown on both sides. Lay one on the other, with sugar and cinnamon, or other spice between. Strew sugar plentifully over the top one, and glaze it with a salamander, or other red hot iron. Serve dii-ectly. 728. “ Plinsen mit Ohst ”— Thin Pancakes idth fruit. To the above batter, add two ounces of currants, well washed in hot water, and half a lemon-peel grated. Use verj’ little butter or lard in fiying the pancakes. Spread over each one a thin layer of preserved or stewed fruit. Boll them up. Lay them close together in a dish, sift sugar and cinnamon over, or serve with sweet sauce. 729. “ Ge/iillte PIinsc7i"—Filled Plinsen. Mince ham quite fine and mix it with some thick sour cream. Fry plain pancakes. Spread over each a layer of the minced meat. Boll them up, cut each into slices a finger thick, dip the slices into egg and crumbs, and fry them a pale brown. Or, lay the rolled plinsen, whole, in a buttered dish. Beat two or three eggs with a little cream or milk, and salt; pour this over and bake them in a moderate oven. 730. “ Flddchen Strudel ”— Pancake Strudels. Frj' pancakes very thin. Mix together half a pint of sour cream, the yolks of four eggs, two ounces of currants, a few sultana raisins, and some grated lemon-peel or spice. Spread this over the pancakes, roll them up lightly, lay them in a203 FARINACEOUS DISHES. buttered dish, half cover them with milk sweetened, put a Httle butter on each, and bake them enough to colour a little. 731. “ Fludlehi”—A Pancake Dish. Fry thin pancakes. Eoll them up closely. Cut them thi’ough in slices, rather less than an inch apart. Melt some butter in a dish, and lay in the fladlein. Pour over some gravy or broth, salted ; gi’ate a little nutmeg over, and put them in the oven a few minutes before serving. 732. “ Gefullte Flcidlem”—Filled Pancakes. ^ Having fried thin pancakes, spi’ead over them a thin layer of the same forcemeat you would use for roast veal. Eoll them up close, cut them in slices an inch thick ; dip them in batter, and fry them again, slowly, on both sides. Lay them on spinach, or serve as a side-dish, garnished with parsley. 733. “ Gefullte Fladlein mit Fleisch ”—Filled Pancakes with Meat. Spread over each pancake some finely minced meat, poultry, or fish, with appropriate seasoning. Eoll them up. Lay them whole in a buttered dish. Pour a little clear soup or gravy over. Make them hot in the oven, and serve. 734. Gefullte Fladlein mit Kraiiter”—Filled Pancakes with Herbs. Prepare spinach, parsley, chives, a little thyme, and any other green herbs. Chop them fine, and put them in a stew- pan with a piece of butter; cover, and let them steam in their own moisture, till soft. Do not let them dry. Mix with them some finely minced ham or bacon ; spread a thin layer over each pancake and roU them up. Lay them close toge- ther in a stew-pan ; cover close, and let them steam half an hour in just enough broth to keep them fi’om buiming. 735. Flcidchen mit Eier"—A Pancake Pudding. Cut thin pancakes in strips an inch wide. Strew them apart in a buttered basin or mould. Mix a custard of milk and eggs nicely flavoured. Pour it over the fladlein, and boil or bake the dish.GERMAN- NATIONAL COOKERY. 204 736. “ Hef671 Plinsen”—Yeast Fritters. Make a batter of a pound of flour, six eggs, a pint and a half of lukewarm milk, a quarter of a pound of butter melted, a teacupful of yeast or an ounce of dry yeast dissolved in some of the milk warmed, and a spoonful of salt. Llix all thoroughly. Cover, and put it in a warm place to rise; then fry thin pancakes. Strew them with sugar and cinnamon, and serve as soon as they are fried. 737. “ Karthiiuser O/nelette”—A F)-iar's O/iieUt. To four well-beaten eggs, add four tablespoonfuls of thick cream, a little salt, and a few chives minced fine. Put two ounces of butter in a hot omelet-pan, or iron stew-pan. Set it over a slow fire. Pour in the eggs, place a cover over, and red coals on it to draw and colour the omelet on the top. When nicely risen, turn it out and serve dh’ectly. 738. “ Omelette ”— Plam Omelet. Six well-beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of fine flour, a quarter of a pint of good milk, a little salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Have a good piece of butter hot in the pan, pour in the omelet and stir it apart until set, then leave it to brown delicately. Do not turn it, but fold it together. 739. “ Kartoffel Omelette”—Potato Oinelet. Grate three mealy potatoes, beat three eggs, and mix these with three tablespoonfuls of milk. Add salt, white pepper, and any herb to flavour. Muice three ounces of ham or bacon in small dice, fry these in the pan, add a piece of butter, put in the mixed potatoes and eggs, stir all until set; then leave it to brown. Fold over and serve. 740. “ Schanni Omelette”—Foam Omelet. The yolks of six eggs, and two whites, a tablespoonful of arrowroot, and half a pint of milk, a little salt and nutmeg. Fried as above. Sift sugar over. Whisk the whites of four eggs to a snow, with a little sifted sugar. Pile it on the omelet. Give it a tinge of brown and serve. 741. “ O/nelette mit J/'/s ”— Omelet irith G/'anj. Beat six eggs, with two tablespoonfuls of broth or milk, some finely minced parsley and chives, salt and jwpper. MeltFARINACEOUS DISHES. 205 a piece of butter in the omelet-pan; pour in the eggs, and wth a knife stir and chop them till nearly set; then leave the omelet to brown, but not a dark colour. It should be fried quickly, and before it becomes hard roll it together; let it rest for a moment, and dish it on a napkin with the under side up. Serve directly with some good gravy or piquant sauce. 742. “ Omelette mit Kcise ”— Cheese Omelet. To six eggs and four tablespoonfuls of milk add two ounces of gi-ated cheese, some salt, and white pepper. Make butter quite hot in the pan, fry the omelet quickly, and serve it as soon as it is set and coloured a nice yellow. 743. “ Omelette mit Nieren ”— Kidney Omelet. Boil a kidney, and slice it very thin; salt and pepper it. When the omelet is just setting, spread over the kidney quickly; roll up the omelet and serve. Note.—Various omelets are made thus, and called after the ingredient added; for a sweet omelet, spread preserve or a layer of stewed fruit over when it has just set. Eoll or fold it over, sift sugar on it, and serve at once. 744. “ Damjifnudeln ”— Steamed Egg DumjMngs. Ingredients :—A pound of fine flour, three ounces of butter, two eggs, an ounce of sugar, a quarter of a pint of good milk or cream, an ounce of dry yeast or a small cup of fresh yeast, and a little salt. The milk must be lukewarm and well mixed with the yeast; then add the sugar, the eggs beaten and the butter warmed. Mix in the flour, and heat the whole till it is light and spongy; cover with a cloth, and let it rise by gentle warmth. Turn out the dough on a well-floured paste- board ; cut ofi" egg-sized pieces, and lightly roll them into round balls or ovals. Leave these on the paste-board to rise again. Put two ounces of butter in a broad, flat stew-pan, with a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and milk half an inch deep. Let this boil; take up the ctikes gently with a slice, and lay them close together in the boiling milk. Cover with the lid of the casserole, and put them in the oven till the milk is nearly dried away and the nudeln have a nice yellow crust. Take them carefully apart, sift sugar over, and servo with any sweet sauce, fruit, or syrup.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 2o6 It is customary to bake them over a stove, or vritb live coals on the lid of the stew-pan, instead of in the oven. 745. “ Dctmpfnudeln”—Steamed Egg Dumjdings. (Xo. 2.) Another way.—"^Tien you first form the nudeln (the balls), lay them an inch apart in a baking tin or dish well buttered; and when half baked, pour over a cup of warm milk, sweet- ened, which should he enough to moisten and prevent their sticking at the bottom. About half an hour should bake them, either in the oven or over a clear fire, with red coals on the lid. 746. “ Baierische Damjifnudeln ”—Bavarian Egg Dumplings. Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and stir in the yolks of three eggs, with an ounce of powdered sugar; mix a couple of tablespoonfuls of good yeast with a teacup of lukewarm milk ; add this to the above. Having warmed a pound of fine fiour, stir this in by degrees: the mass should be as thick as a hght bread dough. Beat it well and set it to rise ; then dredge a paste-board with plenty of flour. Foim with light handling egg-sized rolls, and set them to rise a second time on the board. Put two ounces of butter and the same of loaf sugar in a stew-pan, with milk enough to cover the bottom near an inch deep ; let this boil by the time the nudeln are risen; place carefully in the stew-pan as many as it W'ill hold with- out crowding. Bake them as above directed. 747. “ Kirsclicn Kiichel"— Cherrg Fritters. Make a good pancake batter, not sparing the eggs, which must be whipped to a froth; tie six or eight black cherries together hy their stems, and fry them in clarified butter, dropping a little batter between and round the cherries when in the pan. Serve with sugar and ciuaumon strewn over. 748. “Aepfel Pfaiinkuchen ”—Apple Pancake. Peel and core apples ; put them in a ste\<--pan with a piece of butter, and let them soften in theii' own steam ; add sugar, grated lemon-jieel, or spice, aud some currants or sulhaua raisins, as approved. Fry two good pancakes ; lay one on a suitable dish, spread the apple over, aud cover it with the other pancake; sift sugar over, aud serve it quite hot.207 FARINACEOUS DISHES. 749. “Aepfel Pfaimkuchen"—Aj>ple Pancake. {No. 2.) Make a good pancake batter, with two or three ounces of butter stirred in ; cut apples in slices or dice ; mix them with the batter, and fry it as an omelet. Strew sugar and cinnamon over, and serve without delay. 750. “ Kirschen Pfannkitchen ”— Cherry Pancake. Put cherries in a stew-pan -\vith sugar strewn over; cover, and let them steam soft. Put them between two pancakes, as above, and strew sugar and cinnamon over. “AUFLAUFEGERMAN SOUFFLEES. An auflauf must be sent to table as soon as it is done, or it will collapse and its appearance be spoiled. If it is to be turned out, some sweet sauce or garniture may be put upon the dish. "When served in the mould or dish it was baked in, a napkin must be pinned round it, and sweet sauce, preseiwe, or powdered sugar handed with it. Many varieties may be made by observing the general directions for making those that follow. For an auflauf of preserved fruit or marmalade, put half of the quantity to bake in the form ; and when that is nearly done, put in a thick layer of the fruit, fill up with the auflauf, and bake it again. If the form is more than half full, it is well to put a buttered paper round the top a few inches deep, to prevent it from running over. 751. Aepfel Auflauf ”—Apple Auflauf. Peel and core six large apples ; stew them soft, with sugar and cinnamon to taste. Let them cool. Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, add the grated peel of half a lemon, six well-beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour, and a very little cream or milk ; add the apples, beat all tho- roughly, and bake in a thickly buttered mould. 752. Chocolade Auflauf"— Chocolate Auflauf. A quarter of a pound of grated vanilla chocolate, a quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and pounded, six ounces of sifted sugar, and the yolks of eight eggs must be sthredGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 2o8 together half an hour. Whisk the egg-whites to snow, and stir them gently in with the rest. Butter a mould well, strew it with grated bread, put in the mass, and bake it an hour. 758. “ Kastanien Avflauf"— Chestnut Anflauf. A pound and a half of chestnuts, boiled soft, peeled, and pounded, with two ounces of butter, and a tahlespoonfnl of thick cream. Beat the yolks of eight eggs well, \vith a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar ; stir in the chestnut mass and the egg-whites, whipped to a snow. Bake it in a well- buttered form in a moderate oven. 754. “ Kaiser Auflaitf”—Impenal Anflauf. Beat half a pound of butter soft, and stir in by degrees the yolks of ten eggs ; add half a pint of cream, four tablespoon- fuls of flour, some finely cut almonds, and some lemon-peel grated, or a piece of vanilla pounded with sugar enough to sweeten the auflauf. Bake it in a well-buttered form sprinkled with bread-crumbs. 755. “ Rahm Anflauf”— Cream Anflauf. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stew-pan, with two ounces of fine flour, and a piut of cream ; boil this mixture well, stirring continually till it leaves the sides of the pan; then turn it out to cool. Stir a quarter of a pound of butter to cream; add, by degrees, the yolks of ten eggs, with three ounces of sugar which has been pounded with vanilla, or rubbed upon the rind of a lemon. Next add the whites of six eggs, whipped to a snow, and then stir in the cool cream. Put it in a buttered mould, and steam it three-quiirters of an hour. 756. “ Kirscheu Anflauf”— Chcrn/ Anflauf. A quarter of a pound of butter stirred to a cream, the j'olks of six eggs, the crumbs of two rolls soaked in milk, a quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and pounded, the grated peel of half a lemon, half a teaspoonful of powdered cinna- mon, and six ounces of sugar, must be well stirred together. Whisk the egg-whites to a stiif snow, add it to the mass, and mix in as many cherries as it will take; butter a mould, line it with as much grated bread as will hang on, and bake it without delay.FARINACEOUS DISHES. 2og 757. “ Kirschen Aufiaiif"—Chernj Aujlauf. {Xo. 2.) Boil a quarter of a pound of flour in a pint and a half of milk until thick and smooth ; take it from the fire, and keep stirring till half cold. Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream; add six well-beaten eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a small spoonful of powdered cinnamon, otir these well into the thick milk, and then add a pound and a half of black cherries. Bake as directed for others. 758. “ 2Iandel Aujianf”—Almond Aujlaaf. Boil a pint and a half of milk, and in it a large cup of bread-crumbs, keeping all stirred until it thickens ; then turn it out to cool. Meanwhile, mix a quarter of a pound of pounded almonds with a couple of tablespoonfuls of sugar, a little gi’ated lemon-peel, and the yolks of six eggs, with their whites whipped to a snow. Stir all together gently ; butter the mould well, shake in as many crumbs as will adhere to it; fill and bake at once. 759. “ Oitronen Aitfiavf"—Lemon Aujlauf May be proceeded with as in the foregoing directions for others, using lemon only to flavour, the yellow peel of one or two lemons grated, and the juice mixed in when the egg- snow is added. Bake in a moderate oven thirty to forty minutes ; serve with sifted sugar. “ KOCHE.” The term “ koch,” literally cook, is a somewhat indefinite one; simply expressing a dieh of the kind indicated by its chief ingredients. The “ koch” is very light, delicate, and rich, either baked or steamed in a tin mould. In various localities there are dishes compounded of nearly the same ingredients as the koch, and treated in a similar way, such as the auflauf, or soufllee, but they are diti'erent in some parti- culars. Wo have no suitable term for it in English—Spomjc puddimj is the nearest; but this does not do it justice; nor is custard right. We must therefore call it a mould, after the name of its principal ingredient. p2 10 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 760. “ Brod Koch”—A Bread Mould. Stir well together the yolks of six eggs and three ounces of powdered sugar ; mix in two ounces of grated bread, any approved flavouring of spice or grated lemon-peel, and the whites of four eggs whisked to a stifl' snow, stirred lightly in at last. Have a mould well buttered, sprinkle in it some finely shred blanched almonds, and lay here and there a thin slice of candied peel. Put the mass into the mould, and steam it with care ; boil sugar to a thread height, and pour it over when the koch is turned out of the mould. Sers'e it without delay. 761. “ Topfen Koch”—A Curds Mould. Stir to a cream three ounces of butter, then stir in well the following in succession :—the yolks of six eggs, three ounces of powdered sugar, three ounces of finely pounded blanched almonds, three ounces of curds rubbed smooth, and the whites of the eggs, whipped to a stiff snow, stirred in gently the last thing. It may be either baked or steamed in a well- buttered mould ; then turn it out, and strew it with sugar. 762. “ Rahm Koch”—A Cream Mould. Stir a walnut-sized piece of butter soft, then whisk in the yolks of four eggs singly, adding, with each one, a large tablespoonful of thick cream; then stir in three table- spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and three of fine flour. Add, lastly, the whites of the eggs whisked to a stifl' snow. Well butter a tin mould, and dredge it with flour. Either hake or steam it. Serve with fi-uit sauce or syrup. 763. “ Eier Koch ”—An Egg Mould. Whisk six eggs to a foam ; add three ounces of powdered sugar and a pint of good cream ; •whisk all well together; pour it into a well-huttered mould, and bake it pale. 764. “ Chorolade Koch”—A Chocolate Mould. Whip two ounces of butter, with two ounces of sugar, the yolks of three eggs, and throe ounces of grated chocolate ; mix in the three whites whisked to a still’ snow. Bake it in a buttered mould.FARINACEOUS DISHES. 2 11 765. “ Chocolade Koch ”— Chocolate Mould with Almonds. {No. 2.) Stir together two ounces of butter, three ounces of sugar, four ounces of pounded almonds, three eggs and the yolks of three more, and two ounces of grated vanilla chocolate, then add the whites of three eggs in a stiff snow. Whisk all to a foam, and bake it quickly in a buttered mould. Or: Put the above mass in a form, buttered and then sprinkled with sugar. Steam instead of baking it, and serve it with vanilla sauce made of cream. 766. “ Kastanien Koch ”—A Chestnut Mould. Stir two ounces of butter with three ounces of sugar, the yolks of six eggs, and four hitter almonds pounded fine. Have chestnuts boiled, and pounded smooth or grated. Add a quarter of a pound of these, and then stir in the whites of four eggs whisked to a snow. Steam the mass in a well- buttered mould. When turned out, serve with any approved sauce. 767. ‘^Biscuit Koch ”—A Sponge Cake Mould. In half a pint of cream soak as many sponge cakes as it will moisten. Beat them up with a fork. Whisk two eggs and the yolks of six, with a tablespoonful of vanilla sugar, to a foam. Stir all together. Add the snow of four egg- whites, stirred gently in. Steam it in a buttered mould, and serve a cheaudeau or chocolate with sauce at table. 768. “ Wiener Koch ”— A Vienna Mould. Put/half a pint of cream in a stew-pan, with two ounces of butter, two ounces of sugar pounded with vanilla, and two shallow tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir this till it boils and thickens, then take it from the fire, turn it into a basin, stir till it is cold, then add the yolks of six eggs and the whites whisked to a still' snow. Bake it in a buttered dish. 769. “ Zwieback Koch”— A Busks Mould. Weigh throe ounces of thin rusks ; spread any fine fruit preserve between every two; lay them in a buttered mould. Beat together half a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, twoGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 2 12 eggs and two yolks. Pour this over the rusks. Let all stand half an hour. Steam it. Turn it out when done, and put a chaudeau round it. 770. “ Erddpfal Koch ”—A Potato Mould. Whisk three eggs with two ounces of sugar and a little grated lemon-peel, then stir in a pint of cream and enough grated cold potatoes to form a very thick batter, which must be so stiff that it will not drop from the spoon. Bake it in a well-buttered mould. 771. “ Baumwolle Koch ”— An Egg Moidd. Four ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, the grated peel and the juice of half a lemon, and a tahlespoonful of flour, must he whipped to a foam. Then stir in the whites of four eggs in a stiff snow. Bake it in a buttered form or dish. 772. “ Mandel Koch ”— An Almond Mould. Stir three ounces of butter to a cream, then mix in four ounces of sugar, the yolks of six eggs, four ounces of almonds sliced thin, and, when the above has been thoroughly stirred, add the whites of six eggs whisked to a firm snow. Stir in the latter lightly. Steam this koch in a well-buttered mould with sugar sprinkled in over the butter. Serve ■with a deli- cate “ Schaum” sauce. 773. “ Krebs Koch ”— A Cragfish Mould. Stir two ounces of “ Krebs butter,” with the yolks of four eggs, one whole egg, and a cup of bread-crumbs soaked in cream. Add salt, and the snow of four egg-whites. Butter a form thickly with crayfish butter. Lay in ornamentally some crayfish tails, and either steam or bake the koch. Steaming is the more delicate way. Servo it with crayfish sauce, in which is cayenne pepper and lemon-juice. 771. “ Kiiche." The preceding recipes for this class of dishes are suffi- cient to show how any varieties may he made, and those given may he altered by any garnish or accompaniment to suit the taste. As indeed may nearly all the farinaceous dishes, by the following.213 FARINACEOUS DISHES. 775. “ Nebengiisse fur Mehlspeisen ”—Sweet, or Fruit Sauces. Select any sweet or fruit sauce from among those given in the Index, either to be poui'ed over the dish when served, or handed in a sauce-tureen. 776. “ Obstschaumfiir Mehbpeisen”—Fruit Whips. Whisk' the whites of two or three eggs to a stiff snow ; choose a rich coloured fruit syrup, and, by degrees, whip in among the snow enough to give colour and flavour. Put the foam round the dish as a wreath. Hand more of the fruit syrup if requii'ed.Chapteb XI. PUDDINGS. 777. Neun-Loth Pudding ”—A PJiine Pudding. This celebrated Rhenish “ neun-Ioth ” pudding is a general favourite, and is made as follows :—Stir half a pint of milk into four ounces and a half of fine flour and four ounces and a half of powdered loaf sugar. Put into a stew-pan four ounces and a half of butter and half a pint of milk. TVhen this is hot and the butter melted, stir in the other milk and flour; keep the mixture stirred over the fire till it boils and thickens, then turn it out in a pan to cool. Stir in the yolks of nine eggs, four ounces and a half of almonds blanched and pounded, and, lastly, the nine egg-whites whisked to a stiff snow. Stir all briskly together, butter a mould or basin, fill it, and boil the pudding an hour and a half. The water must not cease boiling. Serve arrack or white wine sauce with it. 778. “ Kastanien Pudding ”— Chestnut Pudding. Cut a little cross on the point of each chestnut rind. Put them on the fire in boiling water, and let them boil till soft enough to peel. Take ofl' the rinds and inner brown skins. Pound in a mortar a pound and a half of them. In the mean- time, simmer a quarter of a stick of vanilla in half a pint of milk and let it cool. Stir a quarter of a pound of butter to cream. Add to it a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar and the yolks of six eggs. Stir these well with the cooled milk, then mix in the pounded chestnuts, and, lastly, the whites of the six eggs whipped to a snow. Boil in a buttered mould an hour and a half, and serve it with a white pudding sauce.PUDDINGS. 215 Instead of vanilla, eight bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, may be used. 779. “ Kastanien Pudding ”— Chestnut Pudding. [No, 2.) Prepare chestnuts as directed in the last recipe, and pound quite smooth two pounds of them ; or bruise and rub them through a coarse wire sieve. Put half a pint of milk in a stew-pan to simmer with vanilla till nicely flavoured, then put in the chestnuts and six ounces of powdered sugar, and keep stirring till the chestnuts are as dry as well-boiled potatoes. Serve them either in a raised ring with whipped cream inside, or in a high rock with preserved fruit or rasp- berry syrup round. 780. “ Baden Baden Pudding ”— Baden Baden Pudding. Boil a quarter of a pound of rice in milk to a smooth mash, and with it an inch of vanilla to flavour. Soak half an ounce of gelatine in cold water a few minutes, then add it to the rice to boil. Whip a pint of cream, with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, to a froth. When the rice is cooled to lukewarm stir it briskly into the cream. Wet a mould, fill it with the mass, and set it in a cold place, or in ice. Turn it out when firm. 781. “ Aepfel Pudding ”—-Apple Pudding, Cold. Peel and slice eight or ton good-sized apples, and put them in an earthen or enamelled stew-pan, with a glass of wine, the peel of half a lemon, and four ounces of sugar. Cover, and let the apples stew soft in their own steam, stirring occasionally that they may not burn. Soak an ounce of gelatine in cold water, and let it simmer with the apples till dissolved, then pass the whole through a sieve. When nearly cold, taste if it be sweet enough. Stir in the whites of four eggs whisked to a stiflf snow. Dip a mould in water, fill it, and when cold and firm turn it out. The apples, when mashed, should measure a basinful; their kernels should be stewed with them, before straining. 782. “ Rum Pudding ”— Rum Pudding, Two eggs, four yolks, and five ounces of sugar must be well beaten. Add the grated peel of a lemon, a little nut- meg, and three ounces of bread-crumbs moistened with rum ;2 I 6 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. then the four whites whipped to a snow. Steam it an hour in a buttered mould. Pour a glass of rum over at the moment of serving, and set fire to it. Serve -with “ Pome- ranzen Chaudeau.” 783. “ Kartoffel Pudding ”—Potato Pudding. The potatoes must have been boiled the day before. Grate a pound of them fine ; sth- six ounces of butter to a cream, add six ounces of powdered sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, a quarter of a pound of almonds, blanched and pounded, or eight bitter ones instead; then add the potato flour, and, lastly, stir in the whites of the eggs, whisked to a stiff snow. Boil the pudding in a well-buttered mould an hour and a half. Serve white sauce over it. 784. “ Kainer Pudding ”— Imj^erial Pudding. Pound four ounces of almonds fine, sprinkling them with orange-juice while pounding. Stir them into four ounces of sugar and the yolks of six eggs; add the Avhites whipped to a snow, a little grated lemon-peel, and a pint of cream stirred in gently. Butter a mould well, arrange in it slices of almonds and thin candied lemon-peel; pour in custard gently. Steam the pudding an hour and a half. 785. Brenncndcr Pudding ”—Flame Pudding. Two ounces of butter stirred light, two ounces of sifted sugar, the yolks of five eggs, two ounces of fine flour, an ounce and a half of pounded almonds, and the egg-whites, beaten to a firm snow. Mix these well, then add enough stale sponge-cake, grated, to thicken the whole. Well butter a basin or mould, and, boil the pudding an hour without ceas- ing. Do not turn it out before the moment of serving. Put a small glass in the centre, and fill it with cither arrack, brandy, or rum, and let some flow over the pudding. Set fire to the centre and at once place it on table. 78G. “ Schiramin Pudding"—Sjmnge Ihidding. Warm two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, add a pint of milk and six ounces of fine flour, stir it until it boils well and no longer hangs to the sides of the pan. Let it get half cold. ^Meantime, boat two ounces of bntter to a cream, add to it a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, the gratedPUDDINGS. 217 rind of a lemon, and the yolks of ten eggs. Then thoroughly mix in the half-cold butter, and, lastly, stir in lightly the whites of the eggs whipped to a snow. Boil or steam the pudding in a Avell-huttered mould for two hours; the water must not once cease boiling. Serve with a good “ wein schaum ” or fruit sauce. 787. “ Faclen Macaroni Piulding ”— Vermicelli Pudding. Boil a pint of milk with two ounces of butter. At the moment of boiling throw in three ounces of vermicelli and stir till it thickens and no longer adheres to the sides of the pan. Take it from the fire, and, when cool, stir in two ounces of powdered sugar, an ounce of powdered almonds, with four hitter ones among them, the grated peel of half a lemon, a little spice if approved, and the yolks of six eggs ; then the whites of the eggs whisked to snow. Boil it an hour briskly in a well-buttered form. Serve it with a fruit or wine sauce. 788. “ Pastinake Pudding ”—Parsnip Pudding. Wash and scrape two or three parsnips, and boil them in milk or water till tender. Mash or pound them smooth, stir in a piece of butter warmed, and sugar, lemon, or cinnamon to taste. Mix in three or four well-beaten eggs, according to the size of the pudding, and a small glass of rumor brandy. Put it in a buttered dish, strew crumbs over, put little lumps of butter on the top, and bake it in a moderate oven ; or butter a mould, strew it with crumbs thickly, and boil it. Serve with pudding sauce. 789. “ Nudeln Pudding." This may he made as directed for vermicelli pudding. Another recipe is given under the heading of “ Nudeln.” 790. “ Peis und Macronen Pudding ”— Pice and Macaroon Pudding. Boil six ounces of rice thoroughly in about a quart of milk, with some lemon-peel or other approved flavour. The rice must be stiff, not done to a jelly. Let it partly cool. Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to cream, add to it a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and the yolks of eight eggs; stir these well, then stn- in the rice, after which the whites2I8 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. of the eggs whipped to a stiff snow. Butter a good-sized pudding-mould, put in some of the rice, and place on this, edgeways and lengthways, some bitter macaroons, then rice between and over them, again macaroons and rice until the mould is full. Use about four ounces of macaroons. Cover the mould with its own lid, and boil the pudding two hours; or, if you have not a mould with a cover, tie over a cloth, and steam the pudding two hours and a half. Serve with “ Schaum ” sauce. 791. “ Schwarz Brod Pudding ”— Broxcn Bread Pudding. A quarter of a pound of butter stirred to cream, three ounces of powdered sugar, two ounces of coarsely pounded almonds, two ounces of sultana raisins, the same of currants, half a lemon-peel grated, a little spice, the yolks of six eggs, and a basinful of brown bread grated. These must be all well mixed, with milk or wine enough to moisten the whole : then stir in the whites of the eggs whipped to a snow. Boil the pudding an hour and a quarter in a well-buttered basin. Serve either with a pudding sauce or with sifted sugar over it. 792. “ Paim Pudding, Kaltc"—Bum Pudding, or Bum Favourite, Cold. This pudding is often deservedly called “Bum Favourite,’’ being always welcome at dinner or supper. Soak an ounce of gelatine in a pint of cold milk ten minutes, then stir it over the fire to dissolve. Grate the yellow rind of two lemons off with six ounces of lump sugar ; throw these into the hot milk. Stir the yolks of ten eggs into a pint of cream or good milk, add this to the gelatine milk, set it over the fire, and stir with the wire rod until it is scalding hot, then take it from the fire and stir it gently till half cold. Stir in a gill of fine rum. Oil a mould or two with fresh Florence oil, or dip them in cold water, and fill in the cream. 'When perfectly cold, turn the pudding out; squeeze the juice of a lemon over when taken to table. If preferred a deeper yellow, steep a pinch of saffron in a spoonful of water, and with this colour the cream while warm. 793. “ Beis Pudding ”— Bice Pudding, Boiled. Scald a quarter of a pound of rice through two waters. Strain, and set it over a slow fiiro in a pint of milk, to boil219 PUDDINGS. quite soft. Stii’ three ounces of butter to a cream, add to it three ounces of powdered sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and two ounces of almonds blanched and powdered, or, in- stead of these, half a lemon-peel gi’ated ; then stir in the cooled rice, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs whipped to a snow. Well butter a mould, in which make a star of sultana raisins. Boil the pudding an hour and a quarter. 794. “ Schwarzer Pudding ”—Dingij Pudding. Stir together the yolks of four eggs, two ounces of sugar, and an ounce and a half of almonds, sliced in their peel. Then stir in two ounces of gi’ated chocolate, two teaspoon- fuls of grated brown bread soaked in red wine, two ounces of currants, half a teaspoonful of allspice or six pounded cloves, and add the egg-whites, whisked to a snow. Steam the pudding in a covered mould, and serve with chocolate sauce poured over. Allow an hour and a half to steam. 795. “ Chocolade Pudding ”— Chocolate Pudding. Set a pint and a quarter of milk on the fire, with a quarter of a pound of grated chocolate and two ounces of fine flour. Stir this until it boils and thickens, then pour it into a bowl, and when cold add the yolks of six eggs and their whites beaten apart to a snow. Add sugar to taste, and boil it an hour and a half in a well-buttered mould. Serve with chocolate sauce. 796. “ Chocolade Pudding ”— Chocolate Pudding. {No. 2.) Beat six ounces of butter to a cream, add a quarter of a pound of grated chocolate, three ounces of sugar, and, by degrees, the yolks of eight eggs, and a quarter of a pound of grated brown bread, or stale rolls with their crust on. Pound eight cloves with a quarter of a stick of vanilla; add these to the mass, and lastly add the whites of the eight eggs, whisked to a stiff snow. Butter a mould well, strew it with raspings, fill it, and boil the pudding an hour and a half. Serve with pounded sugar, or any approved sauce. 797. “ Rothe Grutze”—Red Groats Pudding. Boil raspberries or red currants, press and strain the juice. To a pint of this add a pint of red wine, and set it on the fireGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 220 ■with ample sugar to sweeten. "When it bohs, sprinkle in a quarter of a pound of coarsely ground com, barley, or groata. Stir this till it thickens and is done, then put it into a wetted mould. When quite cold turn it out on a dish. Any fruit sauce may be poured over it or not. The same red pudding may be made with rice, nudels, or sago. It should tuim out of the mould in a jelly, but not too stiff. “ PASTETEN.”—PASTIES. Good paste for savoury pasties ■will be found under their respective headings ; good plain wall-crusts in the follow- ing 798. “TFasser Teig,fiir Kalte Pasteten ”— Water Crust, for ColdJPasties. {No. 1.) Put three pounds of flour on the paste-hoard with half a pound of butter in little pieces, the yolks of four eggs, and some salt. Mix this well with a knife. Pour into it about three parts of a pint of boiling water, continuing to mix ■with the knife, then knead it Arm and smooth with the hand, either adding more boiling water, or dredging with flour, as re- quired. Beat it well with the rolhng-pin, till it is so stiff that if you pinch up a high border it %vill not fall. Mould it up close, cover, and set it to get quite cold. 799. “ Wasser Teig ”— Water Crust. {No. 2.) Put a pint of water on the fire with a quarter of a pound of butter and a quarter of a pound of lard. When it is boiling hot, stir it into about three pounds of flour with a little salt in it. Work it into a stiff paste by kneading, dredging, and boating. When it is quite smooth and firm, sot it aside to got cold. 800. “ Strassburg Oauseleher Pasteten ”— Strasbourg PdtC’s-dc-Foics Gras. For these renowned pasties, the geese are cooped up and crammed until they are so fat that they cannot stand—thus the livers become enlarged, very fat, and rich, and in this22 1 PASTIES. condition are much paler in colour than otherwise. At the present prices of animal food, geese are by no means ex- pensive in proportion, and one may, without the imputation of extravagance, produce fresh Strasbourg patties at a much less cost than by purchase from provision vendors ; especially as geese may be used with so much advantage for excellent cold dishes, such as “ Gans in Aspic,” “ Gans Pastete,” and others, not forgetting the important role played by “ Giinse- schmalz,” goose-lard, in the German cuisine. Therefore, select two fine fat geese, as they are brought to market, and have them drawn in your own kitchen; for, even if you order the giblets, and let the goose be drawn at the poulterers’, they frequently send but half of the liver. When the first intestines are out, take firm hold of the gizzard and draw the rest gently, to avoid breaking the gall-bag, which must be carefully cut out; lay the livers for a night or a few hours in milk to blanch them. 801. “ Gdnscleher Pasteten ”— Strasbourg Pclte. [No. 1.) For two good-sized livers, allow a pound of fresh pork, rather more lean than fat, half a pound of calf’s sweet- bread, a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, two ounces of sardines, an ounce of capers, and half a pound of trufiles. Having laid the livers in milk, prepare a small braize in a stew-pan with a close-fitting lid, as follows:—Cover its bottom with thin rashers of bacon, lay on these two or three shalots or an onion sliced, some sprigs of parsley, four bruised cloves, a good teaspoonful of bruised pepper and ginger mixed, and a bay-leaf. Add a little gravy, or milk and water, to keep the bacon from browning. Cover close and set it over a slow fire to draw out the flavours, then put it back to cool. Meantime, having soaked the truffles in water, scrub, wash, and peel them, slice them a third of an inch thick, cut the slices into narrow pieces, point them a little—saving the cuttings—and dust them with salt and pepper. Divide each liver in halves, stick the pieces of truffles through them, to look like larding, then lay them in the braize. Let them steam in this over a slow fire a quarter of an hour, then set them aside to cool without uncovering, that the liver may receive the flavours. Take the pork and bacon out of the braize and mince them fine ; the mincing machine is best to give them smoothness. Having blanched222 GERISIAN NATIONAL COOKERY. the sweet-bread in two or three waters, chop it fine and mix it with the other mince, seasoning with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Put two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, with two beaten eggs, the yolks of four others, and a teacup- ful of milk; stir this untU warm, then put in the mince, the sardines cleared of skin and hone, capers, and cuttings of the truffles. Stir altogether till the meat appears cooked and has the usual thickness of forcemeat, then set it to cool. Form a raised water crust (recipe No. 1) of the usual height and thickness. Grate some good Swiss cheese and mix it with cream, thin enough to spread all over the inside of the crust. Now spread in half of the forcemeat. Lay the livers on this. Warm the braize, take ofl' some of its fat, strain the braize over the liver, spread over the other half of the forcemeat, and cover this with thin rashers of bacon. Put on the lid and close the edges well. Cut off any paste that is too high ; make a hole in the middle ; ornament the top and sides with any little devices cut out of very thin paste ; brush it over with egg, and hake it in a well-heated oven, taking care that the crust does not brown. When coloured a rich yellow, set it back in a cooler part of the oven for a quarter of an hour to finish baking. Before serving this, or either of the goose-Hver pasties, the lid may be cut round near the edge, and carefully taken off without breaking, the bacon and fat removed, the lid re- placed, and through the hole in the middle some good well- seasoned gi’avy poured, which should become a jelly when cold. 802. Gdnselehcr Pastete”— Strasbourg Pate. (No. 2.) Have from the poulterer’s half-a-dozen whole goose livers. See that there are no yellow spots to cut away from where the gall-bags were. Lay them in milk to whiten. Prepare and cut some truffles into little strips the size of a lead pencil, point them, and stick them through half of the livers, an inch apart. JSpriukle them with salt and pepper, grate very little nutmeg over, and set them aside. Mince fine two pounds of fresh bacon, half a pound of truflles peeled, the other half of the livers, two or three shalots, and a good handful of mushrooms, all raw. Season with ample salt and pepper, a pinch of powdered cloves, and as much powdered and sifted marjoram as will lie on a shilling. These must bePASTIES. 223 minced or pounded together to a smooth paste, by a mincing machine if possible. Butter a raised pie form, line it with a thin paste ; lay at the bottom some thin rashers of ham or bacon, spread over these half of the forcemeat mass, lay on this the truffled livers, and on them the rest of the forcemeat, with the cuttings of the strips of truffles here and there, so that near a pound and a half of truffles in all are used. Lay the rashers of bacon on the top of the forcemeat, cover close with the paste hd, make a hole in the centre, ornament the top with very thin paste leaves, brush over with egg, and bake it in a moderate oven two hours. Be cai’eful that it does not colour brown. Let it get quite cold in the form; it had better remain a night in it, and next day stand the form in hot water for a minute or two before turning out the pasty, then brush it all over with egg to glaze it. 803. “ Odnseleber Pastete”—■ Strasbourg Pate. (No. 3.) Mince fine a pound of fresh pork, fat and lean together, and half a pound of bacon. Mince two ounces of sardines, cleared of skin and bone, and also a small shalot; add an ounce of capers, the juice of a lemon, and a third of its peel grated. Make a little butter hot in a stew-pan, and put all the above articles in to steam until the meat is cooked, stir- ring repeatedly that it may not brown. Take it from the fire and stir into it half a pint of thick sour cream, half a glass of white wine, a tablespoonful of vinegar, ample salt and pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and two beaten eggs. Mix all these well till quite smooth. Spread half of it over the bottom of the pasty. Cut two large goose-livers in slices and lay them in. Pound three cloves quite fine, mix them with a small teaspoonful of white pepper and twice as much salt, sprinkle this all over the liver slices, spread over them the other half of the forcemeat, and put on the paste lid. Finish as directed for the preceding one. 804. “ Gdnseleber Pasteto"—Strasbourg Pate. {No. 4^.) For the forcemeat, mince to a paste a pound and a quar- ter of veal and a quarter of a pound of fat bacon. Mix in an ounce and a half of minced sardines, and the same of chopped capers. Add the juice of a lemon, some of its peelGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 224 grated, a little spice to flavour delicately, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and a good seasoning of salt and white pepper. Proceed in all particulars as directed in the last recipe, the only difl'erence being that the onion should be left out, and veal substituted for pork. Let there be two sliced livers between the forcemeat. 805. “ Pates-de-foies Gras,” or Strasbourg Patties, Of any size, may be formed from either of the four preceding recipes, given in detail, especially from those in which truflles are used. The livers must always be laid in milk to blanch them, as the paler their colour, the more they are like the “ foies Gras ” of geese fed up for this particular delicacy. 80G. “ Gans Pastete ”— Goose Pasty. The goose must be well plucked and singed, and the giblets prepared as for stewing. Cut ofl’ the legs and wings close to the body. Put goose and giblets into a deep stew-pan with a large onion, eight cloves stuck in it, a sprig of winter savory or marjoi’am, a sprig of sage, and a few’ sprigs of parsley, all tied together. Pour in cold water enough to cover it, close the lid and let it simmer from an hour and a half to tw’O hours over a slow fire. Add a plentiful season- ing of salt and pepper wLen half done^ Meantime, boil a small plate of chestnuts, peel and pound them smooth^ with a very little fresh butter, some salt, and j’olks of eggs enough to form a paste, and roll this into egg-shaped forcemeat balls. Take up the goose and cut all the meat from the bones in slices. Scrape ofi’ what remains on the bones and neck ; mince these scraps, including the sole, with an equal quantity of bacon, add salt, pepper, a little fine herbs, and an egg to bind it. Lay teaspooufuls of this mass on a plate read}- for use. Put back the bones as you strip them, to stew longer in the gravy, with the feet and gizzard. Line a dish with good tart paste, lay in the meat, with some balls of each forcemeat bctw'ecn, and a slice of gizzard hero and there. Season the gravy well with salt, pepper, lemon-juice, or vinegar, strain some of it into the dish, cover, and bake the pasty in a brisk oven. The gravy must be rich enough to form a jelly when -cold. ^Yheu the pasty is baked a deep225 PASTIES. yellow colour, take it out of the oven. Pour the rest of the gravy in with a funnel through the hole in the lid. If the liver is not used apart, cook and slice it with the rest. 607. “ Gefl’ugel Pastcten"—Pasties of Poultry or Game Birds. The larger poultry, both tame and wild birds, are very similarly prepared for pasties. For large pasties, of capons, pheasants, fowls, &c., cut off legs and wings at the joints ; then bone the birds, keeping the skin and flesh parts as whole as possible. Fill them with small birds, boned and stuffed with suitable forcemeat, and fill up any spaces with forcemeat; then sew and skewer them, giving them their natural shape as nearly as possible, and lard the breasts. Crush the bones, and put them and the giblets in a stew-pan that will hold the fowls. Pour in enough cold water to cover the bones; throw in a faggot of herbs, salt, pepper, a little spice, lemon-peel, and any’^ind of roots to flavour. Lay in the fowls, cover close, and leave them to simmer over a slow fire till they are steamed tender, then take them out, add more water if requisite, and leave the bones to stew thoroughly. Lay the birds either in a raised crust, or in a richer paste in a raised form or dish, with forcemeat, trufiles, and bacon between. Always make a hole in the centre of the top crust. When the pasty is nicely baked a pale color, see that the gravy is rich and piquant. Add lemon-juice, salt, pepper, and a little white wine if approved. Skim the fat off', and pour it into the pasty with a funnel. 808. “ Geflugel Pasteten ”— Bird Pasties. {No. 2.) ^Whether game or tame birds they may be treated in detail as directed for “ Gans Pastete,” using the seasonings that are most appropriate. This is by far the most economical way of gaining all the substance, strength, and flavom' from poultry. Pigeons, partridges, and other small birds, may be pre- pared nearly alike. Take, for instance, the following :— 809. “ Rehhuner or P'eldhimer Pastete ”—Partridge Pasty. Hub the birds inside and out with salt, pepper, and very little pounded cloves mixed. Lay rashers of bacon in a stew- pan with a little water, put the birds in, cover the pan, and let them steam till tender, but not too much done. Make a force- Q226 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. meat of equal parts of veal, liver of any kind, and lat bacon; season it delicately with salt, white pepper, and verj' little spice and lemon-peel if approved, but not much of the latter. Spread a layer of the forcemeat at the bottom of the dish, on this a rasher or two of the bacon from the stew-pan ; then lay in the birds, either whole, or cut in quarters and packed close. Cover them with the rest of the bacon and force- meat. Lay on the paste-hd, close it round properly, make a hole in the middle, and bake it in a good oven. "VSTien done, pour in a good and savoury gravy, a little acid with lemon-juice. 810. “ Krammetsvdgel Pastete ”—Fuldfare Pasties. Fieldfares, snipes, woodcocks, quails, and young plovers, should be drawn for pasties, the gizzard opened to take out any grit, and all the inside put into a stew-pan with butter to steam a little while; then taken out and the birds laid in to brown delicately in the butter; when these are done, take them out. For a pasty of half-a-dozen bmds, make forcemeat of a pound and a half of veal, half a pound of fat bacon, and half a pound of calf’s liver-, all finely minced. Add more butter to that in which the birds, &c., were cooked. Beat three or four eggs with a teacup of milk, and stir this into the butter; then sth- in the mince, add salt, white pepper, and very little spice. If you can get a sweetbread, blanch and boil it in salt water. Having stirred the forcemeat until it is cooked and thick enough, divide the sweetbread into marble-sized pieces, and mix them with the mass. Spread a la}*er of the forcemeat on the bottom of the dish ; sprinkle salt, pepper, and lemon-juice over the buds and their trails ; arrange them on the forcemeat, lay the rest of this over them ; then put the paste-lid on, and, when baked, pour in a little rich gravy. 811. “JIascn Pastete’’—Hare Pasty. Cut off the solid meat of the back and legs in as large pieces as you can. Lard them with nice bacon and a small larding-needlc, and lay them a night in a marinade of nne- gnr and seasonings as directed for game. Stew down the carcase of the hare with sweet herbs till the bones are bare and blanched, and you have plenty of good gravy. Lay the larded pieces of hare in a stew-pan with butter.PASTIES. 227 cover, and let them steam tender; take them out, and into their stew-pan put the gravy and sufficient of the marinade to season the whole highly. Make a forcemeat of a pound of fresh pork, the liver of the hare, half a pound of bacon, half a pound of bread-crumbs, three eggs, some fine herbs, and seasoning to taste. Cook the forcemeat slowly, stirring until it is done. Spread half of this over the bottom of the dish ; lay in the pieces of hare with portions of the forcemeat between; cover and bake the pasty when it is drawn from the oven ; have the gravy boiled down to a proper quantity, and pour it through the hole in the lid. This pasty is equally good hot or cold. 812. “ Wild Pastete"— Venison Pasty. Cut the meat from the haunch or back, in pieces weighing from a quarter to half a pound; remove all skin and sinewy parts, beat the pieces well, and lard them thickly with little ships of bacon which have been coated with a seasoning of salt, pepper, and suitable spice mixed. Put these in a stew- pau.with butter and a sliced onion; cover, and let them steam tender; then take them out to cool. Make a forcemeat of the venison that hangs on the bones and any cuttings that are free from skin and vein, Avith equal parts of pork and bacon. The meat must all be minced to a smooth pulp, and is all the better for being rubbed through a coarse wii’e sieve, unless a mincing machine be used. Season the forcemeat highly Avith salt, pepper, pounded cloves, and if truffles are at hand, pound some of their peelings in a mortar Avith a Httle butter and mix them in ; mince tAvo or three shalots very fine, and Avith them a clove of garlic. Put these in a steAv-pan Avith a piece of butter, and Avhen they are steamed yellow, put into them the mixed forcemeat, Avhich must be steamed and occasionally stu-rod until the meats are no longer raAV. While all the preparation of meat and forcemeat is going on, the bones must have been chopped and boiling doAvn for a good gi'avy, Avhich must bo strained into the stew-pan with the remains in Avhich the larded meat Avas cooked, and out of this a good savoury gravy must bo made. Lay a third part of the forcemeat over the bottom of the pasty; then pack in the pieces of venison, with forcemeat and pieces of truffle or mushroom between, and the rest of the forcemeat on the top. Put on the paste-lid as usual, and228 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. make a hole in the centre through to the meat. Pour in the good gravy after the pasty is baked. 813. “ Wild Pastete ”— Venison Pasty. (No. 2.) Beat the venison well with the rolling-pin or cutlet-bat. Rub it over with shced shalots, and a clove of garlic ; sprinkle it with salt, a teaspoonful of black pepper, and six pounded cloves mixed ; then rub in a dessert-spoonful of sugar. Lay it in a dish ; pour half a teacup of vinegar over, and place on the meat a dozen juniper-berries or two bay- leaves. Leave it in this marinade four or five days, turning and basting every day. Then put a good piece of butter to get hot in a large stew-pan; lay in the meat, cut in pieces if too large, cover, and let it steam tender in its own gravy, having added the marinade at first, and a little water as it wastes away. When done, cut the meat off in thick steaks, and leave them to get cold while the bones stew longer, and out of this gi’avy prepare a good truffle sauce. Pack the pieces of meat in the pasty, with a few well-seasoned force- meat balls. Bake it in a moderate oven, and, when done, pom- in with a funnel the truffle sauce. This pasty may be served hot or cold. 814. “ Farce Pastete”— Forcemeat Pasty. ^ Cut up two pounds of veal, a pound of pork, and a pound of bacon in shces. Put two ounces of butter in a stew-pan with a cup of water. Lay in the slices of meat wth a grated onion or a large one finely minced, and a teaspoonful of white pepper. Cover close, and let the meat steam till tender ; then take it out on a dish, and when drained mince it very fine, sprinkling in a good seasoning of salt. The drainings on the dish must be put back to the gravy in the stew-pan, and this well seasoned with salt and pepper ; a few of the green herbs most approved must bo very finely minced and thrown in to soften. Do not skim the fat ofl’ the gravj'. Beat six eggs well; stir these and a cup of milk into the gravy; add a very little mace or nutmeg, and then tho- roughly mix in the minced meat. Line a round form with paste, the bottom and sides of which must be well closed ; put in the mass, cover with the paste-lid, and make a hole in the top. Bake it in a moderate oven. Let it get quite cold in the form, and then place the latter in hot water for a229 PASTIES. minute or two and turn it out. This pastete is cut through downwards like a cake. 815. “ Schussel Pasteten ”— Pies. These are so similar to all well-made English pies, that it is unnecessary to describe them here. Whether of poultry, veal, game, or fish, they are prepared by marinading and cooking first the meat to be used; or in every particular prepare a fricassee, as described under its respective heading; let it get cold, then pack it in a pie-dish with or without forcemeat under and between. Bake it with an edge and cover of paste, and pour the hot gravy in when done. 816. “ Fisch Pastete ”— Fish Pasty, Choose any thick, firm fish, clear it from skin and bone. Mince half of the fish quite fine. Sprinkle with salt the other half, cut it into neat pieces, and having melted a good piece of butter in a stew-pan, lay in the pieces of fish to steam about a quarter of an hour, then take them out. Put some more butter in the stew-pan with a cup of milk, a couple of minced onions or shalots, a good handful of parsley minced, a very little nutmeg or mace, and grated lemon-peel. When the onion is done soft, set the pan aside to cool a little; but, while still warm, stir in four eggs well beaten, and if you have in all four pounds of fish, have at least six ounces of butter in the stew-pan. Add to this half-a-dozen sardines, scraped and cut in small pieces, the liver of the fish minced, a good seasoning of white pepper, salt, and a spoonful of capers. Then mix in the minced fish, stir all well together. Butter a pie-dish ; lay some of the mince at the bottom, then put in the solid fish with mince between till the dish is full, rather piled up. Cover with a butter crust, and bake it in a moderate oven. 817. “ Fisch Pastete”—Fish Pasty. {No. 2.) Cut any solid fish in neat pieces—it must be cleared of skin and bone. Mix a seasoning of finely shred parsley, powdered marjoram, salt and pepper. Strew this over the fish ] dip each piece in warmed butter on every side, and put them in a pie-dish, leaving room for liquid to flow between. Beat four or five eggs well and mix them with half a pint to a pint of cream or good milk. Put halved oysters or sar-GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 230 dines between the pieces of fish. Ponr the cream over, cover with a light paste, brush it over with egg, and bake. 818. “ Pastetchen”—Small Patties May be made from any of the minced or fricasseed meats already described under their respective names, as given in the Index.Chapter XII. TORTEN. These are varieties of excellent large fancy cakes. Observe, in making them, that the flour must be of the finest, and well dried; spice, of the best, fresh, and well pounded or ground. Almonds while being pounded must have a little white of egg added, to prevent theii’ oiling or adhering in a cake together. When eggs and sugar are mixed, the stirring must be all one way, and continuous. 819. “Biscuit Torte"—A Sponge Cake. Half a pound of sifted sugar and the yolks of ten eggs must be stirred a quarter of an hour. Add six ounces of butter beaten to a cream, the grated peel of a lemon and its juice, half a pound of fine flour, and, when these are well stirred, add the whites of the ten eggs whipped to a snow. Stir all well together. Butter either one or two moulds, to fill three parts full. Strew thin slices of almonds and some coarsely pounded sugar on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. 820. “ Biscuit Torte"—Sponge Cake. {No. 2.) A pound of sifted sugar and eighteen eggs must be stirred one way for nearly an hour, then mix in by degrees a pound of fine flour and the grated peel of a lemon. Butter the moulds, and. bake the cakes in a quick oven.232 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 821. “ Chocolade Torte ”— Chocolate Cake. Half a pound of blanched almonds, well pounded, half a pound of sifted sugar, and the yolks of nine eggs, added by degrees, must be beaten to a cream. Then mix in a quarter of a pound of grated chocolate, half a stick of vanilla pounded, two ounces of fine bread- crumbs, and, lastly, the whites of five eggs whipped to a snow. Butter a mould and strew it with crumbs. Bake it in a moderate oven. 822. “ Chocolade Torte”— Chocolate Cake. {Xo. 2.) Half a pound of sifted sugar, with five eggs, and the yolks of five others, must be beaten half an hour. Then add two ounces and a half of grated chocolate, four ounces of fine flour, a little lemon-peel, and the whites of the five eggs beaten to a snow. Mix the whole well, and bake it in a thickly buttered mould. 823. “ Mandel Torte”—Almond Cake. Blanch and pound quite fine six ounces of sweet almonds. Stir the yolks of nine eggs, with six ounces of sifted sugar, half an hour. Then add the almonds, and, by degrees, two ounces of fine flour. Add the whites of the ^nine eggs, whisked to a snow. Stir all briskly together. Butter thickly a rather flat cake-tin, or mould, and bake in a well- heated oven. 824. “ Mandel Torte”—Almond Cake. (Ae. 2.) A pound of blanched almonds must be well pounded with a little white of egg, to keep them from oiling. Then add a pound of sifted sugar, and, by degrees, the yolks of eighteen eggs. Stir briskly for half an hour. Add the whites of nine eggs whipped to a snow. Butter thickly a large mould, strew a lining of bread-crumbs on the butter, pour in the mass, and bake it an hour. Small tins, or patty-pans, buttered, sprinkled with crumbs, filled with the above mass, and baked in a moderate oven, are very good. 825. “ Punsch Torte”—Punch Cake, Three round shallow cake-tins, the size of the largest dinner-plate, must be lined with buttered paper. Make the233 TORTEN. “ biscuit torte ” mass (see Index.) Divide this into the three tins, equally, so that each cake shall be, when baked, a good inch thick. Bake these a day before you want them. Rasp off the yellow of a lemon with lumps of sugar. Squeeze its juice on them, and put them in a pint of arrack or fine rum. Soak the cakes with this, and let them dry again. Cover one cake with a layer of any fine preserve ; lay another cake on it evenly; spread on this a layer of difierent jam, or marmalade, and put the third cake on it. Make an icing of the white of one egg whisked to a snow, a quarter of a pound of finest sifted sugar, and a large table- spoonful of arrack. Spread on the icing, and leave it to dry in a warm place. 826. “ Brod Torte”— Brown Bread Cake. Half a pound of blanched and a quarter of a pound of unpeeled almonds must be well pounded together. Mix with them, by degrees, a pound of sifted sugar, the yolks of twenty eggs, a spoonful of mixed spice, a quarter of a pound of grated chocolate, half a stick of vanilla pounded, and half a pound of stale brown bread grated and moistened with wine. Mix all thoroughly. Have the whites of ten eggs whisked to a snow, and stir this in lightly at last. Butter a large brioche or other mould, sprinkle it with raspings, pour in the mass, and bake it an hour in a moderate oven. This torte is much improved by an icing of the following;— 827. “ Chocolate Icing.” Three ounces of sifted sugar, two ounces of grated va- nilla chocolate, and the whites of two small eggs whisked well for half an hour, spread on the cake, and dried. 828. “ Brod Torte ”—Brotvn Bread Cake, (No. 2.) Pound in a mortar half a pound of sweet almonds in their peels, and with them half an ounce of bitter ones blanched; using white of egg to keep them from clogging. Mix these in a pan with three-quarters of a pound of sifted sugar, the yolks of sixteen eggs, the grated peel of a lemon, two ounces of candied peel, sliced thin, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, and half a nutmeg. Stir these for234 GERMAN NATIONAX COOKERY. half an hour. Then add a quarter of a pound of brown bread, grated and sifted, and slightly moistened with wine or arrack, stir this well into the rest, and then stir in lightly the whites of the eggs, whisked to a stiff snow. Butter well and strew with crumbs of toasted bread a large cake mould. Put in the mass, and bake it about an hour and a half in a moderate oven. 829. “Brod Tone mit Cliocolade"—Bread Calee with Chocolate. Ingredients.—The yolks of twelve eggs ; half a pound of sifted sugar ; four ounces of chocolate, grated fine ; a quar- ter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon; half a pound of stale brown bread, grated and sifted ; two inches of vanilla, pounded with sugar ; and the egg-whites whisked to a snow. Proceed as dii’ected in the above recipe. 830. “ Allianz Tone ”—Alliance Cake. Bake three “ torten,” one “ brod,” one “ mandel,” and one biscuit; which are the bro^vn bread, almond, and sponge cakes, already described. They must bfe of the size directed for the “ punsch torte.” Cover the brod torte with raspberry, or other fine preserve. Lay on this the sponge cake, and spread over it a layer of orange marmalade, or another kind of preserve. Put the almond cake on the top. and cover the whole with a white or chocolate icing. The cakes must be baked a day or two before the finishing. 831. “Zwieback Torte"—Busk Cake. The yolks of fourteen eggs must be well beaten with three- quarters of a pound of sifted sugar, six ounces of pounded almonds, six cloves pounded, a drachm of powdered cin- namon, and the grated peel of a lemon. Stir these well for half an hour. Then add the juice of the lemon, and half a pound of rusks, pounded and sifted through a fine cullender. When this is mixed in, add the whites of the eggs whisked to a snow. Stir all rapidly together, turn it into a well- buttered mould, and bake it at once in a moderate oven. Avoid moving it while baking.TORTEN. 235 832. “ Mandel,” or “ Sudd Torte"—Almond Cake. Stir half a pound of butter to a cream. Add half a pound of sifted sugar and two well-beaten eggs, then half a pound of almonds blanched and pounded, and, by degrees, half a pound of flour. Stir the whole briskly. Put it in a well- buttered mould, and bake it in a quick oven. 833. “ Kartoffel Torte”—Potato Cake. Stir the yolks of ten eggs and six ounces of sifted sugar twenty minutes; then add two ounces of sweet and half an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and pounded together, half a pound of cold mealy potatoes grated, two ounces of arrowroot or corn-flour, and the grated rind of half a lemon. When these are well mixed, stir in the whites of the ten eggs beaten to a snow. Butter the cake-mould well, and strew it with raspings or grated toast. Bake it in a well-heated oven. 834. “ Sand Torte,” or “ Kuclien ”— Sand Cake. Half a pound of butter must be sthred to a cream, then the yolks of twelve eggs added, and half a lemon-peel grated. Add by degrees, half a pound of sifted sugar, a quarter of a pound of fine flour, and the same of potato-flour. When these are well mixed, add the egg-whites, whipped to a snow. Thoroughly stir all together, and bake it in a moderate oven. Half a wineglass of rum or brandy, and the whole lemon- peel grated, give richness to this torte. 835. “ Sand Torte "—Sand Cake. {No. 2.) Half a pound of warmed butter, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, six eggs, the rind and juice of a lemon, half a pound of fine flour, a quarter of a pound of potato-flour, to be all well stirred. Bake as directed for other torten in a moderate oven. When three-parts done, gently draw it to the mouth of the oven, and quickly strew over the following;—two or three ounces of almonds cut small and mixed with two ounces of powdered sugar, and a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Put it back to finish baking, but do not let the almonds bo done too brown on the top.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 236 836. “ Flammen Torte ”—Flame Cake. This is a supper dish. Choose a flat sponge cake, or cut a deep one into three or four slices, and arrange them closely together. Soak it wth arrack or brandy, and set fire to it as it is being carried to table. 837. “ Braut ToHe ”—Bride Cake. For this excellent cake blanch and pound in a marble mortar a pound of almonds quite fine, using white of egg to prevent their clogging together. Beat a pound of fresh butter to a cream ; add to it, by degrees, a pound of sifted sugar, then the yolks of twelve eggs, the grated peel of a lemon, and a small teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Next add the almonds, and a pound of fine flour well dried. Stir all briskly for half an hour; after which add the egg-whites, whipped to a snow. Bake four cakes of the mass in flat round tins with inch-deep rims, which these must be lined with buttered paper, rising an inch above the tins. Bake them in a moderate oven a deep yellow colour, not brown. Meantime, warm, in a small enamelled saucepan, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; stir into it a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, the grated peel of a lemon, the yolks of four eggs, and the juice of four lemons. Stu' it quickly until it thickens ; then take it from the fire, and continue the stirring until it cools. Spread this over three of the cakes, as you lay one over the other. Lay the fourth on the top. Next day, if the cake is not even and smooth all round, make it so with a sharp knife. Ice it all over with lemon icing, and ornament it according to taste. 838. Observation on Torten Forms. T^Tien tho round shallow tins used for so many kinds are not at hand, paper ones may be substituted. Make them by straining white foolscap paper over a large plate. Fold up the sides in plaits at regular distances, and tack them round with needle and thread; then cut them round evenly, from one to two inches deep. They must always be buttered. The cakes baked in them are mostly light masses poured in thin, so that there will be no strain upon the paper to put the shape out of place.TORTEN. 237 839. “ German Plum Cake ”—Plum Cake. Beat a pound of warmed butter to a cream. Stir in by degrees the yolks of twelve eggs, a pound of sifted sugar, the gi-ated rind of a lemon, a quarter of a pound of candied peel cut thin, a smalt nutmeg grated, eight cloves pounded tine, a little salt, a pound of fine flour, a pound of sultana raisins, and a pound of currants, both carefully washed, dried, and picked. When all is thoroughly well beaten, add the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiff snow, and a glass of arrack, rum, or Madeira wine. Line one large or two smaller cake-tins with buttered paper. Bake in a very moderate oven from an hour and a half to two hours. Set it back when it begins to colour yellow. Sprinkle the cake while warm with fine rum or arrack It is better kept a few days before cutting, and will keep good several weeks. 840. “ Magdalenen Torte”—Magdalen Cake. Stir six ounces of butter to a cream. Add by degrees ten eggs, half a pound of sifted sugar, then half a pound of fine flour. Stir all briskly for half an hour; then stir in an ounce and a half of candied orange-peel sliced very thin. Butter a cake-mould, strew it with shced almonds, fill in the mass, strew sliced almonds on the top, and bake it at once. 841. “ Linzer Torte"—Linzer Cake. There are many ways of compounding linzer torten, of nearly the same ingi-edients. Firstly, take three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, six ounces of sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, half a pound of sweet almonds, and half an ounce of bitter ones, blanched and pounded with white of egg to keep them from caking together hard, and the yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs rubbed smooth. Put the floui- on the paste-board ; slice the butter on it in little pieces, and mix it in with the knife ; add the other in- gredients, and a few spoonfuls of milk, enough to form a smooth mass, as you would mix a short paste for tarts. Roll out, with dredging, a round cake, not more than a third of an inch thick. A large plate will assist you to cut it quite round. Lay it on a buttered paper on a flat tin ; spread over it a thick layer of apricot, raspberry, or other preserve, to ^v■ithin a good half-inch of the edge. Spin out, with rolling.238 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. little strings of paste, or cut very naiTOw strips of it, and cross- bar tbe cake to the edge of the paste. The bars must he the size of a quill-pen in width, and twice that width apart. Begin across the middle of the cake each way, and by laying the bars alternately on each side they will interlace prettily. When the cake is thus covered, moisten round the edge, and lay round on it a band of paste about three-quarters of an inch wide. Notch it round the edge; egg the paste over, and dredge it with sugar. Pin a paper round to prevent scorching, and bake it in a moderate oven a deep yellow. Eemove the paper from the border when cold, and place it carefully on a cake-dish or salver. 842. “ Linzer Torte ”— Linzer Cake. (No. 2.) Half a pound of almonds blanched and pounded, half a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound of butter, three well- beaten eggs, and three-quarters of a pound of flour must be mixed lightly in the manner of tart paste, rolled out thin, and spread on a flat buttered tin. Preserve to be spread over, and either a thin cover of the paste, or narrow strips of the same laid across to form a/ network; then a thm border of paste laid round the edge. 'VNTien drawn from the oven, brush the cake over with egg, and dredge with sugar. It must be baked a pale colour’, in a moderate oven. 843. ^‘Linzer Torte”—Linzer Cake. (^No. 3.) A quarter of a pound of almonds powdered rough, half a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound of butter, one large or two small eggs, a drachm of powdered cinnamon, and three- quarters of a pound of flour. Proceed as in previous recipes. Another mass: three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, six ounces of almonds, six ounces of sugar, and the yolks of six eggs. 844. “ Linzer Tortclettcn ”—Limer Tartlets. Boll out the linzer paste very thin, and, with a round cutter, stamp out the sizes required to lino small patty-pans, which must bo buttered. Put any sort of preserve in these, and spin across a network of the paste. Brush them over with egg, and bake in a slow oven.TORTEN. 239 845. “ Blatter Torte, von Linzertcig ”—Linzer Leaves. A pound and a quarter of flour, three-quarters of a pound of butter, half a pound of sweet almonds, half an ounce of bitter ones, half a pound of sugar, the yolks of eight hard- boiled eggs rubbed smooth, three well-beaten eggs, and cream or milk enough to make a paste as before directed. Divide the mass into six parts; roll them out very thin, to about the size of a pudding plate. Lay these on a buttered baking-tin; brush them over with egg, and bake them in a cool oven a yellow colour. Slide them carefully off the tins while warm, the first one on to the dish in which it will be served. Spread over it any nice preserve or marmalade ; place a cake on it; then another layer of preserve ; then alternate cake and preserve, till the last cake is on the top. Cut it even all round, and sift sugar over, or ice it mth a snow of sugar and white of egg. 846. “ Krack Torte Crack Tart, Half a pound of blanched almonds pounded, quarter of a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of flour, and one egg. Mix these into a paste ; roll it out into a thin round cake ; bake it on a flat buttered tin in a moderate oven. When served, spread any fine preserve over, and ornament it with small ratafias, of which you may arrange a border round. Or, having baked small ornamental cut-out cakes of the paste, lay them on as ornament. 847. “ Apfelsinen Torte ”— Orange Tart or Cake. Make a paste as directed for linzer torte, using three- quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and pounded, three well-beaten eggs, and the yolks of three or four hard-boiled ones. Roll out the paste as thin as possible, so that it will hold together when moved ; it must not be more than the third of an inch thick. Lay a large plate on it to cut it round by. Form the cuttings of the paste into a small cord, either plaited threefold or twisted in two ; moisten the edge of the cake, and lay this round. Then bake it a rich yellow in a moderate oven. It must bo baked on buttered paper; indeed it may be rolled out partly on this, so laid on the flat baking-tin, and slid ofl’ by the aid of large knivesGERISIAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 240 when done. During the baking, thoroughly beat the yolks of eight eggs and whites of two ; stir in a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, the grated peel of three oranges and their juice. Stir this with a wire whisk over the fire till it thickens; then take it from the fire. When the cake and cream are both partly cooled, mix into the cream the whites of four eggs whisked to a stitf snow, with a tablespoonful of sifted sugar. Spread the cream over the cake ; the former must have boiled to the thickness of jam. Peel and divide an orange into its separate half-moons, without breaking their skins. When the torte is cold, lay these on its centre in the form of a star or other device, and sift sugar over them. 848. “ Ajyfelsinen Torte ”— Orange Cake. (Wo. 2.) Bake the same form of cake, of an ordinary tart paste. Make a cream as above, with three weU-beaten eggs, three oranges, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. The whites of three eggs whipped to a snow may be added, as above, or dispensed with. Finish and ornament vuth orange shces ^s above. 849. “ Wiener Torte”—Vienna Cake. Make four or five white paper plates by stretching the paper over any round utensil—a large dinner or soup-plate will do—plait up an edge an inch deep, and tack it round with needle and thread to keep it upright. Butter these papers, and lay them on baking-tins. Spread over each a layer of “ sand torte ” mixture, not thicker than a thin pancake. Bake them in a moderate oven a nice yellow ; do not let them tinge brown. When cold, cut away the paper round, turn the cakes over, and peel ofl' the bottom paper without breaking them. Lay one cake over the other, with different coloured preserves and marmalade between, till all are piled up. Dissolve powdered sugar with a little lemon- juice ; spread it thickly over the top and sides of the cake to make a glazing. Put it in a cool oven to dry, and when cold, ornament the top with preserved fruit or marmalade. 850. “iriencr 2'ortr”—Vienna Cake. (A"o. 2.) Stir half a pound of butter to a cream. Stir in, by degrees, half a pound of sifted sugar, two ounces of pounded241 TORTEN. almonds, the grated rind of a lemon, half a pound of fine dry flour, and the yolks of ten eggs ; these must be stirred in before the flour. Stir all well for half an hour, then add the whites of the eggs whisked to a stifl' snow. Of this mass bake, on paper plates, as before described, three or four flat cakes. Peel, core, and slice eight or ten flne apples ; put them in an earthen or enamelled stew-pan, with suflicient sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and about an ounce of butter ; let them stew to a thick conserve, then stir in the yolks of three eggs and the juice of a lemon ; stir the conserve for a few seconds over the tire ; then turn it out, and stir in directly a glass of arrack or rum. When cold, lay one cake over the other with a fair division of the conserve between, leaving the top one uncovered. Pare the cake smooth all round, and ice it over, or strew it thickly with sifted sugar. 851. “ Wiener Souffiee ”— Vienna Soufflee, a Dinner Dish. A quarter of a pound of butter must be stirred to a cream, then a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar added, and the yolks of six eggs. When you have stirred this half an hour, add the juice of half a lemon and an inch of vanilla flnely pounded. Lastly, add the six egg-whites whipped to a snow ; bake the mixture in a buttered form three-quarters of an hour in a slow oven. When it has risen high and is nicely colonred, sift sugar over, and serve it without delay. 852. “ Oinjelhopfen”—Savoy Cake, or German Brioche. Beat a pound of butter to a cream. Stii’ in, by degrees, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, sixteen well-beaten eggs, a pound and a half of flne flour, and a pint of good milk. Stir all nearly an hour. Then add two tablespoonfuls of good yeast, a little salt, and a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins. Some throw in a handful of currants, but these are not necessary. Butter thickly a large Turk’s-cap or brioche mould, strew it with chopped almonds, and dredge it with sugar. Fill the mould three parts full, and set it in a warm place to rise, which will take from two to three hours. When risen, set it at once in a moderate oven. About an hour will bake it. Do not let it get more than pale brown. Turn it out of the mould warm, and when cold, sift a little sugar over it. R242 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 853. “ Gugelhopfen"—Savoy Cake. (.\^o. 2.) Three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, the yolks of nine eggs, two tablespoonfuls of yeast, a teacup- ful of milk, and three ounces of sifted sugar. Stir it above half an hour one way, then add the whites of six eggs whisked to a snow. Butter a form as above, and sprinkle in as many chopped almonds as will hang on the butter. Fill rather more than half full, set it to rise, bake it in a moderate oven, and dredge sugar over when turned out. 854. “ Rodonkuclien, or Napjkuchen”—Rodon Cake. Warm two pounds of flour, of which mix half a pound with half a pint of lukewarm milk, and two ounces of lump yeast, or a small teacup of brewer’s yeast. Set it to rise. Beat twelve eggs, grate the rind of a lemon, and pound an ounce of hitter almonds. Mix these ingredients, six ounces of sifted sugar, with the other pound and a half of flour, using lukewarm milk enough to form a thin dough. Having set a pound of butter near the fire to warm, mix in this, and then add the sponge-dough, which must he well risen first. Beat all together a quarter of an hour with a batter-spoon ; then add half a pound of stoned raisins or sultanas, a quarter of a pound of currants, and two ounces of almonds cut small. Butter well a large turban mould, and strew it with as much minced almonds as will hang to the butter. Fill the mould half full, and let the cake rise in a warm place. Then gently set it in a moderate oven, to bake an hour and a half. 855. “ Geriilirter NapfkiicJien "—Rodoji Cake. {Xo. 2.) Mix an ounce and a half of lump yeast with about half a pint of lukewarm milk ; stir this into a pound of flour and set it to rise. Beat half a pound of butter creamy ; stir into it by degrees two ounces of sifted sugar, four eggs, and the yolks of four others, a grated lemon-peel, a little salt and nutmeg, and half an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and pounded. When the yeast-dough is well risen, mix it in with the rest, and add then a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins. Put it in a well-buttered form, and bake it about an hour in a moderate oven.243 KUCHEN. 806. “ Eodonkuchen”—Eodon Cake. {No. 3.) A pound of flour, half a pound of butter, three ounces of sugar, nine eggs, a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins, half a nutmeg, half a pint of milk, and an ounce of yeast. Proceed as directed for the preceding. 857. “ S’iister ”—Sustcr Cake. Stir two tablespoonfuls, or about two ounces, of 3''east into half a pint of lukewarm milk ; mix in half a pound of flour, cover, and set it to rise. Meanwhile, beat a pound of butter to a cream; add six ounces of sifted sugar, and, by degrees, eighteen eggs, a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and half an ounce of bitter ones, blanched and pounded, some grated lemon-peel, and a little nutmeg. Having stirred these well, add by degrees a pound of flour, and lastly the batter you have set to rise. Stir all thoroughly. IButter your mould or moulds well. Fill half full. Let them rise again by warmth. Bake about an hour in a moderate oven. 858. Blitzkuchen"—Blitz Cake. Stir nine ounces of butter to a cream. Add nine ounces of sifted sugar, eight eggs, leaving out half the whites, ten ounces of fine flour, and the grated rind of a lemon. Stir altogether briskly for a quarter of an hour. Butter a mould well. Strew it with raspings, and bake it at once in a quick oven. KUCHEN. 859. In difierent localities several kinds of “Kuchen” are called “ Torten,” and these are as frequently called Kuchen elsewhere. Those about to be described hereafter have, with some exceptions, a tart paste for their foundation. They are baked in shallow tins, or on the large sheet tins used in the baker’s oven. These are covered with very thin tart paste, the edge of which is raised a little by moulding with finger and thumb. They are spread over with whatever they are named after, and when baked they are cut into square, oblong, or three-cornered pieces, as they are taken off the tin. The better kinds are baked in round tins with rims an inch deep. The following pastes are used.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 244 860. “ Miirber Ttig ”— Short Crust for Savoury Pasties. To a pound of fine flour, on the pasteboard, slice in a pound of butter. Chop and mix it well ■\vith a knife, then add a httle salt, the yolks of four eggs, and milk or water enough to bind lightly. Roll it out. Fold, and roll it three times. 861. “ Miirher Teiy"—Shoi-t Crust. (iVo. 2.) Mix, on a pasteboard or marble slab, a pound of flour and two ounces of sifted sugar. Rub into this half a pound of butter. Stm the yolks of two eggs in a little milk or water, with which mix the paste smooth. Roll it out thin, fold it together, heat it well with the roUing-pin, fold, and roll it out twice. 862. “ Milrher Teig ”—Short Crust. {Xo. 3.) Mix a pound of flour with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar. Slice on it ten ouhces of butter. Chop all together with a knife, then add the yolks of six eggs and a glass of brandy. Proceed as in the preceding recipe. 863. “ Milrher Teig ”— Covxmon Short Crust. {Xo. 4.) Three-quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of hutter, two ounces of sugar, a well-beaten egg, and a little salt. Rub the butter and sugar into the flour; beat up the egg in a little water to mix the paste, which must be lightlj- done, and as lightly rolled out and moulded. Lard or clari- fied drippings may be used for economy, either with or with- out butter. 864. “ Blatter Teig ”— Puff Paste. Rub into a pound of flour a quarter of a pound of butter and a little salt. If the weather is w.arm, chop it in with a knife instead of handling. Mix with water to form a smooth paste, roll it out half an inch thick. Flatten with the rolling- pin three-quarters of a pound of butter ; lay this in the middle of the paste, and fold its edges over. Roll it out thin again; cut it into four, and lay each part on the other, dredge it a little with flour, and roll it out again; repeat the cutting and rolling out three times.245 KUCHEN. 865. “ Blatter Teig”—Puff Paste. {No. 2. To a pound of fine flour on a pasteboard add, in small pieces, a quarter of a pound of butter. Beat up an egg in half a teacupful of milk, and add to this half a wineglass of hrandy. Make a hollow in the flour, pour in the mixture, and work it together with a knife to a smooth paste, sprink- ling with milk if it is not moist enough. Finish moulding lightly with the hand to bring it quite smooth ; roll it out, flatten half a pound of butter on it, and over this fold the paste. Roll out and fold it four times, keeping it as cool as possible. 866. “ Hefen Teig”—Yeast Dough, To a pound of flour use an ounce of dry yeast, or two tablespoonfuls of brewer’s yeast. Stir it into a cup of luke- warm milk, and with it mix a batter of a quarter of the flour in the middle of the rest. Cut up on the top of the flour from a quarter to half a pound of butter, and set it to rise in a warm place. Then sprinkle over it a little salt and a couple of ounces of powdered sugar. Mix the whole well together and let it rise a second time, when it is ready to roll out for use. Bread dough from the bakers, with or without butter rolled in, is also used for common kuchen. 867. “ Aepfel Kuchen ”— Common Apple Kuchen, Line a shallow tin with tart-paste (No. 866), or baker’s bread dough if you have no yeast to make one; peel, quarter, and core apples; cut them in half-quarters; lay these close together sideways over the paste till it is covered. Mix a custard of a cup of milk, two eggs, a good teaspoon- ful of arrowroot or corn-flour, some grated or shred lemon- peel or nutmeg, and sugar enough to sweeten ; pour it over the apples, mix powdered sugar and cinnamon, and strew this over. Bake it in a moderate oven; slice a little hutter over before baking. 868. Aepfel Kuchen"—Apple Cake. {No. 2.) A better one is of apples cut in half-quarters, laid on a thin paste. Mix a cup of grated bread-crumbs, an ounce of almonds blanched and either pounded coarse or cut in thin slices, a few sultana or other raisins, powdered cinnamon, andGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 246 sugar. Beat three eggs well, mix them with the above, and spread the mass over the apples; slice a little butter over, and bake. 869. “ Aepfel Kuchm"—Apple Cake. (Xo. 3.) The apple-quarters are to be laid on good paste, as above, the yolks of four eggs, a tablespoonful of flour, a handful of almonds cut small, sugar, cinnamon, and the egg-whites whipped to a froth ; must he all well mixed and spread over the apples ; slice a little butter over, and bake. 870. “ Aepfel Kuchen"—Apple Cake. (A^o. 4.) Peel and slice apples enough for a tart; put them in an earthen or enamelled stew-pan with two ounces of raisins, the same of currants, sugar, cinnamon, two or three cloves, and a glass of wine ; stew soft, and put them to cool. Mix a grated stale roll with an ounce of warmed butter, and two ounces of pounded almonds. Have a shallow tin lined with a thin paste; spread on this iJhe apple mass a good half-inch thick, cover this with the crumb-mixture, and hake till the paste is nicely done. 871. “ Aepfel Kitchen"—Apple Cake. (Xo. 5.) Cut up apples to the size of hazel nuts, strew sugar among them; gi'ate two small stale rolls, heat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, then the yolks of five eggs with it; add three ounces of almonds pounded or sliced thin, a quarter of a pound of sugar, some grated lemon-peel or powdered cin- namon, and lastly mix in the egg-whites, whipped to a snow, and bake on thin good paste. 872. “ Kirschen Kitchen ”— Chcrrij Cake. Soak half a pound of sliced bread in as much cold milk as it will absorb ; press it out; add six eggs well beaten, two ounces of almonds pounded, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter warmed, and a small tcaspoonful of powdered cinnamon ; when these are well mixed, stir in a pound and a half of cherries. An inch-deep tin must be buttered well; fill it with the mass, and strew sugar and cinnamon over the top, with a few sliced almonds. Bake slowly in a moderate oven.KUCHEN. 247 873. “ Kirschen Kuclien”—Cherry Cake, {No. 2.) Cover an inch-deep tin with a “ miirberteig; ” the paste must always come up the sides of these tins to the edge. Lay in about two pounds of cherries, two deep nearly; put it in a well-heated oven for a quarter of an hour. During the time, mix five or six well-beaten eggs with half a pint of sour cream or fresh milk, six ounces of sugar, and a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Draw the cake out of the oven, quickly pour the custard over, and return it to hake suffi- ciently. 874. “ Kirschen Kuchen"—Cherry Cake. (iVb. 3.) Lay cherries closely on a good thin paste, and strew over them a handful of sugar ; mix four eggs, a pint of milk, two ounces of pounded almonds, three or four ounces of sugar, and half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Stir all thoroughly, and pour it over the cherries ; hake in a moderate oven. 875. Kirschen Kuchen”—Plainer Cherry Cake. {No. 4.) Spread a tin with any plain paste, cover it with cherries, and pour over the following mass : two tablespoonfuls of flour, the same of sugar, and two beaten eggs, thinned with milk to the consistency of thick cream. 876. “ Himbeer Kuchen”—Raspberry Cake. Set a quart of raspberries over the fire, with three ounces of sugar sprinkled over. Do not sth-, but shake them now and then. Before they fall, take out the fruit with a perfo- rated spoon, and boil down the syrup. Meanwhile, stir three ounces of butter to a cream, add two ounces of blanched almonds pounded, an ounce of sugar, an ounce of grated bread, and the yolks of four eggs ; mix these well, and then stir in the whites of the eggs whisked to a snow. Cover a shal- low tin with tart-paste, spread on this the fruit and syrup; then spread over the mass, and bake the kuchen in a brisk oven. 877. “ Rahm Kuchen”— Cream Cake. Spread a tin with tart-paste ; beat four eggs and stir them into a pint of cream, with a little salt; add a few little lumps of butter. Pour the cream over the paste, and bake a rich yellow.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, 248 878. “ Zimmt Kitchen ”— Cinnamon Cake. Blanch half a pound of almonds, and pound them with a little rose-water; mix these with a half a pound of powdered sugar, two eggs, a cup of sour cream, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, and the grated peel of a quarter of a lemon. Spread a thin “ miirberteig ” on a flat tin ; pour over the mass, and hake. 879. “ Eier Kuchen," or “ EienvUlien”—A Custard Cake. Three well-beaten eggs, three tablespoonfuls of flour, a little salt, and a pint of milk; to be thoroughly stirred. Butter a flat tin that has an edge all round ; cover it with a thin bread-dough raised at the edges ; pour over it the butter, which must he of the thickness of cream only. Cut httle pieces of butter over, and bake a nice yellow colour. 880. “ Zivetschgen Kuchen ”—Mussel Plum Cake. Mix a large breakfast-cup full of grated bread, with two ounces of almonds pounded or cut small, three ounces of sugar, a small teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and two ounces of butter beaten to a cream. Spread a good tart- paste thinly over a shallow tio, and over this half of the mixture. Halve Orlean or mussel plums the long way, and take out the stones ; lay the halves, the skin downwards, close together, all over the plate ; strew over some sugar, and spread over equally the other half of the crumb-mixture. Bake it in a well-heated oven. 881, “ Zwetschgen Kuchen ’’—Mussel Plum Cake. (Xo. 2.) Spread a plain paste over a flat tin, raise an edge by pinching it up, strew over a thick layer of bread-crumbs and sugar, with a dusting of powdered cinnamon. HiUve large dark plums the long way, and take the stones out; lay the halves close together all over the paste, the blue side down- wards. Strew over more crumbs, with cinnamon and plenty of sugar; lay small pieces of butter here and there, and bake. 882. ^‘Kaiser Kuchen ”—Imperial Cake. Soak the crumb of three French rolls in cold milk, and press it out dry ; beat this bread well with a quarter of a pound of warmed butter and the yolks of six eggs. Add two249 KUCHEN. ounces each of powdered sugar, sultana raisins, currants, candied peel, almonds blanched and pounded, and a little grated lemon-peel; whisk the egg-whites to a stiff snow, and mis it with the rest. Butter a shallow cake-tin well, strew it with fine crumbs, and bake it in a moderate oven ; turn it out, and sift sugar plentifully over. 883. “ Mandel Kitchen ”—Almond Cake. Blanch and pound half a pound of almonds ; beat them well with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar and the yolks of eight eggs. Soak the crumb of two rolls in cold milk, press it out, and add it with two ounces of thinly-cut candied peel to the almond mixture. Stir all briskly, then add the whites of six eggs whipped to a snow and well stirred in. Bake it in a shallow mould well buttered and sprinkled with raspings and crumbs. When the cake is done turn it out, stick it all over with blanched almonds cut in slices, half the length showing; sift plenty of sugar over when cold. 884. “ Mandel Kuchen ”— Almond Cake. {No. 2.) Blanch half a pound of almonds, and cut each one length- ways into four or five shreds ; peel a lemon thin, and cut the peel into thread-like strips. Boil this and the almonds with the juice of the lemon and a quarter of a pound of sugar, until it thickens like a syrup. Meantime, spread a flat tin with good tart-paste, pour the syrup away from the almonds and peel; spread the latter over the paste, and bake in a quick oven. When cold, pour the syrup over the cake. 885. “ Guss Torte,” or “ Kuchen ”—A Fruit Cake. (“ Guss ”—a creamy mixture.) Line a tin with thin tart-paste; spread on it any kind of preserved or fresh fruit that has been stewed with sugar and cooled. Then pour over it the following “ guss : ” two ounces of sifted sugar, two ounces of pounded almonds, two eggs, and a drachm of cinnamon, thoroughly beaten, with as much sour cream as will make the mixture flow smoothly. Bake it a pale yellow colour. 886. “ Kuchen Michel"—A Savoury Cake. Mix two large tablespoonfuls of fine flour smooth with four eggs, and milk enough to make the mixture as thin asGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 250 cream. Stir it well, add salt and some finely minced chives. Butter a shallow tin or dish, and bake the michel a rich yellow. 887. “ Kdselaiclien"—Cheese Cake. Stir together the yolks of six eggs, two ounces of sugar, a pint of milk, and either a little sour milk or a squeeze of lemon-juice. Set it over the fire, and stir till it curdles. Turn it out on a napkin spread over a sieve, and let the whey drain through. Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream ; add two ounces of potato-flour or cold mealy potatoes grated, an ounce and a half each of currants and sultana raisins, three well-beaten eggs, and three-quarters of a pint of good milk. Stir all well; rub the curd smooth, and stir it into the rest. Spread a shallow dish or tin with good tart-paste, cover it with the mass, strew over some finely cut blanched almonds and coarsely powdereJ sugar. Bake it a deep yellow colour, not brown. This mixture is also nice for small tins or patty- pans. 888. “ Kdsekucheyi”—Cheese Cake. (Xo. 2.) Put milk alone over the fire to curdle, with either prepared rennet, sour milk, or a little lemon-juice. If you have a soup- plate full of curds, beat them up with three ounces of butter warmed, two or three eggs, a quarter of a pound of currants well washed and plumped in hot water, and some grated lemon-peel or powdered cinnamon. Line a flat dish or pattypans with thin paste, and cover it with suflicient of the mass. 889. “ Speck Kuchen ”— Bacon Cake. Lay a thin paste over a flat baking-tin : raise a little edge to the paste. Beat four eggs, add to them half a pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of flour, or four of potato-flour, six ounces of bacon rasbers cut into very small dice, a little gi-ecn onion or chives minced verj’ small, some salt and white pepper. Mix all well, and spread the mass over the paste. Put a few little pieces of butter over, and bake it in a brisk oven.251 KUCHEN. 890. “ Sjieck Kitchen mit Kummel"—Bacon Cake with Caraways. {No. 2.) Having spread the paste as above, strew over the bacon cut small. Scatter caraway-seeds over. Mix two or three eggs with a cup of milk, and pour it over. Leave out the onion and pepper. 891. “ Zwiebel Kitchen”—Onion Cake. Slice thin three large Spanish onions, chop them small, put them in a stew-pan with three ounces of butter to steam a quarter of an hour; do not let them brown; turn them out to cool. Beat three eggs with a cup of milk or sour cream. Add a few caraway-seeds, and three ounces of ham or bacon cut small. Mix the whole with the onions. Roll out a thin tart paste which has salt in it, or put a little salt to the onions. Spi’ead the mass over a third of an inch thick, and bake it in rather a quick oven. 892. “ Zwiebel Kitchen”— Onion Cake. {No. 2.) Halve and boil half-a-dozen large common onions ten minutes ; drain and chop them. Mix with them a piece of butter, two eggs, two or three grated cold potatoes, two rashers of bacon cut small, a few caraways, salt, white pepper, and a teacup of milk. Spread a thin common paste over a large flat tin. Pinch up a little edge. Spread over the mass and bake at once. 893. “ Braimschweiyer Kitchen”—Brunswick Cake. Ingredients :—Two pounds and a half of flour, a pound of butter, six eggs, and the yolks of six others, six ounces of sugar, a grated lemon-peel, an ounce of sweet almonds, and a dozen bitter ones, blanched and pounded ; half a pound of raisins, half a pound of cuiTants, half a nutmeg grated, two or three ounces of yeast, or two ounces of dried yeast, and a pint of milk. First stir the butter to a cream; add by de- grees the other ingredients. Let the milk be lukewarm, and stir the yeast into it; add this to the butter, and, by degrees, the flour. Beat the whole to a light dough, and lastly add the currants and raisins. Dredge with flour a flat baker’s tin, that has an edge turned up all round ; turn the dough on to this, and spread or roll it out half an inch thick or less. Set it in warmth to rise. When it is some-GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 252 what risen, make dents with the finger here and there; put into each hollow a little piece of butter, the size of a nut: sprinkle thickly with sugar, and bake it in a rather quick oven. Or, bake it without the sugar on the top, and when it is drawn from the oven brush it over with a glazing of sifted sugar, moistened with rose-water, and set it back in the oven a few minutes to harden this. 894. “ Streusel Kuchen ”— Streiced Cake. Mix a light dough of half a pound of flour and two ounces of yeast, or a cup of brewer’s yeast, in lukewarm milk, and put it to rise. Meanwhile, mix together half a pound of warmed butter, three ounces of sugar, six eggs, the grated peel of a lemon, half a nutmeg, a teaspoonful of salt, a pound and a half of flour, and sufficient lukewarm milk to form a soft dough. Add the yeast sponge as soon as it has risen, and beat the whole together thoroughly. Dredge a flat tin with floui’. The tin must have a raised edge all round. Roll out the cake on it, half an inch thick, and set it to rise. Now work into a paste two ounces of warmed butter, two ounces of sugar, a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and two ounces of flour. Chop this paste into little lumps the size of a pea, dredging occasionally with sugar and a little flour. This is called the streusel. Strew it over the cake, and bake it a nice colour in a quick oven. 895. “ Elherfelcl Krengel ”—An Elberfeld Cake. Mix half a pint of warm milk with two ounces of yeast . and five or six eggs ; stir in a pound of flour, and set it to rise. When it has risen, add a quarter of a pound of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of warmed butter, and beat in by degrees nearly another pound of flour. It must be of the consistency of bread dough. Roll it out about half an inch thick, and twice as long as it is broad. Spread over it three- quarters of a pound of currants, previously plumped in warm water, and over these sprinkle a quarter of a pound of sugar mixed with a large teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Or, instead of the currants, &c., spread over a layer of fine pre- serve. Roll the dough up carefully lengthways, then form it into a ring on a tin. Leave it to rise, and when it appears to lighten brush it over with warmed butter, and bake it in a good moderate oven from half to three-quarters of an hour.253 KUCHEN. 89G. “ Brioche, or Projiheten Kitchen ”—Brioche. Weigh a pound and a half of flour. Mix two ounces of yeast with a cup of warm milk, and stir it into a quarter of the flour; there must be milk enough to make this a soft dough. Set it to rise. Put the rest of the flour on a paste- board, make a hollow in the middle, slice a pound of butter in small pieces, throwing them into the flour. Break ten eggs into the hollow of the flour. Sprinkle over an ounce of sifted sugar and half an ounce of salt. Add about a tea- cupful of milk, sufficient to work the whole into a fine smooth dough. Knead it well, and when the yeast sponge is risen, add this to the other dough, and knead the whole together until it has a fine smoothness. Put it into a pan and set it in a cold place for twelve hours ; then turn it out on a floured pasteboard, and quickly mould it into a round mass ; return it to the pan, and set it by again for two or three hours. When it rises, flour the pasteboard and turn it out as before. Cut ofl' one-fourth of it. Mould the three-fourths into a round loaf; put it on a buttered tin, and press a hollow in the middle. Egg it over with the paste-brush, mould the smaller piece of dough pear-shaped; put its point into the hollow of the larger loaf, brush it all over with egg, and set it at once in a moderate oven, to bake an hour or an hour and a quarter. The brioche is nicer baked in a large round tin of suitable shape, which must be buttered. 897. “ He/en Krdnze ”— Yeast Wreaths. Set a pound and a half of fine flour to warm in a pan. Mix an ounce and a half of fresh dried yeast, or two large tablespoonfuls of brewer’s yeast, with a cup of lukewarm milk ; stir this in the middle of the flour to a batter; cover, and leave it to rise. When it is light, add half a pound of butter beaten to a cream, three eggs, three ounces of sifted sugar, and a little salt. Work all to a smooth light dough. Divide it into six parts. Roll them on the paste-board into long bars ; plait two twists of these ; lay them in rings on a buttered tin, making the ends of each ring join. Set them in a warm place to rise, and when light, brush them over with egg. Sprinkle chopped almonds and coarsely powdered sugar over, and bake them a nice yellow colour in a mode- rate oven.GERIVIAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 254 898. “ Ants Kriinze ”—Aniseed Wreaths. The same as above ; mixing in half an ounce or rather less of anise seeds. 899. “ Mandel Kriinze ”— Almond Wreaths, or Pangs. Put a pound and three-quarters of fine fiour in a pan, leaving out enough for dredging. Break up a pound of butter into small pieces, throwing it among the flour. Mix two ounces of yeast with half a pint of lukewarm milk, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and the yolks of two eggs. Pour this into the flour, and work it into a smooth, soft dough. Beat it until it will drop from the hand without sticking. Then cut oAT small pieces the size of an egg, roll them into long bars, curl them round in rings, and lay them on buttered tins, fixing the ends together, and leaving room between each for spreading. Set them in a warm place, and, as soon as they are risen, brush them lightly over with a beaten egg, and strew over coai’sely pounded almonds and sugar mixed. Put them at once, and gently, into a brisk oven to bake a rich yellow brown. Six ounces of almonds will be required to sprinkle over. Many persons mix a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon with the sugar and almonds. If a large kranz or two is preferred, divide, for one ring, a third part, and roll this into three long cords no thicker than the point of a finger, plait it in three, and form a ring. 900. “ Hefen Bretzeln ”— Crescent Buns. Mix a large tablespoonful of yeast into a good half-pint of warm milk ; stir it into a pound and a half of flour, and beat it well. In another pan beat half a pound of butter to cream ; add to this two ounces of sifted sugar, three eggs, another tablespoonful of yeast, and a little salt. Put the dough into this, and beat altogether thoroughly fill quite smooth. Cut off pieces the size of an egg. Boll them into round bars, from six to eight inches long, and tapering off at the ends. Lay them on buttered tins, curving them in half circles or new moon shapes, leaving space betAveen each. Put them by gentle warmth to rise, and when light, brush them over with egg; dust sugar over, and bake them a pale brown.SMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 255 901. “ Mandel Bretzeln ”—Almond Buns Are the same in all particulars as the “ hefen bretzelu,” but strew over them minced almonds and crushed sugar, when they are egged over, as you are about to bake them. The almonds and sugar should be about the size of pearl barley, and the form of each bretzel that of a new moon or crescent, tapering to a point at each end. 902. “ Hombim/er Bretzeln"—Horn burg Buns. An ounce and a half of sweet hard yeast, or a couple of large tablespoonfuls of fresh brewer’s yeast, must be stirred into a teacup of warm milk, mixed with half a pound of fine flour, and left to rise. Soften three-quarters of a pound of butter, add to it an ounce of powdered sugar, the yolks of six eggs, the whites of two, the grated peel of a small lemon, and a pinch of salt. Work into this a pound of flour, add the yeast dough, and beat it with the hand till bubbles form in the paste. It should be of the consistency of bread dough. Form bret- zeln about the length and thickness of a middle finger ; set them on a buttered tin, in a warm place to rise, and when they are nicely risen, brush them over with egg. Bake them a rich yellow colour-, and when cold, dredge them over with powdered sugar. 903. “ Zopfe ”— Twists. Three tablespoonfuls of yeast, or an ounce and a half of dried yeast stirred into a pint of warm milk; pour this into two pounds of flour, work it into a smooth dough, and set it to rise by warmth. Slice half a pound of butter in a pan ; beat this with four eggs and eight cloves finely pounded. Turn the dough into this pan, beat altogether thoroughly, and set it to rise again. Form twists of three long bars, pointed at the ends. Brush them over with egg, and bake a pale colour. 904. “ Pfitzauf”— Batter Puffs. Mix half a pound of flour, a pint of milk, five well-beaten eggs, and a quarter of a pound of warmed butter. Stir all briskly for ten minutes. Butter small pattypans. Fill them half full, and bake a nice yellow. When done strew powdered sugar and cinnamon over them.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 256 905. “ Stolle,” or “ Striezel ”— A long Roll. Mix two ounces of dry yeast with half a pint of warm milk, and half a pound of flour. Set this to rise. Then take a pound and a half of flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, four eggs, an ounce of bitter almonds pounded, half a nutmeg, the grated rind of a lemon, a little salt, and milk enough to work these into a dough. Add to this the light sponge dough, and mix both well. Add half a pound of softened butter, half a pound of stoned raisins, half a pound of currants, two ounces of sweet almonds cut in slices, and the same of candied peel. Knead the whole, cover, and set it to rise. When light, flour the pasteboard, turn the cake out and mould it into a long roll. Lay it on a flat baking-tin. Cut, with a knife, two slits all along the roll, near an inch deep, so that the three divisions on the top are equal in width. Set it to rise. Bake it in a moderate oven. When done rub it over with butter, and strew sugar over when cold. 906. “ Anis Brod ”— Aniseed Roll. Half a pound of flour, two ounces of powdered sugar, two ounces of warmed butter, a few anise-seeds, and a.tahlespoon- ful of yeast stirred into half a teacup of warm milk, enough of which must be added to form a soft dough. Beat it thoroughly; mould it into a long roll. Put it on a tin and set it near the flare to rise. Bake in a moderate oven, and brush it over with egg and sugar while warm. 907. “ Kiimmel Brod ”— Caraxcay Roll. The same as the previous recipe, substituting caraway for anise seeds. 908. “ Citronen Brod ”•—Lemon Rolls. Also the same mixture ns that of the two former, leaving out the anise and using the grated peel of a lemon, a few strips of peel fluely cut, and adding two well-beaten eggs. Form small long rolls. Let them rise on the tin before baking, and strew with sifted sugar when done. 909. “ Ztviehnek ”— Rusks. A pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, half a pint of milk, and two table- spoonfuls of good yeast.SMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 257 Warm the milk and stir the yeast into it. Put the flour in a pan and throw the sugar among it. Make a hollow in the middle and stir the yeast and milk into the hollow like a thin batter. Cut up the butter on the flour. Cover, and set it to rise. Then beat it until the dough no longer hangs to the hand or spoon. Let it rise again till it cracks on the top. Cut and mould from the dough long cakes an inch thick, five or six inches long and two broad. Set them on a buttered tin two inches apart, let them rise on this; then brush them over with milk and bake them. Next day, slice them open with a sharp knife, lay them on a tin with the crust under, and put them in a cool oven till they are crisp and baked yellow. 910. “ Ziviehack”—Busks. [No. 2.) Beat six eggs well, melt a quarter of a pound of butter in half a pint of new milk, stir into this a quai’ter of a pint of fresh yeast and three ounces of powdered sugar. Then stir in, by degrees, as much flour as will make a batter so thick that the spoon moves with difficulty. Cover, and place it in wannth to rise. In about an hour sprinkle flour in, and work it well together, but not to a stifl' dough. Form cakes as described in the foregoing recipe, and finish the same' way in all particulars. Either carawaj^s or anise-seeds may be mixed in them. The latter are very good and wholesome for infants’ food. 911. “ Hefen Seelen ”— Tea Bulls. These are excellent tea rolls. Set a pound and a quarter of flour to warm in a pan. Stir six ounces of warmed butter with two ounces of sifted sugar, two tablespoonfuls of good yeast, a well-beaten egg, the yolks of two others, and a cup of lukewarm milk. Pour, by degrees, the mixture into the flour, beating it well with a batter spoon till you have a thin dough which will no longer hang to it or the sides of the pan. A little more milk must be added in the working if necessary. It must be long and well beaten. Form little oval rolls by taking up a spoonful of dough each time. They must not bo more than an inch thick in the middle. Mould them to a point at each end. Lay them two inches apart on a buttei’ed tin. Put them in a warm place to rise, which will take about an hour. Beat the whites of the two eggs s258 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. and a dessert-spoonful of powdered sugar together, and when the rolls are nicely risen, brush them over with this glazing and bake them a delicate colour, not brown. Finely minced almonds strewn over before baking improve the rolls. 912. “ Fasehings Erapfen ”— Carnival Fritters. IVhisk two eggs well, add to them an ounce of sifted sugar, two ounces of warmed butter, two tablespoonfuls of yeast, a teacup of lukewarm milk, and a little salt. Whip all well together, then stir in, by degrees, a pound of flour, and, if requisite, more milk, making thin dough which you can hardly stir. Beat it until it falls from the spoon, then set it to rise. When it has risen, make rendered-down butter or lard hot in a frying-pan, cut from the light dough little pieces the size of a walnut, and, without moulding or kneading, fry them pale brown. As they are done, lay them on a napkin to absorb any friture. 913. “ Berliner Pfannkuchen ”—Berlin Pancakes, Stir three tablespoonfuls of yeast, or an ounce and a half of dried yeast, into half a pint of lukewarm milk; mix this with half a pound of flour, and set it to rise. Have a pound of flour warming in another pan; add to this the grated peel of half a lemon, half an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and pounded fine, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, a little nutmeg grated, a little salt, and the yolks of eight eggs. When the yeast batter has risen, add it to the other in- gredients, and use lukewarm milk enough to make the whole as thick as a light bread dough. Now add half a pound of warmed butter, and beat the mass at least a quarter of an hour, until it is so smooth and light that bubbles appear, and it drops from the spoon. Cover, and let it partly rise, then slightly work it together again. Take a part of it at a time on the paste-board, roll it out a bare half-inch thick, and with a round cutter, two inches and a half in diameter, cut out cakes. On half of these put a teaspoonful of some nice thick preserve, such as plum, raspberry, or apricot, leaving a good half-inch margin of paste round the preserve. Moisten this round and lay another cake on the top. Press them round, and if spread at all, cut them out again with the same cutter. Lay them on a floured tin, and set them in a warm place to rise, but not too high, or they will absorb the fritureSMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY, 259 in frying. The frying-pan must be very hot, and well supplied with rendered-down butter or sweet lard. Fry as many cakes at a time as you can conveniently turn in the pan; both sides must be done a clear yellow brown, not dark. Lay them on a napkin when done, that no friture may hang about them. When they are cold, sift sugar over them, or ice them over with the white of an egg or two whisked to a snow, with a little lemon-juice and sifted sugar enough to form a creamy icing, which must be laid on with the paste-brush. Set the pancakes in a cool oven or before the fire to dry a little. 914. “ Berliner PfannJcuchen"—Berlin Pancakes. {No. 2.) Ingredients :—A pound of flour dried and sifted, half a pint of lukewarm milk, three ounces of butter warmed, an ounce of sifted sugar, the yolks of ten eggs, half an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and pounded, a little salt, and three tablespoonfuls of yeast. Set a sponge in the flour of the milk and yeast stirred together, and when it has risen add the other ingredients, stir and beat altogether till the dough falls from the spoon. Leave it to rise again, then turn it out on the paste-board and roll it out not quite half an inch thick. Cut out round cakes of about two and a half inches in diameter. Lay on the centre of these a teaspoonful of nice preserve, which must be thick. Moisten the margin of paste, lay another cake over and press the two edges together. Lay them on a floured napkin to rise near warmth, then fry them in rendered-down butter a delicate brown on both sides. Strew mixed sugar and cinnamon over while warm. 915. “ Berliner Pfannkuchen ”— Berlin Pancakes. {No. 3.) A pound of flour, three ounces of sugar, three ounces of butter, one ounce of dried yeast, four eggs, whites and yolks, well-beaten, the grated peel of a lemon, a pinch of salt, a grate of nutmeg, and about half a pint of milk. Proceed as in the foregoing. 916. Hefen Kolatschen”—Little Bans. Beat six ounces of butter to cream. Add the yolks of six eggs, two ounces of sugar, the grated peel of a lemon, an ounce of dried yeast mixed in a cup of warm milk, and a pound of flour, with enough sour cream to mix the wholeGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 26o into a dougli of light bread consistency. Put little lumps the size of a walnut on a buttered tin and set them to rise. When they are light, put in the centre of each half an almond, a raisin, or a dot of dried fruit, brush them over with egg and sugar mixed, or with egg and coarsely pounded sugar, and bake them in a quick oven ten or twelve minutes. 917. “ Waffeln ”— Waffles or Gaufres Must he eaten as soon as possible after they are made, or they become soft and tough. The waffle-iron must be made hot and then greased, before the batter is put in with a spoon. Every time a waffle is baked, any burnt batter, outside or in, must be scraped off the iron. Pounded almonds, lemon-peel, nutmeg, &c., may be used or left out, according to taste. It is better not to put sugar in the batter, as it causes them to burn and stick to the iron. {No. 1.) Half a pound of butter must be stirred to a cream, then stir into this, alternately, first a tahlespoonful of flour and then an egg, until half a pound of flour and six eggs are used. Thin the mass with half a pint of lukewarm milk, add a little salt, and stir thoroughly for twenty minutes. Make the waffel-h’on hot, grease it inside with butter or a piece of fat bacon, fill the deep side of the iron with batter, shut the iron slowly, hold it over a clear fire, turn it after a minute or two, so that both sides get done. They must only be a delicate brown. Knock the iron to turn them out. Sift sugar and cinnamon over. A teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon mixed with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, sifted, will be spicy enough. 918. “ Offleten TIV'’'’-’'- The same ingredients and process as for Waffeln No. 1, leaving out half the butter ; bake them either in gaufre-irons or like very thin small pancakes on flat buttered tins, and while hot roll them up like a cigar. 919. “ Waffeln ”— Gaufres. A Better Sort. {No. 2.) A quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of almonds well pounded, four eggs, four ounces of flour, and cream or milk enough to make thick batter. Proceed as above.SMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 261 920. “ Waffeln ”— Gaufres of Sour Cream. {No 3.) Half a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, six fresh eggs, twelve bitter almonds pounded, half a wineglass of rum, a little nutmeg or grated lemon-peel, and half a pint of thick sour cream. Beat the butter to a cream, stir in by degrees the yolks of the eggs, the flour, the cream, and flavouring, and lastly the whites of the eggs whisked to a snow, and the rum. Bake the wafers by moderate heat only a yellow colour. Sift sugar and cinnamon over while warm. 921. “ Hefen Waffeln"— Yeast Gaufres. Half a pound of butter stiiTed to a cream, four eggs, a good tablespoonful of yeast, stirred into half a pint of luke- warm milk, a little salt, and flour enough to form a batter. Proceed as above. 922. “ Easier Lebkiichen ”— Basle Gingerbread. Mix together in a pan a pound of sugar, half a pound of almonds cut in thin slices, half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, half a nutmeg grated, two ounces of candied peel sliced, and the grated rind of a lemon. Pour over these a pint of boiling-hot honey and a small wineglass of brandy. Work in by degrees a pound and a quarter of flour. Knead the dough well, roll it out very thin, and as square as possible, so that you can fill the flat baker’s tins, which must be buttered. Bake the cakes in a slow oven a pale brown. As soon as they are drawn from the oven, brush them over with a glazing of white of eggs and sifted sugar, cut them in pieces four inches long and two wide, and loosen them on the tins to cool there. Keep them crisp in canisters. 923. “ Lebkuchen ”— Thin Gingerbread. {No. 2.) This is excellent. A pint of honey, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, a pound and a half of fine flour, a quarter of a pound of almonds in the skins, each one sliced into four or five, half a pound of mixed candied peel, sliced and cut up half an inch long, the peel of a lemon cut very small, half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, a drachm of powdered cloves, half a nutmeg grated, a small glass of rum, and a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 262 Put honey and sugar in a stew-pan over the fire, and when it boils up throw in the almonds; let them simmer five minutes, then take the pan from the fire, put in the spice and peel; let it cool a little, then stir in the soda, next the mm, and lastly work in the flour. While this dough is stiU warm, roll it out as thin as possible ; cut oblong pieces, about four inches long and two broad ; lay them nearly close together on buttered or well-floured tins, and let them remain all night in a cool place. Bake them next day, after the bread, in a baker’s oven. They must not be done brown. As soon as they are taken out, draw a knife across the tins to divide them in the pieces above described, and when cold break them apart. Boil moist sugar in a little water, till it will draw into threads, glaze them on one side with this and let them dry. 924. “ Nurnherger LebkucJien ”— Nuremberg Gingerbread. A pound of fine flour, a pound of sifted sugar, a pound of almonds blanched and split, eight eggs, two ounces of candied orange, and the same of candied citron-peel, cut into small pieces, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, a dozen cloves pounded, and a quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda. The eggs must be well beaten, and stirred a quarter of an hour with the sugar, spice, and peel. Add the flour by de- grees, and when this is well mixed in, dissolve the soda in milk and stir it in. Lastly, put in the almonds. Cut wafer- paper into pieces four inches long and two wide, or twice this size; spread on these a layer of the mass as thin as possible, say, a quarter of an inch thick. Lay them on tins, and bake a pale colour in a slow oven. 926. “ Weisse Lebkuchen ”— Tl'/uVe Gingerbread, A pound of flour, half a pound of good white honey, half a pound of sifted sugar, two ounces of almonds blanched and sliced thin, two ounces of candied peel cut small, a dozen cloves pounded, and a quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda dissolved in a little milk. Proceed, and bake as in the preceding recipe. When baked a pale colour, let the cakes cool, and brush them over with a thin icing.SMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 263 926. “ Braune Lebkuchen,’’ or “ Leckerle”—Fme Gingerbread. A pint and a half of honey made scalding hot, half a pound of sugar, an ounce of powdered cinnamon, half a pound of almonds blanched and sliced, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, a quarter of a pound of candied peel, and flour enough worked in to form a paste that will roll out a quarter of an inch thick. Cut or stamp out any forms of small cakes, and bake on floured tins in a slow oven. 927. “ Honig Kuchcn ”—Honey Cakes. A pound of honey, a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of almonds pounded coarsely, a drachm of pounded cloves, the grated peel of a lemon, and hall an ounce of carbonate of soda dissolved in water. Let honey and butter come to a boil over the fire, take this off, and in a few minutes stir in the flour and spice by degrees, then the almonds, and lastly the soda. Let the mass stand all night in a cool place. In the morning roll it out half an inch thick, cut it into little square cakes, put half an almond in each comer, and a slice of peel in the middle. Bake them in a moderate oven a pale brown. 928. “Haselnuss Leckerle ”— Hazel-Nut Dainties. A quarter of a pound of hazel-nuts and an ounce of sweet almonds must be coarsely pounded, not to a paste. Mix with them six ounces of sugar, the whites of two eggs whisked to a snow, and just flour enough to bind the whole. Roll the paste out thin, cut out httle cakes, and bake them on buttered tins in a slow oven. 929. “ Zimmt Leckerle ”— Cinnamon Dainties. The whites of two eggs whipped to a snow, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of almonds pounded in their skins, half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, a tablespoonful of cinnamon water, and flour enough to form a paste. Cut out thin fancy shapes in little cakes, and bake in a slow oven. 930. “ Dicker brauner Kuchen ”—Thick Gingerbread. Two pounds of flour, two pounds of treacle, half a pound of sugar, six ounces of sliced almonds, half a pound of butter, the peel of a lemon cut small, half an ounce of264 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. powdered cinnamon, a drachm of pounded cloves, a quarter of a pound of candied peel, and a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Let sugar and treacle come to a boiling heat over the fire. Take it ofi“, and stir in the butter to melt; then add the spice and flour, and lastly the almonds, the peel, and soda. Let the dough stand a day, then knead it well to the. stiffness of light bread dough. Eoll it out near an inch thick, put it on a floured tin, and send it to the bakehouse to be slowly baked after the bread. Egg it over while hot, and cut it into large squares. 931. “ Baseler LeckerUin ”— Basle Dainties. A pound of honey, a pound of sifted sugar, a pound of fine flour, a pound of almonds sliced lengthways in their skins, two ounces of candied peel, the rind of a lemon cut small, half a nutmeg grated, a dozen cloves pounded, and a wineglass of rum. Melt honey and sugar over the fire, take it off, and stir in by degrees, first the flour and spice, then the almonds and peel. Knead all well together. Cover, and let it remain in a cool place five or six days ; then roll it out a quarter of an inch thick, and bake on tins, first made hot and rubbed over with white wax. "WTien drawn from the oven cut the cakes at once into oblong pieces, four inches long and two wide. Take them off the tins while quite hot. 932. “ Holldndische Krdcklinge"—Dutch Cracknels. Half a pound of sugar, half a pound of warmed butter, half a pound of fine flour, the yolks of two eggs, a table- spoonful of sour cream, a tablespoonful of bruised coriander- seeds. Mix these into a dough; break off pieces and roll them with the hands into ropes, trusts, or rings. Bake them in a moderate oven. 933. “ Schwaben Brod ”— Suabian Biscuits. A quarter of a pound of butter stirred to a cream, a quarter of a pound of sugar, the same weight of pounded almonds and flour, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a little cinnamon if approved. Mix all well together ; roll out and stamp with fancy cutters different little cakes. Brush them over with egg, and bake a pale colour.SMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 265 934. “ Kastanien Brod”— Chestnut Biscuits. Bake or boil some chestnuts, peel and skin them ; pound six ounces in a mortar, mix them with a quarter of a pound of sugar, the same of flour, and four eggs. Knead into a paste, roll out thin, and cut into various little cakes. Egg them over and bake on buttered tins. 935. “ Springerle," or “ Tirgeli ”— Little Anise-seed Biscuits, (No. 1.) Half a pound of fine flour, half a pound of sifted sugar, two eggs, an ounce of butter, and a pinch of carbonate of soda dissolved in a teaspoonful of milk, or a little more if necessary. Form with these a dough, which must be well kneaded. Roll it out a quarter of an inch thick ; cut out little cakes with various fancy cutters. Sprinkle anise-seed over a paste- board, lay on this the cakes nearly close together, and let them remain all night in a dry place. Butter tins very sparingly, lay the cakes on with a knife, and bake them in a very cool oven a pale yellow. 936. ‘^Springerle”—Anise-seed Biscuits. {No. 2.) Mix the anise-seeds into the dough described in 935. The more general way of moulding the springerle is with various figures cut in wooden blocks. These are dusted with flour, the paste rolled out and cut into small pieces, which are then pressed into the shapes, the surface shaved off with a knife, and the devices turned out hy knocking the blocks as they are held upside down. Bake them very pale. 937. “ Mandel KolatcJien ”— Almond Knobs. Soften six ounces of hutter, mix with it in succession six ounces of sugar, two eggs, ten ounces of flour, half an ounce of bitter, and an ounce of sweet almonds, pounded. Form little balls the size of a walnut, flatten them a little, and strew them with almonds cut small and powdered sugar. Bake them pale in a slow oven. 938. “ Wiener Kolatchcn ”— Vie7ina Knobs. Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, stir into it the yolks of four eggs and two whole ones, half a pound of sifted sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and, by degrees,266 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. half a pound of fine flour. Put little round lumps on buttered tins, egg them over, and strew them with sliced almonds, currants, and sugar. Bake them in a moderate oven. 989. “ Mailander Schnitten"—Milan Biscuits. Soften a quarter of a pound of butter, add to it six ounces of sugai', half a pound of flour, a tablespoonful of sour cream, or half a wineglass of brandy instead, and an egg. Mix all well, roll it out thin, and cut it into httle diamond-shaped cakes. Egg them over and bake them quickly. 940. “ Chocolade Brodchen ”— Chocolate Drop-Cakes. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiflf snow, mix in a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar and two ounces of grated chocolate, drop a teaspoonful at a time on a clean buttered tin, and bake the drop-cake in a very cool oven. 941. “ ScJmeizer Chocolade Brod ”— Swiss Chocolate Snaps. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff snow. Add six ounces of sifted sugar, two ounces of pounded almonds, and two ounces of grated chocolate. Stir all well together; cut strips of wafer-paper, spread them with the mass, and set them in a cool oven long enough to dry. 942. “ Chocolade Hohlhippen”—Chocolate Tubes. Mix a quarter of a pound of grated chocolate with the well- beaten whites of two eggs, half a pound of sifted sugar, and two or three spoonfuls of flour to form a paste. Take pieces the size of a walnut, and roll them out as thin as possible. Bake them in a cool oven ten or fifteen minutes. While still warm, and before they are hard, take them quickly ofi" the tin one by one, with a thin knife, roll them round a wooden spoon-handle, or ruler, and slip them ofl’ to dry. 948. “ Chocolade Pliitze ”— Chocolate Biscuits. Whip the whites of four eggs to a snow, mix with it six ounces of sifted sugar, a quarter of a pound of chocolate gi-ated fine, and two ounces of fine flour. Spread little cakes on well-buttered tins, and bake them in a moderate oven.SMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 267 944. “ Mandel Brod”—Almond Cakes, Half a pound of pounded almonds, half a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound of butter, half a pound of flour, and the yolks of six eggs, to be well mixed and kneaded. Form any little fancy devices, egg them over, and bake them slowly a pale colour in a cool oven. 945. “ Mandel Schnitten ”—Almond Strips. Ingredients:—Half a pound of butter stirred to a cream, half a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound of flour, half a pound of sweet almonds, and a quarter of an ounce of bitter ones pounded fine together, and two eggs well whisked. Leave out a thii'd of the almonds and sugar. Mix all the rest into a paste, roll it out a quarter of an inch thick; cut it into long narrow strips, and egg them over. Mix together the almonds and sugar left out; strew this over. Bake them a nice yellow in a moderate oven. 946. “ Macronen ”— Macaroons. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff snow; mix in by degrees three-quarters of a pound of sifted sugar. Have half a pound of almonds finely pounded with white of egg. Stir all lightly together. Make a clean tin hot and rub it over with white wax; drop with a spoon little cakes on it; or drop them on wafer-paper : and bake them a pale yellow in a cool oven. Another way;—Pound half of the almonds and cut the other half in thin slices. Mix the sliced almonds in last of all. 947. “ Bitter Macronen ”— Bitter Macaroons. With the above mass, use one-fourth of bitter almonds. 948. “ Mandel Hippen”—Almond Tubes. The whites of four eggs whisked to a snow, half a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound of finely pounded almonds, and a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon must be mixed well together. Spread very thin cakes on well-buttered tins, and bake them a pale yellow in a cool oven. While hot bend them round your finger, or mould them quickly on a rqund roller somewhat larger than a finger ; slip them off to cool, and then keep them crisp in a canister.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 268 949. “ Citronen Jlippen”—Lemon Tubes. Beat two eggs until they are white. Add to them their weight in sifted sugar, and the same of flour, the juice of a lemon, and half of its peel grated. Stir the mass well. Butter a large sheet tin, spread on it very thin cakes the size of a small saucer. Bake them a pale colour, and, while still warm, roll them on any wooden roller from which they will easily slip off. 950. Napoleon Schnitten”—Almond Sandwiches. Beat three eggs, and the yolks of two, with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and two ounces of fine flour. Stir it well for several minutes. Then add a quarter of a pound of almonds, sliced small. Spread the mass thin over a well- buttered or waxed tin, and put it for a few minutes in a moderate oven. As soon as it is coloured pale, draw it out, and at once cut it into strips about an inch wide and three long, using a ruler to guide the knife. Spread a little fine preserve between every two cakes. 951. “ Mandoletti ”— Mandoletti. Whip a firm snow with the whites of two eggs. Stir in half a pound of sifted sugar, the gi’ated peel of half a lemon, two ounces of almonds thinly sliced, and three ounces of hazel-nuts cut equally thin. Cut narrow strips of wafer-paper of equal sizes. Spread the nut mass over the strips, a third of an inch thick. Lay a strip of the wafer-paper on each, as a fitting cover, and put them in a very cool oven to set merely. Withdraw them before they are browned, as they must remain soft and white, or delicate cream coloured. 952. “ Anishrod ”— Anise Busks. Beat six eggs well, and with them, by degrees, half a pound, of sifted sugar. Add a quarter qf an ounce of anise-seeds, and the grated peel of a lemon; stir in by degrees nine ounces of flour ; butter a baking-tin, lay on this the dough, in two long rolls, and bake them in a quick oven. IMien half cold, cut them in slices ; lay these on the tin, and return them to the oven to bake a nice yellow.SMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 269 953. “ Anisbrod"—Anise Rusks. (Xo. 2.) Stir '.wo ounces of butter to a cream. Add half a pound of sifted sugar, half an ounce of anise-seeds, a little grated lemon-peel, four eggs whisked thoroughly, and flour enough to form a light dough. Make long rolls, egg them over, bake and flnish as above. 954. “ Anislaibchen”—Anise Bolls, Half a pound of sifted sugar, a quarter of an ounce of anise- seeds, and four well-beaten eggs, must be stirred briskly a quarter of an hour; then stir in by degrees half a pound of flne flour. Set round balls on a buttered tin, and bake them in a moderate oven. 955. “ Bauem Krapfen ”—Nice Buns. Whip four eggs to a froth, add half a pound of sifted sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and half a pound of flour. Mix these well. Put round balls on a buttered tin, and bake them in a moderate oven. 95G. “ Zimmt Sterne"—Cinnamon Sta7's. Pound, without blanching them, half a pound of almonds, with a little rum or brandy. Have ready the whites of three eggs whisked to a snow, half a pound of sifted sugar, the grated peel of a lemon, and a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon. Stir the sugar by degrees into the egg, add the lemon-peel and cinnamon, then the almonds. Work the whole to a paste; roll it out thin; stamp out little cakes with a star-cutter; brush them over with egg and sugar, and bake them slowly on a buttered tin. 957. ''Zimmt Sterne"—Cinnamon Stais. {No. 2.) Beat well four eggs and the yolks of four others ; add a pound of sifted sugar, and stir for a quarter of an hour. Add half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, a dozen pounded cloves, the grated peel of half a lemon, half a pound of almonds pounded in their husks, and a pound of fine flour. Proceed as in the last recipe. 958. “ Kapuziner Brod "—- Capuchin Biscuits. Stir a quarter of a pound of moist sugar with a well-beaten egg. Add a quarter of a pound of almonds pounded in theirGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, 2-JO husks, a quarter of a pound of flour, and a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon. Form a paste ; roll it out as thin as possible ; stamp out little cakes with difl'erent cutters, and bake them slowly on buttered tins. 959. “ Wiener Eishogen ”— Vienna Cakes. Beat five eggs ; add to them half a pound of sifted sugar, the gi'ated peel of a lemon, half a nutmeg grated, and half a pound of fine flour mixed in by degrees. Eoll out the mass as thin as possible ; lay it on a well-buttered tin or two. Chop two ounces of almonds very small; strew them over the paste ; then dredge over sugar and cinnamon mixed. Bake them slowly on buttered tins a pale yellow colour. When done, cut them on the tins into pieces about three inches long, and a little narrower; form them into tubes, by rolling them round the handle of a wooden spoon while still warm, or they will crack. Form them lengthways, upon any smooth sort of rolling-pin or other cylinder. 960. “ Brettsteine ”—Little Fancy Biscuits. Stir half a pound of sugar and two eggs for a quarter of an hour ; add the rind of a lemon grated, and by degrees half a pound of flour. "When well mixed into a smooth paste, roll it out very thin. Stamp out little fancy cakes, and bake them on buttered tins a pale yellow. 961. “ Zucker Bretzeln ”— Fancy Buns. Cut up half a pound of butter into half a pound of flour. Add a quarter of a pound of sugar, the yolks of three eggs and white of one ; use sour cream or milk enough to form a light dough. Mould with the hands little bars about six inches long and thick as a finger. Bend them into crescents; brush them over with white of egg, and strew over coarsely powdered sugar and finely chopped almonds. Bake them in a brisk oven a pale colour. 962. “ S Bretzeln ”—S Bretzels. Beat half a pound of butter soft; stir in a quarter of a pound of sugar and the yolks of five or six eggs. Add by degrees three-quarters of a pound of flour to form a paste. Boll out small bars ; tuim them into the S form; brush overSMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 271 with egg, dredge with sugar, and bake pale on buttered tins. 963. “ Hollanclisclie Moppen ”—Dutch Buns, Mix a pound of flour with a pound of sugar and a dozen cloves pounded. Add four well-beaten eggs and a teaspoon- ful of carbonate of soda dissolved in a little milk. Work the mass well. Put little balls, the size of a large walnut, on a buttered tin. Put on each ball a split almond or piece of candied peel. Set them at once in a moderate oven. 964. “ Schweizer Kropfli ”—Siviss Turnovers. Make a tart paste of half a pound of flour, six ounces of butter, an ounce and a half of sugar, and three tablespoonfuls of brandy. Poll it out thin ; cut out round cakes of three and a half or four inches across ; put on each a spoonful of fine preserve ; fold them over in half-circles ; brush with egg, and bake in a moderate oven. 965. “ Pfeffer Niisse ”— Spice Nuts. Beat four eggs, stir in a pound of sifted sugar, half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cloves, and the peel of a lemon cut as fine as possible. Stir these a quarter of an hour; then add a pound of flour by degrees and two ounces of candied peel. When this is well mixed, drop little lumps on buttered tins, and bake them in a moderate oven. 966. “ Braune Pfeffer Niisse ”— Gingerbread Nuts. Mix in a pan two pounds of flour with half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of cloves pounded fine, and a quarter of an ounce of cardamom-seeds. Make a pound and a quarter of treacle warm, and with it half a pound of butter; pour it into the flour; add a couple of beaten eggs and a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in a little water. Knead the whole well, and put it by in a cool place for a few days, or only let it stand a night; then break off little pieces, roll them into balls, put them on buttered tins, and bake them about twenty minutes in moderate heat, dry, but not dark. They keep good for months in canisters.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 212 967. “ Glucirte Kastanien"—Glazed Chestuiits. Dip half a pound of loaf sugar, in large pieces, in as much water as they will absorb. Boil the sugar in a stew-pan till a little dropped in cold water hardens directly. Have ready some chestnuts boiled and peeled without breaking. Put six or eight at a time on steel wire ; dip them in the sjTup and quickly plunge them into cold water; then slip them off the wire on a dish. Proceed thus until all are done. 968. “ Cracon"—Almond Crackon. Weigh a pound of loaf sugar, in large pieces. Dip them in water and put them in a stew-pan to boil doAvn. Have ready ten ounces of almonds, blanched and split in halves, and as soon as the synip is hoiled clear, put in the almonds, and let them boil until they turn yellow. Oil a jelly-mould with sweet Florence oil, using a feather or small brush to be sure that eveiy part of the moulding is oiled. Turn the almond confect into the mould. Dip a spoon in water from time to time, and spread the sugar mass equally and quickly to the sides and top of the mould, leaving the middle hollow. The cracon should not be very thick. When quite cold, turn it out. 969. “ Gebrau7ite Mandeln ”—Burnt Almonds. Dip a pound of loaf sugar in as much water as it will absorb. Boil it in a stew-pan to a snap height, which may be proved by letting a drop or two fall into cold water, when it should become hard. Wipe a pound of almonds, but leave their husks on. Thi'ow them all at once into the boiling sugar, and stii’ them constantly till all the sugar has coated the almonds ; then take them from the fire and con- tinue stirring till they are dry. Put them again on the fire, and stir till the almonds ai-e glazed. Turn them out on a dish and break them apart. If approved, a teaspoouful of powdered cinnamon may he dusted over them, and the almonds stirred when about to be taken from the fire. 970. “ Mandelspane”—Almond Sharings. Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds and six or eight bitter ones. Pound them quite smooth with a little white of egg. Mix them well with half a pound of sifted sugar, and white of egg enough to form a paste that will spread out thinSMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 273 with a knife. Warm a thin sheet tin, and rub it over with white wax. When this is cold, spread on it very thin oval cakes of the mass, about thi'ee or four inches long and two broad. Bake them in a moderate oven a pale yellow. Take them olf the tin with a knife while hot, and roll each round a small wooden roller; slip them off, and keep them warm until used, or put them in an airtight canister. 971. “ Marzipan ”— Marchpane. Blanch and pound together a pound of sweet and an ounce of bitter almonds, adding now and then a few drops of orange- flower water, or rosewater, to keep them from oiling. They must be pounded quite fine. Put the almond paste in a stew- pan with a pound of powdered sugar, and stir it over a slow fire till it forms a smooth paste that will receive the impres- sion of a finger without sticking to it. Then turn it out on a paste-board well-strewn with sifted sugar ; mould it into an oval form, and let it cool for use. It may be rolled out thin, cut into stars, rings, or round cakes, or any little fancy shapes; put them in the oven to bake slowly a pale yellow. Or: Roll out the paste as thin as possible. Cut it into pieces of equal size, or cut out round cakes ; lay one over another, with a layer of fine preserve between; brush it over with white of egg; stamp out little ornamental devices, or thin rings, and lay them on the large cake ; brush them over with white of egg glazing. Put them in a slow oven to colour a delicate yellow. 972. “ Citronen Schanm”—Lenion Rocks. Grate off the yellow rind of three lemons with half a pound of lumps of sugar; pound and sift the latter. Beat the whites of two eggs to a snow; add the sugar by degrees, and whisk it half an hour. Butter paper on tins ; set little rocks on them, and dry them in a cool oven. 973. “ Raisers ”— Merinciues. Whisk the whites of eight eggs to a very stiff snow. Pound an inch of vanilla quite fine in a mortar with two or three lumps of sugar. Mix this with a pound of sifted sugar, and add it by degrees to the egg snow, whisking all the while until the whole of the sugar is slowly scattered in. Make a T2 74 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. sheet tin hot, then rub it over with white wax ; drop on this, with a teaspoon, little rocks of the snow, sift a little sugar over, and bake them in a rather slow oven. They must be merely tinged a cream colour. 974. “ Merejikeuor “ GefuUte Baisers”—Filled Meringuex. These are the whites of four eggs whipped to a stiff snow, with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar. Or the previous baiser mass, laid in egg-shaped, large tablespoonfuls on a waxed tin, and just dried in a cooled oven. Proceed with them as with the above smaller ones, not forgetting to sift sugar over before baking. Avoid whipping or stirring too long as the sugar is being added, or the snow will lose its stiffness. When they are done, take them off the tin while hot, and carefully scoop out any soft part inside. Just before they ai’e sent to table, put a little fine preserve in each, and close two together. Or, whip a cup of good cream with sifted sugar flavoured with vanilla, or anything nice, and put it between two meringues. 975. “ Zivvnit Stengel ”— Cinnamon Sticks. Beat whites and yolks of two eggs, with half a pound of sugar, half an hour; add two ounces of pounded almonds, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, and twelve pow- dered cloves; then stir in well, by degrees, half a pound of fine flour. Eoll out, with the assistance of a butter-spade, little long sticks, and bake them on buttered tins a cinnamon colour. 976. “ilfa/ceu”—Sniall Droj) Cakes. Half a pound of sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, stirred half an hour; then add six ounces of flour, the grated peel of half a lemon, an ounce of candied orange and an ounce of candied lemon-peel cut thin. Mix all well, dredge a tin with flour, drop little cakes on it, and bake them in a moderate oven a delicate bro'vvu. 977. “ Bclgraden Brod ”— Belgrade Bar.<t. Blanch half a pound of almonds, cut them up the size of split peas, strew them on a tin, and colour them a pale brown. Stir half a pound of sugar and two eggs a quarter of an hour; add a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, the finelySMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 275 cut peel of half a lemon, an ounce of candied peel cut small, and six ounces of flour, leaving out some to dredge with. Mix in the almonds, and mould all to a light paste. Koll it out as thin as possible, and cut it into pieces four inches long and one and a half wide. Lay them on a buttered tin, and bake them a rich yellow colour. 978. “ Rocas ”—Almond Rode. . Boil a pound of sugar to a snap height; stir in a pound of almonds, blanched and cut into long strips. Stir it over the fire until thick; then quickly set little rocks on wafer- paper. 979. “ Weisse Rocas ”—-White Almond Rock. The whites of two eggs whisked to snow, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, a quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and sliced thin, and, if approved, half a lemon-peel grated or a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon mixed in. Set little rocks on wafer-paper, and bake them in a very slow oven. They must only be coloured a cream yellow. 980. “ Glasur"— Icing. For icing cakes, the sugar must he very white and finely sifted. Whip the whites of two fresh eggs to a strong snow ; stir into this by degrees half a pound of sifted sugar and the juice of a lemon. Continue the whipping up one way for half an hour, adding more sugar if the ice is too thin. Spread it on the requisite thiclmess, and dry it in a cool oven. 981. “ Chocolade Glasur"—Chocolate Icing. Grate and sift very fine three ounces of vanilla choco- late ; mix it with five ounces of sifted sugar. Add it to the snow of two egg-whites, and whisk it half an hour. 982. Rose Glasur"—Pink Icing. Soak a little cochineal in colourless spirit, and use enough in the white icing to give the depth of colour required. 983. '• Gelbe Glasur "— Yellow Icing. Rub off the yellow of two dark Seville oranges, with eight or nine ounces of lump sugar, which must be pounded andGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 276 sifted. Proceed with this sugar as in No. 980, or dissolve a pinch of saffron in a little rum or other spirit, and use enough of the liquid. 984. “ Ghrune Glasur ”— Green Icing. Proceed as in the first recipe. Chop a handful or two of spinach, press its juice through fine linen, and use enough to tinge the icing. 985. “ Zimmt Glasur ”— Cinnamon Icing. Mix a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon with each quarter of a pound of sifted sugar and the stiff snow of one egg- 986. “ Punsch Glasur ”— Punch Icing. Make a thick syrup of sifted sugar and lemon-juice, with a little arrack or rum, of a proper thickness to spread. It must be made hot before using, and, whatever is iced with it, must be dried by heat at once. 987. “ Himbeer Glasur"— Rasjjberry Icing. Use the fresh juice of raspberries, enough to mix with half a pound of sifted sugar and the snow of one egg. 988. “ Noyeau," or “Maraschino Glasur”—Liqueur Icing. Half a pound of sifted sugar, the snow of one egg, and four tablespoonfuls of either liqueur must be whisked until the icing is white and thick. Use it at once, and dry by heat. 989. “ Bachcerk Glasur ”— Icing for Pastry. The snow of one egg-white and a large tablespoonfnl of sifted sugar, must be well whisked. Spread it on with a paste-brush or quill feather, and let it harden by warmth. The perfection of any of these ices will chiefly depend on light and continuous whipping, until the requisite thickness and lightness is attained. Then spread the icing over at once, and dry it without delay.Chapter XIII. PRESERVES—“ EINGEMACHTE FRUCHTE.” 990. It is unnecessary to detail here those methods of preserving fruits which are the same everywhere, especially as the rules given in the following recipes may be applied to every kind. In many parts of Germany earthen pans are preferred to metal for boiling down fruit. Season them first; always use loaf sugar ; moist is apt to ferment. For most kinds of jam, the fruit and sugar maybe put on the fire together ; three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Keep it stirred continually till boiled down thick and smooth. When quite cold, tie over the jars. The narrower stone jars, holding from six to a dozen pounds, are best for keeping large quantities of family preserve. Fill them quite full; let them stand a night; then, without break- ing the jelly on the top, cover them a good half-inch thick Avith moist sugar, and tie them over. Paper will do, instead of bladder ; keep them cool and dry. For the finer preserves, clarify the sugar as follows. 991. “ Zucker zu Ldutern ”— To Clarify Sugar. Break up the requisite quantity of sugar in large lumps, allowing three-quarters of a pound to each pound of fruit. Dip each lump into oold water quickly, and put it into the preserving-pan. The quantity of water absorbed by the lumps in dipping will he right for boihng. Watch carefully that it does not boil over. When it has come to a boil, let it simmer slowly, and be ready with a cold spoon to check it whenever it begins to rise. When it forms little heads, it is boiled enough.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 278 992. “ Aprikosen ”— Apricots. They must be quite ripe. Peel them carefully, halve them, and take out the stones ; then weigh the fruit, and to every pound allow three-quarters of powdered loaf sugar. Put the fruit in an earthen or enamelled preserving-pan in layers, with the hollow side upwards, and sprinkle the sugar over each layer. Set it aside until next day; then set the pan over a clear, slow fire till the apricots are scalding hot, but not long enough to soften them. Take out the fruit with a perforated ladle, and carefully lay them to drain; boil the syrup till it thickens. Meantime, break the stones, and scald and blanch the kernels. Lay the fruit in preserve-glasses, with the kernels sprinkled between ; pour over the syrup, and cover with bladder. Apricots may be preserved whole in the same manner. 993. “ Aj>rikosen Marmelade ”—Apricot Marmalade. Proceed as above until the boiling of the fruit; then throw in the blanched kernels, and gently boil the whole, keeping it stirred until the fruit is dissolved and clear, and the colour gets a shade darker. Fill glasses or jars, and cover them air-tight. 994. “ Aprikosen Mus ”—Apricot Jam. Four pounds of apricots, two pounds of sugar, a wineglass- full of white-wine vinegar, and a quarter of an ounce of stick cinnamon. Clarify the sugar, peel and stone the fruit; put this with the blanched kernels, the vinegar, and cinnamon altogether into the boiling syrup, and simmer slowly till it becomes a smooth jelly. If after some time the preserve should get thinner on the top, and give signs of not keeping, boil it over again with a little more cinnamon. 995. Aprikosen in Essig"—Apricots in Vinegar. Four pounds of apricots, ripe but firm, a pound and a half of sugar, a pint and a half of white wine vinegar, a quarter" of an ounce of bruised cloves, and the same of cinnamon. Prepare the apricots as directed for preserving. Boil the sugar and vinegar till clarified; then take this sjTup from the firePRESERVES. 279 and put in the fruit, which must be merely scalded, and then taken out to drain before softening. Lay the fruit in preserve glasses, with the blanched kernels between. BoU down the syrup with the spices till it is thick ; when cold, pour it over the fruit. Should any sign of fermentation appear, the syrup must be boiled again. 99G. “ Apfelsinen Schalen in Zacker ”— Orange Chips. Strip off orange-peel in quarters, and boil a pound in a little water till soft; drain, and spread them apart to dry. Meantime, clarify three-quarters of a pound of sugar; pour it scalding hot over the orange-peel, and let it stand till next day ; then drain off the syrup, and bod it down thick. Pour it again over the peel, cover, and let it stand a day or two. Boil it over again as before, and repeat this until the syrup is all absorbed; then spread out the peel singly to dry in the air. 997. “ Dreimus ”— Triple Jam. Boil two pounds of sugar to a syrup ; put to this, three pounds of ripe black cherries, a pound of red currants, and a pound of raspberries. Boil the fruit down thick, and put it in jars while hot. Or: Stone two pounds of large cherries ; break half the stones, and take out the kernels. Boil them with the fruits and sugar as detailed above. 998. “ Kirschen Mas ”— Cherry Jam. To every four pounds of sweet black cherries, stoned, allow one pound of sugar, a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and six pounded cloves. BoU all together untU no more thin juice rises on the top. Some of the kernels may be added; they improve the flavour. 999. “Kirschen Mus ohne Zucker”—CheiTy Jam without Sugar. Gather the cherries when quite ripe, and free from dust. Stone them, crush the stones and boil them a few minutes in a little water. Strain this over the fruit, and boil it down to a thick jam, stirring all the time. It requires from two280 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, to three hours constant but slow boiling. The kernels may be picked out and thrown into the preserve when nearly done. Pounded cloves and cinnamon are frequently added. If the cherries are the very sweet black ones a little wine vinegar may be added with advantage, 1000, “ Pflaunien ocler Zicetschen Mus”—Plum Jam without Sugar. Two pecks of perfectly ripe mussel plums, a peck of ripe elderberries, measured on their stems, half an ounce of cloves freshly pounded, half an ounce of powdered cin- namon, and the peel of half a lemon cut very small. Strip the elderberries and hoU them till the juice runs clear and the berries are shrunk. Press the juice through a strainer into the preserving-pan; an earthen one is best. Having wiped and stoned them, add the spice and plums. Boil the jam from two to three hours, with constant stirring from the bottom that it may not burn. When boiled down to a thick smooth consistency lade it into stone jars while hot. When quite cold pour on the top some rendered-down suet of beef or mutton, or cover with brandy-paper, and tie over with bladder or au--proof paper. Keep the jars in a dry place, 1001, “ Pflaivmen Mus ”— Plum Jam irith Sugar. Peel and stone eight pounds of ripe mussel plums. Moisten a pound of loaf sugar with a quarter of a pint of wine vinegar, and boil it clear. A quarter of an ounce of whole cinnamon and a dozen cloves may then be put in with the fruit. Bod it, with incessant stirring, for above two hours, till it is a smooth and thick marmalade. Finish as in the last recipe. A few pieces of whole ginger boiled with the fruit helps to keep it. Untie the jars after a while, and if there is any thin juice on the top, or the least sign of mildew, take it carefully off and boil the preserve again. 1002. “ PJlaumen Mus"—Plum Jam uithout Sugar. {No. 2.) To a peck of ripe plums, take a dozen young green walnuts in their outer shell, and half an ounce of pounded cloves. Wash the plums, drain and boil them to a soft mash, then work them through a coarse sieve to separate the281 PRESERVES. fruit from skin and stones. Add the walnuts and spice, and boil the whole down to a thick jam. 1003. “ PJiaumen Oesdlz mit Birnen"—Plimi Jam ivith Pears. An equal weight of plums and pears, peeled and stoned, give an excellent preserve without sugar. Put a cup of, good cider into the preserving-pan, then the fruit and spice, in the proportions already given. Proceed and finish as directed for others. 1004. “ Hagebutten ”— Hijjs. Gather them when quite red. Cut off the crowns, and to each quart of berries pour over a third of a pint of wine vinegar, and let them stand three days, stirring occasionally. On the fourth day rub them through a wire sieve, and to every pound of the pulp allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Clarify the latter, and when beads form in the boil- ing, take it from the fire and stir in the pulp till it is cold. This fruit must not boil. 1005. “Hagebutten"—Hips. {No. 2.) Take off the crowns of the hips, and scoop out the kernels with a penknife. Moisten the loaf sugar with wine vinegar, and boil it with some stick cinnamon till beads form. Pour it hot over the hips. Next day, set them over the fire, and let them just come to a boil, but not to a mash. Put the preserve in glasses or jars, and tie them over as soon as it is cold. 1006. “ Hagebutten Marmelade ”— Hips Marmalade. Prepare the hips as above. Clarify the sugar with water, allo%ving half a pound of sugar to a pound of prepared hips. Add the fruit to the boiling sugar, and stir till it is a fine smooth pulp. Preserved ginger is sometimes added, cut into small pieces, and stirred in just at the last boil. 1007. “ Heidelbeer Mus ”— Wortleberrg or Bilberry Jam. Moisten the sugar with wine, and boil it well. To four quarts of fruit, allow two pounds of sugar, and half an ounce of powdered cinnamon. When the sugar boils in transparentGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 282 bubbles, throw in the fruit, and keep stirring till it is of a smooth consistency and no more thin juice collects on the top. Sprinkle in the cinnamon just before it is done. 1008. “ Hivibeeren in Zucher ”— Raspberries. Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Boil the sugar clear, then lay in the raspherries carefully and let them simmer five minutes. Take them out before they are too soft, and lay them on a sieve to drain. Boil the syrup till it forms little beads. Lay in the fruit again to simmer five minutes. Take them out as before, and now boil down the syrup till the bubbles are large. Lay in the raspberries carefully for another five minutes to simmer, being careful that they do not mash, for with care they should remain whole. Lade them into small glasses or jars while hot. 1009. “ Johannisbeeren ”—Red Currants Must be gathered dry, and onljr those that are free from dust should be taken for the finer preserve. Proceed as directed for raspberries. Currants which have been gathered over ripe may be boiled down for jam or jeUy. 1010. “ Erdbeeren ”— Strawberries. Pull them carefully from the stems. Put them in an earthen preserving-pan the day before you boil them, with powdered loaf sugar strewn between. Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Next day, set them on to simmer two or three minutes, stirring them 'gently from the bottom of the pan. Proceed as directed for “ himbeeren.” 1011. “ Preisselbeeren ”— Cranberries. Clai'ify the sugar as before directed, allowing a pound of sugar to each quart of fruit after you have rinsed, drained, and picked out all unripe berries. When the sugar is ready, throw in the cranberries, and stir gently till they begin to soften. Take them out with a hand-sieve. Boil down the syrup until it thickens. Pour it over the berries, and they are done.PRESERVES. 283 1012. “ Preisselheei'en"—Cranberries. {No. 2.) Sort and wash the berries. Put them on the fire in cold water. As soon as they are scalding hot, take them off and drain them in a sieve. Thus they lose much of their acrid taste, but not their flavour. The berries must not be left in the sieve a minute, for fear of losing their juice. Turn them into a pan. Boil sugar in proportion of a pound to four quarts of fruit. Put in the berries, and boil them soft, but not to a mash. Cover with a napkin while cooling, and stir them gently occasionally. When cold, fill jars, cover with brandy-paper, and tie them over with bladder or double paper. 1013. “Rum Compot"—Rum Preserve, or Unboiled Preserve. This excellent and useful preserve is made by degi'ees thi-ough the summer, as the various fruits ripen. Begin when strawberries are quite ripe. Put a pint of good rum in a deep stone jar, and with it a pound of strawberries and a pound of powdered loaf-sugar. Stir them gently. Next add a pound of raspberries and a pound of sugar, stirring all together gently from the bottom. Tie over the jar with bladder till currants are ripe. Then put in a pound of red ones, picked from the stems, and their pound of sugar. Cherries follow, picked from their stems, and wiped free from dust. Then greengages or other plums, apricots, or nectarines cut in halves. You may even finish with a pound of blackberries or mulberries, always adding the same weight of sugar, stirring up all together from the bottom, and tying over with the bladder. Gooseberries must not be added, because of their skins. Any of the above fruits may be left out, five or six kinds being quite enough for one pint of rum. If you use a whole bottle of rum, add an extra half-pound of fruit and sugar each time. Let it stand in a dry place a month or two before using; very strong brandy, or Irish whisky, answers as well for this preserve. 1014. “ Pomeranzen Marmelade ”— Orange Mamialade. The proper time for making this is when oranges are qmte ripe and juicy. To every ten sweet oranges, use two hitter or Seville ones. Score them and pare off the peel inGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 284 quarters. Set these on to boil till tender, in just water enough to cover them. Meantime scrape ofif the white skin from the oranges and crush them to a pulp. Take out the seeds carefully. When the rinds are boiled enough, drain them, and scrape away the soft white part from the yellow, cut the latter into very thin strips, weigh these and the fruit, and to each pound of the fruit and peel, allow three- quarters of a pound of sugar. Have the latter broken in largo lumps, moisten them with the water the peels were boiled in. Put the sugar in the preserving-pan, and when it has boiled five minutes put in the juice with the pulp, and let it boil slowly about half an hour, or until it is clear and the syrup begins to thicken to the consistency of cream. Then put in the peel, and let the boiling continue twenty minutes. Take the marmalade from the fire, and fill at once in small jars or glasses. For general family use, this method of making is good and economical, as the pulp will boil quite transparent, and give quantity. Some prefer to strain the fruit when mashed, and boil only the juice with the peel, proceeding as above. . 1015. “ Mohren 2Iaiynelacle ”— Carrot Marmalade. Boil a pound of large carrots until they are soft enough to run a pin through. Peel two lemons rather thin, and boil these yellow peelings in very little water till softened. Moisten three-quarters of a pound of lump sugar with the water in which the peels were boiled, and boil the sugar till beads begin to form. In the meantime, cut the carrots into thin slices, and then in very narrow strips. Cut the lemon-peel also in very thin strips. Add both to the sugar and strain in the clear juice of the two lemons. Boil gently as long as there is syrup. When this begins to thicken, take the pan from the fire, and, while warm, fill pots or glasses with the marmalade. 1016. “ Quitten Marmehule ”— Quince Marmalade, Boil quinces whole, in just water enough to cover them. When a pin will go easily through them, take them out and let them get cold, then peel and cut them in quarters. Take out the cores, and cut the fruit into thin slices ; weigh these and allow the same weight of sugar, which must be clarified as before directed. Pour the boding syrup over the quinces.285 PRESERVES. and let it stand till next day. Then drain off the syrup and boil it down thick ; add the fruit, and let it boil slowly with constant stirring till quite soft. Put the marmalade in glasses or pots while hot. 1017. “ Quitten Mcrnnelade”—Quince Marmalade. {No. 2.) Let the quinces boil till soft. Peel and core them ; press the fruit to a mash. Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Clarify the sugar first, then put in the fruit. Stir frequently, and boil it slowly till smooth and thick. Another way.—Having clarified the sugar, slice the raw fruit thin, and put it in to boil nearly soft, then take out and drain the slices. Boil down the syrup, lay in the fruit again, and boil it until soft, hut do not let the slices break. 1018. “ Quitten Kerne ”— Quince Kernels. The seeds should not be thrown away; they render a soothing remedy for burns or scalds. Put them in a paper bag to dry. When required, soak a very few in lukewarm or cold water; they will soon form a mucilage or sort of jelly. Apply this to the injured part. 1019. “Quitten Brod”—Quince Cakes. Boil the quinces whole, without peeling them, till quite soft; then peel and core them. AVork the pulp through a coarse sieve. Allow a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Moisten the sugar with a little water, and boil it until beads form, then put in the fruit and boil this, with constant stirring, to a stifiF, smooth jam. Make little trays of white paper, fill them half an inch thick with the fii’uit, and put them to dry in a cool oven, or spread the mass out thin on plates, and when somewhat dried, set them to get cold. Cut the fruit into any small shapes. Those dried on paper are removed by dipping the paper in cold water. 1020. “ Damascener Marmelade ”— Damson Marmalade. Boil four quarts of the plums in a quart of water, stin-ing often, until the fruit is done to a mash ; then, with a wooden spoon, work it through a coarse sieve, and to each pound of pulp add three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Boil it down286 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, clear, and to a jelly consistency. But if boiled too long, it injures both colour and flavour. 1021, “ Kirsch Marmelade ”— Cherry Marmalade, Whether made of sour or sweet cherries it is a fine preserve. Stone the cherries; crush the stones and boil them in a httle water till it has drawn out the flavour of the kernels. Put a little water into the preserving-pan with the fruit, and boil this to a mash ; then press it through a coarse sieve. Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Moisten the sugar with the kernel extract, and boil it to a syrup ; then add the fruit. Boil this until thick and smooth. Fill small pots, and tie them over when the jam is cold. 1022. “ Melonen einzumachen ”— To Preserve Melons. Having first divided them in quarters, peel the melons and take out the seeds. Cut them into slices two or three inches long and one broad. Pare off the edges to give them an oval shape. Boil down^the sugar, as directed, to clarify; lay in the melon slices to scald five minutes beside the fire, then set them away to get cold. They must be cooked in an earthen pan. Next day, take out the fruit and boU down the syrup. Lay the pieces of melon in glasses, and pour the syrup over. In three days drain away the syrup, and boil it down thicker ; pour it over the fruit, cover, and keep the glasses in a cool place. 1023. “Ananas einzumachen''— To Preserve Pine Apples. They may be peeled, sliced, and proceeded with as directed for apricots. When arranged in the glasses finally, pour on the top of each a spoonful of fine rum or arrack, and cover them with white paper dipped in the spirit, fitting the glasses ; then tie them over with bladder. 1024. “ Aepfel Gelee ”—Apple Jelly. Wash and wipe free from dust any fine-flavoured, sweet, juicy apples. Do not peel them, but cut each into half- quarters, leaving the cores. Put the slices in an earthen preserving-pan, shaking them well down. Pour over them boiling water enough to rise half the depth of the fruit. Boil it slowly, stirring often, until the apples begin to mash; then pour it into a jelly-bag, or press the fruit through a287 PRESERVES. napkin and fine sieve. In either case, the juice must he filtered three times, till it runs quite clear ; then add three- quarters of a pound of sugar to the pound of juice, and boil until it thickens to a clear syrup, and forms a hanging net- work on a silver spoon dipped in. Fill small glasses or pots, and tie them over the next day, 1025. “ Damascener Qelee ”—Damson Jelly. Rinse the fruit in plenty of cold water. To every three quarts of damsons put a pint of water in an earthen' pre- serving-pan. Let them boil slowly, with frequent stirring, till the damsons are broken almost to a mash ; then pour them into a sieve with a flannel or fine napkin over it, and press all the juice through. Filter this clear through a jelly-bag, and to each pound of juice add twelve ounces of loaf sugar. Boil until—as a very good test—’it hangs in a network on the spoon as you lift it up, and will thicken to a jelly when dropped on a cold plate. Fill in small jars. Tie them over next day. 1026. “ Himbeer Qelee ”— Raspberry Jelly. For this, use two-thirds of raspberries, and one third of red or white currants. Pick the fruit from the stalks, and put it on the fire in an earthen pan. Let it boil a few minutes, till the fruit begins to shrink, then pour it into a jelly-bag, or lay a napkin over a fine sieve, and let the juice run through this, pressing and mashing the fruit until you have gained all the juice. 8et it aside to cool and settle, then pour it care- fully from the sediment, and to each pound of juice add three-quarters of a pound of fine loaf sugar. Boil and finish as before dh’ected for other jelly. 1027. “ Johannisbeer Qelee ”—Red Currant Jelly. Red currant jelly will have a finer colour if you use one- third of thoroughly-ripe white currants. Proceed as de-. scribed for others; allowing three-quarters of sugar to the pound of clear juice; 1028. “ Schwarze Johannisbecr Qelee ”— Black Currant Jelly Is made in the same way, but requires a pound of sugar to each pound of juice, unless preferred rather acid.288 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 1029. “ Preissclhccr Gelee ”— Cranberry Jelly. This jelly is most useful for ornamenting various sweet dishes, on account of its beautiful colour and clearness. Wash and drain the berries ; boil them soft, and, while hot, press and strain them through a jelly-bag. Put the juice on to boil, with a pound of sugar to every quart. Do not boil it longer than a quarter of an hour, or it will lose its fine colour. It should be boiled in an earthen preserving-pan. 1030. “ Quitten Gelee ”— Quince Jelly. Choose quinces that are quite ripe and yellow ; wash and wipe, but do not peel them. Slice them and take out the kernels ; put the slices in an earthen preserving-pan, shake and press them down. Pour in boiling water enough barely to cover the fruit. Boil it until the colour deep ns and it becomes quite soft. Finish as directed for apple jelly, using the same proportion of sugar. 1081. “ Birnen in Essiy ”— Pears in Vinegar. Winter bergamot, or other small pears, must be peeled smooth, leaving on the stems ; and either left whole or halved and the kernels taken out. To every pound of pears, allow half a pint of vinegar, six ounces of sugar, a stick of cinna- mon, and a dozen cloves. Boil these ingredients a few minutes, then lay in the pears, and let them simmer till a pin goes easily through them, but not long enough to soften them. Take out the pears, drain them on a sieve, and lay them in the jars. Boil down the syrup thicker, and when cold pour it over the fruit. Should the syrup become thin in a few days, boil it over again. If there is not enough to cover the pears, make moi’e, as above directed. 1032. “ Kuschen in Essig ”—Clicn-ies in Vinegar. To eveiy pound of cherries allow half a pint of vinegar, half a pound of loaf sugar, a drachm of stick cinnamon, and half a dozen cloves. Boil sugar, vinegar, and spices together for ten minutes. Take off their stems and put the cherries in a jar, pour the vinegar and spices warm over them, and cover at once with paper. Next day boil the syrup overPRESERVES. 289 again and pour it wai-m over the cherries. Eepeat this the third day and tie them over. The spice must be left in. 1033. “ Kirschm in Essif/"—Cherries in Vinegar. {No. 2.) Put a thick layer of cherries in a large preserve-glass or jar. Strew a handful of sugar over and some broken cinna- mon and cloves. Add layers of cherries, sugar, and spice, till the vessel is full. Fill it up with good cold vinegar, cover with good white paper, and stand the jars in the sun, or a warm place, a few days before putting away. 1034. Pflaimen in Essig”—Plums in Vinegar. Six pounds of ripe mussel plums, firm and whole, two pounds of sugar, half an ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and three pints of vinegar. Wipe the plums free from dust. Boil vinegar, sugar, and spice together, then lay in some of the plums and just give them a scald. Take them out as the skins begin to crack, and laj" them on flat dishes to get cold, putting others, but not too many at once, into the boiling-hot vinegar. They must not boil soft. Those that are cold must be carefully laid in large jars, and so proceed until all are scalded, cooled, and put in the jars. Boil the syrup a little longer, let it get cold, and pour it over the fruit. If the syrup is not enough to cover the frait at first, shake the jars gently that the plums may pack closer, or tilt the jar on one side and baste the fruit daily. At the end of a week pour off the syrup, and give it another boil. Pour it over hot if the plums are hard, but if they are soft let the syrup get cold fii'st. 1035. “ Pflaumen in Essig und Wein”—Plums in Vinegar and Wine. Four quarts of plums, a quart of vinegar, a pint of red wine, a pound of sugar, a drachm of cloves, a drachni of cinnamon. Proceed and finish as in the previous recipe. 1036. “ Obst in Branntivein ”—Fruit in Brandy. Peaches, apricots, and plums, must he ripe, but fii’m. Prick them several times all over to the stone, with a pin. Clarify sugar as directed in No. 991, and when it is ready lay in the fruit, and let it simmer slowly till it is a little softened, but still firm; then set it all by to get cold. Next u2go GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. day take out "tlie fruit, and drain it on a sieve or dish. Boil down the syrup to thicken, and when it is cold mix it with an equal quantity of pale brandy. Arrange the fruit in glasses and pour the brandy syrup over. Half a pound of sugar to the pound of fruit is sufficient. 1037. “ Kirschen in Branntwein ”— Cherries in Brandy. Choose large cherries, cut near two-thirds of the stem off each; shake them down in glass jars, putting a few cloves and pieces of stick cinnamon between. According to the sweetness of the cherries, mix about a pound, more or less, of sugar with the quart of brandy, and pour it over the cherries. Tie them over with bladder, and let them stand a fortnight in the sun. Or, fill wdde-necked bottles with cherries, shake them down till they are packed quite close ; fill up -with the spice, sugar, and brandy; cork them well, and place the bottles in the sun. 1038. “ Quitten in Branntwein ”— Quinces in Brandy. Boil quinces whole until soft enough to run a pin through. Claiify sugar as before directed ; and when clear beads form in the boiling, peel the quinces, lay them in, and give them one boil up. Put them away to'get cold as they are. Next day drain them from the syrup, and boil the latter down thick; let it get cold. ]\Ex it with rather more than an equal quantity of brandy, pour it over the quinces, and tie them over with bladder. 1039. “ Ohst in Flaschen ”—Bottled Fruits. The various ways of bottling fruit are nearly the same everywhere. Plums should be wiped and put into dry, wide- necked bottles, with well-fitting corks put lightly in. Goose- berries should also be picked diy, and before they are full- sized, well shaken into the bottles, and the corks but just inserted. Currants, cherries, &c., the same way. Put some hay or straw in the bottom of a boiler; wind some round each bottle as you pack them in upright. Pour in water up to the necks of the bottles. Make a fire under the boiler. Let the water come slowly to a boil. Observe when the fruit looks just scalded, then remove the fire from under it. Pour in a little cold water to chill the boiling, and when the bottles arc become quite cold in the water, drive in the corksPICKLES. 291 close, and dip them in bottle-wax, or tie them over with bladder. Kaspberries require but about five minutes’ scalding. Gooseberries and plums a quarter of an hour. 1040. “ Obst in Flaschen, mit Zncker”—Bottled Fruit with Sugar. Boil four pounds of sugar in five half-pints of water. Let it simmer ten minutes, after coming to a boil. Fill bottles with fruit, shaking it down. When the syrup is cold, fill up each bottle with enough to cover the fruit. Cork them well at once. Stand the bottles in a boiler of cold water, and let it come to a boil slowly; after which, simmer a few minutes. Let the bottles get cold in the water. Keep them in a cool place. “ EINGE]\IACHTES IN ESSIG PICKLES. 1041. “ Salzgurken, oder Saure Giirketi ”— Sour Cucumbers. ft Cucumbers half gi’own are best. Choose them smooth and without seeds. Lay them twelve hours in water, then wipe them dry. Have ready a perfectly clean small barrel, or un- glazed earUien crock, at the bottom of which put a layer of vine-leaves, sour cherry-leaves, and two or three walnut- leaves. Then lay in cucumbers, close together, with a leaf or two between them, and cover them with wild cherry-leaves ; then again cucumbers as before, with here and there a sprig of green dill and half a walnut-leaf. Over each layer of cucumbers put vine and cherry-leaves to cover them, and so on till the vessel is full. Make a weak brine of a handful of salt to the gallon of water. Pour this over the cucumbers, which must be quite covered with salt water. Put a cover and weight on the top, stand them in a warm place for a few days till bubbles begin to appear on the brine, then remove them to a cold and shady place. Many add a cup of vinegar to the brine, or a few spoonfuls of tartaric acid, a few cloves or allspice sprinkled here and there, with a bay-leaf and some sliced horseradish. In three or four weeks they are ready for eating.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 2Q2 1042. “ Gtirkcn ah Essu/ Mantfo ”— Cucumbers as Mairr/o Pickles. Choose cucumbers full grown, but not too old. Cut a piece out of the side of each, and scoop out the seeds and pulp. Strew salt over and let them lie a night. Take equal quantities of horseradish, shalots, and capers or green nas- turtium-seeds, cut them up the size of peas; mix with these nearly a fourth part as much mustard-seed, some white pepper- corns, a few bruised cloves, and a part of a nutmeg grated. Dry the cucumbers and fill the insides with the mixture. Replace the pieces that were cut out, and bind them round with twine. Pack them close in large jars, and fill them up with cold vinegar. 1048. “ Siisse Gurken"—Cucumbers Sweet. Peel full-gi'own cucumbers ; yellow ones will do. Halve them down the middle, scoop out the seeds, cut them into any fanciful pieces, cover with good vinegar, and let them stand twenty- four hours ; then pour ofi' the vinegar, and to three pints of this put half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of stick cinnamon, a drachm of cloves, half a drachm of grated nutmeg, and an ounce of whole ginger. Boil the pickle ten minutes. Lay in the cucumbers, give them one boil up, and take them out before they soften in the least. Lay them in jars and pour the pickle hot over them. In a week or two boil the vinegar over again, and pour it when cold over the cucumbers. 1044. “ Gurken in Essig und ”— Cucumbers in Vinegar and Water. The cucumbers may be of any size, but they must be firm and without seeds. Wipe, and lay them close together in a large jar with the following seasonings strewn between :—a few pickling onions which have been peeled and thrown into salt water, an ounce of ginger broken up small, half an ounce of whole pepper, a quarter of an ounce of whole pimento, eight or ten bay-leaves, a handful of dill, and a few leaves or small sprigs of tarragon : those equally dispersed between the cucumbers. To every quart of vinegar add a pint of water and a dessert-spoonful of salt. There must be enough to cover the cucumbers when poured over. To insure the keeping of these and other pickles, make a muslin bag a little293 PICKLES. larger than the top of the vessel and fill it with mustard-seed enough to lie nearly half an inch thick over the pickles. 1045. “ Riissische Ourken”—Russian Cucumbers. Wash two dozen of large cucumbers, full grown, but with- out seeds. Sprinkle plenty of salt over, and let them lie two days; then wipe and pack them in an earthen vessel, dis- persing between them a pound of peeled shalots and an ounce of garlic divided. Lay on the top a handful of basili- cum-leaves, the same of dill and tarragon-leaves, a pod of chillies, or a sprinkling of cayenne pepper. Pour enough boiling vinegar over to cover them. Tie over the jars with bladder or double paper. In a fortnight pour ofl‘ the vinegar, add a little more to it, boil again, and pour it cold over the cucumbers. They will be ready in a month or six weeks. 1046. “ Rathe Ruben einzumachen ”— Beetroot, Wash beetroots, but do not cut or break their skins. Boil them quite whole till moderately soft. When cold, peel and slice them. Lay the slices in glass or other jars. Boil vinegar with a few bruised cloves, some sliced horseradish, and whole pepper ; let it get cold and pour it over the beet. 1047. “ Rothe Rube7i einzumachen’'—Beetroot. (lYo. 2.) Boil and slice the beetroot as above. Strew caraway- seeds between the slices, and cover them with cold vinegar. 1048. “ Pfeffer Gurken”—Pejjper Gherkins. These should not be larger than a little finger. Sprinkle salt over and let them lie twenty-four hours, then wipe them dry and lay them in jars with old pepper, mace, shalots, a few tarragon and bay-leaves between. Boil vinegar, and pour it hot over the gherkins. In three days pour off and boil the vinegar again. Pour it cold over the gherkins and cover them close. 1049. “ Sen/ Gurken Hot Pickle. Peel the largest sized cucumbers, cut them through length- ways, halve them and scrape out the seeds. Pare off the sharp edges to give them a round appearance. Boil water with salt, lay in the cucumbers, let them boil a minute.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 294 then drain them in a sieve. Lay them in a large jar, sprinkle salt over, and cover them with wine vinegar. In three or four days pour off the vinegar and boil it with cloves and whole pepper. Repack the cucumbers with a plen- tiful addition of sliced horseradish and halved shalots, some Chili pods or capsicums, hay-leaves, a few cloves of garlic, chips of mace, and some small sprigs or leaves of tarragon, all dispersed between the layers of cucumber. "^Tien the vinegar is cold, fill up and tie over the jars. In a fortnight boil the vinegar again, let it get cold, return it, and well cover the picldes. 1050. “ Turkischer Weizen ” or “ WdUclikorn ”— Indian Maize. While the Indian corn is unripe, tender, and not larger than a little finger, strip off the leaves and lay the corn-ears in pickle-jars, with a small quantity of bay-leaves and basili- cum broken up and sprinkled between. Pour boiling vine- gar over, and cover them well. 1051. “ Wdlschkorn”—Indian Maize. {No. 2.) Boil water well salted ; throw in the green corn-ears, let them boil up once ; drain, and lay them in the jars. Boil vinegar with the usual spices, bay-leaves, and shalots. When cold, pour it over the corn, letting the spices remain on the top. Strew plenty of mustard-seed on, and tie over the jars with bladder. 1052. “ Bohnen in Essig”—French Beans. Having strung young French beans, boil them a few minutes in salt water, then drain and spread them on a napkin to dry. Lay them in jars with coarsely ground pepper. Pour cold vinegar over, and some fresh salad oil on the top. Tie over, and keep them in a cool place. 1053. “ Nasturz ”— Kasiurtium Seeds. They must be young and green. Rinse them well in cold water, strew salt over, and let them remain till next day; then dry them on a napkin, and put them in bottles with whole pepper, cloves, tarragon-leaves, and horseradish. Cover with cold vinegar and cork them well. They are ex-295 PICKLES. cellent, either as an ordinary pickle or as a substitute for capers in sauces. 1054. “ Perlzivicheln "— Bead Onions, Wash the onions, throw plenty of salt over, and let them stand at least twelve hours, then rub off the peels. If you use a knife to scrape them dip it constantly in water, to pre- vent its staining the onions black. Have white wine vinegar in the jars, with sliced horseradish, bruised white pepper, and tarragon-leaves. Throw in the onions as you peel them. Tie over and let them stand three or four days, then pour ofl' and boil the vinegar. Pour it scalding over the onions, enough to cover them well. They keep best in bottles corked. 1055. “ Champignons," or “ Steinpilze ”— Mvshrooms. Select small button mushrooms, cut from the roots. Have water boiling, just enough to cover the mushrooms ; add a glass of wine vinegar to it and salt it well. Throw in the mushrooms and let them simmer a few minutes, two or three at longest; strain and leave them in the sieve to cool. Boil white wine vinegar with cloves, pepper, shalots, a little tarragon, bay-leaves, and mace. Keep the vinegar covered, and let the spices infuse in it until quite cold. Bottle the mushrooms, strain the vinegar, and pour it over the mush- rooms. Should there be any signs of mildew forming on the top of the vinegar after a week or two, boil it over again, add more spice to strengthen it, and when cold fill up the bottles. 1056. “ Champignons einzumachen ”— To Preserve or Pot Mushrooms. Mushrooms the size of a hazel-nut must be quite freed from dust by brushing and wiping. According to your quantity of mushrooms, put butter to melt in a stew-pan, with a few cloves, some white pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon. When the butter is skimmed clear put in the mushrooms and stir them gently until they begin to soften, then fill them in glasses at once. The butter should be at least half an inch thick on the top. When they are quite cold and the butter hard, put fine salt half an inch deep on it, and tieGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 2g6 over the glasses. Mushrooms so potted are delicious either cold or made warm. Note.—Sauerkohl, or Kraut, and some other preserved vegetables, will be found under their respective headings. In pickling white cabbage avoid using too much salt; half a pound is quite enough for three dozen hard white cabbages. (See Index.)Chapter XIV. ESSIGE.—VINEGARS. 1057. “ Ohst Essifj''—Fruit Vinegar. Apples, pears, or any other juicy fruit, must be well crushed with a stamper, and put in a suitable tub. On two bushels of fruit, pour four gallons of boiling water. Stir well, and let it stand in a warm place a week, skimming off the impurities whenever fermentation rises. Then strain the whole through fine, strong linen, pressing the pulp. Put the juice in a barrel, stir in a pint of yeast, and throw in a piece of bread. Let the cask be quite full; put the bung in loose, and throw a piece of flannel over it. Let it stand in a warm place a month or six weeks, when the vinegar will be fit to bottle. 1058. “ Ohst Essig ”—Fruit Vinegar. (No. 2.) Windfalls may be collected for vinegar, and any bruised fruit will do, but not apples or pears that are black. Crush the fruit well; if you have a cider-press use it. Put the juice in a tub, to stand eight or ten days. Take off the scum as it rises with fermentation, then put the juice in a cask and set it in a warm place. The barrel must be quite full, and any remains of juice must be bottled to fill it up with as the vinegar wastes with fermentation. When this is over, cover the bunghole with a piece of linen. In spring you may either draw it off into a clean barrel, or bottle it, without disturbing the sediment. 1059. “ Trauhen Essig ”— Qrape Vinegar. Grapes that will not ripen, treated as above, make excellent vinegar. It is well to use a vinegar cask, or one which has been rinsed out with vinegar.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 2g8 1060. “ Johanisbeer Esdg ”— Currant Vinerjar. This fine vinegar is made by simply pressing the fruit to a mash. Let it stand a night, then strain the juice off clear and fill bottles to the brim. Set them uncorked in the sun, or in a ■warm place, until the fermentation ceases ; skim off any little impurity that rises with a piece of blotting-paper, and cork the bottles well. White currants are excellent for delicate pale vinegar. Red ones make a -vinegar equal to that made from the finest red wine. 1061. “ Himbeer Essig ”— Baspberry Vinegar. Mash two quarts of raspberries in an earthen vessel; put them in a large stone bottle or jar. Pour into them two quarts of good wine vinegar. Cork the jars lightly, and let the juice distil in the sun or warmth two or three weeks ; then filter clear and bottle it, corking it well. 1062. “ Himbeer Essig mit Zucker ”—Baspberry Vinegar with Sugar. Mash raspberries in an earthen bowl. To every pound of fruit add a pint of vinegar ; cover, and let it stand two or three days, then press it through a jelly-bag. To every pint put half a pound of lump sugar. Set the juice on the fire to come to a boil; take off any scum that rises; allow five minutes’ gentle boiling; set it to get cold, then pour it into small bottles and cork them well. 1063. “ Estragon,” or “ Bertram Essig "—Tarragon Vinegar. This vinegar is most useful in cooking. Pick tarragon- leaves from the stems, and put two handfuls in every wine- bottle required; fill up with good vinegar. Sliced shalots and a few bruised cloves are sometimes put in with the leaves. Cork well, and stand the bottles in the sun, or in a warm place, to distil. The vinegar will soon be ready for use, but age improves it. After a few weeks it maj' be filtered. A very little flavours a dish or salad. 1064. “ Zucker Essig”—Sugar Vinegar. To every three quarts of water put a pound of raw sugar. BoU it half an hour, skimming if neccssarj’. Set it to cool in an earthen vessel; when just out of the chill, not more than lukewarm, throw in a slice of bread with yeast strewnVINEGARS AND LIQUEURS. 299 thickly over it on both sides. Let it ferment two days, then pour it into a small barrel, previously rinsed out with vinegar. Paste a piece of brown paper over the bunghole, perforate this with a fork, so as to leave little air-holes, and place the barrel in a dry and warm position. 1065. “ SclililsscJi-hlumen ”— Cowslip Vinegar. A quantity of cowslips or primroses, boiled in the water and sugar, then strained into the cooling-tub, gives name, flavour, and colour to this economical and useful vinegar. 1066. “Essigzu Verstdrken”—To Strengthen Vinegar. When vinegar is getting weak or spoiling, soak a slice of bread in vinegar and dry it; repeat this soaking and drying three times ; then throw the bread into the weak vinegar, which will soon become sharper. Unripe grapes, bruised and thrown in, have the same effect. 1067. “ Veilchen Essig ”— Violet Vinegar. Gather wood violets when they are most plentiful, in spring. Put the flowers, without their stems, in bottles, shaking them down till full. Then pour in as much wine vinegar as they, will take ; cork, and set them in the sun three or four weeks. Strain off the vinegar after this time. A spoonful or two of the violet vinegar in water, with or without sugar, is, in many cases, a remedy for nervous headache. It is good also for flavouring beverages and sweet dishes. “ LIQUEURE LIQUEURS. 1068. “ Anis Liqueur"—Anise, or Anise-seed Liqueur. Put an ounce of anise-seed in a quart bottle of fine brandy. Let it stand a fortnight, shaking occasionally. Boil a pound of sugar in two quarts of water to a strong syrup. Filter off the brandy and add it to the syrup. Bottle and cork it well. 1069. “ Arrack Liqueur ”— Arrack Liqueur. Boil a pound of sugar-candy in a quart of water, with the thin yellow peel of half a lemon. When cold, take out the lemon-peel, and mix the syrup with a quart of arrack.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 300 1070. “ Curaqao ”— Curaqao. Put in a large glass retort the thin yellow peel of six Seville oranges and one lemon, a quarter of an ounce of stick cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of coriander-seeds, and as much saffron as will lie on a shilling. Pour over these thi'ee pints of pure spirit. Cork the bottle close, and set it in a warm place to let the contents infuse for six weeks, then filter the sphit through fine flannel. Clarify two pounds of loaf sugar in three pints of water, and, when cold, mix it well with the filtered spirit. Bottle, and cork it well. 1071. “ Citroncn Liqueur”—Lemon Liqueur. In a quart of pure colourless spirit put the thin peelings of four lemons. Let it stand ten or twelve days, then filter it. Clarify a pound of sugar in a quart of water, and add it to the spirit, with the juice of four lemons. Mix well, and bottle it for use. 1072. “ Erdbeci' Liqueur ”— Strawberry Liqueur. FUl a large bottle half full of red strawberries when quite ripe and full flavoured. Fill up the bottle with broken sugar- candy. Pom’ in as much pure spirit as the bottle will hold. When it has stood a month in the sun, filter it off. 1073. “ Hinbeer Liqueur ”— Rasjiberry Liqueur. A pint of raspberries in a quart of spirit must be corked tightly for a month. Then clarify a pound of sugar in a pint and a half of water. Filter ofi’ the spirit and add it to the syrup. Mix weU, and put it in small bottles. 1074. “ Noyeau”—Noyeau. To a quart of pure spu’it, put two ounces of bitter almonds, blanched and bruised. Stand it for ten or twelve days in the sun, or near warmth, shaking the bottle occa- sionally. Boil a pound of loaf sugar with a pint of water a few minutes. Pour it warm into the spirit and almonds. Shake it well. Let it stand two or three days, then filter it ofi’. 1075. “ Bosoli”—Cinnamou Liqueur. A pound of crushed sugar-candy and half an ounce of stick cinnamon must be boiled in a pint of water to a syrup.301 VINEGARS AND LIQUEURS. Take ont the cinnamon, and if the syrup is not perfectly clear, strain it. Add to it a quart of white brandy or any proof spirit. Bottle it at once for use. 1076. “ Pomercmzen Liqueur ”— Orange Liqueur. Infuse for a week in the sun the thin yellow peel of four Seville oranges and a pinch of saffron in three pints of pure spirit or the best gin. Then moisten a pound of lumps of sugar with as much water as they will quickly absorb, throwing them into the spirit bottle. Let it stand a month longer in a warm place, then filter the liqueur from the peel and bottle it for use. 1077. “ Quitten Liqueur"—Quince Liqueur. Ripe yellow quinces must be washed and wiped dry, not peeled. Grate them on a coarse grater. Sprinkle powdered loaf sugar among them, and let them stand till next day, then press and filter the juice. To every pint of this add an equal quantity of proof spirit and half a pound of fine sugar. Let the liqueur stand a fortnight, shaking the bottle occasionally. 1078. “ Nelkcn Liqueur ”— Clove Liqueur. A quart of spirit, half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of cloves well bruised, the same of coriander-seeds bruised, and two dozen black cherries, either ripe or dried. Infuse for a month, then strain the liqueur for use. 1079. “ JoJiannisbeer Liqueur ”— Black Currant Liqueur. Boil a quart of ripe black currants and a dozen bruised cloves in three half pints of w-ater for half an hour, then filter the juice through a jelly-bag. Add a pound and a half of loaf sugar, and boil the juice again a quarter of an hour, skimming it carefully. When nearly cold, filter it through fime flannel. Add three pints of proof spirit, and bottle it for use. 1080. “ Schwarze Johanviisbeeren ”— Black Currant Liqueur. {No 2.) Bruise a pint of black currants; put them in a bottle, with three half pints of spirit, and three quarters of a pound of bruised sugar-candy. Let this stand six or eight weeks, and filter it off for use.302 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 1081. “ Kirsch Liqueur ”— Cherry Liqueur. Weigh a pound of morella and a pound of sweet black cherries. Open them and take out the stopes. Crush the latter. Put them and the fruit in a large bottle, with half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of stick cinnamon, and a dozen cloves bruised. Pour in a quart of brandy. Cork it close. Strain it off clear in a fortnight. 1082. “ Kiimmel Liqueur ”—Caraway Liqueur. Bod half a pound of sugar in half a pint of water. Mix this, while hot, •svith an ounce of caraway-seeds and a quart of brandy. Cork it close at once. You may filter it after a week’s standing. 1083. “ Vanillen Liqueur ”— Vanilla Liqueur. Break up two whole pods or sticks of vanilla. Put them in a bottle with three pints of brandy or proof gin. Let this in- fuse a fortnight. Then boil a pound of sugar in a quart of water to a clear syi’up. Add the spirit and vanilla. Let all simmer together ten minutes, then filter and bottle it. Saffron or cochineal may be used for colouring, if pre- ferred. PUNSCH—PUNCH. 1084. “ Punsch Essenz ”— Punch Essence. Peel six lemons and two Seville oranges verj"^ thin, and put the peelings in a glass retort or large bottle, with the juice of ten lemons and the two oranges ; add a quart of arrack or fine rum. Cork this well, and let it stand a week ; then put a pint of very good amber-coloured wine over a clear fire, with two pounds of loaf sugar, and boil this to a clear syrup. While it is cooling, filter through fine flannel the spirit from the peels ; add this to the syrup before the latter is quite cold. Put it in small bottles and cork them well. A third or fourth part of this essence in hot tea, water, or wine, gives excellent punch at once.303 PUNCH. 1085. “ Pimsch Essenz”—Punch Essence. (jYo. 2.) Rasp off the yellow rind of three lemons with a pound and a quarter of sugar lumps ; then moisten the sugar with as much water as it will absorb, and boil it clear. Add the juice of four lemons, and, when cool, mix with it a quart of tine arrack or old rum. Mix with boiling water or hot tea according to taste, when required. ' 1086. “ Kaiser Punsch ”— Cold Imperial Punch. This is a cold punch, well deserving its name. Ingredients : —A pineapple; a Heville orange ; four lemons ; four sweet oranges ; an inch of vanilla split open; a drachm of stick cinnamon; half a pound of loaf sugar; a bottle of good hock, a bottle of champagne, and a bottle of arrack. Peel the Seville oranges, then put the peel, with the vanilla and cinnamon, to scald in a quart of water by the tire. Cover this close while infusing. Slice the pineapple very thin into a punch-bowl. Peel the sweet oranges very close, scraping all the white off; cut each one into eight slices, and add them to the pineapple. Having rasped the rind off' a lemon with some of the lumps, add all the sugar to the fruit, and add also the juice of the four lemons. Pour the flavoured water through a strainer into the bowl, and cover it close until quite cold; then add, first the arrack, then the hock, and lastly the champagne, with half a bottle or good pint of seltzer water. Stir all together briskly. Serve in champagne-glasses. 1087. “ Wein Punsch"— Wine Punch. Rasp the yellow rind off' two lemons with half a pound of lump sugar. Put this in a bowl with the juice of the lemons. Make two bottles of good Rhine wine scalding hot, adding to it a pint of strong green tea. Pour this over the sugar, and add from half a pint to a pint of arrack or tine rum. 1088. “ Eier Wein ” or “ Whip Eyy Wine. With a quarter of a pound of lump sugar rasp off the yellow rind of a lemon. Put the sugar and juice of a lemon in a casserole, with half a teaspoonful of freshly ground cinnamon, a bottle of white wine, and four well-beaten eggs.304 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. "WTiisk all together over the fire until scalding hot, but do no let it boil. 1089. “ Mecldenhurg Punsch ”— Cold Mecklenburg Punch. Rasp off the yeUow rind of two lemons with a pound of lump sugar. Pour on this a pint of good green tea, then a bottle of cognac, a bottle of Madeira, and two bottles of good claret. 1090. “ Dreifuss ”— Trevet. Three pints of good red wune, a quarter of an ounce of stick cinnamon, half a drachm of vanilla bruised, and half a pound of sugar. Set these over the fire. Meantime, whisk the yolks of eight eggs well, with a little powdered sugar and a glass of cold wine. Watch the casserole, and when the wine is hot, whisk in the eggs, and keep stirring until it appears to be just coming to a boil; then draw it back from the fire, and continue whisking for a few seconds. Be sure it does not boil. 1091. “ Schaumhier”—Frothed Beer. For this the ingredients are, a quart of ale, a lemon, four eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, half a teaspoon- ful of grated ginger, and the same of powdered cinnamon; or, instead of the latter, a quarter of a nutmeg grated. Whisk the eggs well w'ith some of the beer by degrees. Rasp off the yellow of the lemon with some of the sugar lumps. Put all the sugar in an enamelled stew-pan, and squeeze the lemon-juice over, taking out the pips. Add the other ingredients. Whisk all over the fire till scalding hot, but it must not boil or it W’ill curdle. Keep on whisk- ing or milling with the wire rod until served. Use tumblers for it. 1092. “ Befoitnirtcr Thee ”— Beformed Tea. Set a quart of milk on to boil, throw in one or two teaspoon- fuls of fine green tea, and an inch of stick cinnamon. Let these infuse two or three minutes in the simmering milk; then take them out and sweeten the milk to taste, with lumps of sugar on which the yellow rind of a lemon has been rasped off. Beat the yolks of four eggs in a large jug, and stir the boiling milk into it, until it froths uicclj'. Serve it in tea- cups.PUNCH. 305 1093. “ Schlemp"—A Dutch Tea. Put into a teapot a large tablespoonful of green tea, and a tablespoonful of crushed or pearl barley, an inch of cinna- mon, four cloves bruised, a pinch of saffron, and a grate of nutmeg. Fill the teapot with boiling water, put a cork or paper stopper in the spout, and leave it to draw by the fire for an hour. Then boil three pints of milk; pour off the tea into this, stir it into the yolks of three or four eggs, and serve it hot in teacups. 1094. “ CramhamhoU ”— Cramhamholi. “ Crambamboli ” has been much sung about by the student class in Germany. Its preparation, doubtless, con- tributes very mtich to convivial enjoyment. Put a bottle of rum in a punch-bowl. Have ready a lump of sugar, weighing near a pound, and a suitable pair of tongs to hold it. Sprinkle the sugar with rum and set fire to it. Or, set fire to the rum, and hold the sugar over the flame, till all is melted away into the bowl, or the spirit flame burnt out. Throw in the remains of the sugar, if any, as the flame is extinguished. 1095. “Crambamboli”—Crambamboli. (No. 2.) Put a bottle of good wine in a china bowl. Lay iron skewers or any wire net over the bowl, and on this lay a lump of sugar of about a pound, moistened with rum or fine arrack. Set fire to the sugar and let it burn till all has melted into the howl; then pour in a pint or full hottle of champagne. There being no reason why ladies might not partake of this “ festive bowl,” they would find it very good diluted with cold water. 1096. “ Eier Punsch”—Egg Punch. Rasp the yellow ofiT four lemons with a pound of sugar lumps. Put this sugar and the juice of the lemons in a skillet, with a quart of good wine and a pint of either arrack, rum, or brandy. Whisk twelve eggs thoroughly, adding to them, by degrees, a pint of water. The eggs must be whipped up to a good froth; then add them to the ingre- dients in the casserole, set it over the fire, and whisk the contents without ceasing, till they are quite hot, and the froth high on the top. Serve it in large glasses. XGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 306 COLD CUPS. 1097. Bi^cJinf"'—Bishop. To every bottle of old red wine, allow a Seville orange and a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. The oranges must be quite ripe. Run a pointed stick through the whole oranges, and on this spit roast them, turning by the fire till they begin to bake. Then take them from the stick, make holes in each with a knife, put them in a vessel with a cover, strew the sugar over them, pour the wine over, cover, and let it stand at least twenty-four hours,' stirring occasionally. Then bottle it. 1098. Ananas Cardinal"—Pineapple Cardinal. Peel a pineapple, cut it in thin slices, strew powdered sugar over in a bowl, and let them stand a few hours. Boil the peeling in a little water, and when cold, strain and mix it with sugar and a bottle of good white wine, German or French. Pour this over the frnit in the bowl. Add one or two bottles more of wine according to the quantity required. To each bottle of wine, allow six ounces of sugar. Cover the mixture and let it stand an hour or two. "When to be served, stir it well and add either a bottle of sparkling champagne or half a crug of seltzer water. 1099. “ Apfclsinen Cardinal"—Orange Cardinal. Allow a large sweet orange and three ounces of sugar to each bottle of wine. Peel the oranges very thin. Put the yellow peelings in wine and let them draw a few hours ; or, if the cardinal is wanted at once, scald the peels, cover, and let them draw till cold. Meantime, having peeled off all white rind, slice the oranges very thin in a bowl and cover them with powdered sugar, to stand while the peel is drawing. Then strain the wine or water from the peelings over the fruit, adding all the sugar required, and after this the wine, with a bottle of sparkling Moselle or champagne poured in at last. 1100. “ Pomcranzen Cardinal "— Seville Orange Cardinal. Green or yellow Seville oranges may be used. Peel them very thin. Allow one orange and half a pound of sugar to307 COLD CUPS. two bottles of wine. Proceed as directed for “ apfelsinen,” using good Grerman or French white wine. 1101. “ Erdbeeren Cardinal"—Strawberry Cardinal. Choose strawberries that are quite ripe and full flavoured. Put a quai-t in a bowl. Strew over them a pound of powdered sugar and a glass or two of bright red wine. Let them stand a few hours covered. Then add two bottles of Rhine wine or Moselle, the rest of the bottle of red wine, sugar to taste, and at last, either a bottle of champagne or half a bottle of seltzer water. 1102. “ Cardinal Essenz "— Cardinal Essence. Peel two Seville oranges and two sweet ones very thin with a sharp knife. Put the peelings in a bottle with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar or sugar-candy, a drachm of vanilla split, an ounce,of fine cinnamon broken, and the juice of the four oranges. Fill up with a quart of arrack or fine rum. Let the mixture stand at least a week before using. A wine-glass of this at any time, with two or three ounces of sugar to a bottle of good German or French white wine, makes excellent cardinal. 1103. “ Erdbeeren Cardinal”—Strawberry Cardinal. {No. 2.) Put a pound of fully ripe strawberries in a bowl, and strew over them six ounces of powdered sugar. Let them stand for half an hour, covered ; then pour over them a pint of good Rhine wine, or Moselle. When they have stood half an hour longer, add two bottles of the above wine, less the pint used before, and half a bottle (crug) of seltzer water. Either serve at once, or strain and bottle it. 1104. “Eier Wein"—E<jy Wine, Cold. To every half pint of wine, allow two eggs, whipped to a snow, with a dessert-spoonful of powdered sugar and a little powdered cinnamon, or nutmeg grated. Whisk the eggs and other ingredients first; then add the wine, by degrees, and serve it while the froth is high. 1105. “ Limonade Syrup ”—Lemonade Syrup. With a pound of sugar lumps rasp the yellow rind off six lemons. Moisten the sugar with as much water as it will3o8 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. absorb, and boil it to a clear symp. Add the jnice of twelve lemons, stirring it well in beside the fire, but do not let it boil more. Bottle the symp at once, and cork it when cold. Mix a little of this symp with cold water whenever lemonade is wanted. 1106. “ Pomcranzen Syrup ”— Oranye Syrup for Oravyeade, d'C. Rasp the peel off a dozen sweet and two Seville oranges wdth a pound of sugar lumps. Rinse the oranges in a basin of cold water and use this to dip the sugar in before boiling. When the syrup is well boiled, and quite clear, proceed as above directed with the juices and in every other particular. 1107. “ Maitrank ”—May Wine. The essential ingredient of this invigorating and whole- some beverage is “ waldmeister,” the sweet-scented wood- roof (Aspemla odorata). This pretty little wild or garden plant, with its star-formed circles of narrow leaves round the tiny stems, tipped with their little tufts of white blossoms, may be found in perfection in the woods during the month of May, when its peculiarly flavoured “ maitrank ” is in request. It is best when it begins to blossom, not w'hen full blown and fading. No precise quantity need be given, but not less than half an ounce by weight is used for a full quart or two bottles of wine. 1108. Maitrank "—May Wine. (Wo. 1.) Gather a handful of wood-roof; say ten or twelve sprigs. Put them in a bowd or other vessel, wfith three or four ounces of powdered sugar. Pour on them a bottle of light wine. Cover and let it steep from half an hour to an hour. An orange sliced thin is frequently added. Serve the orange slices with the wine. Many different herbs, to which are attributed certain wholesome or medicinal properties .are used in compounding “ Maitrank,” a welcome bowl at pic-nics or garden parties. 1109. “Maitrank”—May Wine. {Xo. 2.) Six sprigs of wood-roof, six leaves of balm, six black currant-leaves, a sprig of verbena or lemon-plant, a sprig309 COLD CUPS, of borage, three ounces of sugar, and a bottle of wine. Cover these to infuse for half an hour, and either strain or leave the herbs in the bowl as the wine is laded out to drink. It should be drunk fresh, before the first delicate flavour of the herbs evaporates. 1110. “ Mai Nectar ”—May Nectar. Ingredients :—Three quarts of good white wine, German ; a pound of loaf sugar; the thin peel of a lemon ; a dozen sprigs of wood-roof; forty leaves of balm ; twenty leaves of peppermint; eight leaves of pimpernel; eight leaves of garden geranium, with the flowers; eight leaves o common yarrow, or milfoil; eight leaves of tarragon ; four leaves of balsam herb ; four leaves of basil; four black currant-leaves ; two leaves of wormwood; two sprigs of thyme ; six leaves of lung-wort, with the flowers ; six leaves of balm mint, or curled mint. The herbs must be gathered fresh when wanted for use. Rinse and dry them. Put them in a large bowl, with the sugar and lemon-peel. Pour the wine over them. Cover close, and stand it in a cool place for six or eight hours, stirring occasionally. Serve it with the herbs in the punch- bowl, and with a wreath of light flowers on the top. Any remaining may be strained and bottled. 1111. “21ai Nectar"—May'Nectar, {No. 2.) Half an ounce of wood-roof, half an ounce of wild thyme, half an ounce of balm-leaves, half an ounce of black currant-leaves, quarter of an ounce of peppermint-leaves, quarter of an ounce of pimpernel - leaves, a drachm of tarragon-leaves, a drachm of balsam - loaves, a drachm of lavender sprigs, a lemon sliced thin, a pound of powdered loaf sugar, two bottles of Rhine wine and two of Moselle wine. Put the herbs and sugar in a bowl; pour the wine over and cover it close for half an hour, then strain it oft' into a handsome bowl. Throw fruit blossoms, violets, and lilies of the valley on the top, or make a light wreath of them. Bottle any remaining wine.310 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 1112. Himbccr Soft ”—Raspberry Syrup. Pick very ripe raspberries, mash them with a spoon, let them stand a night in a cool place. Next day press out the juice, and to every pint of this allow half a pound of loaf sugar. Put both together over the fire, and after the mixture has come to a boil, let it continue boiling slowly for half an hour. Skim it well, or, when you have taken it from the fire, give it 'a stir, and any scum will sink to the bottom. When quite cold, fill small bottles and cork them well. 1113. “ Himbeer Soft”—Raspberry Syrup. {Xo.2.) Mash and press the raspberries; let them stand a few hours, then strain them. Allow half a pound of sugar to each pint of juice, and boil it at once. Let it boil a quarter of an hour, skimming it well. When cold, fill small dry bottles, use only new corks, and stand the bottles upright in a cool place. A little fine and fresh salad oil poured on the top before corking is said to insure the keeping of the syrup any length of time. 1114. “ Joliannisbecr Soft”—Red Currant Syrup. Pick and crush red currants with the hands. Let them stand a few hours, then strain them through a jelly-bag. AUow two pounds of sugar to three pints of juice. Proceed as directed for raspberry syrup. When much raspberry or currant jam is made, either fruit is so juicy that a third of it may well be spared. Lade out some as soon as the fruit has boiled thin, and let it drain through a fine sieve. Do not press the fruit, but re- turn this to the preserving-pan. Give the syrup a few minutes’ boil, and finish as directed in the first recipe. A mixture, half currants and half raspberries, renders a delicious and useful syrup for cooling drinks and other uses. 1115. “ Man del Milch ”—Almond Milk. Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, with half a dozen bitter ones. Pound them to a pulp in a marble mortar, adding now and then a spoonful of water, to prevent the almonds from oiling. Add a quart of water tn them and stir well. Let the infusion stand half an hour in a cool place, then strain it through a napkin and sweeten to taste.311 COFFEE. 1116. “ Mandel Syrup ”— Almond Syrup. Blanch and pound, as above, a pound of sweet almonds and an ounce of bitter almonds. Clarify a pound of sugar in a quart of water; boil it five minutes. Stir in the pounded almonds. Let them simmer a few minutes, and while hot strain the infusion through a napkin. Bottle and cork it well. Keep it in a cool place. A little of this in a glass of fresh water makes excellent orgeat. “VOM IL^lFFEE”—ON COFFEE. Of all beverages, coffee deserves a more general considera- tion in the English household than it has, and a better know- ledge of how it should be chosen and prepared from the beginning to the end. Families would soon find out the advantages of procuring the coffee in its raw state, and that it is a considerable saving to buy if by the hag, or less. It improves by keeping, and only requii-es to be kept in a dry place. Observation and attention to the peculiar colours, shapes, and sizes of the berries would soon make people acquainted ■with the kinds to he preferred. Not that the colours are always to be relied on, as they are sometimes given artificially, to make one sort represent another and better kind. Mocha is extensively adulterated with less expensive sorts that nearly resemble it in the size and shape of the berries; if a sample be washed in warm water between the hands, the difference may be detected. Water is a useful test for the quality of coffee in more ways than one. Good raw berries, when thrown into cold water, should sink at once ; if they float they are not good. Certain mixtures render the best coffee. Some kinds excel in aroma, others in strength, and these combined are the most satisfactory; they must, however, be roasted apart, for the reason that the berries of one sort may contain more moisture than those of another, consequently take longer to brown than the drier kinds. Mocha, and all the Arabian coffees known by that name, hold the first rank in point of aroma, but they are not of the Strongest. Next to these, the fine East Indian plantationGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 312 sorts are esteemed for general excellence. Mocha, the vanilla of coffees, may be mixed advantageously with the same quantity of either East or West Indian, or South American of more moderate price. Reliable vendors of raw coffee know the kinds to he recommended for any peculiarity either of strength or delicacy of aroma and flavour. 1117. “ Kaffee zu Brcnnen, oder Rosten"—To Roast Coffer. Before roasting, many prefer to wash the berries. They must be thrown into lukewarm water, washed rapidly between the hands, the water changed once, the berries rinsed again, then strained, rubbed between a clean cloth and put to dry in the sun or beside the fire. This washing does no harm, and certainly cleanses the coffee from dust or colouring, and also serves to prove the quality. The berries that float on the top of the water are not good. Instead of washing the coffee it may be cleansed by rubbing between two towels. The roasting of coffee requires care and attention ; its goodness greatly depends on this. If suflered to burn, its aroma is destroyed and it is made bitter and unwholesome. If not sufliciently bro-wned, neither the strength nor the aroma will be developed, and its taste will be most unpleasant. Examine the berries, pick out any black or discoloured ones and see that there is no stone among them. Have a clear fire, but not too fierce. Fill the drum half full. This must be constantly turned, but not too quickly, that the berries may be roasted equally. After about five minutes’ good heat, take the drum from the fire and shake it well. Open the slide to let the steam out. Return the drum to the heat, continue the turning, and after a short time again withdraw and shake it, then open it to see if the coffee is colouring properly. Should a strong smell of roasting and an apparent smoke escape, and should a slight crackling noise begin, take the drum from the fire, shake it for a minute, open the slide, and if the cofi'ee is too pale return it to the fire. When it has a fine cinnamon brown colour, turn it out on a large flat dish; spread it quite apart, and as soon as it is cold put it in a close-shutting canister, or cork it well in dry bottles. A spoonful of moist sugar thrown in with the berries, is said to improve the quality in roasting.313 COFFEE. 1118. Kdffee zu Eosten"—To Roast Coffee. {2^o. 2.) An iron stew-pan is commonly used for roasting coffee in districts where the drum never made its appearance. A little piece of butter half the size of a walnut is melted in the pan, then the colfee berries put in and the lid put on. Every minute it must be shaken and tossed without removing the hd. Have a wooden spoon at hand—one kept for the purpose—and when the coffee begins to smoke and crack, draw it quickly from the strong heat and stir it thoroughly till it is nicely coloured. It will burn in half a minute by too strong a fire. Finish as per last recipe. 1119. “ Kaffee zu Maiden ”— To grind Coffee. Much of the goodness of coffee depends on the grinding. If ground too finely the infusion will not be so clear as when the berries are ground moderately coarse. It should not be ground before it is wanted for use, as, nothing so soon loses its flavour, which pervades the atmosphere if the coffee is left in its powdered state uncovered. Before the grinding, calculate how many may take coffee and allow as much as is likely to be wanted. The improved coflee mills of Messrs. Spong and Co., 28, King William Street, Strand, are admirable in their action, as the required fineness may be regulated in a moment while grinding, by merely touching a little handle. 1120. “ Kaffee und Surrogate "— Coffee and Surrogats. The very fi-equent error of using chicory in large quantities as an addition or improvement to coflee should not be encouraged. The dark colour it gives is only regarded with suspicion. Colour is by no means an indication of strength in coffee, and chicory, when taken constantly, is not consi- dered wholesome. If any substitute is wished, for the sake of economy, bailey, roasted and ground as coffee and mixed in ample proportions, will be found to answer every purpose, and be nourishing as well. Carrots cut into pieces the size of coffee beans, then dried, roasted, and ground, are much used by people of small means in Germany to mix with coffee, and they really impart a richness to the beverage. Acorns are also prepared in the same way, and mixed withGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, 314 coffee are much esteemed for theii- ■wholesome properties irrespective of economy. 1121. “ FAchel Kaffee ”— Acorn Coffee. Properly prepared, this is very strengthening for delicate childi-en and persons of consumptive tendency. Acorns should be collected when they fall from the trees in autumn ; they are then ripe. Peel and cut them into pieces the size of coffee berries. Dry them thoroughly by the fire or in a cool oven, and keep them in a dry place in paper or linen bags. Roast them as you would coffee, not darker than cin- namon brown. Immediately after the roasting, the acorns must be powdered, or they will become tough. Either adjust a coffee mill to its coarsest capability of grinding, or pound them in an iron mortar. If ground finely the coffee will not be perfectly clear. Keep it well corked in a bottle when roasted and powdered. For an adult, pour a pint of boiling water on half an ounce of the coffee and let it boil a quarter of an hour. For children, boil a quarter of an ounce in a pint of water. Pour it off like other coffee, and add milk and sugar to taste. Young children should take it -with two or three parts milk. 1122. “ Homdopatlnscher Kaffee ”— Homeopathic Coffee. Barley roasted and ground, and mixed with an equal quantity of acorn coffee, gives a wholesome and strengthening beverage. Put a large tablespoonful of the coffee into a pint of boiling ■water, and let it boil gently for ten or fifteen minutes in an ordinary coffee-pot. Either let it settle in this till clear, or filter it through the bag of the table coffee-pot. Take it with ample milk and sugar to taste. 1123. “ Kaffee zn Machcn ”— To make Coffee. Coflee should not be boiled, as by this process its delicacy of aroma is suffered to escape ; it should merely be filtered. Opinions difler on the merits of the various percolators now to be had; but w’hether one of these or the filtering bag be used, place in it the requisite quantity of freshly ground coffee, after having made the receiving vessel quite hot with boiling water ; allow a quarter of an ounce for each cup, or, half a pint of boiling water to each ounce of coffee, unless preferred very strong, when, allow half an ounce for eachCOFFEE. 315 person, with water proportioned to the number of cups to be served. One good way of preparing the infusion easily, to ensure serving it hot, is to place a common coffee-boiler beside the fire to get well heated; put in this an ounce and a half of coffee, pour on it a pint of boiling water, cover instantly, and in a few seconds pour out a cup and return it twice, then leave it to settle. Meanwhile make the serving coffee-pot as hot as can be with boiling water before the beverage is poured carefully into it. Increase or diminish the above proportions of coffee according to the strength desired. Serve hot milk with it, or cream, excepting when Coffee noir is taken after dinner without either.Chapter XV. WtiRSTE—SAUSAGES. 1124. Brat JVurste”—Ordinary Sausages, Somewhat lean - fed pork is best for these, as in twelve pounds there should only be about two pounds of fat. Any part of the pig will do. For easy division into convenient portions of meat and seasonings, we ■will say :—Take twelve pounds of pork, the shoulder parts can best be spared, and they yield economically for sausages. Clear the meat from skin and gristle as it is cut up into small pieces. This expedites the mincing whether it is done by machine or hand. Mix together four ounces of salt, a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of fresh-ground black pepper; strew this among the meat when you begin the chopping. Mince it very fine. Be sure that the filling skins are well pre- pared. After they have been turned and thoroughly cleaned, let them lie in cold water with salt for some hours, and wipe them dry before using. 1125. “Brat TFiirste"—Sausages. {Xo. 2.) The same as above in all particulars, adding a small nut- meg grated, or half a large one, and a quarter of an ounce or four teaspoonfuls of finely minced green sage, to be mixed with the other seasonings. If bread is preferred, to make them less rich, or to increase the quantity, two pounds may be used to the twelve pounds of meat; it should be without crust, and soaked in milk or water with a little salt, then pressed out and scattered among the meat ■n'hen mincing begins.SAUSAGES. 317 1126. “ Gerducherte Brat Wiirste''—Smoked Sausages, Mince the pork fine, and to every six pounds of pork allow a pound of fat bacon, chopped apart, and not so finely minced as the fresh meat. Season with salt, black pepper, and a little saltpetre, in the proportions given in No. 1117. Moisten the meat with a sprinkling of cold water. Mix all well. Fill the skins with a proper-sized funnel, and if any air spaces appear prick them with a needle. Hang the sausages in smoke a few days, more or less, according to the strength of the smoke. 1127. “ Frankfurter Brat'Wurste ”— Frankfort Sausages. Frankfort sausages are made with any parts of the pork as it comes to hand, fat and lean together, finely minced. Season with salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, and some ground coriander-seeds, as much in proportion as the pepper. Use a little red wine to moisten the meat as you mince it. Fill carefully prepared skins of either the pig or sheep. 1128. “ Schudbische Brat Wiirste ”—Su'alia7i Sausages. Shoulder, side, or any part of the pig will do, fat and lean, just as it is. Mince the meat to a paste. To every twelve pounds allow five ounces of salt, an ounce of black pepper, a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre, and half an ounce of garlic pounded to a pulp with a spoonful of water. If the garlic is new a little less will do. Eub it quite smooth, so that not a morsel of substance remains ; then add a spoonful or two of water, and sprinkle the meat with it when the mincing is half done; mix the salt and pepper and strew them in also at this time. These sausages are excellent either boiled or fried, to be eaten hot or cold; and are also especially good smoked and boiled. 1129. Mecklenburg Brat Wiirste"—Mecklenburg Sausages. Streaked pork, or any odd parts with equal fat and lean, must be chopped small, hut not minced to a paste. Season with salt, pepper, allspice, and a little grated lemon-peel. Use a glass of brandy to moisten the mince. These should be eaten fresh.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. Il8 1130. “ Weisse Brat W'urste ”—White Sausa/jes. Choose young pork, and one-third as much veal. Any part of the pork will do, fat and lean together. Mix the veal and pork when mincing begins. This must be done very finely, indeed quite to a pulp, using a Httle water now and then to moisten the meat. Season with salt and finely ground white pepper when the mincing is half done. A sixth part of white bread or roU soaked in milk and minced in from the first, renders these sausages more delicate. 1131. “ Weisse Brat Wiirste”—White Samarjes. {Xa. 2.) When the fat has been taken off ribs of pork, to make larding bacon, or for other purposes, take three pounds of the lean meat and mince it to a pulp. Have boiled a pound of solid fat pork or bacon, and let it get cold. Cut this into slices half an inch thick, then into strips, and these into square dice. Soak half a pound of white bread in milk, mix this with the fat, and then mix in the other mince. Season with white pepper, salt, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a little nutmeg. jMix all thoroughly, fill care- fully prepared skins and boil them half an hour. They are now ready to serve cold, or they may be fried as other sausages, instead of boiling. 1132. “ JSIecMcnhurgische Knack Wiirst ”—Mecklenburg K7iack Sausages. These are usually eaten cold, cut in small rings and laid ornamentally on plates or small dishes, or laid between bread and butter. Mince unboiled lean pork with a little fresh blood to darken the colour. The blood must be caught at killing-time, and have a little salt stirred in it at once. To six pounds of meat, use for seasoning three ounces of salt, half an ounce of black pepper, a teaspoonful of fresh-ground pimento or three finely pounded cloves, and two cloves of garlic minced and bruised smooth, or pounded in a mortar. Add all the seasoning while mincing. Fill cither in pig or sheep skins ; tie them securely. Set them on the fire in cold water, let them come slowly to a boil, and simmer them half an hour, then dip in cold water and hang them up to dry. The dipping in cold water is chiefly for the purpose of sud- denly congealing the outside of the sausages.SAUSAGES. 319 If any air spaces appear after filling, prick the skin with a needle. 1133. " Knack W'lirstc"—Knack Sausages. {No. 2.) These also are mostly eaten cold. Steam in a saucepan closely covered some rather lean pork, with very little water, to concentrate its goodness. Be sure it does not boil or cook too fast. When nearly done enough, mince the meat to a pulp. Season it with salt, pepper, allspice or nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel, in the same proportions as for the last recipe. Fill small skins. Boil them a quarter of an hour as above directed, then dip in cold water and hang them in a cool place to dry. Either of these “Knack Wiirste ” are excellent smoked a day or two. 1134. ’^West/alische Brat Wiirste”—Westphalian Sausages. Cut up twelve pounds of any parts of the pork, fat and lean together. Do not mince it so fine as for other sausages ; the pieces should not be smaller than peas. Season with a quarter of a pound of salt, and half an ounce of fresh- ground black pepper. Sprinkle the seasoning among the meat when the mincing begins. Fill in the pig skins, and hang them to smoke for a week. The same sausages, if to be eaten fresh, are all the better for hanging a few days in a cool, dry place. In some localities, the same make of sausages is seasoned with six cloves, ground in with the pepper, or three cloves of garlic pounded to a pulp in a little water; this must be thinned and carefully dispersed in the mincing. 1135. “ Hammel Wurste”—Mutton Sausages. Mince three pounds of mutton and a pound of pork. Mix a seasoning of an ounce and a half of salt, a quarter of an ounce of pepper, a teaspoonful of grated ginger, and the same of winter savory or marjoram finely powdered. Strew the mixture over when mincing begins. Have caught at killing-time a pint of sheep’s blood, and sth’ in it at once a good teaspoonful of salt and about a wineglassful of warm water. But the minced meat in an earthen pan, and well mix in the blood with it. Instead of the marjoram, many prefer to use a teaspoonful320 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. of finely minced sage, green, or powdered if dried, and either a clove of garlic pounded, or a shalot. The quantities of ginger and pepper may exceed rather than fall short of the above pro- portions. Have ready some carefully prepared sheep’s entrail skins. Fill, and tie them in three or four-inch lengths. Put the sausages in a saucepan of cold water and set it on the fire. Let them come to a scalding heat but not boil. Take away the saucepan from the fire, let the sausages remain in the water till half cold, then take them out, wipe, and hang them to dry. When the water approaches a scalding heat, if one of the skins should hurst, prick the others with a needle. Fry them when to he used. 1136. “ Rivdfleischirurste”—Beef Smisages. Four pounds of heef and one pound of pork must be minced together fine ; then cut up a pound of fat bacon into little dice, and mix it into the other mince with the following seasoning: two ounces of salt, a teaspoonful of fine salt- petre, half an ounce of pepper, five pounded or ground cloves, and a shalot or clove of garlic bruised to a pulp. To disperse the flavour of garlic or shalot equally, put half a cup of water in the mortar with the pounded garlic, and pour this among the meat. Fill tightly in ox skins, and tie them firmly. Put them in cold water on the fire and simmer them an hour. When done, lay them in cold water for two or three minutes, and hang them in a cool airy place. 1137. “ Rindfleischui'a-ste ”— Beef Sausages. [No. 2.) To every pound of finely minced raw beef, add six ounces of fat pork or bacon, cut into little dice. Season wth salt, pepper, and either mixed spice or nutmeg alone. Fill in small beef skins. Put them on the fire in cold water and simmer twenty minutes after they come to a boil. T\Tien done, dip them in cold water, and hang them to dry in a cool airy place. Both these and No. 1136, are ready at any time to serv'e in thin slices with broad and butter. They are both good smoked. 1138. Rindfeischicurste”—Beef Sausages. (Wo. 8.) Mince lean heef to a pulp, and to every pound allow half a pound of bacon, cut into small dice. Use a little milk to moisten while pounding. Season well with salt, pepper, and321 SAUSAGES. grated lemon-peel. Fill and smoke the sausages. Do not boil them first. 'When to be used put them on the fire in cold water and boil them a quarter of an hour. 1139. “ Rinilfleuchwurste''—Beef Sausages. (No. 4.) These are for frying. To six pounds of beef, minced very fine, add either a pound and a half of fat bacon or pork, or the same weight of solid beef fat, cut into little dice. Mix together three ounces of salt, a small teaspoonful of salt- petre and half an ounce of pepper. Sprinkle in the season- ing when mincing begins. Fill either pig or sheep skins full. Hang them in a cool dry place. 1140. “ Mecklenbarg P}'essu'iirste”—Mecklenburg Pressed Sausages. Lean beef, raw, must be minced to a smooth paste, and the same weight of fat bacon chopped, or cut into little dice. Season with ample salt, pepper, allspice, and very little pounded cloves ; or grind these with the pepper. Fill in beef skins and bind them securely. Lay them close together, sprinkle wth salt, and press them with weights, for twelve hours. Cover each with paper or muslin, and smoke them from four' to six days, when they may be hung ready for slicing uncooked, or put on the fire in cold water and simmered from half an hour to an hour. 1141. Schinken,” oder Sei'velat Wiirste"—Ha^n, or Setrelat Sausages. Legs and shoulders are proper for these : ten pounds of lean pork and two pounds of fat. The inner fat, or hog’s leaf, is best if the weather is cold and you can cut it. Cut up all the lean first and mince it to a pulp. Cut the fat up small, but not to a paste. Mix six ounces of salt, an ounce of black pepper, and a good quarter of an ounce of salt- petre ; the pepper must be coarsely ground, and besides this, mix in a few peppercorns, whole. Mix the season- ings well with the lean during the mincing. Add by degrees a glass of rum or half a tumbler of red wine to moisten it. When the lean is well minced, work in the fat. Lot the mixing be finished in an earthen pan, a few hours before filling, that the seasoning may disperse better. The mincing of the lean and seasonings with it could be far YGERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. better clone by a macbine ; then tbe fat mixed in, as above, and tbe filling done with tbe funnel. Oxen skins are proper for these. Let them be carefully prepared. Tie them securely at tbe bottom, and fill as tightly as possible, squeezing tbe meat down as it leaves the funnel. Tie them in lengths from ten to twenty inches. Let them lie a night after the first tying, then press and tie them closer. Fasten a piece of new tape at one end of each sausage, and wind it round, slanting up to the other end, then cross it back again the same way and tie it securely. Hang them for ten or twelve days in cool smoke. Juniper w*ood is used for smok- ing them where it grows. Keep them in an airy cool place. In filling these sausages, one cannot be too careful that no air spaces are left. "Where these are only suspected, prick through w'ith a long darning needle ; have this at hand, threaded and tied in a knot, that it may not get lost in the using. After the sausages have hung a month, they are ready to slice and eat raw. If preferred boiled, set them on the fire in cold water with a little salt in it the day after they are filled. Let the water come slowly to a scalding heat, then simmer for an hour, but do not let it boil. Take out the sausages, and w-hen cold hang them in smoke. Or they may be cooked as above after smoking. 1142. “ Schu'a7'z Wald Wiaste ”—Black Forest Sausages. These arc made of the wild swine pork, generally. Full grown swine of any country, especially those that are turned out to feed on acorns, &c., may be very profitably used for these excellent and useful sausages, which keep good any length of time. If the pork is large and well fattened, take the thick fat ofl' the loins close to the lean, without dividing it. Pickle and smoke this to make larding bacon. Use the lean parts and shoulders for sausages. To every ten pounds of lean, allow two pounds of solid fat. Mince them apart, chop the fat the size of large peas, and mince the lean to a paste. Some of these sausages are made with both fat and lean minced together, but not to a paste. The seasoning for every twelve pounds of meat must be : six ounces of salt, one ounce of coarsely ground black pepper, and a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre. Half a drachm of cloves, or a drachm of pimento is, by many, ground fine with the pepper. Mix the seasoning, and strew it in theSAUSAGES. 323 lean while mincing. When fat and lean are minced small enough, mix them together with a wooden spoon. Fill, as directed in No. 1141, carefully prepared ox skins. To be sliced raw, they must hang a few weeks first. If preferred cooked, put them on the fire in cold water, and let them come slowly to a simmer, which does not requu'e to be continued longer than an hour. They may then be hung to dry, and may be cut in a day or two. Keep white paper tied over the cut end. The addition of spice, as mentioned above, is peculiar to some districts, as also the use of a small quantity of pounded garlic. Caraway seeds are also frequently used, and, more frequently, whole black pepper. In many parts these sausages are made to look a deeper red, thus:—Catch the blood at killing-time, and, while it is warm, stir enough salt in it to salt it well, and keep stirring till it is cold. Add any approved quantity to the lean while mincing. This blood gives firmness, colour, and richness to the sausages. 1143. “ Bologna Winste ”— Bologna Sausages. Bologna sausages are made as above, using the blood. Some are smoked, some not. They are never boiled in water, but are supposed to cook enough in their skins. 1144. “ Leber Wiirste "—Liver Sausages. Chop and bruise a raw liver quite fine. Pig’s liver is best, but others will answer. Rub it through a coarse sieve or cullender. According to the weight of the liver, take half its weight of boiled pork or other meat, and mince it quite fine. Cut about half a pound of fat bacon into little dice. Mix all well together. Add salt, pepper, and a little allspice or pounded cloves. Fill in the thickest pig skins, only about three parts full before tying. Put them in boiling water, with salt, and let them simmer slowly half an hour. They are good eaten cold, with bread and butter. 1145. “Leber W'urste"—Liver Sausages. {No. 2.) Prepare a liver as above. Chop half its weight in raw pork, very fine. Any cuttings will do, fat and lean together. Mix it with the liver, salt, pepper, and any approved flavour, either spice, a little onion or garlic pounded to a pulp and finely powdered sage or marjoram. Fill the skins not quite324 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. full and simmer them half an hour. If to be used hot while fresh, they do not need boiling when first made, but may either he fried or boiled when required for table. 1146. ^^Mecklenburg Leber Wiirste”—Mecklenburg Liver Sausages, At pig-killing time, take any cuttings of pork ; the breast part is best. Slice it, as also the tongue, kidneys, some fat, and the sward cut from the loins. Boil all these slowly, till tender, in very little water. Cut all into small dice. Mince the kidneys very fine. Mince and bruise the liver raw and work it through a coarse sieve, then mix all well together, with a good seasoning of salt, pepper, five or six cloves finely ground with the pepper, and a little finely powdered sage, if approved. When all is thoroughly mixed, lade over it, as filling fat, the top of the liquor the meat was boiled in. Do not fiU the skins quite full as the fiver will swell in the boiling. Simmer them half an hour, in the same saucepan and water. Dip them in a pan of cold water when taken out, then hang them to dry. Either smoke or use them fresh. 1147. “ Gerducherte Leber Wurste”—Liver Sausages, Smoked, Prepare the fiver as directed in No. 1144. Parboil the fights, to harden them, but do not let them quite boil. Have ready boiled in as little water as possible, a pound of cuttings, or any part of the pork, and as much sward (the skin of the pig, flayed from the roasting or larding parts); the latter will require much longer boiling than the meat. Mince the lights, meat, and sward fine, then mix all with the fiver. Add salt, pepper, ginger, a small onion or shalot minced and bruised fine, some grated lemon-peel, and enough of the water in which the meat was boiled to moisten the whole well. Fill large skins, leaving room to swell. Boil them slowly for an hour. If the skins are small, half an hour is enough. Hang them a day or two in cool smoke. 1148. “ Gerducherte Leber Wurste”—Liver Sausages, Smoked, (Xo, 2.) Boil in very little water a couple of pounds of the breastSAUSAGES. 325 or other part of pork, and with it some sward, till tender. In the same water simmer afterwards a calf’s or pig’s liver. Be sure it does not boil to get hard. Parboil a calf’s lights. Mince these very fine separately, as also the meat and liver. Season, in the proportions given for other sausages, with salt, pepper, ginger, finely minced onion, garlic or shalot, and sage if approved. Mix all well together in an earthen pan. During the mincing, boil down the liquor the meats were boiled in. Season, and add this, to moisten the whole. Beat it to a smooth mass. Fill in large skins, leaving room for the meat to swell. Boil them slowly half an hour, and hang them two days in cool smoke. The mincing machine is infinitely better than hand-work for all the liver sausages. 1149. “ Kaninchen Wurste ”— Rabbit Sausages. When rabbits abound, they render very delicate, good, and profitable sausages. Skin and paunch them while fresh. Rinse them quickly in plenty of cold water, to remove any down of the skin that may hang about them. Cut them up, by disjointing, as usual. Strip the meat from the bones, bruise the latter, and cut open the heads ; put these and the bones in a saucepan, pack them close, and pour in water barely enough to cover them ; add salt and pepper, and let them stew while you mince the meat fine. The livers must be dealt with separately. Cut out the gall-bags, and put the livers in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, or very little water, cover and let them steam till cooked through. Then take them out and chop them coarsely. To every three pounds of rabbit meat allow a pound of fat pork or bacon, chopped small, but not minced so fine as the rabbits. Mix the meats and liver together, with the seasoning, which must be in proportion; for eight pounds of sausage meat, three ounces of salt, a good half ounce of pepper, and six cloves ground with the pepper. The bones must have been covered close and shaken up occasionally. Well boiled down they should render a strong glutinous gravy, about half a pint to every four rabbits. Strain this, season it well, moisten the mince with it while warm ; mix all thoroughly, and fill either sheep or pig skins. This sausage is also excellent filled in a large skin, boiled slowly an hour, and served in slices cold.GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 326 1150. “ Blut Wiirste "— Black Sausages. tho blood is ■warm at killing-time, stir some salt into it, strain it, and keep stirring till cold, to keep it in a liquid state. Boil any pieces of the fresh pork in very little water, with salt in it, and with it a fair proportion of solid fat, either of the fresh pork or bacon. Cut these into very small dice, and stir them into the blood. Season wth salt, pepper, all- spice, and very little powdered cloves, three or four of the latter ground with the pepper. Mix all thoroughly. Fill in well-prepared skins, leaving a little space between the tying to allow for expanding. Boil them half an hour. ^Mien cold, smoke them a day or two, or hang them in a cool, dry place without smoking. To be eaten cold. 1151. Blut Wiirste”—Black Sausages. (Xo. 2.) Cut up small two or three onions and a small clove of garlic. Put them in a stew-pan with a little butter, a tea- spoonful of salt, and a spoonful of water. Cover and let them stew tender. Mash them to a fine pulp and mix them with the blood, which must have been stirred as it was caught, and mixed with a fourth part as much milk. Cut fat pork into little dice and mix it in. Season vdth salt, pepper, grated ginger, and a little finely powdered marjoram or sage. Fill the skins nearly full, set them on the fire in lukewarm water, and simmer them a good half hour. Hang them in a dry place. Soak in warm water before cooking, and fry them in butter. 1152. “ Griitz Wiirste ”— Barley Sausages. Boil two quarts of barley groats, in just sufiicient water, till quite plumped, soft, and thick. Cut up a pound of hog’s leaf, or inner fat, in small pieces, and render it down in a saucepan till the fat runs clear. Having strained the groats, pour the fat over them; put a good-sized onion, finely chopped, into the remains of the fat, which must form merely little yellow pellets; stir them together, add a spoonful of salt, and when steamed tender, add them to the barley. Season with salt, pepper, allspice, and a spoonful of marjoram, dried, rubbed fine, and sifted. Mix all thoroughly together. Strain in enough newly caught blood to make the mass red and con- siderably thinner. The pig’s lights may be boiled and added.327 SAUSAGES. minced fine. Fill in rather large skins and boil them an hour. 1153. “ ScJiwarten Magen ”—Sward Brawn. Have a swine stomach well cleaned, soaked in salt water, and the inner fat carefully scraped away. Boil tender as much of the sward (pork skin) as will half fill the stomach, and cut it up into little dice. Have the same weight of lean pork, of the neck or other part, boiled and cut up also ; then a fourth part as much solid fat parboiled and cut small. Mix a seasoning of salt, pepper, a little thyme, and marjoram, powdered fine and sifted, as also a drachm of powdered cardamom-seeds, and six pounded cloves. Mix the meat, sward, and fat together, sprinkling over them the seasoning and stirring it well in. Fill the stomach tightly with the mass, and secure it firmly by tying. Boil it slowly for an hour in the same liquor in which the sward and meat were cooked. When taken up, rinse it in cold water, lay it under pressure between two plates for a night, then hang it in smoke for a few days, and afterwards bind paper round and hang it in a cool, dry place. It is eaten cold, in thin slices, and will keep good for mouths. 1154. “ Schwarten Mar/en”—Swag'd Brawn. (Xo. 2.) Let the stomach be nicely prepared. Cut up raw pork, fat and lean together, in pieces the size of marbles, as much as will half fill the stomach. Have half the quantity of sward boiled tender and cut into little pieces, as also a couple of small tongues. Mix the meat, tongue, and sward with a teacupful of the blood salted and stirred when caught. Mix a seasoning of ample salt, pepper, four pounded cloves, and two teaspoonfuls of powdered cinnamon ; stir this well with the meat. Fill the stomach, not too tightly. Tie it securely and boil it two hours. Press it a night between plates and heavy weights, then hang it for ten days, after which it is ready for eating, and will keep any length of time. 1156. “ Wiirstchen Garnirung ”— Garnishing Sausages. These are very little sausages, used for garnishing vegeta- bles or other dishes. They are made with the usual propor- tions of meat and seasoning, flavoured and peppered in accordance with the dish they are to accompany. The meat for them must be minced to a pulp. If made of veal, to a328 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. pound of its lean allow a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, and two ounces of white bread-crumbs soaked in milk. Well mix the mass, and season it to taste. A cauliflower garnished with these is nice in appearance and taste. "When made of pork or beef, divide any of the foregoing recipes. Fill these wtirstchen in the smallest skins, and tie or twist them no longer than fi-om two to three inches. 1156. Zungen Wilrste”—Tongue Sausages. For large store sausages, parboil a pickled ox tongue, skin and cut it up warm into inch-square pieces, sprinkle them with ample pepper and a little powdered cloves, let it lie an hour to absorb the seasoning, and then mix it with two- thirds of its weight of sausage meat. No. 1128 or 1132. Proceed as directed in those numbers, but filling in large skins, and allowing longer boiling than for the smaller ones. 1157. ‘^Zungen Wilrste''—Tongue Sausages. (Wo. 2). Lay small tongues, for a night, in a strong pickle of salt and saltpetre. Cut them into dice the size of a nut in the shell. Mix them with prepared sausage meat, either No. 1131, 1132, 1142, or 1144. Pepper the tongues whOe cut- ting up. Allow ten minutes’ longer boiling than directed for those without tongue. Sheeps’ tongues are very good this way, in any of the pork sausages. For those filled in large skins, cut up the tongues in walnut-sized pieces, and pepper them more, adding to the pepper either cloves or allspice. 1158. “ Pressiciirste "—Braun. Brawn is usually classed with sausages. Instead of being in their place here, various recipes will be found among those on pork (pages 125 and 126). 1159. To Prepare SJnns for Sausages. At killing-time, ox, calf, sheep, or swine entrails are pre- pared by emptying, washing Avell, and turning them; then wash them in several waters, scrape them in salt and water, and lay them to soak in lukewarm water. Pass this through by aid of a funnel. Soak them again in lukewarm salt and water changed two or throe times, and lastly rinse them in cold water and hang them in the aii-, but not to dry. TheySAUSAGES. 329 must be again thrown into cold water and wiped with a clean napkin before using. If, after the sausages are made, there are any skins remaining, put them in a little jar with plenty of salt between, and over them. 1160. On Sausage Making. As general rules for making sausages, those given in No. 1121 for small, and in No. 1142 for large ones, may be relied on. Almost every district of a country has its own favourite flavour of spice or herb ; others prefer salt and pepper only. The art of seasoning consists in allowing no one flavour to overpower the rest. Clove and garlic are two of the most frequently used foreign seasonings, but they require to be so sparingly used that one can scarcely define what the flavour is that they impart, and then they are excellent. All sausages are improved by hanging a day or two, or longer, before they are cooked. 1161. Bread in Sausage Meat. The addition of bread is not often found in well-made German sausages, as it is considered to detract from their goodness. Sometimes, however, it is thought desirable to use it, firstly because it renders them less rich; secondly, it increases the quantity. To six pounds of meat allow no more than from a pound to a pound and a half of grated bread ; a pound, indeed, is enough. It must always be quite moistened with cold milk or water, and mixed in before the mincing is half done. Again it is advisable, when filling, to leave the mince rather soft in them, and, particularly, to prick with a needle any spaces of air. 1162. On Smoking Sausages. A “ Rauch Kammer ” (smoke-chamber) is rarely found in modern houses, in or near towns. The smoking of sausages, artificially, answers quite as well, however. Pyro- ligneous acid is pretty well known now to be the medium used in giving the smoke flavour to sausages, hung beef, fish, &c.—the brown pyroligneous acid sold by chemists. Pour a teaspoonful at a time of this in a saucer, and, with a wing feather or a little brush, wot the sausages all over once, and330 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. hang them in a dry place. The large store sausages may be wet over once again, three days after. Brush well over the ends where they are tied. This process is a good preservative, and fully answers the ends of smoking. 1163. Mincing Machines. It may he of service to conclude this chapter with a few words of opinion on mincing machines. It must be obvious to any observer that chopping-boards absorb the juices of the meat; and many have said, or fancied, that a delicate mince has tasted of the wood, although washed and aired, after standing in a damp place. The machine certainly ensures perfect cleanliness, while it disperses the seasoning equally, minces to any degree of fineness, and fills the skins for sausages at the same time. The skins, too, ready prepared, are to be had where the machines are sold; so that any housekeeper may make her own store sausages, and people have the satisfaction of knowing that the meat is of the best. Strasburg pates, forcemeats, purees, and many made dishes are very much better and quicker made by aid of the machine, especially the wholesome and in every way preferable ones, the new “ Vitrified Enamelled,” manufactured by Spong & Co.’'^ Modern cooks really possess many advantages in the various mechanical aids given to them by modern inventors. * Spong & Co., inventors and patentees, 28, King ‘William Street, Strand; -wholesale agents, Messrs. Crowdon and Garrod, Falcon Square, E.C.INDEX. SOUPS. NO. , PAGE 1. Klare Rindsuppe or Fleischbriihe—Clear Soup ... 1 2. Brauno Suppe—Brown Soup 1 3. Eierfliidlen Suppe—Pancake Soup 4. Aal Suppe—Eel Soup 5. Eiergersten Suppe—Egg-barley Soup 6. Einlauf Suppe—Batter-flake Soup 7. Luft Suppe—A Batter-cream Soup 8. Suppe in Eile—Soup in HeLste 9. Pommeriscbe Suppe—Pomeranian Soup .... 10. Pommeriscbe Suppe mit Ente—Pomeranian Soup with Duck. 11. Giinseklein, Oder Ganse Suppe—Giblet Soup .... 12. Ganseklein Suppe—Giblet Soup. (No. 2.) . 13. Yager Suppe—Hunter’s Soup 14. Klare Suppe, mit Parmesan Croutons—Clear Soup with Par- mesan Croutons ......... 15. Klare Suppe von Eindfleiscb—Clear Soup of Beef . 16. Kaiser Suppe—Imperial Soup 17. Krebs Suppe—Cray Pisb Soup 18. Kalbfleiscb Suppe—Veal Soup .' 19. Kalbfleiscb Suppe—Veal Soup. (No. 2.) ... . 20. Kalbsbriise, oder Kalbcrmilcb Suppe—Sweetbread Soup 21. Kalbskopf Suppe—Calf’s Head Soup 22. Hiibner Suppe—Chicken Soup 23. Verlorones Hiihnel Suppe—Lost Cbicken Soup 24. Griesmebl Suppe—Corn-grits Soup 25. Reis Suppe—Rice Soup 26. Sago Suppe—Sago Soup 27. Nudeln Suppe—Nudel Soup 28. Macaroni Suppe mit Parmesan Kase—Macaroni Soup witb Parmesan Cheese 8 29. Kastanicn Suppe—Chestnut Soup 9 Durchgetriebene or Gestossene Siqgjen—Puree Soups. 30. Suppe mit Puree von Gcfliigel—Soup witb Puree of Poultry . 9 31. Suppe mit Puree von Wild Gcfliigel—Soup with Pui'eo of Game 10IXDEX. 332 XO. ^ _ I-AOE 32. Puree Suppe d la Heine—Potage J la Heine . . . .10 33. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . 10 34. Do. do. (No. 3.) . .11 35. Do. von Puter oder Kapaun—Do. of Turkey or Capon (No. 4.) 11 36. Braune Suppe, mit Puree von Leber—Brown Soup with Puree of Liver 12 37. Suppe mit Blumenkobl Puree—Soup with Cauliflower Puree 12 38. Suppe mit Weisse Hiiben Puree—Soup with Puree of Turnips . 12 Gemuseund Kraiiter Suppen—Vegetable and Herb Soups. 39. Linsen Suppe—Lentil Soup . . . . . . .12 40. Bohnen Suppe, mit Geraiichertem Schweinefleisch—Bean Soup, with Ham or Bacon 13 41. Bohnen Suppe—Bean Soup. (No. 2.) 13 42. Carfiol Suppe—Cauliflower Soup 13 43. Spargel Suppe—Asparagus Soup 14 44. Griine Korner Suppe—Green Com Soup . . . .14 45. Krauter Suppe—Herb Soup 14 46. Krauter Suppe mit Parmesan Croutons—Herb Soup with Parmesan Croutons . . . . . . . .14 47. Sauerampfer Suppe—Sorrel Soup 14 48. Sauerampfer Soup mit Verlorenen Eiem—Sorrel Soup with Poached Eggs 15 49. KartoflCel Suppe—Potato Soup 15 50. Schwartz Brod Suppe—Bro-wn Bread Soup . . . .15 51. Durchgetriebene, Do. do.—Strained, Do. do. . . .15 52. Parmesan Kase Suppe—Parmesan Cheese Soup . . .15 53. Erdartischocken Suppe—Jerusalem Artichoke Soup . . 16 . Fasten Suppen—Lent or Fast-Day Soups. 54. Fisch Suppe, Weisse—Fish Soup, White . . . .16 65. Fisch Suppe mit Kartoffeln—Fish Soup with Potatoes . • 16 56. Braune Fisch Suppe—Fish Soup, Brown . . . .17 67. Aal Suppe—Eel Soup 17 68. Cardinale Suppe—Cardinal Soup 17 69. Erbsenbriihe—Pea Broth 17 60. Fasten Suppen—Fast-day Soups 17 Wasser Suppe7i—Water Soups. 61. Brod Suppe—Bread Soup IS 62. Do. do. (No. 2.) 18 63. Gobrannte Suppe—Burnt Soup IS 64. Kartoflfel Suppe—Potato Soup 18 65. Zwiebel Suppo—Onion Soup 19 66. Einbrenn Suppe—A Brown Soup 19 67. Sauro Hahm Suppe—Sour Cream Soup 19 68. Graupen Suppe—Unground Com Soup 19 69. Kummel Suppo—Caraway Soup 19 70. Do. do. (No. 2.) .... 20 71. Baiunwolle Suppe—A Creamy, Flaky Soup . . . .20INDEX. 333 X0> PAOB 72. Sellerie Suppe—Celery Soup 20 7-3. Panade Suppe—Panada Soup ...... 20 Milch Suppen—Milk Soups, Su-eet. 74. Milch Suppe—Milk Soup 75. Do. do. (No. 2.) 76. Milch Suppe mit Nudeln—Milk Soup with Nudels 77. Milch Suppe mit Mandel Klossen—Milk Soup with Almond Klbsse 78. Schaum Milch Suppe—Frothed Milk Soup .... 79. Kiirbis Suppe—Pumpkin Soup 80. Chocolade Suppe—Chocolate Soup 81. Mandel Suppe—Almond Soup 82. Hackereis—A Clotted Milk Soup 83. Milch Suppe mit Zwiobeln—Milk Soup with Onions . Wine Soups. 84. Wein Suppe—Wine Soup 23 85. Do. do. (No. 2.) 23 86. Kloster Wein Suppe—Monastery Wine Soup . . .23 87. Wein Suppe—Wine Soup. (No. 4.) 23 88. Wein Suppe mit Citronen—Wine Soup with Lemons . . 23 89. Wein Schaum Suppe—^Wine Froth Soup . . . .24 90. Wein Suppe mit Citronen imd Semmel—Wine Soup with Lemon and EoUs 24 91. Wein Suppe mit Corinthen und Brod—Wine Soup with Currants and Bread 24 21 21 21 21 21 22 22 22 22 22 Beer Soups. 92. Bier Suppe—Beer Soup 24 93. Schaumbier Suppe—Frothed Beer Soup . . . .24 94. Bier Suppe mit Sago—Beer Soup with Sago . . .25 95. Bier Suppe mit Brod—Beer Soup with Bread . . .25 96. Bier Suppe mit Milch—Beer Soup with Milk . . .26 97. Bier Suppe mit Kiimmel—Beer Soup with Caraways . . 26 98. Polnischer Thee—Polish Tea 25 Obst Suppen—Fruit Soups 99. Aepfel Suppe—Apple Soup 100. Aepfel Suppe mit Corinthen—Apple Soup with Currants 101. Bimen Suppe—Pear Soup 102. Pflaumen Suppe—Plum Soup 103. Kirschen Suppe—Cherry Soup 104. Erdbeeren Suppe—Strawberry Soup .... . 26 . 26 . 26 . 20 . 27 . 27 HORS D’GEUVEES. 105. Stolzer Heinrich—Stolzer Heinrich 106. Sardellen Schnitten—Sardine Fritters . 107. Croquetten von Huhn—Croquettes of Fowl . 28 28 29INDEX. 334 NO. fACt 108. Canapees von Sardellen—Canapees of Sardines . . .29 109. Macaroni in Coquillen Schalen—ilacaroni in Scollop Shells. 30 110. Coteletten von Hase—Hare Cutlets . . . • , 30 Crepinettes—Crepinettes 107 Austem in Coquillen Schalen—Oysters in Scollop ShcUs . 34 Fisch Ragout in CoquiUen Schalen—Fish Ragout in Scollop SheUs 45 Austem Pastetchen—Oyster Patties 229 Fisch Pastetchen—Fish Patties 229 Caviar Schnitten-—Caviar Croutons 36 Croquetten von Fisch—Croquettes of Fish . . . .45 Klopps von Rindfleisch—Beef Collops 88 Klopps von Kalbfleisch—Veal Collops 105 Fleisch Vogel—Meat Birds 110 Schinkenschnittchen—Ham Fritters . . . . .124 Gerostete Zunge—Fried Tongue 94 Wurstchen in Butterteig—Sausage RoUs .... 230 FISH. See and Fhtss Fisch—Sea and River Fish, 111. Aal, Gestovter—Eels, Stewed 32 112. Do. do. (Ho. 2.) .... 32 113. Aal, Gestovter, mit Bier—Eels, Stewed, with Beer . . 33 114. Gehackener Aal—Eels, Fried 33 115. Aal, Gebratener—Eels, Baked 33 116. Marinirter Aal—Eels, Marinaded 33 171. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . . .33 118. Aal in Aspic—Eels in Jelly 34 119. Austem in Coquillen Schalen—Oysters in Scollop Shells . 34 120. Austem in Tiogel—Oysters in the Pan 34 121. Austem in Schalen—Oysters in the Shell . . . .35 122. Austem, Gebratene—Oysters, Baked 35 123. Austem, Falsche—Mock Oysters . . . . .35 124. Barbe, or Barbel—Mullet 35 125. Barse or Barsch—Perch, Dutch Way 35 126. Barsch—Perch. (No. 2.)’ 35 127. Beignets von Fisch—Beignets of Fish . .... 36 128. Caviar Schnitten—Caviar Croutons 36 129. Steinbutte—Turbot 36 130. St. Peter’s Fisch—Dory 36 131. Cotelettes von Fisch—Cutlets of Fish 36 132. Forellen—^Trout 37 133. Forellen in Aspic—Trout in Jelly 37 134. Haringc, Gebackene—Dutch Herrings, Fried . . .37 135. Haringe, Frische, Gebackene—Fresh Herrings, Fried . . 37 136. Haringe, Marinirte—Herrings, Marinaded . . . .38 137. Hecbt, Gediinsteter—Pike, Stewed 38 138. Hecbt, Gespickter—Larded Pike 38 139. Hecht, Gebratener, mit Saurcr Saline—Pike, Baked, with Sour Cream 39335 INDEX. 140. Carbonaden von Hecbt—Carbonade of Pike . . . .39 141. Angescblagencr Hecht—A Coated Pike . . . .39 142. Kiu-pfen mit Poluisclier Sauce—Carp witli Polish Sauce . 40 143. Karpfen in Brauner Sauce—Carp with Brown Sauce . . 40 144. lu-ebse zu Sieden—Crayfish, to Boil 40 145. Laohs zu Sieden—Salmon, to Boil 41 146. Laehs zu Braten—Salmon, Fried 41 147. Lachs, Marinirter—Salmon, Marinaded . . . .41 148. Lachs in Aspic—Salmon in JeUy 41 149. Kabeljau—Cod 42 150. Laberdan, or Stockfisch—Salt Cod 42 151. Panfisch—A Fish Eock ....... 42 152. Makrelen—Mackerel ........ 42 153. Seezungen—Soles ........ 42 154. Eouletten von Seezungen—Eoulettcs of Soles . . .43 155. Stor—Sturgeon 43 156. Zander—Perch or Piko ....... 43 157. Hummer zu Sieden—Lobsters, to Boil . . . . .43 158. Muscholn zu Sieden—Mussels, to Boil 44 159. Muscheln, Gcdiinstete—Mussels, Stewed . . . .44 160. Coquillen von Muscheln—Scolloped Mussels . . .44 161. Fisch Ragout in Coquillen Schalen—Fish Ragout in Scollop Shells 45 162. Croquetten von Fisch—Croquettes of Fish . . . .45 163. Krebs Butler—Crayfish Butter 45 164. Sardnllen Butter—Sardine Butter 46 165. Anchovis Butter—Anchovy Butter 46 SAUCES. 166. Coulia, Braune—Brown Gravy Stock 47 167. Coulis, Weisse—White Gravy Stock 47 168. Braune Kraft Sauce—Good Brown Sauce . . . .48 169. Weisse Kraft Sauce—Good White Sauce . . . .48 170. Mostrich Sauce—ilustard Sauce 48 171. Mostrich Sauce, Braune—Brown Mustard Sauce . . . 48 172. Senf Sauce—Mustard Sauce . . . . . . .48 173. Saueramj/fer Sauce—Sorrel Sauce 49 174. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . . .49 175. Gurken Sauce—Cucumber Sauce 49 176. Kren, or Moerrettig Sauce—Horseradish Sauce . . .49 177. Meorrettig Sauce—Horseradish Sauce. (No. 2.) . . . 49 178. Schnittlauch Sauoe—Chives Sauce 49 179. Petersilien Sauce—Parsley Sauce . . . . .50 180. Butter Sauce—Butter Sauce 50 181. Bechamel Sauce—Bechamel Sauce 50 182. Sahnen Sauce—Cream Sauce 50 183. Spargel Sauce—Asparagus Sauce 51 184. Blumenkohl Sauce—Cauliflower Sauce . . . . .51 185. Holliindische Sauce mit Wqjn—Dutch Sauce with Wine . 51 186. Kapern Sauce—Caper Sauce 51 187. Braune Kapern Sauce—Caper Sauce, Brown . . .61336 INDEX. NO. 188. Oliven Sauce—Olivo Sauce 189. Estragon Sauce—Tarragon Sauce 190. Pomeranzen Sauce—Orange Sauce for Wild Ducks 191. Gelbe Riiben Sauce—Carrot Sauce 192. Sauce zu Kalbskopf—Sauce for Calf b Head . . . . 193. Saure Eier Sauce—Sotir Egg Sauce 194. Tcmate Sauce—Tomato Sace 196. Saure Sahne Sauce—Sour Cream Sauce . . . . 196. Zwiebel Sauce—Onion Sauce 197. Zwiebel Sauce Piquant—Onion Sauce piquant 198. Do. mit Kiimmel—Do. with Caraways . . . . 199. Saure Zwiebel Sauce—Onion Sauce, Sour . . . . 200. Speck Sauce zu Salate—Bacon Sauce for Salads . 201. Speck and Zwiebel Sauce—Bacon and Onion Sauce 202. Triiflfel Sauce—Truffles Sauce 203. Schwarze Sauce, zu Wild, Eisch, Coteletten, &c.—Black Sauce for Game, Fish, Cutlets, &c 204. Kriiuter Sauce, zu Gefliigel, Kalbfleisch, &c.—For Poultry, Veal, &c 205. Salbei Sauce—Sage Sauce 206. Moreheln Sauce—Morel Sauce 207. Shalotten Sauce—Shalot Sauce 208. Schiller Sauce zu Wild, &c.—Schiller Sauce, for Venison, Game, &c. . . 209. Champignon Sauce, Braune—Mushroom Sauce, Brown 210. Champignon Sauce, Weisse—Mushroom Do., White . Fish Sauces. 211. Austern Sauce—Oyster Sauce 212. Austern Sauce, Braune—Oyster Sauce, Brown 213. Butter Sauce—Butter Sauce ... 214. Muschel Sauce—Mussel Sauce ...... 215. Krebs Sauce—Crayfish Sauce 216. Gamelen Sauce—Prawn or Shrimp Sauce .... 217. Holstein Sauce—Holstein Sauce 218. Sardellen Sauce—Sardine Sauce 219. Kiimmel Sauce—Caraway Sauce 220. Sachsische Sauce—Saxony Sauce 221. Haring Sauce—Herring Sauce 222. Fasten Sauce, Weisse—Fast-day Sauce, White . 223. Fasten Sauce, Braune—Fast-day Sauce, Brown . 224. Hollandische Sauce—Dutch Fish Sauce .... 225. Eier Sauce—Egg Sauce Kalte Saiicen—Cold Sauces a7id Condiments. 226. Kaiser Senf—Imperial Mustard 227. Senf Piquant—Piquant Mustiird 228. Eier Senf—Egg Mustard 229. Gewiirz Senf—Spiced Mustard 230. Do. do. (No. 2) 231. Sardellen SenfT-Sardine Mushird 232. Kren, or Mecrrettig Sauce—Horseradish Sauce . paoB 51 .52 52 52 52 52 53 53 53 53 53 53 54 54 54 54 55 55 55 55 55 56 56 56 57 57 57 57 58 58 58 58 59 59 59 59 60 60 60 60 61 61 61 61 62INDEX. 337 NO. PAGE 233. Kren, oder Meerrettig Sauce—Horseradish Sauce (No. 2.) . 62 234. Meerrettig Sauce fiir Fisch—Horseradish Sauce for Fish . 62 23o. Eier Kren—Horseradish with Eggs 62 236. Aepfel Kren—Horseradish with Apples . . . .62 237. Strasbourg Sauce—Strasbourg Sauce 63 238. Krauter Sauce—Herb Sauce ...... 63 239. Eettig Sauce—Eadish Sauce ...... 63 240. Eoth Eettig Sauce—Eed Eadish Sauce . . . .63 241. Boretsch Sauce—Borage Sauce ...... 63 242. Schnittlauch Sauce—Chives Sauce 64 243. Haring Sauce—Herring Sauce 64 244. Sauce Eemoulade—Eemoulade Sauce 64 245. Kren Sauce mit Sahne—Horseradish with Cream . . 64 246. Mayonnaise Sauce—Sauce Mayonnaise . . . .64 247. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . . 65 Sweet Sauces. 248. Aepfel Sauce—Apple Sauce 249. Do. do. (No. 2.) . 250. Aprikosen Sauce—Apricot Sauce .... 251. Chocolade Sauce—Chocolate Sauce 252. Chaudeau, oder Weinschaum Sauce—Chaudeau Sauce 253. Schotto Sauce—Chaudeau Sauce. (No. 2.) . 254. Eierschaum Sauce—Egg Foam Sauce . 255. Wein Sauce—Wine Sauce 256. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . . 257. Arack Sauce—Arrack Sauce .... 258. Punsch Sauce—Punch Sauce .... 259. Polnische Sauce—Polish Sauce .... 260. Marmalade Sauce—Marmalade Sauce . 261. Eosinen Sauce—Currant Sauce .... 262. Milch or Eahm Sauce—Milk or Cream Sauce 263. VaniUe Sauce—Vanilla Sauce .... 264. Mandel Sauce—Almond Sauce .... 265. Himbeer Schaumsauce—Easpberry Sauce . 266. Johannisbeer Schaumsauce—Eed Currant Sauce . 267. Hagebutten Sauce—Hips Sauce .... 268. Kirschen Sauce—Cherry Sauce .... 269. Pllaumen Sauce—Plum Sauce .... 270. Zwetschen Sauce—Prune Sauce .... 65 65 66 66 66 66 66 67 67 67 67 67 67 68 68 68 68 68 69 69 69 69 69 “ Farce ” or “ Fasch ”—Forcemeats. 271. Farce von Kalbfleisch—Forcement of Veal . . . .69 272. Farce fur Putem—Forcemeat for Turkeys . . . .70 273. Farce fiir Hiihner oder Wild—^Forcemeat for Poultry or Grame 70 274. Farco fiir Tauben, &c.—Bread Forcemeat for Pigeons, &c. 70 275. Hiihner Farce—Forcemeat of Fowl 70 276. Farce von WEd—Forcemeat of Game 71 277. Farce zu kalton Paateten—Forcemeat for Cold Pasties . 71 z338 INDEX. KO. 278. Farce von Leber—Forcemeat of Liver . . . . 279. b arce von Fisch—-Forcemeat of Fi«h • . . . 280. Farce von IVfandeln—Forcemeat of Almonds 281. Farce von Kastanien—Forcemeat of Chestnuts 282. Kneffs oder Quenelles—Quenelles .... 283. Bratenfiille—Stuffings for Boasts 284. Erdapfelfulle—Potato Stuffing 285. EeisfuUe fiir Spanferkel—Eice Stuffing for Sucldng-pig SALADS. Cresses 286. Tm Allgemeinen—In General 287. Gemiise Salafe—Vegetable Salads 288. Endivien Salat—F.ndive Salad 289. Kartoffel Salat—Potato Salad 290. Do. do. (No. 2.) 291. Bohnen Salat—Bean Salad . 292. Eothe Eiiben—Beetroot 293. Eother Salat—Eed Salad 294. Winter Salat—Winter Salad 295. Kloster Salat—Convent Salad 296. Capuziner oder Blumen Salat—Bouquet Salad 297. Brunnen oder Garten Kresse-—Brook or Garden 298. Kohl Salat—Winter Cabbage Salad 299. Weisscr Kohl Salat—^WTiite Cabbage Salad . 300. Cichorien Salat—Succory Salad . 301. Winter Salat—-Winter Salad (No. 2.) 302. Gurken Salat—Cucumber Salad . 303. I’olnischer Salat—Polish Salad 304. Haring Salat—Hening Salad 305. ])o. do. (No. 2.) 306. Do. do. 307. Do. do. 308. Do. do. 309. Fisch Salat—Fish Salad 310. Sardellcn Salat—Sardine Salad 311. Hummer Salat mit Caviar Schnitten—Lobster Salad Caviar Toast 312. Lattieh Salat—Lettuce Salad 313. Erbsen, Linsen, or Bohnen Salat—Peas, Lentils, Salad. . . . _ . 314. Artischocken Salat—Artichoke Salad 315. Schwarzwurzeln Salat—Scorzonera Salad 316. Weisse Bohnen Salat—White Bean Salad . 317. Spargel Salat—Asparagus Salad . 318. Hopfen Salat—Hop Salad .... 319. Blumenkohl Salat—Cauliflower Salad . 320. Fleisch Salat—Cold Meat Salad . 321. Salat Sauce ohne Del—Salad Cream -without Oil 322. Salat Sauce—Salad Cream (No. 2.) 323. Salat Sauce—Salad Orejim (No. 3.) 324. Do. do. (^No. -1.) (No. 3.1 (No. 4. (No. 5. , or witl Bean rAcs 71 71 72 72 72 73 73 73 74 74 75 75 75 75 76 76 76 76 76 77 77 77 78 78 78 78 78 79 79 79 79 SO SO 80 SO 81 81 81 81 81 81 81 82 82 82 .s2 82339 INDEX. NO* 32o. Salat Sauce—Salad Cream (No. 5.) . . . 326. Sauce zu Fisch Salat—Cream for Fish Salad 327. Do. do. (No. 2.) 328. Von Salat Saucen—On Salad Dressings 329. Speck Sauce zu Salat—Bacon Salad Dressing PAOE . 83 . 83 . 83 . 83 . 83 MEATS. Fdndfleisch—Beef. 330. Rindfloisch zu Sieden—Beef to Boil 84 331. Oxenfleisch zu Braten—Beetto Ilo:;st ..... 84 332. Sauerbraten, or Essig Schmorbraten—Savoury Beef, Steamed 84 333. Gebeiztes Oxenfleisch—Roust Beef Piquant . . . .85 334. Milch Sauerbraten—Piquant Beef (No. 3.) . . . .85 335. Schmorfleisch—A Cold Savoury Dish . . . .85 336. Gehackter Braten—A Meat Porcupine . . . .86 337. Roulade von Oxenfleisch—Rolled Beef . . . .86 338. Roulade von Oxenfleisch—Rolled Beef, Cold . . .87 339. Oxenfleisch in Bier gediimpft—Beef Stowed with Beer . 87 340. Rindfloisch Rouletten—Beef Olives or Roulettes . . .87 341. Gebratenes Rinderfilet wie Hase—Roast FiUet of Beef as Mock Hare 88 342. Pfefl'er Potthast—Pepper Pot 88 343. Beefsteaks—Beefsteaks 88 344. Klopps—Collops 88 345. Do. do. (No. 2.) 89 346. Do. do. (No. 3.) 89- 347. Do. do. (No. 4.) 90 348 Oxenfleisch Cotelettes—Beef Cutlets 90 349. Gebratene Fricandelle—FricandeUes 90 360. Polnisches Zrazy—Polish Sraszy 90 351. Zrazy—Sraszy (No. 2.) 91 352. Fricadollen—FrincandeUs 91 353. Frische Zunge—Fresh Tongue 91 354. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . . . 92 356. Do. do. (No. 3.) . . . .92 356. Dresdener Zunge—Dresden Tongue 92 357. TJngarische Zunge—Hungarian Tongue . . . .92 358. Geraucherte Zunge—Smoked Tongue 93 359. Saure Oxenzunge—Savoury Tongue 93 360. Braunes Ragout von Zunge—Brown Ragout of Tongue . 93 361. Zungcn Fricassee—Fricassee ot 'Tongue . . . .93 362. Gerostete Oxeuzuhge—Fried Tongue 94 363. Plockfinken—A Smoked Meat Hash . . . . .94 364. Gehackter Braten—Baked Mince 94 365. Oxenschweife—Ox 'Tails . 94 366. Oxengamncn—Ox Palates 95 367. Rinds Fuss—Cow Heol, or Neat’s Foot . . . .96 308. Rindshim zu Braten—Ox Brains, Frit d .... 95 'lOO. Kaldauncn oder KuUlctleck—'Tn'ne . . . ; .96340 INDEX. KO. PACK 370. Kaldauncn oder Kuttlefleck—Tripe (No. 2.) . . . 96 371. Do. do. (No. 3.) . . . .96 372. Konigsberger Fleck—Konigsberg Tripe .... 96 373. Hamburger Rindfleiscb—Hamburg Beef to Pickle . . 96 374. Hamburger EauchHeisch—Hamburg Beef, Smoked . . 97 375. Roastschnitten in Sauce—Beef Hash 97 376. Rindfleiscb Ragout—Beef Ragout 97 377. Schlachtbraten—A Larded Beef Dish .... 98 378. Rinder Cotelettes—Beef Cutlets, Viennese way ... 98 379. Polnisches Zraszy—Polish Sraszy 99 380. Boeuf a la Mode—Beef & la Mode 99 381. Oxen Maul—Ox Cheek 99 Kalhfleisch— Vea 1. 382. Kalbsbraten—Roast Veal 100 383. GefiiUter Kalbsbraten^—Roast Veal, Filled. . . . 100 384. Gespickte Kalbsschale—Shoulder of Veal, Larded . . 100 386. Saurer Kalbsschlegel Schulter—Leg or Shoulder of Veal, Marinaded 101 386. Kalbsbraten in Buttermilch—Veal in Buttermilk . . 101 387. Kalbsschlegel, Kalt mit Aspic—Cold Roast Veal in Jelly . 101 388. Roulade von Kalbsbrust mit Aspic—Breast of Veal Roulade with Jelly 102 389. Winkelbraten, Gedampfter—Loin of Veal, Steamed . . 102 390. Brisolettes—Veal Brisolettes 103 391. Polnischer Bock—Polish Buck 103 392. Wiener Schnitzel—Viennese Cutlets 103 393. Kalbsbrust Fricassee—Breast of Veal, Fricasseed . . 104 394. Kalbsbrust mit Blumenkohl—Breast of Veal with Catxli- flowers . . . . . . . . . .104 396. Kalbs Fricandeau—Fricandeau of Veal, Cold . . . 104 396. Do. do. Hot . . . 105 397. Kalbs Fricandeaux—Veal Fricandeaux .... 105 398. Kalbs Fricassee mit Schwarzwurzel—Veal Fricassee with Scorzonera 105 399. Klopps von Kalhfleisch—^^^eal Collops 105 400. Kalbsbraten Wiirfeln mit Eosinen—Veal Mince with 106 Currants .......... 106 401. Eingemachtes Klabfleisch—Stewed Veal . . . .106 402. Kalbs Kopf—Calf s Head 106 403. Kalbs Kopf, Gebratener—Calf s Head, Baked . . . 106 404. GrilUrter Kalbs Kopf—Calf s Head, Fried . . . . 107 405. Kalbs Fiisse—Calves’ Feet 107 406. Kalbsbrieslein, oder Kalbs Milch—Sweetbread . . . 107 407. Crepinettes—Baked Faggots 107 408. Kalbfleisoh Pilau—Veal Pilau 108 409. Gefullte Leber, oder Kalbs Netzwurst—Savomy Liver Mince in Caul, to eat Cold 108 410. Do. do. (No. 2.) 108 411. Grick—Calf s Pluck 109 412. Kalbs Herz—Calfs Heart 109 413. Gefiilltes Uerz—Calf’s Heart filled 109INDEX. 341 NO. J 414. Gediimpftes Kalbfleisch—Stewed Veal . » . . 416. Kalbsleber Gosclimort—Calf’s Liver, Stewed 416. Kalbs Gehime—Calf s Brains 417. Mayonnaise von Kalbs Gehime—Mayonnaise of Calfs Brains 418. Fleisch Vogel—Meat Birds, or Veal Olives 419. Fleisch Vogel Gespickte—Meat Birds, Larded . 420. Fricandell—FricandeU 421. Fricandellen—Fricandells 422. Kalbskopf in Snlze—Calf’s Head in Jelly .... 423. Kalbsleber Gespickte—Calf’s Liver, Larded 424. Gespickte Leber Scheiben—Calfs Liver, Larded in Slices. Hummel, or Schopfen Fleisch—Mutton. 425. Hammel Braten—Roast Mutton 426. Hammel Braten mit Knoblauch—Roast Mutton with Garlic 427. Hammelkeule, Geschmorte—Leg of Mutton, Steamed 428. Hammelkeule wie Hase—Leg of Mutton as Mock Hare 429. Hammelkeule Marinirte—Mutton Marinaded 430. Ragout von Hammelfleisch—Ragout of Mutton . 431. Gedampfte Hammelschale mit Gurken—Shoulder of Mutton, Steamed, with Cucumbers 432. Gefullte Hammelschulter—Shoulder of Mutton, Stuffed 433. Hsunmelfleisch wie Wild—Mutton dressed as Game . 434. Hammelbrust—Breast of Mutton 435. Gedampftes Hammelcaree—Loin of Mutton, Stewed . 436. Gerosteto Hammelcarees—Loin Cutlets of Mutton, Stewed . 437. Hammel Cotelettes—Mutton Cutlets 438. Haschee von Hammel—Mutton Hash . . . . 439. Ragout von Hammel—Ragout of Mutton (No. 2.) Lammfleisch—Lamb. 440. Lammbraten—Roast Lamb 441. Lammbraten mit Rosmarin—Roast Lamb with Rosemary . 442. Lamm Carbonaden mit Krautern—Lamb Chops with Herbs . 443. Lamm Ragout mit Sauerampfer—Lamb Ragout with Sorrel. 444. Lamm Fricassee mit Capem—Fricasseed Lamb with Capers 445. Lammriickon wie Rehaiemer—Saddle of Lamb Venison Fashion 446. Lammbriiste Gefullte—Breast of Lamb, Filled . 447. Lammbriiste Gerostete—Breast of Lamb, Broiled 44S. Kalbsgeschlinge—Calfs Pluck 449. Lammsgeschlmge und Kopf—Lamb’s Pluck Schweinfleisch—Pork. 450. Schweinsbraten—Roast Pork 451. Nierenbraten—Loin of Pork 452. Gefullte Schweinsrippe—Filled Ribs of Pork 453. Sauer Schweinebraten—Sour Roast of Pork . . ■ 454. Sauer Schweinebraten—Pork Marinaded (No. 2.) 455. Saurer Schweinskopf—Pig’s Head Piquant PAGE 109 110- 110 no 110 111 111 111 111 112 112 113 113 113 114 114 114 114 115 115 116 116 116 116 116 117 117 117 117 118 118 118 119 119 120 120 121 121 121 121 122 122INDEX. 342 ks NO. 4i56. Schwoins'brateii mit Haringe—Eoast Pork with Herrings 4-i7. Spanferkel—Sucking-pig 4.38. Eoulade von Schwcinfleisch—Eollcd Pork 459. Eouladen von Schweinsfleisch—Polled Pork Steak 460. Schinkenschnittchen—Ham Fritters . 461. Schw'eins Cotelettes—Pork Chops 462. Gefiillter Schweinskopf—Filled Pig’s Head 463. Geraucherter Schweinskopf—Smoked Pig’s Head 464. Presskopf—Brawn, or Pressed Head . 465. Do. do. (No. 2.) 466. Do. do. (No. 3.) 467. Do. do. (No. 4.) 468. Klopps von Schweinefleisch—Collops of Pork 469. Klopps, Geschmorte—Collops of Pork. Stewed 470. Klopps in Kriiuter Sauce—CoUops in Herh Sauce IJeherreste—Eemains of Pork 471. Wiirstchen—Sausages . 472. Plattenring—A Meat Cake of Pork 473. Fleischkuchen—Meat Cake of Pork 474. Gehacktes Fleisch—Pork Minced 475. Netzwurst—Minced Pork in Caul 476. Sulze—Pig’s Head Jellied . 477. Bratwiirst mit Apfeln—Saiisages with Apples 478. Bratwiirst in Bier—Sausages in Beer . 479. Geriiucherte Bratwiirste—Smoked Sausages 480. Wiirstchen ohne Darm—Sausages wuthout Skins TKnr. \Tl 122 123 124 124 124 124 125 125 126 126 126 127 127 127 128 128 128 128 128 128 129 129 130 130 130 Scliinken zu Kochen—Hams, to Dress. 481. Bier Schinken—Beer Ham 130 482. Geraucherter Schinken—Smoked Ham .... 131 483. Mecklenburgischer Schinken—Smoked Ham, Mecklenburg way 131 484. Schinken—Ham (No. 4.) 131 485. Schinken mit Kriiste—Ham-with Crust .... 131 486. Gebackener Schinken—^Baked Ham 132 487. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . . 132 488. Schinken in Biirgunder—Ham in Burgundy . . • 132 489. Schinken wie AVildschweinsbraten—Leg of Pork, Wild Boar Fashion 133 POULTEY AND GAAIE. 490. Huhn zu Braten—Fowl, to Eoast 134 491. Puter, Oder Kapaun—Turkey, or Capon .... 134 492. Junge Hiihner zu Braten—Chicken, to Eoast . . .134 493. Junge Hiihner in Weisser Sauce—Chickens in White Sauce . 135 494. Hiihner mit Nudeln—Chickens with Nudels . . • 135 495. Kapaun odor Puter zu Sieden—Capon or Turkey, to Boil . 135 496. Puter mit Kastanien—Turkey with Chestnuts . . .136 497. Gansebraten—Goose, to Eoast . . . . . .136 498. Gebratene Gans—Goose, to Eoast (No. 2.). . . .136 499. Gebratene Gans mit Kastanien—Eoast Goose with Chestnuts. 137INDEX. 343 so. TAOE 6i)0. Pijkel Gans—Goose Pickled 137 601. Do. do. (No. 2.) . , . . . 137 602. Gaasfklein—Goose Giblets 137 503. Ganseschwartz, Westfalische—Giblets Westphalian way . 138 604. Gfinseklein mit Weissen Riibon—Giblets with Turnips . 138 505. Giinseklein mit Aepfeln—Giblets with Apples . . . 138 506. Giinseklein mit Birnen—Giblets with Pears . . . 139 607. Giinseklein—Goose Giblets, a plainer way . . . .139 608. Ganseschmalz—Goose Lard 139 609. Enten zu Braten—Ducks, to Roast ..... 140 610. Gebratene Ente—Ducks, to Roast (No. 2.) . . . 140 611. Do. do. (No. 3.) . . . 140 612. Gediimpfte Ente—Duck, Stewed 140 613. Ragout von Gans odor Ente—Itagout of Goose or Duck . 141 614. Gans Oder Ente in Aspic—Goose or Duck in Jelly . . 141 515. Geflugel in Aspic—Poultry in Jelly . . . . .142 Ueberreste von Gefliigel—Remains of Poultry . . .142 616. Tauhon—Pigeons 143 617. Tauben in Speck Sauce—Pigeons in Bacon Sauce . .143 518. Tauben in Saurer Sauce—Pigeons Piquant . . . 143 619. Gebratene Tauben—Pigeons, to Roast .... 143 620. Gebratene Tauben in Weinlaub—Pigeons, to Roast in Vino- leaves .......... 143 621. Gefiillte Tauben—Filled Pigeons ..... 144 622. Wilde Tauben—Wild I’igeons 144 623. Wachteln—Quails 144 624. Schnepfen—Snipes 144 625. Do. do. (No. 2.) 144 526. Auerhahn—Woodcock or Grouse . . . . .145 527. Gebratener Easan—Pheasant, to Roast .... 145 628. Rebhiiner—Partridges 145 629. Lerchen—Larks 146 630. Wilde Enten—Wild Ducks . . . . . .146 631. Gebratener Hase—Hare, to Roast ..... 146 632. Hase auf Jiigerart—Hare, Hunter’s way .... 146 633. Hasen Pfeffer—Hare Pepper ...... 146 634. Do. do. (No. 2.) .... 147 635. Hasenbraten—Roast Haro (No. 2.) 147 536. Kaninchen, Gebratene—Rabbits Roasted .... 148 637. Hirsch Braten—Venison, to Roast 148 638. Do. ' do. (No. 2.) ... 148 639. Hirschriicken Kriistirt—-Saddle of Venison Crusted . . 148 640. Klopps von Hirsch—Venison Collops ..... 149 641. Ragout von Hirsch—Venison liagout ..... 149 642. Kaninchen Marmorirte—Marbled Riibbits .... 149 643. Ganseschmalz zu bereiten—Goose Lard, to prepare . . 160 644. Ganseschmalz—Goose Lard (No. 2.) 160 VEGETABLES. 645. Kartoffeln, oder Erdapfeln in Saurem Rahra—Potatoes in Sour Cream . . . • 152INDEX. 344 N'O. PACE 646. Saure Kartofifeln—Sour Potatoes . . . ^ . 162 647. Petersilien Kartofifeln—Potatoes with Parsley . . . 162 648. Kartofifeln in Saurer Briihe—Potatoes in Sour Sauce . . 163 549. Kartofifeln zu Fischen—Potatoes for Fish .... 153 650. Beignets von Kartofifeln—Potato Beignets .... 163 651. Gebackene Kartofifeln—Potatoes Baked .... 153 652. G ehackene Kartofifeln mit Parmesan Cheese—Potatoes Baked with Parmesan Cheese . 153 753. Kartofifel Brei—Potatoes Mashed 154 654. Kartofifeln mit Schweinsrippe und Saure Aepfel Gehraten— Potatoes Baked wdth Sparerih of Pork and Sour Apples . 154 655. Haring Kartofifeln—Herringed Potatoes .... 164 656. Kartoffeln mit SardeUen—Potatoes with Sardines . . 154 657. Kartofifel Kuchen—Potato Pudding 155 558. Kartofifel Nudeln—Potato Nudels 155 559. Kartofifel, Oder Schiipf Nudeln^—Potato Nudels . . . 155 560. Kartofifel Krapfen—Potato Turnovers .... 156 561. Kartofifel Krapfen mit Haringe—Potato Turnovers with . Herring 156 562. Erdartischocken, oder Erdbimen—Jerusalem Artichokes . 156 663. Artischocken—Artichokes 156 564. Endivien Gemiise—Endive 157 665. Brunnenkresse—Water-cresses 157 566. Lattich Gemiise—Lettuce 157 567. Portulac—Purslane 157 668. Gebackene Zwiebeln—Baked Onions 157 669. Zwiebeln mit Kase—Onions with Cheese .... 158 570. Gefiillte Zwiebeln—Filled Onions 168 671. Zuckerschoten—Young Pea Pods 158 672. Durre Erbsen—Dry Peas 158 673. Speck und Erbsen—Bacon and Peas 159 674. Linsen—Lentils . 159 576. Kastanien—Chestnuts 159 676. Sauerampfer—Sorrel 159 577. Hollandische Bohneu, or Bufbohnen—Broad Beans . . 160 678. Brockelerbsen—Green Peas 160 579. Zuckerschafen—Young Pea Pods. (No. 2.) . . . 160 680. Schweitzer Kraut, oder Mangold 160 681. Mangold Stiele—Mangold Stalks 161 682. Gelbe Eiiben, o4er Mcihren—Carrots 161 583. Spargel—Asparagus 161 684. Schw’arzwurzeln—Scorzonera . . . . . .161 685. Weisse Riiben—Turnips 161 686. Geschmorte Gurken—Stewed Cucumbers .... 162 687. Sellerie Gemiise—Celery Stewed 162 58^ Spinat—Spinach 162 689. Spinat Stepgeln—Spinach Stalks 162 690. Spinat mit SardeUen—Spinach with Sardines . . . 162 691. Kraut, odor Kohl—Cabbage ...... 163 692. Bairisches Kraut—Bavarian Cabbage 163 693. Both-Kraut—Bed Cabbage 163 694. Weiss-Kraut—White Cabbage 164 595. Bosen Kohl—Brussels Sprouts 164INDEX, 345 KO« 59lj. Kohlrabi, odor Kohlrohen—Cabbage, Turnip, or Cole Rape 164 697. Blumenkohl—Cauliflowers 165 598. Sauerkraut Einzumachen—Cabbage, to Pickle, Salt . .165 699. Sauerkraut, zu Kochen^—Sour Kraut, to Cook . . . 166 600. Crriine Bohnen—French Beans . . . . . .166 601. Bohnen—^Beans. (No. 2.) . . . . * . • 166 602. Weisse Bohnen—^White Beans ...... 166 KALTESCHALEN AND COMPOTES. Kalteschalen —Ka I tesclia leu. 603. Apfelsinen, Oder Pomeranzen Kalteschale—Orange Kaltes- chale . • 167 604. Do. do. (No. 2.) • . 167 605. Aprikosen Kalteschale—Apricot Kalteschale . . .168 606. Erdbeer Kalteschale—Strawberry Kalteschale . . .168 607. Do. do. (No. 2.) . 168 608. Hirabeer Kalteschale—^Raspberry Kalteschale . . . 168 609. Johannisbeer Kalteschale—Red Currant Kalteschale . .169 610. Kirschen Kalteschale—Cherry Kalteschale. . . . 169 611. Pflaumen Kalteschale—Plum Kalteschale . , . .169 612. Melone Kalteschale—Melon Kalteschale . . . .169 613. Wein Kalteschale—Wine Kalteschale .... 170 614. Sago Kalteschale—Sago Kalteschale 170 615. Reis Kalteschale—-Rice Kalteschale 170 616. Bier Kalteschale—Beer Kalteschale 171 THett—Triett. 617. Triett von Himbeeren—Triett of Raspberries . . . 171 618. Triett von Erdbeeren—Triett of Strawberries . . .171 619. Triett von Pomeranzen—Triett of Oranges . . .172 620. Triett von Wein—Triett of Wine 172 Triett—Triett 172 Compotes.—Compotes, or Stewed Fruits. 621. Compote von Aepfeln—Compote of Apples . . . .173 622. Compote von Bimen—Compote of Pears . . . .173 623. Compote von Erdbeeren or von Himbeeren—Compote of Strawberries or of Raspberries 173 624. Compote von Melonen—Compote of Melons . . . 173 625. Compote von Pfirsichen or von Aprikosen—Compote of . 174 Peaches or of Apricots . . . . . . .174 626. Compote von Reineclauden—Compote of Greengages . . 174 627. Compote von Pflaumen—Compote of Plums . . .174 628. Compote von Apfelsinen und Aepfeln—Compote of Cranges and Apples mixed 174 629. Compote von Apfelsinen—Compote of Cranges . . . 174 630. Compote von Getrocknetem Gbste—Dried Fruits , .175 FARINACEGUS DISHES. 631. Kliisse, or Knodeln—Klosso or Knodeln . . . .176 632. Kartoflol Klosse—Potato Klosse 176346 INDEX. NO. PAOE 633. Kartoffcl Klosse mit Ease—Potato Klosse with ChePM . 1T7 634. Kartoffel Klossemit Schnittlauch—PotatoKliisse withChiveu 177 635. Fleisch Klosse—Meat Klosse 177 636. Leber Klosse—Liver Klosse 178 637. Do. do. (No. 2.) 178 638. Leber Klosse fiir Suppen—Liver Klosse for Soups . .178 639. Frankfurter Klosse—Frankfort Klosse .... 178 640. Bauern Ellosse—Farm House Klosse 179 641. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . . 179 642. Schwemm Klosse—Float Klosse . . . • . 179 643. Beis Klosse—Eice Klosse 179 644. • Do. do. (No. 2.) 180 64-5. Parmesan Kiise Klosse—Parme.san Cheese Klosse . . 180 646. Gansleber Klosse—Goose-liver Klosse .... 180 647. Semmel Kliisse—Light Roll Klosse 180 648. Hiihner Klosse—Fowl or Chicken Klosse .... 180 649. Mark Klosse—Marrow Klosse 181 6.50. Gebackene Klosse—Fried Klosse 181 651 Kalbshirn Klosse—Cairs-brain Klosse .... 181 652. Butter Knopflein—Butter Buttons 181 653. Sago Klosse—Sago Klosse 181 654. Brod Klosse—Bread Klosse 182 655. Krautern Klosse—Herb Klosse ...... 182 656. Geruhrte Klosse, oder Nockerl—Nockerl .... 182 657. Hefen, oder Barmklosse—Yeast Klosse .... 182 658. Eier Klosse—Egg Klosse 183 659. Rindfleisch Klosse—Beef Klosse 183 660. Fisch ICosse—Fish Klosse 183 661. Klosse von Fisch—Klosse of Boiled Fish . . . .184 662. Krebs Klosse—Cray Fish Klosse 184 663. Klosse mit Thj'-mian—Klosse with Thj-me . . .184 664. Klosse mit Salbei—Klosse with Sago .... 184 Siisse Klosse—Siceet Klosse. 665. Aepfel Klosse—^Apple Klosse .... 666. - Do. do. (No. 2.) 667. Bim Klosse—Pear Klosse 668. Mandel Klosse—Almond Klosse 669. Do. do. (No. 2.) . 670. Do. do. (No. 3.) . 671- Kapuziner Klosse—Capuchin Klosse . 672. Gebackene Klosse—Fried Klosse 673. Brod Klosse—Bread Klosse .... 674. Brosel Klosse—Crumbs Klosse .... 675. Schaum Klosse—Snow Balls .... 676. Gebackene Kartoflfel Klosse—Potato Klosse, Fried 677. SchmaroUen—Schmarollen Nudeln—Xiidels. 678. Nudel Teig—Nudel Paste 188 679. Brcite Nudeln—Broad Nndels 189 680. Nudeln mit Parmesan—Nudels with Parmesan . . .189 18-i 185 185 186 186 186 186 186 187 187 187 187INDEX. 347 KO. . 6sl. Deutscher Macaroni—German Macaroni .... Ib9 6S2. AlDgeschmalztG Niidel—Buttered Nudels .... 189 683. Nudeln Mus—A Nudel Dish 190 684. Ki-ebs Nudeln—Cray Fish Nudels 190 685. Gefiillte Nudeln—Filled Nudels 190 686. Milch Nudeln—Milk Nudels 190 687. Nudeln Pudding—Nudel Pudding 191 688. Nudeln Pudding mit Kiise—Nudel Pudding with Cheese . 191 689. Kiirntner Nudeln—Nudel Turnovers 191 Strudeln—Strudels. 690. Fleisch Strudeln—Meat Strudels 192 691. Kalun Strudeln—-Cream Strudels 192 692. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . . . 192 693. Chocolade Strudeln—Chocolate Strudels .... 193 Spatzcn—Sparrows, or Batter Flakes. 694. Milch Spatzen—Milk Spatzen 193 695. Gepriigelte Spatzen—Spatzen with Eggs .... 194 696. Saure Hahm Spatzen—Sour Cream Spatzen . . .194 Schmarnteig, or Schnarren—Schmarn Batter. 698. Aepfel Schmarn—Apple Schmarn . . . ' . . 195 699. Mandel Schmarp—Almond Schmarn . . . . . 195 700. Kirschen Schmarn—Cherry Schmarn 195 701. Semmel Schmarn—Light Roll Schmarn .... 195 702. Kaiser Schmarn—Imperial Schmarn 195 703. Vanilla Zucker—Varulla Sugar 196 Sterz—Sterz. 704. Haiden Sterz—Meal Sterz 196 705. Pfann Sterz—Pan Sterz . . . . . . .196 706. Schmankerlen—Schmankcrls 197 707. Farferlteig—^Farferl Paste ....... 197 708. Milch Farferl-—Milk Faiferl 197 709. Zwicbel Farferl—Onion Farferl 197 710. Farferl in Suppe—Farferl in Soup ..... 197 711. Mehl Nockerl—Flour Nockerl 198 712. Milch Nockerl—Milk Nockerl 198 713. Ein Ramaquin—A Ramakin or Cheese Pudding . . 198 714. Arme Ritter—Poor Knights 198 715. Numberger Ei—Nuremberg Egg 199 716. Geschnittene Eier—Sliced Eggs. . . . . .199 717. Windbeutel—Zephyrs 199 718. Zurichcr Kiiehli—Zurich Fritter Balls .... 199 719. Ofenschliipfer—A Delicious Baked Pudding . . . 200 720. Badener Nockerl—Baden Nockerl 200 721. Gestiirzte Eier—Overturned Eggs ..... 200 722. Ochscnaugen—Ox-eyes 200 723. Eierhaber—A Batter Dish Fried 201348 INDEX. JIO. 724. Siisser Eierha'ber—Sweet Eierhaber 725. Gequirlte Eier, oder Eiihr Ei—Stirred Eggs 726. Blinia—Little Patties of Potato Plinzen—T}iin Pancalces. 728. Plinzen mit Obst—Thin Pancakes 729. Plinzen, Gefiillte—Filled Pancakes 730. Fladchen Strudel—Pancake Strudels 731. Fladlein—Pancake Dish 732. GefiiUte Fladlein—^FiUed Pancakes 733. Gefiillte Fladlein mit Fleisch—Filled Pancakes with Keat. 734. Gefiillte Fladleinmit Krautem—Filled Pancakes with Herbs 735. Fladchen mit Eier—A Pancake Pudding . . . . 736. Hefen Plinzen—Yeast Fritters 737. Karthauser Omelette—A. Friar’s Omelet . . . . 73k Omelette—Plain Omelet 739. Kartoffel Omelette—Potato Omelet . . ■ . 740. Schaum Omelette—Foam Omelet 741. Omelette mit .Tiis—Omelet with Gravy . . . . 742. Omelette mit Ease—Cheese Omelet 743. Omelette mit Nieren—Kidney Omelet . . . . 744. Dampfnudeln—Steamed Egg Dumplings . . . . 745. _ Do. do. (No. 2.) 746. Baierische Dampfnudeln—Bavarian Dampfnudels 747. Kirschen Kiichel—Cherry Fritters 748. Aepfel Pfannkuchen—An Apple Pancake . . . . 749. Do. do. (No. 2.) 750. Kirschen Pfannkuchen—A Cherry Pancake . . Aufldtt/e—Gei'inan Soitfflees. 751. Aepfel Auflauf—Apple Auflauf 752. Chocolade Auflauf—Chocolate Auflauf .... 753. Kastanien Auflauf—Chestnut Auflauf .... 754. Kaiser Auflauf—Imperial Auflauf 755. Rahm Auflauf—Cream Auflauf 756. Kirschen Auflauf—Cherry Auflauf 767. Do. do. (No. 2.) ... 758. Mandel Auflauf—Almond Auflauf . . . . 759. Citronen Auflauf—Lemon Auflauf Koche. 760. Brod Koch—A Bread Mould . . . . ' . 761. Topfen Koch—A Curds Mould 762. Rahm Koch—A Cream Mould 763. Eier Koch—An Egg Jlould 764. Chocolade Koch—A Chocolate Mould .... 765. Do. do. (No. 2.) . 706. Kastanien Koch—A Chestnut Mould 767. Biscuit Koch—A Sponge Cake Mould .... 768. Wiener Koch—A Vienna Mould 201 201 201 202 202 202 203 203 203 203 203 204 204 204 204 204 204 205 205 205 206 206 206 .206 207 207 207 207 208 208 208 208 2J9 209 209 210 210 210 210 210 211 211 211 211349 INDEX. «o. 769. Zwieback Koch—A Ensks lilould 770. Erdapfel Koch—A Potato Mould 771. Baumwolle Koch—An Egg Mould 772. Mandel Koch—An Almond M ould 773. Krebs Koch—A Crayfish Mould 774. Koche 776. Nebengiisse fur Mehlspeisen—Sweet or Fruit Sauces 776. Obstschaum fiir Idehlspeisen—Fruit Whips PAOB 211 212 212 212 212 212 213 213 PUDDINGS AND PASTIES. 777. Neun-Loth Pudding—A Ehine Pudding . . . . 778. Kastanien Pudding—Chestnut Pudding . . . . 779. Do. _ do. (No. 2.) 780. Baden Baden Pudding—Baden Baden Pudding . 781. Aepfel Pudding—Apple Pudding 782. Bum Pudding—Rum Pudding ...... 783. Kartofi'el Pudding—Potato Pudding . . . . . 784. Kaiser Pudding—Emperor’s Pudding 786. Brennender Pudding—Flame Pudding .... 786. Schwamm Pudding—Sponge Pudding . . . . 787. Faden Macaroni Pudding—Vermicelli Pudding . 788. Pastinake Pudding—Parsnip Pudding .... 789. Nudeln Pudding—Nudeln Pudding 790. Reis und Macronen Pudding—Rice and Macaroon Pudding 791< Schwarz Brod Pudding—Brown Bread Pudding 792. Rum Pudding, Kalte—Rum Favourite Pudding, Cold 793. Reis Pudding—Rice Pudding 794. Schwarzer Pudding—Dingy Pudding 795. Chocolade Pudding— Chocolate Pudding .... 796. Do. do. (No. 2.) . 797. Eothe Griitze—Red Griits Pudding 214 214 216 215 215 215 216 216 216 316 217 217 217 217 218 218 218 219 219 219 219 Pasteten—Pasties. 798. Wasser Teig, fiir Kalte Pasteten—Water Crust for Cold Pasties 220 799. Wasser Teig—Water Crust (No. 2.) 220 800. Strassburg Giinseleber Pasteten—Strasbourg Pates-de-Foies Gras . 220 801. Ganseleber Pastete—Strasbourg Patties (No. 1.). . . 221 802. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . 222 803. Giinselebor Pastete—Goose I.iver Pasty (No. 3.) . . 223 804. Do. do. (No. 4.) . . 223 805. P6.les-de-foies Gras—Putes-de-foies Gras .... 224 806. Gans Pastete—Goose Pasty ... ... 224 807. Gefliigel Pasteten—Poultry or Game Bird Pasties . . 286 808. Do. do. (No. 2) . 225 809. Eebhiiner Pastete—Partridge Pasty ..... 225 810. KrammetsVogel Pastete—Fieldfare Pasties . . . .226 811. Hasen Pastete—Hare Pasty 226350 INDEX. xo. 812. Wild Pastete—Venison Pasty 813. Do. do. (No. 2.) 814. Farce Pastete—Forcemeat Pasty 815. Schiis.sel Pasteten—Pies 816. Fisch Pastete—Fish Pasty . 817. Do. do. (No. 2.) 818. Pastetchen—Small Patties . LARGE FANCY CAKES. 819. Biscuit Torte—A Sponge Cake 8?0. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . . . 821. Chocolade Torte—Chocolate Cake 822. Do. do. (No. 2.) . 823. Mandel Torte—Almond Cake 824. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . . . 825. Punsch Torte—Punch Cake 826. Brod Torte—Brown Bread Cake 827. Chocolate Icing for Brod Torte—Chocolate Icing for Brown Bread Cake . . . 828. Brod Torte—Brown Bread Cake. (No. 2.) . . . 829. Brod Torte mit Chocolade—Brown Bread Cake with Chocolate 830. Allianz Torte—-Alliance Cake 831. Zwieback Torte—Rusk Cake 832. Mandel, oder Sudel Torte—Almond or Sudel Cake 833. KartofFel Torte—Potato Cake 834. Sanil Torte—Sand Cake ....... 835. Do. do. (No. 2.) 836. Flamraen Torte—Flame Cake 837. Braut Torte—Bride Cake 838. Torten Fomien—Cake Forms 839. Plum Cake—Plmn Cake 840. Magdalenen Torte—Magdalen Cake . . . . . 841. Linzer Torte—Linzer Cake 842. Do. do. (No. 2.) 843. Do. do. (No. 3.) 844. Linzer Torteletten—Linzer Tartlets 815. Blatter Torte, von Linzerteig—Linzer Leaves . 846. Krack Torte—Crack Tart 847. Apfelsinen Torte—Orange Cake 848. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . . . 849. Wiener Torte—Vienna Cake 850. Do. ^ do. (No. 2.) . . . . 851. Wiener SoufBee (A Dinner Dish)—Vienna Soufflee . 852. Gugelhopfen—Savoy Cake 853. Do. do. (No. 2.) 854. Rodon, or Napfkuchen—Rodon Cake 855. Do. do. (No. 2) . . . 856. Do. do. (No. 3.) . 857. Siister—Sii-ster Cake 858. Blitzkucheu—Blitz Cake PACB 227 228 228 229 229 229 230 231 231 232 232 232 232 232 233 233 233 234 234 234 235 235 235 235 236 236 238 237 237 237 238 238 238 239 239 239 240 240 240 241 241 242 242 242 213 243 243INDEX. 351 Kuchen—Kuchen. KO. 8o9. Kuchen—Kuchen 860. Miirber Teig— -Short Crust (No. 1-) 861. Do. do. (No. 2.) 862. Do. do. (No. 3.) 863. Do. do. (No. 4.) 864. Blatter Teig—Puff Paste . 865. Do. do. (No. 2.) 866. Hefen Teig—Yeast Dough . 867. Aepfel Kuchen—Common Apple Cake 868. Do. do. (No. 2.) 869. Do. do. (No. 3.) 870. Do. d6. (No. 4.) 871. Do. do. (No. 5.) 872. Kirschen Kuchen- 873. Do. 874. Do. 875. Do. Si6. Himbeer Kuchen- -Cherry Cake . do. (No. 2.) do. (No. 3.) do. (No. 4.) -Easplerry Cake Cake (No, 877. Itahm Kuchen—Cream Cake 878. Zimmt Kuchen—Cinnamon Cake 879. Eier Kuchen, oder Eierwiihen—A Custard 880. Zwetschon Kuchen—Mussel Plum Cake 881. Do. do. 882. Kaiser Kuchen—Imperial Cake . 8S3. Maudel Kuchen—Almond Cake . 884. Do. do. (No. 2.) 885. Guss Torte, or Kuchen—A Fruit Cake 886. Kuchen Michel—A Savoury Cake 887. Kasckuchen—Cheese Cake . 888. Do. do. (No. 2.) 889. Speck Kuchen—Bacon Cake 890. Speck Kuchen mit Kummel—Bacon Cake with 891. Zwiebel Kuchen—Onion Cake 892. Do. _ do. (No. 2.) 893. Braunschweiger Kuchen—Brunswick Cake 894. Streusel Kuchen—Strewed Cake 895. Elberfcld Krengel—An Elberl'eld Cake 896. Propheten Kuchen, oder Brioche—A Brioche 897. Helen ICraiizH—Yeast Wreaths . 898. Anis Kranze—Aniseed Wreaths . 899. Mandel Kranze—Almond Wreaths 900. Hefen Bretzlen—Crescent Buns . 901. Mandel Bretzeln—Almond Buns 902. Homburger Bretzeln—Hoinburg Buns 903. Zopfe—Twists 904. Pfitzauf—Batter Puffs 905. Stblle, oder Striezel—A long Eoil 906. Anis Brod—Aniseed lioll . 907. Kiiinmel Brod—Caraway Iloll 90a. Citioiicn Brod—l.emjii Uolis 909. Zwieback.—ituska .... araw ays PAOB 243 244 244 244 244 244 245 245 245 245 246 246 246 246 247 247 247 247 247 248 248 248 248 248 250 249 249 249 250 250 250 251 251 251 251 262 252 253 253 254 254 254 255 255 265 255 256 256 256 , 256 . 256352 INDEX, NO. 910. Zwieback—Rusks (No. 2) 911. Heleu Seelen—Tea Rolls 912. Faschings Krapfen—Carnival Fritters 913. Berliner Pfannkuchen—Berlin Pancakes 914. Do. do. (No. 2.) 915. Do. do. (No. 3.) 916. Hefen Kolatschen—Little Buns 917. Wafl'eln—Waffles or Gaufres 918. Offleten—Wafers . . . ' 919. Waffeln—Wafers (No. 2.) 920. Do. do. (No. 3.) 921. Hefen Waffeln—Yeast Waffels 922. Lebkuchen, Basler—Basle Gingerbread 923. Lebkuchen—Gingerbread (No. 2.) . . . . 924. Lebkuchen, Niimberger—Nuremberg Gingerbread . 925. Weisse Lebkuchen—'Vt'Iiite Gingerbread 926. Braune Lebkuchen oder Leckerle—Fine Gingerbread Fancy Biscuits, dx. 927. Honig Kuchen—Honey Cakes 928. Haselnuss Leckerle—Hazel-Nut Dainties . 929. Zimmt Leckerle—Cinnamoft Dainties . . . 930. Dicker Braimer Kuchen—Thick Gingerbread . 931. Baseler Leckerlein—Basle Dainties .... 932. Hollandische Kiacklinge—Dutch Cracknels 933. Schwahen Erod—Suabian Biscuits .... 934. Kastanien Brod—Chestnut Biscuits .... 935. Springerle oder Tirgeli—Little Anise-seed Biscuits . 936. Do. do. (No. 2.) 937. Mandel Kolatchen—Almond Knobs .... 938. Wiener Kolatchen—Vienna Knobs .... 939. Mailander Schnitten—Milan Biscuits .... 940. Chocolade Brotchen—Chocolate Drop-Cakes 941. Schweizer Chocolade Brod—Swiss Chocolate Snaps . 942. Chocolade Hohlhippen—Chocolate Tubes . 943. Chocolade Pliitze—Chocolate Biscuits 944. Mandel Brod—Almond Cakes 945. Mandel Schnitten—Almond Strips .... 946. Macronen—Maonroons 947. Bitter Macronen—Bitter Macaroons .... 948. Mandel Hippen—Almond Tubes 949. Citronen Hippen—Lemon Tubes 950. Napoleon Schnitten—Almond Sandwnches . 951. Mandoletti—Mandoletti 952. Anisbrod—Anise Rusks 953. Anisbrod—Anise Rusks (No. 2.) 954. Anislaibchcn—Anise Rolls 955. Bauren Krapfen—Excellent Buns .... 956. Zimmt Sterne—Cinnamon Stars 957. Do. do. (No. 2.) . 957. Kapuziner Brod—Capuchin Biscuits .... 960. Wiener Eisbogen-Vienna Tubes .... PAGE . 257 . 257 . 258 . 258 . 259 . 259 . 259 . 260 . 260 . 260 . 261 . 261 . 261 . 261 . 262 . 262 . 263 . 263 . 263 . 263 . 263 . 264 . 264 . 264 . 265 . 265 . 265 . 265 . 265 . 266 . 266 . 266 . 266 . 266 . 267 . 267 . 267 . 267 . 267 . 268 . 268 . 268 . 268 . 269 . 269 . 269 . 269 . 269 . 269 . 270INDEX. 353 960. Brettsteine—Little Fancy Biscuits . 961. Zucker Bretzeln—Fancy Buns .... 962. S Bretzeln—S Bretzels 963. Hollandische Moppen—Dutch Buns . 964. Schweizer Kropfli—Swiss Turnovers 966. Pfeffer Niisse—Spice Nuts. .... 966. Braune PfeflFer Niisse—Gingerbread Nuts . . . 967. Glacirte Kastanien—Glazed Chestnuts 968. Cracon—Almond Crackon 969. Gebraunte Mandeln—Burnt Almonds 970. Mandelspane—Almond Shavings 971. Marzipan—Marchpane 972. Citronen Schaum—Lemon Eocks 973. Baisers—Meringues 974. Merenken, oder GefuDte Baisers—Filled Meringues 975. Zimmt Stengel^—Cinnamon Sticks 976. Maken—Small Drop Cakes .... 977. Belgraden Brod—Belgrade Bars 978. Eocas—Almond Eock 979. Weisse Eocas—White Almond Eock. . . 980. Glasur—Icing 981. Chocolade Glasur—Chocolate Icing . 982. Eose Glasur—Pink Icing 983. Gelbe Glasur—Yellow Icing .... 984. Griine Glasur—Green Icing .... 985. Zimmt Glasur—Cinnamon Icing 986. Punsch Glasur—Punch Icing .... 987. Himbeer Glasur—Easpberry Icing . 988. Noyeau oder Maraschino Glasur—Liqueur Icing 989. Backwerk Glasur—Icing for Pastry . PAQS . 270 . 270 . 270 . 271 . 271 . 271 . 271 . 272 . 272 . 272 . 272 . 273 . 273 V 273 . 274 . 274 . 274 . 274 . 276 . 276 . 275 . 275 . 275 . 275 . 276 . 276 . 276 . 276 . 276 . 276 PEESEEVES. 990. Eingemachte Friichte—Preserves 277 991. Zucker zu Lautem 277 992. Aprikosen—Apricots. . . • 278 993. Aprikosen Marmalade—Apricot Marmalade . . .278 994. Aprikosen Mus—Apricot Jam 278 995. Aprikosen in Essig—Apricots in Vinegar .... 278 996. Apfelsinen Schalen in Zucker—Orange Chips . . . 279 I 997. Dreimus—Triple Jam ....... 279 998. Kirschen Mus—Cherry Jam ...... 279 999. Kirschen Mus ohne Zucker—^Cherry Jam without Sugar . 279 1000. Zwetschen Mus ohne Zucker—Plum Jam without Sugar. 280 1001. Pflaumen Mus—Plum Jam with Sugar .... 280 1002. Pflaumen Mus ohne Zucker—Plum Jam without Sugar (No. 2.) 280 1003. Pflaumen Gesalz mit Bimen—Plum Jam with Pears . 281 1004. Hagebutten—Hips 281 1005. Do. do. (No. 2.) 281 1006. Hagebutten Marmalade—Hips Marmalade . . .281 1007. Heidelbeer Mus—Wortleberry or Bilberry Jam . . 281 A A354 INDEX. SO. 1008. Himbeeren in Zucker—Raspberries 1009. Johannisbeeren—Red Currants 1010. Erdbeeren—Strawberries 1011. Preisselbeeren—Cranberries . .... 1012. Do. do. (No. 2.) .... 1013. Rum Compot—Unboiled or Rum Presei^-e 1014. Pomeranzen Marmalade—Orange Marmalade . 1015. Mbhren Marmalade—Carrot Marmalade .... 1016. Quitten Marmalade—-Quince Marmalade .... 1017. Do. do. (No. 2.) 1018. Quitten Kerne—Quince Kernels 1019. Quitten Brod—Quince Cakes 1020. Damascener Marmalade—Damson Marmalade . 1021. Kirscben Marmalade—Cherry Marmalade 1022. Melonen einzumachen—^To Presers’e Melons 1023. Ananas einzumachen—To Preserwe Pine Apples 1024. Aepfel Gelee—Apple Jelly 1025. Damascener Gelee—Damson Jelly 1026. Himbeer Gelee—Raspberry Jelly 1027. Johannisbeer Gelee—Red Currant JeUy . . . . 1028. Schwarze Gelee—Black Currant Jelly .... 1029. Preisselbeer Gelee—Cranberrj- Jelly .... 1030. Quitten Gelee—Quince Jelly 1031. Birnen in Essig—Pears in Vinesar 1032. Kirscben in Essig—Cherries in Vinegar .... 1033. Do. do. (No. 2.) 1034. Pflaumen in Essig—Plums in Vinegar .... 1035. Pflaumen in Essig und Wein—Plums in Vinegar and Wine 1036. Obst in Brarmtwein—Fruit in Brandy .... 1037. Kirscben in Brarmtwein-—Cherries in Brandy . 1038. Quitten in Brarmtwein—Quinces in Brandy 1039. Obst in Flaschen—Bottled Fruits 1040. Obst in Flaschen mit Zucken—Bottled Fruits with Sugar fAOZ 282 282 282 282 283 283 283 284 284 285 285 285 285 286 286 286 286 287 287 287 287 288 288 288 288 289 289 289 289 290 290 290 291 Eingemachtes hi Essig—Pickles. 1041. Salzgurken, oder Saure Gurken—Sour Cucumbers . .291 1042. Gurken als Essig Mango—Cucumbers as Mango Pickles . 292 1043. Gurken, Sii->se—Sweet Cucumbers 292 1044. Gurken in Essig und Wasser—Cucumbers in Vinegar and Water . . 292 1045. Russicbe Gurken—Russian Cucumbers .... 293 1046. Eothe Riiben—Beet Root 293 1047. Do. do. (No. 2.) 293 1048. Pfeflfer Gurken—Pepper Gherkins 293 1049. Senf Girrken—Hot Pickle 293 1050. Tiirkischer Woizen oder Wiilsch Kom—Indian ilaize . 294 1051. Wiilsch Kom—Indian Maizo (No. 2.) . . . . 294 1052. Bohnen in Essig—French Beans 294 1053. Nastiirz—Nasturtium Seeds 294 1054. Perlzwiebeln—Bead Onions ...... 295 1055. Stoinpilze oder Champignons—ilushrooms . . . 295 1056. Champignons einzumachen—To Preserve Mushrooms . 295INDEX. 355 VINEGARS. KO. 1057. Obst Essig—Fruit Vinegar 297 1058. Do. do. (No. 2.) 297 1059. Trauben Essig—Grape Vinegar 297 1060. Jobanisbeer Essig—(Jurrant Vinegar .... 298 1061. Himbeer Essig—Raspberry Vinegar .... 298 1062. Himbeer Essig mit Zucker—Raspberry Vinegar with sugar 298 1063. Estragon oder Bertram Essig—Tarragon A'inegar . . 298 1064. Zucker.Essig—Sugar Vinegar 298 1065. Schliissch-blumen Essig—Cowslip Vinegar . . . 299 1066. Essig zu Verstarkon—Vinegar to Strengthen . . . 299 1067. Veilchen Essig—Violet Vinegar 299 Liqueurs. 1068. Anis Liqueur—Anise Liqueur 299 1069. Arrack Liqueur—Arrack Liqueur 299 1070. Curasao—Cura9ao 300 1071. Critonen Liqueur—Lemon Liqueur 300 1072. Erdbeer Liqueur—Strawberry Liqueur .... 300 1073. Himbeer Liqueur—Raspberry Liqueur .... 300 1074. Noyeau—Noyeau 300 1075. Rosoli—Cinnamon Liqueur 300 1076. Pomeranzen Liqueur—Orange Liqueur .... 301 1077. Quitten Liqueur—Quince Liqueur ..... 301 1078. Nelken Liqueur—Clove Liqueur ..... 301 1079. Jobannisbeer Liqueur—Black Cuiuant Liqueur . . . 301 1080. Do. do. (No. 2. .301 1081. Kirschen Liqueur—Cheiry Liqueur ..... 302 1082. Kiimmel Liqueur—Caraway Liqueur .... 302 1083. Vanillen Liqueur—Vaniila Liqueur .... 302 1084. Punsch Essenz—Punch Essence 302 1085. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . . . 303 1086. Kaiser Punsch—Imperial Punch, Cold .... 303 1087. Wein Punsch—Wine Punch ...... 303 1088. Eier VVein, Oder Whip—Egg Wine, or Whip . . . 303 1089. Mecklenburg Punsch—Mecklenburg Punch, Cold . . 304 1090. Dreifuss—Trevet ........ 304 1091. Schaumbier—Frothed Beer ...... 304 1092. Reformirter Thee—Reformed Tea 304 1093. Schlemp—Schlemp, A Dutch Tea ..... 305 1094. Crambamboli—Crambamboli ...... 305 1095. Crambamboli—Crambamboli. (No. 2.) . . . '. 305 1096. Eier Punsch—Egg Punch ...... 305 Cold Beverages, 1097. Bischof—Bishop ........ 306 1098. Ananas Cardinal—Pine Apple Cardinal .... 306 1099. Apfelsinen Cardinal—Orange Cardinal .... 306 1100. Pomeranzen Cardinal—Seville Orange .... 306 1101. Erdbeeren Cardinal—Strawberry Cardinal . . . 307356 INDEX. KO. FAG» 1102. Cardinal Essenz—Cardinal Essence 307 1103. Erdbeeren Cardinal—Strawberrj" Cardinal. (No. 2.) . 307 1104. Eier Wein—Egg'Wine, Cold 307 1106. Limonien oder Limonade Syrup—Lemonade Syrup . . 307 1106. Pomeranzen Syrup—Orange Syrup for Orangeade . . 308 1107. Maitrank—May Wine 308 1108. Do. do. (No. (1.) 308 1109. Do. do. (No. (2.) 308 1110. Mai Nectar—May Nectar 309 nil. Do. do. (No. 2.) 309 1112. Himbeer Saft—Raspberrv Syrup 310 1113. Do. do'. (No. 2.) ... 310 1114. Johannisbeer Saft—Eed Currant Syrup .... 310 1115. Mandel Milch—Almond Milk ...... 310 1116. Mandel Syrup—Almond Syrup 311 On Coffee. 1117. Kaffee zu Brennen, Oder Eosten—Coffee to Eoast . . 312 1118. Kaffee zu Eosten—Coffee to Eoast. (No. 2.) . . . 313 1119. Kaffee zu Mahlen—On Grinding Coffee .... 313 1120. Kaffee imd Surrogate—Coffee and Surrogats . . .313 1121. Eichel Kaffee—Acorn Coffee 314 1122. Hombopathischer Kaffee—Homeopathic Coffee . . . 314 1123. Kaffee zu Machen—Coffee, to make 314 SAUSAGES. 1124. Brat Wiirste—Ordinary Sausages 316 1126. Brat Wiirste—Sausages (No. 2.) 316 1126. Geraucherte Bratwlirste—Smoked Sausages . . .317 1127. Frankfurter Bratwiirste—Frankfort Sausages . . . 317 1128. Schwabische Bratwiirste—Swabian Sausages . . . 317 1129. Mecklenburg Bratwiirste—Mecklenburg Sausages . .317 1130. Weiase Bratwiirste—\\Tiite Sausages . . . .318 1131. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . 318 1132. Mecklenbiirgische Knackwiirsto — Mecklenburg Crack Sausages 318 1133. Knackwiirste—Crack Sausages (No. 2.) . . . . 319 1134. Westfalische Bratwiirste—Westphalian Sausages . .319 1135. Hammel Wiirste—Mutton Sausages 319 1136. Kinds\\nirste—Beef Sausages ...... 320 1137. Do. do. (No. 2.) .... 320 1138. Do. do. (No. 3.) .... 320 1139. Do. do. (No. 4.) .... 321 1140. Mecklenburg Presswiirste—Mecklenburg Pressed Sausages 321 1141. Schinken.oder ServilatWurste—Ham, or Ser\-ilat Sausages 321 1142. Schwarz Wald Wiirste—Black Forest Sausages . . 322 1143. Bologna Wiirste—Bologna Sausages 323 1144. Leber Wiirste—Liver Sausages 323 1146. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . . . 323 1146. Mecklenburg Leber Wiirste—Mecklenburg Liver Sausages 324357 INDEX. VO. PAGE 1147. Geriiucherte Leber Wiiiste—Smoked Liver Sausages . 324 1148. Do. do. (No. 2.) 324 1149. Kaninchen Wiirste—Eabbit Sausages .... 325 1150. Blut Wiirste—Black Sausages 326 1151. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . . . 326 1152. Griitz Wiirste—Barley Sausages 326 1153. Schwarten Magen—Sward Brawn ..... 327 1154. Do. ^ . . (No- 2.) . . . 327 1155. Garnirung Wiirstchen—Garnishing Sausages . . . 327 1156. Zungen Wiirste—Tongue Sausages 328 1157. Do. do. (No. 2.) . . . 328 1158. Presswiirste—Brawn 328 1159. Darme fiir Wiirste—Skins for Sausages .... 328 1160. Vom Wiirste Machen—On Sausage Making . 329 1161. Brod im Wiirstfleisch—Bread in Sausage Meat. . . 329 1162. Vom Eauchem der Wiirste—On Smoking Sausages . . .329 1163. Machinen—On Mincing Machines 330 THE END. VIRTUE AND CO., PRINTERS, CITV ROAD, LONDON. B BV , « 1 \ NHOST AND GUEST“Come, pilgrim, I will bring you where you shall host.” AWi fVeU that Ends WeU. “ Epicurean cooks, sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite.” Antony and Cleopatra. “ El que solo se come sh gallo, Solo ensilla su caballo.” Spanish Proverb. “ He who eats his fowl alone, will have to saddle his horse alone.” “ Tres mihi convivae prope dissentire videntur, Poscentes vario multum diversa palato. Quid dem ? quid non dem ? ” Horace.HOST AND GUEST. A BOOK ABOUT DINNERS, DINNER-GIVING, WINES, AND DESSERTS. BY A. V. KIRWAN, OF THE MIDDLE TEMPLE, ESQ. L 0 N JJ 0 N : BELL AND DALDY, YOEK STREET, covKNT (;aiidp:n.9PREFACE. HERE is no want of cookery books in the principal languages of Europe, and least of all in the English language, in which, even in our own generation, several hundreds have been compiled and published. This volume, however, is not a cookery book, nor what the French call a dispensaire. It is a house- hold book on the subject of Dinners, Desserts, Wines, Liqueurs, and on foods in general; and is the result of reading, observation, and a great deal of experience in foreign countries. I have been myself, during a life now nearly prolonged to threescore years, a diner out of some magnitude, and, as far as my means allowed, a giver of dinners; and have often when younger and less experienced, felt the want, and have heard my friends express their sense of the want, of some work of the kind now first pre- sented, so far as 1 am aware, in an English dress.vi Preface, Born in a country house—a messuage producing, to use a legal phrase, within the curtilage, beef, mutton, fruits, and vegetables—I have ventured to speak of the choice and quality of these good things from an early and practical acquaintance with the subject. So much needs to be said on a matter on which all are eloquent, though few agreeable—I mean self. It is necessary to state that it is not from reading, but actual practical experience, that I have learned all about the farm, the garden, and the poultry-yard. There are several works of a cognate character to this in Latin and French, and some in Italian and Spanish. But these are scarce, costly, old, and ob- solete. Few are acquainted with the treatises of Nonnius, Taillevant, cook to Charles VII., Cham- pier, physician to Francis I., Belon, Patin, Charles Etienne, Lemery, La Varenne, Schookius, Le Grand, De Serres, and L’Etoile, some of them written in indifferent Latin, and others in old French. I have extracted from these works a good deal curious, and something valuable in the choice and preparation of foods. I have endeavoured to show how the tradi- tions of cookery have occasionally survived codes and constitutions, and how these traditions have been, in turn, occasionally set aside and overturned byPreface. vii some new culinary fashion. The work presented to the reader is therefore, in certain parts, historical, anecdotical, gossipping, and somewhat discursive; but the main object of the author has been to induce well informed and sensible people in England to adopt all that is good in the excellent cookery, and agreeable and social life of our neighbours of France, without in any wise abandoning the best of our British customs, or the simplicity of our substantial food. It is not for the author to say in how far he has succeeded. That he leaves to the judgment, and they are a great majority, of those who criticise in a fair and candid spirit. All, however, who affect to criticise are not candid; but it may be said of a critic who deliberately misrepresents a work, that he is unworthy of his vocation, and as heinously criminal as the man who in social or commercial life gives a false character of a servant, or a false warranty of goods or merchandise. 73, Gloucester Place, Portman Square, W. March 1, 1864.CONTENTS. CHAPTER I.—Ancient and Mediaeval Cookery cosipared ■WITH THE Cookery of the last Half Century. ARUM—Pilau seasoned with garum, 2. The Feast of Tri- malchio in Petronius, 2. Macrobius’s description of a sup- per given by Lentulus, 2. Hedge hogs, raw oysters, and asparagus, and purple shellfish, 2. Panes picences, 2. Greeks and Romans children in preparation of viands, 3, Careme’s opinion, 3. Cookery a practical art, 3. Characteristics of an- cient and modern cookery, 4. The Monks, 4. Spanish cookery book of Ruberto de Nola, 4. Leo X., Raphael, Guido, Baccio, Bandinelli, and John of Bologna, 5. Italian wars under Charles VIII. and Louis XIL, 5. Cookery under Henry III. became Italian, 6. Cookery under Henry IV., 6. The cabaret, 7. Maitre queux cuisiniers porte-chapes, 7. First regular cookery book in France printed in 1692, 7. The “Dons de Comus,” 9. Preface written by Father Brumoy, 9. Brumoy’s comparison between ancient and modern cookery, 10. Idea of a perfectcook, 10. “ Lettre d’un Pfitissier Anglais,” 11. Mrs. Rundell, 12. “La Science du Maitre d’Hdtel Cuisinier,” 12. Careme, 13. Molibre, 13. St. Evremond, 14. Lavardin, 15. The Regent Orleans, 15. The Duchess of Berri, 15. Filets de volaille a la Bellevue, 16. Poulets a la Villeroy, 16. Char- treuse a la Mauconseil, 16. Vol au vent a la Nesle, 16. Poularde it la Montmorency, 16. Louis XV., 17. Marquis de Bechamel, 18. Mar- shals Richelieu and Duras, Duke of La Vallifere, the Marquis de Brancas, and Count de Tess^, 18. Consumption of pheasants in the kitchens of the Prince de Condd, 18. Louis XVI., 19. His enormous appetite, 19. Effects of Revolution on cookery, 19. Cardinal Caraffa, 20. Montaigne, 20. Restaurants, 21. Suppers of Madame du Deffand, 22. Dinners of D’Holbach, 22. Pic-nics of Crawford of Auchinames, 22. The epicure Barras, 23. Danton’s love of morels, 23. Barras’ love of button mushrooms, 23. Napoleon’s dinners, 23. M. de Bausset, M. de Cussy, Cambacferes, Talleyrand,) 25. The “ Almanach des Gour- mands,” 26. Purge your cooks, 23. Frog dressing at Riom, 28. Veal of Pontoise, 29. Gastaldy and the salmon, 29, Flesh killed by electricity, 30. Asses’ flesh, 30. White grease of the fig-pecker, 31. Beauvilliers, 31. Brillat Savarin, 31. Consumption of turkeys, 32. The Archbishop of Bordeaux and truffled turkeys, 33. The “ Cuisinifere Bourgeoise,” 33. Fauche Borel, 33. “ Cuisinier Royal,” 33.X Contents. Shakespeare, Age of Elizabeth, 34. Age of Anne, Wvcherlv, Van- brugh, Congreve, Pope, 34. Foote’s farce, 35. Bills of fare in Pope’s day, 36. The “ Queen’s Closet Opened,” 36. The “ Treasure of Hidden Secrets,” 37. The “ Gentleman’s Companion; ” Dr. Hill, ” Mrs. Glasse,”37. The “ Connoisseur,” 39. White’s, Pontacs’, Dollv’s and Horsman’s, 39. The “ Art of Cookery,” by a lady, 39. The “ Epicure’s Almanack,” 40. The “ Conk and Confectioner’s Dictionarv,” 40. Mrs. Dalgairns, 40. Scott’s “ Dictionary of Cookerj-,’’ Kitchener’s “Cook’s Oracle,” 41. The “ Housekeeper’s Oracle,” 41. Ude, 42. Walker's “ Original,” 42. “ Domestic Cookery,” by a lady, 4.5. Careme, 47. Turtle soup, 48. Cookery of England and France, 50. CHAPTER II.—Ox Moderx Cookery axd Cookery Books. The object of sensible people should be to adopt all that is good in the cookerj' of France, 61. French potages and purdes, 61. The gigot a Pail aux haricots, 62. The filet de bceuf, 62. Yatel, La Cbapelle, Grimod de la Reyniere, Beauvilliers, Ude, Laguipierre, Careme, and Plumeret, 65. CHAPTER HI.—On Dinners and Dixner-gitixg. Jules Janin, 66. Dr. Johnson, 66. Sydney Smith, 67. Apicius, 67. Nonnius, 67. Ldmerv, 68. Dr. Lister, 68. Dr. Kitchener, 68. Drs. Pereira and Lankester, 68. London dinners, 69. The finer cuisine bour- geoise of Paris, 69, The majority of Frenchmen thrifty, 70. Bankers’ and financiers’ dinners, 70. French punctualitj-, 72. The London season, 73. Difference between grand dinners in England and France, 74. Pretentious and costly rivalry in dinners, 76. Hints to dinner- givers, 78. Number of a companj-, 79. Expensive cookery, 81. The pot-au-feu, 82. Careme’s consommes, 82. French sauces, 82. Soles ii la Normande, 82. Omelette aux fines herbes, 82. Choice of com- pany, 84. Italian cookery, ices, and confectionery, 85. Spanish and German cookerj’, 85. Dutch cookerj’, 88. Dutch eel soup, 88. Flush- ing soup, 88. Russian cookerj’, 89. Turkish and Indian cookery, 89. CHAPTER IV.—On Laying out a T.able. Dinners a la Russe, 91. Two and three courses, 94, 95. The des- sert, 97. Memorandum as to dinners, 97. CHAPTER V.—How to Choose Fish, Flesh, Fowl, and Game. Salmon in and out of season, 98. How to choose various fish, 98— 109. How to choose venison, 109. Mutton, 111. I.,amb. veal, and pork, 112, 113. Bacon and hams, 114, 115. Poultrj-, game, eggs, cheese, and butter, 115—122.XI Contents. CHAPTER VI.—On Soups ano Brotus. Grand bouillon, 124. Rules for making nourishing broth, 125. How to make a stookpot, 126. Celery to llavour soup, 129. Broth, 130. The great English soups and broths, 131. Cart-me and turtle soup, 133. Stocks for white soup, 133. French soups, 134. Puree h. la Reine, des carottes au riz, de lapins, h la Chantilly, &c., 134. Soup for winter and spring months, 135. CHAPTER VII.—How to Clean and Boil Fish. To clean codfish, 137. Pilchards, mackerel, and plaice, 138. Red mullets, skate, and ling, 139. On boiling fish, 143, l44. CHAPTER VIII.—On Fish. Fish naturally most voracious, 145. As a diet wholesome and palatable, 146. Fish rarely served as an entree in England, 146. Vai’ious ways of serving turbot in France, 146-7.. Turbot of Medi- terranean, 148. Sturgeon, 148. Caviare, 149. French modes of dressing sturgeon, 149. Modes of dressing sturgeon in England, 149. Sturgeon h la Napoleon, according.to Careme, 150. American sturgeon soup, 150. Salmon, 151. French mode of dressing salmon, 151. Nonniuson salmon, 152. Codfish, 152. Galen on haddock, 152. Nonnius and Pliny on haddock, 152. The sole, 153. French modes of dressing, 153. Red mullet, 154. Red mullet en caisse, and h la Cardinale, 154. John Dory and lamprey, 154. Quin, the actor, 154. Receipts for dressing lamprey, 155. The Reformation and fish diet, 155. Careme on lenten diet and Murat’s kitchen, 155. Fish dinners in Paris, 157. Dinner at the Rocher de Cancale, 1828, 157. Wine at 14frs. and 25frs. the bottle, 158-9. CHAPTER IX.—The Roast. Definition of roast, 160. Rotisseries, 161. Rotisseurs, 161. The traiteur, 161. The cuisinier traiteur, 161. The maitre cuisiniers, 162. The art of roasting, 162. The best joint forroasting, 163. Doing to a turn, 164. Good roasters rarer than good cooks, 164. Great and little roast, 164. English, roasting, 165. Our game finer than the French, 165. Swift’s lines on mutton, 166. Rules for roasting pork, lamb, veal, and poultry, 167. Table of time for roasting, 169. CHAPTER X.—Boiling. Rule as to boiling, 170. Advantage of slow boiling, 172, Time re- quired to boil poultry, 173. Frying, 173.Contents. XU CHAPTER XI.—Poultry. Definition of poultry, 174. Requisites in a poultry yard, 174. Best modes of feeding and cramming poultry, 175. Wholesomeness of poul- try, 175. L6mery on fowls and capons, 176-7. How the fine flavour is given to the poularde du Mans, 178. The barn-doorfowl described by Berchoux, 179. Roast and boiled fowl and turkey, 180. Ways of serving fowls and turkeys in France, 180. Entr6es of fowl in France, 180-1. Schools of cookery, 181. Christmas consumption of tur- keys in England and France, 181. Truffles with turkey, 181. Chap- tal on fowls, 182. Pros and cons for a dinde aux truffles, 182. Were turkeys known to the ancients? 183. Madame de Sevigne on capons, 183. The crammer of fowls an officer of the royal household, 184. Blackbirds and thrushes, 184. CHAPTER XII.—Game axd Pastry. Definition of game, 186. Keeper and taker of pheasants, 186. Swan- herd, 186. 17 Hen.. VIII., falconr}-, 187. Cookerj- Book of Taillevant, cook to Charles VII.; receipts for dressing herons, 187. Vultures, eagles, and falcons, eaten three centuries ago, 188. Game in Spain, par- tridges k la Medina Coeli, 189. Sautes, filets, and recondite modes of dressing game in France, 190. Filets and cutlets of hare and rabbit, 191. Pastry and cold entrees, 191. Careme on pastry, 192. Sug- gestions as to patties and pastry, 193. Patisserie, 194. Larks of Pithiviers, 194. Partridges of Perigueux, 194. Poulardes of Angers, 194. Foies gras of Versailles, 194. Foies d’oies of Strasbourg and Toulouse, 194. The Chancellor de I’Hopital on petits pat6s, 194. CHAPTER XIII.—Cheese axd Sal-vds. Soft and rich cheeses the best, 196. Stilton and Gruybre, 196. Best English cheeses, 196. Best cheeses in France, 198. Roquefort, 198- Gruvbre, 198. Italian cheeses introduced into France in the reign of Charles VIII., 199. CHAPTER XIV.-Ox Salad. John Evelyn “ On Salets,” 202. Foumitures of salads, 202. Chi- coree, 203. Winter salads, 203. Roman or Coss lettuce, 204. Hotch- potch salads, 204. Salade k I’italienne, 204. Careme’s salade de poulets k la Reine, 204. Wine vinegar to be used for salads, 206. Chaptal’s receipt for dressing salad, 206. Sydney Smith’s ditto, 206-7. Span- ish proverb as to salad, 207. D’Albignac a famous salad-dresser, 208. Eleven salads of the time of Champier, 210-11. Dr. Roques’ salad of asparagus, 211. Quickness with which asparagus may be cooked, 211. Napoleon’s salad of haricots de soissons, 212.xiu Contents. CHAPTER XV,—The Dessert. Careme’s opinion of dessert, 213. La Chapelle’s opinion of dessert, 214. Forced cherries sent from Poitevins, in 1560, to Paris, 215. La Quintini6, head gardener of Louis XIV., served strawberries in March, peas in April, and figs in June, 215. Preserved pines at dessert in Paris, in 1694, 215. Italian liqueur prepared from the pine, 215. Dates, 216. Tunisian dates the best, 216. Oranges, 216. Fondness of Louis XIV. for, 216. Portuguese oranges, 217. Sweet citron, carried by ladies, to produce red lips, 217. Figs common at dessert in France 270 years ago, 217. Fig-trees placed in wooden boxes by the gardener of Louis XIV., 218. Figs at Worthing and Hampton Court, 218. Pomegrantes, 218. Chestnuts, 219. Madame de S6vign6 on chestnuts, 219. Cherries, 220. Apricots, 220. The reine claude, or green- gage, 221. The peaches of Corbeil, of Troyes and. Dauphin^, 222. Peches de vigne, 223. Abricots en plein vent, 223. The New-town pippin, 223. Golden pippin, 223. The paradis de Provence, 223. The capendu, 223. Pears and their different species, 224. Gooseberries, 224-5. The chasselas of Fontainbleau, and other grapes, 225. Straw- berries and their varieties, 226. Trois mendiants, 227. Olives of Pro- vence and Languedoc, 227. Gingerbread, 228. The drageoir, 229. Brandied fruits and compotes, 229. Briilat Savarin on the dessert, 230. Melon eaten with bouilli, 231. Madame de Sdvign6 on melons, 232. CHAPTER XVI.—On Ices. Ices, 233. Turks had glacibres in 1553,233. Henry III. first intro- duced ice, 233. CHAPTER XVII.—Coffee. Coffee, 235. Drank in Paris in 1657, 235. Praises of coffee by Rousseau, Buffon, Voltaire, Montesquieu, Delille, and Lebrun, 236. The retreat from Russia and coffee, 237. Twining’s coffee, 238. Briilat Savarin on pounded and ground coffee, 238. The best coffee in Paris, though the finest qualities in the London market, 240. Modes of making coffee, 241-3. Coffee sweetmeats, 242. Dr. Roques’cafe ala creme frappd de glace, 243. Coffee should be hot, clear, and strong, 244. Tea, 244. CHAPTER XVIII.—On different Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs, taken after Coffee. Liqueurs, 24.5. Alkermes and rossolis, 245. Liqueurs of Batavia’ Jamaica, Martinique, and Montpelier, 246. Ratafias; absinthe, noyau, and cura(;oa, 246. Eau d’or and eau de vie de Dantzic, 247. Patin on rossolis, 248. Madame Thfanges and liqueurs, 248. La fenouillette and other lawful liqueurs, 249. Liqueurs of ^Montpelier and Lorraine, 249. Ldmery on black currant ratafia, 250. Liqueurs of French West Indies, 251. L huile de Venus, 252. Cinnamon water,creme de girofle, cura9oa, usquebaugh, &c., 253. Ehu cordiale of Colladon, 254. Eau dexiv Contents. vie d'Andaye, 254. Eau divine, cordiale du chassenr naptiale, 257. Anisette and absinthe, 257. Cherry bounce, rum and pine-apple shrub, 257. Petit lait de Henri IV., I’eau des braves, I’huile de Venus, le par- fait amour, I’eau virginale, &c., 259. Adulterations of liqueurs, 260. German liqueurs; Pomeranzen,\Vackholder, Kummel, &c.,260-61. Jean de Milan on liqueurs, 262. Famous cities for liqueurs in France, 202. CHAPTER XIX.—Axe, Beeh, Cider, and Perry. Bass’s, Allsopp’s, and Guinness’s ale and stout, 263. Cider, its origin and history, 264. Cockey Gee, 265. Perry and hydroinel, 266- Dif- ferent kinds of beer, 267. The zythus and curmi of the Egyptians, 267. Fifteen hundred years ago the Parisians commenced with beer, and finished with wine, 268. The descent from wine to beer in France, 270. The French beer called godale, 271. The beer of Cambrai, of Bavaria, of Berlin, and of Brussels, 272. Beer should be light, brisk, and spark- ling, 273. Forty brewers in Paris 120 years ago, 273. Seventy years ago but twenty-three, of whom Santerre the most celebrated, 273. Epi- taph on Santerre, 273. English and Scotch brewers flocked to Paris at the peace in 1815,273. In seasons of dearth Paris brewers forbidden to make beer, 274. CHAPTER XX.—On Wines, Ancient and Modern. Lord Bacon, Bacci, Barry, Redding, Shaw, and Denman on wine.«, 275, 276. Hippocrates on vinous mixtures, 276. Plato and Homer’s praises of wine, 277. Virgil, Pliny, and Columella on wines, 278. The Setine wine commended by Martial, Juvenal, and Silius Italicus, 278. Sand, powdered marble, and salt water added to ancient wines, 279. Cato’s receipt for artificial Chian and Faleniian, 279. The Ctecuban, 280. The Falernian, 280. Galen and Martial on Faleniian, 280. Virgil on the vinum Rhaiticum, 281. The lighter wines of the Roman territory, 281. The earliest Greek wines, 281. The Thrasian and Cretan wines, 282. Greeks familiar with Asiatic and African wines, 282. Greeks drank wine diluted with water, 2S2. Athenams on the Tnvre Kai 8vo, 283. The Greeks had casks, 2S3. Gauls knew the use of wine six centuries before Christianity was introduced, 283. Athenteus calls the wine of Marseilles good, 286. The Allobroges mixed pitch with wine, 286. Dioscorides .«ays pitch is a necessary ingredient in Gaulish wine, 286. Secret as to the Bordelais wine, 287. The Marseillaise boiled their wine, 287. Horace and Tibul- lus on the smoking of wine, 288. Baccius on the wines of Alsace, 28S. Domitian publishes an order for rooting up one half of the vines in some province.s, and for destroying them in others, 289. This order abrogated bv Probus, 289. The Roman legions spread in Gaul employed in re- planting the vine, 289. The Salique law, .and law of the Visigoth.s as to the cutting of the vine and stealing grape.s, 290. Vine propertj regarded as sacred, 290. Tribute decreed by Chiljieric, 290. Massacre of the officer who was to levy the tribute, 290. Passion for the culture of the vine among French kings, 290. Whie-pres.ses and utensils for making wine in all the palaces, 290. Charlemagne and his Capitularies, 290. TheContents. XV Louvre enclosed vineyards within its precincts, 290. “ La Bataille des Vins,” a fabliau of the thirteenth century, 291. Philip Augustus had vineyards in many districts of France, 291. Wines of Guyenne sold in Flanders and England, 291. Matthew Paris, on the sale of Gascony wine in England, 292. Froissart on the number of merchantmen that arrived at Bordeaux from England, a. d. 1372, 292. Champier as to the consumption of French wine and corn in England, 292. Charles IX. pro • scribed the vine in 1566,292. His ordonnance respecting it, 293. In 1577 Henry HI. raodihes this ordonnance, 293. Louis XV., in 1731, forbade any new plantation of vines, 293. Origin of the expression, veudre ii pot, 293. Adulterations 1800 years ago as frequent as now, 294. The ancients understood the maturing of wines, 294. Customs survive forms of polity and government, 294. Identitity of the amphorte to vessels in present use at Asti, Montepulciauo, and Montefiascone, 295. Use of casks unknown to Greeks and Romans, 295. Romans employed glass, but a rude glass, 296. Invention of casks due to the Gauhs, 296. Ordonnance of Charlemagne as to employment of barrels, 297. The d/3aS or abacus, 297. Misquotation of Barry as to abaci, 297. The ancients had ser- vants like our butlers, 297. Business of the otvoTrrj/c, 298. The cup- bearer and pourer out of wine, 298. Cicero’s description of a supper, &c., 298-9. Deep drinkers of a congius or gallon, 299. Cooling of wine by snow not a modern invention, 299. Pliny ascribes it to Nero, 299. Drinking of healths to absent friends, 299. Extract from Hen- derson as to the manner of pledging friends and drinking health.s, 300. Analogy between the French and Greeks as to mixing wine and water, 300. The vin d’entremets; the wine for oysters and roast meat, 300. The coup-d’avant aud du milieu, 300. The coup du milieu, according to the “Manuel desAmphitryons,” 301. Wormwood, Jamaica rum, or old cognac used for it, 301. Practice at Bordeaux in this respect, 301. The coup-d’avant used in Russia, Sweden, and Germany, 302. The coup-d’apres, what, 302. Wine used for it, 302. Wine cellars of the ancients, 303. Precautions as to cellar, 303. Women forbidden to enter the cellars of the ancients, 303. Principles of the ancients as to cellars, 30.3. An ante-cellar advisable, 304. Salt used in cellars, 305. The ancients more etlectually preserved their wines than the moderns, 305. Wine better tasted in quarts than in pints, 305. Ancient rules for site of cellars, and on time for tasting and racking, still sanctioned by practice, 305. Wine of middle age best and most grateful, 305. Fancy prices paid for old wines, 306. No one obliged to drink on compulsion among the ancients, 306. Irish practice, 306. Some ancient sages great bibbers, but unexcited, 306. Cyrus a larger drinker than Arta- xerxes, and therefore, in his own thinking, worthier of the crown, 306. Darius’s capacity of drinking, 307. Hippocrates rarely directs water, but almost invariably wine mixed with water, 307. Cornaro before and after a new vintage, 307. His plan of preserving his health, 308. Effect of fresh sugar-canes on mules, 308. Pitching ancient and mo- dern wines, 308. Monster puncheons in Latiuni and Germany, 309-10. The French constructed their wine-vats in brick or stone, 310. Pierre de Blois’s denunciation of the luxury of the twelfth century, 310. Re- past of Philippe de Valois aud hisTeathern bottles, 311. Wine suppliedContents. XVI by a miracle, 311. The tanners of Amiens obliged to fnmish the bishop with two leathern bottles, 312. The derivation of the word bottle, 312. The name afterwards applied to decanters, 312. Charles VI., accord- ing to Froissart, was supplied with wine out of leathern bottles, 312. Gregory of Tours speaks of the wines of Ma90n, Orleans, Cahors, and Dijon, 313. Wines of Rheims and Marne mentioned in a letter of Pan- dulus, 313. Henry I. and the wine of Rebr^chien, 313. Lonis le Jeune and the wine of Orleans, 313. Wines of Auxerre, Beaune, &c., 314. Wine of Chabli, Epernai, Rheims, &c., 314. The popes drank Beaune at Avignon, 314. The queen of Louis XII. sent Beaune to the ambassadors of the Emperor Maximilian at Blois,314. Caprice in the estimate of wine, 315. Wine of Romance Conti, 315. Wine of Mantes carried to Persia uninjured, 316. Burgundy and Champagne in the fifteenth century, 316. Leo X., Charles V., Francis I., and Henry VIII., had vineyards in Champagne, 316. Erasmus and Burgundy wine, 316. Champier on the excellence of French wines, 317. Rabelais vaunts Auxerre wine, 317. Canteperdrix wine, 317. This wine sent to Rome for the pope, 317. Canteperdrix wine now known as the vin de Beau- caire, 317. Favourite beverage of Henry IV., 318. Paumier on the colours of wine, 31?. Wines of Chateau Thierry gout producing, 319. Gout does not come from Champagne, 319. Baccius on the wines of France, 319-20. Paumier on the wines of Paris, 320. Liebant and Patin on wines, 320. The vin de Condrieux, 321. The manner of making Orleans ■nHnes, 321. Boileau on the wine of Orleans, 322. Vin de Grave, mentioned in 1550, 322. Why the wine is called Grave, 323. The Haut-Brion, 323. Hermitage, 323. Hermitage of Lord Castlereagh, afterwards Marquis of Londonderry, 323. Hermitage di- vided into five classes, 323. Prices of Hermitage, 324. How the Bur- gundj' ivines got their reputation, 325. The vin de Tonnerre, 325. The Abbd de Marolles’ list of Burgundy wines, 325. The wine of Olivotte, 326. The vin de Chablis for oysters, 326. Vin de Pouilly and Bucellas good with oysters, 326. DiflScuIty of transporting Bur- gundy, 327. Extent of Burgundy vineyards, 328. Arthur Young on the vineyards, 328. Mr. James Busby on the Burgundy vineyards, 329. Clos Vougeot, 329. The late notorious Ouvrard, 330. Pere Perignon and the wines of Hautvilliers, 330. Sparkling Burgundy and Moselle, 330. The vin de Nuits, 330. The St. George, Meursalt, and Mont Rachet, 331. Volnay the finest wine in Barrj-’s time, 331. The vin de Beaune, 331. The vin de Pomard, 332. Cliambertin the wine of Xa- poleon, 332. The Romance Conti, 333. The Ma^on and Beanjolais wines, 334. Ma9on a wholesome wine, 335. Adulterated at Paris 335. Burgundy not to be iced, 335. Burgundy at the roast, 336. Cham- pagne wine, 337. Dispute, in the time of Louis XIV., between the Burgundy doctor and the Champenois 337. Fagon forbid the use of Champagne to Louis XIV., 337. Opinion of the faculty of the town of Rheims, 337. Colbert, a Champenois, but he did not give renown to the wines, 338. Francis L, Leo. X., Charles V., and llenrj- VHI. had vine- vards at AY, 338. Volnay drank at the coronation of Sobieski, 338. Beaune served at Venice to the senators after the conquest of the Moi-ea, 338. St. Evremond on Champagne wine, 338. Champagne used in putridContents. xvii fevers, 339. Millions of worthless Champagne sold at two francs and three francs the bottle, 340. Dr. Henderson on Champagne, 340. The briskest Champagne not the best, 340. Cremants and demi-mousseux wines, 341. Sillery Champagne, 341. Viu de la Mar§chale, 342. The rich, dry Sillery, 342. Champagne not a vin de garde. 342. Old Champagne, 343. Jaquesson’s cellars, 343. Champagne always im- proved by ice, 343. Jullien on the high price of the vins mousseux, 344. How to obtain a first-rate Champagne, 345. Hundreds of thou- sands of bottles of Champagne at the docks are not worth the duty, 345. When the bottling of Champagne begins, 345. Vins grand mousseux, 346. Precautions in packing Champagne for exportation, 346. Champagne for India and America packed in salt, 346. Bur- gundies so packed preserve their qualities, 347. Claret, 347. Cha- teau Margaux and Chateau Lafitte, 348. Montou and L6oville, 348. Kirwan and Chateau d’Issau, 348. St. Julien, Bechevelle and St. Pierre, 348. Great management in Bordeaux cellars, 349. Brandy ought to be put in in very small quantities, 349. Extract from Davies’ work on colouring Claret, 350. A freer exchange of the vinous wealth of France with England desirable, 351. Difference in price between first and inferior wines, 352. Mixture of Benicarlo and other wines with claret, 353. The age of wine at Bordeaux counted par feuilles, 353. What Barry wrote ninety years ago on Claret wines, 353. Names of the proprietors of vineyards and factors, 110 years ago, 354. Irish Claret and Irish wine merchants, 355. The Bordeaux wines celebrated in the days of Ausonius, 355. A great proportion of the wine drank as Claret is vin ordinaire, 355. Definition of the word Claret, 356. The Cote R6ti, 356-7. Hermitage and its division into five classes, 357. White Hermitage of the late Lord Castlereagh, 357. Hermitage of the late Marquis of Wellesley, 358. The cost of wine cultivation in France immense, 359. The German wines, their general character and dura- bility, 359. Price of RUdesheim, 359. In Barry’s day the best old Hock sold at 50/. the auhm, 360. Marcobrunner, Rudesheimer and Niersti- ner, 360. Julius Hospitalis and Liesteinwein wines, 360. Spanish wines, 360-1. Cellars and stock of Gordon and Co. of Cadiz, 361. Amontil- lado, 361. Port and Madeira, 362. The Italian wines, 362. The wines of Hungary, 362. The Greek wines over-rated, 363. TheCon- stantia wine of the Cape, 363. The Russian Champagne, 363. The New South Wales wines, 363. New vintages, 364. Advice as to purchase and stock of wines, 365. Good and low-priced wine a myth, 366. Prices of wines at sales in Edinburgh and Dublin, 366. Prices of Amontillado, Montilla,and Manzinilla, 366. Fabulous prices given for old Ports and Sherries, 366. First-rate Clarets rising in price, 367. Burgundies, 367. Dietetic qualites of mne, 367. The best Burgundies and Champagnes, 368. The best Bordeaux wines, 368. Red Constantia and Frontignan, 369. Consumption of Champagne doubled in England since 1848, 369. CHAPTER XXI.—The Cellar for Wines. The cellar for wines, 370. Requisites of a wine-cellar, 370. Lighter wines require a colder cellar than strong, 371. bxvm Contents. APPENDIX. Luxuries of the table in France and England in mediaeval and mo- dern times, 373. Menu of a dinner given by Matbieu Mole, in 1652, 375. Menu of a supper of the Regent Orleans, 376. Menu of a supper of Louis XV., 377. Carte dinatoire of tbecitizen General Barraa, 378. Menu of the family Buonaparte at the Tuileries on Samedi Saint, 1811, 379. Bill of fare of the first dinner of Louis XVIII. at Compifegne, 380. Bill of fare of a dinner given by the Emperor Alex- ander on 11th September, 1815,382. Bill of fare of the first diplomatic dinner of the Duke of Wellington in 1815, 383. Menu of a royal banquet given at the Tuileries by Louis XVIII. on Twelfth-day, 1820, 384. Bill of fare, 385. Luxuries in the days of Queen Maiy, 385. Common Council’s regulation as to dinners, 385. Regulations for the aldermen, sheriffs, and city corporation, 386. City venison feasts in time of Elizabeth, 386. Letter of the Lord Jlayor and aider- men to Lord Burleigh, 386. The reign of Queen Anne the golden age of cookery, 386. Dr. King’s “ Art of Cookery,” 386. Sir John Hill, M.D., 386. The great Lord Chestertield, 386. La Chapelle his cook, 386. Cookery book of La Chapelle, 386. Lord Chesterfield sit- ting on a chair outside Chesterfield House, 387. Bill of fare of official dinner of Lord Chesterfield, 387. Bill of fare of a supper of Lord Ches- terfield, 389. The French emigrants in London, 390. Entertainments given to the French royal family by the Marquis of Buckingham and Earl of Moira, 390. Reception of the Count de Lille at Stowe, 390. Stowe, a scene of great festivity in 1805 and 1808,390. Billof fare of Christmas- dinner in 1808, given by the Duke of Buckingham to Louis XVIII, 391. The Prince Regent’s love of French cookery, 392. Bill of fare for the coronation banquet of George IV-, 392. Bill of fare for a private dinner given at the Pavilion, Brighton, in 1817, 393. Bills of fare for dinners in January, April, May, and June, also for a dinner .in plain English fashion, 395. Anthony Careme, 396. Mr. Wm. Hall’s panegyric on Careme, 398. Autobiography of Careme, 399 to 406. Fete given at the Elysee for the marriage of Prince Jerome, 406. New invention of Ca- reme, 407. Aphorisms, thoughts, and maxims of Careme, 407. Death of Careme in 1835 or 1836, 409. Careme bestowed fine names on hU soups, 409. Careme on maigre sauces, 409.TERMS IN USE IN THE KITCHEN. TELETS.—Small silver skewers. Au naturel.—Plainly done. Bain Marie,—A warm-water bath; to be pur- chased at the ironmonger’s. Barber.—To cover with slices of lard, rich broth or gravy, in which the French cook palates lamb’s head, and many other things. It is made thus : A pound of beef kidney fat, minced, put on with a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, parsley, green onions, slices of lemon without the peel or seeds, or, if much is wanted, two pounds of fat and two lemons. When the fat is a good deal melted, put in water made briny with salt; and when done, keep the blanc for use. Blanchir.—To blanch by giving some boils in water. Bourguignote.—A ragout of truffles. Braise.—A manner of stewing meat which greatly improves the taste by preventing any sensible evaporation. .Braisz'ere.—Braising-pan—a copper vessel tinned, deep and long, with two handles, the lid concave on the outside, that fire may be put in it. Brider.—To truss up a fowl or anything else with a needle and pack-thread, or tape. Buisson.—A method of piling up pastry to a point. Bundle or Bunch.—Made with parsley and green onions,— when seasoned, bay leaves, two bunches of thyme, a bit of sweet basil, two cloves, and six leaves of mace are added. Capilotade.—A common hash of poultry. Cassis.—That part which is attached to the tail end of a loin of veal : in beef, the same part is called the rump. Civet.—A hash of game or wild fowl. Compiegne.—A French sweet yeast cake, with fruit, &c., &c. Blanc.—ATerms in Use in the Kitchen. XX Compote.—A fine mixed redout to garnish white poultry, &c.; also a method of stewing fruit for dessert. Compotier.—A dish amongst the dessert service appropriated to the use of the compote. Couronne (en).—To serve any prescribed articles on a dish in the form of a crown. Court ou Short.—To reduce a sauce very thick. Croustades.—Fried crusts of bread. Cuisson.—The manner in which meat, vegetables, pastry, or sugar is dressed. It means also the broth or ragout in which meat or fish has been dressed. Cullis or Coulis.—The gravy or juice of meat. A strong consomme. Dessert, entree de.—Dish made of preceding day’s remains. Dorer.—To brush pastry, &c., with yolk of egg well beaten. Dorure.—Yolks of eggs well beaten. Entre cote de Bceuf.—This is the portion of the animal which lies under the long ribs, or those thick slices of delicate meat which may be got from between them. Entrees.—A name given to dishes served in the first course with the fish dishes. Entremets—is the second course, which comes between the roast meat and the dessert. Escalopes.—Small pieces of meat cut in the form of some kind of coin. Fagot—is a bunch of parsley (the size varies of course), a bay leaf, and a sprig of thyme, tied up closely. '\\’hen any- thing beyond this is required it is specified in the article. Farce.—This word is used in speaking of chopped meat, fish, or herbs, with which poultry and other things are stuffed. Feuilletage.—Puff-paste. Filets Mignons.—Inside small fillets. Financiere.—An ex])ensive, highly flavoured, mixed ragout, Glacer (to glaze').—To reduce a sauce by means of ebulli- tion to a consistency equal to that of ice. Well made glaze adheres firmly to the meat. Godiveau.—A common veal forcemeat. Gras (an).—This signifies that the article specified is dressed with meat gravy. Gratincr.—To crisp and obtain a grilled taste. Grosses pieces de Funds.—There are in cookery two very distinct kinds of grosses pieces: the first comprehends substan-Terms in Use in the Kitchen. XXI tial pieces for removes, &c.; the other pieces months, or orna- ments ; by pieces de fomh is implied all dishes in pastry that form one entire dish, whether from its composition, or from its particular appearance ; as for example cold pies. Savoy cakes, brioches, Babas, gateaux de Compeigne, &c.; whilst the pieces montees, or ornamental pastries, are more numerous. Hors (Tceuwes.—Small dishes served with the first course. Larding-pin.—An utensil by means of which meat, &c., is larded. , Lardoire (larder).—An instrument of wood or steel for lard- ing meat. Zar</o»w.—The pieces into which bacon and other things are cut, for the purpose of larding meat, &c., &c. To Lard is when you put the bacon through the meat. Things larded do not glaze well. Everything larded on the top or surface is called pique. Madeleines.—Cakes made of the same composition as pound- cakes. Mariner.—Is said of meat or fish when put in oil or vinegar, with strong herbs, to preserve it. Mark.—To prepare meat to be dressed in a stew-pan. Mask.—To cover a dish with aragout or something of the sort. Nourir—is to put in more ham, bacon, butter, &c. Noix de Veau.—The leg of veal is divided into three distinct fleshy parts, besides the middle bone; the larger part, to which the udder is attached, is called the noix, the flat part under it sous noix, and the side part, contre noix, &c. The petites noix are in the side of the shoulder of veal. Paillasse.—A grill over hot cinders. Pain de beurre.—An ounce, or an ounce and a half of butter, made in the' shape of a roll. Panner.—To sprinkle meat or fish which is dressed on the gridiron with crumbs of bread dipped in butter and eggs. Panures.—Everything that is rolled in, or stewed with bread crumbs. Parer—is freeing the meat of nerves, skin, and all unneces- sary fat. Paupiettes.—Slices of meat, rather broad, to be rolled up. Pique—is to lard with a needle game, fowls, and other meats. Po’ele.—Almost the same operation as braising, the only dif- ference is, that what is po&e must be underdone ; whereas a braise must be done throusrh. OXXll Terms in Use in the Kitchen. Puit.—A well, or the void left in the middle, whea anything is dished round as a crown. A Puree of onions, turnips, mushrooms, &c., is a pulpy mash, or sauce of the vegetable specified, thinned with boiling cream or gravy. Quenelles.—Meat minced or potted, as quenelles of meat, game, fowls, and fish. Rottx.—This is an indispensable article in cookery, and serves to thicken sauces ; the brown is for sauces of the same colour, and the colour must be obtained by slow degrees, other- wise the flour will burn and give it a bitter taste, and the sauces become spotted with black. Reduce.—To boil a soup down to a jelly, .or till it becomes rich and thick. Sdbotiere.—A pewter or tin vessel, in which are placed the moulds containing the substance to be frozen. Sasser.—To stir and work a sauce with a spoon. Sauce tournee and veloute are not the same, nor has the latter name been substituted by the moderns for the former. Sauce tournee is an unfinished sauce; it is of itself a basis for many other white sauces, but it is in no instance served alone as a sauce with any entree or entremets. Veloute is served with hashes of chickens, veal, boudins d la reine, eminces, and entrees of quenelles, &c. Sautez—is to mix or unite all the parts of a ragout, by shak- ing it about. Singez.—To dust flour from the dredging-box, which is afterwards to be moistened in order to be dressed. Tamis (^Tammy). — An instrument to strain broth and sauces. Tendrons (veal)—are found near the extremity of the ribs. Tourner.—To stir a sauce; also to pare and out roots, vege- tables, &c., neatly. Tourte.—A puff-paste pie. Vanner.—To work a sauce well up with a spoon, by lifting it up and letting it fall.CHAPTER I. B ANCIENT AND MEDIEVAL COOKERY COMPARED WITH THE COOKERY OF THE LAST HALF CESTCRY. HE traditions of classic cookery may be said to be nearly effaced; but sufficient remains recorded to afford grounds for comparison, and he must be prejudiced who hesitates for an instant to award the palm to the moderns. An Impartial person need but to glance over the ten books left us under the name of Apicius,* to come to the conclusion of the ingenious Jean le Clerc, who says that “ the work contains receipts for extraordinary dishes and strange ragouts, w'hich would ruin the stomach, and burn up the blood.” One of the most nauseous of the condiments which entered into the Roman ragouts was the garum, by some supposed to be the expi*essed brine of the anchovy: while others contend it was an acrid decoction of the mackerel. This abominable sauce has now been * An edition of Apicius, with notes and comments, has been given by Ur. Lister, physician to Queen Anne.2 Ancient and Mediceval Cookery. banished Christendom, yet has found a refuge in the congenial cookery of “ our most ancient ally,” the Turk. Travellers who have visited Turkey and Constantinople, will recur, as I do, with no pleasurable sensations to the pilau seasoned with this acrid and ill-savoured preparation. Though the feast of Trimalcbio, so graphically told in the pages of Petronius, is somewhat overcharged, and too Asiatic in style and taste to be true to the letter, yet it gives an idea of the domestic economy of the Romans, and supports the opinion as to the superiority of modern cookery; but if more positive evidence were wanting in support of these views, it might be found in a passage of Macrobius, the des- cription of a supper given by Lentulus. For the first course, says the officer of the household of Theodosius, there were sea hedge hogs, raw oysters,and asparagus; for the second, a fat fowl, with another plate of oysters and shell fish, several species of dates, fig-peckers, roebuck, and wild boar, fowls encrusted with paste, and the purple shell fish, then esteemed so great a delicacy. The third course was composed of a wild boar’s head, of ducks, of a compote of river birds, of leverets, roast fowl, and Ancona cakes, called panes picences, which must have somewhat resembled York- shire pudding. There is one secret, however, which Ave may well desire to learn from the Romans, namely, the manner of preserving oysters alive, in any journey however long or however distant. TheAncient and Mediaeval Cookery. 3 possession of this secret is the more extraordinary, as it is well known that a shower of rain will kill oysters subjected to its influence, or the smallest grain of quick lime destroy their vitality.* It will be seen from what I have stated, that epicurism is an ancient vice; but all the French authorities, nevertheless, agree in thinking that the Greeks and Romans, not- withstanding their luxury and civilization, were mere children in the preparation of their viands. The reason of this, says Careme, is, that they sacrificed too much to sugars, fruits and fiowers, and that they had not the colonial spices and learned sauces of me- diajval and modern cookery. It is true that the “ oflBcers of the mouth” of Lucullus and Pompey were possessed of secrets to stimulate the jaded appetite, and give tone to the debilitated stomach: but not- withstanding all their profusion, I am inclined to think that Careme and the corps of French cooks are right in their disparaging observations touching ancient cookery. Cookery is eminently an experimental and a practical art. Each day, while it adds to our ex- perience, increases also our knowledge, and as we have come long after the Romtins, and have had the benefit of their experience, it is no marvel that we should have greatly surpassed them. The characteristic of ancient cookery was profusion; the characteristic of * “ Cours Gastronomique,” 124.4 Ancient and Mediaeval Cookery. modern is delicacy and refinement. In the fifth century all trace of the Roman cookery had already disappeared. The barbarians from afar had savoured the scent of the Roman ragouts. The eternal city was invested, and her kitchen destroyed. The con- secutive incursions of hordes of barbarous tribes and nations had put out at once the light of science and the fire of cookery. Darkness was now abroad, and the “ glory” of the culinary art was, for a time, “ extinguished,’’ but, happily, not for ever. “ Lorsque il n’y a plus de cuisine dans le monde, il n’y a plus de lettres, il n’y a jfius d’unite sociale,” says the en- lightened and ingenious Car^me. But the darkness of the world was not of long du- ration. The monks—the much-abused and much mistaken monks—fanned the embers of a nascent literature, and cherished the flame of a new cookery. The free cities of Italy, Genoa, Venice, Pisa, Florence, the common mothers of poetry, painting, sculpture, and architecture, contemporaneously revived the gas- tronomic taste. The Mediterranean and the Adriatic oflfered their fish, and the taste for table luxuries ex- tended itself to the maritime towns and other cities of the Peninsula, to Cadiz, to Barcelona, to St. Sebastian, and to Seville. Spain had the high honour of having furnished tlie first cookery book in any modern tongue. It is en- titled—“ Libro de Cozina, compuesto por Ruberto de Nola.” I also possess au edition of the Arte deAncient and Mediceval Cookery. 5 Cocina compuesto por Francisco Martinez Montliio,” printed in Madrid in 1623, and presented by His Royal Highness the late Duke of Sussex to Lady Augusta Murray. This work is exceedingly rare. The cookery professed at this epoch was no longer an imitation of the Greek or Roman kitchen, or of the insipid dishes and thick sauces of the Byzantine cooks. It was a new and improved and extended science. It recognised the palate, stomach, and digestion of man. The opulent nobles of Italy, the rich merchant princes, charged with the affairs and commissions of Europe and Asia, the heads of the church—bishops, cai'dinals, and popes, now cultivated and encouraged the culinary art. Arts, letters, and cookery revived together, and among the gourmands of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, some of the most celebrated pontiffs and artists of the time may be named, as Leo X., Raphael, Guido, Baccio Bandinelli, and John of Bologna. Raphael, the divine Raphael, did not think it beneath him to design plates and dishes for his great patron the most holy father. While Italy had made this progress, France, the nurse of modern, if not the mother of mediasval cooks, was in a state of barbarism, from which she was raised by the Italian wars under Charles VIII. and Louis XII. 1 he Gauls learned a more refined cookery at the siege of Naples, as the Cossacks did some hundreds of years later in the Champs Elys^es of Paris. Here ends the parallel, however; for while the people of France,6 Ancient and Mediccval Cookery. like most apt pupils, surpassed their masters, we have yet to wait for the least glimmering of culinary art at Moscow, Kieff or Novogorod, or even at that fag end of Finland (which is not Russia) called St. Petershurgh. An attempt was made a couple of years ago by Mr. Money to get up a sensation in favour of Russian cookery, but the attempt was a failure. It was under Henry III., about 1580, that the delicacies of the Italian tables were introduced at Paris. The sister arts of desig-n and drawing: were now called into requisition to decorate dishes and dinner-tables. How great was the progress in the short space of 150 years, may be inferred from an edict of Charles VI., which forbad to his liege subjects a dinner consisting of more than two dishes with the soup: “ Nemo audeat dare prater duo fercula cum potagio.” At this period the dinner hour was ten o’clock in the morning, while the supper was served at four. The social, friendly, and agreeable humour of Henry IV., in a succeeding reign, contributed to the spread of a more kindly spirit, and a better cookery. This monarch was eminently of a frank and cordial nature, and his personal qualities contributed to the security of his throne, to his successes both in negoti- ation and war, and to the social comforts and material prosperity of his subjects. His benevolent wish that every peasant in his dominions might have a fowl in the pot for his Sunday dinner, discloses a warm andAncient and Mediceval Cookery. 7 affectionate heart, and was not lost on a nation com- bining the greatest share of intellect with sensuality. The cabaret then was what the cafe is now, and was the rendezvous of marquis and chevalier, and people of condition. Men learned to pursue the pleasures and enjoyments of life in the cabaret, and their wants become multiplied, and their desires extended. It was Henry IV. who first permitted the traiteurs to form a community, with the title of “ Maltre queux cuisiniers porte-chapes,” in 1599. The first regular cookery book published in France was, I believe, printed at Rouen in 1692, the very year in which Sir George Rooke struck so signal and successful a blow against the marine of our neighbours. It was the production of the Sieur de la Varranne, esquire of the kitchen of M. d’Uxelles. It is dedicated to M]\I. Louis Chalon du Bled, Marquis d’Uxelles and of Cormartin. The first sentence of the dedication is a curiosity in its way, and sufficiently indicates the immense distance which feudalism then interposed between an esquire of the kitchen and a French marquis and lieutenant-general, holding the rank of governor of the citadel of Chalons-sur-Saone. “ Mon- seigneur,” says the book, “ bien que ma condition ne me rende pas capable d’un coeur heroi'que, elle me donne cependant assez de ressentiment pour ne pas oublier mon devoir. J’al trouve dans votre maison, par un emploi de dix ans entiers, le secret d’apprester delicatement les viandes.” The preface is not less8 Ancient mid Mcdiaval Cookery. curious than the dedication. The author begins bv stating that, as it is the first book of the kind which has been published, he hopes it will not be found al- together useless. A number of books, says he, have been published containing remedies and cures at small cost; but no book has yet been printed with a view of preserving and maintaining the health in a good state, and a perfect disposition, teaching how to separate the ill quantity of viands by good and diver- sified seasonings, which tend only to give substantial nourishment, being well dressed. These are things conformable to the appetite, which regulate corpulency, and ought to be no less considered, &c. He expatiates on the thousand-and-one vegetables and other “ victual,” which people know not how to dress with honour and contentment (“ avec honneur et con- tentement”), and then exclaims that, as France has borne off the bell from all other nations in courtesy and bienseance, it is only right and proper that she should be no less esteemed for her polite and delicate manner of living (‘^ pour la faqon de vivre honneste et delicate”). Many of the receipts are curious, and some of them useful. The frequency with which he introduces capers into his cookery, an article for which we are indebted to Barbary, and rarely intro- duced into the cookery of modern France, except in sauces for turbot and salmon, and in a few entrees, liaisons, and ragouts, is extraordinary. La Varranue, after having given hundreds of otherAncient and Mediaeval Cookery. 9 receipts, consoles himself, at the conclusion of his la- bours, with the reflection, “ That as all other books, as well ancient as modern, were composed for the ali- ment of the mind, it was but just that the body should be a little considered,” and therefore it was, says he, that I meddled with a subject so necessary to'its con- servation. Enjoy, then, my receipts, dear reader, he exclaims, “ Jouissez en, cher lecteur, pendant que je m’etudierai a vous exposer en vente quelque chose qui meritera vos emplois plus relevez et plus solides.” The first edition of that remarkable cookery book, the “Dons de Comus,” appeared about 1740, and is in every respect a superior work to the droll produc- tion just mentioned. It was composed by M. Marin, cook of the Duchesse de Chaulnes. The very learned and Ingenious preface, signed de Querlon, is by Father Brumoy, the Jesuit, the translator of the “ Theatre des Grecs.” An Italian author calls a preface the sauce of a book, “ La Salsa del Libroand certainly never was there a more piquant and spicy sauce than that of the erudite Father. He has broua:ht ancient and modern literature to bear on the matter in hand. Not content with citing orators, poets and historians, he has also summoned the doctors, in the persons of the Frenchman Hecquet and the Englishman Cheyne. His comparison between ancient and modern cookery is ingenious. “ Modern cookery,” says he, “ established on the foundations of the ancient, possesses more variety.Ancient and Mediaeval Cookery. 10 simplicity and cleanliness, with infinitely less of la- bour and elaboration, and it is withal more sqavante. The ancient cuisine was complicated and full of details. But the modern cuisine is a perfect system of che- mistry. The science of the cook consists in decom- posing,'in rendering easy of digestion, in quintes- sencing (so to speak) the viands, in extracting from them light and nourishing juices, and in so mixing them together, that no one flavour shall predominate, but that all shall be harmonised and blended. This is the high aim and great effort of art. The harmony which strikes the eye in a picture should in a sauce cause in the palate as agreeable a sensation.” There is nothing new under the sun. A friend has recently lent me a copy of St. Augustine, in which is the very same thought, “ Omina pulchritudinis formte unitas est,” says the learned father. The following is Father Brumoy’s idea of a perfect cook : “ A perfect cook should exactly understand the properties of the sub- stances he employs, that he may coi'rect or render more perfect(corriger ou perfectionner) such aliments as nature presents in a raw state. He should have a sound head (la tete saine), a sure taste, and a delicate palate, that he may cleverly combine the ingredients. Seasoning is the rock of indifferent cooks (I’ecueil des m^diocres ouvriers). A cook should liave a ready hand to operate promptly and should assiduously study the palate of his master, wholly conforming his ownAncient and Mediaeval Cookery. 11 thereto.”* All this is excellent in its way. It is rare to find history, metaphysics and chemistry, the tone of a man of the world, the taste of an erudite classic, and the talent of a really good cook, so happily blended. Father Briimoy is the very opposite of that Greek cook, of whom Pausanias makes mention, whom all the world praised for his running, but whom no one praised for his ragouts: for in the three volumes now before me there are a variety of admi- rable receipts, which have made the stock in trade of many cookery books more vaunted and better known than Father Brumoy’s. The “ Dons de Comus ” was followed by a spruce little satire, intituled “ Lettre d’un Patissier Anglais au nouveau cuislnier Fran9ais,” in which the soi- disant pastrycook deals some hard blows to the Jesuit. In the “Dons de Comus” there had been much dissertation about quintessences, and the giving the largest portion of nutriment in the smallest possible compass. Hereupon the “ Patissier Anglais ” says, “ Thus the more the nourishment of the body shall be subtilised and alembicated, the more will the quali- ties of the mind be rarefied and quintessenced too. From these principles, demonstrated in your work, great advantage may be reaped in all educational es- tablishments. Children lose an Infinity of time in learning the dead languages, and other trash of that • “Namque cocus domini debet habere gulam.”—Martial.12 Ancient and Mediaeval Cookery. kind, whereas, henceforward, it will only be necessary', according to your system, to give them an alimentary education, proper for the state for which they are destined. For example : for a young lad destined to live in the atmosphere of a court, whipped cream and calves’ trotters should be procured; for a sprig of fashion, linnets’ heads, quintessences of May bugs, butterfly broth, and other light trifles. For a lawyer, destined to the chicanery of the Palais or who would shine at the bar, sauces of mustard and vinegar and other condiments of a bitter and pungent nature would be required.” Appended to the “ Patissier Anglais” was “ Le Cuislnier Gascon,” an excel- lent and valuable little work, now extremely scarce. There are many admirable receipts in this little vo- lume, to which Mrs. Rundell was deeply indebted. She has borrowed largely from it without acknow- ledgment. “La Science du Maitre d’Hotel Cuislnier” was the next published in point of chronological order. This was an attempt to render cookery the handmaid of medicine, and had great success. The plan, though not new in the conception, for the germ of it may be found in Terence, “ Coquina mediclnte famulatrlx est,”* was undoubtedly so in the execution; and the associated booksellers reaped a profitable harvest. The cookery of France at this epoch, and indeed ♦ “ Donat, in Terent. Andr.," act. i. sc. 1.Ancient and Medieval Cookery. 13 from the time of Louis XIV., was distinguished by- luxury and sumptuousness, but, according to Careme, was wanting in “ delicate sensualism.” They ate well, indeed, at the court, says the professor of the culinary art, but the rich citizens, the men of letters, the artists, “ were only in the course of learning to dine, drink^ and laugh with convenance, Vatel, of whom so much has been said,” says Careme, “ had only a mind deeply intent on his subject, you but see in him the conscientious man of duty and etiquette. His death astonishes but does not melt you (sa mort frappe mais ne touche pas), for he had not reached the highest elevation of his art.” You cannot think, you who read these lines, that any one of our cooks of the pre- sent day, bi'ought up by Careme, could ever fall into his faults. For whatever may happen, a cook, like a commander, and, indeed, like the great masters of the art, Laguipiere and Cai’eme, “ should always have splendid and imposing reserves.” This dictum of Careme must be taken, like many of his dishes and sauces, cum grano salis. Moliere lived and wrote at this period; and though it would be unfair not to concede that he was greatly in ad- vance of his age, and, like Shakspeare, seemed to be universally informed, and by intuition, yet on the other hand there is scarcely a better description of a gourmand than is to be found in the “ Bourgeois Gentilhomme,” act iv. sc.T. The language of the art, too, is as much superior to the jargon of profes-14 Ancient and Medieval Cookery. sional cooks, as Paques is (the pun was inevitable) to Careme. But here is the passage in extenso, from which all may judge:—“ Si Damis s’en etoit mele, tout seroit dans les regies; il y auroit par-tout de I’elegance et de I’erudition, et il ne manqueroit pas de vous exagerer lui-meme toutes les pieces du repas qu’il vous donneroit, et de vous faire tomber d’accord de sa haute capacite dans la science des jx)us morceaux; de vous parler d’un pain de rive a bizeau dore, releve de croute par-tout, croquant tendrement sous la dent; d’un vin a seve veloute, arme d’un vert qui n’est point trop commandant; d’un carre du mouton gourmande de persil; d’une longe de veau de riviere, longue, blanche, delicate, et qui, sous les dents, est une vraie pate d’amande; de perdrix relevees, d’un fumet surprenant; et pour son opera, d’une soupe a bouillon perle, soutenue d’un jeune gros dindon, can- tonnee de pigeonneaux, et couronnee d’oignons blancs, maries avec la chicoree.”* It should also be observed that St. Evremond, a man of letters as well as a sol- dier and a gentleman, rendered himself celebrated even in 1654, for the exquisiteness of his taste in cookery, and that the coterie in which he lived were equally famous for their good cheer. The dinners of the Commandeur de Souvrc, of the Comte d’Oloure, and of the Marquis de Bois Dauphin, were celebrated for equal refinement and delicacy. Lavardln, Bishop of * “ Bourgeois Gcntllhomnie,” act iv. sc. 1.Ancient and Mediceval Cookery. 15 Mans, in speaking of the clique, says, “ Ils ne sau- roient manger que du veau de riviere: il faut que leurs perdrix viennent d’Auverge : que leurs lapins. soit de la Roche Guyon.”* The same thought may be found in the fifth Satire of Juvenal, though some- what differently expressed. “ Mullus erit domino, quern misit Corsica, vel quem Taurominitanm rupes, quundo omne peractum est, Et jam deficit nostrum mare.” With the qualifying restrictions previously made, it may fairly be admitted that it is not to the Grand Monarque, but to the Regent Orleans, that the French of the present day owe the exquisite cuisine of the eighteenth century. The Pain a. la d'Orleans Avas the invention of the regent himself; the Jilets de lapereau a la Berri were invented by his aban- doned daughter, the Duchess de Berri, who plunged into every sensual excess, and whose motto Avas “ Courte et bonne.’’' Her suppers Avere the best, and, it must be added, the most profligate in Paris. As the Duchess de Berri, the daughter of the re- gent, Avas (jourrnande as Avell as galante, she is deified by the race of cooks and epicures, one of Avhom says that the alimentary art OAves to her fertile genius a great number of receipts. Nor Avas she the only female who distinguished herself at this era in cookery, for it became d-la-mode to be the creator of a plat. Amsterdam, 172C.IG Ancient and Mediceval Cookery. The filets de volaille a la Bellevue were invented by the Marquise de Pompadour, in the chateau of 13el- ^levue, for the petits soupers of the king. The poulets a la Villeroy owe their birth to the Mar&hale de Luxembourg, then Duchess of Villeroy, one of the most sensual “ gourmandes” of the court of Louis XV. The Chartreuse a la Mauconseil has been trans- mitted to us by the Marquise de Mauconseil, cele- brated alike by her taste and her gallantries. The vol au vent a la Nesle proceeded from the fertile brain of the Marquis de Xesle, who refused the peerage to remain premier marquis of France, and the, poularde d la Montmorency was the production of the duke of that name. Filets de veau a la Montgolfier, are so named because they are of the shape of balloons. The petites houchees a la reine owe their origin to Marla Leczlnska, wife of Louis XV., whose devotions, how- ever self-denying in other respects, never prevented her from relishing a good dinner. All the entrees bearing the name of Bayonnaises were invented by the Marechal Duke de Richelieu. The pcrdreaux a la Montglas acknowledge as their father a worthy magis- trate of Montpelier, whilst the cailles a la Mircpoijc were imagined by the marechal of that name, who in gourmandise, but in gourmandise only, rivalled the Marechal de Luxembourg; and last, though not least, the cotelettes a la Maintcnon were the favourite dish of that frigid piece of pompous and demure hypocrisy, IMadamc de hlaiutcuon herself.Ancient and Mediceval Cookery. 17 It may be concluded, that the regency and the reign of Louis XV. were among the grand cipochs of French cookery. The long peace which followed the treaty of Utrecht, the large fortunes made by the tribe of financiers, who, in ruining the state, enriched themselves—the tranquil and voluptuous life of a monarch who gave himself more concern about his personal pleasures and enjoyments than his royal renown—the character of the courtiers and public men of the day—all contributed to stamp an in- tensely sensual character on the age of Louis XV. A taste for English equipages and horses was now introduced, and our puddings and beef-steaks were also imitated. The example of the regent was re- fined on and extended in this reign. The petits soupers of the king were cited as models of delicacy and gourmandise. The kitchen in France, as in all the world over, requires “ the cankers of a calm world and a long peace,” to sustain and support it; while the troubles of the League and the Fronde, the tem- perament of Louis XIV., and the despotic and tem- pestuous character of Kichelieu, interfered with its progress in former reigns. There were great cooks as well as great captains in the reign of Louis XIV., notwithstanding the disparaging remarks which Careine casts on the memory of Vatel; but a witty author maintains that the only ineffaceable and im- mortal reputation of that time handed down to us in cookery, is that of the Marquis de Bechamel, who18 Ancient and Mediceval Cookery. introduced into the sauce for turbot and cod fish an infusipn of cream. The Bechamel de turbot et de cabillaud still maintain their popularity, though kings, dynasties, and empires have fallen, and half the globe has been revolutionized. In the royal kitchen of Louis XVI., the art as an art declined; but the sacred fire of cookery (to use the inflated language of some of the craft) was pre- served in many old houses, as, for instance, in the establishments of Marshals Richelieu and Duras, the Duke of La Valllere, the Marquis de Brancas, the Count de Tesse, and some others, who equalled in the delicacy of their tables the elegant sumptuosity of the reign of Louis XV. The excesses of some of the French nobility of this day would now appear incredible. One hundred and twenty pheasants were, at this period, weekly consumed in the kitchens of the Prince de Conde; and the Duke de Penthlevre, in going to preside over the estates of Burgundy, was preceded by one hundred and fifty-two hommes de Louche! Can any, after this, wonder at the ex- cesses of the Revolution ? The unexpected death of Louis XV. (says a gourmand of the succeeding reign, and w'ho survived the Revolution and the Consulate) struck a mortal blow at cookery. His successor, young and vigorous, ate with more vora- city than delicacy, and did not pride himself on (the words are untranslateable) a “ grand finesse de gout”'—an exquisite delicacy of taste in the choiceAncient and MedicRval Cookery. 19 of Ills food. Large joints of butchers’ meat, and dishes essentially nutritive, represented his ideas of good living. His enormous appetite contented itself in satisfying hunger; learned efforts were not neces- sary to stimulate its vast eravings. The French Revolution at length broke forth, and the historians of the kitchen speak with mournfulness of its effect on the science, which Montaigne quaintly calls Tart de la gueule. The kitchens of the fau- bourg of St. Germain and the Chaussee d’Antin no longer smoked, the perfumes of truffles were exhaled and vanished, the great and noble of the land were obliged to fly for their lives, and too often to dine with Duke Humphrey, or at best to dine frugally and sparingly. The financiers, who aped the luxu- ries and mimicked the extravagance of the court, were all ruined or denounced. The stoic’s fare— the radish and the egg, the Jus nigrum of the severe Spartans, and the black bread of the Germans of the middle ages, scarcely fit food for horses, were now revived. For three long years this spare Spartan regime continued. Had the Goths and Vandals gone on a little longer, says a witty epicure, who survived the Revolution, the receipt for a fricassee of chicken had been infallibly lost. The markets were no longer supplied. Beef, mutton, ham, and veal, had disappeared; as to fish, it was preposterous to think of it.* Not a good turbot, or salmon, or sturgeon, • “ Almanach des Gourmands,” 6me anuee.20 * Ancient and Mediaeval Cookery. says Grimod, appeared during the Revolution. Fowls and game had become a “sick epicure’s dream,” not a solid reality. Nor were these mise- ries confined to Paris alone. “You might go into a country market,” says the same author, “ with a ream of assignats in your hand, and not be able to buy a sack of flour.” A return to a gold currency produced a visible alteration in the Res Cibaria. The louis and five-franc pieces again peopled the markets with a populace of poultry and partridges. Cooks as^ain besrau to talk in the lano-ua^e which the Italian mattre dCMtel of Cardinal CaraflPa addressed to the pleasant and witty Montaigne, language which the laughing author has imperishably recorded in those inimitable volumes, which will be read and admired so lono; as the French lanffuag-e and literature endure. “ II m’a fait un discours de cette science de itueule avec une gravite et contenance.magistrale, comme s’il m’eust parle de quelque grand poinct de theo- logie. II m’a dechiflFre une difference d’appetits ; la police de ses sauces; les qualit^s des ingredients et leurs effects, les differences des salades. Apres cela il est entre sur I’ordre de service plein de belles et importantes considerations, et tout cela enfl^ de riches et magnifiques paroles; et celles memes qu’on employe a traitor du gouvernement d’un empire.” The oxen of Auvergne and Normandy were now again marched slowly and gravely up from the pro- vinces to be slaughtered in Paris. The sheep ofAncient and Mediaeval Cookery. 21 Beauvais, of Cotentin and the Ardennes, were again, as under the old regime, cut up into cutlets, and the cooks soon appeared. Instead of serving as chefs de cuisine, butlers, intendants, and maitres d'Mtel, they now were called citoyens, pensionnaires, and rentiers; for there were no grands seigneurs to employ them. For a while there was some inconvenience, but a Frenchman sooner accommodates himself to circum- stances than any other human being, and such of the cuisiniers as had saved somewhat from the ship- wreck of the Revolution formed eating-houses, taverns, and restaurants. These establishments have since become the temples of good cheer and gour- mandise, in which wandering Englishmen spend and have spent millions upon millions of money; but it is an historical fact known to few, that the greater number of these restaurants owe their origin to the Revolution.* The complete overthrow of the French kitchen, the work of three centuries, might have been * Previous to 1789, says the “Almanack des Gourmands,” tom. i, p. 162, there were not one hundred restaurateurs in Paris. Now (in 1803) there are five times as many. Speaking at random and without book, there are at present 4000 or 5000, great and small. The author of the “ Almanack des Gour- mands ” falls into the strange mistake of attributing the in- crease of restaurateurs to an Anglomania. “ It is well known,” says he, “ that the English almost always dine at a tavern.” What inconceivable ignorance!22 Ancient and Medicnval Cookery. effected at this season, had not its traditions been preserved. Happily there Avere Acolytes and Neo- phytes sufficient in existence, says one of the histo- rians, to catch and perpetuate the scientific savour of the ancient “ flesh pots.” In such a loss as this, weightier interests had been imperilled than mere cookery. More than half the intelligence, and nearly all of the French agreeability of the past age, had been in a great degree promoted by the French cuisine. The cook of the Condes and the Soubises contributed in no mean degree to give a zest and a vivacity to the dinners at which Montesquieu, Vol- taire, Diderot, Helvetius, D’Alembert, Duclos, and Vauvenargues so often met; and this remark applies, in a great degree, to the suppers of Madame du Deffand, the dinners of the Baron D’Holbach, and the dinners, suppers, and pic-nics of the agreeable Crawford of Auchinames, whose “ Tableau of French Literature” is not sufficiently known nor read in our day. It was at these social reunions that French conversation, then indeed a style parli became animated and Improved by the exquisite cheer which the ''cunning hand” of the cook pro- vided. A few hours of delightful, easy, unrestrained conversation between polite and well-informed men, did more to advance the progress of the human mind than the labours of a wilderness of speculative book- making academies. The solution of many great and grave questions—the propagation of new and en-Ancient and Mediaeval Cookery. 23 larged views, the production of ingenious essays and instructive memoirs, are all owing to that elegant and agreeable body of men and women, kept toge- ther in a main degree by the exquisite attraction of petits soiipers and luxurious dinners. From the moment of the Executive Directory, 1795, to the period of the 18th Brumaire, all the historians amonj; the sfreat cooks admit that their illustrious art was under the greatest obligations to Barras, that well-born tribune of the people, of whose family it was said, “ noble comme les Barras, aussi anciens que les rochers de Provence.” Whether as Commissary of the government at Toulon—at whose siege, by the way, he first became acquainted with Bonaparte—or as Director, or as residing as a private gentleman at his chateau of Grosbois, Barras always exhibited those epicurean tastes which were either natural to him, or which he had acquired from a residence at the French settlement of Pondicherry. During the most ferocious periods of the Revolu- tion, there were but two splendid exceptions to the self-denying ordinances of the time. That desperate demagogue Danton loved and copiously indulged himself in morels, and is recorded to have given dinners at 400 francs a head; and Barras, when in the Directory, had his button mushrooms conveyed to him en poste from the Benches du Rhone. Napoleon, who may be said to have succeeded to power at the epoch of the 18th Brumaire, is falsely24 Ancient and Mediaival Cookery. represented as an enemy of the pleasures of the table. It is true, a love of good cheer was not a dominant passion witlr him; he did not exhibit the crapulous gluttony of an over-fed sensualist, but he was not insensible to the pleasures of good eating. M, de Bausset,* the prefect of the Imperial palace, has handed down in his most interesting work some of the Emperor’s ordinary bills of fare. They are dis- tinguished by simplicity and moderation, but there is also a pervading suitableness and taste very signi- ficant of the man, and of the nation over which he “reigned and governed.” M. de Cussv, also attached to the kitchen and household of the Emperor, and who obtained from his patron, or assumed, the title of Marquis de Gussy, has also left us interesting details on the sub- ject. One day at breakfast, says he (this was some time after his marriage), Napoleon, after having eaten, with his habitual haste, a wing of a chicken a, la Tartare, turned towards M. de Gussy (who was always present at the Emperor’s meals), and the following dialogue took place between them : “ The deuce! I have always hitherto found chicken-meat flat and insipid, but this is excellent.” “ Sire, if your • “ Memoires Anecdotiques sur I’intorieur du Palais, et sur quelques Evenemens de I’Empire, depuis 1805 jusqu'au 1 ^tai 1814, pour servir Si I’llistoire de Napoleon,” par L. F. J. De Bausset, ancien Prefet du Palais Imperial.Ancient and Medmval Cookery. 25 Majesty would permit, I would desire to have the honour of serving a fowl every day in a different fashion.” “What! M. de Cussy, you are then master of 365 different ways of dressing fowl?” “ Yes, Sire, and perhaps your Majesty, after a trial, would take a pleasure d la science gastronomique. All great men have encouraged that science, and, without citing to your Majesty the example of the great Frederick, who had a special cook for each favourite dish, I might invoke, in support of my assertion, all the great names immortalized by glory.” “Well, then, M. de Cussy,” replied the Emperor, “ we shall put your abilities to the test.” The case might be left to a jury of gourmands on this evidence, and the Emperor would be con- victed, if not of gourmandise, at least of friandises. Who will, however, deny the gourmandise of his arch-chancellor, Cambaceres, or of his minister of foreign affairs, Talleyrand ? “ The first clouds of smoke (says Ude) which announced the resurrection of cookery, appeared from the kitchen of a quondam bishop. Napoleon himself was in the habit of say- ing that more fortunate treaties, more happy arrange- ments and reconciliations were due to the cook of Cambaceres than to the crowds of diplomatic nonen- tities who thronged the ante-chambers of the Tuile- ries. On one occasion the town of Geneva sent to the arch-chancellor a monster trout, together with the sauce, the expense of which was verified by the26 Ancient and Mediaeval Cookery. Cour des Comptes as amounting to 6000 francs, or 240Z. of our money. A rare epoch in the history of cookery was the publication of the first number of the “ Almanach des Gourmands,” which appeared in the beginning of the year 1803, and which the late Duke of York called the most delightful book that was ever printed. The sale of this work was prodigious. 22,000 copies of the four first years were speedily disposed of, and the work subsequently went through new editions. As the book is very scarce everywhere, and not to be found in England, I may be pardoned for dwelling on it. Gastronomy became the fashion of that day. Every one spoke on the subject; many wrote on it. Cookery passed from the kitchen to the shop, from the shop to the counting-house, from the counting- house to the studies of lawyers and physicians; thence to the salons and cabinets of ladles and statesmen. The object of life, according, at least, to our simple English notions, seemed reversed: people in Eng- land eat to live; in France, they appeared to live only to eat. This was in consonance with French cha- racter and practice. To return, however, to the “ Almanach des Gour- mands.” Each volume contained an almanac for the year in which it was published, and a species of nu- tritive itinerary of the difterent traiteurs, rotisseurs, restaurateurs, porkmen, poulterers, butchers, bakers, provision, sauce, and spice shops, milkmen, oilmen.Ancient and Mediaeval Cookery, 27 &c. Nor were the cafes, limonadiers, glaciers, nor wine and liqueur merchants neglected; for ample and amusing accounts of almost all the principal magasins de comestibles are given. The volumes are generally written in a playful, humorous style, and occasion- ally indicate originality and research. The first four numbers are by far the best, though there are passages in the seventh, eighth} and ninth equal to anything which appeared in the preceding numbers. The au- thor and editor was Grimod de la Reyniere. His father, fermier general was choked, in 1754, by attempting to swallow rather too voraciously a slice of a pate de foies gras. The son inherited the here- ditary passion for the pleasures of the table, joined to a sprightly yet quaint humour, which rendered him a general favourite. It must be admitted, that while he inspired a taste for cookery, he ennobled its lancuafre. O O As a specimen of his manner, take a short extract from the second volume, under the head of the health of cooks. “ The finger of a good cook should alternate perpetually between the stewpan and his mouth, and it is only thus in tasting every moment his ragouts, that he can hit upon the precise medium. His palate should therefore have an extreme delicacy, and be in some sort virgin, in order that the slightest trifle may stimulate it, and thus forewarn him of its faults. But the continual odour of ovens—the necessity under which a cook lies to drink often, and some-28 Ancient and Mediaeval Cookery. times of bad wine^ the vapour of charcoal, the accu- mulation of bile, and many other things, each and all contribute to interfere with his organs of sense, and most quickly to derange and alter his sense of taste. His palate becomes indurated; he has no longer that tact, that finesse, that exquisite sensibility, on which depends susceptibility of taste. His palate at length becomes case-hardened. The only means of restoring to him that flower which he has lost (cette fleur qu’il a perdue), and recruiting his strength, his suppleness, and his delicatesse, is to purge him, despite of any resistance he may be induced to make; for there are cooks deaf to the voice of glory, who see no need to take physic when they are in health. Oh, ye then who wish to enjoy at your daily board delicate and recherche fare, cause your cooks to be purged fre- quently (faites purger souvent vos cuisiniers), for there is no other means to accomplish your wishes.” In another volume, published in 1806, the author says that in Riom, in Auvergne, there was an inn- keeper named Simon, who had a special talent for dressing frogs. The process of feeding and dressing them is given in detail, admirably and graphically told, but at far too great a length to extract. “ What proves the goodness of the dish, and the impossibility of counterfeiting it,” says Grlmod, “is, that the author has gained 200,000 francs at this art, though he gives you for 24 sous a dish containing three dozen of frogs.” The three “Freres Provenceaux,” we learn in theAncient and Mediaeval Cookery. 29 same volume, were even thus early renowned for Pro- ven9al ragouts, and, above all, for their Brandades de Merluche; and the veal of Pontoise was then, as now, fed on cream and biscuits, and carried to Paris in carriages made expressly for the purpose. It is in this year’s almanac also that the author speaks of the death of a celebrated gourmand and friend of his. Doc- tor Gastaldy, physician to the late Duke of Cumber- land, The last dinner which he partook of was on Wednesday, the 20th December, at Cardinal Belloy’s, Archbishop of Paris, where, having eaten three times of the belly part of the salmon, he died of the effects of this invincible gluttony. The doctor would have gone to the salmon a fourth time, but that the pre- late “ tenderly upbraided him for his imprudence, and ordered the desired dish to be removed ” (le reprit ten- drement de son imprudence, et fit enlever ce sujet de convoltise). But alas, it was too late—the gulosity of Gastaldy caused his death, and he was hastily buried the day after his demise. Let this be a warning to priests in high places, whether Protestant, Popish, or Presbyterian, as to helping their guests too often to the richest part of a salmon. In one of the volumes there is a long chapter on the opening of oysters, from which the concluding portion is extracted. “ It is not until the oyster is detached from the under shell that it ceases to live. The real lovers of oysters (such, for example, as the late M. Grimod de30 Ancient and Mediaeval Cookery. Verneull), won’t allow the oyster-women to open their fish, reserving to themselves the important privilege of performing this operation on their own plate, in order that they may have the pleasure of swallowing this interesting fish alive.” It is in this volume that the important secret is disclosed that the flesh of beasts, fowls, and game killed by electricity, is much more tender than if killed in the usual manner. “ The discoverer of this important truth,” says Grimod, “ was a Dr. Beyer, of the Rue de Clichy, who deserves to be ranked with the Rechaud, the Morillon, and the Robert, who had so worthily illustrated the culinary art, towards the end of the last century; and Avho,like the Raphaels, the Michael Angelos, and the Rubens, have been the founders of the three great schools of good living.” Here also is a dissertation on asses’ flesh, wherein the author states that, during the blockade of Malta by the English and Neapolitans, the inhabitants, having had recourse to horseflesh, dogflesh, cats, rats, &c., at length tried asses’ flesh, and found it so excellent, that the goui'mands of Valetta preferred this strange diet to the best beef and veal. Mhen an ass was killed, there was great competition for the prime bits. “ Your ass,” says Isouard, father of the musical composer of that name, “should not be more than three or four years old, and fat.” There is also an account of a seasoning used by the gourmands of Terra Nova, a small town situated onAncient and Mediaeval Cookery. 31 the southern coast of Sicily, between Gergali and Scoglietti, on the sea-shore. This is a white grease, extracted from the fig-pecker, much sought after by the gourmands of Sicily and Naples, At Malta all respectable families use it in lieu of oil and butter. An immense number of birds, taken in nets, are ne- cessary to pi’oduce so much grease. When killed they are thrown, in immense heaps, into an enormous oven, and the fat is thus melted out. It is bottled, and the carcases of the birds thrown away. The “ Manuel des Amphytrions,” by the author of the almanac, is as cui’ious and amusing, and a more succinct work than the “ Almanach des Gourmands.” The first work of any note, published in 1814, after the Restoration, was that of Beauvilliers. The author had been cook to the Count de Provence (Louis XVIII.), but at this period followed the business of a restaurateur in the Rue de Richelieu. Any eulo- gium on such a work would be supererogatory. The artist, who had been many years cook to the inventor of the soupe a. la Xavier, that consummate and gouty gourmand, Louis XVIII., and who had often served and satisfied the Count d’Artois, afterwards Charles X., the inventor of the ris de veau a la (TArtois, must have been a cook of surpassing merit. The “ Physiologie du Gofit” appeared in 1828. The author was M, Brillat Savarin, Conseillier en la Cour de Cassation. He had been bred to the bar, and was already in practice when the Revolution broke32 Ancient and Medieval Cookery. out. By the suffrages of his townsmen he was sent as a deputy to the Constituent Assembly. But in 1793, having resisted the progress of anarchy, he was forced to emigrate. He embarked for the United States, and established himself at New York, where he remained for two years, giving lessons in the French language, and filling nightly one of the first places in the orchestra of the theatre; for, among his other accomplishments, he was distinguished as a musician. During the Directory he returned, and the last twenty-five years of his life were spent in the Court of Cassation. It was in the leisure which this honourable retreat afforded him that he composed this work. It is, however, more a scientific essay, or a book of aphorisms, in the short and sententious style of the ancients, than a practical work on cookery. Some of the statistics of this book are curious. It appears that, from the 1st of November to the end of February, there is a dally consumption of 300 tur- keys, making, in all, but 36,000 turkeys. The work also contains a number of witty and curious anec- dotes, from which I venture to extract one. “ M. de Sanzai, Archbishop of Bordeaux, was an agreeable man and a respected prelate. He had won from one of his grand vicars a truffled turkey, which the loser seemed in no haste to pay. Towards the close of the carnival, the archbishop reminded his subordinate of the lost wager. " IMonseigneur,” said the vicar, “the truffles are good for nothing33 Ancient and Mediceval Cookery. this year.” “Bah, bah!” replied the archbishop, “ that’s a report spread by the turkeys,” (c’est un bruit que les dindons font courir). Avast number of editions of the “ Cuisiniere Bour- geoise” have appeared both in France and Switzer- land, and, to speak truly, there is no more useful work. A greater number of copies have been sold, for the last seventy years, than even of the “ Fables ” of La Fon- taine. The receipts are by no means expensive, and there is no better cookery for the middle classes of all countries. Even in England the dishes might be adopted among the better classes, occasionally abridg- ing any undue portion of garlic or onion. This work was pirated at Neufchatel, in 1798, by the celebrated Fauche Borel, employed in many delicate negoti- ations by the emigrants, and he made a large sum by the piracy. The “Cuislnier Royal,” published byBarba, is also a good work. It is of a more ostentatious character than the “ Cuisiniere Bourgeoise,” but the receipts are very numerous and varied, and there are no learned disquisitions on the art, which many would consider an advantage. I have now gone through the chief culinary works of France, and it remains for me to speak of English cookery and cookery books. And first of the former. The traditions of English cookery are faint, few, and far between. In the earlier comedies there are few allusions to the art, and even in Shakespeare himself. D34 Ancient and Mediaeval Cookery. though we find mention of barley-broth, of calf’s head and capon, of collops, cod’s head, soused gurnet, and salmon tail, of roasted pig and rashers, of beef and mustard, and " thick Tewkesbury mustard,” of hot venison pasty and hodge pudding, and lastly (in ridicule of foreign cookery), of “ adders’ heads and toads carbonadoed; ” yet still from these names no other inference can be drawn than that such dishes were in vogue. From the reign of Elizabeth to the Revolution, the style of cookery was undoubtedly heavy and substantial. Chines of beef and pork smoked on the early dinner tables, and the remains were eaten cold, and washed down with foaming tankards of ale on the following morning. The age of Anne was distinguished by an extraor- dinary burst of intellectual vigour and great progress in the culinary art. Though the comedies of Con- greve, Wycherly, and Vanbrugh, are fair specimens of the society of that day, still they throw little light on the social habits of the people. From the manner in which Lady Wishfort drinks, in the “ Way of the World,” and the exhibition of Sir Wilful Witwold’s drunkenness, in the same piece, one would infer that immoderate inebriety was the characteristic of the time. Valentine, in “ Love for Love,” calls for a bottle of sack and a toast; and Careless, in " The Double Dealer,” exclaims “ I’m weary of guzzling.” The pages of Pope throw an important light on the cookeiy of his time. His imitation of the second satireAncient and Mediaeval Cookery. 35 of the second book of Horace has a value which cannot always be affixed to his more important pieces. A light is not only thrown on the personal habits of the man, but on the social characteristics of the epoch. “ Preach as I please, I doubt our curious men Will choose a pheasant still before a hen; Yet hens of Guinea full as good I hold, Except you eat the feathers green and gold. Of carps and mullets why prefer the great. Though cut in pieces as my lord can eat; Yet for small turbots such esteem profess. Because God made these large, the other less. Oldfield, with more than harpy throat endued, Cries, send me, gods! a whole hog barbecued!” The hog barbacued is a West India term of glut- tony. It was a hog roasted whole, stuffed with spice and basted with Madeira wine. Allusion is made to this dish in Foote’s “ Patron,” where Sir Peter Pep- perpot says, “ I am invited to dinner on a barbacue, and the villains have forgot my bottle of cbian.” It is plain from every line of these imitations of Pope, that the science of cookery had made great strides in the reign of Anne, nor is this to be wondered at. “ La Reine Anne,” says a Freneh author, “ ^tait tres gourmande; elle ne dedaignait pas de s’entretenir avec son cuisinier, et les dispensaires Anglais contien- nent beaucoup de preparations designees a la mani^re de la Reine Anne.” The following glimpse at the table of the poet himself has an attractive interest:36 Ancient and Mediceval Cookery. “ Content with little I can piddle here On brocoli and mutton round the year; But ancient friends, tho’ poor, or out of play, That touch my bell, I cannot turn away. ’Tis true, no turbots dignify my boards, But gudgeons, flounders, what my Thames affords: To Hounslow Heath I point, and Bansted-Down, Thence comes your mutton, and these chicks my own. From yon old walnut-tree a shower shall fall; And grapes, long lingering on my only wall; And figs from standard and espalier join ; The devil is in you if you cannot dine.” The bill of fare at this time often consisted in the month of April of the following: green geese, or veal and bacon—haunch of venison roasted—a lumber pie—rabbits and tarts. Second course : cold lamb— cold neat’s-tongue pie—salmon, lobsters, and prawns —asparagus. But in other months the following dishes were given—brawn and mustard, hashed shoulder of mut- ton, broiled geese, minced pies, a loin of veal, marrow pie, venison pasty, a lambstone pie, Westphalia bacon, a Westphalia ham, artichoke pie, neat’s-tongue, and udder roasted, a roast turkey stuck with cloves, and for a second course, Bologna sausages, anchovies, mushrooms, caviare, and pickled oysters, in a dish together. And now a word as to English cookery books. The “ Queen’s Closet Opened,” published in 1662, is the first English cookery book I have been able37 Ancient and Medioeval Cookery. to meet with, for the “ Treasure of Plidden Secrets, or Good Huswife’s Closet,” published in 1600, is but a congeries of receipts for perfumes, essences, and candies. Some of the dishes in the “ Queen’s Closet,” maintain their popularity to the present day,—as, for instance, chicken and pigeon pie, boiled rump of beef, and potted venison; but others have wholly passed away,—as, for example, a baked red deer, a capon larded with lemons, a steak pie with a French pudding in it, a fricase (we retain the spelling) of campigneons, a salet of smelts, flounders, or plaice, with garlick and mustard, an olive pie, and dressed snails. The “ Gentleman’s Companion,” published in 1673, is the earliest work of the kind met with after the “ Queen’s Closet,” for “ May’s Cookery,” “ The Ladies’ Companion,” or even “ Mrs. Glasse,” w'ritten by Dr. Hill, and which has become exceedingly scarce, I do not possess. To what a civilized and social state our gentlewomen had attained 171 years ago, will he apparent from the following extract from Mrs. W oolley. Some choice observations for a gentlewoman’s be- haviour at table. “ Gentlewoman, the first thing you are to observe, is to keep your body straight in the chair, and do not lean your elbows on the table. Discover not by any ravenous gesture your angry ap- petite, nor fix your eyes too greedily on the meat be- fore you, as if you would devour more that way than38 Ancient and Medieval Coolicry. your throat can swallow. In carving at your own table, distribute the best pieces first, and it will ap- pear very comely and decent to use a fork, if so, touch no piece of meat without it. “ I have been Invited to dinner, where I have seen the good gentlewoman of the house sweat more in cutting up a fowl, than the cookmaid in roasting it, and when she had soundly beliquored her joints, hath smelt her knuckles, and to work with them again in the dish; at the sight whereof my belly hath been three-quarters full, before I had swallowed one bit!”—Page 65. “ Do not eat spoon-meat so hot, that the tears stand in your eyes, or that thereby you betray your intolerable greediness. Do not bite your bread, but cut or break it, and keep not your knife always in your hand, for that is as unseemly as a gentlewoman who pretended to have as little a stomach as she had a mouth, and therefore would not swallow her peas in spoonfuls, but took them one by one, and cut them in two before she would eat them. “ Fill not your mouth so full that your cheeks shall swell like a pair of Scotch bag-pipes.”—Page 71. Many remarks are made by our countrymen and women about the filth of the French, but English- men should read the following, w^ritten about a cen- tury and a half ago, for the guidance of their own countrywomen. “ It is uncivil to rub your teeth in company, or toAncient and Mediaeval Cookery. 39 pick them at or after meals, with your knife or otherwise, for it is a thing both indecent and dis- tasteful.”—Page 72. The following is the advice “ to the female younger sort.” “ You will show yourself too saucy by calling for sauce or any dainty thing. Avoid smacking in your eating. Forbear putting both hands to your mouth at once; nor gnaw your meat, but cut it handsomely, and eat sparingly. Let your nose and hands be al- ways kept clean. When you have dined or supped, rise from the table, and carry your trencher or plate with you, doing your obeisance to the company.” —Pp. 19, 20. Some insight into the cookery of 1754, maybe ob- tained from the pages of the “ Connoisseur.” The fools of quality of that day “ drove to the Star and Garter to regale on macaroni, or piddle with an or- tolan at White’s or Pontac’s.” At Dolly’s and Hors- man’s beef steaks were eaten with gill ale; and be- hind the Change, a man worth a plum used to order a twopenny mess of broth with a boiled chop in it; placing the chop between the two crusts of a half- penny roll, he would wrap it up in his check hand- kerchief, and carry it away for the morrow’s dinner. The “ Art of Cookery,” by a Lady, was published by Miller, Tonson, and Strahan, in 1765. There are many good receipts in the work, and it is written in a plain style. The author sensibly says in her pre-40 Ancient and Medieval Coohery. face, “ The great cooks have such a high way of ex- pressing themselves, that the poor girls are at a loss to know what they mean.” This book has one great fault, it is disfigured by a strong anti-Gallican pre- judice. An attempt was made by Longman and Co. to start a sort of “ English Almanach des Gourmands,” in 1815, but it was a complete failure. It was called the “ Epicure’s Almanack.” Only one number was published. The “ Cook and Confectioner’s Dictionary,” which appeared in 1747, contains a vast deal of curious west country and Cornish cookery. It is a rare book, and was obligingly lent to me by Mr. Cyrus Redding, who deserves the gratitude of all for his intrepid and successful attempts to introduce a pure sherry at the English tables. Mrs. Dalgairns’ is one of the best of cookery books for persons in the upper class of life not overburdened with wealth. It ought to be an invaluable book to the middle classes. Sir Walter Scott contributed largely to this work. The only fault with which the worthy old lady may be reproached is, that she is somewhat over national and exhibits too palpable an addiction to Scotch dishes. This is a prevailing pec- cadillo—if not the heinous fault of all Piets, old or young, male or female. “ Scott’s Dictionary of Cookery,” is a pretentious failure, published in 1828 by Colburn. The authorAncient and 3Iediceval Cookery. 41 was a Scotch doctor, practising at some small conti- nental town. The work seems to have been got up with the view of rivalling Mrs. Rundell’s publication. The “ Cook’s Oracle,” by Dr. Kitchener, was first published in 1817. It had great success, but never did a book less deserve renown. Totally destitute of ar- rangement and originality, it is an odd confused olla j9orfr/c?aofreceipts,observations,maxims, and remarks, drawn from all sources, ancient and modern, foreign as well as domestic. It is written in a vain-glorious, assuming style, and filled with gasconading vulgarisms and obsolete pedantry. The attempts at wit are lu- dicrously heavy and unsuccessful. It is a reproach to the national taste to have patronized a book of no theo- retical, and of little practical worth. The greater part of these observations also apply to that exceedingly indigested posthumous book of scraps and patches, called the “ Housekeeper’s Oracle,” pub- lished in 1829. The “French Cook,” by Ude, “ officier de la bouche,” first to the Earl of Sefton, and afterwards to Crockford’s Club, has gone through many editions. It contains a disquisition on the rise and progress of cookery, which is not without merit; but the greater portion of it is taken from the “ Cuisinier des Cuisi- niers.” The partiality of our countrymen for melted butter in a variety of shapes is happily hit off, and is about as reasonable, in point of taste, as the antipathy of that choleric Frenchman, who exclaimed, “ Je de-42 Ancient and Mediaeval Cookery. teste ces vilains Anglais, parcequ’ils versent du beurre fondu sur leur veau roti.” The work of Ude is intended for the higher ranks, and for people of fortune. The book and the cook have been a little overrated. It is neither French nor English—neither fish, flesh, nor good red herring. The late Lord Sefton, who was too much of a mere glutton, would have perverted the taste of any cook, however good, who had been long in his service. There is not a more amusing and racy volume than the “ Original,” by Mr. Walker, formerly of Trinity College, Cambridge, and afterwards a police magis- trate. Although several extracts have been already made from the book in the “ Quarterly Review,” the following may be reproduced with advantage:— “ To order dinner is a matter of invention and combination. It involves novelty, simplicity, and taste; whereas, in the generality of dinners, there is no character but that of dub. routine, according to the season. “ Any body can dine, but very few know how to dine, so as to ensure the greatest quantity of health and enjoyment—indeed, many people contrive to de- stroy their health; and as to enjoyment, I shudder when I think how often I have been doomed to only a solemn mockery of it, how often I have sat in du- rance stately, to go through the ceremony of a dinner, the essence of which is to be without ceremony, and how often in this land of liberty have I felt myself a slave.Ancient and Medieval Coohery. 43 “ There are three kinds of dinners—solitary din- ners, every day social dinners, aOd set dinners. All tliese involving the consideration of cheer, and the last two of society also. Solitary dinners, I think, ought to be avoided as much as possible, because soli- tude tends to produce thought, and thought tends to the suspension of the digestive powers. When, how- ever, dining alone is necessary, the mind should be disposed to cheerfulness by a previous Interval of re- laxation. As contentment ought to be an accom- paniment to every meal, punctuality Is essential, and the diner and the dinner ought to be ready at the same time. A chief maxim in dining with comfort, is to have whatever you want when you want it. It is ruinous to have to wait just for one thing, and then another, and to have the little additions brought, when what they belong to is half or entirely finished. To avoid this, a little oversight is good, and, by way of instance. It is sound practical philosophy to have mustard upon the table before the arrival of toasted cheese. This very omission has caused as many small vexations in the world as would, by this time, make a mountain of misery. Indeed, I recommend an ha- bitual consideration of what adjuncts will be required to the main matters; and I think an attention to this, on the part of females, might often be preventive of sour looks and cross words, and their anti-conjugal consequences. There is not only the usual adjuncts, but to those who have anything like genius for din-44 Ancient and Medieval Cookery. ners, little additions will sometimes suggest them- selves, which give a sort of poetry to a repast, and please the palate to the promotion of health. “ The present system of dinner giving I consider thoroughly tainted with barbarism and vulgarity, and far removed from real and refined enjoyment. As tables are now arranged, one is never at peace from an arm continually setting on or taking off a side dish, or reaching over to a wine cooler in the centre; then comes the more laborious changing of courses, with the leanings right and left, to admit a host of dishes, that are set on only to be taken off again, after being declined in succession by each of the guests, to whom they are handed round; yet this is fashion, and not to be departed from. With respect to wine, it is often offered when not wanted, and when wanted, is perhaps not to be had till long waited for. It is dreary to observe two persons, glass in hand, waiting the butler’s leisure to be able to take wine together, and then, perchance, being helped in despair to what they did not ask for; and it is still more dreary to be one of the two yourself. How different when you can put your hand upon a decanter the moment you want it! I have been speaking hitherto of attendance in its most perfect state; but then comes the greater inconvenience, and the monstrous absurdity, of the same forms with inadequate esta- blishments. Those who are overwhelmed with an establishment, are, as it were, obliged in self-defenceAncient and Mediaeval Cookery. 45 to devise work for their attendants, whilst those who have no such reason ape an example which, under tlie most apjjropriate circumstances, is a state of re- straint and discomfort, but which, when followed merely for fashion’s sake, becomes absolutely into- lerable. I remember once receiving a severe frown from a lady at the head of her table, next to whom I was sitting, because I offered to take some fish from her, to which she had helped me, instead of waiting till it could be handed me by her one servant; and she was not deficient either in good breeding or sense. It is one of the evils of the present day, that every body strives after the same dull style, so that, when comfort might be expected, it is often least to be found. State, without the machinery of state, is of all states the worst. In conclusion of this part of my subject, I will observe that I think the affluent would render themselves and their country an essential ser- vice, if they were to fall into the simple, refined style of living, discarding everything incompatible with real enjoyment, and I believe that, if the history of overgrown luxury were traced, it has always had its origin from the vulgar—rich—the very last class worthy of imitation.” The 243rd Thousand of “ Domestic Cookery, by a . Lady,’ has been published in the present year. This is perhaps the most popular and practical work of the kind which has ever appeared in England, but it is exclusively a middle-class book, and intended for the46 Ancient and Mediceval Cookery. rich bourgeoisie. The compiler, Mrs, Rundell, had spent the early part of her life in India, and the work is enriched with many receipts of Indian cookery. It is on the whole a succinct and judicious compilation, but though well worth its price, it is yet far from being a perfect production. For many years, if re- port speaks truly, it has produced 1000/. a year to the publisher, and he is said to have very liberally presented the authoress with a present of 2000/. I have not hitherto spoken of the “ Cookery Book of Careme,” nor did I notice it among the French works on cookery, for two reasons: first, because Ca- reme had been cook to George IV.; to the Marquis of Wellesley, and to the Marquis of Londonderry ; and had spent a considerable portion of his life in England, or in the service of Englishmen; and, secondly, because the book has been translated by Mr. Hall, “ cook to T. P. Williams, Esq., of Temple House, near Marlow, and conductor of the parliamentary dinners of Lord Canterbury.” The translation is very clumsily and sometimes incorrectly executed, but as the translator is himself a cook and a conductor of dinners! (the office seems to us new and original) it will be more convenient to take his version of the original. ^Ir. Hall has at least one requisite for his task, namely, admiration of his author. “ I conceive (says he in his preface) I am la3ung before my readers the pro- ductions of a man whose abilities transcended the generality of writers in the art, whose imaginationAncient and Mediaeval Cookery. 47 greatly enlarged the variety of entrees and entremHs previously practised, and whose clear and perspicuous details render them facile not only to the artist who has already an advance in his profession, but also to those whose knowledge of the higher code of the kitchen has been necessarily limited.” The following are Car^me’s notions on large dishes of fish, not ren- dered certainly into very pure and undefiled English by Mr. Hall. The sense and substance of the author are however preserved: “ OF LARGE DISHES OF FISH. “ I had remarked,” says M. Car^me, “at the grand dinners of Prince Talleyrand, that the larger pieces of cookery of the first course never corresponded with the elegance of the bronzes, the glass, and the plate. Delivering myself up entirely to cookery, I promised myself that I would reform an infinity of old usages, though practised as they were by the greatest masters of the art. When I became chief of the kitchen of the Emperor Alexander, I commenced this great re- form. In the years 1816 and 18171 was in England with the Prince Kegent, and I was there gratified, for this truly royal table was always served in the French manner, and the service of silver was so su- perb and elegant that I was struck with wonder. It appeared then, that it would advance my reputation to commence the reform that I had proposed. What could be more ridiculous and absurd than, for in-48 Ancient and Medimval Cookery. stance, to see served pike or carp a, la Chambord, the garniture of which were composed of larded sweet- breads, young pigeons, cocks’ combs, and kidneys? But such was, however, the practice of men highest in reputation. When at Vienna with Lord Stewart (now Mar- quis of Londonderry), his Britannic Majesty’s ambas- sador at the court of Austria, I for the first time served the carp a la Chambord, surrounded with my new gar- nitures of fish: this large piece was noticed, and the nobility of Vienna, as well as my illustrious employer, approved this novelty; for it is certain that in the Austrian capital, until then, the French cooks in re- putation there had preserved the ancient customs of Paris. I think that a cook can never make too many pecuniary sacrifices to accelerate the progress of his art. I each day feel a grateful satisfaction in my work, from the flatterins: encourascements I receive from the noble personages I serve, but to accomplish it I have not only made great sacrifices in money, but every day have meditated on some new thing: this work will afford proofs of it.” The following is Careme’s idea of our English turtle soup, which we will reproduce in speaking of soups:— “TURTLE SOUP. “ This soup is, without contradiction, the most lengthened in its details of any that are known; the composition of its seasoning claims an able hand and49 Ancient and Medieval Cookery. a strong memory. The palate of the cook who ex- ecutes it should be very fine; none of the ingre- dients should predominate, not even the cayenne or allspice, which the English cooks inconsiderately employ.” How well expressed is this I What parliamentary language I An able hand and a strong memory; and then the “inconsiderate” use of spices is as deli- cately and dexterously hinted as though Car^me had taken practical lessons of the late Sir Robert Peel, or studied Hamilton’s Parliamentary Logic. Notwithstanding the dictum of the author of the “Manuel des Amphitryons,” that “ Un grand cui- sinier ne doit point se livrer a la patisserie, dans laquelle il ne pourroit jamais etre que mediocre,” it is in pastry and such small trifles that Careme chiefly shines. His work is unsuited to the mass of even the higher classes in this or any other country, and its use must be limited to persons of colossal fortune, who have thousands a year to expend in magnificent entertainments. The sale of such a work must, under any circumstances, be extremely limited, even though the price did not amount to the extra- vagant sum of twenty-one shillings. Having now gone through the principal cookery books of England and France, I may be indulged in a few’ remarks on the cuisine of both countries. The cookery of England is, with the greater part of the nation, an object, not of luxurious desire or E50 Ancient and Mediaeval Cookery. morning meditation, but of plain necessity and solid and substantial comfort. “ Due nourishment we seek, not gluttonous delight,” to use the words of Milton. Men dine to satisfy hunger in England, and to sustain and strengthen themselves for those avocations, professional, parlia- mentary, and commercial, into which they throw more eager energy, more properly-directed vigour, force, and intensity than any other nation under the sun, not even excepting the Americans, It may be a humiliating confession, but in England no learned treatises have been written on the art of dinins or dinner giving. MTe are wholly without “medita- tious” or “ contemplations gastronomiques;” we do not spend thousands of pounds in the gingerbread gilding of cafes and restaurants ; nor have we “ ma- gasins de comestibles,” in the style of Chevet and Corcellet. Our inventive powers are not tiirned in the direction of luxury, nor do we make our bill of fare our calendar, nor measure the seasons by their dainty productions. We talk little of dining or dishes, however much the most luxurious and sen- sual among us may think about it. We can knead and bake, and roast and boil, and stew plain food as well, perhaps better, than our livelier neighbours; but we are not so expert in petits plats, in entrees, entremets, and ragouts, and are therefore justly obnoxious to the pert remark of Voltaire, thatAncient and Mediaeval Cookery. 51 though we have twenty-four religions, we have but one sauce. We can compare, combine and search out causes in morals, science, and legislation, but we have siven no heed to the canons or combinations of cookery. We have given birth to a Bacon, a Locke, a Shakespeare, a Milton, a Watt; but we are without a Vatel, a Bechamel, a Laguipierre, a Beauvilliers, or a Careme. We have perfected railroads, steam- boats, and canals, but we cannot make a supreme de volaille in perfection, nor arrange des petits clioux en profiteroles. We have produced the best quadrants, the best sextants, the best achromatic telescopes, and the best chronometers; but the truflBes we grow in Derbyshire and Hampshire are pale and flavourless, and we cannot make larks au gratin. We have built the best steam-ships, the best steam-carriages, the best vehicles of every description for draught, business, pleasure, and amusement; but we cannot fatten frogs with the science of a Simon, and we do not render our mutton tender by electricity. We have beaten the nations of the earth in fabrics of linen, woollen, and cotton; but we are ignorant of epigrams of lamb, and know nothing of salpicons a la Vene- tienne. We have invented the safety-lamp, the stocking-frame, and the spinning-jenny; but we hopelessly try our hands at filets de lapereaux en turban, and ignominiously fail in salmis of partridge a la bonrguinote. We have excelled in everything requiring a union of enterprise, energy, persever-52 Ancient and Mediaeval Cookery. ance, and wealth; but we have no pates de foies- gras of home invention, and no terrines de Nerac. We have discovered and planted colonies which will perpetuate our name, our language, our literature, and our free institutions, to the last syllable of recorded time; but we cannot make velout'es of vegetables, nor haricots blancs a la maitre dhotel. We have given liberty to the slave, and preached the pure word of the gospel to the nations subjected to our dominion and sway; but we still eat butter badly melted with our roast veal, and we have not invented three hundred and sixty-four ways to dress eggs. Our schoolmaster has indeed been “ long abroad;” but though he has so far yielded to innovation and reform as to cast off the cauliflower wig of the time of the great Busby, yet he will not hear of chouf- leurs au gratin or au jus, but will still eat his escu- lent boiled hard in plain water. But a truce with comparisons, which are somewhat odious. Mankind undoubtedly owe to our neighbours many ingenious culinary processes by which the productions of nature are artfully and pleasantly disguised—many delicate combinations of sauces by which the palate is alter- nately stimulated and palled; but though we are indebted to the French for these nick-nackeries— though we owe to them hats and hair-powder, bon- bons and busks, caps and crinolines, stays and swad- dling-clothes, sabots, wigs, and waistcoats, filigrams and foulardes, gold thread, gloves, and the guillo-Ancient and Mediceval Cookery. 53 tine—yet the world Is but little their debtor in any invention which does not turn on vanity, epicurism, or sensuality. They are a people who, according to their own historian, De Thou, discovered how to make tapestry before they had learned how to make broad cloth. The metropolis of England exceeds that of France in extent and population; it commands a greater supply of all articles of consumption, and contains a greater number and variety of markets, which are better supplied. There are also some articles of meat and some articles of cookery in which England exceeds France. Though we are also undoubtedly inferior to the Gauls in the articles of veal and fowl, yet we greatly surpass them in mutton, produce better beef, lamb, and pork, and are immeasurably superior both in the quantity and quality of our fish, our venison, and our game. This was admitted by St. Evremond nearly two hundred years ago in some stanzas, entitled “ Les Avantages de I’Angleterre,” wherein he says— “ Roche-guyon, Bene, verfine, Ne vantez plus votre lapin ; Windsor en fournit la cuisine D’un fumet encore plus fin.” In the same poem he alludes to the profuse supply of woodcocks, snipe, pheasant, and larks, and to the fine flavour and colour of the Bath mutton. It is in54 Ancient and Mediceval Cookery. fish, however, that we have been always most pre- eminent. The turbot brought to Billingsgate in large quan- tities from the sand-banks, on the coast of Holland and St. George’s Channel, sufficiently attest our energy and enterprise. The coast of Holland, and the sea beyond our western coast, are as open to the French as to the British, yet when has any Paris market disclosed such a supply of fish as may be seen daily at Billingsgate, even after the hundreds of thou- sands of retail fishmongers have been supplied. In a few soups, such as turtle, which we possess in the greatest perfection, owing to our colonial trade, and ox tail, mock turtle, glblet, hare, pea, and mutton broth, we also surpass the French—but in the making of the latter admirable broth for invalids, there is still much to desire at coffee-houses and clubs. There is scarcely known a public establishment where it may be eaten in perfection, excepting at Brooke’s in St. James’s-street. It were most desirable that we should learn how to make a French bouillon or a lait de poule, for here indeed we are ignorant and at fault. In the boiling of all plain fish we surpass our neighbours. There is nothing in Paris equal to a first-rate English turbot,cod-fish, haddock, john-dorey, or Southampton water or Severn salmon, but the sauces used for these fishes in France are infinitely preferable. It is a remark of the late Lady Holland, that no fish should be eaten with another, and, there-Ancient and Mediaeval Cookery. 55 fore, lobster sauce was excluded from her table. Dutch sauce is unquestionably more favourable to the flavour of all boiled fish. The French certainly beat us in sturgeon cutlets, Jilets de sole, and bechamels of fish. The oysters of Cancale, of Etretat, of Ostend, and Marenne, are equal, if not superior, to the generality of English oysters, because they are less artificially fed, and have not their flavour washed away. But if the London tradesmen would spare their oatmeal and fresh water, the Milton native oyster would be found snperior to its Gallic brother. In other shell-fish, also, we have a decided superiority. The corpulent, respectable, full-fed crab is almost unknown to the Gauls, and they have but a small quantity of lobsters and prawns, but they cultivate the smaller cray-fish in great quantities—a fish which is not common in England. Nor is there anything in French cookery equal to our barons of beef, our noble sirloins, our exquisite haunches, and saddles, and legs, and loins of Southdown mutton; our noble rounds of boiled beef, and those prime five guinea haunches of venison, which one sees from June till September, at the esta- blishments of the Messrs. Grove, at Charing Cross and Bond Street. In cutlets of all kinds, \n fricassees, in ragouts, in salmis, quenelles, -purees, Jilets, and more especially in the dressing of vegetables, our neigh- bours surpass us; but we roast our game more per- fectly, and can hash mutton and venison better than56 Ancient and MedicEval Cookery. any one of the myriads of French cooks. In bread, cream, butter, eggs, whether with reference to size or freshness, England is not to compare with France; and a French/jowZarde of La Bresse or du Mans is worth all the Dorking fowl hatched since the time of the deluge. Though, therefore, the French cuisine be more luxurious, more varied, more palatable, more fair and dainty to look on than our ruder, more simple, more frugal, and less luxurious kitchen, yet our aliments (with the single exception of our vege- tables) are infinitely more nutritious, and to English stomachs, at least, just as easy of digestion—perhaps, indeed, easier than the more refined and recherche fare of our livelier neighbours. It w'ere undoubtedly desirable that we should learn a little from them in the way of white and brown sauces in veloutes, in the dressing of vegetables, in the making that simple, excellent thing, an omelette, in cooking beef-steaks, veal cutlets, and mutton chops, in seasoning and flavouring with ham instead of with salt; and in a more profuse use of eggs, oil, and butter. The great objection to the more general employment of these good things hitherto has been the expense, but now that the extended operation of the tariff has rendered all kinds of provisions cheaper, a great improvement in the kitchen even of the middle classes should be expected. Within the last thirty years great im- provements have been introduced into the domestic cookery of the highest nobility, and within the lastAncient and Mediaeval Cooikery. 57 twenty years, owing to frequent intercommunica- tion, such has been the rapid progress that one may fancy oneself dining in the Rue de Bourbon, the Rue de Grenelle, or the Rue St. Florentin, in- stead of in Grosvenor or Belgrave-square or Park Lane; but still while anything is imperfect, some- thing remains to be done, and with the continuation of peace, we may look forward with hopefulness, not alone to a more extended commerce, but to an im- proved cookery. No one desires to see Englishmen gluttons, gourmands, or refined sensualists, but only to see them adopt some few culinary improvements which would contribute to their material comfort, to their physical health, and to their mental enjoyment “ Comer a gusto y vestir al uso,” is philosophy in England as well as in Spain. Dr. Johnson declared that the subject on which a man most frequently and most earnestly thought was his dinner, and the great leviathan spoke truly in so far as he was personally concerned. “ I could,” says he, “ write a better book of cookery than has ever yet been written; it should be a book on philosophical principles; I would tell what is the best butcher’s meat, the proper seasons of different vegetables, and then how to roast and boll and to compound.” Would that the doctor had lived to complete the task. The work would have been as useful as po- pular, and as well executed as the dictionary; and there can scarcely be a doubt that it would be com-58 Ancient and Mediaival Cooliery. prehenslve and cosmopolitan in its character, and lucid and well-arranged in its details. Such a work yet remains to be written, and the only wonder is, that it has not been long since attempted and accom- plished. When it is considered that no body of men in this our country, from a parish vestry to th^ Im- perial Parliament, can meet on any public occasion without dining together—that the Whigs dine with Lord John Russell, the Conservatives with Lord Derby, and the Radicals with any leader of theirs, if any such there be, with a good house and cellar and a good cook—it must be considered that the art of dining (“ Part de la gueule,” as Montaigne says) is one of the most important bases of representative government, and it should not be without its pro- fessors, historians, and exponents. The subject is nevertheless of a neutral character, and I have endea- voured to show the respective merits of French and English cookery. Substantial solidity and simplicity are the distinctive marks of the one; variety, delicacy, and harmonious combination is the character of the other. Both are excellent in their way, but a fusion of the two kitchens, rejecting what is coarse and barbarous in the English, and too gross, Gascon, and Proven9al in the French, would be the perfec- tion of good living. Though personally no admirer of French manners or French morals—though I put no faith in French equality, abhor French centra- lization, loathe from the very bottom of my heartAncient and Mediceval Cookery. 59 French tyranny, and think French military glory— which is but a velvety euphemism for French brigand- age and French invasion—should be put down by the comity of nations, and the strong will and strong arm of all mankind—yet I am of opinion that there is much in the French kitchen which might be advantageously transplanted and successfully imitated in this coun- try. But as nations cling with constancy to their old culinary customs, and as systems of cookery often survive systems of polity, I am not very hopeful as to any immediate change. Anew cookery book, ho w ever, pointing out the respective merits of the French and English culinary art, is a work greatly and urgently wanted. The Peel Tariff, or free trade, will never have a fair trial till such a publication sees the light.CHAPTER II. MODEKN COOKEHT AND COOKERY BOOKS. AM, in the matters of the kitchen, as will be learned from the previous chapter, no admirer of the wisdom of our ances- tors. Cookery is eminently an experi- mental and a practical art. Each day, while it adds to our experience, should also increase our know- ledge. And now that intercommunication between distant nations has become facile and frequent; now that we may make an early breakfast in London and a late dinner in Paris, it cannot be permitted that cookery should remain stationary. Far am I from saying that a dinner should be a subject of morning or mid-day meditation or of luxurious desire; but in the present advanced state of civilization, and of medical and chemical knowledge, something more than kneading, baking, stewing, and boiling are necessary in any nation pretending to civilization. The metropolis of England exceeds Paris in extent and population; it commands a greater supply of ONModern Cookery and Cookery Books. 61 all articles of consumption, and contains a greater number and variety of markets, which are better supplied. We greatly surpass the French in mut- ton, we produce better beef, lamb, and pork, and are immeasurably superior both in the quantity and quality of our fish, our venison, and our game, yet we cannot compare, as a nation, with the higher, the middle, or the lower classes in France, in the science of preparing our daily food. The only articles of food in the quality of which the French surpass us are veal and fowl, but such is the skill and science of their cooks that with worse mutton, worse beef, and worse lamb than ours, they produce better chops, cutlets, steaks, and better made dishes of every na- ture and kind whatsoever. In fricassees, ragouts, salmis, quenelles, purees, filets, and more especially in the dressing of vegetables, our neighbours surpass us. No good reason can be alleged why we should not imitate them in a matter in which they are per- fect, or why their more luxurious, more varied, more palatable, and more dainty cookery, should not be introduced more generally among the higher and middle classes. The object of sensible people should be to adopt all that is good in the cookery of both nations. While English soups, such as ox tail, mock turtle, giblet, hare, pea soup, and mutton broth have their merits, the French potages a la reine, a la Conde, a la Julienne, and the various purees should not be for-62 Modern Cookery and Cookery Books. gotten. While, also, the practical cook may find copious receipts in English cookery books for the boiling of turbot, cod-fish, john-dorey, and salmon, in the English and Dutch fashion, the sturgeon cut- lets of the French, and their Jilets and bechamels of fish should be also introduced to English favour and attention from French cookery books. Our barons of beef, our noble sirloins, our exquisite haunches, sad- dles, legs, and loins of Southdown mutton, our noble rounds of boiled beef, and those haunches of British venison, the envy and admiration of the world, are worthy of the highest praise. But, on the other hand, the gigot d Vail aux haricots blancs ought to be made moi:e favourably known to the Englishman, as well as the Jilet de bceuf, an excellent every-day dish in the good city of Paris. In any new cookery book, while no English receipt of approved excellence should be cancelled, yet there should also be given within a reasonable compass a short system of French, and a compendium of foreign, cookery. It is desirable that we should learn much from our neighbours, as I have said in a former chapter, in Avhite and brown sauces, in veloutes, in the dressing of vegetables, in the seasoning and flavouring with ham instead of with salt, and in a more profuse use of eggs, oil, and butter. A new cookery book, pointing out the distinctive merits of the French and English kitchens, is a work urgently needed. In such a manual of the art the readers should be presented with all that is bestModern Cookery and Cookery Books. 63 in the substantial solidity and simplicity of the En- glish kitchen, and all that is most varied, delicate, and harmoniously combined in the kitchen of the French. Both are excellent in their way, and there are already many separate treatises on each; but a fusion or combination of the two systems ought now to be attempted. If any professed cook or amateur succeeds in causing an abandonment of all that is coarse and unwholesome in the English kitchen, and in introducing all that is light, elegant, and varied in the French, he will have accomplished a great object, and have done the health of dinei’s-out and dinner-givers equal service. It is the greatest mistake, in a medical point of view, to suppose, that an unvaried uniformity of food contributes either to health or to comfort. Variety is as necessary to the stomach as change of scene, or change of study to the mind, and that variety should be placed in our day within the reach of as many as possible. As there is scarcely an English family among the higher or middle classes who does not number among its members a retired military or civil servant of the East India Company, or a retired naval officer or Indian merchant, it would be advisable to introduce a chapter in any coming cookery book on Anglo- Indian cookery. Mulligatawney soup, and curries, and pillaus, are exceedingly wholesome. Neither the Spanish, the Portuguese, the Russian, nor the Polish cookery are deserving of general com-64 Modern Cookery and Cookery Books. mendation; but a few national dishes and soups, which have obtained a more general reputation, are worthy of attention and adoption. Cookery is, above all others, a traditional and prac- tical art, and unless receipts have stood the test of time and experience, and general approval, they are little worth. Cookery books are, for the most part, copies of each other; and the first cookery book is only the most original, because we cannot trace the plagiarism beyond the period when printing was invented. But there is little doubt, that in the rolls of great houses, and in the muniment rooms of col- leges, halls, and religious establishments, would be found in vellum manuscript every receipt published in the first English cookery book. And the pla- giarism may be tracked, as a wounded man by his blood, from 1470 to 1863. The compilers of aU cookery books have, more or less, copied the earlier compilers who preceded; and so it must ever be, till we are foolish enough to reject all experience, and trust to theory or conjecture. The compilers of any new cookery book should lay no claim to originality. They should avail them- selves, though never servilely, of the labours of nearly all their predecessors, and by collation, comparison, addition, retrenchment, and the exercise of their own skill, experience, and discoveries, endeavour to im- prove on works already in print. A mono- the French masters in the science of OModern Cookery and Cookery Books. 65 cookery are, Vatel, La Chapelle, Grimod de la Rey- ni^re, Beauvilliers, Ude, Laguipierre, Car^me, and Plumeret; but receipts of more general utility for the public at large will be found in the “ Cuisinier Royal ” and the Cuisiniere Bourgeoise.” Many of the receipts of Careme require alterations and additions, but some may be adopted in their en- tirety. Of Careme’s cookery, however, the distinguish- ing characteristic is profuse expenditure. In order to render such a system not merely easy of adoption, but possible, men cooks, splendid establishments, and colossal fortunes must become much more universal than they ever have been or ever can be. The object of all should now be not to render the introduction of French cookery difficult and expen- sive, but easy, and within the reach of persons of mo- derate fortune. The present age is distinguished as an age of rapid progress, and the improvements suggested now may, in this day of easy and inexpensive communication with the Continent, become permanently rooted to the British soil before 1869. pCHAPTER III. ON DINNERS AND DINNEE-GIVING. is unquestionably the most inl- and substantial meal of the two, r foui’, in which civilized man s, and it is a meal which any healthful and laborious person (whether his labour be of mind or body) enjoys zestfully, Man is distin- o-nished from the beasts of the field in being a con- versing and a dining animal. Jules Janin says some- where, with more of truth and less of exaggeration than he usually employs, that beasts feed, but man dines; that lower animals hunger, but man some- thing more than hungers, for he, has a discriminating appetite. Dinner is an important consideration to those who study health, temper, and the best method of getting tlu’ough business. Our great moralist, Johnson, would never have accomplished a tithe of what he has done for his generation and posterity, had he not sensibly given much more attention to what INNER portant three, o indulgeDuine.rs and Dinner-giving. 67 suited his palate and his appetite than the great mass of mankind. The Doctor laughed at those who affected not to care for dinner, and asserted that from having long thought on the subject, he could write a better cookery book than had ever appeared in his day, because it would be written on philosophical principles. The late Sydney Smith, too, one of the ablest and wittiest men of our own generation, laid great stress on the importance of dinner to the pro- per performance of our most serious duties and func- tions ; and there can be no doubt that the Canon of St. Paul’s had reason on his side. Every sensible and thoughtful man is, in trnth, aware how much better he is able to speak, or to write, or take his part in conversation and debate after a satisfactory meal, which pleased his palate, and suited and satis- fied his appetite, than, after a cold, a comfortless, or an unrelished dinner. The result can be explained on purely medical and physiological grounds, and need not be further laboui'ed in a work of this kind. Suffice it to say, however, that in ancient, media3val, and modern times, some of the most scientific and learned men have not disdained to write on dinner's. I need but mention the treatise of Apicius, who lived in the time of Augustus, “De Re Culinaria;”* the treatise of Nonius, a learned Antwerp physician of the sixteenth century, “ De Re Cibaria;” and the more This was first priated at Milan, in 1498.68 Dinners and Dinner-giving. modern ti’eatise of Lemery, physician of Louis XIY., and thirty-three years the physician to the Hotel Dieu at Paris. Lemery published his “ Traite des Alimens,” in 1702. Contemporaneously with him, flourished Dr. Lister, Physician to our own Queen Anne, who wrote a cookery book in 1705, and gave a paraphrastic translation of the work of Apicius, under the title, “ De Obsoniis et Condimentis si\ e de Arte Coquinaria.” In the reign of George IV., Dr. Kitchener and half a dozen of his brethren of the faculty in Paris, wrote disquisitionally upon cookery; and, in our own day, Drs. Pereira and Lankester have written valuable treatises on food, with a view that Ave should employ such a diet and regimen as is most conducive to health. The truth is that we must all dine, tant Men que mal, every day in the three hundred and sixty-five; and, as many of us give din- ners every seven, fourteen, twenty-eight or thirty days, or every quarter of a year, to our friends and acquaintances, it behoves us to know what to order for ourselves, Avhen dining en famille, as well as for the guests who honour us Avith their company. Each country and capital has its mode and season for giving dinners, but there can be no doubt Avhal- ever that the best dinners in the Avoidd arc given in Paris and in London. Probably if the dinners of London were to be judged by the specimens afforded in the most refined houses of the highest aristocracy in Grosvenor Scjuare, JMayfair, and Belgravia, in theDinners and Dinner-giving. 69 season between April and July, we should bear otF the bell against the world; but the general cookery of a great capital containing nearly three millions of souls cannot be properly judged by the superior cookery of about three hundred first-rate houses, in all of which accomplished French or French-trained men cooks officiate. The dinners given at such houses present the substantial solidity, as well as the gracefulness, lightness, and science of French cookery, and display a combination as rare as nutri- tious, as desirable as delightful. But if we descend in England beyond the upper ten thousand, though the fried and roast are generally excellent, the attend- ance good, and the display of glass, crystal and plate much greater and better kept, than in any other country and capital in the Avorld, yet the cookery is not to be compared to the finer cuisine bourgeoise of Paris. The professional and learned classes at Paris, as well as the class of superior traders, all feast at a cuisine, which, for its science, its relishing and appetizing qualities, greatly surpasses ours. In moderate houses in Paris there is far less pretension than there is among us. For instance, an eminent lawyer, doctor, or publisher, will give you at a small friendly dinner of four or six, a good soup, a good fish plain or dressed, a good roti, and a couple of side dishes, all of which are excellent in their way, with a salmi of game and a couple of entremets quite per- fect of their kind, and this at an expense of little70 Dinners and Dinner-giving. more than one half of what an English dinner costs. There is on the table plenty for every guest; but the beauty of such dinners is, that nearly every morsel is eaten up. There are a few good dishes well cooked, and everybody relishes his portion. The wines, liqueurs, and colFee are all good. In some of the very first houses in the Faubourg St. Germain, at a small party you seldom see more than two men sei’vants, and often only one. Among professional men living in the neighbourhood of the Palais de Justice, the Chaussee d’Antin,the Faubourg St. Honore, or the Marais, the attendance is gene- rally by a femme de charge, aided by what would in this counti’y bo called a parlour maid, and who some- times acts as [\\c, femme de chambre of the lady of the house, if there be one. On the other hand, among the foreign ambassa- dors in Paris, and more especially at the Austrian and Russian Embassies, there are most sumptuous dinners, distinguished by great luxury and display. The great functionaries of the Court too, the ^linis- ters, the Prefect of the Seine, and other high official dignitaries, most of whom are 7iouvcaux riches, live expensively, keeping numerous servants, taking their cue from the Court. But it would be an error to suppose from this, that excessive expenditure is the custom of the nation. Ear indeed from it; for the great majority of Frenchmen are thrifty, and spend little on hospitality. The class of bankers, however.71 Dinners and Dinner-giving. agents de Change, speculators on the Bourse, railroad contractors, and persons connected with the Credit Fancier and the Credit Mobilier make much display, and live fastly, though in bad taste; many of them, poor and utterly unknown fourteen or fifteen years ago, now possess fine mansions, first-rate cooks, and live a. la Lucullus. But these men do not move in high or select so- ciety. They live among speculators and jobbers, and their tables are often presided over by some in- cognita of the demi-monde, some premiere danseuse of the opera, or some jeune premiere of the Varieties or the Vaudeville. The gentry and higher middle classes in Paris enjoy an exquisite and not expensive cuisine bour- geoise, but English or foreigners are rarely met at their dinners. The truth is that few Englishmen speak the French language sufficiently well or under- stand French domestic life so thoroughly as to relish French society. Notwithstanding the great inter- course that has prevailed between the two nations for nearly half a century, they do not mix well toge- ther socially. Englishmen, notwithstan(jing the ex- tended intercourse they have had with the Continent, still like to sit an hour or so over their wine, after the ladies have departed, whereas in Paris ladles and gentlemen leave the salle d manger, or dinner table, together, and retire to another room to coffee and con- versation. The coffee and liqueurs despatched, the72 Dinners and Dinner-giving. dinner circle is dissolved by host and guests either pro- ceeding to the theatres, or to some cercle or reunion, where other friends are met. The result is, that after from two and a half to three hours of agreeable con- viviality, the circle separate, mutually pleased with each other, and greatly exhilirated by the good cheer, the good converse, and the good coffee. The parties sit down to their repast at six or seven, and separate at half-past eight or half-past nine, when it is not too late to go to the Italian or French opera, or even to the Theatre du Palais Royal, the Vaudeville, or the Varietes. There is no torturinjj headache the next day from that ‘^casse the" wine called port, and there has been no time lost in waiting, as with us, for peo- ple arrive in France at the very moment invited—a moment which is always considered military time, so precisely is it kept. It is a pity we do not adopt something of this system among all classes in England. People might under this condition of things, give two dinners for every one they now give, and both hostand guest would be all the better in person and pocket for a more elegant and temperate style of living. To return, however, to English dinners. Though in no capital in the world is hospitality more gene- rally exercised than in London from January to December, yet among the higher classes the grand time for giving dinners is at the height of the season —that is to say, when both houses of ParliamentDinners and Dinner-giving. 73 are sitting. The season may generally be described as extending from the middle of April to the middle of July, a period of three months. Occasionally it begins a little earlier and ends a little later, but on an average of years it would be found that London is filled with the most distinguished visitors during these months. During the season of which I speak, the prices of all table luxuries are enhanced, spring chickens as they are called costing generally about 12s. or 13s. the couple. Fashion, however, will exert its sway, and, totally irrespective of cost, diners d’apparat, or grand entertainments, are always given during this season. Covers are laid for twelve, fourteen, sixteen, eighteen, or twenty, as the case may be, though occasionally the number of guests is consider- ably larger. At regular dress dinners of this kind there is great magnificence, great luxury, all the primeurs, as the French call them, all the early fruits and vegetables, no matter what the cost, are provided and produced. Green peas are imported from Por- tugal, and asparagus from the same place, and from Hyeres, Nice, &c. Most of the nobility and gentry are enabled to supply themselves from their country seats with hot-house grapes and pines; but, to such as are not. Covent Garden, and the best fruiterers of London are always open, and in no country in the world do you find, if prepared to incur the expenditure, finer fruits (especially hot-house fruits) than in Eng-Dinners and Dinner-giving. 74 land, though finer vegetables are to be found in the Brussels and occasionally in the Parisian naarkets. At the grand dinners of which I speak the custom has been, and still in a great degree is, to divide the dinner into several courses, but this is a practice super- inducing trouble, profusion, and expense. These may be incurred where there are large establishments and colossal fortunes (as there are in England in a greater degree than in any country in the world), and where the object Is to astonish and render rivalry hopeless, rather than to please or satisfy your guest; but as in the great majority of cases the fortunes and the desires of men are moderate, it seems to me it would be in better sense, and, indeed, in better taste too, to allow of but two courses as in France. In some of the best houses in the Faubourg St. Ger- main, fish and hors d’avvre, such as patties, &c., form part of the first course, and not a distinct course as here. In all grand dinners for twelve persons in England, two soups, two fishes, and four entrees for the first course are considered indispensable; and two roasts, two removes, and half a dozen entremets for the second course. For a dinner of twenty, the entrees and the entremets would necessarily have to be doubled, being each increased to eight. Of course the bill of fare for these dinners varies with the season. In April a turtle and a spring soup may be given with turbot and crimped salmon, roast fore-quarter of lamb, fillet of75 Dinners and Dinner-giving. beef, &c.; whereas in January or February there may be an ox-tail, a mock turtle, a gravy or a giblet or a grey pea soup, with a variety of game, such as partridges, black cock, wild duck, snipe, and wood- cock, not procurable in April or May. Persons glv- ins dinners should, of course, consider the season. Men of rank and fortune who keep a regular house steward or maitre eVliutel have this trouble taken off their hands, for a confidential servant, or a French chef de cuisine arranges with the master of the estab- lishment or the lady of the house what is to be the menu or bill of fare; but persons of two or three thousand a year, or of one thousand a year (and such persons now give occasional dinners, vleing with those of ten and twenty times their fortune) cannot afford to keep French men cooks, or to maintain extensive establishments. It is therefore necessaiy, unless these gentlemen be supplied by Gunter, Bridgeman, or some other tradesmen, at so much per head, that he should know how to order a dinner. In the case of men of moderate fortune, it is very likely a first-rate man cook, French or English, will be introduced for the occasion, and come the day be- fore the dinner to make preliminary arrangements, and to give directions to, and to aid the ordinary woman cook of the household. Unless some such arrangement as this be adopted, a dinner cannot bo very satisfactory, and probably it would be better for persons who have to give set dinners on certain occa-V6 Dinners and Dinner-giving. sions twice or thrice a year, and who cannot fully rely on their own English female cook, and the pro- fessed man cook brought in to assist and superintend, to conti’act with some renowned undertaker or entre- preneur of dinners, such as Gunter, Staples, Bathe and Bi'each, &c., to supply the party of twelve or twenty, as the case may be, at so much a head, exclusive of wine. In arrangements such as this much trouble is saved to the man of small fortune, and there is no waste, for the provider of the dinner removes the debris on the very night of the feast, or early the following morning. Why, however, it will be asked, should persons of a couple or three thousand a year give so pretentious and costly a dinner ? Because every one in England tries to ape the class two or three degrees above him in point of rank and fortune, in style of living, and manner of receiving his friends. Thus it is that a plain gentleman of moderate fortune, or a professional man making a couple of thousands a year, having dined with a peer of £50,000 a year in Grosvenor Square or Belgravia, seeks when he him- self next gives a dinner, to imitate the style of the hlarquis, Earl, or Lord Lieutenant of a county with whom he has come into social contact. The attempt is a great mistake, and generally a failure; for tinless there be a unity and completeness, an ensemble in such a feast, it is a misadventure. In a party of twenty at one of these great houses there are from aDinners and Dinner-giving. 77 dozen to fifteen servants, exclusive of the butler and under-butler, waiting at table, and where is the man of three thousand or six thousand a year who could afford such a retinue of liveried lackeys ! The keep, liveries, beer-money, and wages of a dozen livery ser- vants of this kind, would amount to from £1600 to £2000 a year alone. Is it not therefore folly for gentlemen of small means, or for struggling jorofes- sional men, to seek to vie with, by aping, these mag- nates. Let the great brewers, the great bankers, the great merchants, and the great railway contractors and millionaires, vie with them if it please them, but let men of mind and brain not attempt it. Even in the case of millionali’es, the essay at rivalry is rarely successful. There is ostentation without ease, ele- gance, good breeding, or good taste, and the parvenu too often appears in all his disagreeable hideousness and self-sufficiency. It were far better if men of moderate fortune would attempt less. The success of a dinner does not depend in the least on two soups, two fishes, two removes, and eight entrees, but on having sufficient on table the best of its kind, and thoroughly well dressed. Better far have one first- rate soup and one good fish, such as turbot or salmon, than a multiplicity of dishes, unless you have good cooks and a retinue of servants, and all the acces- sories of a first-rate establishment; It is within the power of every gentleman of fair means to give a good soup, a good fish, a couple of removes, and four78 Dinners and Dinner-giving. entrees at the first course, and a couple of small roasts, a couple of removes, and a few entremets at the second course, and what can any reasonable man want in addition ? If tlie dinner be composed exclu- sively of English, let the remove be a haunch or saddle of mutton, a roast turkey and ham, a braized leg of mutton, a fillet or a sirloin of beef, and surely there is enough to create “ a soul under the ribs of death,” with the entrees of lamb, mutton, and veal cutlets, with fillets of pheasants, vol au vents hlan- quette, of sweetbreads and such like. In April, May, June, and July, fricassees of chickens, leverets, pigeons, fillets of rabbits, with quails, ducklings, turkey poults, and guinea fowls may be served for entrees and second courses ; while in August there is venison, grouse, and wheatears. In September, Oc- tober, November, and December, there are partridges, grouse, blackcock, golden plover, snipe, woodcock, wild duck, hare,and pheasants; while in the two last months of November and December, ox-tnil, mulliga- tawney, mock turtle, and glblet soups may do fre- quent duty, with turbot, crimped cod, haddock, and .brill for fish. For entrees in the winter months there may be pork cutlets, quenelles, mutton cutlets, rabbit curries, &c. T am now speaking, of course, of dinners of some pretension; but there are every day given in England those quiet little family dinners of six or eight per- sons, which are the perfection of social life.Dinners and Dinner-giving. 79 It is said that the number present at these dinners should not be less than the graces, nor more than the muses. There is a good deal of truth in this. Con- versation cannot be general or quite unrestrained, where the company exceeds eight or ten. In a party of sixteen or twenty you are forced to converse with your neighbours on either side, or with the gentleman opposite to you. The master of a feast should take care in selecting his guests, whether in a large or in a small party, but more particularly in a small party— that they should be people of analagous tastes. In most cases it would not very well answer to place a Puritan side by side with a High Churchman—or a peace-at-any-price man next an engineer officer, earnest in the pursuit of his profession. An Allopa- thist should not be united en petit comite with a Homceopathist; nor a whig of the old school with a violent radical. The great object is to pair amiable, pleasant and agreeable men, who have travelled much and lived in the world, and pleasant and agreeable women. A good talker at a dinner-table is a great acquisition, but good listeners are not less essential. But your good talker should be an urbane and po- lite man, not bumptious and underbred. Barris- ters and travelled physicians are generally excellent company, though the former not seldom monopolise too much of the conversation, and give it occasionally a shoppy air. If the object of dining be to secure the greatest quantity of health and enjoyment, such80 Dinners and D inner-giving. results are more likely to be attained at small than at those set and formal dinners, where people are kept—to use the language of the late Mr. AValker, in " stately durance.” The essence of a good dinner, as the author of the “ Original ” sensibly remarks, is “ that it should be without ceremony,” and that you should have what you want when you want it.” This you cannot have at a ceremonial and formal London dinner, where you are encumbered with help, and are not allowed to do anything for your- self. At small every-day dinners, you may have every thing upon the table that is wanted at the time; thus for salmon you would have lobster, or parsley and butter, or cockle sauce, as you might prefer, with cayenne, chili vinegar, sliced cucumber, &c. The comfort of this is great, as the guests pass the sauces at once and instantaneously to each other. At great dinners this is never done. Everything is handed round by a file of liveried servants, who are continually changing the courses and taking up and laying down dishes, to the discomfort of the guests. Yet it is this dull, comfortless, stately and ostentatious formality that every one is striving at. “ State,” as Mr. AYalker observes, “ without the machinery of state, is of all states the worst;” and it is detestable to see men with a coupleof thousands ayear, and a couple of men servants, and an English female cook, imitating the style of living of men of thirty thousand a year, with a dozen male servants. IDinners and Dinner-giving. 81 would not have it inferred, that a large income and a first-rate man cook are indispensable to the sivins: of good dinners. There are now several Schools of Cookery in London, from some of which one can obtain regularly educated female cooks, and it is quite possible, with small establishments and small fortunes, to give comfortable and even elegant dinners, in which the English style shall be diversified by the French. But in these small establishments too much should not be attempted. Everything savour- ing of too much state and over-display should be discarded. The dishes should be choice, but limited in number, and the wines more remarkable for their excellence than their variety. It is the exquisite quality of a dinner or a wine that pleases us, not the number of dishes, nor the number of vintages. The late Earl of Dudley was wont to say, “ that a good soup, a small turbot, a neck of venison, and ducklings with green peas, or chicken with asparagus, or an apricot tart, was a dinner for an emperor!” and to my thinking it was far too good for most emperors past and present. I have already observed, that in my mind the really fine cuisinehourgeoise of good houses in France is perfection, and I do not despair of seeing such cookery infinitely more generally used in England than it ever has been; but the more expensive French cookery is never likely to become generally prevalent amongst us. Careme tells us that at grand balls and dinners he G82 Dinners and Dinner-giving. used to roast turkeys only for his soups and con- sommes, and he talks as volubly of two, four, and half- a-dozen fowls, as though they were had for eighteen pence a piece, instead of costing at the cheapest rate and time 5s. 6(/. or 6s. a couple. A system of cookery so expensive as this can never become general in any country. Careme tells how he formed his consommes, and though doubtless they were better flavoured and presented a more golden appearance than the gene- rality of consommes, yet, to use the language of Burke, “ They were soon exhaled, and vanished hence— A short, sweet odour at a vast expense.” There are, however, many things in the French kitchen which are daily coming into more general use. First, there is the fot au feu for the family broth ; there are the various purees for fowl, rabbit, and vegetable soups of all kinds, from Jerusalem artichokes, carrots, and turnips, to onions and cerfeuiL Thirdly, there are the various sauces of blanc, espag- nole, roux hlanc, veloute, sauce a la creme, and poivrade, which are now of much more common usage than they were thirty, twenty, or even ten years ago. We are every day also getting more and more into the habit of filleting our soles, or dressing them a?/ gratin or a la Normande; and in the serving of and entremets we have made visible improvement Still there are few English cooks in England who can turn out an omelette auxfines herbes, or an omelette sovfficeDinners and Dinner-giving. 83 as well as an ordinary French cook. Yet, what an ex- cellent thing this for breakfast or lunch when one is tired of a boiled egg, of a slice of cold ham, beef, or tongue,orof a mutton chop, beefsteak, or cold game pie. A morning’s meal is no unimportant thing to a man who has to appear in half a dozen causes in a crowded court, who has to visit five-and-twenty patients, or to get through half a dozen Blue-books before he goes down to a Parliamentary Committee at the House of Lords or Commons. Our mental energies, in a great degree, depend on our physical condition and well-being; and the physical condition of that man, be he peer, senator, advocate, or doctor, who, for half a dozen days, has had an indifferent breakfast or dinner, cannot be good. In asking people to dinner, you should put to your- self the question, “ Why do I ask them ?” and unless the answer be satisfactory, they are not likely to con- tribute much to the agreeabllity and sociality of the entertainment. They may be ornamental; it may be necessary, in a give-and-take sense, to have them in return for a dinner already long received and digested; but, unless they are sensible, social, unaffected, and clever men, they are not likely to contribute much to the hilarity of the entertainment. You may ask a man because he is a bon vivant, because he is a raconteur, because he talks brilliantly and eloquently, because he is a wit, because he is a distinguished traveller, poet, historian, or orator, or because he is84 Dinners and Dinner-giving. a good-natured popular man, a “ hon enfant^ or, what used to be called, a “jolly good fellow.” But do not ask any, however much above the average, who is a prig, who is pretentious, who is disputatious, or who is underbred. Never introduce to your table men who have not the feelings, habits, manners, and edu- cation of gentlemen—I had almost said, the birth of a gentleman ; but it must be remembered that nature now and again produces some magnificent specimens of what somebody has called “ God Almighty’s gentle- men.” But these are the exceptions, not the rule; for it will generally be found that men of gentle birth are also men of gentle breeding. The only two posi- tively offensive and ill-bred men I ever encountered in society were men of some ability who had pro- bably never entered the house of- a gentleman to dinner, till they were four or five-and-twenty. In these instances, the want of early training and cul- ture in manners and les convenances had never been supplied. The presence of men of this stamp is destructive to good fellowship. They are social peSts, and should be avoided comme la gale. Though the French learned a great deal of their cookery, and still more of their confectionery, from the Italians, yet there is little now in Italian cookery worthy of imitation or adoption among us. Mac- aroni and semolina soups are better made in Paris than in Italy, though the ribbon maciironi is better prepared at Naples and in Sicily than anywhere else in the world. Veal cutlets, also, arc very well pro-Dinners and Dinner-giving, 85 pared in the great cities of Italy, and more especially at Naples and Turin. Italian ices and confectionary are worthy of all praise; but, as the nation is not a dinner-giving nation, we have little or nothing to adopt from them. Some of their sausages are extremely good and appetizing. The Spaniards are as little of a dinner-giving people as the Italians, Though every Spaniard tells you, with asseverating protestations, “ Mi casa sta a la dispocion di usted,” yet this means nothing whatever, for assuredly you are never destined to eat or drink within his four walls, unless it be a cup of cold water. The only national dishes of any note in Spain, are the olla and puckero, and neither would be relished by Englishmen of well-educated palates. Germany has little to teach us in the way of cookery. On the banks of the Rhine they dress a carp well, with both sweet and sour sauce; but, for my own part, I prefer a Rhenish carp served in Paris by a French cook. German sauer kraut, with Ham- bro’ beef, may be said to be a national dish, and right good the Hambro’ salt beef is; but few English- men like either sauer kraut or potato salad—a dish of Fatherland. German batter and German horse- radish sauce, made with cream, and also the cherry- sauce, so common, is not despicable with certain meats; but, on the whole, German cookery is not either elegant or palatable. It may be thought that my condemnation of Ger- man cookery is too sweeping. It is not without full86 Dinners and Dinner-giving. experience I speak of it, for I have lived in every capital town of Germany. At Dresden, many years ago, I rented a house in the Neu Markt, of the cook of Madame de Stael, and he furnished the best-dressed dinners I saw in Germany. At Vienna, among the Ambassadors of the five Great Powers, and among some of the Hungarian and Bohemian nobility, first- rate dinners are given, dressed by French cooks; but this is not the cookery of the nation at large, nor even of the well-to-do and easy portion of it. Ca- reme was a considerable time at Vienna, as cook of the late Marquis of Londonderry, and he liked Vienna very well; but he says that the beef, mutton, and veal are very indifferent, badly bled, and disagreeable to dress. “ There are wanting at Vienna,” says Ca- reme, “ the truffles of France, and the fish of the sea.’’ But, though these wants are now speedily supplied by rail, the general cookery is not good. The best and truest account of German cookery is wiven in the “ Bubbles from the Brunnens of Nassau.” “During the fashionable season,” says the author, the dinner at Langenschwalbach is at one o’clock. Seated at the table of the Alice Saal, I counted one hundred and eighty people at dinner in one room. To say in a single word whether the fare was bad or good would be quite impossible, it being so com- pletely different from anything ever met with in England. To my simple taste, the cookery is most horrid; still there were now and then some dishes, particularly sweet ones, which I thought excellent.Dinners and Dinner-giving. 87 With respect to the made-dishes, of which there were a great variety, I beg to record a formula which is infallible; the simple rule is this—let the stranger taste the dish, and if it be not sour, he may be quite certain that it is greasy : again, if it be not greasy, let him not eat thereof, for then it is sure to be sour. With regard to the order of the dishes, that too is unlike anything Mrs. Glasse ever thought of: after soup, which all over the world is the alpha of the gourmand’s alphabet, the barren meat from which the said soup has been extracted is produced ; of course it is dry, tasteless, withered-looking stuff, which a Grosvenor Square cat would not touch with its whis- kers; but this dish is always attended by a couple of satellites—the one, a quantity of cucumber stewed in vinegar; the other, a black greasy sauce ; and if you dare accept a piece of this flaccid beef, you are instantly thrown between Scylla and Charybdis, for so sure as you decline the indigestible cucumber, souse comes into your plate a deluge of the sickening grease. After the company have eaten heavily of mes- ses, which it would be impossible to describe, in comes some nice salmon—then fowls—then puddings— then meat again—then stewed fruit ; and after the English stranger has fallen back in his chair quite beaten, a leg of mutton majestically makes its appear- ance ! The pig who lives in his sty would have some excuse, but it is really quite shocking to see any other animal overpowering himself at midday with such a mixture and superabundance of food. Yet88 Dinners and Dinner-giving. only think,” says our author, “ what a compliment all this is to the mineral waters of Langenschwalbach, if the Naiads of the Pauline can be of real service to a stomach full of vinegar and grease, how much more effectually ought they to tinker up the inside of him who has sense enough to sue them in forma pauperis.'^ The quantity of fat and lard used in German cook- ery, more especially in cooking vegetables, renders it unpalatable to English tastes. We may borrow from the Dutch kitchen something in fish soups. The Dutch eel soup is rich, full of flavour, and very nourishing; and the soup of herring roes, called Erasmus’s soup, prepared with twelve soft roes of herrings generally, and a quart of young peas, is by no means despicable. I have also, after tossing on the German Ocean, en- joyed in Holland a Flushing soup made of flakes of cod and salmon. Our own modes of dressing cod, whether fresh or salted, is good, but something may be adopted from the Dutch in sauces for fish, and in the various ways of dressing herrings. I have, in another part of this work, expressed an opinion as to the Russian mode of laying out a table. I will here merely say that almost everything good in the Russian cookery has been adopted from the Eng- lish, French, and Dutch kitchens. There is a fish soup in Russia, the chief ingredient in which is the sterlet, but as the fish is not obtainable here, it is useless to speak of it. Few of our peasantry would eat the Russian national soup—the tschy ; andDinners and Dinner-giving, 89 the barch, the Polish soup, which is fermented, is little likely to please an English or a French palate. While Careme admits that the Russians have a few national dishes, he properly says these do not constitute a system of cookery. Their butcher’s meat, he adds, is very indifferent, their pullets are poor and small. The mutton consumed in St. Peters- burgh comes from the interior, and is often, like the salmon, frozen. From the Turkish and Indian cookery we may adopt much more than from the Russian. The pilau and kalobs of Turkey are very relishing, and so are the fish and vegetable curries of India—the pish poshes, pepper pots, and cutcharees arid country cap- tains. The Indian mulligatawney soup is excellent in the damp and cold weather, from the beginning of November to the end of February. For ordinary dinners, English gentlemen should prefer simplicity and excellence to variety. Simpli- city and convenience have triumphed in dress, and will sooner or later in dinners. The circular form seems the most desirable in a dinner-table; and with respect to setting it out, I would say with the late Mr. Walker, nothing should be placed on it but what is wanted. The great ob- ject of meeting round table is to have free and unre- strained communication and hilarity, and these are impeded by plateaus, dormants, and centre-pieces. I have not said a word of bachelors’ dinners, though of all dinners in the world they are the plea-90 Dinners and Dinner-giving. santest, from the laisser aller and laissez faire style which prevails at them. At bachelors’ parties the age, disposition, and amusing qualities of the guests are more considered than at regular set dinners. Bachelors look for the idem velle and the idem nolle when they play the Amphytrion, and in consequence they succeed. Another reason of the success of bachelors’ entertainments arises from the fact that the dishes are few and simple; and as the dinner is generally given in a small house or chambers, the kitchen is not too far removed from the eating par- lour. Everything comes up “screeching hot,” as they say in Ireland, and not lukewarm or soddened, as too often happens at great dinners. Centre- pieces, epergnes, and dormants do not generally figure at bachelors’ dinners, and there is an absence of form and ceremony which gives zest. Ladies in general love ceremony and ornaments, and the acces- sories of epergnes, flowers, and perfumes. I have not said anything of American dinners. The best of these in private houses are copied from the English and French model, although there is much that is distinctive in the manner of serving and consuming dinners at the great hotels in New York. American turtle soup is excellent; and so is their sturgeon soup. Though I do not agree in i\Ir. INIoney’s estimate of the Russian dinners, I quite concur in his valuable suggestion, that dinner chairs at our tables should be made lighter and more flex- ible in the back and sitting part.CHAPTEK IV. ON LAYING OUT A TABLE. 11E manner of laying out a table is nearly the same in all parts of the United King- dom : yet there are trifling local pecu- liarities to which the mistress of a house must attend. A centre ornament, whether it be a dormant, a plateau, an epergne, or a candelabrum, is found so convenient, and contributes so much, in the opinion of some, to the good appearance of the table, that a dinner is seldom or never set out without some- thing of this kind. Of late years people who give dinners give them what is called a la Rtisse; but if you ask nine out of every ten what they mean by dining a la Russe, they are unable to tell you. All they can say is, that there is nothing on the table but flowers and fruits, that the dishes are carved on the sideboard and handed about to the guests. This fashion still con- tinues, but I never could see any good reason for its introduction. It seems to me exceedingly odd that a a people, like the English, who, for certainly fiveOn Laying out a Table. 92 centuries, have enjoyed a high degree of civilization, should copy the Russians in the system of dinner- giving—a people who, a century ago, were plunged in the deepest barbarism, and who, as yet, are scarcely half civilized. Even now the Russians have not in their language any word which conveys the idea of gentleman, and the title of Prince, so common amongst them, is not much more than a hundred years old. Coats of arms were first borne in Russia only about eighty years ago, and they were then introduced by the German adventurers, with w'hich class Russia still abounds. In the days of Peter the Great, about a century and a half ago, the Russian Boyars (the only title of nobility, properly speaking, Russian), were so very ignorant that many of them could not write, and so very drunken as to astonish so potent a tippler as Peter himself. When this great reformer knouted his nobles into the luxury of shaving themselves, and the decent habit of wearing nether garments, early in the eighteenth century, they lived chiefly on cabbage soup, and bacon, and sausages, and even these were cooked in Homeric fashion. It is true, great progress has been made in Russia since 1697, and even since 1815, but no sensible Englishman would think of going to Russia to learn to serve a dinner. I spent much time in Russia, somewhat more than thirty years ago, and lived a great deal among Rus- sians of wealth and position; but though there was071 Laying out a Table. 93 profusion and a great expenditure on their dinners, there was nothing like elegance or good taste. The earlier Russian cookery of a century ago was adopted from the Dutch and the Germans, and all that is valuable in the later Russian cookery has been adopted from the French and the English kitchens. It results from serving dinners a la Jlusse in Eng- land that the joints are frequently mangled, and you receive your portion lukewarm or cold. By carving and serving only one dish at a time also the dinner is unnecessarily prolonged to four hours instead of two and a half or three, and many more servants and attendants are necessary. In Russia this is not an important consideration, for domestic service is per- formed by serfs, who receive merely nominal wages. Another reason against serving dinners a la Russe is, that those costly services of gold and silver plate i which nearly every good family in England possesses, are not displayed under the new fashion, which, like i crinoline, will have its long reign, and ultimately ! pass away. Utility should be the true principle of beauty, at 1 least in affairs of the table, and, above all, in the sub- j stantial first course, A very false taste, is, however, I often shown in centre ornaments. Strange ill-assorted nosegays, and bouquets of artificial flowers, begin to droop or look faded among hot steams. Ornamental articles of family plate, carved, chased, or merely plain, can never be out of place, however old-fashioned.On Laying out a Tahle. 94 In desserts, richly-cut glass is ornamental. I am far, also, from proscribing the foliage and moss in which fruits are sometimes seen bedded. The spark- ling imitation of frost-work, which is given to pre- served fruits and other things, is also exceedingly beautiful; as are many of the trifles belonging to French and Italian confectionary. Beautifully white damask, and a green cloth un- derneath, are indispensable. In all ranks, and in every family, one Important art in housekeeping is to make what remains from one day’s entertainment contribute to the elegance or plenty of the next day’s dinner. This is a principle understood by persons in the very highest ranks of society in France, who maintain the most splendid and expensive establishments. Vegetables, ragouts, and soups may be rewarmed; and jellies and blanc- manges remoulded, with no deterioration of their qualities. Savoury or sweet patties, croquets, rissoles, vol-au-vents, fritters, tartlets, &c., may be served almost without cost, where cookery is going forward on a large scale. In the French kitchen, a numerous class of culinary preparations, called efitrecs de dessert, or made-dishes of left things, are served even at grand entertainments. At dinners of any pretension the first course con- sists of soups and fish, removed by boiled poultry, ham, or tongue, roasts, stews, &c.; and of vegetables, with a few made-dishes, as ragouts, curries, hashes.95 On Laying out a Table. cutlets, patties,/ncawf/eaiix, &c., in as great variety as the number of dishes permits. For the second course, roasted poultry or game at the top and bottom, with dressed vegetables, omelets, macaroni, jellies, creams, salads, preserved fruit, and all sorts of sweet things and pastry are employed, endeavouring to give an article of each sort, as a jelly and a cream. This is a more common arrangement than three courses, which are attended with so much additional trouble both to the gruests and servants. Whether the dinner be of two or three courses It is managed nearly in the same way. Two dishes of fish dressed indifferent ways, if suitable, should occupy the top and bottom ; and two soups, a white and a brown, or a mild and a high-seasoned, are best disposed on each side of the centre-piece: the fish-sauces are placed between the centre-piece and the dish of fish to which each is appropriate; and this, with the decanted wines drunk during dinner, forms the first course. When there are rare French or Rhenish wines, they are placed in the original bottles, in ornamented wine- vases, between the centre-piece and the top and bot- tom dishes; or if four kinds, they are ranged round the plateau. If one bottle, it is placed in a vase in the centre. The second course at a purely English dinner, when there are three courses, consists of roasts and stews for the top and bottom; turkey or fowls, or fricandeaux, or ham garnished, or tongue for the sides;On Laying out a Table. 96 with small made-dishes for the corners, served in covered dishes, as palates, curry of any kind, ragout or fricassee of rabbits, stewed mushrooms, &c., &c. The third course consists of game, confectionary, the more delicate vegetables dressed in the French way, puddings, creams, jellies, etc. Caraffes, with the tumblers belonging to and placed over them, are laid at proper intervals. Where hock, champagne, &c., &c., are served, they are handed round between the courses. A very bad habit has for some years prevailed of not placing any wine on the table, thus leaving you at the mercy of servants who rarely come round, and then scarcely half-fill your glass. This is meant to be an imitation of the French system, but nothing can be more unlike the system adopted in France. The English imitators, or would-be imitators, wholly forget that a guest at a French table can never languish for lack of wine, for “ vin ordinaire'’’ always remains on the table, while only the very highest qualities of wine are handed round by the servants. In England, for many years past, the table is altogether stripped of wine, and the guests are at the mercy of butlers or paid waiters, who use the wine either for their private drinking after the dinner, in the servants’ ball, or of hosts who, to save their wine, would stint their guests. When the third course is cleared away, cheese, butter, a fresh salad, or sliced cucumber, are usually handed round: and the finger-glasses precede the dessert. At many tables, particularly in Indian97 On laying out a Table. houses, It is customary merely to hand quickly round a glass vessel or two filled with simple, or simply perfumed tepid water, made by the addition of a little rose or lavender water, or a home-made strained in- fusion of rose-leaves or lavender spikes. Into this water each guest may dip the corner of his napkin, and with it refresh his lips and the tips of his fingers. The Dessert, at an English table, may consist merely of two dishes of fine fruit, for the top and bottom; common or dried fx’uits, filberts, etc., for the corners or sides, and a cake for the middle, with ice- pails in hot weather. Liqueurs are handed round at this stage ; and the wines usually drank after dinner are placed, decanted, on the table along with the dessert. The ice-pails and plates are removed as soon as the company finish their ice. This may be better understood by following the exact arrange- ment of what is considered a fashionable dinner of three courses and a dessert. Memorandum respecting Dinners.—To make your Bill of Fare according to the season and the number of your company. When you have two roasts, they should bear no resemblance to each other—i.e., one should be white and the other brown. It is not in general the custom to place the fish sauces on the table, except in establishments w'here there is a servant to every guest, but so placed they are always most accessible. It is a great convenience to have the sauce near you when you want it. nCHAPTER V. HOW TO CHOOSE EISH, FEESH, FOWL, AND GAME. of all sorts is best when short, thick, well-made, bright in the scales, stiflP and springy to the touch, the gills of a fresh red, and the belly not flabby. When the gills are not bright and fresh red-coloured, the fish is not eatable. Salmon, carp, tench, barbel, pike, trout, whiting, &c., when the eyes are sunk, the fins hanging, and the gills grown pale, are not good. There is a great difference between salmon in and out of season. If eaten out of season or when stale, this fish is very unwholesome, and the same ob- servation applies to mackerel. It should be remarked that, except in frosty weather, fish rarely keeps more than two or three days. Care should be taken to remove the intestines from fish which is meant to be kept, immediately after they are caught. This rule should be especially observed in reference to whiting, haddock, perch, &c. The livers of these fishes con-99 How to Choose Fish, §*c. tain an oil, which, in very warm weather, imparts a rancid and most unpleasant taste to the fish. Soles should never be salted. Mackerel, herrings, and pilchards cannot be dressed too soon. When eaten fresh caught, they are free from that oily taste which they sometimes acquire before they are even half a day out of the water. It may also be gene- rally remarked that neither a carp nor a red-mullet should ever be boiled. Turbot. — Choose a turbot by its plumpness, thickness, and colour. It should be very white, fieshy, and firm. Observe whether its surface be covered with a round, swelling grain, an indication of its fine healthy condition. The moderate or even smaller size is to be preferred to the very large, which is al- most always dry, tasteless, and woolly. To be good, it should be plump, and the belly of a fine, opaque, light cream-colour. If of a bluish cast, like water tinged with milk, or thin, they are not good. A tur- bot ought to be bled near the tail as soon as taken, or it will assume a red tinge, impairing its appearance not only in the market, but at table. If necessary, turbot will keep for two or three days, and be in as high perfection as at first, if lightly rubbed over with salt, and carefully hung in a cold place. Skate.—The best skate are white and thick; they should be kept a day or two before you dress them, otherwise they will eat tough. The she skate is the sweeter, especially if large. Skate is best duringHow to Choose Fish, 100 the autumn and winter. This fish may be eaten either boiled, fried, or stewed. There is a great difference in this fish. The flavour and fineness of the skate depend, in a considerable degree, on the locality in which it is taken. It should be broad and thick, prickly on the back, and of a beautiful creamy white. On the north-east coast of Scotland, there is a small skate of a leaden blue colour caught, which is said to be of the most debcate flavour. Care should be taken not to eat skate when out of season. Oysters.—There are in England various species of oysters. The goodness of oysters depends, in a great measure, on the grounds or sea-beds from which they are taken; but the Colchester, Pyfleet, and Chilford, are generally esteemed superior to all others, being white and flat, yet the others maybe made to possess these qualities, in some degree, by being properly fed. The large shelled oysters are never good, for even when fattened they have a strong flavour. The best oysters in Ireland are the Burren and Poldooday, the Carlingford being now extinct. In France the best are found at Cancale, Etretat, and Marennes. In Belgium the best are fished at Ostend. TMien alive and healthy, the shell closes on the knife. They should be eaten immediately they are opened, or the flavour will be lost. Oysters taken on muddy bottoms, generally have a disagi'ecable taste, and thin or shidvelled oysters which scarcely fill up theirFlesh, Fowl, and Game. 101 shell are, for the most part, rank and ill-favoured. Oysters taken in rivers where the waters are affected by copper mines are poisonous. This fish is never fit to be eaten if the shells open naturally. There is a fine-flavoured, delicate small oyster much in vogue at Genoa, and a green finned oyster at Venice, both of which are good. The Irish and foreign oysters possess a fresh, natural, sea-water flavour, generally wanting in the English oyster, which is frequently spoiled by too much feeding and washing. We ad- vise all amateurs of oysters to obtain their supply direct from the boats at Billingsgate before they get into the hands of the retail dealer. Eels—are taken both in fresh water and the sea. The fresh-water eels are the best, and the silver eel among these should always be preferred. Buy them, if possible, alive, and in order to kill them, divide the spine just behind the head without severing it from the body. They will die almost instantaneously. The freshness of the eel, like the lobster, is known by the vivacity of its motion, and its quality by the colour of the skin. Ling.—It is to be regretted that the ling, one of the finest fishes of the cod tribe, is not oftener brought to Billingsgate Market. It may be eaten fresh or salted, and will well bear transport fresh in the winter season from Cornwall to London. Like the cod, the ling has a fine sound, which may be dressed with the fish or salted. Ling varies in colourHow to Choose Fish, 102 according to the bank it inhabits. When In good order, the ling is thick about the poll. The white- ness of the liver indicates the good condition of the fish. When out of season the liver is red. Smelts—if good, have a fine silvery hue, are very firm, and have a refreshing smell like cucumbers newly cut. They are caught in the Thames, and some other large rivers, and should be eaten within twenty-four hours after being taken. Salmon.—If new, the flesh is of a fine red (the gills particularly), the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff. When just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes, which gives great firmness; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish is more rich. The Thames and Chudchurch salmon bear the highest price; that caught in the Severn is next in goodness, and is even preferred by some. The best have small heads and are thick in the neck. Look also for a roundness and breadth over the back, and thickness down to the tail-fin. The upper part of the back red and dark-coloured. Floundees.—They should be thick, firm, and have their eyes bright. They very soon become flabby and bad. They are both a sea and a river fish. The Thames produces the best. They are in season from January to March, and from July to September. Flounders differ much in quality. There is a flounder with scarlet spots, a very good fish to look at, but which is coarse and woolly in the grain. The best flounders are of a sober greyish colour.Flesh, Fowl, and Game. 103 Whitings.—Always buy whitings fresh. Having gutted them, you can keep them two or three days in a cool place in the winter months. Never pur- chase uncleaned whiting unless it be perfectly fresh out of the water. The firmness of the body and fins is to be looked to, as in herrings ; their high season is during the first three months of the year, but they may be had a great part of it. Whiting is one of the most wholesome of fish, and is so light that phy- sicians recommend it to invalids when more solid nutriment is forbidden. The largest whiting are taken off the coasts of Devon and Cornwall. They are in highest season from Michaelmas to February, shortly after which they begin to cast their spawn. They are again fit for the table by the latter end of May or the beginning of June. It is not easy to distinguish the whiting from the codlin, but it is very necessary to be able to do so, as fishmongers have an ugly trick of substituting the one for the other. The codlin, however, has a beard, while the whiting is smooth. Cod.—Cod, skate, maids, and thornback should be in a state fit to crimp, and are so when the fish rises again on being pressed with the finger. There are sixteen different species of cod taken on our coasts; but the most esteemed is the Dogger Bank cod. This fish is best when thick towards the head, with a deep pit just behind it, and the flesh cuts white and clear. The fish should be perfectly stiff. This af- fords a proof of its freshness, and of its eating firm.104 How to Choose Fish, The gills should be very red, and the eyes fresh and bright; when flabby they are not good. Cod is in- variably good, when the weather is cold, dry, and frosty; and it is in primest season during the periods London fashionables dine by candle-light—namely, from November to March. The larger cod, if in good order, are generally the firmer and better flavoured fish. The smaller cod-fish are, for the most part, flabby and watery, though these defects may be in a measure removed, by sprinkling salt over the fish, a few days before it is cooked. ' Sturgeon—when good, has a fine blue in its veins and gristle; a brown or yellowish cast in these parts denote a bad fish; if kept too long this fish has a disagreeable taint. The flesh must be per- fectly white, and must cut without crumbling. It is from the roe of the sturgeon that the caviare is composed, though it is sometimes made of the spawn of the grey carp, or the hard roe of the grey mullet. Haddock—bears some resemblance to cod, but may be easily distinguished by the black spot on each shoulder. It is a superior fish; the flesh is firm, and of a snow-white colour, with a creamy curd be- tween the flakes. The largest haddocks are in general the best, and the larger size keep better than the smaller ones. The finest haddocks are taken in Dublin Bay, and off the coasts of Devon and Corn- wall. Haddocks of all kinds may be almost daily obtained of Grove, Charing Cross. A haddock should105 Flesh, Fowl, and Game. be chosen like a cod, by the thickness and depth of the body, and fulness at the poll. The freshness of a haddock may be ascertained by the redness of the gills and brightness of the eyes. Sole.—A sole should be chosen in the same manner as a turbot. The smallest soles are of the sweetest and best flavour for frying. If you wish to boil your flsh, choose a large Dover or Torbay sole. They are in season nearly the whole year, but are best at Mid- summer. Soles are usually skinned on the dark side only; the scales on the white side should be carefully removed, which is often done in a very slovenly manner, and sometimes omitted altogether. The soles of the west of England and of Ireland, are quite different from the sole sent to the London market, being a much richer and thicker fish, with a black skin. For invalids or persons of a delicate stomach, the smaller and whiter sole is preferable. If the sole come to market, gutted and packed, by land-carriage, you must judge of the freshness by the smell. The best proof of their freshness, how- ever, is the transparency of the slime on the dark side, through which the fine scales may be easily seen, and by a frothy appearance in the slime on the lower side; but this fish, if gutted, may be kept good long after these marks have disappeared. Salmon, haddock, whiting, and all other fish, whether of the sea, pond, or river, may be judged, as to freshness, by the red, lively colour of the gills, the106 How to Choose Fish, brightness of the eye, the clearness and regular un- disturbed position of the scales, and a plumpness of body, amounting to stiffness. A dead eye, livid gills, and flabby condition of the flesh, are sure signs that the fish is stale. Lampreys.—The sea and the river lamprey, or lampern, are easily distinguishable, not only by their size, but by their colour. The sea lamprey is of a rusty, mottled colour, whilst the river lamprey is of the colour of the common eel, or a shade darker. The sea lamprey is also considerably larger than the river, sometimes weighing as much as five or six pounds, whilst the river lamprey seldom exceeds twelve inches in length, and seldom exceeds from half a pound to a pound, or a pound and a quarter in weight. River lampreys are excellent, either stewed, potted, or in pies. Some there are who fry them; but they are generally sent up from Worcester in a prepared sauce, in order to be stewed, which is the preferable mode of eating them. They are, it must be confessed, a more agreeable than wholesome food. Henry I. died from a surfeit of them. The lamprey is in the most perfect season during the months of April and May. Red Mullet.—This fish is called the woodcock of the sea. It is so choice in its food, that, like that bird, it is cooked without drawing. It is in prime season during the heats of summer, and is therefore diflficult to obtain fresh. When the red mullet is first107 Flesh, Fowl, and Game. taken out of the water, it is of an exquisite rose- colour, varying in lighter tints. When dead, and some time out of water, it assumes a brownish tinge; as it becomes more stale, the colour grows paler. Redness of the gills is in this, as in most other fish, a criterion of freshness. Red mullets require to be carefully packed; if pressed on by other fish they are apt to burst. They should be eaten, if possible, on the day on which they are taken out of the water; for though they may be perfectly sweet and wholesome on the following day, yet their livers, by keeping, will have become soft, and will no longer have that delicate flavour which they would have possessed if dressed on the day they were taken. Pilchards.—The pilchard is an exquisite fish of the herring tribe. It is somewhat rounder than the herring. The portion of the back-fin, too, is placed more forward in the pilchard. The criterion of fresh- ness is the same as in the herring. Pilchards are in season whenever they are to be met with. They are best when boiled with their scales on without gutting. Whitebait—are in season in July, August, and September. Plaice and Flounders—to be good, should be stlflf, and have a full eye. The plaice is best when the belly has a bluish cast. Herrings and Mackerel—are unfit for the table when faded, wrinkled, or pliable in the tail.How to Choose Fish, 108 The freshness of mackerel may be ascertained by the stiffness of the body and the prismatic brilliancy of its colours. When they are out of condition, they have got what is called the “rogue’s mark,” are long and thin made, with a sharp belly wanting in ful- ness. When fresh, the sides and belly are bright and silvery, the body is stiff, and the skin devoid of wrinkle. They are in season from June till Novem- ber. Their gills should be of a fine red, and their eyes bright, and the whole fish should be stiff and firm. Herrings should not be too frequently par- taken of when they first come into season. They have then a peculiar richness, which even affects the stomach of the strongest fisherman. The freshness of herrings and sprats is ascertained by the bright- ness of the scales. Lobster—should be chosen by its weight, alert- ness, and fresh smell; by the tail, which when newly caught, will be stiff and springy, and the firmness of its sides. The heaviest are the best, if there be no water in them. If you desire a cock lobster, select that which has a narrow back part of the tail, with the two uppermost fins within. The tail should be hard and stiff like a bone. The back of the hen is soft, and is invariably broader: her fins are also soft. Before selecting, carefully smell a lobster. If stale, it may be easily known by a heavy, muggy smell. Crabs, prawns, and shrimps, may be chosen in the same manner. Always choose the largest and hea-Flesh, Fowl, and Game. 109 viest crab you can find. These shell-fish, if kept more than one day, will become bad. The colour of stale shell-fish fades, becoming blackish and dark if naturally red. They also, when stale, become pliable in their claws and joints. John-Dory.—This is one of the very best fishes in the sea. They are found in greatest abundance on the southern coasts of Devon and Cornwall. They sometimes weigh as much as twelve pounds, but the greater proportion are not half that size. The larger dories are in best season from September to Christ- mas, but are good eating at all times. They keep well, but should be gutted, otherwise the flesh acquires an unpleasant taste. The choicest morsels are to be found over the collar-bones, and about the head of this fish. Larger dories are best boiled; the smaller ones may be fried. The flesh is of a fine clear white when dressed, with the exception of that part cover- ing the fins, which is of a brownish colour. VENISON—should be thick and firm in the fat, and the lean pure. The age of the deer, as well as of hares and rabbits, is known by the clefts and claws being close and smooth in the young animal. Try the haunches or shoulders, under the bones that come out, with the finger or knife, and as the scent is sweet or rank, it is new or stale; and the like may be said of the sides in the fleshy parts; if tainted, they will look green in some places, or more than ordinarily black.110 How to Choose Fish, Few people like venison when it has much of the haut gout. The buck venison begins in May, and is in high season till Allhallows-day: the doe, from Michael- mas to the end of December, or sometimes to the end of January. The best joints of the best meat cost most money at first, but are most economical. All stale meat may be known by the eyes being sunk, the kidney tainted, and the flesh white. All provisions should be bought with ready money, or the bills settled weekly; this will efiect a saving of twenty per cent, to the housekeeper. Beep.—The finest ox beef may be known from having a smooth, open grain, an agreeable carnation colour, delicately marbled with streaks of fat, the flesh should look red, and the suet white; and if young, it will be tender, and of an oily smoothness. The colour of the fat should be rather white than yellow. Yellow fat indicates that the beast has been fed on oil-cake. Cow beef is not so open in its grain, nor is the red of so pleasant a colour, but the fat is much whiter. It may be also distinguished by the udder, when dressed on the whole or in quarters. You may know whether or not it is young, by making an impression on the lean with your finger, which mark, if young, will soon disappear. The sweetest and best-flavoured beef is that of the small Scotch bullock, when fed on English pasture, or the short-Ill Flesh, Fowl, and Game. horned Devon. Northampton and Leicestershire beef is large, and the flavour is not flne. Bull beef should never be purchased, being clammy, rank, and more closely grained than other beef. The colour is a dusky red, and the flesh tough in pinch- ing. The fat is rank, skinny, and hard. Mutton—is not good under three years old; younger, it is turgid and pale. The best is above five; but it is seldom to be got in the market of that age. The black-faced, or short sheep are best for the table, though more depends on the pasture than on the breed. Mutton fed on mountains and downs, where the herbage is short and fine, is better than that fed on rich pasture. Always, therefore, choose the Dartmoor, the small Welsh, the South Down, or Scotch Highland mutton. Some of the largest and fattest sheep are produced in Leicestershire, and the marshes of Kent, but the smaller mutton is to be preferred. The flesh of the wether should always be preferred to that of the ewe. Hill wether mutton, from four to seven years old, is far the best whether for boiling or roast- ing. Choose it short in the shank, thick in the thigh, and of a pure, healthy, brownish red, with the flesh marbled. Pinch the flesh with your fingers ; if it regains its former state in a short time, the mutton is young, but otherwise it is old, and the fat will be clammy and fibrous. If it be ram mutton, the flavour of112 How to Choose Fish, which is disagreeable and strong, the grain will be close, the lean tough and of a deep red colour; it will not rise when pinched, and the fat will he spongy. The test of excellence in this meat is that it does not fly from the knife when cut, but rather closes upon it. Carefully observe the vein in the neck of mutton or lamb; if it look ruddy or bluish, the meat is fresh, but if yellowish, is decaying, and if green, com- pletely tainted. The hind-quarter may he judged of from the kidney and knuckle. If you find a faint smell under the kidney, or the knuckle is unusually limp, the meat is stale. That mutton and lamb will always prove the best, the legs and shoulders of which are short-shanked. Lamb.—In the choice of lamb, observe the eye, which should be bright and full; if it be sunk and wrinkled, the meat is stale. Grass lamb comes into season in April or May, and continues till August. House lamb may be had in great towns almost all the year, hut is in highest perfection in December and January. Veal.—The whitest veal in England is not the most juicy, having been made so by frequent bleed- inf. The French veal of Pontoise is finer than the Eno-lish. The whiteness is produced by feeding the animal on milk and biscuits. The calf is there brought to market in a covered van. Veal should be fat, and white, and young; the mode of feeding is of great importance. ExamineFlesh, Fowl, and Game. 113 the kidney, the state of which will show the feeding and condition of all animals. Veal, when stale, generally becomes flabby and clammy. The flesh of the cow-calf is not of so bright a red, nor so firmly grained as that of the bull-calf, neither is the fat so much curdled. The shoulder may be known by the vein in it, which if it be not of a bright red, is surely stale, and if any green spots appear about it, totally unfit for use. Should the neck or breast appear yellowish at the upper end, or the sweetbread clammy, it is not good. In the choice of this meat, one of the best indications is that the kidney be covered with a white dense fat. The loin may be known by smelling under the kidney, which always taints first, and becomes pu- trescent, and the fat in that case loses its firm con- sistence. The leg may be known by the joint, which if it be limp, and the flesh clammy, with green or yellow spots, is unfit for use. The head, if new and sweet, must have the eyes plump and lively, but if they are sunk or wrinkled, it is not good. This rule applies also to the head of the sheep or lamb. The greatest quantity of veal consumed in London is brought from Essex, which may be called the Pontoise of England. PoEK.—A thin rind is a good indication in all pork; a thick, tough one, not easily impressed with the finger, is a sign of age. 1How to Choose Fish, 114 . When you purchase a leg, a hand, or a spring, take especial care that the flesh is cool and smooth, for if otherwise it is certainly stale ; but particularly put your finger under the bone that comes out, and if the flesh be tainted, you will immediately discover it by smelling your finger. The lean of young pork will break on being pinched. Measly pork is easily distinguishable from sound by the fat being full of kernels. London is supplied with the best pork by the dairy farms in Essex. When you purchase a sucking-pig, remember that the barrow, or sow, is better than the boar, the flesh of which is neither so sweet nor so tender. SmeU carefully at the belly, and examine about the tail, and if it has no disagreeable odour, nor any yellow and green spots in those parts, the pig is as good as you could desire; but you will in general find that the short, thick necks are the best. As to bacon and ham, observe whether the smell be fresh, and see that the fat and lean be clear, and not streaked with yellow. In marketing for bacon, observe also whether the fat feels oily, appears white, and does not crumble, and that the flesh bears a good colour, and adheres closely to the bone, in which case only the bacon is o-ood. The best bacon comes from Hampshire, but O much sold as Hampshire is Buckinghamshire and Irish bacon. The bacon of Yorkshire, Cumberland, and Gloucestershire is good. With respect to hams, you should select one withFlesh, Fowl, and Game. 115 a short shank, and try it with a sharp-pointed knife, which thrust into the flesh as near the pope’s eye as possible. If it come out only a little smeared, and smells well, you may be assured that the ham is good, but if it be daubed, and have a fetid smell, it is good for nothing. When freshly cured, and not over salted, a ham may be trimmed, and wrapped in a coarse paste, and will be found more juicy, and of finer flavour baked than boiled. York, Cumberland, Westmore- land, and Gloucestershire, are famous for their hams; but a great proportion of the hams now sold as York- shire, are Irish. The Strasbourg bacon is highly smoked, and has a delicious flavour, but is excessively dear. It may be obtained at any of the Italian oil-shops; where Bayonne and Westphalia hams can also be purchased. The latter are now imported in large quantities, and may be purchased so low as eightpence per pound ; but they are no longer prepared with the care and perfection bestowed on them when they were sold at fourteenpence per pound. Spanish and Portuguese haras have also been introduced into the English markets, and though the latter are of an ungraceful and awkward shape, they are good in colour and flavour. Bacon should always be twice salted, and patiently rubbed both times. All meat salted in pieces and packed must be entirely covered with the brine. Fowls.—As to poultry. It may generally be re- marked, that barn-door fowls are preferable to those116 How to Choose Fish, fed in coops. Much experience and observation are requisite in forming a judgment of the freshness and goodness of fowls. Any appearance of greenness about the rump is a sure sign of putrescence. The Poland breed of fowls is the largest. Dorking, in Surrey, and Epping, in Essex, are alike famed for good poultry. Bethnal Green and Mile End fatten much poultry for Leadenhall-market, but it is inferior to barn-door fowl. Good fowls are short, plump, broad in the breast, and thick in the rump. A hen is old if her legs and comb be rough, but young if they are smooth. You may also judge of the freshness by her vent, in the same manner as the cock. Young poultry may be distinguished by the pellucid appearance, and pe- culiar feel of the flesh, and by the flexibility of the breast-bone. Many poulterers, aware of this, take care to break the breast-bone of every fowl they ex- pose for sale. It may be here remarked that the poularde of France, from Mans, in the department of the Sarthe, is superior to any English fowl what- ever. Geese.—As to geese, the feet and bill of a young goose are yellow; they turn red as the bird grows old. It has but few hairs on the feet; when old, however, the feet become hairy. If fresh, the feet are supple ; but if stale, dry and stiff’. Great quan- tities of geese come to London from Devonshire, Lincolnshire, Buckinghamshire, &c. In France the greatest number are reared in the Gironde. The quantity of geese reared in France is almost Incre-Flesh, Fowl, and Game. 117 dible. The minister of the interior, Chaptal, states that 120,000, destined to be fattened, were annually sold in the market of Toulouse alone. The wild ducks from the coast—those feeding on what they can get from the salt water and the lands contiguous—are often tough and fishy, though some of them may be found tender, but not quite free from the fishy flavour. These are the birds which, with widgeons and teal, are hawked about in the streets of London, and sold sometimes at from eighteenpence to half-a-crown a couple, according to the powers of eloquence of the vendor, and the powers of gulli- bility of the purchaser, who can generally, if he has any experience, obtain them for one half the price at first demanded. Wild Duck.— Of the many varieties of wild ducks, those with red legs are held in the highest estimation. The best wild ducks are those from the fens of Lincolnshire, taken by decoys. The same species is found in the Campagna of Rome. They are esteemed a great delicacy at the Roman tables about Christ- mas time. They are wholly free from rankness and a fishy taste, and are of a fine, rich gamey flavour. Wild ducks are to be purchased, when in season, at the shops of all the respectable poulterers in London, and at a very reasonable price. Widgeon.—The widgeon, which is a smaller bird of the duck species, is not so good as the wild duck. It is coarse, often fishy, rank, and rough, and is not118 lioto to Choose Fish, fit to appear at a dinner of any pretension, except in the form of a trufifled saute. Teal.—The teal, the smallest of the tribe, is much superior, and forms a recherche roast even among the most difficult to please of the knights of the dinner- table. Teal and widgeon are supple-footed when fresh, but stiflF and dry-footed when stale. If fat, they are thick and hard on the belly, and lean if thin and soft. Duck.—A tame duck—and the remark applies also to a wild duck—when fat and young, is thick and hard on the belly, and is old when lean and thin. When fresh, the foot is pliable, but dry, if stale. Observe, that the foot of the best wild duck is red, and of the great majority of wild ducks reddish, and that it is less than that of a tame duck. Partridge.—Partridges, when young, have yel- lowish and dark-coloured bills. This bird taints first in the crop, therefore you should open its bill and smell. Next, examine the bill, legs, and vent; if the bill be white, and the legs have a bluish cast, the bird is old; but if the bill is black, and the legs yellow, it is young. If the vent be fast, it is new ; but stale, if open and green. In France, the red- legged partridge is the most esteemed ; but all par- tridges in that country are inferior to the English: they are dry and flavourless, and want the juice and succulence of the English game. Snipe.—A snipe is chosen in the same manner as the woodcock; but the snipe, when fresh is fatFlesh, Fowl, and Game. 119 in the side, under the wing, and feels thick in the vent. Turkey.—The legs of a cock turkey should be black and smooth, its spurs short, the feet limber, and the eyes lively; but if the eyes are sunk and the feet dry, the bird is stale. The hen is chosen in the same manner, only observe, that if she is with egg, the vent will be soft and open, but if not, close and hard. The county of Norfolk has the reputation of breed- ing the finest turkeys. They are in season from November to March, at which period they are suc- ceeded by turkey poults. The number of turkeys and fowls produced in France is much greater, mak- ing all allowance for the size and superficial extent of the country, than in England. Nearly half a cen- tury ago, according to Chaptal, minister of the inte- rior, the capital embarked in the poultry trade in France, amounted to 51,600,000 francs. Rabbit.—A rabbit has lonw rough claws, and grey hairs intermixed with its wool if it be old; but when young, the wool and claws are smooth. If stale it is supple, and the flesh bluish, with a kind of slime upon it; but if fresh it will be stilF, and the flesh white and dry. Hare.—A hare and leveret are thus chosen: if the claws of a hare are blunt and rugged, the division in the lip spread much, and the ears appear dry and tough, and the bones hard, it is old ; but if the claws are sharp and smooth, the division in the lip not greatly spread, and the ears will easily tear, it isHow to Choose Fish, 120 young. If fresh killed, the flesh of both will be white and stiff; but if stale, supple and blackish in many places. To discover a true leveret, feel near the foot on its fore leg, and if you find there a knob, or small bony protuberance, it is a real leveret, but if desti- tute of this, it must be a hare. Heathcock. — The heathcock and hen when young have smooth legs and bills, which become rough when old. You may judge of their freshness in the same manner as you do of the pheasant. Wheateae.—The delicate bird called a wheatear is fresh, if it has a limber foot and fat rump : other- wise it is stale. Pheasant.—A young cock-pheasant has dubbed spurs, but if old, the sjmrs will be sharp and small. If the vent be fast, the bird is fresh ; but if it be open and flabby, stale. If a hen, and young, the legs will be smooth, and her flesh of a fine grain; but if old, her legs will be rough, and, as it were, hairy, when pulled. Pheasants and heath-poults are fresh when their feet are limber, and their vents are white and stiff; but are stale when they are dry-footed, have green vents, and will peel, if touched hard. Pigeons.—Pigeons when they grow red-legged are old, and are stale when their vents are flabby and green. If fresh, they will be limber-footed, and feel fat in the vent. By this rule you may judge of all kinds of doves, fieldfares, thrushes, blackbirds, plovers, larks, &c.121 Flesh, Fowl, and Game. Woodcock.—The woodcock, if stale, will be dry- footed ; and if bad, its nose will be raoist; but if new and fat, it will be limber-footed, thick, and hard. Capon.—A capon is known by a short and pale comb, a thick rump and belly, and a fat vein on the side of the breast; when young, the spurs will be short and blunt, and the legs smooth; and if fresh, the vent will be close and hard; but if stale, loose; which last remark may be applied to cocks and hens. Cock.—A cock when young has short and dubbed spurs, but it should be observed that the spurs of old cocks may be scraped so as to deceive any but a very accurate observer. If fresh his vent will be hard and close; but you cannot be too particular in observing the spurs, as the market people frequently scrape them. Eggs.—As to eggs, hold the great end of the egg to your tongue; if it feels warm, it is new ; if cold, bad; and so in proportion to the heat or cold is the goodness of the egg. Another way to know is to put the egg in a pan of cold water, the fresher the egg, the sooner it will fall to the bottom; if rotten, it will swim at the top. This is a sure way not to be deceived. The best way to keep eggs is in bran or meal, turning them frequently; some, however, place the small end downwards in fine wood-ashes: to keep them for a long period they may be buried in salt, which it is said will preserve them in almost any climate.How to Choose Fish, §'c. 122 Butter,—When you buy butter, trust not to that which may be good in external appearance, but try in the middle, and if your smell and taste be good, you cannot be deceived. Cheese.—If old cheese be rough-coated, rugged, or dry at top, beware of little worms called hoppers, and also of mites, a still smaller animal. If it be full of holes, moist, or spongy, hoppers may also be ex- pected to be found in it. If any crack or any soft and perished place appear on the outside, examine into its depth, for the greater part may be hidden within. Cheese is to be chosen by its moist smooth coat. A fat cheese, if of much size, has generally rounded edges, and the sides are swelled out more or less ; although excessive swelling out of the sides is not a good sign; neither is an elevation of the top desirable. A poor cheese has usually keen edges, and the sides are straight. Fat cheese may also be known by rubbing a small portion of it between the finger and thumb: if it soon becomes smooth and soft, melting as it were on the finger by the animal heat, it is fat; but if it remains tough and crumbly, it is not rich nor of prime quality. No cheese should be chosen which has the surface much swelled, such swelling being an indication of its containing holes and being badly made, and that it has most probably also an unplea- sant smell and taste. Besides these indications, no cheese should be purchased without being both tasted and smelled.CHAPTER VI. ON SOUPS AND BROTHS. r every great dinner—indeed I may say at every dinner of the least pretension in the most civilised countries—you be- gin by eating soup. Often in Paris and at Brussels, between September and April, at dinners at restaurants, you also commence by half a dozen, a dozen, or eighteen oysters by way of appetiser; but this practice is not resorted to at formal dinners, or, as the French say, diners (Tapparat, in private houses; though if three or four intimate friends are dining together sans faqon, oysters may be, and often are, introduced before the soup. In Russia the custom is to take caviare, or a slice of raw or pickled herring before soup, which relish is followed by a glass of Cognac or some liqueur. But these are customs not likely to be Introduced into more civilized countries; customs, moreover, quite repugnant to English habits. The basis of nearly every soup is a stock or broth124 Soups and Broths. called by the French a grand bouillon. The best way of making this stock is by boiling, or rather stewing down a sufficient quantity of properly prepared and washed beef in a marmite, or iron or earthen pot, or stewpan. The water must be judiciously apportioned to the quantity of meat. The French, who make the best bouillon in the world, generally pour a quart of water, on half a kilogramme (equivalent to about a pound) of meat, and let it simmer from five-and-a- half to six hours. When the liquid is sufficiently diminished to receive the vegetables, a few young carrots, an onion with a couple of cloves stuck in it, a parsnip, a little celery and a bunch of thyme and parsley are added. The water should be cold, and seasoned with a little salt. The pot or earthen vessel should be placed on a clear fire, and allowed to remain till the liquid is diminished a third. This bouillon is the basis of most soups, and it is called a consomme when a large fowl or the half of a turkey is added. Some cooks use old partridges or pigeons instead of fowls. It is an axiom in cookery, however, that at least two sorts of meat are necessary to make a good bouillon. When the bouillon is skimmed it serves as the stock for all kinds of soup. It cannot be too often stated that the basis of all soup, and indeed of all broth, except mutton, should be juicy young beef and pure soft water. It should be remembered that the trimmings and the bones of fresh meat, the necks of poultry, the liquor in which a joint has been boiled.Soups and Broths. 125 and the shank-bones of mutton, are excellent addi- tions to the stock-pot, and should be reserved for it. As soup is the food of childhood and old age, it should be restorative and nourishing. The great de- fect of English soups is, not the want of meat, but tlie want of a proper boiling or concoction. This radical fault is vilely but vainly attempted to be sup- plied by the excessive use of seasoning and herbs. The following elementary rules for making nourish- ing broth, are from the French of Parmentier :— I. Sound, healthful, fresh viands. II. Vessels of earthenware in preference to those of metal, as a less degree of heat keeps them boiling; and once heated, a few hot cinders will maintain that slight degree of ebullition which is wanted. III. Double the weight of water to that of the meat used. IV. A sufficient quantity of common salt to facilitate the separation of the blood and slime that co- agulates under the form of scum. V. In the early stage of the process, such a degree of heat as will throw off the whole scum. VI. A lower, but an equable temperature, that the soup may simmer gently till the substances employed, whether nutritive, colouring, or flavouring, are perfectly combined with the water, according to their several degrees of solubility.126 Soups and Broths. Great care should be taken to have all the utensils clean. Pots, saucepans, and stewpans, should be well tinned, especially for soups and gravies, as they are obliged to remain a long time upon the fire. What- ever is boiled in a brass or copper pot, should be taken out while it is hot; if left to cool, it would have a disagreeable taste, and be very unwholesome. As a convincing proof of this, if the liquor that any kind of meat is boiled in remains in the pot till the next day, the fat at the top will be quite green, and the liquor of course very pernicious. Iron pots, sauce- pans, &c., are the most wholesome, but they spoil the colour of many articles of cookery, and therefore are not much used ; but they are useful for anything that would not be discoloured. Pots lined with earthen- ware are certainly preferable to any other kind, but they are very expensive. The broth to be used for soups and gravies should be kept separate ; because the broth of the stock-pot, being required for white as well as brown sauces, should not be coloured ; whilst that for soups, unless they be white soups, should always be made brown. If, however, you have more coloured broth than you require for soup, you may apply it to making brown gravies. An excellent stock-pot may be produced with all the bones you can collect, carcasses, and the under or claw-legs of poultry or game—all bones and parings, in short, of flesh and fowl. Put them intoSoups and Broths. 127 a large pipkin with water ; or if you have the liquor in w'hich beef, or mutton, or veal, has been boiled, use it in preferenee. To this you may add, if you have it, a few ladlefuls of the water in which a ham has been boiled, first skimming off the fat. With the bones, put a bunch of leeks, a bunch of green celery, an onion with three cloves stuck into it, a couple of carrots, a turnip, a bit of parsnip, some salt, a bunch of herbs, and two or three sheep’s melts. A small quantity of sugar will also greatly improve the flavour of stock, and indeed of all rich soups. Let the whole stew simmer very slowly during seven or eight hours, keeping it closely covered all the while. Season it with a little salt. When reduced to a good consommee, and you are satisfied with its flavour, strain it through a sieve, and put it by for use. This broth, if required, may be used for making white soups. All soups should be closely covered during their boiling, by which the heat will be very much econo- mised. There may be, however, occasionally some deviations from this course, which must depend upon the discretion of the cook. In making soups and broths, stale as well as fat meat should be avoided; the first will impart an ill taste, and the last will be attended with considerable waste. Of the kinds that will keep are brown soup, hare soup, soup of game of any kind, giblet soup, and generally all soups made of the meat of animals ofSoups and Broths. 128 • mature growth. Soups into which vegetables and young meats enter in any quantity, are best when fresh made, as these things have a strong tendency to ferment. This also applies to veal and fish soups. This tendency may be partly checked by boiling them up, or changing the vessels. The best meat soups are, beyond question, those which are made from the lean alone, without much, if any, fat. In making pea-soup with dry peas, soft water should be used; with green peas, hard water, which contri- butes to the preservation of their colour. A soup should never be permitted to grow cold in the vessel in which it has been boiled. If not imme- diately wanted, it should be poured out into a clean pan; one made of stoneware is the best, as neither salts nor acids will act upon it, a consideration of es- sential importance. While cooling, the soup should not be covered over; nor iiideed is it desirable to cover soup after it is cold, except with a hair sieve. It facilitates the operation, if meat for soup or gravy be cut into pieces of about half a pound each, and improves both the flavour and colour, if the meat, onions, and carrots be stewed at the bottom of the soup-pot or digester, before the water is added to it, with a bit of butter to prevent burning. To this previous drawing out of the juices without much or any water, much of the superiority of French soups is to be attributed. Some French cooks, to re-Soups and Broths. 129 gulate the flavour of soups more exactly, boll the roots, herbs, and vegetables separately to a mash, and then squeeze them and add the juice till the desired flavour is obtained. As long boiling is necessary to make good soup, particularly where the whole or the greater part of the virtues of butchers’ meat are to be extracted, it will be necessary to add more water from time to time as it boils away; and, in order to save time, it will be best to add the water boiling, or, at least, very hot to the soup. In the addition of herbs, other vegetables, or condiments, care should be taken that they are in such quantities that no one may predo- minate, unless, as is sometimes the case with celery or onion, it is desired that there should be a predo- minancy of a particular flavour. As celery is so generally used to flavour soups, the cook should know that, when the root is scarce, the seeds bruised and added to the soup a few minutes only before it is served up, will flavour it well; indeed the seeds will be generally found superior to the root for the purpose of flavouring. Boiling the seeds, however, for a long time, will dissipate their essential oil on which their flavour chiefly depends. This ob- servation applies with equal force to all spices, the long boiling of which, in open vessels, must neces- sarily dissipate their oils in which their good qualities reside; indeed, sometimes a few drops of their es- KSoups and Broths. 130 sential oil, as of cinnamon or cassia, will supply the place of the spice itself. The boiling of poultry and game in the stock-pot is a practice very common abroad. When stewed enough to be tender, they should be served imme- diately with a good sauce. In regard to broths, some of the general directions concerning boiling must be carefully attended to, as well as the preceding observations on the preparation of soups. Broth may be made from the coarsest pieces of meat, and of any strength, by adapting the water to the quantity of meat, and by sufficient simmering. To make the broth good the meat shotdd always be simmered till it is tender, and will separate without difficulty from the bones. In every case, as well of broth as of soup, in order to obtain them with the least boiling, and consequently most econo- mically, the meat should be cut into small pieces, the bones, if large, broken, and the joints, such as those in a neck of mutton, separated, unless the meat be wanted to be served up with the broth or other- wise as a whole joint. Broth, I may safely say, is the essence and founda- tion of all cookery. Among our neighbours, the French, the broth-pot, or pot-au-feu, may be said to be the substratum of the cookery of the middle and work- inji classes. To them it yields a substantial nourish- inent. Any parings or trimmings of meat will serve to make the first broth, provided the scum and fat be131 Soups and Broths. carefully removed. If this be not sedulously attended to, the broth will be too highly coloured to mix with the sauce. Those, therefore, who are charged with the stock-pots should skim them slowly over a gentle fire, adding at intervals a little cold water, that the scum may rise more copiously. Broth should always be in the larder of a good kitchen, as it is perpetually required for sauces, braises, soups, consommes, and essences. The great English soups are, real turtle, mock turtle, ox-tail, gravy, giblet, hare, green-pea soup, and pea soup. The great English broths are, ehicken broth, mutton broth. Scotch-barley broth, veal broth, and beef broth or tea, which is almost equivalent to the French grand houillon. Real turtle soup is seldom made In private houses, unless of the very highest distinction. It is generally obtained ready prepared from the Waterloo Hotel at Liverpool, and from some of the great taverns in the City in Bishopsgate or Aldersgate Street, or from Gunter’s at the West end, who has jars ready pre- pared, from the West Indies and Brazil. Twenty-five years ago a great deal of turtle used to come to Lon- don prepared by Weeks, of the Bush Hotel,* Bristol. * At the beginning of this century, Weeks’ Bush Inn, at Bristol, was famous for its Christmas fare. The bill of fare for Christmas 1800 was as follows:—A turtle of 120 lbs., 72 pots of turtle, a bustard, red game, black game, fish of almost in-132 Soups and Broths. But Bristol then, and antecedently, stood at the head of the .West-India trade, and there were those who preferred the Bristol-made turtle to that of Birch, Bleaden, or Kay. But the Bush Hotel no longer exists, and London now bears off the bell for its turtle soup, as well as for its calipash and calipee. Turtle generally arrives in this country about the latter end of May or the beginning of June, though, from the uncertainties of a sea voyage, no exact period for its first appearance can be fixed. In the year 1814 it was so unusually late, that at the banquet given in Guildhall to the Emperor of Russia and the King of Prussia, on the 18th of June, there was no turtle to be had. The weight of a turtle varies from 30lbs. to 500lbs. or 600 lbs., and the price from 25. to 5s. per pound. The cooking of a turtle is generally performed by a professed artist, whose fee is from one to two guineas. Some epicures prefer the turtle cut into steaks and broiled, to be eaten with melted but- ter, Cayenne pepper, and the juice of a Seville orange. They say the flesh thus quickly dressed retains most flavour. This soup is, says Careme, the most lengthened in its details of any that are known ; “ the composition numerable kinds, venison, 42 hares, 87 wild ducks, 17 pheasants, .41 partridges, 17 wild geese, 149 snipes, 81 woodcocks, 17 wild turkeys, 44 tame turkeys, 10 capons, 52 barrels of Purfleet oysters.Soups and Broths. 133 of its seasoning claims an able hand and a strong memory: the palate of the cook who executes it should be very fine; none of the ingredients should predominate, not even the Cayenne or allspice, which the English cook inconsiderately employs.” The great artist divides the dressing of a turtle into four operations, and on each expends a page. In order to dress the turtle as it ought to be pre- pared, he says, two large legs of veal, eight fowls, lean ham in slices, sweet herbs, beef stock, the nut of a ham, cloves, Cayenne, allspice, mace, long pep- per, white pepper, eight bottles of dry Madeira, and sixty eggs, are necessary. It Is therefore clearly better for those who wish to give turtle soup at a dinner, to have a quart or gallon of it from some first-rate hotel, than to go to the expense of all these ingredients. Gravy, ox-tail, mock turtle, and giblet soups are much more common at English dinners than real turtle soup, for the two suflScient reasons, that they are more easily prepared, and that they are less costly. Ox-tail, mock turtle, hare, and giblet soups are still made in the fashion in which they were at the beginning of the present century. Calf-tail soup is simply made by substituting pieces of calf-tail for ox-tail. It is much more delicate than ox-tail, and very nutritious. The stocks for white soups are made of veal, mutton, fowl, rabbit, chicken, ox-feet, calf’s head and feet, with134 Soups and Broths. bacon and ham. In drawing these stoeks, a bit of hanij ham-bone, or lean bacon, is used with the usual seasoning. Fish may be used in thickening meat white soups; they give a turtleish lightness and flavour. Eggs make an excellent thickening for the poorer kinds; but the richer or more delicate, are thickened with almonds and artificial or real cream. Though the stocks be properly made and well- seasoned, the thickening and finishing, nevertheless, require great care. As to French soups, their name is legion. There is scarcely a complete. French treatise on the art of cookery that does not contain receipts for at least 150 soups; but those most used at English dinner- tables are, the puree d la Reine, the puree des ca- rottes au riz, the puree de lapins, d la Chantilly, d la Colbert, d la Dauphine, the potage d la brunoise aux pointes d'asperges, d la paysanne, the d la Julienne, and d la jardiniere. There are also the bisques Jecrevisse, de crabe, de chevrettes, Sec. But for all these soups the aid of a really accomplished cook is necessary. Italian soups are generally of macaroni, semolina, or of rice; but these, whether d la Medicis or d la Corinne, are much better prepared after the French than after Italian receipts. No human being who had any taste in cookery would think of giving the German soup made of green rye, or the soup of poached eggs after the Styrian fashion; and Russian and Polish soups areSoups and Broths. 135 not suitable to English stomachs. The Russian cabbage soup may suit a people who love train oil (which Theodore Hook used to say was “bad for the liver, but good for the lights ”), but assuredly it would be rejected by any civilized Englishman. I have said in another place that the Dutch eel soup, and the soup of herring-roes, is very relishing. To sum up, a host in England can never go wrong in ordering in the winter months for his guests an ox-tail, a mock turtle, a calf-tail, a giblet or mulliga- tawney from among English soups; or a brunoise or pur'ee de gelinotte, a Julienne, or a puree d la Reine if he requires a French soup. For the spring and summer, English spring soup may be given with turtle, green pea, a soup a la Conde, or a puree de navets, or a consomme d la Xavier.CHAPTER VII. HOW TO CLEAN AND BOIL FISH, IIE orreat thino- to be attended to in the O O preparation of fish, is to have every par- ticle that is foul or offensive cleansed away. This must, however, be ac- complished in such a manner, that the fish may still retain its original firm and stiff appearance, which is often destroyed by the rough handling it gets while undergoing the process of cleaning. It too frequently happens, owing to the ignorance of cockney dealers, that the firmness and fine flavour of the fish is washed away. If not wholly destroyed, it is in most cases greatly impaired. It is impossible to see one of these smirking, smiling tradesmen with a watering- pot in hand, without wishing to give him the benefit of a shower-bath by means of his own engine, or hoisting him (to use a Shakespearian phrase) by his own petard. In cleaning fish, a pump of clear spring water is a great advantage, as the force of the water pumped over the fish will wash off all that is required without suh-137 Hoid to clean and boil Fish. jecting it to scrubbing or handling. In London a small band-engine or hose might be used for the pur- pose. As a general rule, it may be remarked, that all fish should be laid flat on its side, on either a board or a flat stone. It should be held by the head and shoulders with the left hand, and all the scales and slime should be scraped oflP with the right. This done, the operation should be repeated on the reverse side. The fins should then be cut off, and the hand-engine or pump used upon the fish to remove any loose scales or slime that may still adhere to it. The fish should then be opened, the intestines carefully extracted, well scraping the blood out from the back-bone, then wash the fish by a pump or in a pan of clean water, handling it as little as possible. Lastly, take out your fish and hang it up to drain till required for use. Never leave a fish in the water one moment after it is washed. If allowed to soak, the fine flavour of the fish is very materially lessened. Cod-fish—requires great care in cleaning, parti- cularly in cleansing the back-bone from blood, which spoils the appearance of the sound, and sometimes renders it too unsightly for the table. To prevent this, the fish should be cut open for some distance below the vent, the sound upon one side should be carefully cut off with a sharp knife, as close as pos-' sible to the back-bone, still leaving it attached to the opposite side, and then the blood or the intestines of the back-bone should be scraped out with the point of138 How to clean and boil Fish. a knife, or scrubbed out with a small brush; by this means not only will the blood be removed, but the sound will wear a much more presentable appear- ance, and can be more easily carved, and without in- juring the other parts of the fish. Fishes that are to be dressed in their scales, should be dipped in water, and rubbed with a coarse towel to remove the slime. But great care should be taken to rub only from the head downwards, for if rubbed against the grain, some of the scales may become displaced, which would, in a great measure, frustrate the effect intended to be produced by dressing the fish with this coating upon them. Pilchards—should be dressed without wiping at all; whilst sprats, which are better when scaled, may be deprived of this outward covering with a coarse cloth, without bruising or injuring the fish. Mackerel—intended for frying, should be split down the back to the tail, as indeed should all fish meant to be cured, whether in pickle or dried; but whitings, perch, small trout, and all other small fish, should be opened at the belly. In the preparation of trout, the back-bone must be scraped very clean, otherwise the blood collected there will have a black and muddy appearance, extremely disagreeable to the eye. Plaice—may be considerably improved by being beaten with a flat piece of wood or a rolling-pin, wliich has the effect of making the fish eat moreHow to clean and boil Fish. 139 firmly. It also removes, in a great measure, the flabby and watery appearance this fish possesses. Red Mullets—are usually cli’essed without being either scaled or gutted; if fresh, it improves them to extract the intestines carefully, throwing away the garbage, and replacing the liver; but this can only be done when very fresh, and the liver firm. This process should never be attempted after the fish has been more than six hours out of the water. Skates, Thoknbacks, and all fishes of this kind should be skinned, a process which will be greatly faci- litated by previously scalding the fish in hot water. Salt-fish—requires great attention in its pre- paration for dressing, and in being properly soaked in water. It is from neglect of these requisites that salt-fish is not so highly esteemed as an article of food as it deserves to be. How often do we see a piece of cod or ling as hard as a stone, and as salt as the very brine, from having been carelessly thrown only half-an-hour previous to boiling into water, perhaps hardly suflficient to cover it, and from thence transferred to the pot. It is then vigorously boiled until the cook thinks it is suffi- ciently done to send to table. Cooked in this barbarous fashion, the best salt fish would not be worth the eating. Ling—when being prepared for table, should soak, fully immersed, at least twelve hours in water, and then be taken out and well scrubbed with a hard brush, or rubbed with a coarse cloth. It should next be placed140 How to clean and loil Fish. either on a flat stone or board to drain for six or eight hours. An experienced cook would then place it in lukewarm water, and let it remain soaking: for from ten to twelve hours longer, when it will have become pliant and tender, and also swell considerably. Warm water and milk will considerably improve both the flavour and appearance of the fish; a little vinegar may also be added as an additional means of extract- ing the salt. The fish requires, however, two soak- ings, the first water being a kind of pickle, which becomes in time as salt as the brine from which the fish was taken. Dried Cod—requires only half as much soaking each time as salt ling; unless, indeed, the fish be a very large one, in which case it will require to be soaked nearly as long as a ling. When the fish is placed in water over night, to be ready early in the morning, throw one or two wine-glassfuls of vinegar into the water; take out the fish the first thing in tlie morning, and hang it up by its tail to drain. In English cookery there is little or no variety in the preparation of fish for the table. Three or four modes only of dressing this delicacy are known among us»—frying, boiling, stewing, grilling, &c., and the numerous preparations of fish by which the palate is delighted and the health maintained in other coun- tries, are not to be seen among the refinements of Eno-lish dinners, when these latter are confined toUow to clean and boil Fish, 141 dishes of home manufacture. By some strange pre- judice, fish is never eaten among us except at the very beginning of dinner, following the soup. Its appearance at a second course would be considered an anomaly in England; and yet no set of persons in the world will, very truly says the “ Magazine of Domestic Economy,” relish fish at a second course, on the Continent, more than those Englishmen who have left their prejudices behind them In their native country. In fish, England has always enjoyed an admitted pre-eminence over the nations of the Continent. The fish brought to her markets is fresher, finer, and in greater variety, yet the uniformity of her cookery in this respect is alternately to foreigners the theme of wonder and ridicule. Billingsgate, adjoining the Custom House, is the mart whence this vast metro- polis is supplied. The fishmongers exhibit their stores on trays of marble or of lead. Every tide brings up fleets of vessels varying in size, the Berwick smack, the Dutch galliot, the Norway fishing-boats and the well-appointed steamer. There are smacks laden with salmon packed in ice; Dutch schuyts with their wells filled with luxurious turbots, or deli- cious eels; boats and barges almost sinking with their plentiful cargoes of cod, haddock, skate, soles, herrings, or mackerel, according to the season; oys- ters, crabs, lobsters, crawfish, &c., &c. Hither the Brighton mackerel and soles, at the commencement142 How to clean and boil Fish. of the season, are forwarded by land and rail carriage, and occasionally those welcome guests at the tables of the great and opulent, the john-dory, and the mullet, both gray and scarlet. The traffic is under proper regulations. Oysters, muscles, cockles, sprats, and other fish that are sold by measure, are subject to the inspection of the city^meters. Around Billings- gate and in its vicinity are numerous dealers in salt and dried fish, such as salmon, cod, ling, and her- rings. In the spring and summer seasons the supply from Newcastle of that great delicacy, pickled sal- mon, is very considerable, and great quantities daily arrive fresh from Ireland and Scotland by steam and rail. The money expended annually in the purchase of fish landed at this place, is of enormous amount: it has been said that the Dutch used to take yearly from our current coin, fifty thousand guineas for tur- bot only ! The principal market-day at Billingsgate is Monday. Dr. M'Culloch asserts that a small proportion of sugar will keep fish perfectly fresh for several days; but the fish must be fresh when it is applied, as it will not recover from taint. Sugar also cures salmon and white fish, which keeps any length of time in a dried state, provided it is not allowed to get damp. A little salt may be added to the sugar to please the taste. The directions are:—To lay the fish upon its side and rub it with a little sugar, particularly about theHow to clean and boil Fish. 143 stomach and throat; two or three tea-spoonfuls is enough for a good-sized salmon. If it be kept fresh, there will be no occasion to open it. Salmon—if large, should be dressed in slices like cod; if small, on the contrary, it may be dressed whole, fixing the tail in the mouth by means of a skewer, and boil it in a turbot-kettle. The fish is sent to table resting on its belly side, the back being uppermost. The liver and spawn, as in the cod, takes a longer time than the other parts to boil it thoroughly; and if eaten underdone, it is extremely unwholesome. Salmon, when not crimped, should be put into cold water and boiled gradually, but if dressed in thin slices, it should be plunged into hot water at once. After allowing it to remain a minute or two in the fish-kettle, raise it out of the hot water for a couple of minutes; let this process be repeated three or four times, and it will cause the curd to set, and the fish to eat more crisp. When you have fol- lowed these directions, allow the fish to boil at a moderate pace until it is thoroughly done, for nothing is more indigestible than underdone salmon. Be careful in removing the scum during the boiling. The hardest water is recommended as preferable for boiling salmon. OBSERVATIONS ON BOILING FISH. If the fishmonger does not clean it, fish is seldom very nicely done; but those in great towns wash the144 How to clean and boil Fish. fish beyond what is necessary for cleaning, and by perpetual watering, diminish the flavour. "When quite clean, if to be boiled, some salt and a little vinegar should be put into the water to give firm- ness ; but cod, whiting, and haddock, are far better if a little salted, and kept a day; and if it be not very hot weather, they will be good for two days. Fresh-water fish has often a muddy smell and taste: to take this off, soak it in strong salt and water after it is nicely cleaned; or, if of a size to bear it, scald it in the same compound; then dry and dress it. The fish must be put into the water while cold, and set to boil very gently, or the outside will break before the inner part is done. Crimped Fish should be put into boiling water, with salt; and when it boils up, pour a little cold water in to check extreme heat, and let it simmer for a few minutes by the side of the fire.CHAPTER VIII. ON FISH. .UTARCH tells us that Symmachus and Polycrates wrote treatises to prove that the “innocent fishes” should be respected, and that they who ate of them were among the most ferocious of men. Ac- cording to Columella, however, Apollo was called U^rKpxyoi; by the Greeks, because they considered that the god of music, poetry, and eloquence should only feed on the most delicate and dainty diet; and such the Greeks considered fish. It is curious that the epithet “innocent” is also applied to fish, naturally most voracious, by St. Augustine. “ Fishes were spared from the malediction,” says this father of the Church, “ because it was not the fish of the sea, but the fruits of the earth which contributed to the fall of our first parents. Whatever Plutarch or Augus- tine may say to the contrary, however, fish was used as a diet by the earliest Christians; and none were more celebrated in increasing the breed of fish. L146 On Fish. whether on the Continent or in England, than the earlier Churchmen—the much abused monks of the middle ages. There is, in truth, no more wholesome or palatable diet than good fish; and one dish of fish, and some- times two, is generally found at a gentleman’s dinner- table in England, if he entertains a family-party of four or six. But though we have the finest fish in the world in this country, we do not dress it in the variety of ways in which it is served in France. Unless immediately after the soup, we seldom eat fish, whereas in most Continental countries it is served dressed as an entree, and in this manner it is most wholesome, as well as very relishing. Probably, turbot, during the height of the London season, is more frequently seen than any other fish at English dinner-tables. It is almost always plainly boiled and served with lobster sauce, whereas in France it is served in fifteen or twenty ways, at the least, as will appear from the following list:— Turbot sauce flamande. Turbot sauce hollandaise. Emince de turbot a la Bechamel au maigre. Emincd au gratin garni de pommes de terre. Escalope de turbot aux truftes, sauce P^rigueux. Saute de turbot sauce au beurre et aux queues d’ecrevisses. Saute de turbot sauce aux fines herbes et aux huitres.On Fish. 147 Saute de turbot sauce a la genoise. Filets de turbot a la Salute Menehould. Filets de turbot pannes a Tallemande. Filets a I’anglaise sauce aux chevrettes. Papillotes des filets de turbot a la maitre d’hotel. Orly de turbot. Fritot de turbot a la proven9ale, &c. Juvenalj in his fourth Satire, tells us what store Roman epicm*es set on turbot, and gives a des- cription of the company assembled by order of Domitian to pronounce on the goodness of the fish. The graphic pages of Suetonius, the vigorous periods of Tacitus, and the scourging satire of Juvenal, were employed to show up the vices of Domitian. Berchoux, in his poem “ La Gastronomic,” thus paraphrases Juvenal:— “ Domitien un jour se presente au sdnat; Peres conscrits, dit-il, un affaire d’etat M’appelle aupres de vous. Je ne viens point vous dire Qu’il s’agit de vieller au salut de I’empire; Exciter votre zele, et prendre vos avis Sur les destines de Rome, et des peuples conquis; Agiter avec vous ou la paix ou la guerre, Vains projets sur lesquels vous n’avez qu’k vous taire; II s’agit d’un turbot: daignez deliberer Sur la sauce qu’on doit lui faire preparer.... Le scnat mit aux voix cette affaire importante, Et le turbot fut mis k la sauce piquante.” * * J uvenal relates the story somewhat differently :— “ Sed deerat pisci patinae mensura; vocantur Ergo in concilium proceres,” &c.—Sat. II.On Fish. 148 The turbot is found in all seas. They are very large in the ocean and the Mediterranean. Eondelet says he has seen turbot five fathoms long, four in breadth, and a foot thick. Such turbots have never been seen in Ensfland. A turbot weighing: from ten to twelve pounds is generally coarse and woolly. The best flavoured are the moderate sized, called chicken turbot, weighing from three to six pounds. In the middle ages, the turbot was called the phasianus aquations, or water-pheasant. The turbot is very voracious, and is especially fond of cray-fish. Tur- bot is thus described in one of the volumes of the “Almanach des Gourmands”:— “ Turbot is the pheasant of the sea, because of its beauty: it is the king of Lent, because of its majestic size. It is ordinarily served au court bouillon. The turbot has the simplicity and majesty of a hero, and every species of ornament ofi’ends him much more than it honours him. On the day after he makes his first appearance, it is quite another affair; he may be then disguised. The best manner of effecting this is to dress him in Bechamel, a prepartion thus called after the Marquis de Bechamel, mattre (Thutel of Louis XIV., who has for ever immortalised himself by this one ragout." Turbot is best from March to September, but is eaten all the year round. Sturgeon, called the royal fish (because by a sta- tute of Edward II. it is said “ the king shall have149 On Fish. sturgeon taken in the sea, or elsewhere, within the realm ”), is seldom seen at private tables in England. Two distinct species have been distinguished by the fishermen of the Solway Firth ; but several species frequent the rivers of Russia, Caviare, so much used in Russia, and now very generally imported into this country, is made of the roe of the female sturgeon. The flesh of the sturgeon, besides being preserved by salting and pickling, is in request for the table while fresh, and is generally served with a rich sauce. The appearance and flavour of stur- geon is not unlike that of veal. The flesh, like that of most of the cartilaginous fishes, is more firm and compact than is usual among those of the osseous families. When fresh, sturgeon is as white as the very finest veal; when red, nothing whatever can be done with it. There are thirty different methods of dressing sturgeon in France. I give the names of a few of them:— Darne d’esturgeon a la broche sauce genoise. Esturgeon en Tortue. Esturgeon au vin de madere ou de champagne. Cotelletes d’esturgeon a la Sainte Menehould. Filets d’esturgeon a la Orly, Papillotes d’esturgeon aux fines herbes. Sturgeons in England are roasted, or baked, or boiled in Ude’s manner, or served h la Beaufort, for which there is a receipt in Francatelli’s “ Modern Cook.”On Fish. 150 Portions of this fish may be also served in llan- quettes, and croquettes, and as cutlets. I give Careme’s receipt for serving a sturgeon a la Napoleon. It will be seen that it requires three bottles of champagne. Esturgeon a la Napoleon.—Clean and tie up a piece of sturgeon (two feet and a half in length), dress it in a Mirepoix moistened with three bottles of champagne, and two ladiesful of consommk; proceed with it as above directed; take off the skin, glaze, and dish it, surrounding it with a ragout a la Regence, consisting of small quenelles of whitings, with cray- fish-butter, trufiBes, carps’ tongues, and mushrooms, of each a plateful; before putting them into the sauce, mix a good piece of crayfish-butter and a little glaze with it; the ragout should receive scarcely a boiling afterwards; lay upon the ragout some white roes of carp, and livers of turbots, and surround it with a garniture of fillets of soles, decorated with truffles; fix eight hatelettes (skewers) garnished with truffles, crayfish, and smelts, turned round, and boiled in salt water, and always serve a portion of the ragout in a sauce-boat. In America they make a sturgeon soup from the fresh fish, and there is also a “sturgeon soup a I’an- glaise et a I’indienne”—the receipts for which may be found in Francatelli’s “ Modern Cook.” The Romans much vaunted a sturgeon, and when served crowned it with flowers. The Greeks alsoOn Fish. 151 considered it as the best dish at their grand re- pasts. Next to turbot, the fish most in request at English dinner-tables during the season is salmon. Our chief salmon fisheries are carried on in the rivers and es- tuaries of Scotland; but the finest salmon in the London market comes from the Southampton water, near Christchurch; and much good salmon is also sent to Billingsofate both from Ireland and Holland. The produce of the fishings of the rivers Tay, Dee, Don, Skey, Findhorn, Beauley, Borriedale, Thurso, and the coasts adjacent, are conveyed in steam-boats and small sailing-vessels to Aberdeen, where they are packed with ice In boxes, and sent to London. The Severn salmon is in season in January, Feb- ruary, March, October, November, and December; and the Scotch from March to September. There are innumerable ways of dressing salmon practised by French cooks, such as Darne de saumon au vin de champagne, sauce au beurre d'Screvisses, sau- mon au court bouillon, d la franqaise, d la Re- gence, d la Cardinale, &c.; but it may be ques- tioned whether salmon is ever eaten with more relish or satisfaction by Englishmen than when plain boiled, either whole or in slices, in the Enslish fashion. It may be served with lobster, shrimp, Dutch, or parsley- and-butter sauce. The slices of crimped salmon served at London dinners in May and June, are, to my mind, perfection.152 On Fish. Nonius says of this fish,—" Camem enim habet teneram dulcem et prajpinquem.” The codfish brought to England is much finer tlian that sold on the Continent; and from Novem- ber to April there can be no better dish than slices of crimped cod, done either in the English or the Dutch fashion, which most Englishmen prefer to the more elaborate dressing of French cooks. A Becha- mel of codfish in the French fashion is, however, a very good thing; and cahillaud grille a la Laguipierre is .excellent. This last was said to be a favourite dish with the late Duke of Wellington; and certain it is, that it was often placed on the table both at Strath- fieldsaye and at Apsley House. The haddock, which is now more commonly served at English dinner-tables than in my youth, is an excel- lent fish when of the proper size. The Dublin Bay haddock is pre-eminently good, and merits the en- comium of Galen:—“ Aselli si probo utantur ali- mento et in maripuro deguut, carnis bonitate cum saxatilibus contendunt.”* Pliny also in his ninth book, cap. xvii., says the haddock ‘‘post acipenserem apud antiquos nobilis simum piscium.”f Haddocks, to my thinking, are best dressed in the English fashion—boiled, either * Galen, Lib. III.—Dc Aliment. See also Lib. Till.— Methodi Medendi. f See also, Nonius de Re Cibar.—Lib. Till.On Fish. 153 with egg or parsley-and-butter sauce. In Ireland, they sometimes serve them with cockle sauce: and an excellent friend of mine (the son of a late accom- plished and eloquent Chief Justice of the Queen’s Bench) tells me they are admirable in this fashion. In French cookery, the haddock is generally dressed and served as codfish is dressed. There are worse things than a fillet of haddock a la Royale, or a Vitalienne. There is no more nourishing or easily digested fish than the sole, and it is in season all the year round. The richest and largest sole, called by some the black sole, comes from the Devon coast; and these, as well as the Dover sole, and the black sole of Ireland, are best plain boiled. The smaller and whiter sole found on the coast of Sussex is best fried. Lemery calls the sole, perdrix marina (the partridge of the sea); and Ovid classes it with the flounder, to which it is far superior. “ Fulgentes soleae candore et concolorillis passer.” There are thirty or more excellent ways of serving sole in the French fashion, the principal of which are a la Colbert, a la Perigord, au gratin, en matelote nor- mande, a la provenqale, filets de soles aux truffes, et aux fines herbes. All of these are excellent, but re- quire a good cook. If you are not sure of your cook, order your soles to be fried or plainly boiled. I must say a word on the fish of which the cele- brated Roman orator Hortensius was so fond—a fishOn Fish. 154 furnishing occasion for the epigrams of Martial, and the scathing satire of Juvenal. Red mullet is only prime during the warm weather, and is best done en papillote. It may also be done en caisse aux fines herbes, a Vitalienne, and a la Cardinale, but in no way is it so good as en papillote. Mullet should never be drawn ; it is sufficient to take out the gills, as the liver and trail are the best parts of the fish. When we know that Apicius spent £60,000 to vary the taste of sauces, we can well believe that a sum of £240 was given in the olden time, at Rome, for three mullets of a large size. I will only speak of two other fishes, the john- dory and the lamprey. The john-dory is finest on the western coast of England, and is best plain boiled. Quin, the actor, a great gourmand, was remarkably fond of this fish and red mullet, and used to go down to Exeter for the purpose of eating them. One morning after his arrival in the west, his valet came in to call him as usual. ‘‘Well, John, any dory in the market?” “ No, sir.” “Very well; I’ll lay a-bed to-day. You may call me this time to-morrow.” There are two kinds of lampreys—the marine lamprey, found at Worcester and Gloucester, where it is dressed and preserved, to be heated up with a wine. The other, the lampem, is found in the Thames from October till March. The lamprey is in the best condition in April and May. Receipts155 On Fish. for dressing lamprey, a la Forey, a la Beauchamp, and a la Beaufort, may be found in Francatelli’s “ Modern Cook.” While on the chapter on fish, I may as well state that the late Marquis de Cussy, prefect of the palace of the first Napoleon, has published a book, in which he states his belief that the Reformation was brought about by the compulsory use of fish and meagre fare on particular days. Here are his words :— “ The schism of Martin Luther was really and seriously occasioned by the fastings and the like punishments inflicted on the true believers of Ger- many. The spiritual power should never meddle with the kitchen. In consequence of this fault, the situation of the Church was changed in Europe.” Careme’s thoughts on living on maigre diet are equally curious. “It is in a lenten kitchen,” he says, “that the cleverness of a cook can shed a brilliant lisht. It Avas in the Elysee Imperial, and by the example of the famous Laguipierre and Robert, that I was ini- tiated into this fine branch of the art, and it is inexpressible. The years of ’93 and ’94, in their ter- rible and devastating course, respected these strong heads {ces fortes tStes). When our valiant First ** Consul appeared at the head of affairs, our miseries and those of gastronomy finished. When the empire came, one heard of soups and entrees maigres. The splendid maigre first appeared at the table of the156 On Fish. Princess Caroline Murat. This was the sanctuary of good cheer, and Murat was one of the first to do penitence. But what a penitence !” One does not know whether to be indignant or to laugh at this. The old proverb, “ set a beggar on horseback and he will ride to the devil,” is undoubt- edly true. A few years before the consulate, the ambitious Caroline Buonaparte, afterwards wife of Murat, was, with her mother and the other female members of her family, in so destitute a situation at Marseilles, that they had not the means of buying wood to warm themselves; and as to Murat, her husband, it is well known that he rose from the very dregs of society, his father being a village innkeeper at Bastide Frontoni^re, in the department of Lot. It was Murat’s kitchen, Careme tells us, that re- stored le beau maigre to mother Church. Thus the great chef unfolds his views as to fish dinners:— “ Succulence, variety, and recherche, IMurat un- doubtedly desired at his table, and his wishes were supplied. But he owed all these things to our great Laguipierre ” (his cook!) " whom he loved. MTiat a labour was Laguipierre’s! This glorious establish- ment of Murat’s, exhibiting the "randeur of a royal household, was dearly loved by all true gastronomes. The causes of its splendour were the magnificence of the prince, the splendid, friendly, and associated talents of M. Robert, his comptroller, and of the famous Laguipierre, his chef de cuisme. I had the157 On Fish. happiness, during two years, of being the first assis- tant of Lagulpierre, as well as his friend. In that time we recreated that grand cmsine maigre, and restored le beau maigre to old Mother Church.” Any one who wishes to dip further into the litera- ture of fish dinners, should read the article on red herrings, in the fourth volume of the “ Almanach des Gourmands;” the description of the house of Billiote, whose cookery and cellars were patronized by the whole body of the French clergy, and the description of the account of the table d^hote, au nom de Jesus, In the Cloitre St. Jacques de THopital, where a fish dinner was served up every Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday, for the moderate sum of two francs ten sous. Such a dinner in Imperial France of 1864 would cost four times the money. When I first knew Paris as a youth in 1822, the most famous place for a fish dinner was the Rocher de Cancale, in the Rue Montorguiel. It was then and had for eighteen or twenty years before been kept by M. Baleine, aided by Madame Beauvais. In the sixth volume of the “ Almanach des Gour- mands,” published in 1808, it is stated that this famous restaurant was in that year frequented by Russian princes, German barons, and the 'elite of diplomatic society, who then ordered dinners at ten, fifteen, and eighteen francs per head, without wine. The cook at this period was said to be one of the best in Paris, and the reputation of the house con-158 On Fish. tinued till 1840, and even later. You were always sure to find the finest and freshest fish at the Rocher de Cancale; and the poultry, and meats, and game were also of the choicest. But the year 1848, which upset the Orleans dynasty, ruined this famous estab- lishment, and it is now only numbered as a thing of the past. I remember dining there with a party of six persons in the year 1828, the bill for our dinner amounted to 450 francs, or 75 francs per head, including wine. The dinner principally consisted of divers kinds of fish and game. From this dinner, composed of a bisque or French soup, with fillets of turbot and various entrees of fish and game, every one of the party rose hungry. On this occasion some Chateau Margaux was ordered, said to be in bottle from 1789, a period of thirty-nine years, for which a charge of fourteen francs per bottle was made. But this would now be considered a bagatelle, as at several of the restaurants in Paris there is Chateau 3Iargaux charged at twenty and twenty-five francs per bottle, not a quarter so old as the wine of which I speak. The most expensive part of the 1828 dinner was the fish, and not the wine. M. Ferdinand Fayot, in his “ Treatise de la Table particuliere de INI. Talley- rand,” relates the following anecdote of an abbe who was wont to frequent the Rocher de Cancale for its fish:— “A certain abbe, who was uncommonly fond ofOn Fish. 159 fish, often visited the Kocher de Cancale. Upon one occasion, having dined copiously of salmon, a heavy indigestion was the consequence. Three days afterwards, whilst saying mass, the idea of the fish came across his mind, and, instead of saying the mea culpa of the Conjiteor, he was heard to repeat, in striking his breast, ‘ Ah, le bon saumon! ah, le bon saumon! ’ ”CHAPTER IX. THE BOAST, HE definition given of the word roast in the “ Dictionnaire des termes du vieux Fran9ois,”* is a very curious one. Here it is :—“ Rost et raust du rosty. Ce mot vient de rusticus parceque le feu noirci, et brule la viande comme le soleil qui hale le visage des pay- sans.” Anything more futile, trivial, and far-fetched than this it were impossible to conceive; yet a per- son dally accustomed to lexicographic studies will simply smile at meanings so forced and strained— meanings very common, however, with dictionary makers and lexicographers. Boxhornius, in his Britannico-Latin Dictionary, tells us rhost (sic) is an ancient British word. • Dictionnaire des termes du vieux Francois, ou tresor de recherches et antiquites Gauloises’et Francoises, par M. Borel, Conseiller et Mcdecin ordinaire du Itoi. Paris: chez Briasson, Rue St. Jacques. MDCCL.The Roast. 161 “ Antiquam esse vocem Brittanicam, ostendit no- men Regis Armoricani, Daniel Dremrost ab ustis, oculis, vel usto yultu sic dicti.” Wolfgang Lazius, also, in his tenth book, “de Migrationibus Gentium” states that rost (sic) in the Vandal and Teuton lan- guages signifies a grill; and Jean Bruy ere, in his book “de Re Cibarid,”* says, that in early times in France, a guest who was invited to a dinner without a roast on a day when it was lawful to eat meat—in other words, to live en gras—fared very frugally in- deed, if by any accident the roast was omitted. This can be well credited, for among the English and French the roast has been always the principal dish, or, as our neighbours would say, the piece de resistance. In very early times, in Paris, there were what were called in old French, rostisseries, where roast meats were sold ready to be eaten instantly at meals. Du Loir tells us that in the mediaeval times, an Italian patriarch thought nothing so admirable at Paris as these rotisseries, Avhere he could find such delicate tit-bits as a roast gigot, or a roast shoulder or leg of lamb. The rotisseries were kept by rotisseurs and rotisseuses, and they exist to this day. There were independently of these general rotisseurs, and rotis- seuses as they were called en blanc, who sold only larded roasts, such as Jilets piques, &c. The traiteur, or the cuisinier traiteur, was some- * Lib. XII. cap. 5. M162 The Roast. times also a rotisseur, a calling distinguished from the pdtissier or pastry-cook. The Company of Maitre Rotisseurs in France was much older than the Company of Maitre Cuisiniers, which latter was only erected into a corporation in 1559, in the reign of Henry IV. The statutes of the Maitre Rotisseurs were granted by Stephen Boileau, Provost of Paris, about 1258. The rotisseurs, for the most part, lived in the street called Oyers, where, so late as 1767, a great many of them were established. I have in another and preceding chapter remarked, that the French kitchen was very much indebted to Italian cookery. The truth is, that the Italians of the middle ages have been in most sciences the in- structors of Europe. Catherine de Medici came to France surrounded with a legion of cooks, rotisseurs and pdtissiers, and these new-comers first improved the cookery already existing, and having found apt scholars in the French, were soon surpassed by their pupils. The art of roasting is considered an especial art by our neighbours. It is very true, that there is no process in cookery so simple, and yet very few can accomplish it properly. A roast, whether of beef, mutton, venison, lamb, or fowl, should neither be un- der nor over done. The great secret therefore is to avoid either extreme, and so to hit the middle point. Venison, beef, mutton, lamb, require to be equally done through all the parts, yet no portion of the gravy163 The Roast. should be wasted. Scorching is not roasting, and burn- ing is not browning a joint. The best joint of beef for roastincr in England is the sirloin. The fire should be brisk and clear, as well as large, steady, and intense in proportion to the size of the joint, and the meat should be perpetually basted, so that no cessation in the pro- cess should take place. Large joints should be put down soon after the fire is made up and begins to burn. The gradual access of the heat to meat prevents its burning. If a joint be burned in the early process, it is an evil scarcely remediable in the subsequent stages of the operation of roasting. For this reason it is that in the great kitchens in France there is al- ways some one whose special duty it is to attend to the roast alone. In the fourth volume of the “ Al- manach des Gourmands,” it is said that a dinner may be compared to the rooms of a house, and the roast is the salon or principal apartment. “ The salon in a French house,” says M. Grlmod de la Reyniere, “ is the room on which an hospitable host spends all his spare money. It is furnished and decorated with the greatest care, because in this room the master receives his friends. Just a like process is pursued in respect to the roast that smokes upon his table. It is the dish that has cost him most money, and on which he hopes to content and feast his guests.” It is, therefore, most important that the roast, by its excellence, juice, and tenderness, should satisfy; for if it be bad, burned, or hard, all however excellent that has preceded it.The Roast. 164 is forgotten; a tristful silence succeeds to hilarity, and the grieved Amphitryon seeks to repair the blun- der of his cook by the production of excellent wine. The misfortune is, that there is no strict law to “ rule the roast.” The doing it to a turn depends on a congeries of circumstances and contingencies which are eternally varying. The beef or mutton may be old, tough, sinewy, or not sufficiently hung. A great deal depends on the size of the coal or wood before which it is placed. Much also on the regular basting or the punctual arrival of the guests. Sometimes a delay of five or ten minutes spoils a beautiful roast joint, and renders it flavourless and insipid. “ Ainsi,” says Grimod, (becoming poetical) “Ainsi que la beaute dans sa fleur, il n’a qu’un moment pour etre cuelli et ce moment une fois passe ne revient jamais.” It is not therefore an exaggeration to say that good roasters are even more difficult to find than good cooks. It was the opinion of so competent a judge as this, that in an establishment where the cook attended both to the preparing of the dinner and the roast, the roast was sure to be bad. I will not go to this length, for an experienced kitchen-maid can always bestow on the roast of the first and second course all the at- tention necessary. The roast, according to this great and experienced authority, is divided into great and little roast—gros rut et petit rot. The larger roast comprises venison, beef, mutton, veal, lamb, and pork, quarters of wild boar, &c., and the smaller, fowl,165 The Roast. i grouse, and small birds. Grimod recommends that ’ smaller birds should be larded with a slice of o'ood lard. Great care should be taken in the selection of the I lard, for a rancid lard will spoil the best bird that J ever flew. At large dinners, the editor of the “ Al- imanach” holds that the roast should be served without entrees or entremets, flanked merely by four different I salades. A general rule among cooks is to allow a J quarter of an hour to each pound of the joint. Thus I a joint of eight pounds will take two hours. Slow ? roasting adds to the tenderness and flavour of a joint, ^ and it may be observed, that the longer a joint is i kept the less time it will require in roasting. I Our roasts in England (with the single exception ; of a leg of mutton) are better than in France. The j quality of the meat (with the exception ofveal) is much t better, and good English cooks excel in roasting meat j, and game. Our game is much finer than in France, j though we have nothing to equal the French pou- larde of the Mans, in the department of the Sarthe. 1 Nothing in France can compare to our haunches i and necks of venison, to our barons and sirloins of ' beef, to our haunches, saddles, and legs of mutton, ' to our barons and fore-quarters of lamb. Our beef is ^ in season all the year round, and may be given as a roast from October to March. Our saddles, haunches, I necks of mutton, may also be given as a t roast for the first course, being varied with pork, 1 veal, and roast turkey. For a second course in Jan-166 The Roast. uaiy and February, we have widgeon and woodcock, snipe, teal, wild duck and black game, hares, &c. All this game is better flavoured and better roasted in England than in France. In April, we have excellent lamb for a first course, with guinea-fowls and ducklings for a second. In May we have poulardes and quails, turkey poults, &c., for a second. Venison begins in June, and in August we have grouse, and that excel- lent bird the golden plover. A little later come partridges, black cock, and then snipe and wild duck, while lamb and mutton alternate in the first. Mutton, whether as a roast, or an entree in the shape of cutlets, can be alike served; and with Swift’s receipt for roast- ing mutton, I will conclude this branch of the subject: “ (Gently stir and blow the fire, Lay the mutton down to roast, Dress it quickly, I desire; In the dripping put a toast. That I hunger may remove;— hlutton is the meat I love. On the dresser see it lie; Oh ! the charming white and red! Tiner meat ne’er met the eye. On the sweetest grass it fed; Let the jack go swiftly round. Let me have it nicely brown'd. On the table spread the cloth. Let the knives be sharp and clean. Pickles get and salad both. Let them each be fresh and green. With small beer, good ale, and wine, 0 ye gods ! how I shall dine !167 The Roast. I by no means mean to Imply that our neigh- bours, the French, have not a greater variety of ways of dressing their roasts for first and second courses than we have; all I mean to assert is, that our simple roasting of venison, beef, mutton, and game, is bet- ter than the French. The material to work \ipon is incomparably better. Toujours perdrix, however. Is sure to pall on the palate, and our object should be to vary our mode of dressing these excellent mate- rials. Till schools of cookery become more general, it will not be safe for a host, with an ordinary plain cook, to set before his guest a filet de boeuf, sauce d la poivrade, a salmi of partridge, or a filet de canard sauvage. It would even be a dangerous experiment in many cases to essay a loin of veal d la Bechamel, fillets of fowl d la tartare, a common fricassee of chicken, or a braized saddle of lamb d lajardinihe. It is perhaps unnecessary to say that pork, veal, and lamb should be done well; turkeys and fowls should have no red in them, but game should be somewhat underdone. I have already said that the time necessary to roast a joint depends on a variety of circumstances, of which an experienced male or female cook will be the best judge. The following table, however, very nearly approximates to the exact time, supposing a coal fire to be employed:—The Roast. 168 A joint of beef . weighing O O 20lbs. 4 hours. iy lOlbs. yy 6 lbs. 2 „ A joint of veal . lOlbs. 3^ ,, yy 4 lbs. 2 „ A joint of mutton lOlbs. 2 „ yy • 6 lbs. « yy 4 lbs. 1 „ A leg of lamb • li A joint of fresh pork 8 lbs. 4 „ yy * 4 lbs. 1^ 35 A haunch of buck venison . • 4 „ A neck of buck . lA to 2 „ A joint of venison lOlbs. 2i yy * 6 lbs. li A 2 ” (Venison should be rather under than over done. A large turkey . 2 „ A medium-sized one li » A turkey poult . 1 3, A capon 1 33 A poularde li 33 A large fowl 4 yy A goose . 1 to 1^ j, A gosling . i 33 A pigeon . 1 2 A hare 1-i 33 A leveret . i 33 A rabbit . i 33 A pheasant 2 ”169 The Roast. A partridge .... 20 minutes. Cock of the wood, or black game, 1 to hour. Grouse Woodcock . Snipe Golden plover Teal . Quail Larks Ortolans Fig-pecker 2 ” j. 2 ” 20 minutes. 20 „ 15 „ 20 „ 20 „ 15 „ 15CHAPTER X. BOILING. LL meats should be boiled slowly, in suf- ficient water; and a ham should not he al- lowed to boil until a very short time before it is taken out of the pot, in which it has been allowed to simmer slowly for four, five, or six hours, according to its size, age, &c. When meats are boiled fast, the outside is hardened before the inside is warm; in addition to which the meat be- comes discoloured. It is usual in boiling as well as in roasting, to allow a quarter of an hour’s boiling to every pound of meat. The rule usually is a good one, but there are several exceptions, that will task the discretion and science of a cook. If the joint be large and thick, such as buttock or round of beef, more than a quarter of an hour must be allowed for each pound. If, however, the joint be a small or a thin one, such as a neck of lamb, somewhat less than a quarter of an hour forBoiling. 171 each pound will suffice. During the process of boll- inar meat or fish, the scum which arises should be skimmed off, otherwise the meat or fish will be dis- coloured. The majority of cookery books direct that fresh meat should be put into water when it boils, and salt meat when the water is cold ; but the bet- ter opinion seems now to be that fresh and salted meats should be put into cold water, and allowed to become hot gradually. The five constituent pro- perties of the flesh of animals used by man are— fibrine, gelatine, osmazone, fat, and albumen. Gela- tine is soluble only in boiling or very hot water, whereas osmazone is very soluble, even in cold water, and contains the sapid principle of all meats. Fat is Insoluble in water, but the heat melts it, when it floats in a liquid form on the surface. Albumen resembles the white of an egg. It is soluble in cold or lukewarm water, and coagulates at a less temperature than that of boiling water. Albu- men abounds in the blood, and exists in portions of the flesh of animals. It is the albumen, in coagula- ting after having been dissolved, which causes the scum to rise in the liquid in which a joint has been boiled. It is evident that if the meat be put in a vessel with boiling water, or if the water being cold be boiled too quickly, the albumen in the first case by coagulating on the surface of the water, and in the second in the interior of the joint of meat, pre- vents the gelatine and osmazone from dissolving.172 Boiling. Though boiling does not require so much nicety and care as roasting, yet it is seldom perfectly performed. It requires patient watchfulness and vigilance. It is natural,” says Count Rumford, “to suppose that many of the finer and more volatile parts of food must be car- ried off by the steam when the boiling is violent. The water should be heated gradually until it boils, for the the slower the meat boils the more juicy and tender will it be. Meat freshly killed takes longer to boil than when it has been properly hung, and meat killed in cold or frosty weather takes longer to boil than meat killed in summer. Meat or poultry should not be allowed to remain in the water after they are done, as they soon become sodden. It is usual to boil lamb, veal, and pork longer than beef or mutton. Of course all vessels in which meat is boiled, should be clean and wholesome. Vessels of copper, brass, and lead must be avoided in cookery, unless the inside be well tinned. The best sauce- pans are of iron, tinned in the inside. I would ob- serve, that salmon requires nearly as much boiling as meat, that is to say, about a quarter of an hour to every pound of fish. Turbot, salmon, john- dory, cod-fish, haddocks, brill, skate, and the large Dover and West of England black soles, are best boiled. Other kinds of sea-fish are best fried or filletted, or done in the French fashion, such txs^filets de turbot, sauce supreme, or escalopes de turbot, aux truffes a la Royale. Cod-fish, besides being boiled173 Boiling. or fried, may be served in twenty ways—a la hol- landaise, (i la Sainte Menetiould, a la Perigeaux, a la jprovenqale. As to salmon, the same observation may be made. It may be served a la Saint Cloud, a. la genevoise, a la v'enitienne, a la Rogale, in Jilets aux anchois, d la d'Artois, a la Sainte Menehould, en pa- pillotes, d la d'uxelle ; but, unless you have a superior cook, salmon is best plain boiled. I will conclude with the following remarks as to the time required to boil poultry. Turkeys, capons, fowls, chickens, &c., are all boiled in the same manner, allowing time accordino- to their size. A chicken will take about twenty minutes. A fowl, about forty minutes. A poularde or capon, about an hour. A small turkey, an hour and a half. A large turkey, two hours or more. Rabbits should be put into a basin of warm water; then put them into plenty of Avater, and boil half an hour. If large, three quarters of an hour. Of frying I would merely say, that the frying is the finest and most delicate when good olive oil is employed. “ II est reconnu que c’est avec la bonne huile d olive que se font fritures les plus fines, les plus dclicates. Manuel de Cuisinier et de la Cui- siniere, par P. Cardelli.CHAPTER XL POULTRY. HE term Poultry, includes all the domes- ticated birds reared for the table—fowls, capons, turkeys, geese, ducks, and guinea fowl. Those who live in the country and intend to rear fowls for the consumption of their families, should have a poultry-yard, called by the French, a basse cour. It should be well sheltered, with a warm aspect, and sufficiently inclined to be always dry. It should also be supplied with sand or ashes, and there should be also a supply of running water, of which poultry are fond. A green patch of earth should be next to the poultry-yard, to allow the fowls free exercise. Poultry are the better for high feeding from the very shell, and on this account it is advisable to give them the heaviest corn. Even young chickens may be put for feeding as soon as the hen has ceased to regard them. AVhen chickens are wanted for domestic purposes, they should be left at liberty in the farm-yard, and if they have plenty ofPoultry. 175 food they will be soon fit for the table^ and rich and juicy in flavour. Nowhere do you get these young and juicy chickens better than at the country inns in Ireland and Scotland. As soon as fowls are suflfi- ciently fat, they should be killed, or they will lose flesh and become unhealthy. Turkeys are more deli- cate to rear in their infancy than fowls, but they become hardy as they grow older. When well-grown, turkeys supply themselves in their rumblings, so that they require no food but at leaving their homes in the morning, and returning at night. After six months, turkeys may be crammed, as is practised with fowls; but they require a much longer period to render them fully fat for the table. Guinea fowls are in the season greatly prized at London dinner tables. The same food appropriated to the young of gallinaceous fowls and turkeys, is good for guinea chicks. The white duck being the largest of the domesti- cated kind, is the best for the poulterer, though it is not usually considered so delicate in flavour as the dark coloured. The grand object of preparing poultry of all kinds as speedily as possible for the table, is effected by supplying them with dry, soft, and green food, by keeping them tlioroughly clean, and by affording them water and exercise ground. Of the wholesomeness of poultry, as an article of diet, Lcmery thus speaks in his “ Traite des Ali- ments:”—176 Poultry. “ Their flesh is pectoral, easily digested, produces good juice, is very nourishing, increases the spirits, moistens and cools, and is very proper for macerated persons, that are recovering from sickness. Avicen pretends, it makes the understanding more quick and lively, and that it clears the voice. “ It agrees at all times, with any age and consti- tution : in the meantime it is better for nice persons, and such as lead an idle life, than for those who are strong, robust, and used to a violent exercise or hard labour, seeing these last require more solid food, and that does not so easily waste.” “ Some persons,” he goes on to say, “ formerly were of opinion, that the eating of hens, chickens, and capons, caused the gout; and perhaps there were two things that gave occasion for this popular error. First, these animals are subject to the same disease, and consequently may impart it to those who feed upon them; but it would follow from hence, that we must contract all the diseases of every animal we eat of, which we find otherwise by experience. Secondly, they were inclined to this opinion, from a considera- tion that those who lead an idle life, fare high, and feed upon juicy and nice food, such as chickens and capons, are more afilicted with the gout than others; but it is not because these people live usually upon capons and chickens, that they are subject to this dis- temper, but rather by reason of the idle life they lead, and the excess they go to in all sorts of plea-Poultry. 177 sures. In short, if it were true that the eatiner of these fowls brought the gout upon us, we should see nothing else but gouty persons everywhere; for we may say, that there is now-a-days no food more com- mon than poultry.” Of capons, this famous doctor thus speaks : — “ Their flesh is very nourishing, it produces good juice, is restorative, recovers decayed strength, good for the phthisic and consumptions, easy of digestion; and they often make broth of it, in order to fortify and recover strength. The flesh of a capon is in virtue and taste much like unto that of a chicken; in the mean time, that of a capon is more nourishing, pleasant and properer for people used to fatigue than the other; and the reason is, because this same flesh contains juices that are more concocted, digested, and fuller of oily balsamic particles.” When poultry is brought into the kitchen for use, it should be kept as cool as possible. The best posi- tion in which to place it is with the breast down- wards, on a shelf or marble slab. The crop and the gut of the rump should be taken out. Choose fowls with a thin transparent skin, white and delicate. Pigeons full fledged, are heating and hard to digest. The younger they are in general the better, and in Italy, where pigeons are much used, they are always eaten young. In choosing turkeys, select the brown Norfolk; but if you can find any of the red American breed, the flavour is still finer. NPoultry. 178 I have said in another chapter that the finest fowl in the world is the poularde du Mans, in the depart- ment of La Sarthe. Here is a true description of the manner in which that fine flavour which they possess is given to the bird:— “ It is to the feeding on barley, and to that only, that the fine flavour of the poularde du Mans and of La Fleche is to be traced. This is one of the joys and delights of a gourmand, and if you have a little farm, or even a trifle of a garden, you can fatten your own fowl. With a little care and time, you will have fowls and capons of an exquisite flavour. Feed them with ground barley, mixed with bran and milk, for some days, and then put them in a cage in a dark, dry spot. Give them as much farinaceous barley and milk as they can swallow. But mind, above and before all things, to separate the little cocks from the hens. This is indispensable, and must be rigorously ob- served. In a fortnight or three weeks your fowls will have acquired a fine and delicate obesity. ‘ Beware,’ said Brillat de Savarln, ‘ of the turkey poults of the neighbourhood of Pai’is. They have a bitterness which revolts a delicate palate, for they are fed on stale crusts, horse-chestnuts, and spur vegetables.’ ” The ordinary barn-door fowl, for which so many of us are compelled to pay 5s. Qd. in the month of May, at the West-end poulterers,is thus remorselessly treated by a French gourmand, Berchoux, in liis poem “ La Gastronomic,’'—Poultry. 179 “ Proscrivez sans pitie ces poulets domestiques, Nourris en votre cour et constamment etiques, Toujours mal engraisses par des soins ignorants; Ne connaissez que ceux de la Bresse ou du Mans.” A fowl or chicken should be kept some time before it is cooked. If cooked immediately on being killed, as is frequently tlie case at country inns in Ireland and Scotland, even a young fowl is tough. Horace’s method of rendering a fowl tender is well remem- bered by every Etonian:— “ Si vespertinus subitb te oppresserit hospes, Ne gallina malum responset dura palato, Doctus eris vivam musto mersare Falerno : Hoc teneram faciet.” “Poultry,” says M. Brillat Savarin, “is to the kitchen that which canvas is to the painter, or Fortu- natus’ wishing cap to the charlatan. Poultry may be served boiled, roasted, fried, hot or cold, whole or in parts, with or without sauce, boned or unboned, devilled, grilled, or farced, and always with equal success.” To my thinking, the best fowls in France are those “du Mans,” in the department of La Sarthe; but M. Brillat Savarin holds those of Caux in Nor- mandy, and de la Bresse, to be equally good. The poularde of Montalbanois en Quercy is excellent. For ages roast poultry has been a favourite dish in England. Shakespeare, who knew every thing, from heaven-born philosophy down to humblest household affairs, puts into the mouth of Justice Shallow di-180 Poultry. rections for a dinner, which might be eaten with relish now-a-days. Some pigeons, Davy; a couple of short-legged hens (the true criterion of goodness), a joint of mutton, and any pretty, little tiny kick- shaws.” A capon in his day was as much relished as now, and the cost, according to the papers found in the pocket of FalstalF, was, a capon 2s. 2<f., sauce 4<£., sack, two gallons, os. 8<i., bread, a halfpenny. Our roasting of poultry, though not so excellent as our roasting of beef and mutton, is yet very good, and unless a host be sure of his cook, he had better order for his guest a roast capon, a roast fowl, or a roast or boiled turkey. The turkey, either roast or boiled is excellent, and the same remark applies to fowl. If served boiled, nothing is better than good celery sauce, either with fowl or turkey. There are scores of ways of serving ^poularde in France. There is the poularde rotie, the poularde au gras sel, the poularde d la hourgeoise, the poularde a. la Montmo- rencey, a la Marseillaise, a la Tartare, au supreme, invented by Beauvilliers, and d la Grimod de la Reyniere. There are also various entrees of fowl and chicken, such as poidets d la reinc, d la regence, d la Mont- morency, d rivoire; and various/’ncassces, as, d la che- valiere, d la Saint Lamlert, d la Ji7ia7icicre, d la Bour- guinomxe, d la Villcroi, and tutti qtia7iti; but it is ne- cessary to say, that to produce these entrees, or the ^lets de poulet d la royale, or cotellcttes de cuisscs dePoultry, 181 poulets a la periyueux, or a sxiprcme de volaille, one must have an accomplished cook. The sooner we multiply schools of cookery for entrees and entremets, the better. There are a couple or three existing already, I believe: one in Morti- mer Street, Cavendish Square; one in Charles Street, Middlesex Hospital; and one in Berners Street, Ox- ford Street. But there ought to be twenty times as many. Nothing is so difficult to obtain as a good cook, and yet higher wages are paid to male and female cooks than to any other class of servants. There is an immense consumption of turkeys at Paris, at Christmas time, and a much larger con- sumption in London. In the days of stages, the Norfolk coaches were stowed with turkeys from the middle of December to Twelfth-day; and in our day the goods traffic on the Norfolk Railway is more than trebled during Christmas. In the “ Physiologle du Gout,” of Brillat Savarin, under the head “ Influence financi^re du Dindon,” is the following remark:— “ I have some reason to think, that from the com- mencement of November to the end of Februaryj 300 truffled turkeys are dally consumed in Paris, making a total of 36,000 turkeys. Calculate the value of these.” The English have yet to learn the general use of the truffle with the turkey. A rich bourgeois of Paris will go to the expense of from 60 to 75 francs for a first-rate turkey for his roti, and will after-182 Poultry. wards disburse from 70 to 100 francs in truflBes to season the bird. We have no idea of this expendi- ture in England, nor do our higher and better classes use or consume truffles as they ought to be used. Chaptal, who was one of Napoleon’s Ministers of the Interior in France, published a work, “Sur I’lndus- trie Frangaise,” in 1819. In it he speaks of the enor- mous quantities of fowls in France : — “ In order to have an idea (says the Comte de Chaptal) of the enormous quantity of fowls of all species which exists in France, it will suffice to ob- serve, that there are annually sold at the markets of Toulouse 120,000 geese, which are fattened in the neighbourhood; and M. Lavoisier has estimated the number of eggs consumed at Paris, on an average of several years, at 78,000,000, and the number of fowls at 39,000,000. Supposing the price of each to be a franc, including the cocks, this would give a capital of 41,600,000 francs. If to this be added the value of hens and cocks, of turkeys, geese, ducks, and pigeons renewed almost every year, the amount may be aug- mented by 10,000,000 ; so that the capital for fowls of all species amounts to 51,600,000 francs.” Some exquisites and Muscadins of the second Em- pire maintain that there is nothing “ si Chaussee d’Antin,” nothing si lourdement bourgeois” as a dinde mix truffes, as a. plat de rut. Let these cox- combs rail on. The dinde aux truffes, as a Christmas Parisian dish, will survive them and the false gods of183 Poultry. their idolatry. Of the turkey. Nonius says, “ Egre gi^ alunt et bonum succum corpori suppeditant.”* Some writers, such as Athenasus, -ZElian, and Aris- totle, would have us believe that turkeys were known to the ancients under the name of Meleagrides, but this is a mistake. It is a nice question when turkeys first appeared in France, and who first introduced them. La Mare, in his “ Traite de la Police,” would have it that it was Jaques Coeur, the treasurer of Charles VII.; but this is also an error. According to Champier, who wrote his treatise “ De Re Cibaria,” in 1560, they were only introduced into France a few years before he wrote. Here are his words:— “ Venere in Galllas, annos abhinc paucos, aves quae- dam externae, quas gallinas indicas appellant: credo quoniam ex Insulis Indiae nuper a Lusitanis His- panisque palefactae, primum invectae fuerunt in urbem nostrum.” In the French poets of the thirteenth century, and in authors still more ancient, there is frequent men- tion of capons. Madame de Sevigne speaks of the “ poulardes de Can,” and of the “ bonnes poulardes de Rennes.” In Regnard’s “ Comedy du Bal,” a.d. 1696, the author speaks in praise of “ les poulardes de Caux.” Long—nearly a century—antecedent to this, our *“Ludovici Nonni Dieteticon," Antverpiae, mdcxvi. Lib. ii. p. 242.184 Poultry. own Shakespeare, had used the word “capon” again and again; and again Le Grand d’Aussy contends that the Gauls learned the art of fatteninjj and cramminj; fowls from the Romans. Crammed fowls were from early times more esteemed in France than any others. Among the officers of the Royal household in France in early times, was a crammer of fowls. An ordon- nance of St. Louis dated in 1261, more than six cen- turies ago, gives to this officer the name oipoulalUer. Our neighbours on the other side of the Straits of Dover are not only very fond of fowls and capons, but of much smaller birds. They eat thrushes, black- birds, and robin red-breasts. Dr. Roques, in his “Fragments sur les Plantes usuelles,” thus speaks of this liking for smaller birds: — “ The taste for blackbirds and thrushes has passed from the ancients to the moderns. These birds are much esteemed in Germany, and in our southern pro- vinces. The blackbirds of Corsica and Provence are renowned, above all renowned as they feed on myrtle and juniper-berries. Cardinal Fesch, archbishop of Lyons, had a supply every year from Corsica. One dined at the house of his eminence partly because of his agreeable manners, partly for the noble and gracious reception he gave you, but, also, for his blackbirds, which were of exquisite flavour. More than one Lyonnese gourmand impatiently waited for the archi- episcopal clock to strike six. Then it was that these delicate little birds appeared upon the table, their de-Poultry. 185 Hcious perfume charming all the guests. Their appear- ance, their seductive tournure, were also admired. Their backs Avere garnished with a small bouquet of fried sage, in some sort imitating the tail with which they were furnished when they poured forth their notes from the elm and hawthorn. ‘ But what,’ the reader will exclaim, ‘you do not speak of the fine oil in which these beautiful birds were baked, nor of the agreeable rotis, whose bitterness strengthened your stomach, while it perfumed your mouth ?’ You are right, judicious reader.” Although the poulterers in London truss all the different animals which they send home, yet, as it often happens, that untrussed game and poultry are sent to private families from the country, it is neces- sary that the art of trussing should be known by every cook.CHAPTER XII. GAME AND PASTBT. in England is declared to Include ij pheasants^ partridges, grouse, i or moor game, black game, and ird. Snipe, quail, landrail, wood- cock, and conies are not game; but they can only be taken or killed by certificated persons. Game has been always prized amongst us at table; and it has been a subject of legislation from the Conquest to the present time. In the time of Queen Mary, there was not only a keeper of pheasants and partridges to the queen, but likewise a taker. The kings of England had also, formerly, a swanherd; and Sir E. Coke makes this oflSce one of his titles in the Fourth Institute.* The 17 chap, of Henry VIII. is en- titled, “ The forfeiture for taking of fesants and par- * See 4 Inst., cap. Ixvi. The office of swanherd is in Rot. Patentiuni, anno 11 and 4, called “M.ogister dcductus Cygnorum." See “ Le case de Swannes,” lib. 7.Game and Pastry. 187 tridsres, or the eggs of hawkes or swans.” That the gentry, even in those early days, were imbued with sound common sense, and could regard the pleasur- able as well as the palatable and profitable side of a question, will appear from the preamble to this statute. It recites the great injury to lords of manors, not only from the loss of the pleasure and disport to their friends and servants, but likewise the loss to their kitchen and table. So that in 1494, ideas of gour- mandise and good cheer were just as rife as in 1864. Falconry, says the Hon. Daines Barrington,* first occasioned the system of game laws; and hence, herons were held in high esteem, being the noblest bird the falcon could fly at. There can be no doubt whatever that, less than three centuries ago, herons were eaten both in England and France. Our an- cestors, indeed, were much less delicate and less par- ticular as to the tenderness of their food than their descendants, for they ate not only the heron, but the crane, the crow, the cormorant, and the bittern. In an old cookery book of Taillevant, who was first cook of Charles VII. of France, there are receipts for dressing these last-named birds. In the statutes of Bordeaux, made in 1585, with a view to regulate the sale of game, in the regulation of Henry II. in 1549, for the same object the heron is counted among * “Observations on the Ancient Statutes.” Dublin: Grierson, 1767.. 188 Game and Pastry. the number of birds allowed to be brought to market When Charles IX. passed through Amiens, he was offered, among other birds, twelve herons, six bitterns, and six swans. Belon, in his history of birds, written in 1554, says, that the bittern, though of a nauseous taste at first, '' est cependant entre les delices fran- 9oisesand Liebant calls the heron une viande royale.” Heronnieres were, in his day, as common among French gentlemen as were faisanderies in 1760 or 1780. Three centuries ago, vultures and falcons, and other birds of prey, were also eaten in France—now, and for a century and a half, so friande and dainty in its tastes. In Auvergne, Belon states that in winter every one ate of a kind of eagle, named boudree, orgorian; though he admits owls and birds feed- inop on carrion were not served at table. It is sinm- O O lar that the very people who then ate herons, vultures, and cormorants, would not touch young game. They regarded leverets and young partridges as indigestible, and only partook of old hares and old birds. Henry Stevens states that the eating of young game was in- troduced by the Ambassador of France, who had sojourned at Venice. Game among our neighbours, the French, is divided into gros gibier and menu gibier. In the gros gibier is comprised the buck, doe, stag, wild boar, &c.; and the menu gibier comprehends pheasant, wild duck, teal, larks, ring-doves, partridges, woodcocks, quails, ortolans, thrushes, grouse, red- breasts, lapwings, &c. French writers also speak of189 . Game and Pastry. le gibier a poil, in which are comprised hares, leverets, and rabbits. It will be at once seen that the French consider as game many small birds on which we set little value. In the excellence and succulence of our game, and the number of our game preserves, we beat the world. The only countries that can be compared to England in the excellence and abun- dance of game are Hungary, Styria, Carinthia, and parts of the Basque provinces, Gallicla, and Spanish and Portuguese Estremadura. Southey, who visited Spain in 1797, speaks thus in his letters of having a woodcock for supper at Merida;—“ At Merida we had a woodcock for sup- per, which we trussed ourselves; but the old woman of the house brought up the bird sprawling, told us that they had forgot to cut off the rump and draw it, and then poked her finger in to show how clean the inside was.” Nearly thirty years after this date I can myself bear testimony to the abundance of game in parts of Spain, and to the excellent manner in which a salmi of partridges is occasionally served in the Peninsula. It is one of the few dishes in Spanish cookery which an Englishman can relish. Game is a light food, and easy of digestion; and there is no country in the world in which it is plainly roasted so well as in England. But in sauth, filets, or cutlets of game, in salmis of game aux truffes, d la ro- cambole, in crepinettes, or d la provenqale, we are not190 Game and Pastry. to be spoken of in the same century with the French, There are even tolerably simple ways of dressing game a la frangaise, in which some of our French cooks are no adepts. I will not speak of perdreau aux choux, for I deem it profanation to serve cabbage with so admirable a bird; but you cannot always trust a good English cook to serve a partridge or a quail a la Jinanciere. Our game pies, more especially in country bouses, are good, but they are not to be compared to the pate de hecassines aux truffes, or the pates des cailles aux fines herhes, or to the pate de godiveau aux champignons, or aux truffes. The che- vreuil a France is very inferior to our venison, and it is only the sauce poivrade, the truflSes, or the filet a Vitalienne, or d la Marechale that makes it eatable. It may be asked why we cannot have these dishes in England ? There is no reason why we should not have them, if schools of French cookery are multiplied, and families will go to the expense of the Madeira and Malaga wines, the truffles, the morels, the button mushrooms, and the bunches of sweet herbs. These things are expensive in London; and there are few so prone to obey the vulgar appetite of the belly— to use a phrase of the Roman historian, Sallust— that the outlay is not incurred. Our peers, our country gentlemen, as well as our wealthy merchants, are quite content to have their game well-roasted, which means not overdone. It is one of the old canons of cookery to spit the game when the firstGame and Pastry. 191 course is removed: “ Quand le premier service est fini il faut mettre le gibier a la broche.” I cannot choose but think, however, that we may easily vary our roast hare and boiled rabbit by fillets and cutlets of both, by civets of hare, and by salmis and scollops of pheasant a. la Bourguinotte, and a la Richelieu, or fillets of partridge a la Perigird, or d la Lucullus. Pheasant is often a dry bird in England, and oftener so in France; but I would not order a woodcock en salmi, unless the bird were of vener- able age. Nonius, who wrote about 240 years ago, tells us there are two sorts of pheasants in France; one is called Koyal and the other is called bruyant. Here are his words:—“Galli duplex phasianorum genus statunt, Kegium unum quod prestantius est de quo jam diximus, alterum quod Bruyant vocant.* But in this the learned writer is probably mistaken, and confounds bruyant with Coq de bruyere. Grimod de la Keyniere says:—" A pheasant should be sus- pended by the tail, and eaten when he detaches himself from this incumbrance. It is thus that a pheasant hung on Shrove Tuesday is susceptible of being spitted on Easter-day. I have not said anything on pastry or cold entrees, because the pastry-cook and the cook constitute, in • Nonni “ De lie Cib.” Lib. II.Game and Pastry. 192 Franee and in most continental countries, two differ- ent trades or employments. In England, however, the cook and the pastry-cook are often, in consider- able establishments, amalgamated; so that the per- fect or professed cook should be conversant with every branch of his or her profession, as few estab- lishments, even of the highest in rank or the most wealthy, include a cook and a confectioner, or pastry- cook. Those, therefore, who, in this country, are anxious to excel in their art, ought to be acquainted with the various preparations of pastry, by which I mean not merely tarts, puddings, but feuilletage, or puff-paste, and paste for hot and cold pies, paste for timbals, half-puff paste, and paste for heavy cakes, &c. From Careme’s observations on making paste, one may conceive that, to his thinking, the operation was difficult. “ The soul of the operation,” says he, “ con- sists in having the paste well mingled; for, should there be any neglect in the preparation, a bad residt only can be obtained : also, if the pastry, when baked, possesses a colour the least objectionable to the eye of the connoisseur, it will be no less disagreeable to the palate, being heavy and indigestible; therefore the manipulation should be perfect, both in the oven and on the table. It is easier to bake than to make it. The oven claims, it is true, care, assiduity, and practice; hut the composition permits not mediocrity— requiring memory, taste and skill—for, from its perfect193 Game and Pastry. seasonings, and the due amalgamation of the different bodies of which it is composed, it receives its good or bad qualities. The oven is one simple and self-same thing—the compositions are varied to infinity.” In most moderate establishments, where a regular dinner is given, the ordinary cook, with the aid of a first-rate man cook, has quite enough to do in pre- paring the soup, fish, meats, fowl, and game, without being embarrassed with patties and pastry. I would therefore suggest that in establishments where there are not first-rate assistants, and a sufficient number of them, patties, and all kinds of pastry, jellies, ices, &c., should be procured from the confectioner. There are many first-rate confectioners who undertake this duty, such as Gunter, Grange, Bridgman, Waud, and others. A great deal of trouble will thus be saved to the host; and unless his kitchen and his ser- vants be all of a superior description, it is likely the small patties, pastry, ices, and confectionary, will be better from the confectioner’s than if prepared at home. Of course, every professed cook ought to know how to m^^Tpdtes of venison and of all sorts of game and fish; but with what the French callydtisscrie it IS different, and entertainers who wish these articles will do well to order them from a confectioner. For small family dinners every good cook should know how to make apricot puffs, orange or rum jelly, hlanc-manger, tourtes, apple tarts, souffles, iced pud- dings, gauffres, nougats, merlitons, Charlottes a. la OGame and Pastry. 194 Russe, gooseberry and all tartlets; but this is a widely different thing from undertaking this duty for a dinner of fourteen, sixteen, or twenty persons, in addition to the two or three courses. For my own part, I have remarked that the people most in the habit of dining out eat very sparingly of pates and pastry. Under the head patisseries, the French in general comprehend, first, les pates chauds et tourtes d'entrees. Secondly, les pates froids, les gateaux, les patisseries sucrees. Thirdly, les patisseries sech.es ou croquantes, eaten at dessert. In early ages, in France, the caba- retiers, who furnished food to the traveller, furnished also pastry. Saint Louis, in 1270, regulated this trade by certain statutes; but there was not a regular com- pany of pdtissiers till 1567. One hundred and fifty years ago Pithiviers was celebrated for its pates of larks; Perigueux, for its j9a^es of truffled partridges: Amiens, for its turkeys and geese; Angers, for its poulardes ; Versailles, for its^ofes gras, and Strasbourg and Toulouse, for its pates foies (foies. It was not till 1780 that a, pdtissier of Paris invented pdtes de jamhon. When ITIdpital was Chancellor of France, he forbade the sale of petits pdtes in Paris, on the ground, “ qu’un pareil commerce favorisait d’un cotei la gourmandise et de I’autre la parcssc.”CHAPTER XIII. CHEESE AND SALADS. HERE is a great deal of difference in cheese. Much depends on the prepar- ation and seasoning, much on its being new or old, much on its taste and smell. That is the best cheese which is neither too old nor too new, which is called fat, and is salted enough, and which is of middling consistence, has been made of good milk, and is of good taste and smell. Cheese is nourishing enough, and helps digestion if you take but a little of it, according to the Latin line— Caucus ille bonus quem dat avara inanus.” The flavour and goodness of cheese depends in a considerable degree on the nature of the pasture on which the cows are fed; yet the mode in which the different stages of the lubrication of the curd is managed, is also to be taken into consideration. Hence the superiority of the cheeses of particular districts over others, without any apparent difference in the pasture. Soft and rich cheeses are the bestCheese and Salads. 196 for tlie epicure’s dinner, and are not intended to be kept long. Hard and dry cheeses will not be re- lished by men of taste, or offered by hosts who care for the comfort and health of their guests. Of the rich cheeses almost all are cream cheeses; and those soft cheeses called Bath and Yorkshire cheeses, sold as soon as made: but these if kept too long become soft and putrid. Stilton and Gruyere cheeses are intermediate between the soft and hard. The Gruyere and Par- mesan cheeses differ only in the nature of the milk, and in the degree of heat given to the curd in different parts of the process. Gruyere cheese is entirely made from new milk, and Parmesan from skimmed milk. In the first nothing is added to give flavour; in the latter, saffron gives both colour and flavour. The best English cheeses are the Stilton, Cheshire, double Gloucester, and Cheddar; and Stilton and Cheshire are greatly prized in Paris. For the last thirty years or more it has appeared to me that finer Stilton and Cheshire cheeses are to be had in the restaurants of Paris than in London. The Stilton and Cheshire cheeses at Chevets, Corcellets, and other magazins de comestibles in Paris, are larger than those generally seen in London, and I dare say a belter price is paid for them by the French than by the English dealers, for gourmands in Paris will give larger prices for table luxuries than people ejusdemCheese and Salads. 197 farina In London. It may be also that our English cheeses, like our English and Irish porter, is im- proved by the voyage, though if this were so, there is no reason why one should not eat better cheese in Dublin than in London, which one never does. My idea is that the super-excellence of the Stilton in Paris arises from the fact that it is Improved or doctored (to use a trade phrase) by a perfect connois- seur in the art of improving comestibles. Cellarmen in France, when a cheese has become very dry, wash it several times in soft water, and then lay it in a cloth moistened with wine or vinegar till it becomes soft and mellow, which it will inevitably become if it be a rich cheese. Stilton cheese is made by adding the cream of the preceding evening’s milk to the morning’s milk- ing. To eat a Stilton cheese in perfection, you must not only have one made of rich milk, but manage it well after it is so made. Epicures prefer a Stilton cheese with a green mould. To accelerate the growth of this mould, pieces of mouldy or over-ripe cheese are inserted into holes made for the purpose by a scoop or instrument called a taster. Wine or ale is then poured in. But the best Stiltons do not require this, for they are in perfection when the inside is soft and rich, like butter, without any appearance of mouldiness. Cheeses are frequently coloured to make them look rich; the. substance most commonly used for this purpose is arnotto, or198 Cheese and Salads. the juice of the orange, carrot, and marygold flowers. The best cheeses in France are those of Xeufchatel in Normandy, of Brie, which is much eaten in Paris, and above all, the Jromage de Roquefort en Rouergue, now called Aveyron. To my taste this is the best of all dry cheeses; it has some analogy with Stilton, but is much finer. Eoquefort cheese is manufac- tured in the village whose name it bears. Some portion of the excellence of this cheese is due to the cellars in which the straining; or refining; of the cheese takes place, and some portion to the peculiar manner in which the animals are milked; a process which is explained by M. Giron de Bazareinques. Roquefort cheese is made of a mixture of sheep and goat’s milk; the first communicates consistence and quality, the latter whiteness and a peculiar flavour. Roquefort cheese may be had in perfection at Corcellets’ Palais Royal, and at Morel’s in Piccadilly. Gruyere cheese is made in the canton of Fri- burg, in Switzerland, and in the provinces of Franche, Comte, Bresse, and Bugey. There is a cheese made in the Mont d’Or, in Auvergne, which has a high flavour. At large dinners in London, cheese is oftenest eaten in the form of ramequins, or grated Parmesan, and other preparations; but at small dinners the Stilton, the Roquefort, the Chester, the double Gloucester, or the Somersetshire cheese is invariably produced.199 Cheese and Salads. For nearly a thousand years the art of mixing herbs and cheese together has been known in Ens- land and France. In France this operation is called persille)-, because a good deal of parsley is mixed with the cheese, as here we mix a good deal of sage. Cheese is always produced at the end of a repast. In any other fashion the Italian proverb makes light of it:— “ Fromagio, peri, e pan Paste de vilan.” According to La Bruyere Charapier, who, when attached to the household of Francis I. in a medical capacity in 1560, wrote his treatise “ De Re Cibaria,” cheese was the principal production, and the prin- cipal aliment of the Auvergnats. In the earliest times in France, several of the pro- vinces made good cheeses. Pliny states that those of Nknes were much sought for in his time at Rome, as well as those of Mont Losere and the neighbour- hood: but these cheeses would not keep, and were eaten fresh. Martial makes mention of the cheese of Toulouse. Italian cheeses were not introduced into France till the time of Charles VIII. When this monarch on his expedition to Naples passed through Pla- centia, or Piacenza, as it is more commonly called, the citizens presented him with several cheeses. But he was so astonished at the size of them (“ aussi grand,” says Monstrelet, “ quasi comme la largeur de200 Cheese and Salads. meules a raoulin”) that out of curiosity he sent one to the queen and to the Duke of Bourbon, who were then sojourning in Bourbonnais. It was found ex- cellent, and henceforth came into general use. De Serres, who wrote in 1600, gave the first rank among foreign cheeses to Parmesan, and the second to Tur- key cheeses, which arrived in France in bladders. Gontier, in his treatise “ De Sanitate tuenda,” written in 1688, mentions among excellent cheeses that of Gruyere. Ninety or a hundred years ago, the taste as to cheese changed in Paris, and not long antecedent to the French Revolution of 1789, cheese was thought fit food only for Germans, English, or Italians. The popular proverb then was— “ Jamais homme sage, Ne mangea fromage.” But, nevertheless, any one who examines cookery books of the time of Louis XV. and Louis XYL, will find that cheese was used in an infinity of ragouts, and that toasted cheese was placed in a liquid state on toast, with cinnamon, sugar, and aromatic spices. This was evidently an improvement on the old Welsh-rabbit, or rare-bit, which was so seldom well done, even at the Wrekln in Russell Court, Covent Garden, a house frequented by Edmund Kean in my younger days. Dr. King, in his “ Art of Cookery,” thus speaks of toasted cheese:—201 Cheese and Salads. “ Happy the man that has each fortune tried, To whom she much has given and much denied; With abstinence all delicate he sees, And can regale himself on toasted cheese.” Of caseous substances. Nonius says:—“Magna est differentia inter recentem et vetustum caseum. Re- cens enim et mollis, duratis et veteribus salubritatis caussa preferendus. Teste enim Dioscoride, magis alit, stomacbo utilis, corpus auget, et facillime digeritur. Minus vero nutrit si sale aspersus fuerit et stomacbo inutilis. Vetustos caseos Galenus damnat.”* I have not said anything of the Schabzeiger cheese of Switzerland, or the Strachino of Milan, as there are few English people who relish anything so rank. Roquefort is a much finer cheese than either of them, but the consumption of Roquefort in England is singularly small. * Nonni, “De Re Ciberia,” lib. ii., p. 215.CHAPTER XIV. ON SALAD. In 1664j if my memory serves me rightly, John Evelyn wrote a treatise “ On Salets,” in a small volume, which I ix)S- sess in my library ; but I cannot, at this moment, lay my hand on the little book. Though curious in a certain sense, the treatise would be found more useful for the horticulturist than for the cook. Salads are now, as in Evelyn’s day, composed of cer- tain pot-herbs, to which are added various ai'omatlcal odoriferous herbs, or fournitures (that is the term of art in French cookery), which greatly add to the zest of the mixture. There are about twelve of these herbes de fourniture, as they are called, namely, gar- den-cress, water-cress, chervil, chives, scallions or green onions, tarragon, pimpernel or burnet, parsley pert, hartshorn,sweet basil, purslain, fennel, and young balsam. Cresses are wholesome and anti-scorbutic, chervil is a purifier, chives a stimulant, tarragon sto- machic and corroborant, while parsley is carminative,203 On Salad. and the remaining herbs ^re all pronounced by Lemery in his “ Traite des Aliments,” to have medi- cinal virtues. Salads, of course, vary according to the season. Chicoree or endive, is in season at the end of autumn, and it is not usual to add any herbe de fouruiture to that salad. Some, in France, place at the bottom of the salad-basin containing an endive salad, a small crust of stale bread rubbed over with garlic, which gives a slight flavour to the dish. Later in the season, another species of chicoree, called scarole, is had recourse to. It is not so tender as chicory or succory, but has as much flavour, and is quite as wholesome. Chicory or succory is, accord- ing to Lemery, of a moistening and cooling nature, and creates an appetite. Winter salads are generally composed of maclie or corn salad, rampions (which, according to Lemery, “ fortify the stomach, help di- gestion, are detersive, and agree with every age and constitution”), and chopped celery. Sometimes, also, in winter, a salad is made exclusively of chopped celery, seasoned with oil and mustard. Garden or water-cress is also a winter salad. It is good to mix it Avith slices of beetroot; and in France, more especially in Provence, olives are often added. Towards February, the salad most in vogue is an en- dive called harle de Capucin, or Capucin’s beard. It is seasoned like the white succory. The lettuce, known in England for more than three centuries, generally appears about the com-204 On Salad. mencement of Lent, but the better sort of lettuce does not make its appearance before Easter. It is the most popular of all salads, and possesses soothing properties. Herbes de fourniture are added to it, with which anchovies and chopped chives are mixed. Sometimes, to vary the dish, prawns and shrimps are likewise thrown in. Next comes the Roman lettuce, less watery, and with much fuller and finer flavour than the pre- ceding, especially when the leaves are streaked. The Roman lettuce is sometimes served with odoriferous herbs, but hard eggs are rarely added to the season- ing. Roman lettuce is in season from May to the end of Autumn. Besides these, there are hotch-potch salads, made en Macedoine, with a variety of roots and vegetables, such as French beans, haricots blancs, lentils, small onions, beetroot, saxifrage, or goat’s beard (called in French, salsifis'), potatoes, carrots, artichoke-bottoms, asparagus-tops, gherkins, sliced anchovies, soused tunny, olives, truflfles, &c. There are salads also of meat, fish, and game. A salade a Vitalienne is composed of cold fowl cut up in pieces, and served with anchovies and dressed salad. Sometimes this salad is made with a cold partridge; and very relishing it is. I insert here Careme’s receipt for a salade de pmdets a la Heine. It will be seen that, like all his receipts, it would be somewhat costly:—“ Dress in a pocle, or205 On Salad. roast four fine chickens, and when cold cut them in pieces, as for a fricassee; lay the pieces in a basin, with salt, pepper, oil, vine'gar, whole parsley washed, a small onion sliced, or a shalot, and cover with a round piece of paper; leave them in this seasoning for some hours; boil eight eggs of the same size hard, and take off the shells; wash six fine lettuces; half an hour before serving, drain the fowl upon a napkin, separating the small pieces of parsley and onions, take the leaves from the lettuces, preserving the hearts very small, cut the leaves small, season them as a salad usually is, and turn them into the dish: lav upon them in a circle the eight thighs of the fowls, in the centre put the wings, upon the top of the thighs lay the rumps and two of the breasts only, surmount these with the fillets, laying one the smooth side upwards, and the next the contrary way, or up- side down (as four are taken from the left, and four from the right side), on these lay the two other breasts; be careful to keep this entree very neat and very upright; make a border of eggs cut in eight pieces, and between each quarter place upright small hearts of lettuces, each heart cut in four or even six pieces; place half an egg, in which fix upright a heart of lettuce, and place it on the summit of the salad; then mix in a basin a good pinch of chervil and some tarragon leaves, both being chopped and blanched, with salt, pepper, oil, ravigote vinegar, and a spoonful of aspic jelly, chopped small; theOn Salad. 206 whole well mingled, pour it over the salad and serve immediately.” The vinegar used in salads should always be wine vinegar, not pyroligneous acid. Chaptal, the great chymist, and afterwards Minister of the Interior, in France, has given a receipt for dressing salad. He directs that the salad should be saturated with oil, and seasoned with salt and pepper, before the vinegar is added. It results from this process that there never can be too much vinegar, for, from the specific gravity of the vinegar compared with oil, what is more than needful will fall to the bottom of the salad bowl. The salt should not be dissolved in the vinegar, but in the oil, by which means it is more equally distributed through the salad. There are also salads of lemons, oranges, pome- granates, pears, apples, &c.; but these will be more properly spoken of under the head Dessert. The following receipt for a winter salad is from the pen of one of the wittiest men, and one of the purest writers of England of this generation, the late Sydney Smith:— “ Two large potatos, passed through kitchen sieve, Unwonted softness to the salad give. Of mordent mustard add a single spoon; Distrust the condiment which bites so soon ; But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault To add a double quantity of salt.On Salad. 207 Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, And once with vinegar procured from town. True flavour needs it, and your poet begs. The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl. And, scarce suspected, animate the whole ; And lastly, on the flavoured compound toss A magic teaspoon of anchovy sauce. Then, though green turtle fail, though venison’s tough. And ham and turkey are not boiled enough. Serenely full the Epicure may say,— Fate cannot harm me—I have dined to-day! ” The Spanish proverb says, that to make a perfect salad, there should be a miser for oil, a spendthrift for vinegar, a wise man for salt, and a madcap to stir the ingredients up and mix them tvell together. The proverb is perfect with the exception of the last member of the sentence. A patient and discreet man, a painstaking and careful man or woman should be entrusted with the duty of mixing the salad with its seasonlntr. O The French say, “ II faut bien fatiguer la salade.” It Is said by a dramatic writer, “ Toute fran^aise il ce que j’imagine, Sait bien ou mal faire un peu de cuisine and the same may be said of every Frenchman. Some of the emigrants, who fled to England and other coun- tries between 1790 and 1804, gained their livelihood by giving lessons in cookery; a,nd Brillat Savarin tells us, in one of his chapters, that when in emigration at Boston, in America, he taught the restaurateur Julien208 On Salad. to make ceufs brouilles au fromaye. Captain Collet, also, he tells, made a great deal of money at New York in 1794 and 1795, in making ices and sorbets. In my earlier days there were two Frenchmen in London who made good incomes by dressing salads, and each of them kept his cabriolet. One took as a fee 10«. Qd., but the other charged a guinea. In an article, headed “ Industrie gastronomique des Emigres,” BriUat Savarin thus speaks of a famous salad-dresser:— “ In passing through Cologne I met a Breton gen- tleman who made a good thing of it by becoming a traiteur. I might multiply examples of this kind to an indefinite extent, but I prefer relating, as more singular, the history of a Frenchman who acquired a fortune in London by his cleverness in making a salad. He was a Limousin, and, if my memory serve me rightly, called himself d’Aubignac, or d’Al- bignac. Though his means were very small sub- sequent to his emigration, he happened to dine one day at one of the most famous taverns of London. Whilst he was in the act of finishing a slice of juicy roast beef, five or six young men of the first families were regaling themselves at a neighbouring table. One among them stood up, and, addressing the French- man in a polite tone, said, ‘ Sir, it is a general opinion that your nation excels in the art of making a salad, would you have the goodness to favour us by mixing one for us?’ D’Albignac, after some hesitation, con-209 On Salad. sented, asked for the necessary materials, and having taken pains to mix a perfect salad, had the good for- tune to succeed. While the salad was in process of mixing, he candidly answered all questions addressed to him on his situation and prospects; stated he was an emigrant, and confessed, not without a slight blush, that he received pecuniary aid from the British government. It was this avowal, doubtless, which induced one of the young men to slip into his hand a five-pound note, which, after a slight resistance, he accepted. He gave the young man his address, and some time afterwards was not a little surprised to re- ceive a letter, in which he was asked in the politest terms to come and dress a salad in one of the best houses In Grosvenor Square. D’Albignac, who began to have a distant glimmering of durable advantage, did not hesitate an instant, and arrived punctually, fortified with some new ingredients destined to add new relish to his mixture. He had the good fortune to succeed a second time, and received on this occa- sion such a sum as he could not have refused without injuring himself in more ways than one. This second success made more noise than the first, so that the reputation of the emigrant quickly ex- tended. He soon became known as the fashionable salad-maker; and in a country so much led by fashion, all that was elegant in the capital of the three king- doms would have a salad made by him. D’Albignac, like a man of sense, profited by his popularity. He pOn Salad. 210 soon sported a vehicle, in order the more readily to transport him from place to place, together with a livery servant carrying in a mahogany case every'- thing necessary, such as differently perfumed vinegars, oils with or without the taste of fruit, soy, caviare, truffles, anchovies, ketchup gravy, some yolks of eggs. Subsequently he caused similar cases to be manufactured, which he furnished and sold by hun- dreds. By degrees the salad-dresser realised a fortune of 80,000 francs, with which he ultimately returned to France.” Three centuries ago, we learn from Champier, who wrote in 1560, that many materials were used for salads which are not thought of now; among others, fennel, marshmallow-tops, hops, wild marjoram, elder-flowers, and a species of nettle. Tomatas and asparagus were also at this pei’iod used as salads. In a “Memoire pour faire un Ecrlteau pour un Ban- quet,” published in the sixteenth century, I find in the list of salads the following:— 1. Salade blanche. 2. Salade verte. 3. Salade de citron. 4. Salade d’entremets. 5. Salade de grenade. 6. Salade de Houblon. 7. Salade de laitues. 8. Salade d’olives. 9. Salade de perce-pierre.211 On Salad. 10. Salade de poires de bon cretien. 11. Salade de pourpier confit. "We know better in our day than to make a salad of asj)aragus. Dr. Roques thus speaks of asparagus in his “ Observations sur les Plantes usuelles :—“ The as- paragus grows naturally in the woods, in the hedges, in the sea-sand, and on the banks of rivers. The ancients knew and cultivated asparagus. Athenaeus speaks of field and mountain asparagus; he says the best are those which grow naturally, without being sown. Martial, Pliny, and Juvenal also speak of asparagus. The Romans especially esteemed those of Ravenna. Nature, says Pliny, wished that asparagus should grow wild so that they might be gathered every where by everyone; but being improved by cultiva- tion, the blades astonish by their thickness. They are sold at Ravenna at three to the pound.” In Covent Garden Market, in the season, it is very common to find asparagus so fat that six weigh a pound. Why is Dr. Roques so silent as to the velocity with which this vegetable may be cooked ? Quicker than asparagus is boiled, became a proverb among the Romans.* Juvenal mentions a large lobster sur- rounded with asparagus, and promises, in the eleventh satire to his friend Perseus, a plate of mountain * “ Yelocius quatn asparagi coquuntur.” Suet.212 On Salad. asparagus, which had been freshly gathered by his farmer’s wife. “ Montani Asparagi, posito quos legit villica fuso.’’ I remember having read somewhere of a gentleman travelling near the town of Arras (where Robes- pierre was born), and meeting a countryman who in- sisted on supping with him. Entering an inn, the . gentleman asked for an omelette and some asparagus. After having helped the rustic to his half-share of the : omelette, the stupid lout asked what were the aspara- ; gus. “Oh! ” replied the host, “they are a very fine : vegetable, and you shall have half of the bunch, as you have had half of the omelette." Thereupon the intelli- gent gourmand transferred to his neighbour’s plate the , ends, or as the late Mr. Justice Creswell quaintly, yet forcibly used to say it, the handle of the esculent, who thought these quisqidliee tougher to chew than ; the stalky part of the cabbage. The Marquis de Cussy tells us that no less a per- | sonage than Napoleon ate the haricots de soissons, or kidney-beans with oil, as a salad.CHAPTER XV. THE DES8EET. 111E Dessert, if by that word be und erstood the agreeable mingling together of cakes, of fruits, and sweetmeats, is an Italian invention. It was cradled in the sweet south, and is the otfspring of beautiful gardens, and flourishing cities and towns, clustering with grapes and peaches. Careme used to say that the dessert had been elevated into a science with a view to retain girls, young women, and children at table, in friendly family converse. In such sort it deliciously prolongs the re- past. A dessert should above all things be simple ; considered as a third or fourth course, it is often a dangerous superfluity, and the fruitful cause of many an indigestion. There are some who eat of it solely and simply because it appears promotive of a light, agreeable, and sparkling conversation. But these worthy, good-natured people often deceive them- selves. It is a rock, says Careme, at the end of a dinner, a serious embarrassment for the liver, which214 The Dessert. it too often harasses and obstructs. Lachappelle {port-queue of Louis XIII., and his major domo) goes further, and mentions that all persons who make a point of eating dessert after a good dinner are fools, who spoil at once their wit and their stomachs. “Reject, therefore, once for all,” says another French author, the Macedoines glacees de fruits rouge, the white cheeses a la Bavaroise, the petits pains a la duchesse, the fanchonnettes de vulaille, the vol-au-vent a la violette. Experienced diners out never touch these things, not even at the end of a second course. When we speak of experienced and clever people, who know what they are about, we would speak of those gourmands so gifted, and so superior in all the affairs and business of life, such as Lorenzo de Me- dicis, Leo X., Raphael, Prince Talleyrand, George IV., the Emperor Alexandei*, Castlereagh, and Pitt himself.” M. F. Fayot, who writes biographies of Canning, and political articles in the French newspapers, ought to have known that Pitt did not care for such knick-knackeries as Pistachio nuts, and creme a la vanille. Though the dessert was originally invented in Italy, yet the usage was early transplanted into France. In the works of St. Gelals I find some lines, in which he sends fresh cherries to a lady on the first of May. IIow' this fruit could be thus early produced, without the aid of hot-houses, is difficult to imagine. From Champier, however.215 The Dessert. who wrote about 1560, we learn that the Poitevina sent yearly forced cherries in post to Paris. The fruit was prematurely ripened by putting lime at the root of the tree, or watering the roots with warm water. La Quintinig, the head gardener of Louis XIV., boasts that he served strawberries for the des- sert of his" royal master at the end of March, green peas in April, and figs in June. It was in 1694 that preserved pine-apples, shipped from the French West India islands of St. Domingo and Gaudaloupe, were first seen at dessert in Paris. The tree had been originally transplanted from Asia to the West Indies, where the heat of the climate preserved it from degenerating. “ Although the fruit of the pine be fibrous,” says Father Dutertre, “ it melts into water in the mouth, and is so well flavoured, that you find the taste of the peach, of the apple, of the quince, and of the muscatel, blended together.” It is plain to perceive that Father Dutertre was friand, and that he possessed, in matters of the table at least, the science of analysis. The “ pine,” says Dr. Roques, “ is impregnated with a corrosive juice, which may be extracted by steeping the root for one or two hours in sugared brandy.” Lovers of pine cut it up in slices, cover it with sugar, and bathe it copiously over with sherry wine. Jellies, ices, and creams, are also made of this fruit; and the Italians prepare with it a liqueur which is called nianaja, and which is really delicious.The Dessert. 216 Dates, so well known and so esteemed in ancient times, are oftener served at dessert in Spain, Italy, and the south of France, than in England. Theo- phrastus, Plutarch, and Pliny speak in rather extrava- gant terms of the date-tree, and the excellence of its fruit. Nicholas of Damascus, in Syria, one of the most distinguished members of the Peripatfetic school, sent to the Emperor Augustus the famous dates that grow in the valley of Jericho. Pliny says they are so thick, that four ranged together w'ould be the length of a cubit. This fruit is gathered in the autumn, and dried in the sun. The Tunisian dates are the best; they are pulpy, mucilaginous, sac- charine, and nutritious. The expressed juice of the date yields a syrup, which serves as a substitute for butter, and is used as a seasoning. Lemery says that those who feed on dates are generally afflicted with the scurvy and lose their teeth. They have been generally considered a dry and stringent fruit. Though an incentive to wdne, they are indigestible, and in Spain have generally a harsh, rough, and im- pleasant taste. There is not a more grateful or a less noxious fruit at dessert than oranges. Louis XIV. was particu- larly fond both of the tree and the fruit. When the monarch gave those magnificent fetes, so vaunted both in prose and verse, the porticoes, halls, and ante- chambers of his palaces were decorated with orange- trees, and the fruit, then esteemed rare, alwaysThe Dessert. 217 appeared at dessert. The Maltese oranges were, at that period, considered the finest; while the fruit of Portugal maintained a secondary rank only. But even Portuguese oranges were deemed a present worthy of being offered to the children of kings. “ Monsieur me vint” (says the Duchess of Montpen- sier in her Memoirs); “ il me donna des oranges de Portugal.” Moliere, in giving a description of the comedy which formed a portion of the famous given at Versailles in 1688 by Louis XIV., remarks that there was first laid a magnificent collation of Portuguese oranges,and of all sorts of fruits,in thirty- six baskets. About this period a species of sweet citron was much in vogue. It is mentioned by L6- mery in his treatise on foods, written about 1705, who says “ that the ladies of the court carried about sweet citrons in their hands, which they bit from time to time to produce red lips.” More than 270 years ago figs were common at des- sert in France. There were then but four species of this delicious fruit; the red, the purple, the white, and the black. The two latter were the most com- mon, but the black were considered in Provence the most wholesome, as well as the most anfreeable. The O figs of Marseilles, had then, as indeed they have now, great repute, and were renowned all over the country. Nor were those of Montpelier, Nismes, and St. Andeol, without their admirers, though in- ferior to the figs of Marseilles. There have been fewThe Dessert. 218 fig-trees In the neighbourhood of Paris for some cen- turies, though in the time of the Emperor Julian the figs of Paris were already celebrated. The famous gardener and horticulturist La Quin- tinie, to please his master, Louis XIV., who was particularly fond of figs, adopted the plan of placing the trees in wooden boxes, as had been previously adopted in reference to orange-trees. Some of the finest figs in England are grown in the neighbour- hood of Worthing. Those who have spent a summer there must have often eaten them for dessert. There is a magnificent fig-tree at Hampton Court, as old as the time of Charles II. rooted in a place which shall be nameless, and the fruit of which is particu- larly fine flavoured. In parts of Italy, Sicily, and the Levant, they have a curious custom of acupunc- turating the fig when half ripe, and introducing a drop of fine oil into the fruit; this greatly mellows the flavour, while it increases the size of the fig. The white figs at Cherbourg are very fine, as those will say who have eaten them at dessert at the excellent table d’hote in that town. Occasionally, also, white figs, equally excellent, are to be procured in the Channel Islands. Pomegranates are scarcely ever seen at dessert in England, and rarely in France, except in Lan- guedoc and Provence. In the sixteenth century tliis fruit was much used in certain diseases, and, in localities where it was not grown, was often sold for a219 The Dessert. louis-d’or. When Clement VII. arrived at Mar- seilles to have an interview with Francis I., several Frenchmen, who had eaten to excess of pomegranates, became seriously ill in consequence. Pomegranates are a favourite dessert at Grenada in Spain, where they grow in great quantities. Chestnuts, though a very common dessert fruit In France, are comparatively little used in England, though there is no reason why they should not be much cultivated, as they grow well in a cold, and even in a mountainous country. In Perigord they count eight different species of chestnuts, and there, as well as in Bi-ittany, the chestnut forms a staple article of food for the peasantry. Madame de Se- vigne, writing from her estate of the Pochers, near Vitre, says:—“ Je ne connaissais la Provence que par les grenadiers, les oi’angers, et les jasmins ; voild comme on nous la depeint. Pour nous, ce sont des chataignes qui font notre ornement; j’en avois I’autre jour trois ou quartres paniers autour de mol. J’en fis bouiller, j’en fis rdtir, j’en mis dans ma poche; on en sert dans les plats, on mai’che dessus, c’est la Bretagne dans son triomphe.” In the thirteenth century Lom- bardy chestnuts were cried in the streets of Paris. According to heathen records chestnuts were first noticed at Sardes, in Lydia. Virgil speaks of the “ castanea molles.” They are eaten at dessert boiled or roasted, and are in both ways palatable. Cherries are, in the season, an important portionThe Dessert. 220 of a French as well as of an English dessert. There are in France six species of black-heart cherries, six of higarreux, and five-and-twenty of cherries and black cherries. The cherries most prized by the Parisians, however, are those of Montmorency, so named from that rich valley in which they grow, extending from St. Denis to Pontoise. England, our own dear country, greatly transcends France in this article of dessert, brought originally from the garden of Mithridates. Not only are cherries produced in greater quantity, but are much finer in flavour. Kent, Berkshire, Oxfordshire, are pre- eminent in this produce; and the May-duke (pro- bably originally from Medoc), Biggarroon {bigar- reux'), and white-heart attest our superiority. Apricots, which frequently appear at dessert in France, and not unfrequently in England at the tables of the wealthy, were not known in either of these countries (though they are mentioned by Dioscorides, who lived in the time of Nero, under the name of prcBcocia) till the sixteenth century. After that period they became rather common; but previously were sold, says Champier, as though the price were extravagant, at a farthing a-piece. When this fruit was first introduced into France it appeared no bigger than the smallest plum; but the science and art of French gardeners not only contributed to increase its size but its flavour. In 1651 there were but three species of apricots; the late, the early, and theThe Dessert. 221 musque, or musk-flavoured. Now there are at least twenty, of which the apricot of Nanci is the largest and best. But the apricots of Angoumois, of Hol- land, of Portugal, and of Alexandria, are not to be despised. Under favour, and with submission be it said, however, that the best apricot that ever was in Grange’s, Owen’s, Marks’, Levy’s, Solomon’s, Israel’s, or Raine’s shop, is but a dry and insipid article com- pared with a fine peach, fine greengages, fine fresh- gathered, green, hairy gooseberries, fine Mirabel plums, fine pears, or fine mellow ribston pippins. The apricot comes originally from Armenia. The name originates in the situation which the tree pre- fers—a wall exposed to the heat of the meridian sun. The word apricus is sometimes differently applied, as aprici senes, old men who delight in sitting and prat- tling on benches exposed to the reviving warmth of Sol’s rays. There are about twenty kinds of plums both in England and France; but among these the gi’een- gage, called by the French the reine clav.dc, is by far the most luscious, succulent, and full-flavoured. These plums, called after the daughter of Louis XIL, first wife of Francis L, have, in France, a peculiarly rich mellow juciness, the effect probably of a drier atmosphere, and the being exposed to a warmer sun on mud-built lime-washed walls, with a southern aspect. These greengages are always eaten with a peculiar relish in Paris. There is a sun-burnt look about them, as well as,—222 The Dessert. “ A deep embrowned tint, which tells How rich within the soul of sweetness dwells tVhereas the greengage of England looks pale and peaky, as though it were aflSicted with the green- sickness. The peach, or Persian apple, is one of the oldest known fruits in France, and one of the commonest served at dessert. The most esteemed in the neio^h- O bourhood of Paris, is the peach of Corbeil. In the provinces, those of Troyes and Dauphine enjoy the greatest renown. The Auberi peach is common in Languedoc, and has latterly been cultivated in the neighbourhood of Paris. The Duracine peach is a native of Brittany. It is of more than ordinary size, and the flesh firm and juicy; hut almost aU peaches in France are mere turnips compared with the hot- house fruit in England. Enter Grange’s in Picca- dilly, or the elder Owen’s in Bond Street, ^Marks’ at the corner of Holies Street, and try one of the shilling peaches in the season, and you wflll find a rich, juicy, fleshy flavour and aroma oftener sought than found in the fruit of France. It is true that you may have six or eight peaches in France for the price you would pay for one in England at any of these three shops, but that one peach is better than a bushel of such tasteless turnip fruit as is often presented to you all over Gaul. The ten and twelve sous peaches of Corbeil, which may be obtained at Madame Mal- liez in the Marche St. Houorc, are certainly a more223 The Dessert. commendable fruit, but I should prefer for my own eat- ing a first-rate hot-house peach to any three of them. I know not whether an improved peach has recently come from China. The peach is a fruit which has been cultivated iu the Celestial Empire from the earliest times, and celebrated in their ancient books, in the songs of their poets, and the disquisitions of their doc- tors. The peachit is said in their legends, produces an eternity of life, and preserves the body from cor- ruption to the end of the world. A fine peach is a delicious fruit; it is good with sugar, good wdthout sugar, and excellent, super-excellent with a glass of good INIadeira, sherry, or brandy thrown over it. The peach-tree does not always require the protec- tion of the sheltering Avail in warmer climates. The trees stand insulated in the vineyard or orchard, swinging gently in the breeze, which the French call piches de vigne, and ahricots en plein vent. There is no better dessert fruit than a good apple, and in this fruit England beats all the wmrld, Avith the exception of America. The IfcAv-toAvn pippin is un- questionably the first of apples, but first-rate ribstons come next to it. The nonpareil and golden pippin (the golden apple of the Hesperides) are not without merit. The great defect of French apples, however, is their general mealiness and want of juiciness. The paradis of Provence is the best of its kind. There is also an apple of very tolerable fiavour, called the ca- pendu, which ladies lock up in their drawers andThe Dessert. 224 wardrobes to perfume their clothes. There are about forty-six kinds of apples mentioned in the “ Theatre d’Agriculture,” but the grey and white reinette are the only apples desirable at a French dessert The different species of pears (from the Epirean : orchards of Pyrrhus) are more numerous even than '■ the species of apples. De Serres speaks of ninety- five kinds of pears; 400 are mentioned in the “ Jar- ^ dinier Fran9aise,” and more than 300 in “ La Quin- tlnie.” Itis not generally known that the famous c/mw- muntel (called by corruption in England charrnontel), ' was a wild pear transplanted into the garden and ren- dered perfect by culture. The Burgundy pear, called Madame Oudotte (and by corruption Amadotte^, was also a wild pear found in a wood belonging to a lady J; of the name of Oudotte. Four of the best dessert j pears in France are the heurre, the cuisse de viadame t (my lady’s thigh), the pear of Lyons, the bergamotte ' of Lorraine, and the bon chretien of Tourraine, j The bon chretien is by no means a common pear in j England; though towards the latter end of August, ] or the beginning of September, it is always to be had at Covent Garden Market. The finest Spanish bon \ chr'etiens I have ever eaten in England were grown ; in the garden of i\Ir. Powell, near to Minster and ; Herne,in Kent. This is extraordinary, as the Kentish J soil is unfavourable both to pears and apples, while J the opposite coast of Essex produces exquisite fruit, ^ and above all, those bulbous thin-skinned goose- ;The Dessert. 225 berries, equal to the best chasselas of Fontainbleau. Compotes of pears are excellent and cooling at des- sert, and render the fruit more digestible, according to the line,— “ Cruda gravant stomachum relevant pyra cocta gravatam.” Talking of the chasselas grape of Fontainbleau, the reader will naturally ask why I have hitherto omitted all mention of the finest fruit, oranges excepted. This was from no indisposition to do every justice to grapes, the wholesomest and most grateful of fruits. The best grapes in France are undoubtedly the chasselas, which come into the Paris markets neatly packed in small baskets, sold for forty, fifty, and sixty sous each, according to the quality. In the autumn of the year many of the Parisian hadauds undergo a regimen of grapes, eating nothing else for three weeks or a month. Used thus, grapes have all the effect of the Cheltenham waters. “ They open the body,” says old Lemery, physician to Louis XIV., create an appetite, are very nourishing, and qualify the sharp humour of the heart. They agree with every age and constitution, provided they be not used to excess.” The ciotat, the Cormthe, the black morillon, the muscat of Touralne, are all excellent grapes, ancttTiay be purchased in France for a few sous a pound. In the southern departments of France as many grapes as th^ most inveterate eater of that fruit would desire may be had for the small sum of one QThe Dessert. 226 penny, though it must be admitted that the hot-house grapes of England are superior in flavour and variety to every description of grape in France, excepting the chasselas ; but the prices asked in Covent Grarden Market are enormous and wholly unjustifiable. Hot- house grapes are, in fact, a luxury wholly beyond the reach of persons of moderate fortune. Notwithstanding the decided taste which Louis XV. had for strawberries, and the efibrts made by his minions to furnish him with this fruit at his des- sert all the year round; we have, nevertheless, for the last century and a half, surpassed the French in the 5 variety and quality of this esculent. The Chilian ' strawberry is one of the largest produced in the im- v perial gardens of Versailles and Fontalnbleau; but i strawberries of nearly twice the size may be daily I seen during the months of May, June, and July, in 1 Covent Garden Market. The pine strawberry, origi- | nally of Louisiana, was first introduced into France in 1767. Though it may have more pine flavour than our pine strawberry, yet it is by no means so large as the common run of pines in Covent Garden. It too frequently happens, however, that what fruits gain in size they lose in flavour. Every good judge of fruit is quite opposed to the idea of monster fruit, , fish, flesh, or fowl; convinced that average-sized ■ turbots, bullocks, turkeys, and fruits, are among the i very best. The dried fruits are, of course, never produced J227 The Dessert. at dessert, when fresh fruits can be obtained. A very common French dessert in the winter months is composed of almonds, raisins, and figs; but, though these afford a passable pastime enough when nothing better can be had, yet the opinion of the Gauls concerning their value may be learned from the name given to them. If you wish to obtain the trio at a restaurant after a copious or a spare dinner, you must not call for des amandes, des raisins, et des Jigues, but ask for trois mendiants. Provence fur- nishes dried figs to Paris; the ancient province of Maine, dried cherries ; and Eheims, Tours, and Bri- gnoles, dried plums. Dried apples, a very palatable dessert, come from Tours and Orleans. In England our winter dessert is thus furnished: the raisins come from Malaga, the figs and currants from Turkey and the Grecian islands, the almonds from Syria and the Archipelago, and the olives from Spain and Italy. France produces this latter fruit on her own soil. The Phocians, founders of Mar- seilles, first planted the olive in that locality; and, according to Strabo, taught the natives the art to cultivate it. Olives are now grown in every part of Provence and Languedoc, and may be always found at dessert at the most moderate tables d'hote of Mar- seilles, Toulon, Nismes, Montpelier, Avignon, &c. Biscuits, cakes, and sweetmeats, are also an accom- paniment. The poets of the thirteenth century speak of flamiches and gaieties chuuds, and at thisThe Dessert. 228 period the Rhelms gingerbread was also in great vogue. When Champier wrote, about 1560, the gingerbread of Paris was nearly as renowned at dessert as the famous croquets of Rhelms. A cake made of powdered sugar and almonds, called masse- pain, has also been common at dessert in France for more than three centuries. Its component parts are filberts, almonds, pistachio nuts, pines, sugar, and a little flour. It is", however, rather a dear morsel, and can only be eaten by the wealthy. L’Etoile, describing a magnificent collation of three courses given at Paris in 1596, says, “ Que les confi- tures seiches et massepans y estoit si peu espargnez que les dames et damoiselles, estolent contraintes de s’en decharger sur les pages et les laquais, auxquels on les bailloit tons entiers.” In the time of Rabelais a tartlette or cake called darioles, was eaten at dessert; there were also other friandises called ratons, and cassemuseaux, and petit choux. The first and last words have since been adopted as terms of endearment among lovers, and from nurses and nursery-maids to children. Aromatic spices and warm seeds were much more frequently used at dessert a century and a half ago than in our own day. After dinner, says the work called “ Les Triomplies de la Noble Dame,” “ On, scrt chez les riches, pour faire la digestion, de I’anis du fenouil et de la coriandre confits au sucre.” The author of “ He des Hermaphrodites,” in painting the229 The Dessert. manners of the court of Henry III., makes the same remark. After the dessert, says he, “ Les uns pre- noient un pen d’anis confit, les autres, cotlgnac,* mais il falloit qu’il fdt musque. Autrement il n’eut point eu d’effet en leur estomach qui n’avoit point de cha- leur s’il n’etoit parfumg.” At the royal table, and in establishments of great lords, another custom prevailed which did not obtain m the houses of private persons. Independently of the spices which composed the dessert, there were others more select still, which were served in a small box divided into compartments. This box was of gold, silver, or silver gilt, and was called a drageoir, comfits being the principal portion of its contents. This box was generally presented to the king by an esquire or person of condition, and to the king only, unless his majesty wished particularly to honour some one among the guests. He then sent to him his comfit-box, “On apporta vins et Apices,” writes Iroissart, “et servit du drageoir, devant le Roi de France tant seulement, le Comte d’Harcourt.” Brandied fruits, compotes and fruits preserved in syrup, are generally produced at a French dessert; ^ are marmalade fruits, as, for instance, marmelade d^abricots, de p&ches, de pommes, &c. Fruit jellies, as cornel berry jelly, apple jelly, are also esteemed deli- cacies. Various pastes are also occasionally handed Cotignac was a confection of quinces.230 The Dessert. round at dessert, as apricot paste, peach paste, and ginger paste. Le Loyer, in his poetical pieces, speaks of these pastes as proper to be given to cold and indifferent husbands:— “ Que, sur la fin du dessert, on leur porte L’liypocras rouge on bien un puissant vin, La truffe noir avec le fruit du pain.” There is no more pleasant dessert in the month of September than young filberts and walnuts, in which former fruit England certainly surpasses the world. In walnuts we are equalled, if not surpassed, by Switzerland and France. The truth is, however, that the dessert after a good London or Parisian dinner is a superfluity, and in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred does more harm than good. This was the opinion of Brillat Savarin in his “ Physiologie du Gout ” A little bit of cheese, says this great epicure, may be permitted, and some preserve or a sweetmeat. “ Un beau diner,” he adds, “ sans vieux fromage, est un joli femme ^ qui il manque un ceil.” The word dessert was introduced into the French language at the end of the sixteenth century. In an ordonnance of the 21st January, 1563, the word occurs. “ En quelques noces festins ou tables parti- culieres que ce puisse etre, il n’y aurait dorcnavant que trois services au plus savoir, les entrees de table, la viande -ou le poisson, et le dessert” The following is the regulation of the ordomiance concerning theThe Dessert. 231 dessert:—Au dessert, soit fruit, patisserie, fromage, ou autre chose quelconque, il ne pourroit non plus, ^tre servi que six plats, le tout sous peine de 200 livres d’amende pour la premiere fois, et 400 cent pour la seconde. Speaking of desserts, a French authoress says, “ Le cholx et I’arrangement des fruits ou des fleurs dont est paree la table, I’elegance des edifices sucres, la symmetrie des asslettes, ne sont pas des soins tout d fait Stranges aux arts. L’appetit satls- fait, les yeux et I’odorat sont flattes a la fois par la beaute du fruit el^gamment 61eve en pyra- mides; par les formes varies des sucreries, dont la saveur parfumee reveille encore la satlete, enfin par la fumee des vins petillants ou liquoreux dont les esprits volatils excitent la verve et animent la gaite. Careme says the dessert ought to be the special labour of the lady of thehouse. Medical men in thetwelfth and thirteenth centuries, more especially in France, ordered some fruits at the commencement of dinner, Champler recommended that cherries, raspberries, peaches, and apricots should be so eaten; and that after dinner medlars, pistachio nuts, filberts, chestnuts, apples, quinces, and pears should be produced. Melon, in the time of Henry IV., and to this day, is eaten in France with the boulli, just after the soup. Sully tells that one day when Henry IV. was at dinner, his Maitre d’Hotel entered with a golden basin filled with melons. “ Right glad am I,” said the jovial king, “for I wish to-day to have a surfeit. They never232 The Dessert. injure me when I eat them on an empty stomach and before meat, as the doctors direct,” In ^Madame Sevigne’s time the same opinion existed touching melons. “ Je ne vous deffends point les melons (she wrote to her daughter), puisque vous avez si bon vin pour les cuire.” The author of “La Nouvelle Instruction pour la Culture du Figuies,” written in 1692j writes that figs should be eaten on an empty stomach and before dinner, for it is an axiom, he says, in medicine, to commence at supper or dinner by the things most easily digested.CHAPTER XVI. ON ICES, I r regular set dinners ices are always served. For a party of ten or fourteen there is generally a cream and water ice, with biscuits, &c. The French generally serve a greater number of ices than we do. The ices most in vogue in London are pine, lemon, orange, ginger, strawberry, and cherry ices. In Paris, apri- cot, peach, chocolate, coffee, and four fruit ices are more common than with us. Some there are who date the use of ice at table from the time of Alexander the Great; who, it is said, had caves in India for the preservation of ice; but it is certain that in Alexander’s time the Greeks cooled their wine with ice, and that the Romans were also acquainted with this luxury. A French traveller In Turkey, writing in 1553, tells us that the Turks had their glacieres, in which they preserved ice for table use. Henry III. was said to be the first who intro- duced ice at his table in France, and it became com-234 On Ices. mon enough in the following century. The word glaciere is not found in the dictionary of Monet, pub- lished in 1636. But in 1667 Boileau wrote;— “ Pour semble de dis grace Par le chaud qu’il faisait nous n’avions point de glace. Point de glace, bon Dieu! dans le coeur de I’et^ Au mois de Juin. Wenham Lake ice is now handed round durins: dinner to mix with wine or water between April and August.CHAPTER XVII. COFFEE. I 'TER the dessert comes Coffee, and it is now fitting that I should make a few O remarks on the best means of making that agreeable and stimulating beverage. The coffee tree is a native of Arabia. The use of the berry extended itself to Mecca, Medina, and then to Cairo in Egypt. It continued its progress north- ward; and in 1554, under the reign of Solyman the Great, became known to the Inhabitants of Constantinople. The Venetians introduced coffee to the western parts of Europe. In 1644 it was brought to Marseilles, and in 1657 to Paris. Ac- cording to Le Gi'and D’Aussy, the custom of drink- ing coffee became general in Paris in 1669, through the example of Soliman Aga, ambassador of Mahomet IV. The coffee is an evergreen shrub, rising to twenty feet in height. The fruit is a round, fleshy berry, and great care is taken to conduct little rills of water in small channels to the roots of the trees.236 Coffee. The berry grown in Arabia is smaller than that of the East and West Indies, but its flavour is much finer, because in Arabia the soil is rocky, dry, and hot. The trees are watered by artificial means, and therefore the proper quantity of moisture only is im- bibed by them. Almost all studious, hard-working men love cofiee ; and this is not wonderful, as it is, when properly made, a delightful, innoxious, and ex- hilarating beverage. “ It is a slow poison,” said some one to Voltaire, who saw him drinking strong coffee. “ It must.be a very slow poison indeed,” rejoined the wit, “ as I have been taking it now for more than seventy years.” How often must a man who laboured as Voltaire did have required a beverage which excited the nerves and exhilarated the spirits, without pro- ducing the baneful effects of those stimulating liquids and narcotic substances which act on the brain ? In cases of extreme heat or cold, coffee is the most salu- tary beverage, as it not only warms and exhilarates the system, but dissipates the languor produced either by fatigue or the influence of the climate or weather. How many writers are there who have vaunted the good effects of coffee ? Delille and Lebrun have praised its virtues in well-tuned verses. The poem entitled “Les Disputes,” by Eulhiere, originated in coffee. Fontenelle, who lived more than 100 years, is lavish in its praise. Montesquieu has consecrated to the brown ambrosial berry some eloquent and sounding periods; and Rougseau, and Buffbn, the most eloquentCoffee. 237 of prose writers, have not forgotten to record the brilliant inspirations which they owed to its influence. Nor are these the only triumphs of the brain-clearing beverage. Heroes, and statesmen, and philosophers, have bowed down before the filagree cups; and Frederick of Prussia and Napoleon, Talleyrand and Cambaceres, and Metternich, Portalis, Corvisart, and Cuvier, have all acknowledged and felt the in- spiration and good effects of coffee. One of the virtues, the dissipating the fumes of wine, has also been alluded to by Delille:— “ Le Cafe vous presente une heureuse liqueur, Qui d’un vin trop fumeux dissipe la vapeur.” In another passage, the same poet thus apostro- phises the cheering yet not inebriating liquor:— “ II est une liqueur au poete bien ehere, Qui manquait si Virgile, et qu’adorait Voltaire: C est toi, divin cafe, dont I’aimable liqueur. Sans alterer la tcte, epanouit le coeur.” It is a remarkable fact that, during the retreat of the French from Russia, such soldiers as refrained from brandy, and took only coffee, escaped being frost-bitten, or any of the diseases arising from ex- posure to cold. There is no part of the world in Vr hich better coffee is sold than in London, more especially the Mocha coffee of Twining (which may be purchased, unground and unroasted, at Is. M. the pound, and roasted, or ground and roasted, atCoffee, 238 2s. 4t/. the pound); yet there is no spot in this world, we verily believe, where coffee is generally so badly made, as in this great wilderness of a metropolis. This arises from several causes : first, the purchasing coffee ground and roasted. The consumption and sale of the article is so small in England, compared to France, that in many of the shops the ground coffee is a week, and in many a fortnight or a month old; and, being too frequently exposed to the influ- ences of the weather and climate, the aroma has entirely evaporated. There is scarcely a shop in London where coffee is daily roasted; and, even if there were such a shop, the quantity purchased for private consumption is generally so large, and the use of it so unfrequent in families, that the flavour in so humid a climate is gone long before the coffee is consumed. The Turks, who are our masters in the art of making coffee, do not employ a mill to triturate the berry, but pound it in mortars, with pestles or mallets of wood. When these machines have been long used for the purpose, they are esteemed precious, and sell at a large price. Brillat Savarin relates the result of an experiment which he caused to be made as to the comparative merits of the liquid made from the pounded and the ground berry:— “ T roasted with care,” says he, “ a pound of good Mocha coffee, and separated it into two equal por- tions, one of which was ground, and the other pounded in the manner of the Turks. I made coft'ee withCoffee. 239 both one and other of these powders, taking an equal weight of each, pouring on each an equal por- tion of boiling water, and in all respects dealing equally between them. I tasted these coffees, and caused them to be tasted by the best judges, and the unanimous opinion was, that the liquid produced from the powdered was evidently superior to the produce of the ground coffee.” The second reason why the coffee is inferior in England is, that the berry is burned instead of being roasted, and is consequently bitter and burnt, instead of being fine-flavoured and aromatic. The third reason is, that at hotels, coffee-houses, clubs, and even in private houses, enough of the coffee (even though it were good) is not infused; and the fourth reason may be found in the addition of an excess of water. Now, in the first place, the roasting of cofifee should be carefully watched and superin- tended by an intelligent person. The moment the berry crackles and becomes crisp enough to pulverise, it is sufficiently roasted. Once taken off the roaster, it should be placed in several thick folds of flannel to undergo the process of cooling. This preserves the essential oil in the coffee, and prevents the aroma from escaping. When the coffee is cool, place it in an air-tight canister. Sufficient for the day should be the coffee thereof. In other words, never roast, if you can avoid it, more than for a single day’s con- sumption—certainly not more than for two or threeCoffee. 240 days. Grind or pound your coffee not more than a quarter of an hour before you want to make the infusion. There are various methods of preparing the infu- sion. Any one of them would have the effect of pro- ducing very tolerable coffee, if the directions I have given touching the roasting and grinding of the berry were attended to, and a sufficient quantity of the powdered coffee used. But unfortunately English servants, who drink tea or beer, are ignorant of or insensible to the true flavour of coffee, and as they do not partake themselves of the beverage, become indifferent to its preparation. The coffee produced by them is, indeed, drowned in a deluge of water, and deserves the title given it in an old tract called the “Petition against Coffee,” namely, “abase, black, thick, nasty, bitter, stinking, puddle water.” The best coffee in the world, taken altogether, is certainly made in Paris, though I have occasionally tasted at private houses in England, where the mas- ter was a gourmet, and the servants disciplined, finer coffee than was ever brewed either at the Cafe Foy or the Cafe Corrazza. And the only wonder is, that ■> it should not be always so; for, as was before ob- served, the very finest qualities of coffee come to the London market. For the last forty years, a great deal of fanciful- ness has prevailed in Paris as to the best manner of making coffee. Much of this arose, no doubt, from241 Coffee. the inordinate love which Napoleon exhibited for coffee; as everyone was desirous to improve upon the favourite beverage of the little Corsican and great conqueror. Projects of all kinds were started: to make coffee without roasting it, without grinding it, to infuse it cold, to make it boil three quarters of an hour, &c. Another mode was to run the cold water several times through the powder; another, to infuse the coffee over night. But, notwithstanding these vagaries, coffee is generally well made in France. It is true, that it is most commonly adulterated by the admixture of chicoree, but there is nothing nox- ious in the endive; it merely adds a bitterness to the coffee, and is adopted in nine instances out of ten from motives of economy. The most usual method of making coffee in France is a Dubelloy, which consists in pouring boiling water on coffee placed in a porcelain or silver vase, cullen- dered or pierced with very small holes. This first decoction is poured off, heated to boiling heat, passed again through the coffee-pot, when a clear and exqui- site coffee is produced. More than a full-sized table- spoonful of coffee should be allowed for each guest , o in making a small cup of coffee after dinner. The most complete apparatus for coffee making ever invented in England, is said to have been the production of Mr. Jones, of Bond Street, ironmonger; but, as I have never tried it, I will not speak of its merits. The ordinary English tin coffee-biggin succeeds E242 Coffee. tolerably well if the coffee be properly roasted and ground; but the disadvantage is, that the filtering occupies so long a time, that the coffee is half cold when ready to be poured into the cups. The cylinder for roasting coffee, which one cannot pass through the streets of Paris without seeing con- stantly at work, has been in use since 1687. The love of novelty is so great in that capital, that when coffee was first introduced, two methods were adopted of preparing it: one, the ordinary method now in use; the other, a method said to prevail in the seraglio at Constantinople, for the mistresses of the Grand Signor. This consists in boiling for a certain time in hot water, not the grain itself, but the shell or pod which envelopes it. This method affords a liquor of an agreeable colour to the eye, but it yields a pale and flavourless coffee, though decorated with the name of cafe a la sultane. Blegny invented, in 1687, a distilled coffee water, an oil, and a syrup of coffee. Under the Eegent Orleans, coffee sweet- meats were invented, to appear at dessert; and a few years afterwards the distillateurs of Montpelier made a liqueur, produced after dessert, which they called eau de caff, whose odour resembled roasted coffee. There were also tablettes de caff, which were eaten before the liqueurs. There were and are medical men who, from the time of its introduction to our day, have not ceased to sound the alarm as to the unwholesomeness of coffee; but I think with old243 Coffee. Lcmery, that " coffee fortifies the stomach and brain, promotes digestion, allays the headache, suppresses the fumes caused by wine, makes the memory and fancy more quick, and people brisk that drink it.” This last effect, says he, has been observed by the shepherds of Africa, who took notice, that before coffee was used, and that their sheep fed upon this kind of pulse, that they skipped about strangely.* I shall close my observations on coffee by giving a receipt of Dr. Roques for a cafe a la creme frappe de glace. It is a delicious breakfast during the sum- mer heats. Here it is:—“Make a strong infusion of Mocha or Bourbon coffee; put it in a porcelain bowl, sugar it properly, and add to it an equal por- tion of boiled milk, or one-third the quantity of a rich cream. Surround the bowl with pounded ice.” Doctor Bonnafous, of Perpignan, recommended this beverage to such persons as had lost their appetite, or who experienced general debility. This agreeable epicurean one day said to a patient, Dr. Roques, who was himself in the profession,—“ Study, my friend, that which is good, that which pleases your palate. Try to become a Viiile friand; commence a series of gastronomic experiments without infringing a regi- men. You will be the better for it, and in certain circumstances you will exercise on sickly people in- clined to gourmandise an unlimited power. Break- Traite des Aliinens,” par Lciuery.244 Coffee. fast during July, August, and a part of September, on iced coffee, and in winter on woodcock soup. This is a regimen with which I restored to health and sense an aged canon who had nearly lost all ap- petite, and who was disgusted with life.” Brillat Savarin recommends that coffee should be taken in the dinner-room, as thus served it is hotter. This may be so in establishments where there are an insufficient number of servants; but in good houses in England, where there is a regular establishment of servants, coffee is served quite as hot in the draw- ing-room, library, or salon, as in the dining-room or salle a manger. Coffee should be hot, clear, and strong; and, like every other good thing, be taken in moderation. Morin, in his “Manuel d’Hygiene,” i says, “ Quelle que soit son action sur I’estomac, il en i est du cafe comme de toute autre chose, il faut en user et ne pas en abuser.” Tea is much more gener- ally taken after dinner in England than coffee, and J it is a beverage deemed more wholesome and more agreeable by the great majority of Englishmen. ; Cowper’s lines in the “ Task,” on the winter evening | cup of tea, will recur to the reader. 1 “ Now stir the fire, and close the shutters fast. Let fall the curtains, wheel the sofa round, And, while the bubbling and loud hissing urn Throws up a steamy column, and the cups That cheer but not inebriate, wait on each; So let us welcome peaceful evening in.”CHAPTER XVIII. ON DIFFERENT LIQUEURS, RATAFIAS, AND ELIXIRS TAKEN AFTER COFFEE. HE name of liqueurs is given to pre- parations composed of spirits of wine, brandy, sugar, and the extracts of cer- tain substances more or less aromatic. The desired result is obtained either by distillation or by infusion. Infused liqueurs are called ratafias. Elixirs are certain wholesome or therapeutic liquors, taken only by spoonfuls. Ratafias are as old as the time of Louis XII., contemporary with Henry VII.; and elixirs were known antecedent to the time of Charles VII., contemporary with our Henry VI. The most renowned foreign liqueurs are the alkermes of Florence, the rossolis or rosoglio of Bologna, the barhados and the tarlufolgio of Turin; citronelle Venice, the cinamonium of Trieste, the maraschino of Zara, the hrambambouli of Dalmatia, the absinthe of Switzerland, the hirschen wasser of the Black Forest, the persicot of Treves, the hurnin of Dantzic, the double anisette and the white curaqoa of Amsterdam, the tafia246 On Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. of the Isle of France, the blanc rack of Bata\*ia, the old rum of Jamaica, the noyau of Martinique, the white vanilla of St. Domingo, the eau des creoles of Martinique, and the mirobolan of Madame Anfoux. The fine or distilled liqueurs fabricated in France are, les cremes de the, de menthe, de canelle, dorange, and the eau angelique. Most of these are made at Montpelier, but all of them can be obtained at Tan- rades’, in Paris, who is himself the proprietor and distiller of the creme dananas, and the petit lait dHenry IV. Ratafias are, for the most part, made in the provinces. Thus Verdun is famous for its persicot, Phalsburg for its noyau, Lyons for its ab- sinthe, Grenoble for its wild cherry ratafia, Hieres for its five fruited ratafia, and Orleans for its quince ratafia. Few of these, however, are known in Eng- land, where the principal liqueurs used are noyau, curaqoa, cherry-brandy, and cognac. Of these I should say the three last were the wholesomest and most stomachic. Nothing can exceed, indeed can equal, cognac for a liqueur, if it be old and genuine. A liqueriste, or a distillateur, is a distinct trade in France from a limonadier. These distillateurs com- posed their beverages for the most part from brandy or spirits of wine, aromatised by the infusion of spices, flowers, honey, fruits, &c. Cubebs, cinnamon, cloves, grains of paradise, liquorice, sweetened and flavoured witli rose-water, pomegi'anate juice, and sugar, were the component parts of the earliest liqueurs whichOn Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. 247 appeared in Europe, with the exception of the eau (Tor, or aq^ia aurea, which Arnaud de Villeneuve de- scribes as brandy, in which was infused or macerated rosemary flowers, wdth spices and colours to flavour it. When golden elixirs became rife, somewhat later, the public desired that the eau cTor should really con- tain gold; and hence the custom of putting some gold-beater’s leaf, cut up into small pieces, into the infusion. The eau de vie de Dantzic, of which a con- siderable portion is consumed in Paris, is prepared in this fashion. Liqueurs, though known a considerable time pre- viously, were flrst greatly sought for in France at the period when Catherine de Medlcis, in 1533, came to wed the dauphin son of Francis I. The Italians whom she brought in her suite, and the creatures of that nation who flocked in crowds to France when she became queen, greatly Introduced the use of liqueurs, which had been heretofore common in Italy. The nascent taste for them grew gradually into a passion; and in 1604, Sully, in examining the ob- jects of luxury which cost the French most, particu- larises and liqueurs. The populo and the ros- solis were, about two centuries ago, the most popular of liqueurs. Ihe former was made with spirits of wine, water, sugar, musk, amber, essence of ani- seed, essence of cinnamon, &c. The rossolis took its name from the plant ros soils, which was one of its ingredients. Among foreign rossolis, that of Turin248 On Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. was the most celebrated. The liquor, writes Patin, in 1653, in one of those letters, half French, half Latin, which he was in the habit of inditing,—the liquor called rossolis “ nihil habet solare, sed igneum quid potentissimum, lumborum renum, que dolori- bus adversissiraum.” At this period, all liqueurs were considered unpardonable luxuries, if not sinful. Ma- dame Theanges, who had been a gay demirep in her day, at length became devout. Madame de Sevigne, writing in 1674, says :—“EUe (meaning Madame de Theanges) est souvent avec Madame de LongueviUe et tout a fait dans le bel air de la devotion; mais elle est toujours de tres bonne compagnie et n’est pas solitaire. J’etois I’autre jour aupres d’elle a diner. Un laquais lui presenta un grand verre de vin de liqueur; elle me dit, Madame, ce gar90n ne salt pas que je suis devote.” And Madame de Sevigne archly adds, “ Cela nous fit rlre.” Well, indeed, might the company laugh, though the proper rebuke would have been to answer, in the words of Shakespeare, " Think’st thou, because thou art virtuous, we shall have no more cakes and ale? Ay, by St. Anne! and ginger shall be hot in the mouth, too.” The first manufactory of liqueurs in France which had a remarkable success, was a fabric established at Montpelier. In 1704, when Louis XIV. suppressed the com- munity of limonadicrs, establishing in their stead 150On Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. 249 privileged persons, an ordonnance pointed out what liqueurs It was lawful to sell. These were lafenouil- lette, le Vatte, Torange, Cette, Genievre, and mille- fieurs. The first fabric of liqueurs which had any extensive renown was that of Montpelier. It may be well imagined that a city which had so long been celebrated as a school of medicine had eminent chymists and distillateurs; but, when these acquired a renown as liquorists, they reposed on their success, be- came careless, and in the end were justly supplanted by others. Lorraine succeeded to the renown of the Mans Puellarum, or Montpelier. This was chiefly owing to the decoction of one Solminl, probably an Italian, who, about a century ago, pretended to have invented a liqueur which he called parfait amour. This, however, was no new invention at all; it was but ratafias of fruits and nuts, the eau de cedrat of the Sieur la Faveur of Montpelier, which this worthy had disguised by giving it a red tinge by means of cochineal. The brothers Bosserrant succeeded Sol- mini, producing a cheap and inferior article, which had for a season a vogue. But the imposition was soon found out, and the reputation of the brothers was lost as speedily as it was acquired. In * the country parts of France most of the grocers sold, and still sell, ratafias fabricated by themselves; but they are, one and all, poor stuff. At Beaumont and Neuilly, in the environs of Paris, were two ratafia makers who had great success. The Neuilly manOn Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. 250 made a considerable fortune and built a country house, in which he caused to be engraved this in- scription, “ Ex liquido solidum.” This is almost as good as the Irish distiller who made a large fortune by smuggling, and built a magnificent house which he called " Sans souci.” A brother in the trade, who had been less fortunate because more honest, built a small modest box nearly opposite, which he called “ Sans six sous.” To return, however, to ratafias. These are certainly the liqueurs which are prefer- ably adopted in all menages bourgeois, because, being but infusions of flowers or fruits, they are the cheapest and the most easily made. The most popular ratafia in France is the black currant, a renown which it owes in a great measure to the praises bestowed on it by Lemery,* who thus speaks of it:— “ C’est un elixir tres excellent, et tres propre a entretenir la sant6. II est tr&s bon pour les hydro- piques dissout les pierres, fait sortir le gravier, guerit toutes les fievres tierces, quartres, continues. II pre- serve du vomissement sur la mer, et du scorbut de la bouche. II fait sortir la petite verole, la rougeole, le pourpre, et toutes les maladies contagieuses. II pre- vient la goutte, et purifie merveilleusement le sang; c’est un antidote centre tons les poisons et plqfires de betes vdnimeuses. II est bon pour les collques. * See “Traite des Alimens de Lemery." Par le Docteur Bruhier.On Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. 251 les dyssenteries, les maux et duretes de la rate. II fortlfie I’estomac, chasse les vents, r^jouit le cerveau, guerit les migraines et les maux de tete. II est bon pour toutes les maladies des femmes, m^me en couch e. II facilitte I’accouchement. Quand on en use habituellement, on n’a presque rien a craindre de I’apoplexie ni de la paralysie. II n’y a point de maladie qu’il ne soulage ni ne previenne. Son effet dans les plaies est plus prompt que celui du baume du Perou. On en a donne a des chevaux tr^s malades, qui ont ete gueris en tr^s peu de temps,” &c. Although the French of the metropolis are now somewhat disenchanted of their passion for black cur- rant ratafia, yet it maintains its popularity in the provinces. The liqueurs of the French West India Islands obtained a great renown in the last century. These liqueurs were strong and ardent, and required to be kept a long time before they were generally used. One of the most renowned makers of these liqueurs was the widow Anfoux of Martinique, who ulti- mately came to Paris. It was plain, however, that it was “ distance ” that “ lent enchantment ” to her distilling; for no sooner had she settled in the Kue Montmartre, than her decoctions, infusions, and brew- ings, began to pall on the taste of the Parisians. Before the first French Revolution, liqueurs were divided into two classes. The first might be called essences; they bore the name of oily liqueurs, for252 On Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. they were, in fact, thick and oily: the second class ,were, in opposition to those, called dry. The in- ventor of the oily liqueurs was a Doctor Sigogne, who, by the application of boiled sugar and saffron, sought to render the liqueurs which he produced more soft, velvety, and unctuous. In this he per- fectly succeeded, and subsequently hit upon the happy name for his brewing of Vhuile de V'enus. This liqueur had a prodigious success ; some notions of which may be formed from the fact that, after the death of the inventor, small packages of it were sold at private sales at the rate of three and four louis a pint. The first distillateur liquoriste who acquired a reputation in Paris was Le Lievre, then La Serre, and afterwards a Sieur Omfroi. The most renowned liqueur of our West India Islands was the eau des Barbades. A very small bottle of this used to sell for a louis d’or; but the price, as well as the fiery nature of the article, caused it to sink in public favour. The Dutch invented cinnamon water, cr^me de girofie, and creme de canelle, when they were the ex- clusive possessors of the Spice Islands, and also cu- raqoa, which is now produced in great quantities in Luxembourg (previously to the Belgian Revolu- tion of 1830 a Dutch town) and Amsterdam. The creme de girofie is a delightful liqueur, and is said by a writer in the “ Magazine of Domestic Economy ” to be excellent for singers when suffering under re-On Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. 253 IcXxution of tho tlirou-t# It is miidc by udding forty drops of oil of cloves to a quart of spirits of wine and a quart of syrup, with as much of red colourino- matter as will impart a good colour. Creme de canelle is also an agreeable liqueur, and beneficial to the dys- peptic by warming the stomach, and giving increased action to that organ. Curaqoa is one of the very best of liqueurs. The finest is made at Luxembourg and Amsterdam; but, if the frugal housekeeper cannot afford the expense of the genuine article, he may resort to a receipt con- tained in the second volume of the Magazine of Domestic Economy.” The tincture and pod of vanilla is much used in France in flavouring as weU as colouring liqueurs. The creme de vanille is not an unpleasant cordial, and is stomachic, and slightly stimulant. Ireland invented that horrid burning beverao’e called scuhac, shubach, or usquebaugh. This liquelr, called usquebaugh, or schubagh, had its birth in the sweet, clean, neat little town of Drog-he-da; or, as it was called in the time of Cromwell, Tredagh. Schubagh is a decoction of barley, tinged with an infusion of saffron, sweetened with sugar, to which is added spirits of wine to give It strength. It is the strongest and most fiery of cordials, and is only fit for a Gueber. Schubagh was early counterfeited in France, and the counterfeit may, by a species of con- tradiction, be said to have surpassed the original.254 On Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. Many new ingredients were added, as mace, cloves, cinnamon, jujubes, aniseed, juniper-leaves, &c.; but, notwithstanding this addition and improvement, this beverage never became a favourite in Paris, though it had subsequently some repute at Copenhagen, Stockholm, Revel, and Riga. To Ireland we are also indebted for raspberry and black currant whiskey. A teaspoonful of either may be taken, but it should be kept ten years in bottle. The eau cordiale of Colladon, a famous physician of Geneva, was composed of the essential oil of lemons, extracted by expression, rectified spirits of wine, sugar, and eau de mRisse. This liqueur is reported to j have been the most salubrious and agreeable of any in the category; but the price of it was so excessive, even during the life of the inventor, that it was but ; little consumed. * The eau de vie (LAndaye is a pure and simple brandy; j but the slight taste of fennel which is communicated to it in distillation, places it in the rank of liqueurs. It was in the month of September, 1837, that having crossed over the Bidassoa in a fordable part, running the risk of being mistaken by the Carlists for a Chris- tino, that I sat down under the shadow of the town of Irun, and within view of Andaye itself, to eat of a Dutch cheese, a shallot^ some cresses, and a crust of the beautifully white bread of Spain. I washed down this homely fare with a glass of the far-fiimed eau de vie (TAndaye, diluted with the water of a rillOn Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. 255 which ran ripplingly over the pebbles beneath my feet; and, whether from the exercise, the purity of the air, the tranquil stillness of the place—rendered more fearfully still by the reverberation of a stray shot in the distance—I thought the fare delicious, and relished the brandy as the most vinous and cordial drop I ever tasted. Mentioning this in the summer of the following year to a West India gentleman, my late lamented friend, Mr. James MacMahon, in the Quarry Walk of Shrewsbury, and who was a great gourmet, though a point-blank realist and matter-of- fact man, he replied, “ There’s no delusion in it; and neither the air, the scenery, nor the exercise, had anything to do with the matter. It is the pure quality and excellence of the brandy alone that gave to the beverage so intense a relish, as I shall prove to you. A week ago I dined with Earl Talbot at Ingestrie. There was a large party; it was a dmer (Tapparat, with turtle, venison, and all the delicacies of the season. Half-a-dozen liqueurs were produced; but last of all some eau de vie dCAndaye, which the host declared had been in the cellar since 1796, a period of forty-two years. Now it was nine o’clock when this was produced, and my taste was somewhat palled from the multitude of good things, both solids and fluids, of which I had tasted; yet, whether from age or frequent rectification, I never tasted anything so delicious, so that your theory falls to the ground.”256 On Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. In the island of Re, it is said, brandy is prepared exactly by the same process as at Andaye; but, though I have sailed by this island, it has never been my fate to taste of the produce of its distillation. The eau de vie de Dantzic is simply brandy recti- fied, with the addition of aniseed and goldbeater’s leaf. This liqueur is not much used here, but it is in great request in Paris. The receipt for making it is as follows:—To one quart of spirits of wine, add twelve drops of oil of aniseed, six of oil of cinnamon, three of oil of roses, and eight of oil of citron ; mix with it a quart of syrup, filter it, and, when bottling, mix with goldbeater’s leaf cut into little bits. Maraschino is the produce of a wild cherry, com- mon in the territory of Zara in Dalmatia. For a long succession of years the Dalmatians only made a species of cherry-wine of their fruit; but they after- wards extracted a brandy from them, and ultimately a liqueur, which was so perfect and popular, that be- fore the first French Revolution the senate of Venice kept the sale of the precious beverage in its own hands. Some of the frontier French provinces of Al- sace, Lorraine, and Dauphine, endeavoured to ex- tract from the same species of cherry a brandy called kircliwasser. With this they essayed, but in vain, to imitate the maraschino .of Zara. There are many ratafias, essences, waters, and syrups pi'oduced in France as liqueurs, such as ratafia (Tangclique, de fiore, de fieurs Lorange, de grenade.On Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. 257 eau divine, cordiale du chasseur nuptiale, &c.; but it would be unjust not to mention the noyau, the ani- sette de Bordeaux, and the absinthe. The noyau is one of the most pleasing, but also one of the most pernicious liqueurs when taken to excess. It is chiefly made of the kernels of apricots and peaches, which contain avast quantity of prussic acid. Orange- flower water and triturated vanille are also ino-re- dients. A very small liqueur-glass of this cordial Is a pleasing thing enough after fruit or coffee; but the portion taken should be small, nay, of the infiniment petits. There is a pink as well as a white noyau, but the latter is to be preferred. Bordeaux is famous for its anisette ; and this liqueur is not a bad carminative for gouty old men. The name of Marie Brissart, as a manufacturer oi anisette, has attained a European reputation. The absinthe is an excellent tonic and stomachic. It Is an infusion of wormwood, and is an especially favourite liqueur with critics and reviewers, for its extreme bitterness is nearly akin to their own. The English liqueurs are few. The cherry bounce of Hoffman and Son, of Bishopsgate Street Within, which used to sell at 8s. or 9s. the pint, was excellent, but the firm have made a fortune and retired. This beverage had an immense sale at Bombay, Madras, and Calcutta; but it is, if possible, still more popular up the Mofussil. Rum ratafia, rum shrub, pine-apple rum, and s258 On Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. brandy shrub, are all good things, but none of them are so excellent as Hoffman’s bounce. It will be seen, from what I have stated, that all these liqueurs, with whatever fine names they may be decorated, have for their basis a mixture of brandy, sugar, and water, whose proportions vary according to the kind of liqueur which is to be prepared. Such aromatic accessaries are added as are deemed most proper to flatter the taste and the smell; and the great talent of a liquouriste consists in the choice and admixture of these aromatics, and in the minslinff together such fruits and flavours as fraternise most fully and cordially. The finest aroma in fruit and flower will not always suffice, however, to produce fine liqueurs. Some plants of exquisite natural odours produce in distillation indifferent liqueurs; others there are of not so odorous a smell, which form the happiest possible combinations. There are many, for instance, who do not like the aroma of the truffle, and the perfumer can make little of it, yet it furnishes a most agreeable ratafia. It must in can- dour be admitted that the French are our masters in the art of the liquouriste. They divide liqueurs into three classes,—ordinaires, fines, and surfines. The fine and superfine liqueurs are also known under the designation of cremes and huiles. Oily liqueurs should be made thicker than creamy, and should pour out like olive oil. Such liqueurs as go under the names of cremes are white, wdiile the oily liqueurs should beOn Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. 259 of the colour of olive-oil. Our lively neighbours profit by every innocent artifice to give a greater vogue to their productions, and christen their cor- dials with the most taking—why should we not say with the most pocket-picking names ? Thus we have the petit lait de Henri Quarte, Teau des braves, Vhuile de Venus, le parfait amour, Teau nuptiale, Teau vir- ginale, &c., the gouttes de Maltes of La Moine, and the liqueur imperiale, and de Pomone of the same fahricant. Many of the liqueurs drank both in Eng- land and France are exceedingly unwholesome ; and should any one need a cordial or stimulant after dinner or with his coffee, I would in preference recommend a small glass of pure Cognac brandy; but this should be obtained from a trustworthy house, as the Cognac brandies are adulterated with Spauish or Bordeaux brandy of very inferior quality, with neutral-flavoured rum and rectified spirits. British brandy-bitters are used to fill up the flavour, but comparatively in small quantities, as it is exceedingly powerful. The adul- terated brandy is usually composed of rectified spirits, cassia, carraways, chamomile-flowers, orange-peel, &c. Cherry-laurel water is also used to answer the same purpose as British brandy-bitters, and is, in- deed, more frequently had recourse to, because the quantity of it applied does not prevent a trial of the strength of the brandy by the hydrometer. The - qualities of laurel-water are poisonous and pernicious, and the extract of almond-cake, prepared by keeping260 On Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. a quantity of the cake for a long time in spirits of wine, is also a noxious ingredient. The almond- cake is used to impart to the adulterated brandy a taste resembling the kernel flavour which the genuine article possesses. The extract of capsicums and ex- tract of grains of paradise, known in the trade by the name of the devil, are also frequently used. The extract of capsicums is made by putting a quantity of the small East India chilies into a bottle of spirits of wine, and keeping it closely stopped for a month. The same process is followed in reference to grains of paradise, and they are both used to impart an appear- ance of strength. They infuse into the spirit, a hot, pungent, fiery flavour, which no one of good taste— no one, indeed, whose organs of taste were not vitia- ted by a long indulgence in ardent spirits—would at all relish. Colouring of burnt sugar is also had re- course to, to deepen the colour of the brandy ren- dered too pale by the preceding mixtures, and it is further employed to answer the same end with rum. Saffron, mace, terra japonica, spirits of sweet nitre, and prunes, are used to improve the flavour of brandy, and new brandy is made to look like old by the addi- tion of aqua ammonia;. On the German liqueurs I have not yet touched. The principal among these are the Pomeranzen, Wacklwlder, and the Kiimmel. The Pomeranzen is made by adding to a quart of spirits of wine ninety drops of oil of orange and a quart of the syrup.On Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. 261 The Wackholder is made by putting thirty drops of oil of juniper to a quart of spirits of wine, adding a quart of the syrup; and Kitmmel Is prepared by adding to a quart of spirits of wine seventy drops of oil of carraways. After it has been shaken well, it should be filtered, and it will then be fit to bottle. I have already intimated an opinion that the profuse, or indeed the frequent and moderate use of liqueurs is to be deprecated: but as an agreeable termination to a repast, or as a gentle stimulus. Inducing the stomach to perform its functions more kindly, they may be used with advantage. They should, however, be taken rai-ely and sparingly, for the particular eflfectto be looked for is a gentle action of the stomach. The liqueur, whatever its nature, should be taken as in all foreign countries, as a ckasse cafe, immediately after the small cup of strong coffee, and it should be sipped slowly, and allowed to linger on the palate. Jean de Mllon, a famous physician, who wrote in the seventeenth century, and addressed his aphorisms to a king of England, proclaimed In the following verses that nothing should be taken after coffee, so excellent was it, and for this reason he condemns liqueurs:— “ Pneludant offae, praecludat prandia cofle. Dulcitur invadit, sed duriter ilia rodit. Spiritus ex vino quern fundit dextra popino.” But with all respect to so eminent an authority, the occasional use of a thimbleful of brandy bounce may262 On Liqueurs, Ratafias, and Elixirs. be recommended after coffee as rather beneficial than otherwise, for most will agree with old Lemery* in thinking, “these liquors, being taken moderately, heat and fortify the stomach, help digestion, expel wind, allay the cholic, revive the spirits, promote the circulation of the blood, and recover strength.” I have only to say, in conclusion, that the most famous liqueurs of France are fabricated at Blois, Grenoble, Langres, Montpelier, Nismes, Verdun, and Paris, * “ Traite des Alimens,” p. 360. I (V CHAPTER XIX. ALE, BEER, CIDER, AND PERRY. E or beer are rarely if ever produced at •egular set dinners no\v-a-days, though it quiet family parties of three or four, )r in private houses en famille, table beer, ale, and stout are often used by invalids; and occasionally are taken from choice by young, middle- aged, and elderly people who drink both ale and wine. At the mid-day meal called lunch, also, beer is an article not unfrequently taken by those young ladies who exhibit so little appetite for dinner at fashionable tables at eight o’clock. The beers most generally eonsumed in London are Bass’s and Allsopp’s bitter beer, and Guinness’s Irish stout. All these, when obtained genuine, are excel- lent, and I believe wholesome, but they should be used very sparingly indeed when wine is taken. Dr. Paris tells us that the most useful quality in the beer comes from the hop. “Independently,” says he, “of the flavour and tonic virtues which hops264 Ale, Beer, Cider, and Perry. communicate, they precipitate by means of their astringent principle the vegetable mucilage, and thus remove from the beer the active principle of fermen- tation ; without hops, therefore, we must either drink our malt liquors new and ropy, or old and sour.” The nutricious qualities of malt liquors, for those who live much in the open air, who hunt, shoot, or use much corporeal exercise, cannot be disputed. But the studious and the sedentary would do well to avoid beer, if wine be consumed by them at the same meal. Good cider is an exceedingly wholesome beverage for persons who exercise much in the open air, and it relieves thirst better than malt liquors, but it is now never seen at a London dinner-table, and is only to be met at country houses in Devonshire, Gloucestershire, Somersetshire, or Herefordshire, or occasionally in some of the common rooms of Oxford and Cambridge. According to the accounts of some modern writers, it is not more than four centuries since cider has been introduced into France. Be this as it may, provincial academies in all parts of Normandy, Brittany, and the higher Pyrenees, have agitated the question for years and years together de origine cidri, and it seems now to be agreed by these men, or literati, that the invention is due to the Biscayans, who taught the natives of Barbary to fabricate it; who, in their turn, taught the art to the Normans. It is certain, if we265 I Ale, Beer, Cider, and Perry. j are to believe Du Perron, that when the Normans, ^ in the sixteenth century, had not sufficient cider for j their own consumption, they drew their supply ^ from Biscay; but long before the period con- , tended for either by Normans or Biscayans, cider " was drunk at the table of the French kings of the ^ first race. :! In France the best ciders are produced in the Pays ’ de Caux, in the Valley d’Auge, and in the beautiful , country of the Cotentin. Francis I., in passing by , Morsalines-in 1532, found the cider so good, that he ' purchased a considerable quantity, of which he drank ; so long as the provision lasted. The finest cider in : England, taken in the gross, is made in Hereford- " shire; but there is a particular kind made in Somer- setshire which, for softness, fulness, and velvety flavour, surpasses the Herefordshire cider. It is called by the extraordinary name of Cocky Gee. The best cider in France goes by as extraordinary a cognomen. It is called the Cue-Noue, and is pro- jji nounced by Charles Etienne unequalled for softness, II bouquet, and beauty of colour. There was a college ; j in Oxford in my younger days, two of the fellows of j which used to yearly obtain hogsheads of this Cocky H Gee cider from an old clergyman in Somersetshire, A who made the liquor from the produce of his own ■ orchard. Never was there a more delicious beverage, j Full-flavoured, soft, creamy, yet vigorous, it was I preferred to any champagne.266 Ale, Beer, Cider, and Perry. Of perry, it is not necessary I should say much, as it has a great affinity to champagne. The pious Eadegonde, according to the legend, drank perry water to mortify herself. The three best species of perry are made with the Poire de Cire, the Robert, and Carisi. The first does not keep, the second flies to the head, and the third, though it has the same eflPect, is renowned for its strength, limpidity, and muscadel flavour. Two centuries and a half ago this country imported much cider and perry from Normandy. About the same period, great quantities were sent to Paris from the provinces; but, so soon as it was per- ceived that the cabaretiers made use of it to adul- terate their wines, the use of the beverage was for- bidden. It was not till about a century ago that the usage of hydromel at dinner and dessert altogether ceased. In the thirteenth century this beverage was made by adding twelve pints of water to one of honey; but it was then so insipid and flat, that aromatic herbs, foreign and domestic, were added to give it pungency. Hydromel thus prepared was called bogerase, borge- rafre, or borgeraste. In the monkish houses it was used as a treat on feast-days. In the coutumes of the order of Cluni it is called potus dulcissiimis. The clergy, in those days, had, like the laity, their periods of festivity and rejoicing. In the repasts of the northern nations, beer was always served with dessert, and, even in the present day, in Hamburg, Lubeck,Ale, Beer, Cider, and Perry. 267 Altona, Kiel, Dantzic, and many other of the northern • parts of Germany, nuts and ale are considered a rare treat. It is a mistaken notion to think that beer is a modern beverage, or that its use is exclu- sively confined to England. The Egyptians had two sorts of beer, one called zythus, the other curmi or carmi. Belon, in his “ Observations sur les Singu- larltes trouvees en GrSce et en Asie,” inclines to the opinion that the curmi was made with the whole grain, and that the zythus was, like the posca of the Latins, a species of orgeat, made with the flour of the grain, which was kept in paste and diluted for the occasion. The ancient Gauls knew but two beverages, wine and beer. The use which they made of beer is attested by Diodorus Siculus, by Athenajus, by Theophrastus, and by Pliny. Diodorus and Theo- phrastus state that the Gauls called their beer zythus. If this be true, it is not improbable that they received from the Egyptians both the name and the beverage. Be this as it may, it is certain that the insensate order which Domitian gave, to tear up all the vines in Gaul, rendered the use of beer but the more general. Nor did the permission of Probus to replant the vine cause a more general use of the juice of the grape; for, about eighty years after his reign, the Emperor Julian complains of the general use of beer, and even con- descends to brew an epigram against the bitter and wholesome beverage. To Probus, however, every lover of wine is indebted. The wines of Burgundy,268 Ale, Beer, Cider, and Perry. Champagne, and even Tokay, owe to him their ex- istence.* Speaking of this emperor, Crevier says:— “ Je m’etonnerais que ce prince n’eht pas ete celebre par les buveurs comme un nouveau Bacchus, si les buveurs etoient savans.f II prit soin lui-meme de faire planter en vigne par les soldats le Mont Alma pres de Sermim sa patrie, et le Mont d’or dans le INIoesie superieure, et il donna ces vignobles aux ha- hitans du pays, en les chargeant du soin et des frais de la culture.” . Julian, on the contrary, affected or followed so- briety, disdained the use of beer, and, though he praises the severe and simple manners of his beloved Paris, T-nv <piXnv ABVKirnzi/,X yet he austerely chides the intemperance of the Gauls, while admitting the excellence of their vines. That the vines were rare in his time, and wine dear, is plain from the fact that the Parisians of that early day were in the habit of drinking beer, as the middle classes of England do in the year of grace, 1864. Thus, 1500 years ago, to speak in round numbers, the Parisians commenced their repasts with beer, and finished with wine. The custom still subsists both in England, Flanders, and Germany, though it may be said to be nearly fallen into disuse in France. At the table of the Burgun- dian kings it was customary to serve both wine and ♦ Eutropius. t des Empercurs, tom. ii. I Julian in Misopogou, p. 359.269 Ale, Beer, Cider, and Perry. cider at the same time; and if Thierri, King of Bur- gundy, drank both wine and cider at the same meal, who will deny that the French kings may not have drunk wine and beer ? Chai-lemagne, in his capitu- lary de villis, directs that among the workmen to be employed on his farms there shall be some who know how to make beer. It is a remarkable fact, that the fairest and most favoured countries of the earth'— the countries producing the best wines, Greece, Gaul, Italy, and Spain—have simultaneously used beer. The council of Aix-la-Chapelle regulated the quantity of beer and wine which should be consumed by both sexes in religious houses. In a rich house, situated in an abundant wine country, each regular canon was daily allowed five pounds’ weight of wines, and each chanoinesse three. If it were a country not thickly studded with vines, the allowance was three pounds of wine with three of beer for the canon, and two of beer and two of wine for the chanoinesse. There were brewhouses in all the ancient monas- teries. In going through Picardy, Normandy, and Brittany, even in our own day, the spot where the brewhouse formerly existed is always shotvn. When the monks drank beer they were wise enough to brew it themselves, and were not tributary to the Barclays, Meuxs, Calverts, Guinnesses, Basses, Hod- sons, and Allsopps of the day. Within the walls of the convent were the ovens, the vats, and even the mills necessary for the grain. There exists a charter270 Ale, Beer, Cider, and Perry. of Henry I. (1042) in favour of the monastery of ^lontreuil-sur-Mer, by -which the monarch grants to tJiat house two of those mills cerevisiae usibus de ser- vientes. In our own country the custom of brewing in religious houses survived the Reformation, and the beer of Trinity and Christchurch is now just as good as it was in the time of William of Wykeham, Arch- bishop Chichele, Hugh de Balsham, or William Bate- man, Bishop of Norwich. As the number of vineyards increased in France, the use of beer diminished, until it became at lensrth uncommon to see it at the table of a layman. In the* thirteenth century that very Paris, which under the Emperor Julian had scarcely any other beverage than beer, could hardly count a brewer. But the frater- nity who delight in gentian, coculus Indicus, maze- rion, liquorice root, and grains of paradise, again ap- peared in numbers towards 1428. The author of the “ Journal de Paris,” composed under the reigns of Charles VI. and VII., attributes this descent from wine to beer to the oppressive taxation and heavy exactions of Charles VI. Among the memoirs fur- nished to the Duke of Burgundy in 1698 by the dif- ferent intendants of the kingdom, on tlie state of France, the memoir of the intendant of Paris remarks that the misery and distress of the people had con- siderably diminished the commerce of wine in his district; whilst the consumption of beer, on the con- trary, increased in proportion, so that in the same271 Ale, Beer, Cider, and Perry. year the brewers had consumed 80,000 setters (the seder was twelve bushels) of barley, without count- ing the corn employed for white beer. At this period beer in France was made of barley and rye, but meslin, corn, vetches, and lentils, were also added. The seeds or flowers of hops were added only when wheat or barley was used. The use of hops was entirely unknown to the ancient Gauls, and how they, under these circum- stances, contrived to keep their beer is a secret lost to us moderns. In the thirteenth century the French had a better species of double beer, which they called godale, probably from the English words good ale, or the Frisian gut ael. The wisest of men has said, “There is nothing new under the sun; ” and a further illustration of the truth of this remark is afforded by the fact that, even thus early, the Parisian brewers were accustomed to put spices, bay-leaves, and pitch, into their beer to give it flavour. The statutes of Boileve, exclusively meant for brewers, say that these practices “ ne sont ne bonnes ne loyaux.” Some there were who, according to Charles Etienne, added tares to the beer, at the risk of rendering the beverage not only intoxicating, but dangerous. But, as if to ex- cuse this Parisian practice, the author adds, “The English mix in their beer sugar, cinnamon, and cloves, and afterwards clarify it.” Schookius, who wrote in 1661, tells us that it was the custom to salt the beer at Minden, in Westphalia; and that in272 Ale, Beer, Cider, and Perry. Flanders they added besides the hops, the bay-leaf, gentian, sage, lavender, and clary, which is after all a species of sage. There was a more agreeable beer, which was made sweeter with honey, and which was much in vogue in France among the rich. In Germany no other beer was druuk, and it became so popular in that country that it was forbidden to penitents, excepting on the Sunday, because, says the Council of Worms, “ it was too voluptuous a drink.” This sweeter beer prevailed in France till the end of the sixteenth cen- ' tury, when liqueurs d Veau de vie became the rage. The beer-brewers, not wishing to be behindhand, tried to make a species of liqueur out of their beer- vats. They produced an article called d Vambre, in which there was a decoction of coriander seeds, and another a la framboise; but neither of these were suc- cessful. The beer of Cambrai was the best Conti- nental beer in the sixteenth century, but it is beaten in the nineteenth by the brown beer of Bavaria, the white beer of Berlin, and the alc7nbique of Brussels. It is in no respect wonderful that the inhabitant of the more northern regions should excel in this beverage the native of the sweet south. The German, the Fleming, the Dutchman, who drinks beer, and beer only, wishes it strcfcig, nourishing, and malty; the Parisian, on the contrary, whose ordinary drink is wine, and who resorts to beer as we do in warm weather to soda water, pop, and ginger-beer, merely273 Ale, Beer, Cider, and Perry. requires that the liquor shall be light, brisk, sparkling, and agreeable. I have no means of knowing the number of brewers in Paris at present, but there were forty 120 years ago, who annually made about 75,000 muids of beer (the muid is 300 pints). Little more than seventy years ago there were but twenty-three brewers in Paris, of whom the revolutionary Santerre was the most celebrated in the Faubourg St. Antoine. On the 10th of August he became commandant of the National Guard; on the 11th of December, he conducted Louis XVI. to the bar of the National Convention ; and on the 21st of January, 1793, he commanded with Berryer the troops that were pre- sent at the execution of this unfortunate prince. It was the brewer Santerre who interrupted the mon- arch when he essayed to speak from the scaffold, and who caused his sovereign’s voice to be drowned by beat of drum. Santerre more than once showed the white feather, as the epitaph written on him proves: “ Ci git le General Santerre, Qui n’avait de Mars que la bierre.” That there are now as many brewers in Paris as there were a century ago may be well doubted. At the peace in 1815, a number of English and Scotch brewers went over, and entered into brewery specu- lations in Paris and the provinces; but the greater number of these were Avliolly ruined, and repented, when too late, of their short-sighted imprudence. TAle, Beer, Cider, and Perry. 274 In seasons of dearth, the Paris brewers were forbidden by ordonnance to make beer. Ordonnances of the Prevot de Paris appeared to this effect in 1415, and again in 1482. An arret oi the council renewed this interdiction in 1693, and two others of the par- liament to a like effect appeared in 1709 and 1740.CHAPTER XX. ON -WINES, ANCIENT AND MODEEN. EVERAL treatises have been written on wine in most European countries. Lord Bacon, in the days of Elizabeth, did not disdain to give his attention to the subject; and his Italian contemporary, Andrea Bacci,the physician of the able Sextus the Fifth, has given us probably the best history of wine in that rare and curious book, “ De Xaturali Vinorum His- toria.” About a century ago a Sir Edward Barry, then a physician at Bath, and afterwards state phy- sician to the Viceroy of Ireland, published his “ Observations, Historical, Critical, and Medical, on the Wines of the Ancients; and on the Analogy between them and Modern Wines.” In consequence of the Interest excited by the topic, this work, now somewhat rare, acquired a certain repute, but it does not now stand in the estimation it did half a century ago. Much that Barry tells us of the ancient wines is borrowed from Bacci; and there is a great deal of useless disquisition mixed with some absurdity. The276 On Whiesf Ancient and Modern. late Dr. Henderson, a good judge of wine, and who had some excellent wine in his cellar, published his “ History of Ancient Wines ” some seven or eight and thirty years ago, in which there is a great deal of interesting and useful information. This was followed by a “ History and Description of Modem Wines,” commenced by Mr. Cyrus Redding in 1832, and published in 1833, The work was so useful and successful that a second edition was called for in 1835, and published in 1836.* From 1836 to the past year there has not been anything very remark- able published in England on the subject of wines. In the month of December last Mr. J. G. Shaw published a work entitled, “ Wine, the Vine, and the Cellar,” and in January of the present year, IMr. Denman, also a wine merchant, published a work called the “ Wine and its Fruit,” more especially in relation to the production of wine. Both of these works are well printed and illustrated, but they really add little to what was before known on the subject by any one who has made wine his study. Barry tells us it was the reading of Hippocrates as a professional duty which first led him to the consideration of the subject of wines. Hippocrates described the various qualities of wines, and adapted vinous mixtures to different diseases and constitu- tions. By lessening the proportion of water usually * I believe a third edition has been published in 1860.On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 277 mixed with wine, he made a powerful cordial; as, by increasing the water, he obtained a cooling diluent. It is impossible to deny that wine, taken in moderation, tends to strengthen and excite the spirits, to cheer and comfort tlie languid, and to re- fresh the toil-worn and exhausted. The poets of Greece and Rome celebrate the praises of wine, and, as though the invention of the liquor were too tran- scendental to be human, attribute it to the cods— to Osiris, Saturn, and Bacchus. Anacreon calls the juice of the grape ambrosial; and Homer himself bestows on wine the epithet divine, ttotoi^ Plato, while he would strictly restrain the use and severely censure excess in wine, maintains with more than his usually persuasive power, that nothing more excellent than the juice of the grape was ever granted by God to man. It appears from the ancient histo- rians that the rules for the culture and preparation of wine and grapes descended from the Egyptians to the Greeks, who improved and perfected them, and that the Romans, in turn, became the scholars of the Greeks. As the soil of Italy was favourable to the vine, vineyards soon spread through the country. Italy became distinguished by the name of (Enotria, and the inhabitants were called CEnotrii viri. An infinitv of wines were produced from the various species of grapes. Virgil, who was as familiar with agricul- ture as he excelled in poetry, says it would be as278 On PFines, Ancient and Modern. easy to enumerate the sands of the sea-shore as the different species of wine. Pliny carefully collected all that had been written before his time on the subject of the viue. He de- scribes the various species of the vitis, and the mode and manner of makino; wines. He enumerates the principal wines of Asia, Greece, and Italy. Cato, Marcus, Varro, and Columella have also written on the culture of the vine and wine-making; and it appears from the productions of these writers that they perfectly understood the racking off into fresh casks which had been previously impregnated with the vapour of sulphur. Out of these authors and Palladius, Mr. Redding admits that an excel- lent treatise might be formed on the grape and its products; though he states, and truly, that on the qualities and flavour of the ancient wines the moderns must be content to remain in ignorance. O We know, for instance, that the light and delicate Setine, was the favourite wine of Augustus ; that it is commended by Martial, Juvenal, and Silius Italicus, who pronounces it to be worthily reserved for Bac- chus himself, “ ipsius mensis seposta Lyaci.” I am not, however, quite so sure as Dr. Barry that it was the wine so much recommended by St. Paul to Titus for strengthening the stomach. “ It was grown,” says Henderson, “ on the heights of Sezza,” and though not a strong wine, possessed sufficient firmness and per- manence to undergo the operation of the fumarium ;On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 279 for Juvenal alludes to some which was so old that the smoke had obliterated the mark of the jar in which it was contained. The process which these wines un- derwent in the fumarium gave to them a greater transparency and more early maturity. This method had been long known to the Greeks, their ocTroQnxri being equivalent to the Roman fumarium. The an- cients were perfect adepts in these methods of forcing wines, and they used for the purpose plain and burnt salt, bitter almonds, the whites of eggs, and particu- larly isinglass. But when wines were more than usually foul, they added sand, or marble finely pow- dered. Salt water, also, was frequently used to de- purate and preserve wine. This discovery is said to have been owing to a slave’s having drunk part of a cask of wine committed to his care and concealed the fraud with sea water; the wine thus falsified was found to be superior to the wine of the same growth contained in the other casks. The Romans were but children in the art of adulteration, when compared with the Greeks. Palladius gives several receipts which were used by the Greeks for improving the flavour, colour, and strength of their wines, and likewise to give to new the qualities of old wine; in one, a mixture of hepatic aloes had a consider- able share. Cato favours us also with a curious receipt for making an artificial Chian wine with the Faler- nian. He directs that the sea-water should be taken up at a great distance from the land, and that it280 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. should be kept in casks for some time before being used. The CcBcvhan wine is described as a generous, strong-bodied wine, which would keep, but which would affect the head if taken in quantity: in a word, it was a heady liquor, which the modern French would call, as they do the vin de Juranqon, capiteux.” Like most heady wines, too, it required long keeping ere it was ripe. It was one of the favourite wines of Horace, and was generally reserved for important festivals:— “ Antehac nefas depormere Cascubum Cellis avitis.” The far-famed Falernian was grown about the bases of hills. Galen observes that were two sorts of Falernian, the dry and the sweetish. The latter was only produced when the wind continued in the south during: the vintage. Martial dignifies Falernian with the epithet Immortal:— “ Addere quid cessas, puer, immortale Falernuni ?” But, although the name of the Falernian be familiar in our mouths as “ household words,” nothing is known of its taste, flavour, or colour. It is, however, de- scribed as a strong wine, that would keep long, and so rough, that it required to be cellared a great number of years before it was sufficiently mellow. The wines of the Mans Falernvs, however, always preserved a superior character. Tihullus places themOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 281 under the superintending care of Bacchus. Silius Italicus gives them a preference over the Asiatic and Greek wines ; and Virgil, in bestowing smooth, flow- ing praises on the viuum Rhceticum, says, it must, nevertheless, yield the palm to the Falernian. Among the lighter wines of the Roman territory, the Sahinum, Nomentanwn, and Venafrum, were among the most popular. “ The first,” says Hen- derson, was a thin table wine, of a reddish colour, attaining its maturity in seven years. The Nomenta- num, a delicate claret wine, is described as coming to perfection in five or six years.” Among the Sicilian wines, the Mamertinum, which came from the neigh- bourhood of Messina, and is said to have been first introduced at public entertainments by Julius Caesar, was li^ht and astringent. The Greeks were fonder of wine than the Romans, and were supplied with a greater variety. Among the earliest of the Greek wines, of which we have any distinct account is the Maronean, “ probably,” says Henderson, “ the production of Ismaurus, near the mouth of the Hebrus, where Ulysses received the supply which he carried with him on his voyage to the land of the Cyclops. The Maronean was a black, sweet wine, and from the manner in which Homer sings its virtues, the quality must have been indeed superior. The Pramnian was a red, but not a sweet wine, of equal antiquity. It was a potent and durable liquor, and must have somewhat resembled282 On Wines, Ancient and Modern, port. It was, however, in the luscious, sweet wines that the Greeks surpassed their neighbours. These wines were the products of the islands of the Ionian and the .®gean Seas, where the exquisite climate and a suitable soil gave to the fruit a peculiar flavour and excellence. Lesbos, Chios, and Thasos, seems, ac- cording to Henderson, to have contended for the supe- riority ; but several of the other islands, such as Corcyra, Cyprus, Crete, Cnidos, and Rhodes, yielded wines which were much esteemed for their sweet- ness and delicacy. The Thasian and some of the Cretan wines were peculiarly fragrant. Athenasus calls the former oji/o? aK0o(T|a»of. The GvQoks, gourmets as they were, did not confine themselves to the indigenous growths. They were familiar with the produce of the African and Asiatic wines, of which several enjoyed a high reputation. They drank of the white wines of Mareotis and Taenia, in Lower Egypt; of the wine of Antylla, the produce of the vicinity of Alexandria; of the sweet wine of Lydia, jn Asia Minor; of the Scybellltes,so called from the place of its growth in Galatia, also in Asia INIinor. The Greeks, like the Romans, drank all their wines, especially those of the stronger kind, very largely diluted wdth water, for their common drink. Plutarch has mentioned three different kinds of mixtures. The mvxi, or five, consisted of three parts of water and two of pure wine; and the T/)»a, or three, of two parts of water and one of wine;On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 283 the fourth consisted of three parts of water, and one of wine. Athenajus mentions a mixture called Tnvn xoa ivo, which consisted of five parts of pure wine and two of water. The recent Greek wines, which were meant for more immediate use, were kept in goat-skins. But, even in Homer’s time the Greeks were well ac- quainted with the art of preserving their best and stronger wines in wooden casks, or hogsheads (which he calls TrtOot), until they had attained a proper ma- turity. As to the Gauls, it is certain that, six centuries before Christianity was introduced, they knew the use of wine ; for, when the Phocajans came to found Marseilles, Petta, the daughter of a king of the country, presented, according to Athen^us, to Euxenes their chief, a cup filled with wine and water. But who first planted the vine in Gaul, and who first cultivated it there? It would be difficult to answer these questions. According to Justin and Strabo, it appears that the Phopaians were not only the first to introduce the vine among the Gauls, but the first to learn them to cut and cultivate it. Pliny, on the other hand, says it was a person named Elicoa, who, having made some money at Rome, and wishing to return to his country, carrying with him wine and dried fruits, sold them to the inhabitants, exhorting them to the conquest of the flowing, fruitful land284 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. that produced such liquor. Cicero tells us, that one of the most lucrative of commercial transactions among the Gauls was the exportation of their wine to Italy. Columella counts these wines among the number rendered necessary for consumption in Rome,—“ Nobis e transmarinis provinciis advehitur frumentum, ne fame laboremus; et vindemias con- dimus ex insulus Cycladibus, ac regionibus Beticis Gallicisque.” Diodorus Siculus, however, maintains that it was the Italian wines that were consumed in Gaul, and states the Ultramontane dealers who car- ried them gained immense sums in this commerce. Possidonius, an author contemporary with Diodorus and Cicero, and who had travelled in Gaul, is cited by Athenajus to prove that it was only the richest of the nation that drank wine, which they imported from Italy or the territory of Marseilles. There is some reason to believe that the vineyards of Burgundy are as old as the Antonines. In the beginning of the fourth century, the orator Eumenlus speaks of the vines in the territory of Autun, which were decayed through age, and the first plantation of which was totally unknown. The Pagus Arebrignus is supposed by M. d’Anville to be the district of Beaune, celebrated now for a fine growth of Bur- gundy. When the Romans had submitted that portion of Gaul to their arms which is called Provence, the Roman colonists in Dauphine, Provence, and a partOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 285 of Lancruedoc, extended vine-plantations. Soon they spread far and wide, and, in the time of Caesar, many provinces were in possession of vines, as Strabo, Varro, and Caesar himself, testify. Among the excellent grapes peculiar to Gaul, Co- lumella numbers those of the Bituriges ; but, as this name was common both to the people of Berry and of the Bordelais, it is difficult to divine to which of the provinces the praise of the Latin author properly applies. The probability, however, is, that it refei-s to the Bordelais; for Ausonius, who lived in the fourth century of the Christian era, loudly boasts of the wine of Bordeaux. The mode of training the vine in Gaul consisted in intertwining the branches amongst each other, which differed essentially from the Roman system. The ancient Gaulish practice subsists to this day in Provence, in Languedoc, in Bearn, and in the eastern portion of Dauphine. The Gauls, who manured their fields with marl, used ashes as a compost for the roots of their vines. Marseilles, says Pliny, produces a rich, thick wine, which has two flavours, and serves to mix with other wines. It is difficult, he continues, to pi’O- nounce on the merits of the wines of Narbonne, be- cause the wine-makers, with a view to change their taste and colour, adulterate them, mix them with herbs and noxious drugs, even with aloes. These tricks were in Italy reduced to a trade, and the wine-28G On Wines, Ancient and Modern. doctors were called Conditura vinorum. But not- withstanding these faults, writes Athenasus, the wine of Marseilles was good, and possessed, above all, the quality of ripening other wines when mixed with them. The Narbonnese were not the only adulterators. The Allobroges, a people of Dauphine, had a parti- cular pitch which they mixed with their wine. If Ave are to believe Dioscorides, the infusion of pitch was a necessary ingredient in the Gaulish wines; otherwise, says he, they would have soured, the cli- mate not being warm enough to ripen the grape. The reason assigned by Dioscorides would prove either that the climate of Gaul was then really colder than it is now, or that the art of making wine was still in its infancy. Excellent wine is now made in provinces more north^vard than Dauphine, and still better in the north of France, and the countries bathed by the waters of the Moselle and the Rhine. No doubt, innocent means may be employed in cold years, without any risk, to give to the wine a quality which it wants. For a long while the Champenois have been in the habit of smoking their casks with sulphur before using them. The Abbe Rozier, in a Memoir upon the best manner of making the wines of Provence, proposes, when the wine is austere or acid, to dilute honey in the must before it ferments. iM. de Prefontaine, in the “ Maison Rustique de Cay- enne,” published in 1763, speaking of the grapes pro-On Wines, Ancient, and Modern. 287 duced in that island, says that if they were to be used for the purpose of making wine, their natural tartness might be corrected by adding a little sugar. But this practice had been long previously secretly followed in that portion of the Bordelais traversed by the Dordogne, whose principal towns are Ber- gerac and St. Foi. At the commencement of the last century the wines of this province suddenly acquired such a renown, that there were proprietors who, in a few years, quadrupled the price. The neighbouring proprietors suspected there was something wrong, some secret they could not fathom. They watched for a long while, and at length discovered that im- mense quantities of sugar arrived in the night. This discovery at first led to nothing; but, in the end a cooper, who knew the secret, having been dismissed from an establishment in which he had been employed, revealed the secret in order to revenge himself. Only five or six families profited by the man’s treason. They took good care to keep the profit to themselves, till a M. Vaucocour published a letter, in which he disclosed the receipt, which consisted in reducing the sugar to a syrup, and then in aromatising it with peach-flowers or the like. The Marseillais had, in the olden time, another method. This was to boil and smoke their wines in order to thicken them, and to give them the appear- ance and flavour of old wines:— “ Improba Massilio: quidqaid funiaria cogunt, Accipit aetatem quisquis ab igne cadus.”288 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. The Romans were also in the habit of smokinir their wines. The proof is recorded in Horace:— “ AmpliorEe fumum bibere institutse.” Tibullus also alludes to it:— “Nunc mihi fumosos veteris proferte Falernos Consulis.” Baccius, in his work. De Naturali Yinorura His- toria,” speaking of the wines in Alsace, says that they were kept exposed to the smoke in hot chambers, where they became so thick that they were no longer drinkable, unless they were beaten with twigs or di- luted with hot water. The following are his words :— “ Super fumo diu et in mstuariis retenta, earn acqui- runt vetustate crassitiem, ut potari per se non possint, nisi diu agitata immissis scopis aut origis dissolvantur, vel eliquata per aquam calidam fiant potui idonea: quo usu legimus crassa fuisse antiquis vina, qu® simi- liter per aquam calidam essent dissolvenda.” Since the discoveries made at Herculaneum and Pompeii, there have been found among the ruins one of the vases which served for the operation of which I speak, and in which the wine had entirely dried. A similar vase or urn has been discovered in the ter- ritory of Vienne, in which the inspissated juice of the wine had ci'ystallized. Whatever were the processes employed in Gaul for the preparation of wine, many of its vineyards had acquired reputation, and had, moreover, becomeOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 289 a source of wealth. This rising spring of riches was soon dried up by the tyrants who reigned over the country. The year of the Christian era 92 having been unpropitious to corn and favourable to the vine, a general scarcity followed. Domitian, w'ho was then emperor, concluded that the cause of this was, that the vines were too numerous, and corn not sufficiently sown. Proceeding on this false assumption, he pub- lished an edict, by which he ordered that in the greatest part of the provinces of the empire half of the vines should be rooted out, and that in the others they should be entirely destroyed. Towards the year 282, Probus abrogated it. After having, by his vic- tories, restored peace to the empire, the wise and valiant emperor, says Aurelius Victor, Eutropius, Vopiscus, and Eusebius, restored to the provinces the liberty of replanting the vine. The Gauls com- menced the task with alacrity. The Roman legions spread abroad in Gaul were employed in these plan- tations, for it was the wise policy of Rome, when her soldiers were not engaged in war, to occupy them in useful public labours. Soon were the greater num- ber of the hills of Gaul covered with vines; and these were not, as in the times of the two first Cajsars, bounded by the north of the Cevennes; for almost each province, on the contrary, had its vine- yards. In the Salique law, as well as in the law of the Visi- goths, penalties are decreed against those who shall u290 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. destroy a cutting of the vine, or who shall steal grapes. The protection which the government accorded to this species of property caused it to be regarded as sacred. Chilperic having decreed that each vine-proprietor should annually furnish him with an amphora of wine for his table, there was, says Aimoin, a revolt in Limousin, and the officer whose duty it was to receive this odious tribute was massacred. So great had the passion for the vine become that the French kings turned a portion of their private domains into vineyards. Each of their palaces had its vineries, with wine-presses and all the utensils necessary for the vintage. From the Capitularies of Charle- magne we learn that the monarch entered into this species of administration in the minutest detail. When, after the death of Louis the Debonnaire, the three sons of that prince, laying down their arms, agreed on the division of his estates, Charles the Bald had Western France; Lothaire, Eastern France and Italy ; and Louis, that portion which was situated in Germany beyond the Rhine. But as this latter had no vineyards, the Saxon Chronicle and the Chronicle of the monk Sigebert remark that there were joined to his division some towns or villages bevond the river which produced wine. The Louvre itself, like the other royal jwlaces of France, inclosed vine- yards within its precincts. That such vineyards were considerable appeal's from the fact that in 1160 Louis le Jeune could annually assign out of theirOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 291 produce six muids of wine to the curate of St. Nicholas. Among the “ Fabliaux of the Thirteenth Century,” published by Le Grand, there is one entitled “-La Bataille des Vins,” in which the author supposes that the King, Philip Augustus, causes to be brought to his table all known wines, national as Avell as foreign, in order to examine which are worthy of admission, The monarch is in this piece represented as a con- firmed and lover of good win«. From an account of the revenues of this king, left us by Brussel, we learn that in the matter of wines Philip loved variety, and wished to have a copious cellar, for he possessed vineyards at Bourges, at Soissons, at Compiegne, at Lan, at Beauvais, at Auxerre, Cor- beil, Betesi, Orleans, Moret, Poissi, Gien, Anet, Chalevanc, Verberies, Fontainbleaai, Rurecourt, Milli, Bols Commun, Samoi, and Auvers. Breton, in his Latin poem on Philip, counts the wines of Gascony and La Rochelle among the articles of com- merce which Flanders took of France. The wines of Guyenne were not only sold in Flanders, but in much greater quantity in England. The same poli- tical considerations which induced us to close our ports twenty years ago to French wines unless on the payment of a very considerable import duty, caused us then to open them to the wines of a province sub- ject to English authority. Matthew Paris, speaking of the discontent and bitterness which prevailed in292 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. Gascony in 1251 against Henry III., states that public opinion was so exasperated, that these pro- vinces would have revolted had they not need of England for the sale of their wine. A faet related by Froissart will give us an idea of the extent of the trade at that time. “ In 1372,” says this historian, " there arrived from England, at Bordeaux, 209 sail of merchantmen, which came for wine.” Champier, who wrote about a century and a half after Froissart, remarks, that from his time England scarcely con- sumed any other wine or corn than that of France, and that, when this commerce was interrupted by war, England experienced a species of famine. “ So that,” said he, “France may boast of having in her hands power of producing famine or abundance in England.” Although the other French provinces had not such advantageous outlets for their commerce as Guy- enne, the vine was, nevertheless, cultivated with an equal success. This may be seen by the “ Fabliaux” cited, in which the French wines dispute the prefer- ence with foreign. These effects were solely brought about by the national industry ; the government did nothing to recompense or favour it, and when it did concei’n itself about the French wine-trade its inter- ference was injurious. The kingdom having experi- enced a scarcity, in consequence of the bad harvest of 1566, Charles IX. wrongly attributed the c-ause to the too great abundance of vines, and, like Do-On Wines, Ancient and Modern, 293 mitlan, proscribed them. An ordonnance published by him directed that in each canton, or district, the vines should only occupy a third of the ground; the other two-thirds were to be converted into arable or pasture lands. In 1577 Henry III. modified the ordonnance of the king his brother, recommending to all the officers charged with the government of his provinces to see that the arable land was not left uncultivated to give place to an excessive plantation of the vine. The edict published under the reign of Louis XV. was not so foolish as the preceding one. Many in- tendants of provinces having represented that the vines occupied an undue space of lands fitted for corn or pasturage ; that it caused the dearness of wood ; that it multiplied the quantity of wine to such an excess that the value and reputation. were in a number of places destroyed; the king, in 1731, for- bade any new plantation of vines, and directed that vineyards which had ceased to be cultivated for two years should no longer be continued. It often happened that proprietors of wines, not being able to get rid of their article, preferred to sell it in retail. * In this contingency they suspended to the threshold of their door a broom, a crown of ivy, or something similar. Those who wished to purchase carried a pot with them, and thence came the ex- pression, vendre d pot. Some caused their wine to be announced by the public crier.294 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. It will appear from what I have written that the attention paid to vine-dressing and the cultivation of the vine was the result of a perfect knowledge of husbandry, I have already said that the wines of the ancients were racked and fined, but there seems to have been as much adulteration 1800 years ago as at the pre- sent moment. Adulterations are repeatedly men- tioned in the classic writers. After the wine was made and underwent the secondary fermentation, it was placed in pitched skins, or in earthen vessels, denominated amphores, containing twenty-seven old English gallons. That the ancients understood the process of matur- ing wines perfectly is evident from all the writers on the subject. After the wine was made and put into the vat,, where it,underwent the secondary fer- mentation, it was placed in pitched skins, closed with a lid of baked earth, and hermetically sealed.* It were a curious task to trace how long domestic customs and utensils survive forms of polity and go- vernment. In glancing at such a subject, I merely remark that the amphorm have outlived the Roman * It would, however, appear that the Homans employed corks:— “ Corticem astrictum pice dimovehit Amphora,” says Horace.On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 295 emperors, the republic, nay even the Roman nation and people, and all their magnificent institutions. It is impossible now to pass forty-eight hours in the neighbourhood of Asti Montepulciano,Montefiascone, or any of the wine districts of Italy, without being struck with the identity to the amphorae of those earthen vessels with two handles, holding from about eighteen to twenty quarts of our measure, which one sees in every cellar, and almost in every street. Sue- tonius tells us of a man who aspired to the qusnstor- ship, and drank the contents of a whole amphora at a repast given by the Emperor Tiberius, “ Ob epotam in convivo propinante se vini amphoram;” but, though there may be men in Scotland, or Scotchmen in Eng- land, who could carry away so much liquor and be none the worse for it, the capacity of any Englishman to do as much may be doubted. The use of casks or wine hogsheads were unknown to the Greeks and Romans.* They could therefore only transport their wines in earthen vessels or skins, which in the older English authors are queerly and alliteratively called “ borachio bottles.” The earthen vessels presented the inconvenience of being fragile, whilst the skins were subject to bursting, to become • Henderson says that in some places where wood abounded, as in the neighbourhood of the Alps and in Illyria, wine casks were made of that material; but the vessels in general use among the Greeks and Romans were of earthenware. No au- thority is, however, cited by the Doctor for this statement.296 On Wines, Ancient and Modern, insecure, &c. My late excellent and learned friend Dr. Henderson states, and truly, that the Romans occa- sionally employed glass. They undoubtedly did so ; but the accomplished historian of wines is wrong when he affirms that they brought the manufacture of glass to a great degree of perfection; for nothing, on the contrary, can be more common than those specimens of glass found in Pompeii, and those drinking-cups and lachrymatories, various specimens of which may be seen in the Museo Borbonico at Naples. That glass, however, was used at table in those days ap- pears certain from a passage in which he speaks of those glass magnums or jugs, as being large and closed with a species of plaster or Roman cement. “ Adlatje sunt amphorae vltreae diligenter gypsatse.” He elsewhere says, “ Amphoras copiosas gypsatas ne effluat vinum.” All the Latin authors agree that the ingenious in- vention of casks is due to the Gauls, who established themselves along the banks of the Po ; but we are en- tirely ignorant if the Greeks knew the cooper’s art before they left their native country, or if they in- vented casks and hogsheads after their transmigration beyond the Alps. Notwithstanding the incontestable superiority of casks over skins, these latter continued to be still used. That they were much in vogue would appear from one of the capitularies of Charle- magne, in which, glancing at the prevalence of skins, he forbids his people to use any other ves-On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 297 sels than good barrels {bonos barridos) hooped with iron. At the Koman entertainments there was a particu- lar part of the convivial room set apart for the recep- tion of the wines. Here the various vessels and drinking-cups were ranged on a table called df3x^, or abacus. This was generally of marble, in the form of a long square, not unlike the modern sideboard. From the account which Philo Jud®us gives of the number of vessels placed on it, it must have been very large. Pliny, speaking of the rich spoils exhibited by Pompey in the triumph he obtained for his vic- tories over the pirates, says that the number of drink- ing vessels adorned with jewels was sufficient to fur- nish nine abaci: “ Triumpho quern de piratis Asia, Ponto, egit, transtulit lectos tridiniares tres; vasa ex auro et gemmis abacorum novem.”* Cicero charges Verres with having plundered the abaci, “ Ab hoc iste abaci vasa omnia ut exposita fuerant abstulit,” and Dr. Barry, in giving this quotation, misquotes it, “ In abacis erant abstulit.” These articles of luxury, according to Livy, were imported from Asia first as luxuries, but soon, like all other superfluous' wants, they became necessaries. The ancients had, like the modems, servants like our butlers, specially charged with the care of the wine. The office necessarily required judgment and ♦ Lib. xxvii., c. 6.298 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. experience. The head butler is called by Pollux olvoTTTJif. His business was to inspect the wines before and after they had been prepared, and mixed in another apartment. When they were placed on the abacus, he stood there as a modern butler or mattre dhotel does at our side-boards, and gave his orders to the underlings and slaves. The next in office under the butler was the pinceran or o»\o;^oof, which we should render as the pourer out of wine, or cup-bearer, the word being used in this sense both by Homer and Xenophon. This man received all his directions from the butler, and by him and his acolytes the wines were regularly prepared and dis- tributed to theguests. Of these inferior ministering agents there were many, and of different degrees. It was a part of the luxury of the times to be waited on by beautiful boys, purchased at high prices, who served the master and the superior guests; but the inferior ones and those of meaner condition were served by African slaves of coarse appearance, woolly- headed, and of most unsavoury odour. Notwithstand- ing the number of servants and slaves, many mistakes unavoidably happened in the mixture of wine. Nor is this wonderful when it is considered that the host and his guests called for wine variously diluted either with hot or cold water, and occasionally for whatever strong wine was agreeable to them. Cicero, describing a supper, alludes to the symposium of Xenophon, where the wines were prepared by hot water and299 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. afterwards cooled in snow ; “ Etpocula sicutin sym- poslo Xenophontis minuta atque rorantia et refriger- atio in aestate, et vicissim aut sol, aut ignis hiber- nus.” Of the quantity of wine drank on these occa- sions we have no very certain account. Pliny says that Democritus wrote a volume to pi’ove that no one ought to exceed the fourth or sixth glass; but in- stances have been given of persons who have drunk a congius or gallon in one draught. There are many who think that the cooling of wine by snow is a modern invention; but that this system was perfectly known to the Greeks and Romans, as I before observed, is sufficiently evident. The ves- sels which contained the wine mixed with boiled water were imnaersed in the snow, and such wine is particularly distinguished by Martial. This inven- tion is ascribed by Pliny to Nero, who prided him- self more on this improvement in luxury than Au- gustus did in encouraging the fine arts. It was a common practice at the convivial meetings of the Greeks and Romans to drink, not only to the healths of distinguished individuals, but to the absent friends and mistresses of the guests. The greater or less number of cups afforded an Indication of the respect in which the person whose health was toasted was held. The numerous coincidences which exist between the convivial customs of past ages and the present are thus succinctly summed up by Dr. Henderson :—“ If we compare the ceremonies andOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 300 usages of the Romans with the convivial customs of the present day, we cannot but be struck with the numerous coincidences which subsist between them. The arrangements of our dinners, the succession and composition of the different courses, the manner of filling our glasses, of pledging our friends, and of drinking particular healths, are all evidently copied from the Greeks and Romans.* With another modern nation, however, which has been thought to resemble the ancient Greeks in character, the analogy is still more complete. Thus, at aU entertainments among the French, the ordinary wine is used with a large admixture of water, generally in the proportion of one to three, except immediately after soup, when it is drunk pure. The finer kinds are circulated in the intervals between the courses, or towards the end of the repast, and hence are termed vins (Toitremets; but with particular dishes certain wines are served, as chablis with oysters, and sillery after roast meat. The coup-cFavant of vermuth has been already noticed as corresponding with the draught of tmdsum; and the coup du milieu, which consists of some liqueur, ' quod fluentem nauseam coerceat,’ may be regarded as identical with the cup of sweet wine handed round in the middle of a Grecian feast. lA ith * These customs arc now (1864) exploded in London society, and only exist on circuit, at regimental messes, or at public dinners.On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 301 dessert the luscious sweet wines are always intro- duced.” The doctor makes a slight mistake in regarding the coup du milieu as identical with the cup of Greek sweet wine. The coup, which was drunk immedi- ately after the roast, consisted, and still consists, of a bitter or spirituous, or sometimes a bitter and spiritu- ous cordial (and not of a sweet wine), taken as a stomachic. It is swallowed, according to the “ Manuel des Amphitryons,” to give tone to the fibres of the stomach, and “ pour accelerer le mouvement peristal- tique qui produit la digestion.” The Swiss extract of wormwood, Jamaica rum, or very old cognac, is used for the purpose. It is to the city of Bordeaux, so dear to gourmands and gourmets, that this Invention is ^ue. It is a trait of genius, says the author of the “ Almanach des Gourmands,” which enables one to make a second dinner, and which doubles the power and capacity of the weakest stomachs. Between the roast and the entremets—i.e., towards the middle of the dinner, you see at Bordeaux the doors of the dining-room open, when a girl about eighteen, tall, fair, and well-proportioned, her features beaming with an air of engaging alluringness, appears. Her sleeves are turned up to the very shoulders, and she holds in one hand a mahogany frame, in which are ranged as many small glasses as there are guests; and in the other a crystal decanter filled with Jamaica rum, or wormwood, or vermuth, though this latter302 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. beverage more properly belongs to the coup-d‘avant. Thus armed the Hebe makes the round of the table, and pours out to each guest a glass of the bitter nectar it is her business to distribute. The effect of the coup du milieu is stated to be almost magical in renewing the appetite, but on what principle it pro- duces this result physicians must determine. The coup-dJavant is little practised in Paris, though greatly used in Russia, Sweden, and the north of Germany. It consists of a large glass of vermuth, or of simple brandy, which is presented to each of the guests by way of appetiser. Physicians differ in opinion as to the virtues of the coup-iTavant: it is said rather to dispose the stomach to digestion ; but, be this as it may, the Russian stomachs, where the coup-d!avant is so much practised, are far more vigor- ous than the English or French. It may be that from the effects of the climate some such stimulant is required. The coup-cCapres consists, as Dr. Hen- derson states, of half a glass of pure wine taken Immediately after the soup. This is considered so salutary a practice, that it is proverbially said to take a crown out of the pocket of the physician. The wine offered for the coup-daprh in France is gene- rally a good Beaune or Macon; whilst in England it is commonly sherry or ^Madeira. In any -event it should be a good sound wine ; for the palate, at that early stage of a dinner, is most sensible to taste and flavour.On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 303 As to the wine-cellars of the ancients, we know little certain. Vitruvius directs that they should have a northern aspect, that the doors and windows should be placed in the same direction, that the doors should be small and seldom opened, and then to renew, not to alter, the temperature of the air. Care was also taken that the cellar should not be near a dung-heap, nor roots of trees, nor vegetables, nor anything fetid; and it w^as also as far removed as possible from the vicinage of baths, ovens, sewers, cisterns, and reservoirs. Women were also strictly forbidden to enter within the cellar walls. Barry would have it that the Greeks and Romans had extended vaults under ground, but against this theory Henderson cites Pancirollus, who is of opinion that the ancients were not in the practice of having re- positories of wine under ground like our modern cellars. That their repositories for wine must have been extensive there is no doubt, for it is stated that Hortensius bequeathed to his heirs 10,000 cadi of wine, about 410 tons of our measure. From the rules of the ancients, and the principles laid down, Barry properly points out certain defects in our modern wine-cellars in the following passages:— “ The size of the cellar ought to be in proportion to the quantity of wine for which it is designed; and it is more easy to defend a small cellar from the admission of a greater quantity of the external air, and to renew it occasionally, than one of a larger304 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. size. The situation ought to be low and dry ; there- fore, not on any great declivity, where the under- currents from the superior ground must always keep it moist, and infect the air with its putrid exhalations; this communication, however, may be prevented by intermediate trenches. “ A,small anti-cellar built before all large cellars would be a considerable defence and improvement to them, in which a quantity of wine sufficient for a few days may be kept, and the necessity prevented of more frequently opening the large cellar, and admitting the external air, which must always in some degree alter the temperature of it, and in sud- den or continued great heats or frosts, may be par- ticularly injurious to the wine. “ It is usual to cover the bottles in the bins with saw- dust, to which I should prefer dry sand, the density of which is much greater. I saw a remarkable instance of the benefit arising from an intermediate defence of this kind. A hogshead of claret, which had been lately bottled, was heaped up in a corner of a mer- chant’s common large cellar, with a view of removing it soon to the wine-cellar. In the meantime a load of salt, from the want of a more convenient place, was thrown on the bottles, and remained there several months before it was removed. This wine was afterwards found to be much superior to the wine of the same growth, which had been imported and bottled about the same time, and had been immedi-On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 305 ately placed In the wine-cellar. The large quantity of salt formed a compact vault over the bottles, which entirely defended the wine from the influence of the air, though greatly exposed to it; and probably the coldness of the salt contributed to this improvement. “ The ancients certainly more effectually preserved their wine in larger earthen vessels, pitched exter- nally, than we can in our bottles, as they are more capable, from their superior density and capacity, of resisting the frequent changes in the air; and it is a common observation, that the wine received into bottles which contain two quarts proves better than that which has been kept in single quarts.” Of the truth of this latter remark there can be no doubt,‘as any who have tasted a pint and a quart bottle of wine out of the same hogshead will freely admit. It is no doubt true that many of the usages adopted by the ancients for preserving and mellowing their wines have fallen into disrepute; but their rules for the site and construction of a wine-cellar—some of which I have quoted—their observations on the proper time for tasting and racking wines, are still sanctioned by modern practice. Wine of a middle age was then, according to Pliny, as Indeed it now is, to be preferred, as being the most wholesome and grateful; but then in ancient times it was the fashion, as it is in our own day, to place the greatest value on what was rarest. Thus X306 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. extravagant sums were given for wines not drinkable, or in a state of decomposition. Who does not know that within the past forty years twelve guineas a dozen was given for Mr. Pattle’s sherry, and half as much for some sherry once the property of the late Sir John Leach, Vice-Chancellor. Though the ancients often drank very freely, yet no one was obliged to drink on compulsion. The doors were never locked, as they were fifty years ago in Ireland, five and fifty years ago in Scotland, or little more than half a century ago in England. Large cups and more generous wines were frequently brought in, but no one was obliged to drink or to stay. If the guest did not drink on he departed, according to the old convivial rule, “ Aut bibe, aut abi.” Some of the wisest sages of antiquity were as great sponges as some of the modern Scots. For instance, Socrates, whether he lived abstemiously or drank copiously, was equally unexcited, equally un- altered; and the very same remark might be made on a remarkable man lately deceased. Cyrus, among other reasons wliich he urges why he should gain the crown in preference to his elder brother, insists on his being able to drink a larger quantity of wine without being inebriated; for Artaxcrxes was not only occasionally subject to getting “ right royal,” vulgo vocato, drunk, but also to the infirmity of losing his temper to boot. Athenteus mentions that Da- rius desired no greater encomium should be en-On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 307 graved on his tomb than that he was able to drink a great quantity of wine without being ine- briated. In his third book, the Father of Medicine gives a description of the general qualities and strength of the Greek wines, and of the peculiar medical virtues which they possessed. He likewise points out in what diseases, and in what quantities, they are to be used, so as to render them salutary and innoxious. It is remarkable that Hippocrates rarely directs water alone, but almost invariably orders its exhibi- tion with wine, or combined with honey and vinegar. Water was no doubt the basis of all his cooling drinks; but there was always added to it a moderate proportion of the weak white wines, to render it more effectually diluting. To the infirm and valetu- dinarian, wine is a necessary comfort beyond all price. When a patient has been long habituated to the use of it, a change in diet cannot be suffered without danger. There is a remarkable instance of this afforded in the case of the celebrated physician Cornaro, who always revived just after the vintage, when he left off the old and decaying wines of the last vintage, and commenced drinking the new. The passage is in the account which he gives of the rules by which he repaired his constitution, injured as it was by excesses, till the period when he was forty years old. By the regime he prescribed to himself, it is well308 On Wines, Ancient and Modem. known he preserved his health and spirits to the age of 100. The efficacy of his system depended on his taking a certain quantity of solids and fluids every day. The fluid consisted entirely of wine, but he gradually diminished the quantity of each as he advanced in years. During this period he enjoyed an equal state of health, except that sometimes, before the vintage returned and the new wine was made, he quickly became so weak and languid that his physicians declared he could not possibly continue to survive many days in that declining state. “ But on the return of the vintage,” says he, “and on taking the same quantity of new wine, I very quickly recovered my usual strength and spirits.” The same eflect is observed, to compare animals with men, among the mules of Jamaica. When the new sugar- canes are being gathered in, the most exhausted animal, fed on the fresh sugar-canes, gains a revival of strength. The Romans were in the habit of pitching their wine, nor can it be doubted that the Gauls also fol- lowed their example in this respect, with a view to render them more saleable in the Italian markets. The Allobroges had a peculiar pitch, with which they smeared their puncheons, after the manner of the wine-growers of Latium. j\Iany etymologists suggest that the French word poinqon, adopted in many of the French provinces to signify a puncheon common to them, is derived from the vas piceum, of which it isOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 309 an abbreviation.* These, however, are but conjec- tures, and why should we resort to conjectures in the face of formal proof? Such were the two charters of Charles the Bald in favour of the monasteries of St Denis and St. Germain des Pres. By the first (a. D. 862), the emperor makes an annual grant to the abbey of ten silver livres, for the purchase of the necessary pitch for casks; by the second he grants to the other convent twenty pounds of soap and of pitch, “ad vasa vinaria componenda.” The soap, of which a gi-ant is here made with the pitch, leads me to infer that there were persons who, not content with laying a coat of pitch on their casks, composed a peculiar itiastic in mixing the soap and some other substance with the pitch, after the manner of the Romans. Strabo, in giving a description of Latium (the modern Lombardy), and an idea of the abundance of its vines, says that the puncheons were taller than the houses. It is probable that the Gauls estab- lished in these parts, or their descendants, seeing that the ordinary casks were insufficient, or that * “Un poiru;on de vin, d’huile, &c. Dolium vel doliolum. Le poinqon est la moitie d’un tonneau d’Orlcans, ou d’Anjou. C’est un nom qu’on donne en Blasois et en Touraine au muid de vin. A Rouen le poingon contient treize boisseaux. C’est it Paris la meme chose qu’une demi-quew. On dit, Void ven- danges, il faut acheter des poingons, faire relier nos poingons, en parlant de toutes sortes de futailles et de vaisscaux.”—Dic- tionnaire de Trevottx.310 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. there was not cellar-room for them, invented those monster puncheons of which the geographer speaks, and which were long ago, and are now, in common use in Germany. But the French, for the most part, in lieu of these not very solid vessels, preferred to construct their wine-tubs or vats, in brick or in stone. De Serres states that, even so late as 1600, many persons thus constructed their vats. It is true, he says, the wine took a longer time to ferment in these receptacles than in wooden tubs; but they were most easily cleaned, contracted no bad taste, lasted longer, and required little or no outlay to keep them in rei)air. But though these cisterns might be serviceable to the proprietor as a repository for his wine, he was obliged, when he sold it, to have re- course to casks or skins. The skins, notwithstanding the many inconveniences they presented, were long used for that purpose. I have before stated that Charlemagne forbade them in the cellars of his palace. Pierre de Blois, declaiming, in the twelfth century, against the luxury of the chevaliers, represents them as leading horses laden with skins of wine, and all the “ creature comforts ” that announce gluttony and drunkenness :—“ Non ferro, sed vino ; non lanceis, sed caseis; non ensibus, sed utribus; non hastis, sed verubus onerantur.” At the repast which Philippe de Valois gave to the kings of Scotland, of INIajorca, and of Bohemia, there was on the royal dresser (le dressour royal) no311 On Mines, Ancient and Modern. plate of gold or silver, but only a leathern bottle, in which was the wine of the princes and kings who sat at the festal board. In order to understand this passage, which is extracted from a very old work, it is necessary to mention that, in the time of Philip, there were no bottles, nor were they known for many years afterwards. Wine, at this epoch, in the royal establishment as elsewhere, was drunk from the cask. If many sorts were given at an entertainment, as often happened on occasions of great ceremony— in that event many casks were tapped, and the re- mains of all belonged to the grand bouteiller. Tra- vellers on horseback, who were apprehensive of not finding wine on the road, carried with them a species of leathern bottle attached to the saddle. In the “ Life of St. Maur ” we read that, travelling to visit one of the farms of his monastery, he saw suddenly arrive Ansgaire, archdeacon of the church of Angers. The holy abbe wished to refresh him. Unfortunately, there was no other wine at the farmer’s than the little which remained attached to the saddle-bow of St. I Maur, “ in uno parvissimo vasculo quod ad sellam pendere consuerit.” But the holy man, says the his- torian, supplied the deficiency by a miracle, and mul- tiplied this remains of the liquor so exceedingly, that it sufficed to quench the thirst of seventy-eight per- sons who were there present. In the thirteenth century the vessels of which I have been speaking were called bouchaus, boutiaux,312 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. houties, or boutilles. When the gentry of that day wished to make a long journey, or were on their way to the wars, they took bottles with them of consider- able capacity. It appears, by an early charter, that when the Bishop of Amiens marched thus in the arriere ban, the tanners of the city were obliged to furnish him with two good and sufficient leather bottles, one holding a muid and the other twenty- four setiers of wine. The butchers were, on their part, bound to furnish the grease to cover these bottles. If cover means to cork, as the sense would seem to in- dicate, it was certainly a strange process to seal a can- teen destined for the keeping and transport of wine. These boutiaux, or boutilles, took the name of bou- teilles, or bottles. This name was afterwards applied to the decanters which were subsequently used. On the first indication of madness presented by Charles VI., on his journey to Brittany, the officers of his household, who had preceded him, served him with drink; and being suspected of having poisoned him, the Duke of Burgundy, who accompanied them, caused them to undergo an interrogatory : but they protested their innocence, says Froissart, and offered to prove it, as there remained in the bottles a jwrtlon of the wine of which the king had drunk. There can be no doubt that the bottles here spoken of were made of leather. It now remains for me to touch on those wines which have enjoyed the greatest reputation, from the con-On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 313 quest of the Franks to the present time. The earlier writers olFer little on this subject. Gregory of Tours speaks of the wines of Ma9on, Orleans, Cahors, and Dijon. The wines of Auvergne are spoken of in a “ Life of St. Germain,” written in verse by Heric, who lived under Charles the Bald; and there is men- tion of those of Kheims and of the Kiver Marne, in a letter of Pandulus, Bishop of Lan, to Hircanar. Baldric, or Baudri, author of a Latin poem which Mablllon has cited in the “ Benedictine Annals,” says that Henry I. greatly esteemed the wine of R6bre- chlen {area Bacchi), near Orleans, and that when he went to the army he took a provision with him to animate his courage. There is a letter of Louis le Jeune, written from the Holy Land to Suger and to the Comte de Vermandois, regents of the kingdom in his absence, by which he directs them to give to his intimate friend, Arnould, Bishop of Lisleux, sixty modii of his excellent wine of Orleans. “ Dilecto et praecordlali amico, Lexoviensi Episcopo, sexaginta Aurelianenses modios de meo optimo vino Aurelian- ensi dare non reanatis.” It is probable that this wine of Orleans was the wine called Rebrechien. It is said that the greater number of the Orleanais are one-eyed, lame, and hump-backed, which is attri- buted by some, most inconsequentially, to the wine of Orleans. A fabliau of the twelfth century has come down to us which gives us a list of the best reputed wines of314 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. that day. Among the wines of the provinces the poet vaunts those of the Gatinias, d’Auxois, d’Anjou, and of Provence. Over the list of the particularly celebrated wines we will not now travel. Suffice it to say, that Burgundy was then renowned for its wine of Auxerre, Beaune, Beauvoisins, Flavigni, and Ver- manton ; Champagne for its Chabli (not Chablis, the Burgundy wine of the department of the Yonne), Epernai, Rheims, Hauvilliers, Sezanne, Tonnerre. This production represents the Beaune wine of a yellow colour, inclining to the shade of an ox’s horn. It is very difficult to have a precise idea of such a colour. When the popes in the thirteenth century transported their pontificial chair to Avignon, the table of their holinesses, and of all their principal officers, were furnished with wine from the monastery of Cluni. This was probably a wine of Beaune; for Petrarch, writing in 1366 to Urban V. to engage him to come to Rome, and combatting the different reasons which retained the cardinals beyond the mountains, says, “ I have heard it sometimes alleged that there was no Beaune wine in Italy. When, in 1510, the ambassadors sent by the Emperor Maximilian to Louis XII., travelled across France to find the prince at Tours, where he was, the queen, on their passage through Blois, sent them fresh sea-fish, with three barrels of old wine of Beaune and Orleans.” There is a great deal of fashion and caprice in the rise and fall of wines. The reputation of different315 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. vintages may be compared to the characters of certain men. To rise above the crowd, it does not alone suffice to be possessed of real merit. Sometimes favourable circumstances or a happy chance is needed, which is more often sought than found. It has hap- pened to us all to have drunk in a remote spot deli- cious wines, which only needed the recommendation of a consummate gourmet to obtain instantaneous vogue. It may also occasionally chance that a vine- yard which, for a long time had but an indifferent reputation, may, by the industry of a new proprietor, by peculiar processes^of making the wine, or by a better cultivation of the grape, become more perfect than it had been before. There are hundreds of ex- amples of this, of which one may be cited. Who does not know that the wine of Romance, so famed for more than a century (the estate on which it grows has since been purchased by the Prince of Conti), owes its celebrity to a Sieur de Cromanbourg, a German officer in the service of France, who, having married the heiress of this vineyard, rendered it at length one of the first in Burgundy. In each cen- tury some of the wines of the preceding fall in re- pute, and new vintages arise to take their place. Eustace des Champs (who died about 1420), in the numerous poetical MSS. which he has left, cites the vines of Burgundy, Gascony, La Rochelle, Chabli, St. Pourcain, Beaune, and Orleans, which had been already cited by authors anterior to him ; but he also316 On Wines, Ancient and Modem. mentions the names of many new wines,—“ AI, Aus- sone, Cumieres, Dameri, Germoles, Givri, Gonesse, Iranci, Mantes, Pinos, Tournus, Troy, and Verlus.” It was said more than seventy years ago that the wine of France which best bears transport is the wine ef Mantes ; and, in confirmation of this fact, a French traveller of the sixteenth century is cited, who car- ried some of this wine to Persia without its being in the least injured. If this fact be true, it is not un- exampled nor peculiar to the wine of Mantes. It appears that, in the fifteenth century. Burgundy and Champagne disputed the palm among the wines of France. If Burgundy had its Beaune, Champagne had its Ai. These two wines were counted among the best in France. “This last,” says Patin, “ is the wine that Baudius called Vinum Dei at the house of De Thou.” Paumier, in his “ Treatise on Wine,” written in 1588, says it was the ordinary beverage of kings and princes. It is certainly true that Leo X., Charles V., Francis I., and Henry VIII. had each a vineyard in Champagne; and St. Evremond alludes to the circumstance in a letter to the Duke d’Olonne. Burgundy was, at this period, considered the whole- somest, the most cordial, and the most generous of wines. Erasmus, being tormented with nephritic pains, which he attributed to the harsh and bitter wines of the Rhine, took to drinking burgundy exclu- sively, and soon became perfectly restored. “ Sic enim subito recreatus est stomachus,” says he, “ utOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 317 mihi viderer renatus in alium horainem.” He has left us, in one of his letters, the praise of a liquor to which he was indebted for health. " Happy pro- vince ! ” he exclaims: “ well may Burgundy be called the mother of man, suckling him with such milk! ” He who first taught the art of making this wine ought to be considered, not merely as having grati- fied us with a new liquor, but as having given to us new life. Champler makes a remark, which is truer now than it was in the sixteenth century, namely, that there was no country on earth which had such excel- lent, or a variety of such admirable wines, as France. He counts among this number the wine of Arbois and the muscat of Languedoc; and tells us that, in Ar- bois and Halnault, there was a demand for Beaune wine, but that the remaining portion of Flanders preferred the wines of Orleans. Beaujeau vaunts the wines of La Crau; and Rabelais those of Aux- erre, Mirevaux, Migraine, Canteperdrix, and Fron- tignan. At the repast which the King of France gave, in 1602, to the Swiss ambassadors, Canteper- drix wine was served. Madame de Koyer (in her “ Lettres Historiques et Galantes ”) says that this may well be called the wine of the gods, since it was sent to Rome for the private drinking of the holy father. There is no such wine as Canteperdrix known, in the present day, by that special desig- nation. It is now called the vin de Beaucaire,318 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. and is a red wine of Languedoc. As to the wine of Arbois, it was the favourite beverage of Henry IV., as we learn from an anecdote related in Sully. When the Duke of Mayenne had laid down his arms, and treated with Henry IV., the king, in order to fix the fidelity of his vassal, gave him two bottles of Arbois wine. “ Car,” said the lively, good-hearted monarch, "je pense, mon cousin, que vous ne le haissez pas.” When Sully, being crea- ted duke and peer, gave a grand repast on the day of his reception, the king surprised him by ap- pearing among the number of the guests. “ But,” says the duke, “ as he was hungry, and they were dilatory in serving the dinner, he ate, in the inter- val, some oysters, which he washed down with wine of Arbois.” And a good preparation for a dinner it was. Paumier, a Norman physician, has written a trea- tise on wines, in which he counts four different co- lours,—white, red, blackish, and ceil de perdrix, i.e., reddish. He says that France then produced no red wine which was sweet, excepting in the Bordelais, in which district there were red and black wines of great sweetness. His description of the wines of Gascony is, that they were hot, vinous, easy of digestion, and of a red or partridge-eyed colour. This description, in two particulars holds good to the letter to the present day. These wines are still vinous and easy of digestion, but they arc not hot, nor are they geucr-On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 319 ally of a partridge-colour until they are old, and in a state bordering on decomposition. The doctor fur- ther states that the wines of Chateau Thierry were agreeable, but so dangerous, that the greater part of the inhabitants were afflicted with the gout from their tender infancy, and died before they attained the ordinary age. Chateau Thierry is on the borders of Champagne, and, whatever may have been the case in the time of Paumier, in the sixteenth century, it is certainly not true in the nineteenth that the inhabitants have the gout from their earliest years, or that they die so pre- maturely. But their wine is still good. “ The red wine of the Clos de St. Thierry, a league from Rheims, is of a quality between burgundy and cham- pagne, and is very highly esteemed by the connois- sievr'' The idea of having the gout prematurely is preposterous. The gout is a disease scarcely known in Champagne; and, if it be very common in Eng- land, as must be admitted, after occasional excesses, it does not arise from the drinking of champagne solely, to which it is most frequently attributed, but from the mixture of a variety of wines, champagne among the number. Baccius, in his treatise “De Vlnlls,” printed at Rome in 1596, has a chapter on the wines of France. He praises the wines of Arles, Beziers, Bordeaux, Frontignan, Gaillac, and St. Laurent. Nor does he omit the wines of Avignon, which arrived in320 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. small barrels, hooped with iron; the white wines which sparkle out of the glass, and which please the smell as much as the taste (probably he means cham- pagne) ; and the wines of Paris, which yield the palm to none in the kingdom. What Paumier says of the wines of Paris will appear, at present, very strange. The contempt with which the wines of the neighbourhood of the metropolis of France are at present treated will appear the more extraordinary when it is known that they enjoyed, for fourteen centuries previously, the highest reputation. Liebaut praises, in a bad poem, written in 1605, the wines of Ruel and Surenne; and the Abbe de Marolles those of Surenne, Argenteuil, and St. Cloud; “ which,” says he, “ are pure, and not unwholesome.” Paumier is endless in his praises of the wines of Paris, which have not the inconvenience of drying up the blood, like those of Gascony; do not fly to the head, like those of Chateau Thierry and Orleans; and do not occasion obstructions and humours, like those of Bordeaux. According to him, burgundy, when it has lost its roughness, and is in its best state, may be alone compared to the wine of the environs of Paris. Patin, writing in 1669, says, “ Long live the bread of Gonesse, with the good wine of Paris, Burgundy, and Champagne !” Chaulieu, in a piece of poetry written in 1702, represents his friend, the Marquis de la Fare, as going often to Surenne to drink the wine:—■On Wines, Ancient and Modern, 321 “ Et Ton m’ecrit qu’ k Surenne, Au cabaret on a vu La Fare et la bon Silene, Qui pour en avoir trop bu, Retrouvoient la porte k peine, D’un lieu qu’ils ont tant connu.” These wines are now all forgotten, and, with the exception of the vin de Condrieux, exist no longer. Who could have imagined this a century ago? and how “ has it come to pass ? ” May it not have been, as Le Grand d’Aussy suggests, that the proprietors, blinded by the bait of a sure and speedy sale, which the proximity of the capital atforded, were guilty of the imprudence of neglecting the proper cultivation of the vines, or chose plants of an inferior quality. It was remarked, more than two centuries ago, that the reputation of the Orleans wines was owing to the manner of making them. It appears that the in- habitants of Orleans, like wise and sensible men, confined themselves to that object alone, making it their only occupation. Over the minutest details they exercised supervision and control; whereas the Lyonnais and the Parisians purchased a wine estate, rather as a showy bauble than as a matter of commerce, and completely surrendered the manage- ment to paid agents. “ Whence comes it,” says Lie- baut, “ that you rarely hear a native of Orleans or a Bourguignon complain of his vines, whilst the com- plaints of a Parisian are iteratively urged ? ” The Y322 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. reason is that one occupies himself personally in the matter, whilst the other trusts to an ignorant or knavish vine-dresser. To Francis I., and the grandees of his court, Champier attributes the discredit into which the wines of the neighbourhood of Paris had commenced to fall. “ These personages,” says he, “ having had their taste blunted by good cheer, found the Parisian wines poor and weak. They, therefore, feU on the strong and vigorous wines of the south of France, which they obtained at considerable cost.” The Auvernat wine of Orleans, so praised by the Abbe de Marolles, is thus severely treated by Boi- leau,— “ Un laquais effronte m’apporte un rouge bord D’un Auvernat fumeux, qui mele de lignage; Se vendoit chez creuet pour vin de I’hermitage; Et qui rouge et vermeil, mais fade et doucereux, N’avoit rien qu’on gout plat, et qu’un deboire affreux." The first time I find mention of a vin de Grave is towards the year 1550. If we are to judge from the testimony of Madame de Sevigne, it was indifferently esteemed in her day. In speaking of M. de Lavar- din, who is stated by St. Evremont to have been Bishop of Metz, she says, “ C’est un gros mcrite qui ressemble au vin de Grave.” The district of Graves yields from 1000 to 1500 tuns, generally of a lively and brilliant colour, with more body than the vines of Medoc, but less bouquet, raciness, and fineness.On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 323 The Graves are so termed from the nature of the soil which produces them. Formerly the appellation was confined to the white sorts; but it now compre- hends the red as well as white wines which grow on the gravelly lands to the south-east and south-west of Bordeaux. The Haut-Brion ranks highest amongst the red wines, and approaches in quality to some of the better sorts of Burgundy ; but it wants the fine perfume by which the Medoc wines are distinguished. The vins de Grave are an excellent table wine, and very proper to be taken with oysters, if Chablis can- not be obtained. But little mention is made of the Hermitage wine till the seventeenth century. But if its reputation was tardy, it was at least brilliant. As soon as it became known at tbe court, it Avas placed in the first rank of wines. “ The king,” wrote Patin, in 1666, “has made a present to the King of Eng- land of 200 muids of very good wine of Champagne, Burgundy, and Hermitage.” Boileau, soon afterwards, speaks of it as a wine of first quality. The best white Hermitage I ever drank was a parcel purchased at the sale of the late Marquis of Londonderry’s wines in St. James’s Square, after the death of Emily, Marchioness of Londonderry, in 1828. It was really exquisite,—a perfect liqueur in its way. “ Hermitage wine is divided into five classes. It is styled by the French the richest coloured in their great variety of wines, but it differs much with the seasons as to quality. Red Hermitage will not keep324 On Wines, Ancient and Modem. more than twenty years without altering. The price of the first class is often as high as 550 francs the piece of 210 litres. The other growths or classes sell from 450 down to 300, and even as low as 250 francs the piece. When the season is bad, and the wine of moderate quality, the wine of the first growth will not bring more than 250, and of the last, 120 francs. “ Red Hermitage, when it is of the first quality, is not bottled for exportation until it has been four or five years in the cask, in which, as well as in bottles, it is generally sold at that age. The price, in the former case is high, even if the quality be moderate. “ The white Hermitage is made of whitegrapes only, and divided into three growths. This is the finest white wine France produces. Its colour should be straw-yellow; its odour is like that of no other known wine. It is of a rich taste, between that of the dry and luscious wines. It is often in a state of fermen- tation for two years, but it is never delivered to the consumer, if it can be avoided, until fermentation is complete. The quantity of real white Hermitage does not exceed 120 pieces annually.” The reputation acquired by the Burgundy wines was due to an accidental circumstance. Louis XIV. liaving fallen ill, the physicians advised him the vin de Nuits as the most pectoral and proper to re-establish his health ; and thence the reputation which this class of wine has ever since enjoyed. The memoir of theOn Wines, Ancient and Modern, 325 Intendant of Burgundy tells us that the wines of Tonnerre were, in 1698, very much sought after by the Flemish. The vin de Tonnerre is fine, full- flavoured wine, of great body, and very suitable to a damp, cold climate. It is not unlike first-rate old port, but far superior in bouquet and fragrancy. The finest ever drank by me was at the chateau of the Marquis de Louvois, at Ancy-le-France, and had been grown on his own estate. The Abb4 de Marolles, in his translation of Mar- tial, gives a list of the wines for which Burgundy was renowned in his day, and here they are. The wines of Auxerre, Beaune, Coulanges, Joigny, Irance, Vermanton, and Tonnerre, “ which some people prefer,’’ says he, “ to all other wine ” (“ que quelques-uns preferent a tons les autres”). The wine of Tonnerre Is certainly particularly calculated for the cold and foggy climate of Bur- gundy, or for any portion of England. Henderson thus alludes to the vin de Tonnerre:—“ The depart- ment of the Yonne furnishes several excellent red wines, of which those of Tonnerre and Auxerre have been long celebrated.” Redding is more copious and careful in his remarks on the Burgundies. “ The wines of Tonnerre,” says he, “ of the finest kind fetch ninety francs the hecto- litre on an average; and the other wines in gradation from sixty to thirty-five. The wine of Olivotte, one of the best, has good flavour, is fine, and of excellent326 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. colour, but it lacks the true bouquet, unless in very favourable years. The communes which furnish the best wines are Tonnerre, Epineuil, Dannemonie, for the finer red wines.” The country round Tonnerre has many distin- guished vineyards; as those of Pitoy, de Perriere, and Des Preaux. Near these localities is situated the famous vineyard called Des Olivettes, already spoken of, which produces wines of a good colour, much body, and particularly spirituous. They are at the same time fine and delicate, and possess aro- matic flavour and bouquet. Among the white wines of Burgundy is the Chablis, so universally used with oysters, both in France and on the Continent gener- ally. The best classes of Chablis, produced at four leagues from Auxerre, rank among the second classes of white Burgundy. Chablis is not always to be procured good in England, more especially in the provinces; but such as desire a light, pleasant wine with their oysters, may swallow a tumbler of Chablis or Sauterne, or vin de Pouilly, or a large glass of good Bucellas, a wine possessing the fragrancy and bouquet of the Rhenish, with the warm, aromatic, and cordial flavour of the best Spanish and Portuguese wines. Bucellas is produced at about six leagues from Lisbon; it is preferred to the dry wine of Setuval, and is stronger than Barsac. It is, how- ever, like all delicate wines, irretrievably injured by an admixture of brandy. Care should there-On IVines, Ancient and Modern. 327 fore be taken to procure it from a trustworthy source. To return to the vins de Bourgogne, It would take a volume to describe the different species of Bur- gundy. It is the vinous product most noted in France for its exquisite flavour, bouquet, and delicacy; but Burgundy is nevertheless a wine which least bears transport even on land, whilst transport by sea is too often fatal to its fragrance and flavour. Within the last thirty years I have imported three parcels, one of which was completely spoiled. The two others (one I procured through the good offices of my late friend the celebrated Mauguin, deputy for Burgundy) arrived soundly and uninjured; but the merchants had taken care to envelope the bottles in a thick paper, very much like cotton wadding, and to encase the wine in two casks, the inner hogshead being smeared over with a composition formed of plaster of Paris and other ingredients of which I am ignorant. Burgundy is also frequently exported, more espe- cially to Russia and America, enveloped in salt. The Burgundy wines are divided into numerous classes. In the quantity yielded, as well as in the quality, these classes differ hugely. “ That of the first class,” says Redding, “ is small in quantity, and, if any other wine be mingled with it, is certain to be injured irreparably. From hence it may be judged how little the common wine of Portugal can claim to he classed high in the list of328 On JVineSy Ancient and Modern. superior wines, when from six to ten gallons of brandy are added to each pipe. The difference in the effect of wine that intoxicates from the presence of a large admixture of alcohol, and that which exhilarates from its native qualities alone, is very singular. The pure wine, by the accurate blending of the constituent parts, even where there has been a habit of free indulgence, never leaves those distressing effects upon the constitution which are caused by drinking wine and unblended alcohol.” The author of the “ Topographie des Vignobles ” says that the vineyards of Burgundy cover 103,000 hectares; the produce, on the average, being 2,550,000 hectolitres of wine, 70,000 of which are consumed in the country. The vineyards have increased very much since the Bevolution, many landowners having converted into vineyards low and marshy lands; others having introduced manures, or carried new earth upon the old to increase the crop; others, again, have substituted young for the old plants, and even common plants for the fine and superior growths of the vine. This has caused a degeneracy in the wines in the opinion of the purchaser; but, notwith- standing the increase in low and common wines, the number of good vineyards have, in the opinion of good judges, likewise increased. But little has been written in England on the subject of vineyards since the time of Arthur Young, whose work on France was published at Bury St. Edmund’s in 1794,On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 329 seventy years ago. The most modern journal giving an account of the Burgundy vineyards that I have met with is the journal of Mr. James Busby, pub- lished originally in New South Wales, and reprinted by Smith, Elder, and Co. several years ago. It is no common thing, according to the best authorities, for a hogshead of red Burgundy wine to fetch from 1250 to 1500 francs ; but the white wine is never said to rise above 600 francs the hogshead. Touching the Clos Vougeot in particular, however, M. Joubert remarks—and he represents at Paris the houses of Barton and Guestier of Bordeaux, of Buinart, pere et fils, at Rheims, of Charles Marcy of Nuits, and of Deinhart and Jordan of Coblentz— that this famous vintage is year by year deteriorating. Formerly, says M. Joubert, this wine possessed the greatest renown of any wine in France, but it is not so now. It is no longer the production of artistes, but purely and simply an alFair of trade. So long as the vineyard was the property of the monks (we owe to the monasteries the finest vineyards of France), the Clos Vougeot was made with infinite care, and carefully preserved till age had developed its full perfections. The Messrs. Tourton and Ravel had continued to practise these good traditions, but M. Joubert seems to insinuate that since their time fraud and falsification abound in the preparation of the wine. This remark was probably addressed to the late notorious Ouvrard, who, in the year 1832 or330 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 1833, took a large house at the corner of Langham Place, for the purpose of making known these wines. But notwithstanding these frauds, Burgundy pro- duces in good years admirable wines, in the most exact signification of the term, possessing an incom- parable colour and bouquet. A worthy Benedictine named Perignon, according to the author of the “ Spectacle de la Nature,” presided at the making of the wines of the Abbaye of Hauvilliers; and Pluche says, by the invention of new processes, Pere Perignon procured for these wines a reputation which they never enjoyed before. As though the vinous wealth of Burgundy were not already suflficiently extensive, the wine proprietors have introduced within the last dozen years a spark- ling Burgundy ; as Deinhart and Jordan, at Coblentz, have sought to introduce a sparkling Moselle; but these new inventions, though applauded by green- horns, are not patronised by those wiser and older wine drinkers who have been accustomed to Nuits, Volnay, Beaune, Pomard, and Chambertin. The Nuits wine is seldom fit for drinking till the third or fourth year after the vintage, but is said by Hen- derson to bear the carriage well; and there can be no doubt that, when old, it acquires a high flavour. Sallns, who \vrote in 1704 the “ Defense du vin de Bourgogne centre le vin de Champagne,” says, the inestimable advantage which Burgundy possesses over its rival is that of furnishing successively casesOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 331 of wine for all seasons of the year. “ In the first place,” says he, “ there are the wines of Pomard, Beaune, and Volnay; then the white wine of Meul- sant; and lastly the Nuits qui n’a pas son pareil et ne pent etre assez prise.” It is the district of Nuits which produces the Bur- gundy called St. George and the Mprsault wines. Here, also, the curious wine called Mont Rachet is made of three distinct kinds of grape grown on the same aspect, with no ditference that can be discovered in soil; and yet, says Redding, one species is so good as to bring three times the price of the others. The wine produced at Volnay, a village situated about three miles from Beaune, was in Barry’s time, who wrote in 1775, exactly eighty-nine years ago, the finest and most volatile wine in Burgundy. In the year of a good vintage, there is no better wine of entremets than Beaune. It is of a fine red colour, has no noxious qualities, does not heat the blood like other crus of Burgundy, will keep a long time without spoiling, and will bear water carriage. I have drunk excellent Beaune in the remotest cor- ners of Hungary and Transylvania, in the heart of Poland, nay, even in the midst of Russian snows. It is a favourite wine both at Petersburg and Mos- cow, where great quantities are consumed, mingled with ice and water in the summer months. In order to drink Beaune in perfection, it should not, how- ever, be more than four or five years old.332 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. Pomard is a delicious wine, having body and colour; and, if first-rate, a light and grateful aroma. I have now some more than thirty years old, obtained pure direct from the grower, through the instru- mentality and good offices of M. Mauguin, who suc- ceeded the Marquis de Chauvelin, as deputy for the Cote d’Or. A finer wine was never tasted. Chambertin, it is well known to everyone, was the favourite wine of Napoleon before he arrived at St. Helena. After that period he drank Bordeaux, pro- bably because he thought Burgundy would have been injured by the sea voyage. Chambertin is produced, according to M. Jullien, two leagues and a half from Dijon, occupies twenty-five hectares, and produces yearly from 130 to 150 pieces of excellent wine, which gives a most perfect bouquet and aro- matic flavour, what the French wine merchants call seve and moelleux. It has a fuller body and colour than the B-omanee, with an aroma nearly as fragrant The Richebourg Tache and St. George approach, ac- cording to Henderson, the Chambertin in their more essential qualities. Chambertin is said to be one of the Burgundy wines which best bears exportation. This, and almost all other Burgundy wines should, however, be drank in moderation, for they are apt to give a feverish heat to the blood. Herein the true gourmet should follow the advice so happily given by Panard: — “ Se piquer d’etre grnnd buveur Est un abus que je deplore:On Hines, Ancient and Modern. 333 Fuyons ce titre peu flatteur ; C’est un honneur qui d^shonore. Quand on boit trop on s'assoupit, Et Ton tombe en delire: Buvons pour avoir de I’esprit, Et non pour le detruire.’’ The wine which ranks the highest in estimation of all the Burgundy wines is the Romance Conti. The produce is exceedingly scant, as the vineyard is limited to five acres. As the quantity is so small, this wine is rarely exported. It sells even on the spot from six to eight francs the bottle. Henderson says it is seldom met with in a genuine state, and that there is reason to believe that the produce of the vineyard of Romance St. Vivant (so called from the monastery of that name), which is more abundant and of a similar, though inferior quality, is often sold for it. It may be here remarked, that when the monks possessed the superior Burgundy vineyards, they wisely made it a rule to sell the wines only in bottle. Tourton and Ravel of Paris, who purchased the vineyard of Clos Vougeot during the Revolution at a million of francs, or about £500 the English acre, followed this example; but it appears the marked distinction of qualities that existed in the time of the monks has not been kept up, and that it will be long before the ancient character can be regained. The vinous products of Saone and Loire do not334 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. equal the premiers crus of the Cote d’Or, but several of them nearly approach the wines of this far-famed district; and they are in general what French wine- growers call plus solides, i.e., they are less injured in the transport and less exposed to sudden changes, ruinous to the merchant and most unsatisfactory to the consumer. Chalons and Macon possess wines of high merit. Under the name of Macon wines are comprehended not only the growths of the Ma- connais, but also the wines of the Beaujolais, forming part of the department of the Rhone. Those of Romaneche and of Thorins, in the vicinity of Macon, in particular, are esteemed for their delicacy, and sprightliness, and agreeable flavour; that of Chenas, in the canton of Beaujeu, on the other hand, is a more spirituous and fuller wine, and will bear keeping three or four years in the wood. Of these wines the best are grown, according to Henderson, on a granitic soil. Formerly the plant called chanay, which pro- duces a very small grape, and yields an excellent wine, was in general cultivation here; but the cupi- dity of the farmers had led to the substitution of the Bourguignon grape, in which, as usual, quality is exchanged for quantity. It may not be uninteresting to state that the Macon wines are praised by no less an authority than Gregory of Tours ; and mention is also made of them in the “ Comcdie dcs Coteaux ou les Friands Mar- quis,” published in the year 1665. They are, with-On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 335 out any doubt, the wholesoraest wines that come from Burgundy, and may be drunk with impunity at all seasons of the year; but a great portion of the ordinary Macon consumed at Paris is adulterated. When, however, this wine is obtained genuine, it is equal to mothers’ milk. I remember as a boy dining with an old gentleman of large fortune in the Chaus- see d’Antin, who had been one of the Mousquetaires Rouges, and who gave me goblet after goblet of this pure Macon. “ AVhere, my dear sir, did you obtain this excel- lent wine ? ” I asked. Ah, mon cher!" said my old friend, “ that was a present to me from Creuz6 de Lesser, when he was Prefect at Autun. I doubt that my neighbour Tourton, who lives at the corner of the Rue de Pro- vence, or that Jovet or Vilcoq of Antun could match it! ” Macon wine may be generally Imported into Eng- land without risk of being injured in flavour. There is one observation which might be made on the wines of Burgundy before this part of the subject is closed, and the observation equally applies to all wines which have, like the Burgundies, a very fine bouquet and aromatic flavour. Such wines should never be iced. Icing, or even a too cold cellar, causes them to lose that inappreciable and fugacious flavour which is developed by a moderate degree of heat. Bur- gundies should be taken out of the cellar an hour or336 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. two before dinner and placed in the dining-room, within the wake of a temperate fire. I go farther than most persons, and maintain that most red wines should not be iced. It maybe answered, that “ there is no wine more iced than Claret in all the Indian presidenciesbut this Claret so iced is not the pure juice of the grape. It is a loaded wine made for the market, which every genuine lover of Claret should abhor. It was the custom in the first society of Bordeaux, and always at the prefecture, in the days of Baron d’Haussey, afterwards Minister of Marine to Charles X., to serve Claret with a tepid napkin round the claret-jug or decanter into which the wine was poured, or round the green glass bottle itself, if, as indeed it more frequently happened, the wine was not decanted. This gentle heat brings out ad- tageously the flavour and aroma of the wine. As to the period of the dinner when Burgundy should be introduced, all I would say is this, that it should not be served later than the roast. A glass of Pomard, Nuits,or Chambertin,may be very well taken after the first mouthful of a good haunch of South Down or a Jilet de bceuf d la Poivrade is swallowed. Neither should I object to a repetition of the dose (whatever Lord Brougham, who contends for Claret after game, may say to the contrary) after swallow- ing a slice of w'oodcock, partridge, or that excellent bird, so justly bepraised, the golden plover; but to reserve Burgundy for the entremets, sucrh, or dessert.337 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. is a piece of rampant snobbishness worthy of a nou- veau riche. The water-drinkers may laugh at me for having written at such length on such subjects, but I answer in the lines of Francois de Neufchateau :— “ Mais la sobrietc Dans ses travers sera-t-elle plus sage ? Pour fuir Tabus doit-on bannir Tusage ? Ah, je connais la pauvre humanitc Tout est jolie; et bien mieux que personne Un buveur d’eau quelquefois dcraisonne.” I now come to Champagne wine. The quarrel which existed in the time of Louis XIV. between the Burgundy doctor and the Champenois, concerning the respective merits and defects of the wines of their different provinces, has been before alluded to. The Bourguignon maintained that Burgundy merited a preference over the wine of Rheims, for that these latter over-excited the nerves, produced dangerous maladies, such as the gout; and, in a word, that Fagon, first physician to Louis XIV., forbade their use to that monarch. The citizens of Rheims deemed themselves in duty bound to resent this insult, and the faculty of medicine of the town was charged with the task. The faculty, of course, maintained that the wines of Ai,Pierri,Versenai, Silleri, Hauvilliers, Tassi, Montbre, and St. Thierri, bore off the bell in the “ top-loftiest manner,” as Sam Slick would say, from Burgundy; that they possessed a more limpid colour, z338 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. a sweeter perfume, more body, and greater dura- bility. The Bourguignon rejoined, that the courts of England, Germany, and Denmark, drank no other beverage than Burgundy ; “ and as to Champagne,” says he, “ it owes its renown to the two ministers, Colbert and Le Tellier, who, as wine-proprietors, vaunted their own vineyards in the neighbourhood of Rheims.” This was, however, a mistake. Colbert was, in- deed, a Champenois, b\it neither he nor Le Tellier gave renown to the wines of Champagne. The vine- yards of Champagne had been celebrated for cen- turies before they were born; and Francis I., Leo X., Charles V., and Henry VIII., had each of them a vineyard at Ai, with a resident superintendent The other objections of the Bourguignon have more show of reason. “ Champagne is a wine,” says he, “ which is neither strong, nor full-bodied, nor generous. It is weak, Insipid, and watery, liable to change colour, incapable of bearing exportation, or a long journey ; whereas Volnay was drunk in Poland at the corona- tion of Sobieskl, and Beaune was served at Venice by Comandante Moroslni at the entertainment which he gave the senators after the conquest of theMorea, when it was considered one of the first wines of Europe.” The champion of Champagne answered with an extract from a letter of St. Evremond to the Duke d’Olonne:—“ Fusslez vous a deux cens lleues de Paris, n’epargnez aucune depense, pour avoir dcs vlns339 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. **»A‘ de Champagne. Ceux de Bourgogne ont perdu leur credit aupres des gens qui ont le gout delicat; et a I peine conservent ils un reste de rei)utation chez les marchands.” This vinous battle continued till 1741, when another question was started, viz, “ Le vin de Cham- pagne est il aussi salutaire qu’agreable ?” It was apropos of this question that the Sieur Navier main- tained twenty years later, in the schools of Bheims, that Champagne might be usefully employed in putrid fevers. But notwithstanding these pros and cons, the world went on pretty much as usual. Those who relished Champagne drank it, and those who pre- ferred Burgundy swallowed their modicum of their favourite tipple without the least regal’d to the lite- rary combatants. So it will ever be. The department of Marne, in the opinion of most women, and of all boys, is the real and genuine vin- ous glory of France. I admit that if you find a Champagne of a really first-rate cru; limpid, neither too sweet, nor too sparkling, nor too spirituous; but brisk with body, vinous, and retaining these amiable qualities so as fully to develope them in the arriere louche—that then you obtain a r.are wine, and not to be despised. But how seldom, how very rarely indeed, is such a wine to be had! In consequence of the tricks played with Cham- pagne wines, the generality of the vintages possess not that perfect, piquant, and fine flavour which340 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. heretofore characterized them. How can it be other- wise ? A gentleman with whom Mr. Busby travelled told him he could buy very good sound Champagne at Chalons for two francs a bottle, and was then going to purchase one hundred bottles at that price. Millions of bottles of champagne mousseux are, how- ever, yearly sold in the Champagne countrv at two and three francs the bottle, and this shocking swipes is too dear by half. Champagne should only be pur- chased w'ith the greatest precautions. “ By Champagne wine,” says Henderson, “is usu- ally understood a sparkling or frothing liquor, or a wine subjected to an imperfect fermentation, and containing a quantity of carbonic acid gas that has been generated during the insensible fermentation in bottle, and is disengaged on removing the pressure by which it was retained in solution. This notion is not altogether correct; for the district under review furnishes many excellent wines, both red and white, which do not effervesce. It is true, indeed, that most of the white, or River IMarne wines, .are brisk; and in general, they are of superior quality, and more highly esteemed than the red or mountain wines. They are distinguished by their delicate flavour and aroma, and the agreeable pungency and slightly aci- dulous taste which they derive from the carbonic acid. Their exhilarating virtues are familiar to every one. “ It must be remembered, however, that the brisk- est wines are not always the best. They are, ofOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 341 course, the most defective In true vinous quality, and the small portion of alcohol which they contain im- mediately escapes from the froth as it rises on the surface, carrying with it the aroma, and leaving the liquor that remains in the glass nearly vapid; for it has been shown by Humboldt, that when the froth is collected under a bell-glass, surrounded with ice, the alcohol becomes condensed on the sides of the vessel by the operation of the cold. Hence the still, or the creaming, or slightly sparkling Champagne wines {cremants, or demi-mousseux) are more highly valued by connoisseurs, and fetch greater prices than the full-frothing wines (^grand-mousseux\ By , icing these wines before they are used, the tendency to effervesce is in some degree repressed, or only allowed to operate to such an extent as may be com- patible with the more perfect flavour that we desire to find in them; but when they are kept cool this precaution is unnecessary. “ Among the white wines of Champagne, the flrst rank is usually assigned to those of Sillery, under which name is comprehended the produce of the vine- yards of Verzenay, Mailly, Raument, &c. It is a ^ dry, still liquor, of a light amber colour, with con- siderable body and flavour, somewhat analogous to I that of the first growths of the Rhine, and, being one ? of the best fermented Champagne wines, may be drunk with the greatest safety. Having been origi- I nally brought into vogue by the peculiar care be-342 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. stowed on the manufacture of it by the Marechale d’EstreeSj it was long known by the name vin de la Marechale. It has always been in much request in England, probably on account of its superior strength and durable quality. It is usually drunk iced.” The rich dry Sillery is kept longer in the cask than the other wines, and the fermentation not being checked, it is esteemed more wholesome. The still wines of Epernay are inferior to those of Eheims; but the other kinds, according to Redding, approached very nearly to those of Ai in delicacy of bouquet. The price to the merchant on the spot, according to the same authority, is about 2s. 3d. a bottle, and in scarce years 2s. 6d. In an article in the “ Encyclo- pasdia Metropolitana,” it is said that those wines must be kept three years in bottle to attain perfec- tion, and will continue excellent for ten, twenty, and even thirty years or more, if they are of prime qual- ity. This, under favour and with submission, is a grave mistake. Champagne, with the exception of first-rate qualities, is not a in'n de garde, and requires to be looked after every year. If there be the least sediment or deposit, it is the custom in all the great wine-vaults in Champagne to filter the wine into fresh bottles. The Champagne wines are short-lived ; but if the quality of the liquor be of the very best, the wine docs not acquire perfection till it has been three years in bottle. Supposing it to be of the very primest quality, the cream of Champagne certainlyOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 343 may last for fifteen or twenty years, and still acquire perfection. Some there are, indeed, who say that delicious Champagne has been tasted forty years old. I never tasted any above thirteen years old, and that was many years ago, at the house of Mr. Marsh, author of “ The Clubs of London,” then living in the Rue de Bourbon, Faubourg St. Germain. A friend, however, who is a good judge of Champagne, and fond of a good glass of it—and, what is better than all, a good fellow,—says he has tasted excellent twenty years old, and I defer to his authority, now that the old Irish peer, Allen (the fondest and most inveterate of Champagne-drinkers I ever encoun- tered, whether peer or plebeian), is not producible, or, at least, not forthcoming to give his evidence, though called on his subpoena. It should be stated, that the wine-growers in Champagne prepare their merchandise for the various tastes and caprices of different nations. Thus, the Champagne for the Russians is a very different wine from the Champagne for the Germans ; which, again, differs from the wine confectionne for the English market. The Americans are said to put up with anything which foams and sparkles in a “ tarnation toplofty fashion.” In Jaquesson’s cellars at Chalons sur Marne, you see bins for all the principal towns of the world,—London, Vienna, Paris, Petersburg, Madrid, &c. Champagne, unlike Burgundy or Claret, is a wine344 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. always improved by ice. The chief characteristic of the best Champagne is its exquisite delicacy of flavour. The strength of the bottles for the sparkling wines, and their uniform thickness, are most carefully ascer- tained. A bottle with the least imperfection or mal- formation is put aside for the red wines. It were useless to particularise every variety of wine produced in Champagne. Some of the classes are so bad that they will not bear exportation. The wine most esteemed after the Sillery is the Ai; but it is nearly equalled by the wine of Mareuil. The wine of Pierry is drier, but will keep longer than those of A'i, and nearly equals them in quality. The wines of Dizz follow next, and lastly Epernay, part of whose wines is inferior, and part equal to those of Ai. The author of the “ Topographie des Vignobles ” thus speaks of the high price of the Vins 3Iousseux:— “ The high price of the Vins Mousseux^' says Julllen, “ comes not only from the quality of the wines chosen to make them, and the infinite pains required before they are finished, but also from the considerable losses to which the proprietors and dealers are ex- posed in this kind of speculation, and the strange phenomena which determine or destroy the quality mousseuse. As to losses, the owners count in general upon fifteen or twenty bottles broken in a hundred ; sometimes even thirty or forty. To this must be added the diminution which takes place as the wineOn Hines, Ancient and Modern. 345 is separated from its deposits by decanting,—an opera- tion which is performed at least twice.” These certainly are curious and unexplainable phenomena; but explainable or not, one thing is cer- tain, that if gentlemen Avish to obtain first-rate Cham- pagne, whether still or sparkling, they must go to a respectable wine-merchant, and pay a good price, whether at home or abroad. In dealing with j\Ioet, or Ruinart, or any other accredited agent, they can- not fail to find a superior article ; but they should avoid the cheap Champagnes with as much care as they would avoid the feculent water flowing out of Fleet Ditch into the Thames. Mr.Redding,in avalu- able little book of his called “ Every Man his own Butler,” says, “ Some people fancy they get better Champagne by going to the docks and choosing for themselves.” But that this is not so will be very apparent, when it is stated that hundreds of thousands of bottles of Champagne are imported, which, glass, wine, and all, are not Avorth the duty. Tlie bottling of the effervescing Champagne wines begins in March, and the fermentation in May. The latter continues all the summer, but is particularly strong in June, during the floAverlng of the vine; and in August, Avhen the fruit begins to ripen. At these times, the greatest loss in the bursting of bottles takes place, and it is not safe to pass through a cellar without being: guarded with a mask of iron wire. It occasionally happens that the workmen who neglect346 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. this precaution are sometimes severely, sometimes dangerously, wounded. Among the wines prepared to effervesce—or, to use the technical phrase, for la mousse—there are some which only partake of a slight fermentation. These are the cremants wines, which drive out the cork with less force, and sparkle in the glass. Their mousse is frothy, and, like the “ Snow-ball on the river, A moment white, then gone for ever.” They are said to have the advantage over the Vins grand mousseux, in preserving more vinous qualities and being less sharp. Their price is also higher, for they are sought for by connoisseurs, and cannot be obtained in great quantity. The best red Champagne wines are produced upon the north side of the de- clivities of the Marne, which are called the Moiitagnes de Rlieims. The Champagne wine-merchants use the greatest precaution in packing their wines for exportation. The sides of the baskets or cases are lined with paste- board, and each bottle is enveloped in a sheet of blue or grey paper. Champagne mousseux, exported to the Indies or America, is preserved from the exces- sive heat by being packed in salt. At the bot- tom of the case there is a layer of straw, and then a layer of salt, upon which the first row of bottles is placed. Jullien, in his “Manuel du Sommelier,”347 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. states that the finest Burgundies thus packed have preserved all their qualities on a voyage to India, and experienced but fourteen degi’ees of heat in passing under the equator. T come at length to Claret, and with Francesco Redi, exclaim,— “ Benedetto, Quel elaretto! ” Blessed, indeed, be Bordeaux, tbe ground that bare it ; for it is king of all wines, past, present, and to come ! Of this opinion, too, w'as Lemery, physician to Louis XIV., who thus speaks of it:—“Claret,” says he, “ of all others, is generally the best wine for all constitutions; and the reason is, because it contains a sufficient quantity of tartarous parts, that make it less heady and more stomachical than white wine. As for pale wine; it is a middling sort, be- tween the red and white ; the same is made of grapes of the same colour, or else by mixing white wine with a little red.” The Bordeaux wines are generally divided into vins de Medoc, des Graves, des Palus, des Cotes, de Ferre forte, and vins iVentre deux Mers; but so much do they differ by the taste, colour, bouquet, durability, and a thousand imperceptible shades, that it would be difficult to give an exact list of the varied and magnificent productions of the Gironde. Commer- cial men have, however, established two recognised classes, which appear to be tacitly admitted by all348 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. parties, and which may serve as a guide to the pur- chaser. In the first class are ranked Chateau Mar- geaux. Chateau Lafitte, Latour, Haut Brion. The product of these four vintages may be rated at from 400 to 450 tonneaux, the value of which represents a capital of 2400 to 3000 francs per tonneau. When age has developed the qualities of these wines, more particularly in a good vintage, the value is at least doubled. For the last twenty years the Haut Brion seems to be on the wane in public favour, and it sells at a lesser price than one of its three rivals. The second class of Bordeaux wines is composed of the Rauzan, Braune, Mouton, Leoville, Gruau, La Rose, Pichon, Longueville, Durfort, Degorse, Des- tournelle; producing 850 tonneaux, which ranges at from 2000 to 2100 francs the tonneau. The third class comprises within its ranks the Kir- wan, Chateau dTssau, Poujets, many clos of Cante- nac, and of Margeaux, Mulescot, Ferriere, Giscours, &c. These vineyards produce about 1100 tonneaux, of the value of from 1700 to 1800 francs the tonneau. The fourth class has two divisions: first, the Saint Julien,Bechevelle, Saint Pierre, &c.; producing about 650 tonneaux, worth,about from 1200 to 1500 each. In the second division are ranged the great properties of Paulllac and Saint Estephe, with some others, producing about 1000 tonneaux, at from 1000 to 1200 francs the tonneau. The difference which exists between these four orOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 349 five superior qualities of wine, and the wines made by small proprietors, whieh are sold at from 300 to 450 francs the tonneau, results less from the quality of the grape and the nature of the soil than from circumstances incident to the want of capital, and from the desire of obtaining quantity at the expense of quality. There can be no doubt whatever that the large capitalist purchases a better wine than the small one, though the small capitalist has it in his power to produce as good a bottle of wine on his own table as his richer neighbour. But, when he caters for the public, it is more profitable by different mix- tures to produce 100 tonneaux of middling quality than fifty of superior wine, even though the latter be sold at a considerably higher price than the former. In the cellars at Bordeaux there is great management of the wine. It is always kept in a vault or cellar pretty nearly of the same temperature, and is fed, once every two or three weeks, if intended for the English or foreign market, with a pint or two of the best brandy. The wine is frequently tasted to know what state it is in, and the brandy is used accord- ingly. Care must, however, be taken never to put in much at a time, especially for wines intended for immediate sale, as such a mode of proceeding would destroy the flavour of the wine, and cause it to taste fiery. If a little be put in at a time, it is said to in- corporate quickly with the wine, and to feed and mellow it. Among the London wine merchants the350 On Wines, Ancient and Modern custom is, if the Claret be faint and has lost its colour, to rack it into a fresh hogshead upon the lees of good Claret. It is then bunged up, pulling the bung down- wards for two or three days that the lees may run through it, after which its bung is laid up till it be fine. If the colour be not then perfect, it is racked off again into a hogshead that has been nearly drawn oflP, then an ounce of cochineal is added, shaken up in a bottle of wme, and put it into the hogshead; and by this method the wine is said to acquire both a good colour and body. Sometimes a pound of turn- sole is put into a gallon or two of wine, and the cask rolled about, and then the wine-doctors tell you your beverage will have a perfect colour. The greenhorns may think this is pure invention; but, lest I should be thought “ to draw on my fancy for facts,” I ex- tract the following receipts from the work of John Davies, who, having practised them on the lieges of Leeds for a long while, at length came up to the metropolis, and published his work “ On the Mana- ging, Colouring, and Flavouring of Foreign Wines and Spirits,”-—a work which subsequently went through many editions. The following arc his re- ceipts verbatim et literatim:— “ Method of Colouiung Claret.—Take as many as you please of damsons or black sloes, and strew them with some of the deepest-coloured wine you can get, and as much sugar as will make it into a syrup. A pint of this will colour a hogshead ofOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 351 Claret. It is also good for red Port wines, and may be kept ready for use in glass bottles. “ A Remedy for Claret that drinks Foul. —Rack olF your Claret from the dregs on some fresh lees of its own kind, and then take a dozen of new pippins, pare them, and take away the cores or hearts, then put them in your hogsheads, and, if that is not sufficient, take a handful of the oak of Jerusalem and bruise it, then put it into your wine, and stir it very well. This not only takes away the foulness, but also gives it a good scent.” The great commerce of Bordeaux is in its wine, but it is much diminished since the loss of St. Do- mingo. A considerable export of wines, not so loaded as they formerly were, has recently taken place to the East Indies; and no doubt the opening of the China trade will also somewhat tend to improve the condition and state of the Gironde wine-grower. But what most desire to see, would be a freer ex- change of the vinous wealth of France with England. It is in every sense desirable that our population, instead of drinking that thick and heady Port, con- sumed by the Eldons and Stowells of a past genera- tion, and some old dons and tutors of Oxford, a few old barristers, and a great mass of attorneys of the present generation, should drink the ordinary red Bordeaux wines; or, if they will have white ■wines, those Sauternes and Graves whose prices sometimes rise so high as 3000 francs the tonneau. There is not352 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. • a pleasanter or more healthful wine than good Sau- terne. It is, of course, difficult to get pure Sauteme in taverns or hotels ; but to such as have not establish- ments in town, a trial of the Sauterne at Bellamy’s, at the House of Commons, would be advisable. The following account of Jullien is very interesting:— “ The inferior wines of Bordeaux,” says the author of the “ Topogi'aphie des Vignobles,” “ are exported to America and the interior of France ; those of the first quality to India, Russia, and England. “ The difference in price between the first and in- ferior wines is very great. Those of the best vine- yards sell generally the first year at from 2000 to 3000 francs the tonneau, and rise to 5000 or 6000, and even higher, in a very favourable vintage. On the con- trary, the vins communs fetch only from 100 to 120 francs, and seldom rise to more than 200 or 300. “ The wine of first quality, at its point of maturity, ought to have a beautiful colour, much firmness, a very agreeable bouquet, and a flavour which embalms the mouth, strength without intoxicating, and body without harshness. The Bordeaux wines are, con- trary to the generality of French wines, improved by a sea voyage ; and wines of the second and third quality, after a voyage, have equalled those of the first. “ The English houses at Bordeaux, immediately after the vintage, purchase a large quantity of the wines of all the best vineyards, in order that they may un-On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 353 dergo la travaille a Vanglaise. This operation con- sists in putting into fermentation part of the wines during the following summer; by mixing in each bar- rel from thirteen to eighteen pots of Alieant or Beni- carlo, or the wines of the Hermitage, Cahors, Langue- doc, and others; one pot of white wine called Muet (wine whose fermentation had been stopped by the fumes of sulj)hur), and one bottle of spirits of wine. The wine is drawn off in December, and then laid up in the chars (cellars) for some year's. By this operation the wines are rendered more spirituous and very strong, they acquire a good flavour, but are in- toxicating. The price, likewise, is increased. “ The age of wine at Bordeaux is counted par feuilles; that is, the number of times the vine has been in leaf since the vintage. The years which the wines require to be kept vary, but those of rnns de Graves do not reach perfection before the fifth or sixth.” This is a recent account; but it will be well to hear what old Barry, who wrote ninety years ago, says on the same subject. After having perused his account it will appear that we, at the commencement of the twentieth century, are but practising, with var- iations, the tricks which our ancestors played cen- turies ago. “The French wine-merchants,” says Barry, “en- couraged by the great demands for these Claret wines, first began to mix their inferior wines with the A A354 , On Wines, Ancient and Modern. Spanish; and, though there was a severe law for- bidding this practice, yet It was connived at, as it increased the value and demand for them. This encouraged some persons from hence and Ireland to reside there as factors,, with a view, at first, of ac- quiring the profit arising from the large commissions which before had always been consigned to the French wine-merchants. But these factors soon be- came wine-merchants likewise, among whom it was usual to employ their tasters, after the vintage was. over, to examine the new wines; and, when they had been properly informed, purchased such a quantity as was sufficient to answer the demands thev ex- pected. These were soon after mixed and prepared with the Spanish wines, which added more strength and flavour to them. Thus the price of them was gradually raised much higher than the wines of these growths had been formerly estimated. What Barry says about factors is perfectly true; but a very old Bordeaux wine-merchant and wine-grower informed me, nearly forty years since, that the factors of seventy years ago were principally Irish and Scotch, and that there were at that period many Irish and Scotch among the proprietors of vineyards. “ There were,” said he, “ Gernons, Byrnes, Cruises, Cassius, McDonnells, INIaxwclls, Stewarts, !McLaurius, among the factors; and among the proprietors of vineyards • Cockburns, hPKinnons, Kirwans, Frenches, Dalys, Walshcs,Bogles, Archers, and O’Connors.” This mayOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 355 have accounted for the superiority which Dublin and Edinburgh obtained more than half a century ago over the London market in respect of Claret,—a super- iority which was attested by the great run made for these wines on the house of Sneyd, French, and Bar- ton ; Cockburn and Co.; Cranston and Co.; Stewart and Co.; Roche and Co.; Sir John Ferns and Co.; Sir Anthony Perrier and Co.; Brook and Co. ; Wilson and Co., and many others. The excellence of the Bordeaux wines was cele- brated even in the days of Ausonius, and they have uniformly maintained their repute. They are, with- out any manner of doubt, the most perfect wines that Franee produces. They kee^J perfectly, are improved by sea carriage, and may be freely exported to any part of the world. The original fermentation being usually very complete, they are less disposed to acidity, and are more wholesome than the wines of Burgundy. A great proportion of the wine, how- ever, which is drunk as Claret, is but vin ordinaire, or the secondary wine of the country, for the prime growths fall far short of the demand which prevails for these wines all over the Avorld. In Bordeaux the very best growths are scarce, and cannot be purchased at less than from six to seven francs a bottle. “ During the twenty years that I have been living at Bordeaux,” says one of Roziere’s cor- respondents, “ I have not tasted three times any wine of the first quality; yet I am in the way olOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 356 knowing it and getting it when it is to be had. The wines of the year 1784 were so superior to those of other years, that I have never met with anything like them.” Whence comes the word Claret ? From the French adjective clairet, which in the feminine, is clairette. In the masculine it is only used of what is called a vin rougepaillet, vinum rubellum sanguineum. In this sense a man is said to be entre lehlanc et le clairet, i.e., that he is entre deux vins. Hypocras was formerly called Claret, and is still so called in Germany. Old Cowel, in his “ Interpreter,” says, “ This denomina- tion originates from claretum, a liquor made anciently of wine and honey, clarified by decoction, which the Germans, French, and English call hippocras, and it is for this reason that the red wines of France were called Claret.” In Pegg’s “ Cury ” there is an account of the rolls of provisions, with their prices, in the time of Henry VIII., and we tliei*e find at the dinner given at the marriage of Gervys Clifton and INIary Xevil, the price of three hogsheads of wine (one white, one red, one claret), was set down at 51. 5s. The department of the Rhone produces the Cote Rotl at a vineyai'd about seven leagues from Lyons. This a wine which possesses body, spirit, flavour, and perfume. If allowed to remain in the cask for five or six years, it improves wonderfully. It may then be bottled, and will improve in bottle for twenty years.On fFines, Ancient and Modern. 357 The Cote Roti is a Avine much drunk in Switzerland and Franche Comte. It is grown at Ampuis, and ranks as one of the best Avines of France. It is, when young, slightly bitter and rather heady, but is much improA^ed by a voyage. The flavour some- Avhat resembles red Hermitage, and if it Avere gener- ally imported into England, it would be preferred to Port by all Avho have a sound palate and liver. Tain, four leagues from Valence, possesses the fa- mous Hermitage vineyard. Hermitage is divided into fiA^e classes. It is not bottled for exportation till it has been four or five years in the cask. The price of the Avine is high, even if the quality be moderate. I am in possession of some obtained twenty years ago as a favour, at 96s. a dozen, from the Prince Charles de Broglie, and Avith freight, car- riage, interest of money, &c., it noAV stands me in at least seven guineas the dozen. The Avhite Hermitage is made of white grapes only, and is divided into three growths. It is an ex- quisite and most delicious beverage, and may be pro- nounced to be the finest Avhite Avine France produces. White Hermitage is said to keep a century. I tasted some bought at the sale of the late Marquess of Lon- donderry’s Avines in St. James’s Square, Avhich must be at least sixty years old, and a more delicious wine Avas never produced at table. The only dif- ference between it and Avhite Hermitage of five years old is that the tint and colour are of a deep358 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. amber, but in dryness, richness, and aroma, it is unrivalled. In 1836, a few bottles of this wine, which had been in the late Marquess of Wellesley’s cellars since 1807, was purchased by me; but, although a fine wine, it was not to compare with the Hermitage of the late Lord Londonderry, better known as Lord Castlereagh. The grape from which the red Hermitage is made is supposed to have come originally from Persia.* The vineyard was, it is said, planted by a hermit of Bessas for his amusement. Richard and Sons are among the first wine-mer- chants and bankers at Tournon,a town on the opposite side of the Rhone to Tain, and joined to it by a sus- pension-bridge. They export large quantities of the finest growth of Hermitage to Bordeaux to mix with the first growths of Claret. The largest wine-press in France belongs to this firm. By one charge of it the proprietors can obtain forty casks of wine, of about fifty gallons each. One of the principal proprietors of the Hermitage vineyards is a gentleman of Irisli descent, a !Mr. Machon. The soil on which the Hermitage grows is highly calcareous, and it is to this peculiarity, as well * This grape is named the Ciras. In the “QEnologie Fran* (jaise” for 1826, it is spelt Scyras, and it is stated, according to the tradition of the neighbourhood, the plant was originally brought from Shiraz, in Persia, by one of the hermits of the mountain.On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 359 perhaps as to the selection of the plants, that the wine owes its superiority. The labour bestowed in the vineyards is said to be unremitting. The cost of wine cultivation in France is immense, and it seldom happens that more than four or five per cent., and frequently not more than two or three, are returned to the landowner. The German wines, as a general description, may be pronounced generous and finely flavoured, rich in bouquet, and the least acid among the northern wines. They are, however, drier than the wines of France. That they are what the French call vins dc garde, or wines that will keep, is plainly apparent from the fact that the better qualities have been found perfect at eighty and even at a hundred years old. Tlie Moselle wines are among the least acid of the Ger- man, or indeed of the wines of any country. The Ger- man jurist Hontheim says the best Moselle wines make men cheerful; when drunk in quantity and old, good; the heat leaving the body and head without incon- venience and disorder. Riidesheim, six leagues from Mayence, is said to produce the best wines in Ger- many, having more body, strength, and bouquet, than those on the left bank of the Rhine. An auhra of 1811 sells for 55/. On the Johannisberg wines it would be unnecessar)’^ to dilate here. Barry, seventy years ago, in speaking of the Hock wines, adduced, as a circumstance that contributed to their advance- ment, the fact that there was an annual addition of360 On PFines, Ancient and Modem. a due proportion of the recent and new wine of the same growth to the old wine. In his day the best old Hock sold at the price of 50Z. the auhm. The Rhine wines of most strength are the Marcobrunner, Rudesheimer, and Nierstiner. The Johannisberger, Geissenheim, and Hockheim have the most perfect delicacy and aroma. The wines of Bischeira, As- manshausen, and Laubenheim, are also light and agreeable. The German proverb says, “ Rhein wein, fein wein, Necker wein, lecre wein, Franken wein, tranken wein, Mosel wein, unnosel wein.” But the wines of all wines are the Julius Hospitalis Stein- wein of 1811, and the Cabinet Leinstenwein of 1822. I remember in 1828 and 1829 drinking fine specimens of both at the Three Moors at Augsburg (a capital hotel), and noting down that the price of the Steln- weln was four florins, twenty-four krcutzers, and of the Lienstenwein five florins, forty-eight kreutzers; the one amounting nearly to 85. and the other fully to 9s. of our money. They arc both exquisite wines, but are said to j^roduce strangury. Switzerland grows little good wine. The Neufchatel would, perhaps, most please an English palate; it is equal to the third quality of Burgundy, and has some resemblance to Port without much body. On the Spanish wines I must be brief. Under the influence of the sun of a warm climate, they contain more alcohol, and arc altogether differently prepared. The grapes are sufi’ered to become quiteOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 361 ripe, and part of the must is concentrated by boiling it in large cauldrons for forty-four hours. The Spanish wines, ho\«^ever, with the exception of those of Xeres and Malaga, are greatly neglected in the manufactui’e. Manzinilla, the country wine of the district of Xeres de la Frontena, is a light, pleasant beverage, not destitute of mellowness and flavour. It is far preferable in every respect to those loaded, coloured compounds which pass for Sherries in Lon- don taverns. The extent of the cellars of Gordon and Co., of Cadiz, is immense. The length of the largest 306 feet, and the breadth 222 feet. The ordinary stock of wine is said to be 4000 butts, which is kept in casks of various sizes, containing from one to four butts. The wine merchants of Xeres never exhaust their stock of finest and oldest wine. A cask of wine, said to be fifty years old, may contain a portion of the vintages of thirty or forty seasons. The better class of wine merchants at Xeres never ship wine for England till it is two years old. The higher qualities of Sherry are made up of wine the bulk of which is from three to five yeai's old; and this is mixed in the older wines. From the gradual mix- ture, therefore, of the wines of various ages, no wine can be less a natural wine than Sherry. The Amon- tillado is a dry kind of Sherry, abounding in a dry, nutty flavour. It is very light in colour, and is often used to restore the colour of Sherries of too deep362 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. a brown. It sells much dearer than other Sherry wines. The Malaga Sherry very much resembles the wine of Xeres, and large quantities are exported to foreign countries as genuine Sherry. 200/. have been paid for a first-rate cask of Malaga. On the Portuguese wine called Port I shall not waste many words. ^Vhen dry and old it is a good winter wine for old people, if they restrict themselves to a glass or two. A good glass of genuine Madeira which has gone the rounds, is good after soup, but the wine is no longer fashionable. The only Italian wines worth drinking are the Montefiascone, Montepulclano, and Vino d’Asti. Many of these Avines are too harsh, and some of them are too thick and sweet for a French or English palate. Some of the wines of Hungary are very tolerable. The Tokay Avlne is exquisite. Even the Maslas, which is a diluted Tokay, is a splendid wine; soft, oily, and stomachic. A glass of it may be had any day after dinner, at about lOrf. or l.f. English, in the Speise Saal of the ScliAvann, at Vienna, where I in my youth consumed many a bottle of Tokay. The Vermuth is a stomachic mixture, too much bepi'alsed by those who have never tasted it; Indeed, as much overpraised as the Creme <TAbsinthe. All the Greek wines are also over-rated. There are tuns of them not Avorth the amount of a farrier’s yearly bill forOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 363 shoeing a clog; or if you wish the Gallic phrase, “ ne valent pas les quatres fers d’un chien.” The Constantia wine of the Cape, though much liked by Frenchmen of seventy and upwards, and Frenchwomen above forty, never can be generally a favourite with Englishmen. There are some few Russian wines. At Kaffa, in the Crimea, they pro- duce a Champagne very nearly as good as either the growth of the Borough or Lambeth. Of New South Wales wines a word or two. I learned with much pleasure that the French, and all other wines, are now tried in that colony; and that the climate is particularly well suited to the growth of the vine. The preparation and keeping of the wine must, however, be much more attended to than heretofore. At the Cape, too, the English wine- growers have gone on very progressively from year to year in ameliorating their Pontacs. The best white Capes fetch, since their flinty character is diminishing, prices as high as Sherries of middling qualities. Such prices were, however, encouraged perhaps by the import duties on colonial wine being only half the amount levied on foreign grown. As these Cape wines are now so pure as to mix well with Xeres wines, the conscientious London dealer, of course, largely availed himself of a colonial-grown article to mix with Sherry wines for English country consumption. Two works have recently been published on wine.364 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. in which may be found chapters dedicated to the wines of Soutliern Africa, Greece, the Western Ai'chipelago, and to the w'ines of Columbia, Aus- tralia, &c. But notwithstanding these efforts to in- troduce new vintages from Italy, Greece, Hungary, Australia, and Southern Africa, elderly and middle- aged men of the present generation are certain still to adhere to the old wines which their fathers and grandfathers consumed for the last half-centurv. It may, I think, even be doubted whether the use of any new vintages can become general (supposing them to be as good or better than the old) before the end of the present century or A. d. 1900, from which coming epoch Ave are still removed by an interval of seven and thirty years. It would, therefore, be the idlest of idle follies in me to recommend to any host to fill his cellar with new vintages of which his quests knew nothing, and which they might not relish. The aim of a host, now as heretofore, should be to have choice wines and liqueurs, all excellent of their kind. Per- sons of moderate fortune should look to the excel- lence of the quality of the wines, rather than to the variety of their stock. With good bins of Sherry, jMadeira, Port, Claret (white and red). Champagne, Hock, and Burgundy, any gentleman is in a position to entertain his guests worthily. Larger quantities of Sherry, Port, iSIadeira, and first-rate Claret, may be laid in than of lighter wines, for of these latter the consumption will be necessarily less.On Wines, Ancient and Modern. 365 At most London dinners in the season. Champagne, Sauterne, Barsac, Rhenish and Moselle wines are pro- duced ; but of the four latter wines scarcely more than a bottle of each is used, though three or four bottles of Cham2)agne may be consumed, in a party of twelve. But, notwithstanding that there is a more considcr- 5ible consumption of Champagne than of other light wines, it is not advisable that any ])rivate gentleman should have a large stock of this wine in his cellar, as after a twelvemonth it is apt to get ropy, and to require fresh bottling. But of the vins de yarde, such as Madeira, Sherry, Port, first-rate Claret, and Burgundy, a host may i^rofitably cellar as large a quantity as his fortune will allow. Of one thing, howcA'er, every imrchaser should convince himself before he purchases a single bottle, and that is, that it is impossible to have good wine at a low price. The finest vintages of wine are always scarce and dear; and the finest vintages must, like other and inferior vintages, be matured before they are fit to drink. A considerable efflux of time is necessary for this, so that there is interest on the original cost of the wine, as well as the interest on its keep, to be added to the prime or original cost. This is so if the ■wine be imported direct froin the wine-grower; but if it be obtained from the merchant or dealer in this country, his i)rofit, as well as the skill, labour, and industry he has apfdied, must all be additional items in the price. The idea of low-priced wine is366 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. therefore a mere myth ; and, whether at the sales of private gentlemen’s stock or otherwise, good wine generally fetches its full value in London. It is said that, at the sales of deceased gentlemen in Dublin and Edinburgh, few wines, unless some exceedingly rare specimens, fetch above 60s. per dozen; but in London it is very common, at private sales, for Port and Sherry to fetch double as much as this. The best way for any gentleman desiring to stock a cellar, is to go to a first-rate wine merchant of position and character. Such a man will deal honestlv, and give his customer a good article, though he may charge what is called in the trade a long price for it. If gentlemen have personal friends or connections at Cadiz in whom they can confide to send them Avine in the piece, they may lay in Amontillado, Montilla, or Manzinllla, at 10s. or 12s. a dozen less than they can obtain them of the wine merchants in England. Anything like a first-rate Amontillado sells among English wine merchants at from 72s. to 84s. the dozen, while INIanzinilla and Montilla range at from 60s. to 70s. Fabulous prices are glA^en for old Ports and East India Sherries and INIadeiras, at the sales of well- known connoisseurs hi wine. ]\Iany East India Sher- ries have sold for nine and ten guineas a dozen, and much of the late Mr. Justice Talfourd’s Port ivent for eleven and twelve guineas a dozen. Though the wine was excellent, this was unquestionably a fancyOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. 367 price. There is no need to give so large a sum for old and first-rate Port. Any man of ordinary acumen and intelligence, in addressing himself to a first-rate wine house in London may have excellent, if not first-rate. Port at from three to four guineas a dozen, and considerably cheaper if he buys it in the wood. First-rate Clarets have been rising in price during the last five or six years; but even in London first- rate Clarets ought to be and are procurable at from four to five guineas a dozen, and the best sparkling Champagne at about the same price, or a shade low'er. Sillery Champagne of the very highest quality is sold by wine merchants at 6Z. the dozen. Burgundies of the highest qualities are rare, and difficult to find good ; but excellent Beaune and Chablis can be ob- tained at two guineas the dozen in London, and considerably cheaper if imported direct. As to the dietetic qualities of the wine, I would remark that those wines which contain a sufficient quantity of alcohol, and which have undergone a complete fermentation, stimulate and accelerate di- gestion. Among these are ^Madeira, Sherry, Port, Phone, and Pousillon wines. The most salutary wines are those which contain a moderate quantity of alcohol, as old Bordeaux, Burgundy, and Cham- pagne. The modern practice of taking a great variety of wines at table cannot be commended. It is de- cidedly injurious to health and digestion, more espe-368 On Wines, Ancient and Modern. daily when sweet succeed to slightly acidulated wines, or wines of much body to very light wines. I should say that the best red Burgundy was the Komanee Conti, and the best white the ^lorachet. But good vintages of Pomard, Volnay, Xuits, and Chambertin, are excellent. Burgundy, however, is a wine of which only a small quantity should be drank, as it is very heating. Among the Champagne wines the most esteemed gi'owths are those of Ai, Sillery, and Epernay; and among the Rousillon and Rhine wines, red and white Hermitage, Cote Roti, and St. Peray. The best growths of Bordeaux red wines are La- fitte. La Tour, Chateau Margaux, and Haut Brion. Among the second class of red wines the best are the Monton, the Rauzan, and the Leoville; and among the third class are the Ivirwan, the Chateau dTssau, and Lagrange. A glass of Chablis, Barsac, Sauterne, or Bucellas, may be taken after the oysters, while a glass of old Madeira or Sherry follows the soup. In the middle of the first course, in France, they serve Champagne or sparkling Burgundy; and toward the end of tlie first course, tlie finer kinds of Claret, white and red. 'With the roast comes Burgundy and Hermitage, and these wines, as well as Bordeaux, may be served with o-ame. With the dessert it is the custom in France to offer Malmsey and ^lalaga; but these wines arc rarely produced in England, though whiteOn Wines, Ancient and Modern. ' 369 and red Constantia, and Frontignan are frequently produced. In the last sixteen years the consumption of Cham- pagne has doubled in England. In 1831, the quan- tity of French wine imported amounted, in round numbers, to 254,000 gallons, whereas in 1861 it amounted to 2,227,000 gallons. B BCHAPTEK XXL THE CELLAR FOE MT3CES. HE cellar for good wine should be a suitable lodginor for this welcome guest in every well arranged household. A great deal of wine, good and middling, is spoiled beyond redemption from being deposited in a bad cellar. There are many families in this great metropolis who, if well lodged themselves, never bestow a thought on how their wine is lodged. Yet O O this is a matter of essential importance if the master of a household consults his own health or the health of his guests. A wine cellar should neither be too hot nor too cold. It should neither be near the kitchen, the scullery, nor the laundry lire; nor yet out of doors, e.x posed to every change of temperature in this variable climate. No gentleman valuing the quality of his wine, or the health of those who are to drink it, would convert a spare bed-room, or cock-loft, or cupboard into a wine cellar, though in a warm climate Madeira may be371 The Cellar for Wines. improved by being placed under the sun’s rays on the leads of dwelling-houses, a system much practised in the sreat cities of America. A cellar, as Mr. Red- ding clearly and succinctly says, “ should be a cellar in material, site, temperature, and solidity of con- struction.” The finer and more delicate wines grow tui’bid, ropy, or sharp when stowed away in unfitting localities. In such a city as London, all one can hope for or expect is to secure a cellar of an equal temperature, solidly constructed of brick or stone. The variations of the external atmosphere should not be allowed to penetrate within it. As Barry wrote ninety years ago, “ the structure of a wine cellar ought to be such as will most effectually defend the wine from the frequent variations of the external air, adjacent fires, and the agitation of carriages, and to preserve an equal degree of heat, though some varia- tions must be unavoidable.” Lighter wines require a colder cellar than the strong wines; but, as a general direction, the tem- perature of a cellar ought to be from about forty to fifty degrees. The size of a cellar ought to be in proportion to the quantity of wine for which it is designed. The situation ought to be low and dry. Double doors are an advantage to every cellar, as one may be closed before the other is opened, and thus the changes of the external atmosphere cannot penetrate. Cellars in private houses are rarely ven- tilated, and thus foul air is frequently generated. InThe Cellar for Wines. 372 cities the back of the house is the best place for the wine cellar, as the bottles are not then shaken in their bins by the motion of carriages. No sink or sewer should be in the neighbourhood of a cellar, and no vegetable or animal matter should be deposited adjacent to it. A wine cellar should contain no other liquor than wine. Champagne should be carefully laid on laths or in sand, and never placed on their bottoms, as from this cause the wine will speedily lose its effervescence. Quarry sand is the best substance in which to imbed the bottles, and laths should be placed between each tier.APPENDIX. LUXURIES OF THE TABLE IN FRANCE AND IN ENGLAND, IN MEDIJEVAL AND MODERN TIMES. |C('( )RDING to Brantome, the first nobleman in Franee who introduced at court a more luxurious table was the Marshal St. Andre. The historian thus speaks of him :—“ Et certes estoit par trop excessif en friandises et delicatesse de viandes, tant de chair que de poisson et autres friands mangers, telle- ment que quelqu’un qui n’eust ouy que de sa vie delicieuse n’eust jamais pu n’y en juger n’y croire qu’il fust este si Grand Capitaine.” Among the kings of France, the first who distin- guished himself by this sumptuosity of fare was Francis I., and he carried his table extravagance to a foolish and absurd extent; for besides the unequalled luxury of the royal table, there were, according to Brantome, the tables of the grand master, of the great chamberlain, of the chamberlain, of the gentlemen of the chamber, of the gentlemen servants, and ever so many others. The graphic memoir writer, the Seigneur de Bourdeille adds :—“ Et toutes si bien servies que rien n’y manquoit. Et ce qui estoit plus remarquable e’est que dans un village, dans les forcts, dans les asserablces, Ton y estoit traitc comme si Ton eust este dans Paris.” Henri II. and Francis II. kept as good a table as their father and grandfather; but things changed under Charles IX. and Henry III., of whom Brantome says, “C’ctait par boutades que Ton y faisoit bonne chere, car le plus souvent la marmitc se renversoit; chose que halt beaucoup le courtesan qui aimeh374 Appendix. avoir bouche a cour et ^ 1’ armee parceque alors il ne lul conte rien.” Henry IV., for a long time, was as “ heinously unprovided ” (to use a Shakespearian phrase) as his royal predecessor. His finances were so straitened, say the “Memoirs of the Duke of Angouleme, “ que souvent sa table manquoit, et qu’il se trouvoit contraint d’aller manger chez quelqu’un de ses serviteurs.” Louis XIII. established, in a great degree, the luxury of Francis I.; and Louis XIV., to use the words of Le Grand, efluced even the re- membrance of the repasts of the most luxurious of former kings, by his elaborate feasts. It was under his reign that “collations grasses ” were eaten after dinner. Madame de Sevigne writes, in 1680, “ La Princessede Tarente m’a faite une collation en viande; je la lui ai rendue. C’est une sotte mode; je pense . que cela ne durera pas.” Belon, who published his “ Traite des Oiseaux,” in 1555, describes how magnificently the dinner tables were served in that day. “ Pour entrees,” he says, “ nous avons mille petits deguisemens de chair comme potages, fricas- sees, hachis, salades. Le second service est de roti, de bouilli, de diverses viandes, tout de boucherie que de gibier. Pour issue de table choses froides comme fruictages, laictages, et doulceurs, rissoles, petits choux tout chauds, petits gateaux caveux, ratons de fromage, pommes de capendu, salade de citron ou de grenades.” Gontier, who wrote in the seventeenth century, complains of the luxury of the dinners in 1668, at which period, he says, there were no less than eight courses. The “ Mercure Galant” gives a description of the royal banquet that w.as given at Versailles, for the marriage of ^Mademoiselle de Blois, natural daughter of Louis XIV., with the Prince of Conti. At this feast there were three courses of 160 dishes at each course. The first course was h.alf soups and half entrees; the second, half in entremets and half in roasts; the third, dessert. The roasts were all small, and the ortolans .alone cost 16,000 francs. Later in the reign of Louis XIV., the mode of serving din- ners in France a good de.al resembled the system followed in the present day. In the entertainment given by Louvois to the Queen at Meudon, covers were laid for nineteen, and there were four courses. The first course consisted of forty entrees, the second of forty roasts and salads, the third of hot and cold entremets, and theLuxuries of the Table, 375 last course of dessert. In the kitchen of Louis XV. there were about thirty cooks employed, and four pdtissiers-bouche. I now proceed to give a few bills of fare, from the days of Louis XIV. to the present time. The first is the menu of a dinner given 212 years ago by Matthew Mole, keeper of the seals in France to Mons. Le Prince Louis de Bourbon-Conde, on the 9th August, 1652 :— MeNEU DU DiSNER QUI fust DONNE PAR MeSSTRE MaTHIEU Mole, Garde des Sceaux de France, a Monsieur lb Prince (Louis de Bouebon-Conde), le Samedi, 9 Aoux, 1652. XIV. potages maigres, dont 1 aux ecrevisses du Rhyn et vin d’Espaigne, et I’aultre aux huistres d’Angoulesme et oeufs de perdrix rouges, lesquelsservisaux deuxcostes de son Altesse. XIV. plats de poissons. 1 un saulmon de vingt escus. 1 brochet de 19 liures. 1 carpe aux ceufs, de Cham- plastreux. 1 truite de Suysse, 24 liures. 1 turbot dullasvre de Grasce. 1 matelotte de lamperoyes d’Angers. 1 hochepot de gibiers de riuiesre. 1 gibelotte de poissons mesles. 1 anguille h la broche, 9 liures 16 sols. 1 paste de barbottes du lihosne. 1 fricassee de lottes aux as- perges. 1 de morue fraische aux gro- seilles uerdes. 1 d’aloses de Rouen grillces. 1 d’esperlants farinnes au cedrat. XIV. plats de rost. 6 de poissons cuits au bleu. 4 de poissons il la poisle. 4 de gibiers de riuiesre, h la broche. XIV. sallades. 3 de legumes cuits. 3 d'herbes uerdes. 6 d’oeufs accommodes di- uersement. 2 de citrons musques, 10 escus. XIV. assiettes gauffrees. 7 de pastisseries ii fonds de cresme. 7 de pastisseries it fonds de fruict.376 Appendix. XVIII. jattes de fruicts et avltres, desquels 6 agnanats touts entiers et 12 pacquets de fleurs de joncquilles a confire. Dont cxii. escus pour le coust d’yceulx fruicts et fleurs, et pour le tout de la despense generalle, mil neuf cens soixante et cinq liures, et unze sols, Que certifie iuste et uallable ; ]Ma0Gis. Apprevvay cette partie de Mavgis. Bon povr 1965 livres 11 sols, que playra payer a Ivy maistre Lordier de Lestanville. Mole. The second is the meriu of a supper of the Regent Orleans, moitie gras, moitie maigre :— Menu d’unb Table de Dodze Cobveets, poue ux Soupeb DU Re gent, seevi moitie Geas, moitie Maigbe. Pour le milieu une grosse piece, Deu.x potages pour les bouts de table; Dix entrees, savoir, quatre jattes et six plats a festons, &c. PEEMIEE SEEVICE. 1 piece de boeuf sale, garnie de carottes et de patates. Deux potages, savoir: 1 maigre, coulis de brochet (un brochet). 1 de navets (un canard des- sus). Dix entrees, savoir: quatre dans quatre jattes, et six dans six plats d festons. Les quatre jattes, savoir: 1 de filets de inouton glacos et pique.s, et des cornichons par-dessus. 1 de poulets piqu6s de persil, avec une sauce h I’espa- gnole dessous (2 poulets). 1 de broebets it la polonaise (un brochet). 1 de perches h la genevoise (6 perche.s, une bouteille de vin blanc). Les six plats d festons, .savoir: 1 de saurcroute au maigre (un brochet). 1 quarteron d’huitre.*!, cuites avec une pinte de creme. 1 d’une noix de veau h la na- politaine. 1 de perdreaux en levraut (3 perdreaux).Luxuries of the Table. 377 1 d’anguilles il la bavaroise (2 belles anguilles). 1 demi-cent de belles ccre- visses. Deux plats de poissons pour relever les potages, savoir; 1 d’une carpe a I’anglaise. 1 de Water Fisch (2 douzaines de petites perches, quatre petits broehetons). SECOND SERVICE. 1 reins de sanglier marines. Deux plats de patisserie, savoir: 1 d’un gateau fourre de mar- melade d’abricots. 1 d’une tourte h la glace (6 peches il I’eau-de-vie, une pinte de creme). Quatre plats de rot, savoir : 1 d’eperlans frits, trempes dans des oeufs et panes. 1 de 2 poulardes. 1 de soles frites (2 belles soles). 1 de 2 canards sauvages. Quatre salades differentes avec quatre differentes sauces. Quatre petits entremets chauds, savoir: 1 de ris de veau piques et glaccs (6 ris de veau). 1 de pieds de cochon it la Sainte-Menehould. 1 de petits pois secs a lacreme, d’oeufs poches dessus. 1 de pommes de reinette a la chinoise (6 oranges con- fites). The following is the menu of a supper of Louis XV. at La Muette, on 18th February, 1749 :— SouPEK DU Roi Louis XV. A ea Muette, ee oamedi, 18 Fevbier, 1749. Deux grandes entrees. Un rable de mouton de uion- tagne. Un quartier de veau, une blanquette dans le cuisseau. Deux oilles. 1 au riz. 1 h la jambc de bois. Deux potages. 1 h la faubonne. 1 aux choux verts. Seize entrees. 1 de cotclettes melees. Ide peti ts pates h la Bcchameil. 1 de langues de nioutons h la duchesse. 1 de petits pigeons aux truf- fes enticres. 1 de haricot de mouton aux navets. 1 de boudins d’ccrevisses. 1 de filets de poularde h la d’Armagnac.Appendix. 378 1 de matelote ^ la Dauphine. 1 de noix de veau aux epi- nards. 1 de membres de faisan a la Conty. 1 de filets de perdreau a la Perigueux. 1 de petits poulets a I’Urlubie. 1 de ris de veau a la Sainte- Meneliould. 1 sarcelles a rorange. 1 lapereaux en crepines. 1 poules de Caux en escalopes. Quatre relevh. 1 dindonneau k la peau de goret, sauce Kobert, 1 pate de becassines. 1 quartier de sanglier. 1 noix de bmuf aux cboux- fleui’s. Deux grands entremets. 1 pate de jarabon. 1 gateau de Savoie. Quatre moyens. 2 de buissons d’ecrevisses. 2 gateaux au fromage. Huit plats de rots nort mention- nes.—Seize entremets. 1 de cardes au jus. 1 de cretes au bouillon. 1 d’amourettes. 1 de foies gras grilles. 1 de ragouts meles a la creme. 1 de creme au chocolat. 1 d’abaisse de massepain. 1 d’cEufs a I’infante. 1 d’huitres au gratin. 1 de pattes de dindon a I’es- pagnole. 1 d’asperges. 1 de truflles tl la cendre. 1 de creme glacee. 1 de canelons meringues. 1 de choux-fleurs. Here is a Carte Dinatoire for twelve persons, for the table of the Citoyen Directeur et General Barras, le Decadi, trente floreal:— Carte Dinatoire pour ea table du Citoten Directeur et General Barras, le Dec^vdi, 30 Floreal. Doczk per- SONNES. (Autogr.ajilies de M. Theodore Yivlen.) 1 potage. 1 releve. 6 entrees. 2 plats de rot. 6 entremets. 1 salade. 24 plats de dessert. Le potage aux petits ognons h la ci-devant minime. Lc releve; un tron^on d'es- turgeon a la broche.Luxuries of the Table. 379 Les six entrees. 1 d’un saute de filets de turbot ii rhomnie de confiance ci- devant maitre-d’hotel, 1 d’anguilles b, la tartare. 1 concombresfarcisillamoelle. 1 vol-au-vent de blanc de volaille b. la Bcelianieil. 1 d'un ci-devant Saint-Pierre, sauce aux capres. 1 de filets de perdrix en an- neaux. Les deux plats de rot. 1 de goujons du departement. 1 d’une carpe au court-bouil- lon. Trop de poisson. Otez les goujons. Le reste est bien. Qu’on n’oublie pas encore de mettre des coussins sur les sieges pour les citoyennes Tallien, Talma, Beauharnais, Hinguerlot et Mirande. Et pour cinq heures trbs-prccises. Signe Barras. Faites venir des glaces de Veloni. Je n’en veux pas d’autres. Les six entremets. 1 d’oeufs a la neige. 1 de betteraves blanches, sau- tees au jambon. 1 d'une gelee au vin de Ma- dere. 1 de beignets de creme b la fleur d’orange. 1 de lentilles b la ci-devant Heine, b la creme au blond de veau. 1 de culs d’artichauts b la ravigote. 1 salade; ccleri en remoulade. Here is a menu of a dinner served to the Emperor Napoleon and his family, on the Samedi Saint, 1811 :— Menu d’un Diner de i.a Famille Bonaparte, aux Tuileries. Deux potages. Au macaroni et puree de mar- rons. Deux releves. Une piece de boeuf bouillie, garnie de legumes. Un brochet b la Chambord. Quatre entrees. Cotelettcs de mouton b la Soubise. Perdreaux b la Montglas. Fricassee de poulet b la cheva- liere. Filets de canard au fumet. Deux rutis. Un chapon au cresson. Un gigot d’agneau. Deux plats de legumes. Des choux-fleurs au gratin. Du ccleri-navet au jus.380 Appendix. Quatre entremets au sucre. Creme au cafe. Genoise decoree. Gelee d’orange. GaulFres a I’allemande. Now comes the first dinner en maigre which Louis XVIII. had at Compiegne. It is certainly a most recherche one:— Premier Diner du roi Louis XVIII., 1 Compiegne. (En Maigre.) Quatre potages. Potage de poisson a la proven- 9ale. Nouilles al’essence de racines. Potage a la d’Artois a I’essence de racines. Filets de lottes aux ecrevisses. Quatre releves de poissons. Croquettes de brochet a la Bechameil. Vol-au-vent garni de bran- dade de morue aux trufles. Filets de soles a la Dauphine. Orly de filets de carrelets. Quatre g?'osses pieces. Turbot au beurre d’anchois. Grosse anguille a la Regence. Bar a la venitienne. Saumon, sauce aux huitres. Trentc-deux entrees. Escalopes de truites aux fines herbes. Saute de filets de plongeons au supreme. Vol-an-veut de poissons h la Nesle. Petites caisses de foies de lottes. Les croquettes de brockets. Raie bouclee a la hollandaise. Bayonnaise de filets de soles. Quenelles de poisson a I’ita- lienne. Grondins grilles, sauce au beurre. La grosse anguille a la Regence. Blanquette de turbot a la Be- chameil. Pain de carpes au beurre d’ecrevisses. Salade de filets de brochet aux laitues. Filets d’alose h I’oseille. La marinade de bonne morue. Plies h la poulette. Pate chaud de lainproies. Pluviers de mer en entr& de broche. Breuie a la maitre-d'hotel. Kougets h la hollandaise. Filets de sarcellcs h la bigar- ade. Timbale de macaroni garnie de laitances. Emince de turbotin gratine.381 Luxuries of the Table. Les Jilets de soles a la Dauphine. Perches auvin de Champagne. Darne d’esturgeon au beurre de Montpelier. Turban de filets de merlans a la Conty. Escalopes de morue a la pro- venqale. La bar a la vdnitienne. Papillotes de surmulet h la d’Huxelles. Boudins de poisson il la Riche- lieu. Vives froides h, la proven^ale. Saute de lottes aux truffes. La orlp de Jilets de carrelets. Caisse d’huitres aux fines herbes. Escalopes de barbue en crous- tade. Filets de poules d’eau h la bourguijrnonne. Eperlans h I’anglaise. Quatre grosses pi^es d’entre- mets. L’hermitage indien. Le pavilion rustique. Le pavilion hollandais. L’hermitage russe. Quatre plats de ruts pour les cordre-fiancs. Aiguillettes de goujons. Poules de mer. Sarcelles au citron. Petites truites au bleu. Trente-deux entremets. Ccleri h I’essence maigre. Gelee de punch. CEufs brouilles aux truffes. Petits nougats de pommes. Les aiguillettes de goujons. Gateau renverse au gros sucre. Truffes a I’italienne. Pudding au vin de Malvoisie. Choux-fleurs au parniesan. L’hermitage Indien. Laitues au jus de racines. Blanc-manger ii la creme. Buisson de homards. Gateaux glaccs h la Conde. Les pottles de mer. Petits souffles de fecule. (Eufs pochcs h la ravigote. Gelee de citrons moulee. Champignons a I’espagnole. Concombres au veloute. Gelee de cafe Moka. CEufs pochcs aux epinards. Genoises en croissant perlees. Les sarcelles au citron. Gateaux glaccs aux pistaches. Crevettes en herisson. Fromage bavarois aux abri- cots. Les pommes de terre b, la hol- landaise. L'hermitage Russe. Cardes au jus d’estui'geon. Pommes au riz glacces.382 Appendix. TrufFes b, la serviette. Petits gateaux de Pithiviers. Les petites truites an bleu. Panachees en diademe au gros sucre. Petites omelettes a la puree de champignons. Gelee des quatre fruits. Salsifis a la ravigote. Pour extra, dix asnetten de pe- tiUs souffle en croustadet. Souffles aux macarons amers. Souffles a 1’orange. Dessert. 8 Corbeilles et 10 corbil- lons. 12 Assiettes montees. 10 Compotiers. 24 Assiettes et 6 jattes. There is now the bill of fare of the dinner given by the Em- peror Alexander, on bis birthday, at Vertus, near Chalons, on the lltb September, 1815. Covers were laid for 300, and the dinner began with 600 plates of oysters, for which 300 lemons were provided:— Diner de l’Empeeeue Alexandre, a Vertus, pres Chaeons- sur-Marne, le 11 Septembre, 1815, jour anxivebsaibe DE LA NAISSANCE DE SA MajESTE. (Table de 300 couverts, servie a la russe.) GOO assiettes d’huitres, 300 citrons. PREMIER SERVICE. Les huitres, les citrons. Trois potages. Potage h la jardiniere pour 150 personnes. Soupe froide a la russe pour 150 personnes. Crecy aux petits croutons pour 150 personnes. Vingt-huit hors-dativrcs. Do petits vol-au-vent a la pui'cc de gibier. Vingt-huit entrees froides. De galantines de poulardes b la gelee. Vingt-huit grosses pieces. De filets de bmuf au vin de bladcre, deini-espagnole. Cent dome entrees. 50 de filets de soles a la Orly, garnis d’une escalope de saumon. 12 de cailles aux fines berbes383 Luxuries of the Table. dans des bordures de ra- cines. 25 de sautes de poulets au supreme, ragout it la Tou- louse. 25 de timbales de macaronis au chasseur. Vingt-huit plats de ruts. 10 de poulets gras, 10 de din- donneaux,8 longes de veau. 60 salades pour 300 per- sonnes. Cinqitante entremets de legumes. 25 d’epinards au veloute. 25 de haricots verts a I’an- glaise. Cinquante-six entremets au sucre. De cremes fran^aises h la va- nille et de genoises aux amandes pralinees. Huit souffles d’extra pour etre places h portee de S. M. Imperiale. 60 assiettes de plitisseries de petit four. 60 assiettes de fruits crus. 60 assiettes de fruits confits. 60 assiettes de fruits h. I’eau- de-vie. 20 assiettes de from ages de France, &c. Underneath is the bill of fare of the first diplomatic dinner given by the Duke of AVellington, when ambassador in Paris, in 1815. It will be seen that the fare was simple, and most of the dishes dressed in the English fashion ;— Premikr Diner Diplomatique de l’Ambassadeur d’Angle- TERRE A Paris. ]Menu d’un Service ^ l’Anglaise pour 20 COUVERTS. PREMIER SERVICE. Potage. 1 potage de tete de veau en fausse tartine. Deux bouts de table. 1 d’un dindon bouilli, sauce au celeri. 1 rosbif aux pommes de terre. Six entrees. 1 d’une tranche de saumon bouillie, sauce aux ciipres. Puree de navets. 1 de deux lapereaux, sauce aux ognons. Choux-lleurs sans sauce. 1 de quatre escalopes de veau. 1 de maquereau.x bouillis, sauce au fenouil. Epinards bouillis h I’anglaise. 1 deux poulets, sauce au384 Appendix. persil. Puree de pommes de terre. 1 de perdi’eaux etuves. Bread sauee. SECOND SERVICE. Milieu. 1 quartier de elievreuil a la broehe, sauce a la gelee de groseilles. 1 d'une poularde rotie. 1 d’un levraut farci. Deux salades. 1 d’herbes vertes. 1 de citrons entiers. Six entremeU. 1 d’une gelee devin de iladere. 1 d’un plum-pudding. 1 d’une tourte aux confitures. 1 de welches rabbits. 1 d’un pudding de riz. 1 d’une gelee de citrons. Treize assiettes de dessert. 2 compotes. 4 assiettes de fruits crus. 2 de biscuits. 2 de mendiants. 2 de fromages. o 1 assiette montee. I conclude French bills of fare with a menu of a roval ban- quet given at the Tuileries, on Twelfth-daj, 1820, at which Louis XVIII., Monsieur (afterwards Charles X.), and the Duchess of Angouleme, the Duke and Duchess of Berri, the Duke and Duchess of Orleans, the Duke and Duchess of Bourbon were present:— Menu du Grand-couvert, ou Banquet Rotau aux Tui DERIES, POUR DE JOUR DES IloiS, 6 JaNVIER, 1820. Deux potages. Printanier de sante. Bisque d’ecrevisses. Quatre grosses pieces. Faon de daim h la broehe. Turbot, sauce aux huitres et au.x monies. Carpe a la Regence. Casserole au riz it la Saint- Ilubert. Seize entrees. Filets glaces aux laitues. Saute de filets de perdreaux au.x truffes. Grenadins de filets de lape- reaux it la Toulouse. Cotelettes de chevreuil a la Soubise. Filets de lottes h la Villerov, sauce veniticiine. Quenelles de volaillesau con- somme reduit. Attelets h la Bellevue it la gelee. Escalojies de Icvrauts au sang. Poularde it I'estragon.Luxuries of the Table. 385 Cremeskis au veloute. Blanquette de filets de pou- lardes k la Conty. Perches il la waterfisch. Poulets h, la Reine a la Chevry. Petits pates h la Bechameil. Filets d’agneaux aux pointes d’asperges. Puree dcgibierh la polonaise. Qmtre grosses pieces. Buisson d'ecrevisses. Sultane ll la Chantilly. Souffle au froinage. Jambon de sanglier ghace. Qmtre plats de ruts. Faisans de Bohcme. Perdreaux rouges. Eperlans frits. Beeasses du Morvan. Seize entremets. Asperges en branehes. Choux-fleurs au parmesan. Champignons k la provencjale. TrulFes au vin de Champagne. Laitues k I'essenee. Epinards au consomme. Salade k la piemontsiise. Concombres au consomme. Gelee d’oranges. Creme k I’anglaise. Pannequets aux citrons con- fits. (Eufs pochcs au jus. Gateaux souffles. Macaroni k I’italienne. Pommes au beurre de Van- vres. Gaufres k la flamande. Deux plomhieres, extra. Dessert. 8 corbeilles, 4 corbillons, et le reste en proportion de cette donnee. At the period when luxurious tables became prevalent in France, good cheer also prevailed in London. In the time of Queen Mary, according to Maitland, luxury prevailed to such an excessive degree in the suinptuousness and extravagance of the city magistrates, that many of the principal citizens chose rather to retire into the country than to serve expensive offices. It was enacted by the Common Council, to prevent such extra- vagances, that the mayor should have no more than one course either at dinner or supper; and that on a festival day, a flesh day, a repast was to consist of no more than seven dishes, whether hot or cold; and on every festival day being a fish day, of eight dishes; and on every common flesh day, six dishes ; and on every common fish day, seven dishes, exclusive of brawn, collops with eggs, salads, j)otage, buttei’, eggs, herrings, sprats, and shrimps, together with all sorts of shell-fish and fruits. Regulations were also issued for the aldermen, sherilTs, and C C386 Appendix. City companies at their several entertainments.* They were to have neither swan, crane, nor bustard under the penalty of forty shillings. During the reign of Elizabeth, the city venison feasts became offensive to the queen and her nobility. In consequence, a letter, signed by the Lord Mayor and two aldermen, was addressed to Lord Burleigh, in which these officials say, “ For avoyding the excessive spending of venison and other vitail in the halles of this citie, which we understand to have been offen- sive to her ma‘‘® and the nobilitie, we have by act of common counsel forbidden such festes hereafter to be kept, and have restrained the same only to necessary metinges in w*" also veni- son is permitted as by copie of this act herewith sent into y*" L. may appere.” These worshipful personages go on to assure Lord Burleigh that, unless similar proceedings be adopted in St. Martin’s and Westminster, the restraints imposed on the City of London would be of little use. The golden age of cookery in modern times in England, however, was the reign of Queen Anne. The Queen herself was fond of good eating, and elaborate feasts became the cus- tom among the nobility, gentry, and wealthy traders. In this reign it was that Dr. King published his “ Art of Cookery,” in imitation of Horace’s “ Art of Poetry,” making an attempt to introduce French dishes. In an oft-quoted passage of his poem he says :— “ The French our relish help, and will supply The want of things too gross by decenc}’'. Our fathers most admired their sauces sweet. And often asked for sugar with their meat; They butter’d currants on fat veal bestow’d, And rumps of beef with virgin honey strew’d.” Sir John Hill, M.D., followed Dr. King, with “ Mrs. Glasse’s Cookery Book,” in which are some few receipts for French dishes. The great Lord Chesterfield, however, was the first nobleman who made the most strenuous efforts to introduce French cookery. He engaged as his cook La Chapelle, a des- cendant of the famous cook of Louis XIY. La Chapelle pub- lished a treatise on cookery in three volumes, which is now very rarely met with. It is entitled “The Modern Cook,” by History of Loudon, vol. u, p. 250,Luxuries of the Table. 387 Vincent La Chapelle, chief cook to the Earl of Chesterfield, and was printed for the author in 1733, and sold by Nicholas Prevost, a Frenchman, over against Southampton Street, in the Strand. About the period of the publication of this book, Lord Chesterfield was lord steward of the household to George II., and undoubtedly was the most renowned and fashionable host in London. His dinners and suppers were then deemed per- fection; and these entertainments were one of the few items in which his expenditure was liberal. Lord Chesterfield lived till 1773, and I more than once heard the late Earl of Essex say, more than thirty years ago, at Brookes’s Club, that he remembered as a boy of fourteen or fifteen seeing the Earl seated on a rustic seat, inhaling the air outside the court-yard of his house in May Fair. Chesterfield House was ninety-one years ago at the very extremity of London, and all beyond it was an expanse of green fields. The table of twenty or twenty-five covers was one of the noble earl’s official dinners, but the supper was for a party of intimate friends:— A Table op Twenty or Twenty-pive Covers, served with Twenty-nine Dishes. PIRST COURSE. The middle of the table. A surtout in the middle. 1 Piece of beef garnished with attelets. 1 quarter of veal with gravy. Two terrines. 1 of fillets of pikes with cray- fish. 1 of a matellottee of one eel and two carps, and two large pikes. Two pots of olio. 1 of water. 1 of roots with oil. Two terrines. 1 of fillets of soles. 1 of fillets of eels. At each of the tables 2 dishes of petits patees. Four soops. 1 of bisque of cray-fish. 1 of muscles. 1 of pottage de Sante. 1 soop, (« la St. Cloud.) Eight entries, four with meat, and four in meager. 1 of chickens, Italian sauce. 1 of young turkeys with trufles.Appendix. 388 1 of fricandoes of veal glazed. 1 of pheasants, with a carp sauce, a carp. i The four meager dishes. 1 of a pudding of old ling (d la Muscovite'). 1 of carps forc’d (d la Dau- phine), 3 carps. 1 of eels rowl’d, 1 eel. 1 of tenches (d la Ste. Mene- hout). Eight small dishes of melons, figs, and radishes. Four removes for the soops. 1 of pikes (d la Civita Vec- chia). 1 of perches, the Dutch way. 1 of trouts (d la Genoise). 1 of turbot broil’d, with shalot sauce, and oil. T0 remove the eight small dishes of melons, fgs, and radishes. 1 of lottes with champagne. 1 of soles, the Italian way. ] of sturgeon roasted, sharp sauce. 1 of fillets of pikes, with an Italian sauce. Four of meat. 1 of quails with oil. 1 of young partridges, the Spanish way. 1 of pigeons ftlacTHuxelles). 1 of fillets of fowls with cray- fish. SECOKD CODBSE. For the large entremets for the middle of the table. 1 ham pasty. 1 turkey pasty. 1 salmon. 1 turbot. 2 of cray-fish. For the two sides of the tabic. 1 Savoy cake. 1 croquante. Eight dishes of roast, viz., four of meat and four meager. 1 of 6 chickens (d la Reine). 1 of fowls. 1 of 6 young partridegs. 1 of 4 wood pigeons. 4 sallets and 4 sauces. The four meager. 1 of soles fry’d in oil. 1 ofbarbots. 1 of trouts. 1 of fry’d pikes. THIRD COURSE. Eight entremets, to remove the eight dishes of roast. 1 of small loaves of pistaches. 1 of Puis (TAmour. 2 Tourtes (d la Glace). 2 of Turkey caps. 1 of Creme souflee. 1 of Creme veloutee. Eight hot entremets to remove the four sallets and four sauces. 2 of trufles, the Italian way. 2 of lamb-stones. 2 of little artichokes, in sur- prize. 2 of quissellcs.389 Luxuries of the Table. A Bill of Fare for a Supper of Fifteen or Sixteen Covers, served up with a great Dish, two middling, FOUR SMALL, AND SiX HoRS d’OEuVRE. FIRST COURSE. For the middle, 1 quarter of veal in cawl. Two pots of olio, one for each end. 1 d lajamhe de hois. 1 with rice and cray-fislicullis. Four entries. 1 of pullets (d la Montmo- rency). 1 of partridges, the Spanish way. 1 of young ducks with orange- juice. 1 of pigeons (d la (THuxelles). Six small dishes. 1 of mutton-cutlets, glaz’d with endive. 1 of fricando’s of veal, glaz’d with sellery. 1 of popiettes, the Italian way. 1 of larks, the Muscovite way. 1 of fillets of soles with cham- pain. 1 of eels, glaz’d with an Italian sauce To remove the two pots of olid. 1 of a turbot, glaz’d. 1 of a jowl of salmon boiled, with shrimp-sauce. SECOND COURSE. Entremets. 1 of a roasted ham for the middle. For both ends of the table. 1 of a Savoy cake. 1 of a cake of luille feuilles. Four dishes of roast fowl. 1 of turkeys. 1 of fowls. 1 of partridges. 1 of young pigeons, dress’d like ortolans. Four sallets and 2 sauces. THIRD COURSE. Ten hot small entremets to re- move the sauces, sallets, and roast-meat. 1 of cray-fish, the Italian way. 1 of sweetbreads of veal (d la Dauphine). 1 of artichokes, the Italian way. 1 of green pease. 1 of lamb-stones. 1 of anchovies in Canappe. 1 of cocks’ combs. 1 of ducks’ tongues. 1 of Peaux (f Espagne. 1 of eggs with gravy.390 Appendix. Sixteen or seventeen years after the death of Lord Ches- terfield, a great number of French refugees of the highest family, who had emigrated in consequence of the Revolution to England, mixed much in English society, and the conse- quence was that French cookery became more prevalent. Several of our nobility vied with each other in entertaining the French princes, the Count de Lille, and the Count d’Artois (afterwards Louis XVIII. and Charles X.), and also the Dukes of Conde and Bourbon. Among the foremost of these were the Marquis of Buckingham and the Earl of Moira, both of whom expended vast sums in these hospitalities. The Count de Lille andothers of his family occupied, in 1807, Gossfield House, near High Garret, in Essex, a seat belonging to the Marquis of Buckingham; and in 1808 these princes were received with the most splendid marks of hospitality at the princely mansion of Stowe, where their residence was commemo- rated by a Latin inscription. For several months there was a dinner prepared daily for Louis XVHI., the Count d’Artois, the Duke d’Angouleme, the Duke of Berry, the Duke of Orleans, the Count de Beaujolais, the Prince of Conde, and the Duke of Bourbon. But Stowe was a scene of even greater festivity in 1805, when the Heir Apparent (afterwards George IV.), the Duke of Clarence (afterwards William IV.), with Mr. Fox, and all the members of the new coalition, were present. On this occasion 800 persons were invited. Grand entertainments were given during several successive days ; illuminations took place in the evening, and the grotto in which their Royal Highnesses supped was illuminated with from 10,000 to 15,000 lamps. At the Christmas dinner of the Duke of Buckingham, in 1808, Louis XVIII. was present, and the following was the bill of fare, as prepared by Mr. Simpson, the duke’s cook. It is un- doubtedly more substantial than elegant.Luxuries of the Table. 391 BILL OF FARE. FIRST COURSE. Rice Soup, removed with a TURKEY AND TRUFFLES. Semels Soaffle, andpoivrade sauce. Beef Co]lops ^ la Tortue and Truffles. Three Sweet- breads larded, and asparagus peas. Three Chickens d la Reine. Poulard d la Daube, larded, and mushrooms. Leg of Lamb, and haricot beans. ts ftl-e 4? 4-. X ^ Frame. \ SECOND COURSE. Four Partridges, Carmel Basket with Pastry. Savoy Cake. Cauliflower d la Flamond. A Cheesecake. Jerusalem Arti- chokes d la Creme. Mince Pies. Spinage and Croutons. Freuch Beans. ^ Frame. J h3 cr n g > A Neat’s Tongue. Three Chickens, and celery. Asparagus. Red Cabbage a I’Alemand. Two Rabbits d la Portngueze larded, and sorrel sauce. A Souties of Mutton, and cucumber. Grenadines, and endive. Petit Pdt^s of Oysters. Mince Pies. Ragout Melle. Chantillie Cake. Apricot Tourte. JSlushrooms. Carmel Basket, with meringues. Giblet Soup, removed with a SIRLOIN OF BEEF. Two Guinea Fowls: one larded.392 Appendix. Of Frencli cookery the Prince Regent was during his life a great admirer, and no one in his Majesty’s dominions, or out of it, kept a more recherche or expensive table. But the Corona- tion Dinner at AVestrninster Hall, in 1822, was a monster ban- quet merely, and it gives no indication whatever of the king’s more refined taste in cookery. As a curiosity I print the bill of fare of this great feast. Bill of Fjre of the Banquet given bt Geobge IV. on the 19th of July, 1822, in AVestminster Hall, on the day of HIS Coronation. Hot Dishes.—160 tureens of soup; 80 of turtle; 40 of rice; 40 of vermicelli; 80 dishes of turbot; 40 of trout; 40 of salmon ; 80 dishes of venison; 40 of roast beef; 3 basins of beef; 40 dishes of mutton and veal; 160 dishes of vegetables, including potatoes, peas, and cauliflowers; 480 sauce-boats; 240 lobsters ; 120 of butter; 120 of mint. Cold Dishes.—80 of braised ham; 80 savory pies; 80 of geese a la daube, two in each dish; 80 of savory cakes; 80 of braised beef; 80 of braised capons, two in each dish; 1190 side dishes of various kinds; 320 of mounted pastry; 400 of jellies and creams; 80 of lobsters; 80 of crayfish; 161 of roast fowls ; 80 of house-lamb. Total Quantities.—Beef, 7442 lbs.; veal, 7133 lbs.; mut- ton, 2474 lbs.; house-lamb, 20 quarters; legs of ditto, 20; lamb, 5 saddles; grass-lamb, 55 quarters; lamb sweetbreads, 160; cow-heels, 389; calves’-feet, 400; suet, 250 lbs.; geese, 160; pullets and capons, 720 ; chickens, 1610; fowls for stock, 520; bacon, 1730 lbs.; lard, 550 lbs.; butter, 912 lbs.; eggs, 8400. The AVines.—Champagne, 100 doz.; burgundy, 20 doz.; claret, more than 200 doz.; hock, 50 doz.; moselle, 50 doz.; Madeira, 50 doz.; sherry and port, about 350 doz.; iced punch, 100 gallons. The champagne, hock, and moselle, were iced before being placed upon the table. The expenses of this bamiuet and the coronation together amounted to the sum of 238,238/. As a contrast to this, it may be also mentioned that the banquet and coronation of his hla- jesty AA'illiam 1A\, which took place September, 1831, did not cost 50,000/. It may be mentioned that, at the coronation of George lA*.,393 Luxuries of the Table. the glut of fruit was unprecedented; a gentleman of Lambeth cut sixty ripe pine-apples on the occasion; and that many hundreds of pines remarkable for size and flavour came from distant parts of the country ; one from Lord Cawdor’s weighed 10 lbs., and formed part of the royal banquet. The taste of the royal gourmand will be more fully disclosed by a bill of fare of one of the private dinners given at the Pavilion, Brighton, in 1817. • Carcme was at that period for eight months chef de cuisine to the Prince Regent of England (afterwards George IV.), and for seven months of that period the chef says he never quitted his post. During these seven months, if we are to believe this celebrated cusinier., bis Royal Highness never felt any attack of gout, whereas before the cookery was so highly spiced {aroma- tisee) that the royal gourmand was tormented with it both day and night. Here is one of those menus of thirty-two entrees, given at the‘Pavilion, Brighton, on the 8th of Jan., 1817, which gave no gout:— Quatre potages. Le potage de lievre au chas- seur. Le potage de saute au con- somme de volaille. Le potage aux laitues. Le macaroni lie h. I’italienne. Quatre releves de poissons. Les perches au vin de cham- pagne. L’anguille it la regence. Le turbot grille, sauce aux homards. Le cabillaud a la hollandaise. Quatre grosses pieces. Le dind’on braise aux huitres. Le filet de boeuf pique glacd. Les poulets h la financiiire. Le quartier de sanglier, gelde de grosseilles. Quatre contre-flans. Le pain de gibier sur un socle. La poularde sur un socle. Le turban sur un socle. La galantine sur un socle. Quatre plats ruts. Le chapon au cresson. Le lievre it I’anglaise. Le dindonneau au cresson. Le pluviers bardcs. Huit entremets. Les pommes de terre frites. Les asperges. Les huitres au gratin. La salade de volaille. Les salsifis au beurre. Les epinards ii la franejaise. Les trufles h la serviette. Les ecrivisses au mad&re.394 Appendix. Bill of Fake for Ten ok Twelve Persons. Jascakt. FIRST COURSE. Two soups. Soup d la Julienne. Puree of pheasant. Two fishes. Filets de sole d la Dieppoise. John Dory, sauce hollandaise. Two roasts. Boast turkey d la financiere., aux truffes. Westphalia, York, or Cum- berland ham, with Ma- deira sauce. Four entrees. hlutton cutlets d la Souhise. Filet de la pin d la Mare- chale. Ris de veaus pique, aux epi- nard. Fates d la Reine. SECOND COURSE. Two roasts. A hare roasted. A wild duck roasted. Four entremets. Apricot souffle. Salsifis d la creme. Hamequins. (Eufis d la Neige. Dinner for Fourteen Persons. April. FIRST course. Two soups. Furle d la Reine. Puree des carottes au ris. Two fishes. Crimped salmon, parsley and butter sauce. Soles au gratin. Two removes. Roast fore-quarter of lamb. Poularde d la printaniere. Four entrees. Lamb cutlets, sauce aux con- combres. Fricandcau de veau, sauce aux epinards. SECOND COURSE. Spring chickens. Leverets. Four entremets. Champignons au gratin. Seakale d la sauce blanche. Vanillc cre:im. Apricot (iirtlets.Luxuries of the Table. 395 Dinnee foe Sixteen in May oe June. FIEST COUESE. Two soups. Clear turtle. Potage priritaniere. Two fishes. Turbot, au naturel with lob- ster or Dutch sauce. Salmon slices, with parsley and butter or caper sauce. Two removes. Roast filet of beef larded. Poivrade sauce. Roast fore-quarter of lamb. Entrees. Noix de veaux d la St. Cloud. Filets de mouton pique, sauce aux tomates. Supreme de volaille aux con- comhres. Vn pate chaud d la financiers. Filets de laperaux, sauce aux oignons. Filets de maquereau, d Tan- glaise. ^ SECOND COUESE. Guinea fowls. Pigeons. Six entremets. Macaroni d Vitalianne. Choux-fieurs auparmesan. Gelee de marasquin. De tartelettes d la Chantilly. Les asperges d la sauxe hlanche. A lobster salad with plovers’ eggs- Dinnee in a flain English Fashion foe Foueteen. FIEST COUESE. Two soups. Giblet soup. Soupe d la Julienne. Two Fishes. Turbot boiled. Slices of' salmon, Genevoise sauce. Two roasts. A small fore-quarter of lamb. A haunch of mutton. Eight entrees. Lamb cutlets, cucumber sauce. Lobster patties. Mutton cutlets d la Souhise. Croquettes of sweetbreads. Chickens boiled, cream sauce. Sweetbreads. Filet of beef, sauce poivrade. A tongue glazed, with Wind- sor beans. SECOND COUESE. 2 turkey poults (1 pique). 2 ducklings.396 Appendix. Eight entremets. Plovers’ eggs with aspic. Prawns. Jelly with strawberries. Caramel basket with cara- melled fresh fruits. ANTHONY CAREME. /^E Careme it is necessary I should say a little before he pro- ceeds to tell bis own story. If you believe him (see passim the six volumes of his culinary works) he was the Homer and Vir- gil, the Corneille and Dryden, the Pope and Boileau, the Byron and De Beranger of cookery. Every other art, noble or ignoble, every other superiority, literary, legal, histrionic, saltatory, medicinal, modistical, may be contested with the Gauls ; but great and little of all nations, peers and pork-men, boyars and butchers,^rq^s and gastronomers, of whatever land, all by com- mon consent agree in shouting, in loud cosmopolitan acclaim, the glories and the greatness of Careme. “ He was a man,” says one of his disciples, “ whose tension and activity of mind were never exhausted ; the more tedious and difficult were his duties, the more brilliant he emerged from them.” The greatest men in ancient and modern times have written their own history. Plato in his choicest dialogues gives us an insight into his own character; Cicero, in his work “ De Oratore,” paints himself under a feigned name ; Cajsar writes us an account of his own exploits in his “Commentaries,” as the Duke of Wellington does in his “Despatches Montecuculli penned his own hlemoirs; and Napoleon laboured at the “ Memoriel de St. Helene;” why, therefore, should not a greater man in his own estimation than anyone among them all, reveal his own precious history and the mysteries of his science, and lay patent to the public the simple grandeur of his batteries de cuisine ? Ay, why not? Open the pages of his instructive Memoirs and Autobiography, and see whether there is any one of the Useful Knowledge Society heroes who have gone so far in the pursuit of knowledge under imminent and impending difficulties, as that really noble fellow Noyeau jelly. French beans. Peas d Vanglaise. Chantilly basket with trifle. A397 Anthony Car^me. Anthony Careme? Did he not abandon the first families to write his cookery and the practice of some great contemporaries? for, observe you, Careme is not always peering a Brodignagian I under your nose, or flourishing the flaunting motto of “ Ego et Ilex Mens ” before your perplexed eyes. No, this good savoury Samaritan cook has some bowels, some thoughts of others, some kindliness for the absent and the departed. He seems always with the modesty of real merit to say, though of the strongest in his generation, “ Vixere fortes Agamemnona.” But his virtues were not merely negative, they were of the most positive kind. He would only accept places “ where his taste for study would not be interfered with for his ambition was “ serious and ele- vated.” Then he felt, poignantly felt, “ the misery of living among men destitute of education.” Rousseau, in that most eloquent of books, “ The Confessions,” tells us under what circumstances certain of his writings were composed. The gruff Sam. Johnson, the delightful debt-con- tracting Oliver Goldsmith, the ingenious and fantastic William Hazlitt are equally communicative; but, mattgre this copious sincerity, what are these men to Cai’eme ? Is there any one sentence in all they have ever written equal to the following ? “ From the time I arranged the sideboard of the S.axon ambas- sador, the thought of the ‘ Patissier Royale,’ and the ‘ Cui- sinier Parisien,’ entered my head.” Cause and effect are here beautifully, lucidly transparent. Dr. Brown and Dugald Stewart, and all the Scotch mystlfiers, might have written on the subject till the crack of doom, and left the dai-kncss more dim, and the subject more perplexed; it is only Careme who has made, in throwing off this bright sentence, the doctrine quite plain. “ It was at the little inn at Llangollen,” says Hazlitt, “ after a supper, that I wrote such a sketch ” (which he names). See how great geniuses fall on the same style and method. “ It was in the night,” says Careme, “ after a short sleep, that I lately dictated to my daughter my most recent chapters.” “ In the busiest period of my service with Alexander,” says this ingenious maker of sauces, “ I never once abandoned my evening notes.” Admirable, glorious man ! who will not think in reading this of the parallel passage in the life of I ox, who, in the busiest conflicts of party, left the blaze and bustle of the Commons to read Aristophanes, as the other great performer left398 Appendix. the blaze and bustle of the kitchen to compose his evening notes It was owing to these “viginti annorum lucubrationes ”—it was owing to the “ severe studies of the empire,” that he was at length, after wrestling with difficulties unheard of, enabled “to seize on sugared entremets as his domain in fee.” He had, too, all the independence of mind of a great genius, “ the surveil- lance of Russia appeared degrading to him, and he promptly left the land of the tyrant and the slave. Nor was this all: such was the profoundness of his ennui in this work-a-day world of ours—in this heavy, muddy, manufacturing England—that he was forced to leave the service of George IV. to resume the composition of his works. These works are collected in six volumes; and, as one great genius may be permitted to speak of another, “ they are,” says William Hall, cook to Thomas Peere Williams, and “con- ductor ” of the parliamentary dinners of Viscount Canterbury, —“ they are the productions of a man whose imagination greatly enlarged the variety of entrees and entremets previously prac- tised, and whose clear and perspicuous details render them facile, not only to the artist who has already an advance in his profession, but also to those whose knowledge of the higher code of the kitchen has been necessarily limited.” The cooks of Rome and Athens stood in the market-place with aprons on, waiting to be hired for the occasion, and, after they had done the day’s service, were ignominiously dis- missed out of doors; but the cooks of our day are the friends and familiars of the great. “I conversed for more than an hour on gastronomy with Prince Esterhazy,” says Careme, “ and it is astonishing what a knowledge of the art he displayed.” How different, however, is the fate of different authors! Cor- neille died in an unknown corner, in forlornness and distress; Goldsmith was always in want of a guinea; Samuel Johnson was often sorely pinched; glorious John Dryden laboured hard for the day’s dinner; Fielding was often in the hands of bailiff’s, and Savage and Otw.ay lived .and l.aboured in misery and distress: but Careme, unlike these, gained not only im- mortality, but money ; not only praise, but good solid pudding. “ My works,” says he, “ created me, exclusive of places whose emoluments I sacrificed, a yearly income of more than 20,000 francs.” Tlie most amusing of these works is undoubtedly an auto-399 Anthony Careme, biography, which he did not live to finish. As it has not appeared in an English dress, I give the gem in a translation made at the time it was published. “Although born of one of the poorest families of Franco, of a family which counted amongst its members five-and-twenty children—although my father, to save me, literally flung me into the street; Fortune, nevertheless, rapidly smiled on me, and a good fairy often took me by the hand, to lead me in the right way. In the eyes of my enemies (and I have many) I have more than once appeared the spoiled child of Fortune. I have accepted and refused, at various times, the finest places; I have abandoned the first families in Europe to write my practice of cookery and that of some great contemporaries gone to their account, whose principles and practice were engraved in my memory. “I have only accepted good places, however, in families where my taste for study, and the views which I early enter- tained as to eminence in my profession, would not be interfered with. In the rapid passage to all these places heaps of money were offered me half a score of times, but I have not been over-desirous of mere wealth. My ambition was serious and elevated, and very early in life I desired to elevate my pro- fession into the dignity of an art. It is precisely in this road that I have encountered the greatest obstructions. I have everywhere found idleness and envy—that miserable disposi- tion of mind made wretched by every superiority, and above all by that of a comrade. But I have had more success than I desired, though the exceptionable position in which I have been placed has never diminished the misery of often living among men destitute of all education. For some years I have sought the means to give these men a moral culture (Jahication ilu cceur) ; but I could not very clearly see my way, for this self- education in the midst of an active life is the most difficult of acquisition. The example of a family is necessary to educate our soul. “ Here and there I have some remembrance of seriously dis- agreeable passages, owing to the low rich (vilains riches) ; but I ought, on the other other hand, to recall to mind the good, the excellent conduct of gentlemen of truth, noble seigneurs that I have served. I have never had to complain but of the conduct of a parvenu, a name which the fellow decorated himself with400 Appendix. without tact. It was under the Empire that I was most em- ployed ; it was, above all, at this era that my studies were severe; “ c’est surtout a cette epoque que j’ai fait des fortes etudes.” My researches were made in good time; they were continuous ; they were serious. At M. de Talleyrand’s I was under Eoucher, chef des services of the prince. I there per- fected myself in one of the principal parts of cookery, which I afterwards developed. Some years previously I had executed many parts of the beaux extras. A little later I had the manage- ment of the charming little dinners given by a distinguished and lofty-minded man, M. de Lavalette. I also cooked the dinners and arranged the sideboard of the Saxon Ambassador. It is from that period that the first decided thought of the “ Patissier Iloyal ” and of the “ Cuisinier Parisien,” first entered my mind. I now acquired the excellent habit of noting down in the evening, on returning home, the modifications that I had made in my labour, each day bringing some change. With pen in hand, I set down the reasons which had determined my mind. That which then particlarly occupied me was the finer parts of the oven’s produce, and the cold sugared entremets. This labour is the most delicate portion of the art of the pastry-cook. I invented much in this branch—the foundation, the execution, the form—all these parts became easy to me, and I seized on them as of my domain in fee. “I enjoyed perfect freedom at M. de Lavalette’s to compose my dinners. It was there I did the most to realize the pro- blem whose solution I early sought — the union of order, delicacy, and economy. The guests were assiduous at these dinners; they were generally members of the senate, learned men, celebrated officers, all connoisseurs. “ I laboured as a supernumer.ary at the Prince de Talley- rand’s in 1814, when the Emperor Alexander arrived there. There I obtained the friendship and protection of an agreeable and distinguished man, the comptroller of his Imperial Ma- jesty’s household, IM. Muller. Under his direction I became chief cook of the kitchens of the emperor, and was charged with all the e.xpenses and the ordering of the bills of fare. This was the most active moment of nn- life; yet 1 did not renounce my custom, but continued to write what I had changed re- modelled. 1 thus fixed ideas and combinations in my memory which might have been effiiced from it. When the EmperorAnthony Careme. 401 Alexander quitted Paris, I refused simultaneously the offer of the situation of chef de cuisine in many great houses. Soon after I decided to set out for Aix-la-Chapelle, still in the service of the Emperor Alexander. The congress of sovereigns was united, and M. Muller renewed his propositions of Paris, namely, that I should go and continue my labours at Petersburg. My mode of cookery pleased the emperor much, he said ; that was easy, for everything was noble and truly imperial in that great establishment of the czar. My emoluments were 2400 francs per month, and the culinary expenses. That which I directed at Ai.x-la-Chapelle was from 80,000 to 100,000 francs a month ; but this munificent expenditure was based on the greatest order and regularity, and the utmost strictness in making up the accounts. “ The Prince Louis de Rohan, a member of the congress, was one of my kindliest protectors. He advised me to enter into the regular service of the emperor. I wished for a delay, for I could not resolve to quit the researches and labours of digest- ing my works, which I had commenced at Paris. “ I then entered the service of Lord Stewart. The English embassy at Vienna was most brilliant at this time. Affairs called milord to London. It was there that Prince Orloff offered me anew the vacant places of maitre (Thotel and chef des cuisines to the Emperor Alexander. I left London, and came to see at Paris M. Daniel, who had just left the service of the Emperor of Russia, rich and honoured. He advised me to start for Petersburg. ‘ You will not,’ he exclaimed, ‘ find much serious rivalry there.’ I made up my baggage, and embarked at Honfleur. Arrived at Cronstadt, my old friend Riquette presented me immediately to the Prince Wolkonski. 1 was selected for the place of maitre iThotel, but remarking that it was degraded by a humiliating surveillance, I determined to give it up. A few days afterwards I decided on leaving 1 eters- burg, after having visited Moscow. I determined to return either to France or England, where I would find a good place in accordance with my habits and talents. “ I set sail, then, from Cronstadt; but the voyage was one continual tempest. We had been thirty-nine days at sea when we took shelter between Calais and Boulogne. On the morn- ing of the thirty-ninth day, relief was afforded by large fishing smacks from Calais. After some days of repose, I returned to 1) 1)402 Appendix. that Paris which I had never ceased to regret, and on my arrival, entered the service of the Princess Bragation, a lady of high rank, good, clever, and mistress of a table which, in delicacy, dignity, and culinary novelties, yielded the palm to no lordly table, whether French or English. The taste of this lady was exquisite. She had a grace, a charm of conver- sation which were cited as models. I always served my dinner en maitre dhoiel, and was uniformly complimented. The prin- cess said to me one day, ‘ Careme, did they not tell you that you were entering the service of a capricious lady ?' I signified assent. ‘ You see the contrary, however, for I am delighted with your bills of fare, and accept them as you offer them.’ I thanked the princess, and added that the characteristic quality of my cookery was, above all, that delicacy and that variety which she was goocj enough to praise. One day somebody said that he had been invited to a dinner dressed by Careme. Her highness immediately answered, ‘ There must be a mistake, for I am sure that Careme dresses no dinner out of my house.’ Madame understood my character. The guest replied, ‘Well, this cook of which I spoke is a pearl, at all events.’ ‘ Say rather,’ rejoined the princess, ‘a false pearl, while mine is a real one.’ And there I was, as large as life! “ The princess was often ill. One day at dinner, and before me, the Prince de Talleyrand felicitated her on improved health. ‘ Yes, I am better, and I owe that to Careme.’ The prince, with his usual intellectual grace and kindliness, ap- proved of the princess’s I'einark. At that moment I was very happy. “ During my journey into Russia, Lord Stewart wrote to me at Petersburg, to engage me to go with him to Vienna, ‘ as he could find no cook who reminded him of me.’ These were his very words. The Princess Bragation being some time after- wards almost perpetually confined to her bed, mj' place became nearly a sinecure, and I obtained from my kind patroness the permission to return to Vienna. When I arrived in the latter capital the ambassador was no longer there, but I rejoined him at Laybach. “ On my return to Vienn.a, I undertook the editing of the bill of fare (/a redaction du mc7tii), which was not changed. I each day received in our magnificent kitchen the visit of mi- lord ; he daily bestowed on me presents and encouragements.Anthony Careme. 403 It was his excellency who received the letter of the Prince Wolkonski, in which it was said that the emperor would accept the dedication of my projects of culinary achitecture. A mag- nificent ring, studded with valuable diamonds, accompanied this letter. I received it with tears in my eyes. How happy had my life become! “ My ring was the subject of universal curiosity among my brethren. It was envied me by those who passed their lives in dissipation. See how delicate the emperor was. He would not reward me in an art in which I had pleased him, but he rewarded me in another art, to which 1 had consecrated all the leisure moments of my life. How often in that moment did I mentally thank M. Percier, that finely accomplished draughts- man, for the priceless instruction which he was good enough to give me. “ A short while after, we left Vienna, to be present at the coronation of George IV. Ten years before I had served this monarch, then I left him to go to Russia. I left him notwith- standing his generosity, notwithstanding the illustration which his regrets, so benignantly expressed, had thrown around my name. We did not arrive in time for the coronation. I re- gretted this at first; but, when I knew with what manner of men I should be associated, I looked on my absence as a real blessing. According to all account, nothing could be more triste, more paltry, more out of joint with the occasion, than these fetes. My ancient colleague of Carlton House had com- pletely failed. “ Towards the end of 1823 there was a talk of Prince Ester- hazy as ambassador at Paris. The Duke de Perigord recalled me to the memory of his excellency Prince Esterhazy, who received me with kindness, and remembered with a lively pleasure the dinners of the Prince Regent. He engaged me in the event of his being nominated to the Parisian embassy, and retained me long enough that day to talk of the gastro- nomy, of which he spoke in a truly pertinent manner, and with much talent. The prince set out for London. I remained at Paris sixteen months in the expectation of the new place, and meanwhile refused fine offers; one of the Russian ambas- sador's at Naples, the other of Lord Granville, who was leaving the Hague. I made it a point to be scrupulously faithful to the engagement which I had entered into with the prince.404 Appendix. “I forgot to say that, at the end of six months, Rothschild’s place was offered me. At first I refused, but, Prince Ester- hazy not coming to'Paris, one of my kind protectors, the Prince Louis de Rohan, presented me to Madame Rothschild. I ac- cepted the place. Tlie Duke de Perigord wished at this time that I should present my “ Culinary Architecture,” magni- ficently bound by Thouvenin, to the Tuileries. The result was as I had foreseen—I only received cold compliments. The reward of the public was somewhat different. My “ Projets d’Architecture,” though containing only rough sketches, were examined and approved. At the moment I write, 18.33, here are nearly five years that I am with the Rothschilds. I have since refused the service of the Spanish embassy and of Prince Esterhazy, who came to Paris with the kindly thought of taking me back to England. M. Esterhazy was the intimate friend of George IV.; he dined weekly with his majesty. It was diffi- cult for these two eminent gourmets, for these two personages, full of taste, to pass some hours together without talking of cookery. One day his Majesty asked the Prince where I was. ‘ At Rothschild’s,’ said Esterhazy, ‘ and in that house is the very best table in Paris.’ ‘ I believe it,’ said George IV., ‘ since Carerae has the management of it.’ These words were repeated to me by a person of eminent rank who was present. George IV. was so perfect a connoisseur in all that related to the table, that I had a right to feel flattered by his approval. These words of kindliness were in conformity with everything which the Regent had the goodness to say to me ten years before— to every communication he caused to be mside to me in the in- terval. Magnificent conditions were now proposed to me on the part of George IV.; my salary w.as to be doubled, and that salary was to be converted into a pension for life at the end of a few years. But, in the interval between the fashionable sea- sons, London and the country-houses of the three kingdoms were insupportable to me. Notwithstanding the kindness and friendship of this royal prince, I experienced while in his ser- vice so profound a melancholy and ennui, that I was forced to return to Paris to resume the composition of my works. It is not, therefore, to be wondered that I refused with regret, though with gratitude, ofl’ers of recall to the service of George IV. In the first place, my situation at Rothschild’s suited me perfectly; and, in the second place, I was somewhat wearied405 Anthony Careme. with service. I felt the first attack of the malady which gnaws at my vitals. I now only think of profiting of the days which Heaven may yet spare to me to finish the books whose germs are in my mind. These books have been the meditation of my entire life. What torments, what preoccupations, what cares, do they not represent, and how I have tormented body and mind by my long vigils. At break of day I was at the fish-market, seeking the elements of my labours. Some hours after, I was in the thick of business, with cap and apron on; and I was again at work, busy as a bee, some hours before dinner. It was in the night, after a short sleep, that I lately dictated to my daughter my most recent chapters. The certainty now remains to me of leaving something useful behind me. But I shall not leave all that I had conceived touching our art, in the interest of kindly civil men and good practicians. “I now edited my ‘ Maitre-d’HotelI published a new edition of the ‘ Patissier Royale,’ and the third of the ‘ Patis- sier Pittoresquethe copyright I kept in my own hands. “ My works, forming already six volumes, had created for me at last (exclusive of places whose emoluments I always sacri- ficed to my studies!) the annual income necessary to a tranquil and comfortable existence. I made that year an income of more than 20,000 francs (800Z.). M. de Rothschild, valuing my services, raised, of his own accord, my wages. He had just about this time purchased of the Duke of Otranto the hand- some estate of Ferrieres. The baron was good enough to say that the resources of Ferrieres would render my service more ea.sy; he added, with kindness, ‘ This beautiful chateau will, a dozen years hence, offer you a retreat.’ I eagerly thanked him, but said that I did not think my health would permit me to accept his offers, that I was worn out. ‘ My wish,’ said I, ‘ M. le Baron, is not to finish my days in a chateau, but in an humble lodging in Paris.’ I further mentioned that my books brought me in an income which exceeded my wants. I shall increase this income, for I have not finished my labours; I have yet to publish a book on the actual state of my jirofession.’ ‘ But what is the amount of that income ?’ kindly asked M. de Roths- child and his family. A lively surprise was the result of my answer. What I said appeared a dream. I added that this income was not of the past year only, but dated back for several years.■i06 Appendix. “ It was some months after this that I was attacked with the malady which torments me, and which will close, perhaps, the future on me. I am still under the hands of the doctors, but do not mend. One of my old friends, M. Alagonty, replaces me in my post. “ I will not close this chapter without saying that I obtained, while in the house of Madame Eothschild, the inestimable good-will of a man of genius, of the Maestro Rossini; he is a connoisseur, as is well known; he always said that he only dined well, according to his taste, at the house of Madame Rothschild. He asked me one day if my labours were not the result of very attentive meditation ? I answered affirmatively, ‘ All that I do is written ; I slightly alter in execution.’ I remember that one day there was some talk of Rossini going to the United States ; he was good enough to say, ‘ I’ll start at once if Careme will but accompany me.’ ” I shall conclude with a few detached passages, aphorisms, and thoughts, from the same great authority. Fete given at the Elysee Imperial for the Marriage of Prince Jerome and the Princess of Wurtemburg. “ At this, a grand ball, Robert was comptroller, and the famous Laguipierre chef des cuisines. Riquette and I were charged with such portion of the supper as was served cold. We thus, as nearly as I can remember, filled the tables: twenty- four large joints, fourteen stands bearing hams, s\x galantiiies, and two wild boars’ heads, six loins of veal a la gelee, seventy- six entrees, six of which were sides and fillets of beef d la gelee, six noix de veau, six of dressed calves’ brains bordered with shapes of jelly, six of pain de foie gras, six of poulets d la reine en galantine, six Jaspics garnished with cocks’ combs and kid- neys, six of salmis of red partridge lukewarm, six of fricasces of poulet d la reine, si.x of mayonnaises de volatile, six of slices of salmon au heurre de Montpelier, six of salads of fillets of soles, six of galantines of eels nu bcurre de Montpelier. Our • Riquette was then a young Parisian cook, who has since made a considerable fortune in the service of the Emperor Alexander. He spoke and wrote so remarkably, that his competitors called him the beau jiarleur.Anthony Car erne. 40 borders were thus composed; for the slices of salmon, ieurre rose; for the eels, beurre d la ravigotte vert-tendre; for the salads of Jilets de sole, borders of eggs; for the mayommises de volaille, the same; for the ga'hie and fowls, borders of truffles, mushrooms, and morels.” New Invention of Careme. “Towards 1804 I imagined our new suedoises. The shapes which they had before my time were without grace or elegance, ily attempt had a decided success at a grand extra of a ball, which the marshals of France gave to the Chief-Consul, their master. The ball was magnificent; it was given in the Salle de rOpera decorated with hangings. M. Becar, cook of the sugared entremets, called me in to assist him, he confided to me the suedoises. I made him thirty-six of them, and for several days afterwards these suedoises were the only topic of conver- sation from the kitchens to the salons of Paris. Happy times! agreeable labours! ” The following are the most striking among the Aphorisms, Thoughts, and Maxims, of the Cook Careme. “ France is the mother-country of amphitryons. Its kitchen and its wines assure the triumph of gastronomy. It is the only country in the world for good cheer. Strangers are con- vinced of these truths. “ The culinary art serves as a sort of escort to European diplomacy. “ The great diplomatist should have a renowned cook. “ The diplomatist is a fine appreciator of a good dinner. “ For the young nobility, embassies are courses of diplomacy and gastronomy. “ Gastronomy marches like a queen at the head of civiliza- tion, but vegetates merely in a period of revolution. “ Great doctors and great musicians are great lovers of good living; witness the celebrated Broussais, Roques, Rossini, and Boi'eldieu. “ The rich man, fond of the pleasures of the table, passes through life with comfort and happiness, when he cares not a straw for public affairs. “ Cookery is a difficult art; a generous host knows how to appreciate its grandeur and dignity.408 Appendix. “In the houses of the old nobility, the chef de became maitre d"hotel, the assistant-cook took the place of the cook, and the scullions became assistant-cooks. By these mutations, these ministers to the mouth (honttnes de boitche) attached them- selves more and more to these noble houses, and thus the masters nt once preserved their health and secured the comfort of their servants. “ In the epoch in which we live the first culinary talents vegetate at Paris, and London is enriched with our renowned cooks. “ A cook is Cl gastronome both by taste and by profession. “ A cook who is clean in his person is clean also in his work. “ In ancient and modern times, the talents of cooks were honoui’ed by kings, witness Mai'C Antoninus and the great Frederick. “ The French cook is esteemed by the great in distant lands ; he is sought for and appreciated. “ The French cook is incited to his work by a point of honour inseparable from the culinary art; witness the death of the great Vatel. “The French cook is happy in all the capitals of Europe, but he who does not wish to quit his country should have courage. “ At the Russian court the cook on duty (for there are four who take the work by turns every fortnight) always served his dinner en maitre dHiotel. This thoroughly gastronomical fashion should be generally adopted by amphitryons who love to make good cheer. O ^ “ The hypocritical valet is fatal to the tranquillity of a great establishment; he is vain, proud, paltry, crawling, lazy, and gluttonous; he is a tale-bearer for the purpose of gaining his master’s confidence, which he afterwards abuses; he is the Tar- tuffe of domestic life. , “ The upstart valet is self-sufficient and scented. “ The doctor speaks ill of the cook, in order that he may not lose his influence over the mind of the rich man; but the talent of a good cook tends more to the preservation of his master’s health than the factitious science of certain doctors, whose medical advice is regulated by their own interests. “The rich man who leads an irregular life ought rather to trust to the science of a cook to re-establish his health, if heAnthony Carerne. 409 feels the necessity of it, than to the discourses of the interested doctor.” Such was Anthony Careme. He had gained the suffrages of emperors and kings, of princes royal and princes not royal, of noble ladies and rich banker Jews, when the climax of his felicity was capped by the friendship and good-will of Rossini, and a flattering notice of his work, in his usual sparkling style, from the facile pen of Jules Janin. This was too much for mortal man, and encumbered by the very splendour and vanity of his successes, and not a little worn out also, by thirty years of service, he sank into premature decay, and was taken from that world of bon-vivants and sensualists of whom he had formed the delight, somewhere about the year of grace 1835 or 1836. “He was,” says a celebrated gourmand, “lively, ar- dent, enthusiastic, of a rare patience, of an imperturbablesa;^- froid. The last work of Careme, “ L’Art de Cuisine Fran^aise au XlXeme Siecle,” was left in an unfinished state, but M. Plumeret, first cook of the Russian embassy^ has finished it by the publication of the sixteenth and seventeenth parts. In the “ Maitre d’Hotel Franqais,” the “Cuisinier Parisien,” and “La Cuisine de Paris au XlXeme Siecle,” will Careme live. “ Careme bestowed fine names on his soups: — Potages Condi, Boleldieu, Bronssais, Roques, Segalas (the three last learned and agreeable doctors) ; Lamartine, Dumesnil (the his- torian) ; Buffon, Oirodet; and to be just to all the world, that great practitioner in the culinary art which the world has lost, had not forgotten, before his death, to give also to one of his best soups the name of Victor Hugo. He called a matelote of fish after M. Delavigne, and a dish of perch after his physician, M. Gaubert.” Here are M. Careme’s ideas on maigre sauces :—“ It is in a lenten kitchen that the cleverness of a cook can shed a bril- liant light. It was in the Elysee Imperial, and by the example of the famous Laguipierre and Robert, that I was initiated into this fine branch of the art, and it is inexpressible. The years ’93 and '94, in their terrible and devastating course, respected these strong heads (ce« fortes tetes). When our valiant First Consul appeared at the head of affairs our miseries and those of gastronomy finished. “ When the empire came, one heard of soups and entrees E E410 Appendix. maigre. The splendid maigre first appeared at the table of the Princess Caroline Murat. This was the sanctuary of good cheer, and Murat was one of the first to do penitence. But what a penitence! ” One does not know whether to be indignant or to laugh at this. The old proverb, “ Set a beggar on horseback and he will ride to the devil,” is undoubtedly true. A few years before the consulate the ambitious Caroline Buonaparte, afterwards wife of Murat, was, with her mother and the other female members of her family, in so destitute a situation at Marseilles, that they had not the means of buying wood to warm them- selves ; and as to Murat, her husband, it is well known that he rose from the very dregs of society, his father being a village innkeeper at Bastide Frontoniere, in the department of Lot. CHISWICK PRESS:—PRINTED BY WHITTINOHAM AND WII.KINS,Ii :y ' * . ^ .... • / r /V .K ■O’", ' s ♦ % ••***yv —