1512 WRIST-JOINT (Abnormal Anatomy). same time that the ulna has passed so far 929.). The radius at its lowest part, hesides downwards on the back of the carpus as to being thus shorter than the ulna, is much less reach even to the upper extremity of the salient on the dorsum of the carpus, metacarpal bone of the little finger (see fig. The upper extremity of the carpus and the Fig. 929. Second view of the same deformity as Fig. 928. hand are placed, as has been mentioned, an- teriorly to, and somewhat above, the lowest extremity of the radius and ulna, and conse- quently the measurement of the antero-pos- terior diameter of the wrist is much increased ; the whole forearm is somewhat bowed, pre- senting on its anterior aspect a concavity in the longitudinal direction. Near the wrist- joint the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris on the inner side, and of the flexor carpi ra- dialis on the outer, or radial side, are thrown into strong relief, and thus contribute to give the quadrilateral form to the wrist above alluded to. Since the w riter made this communication to the Surgical Society of Dublin, he has seen other cases of congenital luxation at the wrist-joint of both the bones of the forearm backwards on the dorsum of the carpus. They so strongly resembled the cases just now adduced, that he refrains from entering into particulars. From all these last men- tioned, the individuals practically suffered little from the defect. From the cases the writer has seen or in- vestigated, he may draw the following conclu- sions : — 1st. That the case of D. O'Neil, brought before the Pathological Society of Dublin, Dec. 15th, 1838, by the writer, was the first example laid before the profession with the intention of proving that such a lesion as a congenital luxation of the wrist-joint existed. 2nd. That Cruveilhier's case, adduced five years previously, as a case of an old unreduced luxation of the wrist-joint, and considered by Dupuytren as a fracture of the radius and dislocation of the ulna, and since misinter- preted by others, must hereafter be looked upon as an excellent example of congenital luxation of both the bones of the forearm backwards at the wrist-joint. 3rd. That the case sent to Dublin by Dr. MacDonnell of Montreal, is another exam- ple of a congenital luxation of the bones of the fore-arm at the wrist-joint backwards. 4th. In these three the humerus and hand seem to have borne, as to length and size, a normal proportion to the stature of the indi- viduals; but the forearms in all three were so much shortened, as not to exceed by one inch the measurement of the long axis of the hand. 5th. The lower extremity of the ulna in the three cases, instead of being on a level with the lower extremity of the radius, as it normally is, had passed lower down on the dorsum of the carpus from half an inch to one inch. Besides these three cases of congenital luxation of the bones of the forearm back- ward at the wrist-joint, Dr. 11. Smith has, in his valuable work recently published, referred to two more specimens of the same malform- ation. A cast of one of these specimens was preserved in the Museum of the Bristol In- firmary, in August, 1836, when the writer and Dr. Smith visited that hospital, and the bones of the other specimen have been preserved in the Museum of the Richmond Hospital. The case of O'Neil presented in her left forearm the only example of which we have heard of congenital luxation of the bones of the forearm forwards (jig. 926".). In this case, also, it is to be remarked, that the forearm was pretermit urally short. Since the above observations were written I have seen other examples of congenital luxations of the wrist, in which the bones of the forearm were displaced backwards, and the carpus forwards, as in figs, 92-k and 925. Sometimes the defect was single, or only af- fected one forearm ; in others, the defect, if the paradoxical language be allowed, was sym- metrical, affecting both wrists alike. A case of this last description was shown to me lately in the Downpatrick Infirmary, by the surgeon of the institution, Mr. Brabazon, who was kind enough to present me with a cast, which 1 have in my possession.* This healthy young woman is the mother of many well-formed children, and feels but little in- convenience from the malformation. When speaking of the congenital defects of the elbow-joint, we noticed that the up- per extremity of the radius often exceeded its normal length, so as to reach as high as the level of the olecranon process. (See Elbow, Abnormal Condition of.) We may here remark, that the ulna as the result of congenital malformation, in almost all the specimens we have examined, of the congenital * This cast so much resembles that of fig. 929., that they could scarcely be supposed to have been taken from two different individuals.