SPLEEN. 793 of the splenic vein of many individuals con- tained numerous golden yellow cells with diminished blood globules. In the same blood, and in the splenic pulp, there also occurred, either sparingly or in uncommon quantity, rod-shaped crystalline corpuscles, of a yellow colour, and a length of 4 to C-lOOOths of a line : at the first glance they seemed to be lying altogether free, and they were dissolved by potash {fig. 538, 6). On the application of water a membrane was upraised from these Fig. 538. Similar blood corpuscles from the Spleen and Splenic vein of the fresh-water Perch, a, crystals and nuclei seen on treating colourless nucleated blood corpuscles with water; b, crystals apparently free. small rods, and near them a nucleus came into view {fig. 538, a). On more accurate in- quiry, it plainly appeared that these small rods lie in decolorized blood globules, and in unchanged blood globules the gradual form- ation of one, or even two, of these may be followed. In Barbus fi.uviatilis, the spleen pulp contains an enormous quantity of really free crystals ; these are of a violet and reddish colour, and of a nail or spindle-shaped form ; and on the application of acetic acid, they are completely dissolved, leaving some colour behind. Crystals such as these also occurred sparingly in the kidneys, the liver, and the blood of the heart. In this animal, as well as in Cyprinits brama, the blood contained yellow granule-cells, like those which occur in the spleen and kidneys. All the rod-shaped yellow corpuscles just named (of which the first, indeed, are nothing but crystals) must in any case consist of a substance allied to the hsematin of the blood ; and possibly they consist of the substance which Virchow has lately named haematoidin, with which they correspond in some respects. Their occur- rence in the spleen is physiologically inter- esting, and so also is their formation within the blood corpuscles, while at the same time it affords a very plain indication of the rela- tion of hsematin to them. 7. Lymphatics. — The views of authors con- cerning the lymphatics of the spleen are very contradictory, since one class have the prece- dent of Ilaller for altogether denying their existence in the human spleen, while others have stated their existence in abundance, and have constituted the spleen, in a certain mea- sure, a large lymphatic ganglion. This differ- ence mainly depends hereon,—that the one class have specially examined the human spleen, while others have chiefly drawn their conclusions from that of the lower animals, considerable differences in respect of these vessels existing in different creatures. In man, the lymphatics of the spleen are, at any rate, in utterly in" considerable quantity, being rather less nu" merous than in other glandular organs, as the liver and kidneys, and not at all so numerous as in the lymphatic glands. They are divi- sible into superficial and deep. The former course, in sparing numbers, between the two coats of the spleen, and form in this situation delicate trunks, which anastomose with each other ; but, excepting in perfectly healthy spleens, and in the neighbourhood of the hilus, they can scarcely be recognised. The latter lie in sparing numbers in the hilus, and in the sheaths of the vessels, where they accompany the arteries, although they cannot be traced so far as there. Both sets of these vessels pass to the gastro-splenic omentum, to enter the small lymphatic glands placed there ; and finally they collect to a trunk which opens into the thoracic duct, at about the eleventh or twelfth dorsal vertebra. All these lymph- atic vessels can only be thus seen in the quite fresh and undeteriorated spleens of executed criminals or subjects killed by accidents, al- though they may often be recognised in parti- cular parts of the healthy spleen after natural death, especially if the vessels be tied and the spleen soaked in water. But, on the other hand, in diseased spleens it is very rare to see even a trace of them, unless a preparation be made of a small gland in the gastro-splenic ligament, in which case small entering and emerging trunks may be recognised. In the lower animals, or at least in many of them, the lymphatics seem to be more nume- rous. Moreschi distended the lymphatics of the spleen in fishes (in whom they possess no valves) from the trunk, and he says that the in- jected spleen appeared to consist almost solely of a network of absorbents. But in another place he freely states that the spleen consists, so to speak, of nothing but vessels. In a Tcstudo my das, Tiedemann and Gmelin saw all the absorbents of the small intestine going to the spleen, in which, by interlacing with arteries and veins, they formed a network. From this network large branches, like the emer- gent vessels of the lymphatic glands, took their course towards the thoracic duct. Al- most all the older writers recognised the rich- ness of the spleen in ly mphatics, which later examiners have but confirmed. But it will be well to set forth one fact which, in my opinion, is not sufficiently estimated, namely that even here absorbents are only sparingly present in the interior of the spleen ; at least 1 have found this to be the case in the pig, ox, sheep, &c. Here the superficial lymphatics are, as is well known, very numerous, and this fact seems to me to correspond with the circumstance that in these animals the serous and fibrous coats are only' loosely connected to each other, and contain many vessels in the loose areolar tissue between them. But, on the other hand, if the vessels in the hilus be examined, only a few scattered trunks can be seen, a condition which stands in extraordinary contrast with the very nu- merous lymphatics of the coats. Thus, for