1357 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. to a brownish yellow ; their stature is tall ; their bodies spare, wiry, and muscular ; their frontal profile vaulted, their nose straight or even arched, their lips moderately full, their hair often hanging over the neck in long twisted plaits. Nearly the same description applies to some of the Nubian tribes {Jig. 842), of which the resemblance to the Arab physiog- nomy becomes very striking, although their colour is jet-black; and, ;as already shown, there is distinct evidence of their Negro an- cestry. The languages of these Nilotic people present an intermediate gradation between the proper Semitic and the proper African; and all that has been made known by the explora- tions in these regions, which have been carried on, more or less uninterruptedly, ever since the French expedition into Egypt, tends to break down the line of demarcation which was supposed to separate the African nations from all others. To a similar result have tended all those Egyptological researches which have been carried on with so much ardour during the same period. For a careful examination of the delineations of themselves left to us in the paintings and sculptures of the ancient Egyptians, and of the crania preserved in their sepulchres, leaves no reasonable doubt, that in their physiognomy and complexion they were essentially African; although very marked va- rieties in cranial conformation, and in the hue of their surface, appear to have existed amongst them. The Copts, or existing natives of Egypt, seem, on the whole, pretty nearly to represent their physical characters, although in a condi- tion of comparative degradation, owing to the state of subjection to which they have been re- duced ; and although the existing Coptic Ian- Fig-. 843. guage has been undoubtedly changed from its original form by the successive colonizations and conquests to which the country has been subjected, yet it still shows a marked affinity with the proper African languages in certain peculiarities of its construction. Lastly, the northern and north-western portion of the African continent is occupied by tribes whose Semitic origin is undoubted. Several immigrations appear to have taken place at different times from the Syro-Ara- bian stock ; but that which has most claim to the title of an aboriginal population, is that of which the Berber races (from which the north-west of Africa received the desig- nation of Barbary) may be regarded as the types ; the Kabyles of Algiers and Tunis (the people of Abd-el-Kader), the Tuaryks of Sahara, and the Shelahs or mountaineers of Southern Morocco, being branches of the same stock ; as were also, most probably, the Guanches or ancient population of the Canary Islands. These people all speak dialects of a language, which has been shown by Prof. Newman to be an offset from the Semitic : and whilst the complexion, and even the hair and physiognomy, of those which approach the Negro area, present a remarkable approximation to those characteristic of the Negro, those of the northern and more ele- vated districts retain the Caucasian type, and some of them are quite fair in skin, and Euro- pean in feature. But subsequently to the settlement of these tribes in the regions they still inhabit, there have been colonizations by Phoenicians and true Arabs ; and these immi- grants have for the most part remained distinct from the aboriginal population (Jigs. 843.844), Fig. 844. Alyerine Arabs of the Mozabite tribe. (From portraits taken under the direction of Prof. Milne-Edwards.') their languages being divergent, and their habits and grade of civilisation different. Such were the sovereignties of Morocco, Algiers, and Tunis, which brought the aboriginal tribes under nominal subjection to themselves. Notwithstanding its Semitic affinities, the language of the North-African aborigines is considered by Dr. Latham as having affinities also with the proper African tongues, and as having been isolated from them without suf-