689 SLEEP. this point, and directed at pleasure the cha- racter of his dreams. In his first experiment, having allowed the back of his head to be uncovered during sleep, he thought he was at a religious ceremony in the open air ; the custom of the country in which he lived being to keep the head covered excepting on some rare occurrences, among which was the per- formance of religious ceremonies. On waking he felt cold at the back of the neck, as he frequently had when present at the real cere- monies. He repeated the experiment in two days, with the same result. In a third ex- periment, he left his knees uncovered, and dreamt that he was travelling at night in the diligence; and all travellers know, he observes, that it is chiefly at the knees that they feel cold when travelling by that conveyance at night. The very remarkable degree in which this influence of external impressions is ex- erted, when sleep is being induced by the agency of certain narcotics, will be presently noticed. By the use of the term " external" is here meant that which is external to the mind itself. The dream may originate in im- pressions derived from any part of the bodily frame. Thus we find that indigestion is a very common cause of nightmare, and that an irritable state of the genital apparatus provokes lascivious dreams. When the ex- ternal impressions are recognized as sensa- tions, and the dreamer's current of thought completely follows their guidance, so that even the meaning of spoken language is ap- preciated, the condition approximates to that of Somnambulism. One of the most remarkable of all the pecu- liarities of the state of dreaming, is the rapidity with which trains of thought pass through the mind ; a dream in which a long series of events has seemed to occur, and a multitude of images has been successively raised up, being often certainly known to have occupied but a few minutes or even seconds. This is best seen in those cases in which the dream has obviously originated in some sensory impres- sion, which has also had the effect of arousing the sleeper. A very interesting example of this, in which a similar dream was produced in two individuals, husband and wife, from the same cause, came within the knowledge of the late Dr. James Gregory. It happened when the public mind was much excited in regard to the alarm of French invasion, and the gentleman who was the subject of it was himself a zealous member of the Edinburgh volunteer corps. Whilst asleep, between two and three o'clock in the morning, he dreamt of hearing the signal gun: he was immediately at the Castle, witnessed the proceedings for displaying the signals to alarm the country, and saw and heard a great bustle over the town, from troops and artillery assembling, especially in Princes Street. At this time he was roused by his wife, who awoke in a fright, in consequence of a similar dream, connected with much noise and the landing of the enemy, and concluding with the death of a particular friend of her husband's, who had VOL. IV. served with him as a volunteer. The origin of this remarkable occurrence was ascer- tained, in the morning, to be the noise pro- duced in the room above by the fall of a pair of tongs. How long the dream had continued in this instance is uncertain ; evidently not for a period in the least comparable to that required for the actual occurrence of the events that had passed through the mind of each ; and it is probable, from many similar cases, that the lady was awoke by the noise rather than by the fright. Thus a gentleman dreamt that he had enlisted as a soldier, joined his regiment, deserted, was apprehended, carried back, tried, condemned to be shot, and at last led out for execution. After all the usual preparations, a gun was fired ; he awoke with the report, and found that a noise in an adjoining room had both produced the dream and awoke him. The same feeling of duration, arising out of the number of images passing in succession through the mind, is often experienced when we are well assured that the whole duration of our sleep has not exceeded a few moments. We have known a clergyman fall asleep in his pulpit during the singing of the psalm before sermon, and awake with the conviction that he must have slept for at least an hour, and that the congrega- tion must have been waiting for him ; but on referring to his psalm-book, he has been con- soled by finding that his slumber has lasted no longer than during the singing of a single line. There would not seem, in fact, to be any limit to the amount of thought which may thus pass through the mind of the dreamer, in an interval so brief as to be scarcely capable of measurement ; and this view is confirmed by the circumstance, now well attested, that it is a common occurrence in drowning for the whole previous life of the individual to be presented instantaneously to his view ; with its every important incident vividly impressed on his consciousness, just as if all were combined in a picture, every part of which could be taken in at a glance. This, again, is connected with the fact that the operation of the associative principle may re- produce in dreams the remembrance of facts long since forgotten in the waking state. Such, however, is by no means peculiar to the state of dreaming ; for in the waking state we often retrace involuntarily and unexpectedly some- thing which we have in vain attempted to recall at will, anil which might be said to have passed from our mental grasp. From the foregoing and other similar facts it has been argued, that all our dreams really take place in the act of falling asleep or of awaking ; so that even when we fancy that we have been dreaming all night, our uncon- sciousness has been really complete, except at these momentary intervals. That this doctrine cannot be altogether true is obvious from the fact, that we can frequently detect the character of a dream, and even in some degree trace its progress, by the expression of the sleeper's countenance ; so that dreams certainly may occupy time, and occur during Y Y