THORAX. 1025 of a pair of cervical or lumbar ribs: in this case the supernumerary ribs are formed from the anterior parts of the transverse processes of either the seventh cervical or first lumbar vertebra ; which affords a strong proof of the analogy existing between a transverse process and a rib. Sometimes the usual number is diminished to 22 : this is more rarely the case. When this occurs, we sometimes find two adjacent ribs united throughout their entire length. Sometimes the first rib is in a rudimentary state, being properly formed posteriorly, but having its an- ter'Dr extremity lost among the muscles, or united to the 2nd rib. Mr. Quain has lately seen an instance in which this diminution of the number of the ribs was accompanied with the absence of a dorsal vertebra.* Classification of the ribs.— The ribs are nu- merically designated 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and so on, counting from above downwards. In the living or in the undissected subject it is easier to count the ribs from below upwards. The seven superior ribs are united by means of their own cartilaginous prolongations (Jig. 661. b, c, d, e,f, g, and h ; and/g. 662.) to the sternum, and are called true ribs or sternal ribs, or vertebrosternal ribs ; the re- maining five are not so immediately prolonged to the sternum, and are denominated false ribs, or asternal ribs, or vertebral ribs. We think it would be more judicious to classify them otherwise, and consider the five superior ribs as sternal, true, or thoracic ribs; the five next inferior, as diaphragmatic ribs ; the two last, being floating or false ribs. Be- cause, the first five especially encompass the cavity of the thorax ; the five next a portion only of this space, together with "a large por- tion of the abdominal viscera ; and, lastly, be- cause the two last do not touch the sternum through the medium of any cartilage. The transverse shade {Jig. 682.) represents the arch * Elements of Anatomy by Mr. Quain and W. Sharpey, M. 1). London, 8vo. 1843, p. 105. VOL. IV. of the diaphragm, or the floor of the thorax. Every rib articulates with the dorsal vertebrae ; Fig. 662. Position of the ribs and spine after deep expiration. the spine is their fixed point, or centre of motion, — the main pillar upon which they act. The superior ten ribs articulate through the medium of cartilages, the first seven through the medium of their own, the next three through that of those of their superior neighbours, (fig. 661.) with the sternum. The ribs have certain general characters which distinguish them from all other bones; and likewise certain proper or special charac- ters, by which one is known from another. I. Of the general characters of the ribs.—The ribs resemble flattened bony hoops, varying in breadth from '4 to -7 of an inch, and from •] to '4 of an inch in thickness; they once at- tain a maximum, and twice a minimum length (Jig. 662.) Theyareof averyirregularshape. Their arch or curve is neither uniform relatively to each other, nor yet relatively to itself at difFerent parts of the bone ; moreover they are twisted in different degrees upon themselves so that the two extremities of the same bone point in different directions, and cannot simulta- neously touch an horizontal surface. Sicrfaces. — These bones present two sur- faces : an external or adancous surface, which is convex and smooth ; and an internal or jml- monary surface, which is concave and likewise smooth. The anterior end is comparatively flat, the posterior is more cylindrical and truncated, and is rough, particularly at the extremity. Borders. — The ribs have two borders, the one superior, and the other inferior. The superior border is smooth and rounded, and gives attachment to the intercostal muscles ; 3 v