1174; TOUCH. Loc. cit. * Outlines of Physiology, p. 355. the conception of the muscular exertion which would be required to produce or to antagonise the movement. Thus it is, too, that when we are about to make a muscular effort, the amount of force which we put forth is governed by the mental conception of that whicli will be required, as indicated by the experience of former sensations ; just as the contractions of the muscles of vocalisa- tion are regulated by the conception of the sound to be produced. Hence if the weight be unknown to us, and it prove either much heavier or much lighter than was expected, we find that we have put forth too little or too great a muscular effort. It is through the " muscular sense," in combination with the visual and tactile, that those movements are regulated, which are concerned alike in ordinary progression, and in the maintenance of the equilibrium of the body. That the visual sense has, in most persons, a large share in this regulation, is evident from the simple fact that no one who has not been accustomed [to the deprivation of it can continue to walk straightforwards, when blind-folded, or in absolute darkness, towards any point in the direction of which he may have been at first guided. But the blind man, who has been accustomed to rely exclusively upon his muscular sense, has no difficulty in keeping to a straight path ; and moves onwards with a confidence which is in remarkable contrast with the gait of a man who has been deprived of sight for the oc- casion only. In fact, as Mr. Mayo has well remarked *, in our ordinary movements, " we lean upon our eyesight as upon crutches." And when our vision, instead of aiding and guiding us, brings to the mind sensations of an antagonistic character, our movements become uncertain, from the loss of that power of guidance and control over them which the harmony of the two sensations usually gives. Thus a person unaccustomed to look down heights feels insecure at the top of a tower or a precipice, although he knows that his body is properly supported ; for the void which he sees below him contradicts (so to speak) the tactile sensations by which he is made conscious of the due equilibrium of his body. So, again, any one can walk along a narrow plank which forms part of the floor of a room, or which is elevated but a little above it, without the least difficulty, and even without any consciousness of effort. But let that plank extend across a chasm, the bottom of which is so far removed from the eye that the visual sense gives no assistance ; and even those who have braced their nerves against all emotional distraction feel that an effort is requisite to maintain the equilibrium during the passage over it;—that effort being aided by the withdrawal of the eyes from the abyss below, and the fixation of them on a point beyond, which at the same time helps to give steadiness to the move- ments, and distracts the mind from the sense of its danger. The degree in which the muscular sense is alone sufficient for the guidance of such movements, when the mind has no consciousness of the danger, and when the visual sense neither affords aid nor contributes to distract the attention, is re- markably illustrated by the phenomena of Somnambulism; for the sleep-walker traverses, without the least hesitation, the narrow para- pet of a house, and crosses narrow and insecure planks, chambers, roofs, &c, under circum- stances that clearly indicate the nature of the guidance by which they are directed (see Sleep, p. 69-fJ. The dependence of our ordinary power of maintaining our equili- brium upon the combination of the guiding sensations derived through the sight and the touch, is further well illustrated, as Mr. Mayo has pointed out *, by what happens to a landsman on first going to sea. " It is long before the passenger acquires his ' sea legs.' At first, as the ship moves, he can hardly keep his feet; the shifting lines of the vessel and surface of the water unsettle his visual stability; the different inclinations of the planks he stands on, his muscular sense. In a short time, he learns to disregard the shift- ing images and changing motions, or acquires facility in adapting himself (like one on horseback) to the different alterations in the line of direction in his frame." Before this power, however, has been gained, the pas- senger has usually to experience most dis- tressingly that peculiar feeling of want of support, which is consequent upon the pitch- ing and rolling of the ship, but more par- ticularly upon the former. As the part of the vessel on which he is standing, sitting, or lying, rises beneath him, there is a comfortable sense of support; but as it sinks, the want of support is most disagreeably felt; and the continual repetition of this sensation gives rise to nausea and vomiting. The tendency is increased by the sight of continually shifting lines and surfaces, which of itself, with many individuals, disposes to the same state; and hence it is that the sickness may often be kept at bay by simply closing the eyes, so as to exclude these objects ; whilst, on the other hand, the effort to stand or walk only serves to augment the distress, by increasing the sense of instability. — The giddiness and nausea produced by rapidly turning round, are the results of the same sensations. They are usually excited more through the visual than through the tactile sense ; but that the latter is of itself quite sufficient to produce them, is obvious from the fact that they are experienced when the eyes are closed, as well as by blind persons. The feeling of disturbed equilibrium is more persistent than most other sensations ; thus when a person has turned round quickly several times in suc- cession, and then suddenly stops, he feels a whirling sensation, which excites a disposition to continued motion in his limbs, and the surrounding objects appear to move before