991 TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). anomaly, which is reported by Eckardt. In this case, the testicle passed out at first through the inguinal canal, but having been returned by the patient into the abdomen, it subsequently escaped at the femoral ring.* Inversion of the Testicle.— It sometimes happens that the position of the testicle in the scrotum is reversed, so that the free sur- face presents posteriorly, and the epididymis is attached to the anterior part of the gland, instead of to the posterior. The first case that I met with was that of a man who had a swelling of the right testicle, which puzzled his medical attendant. On examination I found this to be the epididymis thickened from chronic inflammation. I was able clearly to trace the vas deferens proceeding to it along the front of the scrotum. The body of the testicle was unaffected, and its posterior edge was quite smooth and regular. The disposition of the left testicle was normal. On visiting the Hopital de Midi in Paris, in April, 1849, M. Ricord showed me a case of epididymitis on the left side, in which the gland was thus inverted. He informed me that he had often met with this arrangement. I have since had two patients under my care, one of whose tes- ticles was thus inverted. One was a lad in the London Hospital affected with epididymitis. The other was a gentleman who consulted me for chronic orchitis confined to the body of the testicle. The epididymis being unaffected, the inversion was less perceptible than in the three preceding cases. M. Maissonneuve, in a thesis published in Paris in 1835, I believe first called attention to this irregular disposition, which he states that he had met with many times upon the dead body, and upon the living, and he mentions what I remarked myself in the four cases just noticed, that the inversion was confined to one side. Surgeons should bear in mind the liability to'this dis- position of the gland in making their diagnosis of the diseases affecting it. Atrophy of the Testicle. — The testicles, like other organs formed for the exercise of tem- porary functions, do not arrive at a perfect state of development until a certain period of life, after which their activity ceases, and they become gradually and imperceptibly diminished. Thus we find that in early life they are small in proportion to the size of the body as compared with their condition at puberty, and that as old age advances and the generative functions cease to be called into action, they undergo a diminution in size, their vessels grow less, the seminiferous tubes become small and contracted, and partially ob- literated. In the lower animals these changes are far more remarkable than in man, for as the functions of the testicle are exerted only at stated periods of the year, as the rutting or copulating season advances these organs rapidly increase in bulk, and in its decline undergo a proportionate degree of wasting. In man, it sometimes happens that the tes- * Loder's Journal fur die Chirurg. ii. Bd. 1 Stff. s. 187. tides do not acquire their proper size at the usual period, their development being from some cause or other arrested ; and also, after the organs have arrived at their full and perfect growth, that occasionally one or both suffer a premature decay. Under the head then of Atrophy of the Testicle I shall consider: 1. Arrest of Development; and 2. Wasting. Arrest of Development. — If the congenital lesions to which the testicle is liable had not been previously treated of, the cases of ab- sence of the organ already described, might be correctly referred to the present head, as the deficiency in these cases was no doubt the result of an arrest in the early development of the organ. But the cases that 1 am now about to consider are those in which the sub- sequent evolution which the testicles undergo at puberty is delayed beyond the usual period, or never takes place at all. Mr. Wilson relates a curious instance of his having been consulted by a gentleman, twenty-six years of age, on the propriety of entering the marriage state, whose penis and testicles very little ex- ceeded in size those of a boy of eight years of age. He had never felt the desire for sexual intercourse until he became acquainted with his intended wife; since that period he had experienced repeated erections, attended with nocturnal emissions. He married, be- came the father of a family ; and these parts, which at six and twenty years of age were so much smaller than usual, at twenty-eight had increased nearly to the usual size of those of an adult man.* Mr. Wilson mentions this singular case, as it will admit of questions whether the parts alluded to became properly formed as to size, and possessed of the power of secretion, in consequence of being, although so late in life, influenced by the passions excited by attachment to a particular female ; or whether the enlargement and proper action of the parts beginning, occasioned such passion first to exist. He thinks the probability in favour of the former supposition, in which opinion I certainly concur. Lallemand men- tions having seen a man about thirty years of age, extremely fat, and without a beard or hair on the pubes, whose penis and testicle ap- peared to belong to a child of from seven to eight years: he had never experienced erec- tions or venereal desires.f A young man died in the London Hospital of disease of the heart. He was seventeen years and nine months old : the body measured five feet five inches in height, and was plump and well formed. There was no appearance of beard, or whiskers, or of hair on the pubes. The penis and testicles were very small, not larger than they are usually found in boys of three or four years of age. The testicles were about equal in size, and one of them weighed only two scruples and one grain. Both organs were normal in structure, appearing like the glands in early life, when the tubular structure * Lectures on the Urinary and Genital Organs, p. 424. t Des Pertes Se'minales Involontaires, t. ii. p!'380.