TONGUE. 1124 * Traite d'Anatomie, t. ii. p. 596. though this is denied by Bichat. It may be parts. The superior border presents a double curvature, something like the upper lip of the mouth, i. e., it curves downwards at its ex- tremities, and has a little dip in the middle. The inferior border, of less extent, is thinner, horizontal, and placed on a plane anterior to the upper. The greater cornim are at least half as long again as the body, from the sides of which they project, at first a little outwards and then backwards; they possess a shaft and two extremities. The anterior extremity is large, club-shaped, tuberculated, and curved in- wards towards the body, for its attachment with which it presents an articular facet ; the shaft tapers gradually posteriorly, and is la- terally flattened, so that it has an outer and inner surface, and an upper and lower border. Its outer surface, which is continuous with the anterior surface of the body, looks a little upwards ; its lower border is smooth and rounded; its upper border sharp, and, from the obliquity of the surfaces, of less extent than the lower. The posterior extremity is expanded into a little tubercle, sometimes sur- mounted by an epiphysis. The lesser cornua (ossa pisiformia lingualia, of Soemmering) are two little pyramidal or pisiform nodules, projecting upwards, out- wards, and backwards, from the point of union of the greater cornua and body : they are seldom completely ossified. They are the homolosues in man of a very considerable process {the ceratohyal) in the lower animals, in some of whom the proportion between the lesser and greater cornua is inverted. Structure — Chiefly compact, but a little cancellous in the body and large extremity of the greater cornua. Development. — From five points ; one for each element. Vesalius saw a case in which there were six, there being two for the body. The ossification commences in the greater cornua ; it then takes place in the body, where it begins soon after birth ; and, finally, in the lesser cornua, where it does not com- mence till some months after. It proceeds but slowly, and generally leaves a thin lamina of cartilage unossified, so that complete an- chylosis of the different parts into one bone is comparatively rare. The morphological value of this bone and its homological relations, will be treated of hereafter. b. The hyoglossal membrane or ligament. — This is a vertical transverse lamina of very dense areolar tissue, containing a large pro- portion of the yellow element, passing up- wards from the upper border of the body of the os hyoides to the tongue, between which it constitutes a means of union. The mus- cular connection of the tongue with the hyoid bone by means of the hyoglossus is deficient in the central part of the body of that bone, and, consequently, this ligament is, in that situation, the only direct bond of connection. It is dense, yellow, and very elastic, and has a little fat dispersed among it, traced upwards into the tongue, sometimes as far as an inch. It receives on its anterior face those fibres of the genioglossus that lie immediately above those that are inserted into the hyoid bone, and also some of the intrinsic longitudinal fibres of the tongue that terminate upon it; posteriorly it is in relation with the upper part of the epiglottis and the mucous membrane reflected upon it from the tongue ; in fact, it immediately underlays the glosso-epiglottid folds. Above, it is gradually lost in the muscles of the tongue; below, it in part terminates in the upper lip of the body of the os hyoides, and in part is continued on behind this bone, constituting the yellow elas- tic tissue already referred to as being inter- posed between it and the epiglottis. This ligament has been well described by Bichat.* e. Median fibrous septum {median carti- laginous lamina, Blandin).— Springing from the anterior surface of the last-mentioned structure, interposed between the two ge- nioglossi muscles, passing forwards between these two muscles as far as their genial origin, upwards to the dorsum of the tongue as far forwards as its centre, and thence to the anterior free border of the genioglossi, and a little beyond that border, is a vertical lamina of fibrous tissue. It is thick and dense behind and below, but gradually becomes thinned out as it spreads upwards and for- wards; as it gets thinner it becomes cribriform, like the septum of the corpora cavernosa penis, the areolae giving transmission to the transverse muscles of the tongue, which pass through it from side to side. It varies much in different individuals ; in some it is tolerably dense, in some it is merely a fine areolar web. This structure M. Blandin has dignified with the name of" median cartilaginous lamina" and has described it as consisting of a vertical sheet of that substance of more or less extent. I have, however, looked in vain for any thing like cartilage or fibro-cartilage in any part of it. It appears to me to be nothing more than intermuscular areolar tissue in rather greater amount and density than usual, which hap- pens to be placed in the median plane. It has been supposed by some to be the analogue of the small fusiform slip of cartilage placed beneath the extremity of the tongue in the dog and wolf, with which, however, it has no relation : that structure is essentially dis- tinct. Others have found in it the analogue of the lingual bone, a conception still more far-fetched. It has been supposed to give origin to muscular fibres by its two surfaces. This I have failed in detecting; certainly it does not give attachment to any of the trans~ verse fibres of the tongue, to which it might be supposed it would, if to any; for they may be seen, by transverse sections viewed with the microscope, to pass, without excep- tion, from side to side of the tongue, without any break in their median plane. d. Lastly, the investments of the tongue, in- cluding the papillary structures and the true