THORAX. 1019 pid vibration of hair-like organs —cilia. ( Vid. Art. Cilia.) Of the Second Species of Respiration. In- sects.— The breathing apparatus in insects generally reaches a high degree of develop- ment. Sometimes respiratory tubes or tra- cheae penetrate every part, in the form of mi- nute ramifying vessels conveying the included air to all the organs. The moving power or means of the renewal of the air in these tubes is at present little known. Some insects, al- though they live in water (as, for instance, the water beetles, and also water spiders), retain a bubble of air around them ; and, according to Nitzch*, they renew the air in the irtrachae by alternately elevating and depressing the an- tennae. Beetles, before flying, seem to inflate themselves with air, so as to unfold their wings, which, like other parts of their body, are supplied with air tubes. In this case an inspirative effort must be made by some cavity. Under certain circumstances, bees emit a voice, a shrill sound, which is indepen- dent of the motion of the wings, and which appears to be connected with the existence of a current of air through the respiratory tubes or tracheae; at least, such has been observed when the animal has been irritated and im- mersed in water, the surface of which, where it was in contact with the orifice of the stig- mata at the root of the wing, evidently vibrated at the moment the sound was produced.f In the orthoptera particularly, there are distinct respiratory movements, alternate dila- tations and contractions, of the abdomen ; in fact, respiratory motions are more distinctly perceptible in this division than in any other in- sects. In the locusta verrucivora particularly, it is easy to distinguish how the abdominal rings, which have smaller abdominal scuta between them inferiorly, are alternately elevated and depressed exactly like ribs. If we smear the great thoracic stigmata with oil, we find that numerous bubbles of air escape from it during these motions. The organs of respiratory motion, by means of which the supply of air is renewed, present many points of uncertainty. On the one hand, where large stigmata are placed opposite to each other, and connected by tracheae, it is easy to see that alternate opening and shutting of their valves may produce a current capable of renewing the supply of air. It is conceiv- able also, how, in the orthoptera, lepidoptera, and others, the expansion and contraction of the body, and the elasticity of the air-sacs contained in it, may cause the ingress of air. It is less obvious, however, how the same effect is produced in caterpillars and the larvae of beetles, where a current of air cannot very easily arise from the opposite position of the stigmata, on account of the minute ramifica- tions of the tracheae ; and consequently we must look for some peculiar mechanism, pro- bably cilia, unless we are disposed to admit * On the "Respiration of the Hydrophilse, in Reil's Arcliiv. B. x. S. 440. f Hunter, Philosophical Transactions. 1792. p. 182. the stagnation of the air in its vessels. Hence it has been conjectured that the dilatation and contraction of the dorsal vessel contributes to this purpose. This, however, appears to be scarcely possible ; and it might be asked on the contrary, if the vermicular motion of the body itself, the sliding of its segments upon each other, are not the means of keeping up the constant ingress and egress of air.* In the lowest of the molluscous class, the external tunic with which they are covered is generally so elastic, that it is capable of dilating by its own properties, when it has been greatly contracted by the muscular coat that is within; and in forcible expirations, Dr. Grant has observed these animals to contract their muscular coat, and to retract the exterior covering, so as to propel, with considerable impetuosity, and to a distance, the water that fills their respiratory cavity. The elasticity of the tunic tends to over- come the resistance of the muscular coat, and to expand, to a certain extent, the respi- ratory cavity. Without, therefore, the existence of elastic ligaments, such as we find in ccnehi- fera, there is a partial means of enlarging the respiratory cavity given to these tunica ted animals. This, however, is only in occa- sional, forced, respiration ; constant and al- ternate contraction and expansion of the ex- terior tunic is not met with in any known tu- nicated, nor in a conchiferous animal.-)- The streams that enter the respiratory, and pass out of the anal aperture, are smooth, regular, and incessant, and are produced, by ciliary movement. Of the Tldrd Species of Respiration. Fishes. — It may be said that the thorax of fishes usually presents four elastic cartilaginous arches, which approximate and separate, open or close the gills, at the same time increasing or diminishing the capacity of the so-formed thorax. These ribs, or branchial arches, sup- port the gills, which are covered by a great flap (operculum) on each side of the base of the skull. The respiratory current enters at the mouth, passes through the fissures on each side of the fauces, and escapes through the branchial openings, placed laterally, covered by the moveable operculum. This stream is uniformly in one direction, — from before, backwards. It might be asked, why does not the water rush in by the branchial opening when the mouth "threatens" a vacuum ? It will be observed that the margin of the oper- culum, or great lateral flap, is edged with a delicate membrane, which acts as a valve, this, by the pressure of the water, is forced close round the lateral openings : thus, the water, upon the expansion of the jaws, is prevented entering behind, and consequently rushes in towards the gills by the mouth ; the jaws now close, the operculum immediately opens by the * Reimarcus, Ueber das Athmcn. in Reil's Archiv. B. xi. S. 2.; and Nitzseh, Comment, de Respirat. p. 30. et seq. f Grant's Lecture " On the Respiratory Organs of Invertebrata." Lancet, 1833—4, vol. i. p. 9G4.