889 TEETH. the turgescent duct with whicli it is in con- tact, the tubes which proceed to the surface d, while maintaining their normal relation of the right angle to it, are extremely short; and the layer of dentine separating the poison- tube from the pulp-cavity is proportionally thin. The calcigerous tubes that radiate from the opposite side of the pulp-cavity to the exposed surface b of the tooth are dispropor- tionally long. The teeth of Ophidians are developed and completed in that part which forms the ori- ginal seat of the tooth-germs in all animals ; viz. the mucous membrane or gum covering, the alveolar border of the dentigerous bones. This germ presents the same lax tissue, and is as abundantly developed, as in the Pike, Lophius, and many other fishes; in which it likewise serves as the nidus and locality for the complete development of the teeth. The primitive dental papillae in the common harm- less snake very soon sinks into the substance of the gum, and becomes inclosed by a cap- sule. As soon as the deposition of the cal- careous salts commences in the apex of the papilla the capsule covering that part becomes ossified and adherent to the dentine, and the tooth begins to pierce and emerge from the gum before its mould, the pulp, is half com- pleted. Fresh layers of cells are successively added to the base of the pulp, and converted, by their confluence and calcification, into the tubular dentine, until the full size of the tooth is attained, when its situation in the gum is gradually changed, and its base becomes surface of the pulp ; and the base of the groove of the loose, growing, poison-fang is brought into the same relation with the duct of the poison gland as the displaced fang, which has been severed from the duct. Saurians. — The existing species of lizards differ from those of the crocodile in the anchy- losed condition of the teeth, which present few modifications of importance; those that yield most fruit to physiology, and which have most expanded our ideas of the extent of the re- sources of Nature and the exceptional devi- ations from what was deemed the rule of structure in the Saurian dentition, have been discovered by the study of the fossil teeth of extinct forms of the order. Amongst these the most extraordinary in respect of their dental system have been recently discovered in a form- ation in South Africa, which seems nearly as ancient as our own coal-seams. I have called them " Dicynodonts,"* from their dentition being reduced to one long and large canine tooth on each side of the upper jaw. As these teeth give, at first sight, a character to the jaws like that which the long poison-fangs give, when erected, to the jaws of the rattle- snake, I shall briefly notice their characters before entering upon the description of the more normal Saurian dentition. Fig. 509. gives a reduced side view of the skull of the species of Dicynodon called D. la- certiccps. The cranial cavity (8, 8) is extremely contracted, as in all the cold-blooded quad- rupeds : it is bounded on each side by wide and deep temporal fossa; (J) indicating power- Fig. 569. Skull of Dicynodon lacerticeps, one-third natural size. anchylosed to the shallow cavity of the alve- olar surface of the bone. In the posterior part of the large mucous sheath of the poison-fang, the successors of this tooth are always to be found in different stages of development ; the pulp is at first a simple papilla, and when it has sunk into the gum the succeeding portion presents a depression along its inferior surface, as it lies horizontally, with the apex directed back- wards; the capsule adheres to this inflected ful muscles for the action of the lower jaw. The orbits (o) are large and round ; the nos- trils («) are divided by the junction of the nasal bones (15) with the premaxillaries (22), as in lizards ; there is not a single median external nostril, as in Chelonian and Croco- dilian reptiles. The alveolar border of the lower jaw and of the premaxillary part of the * From hi;, two, and xvvihev;, the name given by Hippocrates to the canine teeth, and signifying the same idea as their common English denomination.