TONGUE. 1155 4 e 2 well defined : these ulcers vary in size from that of a pin's head to that of a split-pea, or larger ; they are almost constantly situated at the tip, or edges of the tongue; they are sometimes grey, at others red ; when touched against the teeth they are acutely painful, and their presence causes an abundant and con- stant secretion of saliva. In the commence- ment, however, there is no ulceration, but the malady begins by an affection of a papilla, consisting in an effusion of lymph into a fungiform papilla (hereafter to be described), and this terminates in ulceration : the papilla is at first large, yellow, and distended with lymph ; in a few hours it has disappeared, and its site is occupied by an ulcer, which after- wards more or less spreads in a regular, cen- trifugal manner. I believe this process has never before been properly described, — per- sons not being aware that any thing has hap- pened until the ulcer exists, and consequently never seeing or exhibiting the malady in the first stage; but any one, subject to these little infirmities, may satisfy himself of the truth of what I have said by carefully watching the state of his tongue from day to da}'. The severe and deep-seated ulcerations of the tongue, arising from mere disorder of the alimentary canal, may consist of an extension of the already-described variety, or it may commence by a vesication, or an excoriation of the surface ; it generally occurs in people who are debilitated from some cause or another. Mr. Lawrence relates the following characteristic case : — "A lady, between fifty and sixty, of unhealthy appearance, with a red pimply face, who had often suffered from dis- order of the digestive organs, consulted me for a disease of the tongue of formidable ap- pearance. The middle and upper part of the organ was swollen, and occupied by a deep ulcer of irregular figure and foul aspect. It was very painful, interfering with mastication and articulation. The digestive organs were much disturbed. The complaint yielded speedily and effectually to simple measures — regulation of diet, and the digestive organs, small doses of extract of henbane, and sooth- ing local means." (Clinical Lecture, Medical Gazette, vol. xxxvi. p. 800.) Mr. Lawrence mentions an instance in which rawness and severe excoriation of the tongue often repeated, the result of periodic and long-continued dyspepsia, appear to have induced true scirrhus of the organ. Aphthous ulceration. — The ulceration is merely one stage of a peculiar morbid change, to which the tongue, in common with some other portions of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane, is liable. The tongue, however, suffers more severely than most other parts. It is eminently the result of disordered diges- tion, and is accompanied with more or less fever of an atonic character. An aphthous tongue is rather swollen, tender, and furred, and has a sensation of burning heat: on its surface, scattered about irregularly, are small white bodies, resembling little masses of curd, varying in size from a split pea to a pin's- head, attached pretty firmly ; these bodies, as well as the swollen state of the tongue, cause the subject of them pain and inconvenience : after a variable time these little white masses fall off, leaving the membrane on which they rested in an altered condition,—it is either raw and excoriated at these spots, the epithelium being peeled off and leaving the papillae naked, exposed, and red ; or else, the deeper ele- ments of the membrane being affected, an ulcer is formed. These ulcers are generally more or less circular and superficial, and are in no way to be distinguished, at this stage, from the little circular ulcers already described, but aphtha? on the neighbouring portions of the tongue disclose their true nature. The white aphthous mass itself has been variously de- scribed as a slough, concrete mucus, and albu- mino-fibrin, but it consists in reality of a mi- nute parasitic fungus, which attaches itself to the mucous membrane and burrows among its epithelial cells. Seen under the microscope, it is found to be composed of threads matted together like felt, and intertwining among the epithelium. Accompanying aphthae are gene- rally to be seen on the surface of the tongue, small vesicas, spots of epithelium raised with a little serum underneath, and also some of the papillae distended with fibrinous exuda- tion — conditions to be described presently. Indurated non-malignant ulceration,—Indu- rated ulcers, which are neither syphilitic nor malignant, but closely resembling scirrhus, are occasionally met with, and their doubtful character gives the surgeon not a little trouble. Mr. Lane narrates the following formidable example : — " Mr. G. B., aged 33, came to me in the month of June, 1813, with a very foul ulcer beneath the tongue, and said that he some time before had had one on the upper part of it, which he said was healed ; but on examination there was a deep irregular fissure, with raised, jagged, hardened edges, commu- nicating with the ulcer under the tongue, which, on examining with a probe, I found not. only communicated with the fissure on the upper surface, but the instrument passed through the substance of the tongue, into a deep seated ulcer at the root of it, and thence into the throat. The general appearance of the disease was most alarming, bearing a very- strong character of carcinoma. Lie experienced great pain and difficulty in deglutition, and complained that the pain had of late extended behind the ears, to the back of the head and neck." (Mcdico-Chirur. Trans., vol. vim p. 202.) The case, however, was not one of carcinoma, for the patient completely recovered under alterative treatment. About two years since an instance came under my own notice. A man of about 45, had been a sailor ; had never had syphilis ; for about six years had been labouring under a disease of the tongue, with little improvement, or permanent change, in its condition. When I saw him, the right half of the tongue was enlarged and much indu- rated ; the left was of natural size and soft, but with few papilla; ; on the right side no pa- pillae were to be seen, and the surface was ex-