SPLEEN. 771 opposed sides of the third and ourth toes, having previously communicated with the ex- ternal plantar. These different divisions of the internal plantar nerve give off, in their course, fila- ments to those portions of the cuticle with which they are in relation ; and also small twigs for the metatarso-phalangeal and pha- langeal articulations, and muscular branches to the flexor digitorum brevis, over the ten- dons of which the different divisions of the external portion of the nerve are obliquely and superficially directed. The external plantar nerve, smaller than the internal, is directed forwards and out- wards between the musculus accessorius and flexor digitorum brevis, giving filaments to either, and, having reached the inner border of the abductor minimi digiti, which muscle it sup- plies, divides into a deep and superficial branch. The deep branch passes from between the first and second layer of muscles to place it- self between the latter and the third, passing in company with the external plantar artery. It describes a curve, the concavity of which looks towards the heel and inner malleolus. Filaments are sent off for the two outer lum- bricales, for the transversalis pedis, the ad- ductor pollicis, the interossei, and the tarsal and metatarsal articulations. The superficial branch passes obliquely for- wards and outwards between the flexor brevis digitorum and abductor minimi digiti, to both of which it gives filaments, and soon divides into an external and internal branch. The external branch reaches the outer border of the foot, and terminates at the extremity of the outer aspect of the little toe; giving filaments to the flexor brevis minimi digiti and the articulations. The internal, larger, com- municates with the most external division of the internal plantar, and bifurcates at the ex- tremity of the fourth interosseous space, for the supply of the contiguous sides of the fourth and fifth toes. The divisions of the superficial branch of the external plantar nerve, like those of the internal, supply the portions of the integument with which they are in relation, as also the articulations over which they pass. The internal and external plantar nerves are, in reference to size, directly the reverse of the corresponding arteries: the foi mer giving off seven filaments for the supply of the three inner toes, and half of the fourth ; and being analogous in its distribution to the median in the hand: the latter giving off only three filaments for the fifth and half of the fourth toe, and corresponding with the distri- bution of the termination of the ulnar nerve. {Nathaniel Ward.) SPLEEN. {Lien seu Splen, Lat.; "Zttk^v, Gr. ; die MHz, Germ.; la Rate, Fr.) Nor- mal anatomy. The spleen is a single so-called " vascular gland," which is attached to the cardiac extremity of the stomach, and appears to possess some intimate connection with the renovation of the blood. Situation and form. — The spleen has a roundish elongated form, or almost the shape of half an egg, and lies in the left hypochon- driac region. We recognise on it two sur- faces, two borders, and two extremities. The outer surface {superficies externa seu convexa) is completely free and smooth, and often ex- hibits a more or less deep, long, and oblique incision': it looks outwards, upwards, and back- wards ; and is in contact with the left costal portion of the diaphragm, corresponding to the tenth and eleventh ribs. The inner surface (superficies interna seu concava) is directed inwards and forwards; is for the most part slightly concave, and presents, in a prolonged elevation which occupies its middle, a vertical furrow, the fissure for the vessels, or hi/us liena/is, which contains many holes and de- pressions, through which pass the nerves and vessels to and from the spleen. This fissure separates the concave surface into an anterior and larger, and a posterior and smaller por- tion ; and it is connected by the broad, but short gastro-splenic omentum (ligamcntum gaslro-lienale), with the fundus of the stomach, to which the remainder of the concave surface is opposed. The upper extremity or head of the spleen (caput Herds'), is the thicker and more obtuse of the two ; it occupies the ele- vated hinder part of the eighth rib, and is con- nected by a suspensory ligament (ligamcntum phrenico-lienale seu suspensiorum) with the diaphragm. The lower extremity or eauda lienis, is thinner and more pointed, and is directed downwards and forwards. The an- terior border (margo anterior) is the thinner and sharper, and is free. The posterior border (margo obtusus) is thick and rounded, and is in contact with the lumbar portion of the diaphragm, and the anterior surface of the left suprarenal capsule. The spleen is thus least moveable, where it is limited by the diaphragm; but much more so at the site of its attach- ment to the stomach. But its situation changes with the variable positions of the diaphragm and stomach : thus, on the one hand, it de- scends and rises in the states of in- and ex- spiration respectively ; and, on the other hand, becomes more superficial or deeper, according as the stomach is empty or full. Varieties of the spleen. — It is not un- common to find the anterior border of the spleen, presenting one or more separate deep fissures. Also supplementary spleens (liencu/i, seu lienes succenturiati) are now and then ob- served : according to Rosenmtiller and Giesker, more frequently in the Southern than in the Northern Germans. These are situated in the gastrosplcnic ligament, and rarely in the great omentum (Morgagni, Huschke) ; they are red, of the ordinary splenic structure, and of a size which varies from a linseed to a walnut. They are generally one or two in number, less frequently four or seven, and in a misdeveloped fcetus have even amounted to twenty-three. The size and weight of the spleen experience great variation, not only in different indi- viduals, but even in one and the same person : 3d 2