TEETH. 917 3 n 3 initiation of the exact homologies of the teeth, it is satisfactory to know that the more constant and important character of develop- ment gives the requisite certitude as to the nature of the so-called bicuspids in the human subject. In Jig. 584, the condition of the Fig. 584. Deciduous and permanent teeth of a Cliild (Homo). teeth is shown in the jaws of a child of about six years of age. The two incisors on each side (di.) are followed by a canine, dc, anil this by three teeth having crowns resembling those of the three molar teeth of the adult. In fact, the last of the three is the first of the permanent molars ; it has pushed through the gum, like the two molars which are in advance of it, without displacing any previous tooth, and the substance of the jaw contains no germ of any tooth destined to displace it : it is therefore, by this character of its de- velopment, a true molar, and the germs of the permanent teeth, which are exposed in the substance of the jaw between the diverging fangs of the molars, d. 3 and d. 4, prove those molars to be temporary, destined to be replaced, and prove also that the teeth about to displace them are premolars. According, therefore, to the rule previously laid down, we count the permanent molar in place the first of its series (m. I), and the adjoining premolar as the last of its series, and consequently the fourth of the typical dentition, or p. 4. We are thus enabled, with the same scien- tific certainty as that whereby we recognise in the middle toe of the foot the homologue of that great digit which forms the whole foot and is encased by the hoof in the horse, to point to p. 4, or the second bicuspid in the upper jaw, and to m. 1, or the first molar in the lower jaw of man, as the homo- logues of the great carnassial teeth of the lion and tiger. We also conclude that the teeth which are wanting in man to complete the typical molar series, are the first and second premolars, the homologues of those marked p. 1 and p. 2 in the bear. The characteristic shortening of the maxillary bones required this diminution of the number of their teeth, as well as of their size, and of the canines more especially ; antl the still greater curtailment of the premaxillary bone is attended with a diminished number and an altered position of the incisors. One sees, indeed, in the car- nivorous series, that a corresponding decrease in the number of the premolars is concomitant with the shortening of the jaws. Already in the MusteMm, (Jig. 580., IV), p. 1 below is abrogated; in Felis also above, with the further loss of p. 2 in the lower jaw ; the true molars being correspondingly reduced in these strictly flesh-eating animals, but taken away from the back part of their series. If we were desirous of further testing the soundness of the foregoing conclusions as to the nature of the teeth absent in the reduced dental formula of man, we ought to trace the mode in which the type is progressively resumed in descending from man through the order most nearly allied to our own. Through a considerable part of the Qua- drumanous series, e. g. in all the Old World genera above the Lemurs, the same number and kinds of teeth are present as in man ; the first deviation being the disproportionate size of the canines and the concomitant break or " diastema" in the dental series for the reception of their crowns when the mouth is shut. This is manifested in both the Chimpanzees and Orangs, together with a sexual difference in the proportions of the canine teeth. As the precise characteristics of the human dentition are best demonstrated by comparison with that brute species which is most nearly allied to Man, and makes the first step in the descending scale, I here subjoin the details of such a comparison, which is the more required since it is not touched upon in the article Qua drum an a, and will be the more acceptable as one of its subjects is a species of Chim- panzee (Troglodytes Gorilla)*, unknown to science when that article was written, and which, so far as its organisation is known, is more anthropoid than even the docile and smaller species of Chimpanzee (Troglodytes nigef). A side view of the teeth of a male, full-grown, but not aged, specimen of the great Chimpanzee is given of the natural size in Jig. 585., and a view of the working surface of the whole series of the upper jaw mjig. 586. This dentition, though in all its principal characters strictly quadrumanous, yet, in the * Drs. Savage and Wyman, Boston Journal of Natural History, 1847; Owen, Transactions of the Zoological Society, vol. iii. p. 881 (February, 18-18). M. F. Cuvier has not given a figure of the dentition of any species of Chimpanzee (Troglodytes). Be- lieving with his brother, that the Orang (Pitkecus, Geoft'r.) made the nearest approach to man, the dentition of an immature Pit/iecus Wurmbii with one of the characteristically large permanent molars (to. 1) in place, immediately follows the plate of the human dentition in the "Dents des Mammiferes," 8vo. pis. i. & ii.