VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1349 affinity with every other, each has been mo- dified by the introduction of extraneous elements. Thus, in those of Western Eu- rope, there is a considerable admixture of Celtic ; whilst in others there are traces of more barbaric tongues. In fact, there can be little doubt, that Europe had an indigenous population before the immigration of the Indo- German or even of the Celtic tribes ; and of this population it seems most probable that the Lapps and Finns of Scandinavia, and the Euskarians of the Biscayan provinces, are the remnant. There is evidence that the former of these tribes once extended much further south than at present; and, on the other hand, there is ample proof that the latter had formerly a very extensive distribution through Southern Europe. It has been clearly shown by William Von Humboldt, that the Eusk- arian language, so far from having been de- rived (as some writers have supposed) from the Celtic, must have been in existence long anterior to the immigration of the Celtic nations into Western Europe; and since that time, it has been shown to have affinities with the Finnish tongue, and through this with the languages of High Asia. It may be sur- mised, then, that the advance of the Indo- European tribes, from the south-east corner into central Europe, separated that portion of the aboriginal population, which they did not destroy or absorb, into two great divisions ; of which one was gradually pressed north- ward and eastward, so as to be restricted to Finland and Lapland; and the other south- ward and westward, so as to be confined at the earliest historic period to a part of the peninsula of Spain and the South of France, gradually to be driven before the successive irruptions of the Celts, Romans, Arabians, and other nations, until their scanty remnant found an enduring refuge in the fastnesses of the Pyrenees.* It is curious that the Eusk- arian language should carry out the principle of agglutination to an extent which has no parallel among the languages of the Old World, and which is only surpassed by those of America. The Indo-Germanic race are unquestionably those which are destined to acquire the greatest predominance, not only in the Old World, but in all those newly-found lands which have been discovered by their enterprise. With scarcely any exception, as Dr. Latham has justly remarked, they present an encroaching frontier; there being no instance of their per- manent displacement by any other race, save in the case of the Arab dominion in Spain, * This view, which was suggested by the Author (British and Foreign Medical Review, Oct. 1847) without the knowledge that it had been elsewhere propounded, has been put forth with considerable confidence by Dr. Latham (Varieties of Man, p. 551.) as originating with Arndt, and adopted by Rask, distinguished Scandinavian ethnologists. The great antiquity of the Albanian tongue having been fully proved, and the circumstances of the tribe having been nearly the same, it is suggested by Dr. Latham that this, too, may be a remnant of the abo- riginal Turanian population. which has long since ceased; in that of the Turkish dominion in Turkey and Asia Minor, which is evidently destined to expire at no distant period, being now upheld only by ex- traneous influence ; and in that of the Magyars in Hungary, who only maintain their ground by their complete assimilation to the Indo- Germanic character. It has been already pointed out; however, that the rapid exten- sion of this race is due, not merely to its superior skill in the arts of war and diplomacy, but to a physical cause which tends to ex- tinguish the aboriginal population of many of the inferior races, wherever sexual inter- course takes place between them (p. 1341.). II. Asiatic Nations. — Whilst in Eu- rope the presence of the Arian family is the rule, and that of the Mongolian is the excep- tion, we find in the vast continent of Asia, that the reverse is the case; the presence of the Arian family being the exception, and that of the Mongolian the rule. In fact, although the Celtic and Indo-Germanic races undoubtedly had their origin in Central or Western Asia, yet the tribes which can, with greatest probability, be regarded as the de- scendants of the ancient stock, are extremely few, and scarcely able to maintain their ground. They are, according to Dr. Latham, the Persians of Northern and Western Persia; the Kurds, the Baluchi, the Affghans, the Tajiks of Bokhara, and the Sia-posh. All these speak languages which contain a large proportion of Sanscrit words ; but whether they are so far akin to the Sanscrit in gram- matical structure, as to hold to it the same relation as that which the European lan- guages possess, is as yet uncertain. Whether or not the Armenians belong to this group, has not yet been ascertained.* It has been generally considered, until recently, that the nations of the great Indian peninsula for the most part belonged to the same stock ; but philological investigation has shown that such a doctrine is certainly untrue with regard to some, and is probably or possibly erroneous with regard to others. The Tamulian, which is the dominant language of Southern India, is undoubtedly not Sanscritic in its origin, although containing an infusion of Sanscritic words, but more closely approximates to the Seriform type. Many of the hill tribes, in different parts of India, speak peculiar dia- lects, which appear referable to the same stock. And in Dr. Latham's opinion, the dialects spoken throughout Northern India are to be regarded in a similar light, notwith- standing the large infusion of Sanscritic words which they contain. Viewed under this aspect, the mass of the population of India is * It is somewhat remarkable that greater atten tiou should not have been paid to the study of the Armenian language; as the facilities presented by commercial intercourse are not small; and the iso- lated position of this nation is one which might lead to the anticipation, that its language miglit retain the Sanscritic type, with less alteration than that of other nations, which have been more affected by conquest and intermixture of races. 4k 3