105 J- THORAX. shortens, while the bars now decrease their perpendicular distance. Therefore it is per- fectly compatible for an intercostal fibre to separate the two ribs, between which it is at- tached, by its contracting ; and, if above a certain point (90° to the spine), to approxi- mate the same ribs by its further contraction. Fig. 698. In deep inspiration it will be found that the ribs increase the breadth of their intercostal spaces (as was mentioned years ago by Ham- berger) ; and that by the contraction of an intercostal fibre. The bars {fig. 698.) in ro- tating, twice attain a minimum, and once a maximum, distance from each other; while the oblique tension in that revolution once attains its maximum, and once its minimum length. Of tensions at different parts of the bars or ribs. — Parallel tensions of equal power pro- duce the same effect, whether near the ful- crum or more distant from it ; an intercostal fibre near the vertebra?, has the same power as a fibre near the anterior extremity of the ribs. Let Fig. 696. represent ribs as before, with two parallel tensions at different distances from the body, e e, then t' + a m—t' r\-a m=t''-\-x (am—aji)=('-fA o t. + A N— t+a n— t + (A N — a n)~ ( + AO, Therefore the tension l t {Jig. 694.) acts with the same power as tensions p p', which is much nearer to the fulcra a b. Knowing now the effect of a single oblique tension, it is easy to consider an indefinite number of tensions, for they follow the same law of action. In Jig. 699. the tensions x acting on a c, lift Fig. 699. the bars to m', and, by the same reason, ten- dons observing a contrary direction and acting upon a' c' lift the bars to m'". Therefore tensions, although observing contrary direc- tions, may be made to conspire to the same action, and may therefore be associates when acting upon different fulcra. We have shown that tensions in contrary directions, but acting upon the same fulcra, are antagonists. If we join the levers ( fig. 699.) and increase their number, we may represent the thorax as in Jig. 700., kk representing the spine, bb the sternum, the bars a a the ribs, and the bars a' a' the costal cartilages united to the bars representing ribs by a movable joint; let r represent the external intercostals, these, we know, will act as elevators, while those at h, representing the internal intercostals, are asso- ciates in action, although they observe a con- trary direction, because they act upon the fulcra in b b; in fact, they are elevators of the levers representing the cartilages. What now is the combined action of a series of two such tensions ? The whole body of levers will be raised, and the part b b re- presenting the sternum will have two motions : it will be raised and moved forwards into the position of b' b'. This is precisely the mo- tion of the sternum in deep inspiration. In a model of this kind, certain means must be used to limit the motion, or the movement is continued until the tensions are at rest. Or, if the bars representing the ribs a a ( fig. 700.) be fixed, then the tensions representing the internal intercostals h would depress the short bars representing the car- tilages, because b b is free, and k k is fixed. And were either set of tensions continued over the joints representing the union of the cartilages with the ribs, such fibres would