TEETH. 92G Ungulates; it is not a mere miniature of the great molars of the mature animal, but re- tains, agreeably with the period of life at which it is developed, a character much more nearly approaching that of the ordinary Pa- chydermal molar, manifesting the adherence to the more general type by the minor com- plexity of the crown, and by the form and relative size of the fangs. In the transverse divisions of the crown we perceive the affinity to the Tapiroid type, the different links con- necting which with the typical elephants are supplied by the extinct Lophiodons, Dino- theriums, and Mastodons. The sub-division of the summits of the primary plates recalls the character of the molars, especially the smaller ones, of the Phacochere in the Hog- tribe. As the elephant advances in age the molars rapidly acquire their more special and complex character. The first molars are completely in place, and in full use at three months, and are shed when the elephant is about two years old. The sudden increase and rapid develop- ment of the second molar may account for the non-existence of any vertical successor to the former tooth, or " premolar," in the elephant. The eight or nine plates of the crown are formed in the closed alveolus, behind the first molar by the time this cuts the gum, and they are united with the body of the tooth, and most of them in use, when the first molar is shed. The average length of the second molar is two inches and a half; ranging from two inches to two inches and nine lines. The greatest breadth, which is behind the middle of the tooth, is from one inch to one inch three lines. There are two roots : the cavity of the small anterior one expands in the crown, and is continued into that of the three anterior plates. The thicker root supports the rest of the tooth. The second molar is worn out and shed before the beginning of the sixth year. The third molar has the crown divided into from eleven to thirteen plates ; it averages four inches in length, and two inches in breadth, and has a small anterior, and a very large posterior root; it begins to appear above the gum about the end of the second year, is in its most complete state and exten- sive use during the fifth year, and is worn out and shed in the ninth year. The last rem- nant of the third molar is shown at m. 3, fig. 592. It is probable that the three teeth above de- scribed are homologous with the deciduous mo- lars, d. 2, d.3, and d.4. in the Hyrax and horse. The fourth molar presents a marked supe- riority of size over the third, and a somewhat different form : the anterior angle is more obliquely abraded, giving a pentagonal figure to the tooth in the upper jaw (Jig. 592. m. 4). The number of plates in the crown of this tooth is fifteen or sixteen : its length between seven and eight inches; its breadth three inches. It has an anterior simple and slender root supporting the three first plates; a second of larger size and bifid, supporting the four next plates; and a large contracting base for the remainder. The fore-part of the grinding surface of this tooth begins to pro- trude through the gum at the sixth year : the tooth is worn away, and its last remnant shed, about the twentieth or twenty-fifth year. It may be regarded as the homologue of the first true molar of ordinary Pachyderms (m. 1). The fifth molar, with a crown of from seventeen to twenty plates, measures between nine and ten inches in length, and about three inches and a half in breadth. The second root is more distinctly separated from the first simple root than from the large mass behind. It begins to appear above the gum about the twentieth year : its duration has not been ascertained by observation ; but it probably is not shed before the sixtieth year. The sixth molar appears to be the last, and has from twenty-two to twenty-seven plates; its length, or antero-posterior extent, following the curvature, is from twelve to fifteen inches : the breadth of the grinding surface rarely exceeds three inches and a half. The reproductive power of the matrix in some cases surpasses that of the formative development of the cavity for lodging the tooth, and the last lamellae are obliged to be folded from behind forwards upon the side of the tooth. Fig. 99, p. 233. of my " History of British Fossil Mammals," shows this condition in the last lower molar of the Mammoth. One may reasonably conjecture that the sixth molar of the Indian elephant, if it make its appearance about the fiftieth year, would, from its superior depth and length, continue to do the work of mastication until the pon- derous Pachyderm had passed the century of its existence. Mr. Corse has figured the sixth molar, (which he calls the seventh or eighth,) with twenty-three plates, in tab. x. of his Memoir, and a small cavity, c, is marked as an in- cipient alveolus for a succeeding grinder. Had it actually been such, it might have been expected to contain some calcified portions of the anterior plates of such succeeding grinder. The molar teeth, in all the species of elephant, succeed each other from behind forwards, moving, not in a right line, but in the arc of a circle, shown by the curved line in fig. 592. The position of the growing tooth in the closed alveolus (m. 5) is almost at right angles with that in use, the grinding surface being at first directed backwards in the upper jaw, and forwards in the lower jaw, anil brought, by the revolving course, into a horizontal line in both jaws, so that they oppose each other, when developed for use. The imaginary pivot on which the grinders revolve is next their root in the upper jaw, and is next the grinding surface in the lower jaw ; in both, towards the frontal surface of the skull. Viewing both upper and lower molars as one complex whole, subject to the same revolving movement, the section dividing such whole into upper and lower portion runs