712 SOFTENING AND INDURATION. equal in degree throughout the whole organ ; frequently, certain spots, the seat of old effu- sions of blood, are denser than the indurated tissue around them ; and eccymoses and dark yellow and black spots, are found sometimes scattered over the hardened tissue. .This variety of induration may be accompanied by increase or decrease of bulk, or no alteration in size may occur ; in degree, it may vary from the slightest increase of consistence, de- pending upon excessive nutrition, to a bony hardness. Softening of the kidney is of common occur- rence, being frequently found, with an enlarged state of the organ, in several of the diseases comprehended under the term Bright's disease. It exists also in the kidneys of diabetic sub- jects, and in some cases of renal calculi. When produced by inflammatory action, the softened kidney is dark red, and when a con- sequence of a perverted state of the nutrition of the organ, it is usually of a pale colour. Ge- nerally speaking, the softened state is produced by enlargement of the uriniferous tubes, and a consequent diminution of the solid matrix, or this last only may be affected ; and when such is the case, the tissue breaks down with the slightest pressure. In degree, softening may vary from simple fiabbiness to a state ap- proaching diffluence. Induration of the kidney is generally found with an atrophied state of the organ ; it is a sequel of acute, and is found in chronic, ne- phritis, especially in gouty subjects. In these the kidney is frequently indurated, paler than natural, less vascular, and many of its tubes may be blocked up with urate of soda. In- duration is sometimes accompanied by an hypertrophied and a darkened state of the organ. In the first stage of induration, the consistence of the organ is slightly exagge- rated, and the finger makes no impression on it; in such kidneys we find superficial star- like venous twigs, and more or less confusion of the cortical tissue. In a more advanced stage, the tissue may become nearly as hard as cartilage, and perfectly colourless. Por- tions only of the kidney may be affected, but, generally, the greater part of it suffers ; and it is, comparatively speaking, rare to find car- tilaginous induration of one or more of the mammilated processes. Induration and softening of the uterus are frequently products of acute inflammation of the organ ; the first is formed but slowly, the latter with great rapidity, and may or may not be complicated with effusion and in- filtration of pus, into the muscular structure. Uncomplicated softening is frequently the re- sult of a more chronic and subacute inflam- matory action, and is occasionally found in the impregnated uterus, being made known to the practitioner by the spontaneous rupture of its walls, and the passage of its contents into the cavity of the abdomen. A soften- ing, either general or partial, is found in cases where there were no uterine symptoms during life ; the tissue is as friable as that of a softened spleen ; but none of the pro- ducts of inflammation are to be found. It is, probably, produced by a perverted and defective state of the general nutrition ; the uterus, from its low vitality, prominently suf- fering. A putrid sloughy-looking softening occurs around growths and ulcerations of the uterine tissue. Softening and induration of the ovaries are usually produced by acute or chronic inflam- matory action : the one, if found in the early stages of ovaritis, is produced by the effusion of serum into the tissue of the ovary ; and the other, a sequel of the same disease, is pro- duced by the contraction and hardening of effused lymph. In old age, thickening of the fibrous coat, and atrophy, and induration of the stroma, with special hardening around old Graafian vesicles, are very common: this state is fre- quently preceded by a flabby consistence of the organ. In the puerperal state, the ovaries are sub- ject to complete softening and disorganiza- tion ; the natural structure is lost, and, in its place, is a pulpy diffluent bloody-looking mass. An indurated state of the prostate gland is common enough in old age, and is gene- rally accompanied by hypertrophy ; and a grey or white hardening of the testicle and epidi- dymis, with or without destruction of the seminiferous tubes, is frequently found as a sequel of chronic inflammation. A softened state of the whole or part of the osseous framework of the body, is met with in scrofulous habits, and in persons suf- fering from cancerous cachexia, under the form of rachitis and mollities ossium. In the first of these diseases, there is a deficient deposit of earthy matter, and the animal matter is probably of an unhealthy quality; whilst in the second, the constituents are not defi- cient in quantity, but bad in quality, and the vital properties of the bone are completely deranged ; the osseous structure has lost its co- hesive power, and breaks with the least mus- cular effort. In rachitis, the bones may be bent in any direction, and are easily cut; their cen- tre resembling cartilage. In mollities ossium, the knife penetrates the tissue, which appears to consist of numerous cells, with thin walls, and containing an oleaginous fluid, with the greatest ease. Occasionally, bones are found so softened as to resemble lard in consistence ; and sometimes in subjects which have suffered from chronic disease, the ribs are more easily cut through than the cartilages. In caries, also, there is a softening and absorption of the bony texture, which crumbles away on the slightest touch. Softening of cartilage is found under three forms. It may lose its usual elasticity and become doughy, or the usually dry and elastic cartilage of an adult may be found soft, as if it were that of an infant; it acquires extensi- bility, and its elasticity diminishes. Finally, the "cartilage of adult life may so lose its con- sistence, as to resemble embryonic cartilage ; it becomes pale and transparent, its quantity