TONGUE. 1130 the three axes of the cube ; that to facilitate this arrangement, a beautiful system of pack- ing. 751. horizontal; c, longitudinal, in section, occupying the interspaces between the vertical. ace is adopted, whereby each of these is enabled to pass in a straight line to its destin- ation without being interfered with by the other two ; whereby the individual bundles of each set are isolated from their fellows ; whereby the whole of them are contained in the smallest possible compass ; whereby they not only admit the passage of, but mutually support and conduct each other ; whereby, in consequence of this, they are enabled to dis- pense with the support of cellular tissue, which accordingly we find absent; whereby, lastly, the tongue contains the greatest amount of muscular tissue possible for its bulk. This system of package consists of this — that the crossing of the fibres of any two sets forms a lattice work, or mesh, through which the third shall pass, and that the successive layers of the crossing fibres shall be so arranged that the areolae shall form continuous channels for the transmission of the perforating ones. In whatever plane we look at the fibres, we find that this is the case — that two sets are crossing fibres anil one set perforating — that two are seen in profile, one in section ; but, as we vary the plane, so do we vary the ap- pearance of the fibres, one set alone remain- ing the same and two interchanging. Thus, in a transverse vertical section the transverse and vertical fibres are seen in profile, and the longitudinal in section ; in a longitudinal ver- tical section the vertical and longitudinal are in profile, and the transverse in section ; while again, in the horizontal section, the trans- verse and longitudinal are seen in profile, and the vertical in section. So, no set can be called a perforating set or a crossing set,— they are all equally so. Again, we see that the office of the longi- tudinal fibres requires that they should have that special superficial arrangement which is the only one left them by the necessary dis- position of the other two. The chief office of the longitudinal fibres is to alter the direction of the tongue longitudinally, to twist it from side to side, or up and down ; any thing but a superficial distribution would render them powerless for this act. For if the longitu- dinal fibres were placed in the centre, it is evident that they could only shorten the tongue; but,being arranged superficially, when a portion of them contracts, that side of the tongue on which the contracting ones are is shortened more than the rest; in other words, the tongue is turned towards that side ; and it is only when the whole sheath of longi- tudinal fibres acts equally that the tongue is contracted directly backwards. Having premised this general description, I shall now proceed to give a particular ac- count of the microscopical appearances of successive sections made in the three prin- cipal planes — the transverse, the longitudinal, and the horizontal. I shall begin with the transverse as being the clearest and the most illustrative. The first transverse vertical sections, made at the tip of the tongue, of course remove successive portions of the papillary structure: we next come to the cutis — the dense areolar tissue subtending the papillae — and many sections are made before the appearance of any muscle ; we have in fact to get through the thickness of the cutis. The first muscular fibres that make their appearance are the transverse, consisting of a single slender bundle of fibres in that direction, occupying nearly a middle plane between the upper and under surfaces, lying horizontally, collected into a single bundle in the centre, but breaking up at each end into smaller fasciculi, which diverge as they pass to their insertion into the cutis at the sides of the tongue, so as to gain a more extended attachment. The sections following this display an increasing quantity of this muscle, the diameter of the unbroken bundle in the centre being greater, and the fasciculi into which it divides at the sides more numerous ; but as yet no other system of fibres has appeared. The next addition, as we proceed backwards, is that of vertical fibres, which are at first very few and scanty, and placed not in the centre, but in two sets, one on each side of the centre ; they converge a little as they pass upwards, and are rather curved, presenting their concavity outwards. The succeeding sections show them increasing in numbers and spread-