831 SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. In man the cortical substance appears to be composed of an innumerable quantity of completely shut glandular vesicles, which are united into a mass by the ensheathing coats previously mentioned. At the first glance one might easily imagine that they were not gland-vesicles, but tubes which, lying close to each other, take a radiating course from the centre towards the periphery. It is only at either margin of the cortical substance that the individual small roundish vesicles can be verified. By more careful examination, we can assure ourselves (as was first stated by Ecker) that this tubular appearance is only apparent, and that it is caused by the glan- dular vesicles being arranged in rows, so as to cover each other like the tiles of a roof. In this manner the vesicles of a row, especially when they are filled with dark contents, appear like a tube, with a blind termination at each extremity. The observation just mentioned can be best made if the preparation be treated with a dilute solution of an alkali. It will be thus seen that these vesicles of the supra- renal capsules are surrounded by and con- structed of a fine, structureless, transparent membrane, to the thickness of which we are unable to assign any measurement, and which, even by the use of the highest magnifying powers of the microscope, appears as only a simple line. This structureless membrane, which modern observers have shown to be a constituent of all glands with the single exception of the liver, we shall indicate by the name of the " membrana propria." It is especially distinguished by the fact, that it is not attacked by the dilute alkalies, as caustic potash, and ammonia, but preserves exactly its original appearance ; while the contents of the gland are in general completely dissolved by these agents. The use of these applica- tions cannot be too much recommended in examining the glands, as for instance those of the stomach, intestine, &c.—a fact which has been taught me by repeated experiments. The gland-vesicles of the human supra-renal capsules exhibit considerable differences of size; besides which, their form is wont to vary in some degree. The smaller vesicles are roundish, and have a diameter of 8 to I2-1000ths of a line; the larger of these, which seem elongated, have a length of 18 to 25-1000ths of a line, with a breadth of 10 to 15-lO.OOths. The smallest of these vesicles occur in the greatest numbers at the limits of the medullary substance ; while, on the con- trary, the larger and more elongated vesicles generally occupy its middle. The glandular contents, which are surrounded by the vesicles, appear, by a low magnifying power, as a dense pap-like mass, which seems to be white by reflected, and dark by transmitted light, and consist of granules. Nevertheless on the application of a powerful lens four consti- tuents maybe distinguished; namely, — (1) very fine molecules, (2) fatty granules, (3) nuclei, and finally, (4) cells in different stages of their development. (1) The fine elementary granules constitute by far the great mass of the contents. They are dissolved by alkalies, but alcohol and ether do not effect their solution, and they are little dissolved by acetic acid; so that they would thus seem to consist of an albuminous substance, or of a so-called protein-com- pound. They are immeasurably minute, and in this respect resemble the pulverulent molecules which cause the white colour of the chyle.* Their quantity in the gland- vesicles is so large that they render viscous their fluid contents. It is only on the appli- cation of water, that they aggregate them- selves into masses or flocculi: previously to this they pervade the viscid fluid with the greatest uniformity. We will select for them the name of pulverulent molecules. 2. The fatty granules are usually met with in considerable quantity, and sometimes they are very numerous. As may readily be ima- gined, they are of very different diameters, and range gradually from the smallest granules, through larger ones, to small drops of fat. The yellow colour of the cortical substance is due to this constituent. 3. The nuclear structures appear united into a granular mass. They have an average size of 3 to 4-1000ths of a line, a form which is usually roundish and less frequently oval, and they belong to the variety of the so-called "granular" nuclei; i.e. to those which are formed of a granular mass, and are not vesi- cular. The substance of these nuclei is in- soluble in dilute acids, but is completely dis- solved by the application of potash. Ecker has made the interesting observation, that in the embryo the granular nuclei are no longer to be met with, but that their nuclei are ra- ther vesicles ; that is, that they possess a wall, which encloses a more or less fluid mass, in which are contained one or two small punc- tiform nucleoli. The same condition also obtains in the nuclei of other embryonal tissues. 4. Part of these nuclei are experiencing a transition to cell development, so as to form a constituent of perfect cells. The metamor- phosis to the cell-form begins by a part of the finely granular mass arranging itself around a nucleus. Little clusters are thus formed, each of which contains a nucleus. The outer surface of such a mass then becomes hardened, so that the most super- ficial molecules form a wall or shell, the cell-membrane; thus the cluster becomes a cell. So that from the fine pulverulent molecules proceed both the cell and the cell-membrane. In conformity with this state- ment, a microscopic examination of the ex- pressed contents of the gland-vesicles reveals nuclei, surrounded by irregular flocculi of fine granular substance (b, Jig. 542.), and other nuclei, around which this latter substance has formed itself into a well-defined, round, or oval mass of 6 to 9-1000ths of a line in dia- meter (c,Jig. 542.). Finally, other masses * Compare with this the experiments of II. Miil- ler, in Henle vmd Pfeuffer's Zcitsehrift fi.ir ratio- nale Medizin, 1845, iii. S. 299.