TEETH. 891 lower jaws are of larger size, and the hinder ones are tricuspid. The true lizards (La- certa) have two kinds of teeth quoad form ; the anterior small, conical, and recurved ; the posterior larger, and bi- or tri-cuspid. Some species have also pterygoid teeth; as the common Lacerla agilis. In the Gigantic fossil Monitor of Maes- tricht, the teeth combine the Pleodont with the Acrodont* characters. The true affinities of the Mosasaur, which was at least twenty-four feet in length, and the remains of which characterise the chalk- formations, were first determined by Cuvier, who places it in the Lacertian group of Saurians, between the Iguanas and Monitors. Its dentition exhibits in an eminent degree the Acrodont character; the teeth being sup- ported on expanded conical bases anchylosed to the summit of the alveolar ridge of the jaw: no existing Saurian exactly parallels this mode of attachment of the teeth, either in regard to the breadth of the alveolar border, or in the relative size of the osseous cones to the teeth which they support. A shallow socket is left where the tooth and its supporting base are shed. The form of the teeth is likewise different from that hitherto observed in any existing Saurian: the crown is pyramidal, with the outer side nearly plane, or slightly convex, and separated by two sharp ridges from the remaining sur- face, which forms a half-cone. All the teeth are slightly recurved, and their peripheral surface is smooth. The teeth are implanted upon the premaxillary, maxillary, and pre- mandibulary bones; a scries of similarly shaped but much smaller teeth are placed upon the pterygoid bones. The gradual transition from the simple structure of the compact dentine to the osteo- dentine of the anchylosed base of the tooth was not known to Cuvier; otherwise he could not have supposed that the crown and the base of the tooth of the Mosasaurus were formed by vital processes of so dissimilar a nature as to forbid him considering them as parts of one and the same body. Cuvier had originally described the expanded base of the tooth of the Mosasaur as the root of the tooth ; but afterwards, observing that the corresponding base became anchylosed by ossification of the remains of the pulp to the jaw, he conceived it to be incorrect to regard it as a part of a body which he believed to be an inorganic product, and the result of excretion. " The tooth," he observes, in correcting his first * Odontography, pp. 241. 258. account of the Mosasaurus, " has no true root, but it adheres strongly to that pulp which has secreted it, and it is further held in connection with it by the remains of the capsule which has furnished the enamel, and which, by becoming ossified also, and uniting itself to the maxillary bone and the ossified pulp, implants or rivets the tooth with addi- tional force." The necessity under which Cuvier felt himself compelled to regard the crown and the base of the tooth of the Mosasaur as two distinct parts, is at once banished by the recognition of the principle, that the processes of calcification are essentially the same at every part of a tooth, whether it be free or anchylosed ; and that they are modified only, as 1 have shown in my Memoir on the Formation of the Teeth of the Shark*, ac- cording to the density of the part to be pro- duced. Scincoid Lizards.—Most of these smooth- scaled lizards have small mouths and slender sharp teeth, fitted best for insect food ; they are usually confined to the upper and lower jaws ; but the medicinal Scink of ancient pharmacy (Soincus officinalis) has four or five small obtuse teeth upon each pterygoid bone. The chief exception to the typical dentition of the present family is made by the large scincoid lizards of Australia, which, on that account, have received the generic name of Cj/c/udus.f The dentition of the Ci/cl. nigrolutcus is exemplified in the lower jaw, fig. 570. In the upper jaw, the single premaxillary bone has depressions for twelve teeth, of which only the alternate ones are usually in place ; they are of very small size, with the fang com- pressed laterally, and the crown antero- posterior^', so as to resemble a true incisor in form, the summit sloping to an edge from behind forwards, with the middle of the cut- ting surface a little produced. Each superior maxillary bone has depressions for fourteen teeth ; they quickly increase in size, and exchange their conical for a sub-hemispherical crown; the eighth to the thirteenth inclusive are the largest teeth ; they are set obliquely, and pretty close together. In the lower jaw there are two small incisors, at the anterior part of each premandibular bone correspond- ing with those of the premaxillary ; these are succeeded by five or six conical teeth, and the rest correspond in size and form with the tuberculate molars of the upper jaw. * Compte Rendu de l'Acadernie des Sciences, Decembre, 1839. f Kound-tootlied: y.ux'M;, round; olm, tooth.