1031 THORAX. matters not which, aerates the blood from this food by movements, quick or slow, long or short; therefore the respiratory movements only, need be relative to the abdominal cavity, in the same way as the volume of the blast from a pair of bellows is more dependent on their mobility than on their absolute size. The above remarks are applicable to the thorax of either male or female. I. Boundaries of the thoracic cavity.— The thoracic cavity, situated between the shoul- ders and below the neck, extends but a short way downwards, in the male about seven inches, and in the female about eight inches, beiow the clavicle, so that a horizontal line drawn about an inch below the axilla, corres- ponds (roughly) with its floor. The floor of the chest, therefore, is much higher up in the trunk of the body than is commonly supposed. The thorax is bounded anteriorly by the sternum and costal cartilages ; laterally by the bodies of the ribs and the intercostal muscles ; posteriorly by the vertebrae and angles of the ribs, and interiorly by a thin tendinous and fleshy floor— the diaphragm. The su- rior aperture of the chest is about sixteen inches in circumference, this is the smaller end, and thence called the apex of the tho- rax. It is bounded laterally by the two 1st ribs, anteriorly by the upper edge of the sternum and inter-articular ligament, and posteriorly by the last cervical and first dorsal vertebrae. The inferior aperture is about thirty or thirty-one inches in circumference, and forms the base of the chest. Anatomists describe this part as bounded in front by the cartilaginous extremity of the sternum or xiphoid cartilage, and the cartilaginous extremities of the last true and false ribs, and more laterally by the 11th and 12th ribs, pos- teriorly by the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebras. But as they assume to themselves the privilege of giving a bone a surgical neck as well as an anatomical one, so may we take a similar liberty in describing the thorax for medical purposes. In the examination of the chest during life, too exclusive attention to anatomical boundary has probably led to the error, of regarding the chest as much deeper than it really is, and thence to examining- for disease of the lung where really little or no lung exists. A sharp instrument, piercing the chest laterally, at the cartilaginous extremities of the last true ribs, would most probably pene- trate no lung, for the liver, spleen, stomach, &c. are contained within these points. The bottom of the chest is so moveable and so much arched (See art. Diaphragm, Jig. 3.), that in the different stages of inspiration, the lung assumes different positions This may be demonstrated by percussing over the 5th rib at its junction with its cartilage, first after a deep expiration and then after a deep inspira- tion ; in the latter the sound is " clear," in the former it is stiikingly "dull." Therefore, instead of taking the insertion of the dia- phragm as the bottom of the thorax, it will be found more convenient for examining the chest to take the top of the arch of this muscle as the lower thoracic boundary, or the shaded line crossing the ribs in fig. 4., for the medical base. This may be described as corres- ponding in front with the xiphoid cartilage ; laterally to different osseous portions of the 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, and sometimes the 12th ™b (fig- 682.), and posteriorly to the 8th and 9th dorsal vertebrae. This will place the bottom of the thorax in a very different posi- tion from what is generally supposed ; for, if we express the distance from the 1st rib, to the lowest point of the 10th rib as 13*5, that from the 1st rib to the arch of the diaphragm or medical boundary will be only 6'25, less than one half the depth of the thorax as ana- tomically described. The medical base of the thorax forms a nearly horizontal plane, which extends between the sternum and the bo- dies of the 9th or 10th dorsal vertebrae, its posterior being somewhat higher than its an- terior. But on each side of the bodies of the vertebrae there is a deep groove formed by the angles of the ribs. In that part of this groove which extends below the above-mentioned in- clined plane, a wedge-shaped process of lung is lodged, which varies in size in different sub- jects, and consequently will be found to ter- minate at different points in the dorsal re- gion, as already noticed, sometimes hanging down like a broad, thick flap, and at other times forming only an insignificant process. In examining the chest, it is of paramount importance that the student should familiarly know this medical floor of the thorax. The sign laid down by the late Dr. Edwyn Har- rison, for marking this boundary, we have found strictly correct in every normal-shaped thorax. Namely, take the xiphoid cartilage as a point to start from, and pass the flat hand horizontally from thence to the side of the chest, the index finger, when horizontal, will distinguish a slight depression or sulcus at the maximum lateral bulge of the thorax, then from this point slide the hand slightly upwards (perpendicularly), and it will pass over a bulge, about enough to fill the palm of the hand, into another sulcus, better defined than the former one ; this groove corresponds with the medical base of the thorax, and a probe passed in here would graze the arch of" the diaphragm after passing through the moveable inferior edges of the lungs. It is necessary that the hand be kept perfectly horizontal, or it will fall into an intercostal space, which does not correspond with the groove in question. With practice, the hand falls at once into the upper sulcus, without first searching for the lower one; indeed, latterly, Dr. Harrison allowed that the lower sulcus might be absent, and yet the upper one present. This groove is higher upon the right side than upon the left, corresponding to the height of the liver. By external observation, the medical base of the thorax may be known by the slight rota- tory motion made upon the diaphragm when a person is walking. A kind of great ball and socket-joint may be conceived to exist between the abdomen and thorax, and the