VOICE. 1478 throat. In this case the larynx was divided immediately above the vocal cords, and in consequence of the oblique direction of the wound, the arytenoid cartilage and the vocal cord on one side were injured. During respiration the glottis was observed to assume a triangular form, but when a sound was uttered, the chorda? vocales became nearly parallel, and the rima glottidis of a linear form. The posterior part of the aperture did not appear to be closed. In a second case of this kind, he observed that the aryte- noid cartilages, as long as the vocalization of the breath continued, maintained the position which they had assumed when the glottis was closed entirely.* The vibrations of the thyro-arytenoid ligaments are considered by Ferrein-}- to be analogous to those of strings ; hence he denominated these ligaments (though improperly) chordae vocales. He imagined that the longitudinal tension of these cords alone governed the pitch of the voice. Mr. Willis J has embraced the hypothesis of Ferrein ; he observes, that to obtain the various notes of the glottis, it is only ne- cessary to vary its longitudinal tension after the ligaments have been placed in the proper position j but M. Biot§ remarks, " Qu'y a-t-il en efFet dans la glotte qui ressemble a une corde vibrante? Comment pourroit-on en tirer jamais des sons d'un volume com- parable a ceux que l'homme produit ? Les plus simples notions d'acoustiques suffisent pour faire rejeter cette etrange opinion." On inspecting the larynx from above, we see two very nearly rectangular-shaped la- minae, one on each side of the chink of the glottis, but nothing resembling an isolated cord. The mucous membrane which lines the thyro-arytenoid ligaments (to which it closely adheres), as well as the rest of the vocal tube, must be considered as forming a part of the weight of the vibrating surface upon which the air acts ; the thyro-arytenoid ligaments confer on this membrane the re- quisite tension and resistance during vocaliza- tion, and it is this membrane which gives the sides of the glottis their laminated figure. The vocal ligaments, with their lining mem- brane, are stretched by the thyro-cricoid muscles, not all round like a drum, but in one direction only, namely, in that of their length, being attached on three sides, leaving one only free to vibrate. The vocal cords are, as h is been seen, rectangular-shaped membranes, and from experiments made on the larynx after death by Ferrein, Miiller, and others (which the author has repeatedly verified), are found to vibrate like cylindrical cords ; we will therefore apply to the former the well-known formula? which regulate the vibrations of the latter. In cords composed of the same material, * Mayo, Outlines of Phvsiology, p. 991. f Memoires de l'Academie. 1741. p. 400. J Cambridge Philosophical Transactions, vol. iv. § Precis Elem. de Phys. torn. i. p. 398. and of uniform thickness, the time of a com- plete musical vibration, or double oscillation, is ,=V5—co where I is the length of the cord, p its weight, P the force with which it is stretched, and g= ] GJ, feet. In order to apply this formula to the vocal ligaments, let a be their depth, b their breadth, Fig. 893. The apparatus employed for malting experiments on the Human Larynx. (After Mtlller.) n, shaft or column for the attachment of the larynx; /, the forceps for compressing the larynx late- rally ; u, the bellows pipe; i>, the manometer con- nected with the tube ■«, for estimating the tension of the air used in the experiments, m, o, columns for the attachments of the pulleys x< and y' ; x, a line by means of which the vocal cords are ex- tended in the direction of their length ; it passes over the pulley x<; y, a line passing over the pulley y', by means of which the vocal cords may be relaxed and reduced to their minimum length, thus performing the office of the crico-thyroid muscle; z, a line by means of which the vocal cords may be extended by drawing them down- wards and forwards.