1179 TOUCH. been reduced, the sufferer took to working with her needle; and it is remarked that her needlework was uncommonly neat and exact. Among many other pieces of needlework pre- served in her family, was a pincushion which could scarcely be equalled. She used also sometimes to write ; and her writing was executed with the same neatness and precision as her needlework ; the characters were very pretty, the lines were all even, and the letters placed at equal distances from each other : — but the most extraordinary circumstance was, that she could by some means discover where a letter or a word had been omitted, and would place the caret under and the word over, in the right place."* This fact is obviously analogous to those formerly related, in refer- ence to the exaltation of the muscular sense in the state of somnambulism. (See Sleep, p. 694.) It is by the accurate estimates which they are thus enabled to form, that we find the blind able to learn various handicraft arts, performance on musical instruments, &c. &c, which they practice with great success ; cabi- net-making, turning, and even watch-making, seem to be within the capacity of such as have a mechanical turn ; but the greatest perfec- tion of this sense is shown by those who have succeeded in modelling and sculpture. Of these, Giovanni Gonelli, sometimes called Gambasia, from the place of his birth, deserves special mention. He lost his sight at the age of twenty, and remained for ten years in that state, ignorant of the very elements of sculp- ture. But, on a sudden, the desire of making a statue came upon him ; and having handled in every way a marble figure representing Cosmo de Medici, he formed one of clay so extremely like, that it astonished all who saw it. His talent for statuary soon developed itself to such a degree, that the Grand Duke Ferdinand of Tuscany sent him to Rome to model a statue of Pope Urban VIII., which he also rendered a very striking likeness of the original. He afterwards executed many others with equal success; amongst these, a marble statue of our Charles I. It is re- lated that the Duke of Bracciano, who had seen him at work, doubted much that he was completely blind, — and in order to set the matter at rest, he caused the artist to model his head in a dark cellar. It proved a striking * Op. eit. p. 81. It is worthy of remark, that in consequence of the strangeness of these facts to those who observed them, it was long doubted whether some faint remains of sight or hearing did not exist. Many experiments were tried to settle this matter; but in this great caution was necessary; for some of these being accidentally discovered, she fell into violent convulsions, — these being appar- ently induced by the mental agitation she expe- rienced at the thought of being suspected of insin- cerity, or of being supposed capable of acting so wicked a part, as to feign such infirmities. Sir Hans Sloane, who attended this patient, long entertained doubts respecting the facts related of her; but having been permitted to satisfy himself by what- ever experiments he thought proper, he at length declared his conviction that she was totally blind, deaf, and dumb. likeness. Some, however, objecting that the duke's beard, which was of patriarchal ampli- tude, had made the operation of producing a seeming likeness too easy, the artist ottered to model one of the duke's daughters, which he accordingly did; and this also proved an ad- mirable likeness. Dr. Guillee, who details the preceding case in his " Essai sur lTnstruc- tion des Aveugles," mentions also the more recent case of M. Buret, whom he calls '' one of the most able sculptors of the academy;" who became blind at the age of twenty-five, but was not thereby deterred from pursuing with much success, the course of life which he had previously chosen. It is easy to be con- ceived that a blind man might thus model or chisel accurately under the guidance of his touch, so far as mere form is concerned ; but it has been thought difficult to understand how he could thus discriminate and embody that expression, which has been supposed to be intangible* When it is remembered, how- ever, that expression must at last depend upon niceties of form, and can only be imitated by the sculptor who is under the guidance of his sight, by a minute attention to these niceties, the difficulty altogether disappears. The blind sculptor cannot form an idea of the expres- sion of his model, as seen by the eyes of others; but he may reproduce that expression with complete success, by perfectly imitating the form which exhibits it; just as he may study and understand the laws of optics, without having ever seen the faintest ray of light. The study of natural history might have been supposed to be beyond the reach of the blind, in consequence of the difficulty of distinguish- ing specimens by the touch alone ; yet there have been examples of complete success in this pursuit. Thus of John Gough it is re- lated, that " from an early age he showed a very decided taste for zoology ; and in time he began to enlarge his knowledge of organic bodies by extending his researches from the animal to the vegetable kingdom. To bo- tanical pursuits all the time he could spare from the necessary studies of the school was most assiduously devoted ; and as his ardour in cultivating this branch of science was never relaxed, he soon conquered most of the dif- ficulties which the want of sight opposed to the gratification of this taste, and was even- tually able to discriminate and arrange with great accuracy the plants that came under his notice. His usual method of examining a plant was by applying the tip of his tongue to its several parts. Ordinary plants he could easily and readily distinguish by the touch of his fingers. To evince the power of discri- mination and strength of memory, which could alone have enabled him to take an interest in this pursuit, it is mentioned, that towards the end of his life a rare plant was put into his hands, which he very soon called by its name, observing that he had never met with more than one specimen of it, and that was fifty • " Lost Senses," vol. ii. p. 224.