785 SPLEEN. have all undergone a transition into colour- less cells, or the Malpighian corpuscles con- tain effused blood. By pondering upon these circumstances, one might almost come to the idea of regarding the cysts of fishes as Mal- pighian corpuscles, or the Malpighian cor- puscles of mammals as false aneurisms of the splenic arteries ; but in my opinion either of these views would be altogether erroneous. For although blood is often present in the Malpighian corpuscles, yet this appearance is much too seldom to allow of our explaining their contents as arising out of altered blood. And as regards the cysts of fishes, they are alto- gether absent from many fishes, and, where they are present, often undergo a cretifica- tion, or are changed into concretions ; while they occur in other organs, as for instance in the kidneys : facts which have little confor- mity with the constant occurrence of the Mal- pighian corpuscles. In others of the fishes previously mentioned, no vesicles can be re- cognised in the spleen; on the contrary, in many genera, the blood corpuscles obtained in different conditions of their metamorphosis are seated together in roundish heaps of a more or less definite outline, and of a size which equals that of the vesicles : these are evidently nothing else than extravasations of blood. The numerous circumscribed red or brown points which occur in the spleen pulp of all fishes, are nothing but the self-decom- posing blood globules ; and they are, as above mentioned, either free or arranged in masses which are included in vesicles. In the scaly reptilia, birds, and mammals, it is very dif- ficult to state with certainty in what part of the spleen the formation of the cells which contain the blood corpuscles and their meta- morphosis occurs. At first 1 thought of the hollow interspaces with which the vein of the spleen begins; only these spaces, as will be shown hereafter, do not in the least obtain in the human subject in the form which has been hitherto attributed to them. Or the branches of the veins, which are always large, might easily be regarded as the locality, provided that the occurrences above mentioned be not regarded as extravasations. With regard to this question direct observation teaches us as fol- lows. In the capillaries and arteries of the spleen in mammalia no changes of the blood corpuscles exist; so that the only question is, whether the blood corpuscles, which con- stantly occur in the spleen-pulp, anil here un- dergo their metamorphoses, are situated in the commencements of the veins; or whether they occupy spaces newly formed by the ex- trusion of the blood. Much may be adduced in support of the first of these views. Thus, it is scarcely possible to suppose that extra- vasations of blood in such extraordinary quan- tity constantly occur in the spleen; then it may also be mentioned that pigmentary gra- nule-cells, such as are developed in the spleen from the blood, may also be found in blood- vessels exterior to the spleen, which seems to speak for their being situated within the ves- sels in the case of the spleen itself. I have VOL. IV. myself formerly found scattered pigment-cells in human blood * which I can now only re- gard as granule-cells from the spleen. Ecker has also seen -J- in the splenic veins of the calf, cells containing blood corpuscles like those in the spleen. And, lastly, Meckel \ has also found black pigment-cells in the blood of a woman whose spleen abounded in them. Finally, we may recollect, that in the amphibia the cells in question are certainly situated in the vessels. But, on the other side, it must not be forgotten that in the spleen of fishes metamorphoses of the extravasated blood take place, and that also portions of the extravasations enter the vessels, and that it is possible the pigment-cells in the blood may thus originate ; finally, that the masses of blood in the spleen-pulp are scarcely de- fined with the sharpness which they would possess even in veins with very delicate coats. In this state of things it is much better to abstain from giving a definite decision ; or if one be absolutely required, to attribute the metamorphoses of the blood in the spleen of mammals to both the localities mentioned. The changes of the blood globules in the spleen are not exactly similar in all circum- stances, either as regards the quantity of the cells thus changed, or the degree of metamor- phosis which they undergo. In fishes, all the blood globules, without exception, may be recognised as decomposing; yet the quantity of these varies, i. e. the number and size of the vesicles and masses previously described varies in a considerable degree in different in- dividuals and species, although no very de- finite laws have as yet been found out. Reptilia exhibited the following peculiarity. In newly-caught individuals, the cells con- taining blood corpuscles were very numerous and distinct ; but in those which had fasted one, two, or three days, they occurred in exceedingly small quantity ; while, finally, by a longer duration of the fasting (a week or more), they exhibited themselves in very great number, and of extraordinary distinct- ness ; while at the same time the spleen became large, dark red, and very rich in the normal blood corpuscles. When newts which had fasted a week were fed, the cells previ- ously existing, and the unchanged blood cor- puscles, vanished, since they were changed into colored granule-cells, and only on the sixth day after the feeding did such cells re- appear ; but in three days alterwards almost all of these had again experienced a meta- morphosis into granule-cells. In mammalia I have, in a series of cases, seen the decom- positions of the blood corpuscles in as little as five, six, and more hours after eating, while immediately after the reception of food, or after a day's fasting, I have failed to observe it. At my advice, Landis§ instituted experi- * See also Fahrner, De Globulorum Sanguinis origine: Turici, 1845, p. 26. fig. 143. t Zeitschrift fur Rationelle Medicin, Band vi. S. 2G4. % Zeitschrift fur Psyehiatrie, 1847, S. 22. § Bcitrage zur Lehre fiber die Verrichtungen der Milz: Zurich, 1847. 3 E