VEIN. 1390 dilatations of the veins at the base of the brain ; the large amount of veins in the parenchymatous viscera ; the venous plexuses of the spinal canal, together with the venous cells and tubes in the cancellated tissue of all bones, form a series of diverticula and reser- voirs, equal to all emergencies*, where the blood may slowly flow, or recede, or stagnate. But the most striking examples of venous re- servoirs are furnished by comparative anatomy. All those animals which have diving habits subject themselves to peculiar disturbance of circulation. The prolonged stoppage of re- spiration, but still more the immense pressure of water to which they are exposed, when deeply submerged, mechanically empties all the superficial veins and produces much deep- seated and visceral congestion. This is com- pensated for by a special arrangement. In diving birds there is great dilatation of the posterior vena cava. In the Grebes and Divers (Podiceps and Co/i/mbtts) the posterior cava is largely dilated in the liver and below, extend- ing to opposite the kidneys. In the Cetacea, which are subject to the same influence, enormous dilatable venous plexuses, placed within the abdominal cavity, perform the same office. Venous absorption probably occurs wherever veins exist, but especially in the alimentary canal, where, in conjunction with the lacteals, they perform the important office of extracting from the food the different materials which enter the circulation and nourish the various tissues of the body. It is not my intention to enter upon any of the elaborate arguments or disquisitions on the evidence of venous absorption. I shall content myself with a brief summary of the most im- portant salient points. That absorption by the veins takes place independently of the lacteals has been proved by a series of conclusive experiments conducted by Tiedemann andGmelinf, who administered to a number of animals various substances of distinct and easily recognisable physical and chemical properties, and afterwards analysed the venous blood, the secretions, and the chyle. Substances having deep colours, such vs cochineal, indigo, litmus, gamboge ; sub- stances having strong odours — turpentine, assafoetida, garlic, musk — and saline sub- stances, such as sulphate of iron, chloride of barium, ferro-cyanide and sulpho-cyanide of potassium, were all in turn submitted to ex- periment. Almost all of these matters were found in the venous blood, several of them in the urine, and a few only of the latter (the sa- line substances) in the chyle. Therefore it ap- pears that absorption did take place, in many instances, independently of the lacteals, and * Not literally equal to all emergencies: the great deep-seated congestion caused in the cold stage of an ague-fit has ruptured the vena cava: the same has occurred in violent muscular exertion. f Versuche uber d. Wege auf welchem Sub- stanzen aus dem Magen u. Darmkaual ins Blut gelangen. Heidelberg. 1820. by the veins. This conclusion is fortified by other experiments conveying both positive and negative evidence, which have been performed by Majendie, Blake, Delille, Sega- las, &c. Majendie and Delille in conjunction per- formed the following experiment. They severed all the parts of the posterior extremity of a dog, excepting the artery and vein by which the circulation of the" limb was kept up. They then introduced some upas poison into the foot; and in ten minutes the animal died. It cannot be imagined here that the lymphatics absorbed the poison, as they were divided; but it may be objected that the matter was mechanically introduced into the divided extremities of the vessels in the wound. This difficulty has been over- come in another experiment devised by Ma- jendie. He found that death was caused by the introduction of nux vomica into the intes- tine of an animal in which the lacteals had been tied, where the veins, by which alone absorption could here take place, remained entire. An experiment exactly the reverse of the last was performed by Segalas, which completely bore out the idea of venous ab- sorption. Instead of tying the lacteals and leaving the veins untied, Segalas tied the veins, the lacteals remaining unimpaired. The result ^vas, that when poison was applied to the intestine, no absorption took place, and no result followed. It was further found by Mr. Blake, that ligature of the vena porta prevented the action of poisons introduced into the stomach. V. Development of Veins. — Are the veins, large and small, originally developed as capillaries, the succeeding changes by which their texture and size are modified taking place subsequently to their being permeable sanguiferous channels ? Whether this is en- tirely the case is doubtful: that it is so to some extent is certain; and therefore the development of veins would involve two con- siderations — first, the development of capil- laries, and secondly, those after-changes by which the vessels cease to be capillaries, and become, in texture and volume, true veins. The arguments in favour of the view that veins are developed primarily as capillaries, are—that veins, arteries, and capillaries con- stitute one continuous system, which renders a community of development antecedently probable ; that arteries and veins are so similar in structure as evidently to possess a common development, which heightens the probability of their development being the same as their connecting link; that the part possessed by capillaries — basement mem- brane — is that which we see in other parts capable of giving rise to fresh structures ; that we see all stages between the largest veins and capillaries filled up without a gap; that structures which in an early stage are furnished only with capillaries, and vessels a little removed from them, are found shortly