SPLEEN. 798 mine, for it is clear that the results of his ana- lyses may solely depend upon this fact, that in the animals he examined, the changes which I have verified in the blood globules of the spleen, were going on in an energetic manner. If these visible changes of the blood globules, — which certainly occur in a most exquisite manner in the horse and dog,—if they be nor- mal appearances, then is the diminution in the quantity of the blood globules, which Be- clard found on analysis, also a normal phe- nomenon ; but if not, then he only examined a blood partially deprived of its globules by stagnation and effusion. The results of che- mical analysis would then only be secure, if it were at the same time shown, that, there were no visible changes of the blood globules in the spleens of the animals examined. Until this takes place, Beclard's conclusion will remain, like mine, hypothetical ; although this is in no way diminishing the merit of his ob- servations, since I hold my own hypothesis as one which I am perfectly justified in pro- pounding in the present state of our know- ledge. But even if we suppose that the blood corpuscles are destroyed in the spleen, it is nevertheless a question how this dissolution is super-induced, and at what time it comes to pass. As regards the first of these points, in my writing previously mentioned I ex- pressed the opinion, that the spleen is a con- tractile organ, and may, by virtue of its con- tractility, be able to dilate and contract itself, — to fill itself with blood, and again to expel the blood from it. In the state of filling itself with blood, a stagnation of blood occurs in the smaller vessels, perhaps even an extravasa- tion ; and in this stagnant blood, the blood globules undergo destruction, since they slowly dissolve themselves, either free or in- closed in cells. This view I still regard as cor- rect. For, firstly, it is a matter of fact that the spleen does enlarge and diminish its size, and certainly under vital circumstances which are altogether normal. Very many of the older observers have accepted this fact; as Lieu- tand, Haller, Stuckeley, Rush, Clarke, Hodg- kin, Home, and Dobson. This is shown by an examination of the splenic region in the living human subject (Piorry). So also it is shown by vivisection of animals, in whom I have myself seen (and especially in the dog) a very distict diminution and rounding of its outer surface. Finally, Landis *, by weighing the spleen, has recognised a distinct increase and diminution of weight. He examined at different times thirty rabbits, and finds that the average weight of the organ in five obser- vations was : 12 hours after eating, 0-7fi8 grammes. + 5 „ „ -588 8 ,, „ "548 „ 24 ,, '526 48 „ „ -510 2 ».» -444 Now although it may be freely conceded that * Loc. cit. t The " gramme " is 15->- grains Troy English. (Transl.) an organ like the spleen is subject to so many variations in respect of size as to render thirty observations much too small a number to afford any very definite information con- cerning its increase or decrease of size, it must, nevertheless, be considered, that Landis has examined the proportion of the spleen to the whole body, and to many other organs, as the stomach, liver, and kidneys, and that from this means he derived a confirmation of what the estimate of its absolute weight had previously taught ; so that his observations must be regarded as a meritorious contri- bution to our knowledge respecting the changes of volume which the spleen expe- riences. We now ask, secondly, how these changes come to pass ? Beclard states that the spleen enlarges and becomes filled with blood in consequence of the splenic vein being com- pressed by a muscular force; but the nature of this he has not stated, nor can I regard his view as correct. I believe myself to have propounded a better theory when I stated, that the spleen becomes turgescent in conse- quence of the relaxation of the muscular fibres which exist in its balks, coats, and vessel-sheaths; or in animals from whom these are absent, through a relaxation of the muscular fibres of the vessels themselves. A constriction of the splenic vein cannot be supposed to obtain, since the muscular fibres which it contains are but very little de- veloped, and no other compressing force is present ; while, on the contrary, we know that in all animals the splenic artery is uncom- monly muscular, and that the partitions of the spleen themselves contain distinct muscular fibres. It is these muscles and no others which, according to my researches, produce the distension of the spleen ; but not through their contracting together, but by their re- laxation, which brings with it a distension of the vessels with blood, and a slower circu- lation of this fluid. The diminution in the size of the spleen occurs simply through the contraction of the muscular parts just named. Precisely in the same manner the corpora cavernosa of the penis become filled with blood by a relaxation of the muscles situated in their fibrous partitions ; and become poorer in blood, and smaller in size, when the mus- cles again contract themselves. Of course, both here and in the spleen, the nerves play an important part in the process ; probably in consequence of antagonistic relations be- tween them and other parts of the nervous system, which at present cannot be accu- rately indicated. Thirdly, and finally, it may be asked, whether the blood corpuscles simply dissolve because the blood of the spleen be- comes stagnant at certain times, or whether special influences are necessary to this effect ? — whether the parenchyma of the spleen or the Malpighian corpuscles may not secrete a juice, a " succus liena/is," of which the earlier authors speak, which exerts a solvent in- fluence on the blood corpuscles ? As a kind of vague answer to this question, I have ex- amined the parenchyma with respect to its