756 SPINAL NERVES. median basilic vein, some occasionally pass- ing in front, and some behind. The exter- nal filaments course down the anterior and inner part of the fore-arm, following the di- rection of the median vein, and communica- ting with branches of the external cutaneous : the internal follows the course of the ulnar vein, communicating with a twig of the ulnar nerve at the lower part of the fore-arm. Both terminate in the integument over the annular ligament. The internal branch, frequently perforating the fascia lower down than the external, passes behind and then below the median basilic vein, to the inner and back part of the fore-arm, and having communicated a little below the elbow with the accessory internal cutaneous, continues its course, and supplies the integument along the inner and back part of the fore-arm as far as the inner edge of the hand, communicating, in its course, with the innermost filaments of the external branch. Placed behind and internal to the internal cutaneous nerve, is the cutaneous nerve of Wrisberg (the accessory nerve of the internal cutaneous), considerably smaller than it. It arises from the united chord formed by the seventh cervical and first dorsal. It descends along the inner part of the axilla, and com- municates with the cutaneous branch of the second intercostal. Coursing down the arm on a plane behind the ulnar and internal to the basilic vein, it perforates the fascia about the lower third, and, becoming cutaneous, di- vides into anterior filaments, communicating with the internal cutaneous: and posterior, communicating with the internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral. The external cutaneous (musculo-cuta- neous : perforans casserii), larger than the preceding, but smaller than all the other nerves, and most external, is formed by the fifth and sixth cervical. It is directed ob- liquely downwards and outwards in front of the tendon of the subscapularis to the inner aspect of the coraco-brachialis, perforates this muscle (occasionally, however, passes behind it without perforating), and then becomes situated obliquely between the biceps and bra- chialis anticus. At a short distance from the elbow it emerges from beneath the outer border of the biceps, and internal to the supinator longus; and at the bend of the elbow, after passing behind the median ce- phalic vein, bcomes subcutaneous. In this part of its course the external cutaneous nerve gives off a series of muscular branches. Of the two branches to the coraco-brachialis, the upper, having perforated it, terminates in the short head of the biceps. The branches to the biceps unite separately or by a common trunk, and one of them per- forates the biceps, and supplies the elbow- joint, being here situated to the outside of the superficial flexor tendons. The branches for the brachia/is anticus are several, and penetrate the muscle by its superfi- cial surface. The continuation of the external cutaneous nerve in the fore-arm is represented by a series of internal and external cutaneous branches, which pass down along either side of the radial vein. The former near the wrist joins with a branch from the radial nerve, and gives off a filament which perforates the fascia, and accompanies the radial artery to the outer and back part of the wrist, where it supplies small twigs to the front and back of the radio- ulnar articulation. The latter gives filaments to the outer and back part of the fore arm, as far as the wrist. The median nerve.— The largest of the bra- chial plexus, and situated between the external cutaneous and the ulnar, arises by two roots, the external common to the median, and the external cutaneous: the internal common to the median, the internal cutaneous, and the ulnar. The fifth, sixth, seventh, and eight cervical and first dorsal nerves consequently concur to form it. Between its two roots is placed the axillary artery. It passes along the inner side of the arm in company with the axillary artery to the bend of the elbow, lying at first to the outside of the vessels, and then a little above the middle of the arm, crosses to its inner side, occasionally, however, con- tinuing all along to its outside. It is slightly overlapped by the inner border of the biceps, having the brachialis anticus to its outside : the latter muscle separates it inferiorly from the ulnar nerve. The upper part of the in- ternal cutaneous nerve runs alongitsinner side. It sinks into the bend of the elbow behind the semilunar fascia, and in front of the brachialis anticus, passes between the two heads of the pronator radii teres, and is then conducted along the forearm between the flexor digi- torum sublimis and profundus to the annular ligament, behind which it passes; and at the lower border of this becomes expanded, and di- vides into a series of terminal digital branches. The median nerve gives off no branches during its course along the arm, with the exception of an occasional communicating branch to the musculocutaneous below the level of the insertion of the coraco-brachialis ; and a branch which is usually found coming off from the anterior part of the trunk a little above the elbow. This is directed along the brachialis anticus to the pronator teres, w hich it supplies, and sends a few filaments back- wards to enter the articulation. The branches given off in the fore-arm. are muscular, interosseous, and cutaneous. The muscular branches for the lower part of the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, pal- maris longus, and flexor sublimis, are generally derived from a primary branch, which arises behind the pronator teres a little below the elbow-joint; the lower part of the flexor sublimis, however, receiving several smaller branches from the main trunk. The branches for the flexor longus pollicis and flexor digi- torum profundus are given off lower down, there being generally one for the former and two for the latter, the outer part of which only is supplied ; the inner part of the muscle being supplied by the ulnar nerve. The anterior interosseous nerve is the most