1392 VEIN. haemorrhoids ; rupture ; disease of valves ; phle- bo/ites ; calcareous degeneration ; fatty tumours ; entvzoa. Phlebitis. — Phlebitis may be conveniently divided into plastic and suppurative. They, however, frequently exist together, are pro- duced by the same cause, or give rise to each other. Veins possess peculiar facilities for the pro- duction of certain of their diseases, especially inflammation of their lining membrane, caused by the introduction of morbid materials into their cavities ; which is a very general cause of the disease now under consideration. They are peculiarly subject to being opened, on account of their superficial position, and their being submitted to the surgical opera- tion of venesection ; and it must be remem- bered how large a superficies of the venous cavity is exposed at every parturition to the contact of those fluids which are secreted in the healing of the placental wound. The veins si- tuated in the osseous tissues present peculiar facilities for the introduction of morbid mat- ters into the circulation, on account of the patency of their cut extremities, caused by the adhesion of their walls to the unyielding tissue in which they are embedded. Again, the di- rection ofe th current of the circulation to- wards the heart, is not likely to expel any materials that are introduced into the vein, but would rather tend to carry them on into the mass of the circulating fluid. The absorbing function of veins is often re- ferred to as a cause of the introduction of morbid matters into the circulation, and this especially as it regards pus, but it cannot be strictly said that pus is absorbed in cases of purulent phlebitis; and I apprehend that the distinction laid down by Hunter*, on this point, is perfectly correct. It appears to me impossible for any one acquainted with the structure of the coats of blood-vessels, and the anatomy of a pus-cell, to imagine that pus, as such, can be introduced within a vein by any process analogous to absorption. It is true that pus may enter a vein bodily, and as pus; and it is equally true that pus may be absorbed ; but the former is by introduction through some lesion in the vessel's walls, and in the latter the fluid is in some way altered be- fore it can pass through the tunics of the vein, if, indeed, a vein be here the agent of absorp- tion. When pus is absorbed, as from a bubo, or in empyema, it is attended with a different series of symptoms and consequences from those which arise when it is introduced bodily, and pus is, in these cases, not to be found in the veins; and it must be remembered that all the circumstances — a wound seci-eting pus and an open vein, or, what is tantamount to the same, such inflammation of a vein as leads to secretion of pus in its cavity, — are uniformly present where the characteristic results of phlebitis occur. The same thing is imitated by injecting pus into the veins—with like results. Plastic phlebitis bears the same relation to * On the Blood, p. 360. suppurative, that the two forms of inflamma- tion hold relatively to other organs. Plastic phlebitis indicates a form of disease of milder character, and consummated with results of less severity. Suppurative phlebitis is more or less mixed up with the plastic form, and is generally secondary to it. When a vein undergoes inflammation, the affected portion throughout its entire thick- ness becomes of a diffused red, which is not, at this stage, to be distinguished from the red stain produced by contact of the blood, ob- servable, under certain circumstances, in both arteries and veins ; this fades at the edges of the inflamed portion. As the disease advances, the part becomes irregularly mottled of all shades, from purple to the natural colour of the part; with this appears, in the areolar tissue of the veins, an effusion of sanious serum. The effusion does not end in a serous exudation; but, as the disease progresses, a plastic effusion is exhibited, not only in the tissue of the vein, but also within its cavity. Whether or not the previously developed serous effusion also escapes in part upon the free surface of the lining membrane of the vein, is not easily de- termined, but in the stage now under con- sideration it probably does so, as in other serous inflammation. At all events, at or im- mediately after the time when such effusion occurs, the tube of the vein becomes blocked up with a coagulum of blood: this does not occur at once, but progressively, beginning by the deposition of fibrine upon the inflamed surface, which deposition is increased by suc- cessive layers, the original being for the most part the most compact, until the entire tube is blocked up. That part of this fibrinous product is formed by the serous lining of the veins, — secreted from the vasa vasorum, — is proved beyond all question by the experiments of Gendrin and Hope. Gendrin found that, by securing a portion of a vein between two liga- tures and removing all the blood it contained, upon injecting some irritating substance into it, plastic lymph was exuded in sufficient quantity to fill the cavity of the insulated por- tion.* In this experiment the fibrinous matter was clearly true plastic lymph, in all respects similar to the plastic effusion in other serous cavities. Again, the experiments of Dr. Hope, in which, by mechanical irritation, he pro- duced warty excrescences on the valve of the aorta, support the view I have taken. There are many points in the formation of these coagula in veins which are remarkable. That they do, as already stated, consist both of lymph-exudation and coagulated blood is more than probable. But what determines the coagu- lation of the blood in plastic phlebitis, is less obvious. That the inherent power of coagu- lation, which the blood in itself possesses, is the cause, is not saying enough. There are * The experiments were originally performed upon arteries, but were repeated upon veins with similar results. Dr. Hope's were upon the aorta near the heart: however, they prove the same fact — effusion of lymph on the lining of the vascular cavity.