1092 THYMUS GLAND. Fig. 729. r a. Diagram of fully developed thy nuts. Showing how the primary central tube is covered and concealed by the lateral developeraents, each of which constitutes a conical mass, a, b, c, d, with a very wide base. (After Simon.") unbulging wall, but I have seen it distinctly at a period somewhat later, when the process of lateral extension had but recently commenced. This was in the embryo of a sheep, not more than two inches long, where the thymic cavi- ties were bounded by a well-marked limitary membrane, and filled with nuclei. At the extremity of the cervical portion, thedevelope- ment of bulging offsets was much less ad- vanced than towards the middle of the gland, so that here the central tube was very appa- rent, terminating by a closed extremity, and having its margins rendered irregular and wavy by the vesicles which had begun to rise from it (fig. 730.). The developing or- gan was formed in a nidus of homogeneo- fibrous tissue, interspersed with nuclei, which was seen stretching across between the promi- nent convexities of the bulgings. At the end of the cervical portion this tissue was more abundant, and there was seen running into it a prolongation of the central cavity, which appeared exactly like a short tube, pushing on in a straight direction, and not expanding nto a vesicular cavity. In a young chicken the condition of the thymus was very similar, and the central cavity was larger than the small lateral offsets. These details, though in- complete.leave scarcely a shadow of doubt that Mr. Simon's account is perfectly correct, that the central cavity is the primary part from which the vesicular offsets successively develope themselves. This central cavity may, I am inclined to believe, in some cases disappear more or less completely; at least, in an em- bryonic sheep, three inches long, it not only bore a smaller proportion to the multiplied offsets, but its wall no longer exhibited the investing limitary tissue, and it seemed as if it Fig. 730. Extremity of cervical portion of thymus from embry- onic sheep. 2—3 in. long. The end of the tube is closed, the central cavity is larger, the walls present numerous follicular pro- trusions of irregular size and form. Towards the middle the follicles are very much more developed. were in some measure diminishing, and losing its original distinctness. From what I have seen in the sheep, I should be led to think that the cervical and thoracic portions of the thy- mus had, in that animal at least, distinct pri- mary tubes as centres of developement, so completely independent have the two parts seemed to be of each other. Mature structure of the gland. — The results of minute scrutiny into the structure of the fully-developed thymus, accord well with those arrived at by other modes of inquiry. Its surface, when freed from investing areolar tissue, exhibits, though in a rather coarser manner, the minutely-divided appearance so characteristic of the conglomerate glands, and this is especially evident when fat cells have formed in the interstices of the lobules, pat- terning the surface over with a network of white streaks. In a thin section taken from the gland and prepared for the microscope, the outlines of the vesicular cavities are rea- dily seen ; they are much larger than those of the salivary glands, and vary very much in size; in a human foetus, at about the mid- period, they averaged Jg- inch, in a calf about •Jg- inch, in a young guinea-pig they varied from z\ to -jig- inch. Their form is oval or spherical, their outline distinct for about two- thirds of their circumference, but in the remaining part blended with adjacent ones, so that there is never seen any thing resembling