TONGUE. 1123 epiglottis. It contains less muscular and more fibrous tissue than any other part of the tongue. Such, then, is a general description of the tongue, — such are the appearances that pre- sent themselves to the eye, on regarding its ex- ternal surface and configuration. Let us now examine these structures more minutely, and, to facilitate that examination,arrange the parts that contribute to the formation of the organ, according to the office they fulfil, or their absolute nature. Regarding the tongue in this light, we find that it may be considered as consisting of three systems,— 1. A basis, or system of support. 2. A muscular system, or system of move- ment. 3. A tegumcntary investment, or system of sensation and protection. 1. Basis, or framework of the tongue.—This consists of the hyoid bone, the hyoglossal membrane or ligament, the median fibrous septum (the cartilaginous lamina of M. Blan- din), and, fourthly, to these may perhaps be added, on account of its density, and its giving attachment to most of the intrinsic muscles, the compact fibrous tissue, or cutis, beneath the mucous membrane. Fig. 746. Hyoid bone. A. seen from above, and B. in profile. {Natural size). a. The hyoid bone (os hyoides, —upsiloi'des, —lingualis,— lingua), called also the lingual or tongue bone, has received its name from its resemblance to the Greek v ; it is the homo- logue in man of a very complex mechanism in the lower vertebrata, from which circum- stance it is sometimes called the hyoid ap- paratus. It consists of a bony arch, with a curvature nearly approaching a parabola, the convexity being in front; — situated in an almost horizontal position behind and rather below the lower jaw. In the lower ver- tebrata the hyoid bone is connected to the rest of the skeleton by bony media ; in man, by the substitution of a ligament (the stylo- hyoid) for a part of this osseous connection ; it is isolated, and disconnected from all the other bones.* It performs the triple office of a basis of the tongue, a point of support to the larynx, and a point aVappui or fulcrum, by which the contractions of the intrinsic muscles of the tongue and larynx may be impressed on those organs : it may also be looked upon as the first part of that framework (afterwards generally continued by cartilage) which secures the permanent patulence of the respiratory passages. It is retained in its place by muscles and ligaments, which, converging to it from different direc- tions, effectually prevent its displacement: thus it is tied upwards and backwards by the ligament and muscles from the styloid process, in front by the muscles from the chin and lower jaw, below by those from the thyroid cartilage, sternum, and scapula. Placed be- tween the tongue and larynx, it impresses on each the movement of the other, and is the medium by which the motions of these two organs are so intimately associated. Relations. — Its whole external surface is devoted to muscular insertions, which separate it, anteriorly and laterally, from the cutaneous structures. Behind, it is in relation with the epiglottis, from which it is separated by some dense cellular tissue, and by the thyrohyoid membrane, and with the mucous membrane of the pharynx. In man the hyoid bone consists of five pieces, — the basis or body, two greater cornua which project backwards from the sides of the body in a direction nearly horizontal but a little upwards, and two lesser cornua, sur- mounting the body and greater cornua at the point of their union. The body is quadrilateral, compressed an- tero-posteriorly, curved, and laterally ex- tended. Its anterior surface looks upwards, is convex,and intersected by two irregular ridges, a vertical and horizontal, which at the point of their union project in a prominent tubercle, which is the analogue in man of an additional element of the hyoid apparatus in the lower animals — the true lingual bone (glossol/yal) : this tubercle is sometimes bifurcated. The portion above the transverse ridge is directed much more upwards than that below, so that it has sometimes been ealled the upper sur- face : in that case the portion below is de- scribed as the whole anterior surface, a cir- cumstance which has led to much confusion with regard to the nomenclature of muscular insertions into this bone. The posterior surface is concave, and looks downwards ; it is marked by many little foramina entering the cancellous structure, and is sometimes covered by a syno- vial membrane. The lateral surfaces, small and articular, are connected to the anterior ex- tremities of the greater cornua by a lamina of temporary cartilage, which,however, is seldom completely ossified, and which admits a certain amount of movement between the different * In some rare cases this ligament has been ossified, and then the condition of the os hyoides is the same as that found in most quadrupeds, fish, and reptiles. 4 C 2