1252 URETHRA. we shall deny any muscular membrane to this region of the urethra: but it seems more na- tural to regard the whole corpus cavernosum as a highly developed muscular layer provided with peculiar bloodvessels ; for a large quan- tity of smooth muscular fibres, together witli the cellular tissue, vessels, and nerves, en- tering into the structure of its beams and cords as far as the glans, render this body an eminently contractile structure."* On laying open the urethra from its origin at the neck of the badder, the first structure we meet with is the caput gallinaginis (cul/i- culus semiualis, caruncula seminalis, veru mon- tanum, crista weikree). This is an elongated body situated on the floor of the prostatic part of the urethra : it varies in length from three quarters of an inch to an inch. Com- mencing by a gentle elevation of the urethra, towards which, on either side, are seen some delicate folds of membrane passing, it expands into a small oblong rounded eminence, com- pared to the head of a woodcock, and hence its name : it then advances gradually, tapering to a slender point, which, being continued onwards for some distance, is lost at the beginning of the membranous portion in one or two delicate longitudinal folds, and is con- founded with the general surface of the urethra: the latter part is compared to the beak of the bird. The caput gallinaginis di- vides the prostatic sinus into two lateral de- pressions, into which the secretion of the prostate gland is poured. At the most elevated portion of the caput gallinaginis there is a depression formed by an inflexion of mucous membrane, facing for- wards, variable in size and depth, and gene- rally capable of admitting the blunt end of an ordinary probe : in some cases it can be traced down beneath the third lobe of the prostate, to the extent of the third, or even the half, of an inch. It is called the sinus pocu- laris, utriculus 2^'ostaticus, or vesica prostatica, and is the homologue of the protometra, from which the female uterus is evolved.f On either side of this, between its lamina?, or beneath it, are the terminations of the ejacu- latory ducts. A general description of this small cavity has been given under the head of Prostate Gland. The structure of the caput gallinaginis is this : it is for the most part formed of a raised fold of the ordinary mucous membrane of the urethra, beneath which is a longitudinal layer of elastic tissue continuous with the trigone. Some anatomists also affirm that there is mixed up in the tissue of the body a plexus of vessels, constituting a distinct erectile tissue; and hence it has been ima- gined, that when its vessels are distended with blood, as during erection of the penis, it shuts up the prostatic portion of the urethra, and thus prevents the passage of the semen in a retrograde direction into the bladder. My * Kolliker, Beitrage zur Kenntniss der glatten JMuskeln, ili the Zeitschrift fur Wissen. f See article Prostate. own opinion as to its use is, that, independent of this office, it is endowed with special sensi- bility, like the papillary orifices of the ducts of Steno and Wharton ; and that it is capable, under the influence of a stimulus, of becom- ing erect, and thus straightening the termina- tion of the canals connected with it, by which the exit of the secretion of the testes and vesiculae seminales is favoured. I believe, further, that something more is due to these papillary orifices of the ducts of glands, and that, in consequence of their exquisite sensi- bility and sympathy with the glands, they possess a power, under stimulation, of elicit- ing the secretion and expulsion of the fluid of the bodies with which they are connected. A proof of its sensibility may be deduced from the fact, that when a bougie, introduced for the first time per urethram, reaches this point of the canal, it frequently gives rise to faint- ness and sickness ; and this is usually attended with an almost irresistible desire to micturate ; and further, that if this be frequently re- peated, and the caput gallinaginis be irritated, a flow of semen and vesicular secretion can be excited. The pathology of this portion of the canal leads to the same conclusion. For the relief of nocturnal emissions, so frequently the result of repeated self-pollution, the preternatural irritability of this part may be successfully destroyed by the application of the nitrate of silver. If the caput gallinaginis be gently raised by dissection from the subjacent tissue, it will be found lying on a delicate tendinous layer, with which it is intimately connected. This layer in shape resembles the body itself, being broader behind and tapering in front, and is gradually confounded with the tendinous covering of the spongy body: it is also continuous with the fascial layer of the utriculus prostaticus. The caput gallinaginis results in a great measure from the coalition of the two lateral portions of the urethra, during the develop- ment of the back part of the canal, from that portion of the uro-genital sinus which gives origin to the prostate and vesiculae semi- nales, &c. In the membranous portion there is nothing specially remarkable, except that delicate venous plexus, to which allusion has been already made. In the bulbous part are the terminations of the ducts of Cowper's glands ; and to these bodies I shall now direct attention. Cowper's glands — (glandules Cowperi, gladuu/ae antiprostaiicce velprostatic/? iuferiores) are two glands situated beneath the anterior portion of the membranous part of the urethra, just behind the bulb, between the layers of the triangular ligament. A few fibres of the compressor urethra; pass beneath them. Some- times a single gland only is found, and occa- sionally there are three ; in which case, ac- cording to Cowper, the additional gland is placed just beneath the pubis. These bodies are frequently difficult to find, and in old persons they either disappear altogether, or become so soft that it is impossible to recog-