927 TEETH. parallel to the curve described by that move- ment, the upper being the central portion, or that nearest the pivot, the lower, the pe- ripheral portion : the grinding surface of the upper molars is consequently convex from behind forwards, and that of the lower molars concave: the upper molars are always broader than the lower ones. The bony plate forming the sockets of the growing teeth is more than usually distinct from the body of the maxillary, and participates in this re- volving course, advancing forwards with the teeth. The partition between the tooth in use and its successor is perforated near the middle; and, in its progress forwards, that part next the grinding surface is first absorbed ; the rest disappearing with the absorption of the roots of the preceding grinder. There are few examples of organs that manifest a more striking adaptation of a highly complex and beautiful structure to the exigencies of the animal endowed with it, than the grinding teeth of the elephant. We per- ceive, for example, that the jaw is not en- cumbered with the whole weight of the mas- sive tooth at once, but that it is formed by degrees as it is required ; the division of the crown into a number of successive plates, and the subdivision of these into cylindrical pro- cesses, presenting the conditions most favour- able to progressive formation. But a more important advantage is gained by this sub- division of the tooth ; each part is formed like a perfect simple tooth, having a body of dentine, a coat of enamel, and an outer in- vestment of cement: a single digital pro- cess may be compared to the simple canine of a Carnivore ; a transverse row of these, therefore, when the work of mastication has commenced, presents, by virtue of the different densities of their constituent sub- stances, a series of cylindrical ridges of ena- mel, with as many depressions of dentine, and deeper external valleys of cement: the more advanced and more abraded part of the crown is traversed by the transverse ridges of the enamel inclosing the depressed surface of the dentine, and separated by the deeper channels of the cement: the fore-part of the tooth exhibits its least efficient con- dition for mastication ; the inequalities of the grinding surface being reduced in proportion as the enamel and cement which invested the dentinal plates have been worn away. This part of the tooth is, however, still fitted for the first coarse crushing of the branches of a tree: the transverse enamel ridges of the succeeding part of the tooth divide it into smaller fragments, and the posterior islands and tubercles of enamel pound it to the pulp fit for deglutition. The structure and pro- gressive development of the tooth not only give to the elephant's grinder the advantage of the uneven surface which adapts the mill- stone for its office, but, at the same time, secure the constant presence of the most efficient arrangement for the finer comminu- tion of the food, at the part of the mouth which is nearest the fauces. With regard to the microscopic structure of the peculiar modification of dentine called " ivory," this is characterised partly by the minute size of the tubes, which, at their origin from the pulp cavity, do not exceed -^--th of an inch in diameter, in their close arrangement at intervals scarcely exceeding the breadth of a single tube, and, above all, on their strong and almost angular gyrations, which are much greater than the secondary curvatures of the tubes of ordinary dentine. The dentinal tubes of ivory, as they radiate from the pulp-cavitv, incline obliquely towards the pointed end of the tusk, and describe two slight primary curves, the first convex towards that end, the second and shorter one concave; these curves in narrow sections from near the open base of the tusk are almost obscured by the strong angular parallel secondary gyrations. The tubes divide dicho- tomously, at acute angles, and gradually de- crease in size as they approach the periphery of the tusk. The characteristic appearance of decussating curved strire, with oblique rhomboidal spaces, so conspicuous on transverse sections or frac- tures of ivory, is due to the refraction of light caused by the parallel secondary gyrations of the tubes above described. The strong con- tour lines observed in longitudinal sections of ivory, parallel with the cone of the pulp-cavity, and which are circular and concentric when viewed in transverse slices of the tusk, are commonly caused by strata of minute opaque cellules, which are unusually numerous in the interspaces of the tubes throughout the sub- stance of the ivory, and by their very great abundance and larger size in the peripheral layers of cement. The close-set lateral branches of the calcigerous tubes unite with the tubuli of the cells. The decomposition of the fossil tusks into superimposed conical layers takes place along the strata of the opaque cellules, and directly across the course of the calci- gerous gyrating tubes. The radiated cells of the true cement are larger and more uniform in size and shape ; many of them approach nearer the circular figure than in ordinary teeth ; the long axis of the more elliptical ones is parallel with the plane of the stratum of cement; their average diameter is g-jVoth of an inch, and their interspaces sometimes do not exceed that dimension. The cemental tubuli appear from their course, and sometimes from the overlapping of the substances in the sections examined, to be directly continued from the tubuli of the ivory ; but Retzius expressly denies the continuation, and states that the cemental tubes at both the outer and the inner surface of the cement have terminations of less diameter than their middle part. This is exact with respect to the major part of the cement. In that near the base of the tusk I have seen a few vascular canals. The contour lines of the cement are usually wavy, and not parallel with the line of the outer surface of the ivory. In the tusks of the Mastodon gignutcus the