751 SPINAL NERVES. trapezius, passes through the latter, and ter- minates in the skin in the occipital region as the great occipital nerve, coursing along with the occipital artery but lying internal to it. Before becoming great occipital, it gives off at the lower border of the inferior oblique a branch to supply this muscle and a superior and inferior anastomotic branch to commu- nicate with the first and third cervical. When passing along the anterior surface of the com- plexus, numerous branches are given off to this muscle, the trapezius, and splenitis. Those for the last muscle are more numerous and larger than the branches, for the two others are directed to the anterior aspect of the muscle, and one or more of them perforate the complexus before reaching it. The posterior branch of the third cervical is smaller than the second, but larger than the fourth, and situated more externally, emerg- ing from between the transverse processes of the second and third cerv;cal vertebra. It is directed inwards, between the opposed surfaces of the coinplexus and semispinalis colli towards the median line, and having reached the sides of the spinous processes of the vertebrae, di- vides into ascending and horizontal cutaneous branches. The ascending branch, after a short course, perforates the inner border of the complexus and trapezius, and becomes cuta- neous. It continues its course close to the median line, as far as the region of the oc- ciput, the inner and lower part of which it supplies on the internal side of the great occi- pital nerve. The horizontal branch passes between the ligamentum nuchas and the inner border of the coinplexus, and after having perforated the tendon of the trapezius, terminates in ex- ternal small cutaneous filaments. The nerve prior to division, and at the outer border of the semispinalis colli, communicates by one or more filaments with the posterior branch of the second cervical. From the anastomosis between the communicating branches of the posterior roots of the three first cervical nerves, results an irregular plexus placed between the complexus and outer part of the semi- spinalis colli, and consequently nearly in a line with the transverse processes of the superior cervical vertebra;. From this posterior cervical plexus, numerous branches arise to supply the complexus, splenitis, and semispinalis colli. The anastomosis between these posterior branches is, according to C'ruveilhier, some- times deficient. The posterior root of the fourth, cervical nerve varies much as to individual size, but is al- ways smaller than the preceding. It passes downwards and inwards between the com- plexus and semispinalis colli, and having reached the side of the median line, perforates the tendons of the splenitis and trapezius, and becomes cu'aneous. In its course it supplies these muscles, and occasionally terminates in the splenitis without going to the skin. The posterior branches of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves have a similar course to the fourth, but decrease in size from above downwards. The fifth and sixth usually pass between the opposed sur- faces of the semispinalis colli and complexus, give branches to these muscles, and perforate the inner part of the tendons of the splenius and trapezius, to terminate in the skin at the lower part of the nape of the neck. The posterior branches of the seventh and eighth cervical nerves pass either through the deep-seated fibres of the semispinalis colli, or between it and the multifidus spina;, give branches to these two muscles, perforate the tendons of the trapezius and splenitis, and terminate by ramifying, the one on the skin above the scapula, the other over the integu- ment, as far as about the spinous process of the third dorsal vertebra. The inter-trans- versales muscles, cervicalis ascendens, tra- chelo-mastoid, and transversalis colli, receive numerous small filaments from these nerves almost immediately alter their appearance in the neck. The posterior branches of the dorsal (tho- racic) nerves are much smaller than the an- terior, and are directed backwards between the ascending costo-transverse ligaments and the sides of the vertebra?. Having reached the outer border of the semispinalis dorsi and multifidus spina;, they divide into external and internal branches, the latter being muscular and cutaneous in their distribution, the former only muscular in the eight upper. In the first eight the internal branches are larger, in the last four much smaller than the ex- ternal. The external or muscular branches of the eight superior pass between the sacro-lum- balis and longissimus dorsi, and give oft' nu- merous filaments to supply these muscles, and the levatores costarum ; that of the first send- ing a few filaments to the cervicalis ascendens, trachelo-mastoid, transversalis colli, and sca- leni muscles. The internal branches wind either over the posterior aspect of the semispinalis dorsi, or between it and the multifidus spina;, and having supplied these muscles with numerous filaments, reach the sides of the spinous pro- cesses ; here they perforate the rhomboid, latissimus dorsi, and trapezius, the last muscle very obliquely, and become cutaneous, being principally distributed to the skin at the back part of the scapular region. The external branches of the four inferior pass obliquely downwards and outwards be- tween the sacro-hnubalis and longissirnus dorsi, communicating with each other in their course, and at the outer border of the former muscle perforate the tendon of the latis- simus dorsi, and become cutaneous, some of the lower filaments being capable of being traced over the glulaeal region. The internal branches of the four inferior arc remarkably small, and are lost either in the substance of the multifidus spina;, or semi- spinalis dorsi. The cutaneous filaments from the posterior branches of the dorsal nerves given off' on the one hand from the internal, and on the other from their external divisions,