1453 VISION. ally the expression " Daltonian " may be used tor the sake of brevity. Modifications of 'insensibility to colours exist in every degree, and in the minor shades are so frequent as to be almost proverbial with reference to the male sex ; indeed, if twelve men, taken at random, were shown a numner of ribands of the more delicate colours, a diversity of opinion would almost certainly arise as to the appropriate names. The number of persons who cannot distinguish certain colours is considerable ; but the defect is seldom known to others, those who are con- scious of their imperfection being desirous of concealing it, and some perhaps, not being aware of it till accident leads to its discovery. In every case that has fallen under our notice, there has been reluctance to submit to ex- amination, from the fear of ridicule; and indeed it is difficult to repress a smile when a person is seen to match green and scarlet to- gether, or crimson and dark blue, and earnestly protest that the colours are absolutely iden- tical. The nearest approacli to this condition in the healthy eye, and a test by which the embarrasment of Daltonians may be judged of, is the difficulty of distinguishing between blue and green by candlelight; a difficulty which everyone must have experienced. Analogous to this defect of the organ of vision, is that better known, because more evident, insensi- bility of the organ of hearing, whereby many persons are utterly unable to detect the differ- ences between musical notes, or, as pointed out by Dr.Wollaston, their ears maybe abso- lutely insensible to sounds at one extremity of the scale. Sir David Brewster remarks* that, although his own hearing is perfect and each ear equally acute for all ordinary sounds, yet one of them is absolutely deaf to the chirp of the cricket, while the other hears it distinctly. Dr. Pliny Earle has published t a remarkable illustration of the imperfection of the two senses in conjunction. " The whole family (says he) of which the chart has been ex- hibited, is probably no less generally charac- terised by a defeciive musical ear than an imperfect appreciation of colours. Several of the individuals comprised in it are utterly inca- pable of distinguishing one tune from another. * * A gentleman who has the general defect under discussion, and whose case is included in the thirty-one herein mentioned, is a well- known professor in one of the Metropolitan Medical Schools of the United States. In him the total inability to discriminate between musical sounds is coexistent with the defec- tive perception of colour * * Another of the gentlemen whose case of defective per- ception of colours is herein noticed, is gene- rally acknowledged as one of the first and greatest of American poets now living. He also is unable to distinguish one tune from another; yet his poetry is not deficient in the requisites of perfect cadence, harmony, and rhvthm." * Philosoph. Mag. vol. xxv. p. 136. f American Journal of Medical Sciences, vol.35, p. 347. It has been remarked by Wartmann as a curious fact, that in no ancient author is there any passage which can be referred to the subject of achromatopsy, and that the nume- rous travellers who have traversed the old and new world are equally silent in this respect. As to the relative frequency of achroma- topsy, Seebeck states that five out of forty youths who composed the two upper classes in a gymnasium at Berlin, were affected with it, and Prevost has declared that the pro- portion of this imperfect vision to perfect vision, is as one to twenty. It is true that Chelius and Chevreul entertain a very op- posite opinion, but the balance of authority is decidedly against them. This affection is often hereditary, and is found in some families to a remarkable extent. It sometimes occurs in successive generations, of which a remarkable instance has been pub- lished by M. Cunier*, and at other times it ap- pears in alternate generations, descending far more frequently on the maternal side than the paternal. In the case of Mr. Milne, recorded by Dr. Combef, the maternal grandfather was affected with Daltonism, also his two brothers and a second cousin. In that of a child related by Dr. Nicholl J the maternal grandfather and several of his brothers were similarly affected: such was also the case with two young men mentioned by Dr. Cornaz.tJ They were the offspring of the same mother but by different fathers, and in both, achromatopsy existed to a marked degree. But the most striking illustration of the hereditary character of this defect has been recorded by Dr. Pliny Earle ||, and it is so remarkable that we give it in his own words. " My maternal grandfather and two of his brothers were characterised by it, and among the descendants of the first mentioned, there are seventeen persons in whom it is found. I have not been able to extend my inquiries among the collateral branches of the family, but have heard of one individual, a female, in one of them, who was similarly affected.* * * Nothing is known of the first generation (of five) in regard to the power of perception of colours. In the second, of a family consisting of seven brothers and eight sisters, three of the brothers, one of whom, as before mentioned, was the grandfather of the writer, had the defect in question. In the third generation, consisting of the children of the grandfather aforesaid, of three brothers and four sisteis, there was no one whose ability to distinguish colours was imperfect. In the fourth genera- tion, the first family includes five brothers and four sifters, of whom two of the former have the defect. In the second family there was but one child, whose vision was normal. In the third there were seven brothers, of whom four had the defect. In the fifth, seven sisters and three brothers, of all of whom the * Annales d'Oculistique, torn. i. p. 417. t Transactions of Phrenological Society, p. 222 % Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vii. p. 477. ยง Annales d'Oculistique, torn, xxiii. p. 43. || Op. cit. p. 349.