720 SOLIPEDA. neck, while its crest and spine, extending themselves outwards almost at a right angle with the body, give the whole bone a shape somewhat like that of the letter T, or of a hammer, of which the body of the bone will form the handle, while the extremity of one of its branches is articulated to the side of the sacrum, and the other forms a broad ex- pansion, the inner surface of which is turned obliquely towards the spinal column. The body of the ileum joins the ischium and pubis at a very obtuse angle, the cotyloid cavity being excavated in the usual manner in the line of junction between the three bones. Fig. 499. Ligaments of the anterior extremity of the Horse. a, a, Ligaments of the scapula; b, capsular liga- ment of the shoulder-joint; /(, radial nerve; k, cap- sule of elbow-joint; d, d, d, e, e, e, ligaments of the elbow, carpus, and phalanges; o, outer cartilage of the hoof; p, inner cartilage of the hoof. The os femoris in the Solipeda is very strong and massive, with well developed tro- chanters, and prominent ridges for the attach- ment of the muscles implanted into it: it is however so short as to be entirely concealed within the flesh and integuments of the trunk, so that what is ordinarily designated the thigh in these quadrupeds is in reality the muscular portion of the leg. Inferiorly the articulating surface that sustains the patella is no longer, as in the human subject, continuous with that of the knee-joint, but forms a distinct articu- lation upon which the patella (Jig.500.q) plays during the movements of the leg. Fig. 500. Osteology of the Horse.— Bones of the posterior Extremity. Femur.— a, Body of the bone; b, its neck; c, the head incrusted with cartilage; d, d, trochanter major, or " spoke "; /, projection of the linea aspera, into which the gluteus extenius is inserted; g, fossa, whence arises the gastrocnemius externus and plan- taris ; h, the external condyle; i, cartilaginous sur- face supporting — q, the patella. s, t, external and internal semilunar cartilages of the knee-joint. Tibia.— u, its upper head; v, articular surface, entering into the composition of the knee-joint; w, surface for the insertion of the ligamentum patella?; x, shaft of the bone. Fibula.— 1, Its upper extremity; 2, its lower end gradually diminished to a point.