1182 TOUCH. excited by percussion, may become the chief means of guidance to animals possessed of a special apparatus for taking cognisance of them. Such appears to be the case in the Bat tribe, and especially in those species whose habits are most exclusively nocturnal, and whose dwellings admit the smallest quan- tity of light. " The whole surface of their wings, on both sides, may be considered as an enormously-expanded organ of touch, of the most exquisite sensibility to the peculiar sen- sation for which it is intended ; and it is, therefore, by the varied modifications of the impulsion of the atmosphere upon this sur- face, that the knowledge of the propinquity of foreign bodies is communicated." * It would not seem improbable, however, that the remarkable cutaneous expansions with which the nose and ear are furnished in many bats, are subservi- ent to this function. The enormous exten- sion of the external ear may doubtless aug- ment the intensity of the sense of hearing ; but it is scarcely accordant with our know- ledge of the conditions under which the sense of smell is exercised, to suppose that the extraordinary " nose-leaf" of the Rhinolophida should be in any great degree subservient to olfactive purposes. The bats of this group (to which belong the greater and lesser horse- shoe bats of our own country) " are more completely lucifugous and retired in their ha- bits than any others ; they are found in the darkest penetralia of caverns, and other places where there is not even the imperfect light which the other genera of bats enjoy." f Some approach to this power of guidance, de- rived either from the impressions made by the air upon the cutaneous surface, or from the radiation of heat, is occasionally seen in blind persons ; who can thus distinguish 'by the hands, and even by the face, the proximity of solid bodies (as in approaching a wall, a door, or a piece of furniture) without actually touching them. The sense of temperature, also, appears to be capable of considerable improvement, when its indications are habitually and discrimi- natingly attended to, or when the mind is intensely and exclusively fixed upon them. Thus it is related of Dr. Saunderson, that when some of his pupils were taking the sun's altitude, he was able to tell, by the slight alteration in the temperature of the air, when very light clouds were passing over the sun's disk. Morbid Conditions of the Sense of Touch. Like most other vital functions, the sense of touch may become disordered in the way of deficiency, excess, or depravation. The state of complete deficiency is known as Anaesthesia; a term which, strictly speaking, designates the absence of all sensation, but which is more commonly employed as re- ferring to the sense of touch alone. This * See Cheiroptera, vol. i. p. 599. •j- Loc. cit. state, which may be either general or local, may arise from an interruption in the func- tional activity of any part of the nervous ap- paratus concerned in the reception of sensory impressions; and thus may be due to causes acting either (1) at the peripheral origins of the sensory nerves, or (2) on the nerves in their course, or (3) on the sensorial centres ; as well as to such as act on the whole nervous system at once. The causes which act at the peripheral origins of the nerves may be such as affect either the nerves themselves, the capillary circulation, or both. Of the first we have a typical example in the " anagsthetie agents," ether, chloroform, &c.; the applica- tion of whose vapour for any length of time to the cutaneous surface, entirely suspends its power of receiving sensory impressions • and that this results from the direct action of the substances on the peripheral nervous ex- pansion, appears from the fact of the suspen- sion being precisely limited to the part to which the vapour is applied. But anaesthesia may be induced, also, by the stagnation of the capillary circulation in a part, without any more direct affection of its nervous endow- ments ; as we see when the main artery of a limb has been tied, previously to the re- establishment of the supply of blood by the collateral circulation, or when the flow of blood through it has been impeded by tem- porary pressure. It is probable that cold operates in producing local anaesthesia in both these modes ; namely, by its direct sedative action upon the peripheral nerves ; and by the stagnation which it produces in the capillary circulation. That the local anagsthesia, which is a not unfrequent result of the presence of poisonous substances in the blood, is due to the special action of these substances upon the peripheral nerves of the particular locality, would not seem an improbable supposition ; when it is remembered how frequently poisons of various kinds single out some particular part of a structure apparently homogeneous, for the production of their peculiar effects,— lead, for example, in whatever way introduced into the system, acting first on the muscular fibres of the alimentary canal, and afterwards most commonly on the extensor muscles of the forearm, in which its presence has been detected by chemical analysis. Of the anaesthesia induced by causes acting upon the sensory nerves in their course from the periphery to the centre, our most frequent examples are those in which it is produced by pressure on these trunks, whereby the con- veyance of the sensory impressions to the encephalon is effectually checked. Anaesthesia may also arise, however, from diseased con- ditions of these trunks, brought about by perverted nutrition; and there is a form of paraplegia, in which the lesion of sensibility (which is more completely lost than the motor power) appears to commence in the peripheral expansions of the nerves, and to extend along the trunks to the central organs.* This is * Graves's Clinical Medicine, vol. i. p. 503.