SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 833 animals. A portion of fat not unfrequently surrounds the cells of the glandular contents ; and in this manner large dark globules ori- ginate, which completely obscure the enclosed cell. These may especially be seen in the Cat, where they take a clustered arrangement and occupy the limits of the medullary and cor- tical substance. The medullary substance is poor in fat. Hitherto the gland-vesicles have not been made out with certainty in this fatty cortical substance, but they are very distinct in the Hedgehog. It yet remains to us to consider the dispo- sition of the blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves in the supra-renal capsules of the Mammalia. For this purpose we shall select those of Man. Vessels. — In the human subject, each supra-renal capsule is supplied with arterial blood by three trunks: — by an arteria supra- renale superior, which is usually present, and comes off as a branch of the phrenica inferior; an arteria supra-renalis media, which is usu- ally double on each side, and arises from the aorta ; and finally, an arteria supra-renalis in- ferior, which is a branch of the renal artery. The further arrangement of the vascular sys- tem has been especially examined by J. Mid- ler *, and Nagel f, whose results have been recently confirmed by Ecker. J The numerous small arterial trunks having arrived at the outer surface of the supra-renal capsules, take a different distribution. One part of them immediately pierce the sheath of the organ, and enter its substance ; while an- other portion of them courses for a consider- able distance on the outer surface before be- coming lost in the interior. In the interior of the organ itself these small arterial trunks still take a different course. One of these sets of vessels can only be followed for a very short extent in the cortical substance. After a course of scarcely half a line in length, they break up into a capillary network, with long meshes, which encircle the gland vesicles of the cor- tical substance. The other arterial trunks, without giving off any branches, plunge at right angles through the cortical mass into the medullary substance. Here they break up into twigs which, by devious paths, return again into the cortical mass, to end also in a network of capillary vessels. Thus the cor- tical substance possesses a closer capillary network than the medullary mass, a fact which is in conformity with the predominant glan- dular activity of the former stratum. Nagel, in his Essay, has illustrated this distribution of the arterial vessels by beautiful drawings. The veins begin at the common margin of the cortex and medulla. They alone con- stitute almost all the vessels of the latter por- tion, since the smallest branches gradually unite to form larger ones, and these finally join to form the vena supra-renalis, which * Hildebrandt'S Anatomic, lierausgegeben von E. H. Weber, 4ter Theil, S. 350. Loc. eit. Loc. eit. VOL. IV. occupies the middle of the supra-renal cap- sule ; and, as was stated above, is proportion- ally very large. " Were we able," says Nagel, " to exhibit this venous texture isolated from the cellular tissue which receives it, the indi- vidual smaller veins opening into the venous trunk on all sides, and at very acute angles, would render it most suitably comparable to a poplar tree." Usually there is a single vena supra-renalis for each supra-renal capsule. The right supra- renal vein passes immediately from the gland into the vena cava ascendens ; but the left one forms a longer trunk, which opens into the renal vein. But these statements of Nagel are contradicted by others; for instance, by Krause, according to whom two or three veins generally leave each supra-renal capsule. As far as observations have hitherto gone, this disposition of the vascular system appears to be tolerably constant for all the Mam- malia. The lymphatics of the supra-renal capsules are not yet sufficiently known. According to Arnold, there are superficial and deep ones. In animals slain during the digestive act, Ecker could only find the superficial lym- phatics, so that Arnold's statements would seem to be doubtful. The absorbent trunks of the supra-renal capsules unite with those of the kidneys and the interna] sexual organs, and they open into the thoracic duct. The uncommonly rich supply of nerves possessed by the supra-renal capsules consti- tutes a very striking phenomenon, and one which finds no parallel in any cognate organs. In Man, these nerves arise from the caeliac and renal plexuses in the form of numerous and proportionally large trunks. It is chiefly through Ecker that we have become ac- quainted with the further course of the nerves in the interior of the organ. Larger and smaller branches of nerves perforate the cor- tical substance, usually contained in the bun- dles of its areolar tissue, or accompanying its arterial vessels, but giving off no primitive fibres. Only in the medullary substance do the trunks of nerves break up into bundles of fibres. The neighbouring bundles often ex- change their nerve-fibres with each other, so that, in this way, they form a dense micro- scopic nervous tissue. It would seem that, in the human subject, no ganglion corpuscles are present in this sympathetic nerve tissue ; but, in the Horse, in whom the supra-renal corpuscles are yet richer in nerves than they are in man, some ganglion corpuscles may be seen on the nervous trunks of the tissue. But one must be especially careful against confounding gland-cells of the organ with these ganglion corpuscles, which they super- ficially resemble. This rich supply of nerves seems only to pertain to the supra-renal cap- sules of the Mammalia; in all the other Ver- tebrata, whose supra-renal capsules, as will be forthwith stated, are very similarly constituted, it is completely wanting. On this account, it becomes exceedingly difficult to state what 3 H