f»81 SLEEP. titementof thefeelings keeping upaforcedstate of mental activity, which no voluntary effort can subdue. The state of suspense is in most persons more difficult to bear with equanimity, and is more opposed to the access of sleep, by the continual perturbation which it induces, than the greatest joy or the direst calamity when certainty has been attained. Thus it is a common observation that criminals under sentence of death sleep badly so long as they entertain any hopes of a reprieve ; but as soon as they are satisfied that their sentence will be certainly carried into execution, they usually sleep more soundly,—and this even on the very last night of their lives. That the continued excitement of the feelings, whilst producing an indisposition to sleep, really occasions as great a demand for it in the system as is produced by the most active ex- ercise of the intellectual powers, is evident from the very exhausting effects of its pro- traction ; which necessitate a long period of tranquillity for restoration to health. Among the most powerful of the predis- posing causes to sleep, is the absence of sensorial impressions: thus darkness and silence usually conduce to repose ; and the cessation of the sense of muscular effort, which takes place when we assume a position that is sustained without it, frequently acts as the complement of all other influences. There are cases, however, in which the continuance of an accustomed sound is necessary instead of positive silence, the cessation of the sound being a complete preventive of sleep. Thus it happens that persons living in the neigh- bourhood of the noisiest mills or forges cannot sleep elsewhere; and when, to induce repose in illness, the mill or the forge has been stopped, the cessation of the sound only occasions more obstinate wakefulness. Such instances, perhaps, fall within the next category of predisposing causes, — namely the monotonous repetition of sensorial impres- sions. Every one knows how efficacious a provocative of sleep is the droning voice of a heavy reader, especially when his subject is equally prosaic. The ripple of the calm ocean upon the shore, the murmur of a rivulet, the sound of a distant waterfall, the rustling of foliage, the hum of bees, and similar monotonous impressions upon the auditory sense, are usually found to induce sleep ; and Boerhaave relates, that being desirous of pro- curing sleep for one of his patients troubled with obstinate insomnia, he directed a brass pan to be so placed as to receive a succession of drops of water, the sound of which had the desired effect. A lulling influence, however, is not universally thus produced ; for we have known a case in which sleep was altogether kept away by the sound of dropping water, which seems to have occasioned a state of emotional excitement. Not only is the repe- tition of auditory impressions provocative of sleep ; uniform succession of gentle movements has a similar effect upon the sensorium through the sense of vision. The sleep thus induced, however, is usually characterised by certain peculiarities which will be described hereafter.— The recurrence of impressions received through the sense of touch has the same effect. Thus Dr. Elliotson says*,— " I know a lady who often remains awake in spite of every thing, till her husband very gently rubs her foot; and by asserting to a patient my conviction that the secret of an advertising hypnologist whom I allowed to try his art upon the sleepless individual, and which he did for a time successfully, was to make him gently rub some part of his body till he slept, he confessed this to be the fact." The rocking of the infant's cradle, or the gentle swaying of the body backwards and forwards in the arms, are predisposing causes of sleep well known to nurses. In these and similar cases, the influence of the impressions would seem to be exerted in withdrawing the mind from the conscious- ness of its own operations, the loss of which, as we shall presently point out, is the tran- sition-step of the passage into complete un- consciousness. The reading of a dull book acts in the same mode. There is a monotony of sensorial impressions, the eyes wandering on from line to line and from page to page, without any mental interest in the sensations received ; and if the voluntary effort of atten- tion be intermitted, the thoughts pass off along their own spontaneous train, whilst the sensorial centres are left free to the soporific influence of monotony. The foregoing are the chief causes of sleep, which operate directly through the sensorial organs themselves. We have now to consider those whose action is indirect, being exerted primarily on the organic functions. Of these the first in order of importance are those which produce increased pressure of blood within the vessels of the encephalon. Thus the assumption of the recumbent position operates in this method as a powerful predis- ponent to sleep, as well as by rendering all muscular effort unnecessary for the mainte- nance of the position of the body. To this cause again we are probably to attribute, in great part at least, the drowsiness which suc- ceeds a full meal, the pressure within the encephalic vessels being increased by the pres- sure of the distended stomach upon the ves- sels of the abdomen ; but the circulation of imperfectly assimilated matter in the blood may possibly concur in the production of the result. The influence of pressure is most characteristically seen in cases of gradual effusion of blood or of serum from the vessels of the brain ; this at first occasions a state of sopor but little different from profound or- dinary sleep ; but with the increase of the effusion there is an increase in the depth of the slumber; the patient can no longer be aroused by sensorial impressions which were at first sufficient to re-excite consciousness, and at last complete coma comes on.f A * Physiology, p. G09. f Dr. Marshall Hall has advanced the hypothesis, that ordinary slurp is the result of congestion of the brain produced by compression of " certain veins,"