877 TEETH. * Odontography, Introduction, p. Ixxii. * Odontography, pi. 60, 61. chiefly on animal matter must vary according as their food may be common salt fish, or shell-fish." " Such fish as live on the first kind have, like the carnivorous quadrupeds and birds, no apparatus for mastication, their teeth being intended merely for catching the food and fitting it to be swallowed. But the shells of the second kind of food render some de- gree of masticatory power necessary to fit it for its passage either into the stomach or through the intestines : and accordingly we find in certain fish a structure suited to the purpose. Thus the mouth of the Wolf-fish is almost paved with teeth, by means of which it can break shells to pieces, and fit them for the oesophagus of the fish, and so effectually disengage the food from them, that though it lives upon such hard food, the stomach does not differ from that of other fish." But in order to secure the capture of the shell-fish, the teeth of the Wolf-fish are not all crushers ; some present the laniary type, with the apices more or less recurved and blunted by use, and consist of strong cones spread abroad, like grappling hooks, at the anterior part of the mouth.* The premaxillary teeth are all conical, and arranged in two rows; there are two, three, or four in the exterior row, at the mesial half of the bone, which are the largest; and from six to eight smaller teeth are irregularly arranged behind. There are three large, strong, diverging laniaries at the anterior end of each premandibular bone, and immediately behind these an irregular number of shorter and smaller conical teeth, which gradually exchange this form for that of large obtuse tubercles ; these extend backwards, in a double alternate series, along a great part of the alveolar border of the bone, and are termi- nated by two or three smaller teeth in a single row, the last of which again presents the conical form. Each palatine bone supports a double row of teeth, the outer ones being conical and straight, and from four to six in number; the inner ones two, three, or four in number, and tuberculate. I have seen a spe- cimen where the inner row was wanting on one side. The lower surface of the vomer is covered by a double irregularly alternate series of the same kind of large tuberculate crushing teeth as those at the middle of the premandibular. All the teeth are anchylosed to more or less developed alveolar eminences, like the anterior teeth of the Lophius. The periphery of the expanded circular base of the large anterior grappling teeth is divided into processes indicative of the original ligamen- tous fasciculi at the base of the pulp by the ossification of which their anchylosis is ef- fected. When such anchylosed teeth and the sup- porting bone are divided by a vertical sec- tion, as in Jig. 2, pi. C6, of my " Odonto- graphy," there may be generally discerned a faint transverse line indicating the original separation between the tooth and the bone, and more clearly defining the dental from the osseous structure, than in the anchylosed teeth of other fishes. From the enormous develop- mentof themusclesof the jaws, and the strength of the shells of the whelks and other testacea which are cracked and crushed by the teeth, their fracture and displacement must obviously be no unfrequent occurrence ; and most speci- mens of the jaws of the Wolf-fish exhibit some of the teeth either separated at this line of imperfect anchylosis, or, more rarely, broken off above the base, or, still more rarely, de- tached by fracture of the supporting osseous alveolar process. With regard to the substance of the teeth of fishes, the modifications of dentine, called vaso-dentine and osteo-dentine *, predomi- nate much more than in the higher Verte- brata; and they thus more closely resemble the bones which support them. There is, however, great diversity in respect of sub- stance. The teeth of most of the Chseto- donts are flexible, elastic, and composed of a yellowish subtransparent albuminous tissue ; such, likewise, are the labial teeth of the He- lostome, the premaxillary and mandibular teeth of the Goniodonts, and of that percoid genus thence called Trichodon. In the Cy- clostomes the teeth consist of a denser albu- minous substance. The upper pharyngeal molar of the Carp consists of a peculiar brown and semitransparent tissue, hardened by salts of lime and magnesia. The teeth of the Fly- ing-fish (EjcocceIus), and Sucking-fish (Re- mora), consist of osteo-dentine. In many fishes, e. g. the Acanthurus, Sphyrcena, and certain Sharks (Lamna, Jig. 545.), a base, or body of osteo-dentine is coated by a layer of true dentine, but of unusual hardness, like enamel: in Prionodon this hard tissue predo- minates. In the Labrus the pharyngeal crush- ing teeth consist wholly of hard or unvascular dentine (Jig. 544.). In most Pycnodonts and Cestracionts, and many other fishes, the body of the tooth consists of ordinary unvascular dentine, covered by a modification of that tissue which I have called " vitro-dentine " from its clear, polished, enamel-like character: but this is not enamel, nor the product of a dis- tinct organ from the dentinal pulp : it differs from ordinary dentine in the greater propor- tion of the mineral particles, their more mi- nute diffusion through the gelatinous basis, in the straighter course and more minute size of the calcigerous tribes ; it results from the calcification of the external layer of the den- tinal pulp, and is the first part of the tooth which is formed. In Sargus and Batistes the body of the tooth consists of true dentine, and the crown is covered by a thick layer of a denser tissue, developed by a distinct organ, and differing from the " enamel " of higher animals only in the more complicated and or- ganised mode of deposition of the earthy salts. The ossification of the capsule of the complex matrix of these teeth covers the enamel w ith a thin coating of " cement." In the pharyngeal