SOFTENING AND INDURATION. 707 cartilaginous hardness. General induration affects either the whole or the greater part of the brain : the degree of hardness never exceeds the first variety. The induration is not al- ways equal throughout the whole of the parts affected, the central medullary parts usually exhibiting a higher degree of it than the grey substance. A section of the indurated por- tions generally presents increased vascularity, in the usual speckled and striated form ; yet the reverse is occasionally observed, the brain being preternaturally white. Induration of the spinal cord may be general or partial. Billard found a spinal cord in a child of a few days' old, which, without the membranes, supported a pound weight. In partial induration, the white, and not the grey, matter is usually affected. For further re- marks on the softening and induration of the spinal cord, see the article Nervous Centres (Abnormal Anatomy). Softening of the heart occurs as a diminished state of the cohesion of the muscular structure. It is a rare disease, and is produced by very opposite causes ; from inflammation, from a defective state of the nutrition of the organ, with or without general anaemia, and from a perverted state of the nutrition of the mus- cular and cellular elements. The heart when softened collapses on itself when empty, tears with the greatest facility, and breaks down with little pressure, the finger perforating its substance and penetrating into its cavities with great ease. Its colour varies, being sometimes deep red and violet, at others dirty white, and occasionally of a faint jellow hue. Soften- ing of the heart may be general or partial, superficial or deep-seated ; it may be confined to the walls of a particular cavity, or to the ventricular septum, or it may occur in small patches, disseminated in the midst of the mus- cular substance. Softening of the heart may coincide with hypertrophy of its walls, or a dilated state of its cavities, and Hope found it in a case of angina pectoris. When found as a sequel of carditis, the softening is of a dark tint, the fibres are dark from the whole heart being gorged with venous blood, soft and loose in their texture, being easily separable, and compressed with facility between the fingers. When accompanying chronic carditis and co-existing pericarditis, the white colour predominates, sometimes being nearly superficial, and attended by peri- cardial and sub-pericardial effusion. The yellow-coloured softening is found in cases of local and general anosmia, in malig- nant fevers ; and it sometimes has an inflam- matory, as well as merely cachectic origin. An abnormal deposition of adipose tissue in the cellular structure of the heart, produces sof- tening by affecting the nutrition of the mus- cular fibres, which suffer also from the state of system peculiarised by the above deposition. Induration of the heart is said to follow carditis, and appears to be produced by the effusion of lymph into the cellular tissue, around the muscular fibres and beneath the serous membranes; by its contraction and sub- sequent hardening, it may pass into a sub- stance almost equal to bone in hardness. It may exist in any part of the organ, the whole of the apex and the columnce carneae of the left ventricle were found indurated in one case, and in another the walls of the ven- tricles were tough, did not collapse, and emitted on being struck, a ringing hollow sound. We sometimes find partial softenings anil indurations in the same heart. Softening of the lungs generally depends upon the presence of effused products of in- flammation ; for instance, in the engorged, he- patised, and suppurative stages of acute pneu- monia. It is worthy of remark, that, although in the hepatised stage the lungs are heavier, contain less air, and appear denser, still they are more fragile, and on being pressed by the finger break down. The more acute and re- cent the inflammation, the greater the soften- ing. When we press a healthy lung with the finger, it gives to the touch on account of the elastic state of the tissue ; but this is lost, and an unusual resistance, easily broken through, is produced by the loss of air, and the pre- sence of lymph, compound granule cells, se- rum, and an abnormal quantity of blood. In the third stage of pneumonia, softening is produced by the alterations in the effused products ; lymph, for instance, is converted into a yellow friable matter, which subse- quently becomes pus. In typhoid pneumonia the softening is great, even in the first or con- gestive stage. Softening of the lung may be produced by an insufficient supply of blood. A part of a lobe may be so indurated, that the vessels and bronchial tubes passing through it become blocked up ; the tissue which ought to have been supplied by these becomes at first soft, and finally gangrenous. Induration may occur in anj' part of the lung, it may affect simply the bronchi and the tissue in their immediate neighbourhood, or the interlobular cellular tissue and the paren- chyma may suffer. The bronchi after long continued and re- peated attacks of inflammation are found in a more or less indurated state, the hardening being generally in the outer cellular coat, and the cartilages of the larger tubes may become as hard as bone. The lung in the vicinity is generally denser than it should be. The interlobular cellular tissue may be hardened at the same time as the lobules, or separately ; it becomes more apparent than usual, and acquires a density occasionally re- sembling fibro-cartilage, and sometimes exer- cises so compressing an influence on the lobules, as to obliterate them. But it is as a sequel of inflammatory action of long duration, that hardening of the whole or part of a lobe is found ; the vesicular struc- ture first suffers, the air vesicles are obliterated, and, often enough, the bronchi and blood- vessels of a certain magnitude. Such portions of lung are dense, not at all friable, possess a peculiar crispness, and con- tain little or no air. Z 7. 2