1102 THYMUS GLAND. thymus. Absence of the gland has only been observed in cases of acephalism, where the brain and many other parts are simultane- ously deficient, while in cases of anence- phalism, where the brain is also wanting wholly, but the general development much more complete, the thymus is present; no- thing therefore can be concluded from its absence in cases of extreme monstrosity as Mr. Simon has well observed. Inflammation of the gland, if it ever happens, is of rare occurrence. Professor Hope, however, refers to a case by Mason, in which an abscess of the thymus is said to have opened into the trachea. The same author states that Beeher and Hangstadt have collected about fifteen ex- amples of persons, of different ages, affected with more or less general tubercular disease, in whom the thymus was found involved. " It was for the most part considerably en- larged, very firmly united with surrounding parts, and either converted by tubercular in- filtration into a hardened mass, or else par- tially destroyed by tuberculous softening. In three or four instances calcareous concretions, probably resulting from the retrogression of tubercle, were discovered in the gland." Haller speaks of the thymus as being fre- quently affected with scirrhus along with the conglobate glands ; but though Becher gives an instance on his own authority, and refers to others, there can be no doubt that true malignant disease of the gland is extremely rare. Sir A. Cooper gives a case, in which death was produced by the pressure of an enlarged thymus upon the vena transversa and upon the trachea, probably also upon the vagi nerves; there was severe dyspnoea and oedema of the lower extremities. He considers the disease to have been of the fungoid kind, i. e. encephaloid. Atrophy of the thymus occurs as a normal event; if, however, it should take place long before the usual period, determined, as we have seen, not so much by the lapse of time as by the condition of the system, it must be regarded as morbid. Yet in every such case it is almost certain that the atrophy of the thy- mus would be but part of a general malady, wherein the nutrition of every organ was greatly impaired. Hypertrophy of the thymus has attracted more attention, Dr. Kopp having noticed several cases of suddenly fatal dyspnoea oc- curring in children, in whom the gland was found of large size, concluded that there was some essential connection between the glan- dular enlargement and the suffocative pa- roxysms. The fallacy of this opinion has been well pointed out by Mr. Simon and others. I must refer to his work, and that of Professor Hope, for a full account of their arguments, and will only mention two circumstances, which seem to me conclusive upon the point. The first is, that "thymic asthma" may occur with an unnaturally small thymus ; the second, that when a thymus, enlarged by malignant disease, as in Sir A. Cooper's case, does oc- casion dyspnoea, it is not sudden and pa- roxysmal, but constant and exhausting. For the history of the thymus, and for a copious list of authors who have written upon it, I can do no better than refer to the Historical Introduction to Mr. Simon's essay. (C. Handfield Jones.) THYROID GLAND. (French, glande thyrdide ; German, Die Schilddruse ; Italian, Tiroidea glandola ; Latin, Glandula thyroidcea.j The organ which has received this name is a bilobed glandular body, situated in the human subject in close proximity to the larynx, from the prominent cartilage of which it has pro- bably derived its appellation. Its size varies considerably in different in- dividuals, according to unknown peculiarities. In the female it is generally larger than in man ; reversing thus the proportion which obtains between the vocal apparatus in the two sexes, and so far negativing the idea, that the larynx and the thyroid gland are in any wise intimately connected. The normal -weight of the thyroid is about one ounce, according to Cruveilhier. Any great excess above this must be regarded as indicating a pathological condition. Its form, as has been said, is bilobed ; the lateral lobes being united by a thinner and narrower portion termed the isthmus. It would appear (from the circumstance that variations of form are most frequent in the isthmus, which sometimes is even wanting) that the lateral lobes are the primary parts of the gland, and, in fact, in one entire class (that of birds) the lobes lie entirely separate, one on each side of the trachea. In the human subject they are large and solid, presenting an anterior convex surface, a posterior concave, an external and inferior border which is con- vex, and runs up to join the superior interior concave border in a pointed cornu, which reaches as far as the origin of the inferior con- strictor pharyngis from the ala of the thyroid cartilage. From the upper border of the isthmus, or from the adjacent part of one of the lateral lobes, there stretches upwards a narrow strip of glandular tissue, which has been called the pyramid or mesian column, and which may have been sometimes mis- taken for a muscle, as Cruveilhier asserts ; though it is distinguished perfectly from the so called levator gland, thyroid, by Haller. This prolongation sometimes extends to the hyoid bone, but generally not so far, and is subject to numerous modifications of shape and structure. The following list of the various forms which the thyroid may pre- sent, is taken from the catalogue of the mu- seum of Guy's Hospital, which Dr. Birkett, the curator, most kindly allowed me to inspect, together with the preparations. 1. Thyroid without an isthmus, but having two mesian columns. 2. Thyroid almost without an isthmus, and having one mesian column. 3. Thyroid with broad isthmus and one mesian column. 4. Thyroid with no isthmus, but having one large mesian column. 5. Thyroid