TONGUE. 1135 materially the direction and shape of the tongue: the styloglossi raise and expand the sides, the palatoglossi raise and approximate them, and the hyoglossi depress them; the one set makes the dorsum of the tongue transversely concave, the other convex : moreover, the posterior fibres of the genio- glossus draw the centre of the tongue for- wards and downwards, so that they also render the tongue transversely concave. The action of the genioglossus is peculiar; the most posterior fibres draw forwards the base of the tongue, and are those chiefly concerned in the protrusion of the organ ; the most anterior concur in replacing the tongue when thus protruded ; when the whole muscle acts it compresses the tongue into a sort of button, and carries it deep down in the arch of the lower jaw. The relations of the hyoglossus and genioglossus are worthy of remark : they are congeners, inasmuch as they both tend to draw the tongue downwards ; they are antagonists, inasmuch as the one tends to draw the tongue principally forwards, the other principally backwards; when all four muscles act, the tongue is depressed deep in the jaw, but further back than when the genioglossi act alone ; when the two muscles of one side act, that side alone is depressed, and a certain torsion is given to the tongue which enables it to "apply the tip advantageously to parts that it would otherwise be very difficult to reach. ]f the movement of the tongue in transferring the tip from the last inferior molar tooth of one side to that of the other be watched, with the mouth open, at a glass, it will be seen to be collected in a globe at the back of the mouth, and to rotate horizontally, as it were on a pivot. The only way in which I can conceive this movement to be brought about, is by the consentaneous action of the hyo- glossus of the one side with the genioglossus of the other,—the one right with the other left, then the one left with the other right, and so on, the stjloglossi and palatoglossi at the same time preventing the depression of the tongue. But it would be vain to attempt to describe in words the endless variety of movements of which the tongue is susceptible; and if it were possible to give an idea of them, space could not be afforded: so, dismissing this part of my subject, I will proceed to the next. 3. Tegumentary system.— The tegumentary system of the tongue is formed by the mucous membrane of the mouth passing on to it from neighbouring parts, and undergoing special modifications according to the part that it invests. A superficial glance shows it at once to admit of a triple division, into, first, a really or apparently plane portion, situated in front of the epiglottis, beneath the borders, and on the free portion of the under surface; secondly, a papillary portion, covering the anterior two-thirds of the upper surface, the free borders, and the tip ; and, thirdly, a glandular portion, occupying the posterior third of the upper surface, where it is folded into little crypts and raised in nodules over small mucous glands: these glands exist also along the sides and beneath the tip: they will be reserved for future description. The mucous membrane here, as elsewhere, consists of three portions, — a basement or limitary membrane, underlaid by a submucous areolar tissue, and surmounted by an epithe- lium. a. Cutis.—The sub-basement areolar tissue of the tongue exists in sufficient quantity and density to deserve the name of a true chorion or cutis. It is thickest at the upper surface, where it underlays the papilla, espe- cially towards the median line; its density too is the greatest here, sometimes amounting to almost a cartilaginous hardness, and the pro- portion of white fibrous tissue to the yellow is the greatest; it is thinnest on the under surface and edges, where it contains more of the elastic element, especially in the neigh- bourhood of the epiglottis ; at the line where the attached and free portions of the tongue meet, it gradually merges off into the loose elastic web that underlays the mucous surface in these situations. Its inner surface receives the insertion of all the intrinsic muscles of the tongue, among which for a short distance it dips, and it sends processes into the folds that attach the tongue to neighbouring parts, as the glosso-epiglottidean and frasnum. It is the medium in which the nerves and vessels destined to the surface break up previous to their ultimate distribution : the vascular rami- fications form a plane network, coincident with the surface, from which, at regular intervals, the papillary vessels ascend. b. The basement membrane is variously modified in the three situations above indi- cated ; it is either continued plane, projected into papilla;, or folded into mucous crypts, from which its further involution constitutes the minute ducts and ultimate follicles of the mucous glands opening into these crypts : its description will be involved in the particular consideration of these structures. c. Epithelium.—This very nearly approaches in character the cuticle of the skin, which it resembles in being of the scaly variety, in the amount to which it exists, and in its being divisible into two layers, a deep one closely adherent to the basement membrane, consist- ing of more recent cells, retaining much of the cellular form (Jig. 753., c.), and a superficial one, readily desquamating, the cells of which are older and flattened into scales (Jig. 753.. d.). It exists in very different quantity in different parts, being most abundant where it invests the papillary structures. The shape of the in- dividual cells is very various ; where they are flattened their area is much extended (fig. 753., «.), and they look four or five times as large as the deep-seated ones; but probably there is no increase in size, their lateral extension resulting from their greater thinness: viewed in profile they appear quite filamentary ; some of them are not flattened but elongated, so that they appear linear in all aspects, and are really so. In spite of all these modifications