SOFTENING AND INDURATION. 705 of tissues and organs, renders them soft and flabby; as will also infiltrations of certain morbid adventitious products. The com- pound granule cells found in acute softening of the brain, and mixed with pus in other situations, are described in the article on Ad- ventitious Products. Softening may be accompanied by atrophy, or by hypertrophy, which is generally produced by simple conges- tion ; or no alteration of bulk may occur. Three degrees of softening are recognised : — in the first, the softened tissue is still solid, but it breaks down and tears and can be per- forated with ease; in the second, all solidity is gone, nothing but a pultaceous semi-fluid mass is found ; and, in the third degree, the tissue is broken down and diffluent. Softened parts may retain their natural colour, or may be paler, or may have an in- crease of colour. Softening, without any change of tint, occurs in mucous and serous membranes, in the brain, heart, liver, and uterus. All post mortem softenings are of this kind, except where the colouring matter of the blood has tinted the effused fluids. In certain softenings of the brain the af- fected parts are much paler than usual, being of a dead white colour; there is a diminution in the quantity of blood usually present in the diseased parts ; a like decrease of colour is found in other softenings. Generally, however, softening is accom- panied by reddening, or by an increased co- lour ; the tints may vary from a bright ver- milion to a brownish red, and may be seen as grey, almost black, and, occasionally, are yellow. These varieties of colour depend upon the amount of blood usually existing in the softened tissue, and upon the degree of congestion. The redness of softened tissues is occasionally partial, and merges into lighter tints as the tissue becomes harder. Partial effusions of blood, or highly injected vessels, are commonly found in red softenings. Induration, generally speaking, is to be re- garded as a symptom of previous or coexist- ing diseased states ; its physical condition varies much in its nature, in the same or in different tissues, as proved by microscopical, mechanical, and chemical analysis; and both observation and experiment tend to prove, that it is produced by causes of a very oppo- site kind. Changes in the amount of fluid destined for the nutrition of a part, frequently give rise to induration ; an increased quantity of blood and a consequent increased deposit of solid structure, produce simple induration of many organs, which are liable to variations in the quantity of blood they may contain, for in- stance, the brain and spinal marrow, the cellular and muscular tissues ; also of denser structures, as bone, in which the induration is occasionally extreme, and in fibrous tissues ; they produce also hardening of the lymphatic glands and of the salivary glands. The brain has been found to be increased to twice its natural density and consistence. Muscular, fibrous, and cellular tissues, become so hard, vol.. IV. as to give out a grating sound when cut; and the walls of some hollow organs, naturally soft and flaccid, acquire such a degree of firm- ness, that they preserve, when empty, a glo- bular or cylindrical form, and spring up with considerable force after sudden pressure ; and parts of bone acquire that degree of hard- ness, which has been termed eburneoid indu- ration. An increased quantity of the usual fluids of nutrition frequently gives rise to in- duration, differing from that just described, in not being attended by deposition of solids. The accumulation of blood in the vessels of the lungs and spleen, the result of congestion, produces, sometimes, a great degree of hard- ness and density of these organs. Diminution of the quantity of the same fluid, especially when there is also a compressing force, is also followed by an increase of consistence, and, generally, by a decrease in bulk of cer- tain organs ; in pleurisy, for instance, dense false membranes, by their pressure, compress the lung into a small space, and its tissue be- comes indurated from simple approximation ; for, on the removal of the compressing agents, the lung can be inflated. The inordinate increase and accumulation of the secretion of certain organs, as the mamma, testis, gall bladder, and kidney, pro- duce a degree of hardness, sometimes equal to that of dense tumors, arising from the in- compressibility of the fluids themselves, and the state of condensation of the walls of the organs in which they are accumulated. Effusions of serum and blood into the tissues from mechanical causes produce great distension and induration; such is the case in the oedema of the cellular tissue of the extremities in dropsy ; effusion of serum into the intermuscular cellular tissue produces hardening. Pulmonary apoplexy and ecchy- mosis in various organs, from a mechanical impediment to the return of blood to the heart, have a like effect. But inflammation of a sub-acute form is the great cause of induration, from the effu- sion of serum and coagulable lymph; the former of which is absorbed, and the latter becomes " induration matter," whose proper- ties are described under the head of Adventi- tious Products ; this last product produces induration on account of its being actually denser than the tissues into which it is effused, and, also, by its compressing power, for it has the peculiarity of contracting and becoming hard after its deposition. Certain morbid states of the blood, occasionally produce in- durations of certain organs. The changes of form, with which indura- tion may be connected, are numerous ; none may, however, occur ; the bulk also of in- durated structures varies ; it may remain un- changed, but, generally, it is increased, and more rarely, decreased. The colour of indurated parts, is generally different from the normal tint ; sometimes, owing to diminished vascularity, and to the presence of induration matter, it may be pale ; at others, owing to increased vascularity, and z z