SOLIPEDA. 729 /, gluteus internus; b, iliacus internus ; 10, vastus interims; 33, sciatic nerve; 23, poplitsBUS; 25, 26, tibialis posticus., 28,, 29, 30. 31. flexor longus digiti pedis ; 24, poplitseal nerve ; 38, posterior tibial nerve ; 40, articular ligaments of the knee ankle and pastern joints; 26, insertion of the tendon of the tibialis posticus into 29, that of the flexor longus digiti pedis; 11, flexor brevis digiti pedis; 31, insertion of the tendon of the flexor longus into the coffin bone; 41, internal cartilage of the hoof. The extensor proprius minimi digiti. — In the horse this muscle is represented by two muscles. One of these, called by Bourgelat the lateral extensor of the foot, antl by Lafosse the extensor of the pastern, is inserted by the intervention of a strong tendon into the side of the first phalanx of the solitary toe that forms the foot. The second muscle, placed between the above and the preceding muscle, furnishes a similar tendon, which, after passing in front of the carpus, becomes united at an acute angle with that of the former, the two co-operating with each other in extending the foot. In the liuminantia likewise this muscle is disposed after two different manners. In the Cervidse or deer tribe, in which the rudimen- tary toes are capable of distinct movements, it furnishes two tendons to the two outer toes ; whilst in oxen, goats, sheep, and an- telopes its tendon presents a double inser- tion— one into the posterior aspect of the outer finger, the other into the tendon of the extensor communis. The extensor proprius indicis and the two long extensors of the thumb are, in all the ungulate quadrupeds, entirely wanting. The abductor longus pollicis is present in all the mammalia, even in the liuminantia and the Solipeds. In the horse its tendon is implanted into the internal surface of the base of the cannon bone, so that it thus becomes an extensor of the foot (7 'extenseur oblique du canon of Bourgelat). The flexor digitorum sublimis perforatus and the flexor profundus perforans. — In the horse these muscles arise in common from the in- ternal protuberance of the os humeri, ami the two are confounded together for a consider- able distance, when the two muscles separate to form two distinct tendons ; of these, that belonging to the flexor sublimis runs beneath the annular ligaments of the carpus, to be in- serted into the base of the great pastern bone previously dividing to give passage to the tendon of the profundus on its way to be im- planted into the last phalanx or coffin bone of the foot. In the ungulata the small muscles of the hand would evidently be useless, and accord- ingly in the horse all traces of them are lost, their place being supplied by the peculiar structure of the foot, to be described further on. Posterior Extremity— Muscles of the Pelvis. —The muscles specially belonging to the pel- vis are the quadratus lumborum and the psoas parvus, which in quadrupeds offer precisely the same arrangement as in man. Muscles inserted into the os femoris —These are similarly disposed in all the Mammifera possessed of a pelvic extremity, the only differ- ences observable being in their proportionate sizes. In the Solipeda the analogue of the glutceus maximus is so small, in comparison of the two other glutsei, that it is named by Bourgelat'' le petit fessier," and by Stubbs the glutceus externus. In the human subject the comparative large size of this muscle is rendered necessary in consequence of the erect attitude of the body, which it princi- pally assists in maintaining; whilst in quadru- peds, from the horizontal position of their bodies, it becomes of very secondary import- ance. In the horse it is a comparatively slender muscle, deriving its principal origin from the sacral fascia, but also reinforced by a long slender fasciculus, which descends immediately from the upper portion of the ileum. Its insertion is into the third tro- chanter and external rough surface at the upper part of the thigh bone, and also by strong tendinous aponeuroses into the fascia lata. The Glutceus medius is the principal muscle in this region ; it arises extensively from the sacro-iliae aponeurosis, and from the ex- ternal surface of the ileum, from which origin it runs downwards and forwards to be im- planted into the outer surface of the great trochanter, and is, moreover, prolonged, by means of a strong posterior fasciculus, to- wards the lower extremity of the femur. From this latter circumstance, as well as from its preponderating strength, the glutaeus medius may be regarded as being, j)ar excellence, the kicking muscle in these quadrupeds which in- stinctively have recourse to this mode of de- fence as best suited to their organization. The other muscles inserted into the great trochanter — namely, the glutceus minimus, the quadratus femoris, the obturator externus, the obturator internus, the gemc/ti, and the pi/ra- midalis—present in all quadrupeds a disposi- tion similar to that which they have in the human body. The muscles passing between the pelvis and the lesser trochanter, and also those that arise from the pubis to be implanted into the in- ternal surface of the thigh, in the generality of quadrupeds, correspond very accurately with those of man. In the horse these are the psoas magnus, the iliacus, the pectinceus, and the triple adductor, none of which offer any peculiarity worthy of remark. The flexor muscles of the leg are the biceps flexor cruris, the semimembranosus, the semi- tendinosus, the sarlorius, the gracilis, and the poplitccus, all of which are enclosed by the dense fascia of the thigh, or fascia lata, which is kept tense by the action of a special muscle named the tensor vagina; femoris. The last-named muscle, called also the museulus fascia lata (ileo-fascien) arises in the horse from the anterior portion of the crest of the ileum, whence it descends obliquely downwards, enclosed between two layers of the fascia, covering the thigh, into wh eh it is strongly inserted. The extensor muscles of the thigh — v z. the