SOLIPEDA. 740 compression, which would soon become de- structive. If it were necessary to employ any single epithet to express the real nature of this kind of locomotive apparatus, Bracy Clark suggests that the term Semifissipes, or half- cloven foot, would be less objectionable, though also not exactly true, on account of the presence of the frog, which, added to the entire hoof in front, seems to afford the most essential character of this kind of foot. Fig. 514. Dissection of the superficial Parts of the Horse's 1, General integument; 2, fatty mass, forming a cushion behind the great pastern joint.; 3, wall of the hoof turned back, showing the vertically lamel- lated horny processes projecting from its inner sur- face ; 4, section of the wall of the hoof; 5, articulation between the cannon bone and the great pastern; 6, 6, 6, aponeurotic tissues; 7, 7, tendon of the ex- tensor longus digiti pedis. 8, 9, 10, the flexor ten- dons of the foot; 11, 12,13, 14,15, expansions of the great anterior cartilage of the foot; 16, the coronary frog-band raised from the hoof; 17, the vascular or sensitive hoof; 18, elastic cushion of the heels; 19, 20, 21, arteria plantaris; 22, 23, plantar veins; 25, part of the coronary venous plexus raised from its position; 26, 27, 28, plantar nerves. Cartilages of the Foot. — On removing the hoof there are seen immediately beneath it two large elastic cartilages ranging to a great extent along both sides of the foot. Their figure is almost too irregular for comparison ; but, when seen on a lateral view of the foot, their shape may be said to resemble that of a lozenge or of a pretty fully expanded fan, fixed by its centre, which is very much thicker and more solid than the other parts, in a deep horizontal cavity or channel in the'coffin bone provided for its reception ; from this central point of insertion the anterior portion of it, passing forward, nearly meets the cartilage of the opposite side in front of the foot, the great extensor tendon of the foot only separating them, with which they are likewise connected, and make a common surface. On its inside this extremity of the cartilage takes a strong ad- herence to the condyles of the coronary bone, and so closely surrounds the joint betwixt the latter and the coffin bone that the articulation appears to be without any capsular ligament at this part. The posterior portion of the cartilage, ranging more largely and becoming thinner as it expands itself backwards, growing at the same time more elastic in its texture, is gradually and inseparably mixed up towards the hinder part of the foot with the skin and the ligamentary elastic tissues that form the "upper heels," and constitute the principal materials for elasticity in these parts. Spreading also in an upward direction to a considerable height above the hoof, it terminates by a rounded, thin, and irregular edge, which is inflected inwards over the soft interior of the foot, to which it forms a kind of roofing and defence. Next, this widely distributed cartilage may be observed passing downwards, and surround- ing on every side the rough and knotty ex- tremities of the heels of the coffin bone, entering and filling up its sinuosities, and taking strong adherence to these processes ; it then extends itself horizontally inwards, passing over the horny sole and bar, and, meeting the side of the sensitive frog, inti- mately unites with it, forming one inseparable mass, and together filling up the whole internal area described by the sides of the coffin bone. The upright or lateral portion of the cartilage forms, with this horizontal process inwards, a right angle, thus making together a hollow space or receptacle at the back of the coffin bone, that contains the spongy elastic stuffing of the heels, together with the tendons, trunks of bloodvessels, nerves &c., passing through this part to the sole of the foot. The upper surface of the horizontal process of cartilage is full of scabrous elevations and depressions that defy dissection, among which there exists a quantity of a gelatino-ligamentous material. Beneath, or to the under surface of this hori- zontal layer of cartilage, the sensitive sole and bar arc adherent; and, in approaching the frog, or centre of the foot, it loses its carti- laginous nature, and becomes coriaceous, or rather ligamento-coriaceous, in texture, agree- ing in this with the internal frog. The horizontal portion or process of the cartilage, named by veterinary writers the "stratiform process," is of greater thickness and substance than the other parts; it is also of a coarser grain and more elastic nature ; both portions together communicate the gene-