1189 TUNICATA. i G 3 Family Botryllidje, MacLeay. Syno- nyms : Alcyonia, Auct. prior. ; Tethyes com- poses, Savigny; les Reunis oil Botryllaires, Lamarck ; les Agreges, Cuvier; Ascidiacea, pars, Blainville; Ascidies composees, Milne- Edwards; Polyascidiens, Van Beneden. Body compound, fixed ; animals associated; the tests fused together, forming a common mass in which the animals are imbedded in one or more groups or "systems ;." the indi- viduals not connected by any internal union ; oviparous and gemmiparous. " If, when walking on the sea-shore, about low-water mark," says the distinguished na- turalist previously quoted, " we turn over large stones, or look under projecting eaves of rock, we are almost sure to see translucent jelly-like masses of various hues of orange, purple, yellow, blue, grey, and green, some- times nearly uniform in tint, sometimes beau- tifully variegated, and very frequently pen- cilled as if with stars of gorgeous device; now encrusting the surface of the rock, now descending from it in icicle-like projections. These are compound Ascidians. A tangle or broad-leaved fucus, torn from its rocky bed, or gathered on the sand, where the waves have cast it after storms, will show us similar 'Polyclinina bodies, mostly those star-figured, investing its stalks, winding among the intricacies of its roots, or clothing with a glairy coat the ex- panse of its foliated extremities. ... In examining these bodies, we find that it is not a single animal which lies before us, but a commonwealth of beings, bound together by common and vital ties. Each star is a family, each group of stars a community. Individuals are linked together in systems, systems com- bined into masses. . . . Indeed, few bo- dies among the forms of animal life exhibit such exquisite and kaleidoscopic figures as those which we see displayed in the combina- tions of the compound Ascidians." Previous to the researches of Savigny, the Botryllidce were regarded as Alcyonia; Gaert- ner (1774) and Renieri (1793) being the only naturalists who had suspected their compound nature and true affinities.* " The Memoir of Savigny, published in 1816, however, threw entirely new and unanticipated light on their nature. He showed that they were essentially Ascidians, differing from the simple forms only in being united into more or less complicated systems." -J- In the arrangement of Professor Milne- Edwards the family is subdivided as follows: BoTRYLLIDiE, vel Ascidi^: COMPOSIT/E Didemnina Bistellata Unistellata ■I Bistellata Unistellata - wBotryllina The tribe Polyclinina (Jes Polycliniens, Milne-Edwards) is characterised principally by the division of the body into three distinct portions, viz. a thorax, a superior abdomen, and a post-abdomen. It has, however, other anatomical peculiarities, such as the great de- velopment of the organs of generation, and the position of the heart at the inferior extremity of the body. This group comprehends nu- merous species, and is divisible into two natural sections, recognised by the external conformation of the anal orifice. In one di- vision (P. bistellata) this orifice is surrounded with a regular circlet of rays or marginal lobules, and is exactly similar to the branchial orifice. In the other division (P. unistellata) the anal differs from the branchial orifice in not being rayed, or at least in having merely irregular marginal lobules. Genus Sigillina, Savigny.— Common body a solid, elongated, erect cone; gelatinous, pedunculated, isolated or attached to similar cones, consisting of a single system of many but Professor Wiegmann subsequently (Jahresbe- richt in Archiv. 1835) gave it the appellation of Perophora Listen. Sigillina. Polyclinum. Aplidium. Sidnyum. Synoicum. _ Amaroucium.-J- " Distomus Diazona. "Didemnum. Eucaelium. Leptoclinum. Botryllus. _ Botrylloides. individuals disposed one above another in irregular circles ; branchial and anal orifices each with six rays; abdomen larger than thorax ; post-abdomen long and slender {fig. 7G9.). Genus Polyclinum, Savigny.—Common body gelatinous or cartilaginous, polymorphous, sessile or slightly pedunculate ; systems nu- merous, convex, somewhat stellate, with cen- tral cloacal cavities; individuals (10 to 150) placed at very unequal distances from their common centre ; the cavity in the common tegument occupied by each animal is divided into three chambers one above another by contractions of its calibre ; abdomen much smaller than the thorax ; post-abdomen pe- dunculate. Genus Aplidium, Savigny; synonym, Al- cyonium, Auct.— Common body gelatinous or cartilaginous, sessile ; systems very nunie- * For the early history of this genus, consult the Memoir on Botryltus stdlatus by MM. Desniarest ami Lesueur, Journal de Physique, torn. lxxx. 1815. fin the latest ("commemorative") edition of Cuvier's Eegne Animal, M. Milne-Edwards has established a new subgenus, Parascidia, -which has eight marginal teeth on the buccal orifice.