748 SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. that the communication of the spinal accessory with the posterior root of the first, or with any other spinal nerve, will be an equivalent to it for a posterior root." We have already seen that Stilling concludes, on anatomical grounds, that those filaments of the accessory that come from the medulla oblongata con- tain centripetal filaments.* The spinal accessory passes through the foramen lacerum posterius in a canal formed by the dura mater, common to it and the vagus, but they are occasionally separated from each other as they enter this canal by a bridle of arachnoid, or of the dura mater. Soemmering has pointed out that the acces- sory does not perforate the dura mater like the other nerves, but is, as it were, insensibly surrounded by this membrane.f One or two filaments generally pass be- tween the accessory and the superior gang- lion or ganglion jugulare of the vagus, as they lie in the foramen lacerum posterius. Hein states that he has more than once distinctly observed, as also Krause has remarked, the superior five, or even six filaments of the root of the accessory approximate very closely to the ganglion jugulare of the vagus, and partly enter into its formation, so that a junction between the vagus and accessory had already taken place in this ganglion, before the fila- ments of the accessory had been fully collected to form together the trunk of this nerve.J As the spinal accessory is passing through the foramen lacerum, it is in close proximity to the posterior surface of the par vagum, and it there divides into it's two branches—its internal and external branches. The former, or the internal, is composed of the filaments forming the upper roots of the nerve {Jig.521, 11.), and entirely, or almost entirely, of those coming from the medulla oblongata; and it joins itself to the vagus immediately below the ganglion jugulare of that nerve. The passage of the accessory through the foramen lacerum posterius, its division into two branches, and the distri- bution of the internal branch as far as it is known, have been already described in the art. Par Vagum, vol. iii. pp. 883. and 890 , and need not be repeated here. The external branch, composed of those fibres which arise from the spinal chord (Jig.521,12.), proceeds downwards,outwards, and backwards behind the internal jugular vein, in front of the occipital artery, and be- hind the posterior belly of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscle, and reaches the inner sur- face of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle at the lower part of its upper third. In con- * Stilling further states (p. 59) that in an ana- tomical point of view we may regard the upper roots of the accessory forming the internal branch of that nerve as being composed of centripetal and centrifugal filaments, exactly like the vagus. f " Non reliquorum nervorum more, sub arcu dura membranae fertur, sed insensili quasi modo a dura membrana obducitur." De Basi Enccphali, &c., p. 104, reprinted in Ludwig's Scrip. Nevr. Min. Sel., torn. ii. X Mailer's Archiv. 1844, p. 337. tinuing its course downwards and outwards, it here generally perforates the sterno-cleido- mastoid ; at other times it is only closely con- nected to it by cellular tissue; but in both cases it gives branches to this muscle. In this part of its course it is strengthened and anastomoses with twigs of the third and second cervical nerves. Continuing its pro- gress downwards and backwards it anastomo- ses with twigs of the fourth and fifth cervical nerves, and throws itself into the inner surface of the trapezius muscle, among whose fibres it is ultimately lost. Comparative anatonnj of the spinal accessory. — The origin and distribution of this nerve in the mammalia does not essentially differ from what is found in the human species.* Willis states that this nerve is not only pre- sent in the mammalia, but also in birds and fishes \ ; but the existence of it in the two latter divisions of the vertebrata has been subsequently denied by many excellent ana- tomists. " If an animal," says Mr. Shaw, " does not perform part of the act of respira- tion by muscles which run from the skull to the chest, no spinal accessory is found. The truth of this observation may be shown by the dissection of any of the larger birds, but the most extraordinary proof is to be found in the neck of the camel. The constitution of the neck of this animal is like that of birds ; there being a succession of short muscles along the side of the neck, and attached to the vertebras, but no long muscle passing from the jaw to the sternum to assist in breathing, as in other quadrupeds." J It appears, however, that in the camel this nerve is present, but it is smaller and differently distributed from what it is in the horse.$ Serres found it in three of the larger birds, Weber in some fishes, and Bis- choff'has given descriptions and representations of it in several birds, reptiles, and fishes. In these animals the upper part only of this nerve seems to be present, for it does not stretch downwards along the spinal chord to the same extent in them as in the mammalia. The whole of this nerve, in these animals, throws itself into the vagus, while a branch leaves the vagus after it has escaped from the cranium, and taking the place of the external branch of the accessory is distributed to the muscles of the neck in birds and in reptiles, and to the muscles which move the pectoral fin in fishes.|| In the chimpanzee, the spinal accessory, after passing through the foramen lacerum, divides into two branches. The in- ternal runs towards the larynx, into which it penetrates above the os-hyoid. It is placed between the superior laryngeal nerve and stylo-h\oid ligament, and passes behind the internal carotid artery to the superior hyoi- * Dissections of this nerve upon several mammalia are given in detail by Bischoff and Bendz. t Opus cit. p. 295. X London Medical and Physical Journal, vol. xlix. p. 458, 1823. § Vide note by Defermon, at p. 527 of torn. ii. of the Archives Ge'nerales de Medecine, 1823. || A full account of the comparative anatomy of this nerve is given by Bischoff.