121 TUNICATA. The test is so transparent and colourless, that the interior structure of the animal may be easily studied without having recourse to dissection. There is observable, however, certain yellowish lines traversing the transpa- rent test, which have a granular appearance, and correspond, according to M. Milne-Ed- wards, to the lines of junction of certain parts of the interior. Two of these bands descend vertically, very near one another, throughout the medial line of the ventral surface of the thorax, and are separated by a linear, colour- less, semi-opaque space. A third line rises on the right and left of the test, at the superior part of the thorax, and is directed horizon- tally backwards, describing a circle around the base of the oral orifice. A fourth line, also annular, encircles the inferior extremity of the thorax. A fifth surrounds the anal ori- fice, and is prolonged upwards and forwards, almost to the posterior margin of the oral orifice. There is generally a sixth line, much paler than the others, and more deeply situ- ated, at some distance from the dorsal surface of the thorax, descending vertically from the superior to the inferior ring. Towards the middle of the abdominal por- tion of the body the stomach appears, as a small, orange-yellow, oval mass, bearing four yellow vertical lines, like those of the tho- rax. Lastly, close to the stomach, is another orange-coloured spot, formed by a coloured portion of the intestine, and, still lower, the whitish gland-like mass, comprising the gene- rative organs (fig. 768. p). The mantle is suspended within the first tunic ; it is membranous and extremely deli- cate. Superiorly it is attached around the two orifices, and interiorly it terminates in a cul-de-sac. It often presents inferiorly some tu- bular prolongations, sometimes simple, some- times ramified ; which descend towards the base of the animal, and sometimes project into the interior of the root-like processes of the external tunic. Its surface is traversed with divers muscular fibres, some of which are \ circular, and constitute the sphincters around the mouth and anus ; whilst others, to the number of nine or ten pairs, arise from a kind of tendinous collar surrounding the mouth, and descend vertically to the inferior extremity of the abdomen. These last muscles serve to shorten or bend the body, and it would appear that it is by the elasticity of the external tunic that they are lengthened again, after having been so contracted, for there do not appear to be any traces of transverse muscular fibres proper to act as antagonists to the vertical fibres. In all the thoracic portion of the body a third tunic is present. This, like the pre- ceding, is membranous, and is suspended in a kind of sac formed by the latter ; it adheres to it by the rim of the anal orifice and along the collar around the base of the mouth. Inferiorly this membranous pouch is united in its extent to the two orifices of the diges- tive canal, where for the most part it is con- tinuous with the wall of that tube. Its cavity constitutes the thoracic chamber. It encloses the branchial organs, and presents on the dorsal side a free space, which forms a kind of cloaca, ending at the anal orifice of the ex- ternal tunic. Along the medio-ventral line a vertical groove is observable, and at the point where it adheres to the second tunic, between the mouth and the anus, we can perceive a minute tubercle, which is the nervous gan- glion. This thoracic chamber exactly re- sembles the great cavity of the Salpians, and would scarcely differ at all, if the cloaca were shorter, and the anal orifice more distant from the mouth, and directed backwards. The branchiae {fig. 768. e) exist as a large membranous band, arising from the dorsal sur- face of the thoracic cavity, below the gangliform tubercle, and by its opposite extremity fixed to the space situated between the oesophageal ori- fice and the termination of the intestine, thus separating the cloacal from the great pharyn- geal or respiratory cavity ; only, in place of presenting on each side simple stria? furnished with vibratile cilia, as in the Salpians, this kind of vertical body bears right and left a series of filiform appendages, directed hori- zontally towards the ventral side of the respi- ratory cavity, where they are fixed on each side of the middle sulcus, and, during their passage across, are united together by a number of other slender vertical filaments. From this disposition of the parts there results a kind of trellis-work, which fills up all the pharyngeal portion of the branchial chamber, permitting no communication between the latter and the cloaca, except through the meshes of its net- work, which are bordered all around with vibratile cilia. This complicated branchial apparatus adheres also to the thoracic tunic by its two extremities. The dorsal column, which thus forms the base of the branchial organ, and which represents the simple bran- chia of the Salpians, is considerably prominent in the interior of the respiratory cavity, and exhibits along its ventral margin a series of ten membranous languets, which are usually straight, and are apparently susceptible of a kind of erection. The interior of this mem- branous band is occupied by a large vascular cavity, which M. Milne Edwards terms the branchial or dorsal sinus. The transverse little fillets which spring therefrom are in number about twelve pairs, and the vertical filaments that unite the latter are nearly of the same size: these are about thirty in a rank, and there are thirteen ranks, viz. eleven situated between the two transverse fillets, and two which stretch from the first and second fillets to the wall of the thoracic chamber, and are fixed along the two yellow lines, placed as rings at the two extremities of that chamber. Some membranous processes appear also to stretch from different points of the surface of the branchial net-work to the walls of the cavi'y in which the latter is suspended ; but these are few, and do not hinder the eggs, deposited in the cloaca, from insinuating themselves frequently into that portion of the cavity situated on each side of the respiratory