078 SLEEP. processes, and by which voluntary determina- tions are formed. Impressions made upon the organs of sense would seem only able to act on the hemispheric ganglia through the medium of the sensorium ; whilst the volun- tary determinations, resulting from the exercise of the reasoning powers, can only act on the muscular system by the transmission of a downward impulse from the hemispheric ganglia to the automatic centres, in which the motor nerves originate. If this be a true representation, the ordi- nary phenomena of sleep are not difficult of comprehension. The state consists essentially in suspended activity of the sensorium, so that impressions made on the organs of sense are neither felt nor perceived, — that is, neither excite sensations, nor give rise to ideas. In like manner, those automatic move- ments which are dependent upon sensations for their excitement are suspended; and as the tor- por of the sensorium cuts off the functional connection between the hemispheric ganglia and the muscles, the latter cannot be called into activity by any mental operations in which the former may be concerned. In or- dinary profound sleep, the hemispheric ganglia would seem to be in the same passive con- dition as the sensorium itself; so that all mental activity is suspended. In dreaming, however, there is a train of ideas, called up by the laws of association, and not regulated by any voluntary control, bespeaking a partial activity of the hemispheric ganglia. Into the conditions of this phenomenon we shall inquire hereafter ; at present only ob- serving, that if the sleep be deep, external impressions are as completely unperceived by the dreamer, as they are in a state of entire unconsciousness ; and that, in like manner, the strongest desire felt by the dreamer to perform certain bodily movements, even when he fancies that his life depends upon them, is as ineffectual as if he were suffering from a total paralysis. If external impressions are in any degree felt by the dreamer, or his volition can exert its power over the move- ments of his body, the sleep is not profound, but rather approximates towards the state of somnambulism or sleep-waking, in which the sensorial as well as the hemispheric ganglia are in a condition of partial activity. The state of simple sleep, again, is allied to that of hibernation {see Hibernation) ; the difference between them being essentially this, that in the latter condition, besides the profound torpor of the sensorial centres, there is a great diminution or complete sus- pension of the activity of the organic functions. We may trace, in tact, every gradation be- tween the simple repose of the sensorial cen- tres, in which the state of sleep essentially consists, to that complete suspension of all the functions of life, which is of ordinary oc- currence, during the winter season, in cold- blooded animals. Many of these can even en- dure the freezing process without the loss of their vitality ; their activity being restored by the renewal of warmth. Next to this is the condition of those hibernating mammalia, which pass the winter in a state of uninter- rupted torpor, and in which the organic func- tions seem reduced to their lowest possible amount of activity, short of entire stagnation. This reduction is manifested in the slowness of the circulation, the infrequency of the respira- tory movements, the low degree of heat sus- tained, the abatement of the demand for food, and the small amount of carbonic acid, urea, and other excretory products, set free during the persistence of the hibernating state. But there are other hibernating mammals, in which the reduction is less decided, and the torpor less profound ; these animals awaking from their repose at long intervals, taking food from the store which they have prepared, and again relapsing into inactivity. And there are others, again, in which it differs but little from ordinary profound sleep, except that the pro- portion of time passed in the waking state is much less than usual. Further, it is a curious observation of Dr. M. Hall's (loc. cit.), that the ordinary diurnal sleep of certain hibernating mammalia presents, in the reduced activity of the organic functions, an approach to the tor- por of their winter state. Sleep of Plants.— The complete suspen- sion of the organic as well as of the animal functions during the hibernation of cold- blooded animals corresponds with what has been termed the winter sleep of plants. But plants have also what has been called a diurnal sleep ; and although it is obvious that plants can present no phenomena really ana- logous to those in which we have defined the sleep of animals to consist, yet there are pe- riodical changes in the condition of their leaves and flowers which are deserving of consider- ation under this head, especially as affording ing an additional indication that even in the functions of organic life there is a tendency to a more or less decided alternation of activity and quiescence. The parts of plants which exhibit the changes in question, are the leaves and the flowers. In the former we frequently notice an entire difference in the nocturnal and di- urnal aspects of the leaves, which is the result of a periodic change, affecting either the posi- tion of the leaf as a whole, or that of the se- veral leaflets of which a compound leaf is formed. The petioles, or stalks of the leaves or leaflets, either bend upwards or down- wards ; so that the flattened surface of the leaf is either elevated or depressed. This, is not a result of simple flaccidity ; for, as De Candolle remarks *, the nocturnal position is maintained with the same rigidity and con- stancy as the diurnal; so that the " sleeping" leaf would be broken, more readily than it could be forced into the position which is proper to it during the day. Eleven different modifications are enumerated by the distin- guished botanist just cited, in the manner in which the leaves incline themselves to the stalks on which they grow. Thus, of the entire leaves which exhibit this phenomenon, some sleep face to face, others back to back, * Physiologic Ve'ge'tale, p. 855.