THORAX. 1047 1st. The movement of such levers, when rotating. 2nd. The effect of forces, oblique, perpen- dicular, and decussating, upon such levers. 1st. The movement of the levers. — Let fig. 677. a represent a series of parallel bars, Fig. 677. Fis. 678. allowing of free rotation upon a rigid per- pendicular body a a; let the free extremities of these bars be kept apart, so that the bars may at all times be parallel to each other. In this condition a certain distance exists between the bars, and a certain distance be- tween their free extremities and the perpen- dicular body a a. Let b represent the same bars moved into another position, resembling that of the ribs; in this position, the two conditions seen at a are altered. The perpendicular distances between the bars are diminished, and the distance between the free extremities of the bars and the body b b is likewise diminished. If the direction of this motion were still continued, the bars would ultimately touch each other, and their free extremities would be still nearer to the body b b. But let the bars be elevated, as in c c, and the same condition obtains as in the bars at b b, viz., they approximate each other, and the free ends come nearer to the body, c c. In this case the bars only have moved ; but the same effect can be obtained without moving the bars. Let a b 678.) be two bars at their maximum distance, while horizontal; at a b, and a' b', they have nearly attained their minimum perpendicular distances, though still hori- zontal, because the rigid bodies c c and c' c' have been moved respectively. Now, if we join these hree last figures into one, as in fig. 67 9., an then move the bars simulta- neously, some bars will approximate each other, whilst others will recede. The superior four are at their maximum perpendicular dis- tance from each other ; while the 4th, 5th, and 6th are at a medium perpendicular dis- tance, and the 6th, 7th, and 8th bars at their minimum distance. The distances of these bars are regulated by the position of the rigid body representing the spine. If all of them were moved upwards Diagram representing the position of the ribs affected by the position of the spine. simultaneously, the first four would approxi- mate, whilst all the rest would recede from each other. Therefore the positions of the different parts representing the spine in fig. 679. command and regulate these changes. Fig. 679. Diagram as in fig. C78. with the three portions conjoined. From this we learn, that the bars cannot rotate without changing their distances, and that when they are at 90° with reference to the body a a {fig. 677.), they are at their maximum distance from each other, and as they pass this position on either side, this dis- tance diminishes. In the human body the spine may represent the body to which the bars are attached (fig. 677.). The movement of the ribs will obey the same law in receding or approaching each other, and whether they increase or diminish their intercostal spaces, will depend upon the relation they bear to the spine. Fig. 682. is a cast, from a dissection of the thorax of a male subject, weight 1071bs., height 5ft. 4in. This correctly represents the natural position of the ribs, when the thorax is in a state of complete expiration, or with only the residual air in the lungs. The position of the 3x4