VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1319 4 v i urged by Professor Agassiz, who has adopted in regard to the human races the same views as he has put forth with respect to many other species (p. 1310.) ; and who thus upholds the " unity of mankind," whilst contending for the diversity of " protoplasts." " We recognise," he says, " the fact of the unity of mankind. It excites afeeling that raises men to the most elevated sense of their connec- tion with each other. It is but the reflection of that Divine nature which pervades their whole being. It is because men feel thus related to each other that they acknowledge those ob- ligations of kindness and moral responsibility which rest upon them in their mutual relations. And it is because they have this innate feeling, that they are capable of joining in regular societies, with all their social and domestic affinities. Tiris feeling unites men from the most diversified regions. Do we cease to recognise this unity of mankind, because we are not of the same family, because we ori- ginate in various countries, and are born in America, England, Germany, France, Switzer- land ? Where the relationship of blood has ceased, do we cease to acknowledge that ge- neral bond which unites all men of every na- tion? By no means. This is a bond wdiich every man feels more and more, the farther he advances in his intellectual and moral culture, and which in this development is continually placed upon higher and higher ground ; so much so, that the physical relation arising from a common descent is finally entirely lost sight of, in the consciousness of the higher moral obligations. It is this consciousness which constitutes the true unity of mankind." This unity, he continues, may become a yet stronger bond of moral affinity, than that afforded by community of descent. " Where men of the same nation, individuals whose studies, whose calling in life have developed in them the same faculties, the same feelings, are brought closely together, relations spring up between them so intimate as by far to outweigh the natural bonds which a com- mon parentage may establish between men. Such individuals do not feel themselves to be near each other, do not sympathise in their aspirations, do not join in the same purposes, because they are brothers, because they belong to the same family, because they are of the same nation ; but because they feel that they are men, and that the natural dispositions wherewith they are endowed as men are de- veloped in them in a similar manner, and with reference to the same great human interests. Is there any one who would consider the ties between two such individuals on that intel- lectual and moral ground, as lessened because they may not be physically related at all ? or who would consider the differences in their physical features as an objection to their being more intimately connected than other men who in features resembled them more, or are related to them more closely, perhaps by the nearest ties of blood ? We can therefore take it as a matter of fact, that, as we find men actually living together in the world, it is not the physical relation which establishes the closest connection between them, but that higher relation arising from the intellectual constitution of man." Professor Agassiz then refers to various departments of Natural His- tory, as affording proof " that the closest and most intimate unity may exist without a com- mon origin, without a common descent, with- out that relationship which is often denoted by the expression ' ties of blood.' On the other hand, that these ties of blood may exist, without necessarily calling forth the higher connections which may be found between in- dividuals of the same type, is, alas ! too plainly shown by the history of mankind. The im- mediate conclusion from these facts, however, is the distinction we have made above, that to acknowledge a unity in mankind, to show that such a unity exists, is not to admit that men have a common origin, nor to gi ant that such a conclusion may be justly derived from such premises. We maintain, therefore, that the unity of mankind does not imply a com- munity of origin for men ; we believe, on the contrary, that a higher view of this unity of mankind can be taken, than that which is de- rived from a mere sensual connection; that we need not search for the highest bond of humanity in a mere animal function, whereby we are most closely related to the brutes."* The Anatomical differences by which the several races of Mankind are distinguished from each other, may be referred to the fol- lowing heads:— 1. Conformation of the cranium. 2. Conformation of the pelvis. 3. Conformation of other parts of the skeleton. 4. Colour of the skin. 5. Colour, texture, and mode of growth of the hair. By most writers on the diversities of mankind, the varieties which are observable in the conformation of the bony skeleton, and particularly in that of the cranium and pelvis, have been thought to furnish distinc- tive characters of more importance than those derived from the colour of the skin, or the texture of the hair; since, while a certain capability of alteration in the latter, under climatic influences, can scarcely be gainsayed, it might be supposed, a priori, that strongly marked peculiarities in the configuration of the skull, in the proportion of the parts of the body, and in the development of the brain, would be less likely to undergo alteration. Special attention will be here bestowed, there- fore, upon the first three of this series of characters. 1. Conformation of the Cranium. — In esti- mating the degrees of diversity presented by the skulls of various races, it is absolutely necessary that some definite method of com- parison should be fixed upon. The first attempt of this kind of which we have any account, was made by Camper; who main- * Christian Examiner, Boston, N.E. Jan. 1850,