VISION. H6L place easily, hence achromatopsy results from a certain state of torpor and indolence of the retina and motor muscles of the eye I Professor Wartmann, the most recent au- thority upon this subject, stated in his first Memoir that achromatopsy (or Daltonism) has its origin in a defect of the sensorium. In his second Memoir he enters at length into a somewhat different explanation of the phenomena. " I admit (says he) with Harvey, Young, Jungken, Miiller, and others that its seat is in the retina, anil I think that it is produced by an abnormal state of the nervous expansion, in such sort that it reacts equally under two or more differently coloured vi- brations. If the vibration caused by a ray of red is identical with that engendered by a green ray, there will be confusion of these colours. This theory is independent of all systems destined to explain light. * * * The theory which explains Daltonism by an ab- normal elasticity of the retina has the ad- vantage of substituting a reasonable physical condition for a vague notion of the sensorium : besides, it is supported by facts, because the injuries which alter the ordinary constitution of the visual organ are capable of exciting, permanently or temporarily, a false perception of colours. Lastly it appears to be confirmed by the circumstance that with many Daltonians the eye sees less distinctly the red rays than those of which the refrangibility is greater. * The actual seat of the phenomena of achro- matopsy must, after all, remain matter of speculation, as it is one of those things in- capable of demonstration. D'Alembert says : " It is very plain that the word colour does not designate any property of body, but merely a modification of our mind : that, for instance, whiteness and redness exist only ki us, and by no means in the bodies to which we refer them by a habit in force from in- fancy." The knowledge that we possess of the existence of colours is derived from the evidence afforded by the thousands of persons endowed with the power of distinguishing them, and therefore we conclude that they do exist. But supposing we were all like Dalton and many others whose visual organs never appreciate red any more than the gene- rality of eyes distinguish the calorific or ac- tinic rays, we should then "not be aware of the existence of the colour called red, which plays so conspicuous a part in the adornment of the universe ; or if some few eyes gifted with superior powers discerned it, the majority would have to admit its existence on the evidence of others, not from knowledge de- rived from their own eyes As regards remedial measures, Wartmann and Seebeck recommend the employment of coloured glasses of a certain known tint; suppose this tint red, the impression of a green body and of a red body at first the * Denxifeme Me'moire, p. 46. Dr. Wartmann enters at length into the discussion of this subject, butour space will not admit of our exti'acting his ingenious arguments. same to the naked eye will be distinguished by the use of the transparent screen. Wartmann, however, admits that this me- thod only remedies mistakes in the specific nature of colours, and not those which apply to the shades of one and the same tint. Jungken and Chelius have recommended the use of coloured bands, bearing the name of their colour, and Szokalski has suggested that sensations of the various shades may be ex- cited by fi\ing the eyes on different coloured "patterns, and then on a black or white surface. But this proceeding is scarcely so likely to be productive of benefit as that recommended by Professor Wartmann. Should the achromatopsy result from con- gestion, such means should be adopted as are best calculated to subdue it; as depletion, purgatives, and low diet. If it arises from menstrual suppression,it will be proper to [ire- scribe emmenagogues, with mustard pedilnvia, hip baths, and such other means as are likely to restore the catamenia. Should derange- ment of the hepatic system be the exciting cause, a dose of calomel, followed by a black draught, will often be sufficient to remove it; but it will lie proper to follow such a pre- scription with alterative doses of mercurials and saline aperients, of which the Pullna ami Marienbad waters are very serviceable .- ta- raxacum with or without the nitro-muriatic acid may also be advisable. Dyspepsia is too protean a disorder for us to attempt more than to suggest the pro- priety of carefully investigating the parti- culars of cases where the insensibility to colour can be traced to this cause, and of laying down such a plan of treatment, medical and general, as seems best adapted to the exigencies of each individual case. Hyperchromatopsy (uirep, beyond ; xp^t*0-* colour; o^is, vision).— Our knowledge of this condition of the vision which may be regarded as the opposite to achromatopsy, is at present very limited, and is chiefly derived from the publications of Dr. Sachs * and Dr Cornaz.f As we have never had an op- portunity of investigating a case of the sort, we can only draw our information from these and some other sources. Dr. Sachs is, we believe, an albino, and is in addition affected with hyperchromatopsy. The first account of this very singular anomaly of vision was published by him, and other instances have since been discovered. Pro- fessor Wartmann, of Geneva, in a communi- cation with which he recently favoured us, thus writes:—" Quant k I'Hyperehromatopsie, e'est une affection qui n'est probablement pas extremement rare. Je connais deux personnes qui m'ontditen etre atteintes, etj'espere etre un jour en etat de publier quelques recherches sur ce sujet. Cet etat n'est point neccssaire- ment lie a I'albinisme." * Historic Naturalis duorum Leueaithiopuni Par- ticute date. Erlangen, 1812. + De I'Hyperehromatopsie, par le Dr. K Cornaz. Bruxe'des, 1851. 5 A 3