1069 THORAX. tube ; the height to which the receiver is raised, indicates the volume of the vital capacity. To Prepare the Spirometer for Use:— 1st. Place the spirometer about three feet from the ground, upon a firm, level table. 2nd. Turn off the water-tap 4, and open the air-tap 1. Fie. 704. Spirometer. 3rd. Pour into the spout, behind, clear cold water, until it is seen to rise behind the slip of glass 3 (above the air-tube). 4th. Slide the moveable index 2, opposite 0 on the graduated scale 13, and add more water until it is exactly on a level with the straight edge of this index ; if too much water be poured in, draw off; by the tap 4, sufficient to bring the water down to the edge of the index. 5th. Pour a little coloured spirit into the bent tube 5, until it stands about 3£ inches, as at 6. 6th. Turn off the air-tap I, then suspend the counterbalance weights, 11,11, from the cord over the pullies. The spirometer is now ready for an observa- tion. The flexible tube, terminated with a glass mouth-piece, is held by the person about to be examined, and the tap 1 is to be kept open by the operator while the deep expira- tion is being made. To discharge the air oat of the receiver. — It will be seen that if the tap 1 be opened, the receiver will rise out of the reservoir by the power of the counterbalance weights, until it touches the cross-head 9. To return the receiver into its original position, the con- tained air must be discharged; this can be done by slowly depressing the receiver down into the reservoir, and so pressing the air out by the way it entered, — through the air-tube. But, in order to do so more rapidly, a large valve at 14 admits of an instantaneous escape of the air. Therefore, to discharge the air, remove the plug 15 out of the socket 14 with one hand, while the other returns the receiver into its original position. Let the person to be examined loose his vest, and any other tight garment — for the least pressure from dress affects the mobility — stand perfectly erect (fig. 705.), with the head Fig. 705. thrown well back ; then slowly and effectually fill his chest with air, or inspire as deeply as possible, and then he must lift the mouth- piece of the spirometer 12 to his lips, still standing in the same erect position, and place the glass mouth-piece between the lips, holding it there sufficiently tight so as not to allow any breath to escape, he then slowly makes the deepest expiration, displacing all the air he can out of his lungs through the mouth-piece into the spirometer, where it is measured to cubic inches, and confined there by a stop-cock, until examined. This ob- servation should be taken three times. The operator, while the experiment is going on should place his left hand upon the shoulder of the person being examined ; in this way he can determine as to the perfect inflation of the lungs and expulsion of air from them as well as the character of the thoracic expansion. The thumb of the operator should cross the clavicle, while the fingers rest on the upper