1217 TUNICATA. of the pulse were pretty regular in the same individual; but in different ones they varied from two seconds to one and a half second. Part of the blood thus impelled formed amain upward stream along the front of the branchial organ, branching off" at each of the horizontal passages between the rows of spiracles, and traversing the space above them on a line with the junction of the branchial sac and the mantle on each side. All these streams again united, and formed a downward current behind. The horizontal vessels were connected also by the smaller vertical channels between the spiracles ; the set of the current in the latter being up- wards for the two lower rows, and downwards for the two upper rows. Another large portion of the blood, on leaving the heart, immediately divided into many ramifications, that spread like a net-work over the stomach and intestines, and over the mantle. Of these, a part ran into the hori- zontal passages above the branchial sac, a part into the descending dorsal vessel. A large proportion, after leaving the intestines, took a short course, and collecting into one channel, flowed into the dorsal vessel near the bottom, and all, united, then entered the peduncle, and constituted the returning current that went to circulate in other animals of the group. After this circulation had gone on for a while, the pulsations became fainter for a few beats, and the flow slower, and suddenly, with but slight pause, the whole current was reversed, the heart gave the opposite impulse. The vessel in the peduncle that before poured in the blood, now carried it back, and the other channel the contrary, and every artery became a vein. These changes continued to succeed each other alternately. The average time of the currents being the same in both directions, but the period of each varying within a single observation as much as from thirty seconds to two minutes. Mr. Lister points out the ana- logy between this phenomenon and the very similar circulation that obtains in the stem of the Sertidaria, described by him in the same volume of the Philosophical Transactions. This acute observer goes on to say, that some- times, when the creeping tube, or the peduncle, has been injured, the circulation of an indi- vidual is in consequence insulated, but without appearing to impair any of its functions. In one animal which was severed from the pe- duncle, the pulsation ceased for a few seconds. It then began irregularly, and with consider- able pauses, increasing in steadiness as it went on. At first the impulse given by the heart was towards the front ; and the downward back stream, instead of flowing out at the wound, was poured into the hinder end of the ventricle ; the cut end of the vessel leading from the heart being nearly opposed to the bleeding dorsal vessel cut through at the same place, and the two vessels, in their undisturbed state, lying across each other at this point. But when the current was reversed, part of the blood was driven for a time through the stump of the peduncle into the water; how- ever, it soon staunched, and all the vital VOL. IV. actions went on as before the separation, ex- cept that at the beginning of every pulsation there was a slight recoil. In one case, where the circulation did not extend to another animal, one channel only was observed to be open in the peduncle, and in this a small current ran to and fro accord- ing to the direction of the impulse given by the heart. Some animals, which had probably been injured, but were still connected with other vigorous ones, seemed to be in course of absorption. One was observed in which the soft parts were so shrunk as to occupy a small part only of the tunic. The currents of its peduncle extended into this mass, but no heart or motion of branchiae was visible. Upon looking at the same the next day, the tunic was empty, the soft matter and the cir- culation reaching only to the end of the pe- duncle. Mr. Lister also once noticed a flux and reflux of the blood in a creeping stem, where the current did not communicate with any animal. In the buds sprouting from the stem, and destined to become new animals, the two streams of the stem run through the germ before its organs are developed. The generation of ike Clavellmidce takes place in two ways—by ova and by buds. The genesis of the larvae of Clavellina from the ova is very similar to that of the larval Ascidics. The young of Perophora have not yet been observed. The method of the gemmiparous reproduction, according to the observations of Milne-Edwards, is as follows : Amongst the radiciform processes springing from the base of the test of Clavellina, and tending to preserve the animal in its position, are other filamentous prolongations which are hollow, and enclose a membranous tube, continuous with the internal tunic of the animal, and through which the circulation seen in the in- terior of the abdomen is also continued. This stolon-like body is closed at the free extrem- ity ; it is at first simple, but as it lengthens, it becomes ramified ; and when its growth is further advanced, there are developed on the extremities of its branches, and even at dif- ferent points along its length, tubercles, en- closing in their interior a minute organic mass connected with the interior tube. These tubercles rise vertically, and become elongate and claviform. The blood that circulates in the stem at first penetrates into the soft, pear- shaped, pedunculated mass occupying each of the tubercles ; but after a while these little germ-masses lose their peduncle and their at- tachment to the internal tunic of the principal canal, and participate no more in the circula- tion of the mother-animal. By further de- velopment they soon put on the ascidian character. The branchial sac is perfectly dis- tinct, although not yet communicating with the exterior ; and the digestive tube bent loop-wise, below the thorax, is plainly discern- ible. Lastly, the oral orifice appears, and the general form of the young animal approaches more and more that of the adult. From this a new individual is then in like manner pro- duced by stolon and bud, remaining attached 4 i