Addendum to the Article Urethra. *#* In justice to a distinguished anatomist and surgeon, Mr. Henry Hancock, whose claims to priority of the discovery of unstriped muscular fibres in the urethra were over- looked by the author of the article Urethra, the Editor thinks it right, with the as- sent of the author of that article, to insert the following paragraph, drawn up by Mr. Hancock, as an addendum to it: — The urethra itself is a membranous tube, consisting of mucous membrane, presenting villi on its free surface for the most part arranged in rows, some being conical, others tuberculated, covered by epithelial scales. The outer surface of the urethra is closely invested by cellular tissue, external to which is found a layer of organic muscular fibres, similar to, and in fact continuous with, the muscular coat of the bladder. This last- named structure consists of two layers, an internal and an external ; the external passes forwards on the outside of the prostate gland ; the internal, on the contrary, accom- panies the mucous lining of the bladder, when it becomes urethral through the prostate gland, forming a covering of involuntary muscular fibre to the canal in its passage through the gland. In front of the prostate, the two layers of muscular fibre unite and invest the membranous portion of the urethra, where they may easily be distinguished from the voluntary muscles of the part. Reaching the bulb they again separate into an internal and an external layer; the internal continues forwards to the orifice of the urethra, lying between that canal and the corpus spongio- sum ; the external passes on the outer sur- face of the corpus spongiosum, separating it from its fibrous investment, to which the fibres adhere pretty closely. These latter, like the internal, are continued forward to the orifice of the urethra, and in their course they invest the spongy portion of the bulb, the urethra, and the glans penis, entering very largely into the formation of the peculiar structure found at the orifice of the urethra, and which appears to consist almost entirely of involuntary muscle and cellular tissue. Hence, the corpus spongiosum urethras lies between two layers of involuntary muscle, the one separating it from the urethra, the other from its fibrous investment; and this arrangement obtains wherever the corpus spongiosum exists, whether the quantity thereof be small or great. On the under and lateral portion of the urethra, where the quan- tity is abundant, the corpus spongiosum lies between two layers of involuntary muscular fibre. On the upper surface of the urethra, where the quantity is comparatively small, the same arrangement may be observed, whilst at the glans, which is not formed merely by increased development of the spongy tissue, but also by a folding back, as it were, of the spongy tissue over the corpora cavernosa, we find these muscular layers multiplied.