SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 816 recurrent nerve, which sometimes has an an- terior relation to the artery also, in consequence of its arising from the pneumogastric at an unusual height in the neck. Superiorly, it gives off the vertebral artery opposite a triangular interval, between the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles. Posteriorly, it corresponds from within out- wards, to the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, to the inferior cardiac fila- ments and inferior cervical ganglion, of the sympathetic nerve, to the recurrent nerve, and finally, to the cone of the pleura. Nearly the outer half of the posterior sur- face of this portion of the subclavian artery is thus closely related to this serous sac, being usually that part of the vessel which is ex- ternal to the origin of the vertebral branch, and covered on its anterior surface by the internal jugular vein. First stage of the left subclavian artery. — The subclavian artery on the left side arises within the thorax, from the termination of the second stage of the arch of the aorta, at the level of the second dorsal vertebra ; it thence assumes a direction nearly vertically upwards, to the inner margin of the scalenus anticus muscle, and lies to the left side of, and anterior to, the two upper dorsal vertebrae, from which it is but a short way distant. Whilst in the cavity of the thorax, the left subclavian artery corresponds, posteriorly, to the inferior cervical ganglion, and cord of the sympathetic nerve, to the thoracic duct, and more remotely to the longus colli muscle and spinal column. Anteriorly, it is in relation with the pleura, and more immediately with the left pneumogastric and phrenic nerves (the latter descends parallel to the artery, but the former crosses it very obliquely, from above down- wards and inwards), with the vertebral vein, the confluence of the internal jugular and left subclavian veins, and the great venous trunk which they form by their confluence, viz. the left vena innominata. Internal and posterior to the artery are placed the oesopha- gus and the left recurrent nerve ; internal and anterior to it, is the left common carotid artery ; whilst external to the artery, through- out the entire of its thoracic stage, are the left lung and pleura. After a course within the thorax of about two inches and a half, the left subclavian artery pierces the "thoracico-cervical septum," inclines outwards and a little forwards, and attains the tracheal edge of the scalenus anti- cus muscle, when it bends abruptly outwards ; this terminating portion of the first stage of the vessel (which alone belongs to the cervi- cal region) has, anterior to it, the left internal jugular vein, the vagus and phrenic nerves, and the thoracic duct, just before its termina- tion in the great subclavian vein ; in addition to these relations, the left subclavian has the same coverings as the corresponding portion of the subclavian artery on the right side. Differences between the right and the left subclavian arteries, in their first .stage. — Length. The first stage of the left subclavian artery is much longer than that of the right, which it exceeds by about the length of the Arteria innominata. In the old subject, however, the difference is scarcely so great, for at this period of life, the part of the arch of the aorta, from which the left subclavian artery arises, is higher than that portion of it from which the innominata springs. Position.—The left subclavian artery is nearer to the spinal column, the right to the clavicle and sternum ; consequently the depth of the artery from the surface is considerably greater on the left side than on the right, a circumstance which adds greatly to the diffi- culty of the operation for securing the left subclavian artery in a ligature. Direction.—On the left side, the artery in its first stage runs almost vertically, but as it approaches the scaleni, it inclines outwards and forwards, in order to pass between these muscles; this latter part of the vessel is situ- ated in the neck, and is the only portion of its first stage found there. On the right side, the subclavian artery runs nearly horizontally outwards, and is placed throughout the whole of its first stage within the limits of the antero- inferior triangle of the neck; for although somewhat concealed at its origin by the sterno- clavicular articulation, yet it may be removed from under cover of that joint, by extending the neck, and depressing forcibly the shoulder and clavicle. Relations.—a. Pleura.—The pleura is an anterior relation of the commencement of the left, but a posterior relation of the termina- tion of the right subclavian artery. b. Veins.—1. The satellite vein of the right subclavian artery, in its first stage (the right vena innominata), is parallel to the artery, though on a plane anterior and inferior to it, whilst the corresponding vein on the left side crosses the left subclavian at right angles. 2. The internal jugular vein runs parallel to the left, but intersects at right angles the front of the right subc lavian artery. 3. The vertebral vein is usually anterior to the artery of the left, but posterior to the artery of the right side. c. Nerves.—The phrenic, vagi, and sympa- thetic nerves are necessarily parallel to the left subclavian artery, in the first stage of its course, in consequence of its vertical direction, whilst they run at right angles to the corresponding part of the right, by reason of its transverse course; in other respects, however, these nerves hold the same relative position to the subclavian arteries at either side, the phrenic and vagus being anterior, and the sympathetic posterior, to the right and left subclavians respectively. Lastly, the recuirent laryngeal nerve passes behind the right subclavian artery, looping round its under surface, whilst the nerve on the left side encircles the arch of the aorta, internal to the origin of the left sub- clavian artery; the recurrent is consequently related to the inner side of the left subclavian artery, but at no part of its course does it lie posterior to that vessel. d. The thoracic duet and oesophagus are