TUN1CATA. 1198 The common test of Aplidium gibbidositm presents a homogeneous substance with some scattered nuclei, and a great quantity of round cells, with very delicate membranes, measur- ing 0-005'" to 0-013'", and even to 0-02'". Those in the interior contain only a liquid ; but the nearer they approach the exterior, the more are they found to contain calcareous concretions ; and, lastly, there are cells per- fectly incrusted, but without appendages. Acted upon by soda and by hydrochloric acid, the homogeneous substance alone remains, the rest is dissolved. In the "common body" of Botryllus vio- laccus are some remarkably incrusted cells, similar in some respects to those of Didemnum. Some of these are perfectly round, with a diameter of 0 009"', and, as those of Aplidium, are filled with calcareous concretions ; others, for the most part pyriform or fusiform, have one or two pointed, colourless prolongations, 0-006'"—0-009'" in length, and are organic in substance; others, lastly, round or tetra- hedral, have even three or four of these prolongations, which are often of a similar length, and are regularly disposed, but just as often are of different sizes, and without sym- metry (_/?g.774. b).* These prolonged cells are probably analogous to the round cells in Didemnum, that have lime in their interior and calcareous deposits externally, and may even be compared with vegetable cells (pollen- granules, spores, &c), bearing external de- posits. Were these cells incrusted, they would form star-like bodies, similar to those of the Didemnum. Professor M. Edwards observes, that in Lcp- toclinum the substance of the tissue is crowded with calcareous granules, which, seen with an ordinary lens, appear to be little spherical con- cretions, but which are aggregations of little pyramidal crystals, united by their base, so as to represent a many-rayed star, surmounted on each of its faces by a group of other similar, but smaller, rays (see Jig. 774. d). The structure of the common test of the Botryllus polycyelus is peculiar and quite dif- ferent from those described above. In the exterior parts of the common mass the struc- ture resembles that ordinarily found in com- pound Ascidians, being of a clear and homo- geneous substance, with some nuclei and crys- tals ; but in the interior distinct fibres are found, by the side of the nuclei. These fibres are of two kinds; some, the least numerous, are long, extremely pale and delicate, too fine to be measured, and, crossing one another in all directions, form elegant sinuosities ; others, less numerous,are short, 0-01,'" to0-03"' in length, larger, opaque, and variously curved; in a word, they resemble certain nuclei transformed into fibres (liernfasern). Like the homoge- neous substance of the exterior and interior parts, these fibres resist the action of hydro- chloric acid and of soda ; and consequently, * Specimens of these spicule in Mr. Bowerbank's histological collection exhibit much more coarsely granulated centres than those here figured. since they are incontestable organic, they are composed of non-azotised substance. There are also some round points, visible to the naked eye, dispersed in the common in- tegument of this Botryllus. Some are white, generally situated towards the interior of the test, and appear under the microscope as groups of granules or spiculae ; they are in- soluble in a solution of soda, or in hydro- chloric acid, and are probably siliceous, like the concretions in Salpa. The other spots are violet-coloured, or reddish, and are most abundant in the external layers near the groups of individuals, yet sometimes also they are present in the interior parts of the common mass. Seen under the microscope, they appear as pyriform, round, or elongated vesicles, bearing a reddish colouring matter, contained probably in the cells, and are at- tached to the extremities of the ramifying canals that traverse the mass in every direc- tion. These vesicles are the germs of new individuals.* The coriaceous test of the Cyntlrice (Fam. Ascidiadce) presents a composition still more remarkable than that of the Bo/ryl/i. In Cynthia papillata, the fibres that constitute a large proportion of the test, are in some parts so much developed, that they may bear compari- son with the fibrils of any fibrous tissue found in vertebrate animals. In examining the structure of the test, where it is of no great thickness, we find a simple lamina, quite on the interior surface, consist- ingofan epithelium, with polygonal cells, which is united to the mantle by scattered, crossing, muscular fibres. A thick layer of fibres suc- ceeds, having cells and nuclei disseminated in it. The fibres themselves are colourless, un- dulating, resembling the fibrils of the fibrous tissue of vertebrate animals, but narrower; they measure 0-0002'"—0-0004'" in thick- ness; they are never ramified, nor united into bundles. In their direction they are in part parallel to the axis of the animal, as in the interior lamina;; and in part differently in- terlaced, so that some are disposed longi- tudinally, and others transversely (circular and longitudinal fibres); hence, from the disposition of the two kinds of layers, the test can very easily be split into, sometimes very delicate, laminae. There is apparently no intermediate substance accompanying the fibres, but the laminas formed by their diver- gences are occupied by a quantity of granules and vesicles of different forms. Firstly, there are minute colourless molecules, in some parts so abundant as to render the fibres in- distinct, and to give to some of the thicker layers a finely granular aspect; secondly, crystals, which are present only in the ex- terior layers ; thirdly, nuclei, measuring 0-001'" to 0 003"', often with large granules, apparently of fat; fourthly, cells of different forms. Some of these cells, containing nuclei * The epiderm covering the common gelatinous test of Botryllus stellatus is very tough, closely ad- herent, and presents distinct cellular structure.