1248 URETHRA. effect of this muscular apparatus must be to support and compress this part of the urethra, and to prevent any retrogression of the seminal fluid in the venereal act. The urethra now enters the corpus spongi- osum, by which it is surrounded, until its ter- mination at the extremity of the glans penis. The spongy body surrounds the urethra equally, except at the bulb and at the glands : in the former situation there is a much thicker layer below than above, which gives to the bulb an appearance of great dilatation, whilst at the glans there is but very little of this structure at the under part. The bulb and the glans, both dilatations of the spongy body, bear a tolerably constant relation to each other. This part of the canal is called the spongy portion: it has already been stated that its length varies in different subjects, and accord- ing to the condition of the penis, being 4 or 5 inches in the flaccid state, and 6 or 8 inches in the erect condition of the organ. It com- mences at the termination of the membranous portion, and is lodged in a groove between and beneath the corpora cavernosa penis, forming, with its investing corpus spongiosum, a convexity, projecting beyond the general circumference of the penis. The direction of the spongy portion is curved ; it passes upwards in front of the lower part of the symphysis pubis as high as the suspended part of the penis; and then taking the direction of this organ, it bends downwards, thus forming an abrupt curve : by simple traction of the penis forwards and upwards, it can be rendered perfectly straight. If the spongy part of the canal be laid open longitudinally, it is found to be plicated, the folds running from behind forwards, and dovetailing with one another when the urethra is closed. This plicated arrangement of the mucous membrane of the spongy portion was observed by Bichat and others, and is due to the contraction of the submucous tis- sue : if the urethra be immersed in alcohol and examined with the aid of a simple lens, an arborescent arrangement of the folds is visible at the anterior part of the canal, in appearance not unlike the plica? in the mu- cous membrane of the cervix uteri. The spongy portion varies in diameter in different parts; thus, dilated at its commence- ment in the bulb, it gradually tapers until it reaches the glans, when it suddenly expands into the fossa naviculars, to be again con- tracted at the meatus. The bulb (pars bulbosa urethra et pars sub- pubica) is the widest part of the spongy por- tion. Lisfranc found in twelve subjects it varied in diameter from 5 to 7 lines. Home and most anatomists who have examined the urethra, have come to the general conclu- sion that the bulbous portion presents a de- cided dilatation, and a simple examination of the part would lead to a similar conclusion. I cannot, therefore, conceive why there should be any doubt on the subject. Injections of wax prove to my mind an undoubted dilata- tion of the bulbous part; Krause and Guthrie, however, deny that any such exists. Kobelt has shown, that if the bulb be in- jected, the corpus spongiosum at this part presents two lateral hemispherical swellings, separated from each other in the middle line by a longitudinal depression. " This is caused by a septum which divides the posterior part of the bulb into two lateral symmetrical halves; but anteriorly it is gradually lost. The two portions of which it indicates that the bulb is composed, are the analogues of the com- pletely divided portions of the bulb and corpus spongiosum in the whole of the marsupial tribe." * " In the middle of the bulb there is a slight superficial elevation (colliculus bulbi medius), which is situated above and between them, but does not extend so far backwards as they do, and gives passage to the mem- branous part of the urethra, the vessels and nerves of the bulb, and the ducts of Cowper's glands." f The extremity of the caput gallinaginis sometimes reaches the bulbous portion, and the ducts of Cowper's glands terminate in its floor by two minute orifices, extremely dif- ficult to find. This part of the canal extends for about the fourth part of an inch or less, the anterior layer of the deep perinaeal fascia covers it underneath, and it is completely in- vested by the acceleratores urinae. The remainder of the spongy portion is united to the bulbous at an angle of 45 in the flaccid state of the penis ; but when this organ is erect, this part of the canal is rendered perfectly straight: it terminates at the meatus urinarius. The extremity of the spongy portion is called the glandular part (pars glandularis), being surrounded by the glans penis. When the urethra has entered the glands, it dilates into a fossa from 4 to 6 lines in length, this is termed the fossa navicidaris Morgagnii. When cut transversely, it has the appearance of a longitudinal fissure. The urethra is sur- rounded unequally by the glans penis ; the floor of the navicular fossa is covered by a very thin layer of this extension of the spongy body, whilst its sides and upper surface have a considerable investment from the glans. The urethra having traversed the corpus spongiosum and the glands, terminates at the anterior and inferior part of this body, by a small slit-like orifice of two or three lines, the long axis of which is vertical: from this a small fold of membrane passes down to join the prepuce, and is termed the frcenum prce- putii. The effect of this latter is, when the penis is erect, to draw down the opening of the urethra, and thus to narrow the orifice, and direct the contents of the urethra down- wards and forwards. The two sides of the meatus urinarius are kept in apposition by the projection of the glans, and they are joined below by a delicate fold of mucous * British and Foreign Quarterly Review, vol. xix. p. 508. t Ibid.