14-09 VENOUS SYSTEM. the great azygos vein, which joins that trunk at the moment of its entrance into the cavity of t'Ke pericardium. Azygos veins.*—The azygos veins and their tributaries (which are described by Cruveil- hier amongst the superficial rachidian veins) constitute a remarkable system which is of great importance, as it assists in maintaining the circulation through the spinal system of veins, and at the same time connects the brandies of the superior with those of the inferior vena cava. The veins of the azygos system usually consist of three principal trunks, the greater anil lesser uzygas veins, and the left superior interc stal vein. The vena azi/gos major commences in the lumbar region, by the union of several branches from the upper lumbar veins, through which it communicates with the inferior vena cava. Sometimes the azygos vein receives a branch directlyirova that vessel, and frequently another from the renal vein. After a very short stage in the abdomen, the great azygos vein enters the thorax through the aortic canal in the diaphragm, and ascends on the vertebral column to the right of the aorta, from which it is separated by the thor»cic duct. Having arrived at the third dorsal vertebra, the vein now changes its di- rection, and passing forwards and to the right side, leaves the posterior mediastinum, arches over the right bronchus, and descends to ter- minate in the superior vena cava, where that vessel is about to enter the pericardium. The vena azygos major is joined by all the intercostal veins of the right side, and by the lesser azygos vein, through the medium of which it communicates with the lower inter- costal veins of the left side also. Two or three of the middle intercostal veins of the left side open directly into the great azygos vein, it likewise communicates very freely with the left superior intercostal vein. The lesser azygos vein (or left or inferior azygos vein), likewise has its origin in (he lumbar region, from some of the upper lumbar veins on the left side of the spine ; it anas- tomoses with the neighbouring veins which ramify on the surface of the vertebrae, and is connected, more frequently even than the greater azygos vein, with the corresponding renal vein (Breschet). The lesser azygos vein enters the thorax, either through the aortic canal in the diaphragm, or by per- forating its left crus along with the left splanchnic nerve, ascends on the left side of the spine, as high as the fifth or sixth dorsal vertebra, where, crossing the front of the spinal column, behind the aorta, to terminate in the great azygos vein. The veins from the five or six lower inter- * As these veins have already been described in an article specially devoted to the subject, they are but briefly noticed in this place, and only in so far as was necessary to carry out the design of giving a continuous description of the elements of the venous system. Vide Art. Azygos (Dr. Harrison), Vol. I. p. 3C4. vol.. IV. costal spaces terminate in this vessel. In some instances there is no venous trunk cor- responding to that above described, in which case the left intercostal veins cross the spinal column behind the thoracic aorta, to join the great vein of the right side, which, under these circumstances only, is appropriately termed " azygos." The left superior intercostal vein (left supe- rior azi/gos vein) is formed by the union of the three or four superior intercostal veins of the left side. Its course is subject to some variety, but it always serves to establish a connexion between the azygos system and the deep veins of the neck. In many instances this vein passes upwards, and opens into the left vena innominata, but more frequently it descends, increasing in size as it approaches its termi- nation in the great azygos vein. Sometimes the left superior intercostal vein terminates in the azygos minor. There is sometimes a similar branch on the right side, which corresponds to the right su- perior intercostal artery ; this vein is always inferior in size to that of the left side, and, like it, terminates in the great azygos vein. The bronchial veins are the " venae comites " of the bronchial arteries, from the capillaries of which they are derived, and which they accompany throughout the lungs. They leave the root of the lung, having formed into two or three trunks, and terminate, on the right side, in the superior vena cava, or in the great azygos vein, and on the left side in the left superior intercostal vein, or in the azygos minor. In the pelvis the middle and lateral sacral veins represent the azi/gos system ; they com- municate freely with the veins in the sacral canal, and with the vesical and haemorrhoidal plexuses, and end in the common iliac veins. The sacral veins thus establish a communi- cation between the general venous system and the system of the vena porta?. There are no valves in the azygos veins, although they exist in great numbers in their tributaries, the intercostal veins. Veins of the spine.* (Rachidian veins: Breschet.) — These veins, imperfectly known to Chaussier, were first accurately described by Dupuytren and Breschet j ; they have been comprehensively arranged by Cruveilhier, who includes, under the head of spinal veins, a larger portion of the venous system than the author first quoted. By Cruveilhier the veins of the spinal system are divided into—A. The superficial or extra-spinal, and B., the dee}) or intraspinal veins. A. The superficial veins of the spine are sub- divided into the anterior and the posterior. * Such of the veins of the spine as are situated in the interior of the spinal canal, are described in the Article Nisrvous System (Dr. Todd), at page 029, Vol. HI. of this work; any other than a brief notice of the subject in this place is, therefore, un- necessary. t Essai sur les Veines du Bachis, 4to. Ee- cherches Anatomiques sur le Systeme Veineux, fob avec Planches. 4 *