SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 825 the thorax through the second intercostal space, and in some other equally rare cases, it has been seen to penetrate between the sixth and seventh cervical transverse pro- cesses. The superior intercostal artery passes downwards in a tortuous manner into the thorax, and gives off'branches which run out- wards and supply the two or three upper intercostal spaces ; the artery of the right, usually passes to one intercostal space lower than thatot'the left side. The branch to the first intercostal space is in general the small- est. The trunk of the superior intercostal artery, as it descends, has the following relations: — in front, it is covered by the pleura and lung; internal to it are placed the first dorsal gan- glion of the sympathetic nerve, and the Iongus colli muscle ; whilst posteriorly, it corresponds to the first dorsal spinal nerve (in its ascent to join the last cervical), and to the neck of the first rib. In addition to the brandies furnished to the intercostal spaces, and which are two or three in number, the superior intercostal gives off several small branches which enter the spinal canal through its lateral foramina, and also a branch which passes downwards and esta- blishes a communication with the first aortic intercostal artery. It has been already stated that the superior intercostal and the deep cervical arteries most frequently arise by a common trunk ; when they arise separately, the left superior inter- costal artery is generally derived from the first stage of the corresponding subclavian artery. Operative proceedings.—It is not intended in this place to enter into all the details con- nected with the surgical relations of the sub- clavian artery, since in the article which treats of the surgical anatomy of the neck will be found clearly described the modes of pro- cedure to be adopted by the surgeon in the operations for the ligature of this artery in different parts of its course; the following few observations, which may be regarded as supplemental to those just alluded to, naturally follow the description which has been given of the subclavian artery in the preceding pages. First stage. — When the relations of the subclavian artery on the right side, internal to the scaleni muscles, are carefully reviewed, the inner half of this stage of the vessel will appear to be the most eligible for the applica- tion of the ligature, and the object of the operator should be to secure the artery on the cardiac side of its vertebral branch, as in that situation the pleura is comparatively little exposed to injury ; the jugular vein should lie to the outside, and the vagus nerve to the inside of the ligature, and any undue disturbance of these parts, especially of the latter, ought to be most sedulously avoided. The artery was tied, for the first time in this situation, by Mr. Colles, in thej'ear 1813. In that instance, as in every subsequent one where the operation has been repeated, the result has proved unfavourable ; nevertheless, success has been so nearly attained in some of these cases, that few will be found to agree with Blandin in pronouncing this operation " tout a fait irrationnelle ; " nor are we to view with favour the alternative first suggested by Mr. Shaw, and lately revived and recom- mended to the profession in some recent works on surgery, viz., to remove the arm at the shoulder-joint, and to make pressure on the aneurismal tumour. In the majority of the cases in which hitherto the subclavian artery has been tied internal to the scaleni, the cause of death was referable to secondary haemorrhage ; the un- avoidable proximity of the ligature on the one hand to the heart, on the other to the aneur- ismal sac, and the small extent of this part of the subclavian artery to which a ligature can be applied, without interfering with the colla- teral branches, are probably the chief circum- stances which determine this fatal accident. If, in the desire to avoid the vertebral, thyroid, and mammary branches, the ligature be ap- plied too close to the mouth of the carotid artery, the current of blood through the latter vessel will then, with almost positive certainty, disturb those sanative processes at the seat of ligature, on which the ultimate success of the operation depends; and hence, doubtless, has originated the proposal to secure at the same time both branches of the innominata. The incisions necessary to expose the one, would amply suffice for the ligature of the other ; the circulation through the head and upper extremity might afterwards be carried on without material injury, and the formation of a coagulum, more length) than that afforded by the operations hitherto performed, might lead to a favourable result. This suggestion is due to Dr. Hayden, and is mentioned in his account of the ease in which he tied this artery in its first stage, so far back as the year 1835. The following brief particulars of a case which lately came under the writer's notice, maybe adduced as furnishing an additional ar- gument in favour of this proposal. A woman, about 25 years of age, became the subject of an aneurism, situated at the root of the neck, which was regarded as originating from the arteria innominata. The subclavian and carotid arteries were tied at one and the same time, on the principle of Brasdor:—"On the fourteenth day after the operation, the liga- ture came away from the subclavian artery without any hemorrhage, and every thing pro- mised a favourable result, especially as the pulsation in the tumour had quite disappeared. On the sixteenth day, the patient, a woman of violent temper, had a quarrel with the nurse, when she jumped out of bed, seized a pillow and some books, and threw them at her: while making this exertion, haemorrhage set in from the carotid." A renewal of the hae- morrhage proved fatal. On examination it appeared that " perfect union had taken place where the ligature had been applied to the sub-