SLEEP. 686 passionless people, who may be said to live very slowly, are usually great sleepers; but this rather because, through the dullness of their perceptions, they are less easily kept awake by sensorial or mental excitement, than because they really require a prolonged cessa- tion of activity. As they are half asleep during the waking state, so would it appear that the constructive operations must be far from active while they are asleep, — so little do they seem restored by the repose. The amount of sleep, cceteris paribus, re- quired by individuals, is very greatly influenced by habit; and, contrary to what we might anticipate, we find that the briefest sleepers have usually been men of the greatest mental activity. Thus Frederick the Great and John Hunter are said to have only required five hours' sleep out of the twenty-four. General Elliot, celebrated for his defence of Gibraltar, is re- corded not to have slept more than four hours out of the twenty-four.* Sir Gilbert Blane states -f- that General Pichegru informed him that, " in the course of his active campaigns, he had for a whole year not more than one hour of sleep, on an average, in twenty-four hours." We suspect that it' he had said " one hour of sleep at a time," he would have been nearer the truth. This we believe to have been the case with regard to the Duke of Wellington during the Peninsular campaigns. Dr. Elliotson says J, " I heard Baxter, the coachmaker, declare that he never took more than three hours' sleep during the most active period of his life." We doubt if it would be possible for any one to sustain a life of vigorous exertion with a smaller allow- ance than this. The influence of habit is further shown in producing an aptitude for repose, or a readiness to wake, at particular periods. Thus, if a man is accustomed to go to rest at ten o'clock, and to rise at six, he will pro- bably awake at six, even if he have not fallen asleep until twelve. And in like manner, if the morning sleep have been unusually protracted, the desire for sleep will probably return at the accustomed hour in the evening. The influence of habit is further exerted in producing an aptitude for sleep whenever the opportunity is afforded. Thus, the celebrated pedestrian Capt. Barclay, when accomplishing his extraordinary feat of walking 1000 miles in as many successive hours, obtained at last such a mastery over himself that he fell asleep the instant he lay down. And the sleep of soldiers, sailors, and others, who may be pre- vented from obtaining regular periods of re- pose, but are obliged to take their rest at short intervals, may be almost said to come at command ; nothing more being necessary to induce it than the placing the body in an easy position, and the closure of the eyes. On the other hand, habit favors the protrac- tion of sleep. This was the case with Quin, the celebrated actor, who could slumber for * Maenish, op. cit. p. 34. t Medical Logic, p. 83. % Physiology, p. 601. twenty-four hours successively; and with Dr. Reid, the metaphysician, who could take as much food, and afterwards as much sleep, as were sufficient for two days. It is needless to dwell upon the obvious fact, that, other things being equal, the amount of sleep required by man is proportional to the amount of mental exertion put forth during the waking hours ; since this is an obvious result of what has been laid down as the cause of the demand for sleep. It may be remarked, however, that we must not measure the amount of sleep by its duration alone ; since its intensity is a matter of equal import- ance. The light slumber which is disturbed by the slightest sounds, cannot be as reno- vating as the profound sopor of those whom no ordinary noise will awake. There are certain states of the nervous system in which there is'an entire absence of sleep; and this may continue for many days, or even weeks or months. Insomnia is, for instance, one of the characteristics of acute mania, and may also exist in various forms of monomania. It is usually, also, one of the symptoms of incipient meningeal inflammation. And it may constitute a specific disease in itself. In all these cases, however, the pre- ponderance of the destructive processes over the constructive manifests itself, sooner or later, in the exhaustion of the mental and bodily powers. Thus mania, when prolonged or frequently occurring, subsides into de- mentia. When meningitis (or rather inflam- mation of the surface of the hemispheric gan- glia) is fully developed, a rapid disintegration of nervous matter takes place, as indicated by the large amount of alkaline phosphates in the urine.* The same would probably be detected in cases of idiopathic insomnia; which state, if it continue for any length of time, is sure to be followed by a great sense of wretchedness and prostration, frequently ac- companied by continual restlessness. Such effects, too, in a less aggravated degree, result from habitual deficiency of sleep; whether this results from emotional excitement, which keeps repose at bay, or from a voluntary de- termination to keep the intellect in activity. This is a very common occurrence among industrious students, who, with a laudable desire for distinction, allow themselves less than the needed quantum of repose. Head- ache, tension, heat, throbbing, and various other unpleasant sensations in the head, give warning that the brain is being overtasked; and if this warning be not taken, sleep, which it was at first difficult to resist, becomes even more difficult to obtain; a state of general restlessness and feverish excitement are in- duced ; and if, in spite of this, the effort be continued, serious consequences, in the form of cerebral inflammation, apoplexy, paralysis, fever, insanity, or loss of mental power, more or less complete, are nearly certain to be induced. Some individuals can sustain such an effort much longer than others, but it is a great mistake to suppose that they are not * See Dr. Pence Jones in Phil. Trans. 1846.