1314 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. respective races. And thus a character which is perfectly valid in one group, may be en- tirely inapplicable in another. 4. Two races can only be regarded : as specifically distinct, when the characters which separate them are transmitted with complete uniformity from parent to offspring; when there are no intermediate gradations tending to connect them; and when no such tendency to variation has manifested itself in either race, as shall make it probable, or, at any rate, possible, that their differences may be the direct result of external influences, or may be attributed to an unusual divergence in the characters of the offspring from those of the parents. 5. On the other hand, two races may un- doubtedly be regarded as specifically identical, when, however great the differences in stature, conformation, psychical character, &c., pre- sented by their respective types, these types are connected with each other by inter- mediate gradations, so close as to render it impossible to establish a definite boundary- line between the collections of individuals which are assembled around them. G. Again, two races may be undoubtedly regarded as specifically identical, when in either race varieties present themselves, which ex- hibit the distinctive characters of the other race ; since we then have evidence, that, al- though these peculiarities are so generally transmitted from parent to offspring that each race possesses a certain degree of permanence, yet they are not thus uniformly inherited; and, consequently, there is nothing to pre- vent the transformation of the one race into the other, if the circumstances which have originated the variation, even in a single case, should act with sufficient potency on the whole mass. 7. No character can be safely adopted as justifying the assumption of the specific di- versity of two races, which has been found by experience to undergo considerable modifica- tion in either race, even though such mo- dification should not proceed to the extent of conversion into the character of the other ; for if a limited amount of change in external conditions be found capable of effecting a certain degree of alteration, the probability is strong that the higher difference may have had its origin in the more potent operation of the same class of causes. 8. The very fact of the extensive dispersion of a race, and of its existence under a great variety of external conditions, implies a marked capacity for variation ; since without such capacity, the race could not continue to flourish. 9. Among the conditions which most tend thus to produce varieties, within the limits of species, are those that are included under the general term domestication • and the widest divergence among these varieties is to be found in those species, which are brought into the closest relation to Man. 10. Among the domesticated races of quad- rupeds, the characters most susceptible of variation are,— 1. Stature ; — 2. General con- formation of the body, as dependent upon the proportionate development of the limbs and trunk, the proportion of the breadth and thickness of bones to their length, the relative development of the soft tissues in different parts, &c. &c.;—3. Conformation of the skull, as shown especially in the relative development of the cranial and facial portions, the capacity of the cranial cavity, and the elongation of the muzzle ; — 4. Quantity, texture, and colour of the hairy covering ; — 5. Psychical character, as shown in the increase of intelligence, in the acquirement of new methods of action, and in the disappearance of some of the na- tural instinctive propensities. 11. In every race of domesticated animals, new varieties, departing more or less from the parent stock, in one or more of these charac- ters, are occasionally produced; some of these being directly traceable to the influence of external conditions, whose action upon a long succession of generations gradually mo- difies the character of that part of the race which is exposed to it; whilst others originate in the production of offspring, which, from some cause not understood, present a marked departure from the parental type. In the first case, the variety is permanent, that is, it tends to hereditary transmission so long as the same conditions exist ; and thus arise the peculiar adaptations between the characters and constitutions of races, which have been dispersed through regions very dissimilar in their physical conditions, and the climate, food, &c, to which they have been respec- tively habituated. In the second case, the variety is transitory, the individual peculiarity tending to disappear in the course of two or three generations, by becoming merged in the more general type ; but if it should happen that the individuals thus distinguished should breed together, the peculiarity shows a ten- dency to perpetuation by hereditary trans- mission ; and thus an entirely new race may originate, which remains distinct so long as it is not allowed to breed with others. 12. The several races of any kind of do- mesticated animals, which, according to the foregoing criteria, are accounted as belonging to the same species, breed freely and sponta- neously with each other, when allowed to do so ; and the offspring are fertile, not only with either of the parent races, but with each other. The mixed races thus originating, it may be added, frequently surpass either of their parent stocks, not only in the advanta- geous combination of different attributes, but also in general vigour, and in procreative capacity ; so that the mixture of races which are specifically identical, tends to the multi- plication of the species as a whole. 13. On the other hand, although propaga- tion may take place between individuals of undoubtedly distinct species, yet there is little spontaneous tendency to such admix- ture ; for each animal will select one of its ow n species for sexual intercourse, in preference to one of another species; and it is, con-