1029 THORAX. 3 u 3 As the chord length is to the antero-posterior movement, so is this measurement to the lateral movement of the thorax. This is the most uniform measurement in the ribs. If the 1st rib be T75, the 2nd rib is to that as 3; and from this rib to the 9th rib, the versed sine never exceeds 3'5 ; hence the curve c, fig. 665. is more horizontal than any of the other curves. So likewise it will be found that the lateral enlargement of the thorax in deep breathing is more uniform than the antero-posterior enlargement. (See dotted line, figs. 711, 712. compared with dotted line, figs. 713, 714.) The space gained by the ribs rotating must be strictly in relation to the length between the deepest part of the arch and the chord line, (d c,fig. 664.) This mea- surement is greatest relatively in the 2nd rib, and absolutely smallest in the 12th rib, the curve here being very small. The versed sine of the ribs corresponds with the great curve: if a rib were not curved at all, there would be no versed sine. The versed sine does not increase after the 4th rib; and the curvature of the first four ribs forms smaller circles than the rest. The 5th and 6th ribs, although rapidly increasing in absolute length (see Table A.), yet present nearly the same versed sine; and while the chord line increases up to the 9th rib, from the 6th to the 9th the versed sine decreases, showing that the circle or arch of the rib becomes larger as we descend, until the 12th rib, which describes the greatest curve and the shortest versed sine. In fact there is little difference in the versed sine length from the 3rd to the 10th rib, as described by the double line c,fig. 665. This difference of arching of the ribs constitutes the conical form of the thorax, the smaller circles being at the apex, and the larger at the base of the cavity. (2) Weight. — The ribs increase not only in their various measurements but also in their weight up to the 7th or 8th where they attain their maximum development. The faint con- tinuous curve, e, fig. 665. is the line of the relative weight. (3) Torsion of the ribs (special characters}. — We have already mentioned that the ribs have two torsions, an anterior and a pos- rerior. No rib is entirely free from this twist. It is incorrect to believe that the 1st rib is without any torsion, and therefore that the whole rib in its length can touch the same plane. In fact the 1st rib may in one sense be looked upon as the most twisted of all the set, inasmuch as the flat sides which are internal and external in other ribs are in this rib inferior and superior. Like other features, the degree of torsion in the different ribs is progressive towards a maximum, and then towards a minimum. The 2nd, 11th, and 12th ribs are most devoid of torsion. In the last two ribs the torsion ap- pears less than it really is, because of their shortness and the large circle which they de- scribe. The two torsions in each rib are always in contrary directions, except in the 2nd rib, where they are both downwards, but the tor- sion is here very slight. In the 1st rib, as in the ten inferior ribs, they are in contrary di- rections to each other, so that its two ends cannot touch the same plane at the same time; but its anterior and posterior torsions are respectively contrary to those of the ten in- ferior ribs ; its posterior torsion being, like that of the second rib, downwards, and its an- terior upwards. The relative torsion of the ribs may be ex- pressed by giving the respective elevations of each extremity from the plane upon which they rest. Thus the posterior torsion is seen when the rib rests upon its inferior edge, and the anterior torsion when it rests upon its su- perior edge. In this way the following table is calculated. Table B. — Torsions of the Ribs. Ribs. Posterior End Torsion Upwards. Anterior End Torsion Downwards. 1 6-0* 5-0f 2 2-5* 3-0 3 3-0 3-0 4 12-5 4-25 5 130 12-0 6 12-25 21-5 7 18-00 295 8 21-25 28-0 9 21-25 25-0 10 9-50 17-5 11 1-50 5-5 12 2-00 4-5 If the posterior twist of the ribs upwards be expressed conjointly as 114, the anterior tor- sion downwards is 153 ; therefore the anterior torsion is greater than the posterior. The torsions in the 2nd, 3rd, 11th, and 12th are the least; and they are the greatest in the 7th, 8th, and 9th ribs. Moreover as the tor- sion increases at one extremity of the rib, for the most part it increases at the other like- wise. The ribs of some persons are much less twisted than those of others. This is parti- cularly the case in young subjects before the age of puberty. In infants the torsions are imperceptible ; therefore they increase as we advance to maturity. These torsions afford more favourable traction for the muscles. Where the respiratory movement is most ap- parent, as from the 4th to the 9th rib, the torsion is highest. i The posterior torsion gives the ribs, when placed in their natural position, a very oblique direction with reference to the spine. This is very important to remember; for the more oblique, the more favourable are they for mo- bility or for increasing the thoracic cavity. For the same reason the anterior torsion, being in a contrary direction to the posterior, increases still more the obliquity of the rib with refer- * Downwards. j Upwards.