78! SPLEEN. with the cells of the spleen vesicles ; the characteristic appearances of which are their Fig. 530. ParencHyma-celh from the spleen of the Ox, magnified 350 diameters, a, Smaller cells; ft, cells of medium size; c, free nu- clei ; d, largest cells. roundness, their size — from 3 to 5-1000ths of a line — their paleness, and their dark nucleus {fig. 530. b). On the other hand, smaller and larger corpuscles also occur in the spleen-pulp, which are never met with in the Malpighian corpuscles. The former are small round corpuscles, somewhat larger than blood globules. They are seen in one of two states : either they exhibit a membrane and nucleus inseparable from each other, and thus, apart from their colour and somewhat lighter outline, resemble blood globules ; or they are free nuclei, in which no nucleoli are visible. But only a few of these are free nuclei, for by the application of saliva or a little water a membrane starts into view, either completely enclosing them, or limited to one side {fig. 530. a). The nuclei, which thus appear as something separate from the membrane, have always the dark appearance of those cells the two parts of which are inseparable from each other; so that the appearance of these latter would seem chiefly dependent on the nucleus. With these small and quasi-developing cells, one also meets with free nuclei; and careful manipulation of the preparation shows these to be in general more numerous than in the Malpighian cor- puscles {fig- 530. c). The larger named cor- puscles are partly pale cells of 7-1000ths of a line in size, with one or two nuclei); or granule- cells of 4 to 6-1000thsof a line, and which may be described as " the colourless granule- cells" {fig. 530. d) : both of these are more frequent than in the Malpighian corpuscles. The spindle-shaped or fusiform cells which Hessling mentions do not belong to the normal constituents of the spleen-pulp, and are nothing else than epithelium cells of the splenic arteries {fig- 534. b), which in ma- cerated specimens of the human spleen, and in preparations where the vessels have been cut through, easily get into the pulp, and give rise to the delusive appearances of the so-called fusiform cells. The comparative examination of this part of the spleens of many animals confirms what has been al- ready stated of the elements of the Malpi- ghian corpuscles ; namely, the elements of the pulp vary greatly, since sometimes the nu- clei, sometimes the smaller cells, sometimes the greater cells, predominate. And in this, as in the former case, I conclude therefrom that a continuous process of cell growth ob- tains in the spleen, by which new cells are formed around nuclei, and old ones dis- appear. The quantity of parenchyma-cells of dif- ferent kind and shape, and of free nuclei which must be reckoned with these, is a very considerable one; so much so, as to con- stitute nearly one half of the whole red spleen substance. These do not lie collected in large heaps, but constitute small irregular groups of different size, which occupy the interspaces formed by the partitions of all sizes, the vessels, and the Malpighian cor- puscles. The best method of representing this disposition is to regard each part of the pulp, which is included in a large mesh by trabecular visible to the naked eye, as con- stituting in a small form what the spleen itself is in a larger. The microscopic par- titions and fibres and the finest vessels thus exhibit the same relations as the larger par- titions and vessels ; while the small nests of parenchyma-cells answer to the large homo- geneous masses of red pulp which are visible to the naked eye. There are nowhere any special coats which include these cells, but they may be seen everywhere placed imme- diately on the sheaths of the vessels, the par- titions, and the membranes of the Malpighian corpuscles. In the above delineation of the parenchyma-cells, those of man and of the higher mammalia have especially served as the model: but in general a complete simi- larity obtains in other animals ; and it is only here and there that any specialities show themselves. In many animals — thus, for instance, in amphibia — the spleen has often, though not always, very beautiful pa- renchyma-cells with large nuclei : in birds, and in the scaly Reptilia, granulated and somewhat dark cells are for the most part more frequent. In the hedgehog, rabbit, and guinea-pig, some cells, which are altogether peculiar, occur in company with the ordinary ones. In both the former of these I saw, here and there, large round cells from 10 to 16-1000ths of a line, with three, four, to ten or more nuclei, which often lay so closely together in the middle of the cell that they appeared to make up a mulberry-like mass, like certain large cells which one finds in the marrow of young bones. These cells were by no means uncommon, but gradually dimi- nished in'size towards that of the parenchyma- cells. In the guinea-pig occur round cells, in large quantity, of 48 to 60-]0000ths of a line, which contain one or seldom two round granules of a dark contour ; and their nu- cleus, not always very distinctly visible, is very plainly seen on the application of acetic acid; while, at the same time, the dark granules often disappear. The blood effused in the spleen-pulp, as well as the metamorphoses of the blood globules in the same, demand the greatest consideration both in respect of anatomy and physiology. I believe myself to have been the first who* directed attention to this circumstance, and cor- * Loc. cit.