SLEEP. 685 hand, the first stroke is enough to break the repose of him who is impressed with the effectual desire of profiting by the warning. And thus it may happen that, of two persons in the same room, either shall be at once aroused by a sound which produces no disturbance in the slumbers of the other.— The influence of habitual attention is shown as much in the effect produced by the cessation, as in that of the occurrence, of sensory impressions. Thus in the case of the naval officer aroused by the suspension of the measured tread of the watch over his head, the knowledge possessed during the waking state that this suspension is either an act of negligence which requires notice, or indicates some unusual occurrence, doubtless augments the effect which the dis- continuance of the sound would of itself produce. Putting aside the awakening influence of external impressions, the period of natural termination of the slumber is greatly influenced by habit. Thus, many persons who are ac- customed to rise at a particular hour, wake regularly at that hour, whether they have gone to rest early or late ; so that the act of spontaneously awakening is no proof that the desirable amount of repose has been obtained. But what is more remarkable is, that many individuals have the power of determining, at the time of going to rest, the hour at which they shall rise, so as to awake from a pro- found sleep at the precise time fixed upon. In others, however, the desire to rise at a particular hour only induces a state of rest- lessness throughout the night, destroying the soundness of the slumbers: the individual awakes many times in the night, with the belief that the hour is past, and very possibly oversleeps it after all, the system being worn out by the need of repose. The Amount of sleep required by man is affected by many conditions, especially age, temperament, habit, and previous exhaustion; so that no general rule can be laid down upon the subject. The condition of the fetus in utero may be regarded as one of continual slumber ; the energy of the organic functions being entirely directed to the building-up of the organism, whilst the apparatus of animal life is completely secluded from all the stimuli which could arouse it into activity. On its first entrance into the world, the infant con- tinues to pass the greater part of its time in slumber; and this is particularly to be noticed in cases of premature birth,—the seven months' child seeming to awake only for the purpose of receiving food, and giving but little heed to any external objects when its internal cravings are satisfied; and even the eight months' infant being considerably less alive to sensory impressions, than one born at the full time. During the whole period of infancy and child- hood, it is necessary for the development of the body that the constructive operations should be more energetic than the destructive; and, accordingly, we find that the period of sleep, during which the former take place without hindrance, is longer in proportion to the waking state, during which the latter ara in play, than it is when full growth has been obtained* As age advances, the necessity for very rapid nutrition gradually diminishes, in conse- quence of the progressive approach to com- plete development ; and when the adult period has been attained, it is not requisite that the constructive processes should do more than balance the destructive. The amount of sleep requisite for this purpose, therefore, gradually diminishes, until it is reduced to (at most) one-third of the cycle of twenty-four hours. It is to be noticed that the sleep of children and young persons is not only longer than that of adults, but is also more profound. On the other hand, as age advances, and the bodily and mental activity of the waking state decreases, a smaller amount of sleep suffices ; or, if the slumber be protracted, it is usually less deep and refreshing. It may be noticed, however, that very old persons usually pass a large proportion of their time in sleep, or rather in dozing ; as if, in consequence of the want of energy of their nutritive operations, a very long period of repose is necessary to repair the waste which takes place during their short period of activity. It is stated-j* that " the celebrated De Moivre slept twenty hours out of the twenty-four; and Thomas Parr latterly slept away by far the greater part of his existence." The repose of the aged is most apt to take place immediately after taking food; while they solicit it in vain at that period at which, during the former years of their lives, they had been ac- customed to enjoy it. The amount of sleep, again, is much af- fected by temperament. It will generally be found that a plethoric habit of body, sustained by full diet, predisposes to sleep, provided the digestive powers be in a vigorous con- dition. Such persons frequently pass nine or ten hours in slumber, and maintain that they cannot be adequately refreshed by less. On the other hand, thin wiry people, in whom the " nervous" temperament predominates, usually take comparatively little sleep, not- withstanding the greater activity of their ner- vous system when they are awake ; but their slumber, while it lasts, is generally very deep. Persons of " lymphatic" temperament, heavy * It is to be remembered, when we compare the condition of the nutritive operations during the period of growth, and after the complete development of the organism, that it is not in the mere amount of accretion that the difference consists. This would be the case if the new matter were merely added to the old, as in the formation of a new layer of wood in an exogenous stem. The growth of the animal fabric requires a continual new development of every part of it, involving a constant change in its mate- rials ; and thus we see that the amount of food required by children, and the quantity of urea, and other products of the disintegration of the tissues set free in their excretions, bear a much larger proportion to those of the adult, than would be inferred from the relative bulk of the body at the two periods, and from its rate of increase during the former. t Macnish, op. cit. p. 37.