VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1365 4 s 3 other decipherers of the most ancient inscrip- tions in the south-west of Asia, tends towards the conclusion, that the languages of the Afri- can nations are derived from the same funda- mental stock with those of the Arian and Turanian, the separation having taken place when they were as yet in that early stage of development, which has remained stereotyped (so to speak) in the Chinese and oth?r Seri- fbrm tongues. Looking at the African popu- lation under this aspect, we may fairly imagine it to have been first derived from immigrants by no means remote from the Turanian stock ; these gradually spreading themselves over the entire continent, became gradually modified in their physical characters by the new cir- cumstances in which they found themselves ; and whilst the dwellers in the Nile valley ad- vanced in civilization and in intellectual de- velopment, and became assimilated in cranial characters to the other races surrounding the Mediterranean sea, those of Central, Western, and Southern Africa underwent a degradation into the prognathous type, similar to that which has affected the earlier settlers in Oce- ania, and to which some approach is seen in Southern India. Viewed under this aspect, the re-appearance of the Mongolian type of conformation among the Hottentots of South- ern Africa is extremely significant; for, al- though they are Africans by immediate de- scent, yet the characters of their remoter ancestry reappear, so soon as a correspondence in physical conditions favours their repro- duction. In certain spots of the globe thus peopled with races derived from a common centre, varieties in physical conformation appear to have sprung up, which, in a scanty and scat- tered population, would have a far greater tendency to perpetuation than is now any- where exhibited (see p. 1312); new and more refined languages were originated ; local de- velopments of higher forms of civilization oc- curred ; and subordinate centres were thus formed, from which more limited radiations have subsequently taken pl.ice, impressing their own features of civilization upon the countries through which they have spread. Thus we have, at a very early period, indi- cations of the Egyptian, the Syro-Arabian, the Arian, the Indo-Chinese, the Mexican, and the Peruvian races, preserved to us in their architectural remains, or in their written records ; and although some of these may possibly have been mutually connected at their origin, yet they seem to have been very early separated, and to have attained their fullest development independently of each other. The subsequent migrations of certain of these races, or of offsets from them, have en- tirely changed their original distribution. The Arab race has extended itself through North- ern and even Central Africa, over Southern Asia, and even into the Indian Archipelago. But the Arian has displaced the aboriginal population from almost every part of Europe, and has there formed a secondary centre of radiation, whilst its original stock has been almost obliterated. It is obviously a stock which attains its fullest development under the influence of a moderate temperature ; and only, therefore, when it exchanged its original seat for the more favourable influences of European climate, did it manifest its remark- able capabilities. It can scarcely be doubted that from this race, or from a mixed race de- veloped between it and their aboriginal popu- lations, America and Oceania are destined to be re-peopled ; the destiny of Asia and Africa, however, seems more obscure. In the former country, the primitive races possess a con- siderable amount of self-sustaining vigour ; and in the latter, they exhibit an adaptiveness to its peculiarities of climate, which will perhaps never be acquired by Europeans. Moreover, whilst the American and Oceanic races appear doomed to extinction as pure races, wherever they come into contact with Europeans, there is no evidence that such is the case with those of Mongolian or of African descent; the latter, indeed, hold their ground with remarkable tenacity, and we may not improbably regard them as destined, under the influence of Chris- tian civilization, to bear an important part in the future history of Mankind. (See p. 1344.) Addendum.—[Since the former part of this article has been in print, the statements of Count Strzelecki, cited in p. 1341, have been pointedly contradicted, as regards the abo- riginal females of Australia, by Dr. T. R. H. Thompson (surgeon, r.n.), who states as the result of personal inquiries among several different tribes, that for a native female to bear children to a native male, after having borne hall-caste children to an European father, is by no means an uncommon occurrence. He admits that wherever European settlers are commingled with the aborigines in Australia, the native race disappears. This however, he maintains, does not arise from "any deviation of nature's laws ;" but because the European, wherever he takes with him his civilization, takes with him his vices also; so that drunken- ness and syphilitic diseases, which soon be- come rife among the neighbouring population, speedily cause their decline. Dr. Brown allows that the diminution is partly caused by the comparative infecundity of the females w ho have cohabited with Europeans ; but he ac- counts for this by attributing it to the change of life to which she is subjected. " From living in a state of nature, with irre- gular and uncertain diet, exposed to every vicissitude of»climate, with no other protection than a few kangaroo skins, or a roll of bark, or of the 'tulka,' she enters on a more regular life, partakes of regular meals, and sleeps no longer exposed. But even with this a'teration for the better, she does not bear to the white man more prolifically than to her native hus- band ; on the contrary, her fecundity appears to decrease,— for, on partaking of the white man's comforts, she is a recipient of his vices; she passes much of her time in a half inebriated