984 TESTICLE (NORMAL ANATOMY). pleted. Congenital hernia, or hydrocele is the result of a failure in this process ; and other forms of hydrocele are occasioned by imperfect obliteration of the canal. Much difference of opinion exists as to the immediate cause of the transition of the tes- ticle. Hunter, Meckel, and others came to the conclusion that the muscular fibres of the cremaster are insufficient to bring the testicle further than the abdominal ring and complete the passage. They were not, however, ac- quainted with the attachment of this muscle to the pubis external to the ring, or it would be difficult to understand why Mr. Hunter, after arriving at the conviction that the cremaster passes to the testicle whilst in the abdomen, chiefly from analogy, was not induced by the same process of reasoning to conclude, that a muscle capable of changing the position of the testicle in brute animals, would be ade- quate to accomplish the same office in the human foetus. The necessity for some active agent to effect this change in the latter would appear to be greater even than in the lower animals, since, in the usual position of the foetus in utero, the passage of the testicle is contrary to gravitation,* and unaided by the movements of respiration. Now, when we consider the attachments and connec- tions of this muscle in the foetus; the per- fect development of its fibres, as ascertained by microscopical examination ; and the circum- stance that there are no other means, no other motive powers, by which this change can be effected, or in any way promoted, I think there is no reason to doubt that the cremaster ex- ecutes the same office in the human embryo, as that which it undoubtedly performs in cer- tain brute animals at a particular season. The fibres proceeding from Poupart's liga- ment, and the obliquus interims, tend to guide the gland into the inguinal canal ; those at- tached to the os pubis to draw it outside the abdominal ring ; and the process extend- ing to the bottom of the scrotum, to direct it to its final destination. As the process ap- proaches completion, the muscular fibres which perform so important a part in it gra- dually become everted, and acquire the new functions of elevating, supporting, and com- pressing the gland. The Functions of the Testicle. — The sperm or fluid secreted by the testicle has been con- sidered in the article (Semen). On survey- ing the structure of this gland, we cannot fail to remark the great extent of secreting surface afforded by the numerous, long, and tortuous tubuli, and the length and complexity of the excretory duct through which the seminal fluid has to pass. The extent of this duct is, indeed, so remarkable, that many physiologists have been led to suppose that the semen is Owen, being the only brute animal in which the tunica vaginalis forms a shut sac. * For this reason I have departed from the usual custom of English anatomists, and avoided describ- ing the change in the position of the testicle, as the descent. further elaborated or perfected in its passage through the convolutions constituting the epididymis. An examination of the spermatic fluid taken from the testicle and its duct both in man and in the lower animals, under all circumstances and at all periods, and the varying state of the discharge in cases of spermatic fistula, leave little room to doubt that secretion takes place actively only dur- ing the periods of sexual excitement, or under the influence of sexual feelings and desires. From birth to the period of puberty the testicles remain small, and grow but little in proportion to other parts ; but as the body, on the arrival of puberty, becomes stamped with the characters of the male sex, they rapidly enlarge, their glandular structure becomes much more developed, and, being excited, these organs begin to exercise the office of secretion, no spermatozoa being found in them until this period arrives. The age at which the testicles thus become developed varies in different climates, and in different constitutions, and is influenced by the mode of life and circumstances in which the indivi- dual is placed. The inhabitants of warm climates reach the age of puberty earlier than those of cold countries. In this part of Europe the change takes place from the age of fourteen to seventeen years, according to circumstances. Unlike the inferior ani- mals, the testicles in man are ready at all seasons to perform their office. The de- sires subside, and the secretion of semen be- comes languid as life advances, though they seldom cease entirely till the age of sixty-five or seventy. Indeed, I have several times dis- covered spermatozoa in the testicles of men upwards of seventy years of age, and once in the testicle of a tailor who died at the age of eighty-seven. There are instances on record of persons retaining the procreative faculty to the age of one hundred years ; but in these cases, as in the well-known instance of old Parr, the general bodily powers were also pre- served in a very extraordinary degree.* " To the use of the sexual organs for the continuance of his race man is prompted by a powerful instinctive desire, which he shares with the lower animals. This instinct is ex- cited by sensations, and these may either ori- ginate in the sexual organs themselves or may be excited through the organs of special sen- sation. Thus in man it is most powerfully aroused by impressions conveyed through the sight or the touch : in many other animals, the auditory and olfactive organs communi- cate impressions which have an equal power ; and it is not improbable that in certain mor- bidly excited states of feeling, the same may be the case in ourselves. That local impres- * Old Parr, who lived to the great age of 152, was dissected by the celebrated Harvey, and it is stated, "Genitalibus erat integris, neque retructo pe.ne neque extenuato, neque scroto distento ramice aquoso ut in decrepitis solet, testiculis etiam inte- gris et magnis." Bettus de Ortu et Natura San- guinis, p. 320.