784 SPLEEN. Reptilia, amongst which I have only ex- ainineil Anguis fragilis and Coluber austriacus, I have seen no cells with unchanged blood globules ; but in the Anguis I found pale yel- low, brown, and black granule-cells, which were, as in birds, of from 6 to 10-1000ths of a line in diameter. Transitions of these into faintly yellowish and colourless granule-cells were also present in considerable number, being almost as frequent as the ordinary pa- renchyma cells in the spleen-pulp. The Co- luber austriacus certainly exhibited an effu- sion of blood in the parenchyma of the spleen, but no changes of the blood corpuscles. The naked amphibia offered a striking contrast. Amongst them I examined Rana temporaria and esculenta, Bombinator igneus, Hyla ar- borea, Bufo cinereus, Alytes obstetricans, Salamandra maculata and atra, Triton igneus, tseniatus, and cristatus. The cells with blood globules were better seen in these than in any other animals. This was especially the case in Triton, Bombinator, and Rana, in which 5, 10, 20, and more blood globules, with dis- tinct nuclei, were frequently seen occupying a plainly nucleated cell of 6 to 12-1000ths of a line in diameter. The size of the blood globules in these cases allowed their meta- morphoses to be followed through all stages, as is represented in fig. 532. At first they were round, of an intense yellow, and less easily altered by water; then they contracted themselves yet more together, assumed a golden yellow or brown yellow colour, and were no longer assailed by water ; finally, they became colourless, or experienced a transition into black granules, while they generally also fell asunder into smaller granules. In this manner golden and brownish yellow granule-cells (Jig. 532. 1.) arise from the cells with unchanged blood globules (fig. 532. 2, 3, 5.), and finally they experience a transition into colourless granule-cells (Jig. 532. 4.), or exist for a longer time as black pigment cells. d. In Jishes I have recognised the same con- ditions as in the naked amphibia, only they were not so brilliant. The cells with blood globules were very distinctly seen in Salmo fario, Cyprinus carpio and brama, Tinea chry- sitis, Esox lucius, Perca fluviatilis, Coregonus murana, and Gadus lota. In Anguilla flu- viatilis, Aspius alburnus, Chondrostoma nasus, leucocephalus, &c, they were less plainly seen; nevertheless, cells with shrunken blood cor- puscles, or aggregates of such, occurred also in these. In all fishes these structures be- come converted partly into colourless granule- cells, partly into black pigment-cells and pig- ment masses, which finally often lose their colour. The place where the changes of the blood corpuscles above mentioned occur can be demonstrated in some amphibia to be the bloodvessels. Thus, in Triton igneus, the spleen is at its margins tolerably transparent, and here one frequently comes upon the cells which contain blood corpuscles, occupying the capillaries in a row one after another ; and here we are also able to drive them into the larger venous channels by pressure, so that one of these is often filled by a consider- able streak, consisting entirely of these alto- gether characteristic elements. Whether this occurrence is a rule in the Triton, and whether it obtains in other amphibia, I am unable to certify. Yet I may communicate that, in the Triton, frog, toad, and Salamandra atra, I have found these cells containing blood corpuscles even in the trunks of the splenic vein and vena porta? ; while in Bufo cinereus, Triton igneus, and Salamandra, I have found them in the hepatic branches of the vena portae, even to its capillaries ; and in the latter animal, even in the inferior cava and the heart. In any case, these facts may be con- sidered as conclusive of the not unfrequent occurrence and formation of the cells in ques- tion within the bloodvessels of the spleen ; although it can scarcely be added that they are not probably also formed in the extra- vasated blood. In certain genera of fishes, as in Tinea, Esox, Perca, the cells which contain blood corpuscles, and their metamorphoses, are seen included in round delicate-walled vesicles of from l-40th to l-16th of a line in diameter (Jig. 533.), which for the most part Fig. 533. Artery (a), with a cyst (b) in its tunica adcentitia (c), which contains cells (a) enclosing blood coi-puscles. From the spleen of the Tinea chrysitis. sit on the ramifications of the splenic arteries, either laterally on the vessels, or on the points where they divide ; and which are connected with the sheath or exterior membrane of the same ; or, in other words, are nothing else than pouchings of the same. How these ve- sicles are developed I have not determined, yet I can scarcely doubt that they have the import of false aneurisms, and owe their origin to a tearing of the inner and middle tunics, and to a protrusion of the tunica ad- ventitia, together with the sheath of the ves- sels (if the latter texture can be supposed to exist here). The similarity of these vesicles with the Malpighian corpuscles of the mam- mals seems to be especially worthy of men- tion. After the description already given of the relation of the Malpighian corpuscles to the arteries, it is unnecessary to explain in de- tail, that the correspondence of both in re- spect of their site is very great. But, in re- spect of their contents a similar resemblance is sometimes exhibited, when, as in the cysts of fibhes, the cells with blood corpuscles