SMELL. 099 ance throughout; except that, in many in- stances, a layer of those lying deepest, or almost deepest, is of a darker colour than the rest, from the brown pigment contained in the cells. These epithelial particles, then, are not ciliated ; and they form a thick, soft, and pulpy stratum, resting on the basement membrane. The deepest layer often adheres after the others are washed away." The vessels of the olfactive membrane in the foetus present a regular series of papillary loops ; but these cannot be seen in the adult. " The olfactory filaments form a considerable part of the entire thickness of the membrane, and differ widely from the ordinary cerebral nerves in structure. They contain no white substance of Schwann, are not divisible into elementary nbrillse, are nucleated and finely granular in texture, and are invested with a sheath of homogenous membrane." These nerves thus rather correspond with the gela- tinous fibres, than with the ordinary tubular fibres of the trunks and branches of true nerves ; and they are regarded by the authors as direct continuations of the vesicular matter of the olfactory bulb or ganglion. " Although these nucleated olfactory filaments lie in great abundance under the mucous membrane of the olfactory region, we have been quite foiled in our attempts to trace their ultimate distribution in the membrane, and the diffi- culty is attributable to their want of the characteristic white substance. Their elon- gated nuclei render the larger branches un- mistakeable ; but if these become resolved at last into fibrous elements, the nuclei cease to be distinct from those of the numerous nu- cleated tissues which they traverse." " We are averse from speculating prematurely on the meaning of anatomical facts ; but as some hypothesis will intrude itself, we would ven- ture to hint that the amalgamation of the elements of the peripheral part of the nervous apparatus in the larger branches, and probably in the most remote distribution, as well as the nucleated character indicative of an essential continuity of tissue with the vesi- cular matter of the lobe, are in accordance with the oneness of the sensation resulting from simultaneous impressions on different parts of this organ of sense, and seem to show that it would be most correct to speak of the first pair of nerves as a portion of the nervous centre put forward beyond the cra- nium, in order that it may there receive, as at first hand, the impressions of which the mind is to become cognisant."* It has also been remarked by the same excel- lent observers f, that on the septum narium and spongy bones bounding the direct pas- sage from the nostrils to the throat, the lining membrane is rendered thick and spongy by the presence of ample and capacious sub- mucous plexus of both arteries and veins, of which the latter are by far the larger and * Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man, vol. ii. pp. 5—11. t Op. ext. p. 3, more tortuous. And they surmise, with much probability, that the chief use of these may be to impart warmth to the air, before it enters the proper olfactive portion of the cavity ; as well as to afford a copious supply of moisture, which may be exhaled by the abundant glandula; seated in the membrane. " The remarkable complexity of the lower turbinated bones in animals with active scent, without any ascertained distribution of the olfactory nerves upon them, has given coun- tenance to the supposition that the fifth nerve may possess some olfactory endowment, and seems not to have been explained by those who rejected that idea. If considered as accessory to the perfection of the sense in the way above alluded to, this striking arrangement will be found consistent with the view which thus limits the power of smell to the first pair of nerves."* , . The olfactive organ, in other air-breathing Vertebrata, corresponds with that of man in all the essential particulars of its structure ; being a cavity opening anteriorly upon the face by the external or anterior nares, arrd posteriorly into the upper part of the pharynx by the internal or posterior nares. It may thus be considered as the entrance of the respi- ratory passages, which is dilated for the ex- tension of the olfactive membrane ; or, per- haps, it would be more correct to speak of it as a diverticulum from the commencement of the respiratory tube, since, as we have seen, the proper olfactive organ does not extend into that portion of the cavity which is placed in a direct line between the anterior and pos- terior nares. The development of the olfac- tive organ, as measured by the size of the olfactory ganglia and nerves, and by the ex- tent of the surface over which these are dis- tributed, varies greatly in different tribes ; and details must be sought on this subject under the respective names of the classes and orders of vertebrata. The chief departure from the ordinary type is observable in the case of the Cetacea, in which the nasal cavity is almost entirely devoted to the purposes of respiration, and to the ejection of the water taken in by the mouth with the food. To animals which seek their prey in the water, an organ of smell, adapted to take cognisance of odorous emanations contained in the inspired air, would obviously be entirely useless; and it is probable that whatever olfactive power they possess is called into exercise by the passage of the water that is spouted through the nos- tril. The ordinary statement that the Cetacea are entirely destitute of olfactive ganglia and nerves, and that they must therefore be en- tirely devoid of the sense of smell, is true only of the Delphinidce, or that division of the order which includes the dolphins and porpoises ; for the Bal&nida;, or proper whales, do possess olfactive nerves, although these are comparatively of small size; and in the Manatidee, or herbivorous whales, which properly belong rather to the Pachydermata * Op. cit. p. 12.