1343 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. difficult to say, but a more wretched-looking set of beings cannot easily be imagined. The average height of the men is considerably under five feet, that of the women little ex- ceeding four. Their shameless state of nearly complete nudity, their brutalised habits of voracity, filth, and cruelty of disposition, ap- pear to place them completely on a level with the brute creation, whilst the ' clicking ' tones of a language, composed of the most unpro- nounceable and discordant noises, more re- semble the jabbering of apes than sounds uttered by human beings.''* Now, there is ample evidence that the Cape Bushmen are a degraded caste of the Hotten- tot race. They agree with the Hottentots in all the peculiarities of physiognomy, cranial conformation, &c, by which the latter are cha- racterised ; and a careful comparison of the languages of the two races has shown that there is an essential affinity between them. It has been ascertained by Dr. Andrew Smith, that many of the Bushman hordes vary their speech designedly, by affecting a singular mode of utterance (employing the peculiar clapping or clicking of the tongue, which is characteristic of the Hottentot language, so incessantly, that they seem to be giving utter- ance to a jargon consisting of an uninterrupted succession of claps), and even adopting new words, in order to make their meaning unin- telligible to all but the members of their own community. According to the same autho- rity, nearly all the South African tribes who have made any advances in civilisation, are surrounded by more barbarous hordes, whose abodes are in the wilderness and in the fast- nesses of mountains and forests, and who con- stantly recruit their numbers by such fugitives as crime and destitution may have driven from their own more honest and thriving communities. In this manner it has happened that within a comparatively recent period many tribes of Hottentots have been de- graded into Bushmen, through the oppres- sions to which they have been subjected at the hands of their more civilised neighbours. Now, although of the Hottentots them- selves we are accustomed to form a very low estimate, — our ideas of them having been chiefly derived from the intercourse of the Cape settlers with the tribes which have been their nearest neighbours, and which have un- fortunately undergone that deterioration which is so often found to be the first result of the contact of civilised with comparatively savage nations,—it appears from the accounts of them given by Dutch writers at the time of the first settlement of the Cape, that they were a people considerably advanced in civi- lisation, and possessed of many estimable qualities. Their besetting sins seem to be indolence and a love of drink (in this respect strongly resembling the Irish); yet when they can be induced to apply, they show no want of capacity or vigour. The testimony of * Lieut.-Colonel E. E. Napier's Excursions in Southern Africa. Lieut.-Col. Napier is very strong as to their merits as soldiers when officered by Euro- peans ; " and it has been," he says, " on the Cape Mounted Rifles, composed chiefly of this race, that many of the greatest hardships, fatigues, and dangers of the last and former Kaffir wars have principally fallen." * It has been frequently said that the Hottentots differ from the higher races, in their incapacity to form or to receive religious ideas. This is, however, by no means true. The early Dutch settlers describe them as having a definite religion of their own ; and it was their obsti- nate adhesion to this, which was the real ob- stacle to the introduction of Christianity among them. When the attempt was per- severingly made and rightly directed, the Hottentot nation lent a more willing ear than any other race in a similar condition has done to the preaching of Christianity; and no people has been more strikingly and speedily improved by its reception. Now, if we compare the condition of these people with that of the lowest members of the population of countries that claim to be most advanced in civilisation, we find that the difference is not so great as it might at first appear. Unfortunately, there is scarcely a civilised nation, in the very bosom of which there does not exist an outcast population, neither less reckless, nor less prone to the indulgence of their worst passions, than the miserable Bushmen, and only restrained from breaking loose by external coercion. The want of forethought and wild desire of re- venge, which are said to be among the most striking characteristics of the Bushmen, are scarcely less characteristic of those classes dangereuses, which, as often as the arm of the law is paralysed, issue from the unknown deserts of our great towns, and rival in their excesses of wanton cruelty, the most terrible exhibitions of barbarian inhumanity. So, again, there is nothing in the inaptitude of any barbarous tribe for religious impressions, which surpasses that of the young heathens of our own land, who, when first induced to attend a " ragged school," are recorded to have mingled " Jim Crow" with the strains of adoration in which they were invited to join, and to have done their best, by grimaces and gestures, to distract the attention of those who were fixing their thoughts on the solemn offering of prayer ; or of those who, after having joined with apparent sincerity in reli- gious worship, simultaneously took their de- parture as the hour approached for the break- ing up of the city congregations, in order that they might " go to work," as they expressed it; that is, that they might exert their thievish ingenuity upon the dispersing crowds. Now if, on the one hand, we admit the influence of want, ignorance, and neglect, in accounting for the debasement of the savages of our own * The conduct of this corps in the recent out- break (March 20. 1851), is stated by the Governor to have been most admirable. It was under its escort alone, that he forced his way through a country entirely in possession of the Kaffirs.