SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 817 connected with the artery of the left side, exclusively. Theformer holds a double relation to that vessel; in the thorax it passes behind it, in the neck it rises high above it, and then bends downwards in front of it, to open into the confluence of the great veins. The oeso- phagus, as has been mentioned, lies to the right of the artery. The differences which have thus been pointed out, are of material importance with reference to the operations upon these two arteries. In the remainder of their course the sub- clavian arteries are perfectly symmetrical, and one and the same description will apply to both. Subclavian arteries in their second stage. — In its second stage each subclavian artery lies in a remarkable intermuscular space, bounded by the scaleni muscles. These muscles (sca- lenus anticus and scalenus posticus) areclosely approximated to each other at their attach- ment to the tubercles of the cervical trans- verse processes; but in descending to their insertions they diverge, leaving between them a space truly triangular, of which the base, placed inferiorly, corresponds to the first rib, and to a small portion of the second. In this space the subclavian artery, the brachial plexus of nerves, and the cone of the pleura; are situated. In front, the artery is in contact with the anterior wall of this triangle, consti- tuted by the scalenus anticus muscle; behind, it is separated from the posterior boundary of the triangle by the summit of the cone of the pleura, which ascends thus high into the interval between the scaleni, interposing itself between the scalenus posticus and the subcla- vian artery. Towards the summit of this "scalene triangle" the nervous cords which constitute the brachial plexus are placed along the convexity of the artery, superior and external to it. A fleshy slip (Scalenus minimus, Soemmering) is often found to pass from the scalenus an- ticus to the lower, or costal extremity, of the scalenus posticus; in this course it runs be- tween the roots of the brachial plexus, and consequently subdivides into two the scalene space. The lower compartment contains the subclavian artery, the cone of the pleura, and the inferior portion of the brachial plexus, constituted by the seventh cervical nerve, and the cord resulting from the union of the eighth cervical, with the first dorsal nerve; whilst in the upper compartment (corresponding to the apex of the triangle), the fifth and sixth nerves of the plexus are seen to unite into a single trunk. On the front of the scalenus anticus, and separated by that muscle from the subclavian artery, are found the following parts : — Most inferiorly the subclavian vein, lying on the tendinous insertion of the muscle, and under cover of the clavicle; above the vein the transverse branches of the thyroid axis, viz. the supra-scapular, and the transversalis colli arteries, of which the former is the more inferior, whilst the phrenic nerve descends VOL. IV. obliquely inwards towards the tracheal edge of the muscle, and intersects these two trans- verse arteries by passing behind them. Superficial to all these important structures is the clavicular origin of the stemo-cleido- mastoid muscle. In size, shape, and direction, this muscle accurately corresponds to the sca- lenus anticus, which lies deeper than it, and from which it is separated by the parts just now stated, to lie on the front of that muscle. The separation of the subclavian vein from the subclavian artery in their second stage, " constitutes one of the most remarkable fea- tures in its (anatomical) history ;" this con- dition is not, however, constant, for the vein has been found to lie with the artery between the scaleni (Blandin), and, in a few other equally rare instances, the artery has accom- panied the vein superficial to both muscles (Manec, Quain). Lastly, the artery has been seen to pass through the anterior scalenus, and hence to lie in part behind and in part in front of that muscle (Quain). It is to be understood that these deviations from the normal arrangement are remarkably infre- quent. The anterior relations of the subclavian ar- tery in its second stage, may be arranged in four orders of parts: -—■ 1. Skin, platysma, fascia. 2. Sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle (its clavi- cular origin). 3. Subclavian vein, supra-scapular and transverse cervical arteries, phrenic nerve. 4. Scalenus anticus muscle. Subclavian artery in its third stage. — After the subclavian artery emerges from beneath the scalenus anticus muscle, it inclines down- wards and outwards, and thus completes the arch which its entire course represents. In this stage its position is marked by precise limits, which are always recognisable, even in the living subject. The artery, with the vein and brachial plexus of nerves, which still ac- company it, is here contained in the postero- infenor triangle of the neck (Omo-clavicular space, Velpeau), the several boundaries of which are constituted by the clavicle, and by the sterno-mastoid and omo-hyoid muscles. Whilst traversing this region the subclavian artery lies at first on the scalenus posticus, and then passes on the upper surface of the first rib. The subclavian vein lies inferior and in- ternal to the artery, and on a more superficial plane than it, throughout the entire of this portion of its course; it also passes with the artery over the first rib. Two superficial grooves in the adult bone mark the trajet and relative position of these great vessels ; a tu- bercle, which gives insertion to the scalenus anticus muscle, separates these grooves from each other (that for the artery is the more posterior of the two); it is constantly present, and serves as a guide to point out with pre- cision the situation of the artery, and so assist the operator to distinguish that vessel from the parts which surround it. Such a guide to the artery is peculiarly valuable, because, 3g