1321 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. Of the Prognathous type. — The most marked feature of the typical prognathous skull, as already remarked, is the prominence of the jaws, as seen in profile {fig. 807). It is this which gives to the features of the Ne- gro and Australian their peculiar ugliness ; and it is on this that the difference of the facial angle between the Negro and the Eu- ropean chiefly depends. In both jaws we observe that the alveolar ridges project in such a manner, that the front teeth implanted in them meet at an angle, instead of being in the same, or in parallel planes, as in those skulls which are termed for the sake of dis- tinction, orthognathic. Independently of the projection of the muzzle, however, there is an appearance of general elongation of the cranium from back to front, so that the antero- posterior diameter of the cranial cavity is greater in proportion to the lateral, than it is in the oval cranium. Thus the average length of ten Negro skulls measured by Pro- fessor Van der Hoeven*, was 6*9G inches, while their average breadth was 5"11 inches; so that the relation of their length to their breadth was as 1*36 to 1-00. On the other hand, the average length of twenty European skulls was 7*04* inches, and their breadth 5"47 inches ; so that the relation of their length to their breadth was 1*30 to l'OO. But this difference (which is by no means great) seems to depend rather upon the relative narrow- ness, than upon the elongation, of the Negro cranium ; for it will be observed that its ab- solute length is less than that of the European, and that the difference in the dimensions of the two consists chiefly in the inferior breadth. The form of the whole cranium suggests the idea of lateral compression. The tem- poral muscles cover a large surface, and rise high upon the parietal bones; and the zygo- matic arch has a large opening, but this is given by a forward rather than a lateral pro- jection of the cheek bones. Although the forehead very commonly recedes in the prog- nathous skull, this is by no means a constant character {fig. 810) ; even where it is high, however, it is seldom or never broad or full. The position of the foramen magnum has been affirmed to be, in the Negro, so far be- hind the nearly central place which it holds at the base of the European skull, as to constitute a marked character of approxi- mation to the quadrumanous type ; but it lias been shown by Dr. Prichard, that, when due allowance is made tor the projection of the alveolar processes, the position of the foramen magnum in the Negro is as central as in the other races")", its anterior border being immediately behind the trans- verse line bisecting the antero-posterior dia- meter of the base of the cranium. The height of the Negro skull seems to be rather less than that of the European ; but there is a more marked inferiority in the capacity * Bijdragen tot de Nataurlijke Gesehiedeniss van den Negerstam; Leiden, 1842. f See Physical History of Mankind, vol. i. p. 290. of the Negro cranium, as shown by the length of the vault over the vertex, and in Fig. 810. Young Negro of Benguela. {After Rugendas.) the circumference; for the former averaged, in the measurements of Professor Van der Hoeven, 13*81 inches in the Negro, and 14-67 inches in the European ; whilst the average of the latter was 19*75 inches in the Negro, and 20*51 in the European. Although Pro- fessor Tiedemann attempted to prove *, by filling the cranial cavity with millet-seed, and then weighing the quantity which it was found to contain, that the capacity of the Negro's cranium is equal to that of the Eu- ropean's, yet, as Professor Van der Hoeven has pointed out, the average capacity of the Negro skulls thus examined by Tiedemann was about one-twentieth less than the average capacity of European skulls. On the other hand, the facial portion of the prognathous skull is relatively, and even absolutely larger. It has been usually described as being cha- racterised by the large relative size of the parts subservient to the organs of the senses ; but although it certainly appears that both the anterior and posterior nares are wider than in the European, that the nasal cavity is altogether more capacious (so as to allow a more extended surface for the distribution of the olfactive nerve), and that the external auditory meatus is remarkably large, it does not appear that the same holds good of the orbits, which, though sometimes larger, are sometimes smaller than in the average of Europeans, f This prognathous type, although most re- markably developed among the Negroes of the Delta of the Niger, is by no means confined to them, nor to the African races in general, of which it is usually regarded * Das Hirn des Negers, mit dem des Europaers und Orang Outangs verglichen. Heidelberg: 1837. ■f See Prichard, Sp. cit. p. 292.