996 TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). rence of hydrocele the tunica vaginalis may have been inflamed and contracted adhesions, so that the testicle may be connected to the membrane in front; in which case the serum accumulates on each side of or above and below the organ. The position of the testicle in front may also be owing to an original inversion of the organ, in which the free sur- face presenting backwards, the fluid collects in that direction and presses the testicle to the front of the sac. Sometimes there are several adhesions producing a sacculated ar- rangement and forming what is termed a multdocular hydrocele. Occasionally the cysts thus formed have no communication with each other. In two instances I have seen a membranous partition in the sac of a hydro- cele, separating it into two distinct cavities, formed by a layer of false membrane. There is one kind of sac or pouch often met with in hydroceles which is not commonly de- scribed. It is situated on the inner side of the testicle, but the opening into it is always found on the outer side between the body of the gland and the middle of the epididymis. This sac, which varies very much in size, is formed by the distention of the cul-de-sac which I have described as existing naturally at this part. Two examples of this kind of pouch are contained in the Hunterian Mu- seum. One of them is represented in the accompanying figure. In large hydroceles Fig. 639. the epididymis is usually elongated and dis- placed ; and instead of a pouch being formed, the central part of the epididymis is drawn to some distance from the body of the tes- ticle. In old hydroceles the sac is often a good deal thickened, the tissues enveloping it being condensed and converted into layers of dense fascia, such as are commonly observed investing only hernial sacs. The fibres, also, of the cremaster muscle, frequently become remarkably developed. This, however, is not constantly the case ; for in some instances of hydrocele of large size I have found this muscle atrophied. The thickened sac after many years acquires a cartilaginous cha- racter, and it sometimes even becomes os- sified. In cases which have been frequently tapped, the sac is often found closely ad- herent to the skin of the scrotum at the various points perforated by the trocar. In the Hunterian Museum there is a prepar- ation showing a long narrow band of ad- hesion passing from the anterior part of the testicle across the dilated sac of the tunica vaginalis to the membrane in front, which is supposed to have resulted from a wound of the testicle in the operation of tap- ping. In all large hydroceles the spermatic vessels are separated and displaced. The glandular structure of the testicle is sound, and the organ capable of exercising its func- tions. The disease is strictly confined to the investing serous tunic. The testicle is, how- ever, frequently somewhat altered in shape, being flattened by the pressure of the confined fluid ; and in some instances has been found partially atrophied. Hydrocele is generally single, but some- times occurs on both sides. It is commonly said to form more frequently on the left side than on the right. During the last few years I have registered the new cases of hydrocele coming under my notice in public and private practice. Of one hundred and ten cases of simple hydrocele, one hundred and four were single, and six double. Of the former sixty- two occurred on the right side, and forty-two on the left. This result, which gives a decided predominance to the right side, does not agree with the observations of Velpeau, Gerdy, and Dujat, who found the disease to be more frequent on the left side. Hydrocele in young infants is usually single, and in my experience, more common on the right side. I have seen, however, a few cases of double hydrocele at this early period. When the fluid collected in the tunica vaginalis is attended with en- largement of the testicle, the swelling is termed a hydro-sarcocele. This affection is generally consequent on chronic orchitis, but it is occa- sioned by other morbid changes, malignant as well as innocent. In these cases the disease of the testicle is the original complaint and source of the irritation that excites an undue secretion from the tunica vaginalis. Congenital hydrocele. — In simple hydrocele, the original communication between the ca- vities of the peritoneum and of the tunica vaginalis is permanently obliterated; but it sometimes happens that fluid accumulates around the testicle in cases in which the obliteration has not been completed, consti- tuting the variety termed congenital hydrocele. The opening of communication between the two cavities is usually small in size, about sufficient to admit a crow's or goose's quill. There is rather a rare variety of congenital