1032 THORAX. to a greater or less extent in the other car- tilages, and it is apparent in those of the false, later than in those of the true ribs. These observations apply to the male body ; for in the female the process of ossification does not affect the cartilages until old age has arrived, and it always affects a comparatively small number of cartilages, even if it should happen to extend beyond the 1st, which com- monly is not the case. Of the ligaments of the ribs. — The liga- ments of the ribs may be divided into three sets, those which connect them, 1st, with the bodies of the vertebra:; 2ndly, with the trans- verse processes, and 3rdly, with the sternum. The rib is connected with the bodies of two vertebras (excepting those specified above) forming with each a joint lined with synovial membrane, and held in place by the following ligaments: — 1st. With the bodies of the vertebra. — Costo- vertebral ligaments, (lig. capituloram costarum). — These consist, 1st, of an anterior ligament -which connects the head of each rib with the sides of the bodies of the vertebras. Its fibres, fiat and radiated, are divided into three bundles, of which the middle one passes horizontally for- wards upon the corresponding inter-vertebral cartilage, whilst the superior ascends to the body of the vertebra above it, and the inferior descends to that below. From the divergence of its fibres this is usually called the stellate ligament. 2ndly, of an inter-articular ligament, a thin and short band of fibres which passes transversely from the ridge separating the two articular surfaces on the head of the rib, to the inter-vertebral substance, and divides the articulation into two parts, each lined by a separate synovial membrane. This ligament does not exist in the articulation of the 1st, 11th, and 12th ribs, and in consequence there is in them but one synovial membrane. 2nd/j/. With the transverse processes of two vertebra. — The rib at its tubercle forms a joint, lined by synovial membrane, with one transverse process ; and to another (being separated from it by a considerable interval), it is connected by ligamentous structure of some length. The costo-transverse ligaments connect the tubercle and neck of the rib with the transverse processes of the vertebras ; they are named from their position, posterior, mid- dle, and anterior. a. The posterior costo-transverse ligament— (Jig. transvcrsum externum costarum, Weitbr.) consists of a very short, thick fasciculus of fibres, which passes from the posterior surface of the summit of the transverse process, to the rough, inarticular part of the tubercle of the rib. Those of the superior rib ascend, those of the inferior rib somewhat descend. b. The middle, or interosseous costo-trans- verse ligament — consists of a series of very short parallel fibres, which unite the neck of the rib to the anterio surface of the con- tiguous transverse process. These fibres are best seen by removing horizontally a portion of the rib and transverse process, and for- cibly drawing one from the other. c. The anterior, or long costo-transverse ligament — (lig. transversum internum sen, cer- vicis casta internum, Weitbr.), is usually di- vided into two fasciculi of fibres nearly op- posite to one another, and on the same plane. They pass from the neck of the rib obliquely upwards and outwards to the lower, margin of the transverse process next above it. Characters peculiar to certain costo-vertebral articulations. — The articulations of the 1st, 11th, and 12th ribs alone present peculiarities. a. Costo-vertebral articulation of the 1st rib. — The rounded head of the 1st rib is received into a cavity on the side of the body of the 1st dorsal vertebra, the articulation is therefore a species of enarthrosis ; there is neither a costo-vertebral interosseous ligament, nor a superior costo-transverse ligament; the syno- vial membrane is much looser than in the cor- responding articulations of other ribs. b. Costo-vertebral articulation of the 1 Ith and \2th ribs. — These present the same cha- racters as the preceding, in this respect, that the anterior cavity for the head of the bone is situated upon a single vertebra. The head of the rib, however, is flattened, or very slightly convex. There is no interosseous costo- vertebral ligament. The superior costo-trans- verse ligament is much broader and stronger than in the other articulations. As the 11th and 12th ribs have no tubercles, and the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrae are but little developed, it follows that there is no costo-transverse articulation : but yet there is a costo-transverse interos- seous ligament. All these ligaments are much more loose than in the other articulations. 3rdly. With the sternum (Chondro-sternal articulation). — The costo-sternal articulation is between the angular extremities of the car- tilages of the ribs and the corresponding fossae in the margins of the sternum ; these ar- ticulations are covered and supported by two sets of ligaments. 1st, by an anterior set of ligamentous fibres, thin, scattered, and radi- ated (ligamenta radiatim disjecta Weitbr.), passing from the extremity of the cartilage to the anterior surface of the sternum, where they interlace with those of the op- posite side, and are blended with the apo- neurosis of the pectoralis major muscle. 2ndly, by a posterior set of fibres similarly disposed, but not so thick or numerous, con- necting the thoracic surfaces of the same parts ; together with some ligamentous fibres placed above, and others below the joint. A synovial membrane is interposed be- tween the ends of each true rib, and the sternum. These membranes can be demon- strated by slicing off' a little of the anterior surface ol the sternum and cartilages. Cruveil- hier doubts the existence of such synovial membranes ; we are inclined to differ from him in this respect. Characters pectdiar to chondro- or costo- sternal articulations. — The 1st, 2nd, Gth, and 7th chondro-sternal articulations present the following peculiarities : — 1st, The cartilage of the 1st rib is some-