872 TEETH. masses with a grinding surface more like that of the compound molars of the elephant. When a vertical and longitudinal section is made of one of these upper pharyngeal compound teeth, each denticle is seen to be composed, as in fig. 558., of a body of very hard and unvascular dentine d, with a thick sheath of enamel e, the denticles being united together by the cement c, and supported and further united together, and to the pharyngeal bone, by a basal mass of vascular ostco-dentine. Such are some of the prominent features of a field of observation which comparative anatomy opens out to our view ; — such the varied nature, and such the gradation of complexity of the dental tissues, which, up to December 1839*, continued, notwithstanding successive approximations to the truth, to be described in systematic works as a " pha- neros," or " a dead part or product exhaled from the surface of a formative bulb !" The truth may be slowly but is surely established, subject to the usual attempts to mask or detract from the merit of the discovery. By no systematic authors has the hypothesis of the formation of dentine by transudation or secretion been more frequently or more ex- plicitly enunciated than by the Cuviers. Baron Cuvier repeats, in both editions of his elaborate work — the " Ossemens Fossiles " — " C'est dans ce vide conpevable que se de- poseront les matieres qui doivent former la dent, savoir: la substance vulgairement ap- pelee osseuse, qui sera transudee par des pro- ductions gelatineuses venant du fond de la capsule, et l'email qui sera depose par les cloisons membraneuses," t.ii. p. 61., ed. 1812.; t. i. p. 33., ed. 1821. See, also, M. F. Cuvier, " Dents de Mammiferes," 8vo, 1825. " L'ivoire se depose par couches concentriques," p. xxvii. ; " L'email se depose dans un sens contraire a l'ivoire," ib. p. xxviii. And Baron Cuvier again, in the second edition of his "Lecons d'Anatomie Comparee," t. iv. 183C, p. 214 : "L'ivoire se depose par couches, par line sorte de transudation." In the first edition of this classical work, Cuvier had illustrated the peculiarity of the teeth of certain fishes, which are at first detached and afterwards united to the jaw-bone, by coin- paring their growth to that of the epiphyses of the long bones: " Mais les dents qui ne tiennent qu'a la gencive settlement, comme celle des Scjuales, croissent a la maniere des epiphyses des os, c"est-ii-dire que toute leur substance osseuse est d'abord tendre et po- reuse, et qu'elle se durcit uniformement, et finit par devenir entierement dure comme de l'ivoire," t. iii. 1805, p. 112. Whether the great anatomist meant to imply that the * See the Fasciculus of M. de Blainville's great •work, " Oste'ographie et Odontographie d'Animaux Veitebre's," which he submitted to the Academy of Sciences of the Institute of France on the same day, December 16th, 1839, on which I communicated, on the occasion of my election as corresponding member of that body, my " Theory of the development of dentine by centripetal calcification and conversion of the cells of the pulp." osseous tissue of the epiphyses of bones was developed differently from osseous tissue in general, e. g. by the uniform and simultaneous hardening or calcification, obscurely referred to in the above quotation, may be questioned, for such is not the way in which the teeth of the shark are calcified. But this is certain, that the idea, whatever it might have been, had no influence on the fixed belief of the developement of the dental tissue by trans- udation expressed in their later and more elaborate works by Baron Cuvier and his ac- complished brother ; and, in point of fact, the passage which I have quoted is expunged from the second edition of the " Lecons d'Anatomie Comparee," 1835 : the successive stages of calcification in the different teeth of the same vertical series in the jaw of the shark, having probably been noticed in the interim by Cuvier. The author of the article " Secretions " in the "Dictionnaire Universel d'Histoire Na- turelle," has, however, reproduced Cuvier's ob- scure comparison of certain fishes' teeth to the epiphyses of bone, as evidence of the Heed- lessness of any ulterior researches for the demonstration of the theory of dental de- velopement by conversion and calcification of the pulp. The passage from the third vol. of the old edition (1800) of the " Lecons d'Anat. Comp.," p. 112, is cited to show that it naturally conducts to the knowledge of such mode of developement of dentine : " En 1840 et 1841 (the ' Comptes Rendus del'Acad. des Sciences' give the true date) l'etude des dents de Squale par M. R. Owen, lui a de- montree leur accroissement par intussuscep- tion, comme elle avait ete a G. Cuvier trente- cinq annees auparavant." How or why G. Cuvier came to abandon the theory so demon- strated, and how it happened that none of his contemporaries adopted it, M. Duvernoy does not explain. He does give a reason for the omission, in the second edition of the " Lecons d'Anat. Comp." of the passage which he affirms to contain the demonstration : " Malheureuse- ment, le copiste de cet ancien texte pour la 2de edition a omis ce passage, par oubli." It was natural to conclude that its obscurity and seeming contradiction to the theory of dental developement, formally propounded by Cuvier, as well as to the facts shown by nature in the sharks, had been the cause of its omission ; but even had the misfortune to which M. Duvernoy now attributes that omission (for in the copious list of addenda and corrigenda to the fifth, 1837, and final, 1846, volumes it is not noticed) not occurred, the coincidence of such passages as the fol- lowing would still have been inexplicable and irreconcilable with the deductions that M. Dumeril is now enabled to draw from the comparison of the shark's tooth with the epiphyses of long bones. " L'ivoire se depose par couches, par une sorte de transudation." Lecons d'Anat. Comparee, t. iv., 1836, p. 214. To which proposition Cuvier has himself added a note : " Je me suis assure recem.inent, sur des germes de dents d'elephant, que la substance osseuse de la dent se forme comme