1383 VEIN. 4 T 1 and consists of branched cells, of a black colour, and various form. The body of the cell is generally some modification of an oval or oblong, and lies with its long axis corres- ponding to that of the vessel; and from its extremities caudas project, of every imaginable shape and proportion, of larger size than those which project from its sides, which are few and small. The body of each cell appears to be occupied by its nucleus. Fig 867. •55 fM My Veins from Fish exhibiting Pigment cells. A, vein from muscle of eel {Anguilla acutirostris) {Magnified 50 diameters). B. vein from muscle of sole {Solea vulgaris) {Magnified 100 diameters). c, little mass from the external surface of the car* dinal vein of the eel {Magnified 200 diameters.) In the accompanying figure, some of these cells are represented from the eel (Anguilla acutirostris), and sole (Solea vulgaris'), which present considerable variety of form. They also vary in the same individual in different situations ; in the cardinal vein they are most numerous and aggregated ; in smaller veins they are less numerous and more distinct; and in those of minute size, they only occur here and there at considerable intervals, and at the spots where they are placed they occupy nearly the whole face of the vessel. When submitted to high microscopical power, these cells are seen to be mixed up with the tissue of the venous coats, and their thin branched extremities have, in some places, much the aspect of elastic tissue, in the uni- formity of their dimensions and their dicho- tomous divisions. Caudal venous heart of eel.—Dr. Marshall Hall, in 1831, first figured and described a peculiar pulsating organ which exists in the tail of the eel, calling it by the name of "caudal heart ; " and he considered it to be a muscular ventricle, by whose contractions the blood is propelled in the vein at the commencement of which it is placed. Rusconi has differently interpreted this organ, and calls it a lymphatic heart, believing that it is perfectly analogous to those pul- sating sacs, which are found in certain parts of the lymphatic systems of various reptiles. And certainly the occurrence of a little pul- sating organ, having the form, colour, and general aspect of the lymphatic hearts in the frog, situated in the vicinity of the venous system, having an action independent of the systemic heart, and existing in a cold-blooded animal, is, from analogy, enough to suggest the idea that Rusconi's view is the correct one. But this is not confirmed by anatomy, for after repeated and numerous observations of this heart, I am convinced that the original description of it, given by Dr. Hall, is the truth. The caudal heart is to be found in eels of all sizes, but is best seen in small individuals a few inches in length, on account of their clear skin, and the larger proportional size of the organ in them. It may be seen by holding the eei's tail between the light and the eye of the observer, either with a lens, or without the aid of any magnifying power. It may be con- veniently examined with the microscope by wrapping the head of the animal in a wet cloth, and then applying its tail to a slip of glass, and placing it under the field of the instrument; but the extreme restlessness of the little fish some- times renders it necessary that it should be partially or completely stunned before it can be viewed. The heart is then seen to be Fig. 868. Caudal Venous Heart of Eel magnified about 25 diameters. A and b represent two forms, a, the heart: b car- dinal vein; c sinus that receives the blood from the capillaries; d, minute veins from caudal fin. placed near the extremity of the cardinal vein, on the haemal aspect of the caudal vertebrae at the end of the tail. It is of a yellowish colour, chequered more or less with stellate pigment, and of a form varying from a pear- shape to a spindle*shape. (Fig. 868.) At the distal extremity it is connected with a small vein, which collects the blood from the capillaries of the tail ; at its proximal ex- tremity it is connected with the commenc- ing cardinal vein ; or it may be said that on