VISION. 1456 for red; pink appeared sky blue by daylight, but assumed an orange or yellowish appear- ance by candle light. Dalton believed that the peculiarity in his vision was caused by the vitreous humour of his eyes having a blue tint : to this point reference will hereafter be made. According to Professor Wartmann, the following are the most common confusions of colour, ranged in order of their frequency : — 1. Deep red with deep blue. Indigo with violet. Deep blue with violet. Bright orange with bright yellow. 5. Deep brown with deep green. Dark blue with indigo. Bright brown with bright green. Dark red with dark green. Rose with bright blue. 10. Dark orange with dark yellow. Bright red with bright green. Deep yellow with dark greeu. Dark brown with black. Bright red with bright blue. 15. Bright yellow with bright green. Bright red with bright yellow. Dark red with black. Dark red with dark brown. Dark green with violet. 20. Dark red with dark yellow. Dark red with violet. Bright yellow with bright brown. Bright blue with violet. 25. Dark red with dark grey. Dark red with indigo. Rose with violet. Dark blue with dark grey. Dark green with indigo. 30. Rose with dark blue. Rose with indigo. Dark green with dark grey. Bright orange with bright green. White with faint green. Putting aside the differences in the bril- liancy of the tints, it is found that the follow- ing numbers express how many times each of those tints is proportionally seen without error. Red - - 37 Blue - - 100 Orange - - 12 Indigo - - 0 Yellow - - 100 Violet - - 0 Green - - 59 Wartmann has given* a very interesting account of his experiments on the vision of Louis D . This individual did not per- ceive any great difference between the colour of the leaf and that of the ripe fruit of the cherry ; he confounded that of a sea-green paper with the scarlet of a riband placed close to it. The flower of the rose seemed to him greenish blue, and he called the ash colour of quick lime light green. The appearances presented by a solar spectrum were as follows, — the coloured bands, brilliant and distinct, extended a length of about 0-102'. D perceived four colours only, blue, green, yel- low and red. lie limited the blue part exactly to the space occupied by the violet, indigo and blue : he called the green and yellow bands, less an interval of 0-002' towards the orange, green ; he called that band of 0 002', and a fraction of the red 0-012' in breadth, yellow; * Taylor's Scientific Memoirs, vol. iv. p. 173. lastly, the remaining 0 008' of red appeared to him of a red difficult to define. By refracted light the results were nearly the same, thirty- seven plates of glass exhibiting only four different colours in various intensities. When examined by polarized light, it seems that on the one hand he did not appreciate the equality of intensity of two complementary colours as did ordinary vision ; but he found a total and abrupt difference when colours passed at once from the finest red to very rich deep blue, a distinction far from being marked to others. His visual organ was unable to perceive the different mixtures of red which accompany blue to make it pass into purplish violet. This precise circumscription of the consti- tutive domain of a colour is a fact which, in the opinion of Professor Wartmann, was new and worthy of being remarked. Whilst a series of these experiments with polarised light were going on, the sun, which had been obscured, suddenly shone out, and D declared that the colours imme- diately assumed a different tint to his sight, all reddening in a sensible manner, so that he called red that which he had before named green and ill-defined blue, whereas the Pro- fessor saw no other change in the colours than an increase of their brilliancy and strength. Wartmann then submitted the patient to experiments to ascertain his perception of the complementary colours, and the result showed that although his eyes were not insensible to them, the colours which appeared to him complementary were not the same as those so regarded by the normal eye. The Professor then painted a human head, giving to each part a complementary colour. Thus the haar and eyebrows were white, the flesh brownish, the sclerotica black, the lips and cheeks green. When asked what he thought of the head, D replied that it appeared to him na- tural, that the hair was covered with a white cap little marked, and that the carnation of the cheeks was that of a person heated by a long walk. There are a certain number of cases of in- sensibility to colours which have been quoted by all writers on the subject. We shall there- fore content ourselves with merely referring to them*, describing a few well marked and uncommon instances less generally known. Dr. Boys de Loury f has published the particulars of a M. H , who was obliged, on account of his detective sight, to aban- don the profession of a dyer. His principal colour was yellow. The brilliant yellow of the apricot and deep brown of the chesnut were only distinguished as varieties of shade. All dark hues were called black ; scarlet ap- * Cases of achromatopsy are detailed as follows: — Phil. Trans, vol. lxvii. p. 260, vol. Ixviii. p. 611; Edinb. Phil. Trans, vol. x. 253; Spurzheim Phren- ologv, 3d ed. p. 276 ; Combe's Syst. of Phrenology ; Trans. Phren. Society, p. 222; Trans. Med. Chir. Society, vol. vii. p. 477, vol. ix. p. 359; Glasgow Med. journal, vol. ii. p. 12 ; Edinb. Phil. Journal, vol. vi. p. 135. , f Revue Medicale, Nov. 1843. •