VESICUL.E SEMINALES. 1 120 saw it in the form of a single Iongish body (3'"), between thevasa deferentia; in another it continued upwards as a long solid cord, which adhered by its bifurcate extremity to the seminal ducts. In both cases it had a distinct opening. The wide differences in the development of the organ above mentioned, are of rare occurrence. As regards the Sheep, the absence of the Weberian corpuscle in the perfect form has been already stated. According to Wahlgren, however, such is the case (as in the Goat) in isolated individuals only; whilst in others, on the contrary, a small purse-shaped hotly repre- sents this organ. Wahlgren describes this organ as occurring in the Bullock in the form of a flask-shaped sac, 6-7"' long. That here also many va- rieties occur (as pointed out by my observa- tions), is evident, for in another (castrated) animal it was present as a short uniform canal. Cetacea.—In a young specimen of Delphinus delphis (so labelled), I now find, as already slated in regard to other species, two thick, cleft- shaped, closely approximate pseudo-repre- sentations of this organ. The examination of the Halicnre di/gong was of particular interest to me. This animal, belonging to the group of herbivorous whales, possesses a Weberian organ, having a small roundish (and bordertd) opening on the colliculus seminalis. Its form and size cannot be accurately determined on account of the condition of the preparation; it appears, however, to be about an inch in length, and in shape like a wide Iongish bottle. A peculiar structure here distinguishes the commencing portion of the uro-genital canal. Instead of exhibiting a direct continuation of the urethra, it begins with a peculiarly wide cavity, which is bent outwards like the belly of a retort, and receives the urethra (under wh'ch the large colliculus seminalis rises pro- minently) on its hinder wall. I know of only one male mammal that presents a similar structure, viz. the Hedgehog ; nor in this case is the disposition of parts so remarkable. When, therefore, Wahlgren asserts that this cavity at the commencement of the uro-geniud canal in the Hedgehog is the Weberian organ, he is in error ; as is proved by the co-exist- ence of both of these peculiarities of struc- ture in the Di/gong. In reference to the morphological significa- tion of the organ in question, Wahlgren com- pletely agrees with me. He also views it as the representation of the whole female sinus, that is, the uterus and vagina taken together.* We must not forget that, as we have already observed, the latter of these two parts finds * Still more recently, on the contrary, Tan Deen affirms (Zeitschrift fur wissenschaftl. Zoologie v. Siebold und Kolliker, 1849, S.268.), also Betz (Mai- ler's Arcbiv, 1850, S. Co.), that the Weberian organ .is exclusively the "uterus masculinns." We do not here again enter into a critique of this view, and must refer our readers to our former remarks. We must mention, however, that the first of these arti- cles contains very numerous errors, and many odd hypotheses. a complete and general representation in this organ. This especially applies to the simple form of this organ, when it occurs as a mere oval body without upward continuations of the cornua ; and among others, to the human utriculus, which, on that account, in the case of an abnormal enlargement, becomes merely a vagina. Steglehner has already remarked* on this subject, that the so-called uterus cys- todes of Ackermann's well-known hermaphro- dite case (Art. Hermaphroditism, Vol. II. p. 709.), answered, not to the uterus, but the vagina. 1 have been led to the same results by the examination of a great number of human hypospadiacs and hermaphrodites. A true uterus, as in the single case of Mayerf, is indeed only seldom found on such a va- gina. The vasa deferentia pass constantly on the anterior wall of this vagina, and open near it in the uro-genital canal, like Gart- ner's canals in the Ruminantia. They are never connected with the vagina itself, as llyrtl has observed. (Rud. Lcuckart.) VESICUL^E SEMINALES. — These are a pair of sacculated organs, peculiar to the male, situated behind the bladder, be- tween it and the rectum. In man they ap- pear, externally, as multilocular cysts about two inches in length and three quarters of an inch in their greatest breadth. Their shape is fusiform; their larger ends diverging from one another, and their smaller ends con- verging so as almost to meet. These smaller ends are surrounded by the prostate, and arc directed slantingly forwards, as well as down- wards and inwards. Along their inner siiies pass the vasa deferentia, with which they join, by a narrow outlet, at the base of the prostate. The vesiculre are invested by a fascia de- rived from the prostate, which can be removed by careful dissection, and then they are found to consist of a blind tube of about the calibre of a small goose quill doubled upon itself again and again, all the gyrations being held together by cellular tissue, so as to give the appearance of fusiform multilocular sacs. A little careful maceration will enable the anatomist to unravel these g\rations, when each vesicula will sometimes be found to be one simple caecal tube about six or eight inches long, or, more frequently, there will be three or four caecal diverticular appendages to the main tube, in which case the greatest length (that of the central main tube) will be very much less. This tube has a very much smaller calibre for a short distance from its junction with the vas deferens than else- where. The narrow portion is straight, and is commonly called the duct of the vesicular seminales. These vesicles are found to contain a synovia-like brownish mucus, the nature of * De Hermaphroditorum Natura. Bambergie, 1817, p. 07. t Vol. II. Art. Hermaphroditism, fig. 303. 4y 3