998 TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY) they constitute the form of hydrocele, called from its original seat, encysted hydrocele of the epididymis. I have observed this description of hydrocele in all its various modifications, from the enlargement simply of a single cyst to the complication occasioned by the varied de- velopment of several. As a cyst enlarges the epididymis becomes flattened, and displaced to one side, whilst the testicle is found either in front or at the bottom. It is sometimes at the side, but rarely at the posterior part of the swelling. _ In the above woodcut {Jig. 640.) of a spe- cimen in the London Hospital Museum, the cyst is above the testicle, which is so dis- placed by it that its anterior edge is directed downwards. The tumour is generally of smaller size than a simple hydrocele, the fluid commonly not exceeding three or four ounces in quantity. I have, however, removed as much as thirty-two ounces from a single cyst. When the hydrocele is composed of several cysts, they are seldom of large size, but form a cluster more or less complicated and irre- gular, according to their size and number. A curious sacculated arrangement produced by the development of numerous contiguous cysts may be seen in the annexed figure, (Jig. 641.) taken from a preparation dissected by Fig. 641. are naturally closely adherent to each other. This is a very rare form of hydrocele. A spe- cimen which I discovered accidentally in dis- section, is represented in the annexed wood- cut. (Jig. 642.) The cyst contained about two Fig. 642. myself: part of the walls of the cysts are cut away to exhibit their interiors. The cysts are liable to inflammation, which causes more or less alteration in the quality and appearance of the fluid contained in them. The fluid may become albuminous and assume the straw or amber colour of ordinary hydrocele; and the cyst may contain lymph, form adhesions, or be lined with a false membrane, the fluid being thick and turbid. The cysts sometimes also become filled with blood, constituting a variety of hematocele. 2. A cyst may form between the tunica albuginea and the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis, separating the two membranes which drachms of fluid, and is situated along the front of the testicle; it is a little thickened. A sec- tion of it is preserved in the Hunterian Museum. Sir B. Brodie has described a very similar specimen.* In the museum of St. Thomas's Hospital there is a specimen of a small cyst apparently developed from the epididymis : in its subsequent growth it had extended on the fore-part of the testicle, separating the tunica vaginalis from the tunica albuginea. i 3. In examining a healthy testicle I once found six or seven small cysts about the size of currants, studding the surface of the loose portion of the tunica vaginalis. Two of them were situated in a part of the membrane ex- tending up the cord. They projected in- ternally, and contained a limpid fluid. I have twice since seen a similar kind of cyst in the same portion of the tunica vaginalis. Similar adventitious cysts have also been observed on the internal surface of the sac of a simple hydrocele, and a preparation of the kind is contained in the Hunterian Museum. If a cyst developed in this membrane were to increase to any size, it would constitute a swelling which might be appropriately termed an encysted hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. A circumstance of much interest in con- nection with encysted hydrocele of the tes- ticle, is the occurrence of spermotozoa in the fluid contents of the cyst, a discovery made by the late Mr. Liston in 1843. During the last six years I have met with them in as many as twenty cases of encysted hydrocele : indeed, in the majority of instances in which * Lond. Med. and Phys. Journal, vol. Ivi. p. 522.