1426 VESICULA PROSTATICA. vasa deferentia course along the anterior surface of the Weherian organ, and are con- nected thereto by areolar tissue. Subse- quently to the splitting they run along the Fig. 882, Internal Genitals of a 3Iale hermaphrodite Goat. a, a, testicles with epididymis b, b; c, guber- naculum testis; d, d, vasa deferentia with the seminal vesicles; e, vagina; ff, cornua of the litems. lower border of the cornua, between the two lamellae of the ala magna, but soon become continuous with the canal of the epididymis. The testicles have not descended into the scrotum. They lie at the ends of the cornua, the outer coverings of which pass into the sheath of the epididymis. If the vasa defe- rentia (which are somewhat thickened at their lower extremities, and, at about six lines from their apertures, possess a pair of seminal vesicles which lie more deeply), be removed from the Weberian organ, it will be seen that the lower end of the latter (c) is wider in an extent of nine lines than the segment which lies above it, and is distinguished therefrom by a constriction. By a further examination of the interior at this point, 1 find a transverse fold by which the two segments are still more separated from each other. Although this fold is not a complete os tincte, yet it cannot be doubted that the two segments of the Weberian organ, which are limited thereby, are the uterus and vagina; the less so that they possess different developments of the muscular and mucous membranes, which, in appearance and structure, exactly corre- spond with these membranes in the uterus and vagina of a new-born female goat: In a second individual 1 remark a very similar form and development of the Webe- rian organ : excepting that there is a much more considerable size and capacity, which is due to the adult age at which the animal was killed. But here there is no separation into vagina* and uterus. But, in spite of this, by a comparison with the normal female genitals of an individual of the same age, one will easily be convinced, that the Weberian organ in this instance corresponds to the uterus with the vagina, and not to the former of these only. But this may best be seen in a third herma- phrodite now lying before me (Jig. 883.). Here the Weberian organ is so completely separated into uterus and vagina by the development of Fig. 883. Intern-il Genitals o f a 3Iale hermaphrodite Goat, a to/, as mfig. 883. ; g, g, Fallopian tubes; h, ure- thra ; i, uro-genital canal. a formal os tineas, that it might almost be thought, from the simultaneous presence of the Fallopian tubes f, from the very consider- * The hermaphrodite goat figured by Gurlt (Path. Anat. Tab. 22. fig. 3, 4.), and copied by Simpson (loc. cit. p. 300.), exactly resembles this ; only the horns of the uterus were here produced for a great length, because the testicles had descended through the inguinal canals into the scrotum. t The presence of real tubes in the so called An- drogyni is very rare, and has perhaps hitherto beei observed with certainty only by Maseagni in the bull. (Atti di Siena, vol. vii. p. 201.) What are usually thus called are only the longly produced horns of the uterus. All that lies between the body of the uterus and the Hunteriau ligament belongs, to the corn'u of the uterus. The tubes always lie, as H. Meckel has pointed out (1. c. S. 43.), on the other side of the Hunteriau or round ligament, as is represented in my case by the figure above. At the end of the tubes in this case, there is a small, almost cup-shaped, nodosity at the inner border of the epididymis, which is apparently the imperfectly developed fimbria.