1510 WRIST-JOINT (Abnormal Anatomy\ skin the tense cord, and perceive that it can lie depressed even to the posterior surface of the radius, from which it had been manifestly elevated. This last is a test upon which Velpeau specially relies. Upon the subject of Diagnosis of this fracture of the carpal end of the radius, Dr. Colles remarks, — " the facility with which the surgeon can move the ulna backwards and forwards, does not furnish him with any useful help in his diagnosis as to the true notion of the injury. Moreover, when he moves his fingers along the anterior surface of the radius, he finds it more full and prominent than is natural ; a similar examination of the posterior surface of this bone, induces him to think that a depression exists about an inch and one half above its carpal extremity. He now may expect to find satisfactory proofs of a fracture of the radius at this spot. For this purpose he attempts to move the broken pieces of the bone in opposite directions, but, the patient is by this examination subjected to considerable pain, yet neither crepitus, nor ix yielding of the bone at the seat of fracture, nor any other positive evidence of the ex- istence of such an injury is thereby obtained. At last," adds Dr. Colles, " after many un- successful trials, I hit upon the following simple method of examination, by which I was enabled to ascertain that the symptoms above enumerated actually arose from a frac- ture of the lower extremity of the radius : — let the surgeon apply the fingers of one hand to the seat of the suspected fracture, and locking the other hand in that of the patient, make a moderate extension, until he observes the limb restored to its natural form. As soon as this is affected, let him move the patient's hand backward and forward, and he will, at every such attempt, be sensible to a yielding of the fractured end of the bone, and this to such a degree as to remove all doubt from his mind." I have already stated that sometimes the fracture may exist without being accompanied by any appreciable displacement of the bones. The patient complains of a severe pain in the region of the wrist, wdien pressure is made on the broken part, and also when the fore- arm is moved. These are the only symptoms which exist, (if we except a slight swelling, particularly observable on the anterior surface of the wrist,) so that one -would be tempted to believe that there was only a simple sprain existing. If, however, we make pressure on the line of the articulation, we do not cause the patient any pain, which we should do, if the symptoms arose from a sprain, while if the same degree of pressure be made a few lines above the joint, the pain is very severely felt. Now, if we place a thumb on the radius behind, in the presumed seat of fracture, and make the effort to bend the wrist at this part, so as it were to make the forearm here form an angle on itself, salient anteriorly ; if the angle be thus formed, we hereby obtain a pathognomonic sign of the fracture ; and a comparison of the two wrists submitted equally to this experiment, puts the matter beyond all doubt.* Fractures of the lower extremity of the radius are generally looked upon as serious injuries. If this fracture has been mistaken for a sprain, or luxation, or abandoned to nature, according to Dupuytren, very serious changes ensue. " The forearm, in the region of the wrist, instead of presenting a surface flattened anteriorly, will assume a cylindroidal form. The movement of pronation and supination will be lost, an cedematous swell- ing of the soft parts will continue ; the arti- culation remains immovable for a consi- derable time, and, if a rupture of the lateral ligament of the inferior radio-cubital articula- tion, or fracture of the styloid process of the ulna be superadded to the fracture of the lower extremity of the radius, we may see continue for life the abnormal mobility of the two bones on each other." Mr. Diday, of Paris, has gone further, and asserted that these consequences of fracture of the radius, above alluded to, are often observed, in spite of all kinds of treatment, and of bandages, which modern surgery has suggested. In making an estimate, as to the amount of evil resulting from the fracture of the lower extremity of the radius and its usual con- sequences, we find authors differ. Velpeau would seem to attribute many of the evils alluded to by Dupuytren rather to improper bandages, and the manner of treating the injury, than to anything in the nature of the accident itself. Although written so many years ago, the opinion of Dr. Colles, as to the prognosis in these cases, seems to us nearer the truth than any of the above mentioned conflicting ob- servations of the authors alluded to. Dr. Colles remarks, " that should the case be treated as a case of sprain, and the fracture left unreduced, the practitioner will find, after a lapse of time, sufficient for removing similar swellings, that the deformity is undiminished. By such mistakes the patient is doomed to en- dure for many months considerable stiffness, and lameness of the limb, accompanied by severe pains, in attempting to bend the hand and fingers; one consolation only remains, the limb will, at some future period, again enjoy perfect freedom in all its motions, and be completely exempt from pain, the deformity will, however, remain undiminished through life." Upon the whole, then, we may safely say, that when the fracture we have been describing has nothing unusual in it, and is only accom- panied with the ordinary displacement back- wards of the inferior fragment, that the case generally proceeds favourably. If the true nature of the accident has been early recognised, and proper and sufficient extension made of the forearm, the peculiar characteristic curve disappears, not to return; the fingers are found to be much more free in their movements, and can be more fully * See Colles and Malgaigne.