1229 TUNICATA. recognised by the form and arrangement of their double branchiae. Whether the ova of Pyrosoma be always composed of four, or a greater or less number of young individuals, or whether the}' ge- nerally contain but a single one, it is still highly probable that gemmiparous reproduc- tion obtains with these animals; the Jissi- parous mode, however, imagined by Peron as possibly occurring in the adult Pyrosome, is totally unsupported by evidence. The several stages of development in which the individual animals are found to exist in the common mass of the test, as noticed by Savigny, point to this conclusion ; and possibly the delicate filaments regarded as muscular fibres by Sa- vigny, first pointed out by the acute observer of these creatures, Lesueur, as traversing the test in a line with the abdominal cavities of the adult animals (Jig. 786. b, c), may be the proliferous stolons as yet untraced throughout their course. Phosphorescence of Pyrosoma. — M. Peron, •who first discovered and established the genus, has given a lively description of the circum- stances under which the P. atlanticum were first met with by him, in his Memoire sur le Pyrosome. * " We had," says he, " for a long time been detained by calms in the equatorial regions, between 19° and 20° long, west of Paris, and 3° and 4° north lat., the temperature of the sea being at the surface 22° Reaumur ; and we could make no progress except by the aid of the short-lived storms peculiar to these climates. In the evening of the 1.3th Frimaire we experienced one of the strongest of these squalls ; the sky was on all sides loaded with heavy clouds ; all around the obscurity was profound ; the wind blew violently; and the ship cut her way with rapidity. Suddenly we discovered, at some distance, a great phos- phorescent band stretched across the waves, and occupying an immense tract in advance of the ship. Heightened by the surrounding circumstances, the effect of this spectacle was romantic, imposing, sublime, rivetting the at- tention of all on board. Soon we reached the illuminated tract, and perceived that the prodigious brightness was certainly and oidy attributable to the presence of an innumerable multitude of largish animals floating with the waves. From their swimming at different depths they took apparently different forms ; those at the greatest depth were very inde- finite, presenting much the appearance of great masses of fire, or rather of enormous red- hot cannon-balls ; whilst those more distinctly seen near the surface perfectly resembled in- candescent cylinders of iron. " Taken from the water, these animals per- fectly resembled each other in form, colour, substance, and the property of phosphores- cence, differing only in their sizes, which varied from 3 to 7 inches. The large, longish tubercles with which the exterior of the Pyro- somes was bristled were of a firmer substance and more transparent than the rest of the * Annales du Museum d' Hist. Nat. tome iv. 1804. bod}', and were brilliant and polished like diamonds. These were the principal seat of phosphorescence. Between these large tu- bercles, smaller ones, shorter and more ob- tuse, could be distinguished ; these also were phosphorescent. Lastly, in the interior of the substance of the animal, could be seen, by the aid of the transparency, a number of little, elongated, narrow bodies (viscera), about a millimetre in length, which also participated in a high degree in the possession of the phosphoric light. " The colour of the animals, when at rest or when moribund, was observed to be of an opaline yellow, mingled with a disagreeable green; but during the spontaneous contrac- tions of the animals, and which were also easily excited at the pleasure of the observer, the body seemed to burn, becoming instantly like molten iron, with an extremely bright light ; but, as the phosphorescence again ceased, the colour of the animal passed suc- cessively through a number of extremely agreeable, light, and varied tints, such as red, yellow, orange, green, and azure blue, the last shade being extremely lively and pure. "Left to itself in a glass of sea-water, the Pyrosome exhibited at regular intervals of time a slight alternating movement of con- traction and dilatation. In these movements, the phosphorescence was seen to be deve- loped during the contraction, then to grow insensibly feebler, and entirely disappear, until in the next contractile movement it was quickly re-established. " By often irritating the animal, either by touching it or by shaking the water in which it floated, the phosphorescence could be ex- cited and maintained for a much longer time. Evidently dependent on the organisation and the life of the individual, after death, as is the case with all other phosphorescent marine animals, it could not be reproduced." We may remark that the observations made by Mr. F. D. Bennett*, who more than once met with shoals of P. atlanficum in lat 1° 41' N., long. 11°56'W., and lat. 4° S., long. 18° W., differ but slightly from M. Peron's notices of the same animal. The former observed, that when the specimens were taken in the hand from a vessel of sea- water, the whole mass of the animal became instantly illuminated by myriads of bright dots, much resembling in hue the points on the wing-cases of the diamond-beetle ; and that the small specks of a brown or red colour, that were imbedded in the general tissue, and in- termingled with the prominent, rigid, pearly tubercles, appeared to him to be the chief seat of the phosphoric light, frequently re- maining bright, whilst the remainder of the body exhibited only its naturally white or yellowish hue — a hue which changed after death into a red tinge. In making a close examination of the animal, Mr. Bennett re- marked that no luminous matter was com- municated from the surface of the animal to * Proceedings of the Zoological Society, 1833 and 1837.