SOLIPEDA. 719 seen in the figure) ; the os magnum (2.) ; and the Unciforme (3.) are all of them readily identified. Fig. 498. Osteotorjij of the Horse— Bones of the anterior Extremity. Scapula.— h, its neck; i, spine; A, coracoid apo- physis ; /, /, inferior costa; m, m, superior costa; n, n, base,; o, fossa subspinalis ; p, fossa supra-spinalis. • Os humeri. — a, shaft of the bone; b, protuberance into which, the teres major is inserted; e, bicipital protuberance;/, neck of the humerus; ?, external condyle ; A", double articular suface, articulated with the radius; /(, internal condyle; /, anterior fossa which receives the upper head of the radius, when the fore- arm is bent; m, posterior sinus, for the reception of the olecranon of the ulna, when the fore-arm is ex- tended. Radius. — n, its upper head; o, protuberance for the insertion of the tendon of the biceps; r, its lower extremity. Ulna.— s, the olecranon process; t, its articulation wit h the humerus ; «, continuation of the bone which in aged horses becomes united with the radius. Bones of the carpus.— w, Scaphoides ; x, Lunare ; ?/, Cuneiforme; z, Pisiforme or Orbiculare; 2, Os magnum; 3, Unciforme. 3Tetacarpus.— 4, 5. The great metacarpal or cannon bone, (i, 7. Rudimentary external metacar- pal bone. 10, 11. Sesamoid bones. Fore-foot. 12, 13. Pronimal phalanx or great pastern bone. 14, 15. Middle phalanx or lesser pastern or coronary bone. 16. Terminal phalanx or coffin-bone. 17. Sesamoid bone. The metacarpal tones are in the horse con- solidated into one large piece, called by farriers the shank or cannon bone, and two smaller supplementary pieces, which seem merely ap- pendages to the former. The large cannon bone (fig. 498. 4, 5.) is formed by the union of two metacarpal bones indissolubly conjoined, — viz. of those which support the ring and middle fingers in the human hand; these conjoined, here form a massive piece, the upper end of which articu- lates with the carpus, while its distal ex- tremity sustains the first joint of the foot. A second or supplemental piece (/%.498.G,7.) is simply a rudiment representing the internal metacarpal bone of the human skeleton, or that which in man supports the little finger ; superiorly this piece presents an articulating surface, which articulates with the unciform bone of the carpus, but inferiorly, there being no finger for it to support, it gradually dwindles away to a mere splint, which is ap- plied against the ulnar aspect of the preceding bone. The third bone of the metacarpus is equally rudimentary as the last, and consists of a similar stylil'orm bone applied against the op- posite side of the shank bone, and obviously representing the metacarpal bone of the fore finger. The fore foot of the horse is composed of three bones, representing the first, second, and third phalanges in the fingers of the human hand ; but extraordinarily changed in their appearance. Of these, the first (fig. 498. 12, 13) is equivalent to the bones of the first phalanges of the ring and middle fingers in the human subject, as is indicated by a central groove, showing this piece to be composed of two lateral halves — this bone in the horse is called the "great pastern." The second piece (fig- 498. 14, 15.) corre- sponding with the second phalanx, is named, in common language the " little pastern" while the third (16), the representative of the third phalanx, a bone of very large size and cres- centic shape, has received from farriers the name of the " coffin bone." In addition to the above may be noticed two sesamoid bones (10, 11) implanted in the flexor tendon of the foot, as it passes behind the articulation between the cannon bone and the great pastern, and a third lying over the posterior part of the articulation, between the coffin bone with the coronary bone, or be- tween the two distal phalanges. Posterior extremity. — The pelvis of the so- lipeds, both in its disposition and in the shape of the bones composing it, differs in many important particulars from that of man, and even of the generality of quadrupeds. The body of the ileum is elongated into a sort of