959 TERATOLOGY. Brain of a new-born Lamb with Cyclopia, a, a, medullary expansion filled -with serous fluid; b, optic, nerve; c, c, peduncles of the brain ; d, pons varolii; e, medulla oblongata; /,/, cerebellum; g, spinal medulla; 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, the cerebral nerves, existing besides the optic nerve. been observed (G. Vrolik, Rudolphi). See fig. 615. Fig. 615. {Alteredfrom RudolpJii by W. Vrolilt.) Human Ovum, with an Embryo o f tiro months, affected with hydroceph alus. Internal hydrocephalus is, however, not always occasioned by arrest of develope- ment in an early period of formation, but may be produced by chronic inflammation, (G. Vrolik), to which the child is, without doubt, as much subject during uterine life as after its birth. The principal causes of it seem to be external injuries suffered by the pregnant woman, and sometimes even reite- rated contact by the act of copulation, if the pelvis is large, and the womb seated very low. Pseudo-membranes are on this ac- count often found on the internal surface of the expanded ventricles (G. Vrolik), by which the deposition of the serous liquor may be limited to one or more of the cerebral ven- tricles, so as to produce an a-symmetrical expansion of the head ; this is, on the con- trary, symmetrical, if both the lateral with the third and fourth ventricle are equally and universally extended by the fluid. The head acquires, in such case, an enormous, but sym- metrical, volume (E. Sandifort, W. Vrolik). The slower such a secretion of fluid takes place, the slower the head increases in volume, and the less it endangers life, and the less the free evolution of the mental faculties is interfered with. Some cases are men- tioned, in which life lasted sixty years (G. Vrolik), thirtyyears (Michaelis), and fifty- fouryears (Gall). It is remarkable that in many of these cases, neither the senses nor the intellectual faculties were in the least im- paired. This proves that the substance of the brain is not altered by it, and that the form only of the brain is changed by the unfolding of its convolutions. This unfolding is the consequence of the pressure which the fluid exercises from the inside towards the outside, and of the thereby augmented volume of the ventricles (Hunauld, Gall). Those who presume that through the influ- ence of the serum exudated in the ven- tricles the dissolution and even the total de- struction of the cerebral substance may be effected, go evidently too far (Cruveilhier). However large may be the surface into which the hemispheres of the brain have been un- folded, the white medullary substance can always be distinguished from the grey (G. Vrolik). The parts contained in the ventricles are sometimes intact (G. Vrolik), but sometimes incompletely developed, and what we should call depressed (Aurivillius, Biittner, Malacarne, Klein). The corpus callosum assumes a thin lamellar form; the septum pellucidum and the fornix become thinner ; the glandula pituitaria and pinealis deviate in general from their natural condition (Friend, Malacarne, Wrisberg). The cerebral nerves are in general not changed, and the cerebellum is in most cases natural. The lumen of the cerebral arteries is commonly very large (Buttner), and Friend saw two in- ternal carotids passing through the carotid canal of the right side. In a few cases there was observed a degeneration of the cerebral substance, which resulted in a deranged and feeble state of the mental faculties (Buttner).