1489 VOICE. inferior a notch ascending to middle of carti- lage. Cricoid like that of Lemurs ; margins, a notch in front, and a foramen on the right Fig. 897. Larynx of S. JEthiops. d, tongue; b, epiglottis; c, opening to sac; e, superior vocal cords ; /, inferior vocal cords ; a, ventricles of Morgagni; g, a vertical furrow; h, trachea. side. Arytenoids as in L. Mongoz. Cuneiform cart, absent. Sesamoid oblong b (Jig. 898). C. of Santorini triangular, Interarticular cart. Fig. 898. Posterior view of the Larynx of the Phyllostoma Spectrum. a, epiglottis ; b, sesamoid ; d, junction of the cart, of Santorini ; f interarticular cart.; g, raised margins of cricoid cart.; c, surface of cri- coid ; e, trachea. size of a millet seed, oblong (/). Vocal liga- ments : superior not prominent; inferior nar- VOL. IV. row.* L. 0'2 in. Ventricles short. Epi- glottisf rounded, with pointed projection on each side. Voice very acute, with a plaintive cry. Trachea 34 rings. Insectivora. Eiinaceus Eurojioeus.—La- rynx : H. 0-45 in. Thyroid : wings united in a short point. Cricoid a posterior vertical fur- row c (j%.899). Crico-thyroid: chink triangu- lar. Epiglottis : apex acute ; base divided by a fissure into two lobes, into which the vocal ligaments are inserted. Cart, of Santorini in- clined forwards, having the interarticular cart. J: between them b. Vocal ligavnents: infe- rior strong. L. (H76. Ventricles deep, leading to a sac$ situated between the epi- glottis and os hyoides. Voice generally mute. Fig. 899. Larynx of Erinacea Europcea. a, epiglottis ; b, prominences of cartilages of San- torini ; /; interarticular cartilage; c, furrow of cricoid cart. Carnivora. Ursas Malayanus. Larynx: H. 1'55. Thyroid: wings unite at an obtuse angle; tubercle in mesial plane a (fig. 900), to which the epiglottis is attached ; margins, superior ascending upwards, inferior ex- cavated in front as far as the tubercles b (fig- 900). Cornua : superior short; inferior very long. Cricoid : superior margin inclined upwards, with a notch in front, by which the body is nearly cut through ; inferior con- cave in front; lateral parietes held together by a transverse ligament. Arytenoids rhom- boidal, between which are the sesamoids, dd, furnished with small muscles to approximate them. Cart. Cuneiform and C. Santorini pre- sent. || Epiglottis broad ; apex obtuse. Vo- cal ligaments : inferior inclined upwards to the place of the superior, separated by a transverse groove. L. 0-833, or nearly equal those of man. Ursns Arctos. See Wolff. Syriac Bear. See Brandt. Viverra Nasua. — Thyroid : wings united at an obtuse angle. Cricoid semitransparent. * Vicq. d'Azj-r states that the vocal ligaments are absent, but this is denied by Brandt. f He is also in error in stating that the epiglottis is absent in the common bat. \ Brandt thinks that the interarticular cart, of Mammalia is represented by the Cricoid of Birds; but, as Henle observes, there seems to be little foundation for this opinion. § Wolff. |[ These cartilages have been confounded with each other by Cuvier and Wolft'. 5 c