TUNICATA. 1211 (A. intestinalis,&c.) the exterior layer is much the thickest, and is composed of about twelve distinct fascicles, the fibres of which are somewhat separated from one another, insensi- bly disappearing on the anterior and superior borders. In others {Cynthia microcosmus, &c.), this external layer is very slight, and formed of distinct fibres, whilst the internal fibres are stronger, transversely oblique, and interlacing. Circular bands of muscles generally surround the tube of each orifice, and are rather stronger towards its base. The fibres forming these collars of the two tubes occasionally in- terlace with each other at the interval between the tubes, in a figure-of-eight pattern. Some- times these muscular collars or sphincters are very indistinct, and not so apparent as another set of fascicles, which run in a diagonally transverse direction across the sac, and pass up the sides of the tubes, converging at the orifices. The latter bands diverge from the two orifices in two sets, which in part cross each other obliquely, and form an open net- work. In Chelyosoma (fg.lll.a,b) each of the six triangular valvules that surround either orifice is furnished with a fan-shaped set of muscular fibres, adhering at one end to the inner sur- face of the test, and at the other extremity to a small papillary process on the valvule. Be- sides this set of muscles, and within them, is another set which passes laterally from one papilla to another, forming a sphincter, the base of which is hexagonal. There are other strong subcutaneous muscular fibres passing from the edge of the upper part of the tunic to that of the lower, and also from the edge of each of the coriaceous plates forming the upper surface (e, c). Bv the action of these muscles, the body or inner sac of the animal is transversely con- tracted and somewhat lengthened; the tubular processes also of the mantle are closed, and more or less retracted. When the animal is alarmed, the contraction takes place rapidly, causing the water contained in the respiratory and cloacal cavities to be ejected by one or other of the orifices to the height of even three feet. There is considerable analogy between the muscular system of the Ascidice and that of the Bryozoa. In the latter there are retractor muscles of the sheath and the intestinal tube; and in the interior of the cells there exist also transverse oblique cords, traversing the peri- intestinal cavity, and attached to one or the other surface of the skin. These transverse muscles contribute to open the tentacular circlet; and in the Ascidke,by their contraction, produce the jet that escapes from each of the two apertures. Embryo-genesis of tJie Simple Ascidians.—In examining under the microscope a portion of the ovary of a recent Ascidia, eggs in all stages of development may often be observed. In describing the various conditions and modifi- cations of the ova of this family in course of development, we shall borrow largely from the careful and extensive researches given to the world by Professor Van Beneden, to whom naturalists are so deeply indebted for much valuable information on the subject of the em- bryo-genesis of many of the Polypifera* and other groups of animals. The earliest form of the ovum is a simple vesicle; it next appears as a vesicle with an inner vesicle, which is evidently "the vesicle of Purkinje;" and, thirdly, with a second, still smaller vesicle, " the vesicle of Wagner ;" these latter vesicles, one within the other, being enveloped in the outer or vitelline membrane (Jig. 781. a). The space between the external membrane and Purkinje's vesicle is occupied by a sub- stance, at first clear and probably fluid, but soon appearing granulated, constituting the vitellus. This yolk increases rapidly, soon oc- cupying the whole ovum : at the periphery its granules or cells become organised (Jig. 781. is), uniting among themselves, and forming a continuous sacciform membrane. The mode of growth of the vitellus is by new cells being formed in the interior of the large older cells, and subsequently producing others in their own interior. The growth of the whole ovum is evidently carried on by this process. The whole surface of the vitellus soon after- wards becomes embossed, presenting a mul- berry-like appearance (Jig. 781. c). The ger- minal vesicles disappear. At the centre of each little mammilla of the surface a trans- parent vesicle becomes distinctly visible, and the whole appear like so many ova each with the vesicle of Purkinje. These mammilla? in- crease, and their peripheral substance rapidly becomes granulated, in a similar manner to the change that took place in the whole vi- tellus. The mammillated appearance is now soon lost from the growth of the granules, and the surface becomes uniform, the mam- milla? of the periphery uniting into a mem- brane, which constitutes the blastoderm. Ac- cording to Milne-Edwards, the blastoderm in the BotryllidceVA formed at a determinate point only; but in Cynthia ampulla (the species in which Van Beneden watched the modifica- tions of the ovum) the latter observer feels assured that it is formed simultaneously all over the yolk, as in all the inferior animals. At. this period a number of vesicles become somewhat regularly arranged over the exterior of the ovum, which by their union with one another form a new enveloping membrane. Beneath this membrane a space, occupied by fluid, soon becomes apparent. All over the exterior of this new membrane are distributed white, transparent vesicles, having much the appearance of oil globules. This envelope soon becomes more and more extended by the increase of the contained albuminous fluid, and a second membrane appears beneath it, on the surface of which also oil-like globules become apparent, as on the external mem- brane (Jig, 781. d). The ovum is now com- posed of an external membrane, of a white * See Polypifera ; also Papers by Prof. Van Beneden on Campanularla, Tubularia, and Bryozoa Mem. Brux. Acad. torn. xvii. xviii. and xix. ' i