VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1322 as characteristic. It is met with among in- habitants of various quarters of the globe; but is nearly always associated with squalor and destitution, ignorance and brutality. In- stead of following an agricultural or pas- toral life, the people among whom it pre- vails are, for the most part, hunters, or inhabitants of low marshy forests, dependent for their supplies of food upon the chase, or upon the accidental produce of the soil, and but little advanced in any of the arts which are characteristic of civilisation. Such is the character of those aborigines of Australia, and of certain islands of the Polynesian Ar- chipelago, amongst whom the prognathous type is presented almost, if not quite, as characteristically as among the Negroes of the Guinea coast. The skulls of some of these inferior races have been asserted by Dr. JohnNeill * to pre- sent a division of the articulating surface of each occipital condyle into two facets, by a groove or ridge ; which appears to be the persistent indication of the fissure that originally separates the basi-occipital bone from the ex-occipitals. This character, how- ever, is far from being constant in any one family. Thus it was only found in 30 out of 81 African crania; whilst it presented itself in only 4 pure Egyptian heads in Dr. Mor- ton's collection, in 3 out of 105 skulls of aboriginal Americans, and in none of the other 129 skulls of different nations whose history was well known. Thus, although more common among the African races than in the others, and marking in them (like the occasional persistence of the separate inter- maxillary bone to a later period than usual) a less complete development, yet its presence in but little more than one-third even of the Negro-crania, and its occasional existence elsewhere, altogether destroy its title to be considered a mark of separation between dif- ferent branches of the human family. The writer has looked for this character in at least twenty African crania, without once meeting with it ; the only skull which unequivocally presented it being that of a Tasmanian female, ast. 14.—Dr. Neill points out, also, that the lower boundary of the anterior nares in the Negro skull wants the sharp edge which is found in the higher races; and that this, also, may be regarded as a retention of the foetal type. This character, however, is at least as strongly marked in Australians as in Negroes ; and an approximation to it is shown wherever there is a tendency to the prognathous conformation. Of the pyramidal type. — The most striking feature in this type of cranial conformation, which is best seen in the front and basal views (Jigs. 811. 813.), is the lateral or out- Fig. 812. Fig. 813. Pyramidal Cranium of Mongolian race. (From a specimen in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.) ward projection of the zygomatic arches ; this is principally due to the peculiar form of the malar bones, whose facial surface is very broad and flat ; but partly, also, to that of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone, which forms a large rounded sweep. From this peculiarity, in conjunction with the nar- rowness of the forehead, it results that lines drawn from the zygomatic arches, touching the temples on either side, instead of being parallel, or nearly so, as amongst Europeans, meet at no great distance over the forehead, so as to form, with the line joining their bases, a triangular figure. The upper part of the face being remarkably flat, the nose also being flat, and the nasal bones, as well as the space * American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Jan. 1850. between the eyebrows, being nearly in the same plane with the cheek-bones, the trian- gular space bounded by these lines may be compared to one of the faces of a pyramid. This, however, is by no means the most im- portant peculiarity of this type; for the shortness of the antero-posterior diameter of the cranium, in relation to the lateral, is, as pointed out by Professor Retzius, at least equally characteristic. Thus the average length of sixteen Laplander's skulls measured by him was about 6"90 inches, while the average breadth was as much as 5"78 inches ; making the proportion of the former to the latter no more than 1'20 to 100. The greatest longitudinal dimension among all these skulls was only 7*08 inches, while the greatest late- ral extension was as much as 6'16 inches ; thus reducing the proportion to 1*15 to l'OO.