1136 TONGUE. Fig. 753. Epithelium of the tongue, a, a single flattened superficial cell, viewed super- ficially and edgewise; b, from the horse, showing the filamentary prolongation of a part only of each cell; d, superficial; c, deep layer. a small single circular nucleus may generally be seen very plainly occupying a central posi- tion in the cell, and unchanged in form and size by any of the changes that the cell under- goes. Certainly the epithelium, covering most parts of the tongue, does not contain any pigment; but I think that covering the filiform papillae in the centre of the dorsum very frequently does ; and for these reasons,— because, first, the growth of the epithelium here is very abundant, and it seems a general rule that pigment should be associated with an abundantly nourished or rapidly developed epidermis, as is seen in hair, in the colour of those spots that are called moles, and the hair that proceeds from them, which, instead of being invisible, as in neighbouring parts, is dark and rank, and in the change of colour which the cuticle and hair covering the parts of genera- tion undergo at the increase of the nutrition of the parts that accompanies the accession of the generative function ; secondly, because we see. that the epithelium does undergo great ciianges of colour, being generally dark- est when most abundant; thirdly, because, in two cases that I have seen, in which the only diseased condition was an enormous develop- ment of the filiform processes which the epi- thelium forms in the centre of the tongue, the colour of the fur was a dark sepia or Vandyke brown, almost black, exactly that of pigment in other situations: we see too, when the epithelium has been rendered opaque by soaking the tongue in alcohol, that all the other papillae are whiter than the fili- form occupying the centre of the dorsum, which retain their tawny colour. The epithe- lium of the tongue differs from the dermic cuticle chiefly in its moisture, and the delicacy and softness of its structure. Papillary structure of the tongue. — The pa- pillae of the tongue are generally contrasted with those of the skin, in that while the latter are covered over with an even layer of epi- derm;s, and therefore not visible to the naked eye, the latter stand out free from the surface of the epithelium, dipping down between them. But viewed by the light of recent researches, this is seen to be only the appa- rent difference, the real difference being that while the papillae of the skin are sessile, the papillae of the tongue are arranged in groups on proper pedicles or supports, whose tops and sides they cover, and which elevate them above the general surface. For it has been recently shown by Professors Todd and Bow- man #, that the papillae, heretofore considered simple, are really compound organs, and that they are covered by other smaller papillae, whose form and whose method of nervous and vascular supply, show their true analogy to the papillae of the skin. In physiological exactness, and to carry out the analogy insti- tuted by these anatomists, we may say that these large papillae, so called, are no more true papillafi, than the long processes in the intes- tine of the rhinoceros are true villi. Now, these secondary, or true physiological papillae, are covered in by an even layer of epithelium, in just the same way as the papillae of the skin ; hence we see that the distinction gene- rally laid down ceases. It would, however, be too great an innovation to reject the name of papillae for those organs that have so long possessed it, and as the value and office of their different parts will be implied in their description, no misconception can arise. I shall, therefore, continue the old nomen- clature. There are three principal forms under which the papillae, visible to the naked eye, exist on the surface of the tongue. 1st. The circumvaUate (caliciform, Cuv.), the largest and fewest in number, and the most conspicuous, situated at the junction of the middle and posterior third of the tongue, where, by their arrangement in two lines, having a direction backwards and inwards, which meet in the centre, they form a V-shaped ridge, with the base directed forwards ; 2nd. The fungiform, more numerous than the last mentioned, and smaller, irregularly scattered over the centre, sides, and apex of the tongue ; and, 3rd, The conical or filiform, by far the most numerous and smallest, arranged in a dense pile over the whole anterior two-thirds of the upper surface, among which the last-mentioned are im- planted. To these may be added a fourth class of simple sessile papilla;, first pointed out by Professors Todd and Bowman as existing on the apparently non-papillary surface im- mediately behind the circumvaUate papillae, and which I have found also to exist on the whole of the under surface of the free portion of the tongue. The circumvaUate papillae are of the most complex form, and may be considered as con- sisting of two parts — a central, button-like projection, flattened or truncated at its free surface, and a raised border surrounding it in the form of a ring, of nearly equal elevation with the central part, the two portions being separated by a circumvallation, or fossa (b). When a vertical section is made of one of these papillae (_/?,«. 754.), the central portion is seen to be in the form of an inverted cone, and the surrounding fold is seen to constitute a cup, at the bottom of which the apex of the * Physiological Anatomy, vol. i. p. 435.