1213 TUNICATA. the vitellus lost its mulberry aspect, and when the albumen was formed. It closely envelopes the caudal appendage, and termi- nates beyond it by a tapering prolongation : subsequently it becomes the test of the ani- mal. The larva, resembling in appearance a frog-tadpole, still remains a while in the cloacal pouch, but is soon carried out by the current leaving the animal : it is very active, wriggling about for hours. After a brisk locomotive existence for about twelve hours, the embryo fixes itself to a foreign body. The tail then begins to disappear, being slowly absorbed; its pellucid membrane remains entire for a little time, but is ultimately detached from the body. At the same time other appendages spring from the body, the principal one of which arises from the an- terior extremity, elongates itself more and more, attains a trumpet-like shape, and may be considered as the future mouth (Jig- 781. g). In Amaroucium, Milne-Edwards ob- served generally five appendages arising from the anterior extremity of the body, two of which soon disappear, and the three others, which are persistent for a while, terminate in button-shaped, dilated suckers, touching the parietes of the external integument. In Cynthia ampulla other processes or appendages occur all over the body ; these are somewhat similar to the anterior appendage, but are never constant, either in direction or number; one specimen had seven appendages on one side. Sometimes the numerous appendages resemble tentacles, giving the embryos the appearance of young Tubularice. These processes are hollow, communicating with the central cavity. None of them appear to open externally, or to be at all like suckers; and a considerable space frequently exists between them and the enveloping membrane. The young animals are attached to solid bodies by this external tunic, on a different side to that at which the orifices make their appearance. " If," says Van Beneden, " the appendages served as suckers for attachment, the animals would have the mouth on the side by which they are attached." It is at this stage of growth that the walls of the internal cavity are distinctly seen through the external membranes. The contents of the digestive tube are seen to consist of a rather opaque mass, distinct from the surrounding clear space. As soon as the animal is fixed, the trans- parent membrane that has remained floating since the absorption of the caudal appendage, is completely detached, and the integument and the test begin to be formed. In the third period of development the embryo takes on the ascidian character. The development of the internal organs progresses, and the external orifices become apparent (Jig. 781. h). At the commencement of this period, the form of the young Ascidian varies considerably. The numerous appendages dis- appear, just as the caudal appendage was lost. The embryo becomes rounded and larger, and its substance is distinctly seen to be disposed in three layers. Up to the present time the vitelline cavity has had no external communi- cation, but the mucous cavity is now extended on one side, to form the mouth. The mucous layer is elongated also on the opposite side, but instead of reaching the exterior, it is folded back on itself, forming the intestinal loop. The yolk soon opens a passage on each side, constituting the oral or branchial, and the ventral or anal, orifices. The intestinal tube becomes completed by its separation into the respiratory, the digestive, and the cloacal cavities. Around each external orifice certain nipple-like, palpiform bodies appear, which soon lengthen, but before long they are hidden by the integument (Jig. 781. i). The eye-like pigmentary spot still continues for some little time, and is situated in the middle of a band (the oesophageal collar) that seems to embrace the respiratory cavity. At the base of the intestinal cavity, the opaque concretionary body appears, to which the heart is subsequently attached, and which Van Beneden considers to be analogous to the internal shell of the Limaces. This is furnished with vibratile cilia, which occasion circulatory currents, until the heart makes its appearance in the form of a thin, gently pulsating, mem- branous body. Contemporaneously with these cilia, others appear in the interior of the bran- chial sac, in the form of a ciliated^circlet, to which a second and afterwards others are added, forming altogether the peculiar bran- chial tissue. These cilia give rise to currents in the digestive and subcutaneous cavities. The young Ascidian can now carry on the functions of respiration and digestion. At the surface of the skin, and around the anal and branchial cavities there are apparent longitudinal striae, which are evidently the rudi- mentary muscular bands. The sphincters, also, at the two extremities of the intestinal tube, are brought into action. Some slight further modifications only are now required to perfect the development of the little Ascidia. Anatomy of Clavellinidte.— ClavelUna, — At the superior extremity is the buccal orifice, which is circular, looking directly upwards (Jig. 768. c), and furnished with a very thin, prominent, cylindrical margin ; to the interior of which is attached a ring or circlet of simple tentacular filaments, about thirty in number, of which about ten are long enough to reach to the centre of the cavity of the tube, whilst the others are very short, and situated between the first. Near this first orifice, and toward the supe- rior part of the dorsal aspect of the thorax, is the second or anal orifice, which is also cir- cular, with an entire rim. The external tunic or tegumentary membrane (test) of the body is thin, but subcartilaginous. It adheres feebly to the other parts, except around the two orifices. At its base, or inferior extre- mity, there are a variable number of radici- form prolongations, which serve to fix the animal, and some of which often bear at in- tervals little pyriform tubercles, which be- come developed into new individuals.