1237 TUNICATA. 4 k 3 mother, the stolon is constructed to admit a proportional quantity of the vital fluid. Two vessels traverse it throughout its length, one proceeding from the anterior extremity of the maternal heart, and the other from the oppo- site end. Hence the blood, forced into one of these vessels by the contraction of the heart, returns by the other ; and at each time the heart commences to contract in an opposite direction, the two vessels quickly coincide in the change. M. Milne Edwards has demon- strated that the proliferous stolons of the so- cial and compound Ascidians are likewise traversed by two similar vessels, one of which has an ascending current of blood, and the other a descending current. In examining the stolon at a more advanced period of its growth, one may embrace at a view, owing to the successive germination of buds, the complete series of the phases passed through by each embryo, from the time of its first ap- pearance in the form of a little button, to the full term of its development ( Jig. 788.}. The Salpa zonaria (aggregate} in its fcetal state. Magni- fied about 4 times. (After Eschricht.) a, b, part of the first set of the young Salpse; c, d, the second set; e, f, the third set; g, the stem with its germs j Jit A, the anterior orifices'j i, i, vis- cera ; j, j, ganglia; k, h, posterior orifices ; I, ves- sels ; m, muscular hands of the branchial sacs. phases passed through by the different organs correspond to those that the same organs present during the development of the " iso- lated" foetus.* Development of the foetal "aggregate'1'' Salpae within the "solitary" — Whatever may be the mode of aggregation of the associated Salpae at the adult age, their germs are always dis- posed in the same pattern along the stolon in two parallel rows, so that the germs alternate one with another. It necessarily follows that the embryos during growth must be arranged in the same manner. The em- bryos are always placed in such a manner that the axes of their bodies cross the axis of the * The development of the fcetal " aggregate" Salpians is beautifully illustrated in the fourth and fifth plates of Prof. Eschricht's Paper on the Salpa?, in the Pioyal Trans. Copenhag. vol. viii. 1841. stolon at a right angle : they adhere among themselves by means of their organs of attach- ment. The development of the "isolate," like that of the " aggregate," foetus proceeds but slowly: the growth of those foetuses that spring from the first-formed germs is not ter- minated until after the mother has almost at- tained her full age. It is easily conceived that, as the number of buds continues to augment during all the time the mother grows, the form of the germs and the embryos, or the embryonic chain, acquires lastly a consider- able length. Lodged in the external tunic of the mother, and adhering to the heart of the latter by the aid of the vessels of the stolon, this embryonic chain sometimes passes directly backward, and terminates before reaching the posterior extremity of the body, as in the iso- lated generation of Salpa phniata and some allied species: sometimes, as in most other species, it curls itself around the visceral nucleus, describing several spiral turns, and terminates at the anterior extremity of the body. If we examine the embryonic chain at this period, we may observe three very distinct groups of embryos (fig. 788.). The proximal group (f e) is made up of the germs and of the embryos, as yet but little deve- loped, that succeed them. These present a progressive series of the early phases of em- bryonic development; but the next group (d, <?) is composed of embryos much further developed, and these being nearly all of the same size, offer but a slight trace of gradation. The distal group of embryos (I), a) having arrived almost at their full growth, present no great difference among themselves. The em- bryos, products of the same stolons, leave the mother in groups, and the group most deve- loped is necessarily the first to be born. The perfect uniformity in the size of the newly born individuals explains also why the ani- mals of Salpa-chains are all of the same size and form. The embryonic chain of S. pinnata, however, and allied species, never presents these distinct groupings. Here, on the contrary, the phases of development proceed regularly, following the order of pro- gression throughout the chain. Hence the newly born animals, grouped in a circle, are often somewhat unequal in size ; but this irre- gularity soon disappears. The embryonic chain, as we have seen, is lodged in the external tunic of the mother. During the earlier periods of its growth, the substance of the tunic envelops it so closely, that no interval is apparent between them ; but, as the mass of embryos increases in size, there is formed around it, and chiefly around the most fully developed group of embryos, a cavity which is prolonged towards the surface of the mother's body, and opens externally by a large orifice. By this orifice the embryos, when mature, make their exit. The posi- tion of this opening always corresponds with the point where the embryonic chain happens to terminate, which is sometimes near the anterior extremity, but sometimes even at the posterior extremity of the body of the