TEETH. 905 the larger and more laniariform canines of the PalcBotherium (" Odontography," pi. 135., fig. 4.). The Chceropotamus*, the Anthraco- therium\, the Hyopotamus\, the Hyracothc- rium§, the Oplotherium, the Merycopotamus, the Hippohyns, and other ancient (eocene and miocene) tertiary mammalian genera presented the forty-four teeth, in number and kind according to that which is here pro- pounded as the typical or normal dentition of the placental Mammalia. Amongst the existing genera, the hog (Sus) is one of the few that retain this type. Fig. 578. shows the entire permanent series, exposed, in both molar, m. 2, has just begun to cut the gum ; p. 2, p. 3, and p. 4, together with m. 3, are more or less incomplete and concealed in their closed alveoli. The premolars must displace deciduous molars in order to rise into place ; the molars have no such relations; it will be observed, that the last deciduous molar, d. 4, has the same relative superiority of size to d. 3 and d. 2 which m. 3 bears to m. 2 and m. 1 ; and the crowns of p. 3 and p. 4 are of a more simple form than those of the milk- teeth which they are destined to succeed. Teeth of each of the kinds above deter- Fig. 578. Dentition of the Hog (Sus). jaws, and indicated individually by their mined, and arbitrarily named " incisors," " ca- symbols. Fig. 579. illustrates the phenomena nines," " premolars,"' " molars," have received of development which distinguish the pre- other special names in regard to certain pe- Deciduous and permanent teeth (Sus). Lower jaw. molars from the molars. The first premolar, p. 1, and the first molar, m. 1, are in place and use, together with the three deciduous molars, d. 2, d. 3, and d. 4 ; the second * History of British Fossil Mammalia, p. 410, fig. 164. t Jobert, Annales des Sciences, t. xvii. p. 139. % Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, May, 1848, p. 103, pi. viii. § Geological Transactions, 2nd series, vol. vi. p. 203. culiarities of form or other property; and the ablest comparative anatomists have been led astray in determining their homologies when they have suffered themselves to be guided exclusively by morphological characters. The premolars in the human subject have been called " bicuspids." The last upper pre- molar and the first lower true molar in the Carnivora are termed, from their peculiar form, " sectorials," or " carnassial teeth," " molaires carnassieres " of Cuvier, Teeth