SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 837 distinct cortical and medullary substance. But only part of the morphological consti- tuents were present ; viz., the elementary granules, fat, and nuclear structures. Cells, with or without a membrane, were only sparingly found ; and gland-vesicles were altogether absent. The embryos of other Mammalia exhibited the same results. In the foetus of an ox of 1 ± feet in length, the vesicles were for the first time detected; and in this instance, as in those of the mature animals previously described, the gland-vesicles were, according to Ecker's opinion, developed from enlarged cells. In any case it is exceedingly interesting to observe, that in spite of the very early found- ation of the supra-renal capsule, this organ seems to rest for a considerable time ; since, before their gland-vesicles are developed, we cannot ascribe any activity to the supra-renal capsules. But in man, these vesicles are only developed when the period at which the supra-renal capsules attain their greatest bulk is long passed. IV. Physiology. — Finally we apply our- selves to the functional relations of the supra- renal capsules. Unfortunately, as regards the activity of the glands of blood-vessels, they all veil themselves in an impenetrable ob- scurity. The recent vast strides of Physiology have passed over them without leaving any traces ; the last ten years having only brought some new hypotheses concerning the function of these organs, and very doubtfully enriched the already great number of older conjectures. It is not the aim of this essay either to answer or to enumerate all that physicians of earlier and later times have imagined as the possible function of the supra-renal capsules. These conjectures, for the most part ephemeral, may be properly left to the history of ana- tomico-physiological science ; and since we willingly disclaim the intention to come for- ward with a new hypothesis, we will only call attention to some points of this mass of matter. Now that the minute structure of the supra- renal capsules is known, it becomes even more important to dissent from the opinion of Cuvier. He attributed to the supra-renal capsules pretty much the same function as the kidneys," because these two organs have much similarity with each other, both in their form, and in the tissues of which they are com- posed." At present we know how great is the diversity between the tissues of the two organs. Besides, the want of an excretory duct is another fact completely passed over by Cuvier. The opinion of Meckel, that the supra-renal capsules stand in dependance with the sexual functions, rests on just as little foundation, and has been already confuted at length by Nagel in his work. So also the conjecture of Bergmann*and others —accord- ing to which the supra-renal capsules stand in a very close relation to the nervous system * Bergmann, Dissertatio de glandulis supra- renalibus, Gottingse, 1839. of the foetus — is equally erroneous. We will willingly admit the correctness of the observ- ation, that in brainless monsters the supra- renal capsules are generally deficient ; but we are forced to add, that we cannot annex any distinct notions to this close relation to the nervous system. Besides, this would suppose that the function of the supra-renal capsule differed in the foetus and in the adult animal; since certainly no one would seriously defend such a relation of their function in the latter case. And the support which this view seems to receive from the structure of the supra-renal capsules, is likewise only a fallacious one. At one time, attention was drawn to the great richness of the supra-renal capsules in nerves, without reflecting that this is the case in only one out of the four classes of vertebrate ani- mals : and in the same way, the superficial like- ness possessed by the gland-cells and ganglion corpuscles was adduced in order to make out the supra-renal capsule as a kind of ganglion. This hypothesis was put aside by the dis- covery of the gland-vesicles. And especially we would briefly remark, that all those theories which ascribe to the supra-renal capsules a special import during embryonal life, have ori- ginated from contemplating them in the human foetus, in whom they are exceedingly large. Had the supra-renal capsules of other animals been kept in view, those opinions could scarcely have been taken up ; and the special size of these organs in the human embryo would have been recognised for that which it really is, an anomalous, isolated condition, which pos- sibly stands in a causal relation with the swift disappearance of the Wolffian bodies. And, as we have already remarked, even apart from this, the absence of the gland-vesicles from the supra-renal capsules of the small embryo is a fact which must not pass un- noticed. ' We will, therefore, only attempt to answer such physiological questions concerning the supra-renal capsules which are possibly sus- ceptible of solution, and defer their full under- standing to the future. We will see whether the supra-renal cap- sules in general can be called .glands, and how far they correspond with the other glands of blood-vessels, with the thyroid, thymus, and spleen. And then we may answer the ques- tion, " whether the supra-renal capsules ge- nerally eliminate a glandular secretion, and whether this secretion is to be regarded as similar or diverse in the whole of the vascular glands ?" Microscopic anatomy has taught us to re- cognise three kinds of form under which glands are developed in the higher animals. The first is a fine tube or canal of different length ; the second is a small globular or elongated sac, which is open at one end; and the third form is that of a globular and com- pletely closed vesicle. A very delicate struc- tureless membrane, the membrana propria, forms the frame-work of all these glands ; and it is distinguished by its insolubility in dilute alkalies. On its exterior, it is surrounded by 3 h 3