SPLEEN. 780 and are then effused in the shape of long and small streaks in the surrounding tissues. If the commencements of such a streak were not observed, it might easily be regarded, from its always taking a radiating course from the Malpighian corpuscle to which it is united, as a canal communicating with the same, especi- ally when a longer pressure applied to the corpuscles has elongated these stripes by con- tinually forcing out the contents. The pro- cesses which Ecker has described on the Malpighian corpuscles, and which are not bloodvessels, probably belong to the same category as the artificial products mentioned above ; or, if this is not the case.it is possible that they are small trunks of nerves, which are frequently present in the neighbourhood of Malpighian corpuscles, and which, from reasons that will be hereafter mentioned, are exceedingly difficult to recognise as being what they really are. I therefore maintain, quite plainly and definitely, that the Malpighian corpuscles are closed capsules, and stand in no connection at all with the lymphatics. If this be so — and the structure of the Malpighian corpuscles, which altogether differs from that of vessels, corroborates the fact — it is next demanded may not the Malpi- ghian corpuscles be glands? If by "glands" be meant the word in its ordinary sense, I answer with a decided "no ;" for these alto- gether differ from the known simple shut glandular sacs of the ovary, thyroid, thymus, and supra-renal capsules, and possess neither a structureless membrana propria (limitary membrane, or basement membrane) nor an epithelium. On the contrary, in my opinion, they correspond with the spaces filled with cells in the lymphatic glands, and with the sacs of the glandulse solitariae and agminatae of the intestine. Here and there hollow spaces exist, which possess a covering of white fibrous tissue, are completely inclosed, and contain in their interior no trace of epithelium, but only a coherent mass of nuclei and cells, together with some fluid; we might call these " vesicular glands" recol- lecting at the same time that they possess the function of the real shut glandular vesicles, although their anatomy essentially differs. Although the discussion of the former ques- tion does not belong to this part, yet I will add, that, in reality, there is much to indicate that the structures in question constitute a kind of shut glandular vesicle ; and that, con- sequently, there is nothing to prevent their being regarded as glandular vesicles. 5. The red spleen substance, the spleen-pulp, the parenchyma of the spleen {substantia ru'ra, pidposa, parenchyma lienis), is a soft reddish mass, which fills up all the interstices between the larger partitions and the stronger vessels, and on section of the organ is easily- scraped off or squeezed out. It consists essentially of three constituents ; which are, fine bloodvessels, parenchyma cells of the spleen, and small partitions or fibres. To these constituents is so frequently added, both in man and animals, extravasated or coagulated blood in various metamorphoses, that one is almost forced to designate it a normal constituent. According to the pre- dominance or diminution of the latter in- gredient, or according to the greater or lesser distention of the bloodvessels themselves, the spleen-pulp appears sometimes altogether of the colour of the blood, at others of a clearish red, with a greater or lesser tendency towards whiteness. The following remarks apply to the mi- croscopic appearances of the constituents of the pulp, the vessels only excepted, which will be described hereafter. The fibres of the pulp are of two kinds. The one kind, which may be named " small or microscopic partitions " (" microscopische balkchen "), are quite analogous to those larger partitions (" bal/cen") which are visible to the naked eye ; they are also of the same structure, except that in the lower animals they often contain more muscular fibres than the latter. Their diameter is variable, from 5 to 10-1000ths of a line; their frequency and quantity also vary in different situations, and amongst different creatures. In the human subject I find them to be fewer and broader than amongst other mammalia, and exactly like the larger partitions in structure; while in the ox, sheep, &c, they occur frequently, are more delicate, and are remarkable by their purely muscular structure. The other fibres of the pulp are evidently processes from the sheaths of the larger vessels ; they greatly predomi- nate in quantity, and appear chiefly in the form of delicate membranes of an indistinctly fibrous structure, and without any mixture of elastic fibres, which seem to connect the capillaries to each other. Whether they take the form of small partitions — in which case they could not be distinguished from the small trabeexdee — is at present undecided. In animals, these membranes are also present on the veins ; but of this more will be said hereafter, in speaking of the vessels. The cells of the spleen-pulp, which I shall call " parenchyma-cells of the spleen," have been described by J. Muller as similar to those of the Malpighian corpuscles ; and, as was previously stated, this view has been followed by the majority of writers; as by Henle, Bischoff Huschke, Remak, and others. Only Von Hessling and Gei'lach are of another opinion. According to the former, the globules of the spleen-tissue are distin- guished by their dark colour, and by their being mingled with spindle-shaped cells. Ger- lach finds that cells with nuclei are rare in the spleen-pulp ; while, on the contrary, he considers them to be frequent in the Mal- pighian corpuscles. As to myself, I have already expressed my concurrence with the view taken by Muller, and may therefore for- bear to enter further upon this point; never- theless, it is necessary to remark that the parenchyma-cells exhibit some additional peculiarities, which ought not to be passed over without notice. A considerable por- tion of these cells completely correspond