75? SPINAL NERVES. 3 c 3 deeply seated branch of the median, coming off at an acute angle from the trunk, between the origin of the deep-seated muscular brandies. It runs vertically downwards in cpmpany with, but to the radial side of, the corresponding artery, in front of the interosseous membrane between the flexor digitorum profundus and flexor longus pollicis, giving on either side small filaments to them. Having reached the upper edge of the pronator quadratus, it passes behind that muscle, and terminates either by sending numerous filaments into its posterior surface, or, after having supplied it, perforates the lower aperture of the interos- seous membrane, and reaches the back of the carpus. The palmar cutaneous branch is given off at the lower fourth of the fore-arm, passes for- wards from beneath the tendons of the flexor sublimis, and behind the fascia, which it per- forates a little above the wrist, and divides into an external filament, which, having com- municated with the radial, terminates in the skin of the vola major, and an internal de- scending over the annular ligament to be lost in the skin of the upper part of the palm. The terminal digital branches of the median are derived from two primary branches, into which the flattened and expanded nerve di- vides, after having passed from beneath the annular ligament. These are external and internal, the former supplying the muscles of the thumb, and sending off three digital branches for the thumb and radial side of the index finger, and rather smaller than the latter, which gives off two digital branches for the opposed sides of the index and middle, and the middle and ring finger. The muscular branch passes in a slightly curved manner out- wards and upwards, and terminates in fila- ments for the supply of the abductor, opponens and flexor brevis pollicis. The first digital nerve is directed obliquely downwards and outwards in front of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, and near the head of the metacarpal bone, crosses it to its outer side, and continues its course to the extremity of the outer side of the anterior aspect of the first phalanx, where it terminates in dorsal and palmar branches. The dorsal branch winds on to the back of the last pha- lanx, communicates with the radial, and sup- plies the skin at the root of the nail ; the palmar continues in the original course of the nerve to the skin at the extremity of the thumb. The second digital nerve, not so oblique in its direction as the first, crosses over the adductor pollicis, gives a filament to it, and is conducted along the inner side of the flexor longus pollicis tendon to the ulnar side of the thumb, sending in its course some fila- ments backwards to communicate with the dorsal branches of the radial, and terminating in a similar manner to the preceding branch. The third digital nerve is directed in front, and to the outside of the first lumbrical muscle, gives a filament to it, and reaches to about the middle of the outer side of the proximal phalanx of the index finger, where it divides into dorsal and palmar branches. The dorsal branch passes on to the back of the phalanx, communicates with one of the dorsal cutaneous nerves, to form a nerve which ends in the integuments of the back part of the last phalanx : the palmar branch passes in the original direction of the nerve, and terminates on the outer side of the distal pha- lanx by again dividing into palmar and dorsal branches, having a similar distribution to the two first nerves. The fourth digital nerve passes in front of the second interosseous space, gives a filament to the second lumbrical muscle, and about the middle of this space divides into two branches, which are directed along the op- posed sides of the middle and index fingers. The fifth passes downwards and slightly in- wards in front of the third metacarpal space, gives a filament to the third lumbricus, com- municates by a delicate filament with the ulnar, and at the middle of this space ter- minates in two branches for the opposed sides of the middle and ring finger. The termina- tion of the divisions of the fourth and filth digital nerves, and the branches given oft'from them, are exactly similar in distribution to the third digital nerve, giving off, like it, on the proximal and distal phalanx, a dorsal branch. Each of the digital nerves, although running along the sides of the fingers, and giving off in their course numerous cutaneous filaments, which are directed towards the axes of the fingers, are not observed to anastomose with each other. The median nerve in the palm of the hand is situated on a plane anterior to all the flexor tendons, and the trunk before dividing is situated half an inch or more above the level of the superficial palmar arch of arteries which crosses in front of its three internal branches. The accompanying digital arteries are placed somewhat behind, and further from the longitudinal axes of the fingers than the nerves, which, however, in their course send numerous small filaments which wind around them. The ulnar nerve, somewhat smaller than the median, arises from a trunk common to it, the internal cutaneous and the inner head of the median. The first dorsal and last cer- vical are consequently principally engaged in forming it. Almost immediately alter its origin it is directed slightly inwards and out- wards from the median, and behind the in- ternal cutaneous, and at the lower part of the axilla appears deeply seated at the inner aspect of the arm, being directed in front of the triceps extensor muscle. Below the level of the coraco-brachialis it perforates the in- ternal intermuscular septum, and becomes surrounded by several fasciculi, derived from the inner head of the triceps, and passes be- hind the intermuscular septum to gain the space between the internal condyle and ole- cranon, being here situated between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris. It now in- clines downwa-ds and slightly outwards along