VOICE. 1503 In Bombinator igneas, Hyla verrucosa, and others, the arytenoid cartilages are regular obtuse-angled, and nearly equilateral triangles. In B. cinereus they are more acute-angled, and directed backwards. The vocal cords in bufo are very thin elastic membranes, such as might be expected to produce the croaking deep tones of these batrachia. In Pipa the larynx is a very peculiar piece of mechanism ; the arytenoid cartilages being convex externally and concave internally, so that when the entrance to the larynx is closed they form a dome over the windpipe, which Cuvier has compared to a kettle-drum. In Rana temporaria, R.esculenta, and Hyla, the males are provided with two sacs, which open by a straight canal into the larynx. These sacs are situated on each side of the lower jaw, and are capable of considerable distension, when filled with air during the cry of the animal. Cuvier, Roesel, and Blumenbacb, describe only one sac in Hyla ; but Meckel, as well as Henle and myself, found two sacs, as in the other frogs. These sacs doubt- less exert a powerful influence on the quality of the sounds which frogs utter, analogous to the influence of similar sacs which exist in many of the higher animals. Fig. 920. Rana temporaria. a, tongue; b, os hyoides ; c, superior vocal cords; d, inferior vocal cords; e, pharynx; f, right bronchus. The muscles acting on the larynx in Batra- chia are the dilator aditus laryngis and the constrictor aditus. Besides these, there is found in the tailless Batrachia a third muscle, the compressor glottidis, which in Brito arises from the columella*, and is inserted into the posterior point of the arytenoid cartilage. Its use is to compress the larynx, to bend the posterior angle of the arytenoid outwards, and to expand the vocal ligament. It is the most important muscle connected with the voice in the tailless Batrachia. Its course varies in different species, and is absent altogether in Pipa. * One of the inferior processes of the os hyoides. In Proteus anguinus the most simple form of cartilaginous larynx is found, consisting of lateral cartilaginous strips, divided in two on each side ; the superior portion answering to the arytenoid cartilage of the higher orders of animals, the inferior to the laryngo-trachealis cartilages. In the Triton, and Salamander, the larynx consists of a membranous sac, which is kept open by the lateral cartilages of the vocal tube. Hence we learn that the arytenoid cartilages do not wholly disappear, until the larynx be- comes entirely membranous. Insecta. — A large number of insects are mute; some produce their sounds merely by friction, and others by the passage of the air through the thoracic spiracles. The sounds produced by friction are denominated stridu- lation ; those by the air from the tracheae, buzzing, or humming (bourdonnement), &c. Organs adapted to produce stridulation are found in the Orthoptera, Omoptera, and some of the Colcoptera. Grylli.—In the Gryllus campestris (fig. 921) the elytrum is composed of dry, thin, trans- lucent membranes, forming two planes, united and strengthened at their junction by four longitudinal and parallel nervures ; one of these planes lies on the back, and the other on the side of the insect. The former of these planes is divided by a series of regularly curved nervures, into a number of areoles. The musical apparatus may be divided into two systems, the first com- posed of four oblique nervures, which ter- minate in a strong nervure, serrated like a file (a) ; this may be considered as the bow. The second is formed of three nervures, which take their origin in a remarkable point in the internal border of the elytrum, furnished with a tuft of short stiff hairs, or brush (6); above this point is found a firm, transparent, and nearly triangular disc or sounding plate *, surrounded by a nervure. When the insect cries, the wings are crossed, and the bow rubbed rapidly across the whole length of the Fig. 921. 1. 2. Elytra of Gryllus campestris. disc or sounding plate, whereby the whole of both elytra are put in a state of vibration, and the stridulous sounds peculiar to these grylli result. The pitch of the sound of the house cricket is very acute, being equivalent to about 409G vibrations in a second. Cicada;, Cigales. — The Cicadae have their musical instruments inclosed in the interior of the abdomen. Reaumur gives a detailed description, illustrated by drawings, by which they may readily be recognised. These in- struments, he says, are contained in the abdo- * Termed by M. Goureau the "chanterelle."