759 SPINAL NERVES. 3 c 4 spiral in the arm are numerous, and may be arranged into f Internal cutaneous. Branch Internal ■} for the internal head of the t triceps. f Branches for the long head of Posterior-! the triceps. Outer head and I anconanus. External i Cutaneous filaments to the \ arm. External cutaneous. The internal cutaneous is the first branch of the musculo-spiral, and continues for some distance deeply seated to the fascia, which it perforates above the middle of the arm, and descends as one or two filaments along the inner and back part of the arm to the elbow, where they communicate with the posterior filaments of the accessory internal cutaneous. The branch for the internal head of the tri- ceps is the next that is given oft'. It is a delicate, long nerve, which is directed along the surface of the inner portion of the triceps, running behind the ulnar nerve to within three or four inches of the elbow-joint, when it enters the substance of the muscle. The brandies fur the long head of the triceps are numerous, and enter its anterior surface. The superior branch is reflected upwards, and can be traced as far as the axillary origin of the muscle. The inferior or descending branch is the longest, and courses downwards to near the olecranon before entering it. The branch for the outer head of flic triceps and anconeus, given off externally to the branches for the long head, is a long slender nerve. It passes down between the outer and middle head to the outside of the olecranon, sup- plying the outer head in its course, and ter- minating in the anconaeus by entering at its anterior surface. The external cutaneous branch is given off below the middle of the arm, as the musculo- spiral is commencing its anterior and outer course. It passes along the outer and back of the arm, and divides into two or three delicate descending filaments which supply the skin, and terminate on the back of the carpus be- tween the posterior branches of the external cutaneous, radial, and dorsalis carpi ulnar is with which they communicate. The musculo-spiral nerve, before giving off its terminal branches, sends filaments to the muscles between which it passes, viz. the bra- chials anticus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior. The anterior terminal branch (radial nerve) is the apparent continuation of the musculo- spiral nerve, though smaller than the posterior terminal branch. It passes between the supi- nator longus and brevis, lying on the latter, and ovcr-iapped by the former, and gradually approaches, in its descent of the fore-arm, the radial artery ; so that at the middle it is in close contact with, but external to, the vessel. Having arrived at the lower third of the fore- arm, or a little above, it twists round the deep surface of the tendon of the supinator longus, and appears beneath the fascia on the outer part of the fore-arm, and alter a short sub- aponeurotic course, perforates the fascia, and divides about a couple of inches above the sty- loid process into an external large, and internal terminal-branch. The external branch passes along the outer aspect of the styloid process ; and at the proximal part of the wrist sends a communicating loop inwards, to be connected with the cutaneous palmar branch of the me- dian. It then descends on the dorsum of the thumb, and supplies its external border. The internal branch crosses obliquely the extensor ossis metacarpi and primi internodii pollicis, and divides into a series of branches which supply the ulnar side of the thumb : both sides of the index finger, and the radial side of the middle. These different branches furnish, in their course along the carpus, several cutaneous filaments, and some small twigs which com- municate with the perforating interosseous of the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. The most internal division communicates with the dorsalis carpi ulnaris. The two terminal branches of the radial are subject to much variation : the external being sometimes larger than the internal, and supplying either both sides of the thumb, or both sides of the thumb and the radial side of the index finger. The internal branch occasionally unites with the outer division of the dorsalis carpi ulnaris, and supplies the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers. The deep terminal branch (the posterior interosseous or muscular) is larger than the anterior, passes downwards and backwards along the inner aspect of the exterior carpi radialis brevis, gives filaments to it, ami reaches the surface of the supinator brevis. supplies it, as it passes obliquely downwards, backwards, and inwards through its substance, to emerge at its lower and posterior portion. It here divides into a posterior and anterior scries: the former supplying the extensor carpi ulnaris, the communis digitorum, and minimi digiti, entering at their anterior aspect the latter the deep-seated muscles. One of the latter has a somewhat remarkable course ; is longer and larger than the rest; and passes along the posterior surface of the extensor ossis metacarpi and primi internodii; and at the lower part of the fore-arm becomes placed between the interosseous ligament and the extensor secundi internodii, and indicator, sup- plies these muscles with one or two twigs, and is conducted in front of the posterior annular ligament to the back of the carpus, where it assumes a gangliform enlargement, from which numerous filaments radiate for the supply of the ligaments and carpal articulations. The circumflex nerve (axillary) is the most posterior of the terminal branches of the bra- chial plexus, and is occasionally given oft'from the musculo-spiral, usually, however, taking its origin from a trunk common to it, and to that nerve, external to wh'ch it is situated. After a short course in the axilla, it soon kaves that space by passing downwards and outwards over the upper part of the axillary border of the subscapulars to enter the quadri- lateral space above the teres major, below the