THORAX. 1081 against the period of gestation, when the ab- domen cannot allow of so free a descent of the diaphragm. Fig. 713. Respiratory 3/ovements. Male. Front view. Inspiration, broken line. Ordinary, continuous line. Expiration, dotted line. The lateral movement of ordinary breathing is too limited to be represented by a line of varying thickness : the position is given by the continuous line, Jigs. 713. and 714. Fig. 714. enlargement of the thoracic cavity in both sexes is made by the ribs, and not by the diaphragm, as is generally believed. It appears very questionable whether the dia- phragm is any thing more than flattened and that without descending. Of the position of the diaphragm. — It is clear that all that space between the line of ordinary breathing and deep inspiration (Jig. 711.), below the ensiform cartilage, where the two lines cut each other, may be considered as just so much space deducted from the abdominal cavity ; and therefore the abdominal cavity, by deep breathing, is just so much less than it was in the posi- tion of ordinary breathing. Now, if the dia- phragm descends at this moment, whilst the abdominal parietes are being constringed on all sides, what becomes of the abdominal vis- cera ? We know that in ordinary breathing the abdomen advances because the diaphragm descends, and recedes because the diaphragm ascends. We may suppose the same accom- modating movement between the diaphragm and abdominal parietes, to take place in deep breathing. There can be no doubt that the cir- cumference of the thorax is increased, as shown inD. fig. C70., and that the diaphragm must extend its borders, and consequently the arch must be flattened ; but this may be without descending. We see (Jig. 670.) that the sec- tion of the thorax to the area of the diaphragm is as 40 to 133 — the concavity of the dia- phragm is enough to admit of its circumfe- rence expanding without its descending. Fig. 715- is a diagram of sections of the base of the living chest in three stages, b is the chest inordinary: a, as in extreme expiration ; c, as in extreme inspiration. In this case the vital ca- pacity was 305 cubic inches, and the mobility of the chest was 5 inches, a range by no means common. The area of the chest varied 27 superficial inches between extreme inspiration and expiration.* In the sitting posture the same relations Fig. 715. Uesjiiratory Movements. Female. Front view. Inspiration, broken line. Ordinary, continuous line. Expiration, dotted line. (b) Deep inspiratory.— In Jig. 711. the dotted line shows this position, as when a man is just ready to displace his vital ca- pacity-volume. The sternum is protruded and the abdomen is drawn in. This is the same in the female (fig. 712.), the dotted line is most advanced over the sternum, while over the abdomen it is drawn inwards. So much is the abdomen drawn in« wards by deep inspiration, that the portion of the continuous line (figs. 711, and 712.), representing the ordinary breathing is (over the abdominal region) external to the dotted line of deep inspiration. Therefore the greatest Ordinary Expiration Inspiration dies. 74 inche 101 inches. Sections of the base of thorax in the three stages of respiration, in the living subject. * This is the chest of Jig. 711.