TUNICATA. 1218 to the mother by the former, and which at first has a circulation in common with the older animal, but soon enjoys an independent existence. The individuals either remain at- tached by the intermediate root-like prolonga- tions, or become separate by the disunion of these slender filaments. In one species of ClavelUna, the bud-like bodies and young animals are produced not only on the root-like stolons, but also on the walls of the test itself (fig. 768. u, u'). In Perophora the growth of the buds is con- fined to the extremity of the creeping, root- like tube, and the attachment of the indi- viduals by the common root-stem is perma- nent through life, and not merely existent during the young state. Anatomy of the BoTRYLt.iDiE.— A de- scription of the form and structure of the test of these compound Ascidians has been already given. The in- and out-lets of the aggregated individuals, as we have already seen, have either separate external openings, or the several vents of a " system " of animals unite to form one large common cloaca and external anal orifice. All these external orifices are more or less irritable and contractile. When the little animals dilate their branchial orifice, a part of their body is raised so as to slightly emboss the general surface of the mass, and they pro- trude a membranous circlet or ring, the free border of which is cut into, generally six, regu- lar lobes, but sometimes into eight. In Poly- clinum, the mouth is very contractile, and is surrounded by six little digitiform processes. Parascidia has eight of these tentaculiform bodies. Frequently, after death, as in Lepto- clinum, these orifices contract, and their bor- ders sink in so as to be discerned with diffi- culty. In the interior of this orifice, and towards the base of the collar, a series of minute tentacular filaments can be perceived by the aid of a lens, which are directed, like the spokes of a wheel, towards the centre of the opening, or have a more or less curled ap- pearance, in a similar manner to the tentacles occupying the same position in the simple Ascidians and in the Clavellinidce. The ten- tacles vary from four to twelve or more, but nine or ten is their usual number; they differ materially in length, some being nearly ru- dimentary, whilst others, alternating with the first, are long enough to meet across the open- ing. In Amaroucium Nordmanni there are six long and six short tentacles within the bran- chial tube. In Botryllus smaragdus, in which the buccal orifice admits of considerable dila- tation, a circlet of four longish filiform ten- tacles may be seen. The tentacles in B. aureus are more numerous than usual, but both in this species and in B. violacens they are almost rudimentary. Diazona has fifteen or sixteen simple tentacles, and in Sigillina there are twelve. Around the base of the denticulated rim of the branchial orifice in Amaroucium argus (Jig. 782.) there are seen four minute pinkish spots, which are probably rudimentary organs of sight. Similar, but more numerous, pigment- spots are observed in Leptoclinum Listeri, Pa- rascidia, and other genera. Fig. 782. Anatomy of Amaroucium argus. (After Milne- Edwards.) An isolated individual considerably magnified. A, thorax; b, superior abdomen; c, post-abdomen ; a, proper tunic of the individual; b, thoracic tunic; V, longitudinal muscular fibres of the inner tunic; c. branchial orifice; d, branchial collar, below which are seen the oculiform points; e, branchial sac; /, thoracic sinus; /', transverse vessels of the bran- chial sac; cloaca; i, anal orifice; i', and appendage or languet; j, nerve-ganglion; k, oesophagus; I, stomach; m, intestine; n, anus, opening into the cloaca; o, heart; o', pericardium ; p, ovary; p', p", ova, passing towards the cloaca; q, testicle; r, r>, vas deferens, and its opening in the cloaca. The separate anal orifices are frequently destitute of the crenulated or denticulated margin that surrounds the branchial tube. This condition has afforded a distinguishing character for some of the minor groups in Milne Edwards' classification of the Bo- tryUidcE. In Polyclinum, Amaroucium, Bo- tryUus, and other genera, the anus, instead of opening directly outwards, empties itself into a common cloacal cavity, that belongs to a number of individuals, and is in the form of a large canal hollowed out of the common tegumentary mass. This is frequently rami- fied interiorly, as in Botrylloides, and termi- nates at the opposite extremity by a simple