I486 VOICE. exercised at this time of life, and in support of his views he cited the cases of Donzelli and Donizetti, of whom the latter lost his voice by singing, whilst the former retained it by abstaining from singing at that period. There are, however, many examples of per- sons possessing fine voices, who never paid the least attention to this rule. The oral, nasal, and pharyngeal cavities exercise an important influence on the quality of sounds after their production by the larynx. Further effects are ascribed by Bennati to the arches of the palate, the uvula, and velum, all of which appear to contract with the acute, and relax with the grave tones, and are in constant motion during the modulation of the voice. The contraction of these parts during the production of acute sounds has also been observed by Fabricius ab Aquapendente, Meyer, Gercly, and Dzondi. Bennati con- ceived, as has been already mentioned, that the falsetto notes, which be calls notes " sur- laryngiennes," are produced exclusively in the superior part of the vocal tube ; but it has been shown that this hypothesis is contrary to acoustic principles, and that the same motions of the palate are also equally observable during the production of acute tones of the ordinary register. MLiller also states that the arches of the palate may be touched by the finger with- out altering the pitch, which could not be the case on the hypothesis of Bennati. It is to be remarked that neither Miiller nor Bennati mentions the opening of the crico-thyroid chink on sounding the first note in the falsetto re- gister ; neither do they mention the simul- taneous falling of the larynx, and they deny the existence of a third register. According to the hypothesis of Lehfeldt and Miiller, any increased intensity of vocal sound ought to raise the pitch of the voice; but if this were the case, the performance of prolonged vocal sounds on the same note, but of variable in- tensity, would be rendered impossible without a simultaneous adjustment between the tension of the vocal ligaments and the current of air ; whereas, by examining the state of the crico- thyroid chink during the utterance of these sounds, it is found that no such adjustment takes place. The exquisite quality of the sounds of the larynx, when modified by the oral and nasal cavities, renders the human voice far superior to any artificial musical in- strument ; since its tones glide through all the en-harmonic intervals between successive notes, an effect which no such instrument can perfectly imitate. Dodart estimates the num- ber of tones which can be produced by the voice and appreciated by the ear in the com- pass of an octave, at three hundred : a striking proof of the complete control exercised by the laryngeal nerves over the vocal apparatus. The action of the vocal organs in producing speech is a distinct branch of the physiology of voice, which the author has elsewhere in- vestigated.* It is well known that the vowel sounds have been imitated by Kratzenstein, * Vide " On Articulate Sounds, and on the Causes and Cure of Impediments of Speech. London. 1851." De Kempelen, and Willis, by means of me- chanism, and that the principles on which they depend have been successfully analysed by the latter : but this is a subject which would require a very lengthened examination to render it the justice which its importance demands. Having now completed the investigation of the physiological character of the human organs of voice, and having for the sake of simplicity considered them in three distinct lights, namely, as membranous ligaments obey- ing the laws of musical strings, as a reeded instrument, and as a membranous pipe with a column of air vibrating within it, the results of the various experiments which have been noticed would certainly seem to warrant the conclusion that each of these views is cor- rect ; for it cannot be denied that these ex- periments clearly show the vocal apparatus to be influenced by the air expelled from the chest in precisely the same way as if it were a stretched cord, a reed, or a vibrating tube. Why then should we hesitate to adopt the obvious conclusion that the vocal organs do in fact combine the properties of these various instruments, and are themselves the perfect types of which these instruments are only im- perfect imitations ? The error of those who have preceded the author in this inquiry seems to consist in viewing the organs of voice, not as a complex, but as a simple ap- paratus ; with some the favourite hypothesis has accordingly been that of musical strings, with others that of a reed, while experiments are equally in favour of both. It cannot be expected that in this brief treatise, a subject, wherein, notwithstanding the attention hitherto bestowed on it for many years by men of the highest philosophical talent, so little comparatively has been effected, should be at once exhausted, and all its diffi- culties removed ; but the inductive method, the only satisfactory mode of reasoning on such subjects, has been most scrupulously pursued; and whatever explanations have been offered of the phenomena of the voice are at least founded on facts which are inconcro- vertibly established. Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the Organs of Voice. — Having given an outline of the structure and functions of the vocal organs in man, and stated our views of the principles on which the produc- tion of voice depends, we shall now proceed to the investigation of the physiology of voice in the lower animals. Mammalia.—-In the various orders of mam- malia the organs of voice present different grades of development and complexity of structure, producing in each case some pecu- liarity of timbre, or quality of tone, by which we are enabled to distinguish them from one another. Some species are mute, such as the giraffe, armadillo, and others, whilst some possess voices of greater or less intensity. The organs of voice in the lower mammalia, as well as in man, are composed of lungs, which, considered in an acoustic point of view, act