703 SMELL. the information which he derived from it: — " There were some people whom he never permitted to approach him, whilst others at once excited his interest and attention. The opinions which he formed of individuals, and the means he employed to study their charac- ter, were extremely interesting. In doing this, he appeared to be chiefly influenced by the impressions communicated to him by his sense of smell. When a stranger approached him, he eagerly began to touch some part of his body, commonly taking hold of the arm, which he held near his nose, and after two or three strong inspirations through the nostrils, lie appeared to form a decided opinion regard- ing him. If this was favourable, he showed a disposition to become more intimate, ex- amined more minutely his dress, and ex- pressed by his countenance more or less satis- faction ; but if it happened to be unfavourable, he suddenly went off to a distance with ex- pressions of carelessness or disgust. "When he was first brought to my house to have his eyes examined, he both touched and smelled several parts of my body; and the following day, whenever he found me near him, he grasped my arm, then smelled it, and imme- diately recognised me, which he signified to his father by touching his eyelids with the fingers of both hands, and imitating the ex- amination of his eyes which I had formerly made." We learn from the same account, that in selecting his food, he was always guided by his sense of smell, for he never took anything into his mouth without previously smelling it carefully. He always recognised his own clothes by their smell, and refused to wear those which belonged to others. Sometimes the peculiar acuteness of this sense is restricted to a particular odour or class of odours, these usually proceeding from objects for which there is either a special fondness or a particular aversion. Thus, a gentleman blind from birth, who had an unac- countable antipathy to cats, so that he could never endure the presence of one in his apart- ment, one day, when in company, suddenly leaped up and exclaimed that a cat was in the room, begging his friends to remove it. It was in vain that, after careful inspection, they as- sured him that he was under an illusion. He persisted in his assertion, and his agitation con- tinued ; and on the door of a small closet being opened, it was found that a cat had been accidentally shut up in it. With such unequivocal proofs of the acute- ness of the sense of smell which may exist in the human subject, the statements made re- specting the extraordinary exaltation of the faculty in various forms of somnambulism be- come less incredible; and the author is fully satisfied, from his own observations upon in- dividuals hypnotised by Mr. Braid (see Sleep), that this exaltation may certainly take place in regard to the sense of smell. In one in- stance, a glove being placed in the hand of the hypnotised subject, he found out the owner of it without difficulty, from amongst more than sixty persons, scenting at each of them, one after another, until he came to the right individual. And in another case, the owner of a ring was in like manner unhesi- tatingly found out from amongst a company of twelve. The information conveyed by the sense of smell is restricted to the quality and intensity of the odour, and to some general notion of its direction. This last, indeed, is rather de- rived from a comparison of its relative inten- sity when the face is turned towards different sides, than from any more direct information as to locality furnished by the organ itself. The absence of any consciousness of the part of the olfactory surface specially affected by the impression,—so that, unless the experiment be made, we know not that we are constantly exerting the sense on both sides, the double sensation being perceived as a single one, — is attributed by Messrs. Todd and Bowman*, with much probability, to the peculiar plexiform arrangement of the fibres of the olfactive nerve, and to the want of the isolation usually effected between the fibres by the white sub- stance of Schwann. Various classifications of odours, founded upon the impressions which they make upon the sense of smell, have been proposed ; but they are all liable to the objection, that there seems to be more of individual diversity in regard to the character of olfactory impres- sions, than with respect to those of any other kind. Many odours, by some persons thought intolerable, are very agreeable to others ; thus, assafbetiila is known amongst some by the name of " devil's dung," whilst by others it is spoken of as " food for the gods." It was commonly employed by the ancients as a con- diment; but the individuals who thus relish it in our own country certainly constitute the exceptions to the mass. So, again, thefumet of game, so highly valued by the epicure, is disagreeable to most persons who have not been trained to appreciate it. On the other hand, the aroma of certain flowers, which is peculiarly agreeable to most persons, is by no means so, or perhaps the reverse, to others. Thus, Miiller remarks that the smell of mig- nonette is to him only herb-like; whilst the flower of Iris Persiea has been pronounced to be of pleasant odour by fort3 -one out of fifty- four persons, by four to have little scent, by eight to be without all odour, and by one to be ill-scented.f It more frequently happens, in regard to odours and savours, than with respect to other sensory impressions, that habit renders that agreeable, and even strongly relished, which was at first highly repugnant. (W. B. Carpenter.') SOFTENING and INDURATION (Ra- mollissement et Induration, — Endureissement, Fr., die Eriveichung und Hartung, Germ.) are terms used to express a pathological or phy- siological diminution and increase, of the con- sistence of the body or its parts. * Op. cit., p. 12. f Arnold's Physiology, vol ii. p. 561.