744 SOLIPEDA. composing it as they recede from the umbi- licus. The allantoid in the mare does not form a closed bag, as it does in tbe ruminants, but lines about half of the interior of the cavity that exists between the amnion and the cho- rion. To form an idea of this cavity and of the space occupied by the allantoid, it will be necessary first of all to consider the amnion as a sac, in which the foetus is enclosed, and the allantoid and the chorion as forming an- other sac of larger size, by which the former is enveloped in such a manner, that an inter- space is left between the two : this interspace is traversed by the second portion of the umbilical cord as it passes from the former sac towards the latter, and in this course, the cord is enveloped by the allantoid membrane, which subsequently invests all the interior of the second sac formed externally by the chorion. Fig. 520. ■'-3 Anatomy of the gravid uteris of the mare. (After Daubenton.} a, the urachus emerging from the umbilical opening of the foetus, accompanied by the umbilical vein; b, and by two umbilical arte- ries ; c, continuation of the umbilical cord as far as the expansion of the amnion ; d, d, e, termination of the urachus ; f continuation of the umbilical cord; g, g, allantois ; h, the chorion ; i, an hip- pomanes adherent to the' allantoid by its pedicle; h, I, m, two other hippomanes of smaller size. The other letters refer to the genera- tive organs of the foetus (a female) shown in connection with the above parts ; o, the rectum ; p, the anus ; q, the bladder of urine communicating with the urachus; r, r, the ureters; s, canal of the vagina; t, oritice of the urethra; v, first appearance of the mem- brane, which subsequently spreads over the urethral orifice; .r, x, the cornua uteri; y, separation between their internal cavities; z, z, the ovaria. The aperture of the urachus pours forth a glairy fluid of a reddish colour, which is re- ceived into the cavity, the boundaries of whicli are described above : this fluid has a urinous smell, especially when heated, and moreover contains certain solid bodies, which have been from time immemorial dignified with the name of hippomanes, and were by the ancients sup- posed to be possessed of various mysterious qualities, and magical influences. The Hippomanes was considered, until a very recent period, to be a piece of flesh growing upon the forehead of the nascent foal; and it was not until Daubenton presented a memoir upon this subject to the Royal Academy of Sciences in Paris *, that its real nature was understood. The hippomanes were then found to be merely masses, of a thick substance, of variable dimensions, con- tained in the allantoid cavity, which, although they might occasionally during parturition after the laceration of the membranes, become adherent to the head of the foetus, are, in reality, produced between the amnion and the allantoid mem- branes. These bodies are very variable in their size, and frequently several are met with, the dimensions of which vary from the size of a pea to that of a large pear, some of the latter weighing as much as five or six ounces. They are composed of a viscid substance of an olive brown colour, and frequently have irregu- larly shaped cavities in their inte- rior; but they present no traces of s, organization. When cut into they seem to be made up of numerous . superposed layers, and externally their surface is covered with float- ing filaments : sometimes they are found to be attached by long pe- dicles to the walls of the allantoic cavity ; but, whatever their shape, they are evidently merely sedi- mentary deposits from the fluid in which they are immersed, and in- deed may be formed at pleasure by slowly evaporating the contents of the allantoic sac. These struc- tures are indeed by no means pe- culiar to the horse, but are fre- quently met with in other animals. The exterior of the chorion is everywhere in contact with the uterine walls, and in shape repre- sents exactly the interior of the cornua uteri, upon which it is moulded, the placenta occupying the greater portion of its extent. Mammary Glands. — It was ge- nerally believed from the time of Aristotle until a very recent period, that in the male horse there were no nipples or other rudiments of the * Memoires de l'Acade'mie Eoyale des Sciences, anne'es 1751 and 1752.