1317 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 4 p 3 must give way. But, on the other hand, the conviction is now fast spreading among en- lightened thinkers, that the Scriptures are no more intended to teach men Ethnology than to instruct them in Geology or Astronomy; and that the former, like the latter, is a legitimate object of scientific investigation, and should be pursued without fear as to the results. Any attempt, in fact, to fetter the scientific inquirer by the supposed authority of inspira- tion, is certain to damage the latter in the estimation of the most intelligent part of man- kind ; for, as has been well remarked by a very orthodox theologian, Dr. Henry More, " the unskilful insisting of our divines upon the literal sense of Moses has bred many hundred thousands of atheists." But even those who profess to place the most implicit confidence in the declarationsof the Scriptures, as to the common origin of all the races of mankind, do, in effect, get rid of all the force of these declarations, when it suits their pur- pose to do so, by the mode of interpreting them which they adopt. They assert that the Adamic race does not include the barbarous inhabitants of remote regions; and that Ne- groes, Hottentots, Esquimaux, and Austra- lians are not, in fact, men in the full sense of the term, or beings endowed with mental faculties similar to our own. They contend that these and other uncivilised tribes are inferior in their original endowments to the proper human family, which supplied Europe and Asia with inhabitants ; and that, being organically different, they are separated by an " impassable barrier" from the race which dis- plays in the highest degree all the attributes of humanity, and can never be raised to an equality with it. They maintain that the ultimate lot of the ruder tribes is a state of perpetual servitude ; and that if, in some in- stances, they should continue to repel the attempts of the civilised nations to subdue them, they will at length be rooted out and exterminated from every country on whose shores Europeans shall have set their feet. Now if the distinct origin of these tribes be admitted, — if we are to regard the Negro and Australian, not as our fellow-men, brethren of the same great family as ourselves, but as beings of an inferior order, — and if duties towards them were not contemplated, as we may in that case presume them not to have been, in any of the positive commands on which the morality of the Christian world is founded, our relations to those tribes will ap- pear not to be very different from those which we might consider ourselves to hold towards the higher races of brutes. If such races be not men, then the golden rule, " Whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so unto them," is not applicable to our intercourse with them. We can scarcely imagine a Grotius or a Puffendorf, or any other great jurist, attempting to determine the jus helli or pads between ourselves and a tribe of orangs, who had just sense enough to pass for men, and began to be suspected of the cheat, — which is nearly the true character of the Negroes, if those are right who maintain the doctrines just alluded to. And we may go a step further, and assert that there is, in such a case, no moral principle which should prevent a hungry wanderer in Negroland or Australia from satisfying his appetite, by killing and eating the first native he might happen to meet. Thus, then, the widest extremes of opinion, and the greatest diversity in those rules of conduct which are founded upon such opi- nions, may exist among those who profess the most implicit reverence for the scriptural dic~ turn, that " God hath made of one blood all nations of men, for to dwell on all the face of the earth." For, whilst some include under the term "men," all the individuals grouped together by the naturalist under the genus homo, and regard this genus as consisting of but a single sp)ecies, of which the several races are only to be ranked as varieties, others assert that this genus includes several species, which form a gradual transition from the highest and most cultivated races of mankind, to those degraded races, which (as they affirm) have more in common with the brutes ; the former alone being really entitled to the appellation men, whilst the latter should be called by some other name indicating their close affinity to chimpanzees and orangs. Thus we are thrown back upon scientific inquiry, as the only legitimate means of bringing this ques- tion to an issue ; and such an inquiry can only be rightly pursued, when it is prosecuted upon the broadest possible basis, and is made to comprehend every kind of information which can be brought to bear upon it. Nothing can be easier than to bring together an ex p>arte collection of facts, which shall give to either doctrine,—that of the specific unity, or that of the sjjccijic diversity, of the human races, — an apparently fair claim to recep- tion. But since both cannot be true, and since the question can only be decided by the balance of probabilities, no evidentiary fact having any relation to the subject ought to be left out of view ; and thus the science of Ethnology must be built upon the foundation afforded by numerous other departments of scientific inquiry. The anatomist examines the configuration of the body, and compares the peculiarities of the various tribes, with the view of determining how far structural dif- ferences prevail over resemblances, and of ascertaining whether these differences possess that constant and untransitive character, which the naturalist requires as a justification of specific distinction. The physiologist searches into the history of the vital functions in the several types of humanity, and seeks for in- formation with regard to the permanence of anatomical differences, the effects of external agencies in modifying the configuration or constitution of the body, and the tendency to spontaneous variation in the forms presented by individuals, families, or tribes,known to be of the same stock. The psychologist has a most interesting subject of investigation, in the study of the psychical constitution of the