1200 TUNICATA. or by pale granules, enveloped with an elegant skein of fine, cylindrical, opaque fibres, which can be isolated by compression. Whether the fibres have a spiral arrangement is uncertain. MM. Lowig and Kolliker, who discovered these remarkable fibre-coated cells, remark that, as to the manner in which this curious trans- formation of the pigment-cells is brought about, the increase of thickness in the cell- membrane would take place by growth, or by a development similar to that which occurs in many vegetable cells, the membrane of which consists of several layers, or by the de- position of a substance applied externally. As there is no appearance of any internal or external deposit, and as the cell-cavity is not diminished during the thickening of its walls, they consider the first to be the more likely cause of the above conditions, but, neverthe- less, not sufficient alone to account for the circumstances. It is difficult, perhaps, to say how these fibres are formed, but it may be that the cell-walls, by partial solidification, ultimately become separable into fibres. The fibrous tissue of the Cynthia pomaria is insoluble in hydrochloric acid, or in solution of soda ; the other elements of the test, sub- mitted to these agents, disappear. The following clever abstract of the facts connected with the subject has been drawn up by Professor Edward Forbes : — " MM. Lowig and Kolliker found cellulose undoubtedly present in the envelopes of many Tunicata, both simple and compound, in- cluding the genera Phallusia, Cynthia, Cla- vellina, Diazona, Botryllus, Pyrosoma, and Salpa ; but they sought in vain for cellulose in animals of inferior organisation, although in some of the above-named creatures it formed a very considerable part of the animal tissues. " The Memoir of MM. Lowig and Kolliker was examined by a committee of the French Institute, consistingofDumas,Milne-Ed wards, Boussingault, and Payen ; the last-named eminent philosopher drew up the report. In it he gives the following formula of the com- position of the envelopes of the Tunicata: — Cellulose - - - 60-34 Azotised substance - 27*00 Inorganic matter - - 12-66 10000 "He remarks that the establishment of the existence of cellulose in the Tunica/a is a 'fait capital' in science, very important in its bearing on future researches into the com- parative physiology of the two kingdoms. " The explanation offered by Lowig and Kolliker of these very anomalous facts is ex- tremely ingenious, and probably very near the truth. It is to the following effect: — Tuni- cata live entirely upon vegetable organisms. The contents of the stomachs of the Phal- lusia, Clavcllince, and Diazona, examined, con- sisted of particles of floiideous algae, which had probably found their way there by chance, and a great quantity of microscopic plants of low position in the series, species of Navicula, F, •itstulia, Baceilaria, Clostcrium, &c. These minute vegetable organisms have been shown by Nageli and Schmidt to contain cellulose. " This is probably dissolved by the gastric juice, that is to say, changed into sugar or gum, in which state it circulates with the blood, and is afterwards introduced into the tunics, either directly by the sanguiferous canals (as in Phallusia), or by their prolonga- tions ramified in the walls of the common body (as in Diaz.?ia and Botryllus), which thus, as Milne Edwards has shown, contain also blood in their cavity, probably pene- trating by imbibition when the envelopes have no bloodvessels. The presence of cellulose in the tunics of the ascidian Molluscs, then, cannot be taken as an evidence of an ap- proach to a vegetable nature in those bodies. It affords us, however, a wholesome warning against the placing of confidence in asserted chemical distinctions between the great king- doms of Nature." * From the observations made by MM. Lowig and Kolliker on the histological characters of the embryos of certain compound Ascidians, they arrived at two important results. Firstly, that the external structureless envelope of the embryos, which, apparently, is identical with the external envelope of the adults, is, according to their analysis, composed of cellulose ; that this envelope is formed only when the division of the yolk is accomplished, and even when the exterior form of the embryo is indicated. Secondly, that this envelope, subsequently containing, as in Botryllus and in Aplidium, another structureless substance, fibres, nuclei, and crystals, is primitively altogether homo- geneous and unorganised. Hence it appears that the test of the Tuni- cates is a product of the activity of cells formed subsequently to the process of the division of the vitellus, and that primitively it is only a mass secreted by these cells. Its ulterior organisation is not yet understood, but remains an open field for much interesting and im- portant research. Anatomy of the Ascidiad^:.—We have already referred to the external envelope of the Tunicates as being analogous to the cal- ciferous shells or tests of the other Acephalans; and the muscular sac enclosed within it, as the analogue of the mantle; and the membranous sac lining the mantle as analogous to the branchiae of the Acephalans.-f- The rest of the viscera of the Ascidians are enveloped in a peritoneum J, and the heart has, besides, its own membranous sac or pericar- dium. Thus the body, properly so called, appears as if divided into three cavities ; that of the branchias, communicating with the exterior by the superior opening of the sac, * Hist. Brit. Molluscs, vol. i. p. 6. t According to Van Beneden, the longitudinal vessels of the branchiae of the Ascidicc are more par- ticularly the analogues of the ciliated tentacles of the Bri/ozoa. % The peritoneum of Ascidia intestinalis offers a good example, being of firm consistence, circum- scribing and protecting the abdomen.