SYMPATHY. 852 and thus seemingly affording evidence of that individuality of one half of the body which was spoken of as a feasible opinion above. Plants. — The leaf of the higher plants, "Inch is the unit or individual of botanists, is bilateral and symmetrical — always in idea, generally in fact. These leaves are associated together to form buds, branches, flowers, or fruits, in whorls. Symmetrical figures are often produced by these associations, but yet the pattern is spiral. In watching the develop- ment of spores of conferva, they are seen, whilst still but single cells, to shoot out in various manners, the majority of which are quite irre- concilable with symmetry, either bilateral or ra- diating. Whatever may be its import," it is quite certain, from the very nature of symmetry, that the cause of it must be internal, that is to say, within the body in which it is mani- fested. But it has been conclusively deter- mined, by experiments, that external influences, acting upon them in certain directions only, such as light, heat, and gravitation, exert a considerable power in determining the form of vegetable productions. Animals, doubt- less, are also greatly affected by these agencies, yet, as they enjoy the faculty of locomotion whereby all parts of them are successively turned towards the directions from which these forces emanate, the form impressed upon them by internal causes, suffers little or no distortion therefrom; but plants, being destitute of locomotion, continually receive these influences in a partial manner, and con- sequently we the less expect to meet with symmetry among them. Whenever their in- ternal forces tend to make them symmetrical, the partial action of external agents is apt to disturb their symmetry. It is this, probably, that renders the germinating conferva cell unsymmetrical. Crystals of unorganised matter are spoken of as symmetrical. The symmetry, however, which they exhibit is not a bilateral sym- metry. It consists of the repetition of the same angles and facets at the poles of an axis, but the repetitions are not reverses. The reader may illustrate my meaning by cut- ting a rhomboid in paper, when he will observe that each of its angles and sides are twice re- peated, but he will find it impossible to fold it so that one half shall coincide with the other. The precise import of the symmetry of or- ganised bodies is, as repeatedly indicated above, as yet involved in mystery. Albeit a fact so evident, so constantly obvious to our senses, as often, like gravitation, to pass unheeded, it is a great and an important fact, —a fact of the same order with those which have already led to the establishment and demonstration of grand, comprehensive, and unassailable theo- ries— the blight triumphs of the human intel- lect, that have reduced to order, simplicity, and connexion, what before was all confused, complicated, and disjointed, — a fact, there- fore, that inspires us with hope for our, as yet, imperfect science of anatomy. Tt seems to tell of radiant forces, of certain, definite, mathematical, and inexorable laws, concerned in the production of animals. Taken with the other important fact — serial homology, it seems to suggest for the development of Vertebrata and Articulata the multiplica- tion of centres in a serial line — of centres of radiant force, that then proceed to in- duce the surrounding particles to arrange themselves in a symmetrical figure. In truth, as the mind contemplates this fact, various theories pass before it, yet shadowy, chanse- able, and indistinct as a phantasmagoria. One day, perhaps, some one of these shall meet with definite enunciation and clear demon- stration ; at present we must be content with putting the fact of symmetry prominently forward and exhibiting it in various points of view, with declaring it an important fact, and not a matter of course. (S. Ii. Pittard.) SYMPATHETIC NERVE.—(See Sup- plement.) SYMPATHY (ffvu-ivaeos).— Sympathy may be defined as the assumption by different individuals, or by different parts of the same individual, of the same or an analogous physio- logical or pathological state at the same time, or in rapid succession. It is popularly known that the act of yawning, performed by one individual in a company, is apt to induce in many of the others an irresistible tendency to the same act. In a similar manner, the excite- ment of certain emotions (mirth or sadness, laughter or tears) is apt to spread through an assemblage of persons with extraordinary rapidity. The power of eloquence, of music, or of spectacle, toproduce such effects,is witnessed every day in places of public resort, whether for devotion, business, or amusement. Many instances are known in which con- vulsions have been excited in persons not previously subject to them, by the sight of a patient in an epileptic fit. And peculiar ner- vous disorders, of a convulsive kind, have been found to affect nearly all the members of a community without the slightest evidence of their being contagious or infectious. An impression upon an organ of sense may pro- duce effects very different in their nature to any thing which could be anticipated ; and these many be purely of a physical kind, or they may act primarily upon the mind. Thus certain odours will induce syncope in some people; and the smell of a savoury dish to a hungry person, or even the mention or the thought of a meal, will excite a flow of saliva. The emotion of pity excited by the sight of some object of compassion, or by a narrative of a mournful kind, will produce a copious flow of tears. All such phenomena are said to result from Sympathy. When one yawns, immediately in consequence of another's yawning, the former evidently and truly sympathises with the latter; and the convulsions which are induced by the sight of another in a fit, are not less sympathetic. The individual in whom the convulsions are induced, S3 mpathises with the other. Such obvious instances of sym- pathy between different individuals led to the