1527 WRIST-JOINT (Abnormal Anatomy). bursas of the extensor tendons, as tliey pass over the carpus, also become distended : these softer fluctuating swellings after a time sub- side, and the lower extremity of the radius and ulna, where they enter into the formation of the wrist-joint, enlarge; longitudinal ridges of bone can be felt on the back of the radius close to the wrist-joint. The ulna, besides being much hypertrophied at its lowest point, rises abnormally above the level of the dorsum of the carpus. When the disease has been of long duration, the region of the wrist becomes contracted, the back of the carpus and hand presents an attenuated appearance, showing the course of the tendons, and allowing the ridges and prominences of the bone to become visible. Anatomical Characters. — When we remove the fibrous covering of the tendons which pass by the back part of the wrist-joint and carpus, we find that these tendons are gene- rally deeply imbedded in bony sulci,or grooves. The capsular ligament and other fibrous struc- tures, both on the palmar and dorsal aspect of the joint, seem to be denser and stronger than natural. On examining the interior of the wrist- joint, we notice that all the articular carti- lages of encrustation have been removed from the ends both of the radius and ulna, and that the inter-articular fibro-cartilage, which intervenes between the lower extremity of the ulna and cuneiform bone of the carpus, is removed. In general, at the usual period we are afforded opportunities for making our ana- tomical examinations, we find but little left of the synovial membrane by which we can judge; but in some cases we have found red synovial fimbria; exist in the wrist-joint, just as we have noticed this same vascular condition of the synovial tissues to co-exist with the other anatomical characters of the chronic rheu- matic arthritis, as they have shown them- selves in other articulations which had been affected with this peculiar disease. Radius. — The lower extremity of the radius is usually somewhat enlarged, and the surface of the bone is scabrous from small exostotic growth. We find the grooves on the back of the radius for the passage of the extensor tendons are preternaturally deepened. The articular surface of the lower extremity of the radius, where formed for the reception of the summit of the carpus, is usually much hollowed out, and polished from porcellanoid deposition. The outline of the carpal sur- face of the altered radius is usually studded round with bony granules, or vegetations. When we look to the ulnar side of the lower extremity of the radius, we find the lesser synovial cavity for the reception of the carpal end of the ulna much enlarged, particularly in its antero-postcrior diameter. This scaphoid cavity we find also presenting an eburnated surface, and on it fine parallel ridges and grooves are distinctly seen to run in the direction of the rotation of the ulna on the radius in pronation and supination. Where the lower extremity of the ulna con- fronts the cuneiform bone (the inter-articular fibro-cartilage having been removed), it pre- sents a smooth and polished surface. Ulna. — The carpal extremity of the ulna is frequently much enlarged, and furnished with exuberant bony growths ; its lowest ex- tremity, where it confronts the cuneiform bone of the carpus (without the intervention of cartilage), is smooth. The part of the ex- tremity destined for rotation on the radius is convex, and oval from before backwards, and of a form, of course, adapted to that of the little scaphoid cavity in the latter, and which is deprived of cartilage, eburnated, and simi- larly marked with corresponding parallel ridges and grooves. Carpus. — In our anatomical investigations into the state of the hands of those who have long laboured under chronic rheumatic ar- thritis, we have found the bones of the carpus to be much altered by this disease : in general, the region which these bones constitute will be found to have all its dimensions contracted within a smaller compass then natural. The form of each individual bone is so much changed, that, if found detached, it could scarcely be recognised as a carpal bone. The cartilaginous structure naturally intervening between all the bones is always absorbed. Cruveilhier has said that, in the anatomi- cal examination of one of his cases of this disease, he found the bones of the carpus confounded together into an irregular mass, so that it was difficult to say the part which each took in the construction of the carpal region. On examining, anatomically, the bones of the region of the wrist of a patient who had been ten years labouring under this disease, and was under our own immediate observation for almost the whole of this period, we found the bones of the carpus were exceedingly rough on their non-articular surfaces ; each individual bone was found much altered from its normal figure; some were enlarged beyond their usual size, others diminished : the true annular ligament of the carpus, which con- nected the small bones together on their palmar aspect, and contributed to maintain the arched form of this region, was much shorter than usual. When we examined each bone, we found that the scaphoid was eburnated on its su- perior articular surface, where it corresponded to a similar surface on the carpal end of the radius. Eelow, the scaphoid, instead of con- tributing, with the head of the os magnum, to form part of the medio-carpal articulation, was really united to the head of the os mag- num by true bony anchylosis. The semi- lunar and cuneiform of the first range were much enlarged. The os lunare, where, by its lower concave surface, it corresponded to half of the head of the magnum, was not, like the scaphoid, united to this last bone, but, on the contrary, both surfaces of the magnum * Tide a work on Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis, by the author, shortly to be published. 5 E 4