SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. 749 clean region (la region hyoidienne superieure), where it terminates. The external branch passes downwards below the sterno-cleido- mastoid muscle to reach the trapezius, in which it is chiefly distributed.* Fig. 521. From Bendz, reduced one-half. A, part of cerebellum cut across; n, medulla ob- longata ; c, spinal chord; a, floor of fourth ventricule; b, calamus scriptorius ; cc, posterior ''pyramidal bodies; d, right restiforme body obliquely divided; f f, lateral columns of spinal chord; h h, posterior columns of spinal chord; posterior longitudinal fissure; k k, posterior roots of spinal nerves; 3 3, roots of vagus nerve ; 4 4, roots of glosso-phaiyngeal; 55 5, roots of nervus aceessorius ; 6, ganglion of the root of the vagus or superior ganglion ; 7, auricular branch of vagus; 8, right ganglion petrosum of glosso-pharyngeal; 9, ramus anastomicus of Jacob- son ; 10, communicating branch between the superior ganglion of the vagus and the ganglion petrosum ; 11, roots of the accessory which form its internal branch; 12, roots of the accessory which form its external branch ; 13, glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; 14, trunk of the vagus ; 15, pharyngeal branch of vagus ; 16, filaments of this branch that come from the vagus; 17, filaments of this branch that come from the internal branch of the accessory; 18, ganglion of the trunk of the vagus or inferior ganglion; 19, nervus laryngeus superior; 22 22, communicating branches between the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus and the superior ganglion of the sympathetic; 23, fibres of the internal branch of the accessory which do not enter into the for- mation of the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus; 24, branch from these fibres which joins itself to the external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve. Physiology of the accessory,— The peculiar origin and course of this nerve, and particularly its intimate connection with the par vagum, have formed the basis of most of the specula- tions on its functions since the time of Willis. It was maintained by Willis that this nerve, from its connection with the par vagum, re- gulates those involuntary movements of the neck and arm caused by the emotions and * Recherches d'Anatomie Comparee sur le Chim- panse": par W. Vrolik, p. 40. Amsterdam, 1841. passions.* Lobstein likewise believed that the spinal accessory joins the vagus for the purpose of connecting itself with the in- voluntary functions, and he supposed that its paralysis might also affect the move- ments of the pharynx and larynx.")" Others have maintained that it is a nerve of involun- tary motion from the particular portion of the spinal chord in which it is implanted. It is, as is well known, one of Sir Charles Bell's respiratory nerves, arising as he supposed from a particular tract in the spinal chord to which he gave the name of respiratory tract, and is therefore, according to this view, a nerve of involuntary motion. Bellingeri believes that the lateral tract of the spinal chord, from which the accessory arises, presides over the instinc- tive and sympathetic movements, and that it is consequently a nerve of involuntary motion. J Arnold §, Scarpa ||, Bischoft'^f, Valentin **, and Longet ff, have maintained that the accessory stands in the same rela- tion to the vagus as the anterior roots of the spinal nerves do to the posterior roots.J J Ac- cording to this last view, the vagus does not originally possess any motor filaments, but derives them from the spinal accessory. The two first of these authors came to this con- clusion on anatomical grounds alone ; the three latter, from experiments upon these nerves in living animals, as well as from their anatomy. Bernard has arrived at the conclusion that it is entirely a motor nerve, and that it enables the larynx and pharynx, and muscles of the neck in which it is distributed, to partake in the production of the phenomena of phona- tion, but that it does not assist in any of the true respiratory movements.^ Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman ||||, on the other hand, believe that the internal branch of the accessory is composed of afferent nerves, and that the mode of implantation of this nerve in the cen- tral organs of the nervous system serves to bring the sentient surface of the lungs and air- passages into immediate relations with the roots of all those nerves which animate the great muscles of respiration, the phrenic, the external thoracic, the cervical plexus, and the motor fibres of the spinal accessory and vagus nerves. All experimenters agree that the external * Opus cit. caput xxviii. f Ibid. pp. 345, 34G. % Ibid. pp. 89, 90. § Der Kopftheil des vegativen Nervensystems. Heidelberg, 1831. || De Gangliis Nerv. deque Essentia Nervi Inter- cost. Ann. Univers. di Medicina, 1831. «f Nervi Accessorii Willisii Anatomia et Phy- siologia, 1832. ** De Functionibus Nervorum Cerebralium et Nervi Sympathici, 1839. Anatomic et Physiologie du Systeme Nerveux, &c, torn, ii., 1842. XX It appears that this idea had been previously suggested by Gorres (Exposition der Physiologie, Cob'lentz, 1805, as quoted by Miiller). §§ Archives Gene'rales de Medecine, 4ieme serie, torn. iv. and torn, v., 1844. Illl The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man, vol. ii. p. 130.