928 TEETH. outer layer of cement is relatively thicker than in the tusks of the Mammoth or in those of the Indian elephant. The general cha- racter of the microscopic structure of the ivory of the Mastodon's tusk is the same as that of the elephant. The peripheral ex- tremities of the dentinal tubes are, in some parts of the tusk, straighter than in the rest of their course; the straighter extremities were those which were first formed in the calcification of the peripheral part of the pulp, and this first-formed ivory is accordingly, in such parts, more like the ordinary dentine, and is analogous to the thin peripheral cap of such substance in the teeth of the Sloth and of some fishes. The pulp soon, however, becomes subject to that modification of the calcifying processes by which the more tortuous disposition of the tubuli and the more frequent interposition of opaque cellules are produced ; modifications which, in establishing the characters of ivory, present a step in the transition from true dentine to osteo-dentine. By the minuteness and close arrangement of the tubes, and especially by their strongly undulating secondary curves, a tougher and more elastic tissue is produced than results from their disposition in ordinary dentine ; and the modification which distinguishes " ivory" is doubtless essential to the due degree of coherence of so large a mass as the elephant's tusk, projecting so far from the supporting socket, and to be frequently applied in dealing hard blows and thrusts. The central part of the tusk, especially near the base of such as have reached their full size, is occupied by a slender cylindrical tract of modified ivory, perforated by a few vascular canals, which is continued to the apex of the tusk. It is not uncommon to find processes of osteo-dentine or imperfect bone-like ivory, projecting in a stalactitic form * into the interior of the pulp-cavity, apparently the consequence of partial inflam- mation or malformation of the vascular pulp. The musket-balls and other foreign bodies which are occasionally found in ivory, are immediately surrounded by osteo-dentine in greater or less quantity. It has long ceased to be a matter of wonder how such bodies should become completely imbedded in the substance of the tusk, sometimes without any visible aperture, or how a leaden bullet may have become lodged in the solid centre of a very large tusk without having been flattened. Such a ball, aimed at the head of an elephant, may penetrate the thin bony socket and the thinner ivory parietes of the wide conical pulp-cavity occupying the inserted base of the tusk ; if the projectile force was there spent, the ball would gravitate to the opposite and lower side of the pulp-cavity, as indicated in fig. 592.f The presence of the foreign body * Haller seems to have been the first to notice these irregular internal deposits in the pulp-cavity of the elephant's tusk. Elementa Physiologia;, torn. viii. p. 519. f Camper, " Description Anatomique d'un Ele'- exciting inflammation of the pulp, an irregular course of calcification ensues, which results in the disposition around the ball of a certain thickness of osteo-dentine. The pulp then resuming its healthy state and functions, coats the inner surface of the osteo-dentine in- closing the ball, together with the rest of the corneal cavity into which that mass projects, with layers of normal ivory.* The portion of the cement-forming capsule surrounding the base of the tusk, and the part of the pulp, which were perforated by the ball in its passage, are soon replaced by the active reparative power of these highly vascular bodies. The hole formed by the ball in the base of the tusk is then more or less completely filled up by a thick coat of cement from with- out and of osteo-dentine from within. Traces of such a cicatrix closing the entrance have been more than once noticed : and Blumen- bach deduced, therefrom, a property in the elephant's tusk to pour out bony matter in order to heal such wounds. The reparation is however effected by the calcification of the reproduced parts of the capsule and pulp. By the continued progress of growth, the ball so inclosed is carried forwards, in the course indicated by the arrow in fig. 592., to the middle of the solidified exserted part of the tusk, as in the example in Blumenbach's collection which he considered so curious. Should the ball have penetrated the base of the tusk of a young elephant, it may be carried forwards by the uninterrupted growth of the tusk until that base has become the apex, and be finally exposed and discharged by the con- tinual abrasion to which the apex of the tusk is suhjected. Yet none of these phenomena prove the absolute non-vascularity of the tusk, but only the low degree of its vascularity. Blood circulates, slowly no doubt, through the minute vascular canals which are con- tinued through the centre of the ivory to the very apex of the tusk : and it is from this source that the fine tubular structure of the ivory obtains the plasmatic colourless fluid by which its low vitality is maintained. Development.—The matrix of the tusk con- sists of a large conical pulp, which is renewed quicker than it is converted, and thus is not only preserved, but grows, up to a certain period of the animal's life: it is lodged in the cavity at the base of the tusk ; this base is surrounded by the remains of the capsule, a soft vascular membrane of moderate thickness, which is confluent with the border of the base of the pulp, where it receives its principal vessels. phant Male," fol. p. 54. Cuvier, Aanales du BIu- seum, torn. viii. (1806) p. 115. * Cuvier, " Annales du Museum," torn. viii. p. 115, 1806, " Sur les defenses des elephans, la structure, l'accroissement, les earacteres distinctifs de l'ivoire, et sur les maladies," first clearly stated that the ball or foreign body in the tusk of the elephant was immediately surrounded by a substance different from the regular ivory. The great anatomist ob- serves, " Toute la portion d'ivoire en dehors de la balle est semblable au reste; il n'y a que ce qui l'entoure imme'diatement qui soit irre'gulier."