1230 TUNICATA. any fluid or solid in contact with it. But if the Pyrosoma were cut open and immersed in water, the brown particles that escaped diffused themselves through the fluid, and shone as numerous scintillations, independent of the perfect structure. General friction or contact was not essential to elicit the perfect light of the Pyrosome, since touching one small portion of the body was sufficient to produce a brilliant glow throughout the whole. Mr. Bennett at the same time made the following observations on the effect of fresh water on phosphorescent marine animals. " Fresh water appears to act as a powerful and permanent stimulus on marine Noctilucce. Those that have intervals of repose from their phosphorescence immediately emit light when brought into contact with fresh water ; and this fact was strikingly exhibited in the Pi/rosomata* When placed in a vessel of sea- water and permitted to remain quiet, these Molluscs afforded no light, and, when touched, gleamed forth only as long as the irritating cause remained, and then gradually returned to their original state. When, however, the same creatures were placed in a vessel of fresh water, they never ceased glowing with their brightest refulgence until life was extinct, which was not until the lapse of several hours. When also the same Molluscs were mutilated, or so near death as to refuse to emit light upon irritation in sea-water, immersing them in fresh water produced at least a temporary revival of their brightest gleam." Anatomy of Salp/e. — The subcartilagi- nous test of Salpce is more or less cylindrical and flexible, and when taken out of the sea, often collapses into an amorphous mass. Float- ing in the water, it is iridescent or opaline, reflecting the sun's rays in beautiful rainbow tints, and hence has been derived its name of " sun-fish." The test and its lining membrane are so diaphanous, that the whole structure of the animal can be seen through them. The exterior of the test is generally smooth, but sometimes bears minute shiny protuberances of a tissue similar to its own, as in S. Tilesii. The integument over the viscera is thicker and often of a firmer consistence than the rest of the test. Its form varies considerably, not only in different species, but in the conditions of isolation and aggregation, in which each species alternately exists, and also in the different stages of growth of the individual, especially in an associated state. The test is usually either oval or oblong, but various terminal and lateral processes considerably affect its general contour. Each of its extremities is open by an orifice ; and, in the aggregated individuals, it is perfo- rated by other much smaller apertures at the points of contact between the neighbour- ing individuals of a group. The internal surface of the test is lined by the mantle, a thin, toughish membrane, which is often more conspicuous than the highly transparent external envelope. The mantle is furnished with large, generally transverse, muscular bands, the arrangement of which differs according to the species and according to the separate or associated state of existence. Its inner surface is lined with a soft mucous coat of fine epithelial tissue. The mantle is more or less closely attached to the inner sur- face of the test, especially at the two orifices (being, indeed, continuous with the test at these points), at the protuberan ces that arise from the test, and along the inner surfaces of the longitudinal furrows that sometimes tra- verse its external surface, as in S. cordiformis, where, on the superior and inferior surfaces, the test is depressed into broad, deep sulci. In specimens preserved in spirit, and even in some recent specimens, this membrane will sometimes separate itself, together with the viscera and vessels, from the outer tunic, and fall through one of the external orifices. Salpce have been met with floating in the sea, and executing, in some degree, their usual movements of contraction and dilatation; in which, from mutilations caused by parasites or other accidents, little remained except a few muscular bands of the mantle. Considerable confusion has existed among naturalists as to which is the anterior extre- mity, and which the superior surface of the Salpa. We shall regard, as the anterior or branchial orifice, that in the neighbourhood of which the stomach and heart are usually found (fig.787.); and as the posterior or anal orifice, that which points in the direction of the ani- mal's retrograde motion ; and as the superior or dorsal surface, that on which the nerve- ganglion is present; and as the inferior or ventral, that in close contact with which the viscera and heart, forming the "nucleus "or "paquet " of authors, are placed. The orifices are either terminal, or are situ- ated at the base of the terminal prolongations of the test. The anterior orifice is destitute of tentacular appendages ; it is furnished with sphincter muscles ; it is simple and tubular in S. cristata, S. Tilesii, and S. scutigera, &c, and transverse in S. cordiformis, S. zonaria, &c. When the dilatation of the animal is drawing water into the cavity of the body, the sphincters of this orifice are brought into action and close it, so that the water enters by the opposite extremity. The posterior orifice is a transverse slit, furnished with a few muscular fascicles, and is larger than the opposite orifice. In S. cris- tata its superior lip is simple and thin; its inferior lip is externally a rounded ridge, formed by a fold of the test, which, within its inner border, constitutes a semilunar valve. This allows the water to enter easily, but pre- vents its escape when the animal contracts itself. The constrictor muscles of the mantle are often subannular, interrupted on one or the other surface, decussating in some, connected in others. The following are a few examples of the disposition of these muscular bands. In S. cristata, around the tubular anterior ori- fice, are 4—5 sphincter muscles ; the first of which, as well as the last two, are continuous