SPINAL NERVES. over the back and inner part of the gemelli, and divides into muscular and cutaneous branches. The muscular branches are long and numerous, being destined to supply the glu- taeus maxiinus. One series are directed out- wards, upwards, and forwards, and, entering its anterior surface, ramify through the sub- stance of the muscle, as lar as its upper and anterior part. The other series are directed downwards, backwards, and outwards, over the tuberosity of the ischium, and supply the lower and hack part of the muscle. The inferior glutaeal having emerged from beneath the lower border of the glutseus maximus, divides'into its two terminal branches, pcrinaal cutaneous, and cutaneous branch to the thigh and upper part of the leg. The peri- nceal cutaneous nerve is reflected upon the lower border of the glutaeus maximus, and describes a curve, the concavity of which looks towards the sacrum. It soon divides into an external large branch, supplying the skin iu the glutaeal region, and an internal small branch (the long inferior pudendal of Soemmering), which passes in a curved man- ner beneath the tuberosity of the ischium. It is then directed beneatli the fascia of the upper and inner part of the thigh, running parallel to the ascending ramus of the ischium, ami at or near the junction of the latter with the descending ramus of the pubis, perforates the fascia, and becomes cutaneous, supplying the skin in the perinaeum ; it anastomoses either with the superficial perineal, or the external perinaeal nerve, and sends terminal branches to supply the inner and outer por- tions of the scrotum, and the lower part of the skin of the penis. The cutaneous branch to the back of the thigh and upper part of the leg. — The continuation of the trunk of the inferior glutaeal is situated anterior and external to the above-named branches. It passes obliquely over the inner and back part of the biceps muscles, and, a little above the middle of the thigh, ordinarily divides into two branches. The small external branch passes downwards, forwards, and out- wards to the upper part of the lower third of the thigh, in which situation it anastomoses with the external cutaneous nerve of the lumbar plexus. The large interna] branch runs down a little to the inside of the median line of the thigh to the skin in the poplitaeal region, where it divides into external terminal filaments, supplying the skin over the outer and back part of the tibia and fibula, and in- ternal filaments, some of which go to the skin at the inner part of the poplitaeal region, others very small, accompanying and surround- ing the external saphaena vein, communicate below the middle of the leg with filaments given off from the external sapha;nus nerve. The nerve for the piriformis passes below the level of the superior glutaeal nerve, from the middle of the buck part of the plexus, generally taking its origin from the third sa- cral nerve. It is distributed to the anterior surface of the muscle. The nerves for the gemelli and quadratics fe- moris pass from the plexus along the lower part of the pyriformis, close to the os inno- minatum, to the anterior surface of the muscles. That for the quadratus femoris gives off" a few branches to the capsular ligament, one of which enters the articulation, and usually sends off the nerve which supplies the inferior gemellus. This nerve comes off frequently from the upper part of the great sciatic. The great sciatic nerve (the sciatic, ischi- atic, femoro-poplita?al), the largest nerve in the body, is formed by the convergence of a branch of the fourth lumbar, the lumbo-sa- cral, and the three or four upper sacral nerves; represents the termination of the sa- cral plexus, and is destined to supply the muscles at the back part of the thigh, and the muscles and integuments of the leg and foot. It escapes from the pelvis, from beneath the lower border of the pyriformis, as a flattened ribbon-shaped nerve, about half an inch broad, soon becomes rounded, and continuing its course from between the great trochanter and tuberosity of the ischium, descends with a slight inclination outwards to the back part of the thigh, a little to the outside of the me- dian line, as far as, or somewhat above, the level of the upper angle of the poplitajal space, where it divides into terminal branches, the peronaeal and posterior tibial. This division occasionally takes place within the pelvis, in which instances the outer division passes cither between the lower fascicles of the pyriformis or above the muscle, the inner beneath the lower edge of the muscle. In some instances it takes place while the nerve is placed between the trochanter and tube- rosity: in others, again, the two trunks are dis- tinct as far as this situation, where they again unite, and subsequently divide in the poplitaeal space. In the upper part of its course the nerve is rather deeply seated, being covered over by the glutaeus maximus, and having be- hind and internal to it the branches of the inferior glutaeal nerve. At the lower border of the tendon of the gluteus maximus it is crossed by the long head of the biceps, and in the remainder of its course is covered only by the fascia. It is in relation in front with the two ge- melli and obturator interims, the quadratus femoris and adductor magnus. Behind these muscles it passes successively from above downwards, is in close contact with the su- perior, and separated from the adductor magnus by a quantity of fat and cellular membrane. The branches given off from the sciatic nerve are muscular and articular. The muscular branches come away above the middle of the thigh, with the occasional ex- ception of that for the short head of the biceps, which arises near the middle. There are several branches for the long head of the biceps, some of which ascend to be dis- tributed to the muscle at its origin; others descend for some distance, and enter its an- terior surface. The nerve for the semi-tendinous is a long delicate filament, which usually passes down