1377 VEIN. and semi-pellucid. It appears structureless to the naked eye, and looks almost like a thin film of f'ecula jelly (arrow-root made with water), or rather, perhaps, like the flaccid dull cornea of an animal dead some days. When separated, it coils up, and, where the surfaces have become adherent, it is difficult to unfold it again : it now looks and feels like thick mucus — it is semitransparent and adhesive. When seen under the microscope, it is found to be indis- tinctly fibrous ; some masses appear as a dense web of flat fibres, the fibres being strictly on the same plane, with their sides adherent at some points, and leaving intervals at others ; in some places the interspaces are only small specks on the surface of what appears to be in other respects, an almost homogeneous sheet; there are also some indistinct longi- tudinal striations, connecting these minute interspaces and obscurely indicating the out- line of fibres. The element of which this coat is composed is singularly pellucid under the microscope, scarcely refracting excepting at its edges. The fibrous mass of which the vein is com- posed, in many places exhibits the appearance as if the fibres were formed of spindle-shaped cells strung together, with their ends over- lapping; and these cells may be occasionally isolated, — they are spindle-shaped and have an oval nucleus. They resemble those ob- tained from the middle coat of the aorta of a fetal pig, by Lehmann. (See his figure.) Whether this condition is the result of im- perfect maturation of the tissue of which the vein is composed, or otherwise, I am unable to say. V. Valves. — The valves are membranous folds on the inner surface of the veins, having a definite form and regular arrangement with regard to their object — the progress of the venous blood to the heart, and obstruction to its regurgitation. They are of peculiar interest to the physiologist, as presenting a clear and elegant specimen of animal mechanics; and to the literary anatomist they are not less inter- esting, as having been one of the main objects which suggested to Harvey his brilliant de- duction of the circulation of the blood. Cruveilhier states that the valves of veins were first discovered by Etienne. Harvey leaves the priority of discovery in doubt; for he writes, " The celebrated Hieronymus Fa- bricius of Aquapendente, a most skilful ana- tomist and venerable old man; or, as the learned Riolan will have it, Jacobus Sylvius, first gave representations of valves in the veins."* Fabricius himself lays claim to the discovery, " non solum nulla prorsus mentio de ipsis facta sit, sed neque aliquis prius hsec viderit, quam anno Domini septuagesimo quarto, supra millesimum et quingentesimum, quo a me summa cum laetitia inter disse- candum observata fuere."f Marx, who ap- * Harvey on the Motion of the Heart and Blood, Sydenham Society's Translation, chap. xiii. •f Fabricius, ab Aquapendente. Opera omniaAna- tomica, &c. Lips. 1087, p. 150. Fabricius calls the valves by the felicitous term, "osteola," little doors. VOL. IV. pears to be profoundly versed in the literature of this subject, says the discovery is due to Erasistratus ; for he observes, " Erasistratus (301 B.C.), item clarus anatomusjam subtilius in structuram et usum venarum inquisivit, valvulas jam observavit."* Harvey's description of the valves is so apposite and clear, as well as so interesting in a literary point of view, that I shall quote it. The valves, he observes, " consist of raised or loose portions of the inner membrane of these vessels, of extreme delicacy, and a sig- moid or semilunar shape. They are situated at different distances from one another, and diversely in different individuals ; they are connate at the sides of the veins ; they are directed upwards or towards the trunks of the veins; the two—for there are, for the most part, two together—regard each other, mu- tually touch, and are so ready to come into contact by their edges, that if any thing at- Fig. 862. Venous Valves, after Fabricius.-f a, femoral vein; b, saphena interna. tempt to pass from the trunks into the branches of the veins, or from the greater veins into less, they completely prevent it; they are further so arranged, that the horns of those that succeed are opposite the middle of the convexity of those that precede, and so on, alternately." He further writes, " In many places two valves are so placed and fitted, that, when raised, they come exactly together * Marx. Diatribe Anatomico-physiologica de Structura atque Vita Venarum. Carls. 1819, p. 6. f Fabricius, Opera omnia, tab. iv. p. 157. 4 T