J 282 URINE. of morbid change in important organs, from such as may merely be the results of actions occurring in perfect health, and consistent with its preservation. Many pathological conditions of the urine are indeed closely simulated by the unim- portant changes to which I have alluded. Thus the urine of diabetes insipidus, often a most severe and unmanageable disease, can scarcely be distinguished from that occasionally secreted by healthy persons exposed to cold or moisture, or both, without sufficient exer- cise to maintain the full amount of cutaneous exhalation. Such a specimen, were it ex- amined carelessly, or allowed to guide the judgment without due attention to con- comitant circumstances and previous history, might lead (and I may say has led) to mis- takes both injurious to the patient and vexa- tious to the practitioner. In studying the pathology of the urine, it is also especially important that we should not give undue regard to chemistry, nor be led astray by theories and generalisations such as that fascinating science so constantly "would tempt us to enter upon. It must be remembered that in most cases chemistry as yet only assists us in the detection of symp- toms, and in the present state of our know- ledge can only thus far serve us, but must fail as a guide to a true knowledge of diseased action or appropriate methods of treatment. This consideration, however, is far from de- pressing to those who regard the subject in a truly philosophical spirit; for be it remem- bered that when we have detected sugar or albumen in the urine, and when the modes of examination are rendered both easy and exact by chemical labour, we have reaped a most va- luable advantage by becoming acquainted with a symptom, without which, we should have been left in such a position that we might have despaired of ever obtaining an insight into the pathology of two most important diseases. A knowledge of symptoms thus acquired by chemistry at once enables us to make use of a large amount of valuable information derived from experience, and to bring to our assistance remedies which would not other- wise have suggested themselves, or perhaps have been considered inapplicable. It has unfortunately too often been attempted to push chemical reasoning to the uttermost in considering urinary diseases ; and there is a class of persons, greatly increasing in the present day, who have thus inflicted much mischief on a science which requires great labour in its prosecution, and consequently is the more eagerly condemned as useless by the idle or ungit'ted practitioner. If we con- fine the application of chemistry, in urinary disease, merely to symptomatology, it is easy to show that we are deeply indebted to the science, and it is the especial duty of those who are most conversant with it to regard its further application with great jealousy. I shall now proceed to describe the urine as it appears in various diseased conditions of the body, beginning with those variations from healthy constitution characterised by the existence of deposits of various kinds known as urinary deposits. It is not, how- ever, within the province of this article to enter upon any pathological considerations relating to these abnormal conditions. Lithic acid Deposit. This deposit (commonly known as "red sand" or gravel) occurs in urine in many forms, the crystals as seen under the micros- cope presenting the appearances figured below 0%-'91). Flu. 791. Urine depositing lithic acid is generally of a deep yellow colour, and acid beyond the normal degree. Its specific gravity is mostly somewhat above that of health. Lithic acid occasionally deposits from urine in an amor- phous concrete form, and is seen in rounded or flattened masses adhering to the bottom of the chamber vessel. This latter kind of deposit is the most dangerous as respects the formation of calculi. Deposit of Lithates. This form of deposit, known as the lateri- tious deposit, from ts resemblance to brick dust, consists of lithic acid combined with ammonia, and in some few cases with lime, magnesia, or soda. The microscopic appear^ ances shown by the lithates are as under {fig. 792). Fig. 792. A ... B C _ Si* 7, The spheroidal masses with projecting needle points (b), I believe to indicate lithate of lime, while the masses having projecting crystals with truncated ends (c), 1 believe consist chiefly of lithate of magnesia. The lithate of ammonia is amorphous, sometimes spheroidal with adhering spicula, or is seen making up a dotted background (a). Urine depositing the lithates is generally of a higher specific gravity than natural, and is passed clear. After the deposit has occurred, the applica- tion of a gentle heat is always sufficient to re-dissolve it.