VOICE. 1477 0 B 3 If the larynx of an animal be dissected out, and the vocal cords be stretched, they will vibrate like a piece of caoutchouc or leather in a current of air. In conducting these ex- periments, it is necessary to secure the same conditions as those which are required in the laminae above mentioned ; for instance, the inner edges of the glottis must be turned towards each other till they are in the same plane and parallel to one another before they will produce any sound ; hence we infer, that when the tension of the arytenoid ligaments takes place in the living animal, they turn upon their axes till their planes (which in the state of relaxation are inclined to the axis of the vocal tube) become perpendicular to it, and as the edges of the glottis approximate, and its chink is nearly or entirely closed up, they acquire the true vibrating position. The production of the most simple tones of voice requires the associated actions of a most extensive range of organs ; and it is calculated that in the ordinary modulation of the voice, more than one hundred muscles are brought into action at the same time. The lungs having been first supplied with air by the act of inspiration, and the air in the chest and trachea having subsequently been condensed by the muscles of expiration, a portion of the edges of the glottis yields to its pressure, and is curved upwards, so as to form an angle with the axis (f the vocal tube, leaving between them a narrow aperture through which the air escapes. The tension and elasticity of the vocal ligaments tend to restore them to the plane of the vibrating position ; the air having been rarefied below the glottis during their elevation, becomes condensed on their depression, and the ne- cessary force is again accumulated to re- elevate the vocal ligaments,and thus an oscilla- ting movement, consisting of a partial opening and closing of the glottis, takes place, which being communicated to the contiguous air, the sounds of the voice are produced. The relative length of the vibrating edge of the glottis is regulated by the pressure of the column of air in the trachea, and the resistance of the vocal ligaments. The intensity of the voice in the same medium, and under similar collateral circumstances, depends on the pressure of the column of air in the trachea, and the range of motion performed by the vibrating edges of the glottis. The vocal ligaments do not vary the pitch of the voice by their tension alone, but by their variations in length and tension conjointly. The author has learnt this from his own experiments on the vocal functions of the larynx, w hich have been confirmed both by Majendie and Mayo ; the former having observed in the larynx of a ^og that a longer portion of the ligaments of the glottis vibrated during the utterance of grave tones, and that the length was dimi- nished as the tones became acute. The latter had an opportunity of inspecting the move- ments of the glottis in a man who had made an attempt to destroy himself by cutting his Fig. 891. The Head and Vocal Organs prepared for experi- ments. (After Mtiller.) The cervical vertebra are removed, and the oeso- phagus opened behind the arytenoid cartilages, which are fixed together by a strong pin and ligature; the latter is brought through the open- ing, which is then firmly sewed together, and the lower opening of the oesophagus is also closed up. The larynx is laid bare, and the superior portion of the thyroid cartilage carefully removed so as not to injure the mucous membrane of the larynx. The parts thus prepared are firmly fixed against the column, to which the arytenoid cartilages are also attached by the cord which binds them to- gether. The trachea is connected with a pipe and bellows for the supply of air. a, the trachea; b, the os hyoides; c, the cricoid cartilage; d, portion of the thyroid cartilage re- maining for the attachment of the cords e, by means of which the vocal cords may be extended ; f, apparatus for compression. Fig. 892. The apparatus used for the lateral compression of the vocal cords, as seen in fig. 891 f.