TOUCH. 1184 quences, the patient still being quite con- scious of the mere contact."* Reference has been already made to the influence of the attention on the acuteness of sensations; and to the slight degree in which they are felt, when the mind is completely engrossed in some other feeling or idea. This is sometimes seen in spontaneous reverie; and there are individuals who can exert such a power of mental abstraction, as voluntarily to concentrate their attention on some ex- ternal object, or internal idea, so as to escape all suffering from a severe operation. This, however, is much better seen in some of those cases of somnambulism (see Sleep) in which the mind is completely under the guidance of the suggestions received from without, its whole spontaneous directing power being suspended. For it is frequently possible, in such cases, to withdraw the patient's atten- tion from any part of the body, to such an extent that the anaesthesia is complete as regards that part, whilst every other portion enjoys the ordinary sensibility. Thus a tem- porary loss of sensation on the whole of one side may be induced, or a single limb may be rendered anaesthetic; and the sensibility of the parts may be instantaneously restored, merely by directing the patient's attention towards them. With regard to hyperesthesia, or increased sensibility, we have much less definite in- formation. There can be no doubt, however, that it, too, may proceed from changes either in the periphery, or in the central organs, and perhaps also from an alteration in the trunks of the nerves in their course. The acute sensibility of an inflamed or irritated part is an example of the first of these conditions; and the extraordinary exaltation of sensibility in the incipient stage of phrenitis may serve as an illustration of the second. In some cases the entire nervous system would seem to partake of this undue excitability; this we especially see in hysterical subjects, in whom the slightest contact frequently occasions in- tense suffering, so that even the mere pointing of a finger at any part of the body will cause a scream of alarm. The sufferings of such persons are not rightly designated as ima- ginary; they are as real to them as are those proceeding from far more serious causes to persons of less excitable temperament. The fault partly lies in the habitual attention which they pay to the most trivial feelings ; but in part also, it may be surmised, to an abnormal state of nutrition of the entire nervous system, — both centres and trunks,— from depravation of the blood. This view harmonizes well with the fact just now stated, that in the Epidemic de Paris, a temporary hyperaesthesia (afterwards giving place to an- aesthesia) was commonly among the earliest symptoms. And it is not a little curious that in the remarkable scries of cases of lead- poisoning which recently occurred in the ex- royal family of France, during their residence * Archives Ge'ne'rales, torn. xvi. pp. 5—24. at Claremont, the same symptom presented itself, and was in some instances the only symptom which indicated the morbid con- tamination of the blood.* In most cases of this form of hyperesthesia, the exaltation of sensibility seems confined to the surface, being much more excited by a slight touch than by hard pressure; and this difference will frequently serve to distinguish the " hys- terical" tenderness from that of inflammation, in which the pain is augmented the more severe the pressure. The writer has had opportunities of noticing an extreme sensi- tiveness to changes of temperature in certain cases of somnambulism, both natural and artificial; and he believes that this fact affords a ready solution of various marvels which have been narrated touching the power of "mesmerized" subjects to distinguish a piece of money which had been held in the mes- merizer's hands, or a glass of water in which his finger had been immersed. It has recently been proposed to apply Prof. Weber's method of estimating the re- lative acuteness of the tactile sense in dif- ferent parts of the body, to the determination of the degree of anaesthesia or of hyper- aesthesia, in patients affected with these dis- orders. Thus it was found by M. Brown- Sequard that in one case of nearly complete anaesthesia of the lower extremities, the pa- tient only felt a single impression on the skin of his legs, when the points of the com- passes were from 10 to 20 centim. apart; the normal "limit of confusion" for this portion of the surface being from 3 to 5 centim. In another case of slighter anaesthesia, the " limit of confusion" in the same part was from 9 to 15 centim. And in a third case of very slight anaesthesia, it was from 6 to 7 centim. In a case of hyperaesthesia, on the other hand, which accompanied paralysis of the motor power, the patient could perceive the distinctness of the two points on the foot, when they were separated to the distance of only 5 millim., although the normal " limit of confusion " in that part was from 25 to 30 millim. The sensibility to pain, in this case, was as much exaggerated as was the tactile sensibility. Of the depravation of tactile sensibility, manifested in a variety of morbid phenomena, — such as the sense of heat or even of burning (without any real elevation of temperature), of formication, of tickling, of itching, &c, — it must suffice here to remark, that this, like the preceding affections, may be due to causes acting on the peripheral nerves, or on the nervous centres, or on the connecting trunks. Of the latter we have a good example in the formication which generally succeeds complete anaesthesia, when a nerve has been pressed upon for a time, and the pressure is then re- moved. W. B. Carpenter, * See Dr. Gueneau de Mussy's Cases of Poisoning by Lead at Claremont, in Dublin Quarterly Medical Journal, May, 1849.