URETHRA. 12.59 similar kind. The prostatic part of the ure- thra evinces signs of disease in severe attacks of clap. The glands of Cowper are sometimes in- flamed, independent of gonorrhoea, and be- come indurated ; or they occasionally suppu- rate. Ulceration of the urethra may arise from common and specific causes. In the latter category, chancres take the first rank ; these can only occur in the anterior part of the canal, and are generally found at the urethral orifice. Ulceration, independent of specific cause, is sufficiently common : thus, it may arise spontaneously, or as the consequence of stric- ture, or foreign bodies in the canal, as calculi, pieces of bone, bougies, &c. Spontaneous ulceration of the urethra is exceedingly rare ; it is not mentioned, usually, by writers on the diseases of the urethra. 1 have met with one instance of it myself: in this case three suc- cessive attacks of ulceration had occurred, which terminated in urinary fistulas, one an- terior to the scrotum, one in the perinaeum, and one in the vicinity of the tuber ischii. They were each preceded by rigors, and other signs of fever, and were accompanied by much constitutional disturbance; no stricture, or other appreciable disease of the urethra what- ever, had preceded the ulcerative process. Ulceration behind a stricture is very com- mon ; it depends on inflammation attacking the part as the result of long continued irritation. A stricture itself sometimes becomes the seat of ulceration, when bougies and catheters are used with violence for its cure. It also happens, though rarely, that spontaneous ulcer- ation of the stricture occurs, by which the stricture is cured. Sir Benjamin Brodie re- lates an instance of this. Ulceration consequent on tubercular deposit now and then occurs in the urethra, but only in cases where tuberculosis prevails over the entire urinary apparatus.* An instance of this description occurred to Mr. Robinson of Peckham, in a man who had been the subject of extensive tuberculosis in the urinary and genital organs. The disease appears to attack the follicles. Cancerous ulceration attacks the male urethra in carcinoma of the glans penis and other parts of the organ. Sloughing of the urethra, as a consequence of stricture and violent catheterisation, often leads to the destruction of a considerable por- tion of the canal. In severe cases of small pox, pustules are not unfrequently found in the urethral mem- brane. Abscesses.— As a consequence of inflam- mation, abscesses form in connection with the urethra: they may be acute or chronic : sometimes they communicate with the urethra, but frequently they have no such commu- nication. Abscesses may take place in any part adjacent to the canal: thus, in severe gonorrhoeas, suppuration in the spongy body from inflammation of contiguous parts is not very uncommon ; the same also is occasion- ally met with in the perinseum, in Cowper's glands, and even in the prostate. Abscesses are not unfrequently met with as the conse- quence of injury to the urethra from blows or tails upon the part. In all such cases the abscess communicates with the canal, and frequently, if not generally, is attended with extravasation of urine. The most common forms are those depend- ing on stricture ; they are preceded by ulcer- ation or sloughing, which generally takes place behind the seat of stricture. Syme thinks that ulceration of the urethra is se- condary to the formation of matter, which is external to the urethra, and precedes the ul- ceration. Abscesses now and then form in the vicinity of the urethra without any direct, or indirect communication with the canal ; this happens occasionally in cachectic states of the constitution, in which abscesses are not unfrequentin the vicinity of other mucous out- lets, as the rectum. When these are opened, the matter is disgustingly foetid, and is strongly impregnated with an urinary odour, although no urine has become mixed with it, no breach having occurred in the urethral membrane. One of the most common forms of abscesses connected with the urethra arises from in- flammation of the lacunae during a severe attack of gonorrhoea. Under these circum- stances the orifice of the lacuna, the subject of the disease, probably becomes closed by adhesive inflammation, a small, round, indo- lent tumour is formed in the direction of the spongy body, or in the perinteum. Ulcera- tion or bursting into the urethral canal often occurs, and the urine escapes into the sac, causing increase of inflammation ; and now distinct suppuration having taken place, fluctuation becomes evident, and either the matter escapes externally by ulceration, or the surgeon is induced to puncture it with a lancet. Tubercles. — Louis states that he has rarely examined the urethra of tuberculous subjects. Rayer, however, quotes two cases, one of which he witnessed himself, and the other was communicated to him by Vernois. The former occurred in a man thirty-six years of age, who had tubercles in his kidneys, testicles, and prostate ; the latter in a boy, aged twelve, with tubercles in the kidneys and on the sur- face of the peritoneum ; in this case the whole urethra was apparently affected ; in the other, only two inches and four lines of the vesical end were diseased. Ricord presented to the Academy of Me- dicine* a curious specimen of an urethra completely studded with miliary tubercles. It was removed from a man who had undergone the operation of castration for tubercular deposit in the testicle some years previously. The prostate contained a tubercular excava- tion. See Eokitausky. * Se'auce du 2 Avril.