TESTICLE (NORMAL ANATOMY). 977 cated by an albuminous fluid, having the ordinary properties of the secretions of the other serous membranes. The office of this membrane is to facilitate the movements of the gland, so as to enable it to elude pressure and escape violence. In some adult subjects the tunica vaginalis, which was originally a process from the serous lining of the abdomen, still retains its con- nexion with that cavity. When the com- munication is free, the sac is very liable to receive a protrusion of some of the contents of the abdomen, and become the seat of con- genital hernia. Sometimes the communica- tion continues through a contracted tubular canal, which, though too narrow to admit the transit of any of the viscera, is open to the passage of fluid. In other cases the oblitera- tion is partial, one or more isolated serous sacs being left along the cord. It more often happens, however, that after the upper aper- ture of this process has closed a considerable part of it below remains unobliterated, so that the tunica vaginalis extends for some distance upwards in front of the cord. Frequently, also, although the obliteration is complete, remains of the prolongation may still be found in the form of a slender whitish filament, or fibrous process, which is lost in the areolar tissue in the anterior part of the cord, but may sometimes be traced as far as the tunica vaginalis. A small body of an irregular shape and variable size, and of a pale red or pinkish hue, is commonly found attached, often by a thin pedicle, either to the upper extremity of the testicle, or at the angle where the tunica vaginalis passes from the body of the gland to the epididymis. It is composed of a dupli- cative of this membrane, containing some fine areolar tissue and a number of small vessels. It occasionally contains a little fat. I have seen this little body in the testicle of the foetus whilst in the abdomen, and, in early life, it is often of proportionally larger size, and of a deeper red colour than in the adult. It is quite distinct from the pedunculated cysts often found attached to the head of the epididymis. This little appendage to the tunica vaginalis seems to correspond with, and to be a type of, the remarkable omental process attached to the superior part of the testicle in the Rodentia and other animals. That it is an unimportant structure in the adult, is shown by its being frequently want- ing. It may be of use, however, by slightly increasing the secernent serous surface. The tunica Albuginea, or Tunica Propria, is a dense, tough, inelastic membrane, composed almost solely of white fibrous tissue, analogous to the sclerotic coat of the eye. It completely invests the body of the testicle, but not the epididymis. Its external surface is covered by the tunica vaginalis reflexa, to which it intimately adheres. This tunic is divisible into two layers, which can be separated only by a tedious dissection, but which in certain animals may be detached without difficulty. The branches of the spermatic artery and VOL. IV. veins ramify in the substance of the tunica albuginea, in canals bearing in their arrange- ment some analogy to the sinuses of the dura mater, which membrane the outer layer is supposed to resemble. The smaller vessels are chiefly distributed on the inner layer, which owing to its vascularity has been com- pared to the pia mater investing the brain. At the postero-superior border of the testicle, and a little to its outer side, the tunica albu- ginea forms an internal projecting body or process, which lodges the blood-vessels and a portion of the glandular structure of the tes- ticle, called the rete testis. This body is named, after the anatomist who first described it, the Corpus Highmori. It has since, how- ever, been called by Sir A. Cooper the medi- astinum testis, and he describes it as being formed by the tunica albuginea, which at that part is divisible into three layers. The first layer turns upon the spermatic cord, and unites with the sheath which covers the ves- sels. The second layer unites with a similar layer on the opposite side, and forms a thick substance, between the fibres of which inter- stices are left for blood-vessels and absorbents, whilst the internal layer, uniting with that on the opposite side, as well as with the preced- ing layer of the tunica albuginea, forms the process called mediastinum, which projects into the testicle between the tubuli, and it is in this substance that the seminal canals of the rete are placed. The mediastinum is therefore composed of two bodies ; the upper placed towards the spermatic cord, the lower towards the centre of the testicle: in the upper are placed the blood-vessels ; in the lower, the canals of the rete. Its length varies from six to eleven lines. II. Glandular or Secreting Structure.— The glandular part of the testicle is very simple, and its tissue is more easily demonstrated than the structure of most other glands. It consists of numerous seminiferous vessels or tubes, supplied with blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. Its colour is a greyish yellow or brown, more or less tinged with blood, and is psder in infants and old men than in adults. The tubes are collected into numerous lobes or lobules, invested by a fine areolar tissue, which, detached from the interior of the tunica albuginea, penetrates the gland, and sends out lateral processes forming septa, which separate and sustain the lobules. These septa at their origin partake of the fibrous character of the tunica albuginea, but as they converge towards the superior border of the testicle, occupied by the corpus Highmori, they become finer, and are gradually resolved into a delicate areolar tissue. The septa are traversed by numerous blood-vessels, which minutely divide in them before being distributed on the semi- niferous tubes. Sir A. Cooper states, that the inverted portion of the tunica albuginea, forming the mediastinum testis, sends forth numerous ligamentous cords, some of which pass to the anterior edge of the testis ; whilst others form shorter processes to support and invest the lobes, being met by similar liga- 3 R