975 TERATOLOGY. aliquanJo duo separati integri embryones fue- rint, qui dein contingcntes et compressi, par- tibus eonim nonnullis destructis, aliis coalitis et commixtis, concrescerent in unum novum compositum corpus; ea vero, quae vel defectu partium vel insolita structura monstra sunt, non ita fieri ut prius integri et naturales em- bryones fuerint, qui deinde per causas acci- dentales ad generationem non pertinentes mutilati vel transmutati fuerint; sed necesse esse, ut utraque monstrorum genera a primis suis initiis jam ejusmodi monstra fuerint." If we are right in not admitting the exist- ence and the fusion of two distinct germs, we necessarily adopt the opinion that only one germ has been formed, and that in this excess of formative power lies the cause and origin of every monstrous duplicity. Mr. Allan Thompson demonstrated, in coincidence with Wolff', Von Baer, and Reichert, as may be seen in the wood-cut {Jig. C29.), that Fig. G29. From a fowl's egg after sixteen or eighteen hours' in- cubation. Magnified four times, a, the germinal area of the cicatricnla ; b, the transparent area, containing two primitive traces of embryos; c c, primitive grooves of the double embryonic trace, on each side of which are seen the laminae dorsales. {After A. Thompson.') upon one yolk, and in one germinal mem- brane or blastodermatic vesicle, there may be formed, in birds, two primitive grooves, which, in their ulterior increment, shall probably form a double monster, as may be seen in a goose's egg, after five days' incubation, represented after Allan Thompson, inj£g.630. By the for- mation of such a double primitive groove in a single ovum, we may explain the origin of the principal types of double monsters; and on this point a recent observation of Valentin seems particularly worthy of notice, viz. that in which an injury, inflicted on the caudal ex- tremity of an embryo on the second day, was found, on the fifth, to have produced the rudiments of a double pelvis and four in- ferior extremities. But if we admit this cause for those large and principal types, we must acknowledge that it is insufficient for the heteradelphs, and for all those cases in which, the body remaining single, some parts are Fig, 630. I i h k >t i / Double embryo removed from a goose's egg after fve days' incidmtion. ' Magnified four times, g, the common heart; h, rudiments of the superior, ?', of the inferior extremities; h, the common ce- phalic fold of the amnios; 1, the caudal folds. {After A. Thompson.) double. For these the excess of formative power is the only explanation we can give. We understand, under this name, not the nisus jbrmativus of the ancient physiologists, w orking as a Deus ex machina, but the physical and vital metamorphoses materia?, to which the formation of a new being ought to be attri- buted. Those who are fond of the modern nomenclature may name it, if it pleases them, typical or organic power. But enough, we admit such a power, of whatever name it may be, and contend further, that different degrees or quantities of excess lie at the origin of all the cases of double monsters, the degree of excess determining in each the degree of duplicity. If a certain excess of power be admitted capable of producing any one case of duplicity, other amounts of excess may be believed capable of producing all the other cases which differ from it only in degree ; and I meant to have proved, in my monograph, and in the succinct survey I have given of double mon- sters in this Article, that all double monsters may be referred to differences in degree of deviation from the normal singleness. But in many double monsters we see excess in one part and defect in another, so that we must suppose, in our hypothesis, that in these cases the power, more or less excessive in quantity, is also wrongly distributed. Nor is this inconceivable ; for since, in the normal developemental power, we must imagine at least two elements, quantity and distribution, and must acknowledge that, for the attain- ment of a perfect result, the quantity must be distributed in definite proportions to each part, so it is not improbable that, in certain circumstances of fault in the ovum, a normal or an excessive power may be distributed dis- proportionately in the several parts. To sum up, therefore, our reasons for re- jecting the hypothesis of fusion of ova in