H32 VES1CUL.E SEMINALES. deferentia, which, as may be seen by reference to the comparative anatomy cited above, is the case with all the lower animals readily procurable, alive, and in functional activity, in this country. The best evidence that com- parative anatomy affords on the subject is, that, in the elephant, vesiculae seminales, join- ing the vas deferens just as in man, coexist with unmistakeable seminal reservoirs. If the vesiculae were merely receptacles of semen their presence here would be quite superero- gatory, and contrary to Nature's usual fashion. It adds to the signification of this fact, that the junction of the ducts occurs below the enormous ampulla, that is, between it and the urethra ; so that the ampulla must be filled before any semen could be regurgitated into the vesiculae. Still, as spermatozoa are occasionally found in the human vesiculae seminales, microscopic evidence, of itself, is not able to give us that complete negation of the old and widely spread view of the functions of the vesiculae which I have ventured upon above. And here the acute observations, unaided by the microscope, of the immortal Hunter, of themselves suf- ficient to prove this negation almost to a certainty, afford such an accession of proof as cannot fail to be convincing. He examined the vesiculae in several subjects in which one testicle had been extirpated a long time before death, and he found in every case that the vesicula of the castrated side was as full as that of the other. One of the cases examined by him was a married man in whom he had ex- tirpated the left testicle a year before his death. " On examining the body, the vesiculae were both found nearly full, more especially that on the left side, which might have been acci- dental." To remark that the vesicula of the castrated side was fuller than the other seems to be proving too much (he observed the same in one other case) ; but the rest of his cases show clearly that this was, as he says, accidental. These invaluable observations of Hunter, together with his comparison of the thick brownish mucus found in the vesiculae, with the extremely different, milky, slightly viscid semen in the vas deferens of the same subject, and the contrast observable in the two fluids by aid of the microscope, — a few scattered spermatozoa or none at all in the one, crowded myriads in the other, — lead irresistibly to the conclusion that the vesiculae seminales are not reservoirs of semen. 2dly, They form part of the generative ap- paratus. This is pretty clearly j proved by Hunter, by observations made on those animals that have periods of rut or sexual excitement alternating with periods of sexual quiescence or impotency, such as the stag, the mole, and the land-mouse. In these animals the vesiculae seminales, in common with the testicles, pro- state gland, &c, are exceedingly small during the period of impotence, and enlarge enor- mously and rapidly for the season of rut. In the mole they are hardly discernible in v,inter, but becomeenormously large in spring. Conclusive, however, as this proof appears, prima facie, to be, it is somewhat weakened by the fact that much the same thing happens, in various animals, to other parts which would scarcely be enumerated as belonging to the generative apparatus, such as the horns of the stag, the comb of the cock, &c. Yet, adding to the fact of this periodic enlargement and diminu- tion the anatomical position and connections of the vesiculae, together with their absence in the female, there is constituted a very satisfactory proof that they form part of the male generative apparatus. These conclusions, however, merely bring us two steps nearer to a definite knowledge of the exact office fulfilled by the organs in ques- tion. I now proceed to adduce such other ob- servations as I have been able to make, or have found upon record, as may aid in forming an hypothesis as to their positive function, or may appear interesting. The mucus found in the vesiculae is, as will readily be admitted from what has been said above, undoubtedly secreted by their glandular parietes. This is still better proved by a case of Hunter's, where, as a congenital defect, they had no outlet (nor inlet), and yet were full of mucus. This case shows also that they have the power of re-absorbing their secretion, or at least renders it highly probable. A mucus in all respects similar is usually found in the part of the vas deferens imme- diately contiguous to the junction of the duct of the vesiculae. This is very probably se- crete;! by the walls of this part of the vas — in the horse there is no doubt of it. The mu- cus of the vesiculae is very thick and viscid in all animals, but more so in some than in others. I have examined it carefully in the guinea- pig, in which animal it is remarkably thick ; but there is a difference, in this respect, be- tween that which is near the outlet and that which is at the fundus, it being thickest in the former position and gradually thinner towards the latter. It is transparent, granular, and has a faint opaline blue colour. I found that it rapidly solidified upon being squeezed out of the vesiculae, and that too even when not exposed to the air and when not subjected to any remarkable diminution of temperature, when lying, in fact, in the urethra of the animal just killed. The mucus contained in the vesiculae also solidified more though slowly — that in the fundus most slowly, and the rest in gradual progression up to that near the outlet. In opening the abdomen of a guinea- pig, it is almost impossible to avoid com- pressing the vesiculae, and probably from this cause a considerable quantity of the mucus is forced into the urethra, where I always found it forming a solid mass as hard and elastic as the cartilage of a ray-fish, and moulded to the shape of the urethra: this within a few minutes after the death of the animal. Now, this is just the contrary to what, according to Hunter, is the case with emitted semen, which becomes more and more fluid under exposure. I was, however, highly interested to observe that if the vasa deferentia and vesiculae be compressed at the