THORAX. 102-i may be either placed one above the other, or side by side. In the former case the up- permost nucleus is the larger ; in the latter, both may be symmetrical and of equal size, or what is more common, they may be of un- equal magnitude. It may occasionally present more than two osseous points. Albinus found three in one subject, and four in another.* Mr.Quain has a preparation in Uni- versity College, where the very unusual num- ber of six {fig. 660. c. V.) are to be seen. In this case, where there is a plurality of osseous points, the largest are generally situated alone; exceptions to this rule are very rare. Ossification of the body, or the 2nd, 3rd, 4>th, and 5th pieces. — The osseous nuclei which enter into the composition of the body of the sternum have generally a rounded form when they are single, and are situated in the middle line ; where they are in pairs or are placed laterally, they are more elongated, but smaller, and appear to represent only the half of one of the single nodules. The second piece has not often more than a single granule (b. 2, c. 2'.), but the rest are frequently formed from two nuclei, which are placed laterally to one another (c 3', 4'.), and not vertically as occurs in the first piece. These different osseous points are always so arranged as to be situated between two costo-sternal articulations, so that a portion of the sternum is developed in each of the intervals comprised between the ribs. The last piece is the only exception, being com- mon to the articulation of the 6th and 7th ribs. There are, therefore, four primitive pieces of the body of the sternum (b. 1, 2, 3, 4.), and each of these is sometimes formed by one point of ossification; at other times by two lateral points. The first piece may be formed of one or many ossific points, which may be arranged vertically as well as laterally To" the centres of ossification here described, M. Brechet f has added two small epi-sternal granules, whose position is sufficiently shown by the indication of them, fig. 660. at d**. They occur only at rather advanced periods of life, but they do not appear to be constant. Union of the points of ossification of the body of the Sternum.—In considering the union of the different parts which compose the body of the sternum, it is necessary to make a distinc- tion between the lateral conjunction—that is, the union of the osseous points which are situated on each side of the median line— and the vertical conjunction, or the union of the pieces of the sternum properly so called. The lateral conjunction, or the union of these osseous germs, which form a pair in the same interval, always precedes the vertical conjunc- tion. The vertical conjunction, or the union of the different pieces of the body of the sternum * Cruveilhier, Descrip. Anat. 8vo. 1840. Lond. p. 87. f Recherches sur Diffe'rentes Pieces du Sque- lettedes Animaux Vertebres, &c. in "Annalesdes Sciences Naturelles." 2de Serie, t. 10. (Zoologie) p. 91. together, commences with the two inferior portions. After this union, the body of the bone consists only of three parts. The 2nd piece then unites with the lower: the sternal foramen is formed sometimes at the junction of these last mentioned parts, sometimes at the place where the two lateral points of the 4th and of the 3rd portions of the body are united. If the interruption to the progress of ossification should occur at the point where the lateral parts of two sternal pieces would meet, the foramen is likely to have con- siderable size ; for it may be the result of an "arrest of development" proceeding from four centres each constituting a part. {Fig. 660. d.) The union of the divisions of the body of the sternum takes place precisely in the inverse order of their appearance In fact the appearance of the osseous points proceeds from above downwards, while their union proceeds from below upwards : a fact which verifies the assertion, that the order of development of osseous points is not always correlative to the order of junction. The lowest or 5th piece is joined to the 4th soon after puberty; the 4th and the 3rd are united, between 20 and 30 years of age; and the body of the sternum is usually not completed- by the junction of the 3rd piece to the 2nd before 35 or 40 years. Lastly, the 1st division does not in general join the rest of the sternum at any period ; but should its union happen to take place, it is only to be met with in advanced age. Of the ossification of the appendix.—This is generally accomplished by one nodule. Some- times there are two ; and then they are rarely symmetrical. The process commences in the upper part of the cartilage, and very rare'y extends through the whole. The time of ap- pearance of the osseous point is extremely variable. Sometimes it is visible towards the 3rd or 4th year; sometimes not until the 12th or even the 18th year; according to the observation of Beclard, between the 2nd and 18th years. From the 40th to the 50th year, and some- times later, the appendix becomes united to the body of the sternum. From the varieties of ossification or development of the sternum, it will be evident that it is impossible to assign to it a limited number of osseous points. Of thr Ribs.— The ribs (Costa: from ens- todes *) extend from the dorsal portion of the vertebral column to the sternum, form- ing arches which correspond to the lateral segments of the chest. About one sixth of the ribs are cartilaginous, and the rest os- seous. The osseous portion is the rib pro- perly so called ; the cartilaginous portion is named the costal cartilage. The ribs are 24 in number, 12 on each side ; but cases occasionally occur in which this number is augmented by the addition * As if they were guardians of those principal organs of the animal machine, the heart and lungs. —Munro: The Anatomy of the Human Bones, p. 234. Edingb. 1726.