J 462 VISION. The characteristic of Hy perch romatopsy is that of attaching colours not merely to objects wjhich, according to ordinary vision, possess them, but also to other objects which have no pretensions to them, and this to an extent scarcely credible. It does not appear that the same colours always attach to the same objects with different individuals ; on this point there is considerable diversity, but as the account published by Dr. Sachs of his own perceptions is the most minute which has appeared, we shall take it as the ground of the following description :— The objects to which colours especially connect themselves in this condition of vision are, figures, dates, the days of the week, the letters of the alphabet, and musical notes. These colours are not all equally distinct: the clearest are yellow, different shades of pure white and blueish white ; the less clear are orange, red, dull white, dark blue, brown and green. Black only attaches itself to one of the letters of the alphabet. This morbid sensibility to colours thus displays itself: — A and E are red, but the first has more of the vermillion tint, the second most of the rose. I is white, O orange, U black, and is the only example of black; UE or U is white, so is M and N. C is of a pale ash colour. D is yellow. F of a dull white. H a blueish ash colour. K approaches deep green. S is of deep blue, and W is brown. Musical notes indicated by the names of the letters £0 ^ jf; et caetera, present gene- rally the same colours as these ; however whilst in the alphabet, 13 and G appear almost colourless, the Si flat appears of an ash grey, and the Sol of an uncertain green. Of figures, 0 is almost transparent, of a pale and uncertain yellow, 1 of an undecided white, 2 of an uncertain tint, 3 almost ash coloured, 4 minium red, 5 yellow, 6 indigo, 7 blueish white, 8 brown, 9 almost deep green. The numbers composed of several figures take the colours of the last forming them. 0 does not change the colours of the figures to which it is joined, but gives to them a certain appearance, whilst a figure often repeated in the same number causes the colour proper to it to increase in intensity. 10, 11, 100, 110 and 111 are white ; the first of them re- sembles white glass, the second is milk-colour, the third semi-transparent white ; the two last perfect white. 14, 24, 40, 44, 400 and 440 are red, but 15, 25, 50, 55, 500, 555 and 1000 are yellow; why the 1000 is yellow whilst 100 is white we do not understand, as the addi- tional 0 does not account for it Sunday, is to the eyes of this conscientious observer, white slightly tinged with yellow. Monday, another shade of white ; the co- lour of Tuesday is obscure and undecided. Wednesday is yellow ; Thursday is of a yellowish green, verging towards orange. Friday of a dull white, and Saturday is of a blueish ash colour. It is stated that the abnormal sensations of colour are so intimately connected with these objects, that some can only be seen without them by a strong mental effort, and that in the case of others this does not suffice. In the present state of our knowledge we are not in a position to offer any satisfactory explanation of this singular anomaly of vision. That its seat is not in the eye but in the sensorium is however most probable, and in this opinion Dr. Wartmann concurs. More extended opportunities for observations will doubtless throw additional light on what must be regarded as a very curious subject. Anorthopia (a, not; 6p8bs, straight; o<\/is, vi- sion).— This is a condition of vision far from uncommon, and is characterised by the in- dividuals subject to it being unable to discern when objects are not parallel one to the other, and is often accompanied by a want of ability to distinguish whether objects are symme- trical. Such persons are incapable of drawing objects correctly; a house will be sketched with its proportions wrong and leaning on one side, and a figure will be equally unna- tural, yet the artist wi 1 be sublimely un- conscious of any defects. They are unable to discern whether pictures are straight on the walls, or blinds drawn parallel with the window frame; Negroes are very subject to this peculiarity of vision. Nothing is more common than to see them, when mark- ing out the ground-plan of a house, path, or boundary wall, draw the lines as awry as possible, and yet persist that they are quite straight, nor can they be convinced to the contrary. It has appeared to us that the persons in whom this condition of vision existed in a marked degree, were charac- terised by nnsymmetrical heads and faces, but this may have been a coincidence merely. In children who show evidences of anor- thopia, pains should be taken to overcome it by practice and tuition. They should write upon ruled paper at first, and when subse- quently writing on ordinary paper, should always be made to place it straight before them and to write across it by the hand moving on the wrist which should be a fixed point, and seldom moved. In drawing, the correctness of the lines should be ascer- tained hy admeasurement ; and the study of geometry, perspective, and all other branches requiring attention to symmetry are calculated to be of service. Myopia (juuaj, I shut; the eye), commonly called near sight, is an affection almost, if not entirely, confined to civilization. Every eye, when in a state of repose, is adapted by its size, figure, and the refrac- tive powers of its media, to the formation of a distinct image of an object presented before it, at one particular distance. This differs in different individuals; but from 12 to 20 inches may be regarded as the distance at which ordinary print is legible, the shortest distance at which it can be seen clearly and without exertion being from 6 to 8 inches. A person ■who brings small objects nearer to the eyes than C inches is considered myopic.