SLEEP. 69? and was waiting in quiescence for its com- mencement, the expectation alone was suffi- cient to induce the sleep. When the patient had no such expectation, all attempts to pro- duce the sleep, that have come to our know- ledge, have completely tailed. Hence we are strongly inclined to the belief that the rela- tion between the mesmeriser and the som- nambulist is one of a purely mental character, and not the result of any new physical power. With regard to what have been termed the " higher phenomena" of mesmerism, we be- lieve that without regarding them as the result of intentional deception, most of them are capable of receiving a very simple expla- nation on the principles already laid down,— namely, that in the state of somnambulism the senses, or some of them, are often en- dowed with a wonderful acuteness, which causes the mind to be acted on by impressions that might be affirmed to be too faint to be perceived ; and that these impressions will suggest trains of thought, anil give rise to respondent actions, which are frequently of a kind that the will could not produce. As to the reality of the so-called clairvoyance, re- peated personal examination has led us to a negative conclusion. The sources of fallacy arising from the causes we have mentioned, as also from the tendency on the part of the bystanders to afford assistance by asking " suggestive" or " leading questions," and from their disposition to interpret the least shadow of a resemblance into a complete coincidence, are such as greatly to diminish the wonder that a firm belief in the reality of these phenomena should be entertained by many persons of excellent judgment and great discrimination and acuteness as to all ordinary matters. A state in most respects corresponding with natural somnambulism is frequently in- duced by the inhalation of ether, chloroform, and other anaesthetic agents. Instead of being completely comatose, the patient, though quite unconscious of pain, may be awake to ex- ternal impressions received through some of his organs of sense, so as during an operation to obey the directions given him in order to facilitate its performance ; and yet he shall be completely unaware of what has taken place when the effects of the anaesthetic agent have gone off. But even the sense of pain may not be extinguished, and the patient may scream and struggle even more violently than in the waking state ; and yet the whole is subsequently forgotten, oris remembered only as a troubled dream. It was further to be noticed that, during the employment of ether, the state of the nervous system induced by it appeared to be much influenced by the pre- vious degree of confidence entertained by the patient as to its results. The more potent action of the chloroform, however, has pre- vented this influence from being so apparent. (IV. B. Carpenter.) SMELL. — The sense through which we take cognizance of odours. Of the nature of odorous emanations no- thing is certainly known. They are generally supposed to consist of material particles of extreme minuteness, detached from the odor- ous body, and dissolved or suspended in the air. This idea derives its chief support from the facts that most odorous substances are volatile, that is, their loss of weight, when exposed to the air, shows that their particles really diffuse themselves through it, — that most strongly odorous substances are ex- tremely volatile—and that circumstances which increase the volatility of such substances also augment their odorous powers. These gene- ral statements, however, are not without their exceptions. Thus, in the first place, we do not find that many gaseous substances are truly odorous ; the pungent, irritating qualities, by which many of them are distinguished, not being perceived through the sense of smell but through that of touch. Again, although it is true that a great number of volatile liquids are odorous, the strength of their scent bears no constant proportion to their respec- tive volatility ; and water, which is so con- stantly diffused through the air, has no odor- ous property. And with regard to solids, we find that although some of those which are most strongly odorous are also volatile (such as camphor), yet this is not by any means universally the case; for it has been proved by experiment that no diminution in weight can be ascertained to take place in musk or amber, although they have been freely exposed to the atmosphere for many years, and have imparted their perfume to an almost incalculable volume of air. These considerations have led some philosophers to suppose that odorous emanations are not material, but dynamical: — in other words, that the impressions made upon our olfactory organ do not result from the contact of dif- fused particles detached from the odorous body ; but that they are effected by a change propagated through the atmosphere or other medium, in the same manner as sound is pro- duced by undulations that originate in the sonorous body, and are transmitted onwards, through some material medium, to the organ of hearing. There are strong objections, how- ever, to this hypothesis. In the first place, we find that odours are not perceived unless the air, gas, or liquid in contact with the olfactory surface is, or has been, in direct continuity with the odorous body ; the inter- position of any substance which prevents the actual passage of the odoriferous medium being sufficient to prevent the transmission of the odour. This is by no means the case in regard to sound, or to any other agent that is known to be dynamically propagated ; for we find many substances which are capable of conducting these agents, that is, of transmitting their influence through unlimited spaces ; and this may be accomplished in spite of any number of interruptions in their continuity, provided the chain of conducting substances be complete. Thus, sonorous vibrations may be transmitted from air to liquids, from liquids