VEIN. 1393 certain conditions which must occur before coagulation can develop itself. While the blood, itself in a state of health, remains in contact vvitli the lining membrane of healthy blood vessels, coagulation is impossible; but under certain conditions of disease the blood loses its fluidity, and these conditions may either consist in some abnormality of the ves- sel's walls, or in some foreign matters becom- ing mixed with the blood,—the former in- fluence being passive, and the latter an active agent in producing or hastening coagulation. I would here urge the doctrine that the vascular cavity,—the hollows of all the tubu- lar vessels (veins, arteries, and lymphatics), together with the ventricles and auricles of the heart, — constitutes a true serous shut sac, much complicated in form and modified by its peculiar functions, it is true ; but pos- sessing the same anatomical elements, — an epithelial pavement placed upon a sheet of limitary tissue, on the other side of which is situated a nutrient vascular system. I would here urge this view, because it applies with much force to certain questions in venous pathology, ami to few more so than the one under consideration, where arguments by analogy are a desideratum. The lining mem- brane of the veins then is a serous membrane. On the surface of other serous membranes — pleura, pericardium, &c.—plastic effusion con- sists of sheets of lymph, and a certain amount of serum. By analogy we, d priori, conclude that lymph is effused in inflammation on the lining surface of the veins, and this the experi- ments of Gendrin and Hope have established by indisputable proof. That the inflammatory product consists partly of serum as well as lymph is supported by analogy alone ; but if admitted would explain the coagulation of the blood to complete the clot, which is known to be so much facilitated by the ad- mixture of foreign or abnormal secretions. Whatever may be the opinion of the forma- tion of the coagulum, its characters are these : — it consists of concentric laminae, brownish, yellowish, or white, of which the central are the darkest and softest; and sometimes the centre is nearly fluid blood. The density of the entire clot is subject to much variety- The coagulum is moulded to the cavity of the vein, and sometimes present the exact impression of the valves. Mr. Arnott has made an interesting observation with respect to the coagulum, that it extends along the affected vein usu- ally to the next collateral branch, and there abruptly ceases. The true explanation of this circumstance is doubtless that given by Mr. Henry Lee.* " When any portion of a vein is obstructed, the blood is kept at rest between the obstruction and the next collateral branch ; and, if disposed to coagu- late, there is nothing to interfere with such an action. But the case is different as soon as one vein opens into another. A fresh cur- rent of blood is then continually sweeping the * On Phlebitis and Purulent Deposits, by Henry Lee, Lond. 1850, p. 23. VOL. IV. orifice of the obstructed vessel; and even although the blood at this point should have a tendency to coagulate, it is carried on in the course of the circulation, before it can adhere to the sides of the unobstructed vein." The coagulum thus extends towards the heart, beyond the limits of the inflamed por- tion, having a mere mechanical boundary. It extends also at the distal end, but here it becomes gradually attenuated : it often rami- fies into many branches and subdivisions of the veins that are tributary to the one ob- structed, especially where they are not re- lieved by collateral anastomoses. At those points where inflammation has not occurred, anil the coagulation has been favoured by me- chanical circumstances simply, the clot scarcely adheres to the lining membrane of the vein. But the plastic product is not always in the form of a plug, moulded to the cavity of the vein : it sometimes consists of shreds or fringes of lymph, firmly attached to the lining of the vein, and hanging into its cavity, either from the walls or in festoons from the valves.* The walls of the vein, at the same time, undergo change, indicative of the same inflam- matory phenomena, which consists mainly in interstitial plastic deposit among the areolar tissue of the tunics. " So soon as a fibrinous plug of this de- scription is established, the red and violet speckled colouring abates in intensity, and the internal membrane, losing its smoothness and polish, assumes a dull velvety or slightly puckered appearance. The external mem- brane appears thukened, turgid, and soon becomes adherent to the cellular tissue, which in its turn has been rendered firmer and paler from the effusion of plastic lymph. Both membranes are still readily distinguishable, and even separable, from each other ; the con- sistency of their texture is however impaired, and they are easily torn. In this state of things a vein, when cut asunder, does not col- lapse, even after the plug has been removed ; but, on the contrary, its calibre remains open like that of an artery. This is more than ever the case when the surrounding cellular tex- ture has acquired firmness by the condensa- tion of the inflammatory product infused into it, or when it puts on a brawn-like character, and intimately coalesces with the external membrane of the vessel.-p These phaenomena may occur in veins of any size ; and to any extent in an\ particular set of vessels. They occasion obstruction of the circulation in all vessels tributary to the one affected. Of such a condition Phlegmasia alba dolens may be instanced as an example. As regards the cause of plastic phlebitis, or, indeed, of venous inflammation in general, it may be the result either of spontaneous action, or the circulation of poisoned blood— the latter being infinitely the most common * See Cooper and Travers's Essays, Lond. 1818, part i. plate 10. f llasse's Pathological Anatomy, Sydenham So- ciety's translation, Lond. 1846, p. 13. 4 u