SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 82i Branches of the inferior thyroid artery. — a. Arteria cervicalis ascendents.— This branch (arising from the upper convexity of the thy- roid, where that vessel changes its direction to pass downwards and inwards beneath the carotid sheath) passes upwards on the super- ficial surface of the scalenus anticus, parallel and internal to the phrenic nerve. The cer- vicalis ascendens (frequently as large as the thyroid itself) furnishes numerous muscular branches to the levator anguli scapulae, longus colli, rectus capitis anticus major, and to the scaleni muscles, some of which anastomose with branches of the occipital artery; it like- wise gives off spinal branches, which enter the spinal canal along the cervical nerves, and are distributed to the cord, anastomosing both within and without the canal of the vertebra with the vertebral arterj'. By some anatomists the cervicalis ascen- dens is regarded as a branch of the thyroid axis, from which it not unfrcquently arises ; in some rare instances it has originated di- rectly from the subclavian artery. Sometimes it is of very large size, and takes the place of the occipital artery or of the cervicalis pro- funda. b. The inferior thyroid artery furnishes se- veral descending branches, which from their destination may be termed oesophageal, tra- cheal, and bronchial. c. Terminal or thyroid branches. — The inferior thyroid artery becomes extremely tortuous as it approaches the thyroid gland ; at last it divides into two or three large branches, which enter the gland by its deep surface, and w hich, in the substance and around the margin of the gland, communicate freely with the corresponding artery from the oppo- site side, and with the superior thyroids of the external carotid. The reader is now referred to the article Scapular Region, in which the remaining branches of the thyroid axis, viz. the supra- scapular and transverse cervical arteries, have already been followed to their ultimate distri- bution ; it will be only necessary in this place to describe the cervical portions of these two collateral branches. 2. Supra-scapular artery (Arteria. transver- salis humeri). — This artery is at first directed downwards, but having reached the shelter of the clavicle, it passes nearly horizontally out- wards to the superior costa of the scapula. It crosses over the phrenic nerve, the scalenus anticus muscle, and the subclavian vein ; it then runs outwards in contact with the vein, and bound to it by cellular tissue ; it next passes across the subclavian artery and bra- chial plexus of nerves, and finally arrives at the supra-spinal fossa, which it enters by passing over the superior ligament of the scapula. The supra-scapular artery has, anterior to it, the sterno-mastoid muscle, the clavicle,and the omo-hyoid and trapezius muscles. It accu- rately corresponds to the base of the supra- clavicular space. 3. Arteria Transvcrsalis Colli. — This artery is larger than the preceding ; from its origin it passes transversely outwards over the sca- lenus anticus muscle and the phrenic nerve ; at the outer edge of this muscle, it inclines backwards and runs through the midst of the branches of the brachial plexus. The artery at this stage crosses the summit of the omo- clavicular triangle, above the level of the subclavian artery. In the space between the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius, the trans- verse cervical artery gives off a large branch, the cervicalis superficialis, which is destined for superficial structures, integuments, pla- tysma, glands, and superficial layer of mus- cles. The cervicalis superficialis ascends in the posterior superior triangle of the neck, through a chain of conglobate glands, and through the meshes of the cervical plexus of nerves, anas- tomosing with branches of the occipital and vertebral arteries, and passing finally under cover of the trapezius, to which it distributes numerous twigs, as also to the levator anguli scapulae and splenius. After this the continued trunk of the trans- verse cervical artery is usually called ])ostcrior scapular artery, which has elsewhere been described. The posterior scapular, and the cervicalis superficialis arteries, very frequently arise se- parately, instead of springing by a common trunk from the thyroid axis; in such cases the posterior scapular is usually given off by the subclavian artery external to the scaleni. IV. Arteria Cervicalis profunda. "1 These ar- V. Supe?'ior Intercostal Artery. J teries (as has been already mentioned) generally arise by a short trunk common to both, from the subclavian in its second stage. An analogy may thus be observed between this trunk and the aortic intercostal arteries; for, like them, it divides into an anterior or intercostal branch (the superior intercostal artery), and a jmste- rior or muscular branch (the cervicalis pro- funda). The cervicalis profunda passes from its origin backwards and upwards, between the transverse process of the last cervical ver- tebra and the first rib. When a supernumerary cervical rib exists, the artery then passes be- tween this hitter and the first dorsal rib. It thus gains the posterior aspect of the neck, and ascends between the spinous and trans- verse processes of the vertebrae, separated from the laminae by the deep layer of muscles, and covered by the great complexus muscle. In this course the cervicalis profunda anas- tomoses with the large muscular branches which descend from the occipital and verte- bral arteries. The deep cervical artery sometimes passes backwards at a higher or lower level than that above specified ; these deviations must be rare, since none of them existed in 40 subjects ex- amined specially with reference to this subject by Cruveilhier. In the extensive tables col- lected by Professor Quain, and which have already been frequently alluded to in this ar- ticle, seventeen instances are given where this artery passed between the first and second rib; in a very few examples, it escaped from