1324 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. do not form nearly as great a projection be- yond the ellipse which would include the whole cranium and the greater part of the face, when seen in profile, as they do in the Negro. Owing to the more perpendicular direction of the alveolar processes, the front teeth of the two jaws are fixed in planes which are nearly or quite parallel to each other. The chief positive distinction of this form of cranium, is the large development of the cranial cavity, and especially the fullness and eleva- tion of the forehead, in proportion to the size of the face; indicating the predominance of the intellectual powers over those merely instinctive propensities which are more di- rectly connected with sensations. Among European nations, the Greeks have probably displayed the greatest symmetry in the form of the head, in the largest proportion of in- dividuals ; but examples of equal symmetry might be found amongst any of the great group of nations now termed Indo-Atlantidae, and even, as will hereafter appear, in na- tions of entirely different descent. Nearly all of these have acquired a certain amount of civilisation, living by agriculture, and possessing settled habitations ; and among them, or among the offsets which have pro- ceeded from them (as the people of the United States), we find all the nations which have been most distinguished for intellectual advancement, for the successful cultivation of the fine arts, and for the various improve- ments which distinguish the state of civilisa- tion from that of barbarism. To the foregoing general account of the three principal types of cranial conformation, may be added the results of the observations recently made public by Dr. Morton *, as to the capacity of the cranium of different races, measured after the manner adopted by Tiede- mann (p. 1321.). The number of crania ex- amined was 623 ; and they were derived from various races and families, as shown in the following table, which is here given without modification, although the writer (as will hereafter appear) is far from agreeing with Dr. Morton in the classification of these varieties which he has adopted. It appears from this comparison, that the Teutonic race, and the nations chiefly de- rived from it, take the highest rank among those examined in regard to cranial capacity ; whilst the lowest is occupied, not by the Negroes, but by the Hottentots, the Austra- lians, and the ancient Peruvians and Mexi- cans. The Negro race seems to be scarcely or not at all inferior in this particular to the Per- sians, the Bengalees, the Fellahs, the ancient Egyptians, the modern Fellahs, the Chinese, the Polynesians, and the North American In- dians. It must be remarked, however, that the number of crania examined is too small, in some of the families, to admit of a fair aver- age. This, however, it is most important to * Transactions of the American Medical Associ- ation, vol. iii. p. 57. TABLE Showing the Size of the Cranial Cavity in Cubic Inches. Races and Families. MODERN CAUCASIAN GROUP. Teutonic Family. Germans - Engfish - Anglo-Americans Pelasgic Family. Persians ) Armenians > - Circassians J Celtic Family. Native Irish Indostanic Family. Bengalees, &c. - Semitic Family. Arabs Nilotic Family. Fellahs ANCIENT CAUCASIAN GROUP. Pelasgic Family. Grseco-Egyptians Nilotic Family. Egyptians MONGOLIAN GROUP. Chinese Family MALAY GROUP. Malayan Family Polynesian Family - AMERICAN GROUP. Toltecan Family. Peruvians Mexicans Barbarous Tribes. Iroquois Lenapt' Cher. " Shoshone, (AROUS 1RIBI quois ~) rape" f erokee f jshone, &c.J NEGRO GROUP. Native African Family American-born Ne- groes ----- - Hottentot Family - Alforlyn Family. Australians 155 22 161 tr'3 p4'oo 6 91 07 10 I 82 70 84 -92 83 85 79 ■79 >83 observe, that in the skull of largest capacity amongst the races whose average is the lowest, the cubical content is greater than that of the smallest skull among the highest. Thus we see that the largest native African skull contained 99 cubic inches; the largest Ame- rican-born Negro, 89 cubic inches ; and the largest Hottentot and Alforian skulls, 83 cubic inches; whilst, on the other hand, the smallest German skull contained but 70 cubic inches ; the smallest English, 91 inches ; and the smallest Anglo-American, 82 cubic inches. It is worthy of note, too, that the largest Negro skull possesses two inches more capa-