1033 THORAX. times continuous with the sternum, and is sometimes articulated like the cartilages of the other ribs. Cruveilhier found in one sub- ject the 1st rib excessively moveable, because its cartilage, instead of being continuous with the sternum, had its upper edge applied to the side of that bone to which it was united by ligaments, and was ultimately articulated by a narrow extremity immediately above the 2nd rib. 2ndly. The second cartilage is much more angular at its inner extremity than any of the others : it is received into the retreating angle formed by the union of the first, two pieces of the sternum. Sometimes there is an inter- osseous ligament in this joint, running from the angle of the cartilage to the bottom of the cavity, and there are then two synovial cap- sules ; in other cases there is only one, but it is always more marked than in the other joints. The articulations of the 6th and 7th carti- lages, besides the anterior ligaments, have also a chondro- or costo-xiphoid ligament, more or less strong, which crosses with the ligament of the opposite side in front of the ensiform car- tilage, and the lower end of the sternum. Sometimes this ligament only exists for the 7th cartilage ; it is intended not only to strengthen the chondro-sternal articulation, but also to maintain the xiphoid appendix in its place. Connection of the ribs with their cartilages. — The cartilages are almost immoveably united to the ribs, being received into rounded depressions on the ends of the ribs, and their union is maintained only by periosteum, which may be considered to represent their liga- ments. Articulations of the costal cartilages one with the other. — Some of the costal cartilages articulate with each other by their edges. The 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th costal car- tilages do not articulate together, unless the aponeurotic lamella?, sometimes very strong, which form the continuation of the external intercostal muscles, and occupy the whole length of the cartilages, be considered as uniting media. The 6th, 7th, and 8th cartilages, frequently the 5th, and sometimes the 9th, present true articulations with one another. Cartilaginous processes arise from the neighbouring edges and come in contact with each other : there are sometimes two articular faces between the 6th and 7th cartilages. The means of union are some vertical fibres united in bundles, so as to form two ligaments, the one anterior and thicker, the other posterior and thinner. The edges of the articulating surfaces, from the 6th to the 8th or 9th, are lined by sy- novial membrane. The 7th, 8th, and 10th cartilages have not always articular surfaces, but are simply united by vertical ligaments. Ligaments of the sternum (Membranes stcrni, Weitbr.).— The pieces of the sternum are connected by a layer of fibro-cartilage, placed between their contiguous borders ; and, on the anterior and posterior surfaces, liga- mentous fibres may be observed running longi- tudinally, which serve to strengthen their con- nection. They are sometimes called the anterior and posterior sternal ligaments. The longitudinal fibres are mixed with those ra- diating from the costal cartilages, especially in front of the sternum, where likewise they blend with the aponeurosis of the pectoral muscles. The anterior portion has thus most of the accessory fibres, and is rough and irre- gular ; the posterior one is smooth and pearly in its aspect. The muscles of the thorax will be more con- veniently noticed hereafter. Of the Thorax in general. — The ster- num, the ribs and their cartilages, together with the dorsal vertebra?, are so united to- gether as to compose the frame-work of the thorax. (Jig. 662.) Their arrangement is such as collectively to admit of great mobility, and at the same time to protect completely the or- gans of respiration and the heart. How well adapted this mechanism is for protecting those vital organs is well shown by the impunity with which the prize-fighter receives for many hours the trained blows of his antagonist. Although the range of motion between each vertebra and the ribs attached to it, is very limited, yet the whole frame-work of the chest enjoys such mobility, that, by a deep inspiration, its capacity is sometimes more than doubled. This bony frame-work is by no means destined solely to cover the respira- tory organs, for it extends considerably down- wards, composing part of the abdominal walls within which lie the liver, spleen, kidneys, stomach, duodenum, and part of the colon ; hence the distinction between thoracic and diaphragmatic ribs. In fact it will be found that about one half only of the costal surface is destined to compose the thorax. The shade running transversely across the ribs in fig. 632. marks the bottom of the thoracic cavity. In each individual the thoracic cavity cor- responds exactly with the volume of the heart and lungs. But there is no relation between the volume of the lungs and the vigour of the constitution — nor between the size of the ca- vity of the thorax and the amount of air w hich can be respired, as will be hereafter shown. There is likewise no relation between the vo- lume of the thorax and that of the abdominal cavity. No doubt the vigour of aeration in the lungs is at all times exactly commensurate with the vigour of the alimentary canal, so that the one harmonises with the other; but this vigour bears no relation to space or size. A small thorax may in some individuals admit of the inspiration of a greater volume of air than a larger thorax in others. In fact it may be commonly noticed that where there is a large abdomen there is generally a small thorax, and that the volume of air which can be expelled at one effort from the lungs of those who have a large abdomen, is less than from those with a small abdomen. The alimentary canal receives at once a given quantity of food, and there it remains for an indefinite time, the thorax large o>- small, it