1095 THYMUS GLAND. which are united and concentrated in front of the heart, by passing from behind forwards in harmony with corresponding motions of the neighbouring part, becomes the thymus. The structure of these organs is identical with that of the blastoderma (?). Their probable func- tion, namely, to prepare by the action of their nucleated cells, and to throw into the vascular system a matter necessary for the nutrition of the animal during the period of its active growth, a function which the observations and opinions of the majority of physiologists have assigned to them, is also essentially the same with that of the blastoderma." Development of She.—Having now examined the anatomy of the thymus, and traced its development with a view to the exact elucida- tion of its structure, we have next to follow out the successive periods of its growth, in order to determine whether it be an organ having special relation to fcetal or to extra- uterine life. The former alternative was that to which the older anatomists, and even Sir Astley Cooper, inclined; but the correctness of the latter seems now abundantly established. Meckel, Hewson, Cloquet, and Sir A. Cooper himself, all concur in stating that it continues to grow at least up to the end of the first year after birth ; and more recently the evidence accumulated by Mr. Simon from his own ob- servations and those of Hangsted have quite set this important point at rest. The following details have been selected from the copious table of instances contained in Mr. Simon's essay, they show conclusively that the gland does not attain its greatest size for some time after birth, and that after a va- riable period it gradually again diminishes. Thus in the dog, at birth the gland weighs 4'75 grs.; from 3j months to 1^ year after it varies from 360 to 780 grs.; from 3 to 4 years it varies from 150 to 46 grs. In the cat, at birth its weight^e^ grs.; from 19 to37 days after it= 30 to44grs.; 4 to 6 years after=20 to 3grs. In the human foetus of 7 months the gland weighed 33 grs. ; at 8 months 40 grs.; at birth 84 to240 grs.; 9 months after, 270grs.; at 21 years 40 grs. The weight of the thymus is subject to considerable varieties, which pro- bably depend, as Mr. Simon points out, partly on original differences, some individuals hav- ing naturally a larger proportion of thymic structure than others ; partly also on tempo- rary alterations in the activity of the nutrient processes, as is well exhibited in the effect of over-exertion on the thymus of lambs re- marked by Mr. Gulliver ; the size of the gland is known also to diminish when the develop- ment of the muscular system is promoted, it being found to waste away much more rapidly in young oxen used for draught, than in others not so employed. The general conclusion, which the able physiologist from whose work I have drawn so largely adopts, is, I think, truly judicious and accurate ; he estimates the period, during which the thymus persists and is active, not so much according to the space of time which has elapsed, but according to the state of the general functions of the frame : if the assimi- lating processes are active and vigorous, and the supply abundant, and the demand only mo- derate, the gland will be large and will persist long ; if on the contrary the first processes of nu- trition are imperfectly supplied, or if great mus- cular exertion creates a considerable demand, then the thymus ceases earlier to discharge its function and becomes atrophied, because the conditions no longer exist which are favoura- ble to its subsistence. Now it is obvious that in almost every individual these circumstances which so greatly affect the nutrition of the thymus may vary exceedingly, and it is there- fore impossible to state an exact numerical age as the period of the highest development of the gland ; a physiological age may how- ever with much certainty be named, and it is, as Mr. Simon states, " the age of early growth." The date of the earliest appearance of the thymus in the human foetus is still little more than matter of conjecture, it has not been po- sitively detected before about the 9th week, when it is quite distinct to the naked eye, consisting of two lateral elongated portions lying parallel to each other on the upper part of the pericardium. Its structure at this time is distinctly tubulo-vesicular, but there is doubtless an earlier stage, when it corres- ponds exactly to the simple primary tube dis- covered, as before mentioned, in very early mammalian embryos. The epoch of its entirely vanishing is very variable and uncertain " about puberty it seems in most cases to suffer its chief loss of substance, and to be re- duced to a vestigiary form ;" but for several years later, even up to 20 or 25, distinct rem- nants may still be discovered of its structure amid the areolar tissue of the mediastinum. Comparative Anatomy.— In presenting a sketch of the comparative anatomy of the thymus, I can but follow the elaborate ac- count given by Mr. Simon. Mammalia.— Among the Quadrumana the thymus has, in the more anthropoid Apes, nearly the same general shape and relations as in the human subject, the cervical portion seems to be variously developed in different genera. Among Cheiroptera the gland seems to be persistent in the genera Vespertilio and Ga- leopithecus, at least so far as anatomical in- quiry has yet proceeded ; it consists of a thoracic portion embracing the base of the heart, and two cornua ascending parallel to each other on either side of the windpipe In a Bat which I dissected on the 20th of March, and which was then in a wakeful state, I could find no organ which I could positively conclude to be a thymus. On each side, however, of the root of the neck there existed a pretty large yellowish lobulated mass, resembling a good deal the aspect of a conglomerate gland. It consisted of conical lobes which were bounded and defined by a distinct homogeneous membrane exactly re- sembling the limitary tissue ; this was I think continued by reflection from one lobe to an- other, so as to form a common envelope to 4 A 4