949 TERATOLOGY. 3 p 3 closed at a later period than usual. An ex- ample of it is given in my Tabula XXIV. fig. 4. Sometimes the muscles of the anterior abdominal wall are wanting, in which case the convolutions of the intestines may be seen and felt through the skin (Von Amnion). The thoracic and abdominal cavities being open in the first periods of embryogenesis, if this condition persists abnormally, it produces ectopia of the thoracic and abdominal viscera. The aperture through which the ectopia takes place has a constant tendency to close; it shrinks therefore sometimes to a very small opening (Hammer). Sometimes it is closed in the middle, by a band which separates the uncovered viscera into two portions (Hiihner, Wolff). Its principal forms arc : — 1. Fissure of the whole anterior Wall of the Body. a. Complete ectopia of the thoracic and abdo- minal viscera, which lie bare upon the anterior surface of the body, to which is generally added a cloaca. {Fig. 600.) Fig. 600. Child with ectopia viscerum. a, liver; b, heart; c, c, lung ; d, stomach ; e, spleen ; intestinal canal; g, kidney; h, chorion ; i, am- nion ; k, umbilical cord; m, placenta. The skeleton is very imperfect, in this com- plete ectopia ; the thorax open, and the ver- tebral column misfonned by scoliosis.— This may produce, as often met with in calves, a complete inversion of the body, so that through distortion of the spine, the head is placed between the hind feet. This is what Gurlt calls sehistozomus rejlexus, and what I represent in Jig. G01. Fig. 601. Sehistozomus rejlexus (Gurlt). 2. Fissure of the Thorax. Ectopia, of the heart. — In the regular evo- lution of the foetus, the opening on the anterior wall of the body closes itself, first at its superior part, so as to cover the thoracic viscera, while a part of the abdominal intes- tines still remain out of their cavity and in the sheath of the umbilical cord. Thus the thoracic cavity is in general already closed, whilst the abdominal is yet open. Neverthe- less, it sometimes happens that the abdominal cavity is completed, and that its viscera are perfectly enclosed, whilst the thorax remains open, and the heart is placed on its anterior surface. In this malformation, called ectopia cordis, the heart has no pericardium, and is situated on the median line of the anterior wall of the thorax ; it is more or less rounded, and in general well formed, as may be seen in Jig. 595. The sternum is wanting (Tournelle, Norand, Sandifort) ; divided into two parts (Buttner, Martinez) ; or formed only by the manubrium (Manchardt). It is rarely com- plete ; but this is often the case when the heart protrudes at the neck (Muse, Eubon- nais, Breschet), or in the epigastric region (Wilson). During foetal life, the ectopia of the heart is immaterial, but soon after birth it causes the death of the child. Cruveilhier published some interesting observations on the move- ments of the heart in a case in which life was protracted for a longer time than usual.* * British and Foreign Review, No. XXVI. October, 1841, p. 533.