121G TUNICATA. with the anal orifice (see fig. 306. B,f, loc. cit.). The sac is more compressed towards its lower part ; and here are placed, externally to it, the heart on the left, and the stomach and the other viscera on the right side, the anus opening upwards into the cloaca. On its sides and front the sac is perforated by four rows of narrow, vertical, irregularly oval holes or spiracles, about sixteen in each row, placed at less than the diameter of one of them apart from each other. Through these the water, which flows constantly in at the mouth when its orifice is open, is apparently conveyed to the vacant space between the sac and the mantle, and it then escapes by the anal orifice. The branchial tissue is extremely thin between the stigmata, but their edges are thickened, and are lined with closely set cilia, which by their motion cause the current of water. When these are in full activity, the effect upon the eye is that of delicately toothed, oval wheels, revolving continually in a direction ascending on the right and descending on the left of each oval, as viewed from without ; but the cilia themselves are very much closer than the apparent teeth, and the illusion seems to be caused by a fanning motion made by them in regular and quick succession, producing the appearance of waves, and each wave an- swering to the apparent tooth. The spaces between the rows of spiracles are of much more substance than the intervals between the spiracles in a row ; filamentous processes are stretched from them across the side cavi- ties, attaching the branchial sac to the mantle : these spaces also support finger-like processes, about eight in a row, that project nearly at right angles into the central cavity. The large short tubes of the branchial and anal orifices have each five or six obscure marginal indentations, and can be drawn in and closed at the will of the animal. Within and at the bottom of the branchial tube are nu- merous, simple, tentacular filaments of different lengths. The particles drawn into the bran- chial sac by the current of water are seldom stopped by these tentacles, but lodge some- where on" the branchial net-work. A lively animalcule will sometimes disengage himself by struggling, and dart about in the cavity until he lodges on some other part; or if a morsel is found unsuitable, it is ejected by the funnel's being closed, and the branchial sac suddenly contracted vertically. Mostly, however, whatever part the food lodges on, it travels from thence horizontally with a steady slow course towards the front of the cavity, where it reaches a downward stream of similar materials ; and they proceed to- gether, receiving accessions from both sides, and enter at last, at the bottom, the oesopha- gus; which is a small flattened tube, carrying them,without any effort of swallowing, towards the stomach : the oesophagus takes a sharp curve upwards and backwards before arriving there. " It is extraordinary," observes Mr. Lis- ter, "that the particles pass along so near to the spiracles, with their cilia in full activity, with- out being at all affected by them." " I have, says he, " in some positions, seemed to catch a glimpse of a membrane suspended within, too transparent to be commonly seen. One may imagine the water to pass to the spiracles strained through the meshes of such a mem- brane, and the food to be carried along it by invisible villi; but this is mere conjecture." The stomach runs backward horizontally. When seen from the side, its anterior portion has an inflated appearance, and, when from below, it seems to possess two lateral lobes. The liver has an ochreous tint, and envelopes the anterior portion of the stomach. The in- testine on leaving the stomach rises, and then bends forward with a sigmoid flexure, and ter- minates in an ascending rectum and sphincter. Transparent vessels ramify along a part of the intestine, and meet at a collection of globular bodies, from whence, in one indivi- dual, two flattish lobes were observed to extend backwards. These globular and lobate bodies probably constitute t\\egenerative organs. From the meeting of the above-mentioned vessels two branches run ; one downwards and backwards, but under the stomach, the other forwards. From their direction Mr. Lis- ter supposed them to communicate with a main stream of blood near the heart. The circulation in these animals is very interesting, and easily discerned through their transparent tissues. The blood circulating in one individual of the group descends by the peduncle into the common root-like stem, and penetrates into the next member of the group, so that there exists in these Ascidians a com- mon circulation, having as many centres and motive organs as there are animals growing on the same stem. The blood-globules are very numerous, and though not uniform in size or shape, are mostly between ■00025 and •0002 inch in diameter, and approaching to globular. They are easily measured, as in the intervals between the stigmata they pass mostly but one at a time. The creeping tube, which unites the individuals of a group, contains two channels for two separate currents of blood, an upward and a downward one, that are flowing at the same time, and that send off each a branch to every peduncle. The blood then passes into the animal by one current, while another carries it back. One of these canals communicates, at the termination of the peduncle, with the heart, which is placed, as before mentioned, near the bottom of the branchial sac on the left side, and consists of a transparent ventricle or tube, running for- ward and a little downward, in a channel hollowed to contain it. Along the whole length of this tube, a part on one side of its axis seems fixed to the channel, the rest is free and contractile. Mr. Lister observed that when the blood entered the heart from the peduncle, contraction began at the middle of the ventricle, impelling onward the contents of the forepart ; and the contraction of the back part followed in the same direction, so as for the whole to have the effect of one pulsation. The heart was then filled again by a flow from the peduncle. The intervals