1144 VISION. Chillo, near Quito, in South America, from whence the long extended ridge of the volcano of Pichincha is visible. Bonpland had pro- ceeded on an expedition to the volcano, and Humboldt, with others, was somewhat anxiously looking out for him. The Indians of the party recognised the traveller as a white point moving along the face of a black basaltic precipice, before he was discovered by Humboldt and others, who were looking out for him with telescopes (a proof, by the way, of their excellent vision) ; but in a short time the Europeans also were able to distinguish the white moving figure with the naked eye. The weather was clear, and the distance li-8 geographical miles. A small object in motion, however, is more easily discerned than if at rest: by the gradual motion of the imag^' over the retina, the impression upon each part con- tinuing for some time, the effect is the same as if a linear image were formed. Duration of impressions. — A beautiful pro- vision to insure uninterrupted vision, is afforded by the duration of impressions upon the retina, whereby we never lose sight of an object we are viewing, during the necessary winking of the eyelids. M. D'Arcy found that the light of a live coal, moving in a circle, at the distance of 165 feet, maintained its impression upon the retina somewhat more than the seventh part of a second. From the observations of Plateau, it seems that the interval of time, during which the impression retains the same intensity, is more consider- able in proportion as the light is moderated ; the mean duration of the impression excited by all the colours from the instant of their maximum intensity till their entire disap- pearance, being one-third of a second in a dark room, and one-sixth of a second in a light room. If two or more impressions suc- ceed each other at such short intervals that the first has not faded away before the next commences, they run one into another, the eye seeming to receive but a single impression ; as, for example, the appearance of a circle of fire from a revolving burning stick — when it is in reality the combination of many indi- vidual impressions succeeding each other with rapidity : upon this depends many of the most beautiful examples of the pyrotechnic art; from the same cause a flash of lightning ap- pears as a continuous line of light, because the light emitted at any point of the line remains upon the retina until the cause of the light passes over the succeeding points. In order that an object may become visible, it is necessary that the retina should be exposed to its influence for an appreciable time, a fact first pointed out by Lord Bacon, who observes, that notwithstanding the rapidity of the act of vision, a certain time is required for its ex- ercise, which is proved by certain objects, as, lor instance, a musket-ball, being invisible on corroborates Colonel Smith's results: hence it ap • 7+5 pears that the liability of brown is —=Q>, and that red is by far the most fatal colour, green next, then brown, and Austrian grey the least. account of the velocity of their motion; for the flight of the ball, he remarks, is too swift to allow an impression of its figure to be con- veyed to the sight. This subject has been recently investigated with much success by Mr. William Swan*, who arrives at the fol- lowing conclusions. When the eye receives a succession of flashes of equal duration from a light of con- stant intensity, which succeed each other so rapidly as to produce a uniform impression, the intensity of this aggregate impression will also be constant, provided the number of flashes in a given time varies inversely with the duration of each. The brightness of the impression produced by flashes of light of a given intensity, which succeed each other so rapidly as to produce a uniform impression on the eye, is proportional to the number of flashes in a given time. When light of a given intensity acts on the eye for a short space of time, the brightness of the luminous impression on the retina is exactly proportional to the time during which the light continues to act. This law has been proved to be true for impressions lasting irom to 5\ of a second. The intensity of the impression produced by light, which acts on the eye for T£o of a second, is almost exactly T\>th of the apparent brightness of the light when seen by uninter- rupted vision ; and the time required for light to produce its full effect on the eye seems to be about ^ of a second. Lights of different intensities produce their complete impressions on the eye in equal times, so that the light of the sun requires the same time as common artificial light to produce its impression on the eye. The brightness of an impression on the eye increases with a rapidity exactly pro- portional to that of the light by which it is produced. Rays of different refrangibility act on the eye with equal rapidity. The apparent bright- ness of the spark produced by electricity of high tension is only about ttjcTooo °f vvhat its apparent brightness would become if its duration were prolonged to T\j of a second ; and the brightness of electric light increases with the tension of the electricity. The wonderful rapidity of the electric light is shown by the following experiments: —Viewed by the illumination of an electric spark, the spokes of a wheel in the most rapid rotation appear stationary, vibrating cords seem to be in a state of repose, and a succession ot drops, which generally appear to the eye as a con- nected stream, is seen to be but a succession of drops, because the impression of each image lasts for so short a time that the posi- tion of the moving bodies is not altered. The light of electricity of high tension has a less duration than the millionth part of a second. When on the subject of light, we have alluded to the reproduction of the impression of white light by the rapid revolution of a disk * Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. xvi. p. 581.