735 SOLIPEDA. pharyngeus*, its fibres descending from the pterygoid and palate bones, along the sides of the pharynx, around which they wind obliquely, uniting in the middle line upon its posterior surface, where they form a thick muscular layer. The inferior constrictor, or tkyro-pharyngeus, is equally broad and strong, its fleshy fibres taking nearly the same direction as they pro- ceed towards the back of the pharynx, where they join by a median raphe. In addition to the above, there is a crico- pharyngeus, arising from the posterior and inferior margin of the cricoid cartilage, w hence its fibres extend obliquely upwards along the sides of the pharynx. The analogue of the stylo-pharyngcus is, in the Solipeds, a cylindrical muscle derived from the styloid bone, and, running from be- hind forwards upon the sides and upper part of the pharynx, mixes its fibres with those of the superior constrictor —its action is to raise the commencement of the pharyngeal sac, which it at the same time dilates and draws backward. There is likewise a small muscle derived from the middle part of the styloid bone, the fibres of which run backwards and inwards, so as to meet those of the muscle last men- tioned. Lastly, there are two other muscles, the fibres of which take a longitudinal direction. One of these, the pharyngeus proprius, arises from the tendinous middle line that extends from below the insertion of the stylo-pha- ryngei, and is prolonged downwards along the posterior and lateral walls of the oesophagus : the other, the aryteno-pharyngeus, is a small muscular band proceeding from the back part of each arytenoid cartilage, and running down the front of the oesophagus towards the sto- mach. Stomach. — In all the Solipeda the stomach is simple, and presents little remarkable in its shape. The oesophagus {fig. 510. b) is in- serted at a very acute angle into its smaller cur- vature, which is, as it.were, folded upon itself. The cardiac cul-de-sac (c) is very capacious, Fig. 510. Stomach of the Horse. * Cuvier, Lemons d'Anatomie Comparee, torn. iv. p. 606. and is lined throughout internally with a thick cuticular layer continuous with the lining of the oesophagus, and extends nearly as far as the middle of the stomachal cavity, where it terminates abruptly by a prominent indented edge, the interior of the pyloric half of the viscus («, d) presenting the usual villous mu- cous surface. The muscular coat of the stomach consists of several superimposed layers of fibres that cross each other in differ- ent directions, some of them being apparently derivations from the muscular bands of the oesophagus ; and it is doubtless the contrac- tions of these muscular bands, in conjunction with the obliquity of the entrance of the oeso- phagus, that renders the act of vomiting im- possible in these animals. The alimentary canal in the Solipeds is short in comparison with that of the Rumi- nants and some other herbivorous quadru- peds ; but this want of length is perhaps more than made up for by the enormous capacity of the large intestine, which, on first opening the body of one of these animals, seems of itself to occupy the whole of the abdominal cavity. Commencing from the pylorus, the duo- denum (Jig. 510./.) is found to be considerably Fig. 511. Caput Coli §c. of the Horse. dilated; but its diameter soon contracts, and the rest of the tract of the small intestines is of pretty equable dimensions throughout, or if it presents constrictions here and there, they disappear when the gut is distended with air. The iliac portion of the small intestine (Jig. 511. d) terminates in a caecum of enor- mous bulk (fig. 511. a, b, c, e,f), which is separated from the commencement of the colon by a deep constriction (g): the colon itself is throughout its entire extent propor- tionately voluminous, commencing in the right flank: its ample folds (fig. 512. a, b) mount upwards as far as the diaphragm, whence they descend again, forming a viscus of vast capa- city as far as the left iliac region, where, be- coming gradually contracted in its dimensions, it terminates in the rectum. The ascending portion of the colon (a, b) is separated from the descending part (c, d) by a constriction ; and the latter forms a third remarkable dila- tation before it ends in the rectum. The whole colon is puckered up into huge sacculi by three longitudinal muscular bands, which