978 TESTICLE (NORMAL ANATOMY). mentous cords from the inner surface of the tunica albuginea. I have not been able to make out any such ligamentous processes passing into the substance of the testis, as are represented in Sir A. Cooper's work (part i. pi. 2. fig. 3), which I have no doubt is an ex- aggerated view of the preparation from which it was taken. The cords described appear to me to consist chiefly of blood-vessels sup- ported by slight fibrous processes from the tunica albuginea and areolar tissue. In a well- injected testicle very little tissue of the nature of ligament can be found between the lobes. The secreting structure of the testicle, like the texture of many other glands does not possess much common sensibility. When exposed in disease it may be probed and injured with the forceps without pain. Tubuli Seminiferi. — These tubes, which form by far the greatest part of the bulk of the glandular structure of the testicle, are very numerous, and radiate from all parts of the circumference of the organ towards the mediastinum, making numberless con- volutions which progressively diminish as they approach the rete testis. Two or more of the tubuli, being collected together and invested by a common tunic of con- densed areolar tissue, form a lobe or lobule of a conical form, its apex terminating at the corpus Highmori. The lobes thus formed are Fig. 631. The lobes attached to the mediastinum, hut artificially separated from each other. {From a preparation in the Hunterian Museum, formerly in Sir A. Cooper's collection.') not entirely distinct, but communicate with neighbouring lobes : the processes investing them are therefore incomplete, and the lobes cannot be separated from each other without division of some of the seminiferous tubuli. Krause estimates the number of the lobes as varying from 404 to 484.* The tubuli are of a white colour and uniform size, but their calibre differs in different subjects, and varies a good deal according to the age of the subject and the state of activity of the testicles, being larger in young adults and when distended with semen, than in old persons and when the gland is in a state of rest. The size of the ducts also often differs in the two testicles of the same subject. In general the calibre of the tubuli corresponds to the size of the tes- * Muller, Archiv. fur Anatomie, 1837, s. 22. tide. Observers do not exactly agree in their estimates of the diameter of the tubuli. The average diameter of the uninjected canal is estimated by Muller at ^ of a line; by Lauth* at y|^of an inch. Krause found the tubuli, when filled with semen, to measure about JL. of a line, and in old men and youths •jJg-. Huschkef estimated the ordinary thick- ness of the whole tube from -jL- to ^ of a line, and that of the walls from ^-i^ to yA^. Owing to the stoutness of the basement membrane, the thickness of the walls of the tubes is con- siderable as compared with the secreting ducts of other glands, and this accounts for the tubes being able to resist the pressure of a column of mercury in injections. Monro reckoned the number of the seminiferous tubes at 300; Lauth made the average num- ber 840, and he estimated the mean length of all the ducts united at 1750 feet. He found the individual ducts to vary in length, the mean being 25 inches. Krause estimated their entire length at 1015 feet. The mem- brane composing the tubuli is continuous with the mucous surface of the genito-urinary system. It is lined with epithelium, and the spermatozoa are developed from the epi- Fig. 632. Glandular structure of the testicle, displayed by mer- curial injection. {After Lauth.) a a a, glandular substance of the testicle subdi- vided into lobes, each lobe being composed of con- voluted tubuli closely packed; b, rete testis; c, vasa efferentia; d, inflected part of the vasa efferentia forming the coni vasculosi; e, dilatations of the efferent vessels; /, body of the epididymis; g, tail of the epididymis; h, vasculum aberrans; i, in- flected part of the vas deferens; k, straight part of the duct. * Mem. de la Societe d'Hist. Nat. de Strasbourg, t. i. \ Encyclop£die Anatomique, t. v. p. 347.