1382 VEIN. senting a vein from the oesophagus of an eel, magnified with low power, the vasa vasorum are seen to supply, indiscriminately, the vessel's coats and some small pellets of adipose tissue which were near it. The arteries, nourishing a vein, ramify and divide principally upon, and among, its cellular coat, and form an elaborate plexus, with meshes having a general longi- tudinal direction, as seen in the figure; which, Fig. 866. Vasa Vasorum On external surface of a small Vein from the oesophagus of cel. (Anguilla acutirostris.') a a, vein; 6 6 6, small arteries supplying indiscrimi- nately the venous tunics and small masses of fat around the vein ; c c c c c, granules of adipose tissue. Natural injection. (Magnified about 18 diameters.) though drawn from a fish, sufficiently indicates the condition as found in man and mammals. The arrangement of these capillaries is, how- ever, subject to variety : in the vena cava of the cod, I have seen them long, straight, even, and perfectly parallel, with scarcely any trans- verse branching or anastomosis. The little venous trunks of the vasa Vasorum usually open directly into the cavity of the vein, among whose tunics they have previously ramified, and their course is quite independent of the corresponding arteries. (Henle.') The vasa vasorum principally exist in the areolar tunic, but Henle states that they are to be found abundantly among the annular fibres of the veins.* The internal longitu- dinal coat is, in all cases, extra-vascular. Nerves of veins. — As far as our knowledge hitherto goes, veins differ remarkably from arteries in rarely being made the support of * In arteries, Weber has never found them in the circular tunic. Burdaeh states that he has found a few. nerves, and in seldom receiving any distribu- tion of them to their coats. It is a remark- able circumstance that veins appear, with slight exceptions, to be separated from nerves. The exceptions to this rule are few and in- considerable. The inferior vena cava receives some small filaments from the diaphragmatic ganglion of the sympathetic, just below the diaphragm. The vena porta supports and is entwined by the branches of the hepatic plexus, which it conducts to the liver. Pappenheim describes some nerves as being distributed to the cere- bral veins. Bidder states that he has traced some filaments of the fourth cerebral nerve to the lateral sinus: and Wrisberg describes a nervous plexus as surrounding the facial vein, which he ingeniously imagines may cause contractions of the vein, and thereby pro- duce that congestion of the face constituting blushing. In the cod-fish (Gadus morrhua), I have traced nerves from the auricle down upon the venous sinus immediately below it: these formed loops in the walls of the sinus, and appeared to return to the heart. The nerves in question are doubtless a continuation of the cardiac nerves ; and, in all probability, bear the same relation to the rhythmical action of this pulsating cavity, which the other car- diac nerves do to the cavities of the heart itself. It is very probable that some such nervous supply is furnished to those parts of the veins of man and mammals, near the heart, in which cardiac muscle is found. It may, perhaps, be still a question whether the almost complete non-nervous character of veins is absolutely correct, and whether the paucity or tenuity of the nerves, supplied to veins in general, be not the reason why they have as yet eluded observation; for analogy scarcely justifies the idea of organs possessing muscular tissue and still being destitute of nerves. This opinion is strengthened by the fact that arteries, having the same sort of muscularity as veins, though in larger amount, are regularly supplied with nerves. Comparative structure. — I am not aware of any observations upon the comparative structure of veins in birds and reptiles. Those that I have myself made are principally in- troduced under the heads, Fenestrated mem- brane, Epithelium, 8fc. In Birds, the venous walls are composed principally of areolar tissue, external to the lining membrane; and I have observed that in the diving-birds, the vena cava posterior is composed almost solely of elastic tissue. There are no muscle-cells in the cerebral veins of birds. In Fishes, the venous parietes appear to be formed of a sort of areolar tissue longitudi- nally disposed. Embedded in the walls of the veins there is an abundance of pigment, which exists in greater quantity in the inter- costal veins, and those tributary to the car- dinal vein. This pigment is of the variety called by Schwann " stellate pigment cells,"