1433 VESICULjE SEM1NALES. same moment, so that the mucus and semen shiill mix in the act of escaping into the urethra, and they do mix in a remarkably per- fect manner in the little spout-like verumon- tanum of the guinea-pig, then the immediate solidification of the mucus docs not occur. Whether this curious effect of their mixing is clue to the mechanical whipping of the sperma- tozoa or to a specific solvent power for mucus in the semen, must remain undetermined at present. The degree of liquefaction produced seems to be much greater than what would be clue to simple admixture, that is to say, it is much greater than would be produced by adding a drop of water equally small to a mass of gum, for instance, equally thick and equally large. This throws fresh light on some observations of Hunter's, made upon guinea-pigs. He killed a male (which, by the way, he had castrated on one side six months before), immediately after it had copulated, and he found the vesiculae of both sides full. He also killed a female immediately after she had received the male and " examined with atten- tion what was contained in the vagina and uterus; in neither," he remarks, "could I find any of the mucus of the vesiculas, which from its firmness must have been easily de- tected." He regards these facts as proof that the contents of the vesiculae are not emitted in copulation ; but that part of the proof based on the non-detection of thick mucus in the vagina and uterus is, of course, much weakened by the fact of the liquefying property of the semen. The other part of his proof, derived from the fullness of the vesiculae immediately after coitus, is, perhaps, answered by the following observations. The vesiculae are never found empty—except when they are diminished during the periodic rut in certain animals — in fact they seem to all appearance equally full at all times, but here no doubt appearances are dec<itful ; they contract and expand according to the volume of their contents, so that they are never flaccid, and always appear to be as full as they can be. I have observed them exceedingly full and large in an animal just killed, and have watched them contracting under the stimulus of exposure to cold air, and when nearly the w hole of their contents have been expelled by the contraction, they have still apjicarcd to be quite full,—I should have considered them to be so if I had not actually seen them expel their contents. It is evident that the whole contents of the vesicuke are not emitted in one copulation, but there is strong reason to believe that a part is. The semen which can he squeezed from the vas deferens is miik white and has very little if any viscosity. Now Hunter de- scribing emitted semen says, " the semen first discharged from the living body is of a bluish white colour, in consistence like cream, and similar to what is found in the vasa deferentia after death (?); while that which follows is somewhat like the common mucus of the nose but less viscid. The semen becomes more fluid upon exposure to the air, particu- larly that first thrown out." Here then is a mucus, which very probably is from the vesicuke. I am convinced that it docs not exist in the semen of the vas deferens. The mucus of the vesiculae, examined in the guinea-pig, is not soluble in water. The urine of the animal seems to solidify it in an extreme degree, for if a litlle of it gets into the urinary bladder it becomes as hard as spermaceti. Boiled in water it shrivels up slightly, but is not in the least degree dis- solved. I dissolved it by repeated boiling in solution of "potash, by winch means I pro- cured a perfectly limpid, colourless solution. This yielded no precipitate on the addition of acetic aci I. In neither of these respects, therefore, does it differ much from the ordi- nary varieties of mucus. (See Art. Mucus, Vol. HI. p. 482) Submitted to microscopic examination, 1 have found it to consist of a very sparing quantity of fluid, in which are suspended little conglomerated masses of trans- pal cut solid, just visible by the naked eye. The majority of these are of a pretty uniform volume, and appear, when magnified fifty dia- meters, about the size of duck shot; there are, however, much larger ones and much smaller. Their general contour, whether they be large or small, is spherical, and they have a nodulated, mulberry-like surface,as if composed of smaller balls. The smaller component balls have also an irregular, granular surface, and neither they nor the large conglomerate spheres show any distinct trace of being enclosed in a cell-mem- brane. 1 have, however, sometimes observed numerous nucleated cells in a portion taken from the fundus of the organ. But often I have sought for these in vain. I have never found them when the vesicular have been ex- ceedingly full and distended, in which circum- stances, most probably, secretion would be arrested, and perhaps even absorption going on. These cells are about the size of the smaller (component) spheres. I am tempted by these observations to conclude that the cells 1 met with were the secreting epithelia of the vesicula?, and that becoming filled with inspissated mucus (?) they conglomerate them- selves into larger spheres. 1 found it con- venient in making these examinations some- times to add a little white of egg, which pro- duces no alteration in the appearances beyond a greater isolation of the spheres. When water is added, the outlines of the spheres become much more distinct, showing a greater diHerence of refraction of light, and there be- come percept.ble very numerous insoluble globules, which have a great tendency to coalesce, and appear very much like oil ; their refractive power is, however, less, and there are other reasons for doubting that they are really globules of oil. When semen is mixed w ith ibis secretion of the vesicular, the spheres are still visible, and the spermatozoa are seen disporting in the fluid between them. No solution of them is clearly detectable. This, however, it should be observed, is when the mixture is exposed to cold, &c. in examination;