792 SPLEEN. work of the pulp, I have not been able to find out; and I do not believe that either injec- tion or inflation of the vein, or a microscopic examination, will ever give any definite con- clusion hereto. For these vessels, often pos- sessing but a few little trabeculae for their coats, are of such a delicate texture, that they tear by the slightest mechanical force, while by the microscope they cannot be distinguished from the surrounding constituents of the pulp. Yet thus much one may see, that the veins gradually become very small,—so small, that it is quite impossible to talk of their commen- cing as dilated spaces. For my own part, I am convinced that a similar communication obtains between the veins and capillaries of oxen as of men ; and that the only possible difference is, that the veins here possess only an epithelium, and must therefore be con- nected with the capillaries in a somewhat dif- ferent way. I will yet further add, that in microscopic examination of the pulp of ani- mals, skeins of epithelium are not unfre- quently found, consisting of roundish cells, as it were, fused together : these can only come from the small venous trunks. The following may be noticed concerning the microscropic structure of the splenic vessels : —The arteries everywhere possess their three usual coats. The inner consists, first, of an Fig. 535. The capillaries (fig. 536.) have'a simple, struc- tureless membrane, with nuclei lying on its Fin. 530. Epithelial cells from the human Splenic artery, a, shorter cells; b, somewhat longer cells. epithelium of spindle-shaped cells, which easily come off in skeins or separately (fig. 535, a, b); and, secondly, of an elastic mem- brane of homogeneous composition, wrinkled in the longitudinal direction (Jig. 528, e.), and with or without openings : which openings although very small, are visible even in the arteries of the tufts. The middle tunic is very thick, and gives rise to the considerable thickness of the wall of the vessel ; it con- tains very little else but unstriped muscular fibres. In the larger and largest arteries, nets of elastic fibre and elastic membrane (gefensljrle membranen of Henle) are also present, while they exist without exception on the vessels which pass to the Malpighian corpuscles, and on those which form the pencils or tufts. The adventitious for cellu- lar) coat is altogether absent from the smaller vessels in the interior of the spleen, and is here represented by the sheath ; but it exists in the larger vessels, and presents white fibrous tissue and meshes of elastic fibres. Capillary from the Spleen of the Pig. Magnified 350 diameters. inner surface. The veins have been already described as they exist in brute mammalia: in man they possess— 1. An epithelium as above described ; 2. A membrane of elastic longi- tudinal fibres ; 3. Transverse unstriped mus- cular fibres, in a single or double layer, which are present in the trunk of the splenic vein and all its primary branches in the interior of the spleen, but are absent from the smaller and smallest veins ; 4. White fibrous tissue, with elastic fibres which take a longitudinal direction. The smallest veins possess only white fibrous tissue with elastic fibres, and an epithelium. So much has been already said above con- cerning the blood of the splenic vessels and of the spleen, that I will here only append some special observations made upon animals. In a dog whose spleen abounded in the dissolv- ing blood globules, the blood of the splenic vein distinguished itself by a very great quan- tity of colourless blood corpuscles, almost all of which contained numerous nuclei, and often had a deceptive resemblance to pus globules. In the blood of the liver were found a great number of altogether different blood Fig. 537. © /2i m Blood corpuscles from the liver and Splenic vein of a Dog, with yellow crystals of a substance resembling Haimatine. globules (fig. 537.). These were swollen out and almost colorless, but contained from 1 to 5 thinner or thicker small rods of a dark yellow colour ; part of these possessed the same length as the blood globules, part were shorter. These small rods were unchanged in water, but in acetic acid they seemed to disappear. In a second dog I found the same cells with small yellow rods in the blood of the splenic vein, while they could not be detected in any other part of the body. With them I found at the same time numer- ous colourless blood globules with manifold nuclei. In the fresh-water perch, the blood