SPINAL NERVES. 770 front of the femur and inner part of the ar- ticulation ; this is the least constant of the branches. The inferior internal articular, the largest of the nerves to the joint, arises rather above the articulation, descends to it, lying external to the vessels, is then directed in- wards, beneath the poplitaeal vessels, and meets with the artery of the same name ; it now lies on the poplitaeus, covered by the fascia, passes beneath the internal lateral liga- ment, winds round the head of the tibia, per- forates the capsule, and supplies the synovial membrane. This branch gives, occasionally, some filaments to the posterior part of the articulation. The last articular branch is the posterior or azi/gos, which is given off opposite the joint, or from the inferior internal nerve : it perforates the posterior ligament, and is distributed to the articulation."* We have observed this inferior articular nerve give off, occasionally, muscular filaments to the plan- taris, and upper part of the poplitaeus. The cutaneous branch is named the tibial sa- phanus (external saphaenus—communicating saphaenus—communicans tibiae), and takes its origin from the back part of the trunk ex- ternal to the muscular branches. It inclines a little to the outside of the middle of the poplitaeal space, under the fascia, but super- ficial to the gastrocnemius, along the posterior surface of which it passes till it perforates the fascia at a variable distance from the ankle, and receives the corresponding branch from the peronaeal saphaenus. It is then directed, under the name of the external saphaenus, along the outer part of the tendo Achillis to the outer and back part of the external ankle, where it divides into its terminal branches. In the first part of its course it lies to the inside of the external saphasna vein. Near the lower angle of the poplitaeal span it passes in front of the vein to get to its outside, continues external to it as far as about an inch above the outer ankle, and again passes in front of it to its inside. The tibial saphaenus gives off no branch till it becomes external saphaenus, and internal and external cutaneous branches arise from it. The internal supply the outer and back part of the leg: and a superior and inferior calcaneal branch are generally observed. The superior is directed over the tendo Achillis, supplies the skin at the inner and back part of the heel, and communicates with filaments from the external plantar : the inferior passes along the outer border of the tendo Achillis to the skin at the outer and lower part of the heel. The outer cutaneous run downwards and forwards over the tendon of the pero- naeus longus, as far as the malleolus externus, communicating above with descending fila- ments of the peronaeal cutaneous ; and below with the malleolar filaments of the musculo cutaneous. Independent of these, cutaneous filaments and a few delicate nerves are given off, which accompany the saphaena vein. The terminal branches are composed of a se- ries of cutaneous branches to the back part of * Ellis's Demonstrations of Anatomy, p. C76. the ankle, heel, and back part of the outer edge of the foot, and a long nerve, the continuation of the trunk directed along the outer edge of the foot to supply the outer margin of the little toe, communicating previously with the musculo-cutaneous. The termination of the tibial saphaenus nerve is subject to considerable variation, both as to size and distribution. It occasionally forms no connection with the peronaeal saphaenus, and then is very large. When united with the peronaeal saphamus, so as to form the ex- ternal saphaenus, its terminal branch not un- frequently divides into two ; the one division for the opposed edges of the fourth and fifth toe ; the other for the outer edge of the latter. We have observed the saphaenus nerve sup- plying also the opposed edges of the third and fourth toes, whilst the musculo-cutaneous in this instance supplied merely the inner edge of the great toe and the opposed margins of the second and third toes. The tibial nerve, before dividing into the in- ternal and external plantar, gives off, a little above the ankle, an internal calcaneal branch, which in a high division of the nerve comes away from the externa! plantar. Having sup- plied the skin at the inner aspect of the heel, it winds beneath the inferior surface of the os calcis, and communicates with the calcaneous branch of the external saphaenus. The internal plantar nerve, larger than the external and analogous to the median nerve in the hand, passes behind the internal malleolus superficial to and distinct from the tendons of the tibialis posticus, and in front of the pos- terior tibial vessels. It then runs above the abductor pollicis, and is directed in the intermuscular septum, between it and the flexor brevis digitorum. Having perforated this, it appears between the two muscles, and divides into internal and external branches The internal branch is smaller than the ex- ternal, passes from without inwards over the tendon of the long flexor of the toe to the inner side of the metatarsal bone, gives fila- ments to the abductor pollicis, flexor brevis, and the skin, and terminates at the inner side of the toe, supplying in its course filaments to the articulations, and when it reaches the last phalanx, a small cutaneous branch to the dorsum. The external branch divides after a course of about an inch or two. The internal division, as it is directed along the first interosseous space, gives off in its course filaments to the first interosseous and lumbricalis, and at the anterior part of this space divides into two twigs for the opposed sides of the great and second toe. The external division, after a very short course, divides into two branches : the' internal crosses obliquely the second in- terosseous space, gives filaments to the second lumbricalis, and bifurcates at its anterior ex- tremity for the supply of the opposed sides of the" second and third toes : the external crosses obliquely to the third interosseous space, and like the preceding divides at its anterior extremity into two twigs for the