TONGUE. 1122 that there is formed in the median line a series of angles pointing backwards. This disposition is seen to affect, more or less, all the structures with which the surface is covered. Thirdly, the upper surface of the tongue is seen to be divisible into a smooth and a rough portion. The smooth, or non- papillary portion, occupying nearly the pos- terior third,is characterised by smooth nodular rugosities (Jig. 745. e), formed by small mu- ciparous glands, which are abundantly dis- tributed beneath the surface, and occupy the whole space between the papillae and epi- glottis : they are smallest and most scattered behind, where they are gradually lost ; larger and more prominent in front, where, from their being disposed in the direction already indicated, they form a prominent V-shaped ridge with the opening directed forwards. Just in front of this, separated by a groove, is another V-shaped ridge, more definite, but less constant in shape, formed by two con- verging lines of button-like eminences, each surrounded by a circular raised border of more or less regularity ; these compound organs are the cvrciimvalktte papilla (Jig. 745. fj). At the angle formed by the convergence of their two rows, generally a little behind that angle, is situated a cul-de-sac of very variable size, which has received the name of foramen ccecum (le trou borgne, lacune de la langue), and which was formerly regarded as the orifice at which several convergent sali- vary ducts terminated* ; these supposed sali- vary ducts were afterwards shown by Duver- noyf and Haller j to be merely small veins. Meckel considered that this foramen caecum was nothing but a largely developed calyx of a caliciform papilla, of which the central portion was small, or wanting, or misplaced ; that if the central eminence was well de- veloped and in its proper situation, the foramen caecum was wanting, and that it only existed from some of .the irregularities above mentioned; an opinion adopted by Cruveilhier, and by Professors Todd and Bowman in this country. Meckel states that lie has seen two, one a great way behind the other. I have more than once met,with the same appear- ance. In these cases the anterior one has always contained a well developed papilla. It can evidently perform no essential office, as it is so often wanting. The whole of the su- perior surface of the tongue, in front of the circumvallate papillae, comprising its anterior two thirds, is covered by an investment of coriaceous or filamentous asperities, longest in the central parts, and arranged with the most regularity at the back, where they are dis- tributed in lines of more or less distinctness, with a direction obliquely forwards and out- wards (Jig. 745. ii.y These eminences are seen to be of two sorts ; one of a spheroidal shape, distinguished during life by their red * Coschwitz, De Ductu salivali novo. Halle, 1724. f Loc. cit. i Exp. et Dub. circa Ductura Coschw. Leyden, 1727. colour, and scattered here and there at the posterior part, edges and tip, — these are the fungiform papillce (Jig. 745. h.) ; the others, occupying the whole of the rest of the sur- face, are the conical and filiform. To the minute consideration of these structures a future part of this article will be devoted. Inferior surface. — This surface is attached in its posterior two thirds by the muscles passing from it to the hyoid bone and lower jaw. The most posterior part of this attach- ment is as wide as the tongue itself, so that there no portion of the inferior surface is free ; but in front of this the attachment narrows, so that the lateral portions become increasingly free till they meet at the franum, in front of which they involve the whole surface. The longitudinal furrow is much more distinctly marked here than above, and is constant: it passes from the tip, on which it is continued, to the fraenum. On each side of the furrow the ranine veins are seen pass- ing forwards, and immediately beneath the tip is a little cluster of mucous glands first de- scribed by Nuck*, and also by Nuhn.-f- The mucous membrane here is quite smooth and free from any visible papillae. The edges of the tongue, which separate its upper and under surface, are thick behind and gradually become thinner in front; they are marked by a series of vertical ridges, separated by corresponding furrows, very dis- tinct on the upper, and gradually becoming lost as they approach the under, surface. They are very conspicuous at the posterior part, but disappear anteriorly, and they differ very much in their development in different subjects. They are, essentially, fused conical papillae. At the upper and posterior part of the edges are also a series of small mucous glands. The anterior extremity, apex, or point (Jig. 745. b.), is flattened or rounded, blunt or pointed, according to the movements of the tongue, and slightly impressed by the median furrow which is continued on it: it is not marked by any of those vertical ridges that characterise the edges. The posterior extremity, or base.— Ere the tongue reaches the os hyoides it becomes very flat and thin, and this from two causes — di- minution in the quantity of the intrinsic mus- cles, and the passing off of the extrinsic in other directions^ so that instead of being very thick, as is generally described, the base is in reality the thinnest part of the whole organ. It is flattened antero-posteriorly and much extended laterally, and by its attach- ment to the hyoid bone is curved in a horse- shoe shape, which, however, is much effaced by the insertion of the epiglottis in the area of the curvature. It is constituted laterally by the hyoglossi, centrally by the hyoglossal liga- ment, anteriorly by some fibres of the genio- glossus, and behind and above by the mu- cous membrane passing from it over the * Sialographia, Ductuura aquosorum anatome nova. Leyden, 1G90. f See Ait. Salivary Glands, p. 426.