1351 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. any other race, the primitive condition of human speech. In their mode of life, they present the phenomenon of a civilization which has attained a considerable degree of develop- ment, remaining stationary through a very long period of time, and isolating itself as jea- lously as possible from the general current of progress. In passing from China towards India, there is a gradual transition in physical and mental characters, between the Chinese and the Hindoo ; thus the Burmese have more hair and beard, more prominent features, and darker complexions, than the Siamese and Chinese; and the darkness in complexion in- creases towards the confines of Bengal. There is, therefore, no such abrupt transition, as shall make it difficult to admit the Seriform origin of the bulk of the Hindoo population, if fur- ther investigation of their language should render this connection as probable as it has already been shown to be in the case of the in- habitants of the Dekhan and Ceylon.—2. The Turanian stock, including the proper Mongo- lians of High Asia, the Tungusians, the Turks, and the Ugrians. Among these, the con- formity in physical characters is extremely close, the only exception being in the case of the offsets which have migrated into Europe, and which have undergone transformation (as explained at p. 1327.) into the Caucasian type (Jig.8l5et seq.). The languages of these people are not monosyllabic, but have not undergone any high development; and they are spoken with very little variation over extensive areas. The general character of the country inhabited by this group is remarkably uniform, being a series of high table-lands or steppes, well adapted for maintaining a nomadic pastoral population. Such is the general habit of these people, and such it has been from our earliest knowledge of them. The Tungusians, how- ever, advance to the Polar Sea, and adopt a manner of life more resembling that of the proper Hyperborean races.—3. The Peninsular Mongn/idce, inhabiting the islands and penin- sulas of the north-eastern coast of Asia, such as Korea, Japan, and Kanischatka. These are all Mongol in their conformation, but dif- fer from the preceding in the character of their languages, which seem to be, in some cases, extremely ^o/j/-syllabic, always showing a strong tendency to agglutination, and thus showing atransition to the American languages, in which this peculiarity presents its highest development. These tribes are separated from each other, however, by considerable breaks in geographical continuity; some of them lying within the Arctic circle, and others as far south as 26° N. L. And they are not less distant in the two extremes of their social de- velopment, one section of the group partaking of the civilization of China, and another ex- hibiting the rudeness of the Samoied. This group is obviously not a typical, but a transi- tional one.—4. Hyperborean MongolidcE, in- habiting the borders of the Icy Sea, especially in the neighbourhood of the courses of the large rivers, and subsisting especially by fishing and fur-hunting. The area which they occupy is not continuous ; the principal tribes, known as the Samoiedes, the Yeniseians, and the Yu- kahiri, being separated from each other by the advance of the Northern Ugrians and Tungu- sians. Their conformation is Mongolian; but their growth is stunted, and their complexion swarthy; and they bear a very close resem- blance to the Laplanders and Esquimaux. It is probable that they will be united when their languages shall have been more fully studied, either with the Turanian or with the Penin- sular stocks. Turning now to the Syro-Arabian or Semitic nations, which occupy a considerable area in the south-western part of Asia, we encounter a very different type of physical conformation, and a group of languages which is peculiar alike in its structure and in its vocabulary. Generally speaking, the people of this race ex- hibit a remarkable symmetry of form, and per- fection of cranial organisation {fig. 830); and it Fig. 830. Arab of the Guard of the Imaun o f 3Iuseat. (From a portrait taken by an officer of L'Artemise.) was remarked by Baron Larrey, who had ample opportunities for observation during the Egyp- tian expedition, that experience has proved to him that their psychical character is con- formable to this high standard, a great aptitude for intellectual activity being combined with extraordinary acuteness in the use of the or- gans of sense. There can be no doubt what- ever, that the Semitic races have exerted a most important influence on the civilization of the world ; and this not merely by their own early progress in the arts of life (as shown by the extraordinary history of the Assyrian and Babylonian empires, on which so much new light has recently been cast) ; but also by having afforded the channel through which Monotheism was transmitted from the patri- 4 it 4