TEETH. 892 All the teeth are attached, after the Pleuro- dont type, by their base and outer margin to shallow depressions on the outer side of the external alveolar parapet. The germs of the successional teeth, c. Jig. 570., are developed at the inner side of the base of their predecessors, a, which they excavate, undermine, and displace in the usual manner. Iguanas.—Certain genera of this family of lizards, e. g. Istiurus, Lophyrus, Calotes, and Otoen/ptis, have the teeth soldered, like those of Mosasaurus, to the summit of the alveolar ridge, and thence are called " Acrodonts : " in all these lizards the maxillary and mandibular teeth may be divided into anterior laniary, and posterior molary teeth. In most of the Iguanians the teeth are lodged in a common shallow oblique alveolar groove, and are soldered to excavations on the inner surface of the outer wall of the groove : these are called Pleurodonts. Most of them possess pterygoid as well as maxillary teeth: but the following genera, Hyperanodon, Tropido- lepis, Plirynusoma, and Callisaurus, are excep- tions. In the Pleurodont Iguanians, the teeth never present the true laniary form ; and if simply conical, as at the extremes of the maxillary series, the cone is more or less obtuse ; but, in general, it is expanded, more or less trilobate, or dentated along the mar- gin of the crown. The Amblyrhynchus, a genus which is some-A;, what remarkable for the marine habits of aC_ least one of the species {Amblyrhynchus atef)V3 whose diet is sea-weed*, has the tricuspid*', structure well developed in the posterior teeth. The typical genus of the present family of Saurians (Iguana tubcrculala), is characterised by the crenate or dentated margin of the crown of the maxillary and premandibular teeth, a few of the anterior small ones ex- cepted. The pterygoid teeth are arranged in two or three irregular rows, resembling somewhat the " dents en cardes " of fishes. In the full-grown Iguana tubercidata there are from forty-seven to forty-nine teeth in both upper and lower jaws. The number is less in young subjects. The double row of pterygoid teeth are in close order on each side. In the horned Iguana (Mctopoceros cor- nidus), there are about fifty-six teeth in the upper and lower jaws, of which the four first are conical and slightly recurved. The twelve succeeding teeth are somewhat larger in size, with more compressed and expanded crowns ; the rest are triangular, compressed, with dentated margins. The inner surface of the crown of the tooth is simply convex and smooth ; the outer surface traversed by a me- dian, longitudinal, broad, obtuse ridge. There is a single row of small teeth implanted in each pterygoid bone. No Iguanian lizard has teeth on the palatine bones. The teeth of the Iguanodon, though re- sembling those of the Iguana, do not present an exact magnified image of them, but differ in the greater relative thickness of the crown, its more complicated external surface, and, still more essentially, in a modification of the internal structure, by which the Iguanodon equally deviates from every other known reptile. As in the Iguana, the base of the tooth is elongated, contracted, and subcylindrical ; the crown expanded," and smoothly convex on the inner side. When first formed, it is acu- minated, compressed, its sloping sides ser- rated, and its external surface traversed by a median longitudinal ridge, and coated by a layer of enamel, but, beyond this point, the description of the tooth of the Iguanodon indicates characters peculiar to that genus. In most of the teeth that have hitherto been Unworn toorfi of Iguanodon. * This species, and probably all the known Am- blyrhynehi, or blunt-nosed Iguana?, inhabit the islands in the Galopagos group; their habits have been well elucidated by Mr. Darwin (Voyage of the Beagle, vol. iii. p. <I6(5.). ln specimens which he dissected, he found the stomach loaded with minced sea-weed. found, three longitudinal ridges (fg. 571.) traverse the outer surface of the crown, one on each side of the median primitive ridge ; these are separated from each other, and from the serrated margins of the crown, by four wide and smooth longitudinal grooves. The relative width of these grooves varies in different teeth ; sometimes a fourth small lon- gitudinal ridge is developed on the outer side of the crown. The marginal serrations, which, at first sight, appear to be simple notches, as in the Iguana, present, under a low magnifying power, the form of trans- verse ridges, themselves notched, so as to resemble the mammilated margins of the un- worn plates of the elephant's grinder: slight grooves lead from the interspaces of these notches upon the sides of the marginal ridges. These ridges, or dentations, do not extend beyond the expanded part of the crown: the longitudinal ridges are continued further down, especially the median ones, which do not subside till the fang of the tooth begins to assume its subcylindrical form. The tooth at first increases both in breadth and thick- ness ; it then diminishes in breadth, but its thickness goes on increasing ; in the larger and fully formed teeth, the fang de-