SYMMETRY 851 3 i 2 metry is definitely ascertained ; when it is de- termined vviiat is due to division, what to radiation, or whether division and radiation, one, or both, or neither, are concerned in their causation. The skeleton of the Velella presents an in- stance of departure from symmetry, mainly in the oblique set of its vertical plate. The common medusa has a circular outline, and exhibits four quarters, which repeat one another exactly, so that it seems to be marked with a right-angled cross. The horizontal plate of the skeleton of Velella is distorted to a sub-rhomboid form, and marked with two diagonal seams that cross one another obliquely. The longer one of these diagonals is produced upwards so as to form the oblique sail-supporting vertical plate, which also pre- sents a seam continued up from the point of crossing of the diagonals, indicating that it is composed of two parts uniting at this central point. This de facto unsymmetrieal radiate is therefore easily reduced in idea to its pri- mordial symmetry. Infusoria.— Out of the vast number of various forms met with amongst these animal- cules the greater number are symmetrical. This symmetry is usually not bilateral, but that of the star-fish. There are, however, some forms which are quite irreconcilable with sym- metry, which no line can divide into two similar halves, which are one, and present no repetitions of parts ; except, indeed, when they are undergoing fissiparous generation. Anteroposterior Symmetry.— By re- ference to the diagram at page 824. Vol. III. Fig. 433., representing the abstract notion or type of a vertebral segment, it will be seen that the upper or posterior half is a reverse of the lower or anterior. Referring to what really exists in nature, we find, in the caudal vertebra; of fish, that their dorsal and ven- tral halves are counterparts tolerably exact, yet that exactness is not nearly what exists between the lateral halves. If an antero- posterior as well as a lateral symmetry be admitted, then we have four repetitions ar- ranged around a centre. At all events there is here, in the Vertebrata, some amount of evidence of radiation or divergence from a central axis comparable in some degree to what we see in the Radiata. The anterior and posterior parts of vertebral segments, as 'found in nature, are usually extremely dissimilar. The rays of the dorsal and ab- dominal (anal) azygos fins of fishes are an- tero-posterior repetitions, hut the fan-like tail fin, which in most fishes seems to be remarkably symmetrical antero-posteriorly, half of it apparently belonging to the dorsal and the other half to the abdominal moiety of the fish, usually belongs, as I have ob- served in the typical fishes, cyprinoid, &c, in reality, entirely to the abdominal or under moiety. The embryo of these fishes at first has a tail like an eel, into which the spinal column is continued nearly to its tip. A little way from the extremity of this, on the abdominal aspect, a group of fin rays are soon observed to sprout out meanwhile that the end of the vertebral co- lumn shrinks and turns up. The group of fin rays grows, and the vertebral column shrinks, so that in time the former is brought to form the fan-like extremity of the animal ; but even then the atrophied end of the verte- bral column maj' be detected occupying the upper edge of the fan. Even in the adult fish some trace of this original relation of the tail fin can be detected. If the tail of an adult homocercal fish be macerated or boiled, and all the pieces which are not an- chylosed to it be removed, what remains will not be symmetrical, but will terminate by turning or cocking up. Even in the Pleuro- nectidas, whose tails seem to be remarkably symmetrical, and where the spinal column seems to terminate in a flat triangular piece, it will be found that the lower half of this piece can be easily removed, whilst the upper half forms one piece with the body of the last vertebra, with which, in fact, it forms a coccyx composed of numerous degenerated and consolidated vertebras. Symmetry of Disease.—This subject has been most ably treated by Dr. W. Budd *. of Bristol. Those local diseases, the cause of which is in the blood, usually affect the solids of the body symmetrically. This can be often well observed in lepra, psoriasis, se- condary syphilis, gout, and rheumatism, and in the eruption caused by taking the iodide of potassium. It is due, no doubt, to the symmetrical disposition of those tissues for which the morbid poisons have a peculiar affi- nity. It proves, moreover, that there is more of peculiarity in certain parts of organs than what meets the eye, which peculiarity is sym- metrical. For, though the tissue of all parts of a bone, for instance, shall be exactly the same, it shall be diseased at a certain part only, and the disease shall be repeated in ex- actly the same part of the corresponding bone of the opposite side. Connected with this is the observation made above, that the corre- sponding points of both sides of the body are exactly of the same age — have reached a cer- tain stage of development at exactly the same time. But the force of this observation in explaining the symmetry of disease is consi- derably weakened by another fact noticed by Dr. W. Budd, namely, that the diseases above named are apt also to localise themselves in parts that are serially homologous, or corre- sponding in the upper or lower limbs, as the knee and elbow, wrist and ankle; for these parts, though homologous, are not of the same age. It is well known that the development of the upper and lower limbs does not pro - ceed pari passu. There is here, at least, some determining agency more mysterious than mere age. Still more curious and mysterious is the relation of the eruption called shingles to the bilateralism of the body. It often ex- tends zone-like around one half, stopping exactly at the median line before and behind, * Medico-Chirurgical Transactions for 1SJ2.