TERATOLOGY. 972 there is one perfect heart, with some imperfect part or parts of another attached to it. 11. The eleventh group of this division includes the cases of lateral duplicity, in which the body is single in the middle, but doubled above and below (or in brutes ante- riorly and posteriorly). In these, which are of rarer kinds, a single neck bears two more or less completely separated heads. The vertebral column is for a considerable length single, but at its lower part again divides, and bears two sets of lower extremities. 12. In the twelfth group the body is single above and doubled below. 13. In this there is a tendency towards singleness, or even complete singleness, of the head, but all parts of the trunk and all the limbs are doubled, an arrangement by which, as al- ready stated, these form a series entirely dis- tinct from the rest. In some of these cases the two heads are found coalesced below ; in others, to which the name of janiceps has been given, one face is directed backwards and the other forwards, the remainders of the two heads being merged into one ; in others, one face is perfectly, the other very deficiently, developed ; in others there are only the indis- tinct traces of a second head presented in the existence of one or two ears on the posterior aspect of the more perfect one ; in others, this trace of duplicity is still less evident ; and, lastly, in the remainder of the group, it is entirely lost, and one head only, which may be well or ill formed, is found upon the double body. 3. Inferior duplicity. My third division of double monsters in- cludes the cases in which there are two com- plete bodies with the lower portions of their respective trunks united, so that there is a head with upper extremities both above and below (the bodies being placed in the same straight line) and on either side of the part at. which they meet two lower limbs. One may best conceive this arrangement by sup- posing two children stuck together by their buttocks, and so fixed with wide-spreading lower limbs, as may be seen in fig. 146. of the second volume of this Cyclopaedia. A com- mon body is thus formed with a head at each end, with two upper limbs both above and below, and with two lower limbs, one belong- ing to each foetus on the right and two on the left of the united portions. A few cases only of this remarkable monstrosity are recorded ; and in these the duplicity was not always complete, but exhibited in some the same tendency towards singleness as was noticed in the others. Thus in some there were but three lower extremities; in others there were but two, or two with a third ill-developed on the other side: and, again, in other groups there were those which have a perfect head at one end of the trunk, but an imperfect one or none at all at the other. These monsters have been known to live a considerable time, their capacity for life being probably owing to the separation of the hearts and the absence of malformation in the more important organs of the body. The umbilical cord is single, and never has a double set of vessels ; an apparent proof (confirmed by si- milar examples in other classes) that the one body is not formed of the materials of two ; a conclusion which is supported by the coinci- dent singleness of the anus and urinary blad- der, and the union of the intestinal canals. 4. Posterior duplicity. The fourth chief form is posterior duplicity, in which two bodies are united by their backs, or a part of them. The union may be at the pelvis (which is most common), and occurred in the well-known Hungarian sisters, who lived to their twenty-second year ; or at the back of the vertebral column, or at the back part of the heads. 5. Superior duplicity. The fifth is the superior duplicity, in which the two children are connected by their skulls, the bones of which are united so as to form a single skull. In these also the place of union varies greatly. The frontal bone of one coa- lesces with the parietal or the occipital of the other, or the foreheads are attached to one another, or the side of one head to the front of the other. But all these are very rare, and of each kind only one or two examples can be found on record. All these are true double monsters. Of tripled-bodicd monsters but one instance is known in the human subject (Atti dell' Accide- ntia dc Cattania, t. viii. p. 203., 1834). To conclude the description of duplicitv, those which occur in individual parts of the body, the rest being single, viz. in the head, chest, abdomen, and limbs, ought to be re- corded ; such as, for example, two mouths, su- pernumerary teeth and horns, two oesophagi or duodena, double hearts, or supernumerary cavities in one heart otherwise well formed, a double penis and urethra, a double clitoris, supernumerary breasts, kidneys, vertebras, ribs, fingers, toes, or whole limbs. But. for all these I refer to my monograph. At present I prefer to give all those con- siderations upon the origin of double mon- sters, of which this highly interesting subject is capable. From all the facts I have published, I point out the following generalisations: — The double monsters form collectively one class of organic beings, which, however dif- ferent in their several degrees of malforma- tion, may be arranged in one continued series. As the lowest degree of duplicity, may be mentioned that of a single part of the body ; for example, a double or supernumerary fin- ger ; as the highest, a complete double mon- ster with two heads, four upper and four lower limbs, and two trunks, such as the Siamese twins. And between these two ex- tremes there are different forms of duplicity, which gradually run one into the other. There is no positive or constant relation between the external and the internal organs as to their degrees or modes of duplicity. In the completest duplicity of the exterior, for