804 STATISTICS. understood, comprises two distinct inquiries, the one relating to the individual facts which form the materials lor the calculation of aver- age and extreme values, and the other re- ferring to the averages and extremes them- selves. This natural and convenient division of the subject it is proposed now to adopt. 1. Of facts considered as the elements of sta- tistical inquiries.— Scientific inquiries are con- versant with two orders of facts : — namely, phenomena of varying intensity, and events brought about by a multitude of causes. The first class of facts enters very largely into the science of physiology ; the last class consti- tutes, though not to the exclusion of the first, the mass of the materials by which the prac- tical sciences of medicine and hygiene are built up. As examples of phenomena of varying inten- sity may be cited the pulse and respiration, the temperature of the body, the secretions of the skin, kidneys, and lungs, the evacuations of the bowels, the weight and stature of the body at different ages, and the muscular de- velopment and power of different nations and classes of persons. These phenomena, care- fully observed and recorded by the aid of the watch, the thermometer, the measure, the balance, and other instruments adapted to special purposes, become so many numerical values, having the same relation to the aver- ages deduced from them, as the more simple events expressed in units bear to the mean results for which they furnish the materials. As an example of an event brought about by a multitude of causes may be mentioned the event of death, governed, as to the age at which it occurs, by original strength or pecu- liarity of constitution, good or bad nursing and management in infancy, sex, occupation and habits of life, climate and place of abode, skilful or unskilful treatment in sickness ; in a word, by the varied influences which make one man to differ physically from another. This is an illustration taken from the science of hygiene. The alternative of death or re- covery from a disease induced by a cause or causes of variable intensity in persons of opposite sex and of different ages, with con- stitutions modified by the several agenies just specified, and submitted to different modes of treatment, is an example from the practice of medicine. Physiology furnishes illustrations of the same kind in those func- tions of the body (such as the cutting of the teeth, and the first appearance and cessation of the catamenia) which are dependent for of numbers as a necessary means of comparison in this work of Achenwal, led men to confound the in- strument with the science. Dufau, in his Traite de Statistique, incorrectly derives the term statistics from the Latin status. The meaning attached to the words statism and statist, in the writings of poets, essayists, and dramatists, bears out the view just put forward of the proper signification of the term statistics. Mil- ton, for instance, speaks of " statists and lawyers," and elsewhere uses the term in the sense of a man having political power and influence. Ford also tises the word in this latter sense. South speaks of persons who called our religion statism. the period of their occurrence on peculiarity of constitution determined by the combined action of the influences already adverted to. Between these two orders of facts — phe- nomena of varying intensity, and events brought about by a multitude of causes — there is no other difference but that which is apparent on the face of each, namely, that each individual fact, in the one case, is repre- sented by a variable number, while in the other it is a simple unit. If, for example, we count the pulse of several men at the same age, we shall find that each separate observa- tion gives a different number; but, the event of death or recovery in cases of typhus fever will be recorded as a simple unit. In all other respects the two classes of facts closely re- semble each other; for the number of beats peculiar to the pulse of each individual, is as much the result of the concurrent action of several causes, as the event of death or reco- very from fever. The original and acquired constitution, towards the formation of which so many causes must have conspired, deter- mines the number of the pulse in the one case, and influences the event of the disease in the other. The two classes of facts are also equally fitted to supply the elements for the determination of average and extreme values; for it is obvious that the mean and extreme numbers of the pulse, in males and females respectively, furnish as trustworthy standards of comparison and data for reason- ing, as the average number of men following different occupations who die before any spe- cified period of life, and the greatest age which they respectively attain. From what has been just stated, it will be seen that all the facts which form the mate- rials for our averages, are phenomena or events brought about by the concurrent action of a multitude of causes. The facts or events with which the physiologist and physician are conversant, are remarkable for the mul- tiplicity of the causes which conspire to pro- duce them. The subject of study is the hu- man frame, with its differences of sex, age, and inherited or acquired constitution, acted upon by the variable influences of climate, oc- cupation, and habits of life, and still further modified in disease by the treatment and re- gimen which may happen to be adopted. In consequence of the number and diversity of the influences brought to bear upon it, the human frame presents an object of study only less difficult than the human mind, affected by a like number and variety of moral causes, of which the true nature and force have to be unravelled by multiplied observations on the condition of mankind under different cir- cumstances ; the aggregate of such observ- ations constituting a great part of the science of statistics properly so called, and bearing to the practical science of government the same relation which pathology and therapeutics, based upon large collections of facts, do to the practice of medicine. Now this dependence of the individual facts or events with w hich physiology and medicine are conversant on the concurrent action of a