SPLEEN. 778 cur in these sheaths in many animals, are altogether absent from the membrane of the Malpighian corpuscle ; and the latter must especially be noticed as being much more de- licate than the sheaths of the arteries on which the corpuscles sit. The white fibrous tissue, which Ecker regarded as a continuous membrane, in consequence of having seen it when changed by the action of potash, is in precisely the same condition as in the par- titions and sheaths of the vessels, and forms by far the greatest part of the coat of the cor- puscles ; while the elastic tissue (the stripes of a doubtful nature which Ecker saw) ap- pears to constitute only a more or less ex- tensive network of pale, so-called nuclear fibres (kernfasern) (fig. 528. b). So that the membrane of the Malpighian corpuscles would thus appear to be only a modified portion of the vascular sheath,— a view which most ap- proximates to that enunciated by J. Miiller. An outer coat, of which Giesker speaks, has never been plainly verified by me as a special membrane connected with the preceding ; but it seems to me more probable, that the cor- puscles are always immediately surrounded by the cells and vessels of the pulp. Certainly these vessels are often connected together by an indistinct fibrous or membranous sub- stance, but this is especially present in the pulp, and is nothing else than the termination of the sheath of the vessels. The preceding remarks especially apply to the Malpighian corpuscles of the higher brute mammalia. As to those of man, although they are much more difficult to examine, yet I have satisfied my- self in the most positive manner that they correspond with those of the brute mammalia in all essential points. This is easiest and best seen in the spleens of children. The struc- ture of these is exactly that seen in animals, only the coat is more delicate, so that it is extremely difficult to isolate a single cor- puscle entire, and the contents are expelled by the slightest pressure. In the wall is seen the same network of elastic fibres as in ani- mals, and this renders it possible even to re- cognise those which are burst. Extremely fine capillaries of 3-1000ths of a line in diameter may frequently be seen around the corpus- cles ; but the latter are just as little enve- loped in a second membrane as in animals. The Malpighian corpuscles do not possess in their interior an epithelium and separated contents like the glands, but they are densely filled with a semifluid, greyish white, cohesive mass (fig. 527. b). This contains, together with a small quantity of a clear fluid, a large quantity of morphous particles, which have been very differently described by different observers. According to J. Miiller they very much resemble the corpuscles of the spleen- pulp, and have a general likeness to the blood discs, but are irregularly spherical. BischofF regards them as altogether corresponding with those of the chyle, both in appearance, size, and behaviour with water and acetic acid. According to Henle, they resemble those of the spleen-pulp and those of the thymus and thyroid body ; and he so de- scribes them, that it would appear he recog- nised nuclei and a small proportion of cells. Oesterlen describes them as nuclei resembling the elements of the pulp. Hessling, Huschke, and Nasse* agree with BischofF respecting the similarity of the elements in question to the lymph and chyle corpuscles. The latter of these authorities finds those of the rabbit to be 2—3-1000ths of a line in diameter, while Hessling certifies to their size in men as from 2—5i-1000ths, and describes their surfaces as possessing a mulberry-like ap- pearance, and their contents as partly minute granules, partly separate nuclei. J. Simon found that the corpuscles in question never attained a development into cells. Remakf describes them as consisting — partly of large transparent cells, with an interior containing a single lateral, or double and clear nucleus — partly of small, dark-bordered vesicles, closely surrounded by a delicate pale membrane, and occupied by a dark central nucleus. The first, according to him, resemble the larger, the last the smaller lymph corpuscles. Fi- nally, Gerlach finds in the Malpighian cor- puscles the nuclei of cells, and, in equal quan- tity, cells of different sizes, with one, two, or three nuclei, as well as blood corpuscles, with all those forms of granule-cells which I shall hereafter describe as developed in the spleen- pulp from the effused blood. These are the most important accounts given by others. As the result of my own researches, I must, firstly, corroborate J. Miil- ler, who explains the elements of the contents of the Malpighian corpuscles and spleen-pulp as similar structures. Also, I can add with BischofF, that they often resemble the chyle corpuscles ; yet I am not disposed to lay any weight upon this correspondence. Further- more, I consider it fully made out that Ger- lach's view, according to which blood cor- puscles, and cells which include blood cor- puscles, are a constant constituent of the Mal- pighian corpuscles, is altogether erroneous. They are not even frequent occurrences, for in many animals I have not found them at all; and when they occurred—as, for instance, in oxen — they were mostly found in scattered vesicles, and, further, were in such small quantity, that they had no influence on their colour. And very often blood corpuscles and their metamorphoses appeared to occupy the vesicles, where a more careful examin- ation showed that they were only in con- tact with their outer surface. The degree of accuracy to which Gerlach's assertion may lay claim is best shown by the fact, that he al- together denies the existence of these granule- cells (which are produced from the effused blood) in the spleen-pulp ; while it is here, as well in these as in animals which possess no proper spleen vesicles, that they occur in * Handworterbucli der Physiologie, von R. Wag- ner, ii. S. 387. f Diagnostisehe und Pathogenetische Untersuch- ungen: Berlin, 1845.