SPLEEN. 795 loops or with free extremities. In the calf, the thickness of these smallest nerves on arteries of a line in diameter (where it is not uncommon to find two such trunks) is 24 to 28-1000ths of a line ; on the pencils of arteries 48 to 56-10,000ths; on the smallest ar- teries and capillaries 3 to 4-1000ths. Their structure was so far peculiar, that in the calf the finest nerves {fig. 539.) exhibited no trace of nerve fibres, even when treated with soda and acetic acid, but they seemed to consist wholly and solely of the fibres of Remak. Nevertheless, in branches of 12 to 28-1000ths of a line, I have often very plainly seen a single Fig. 540. A somewhat larger nerve, in which may he seen a single dark nerve fibre : also from the Calf. Mag- nified 300 diameters. nerve tubule of 20 to 28-10,000ths of a line (fig. 54:0.), with dark margins, in the midst of the fibres of Remak. From these facts it may be concluded that the finest nerve tubes in the spleen of the calf are devoid of the dark bor- ders, just as they are in the organ of smell according to Todd and Bowman ; or as in the Pacinian corpuscles, the cornea, &c.; but we are scarcely able to conclude therefrom that they possess the same constitution in the adult animal. I will here permit myself to Fig. 541. Two primitive nerve fibres given off from the trunk o f the splenic nerve of the Calf, about an inch be fore its entry into the Spleen. Magnified obQ diameters. add an interesting microscopic observation concerning the splenic nerves of the calf. A division of the primitive nerve fibres takes place in them (fig. 541.), similar to that which Henle and myself found in the Pacinian cor- puscles, Miiller, Briicke, and R. Wagner in the muscles, and Savi and R. Wagner in the electrical organ of the torpedo. But what is altogether new in the minute anatomy of nerve is, that these divisions do not take place at the terminations of the primitive nerve fibres, but in their trunks. I detected them in the large trunks which accompany the splenic artery previously to its entering the hilus; and, indeed, in considerable numbers, so that I often counted three or four such divisions in one preparation. They always took place by the division of a primitive nerve fibre at an acute angle into two parts, and never gave rise to more fibres. These divisions often repeated themselves on the same fibre, so that in one instance three, and in another case even four, fibres were given off by the successive divisions of a single primitive fibre: this happened in the smaller branches in the interior ; but, so far as I could remark, it did not occur in the smallest branches of nerves, although, from the difficulty of examining the finer nerves, I cannot say that such divisions were absolutely wanting here. The significa- tion of these facts seems to be very important, both in an anatomical and physiological point of view, but this is not the place to give a more detailed statement. But thus much will I remark ; that by means of such a dis- tribution of the nerves, a small nerve may be rendered subservient to a larger organ ; and, in addition, an harmonious activity of the whole organ may be facilitated ; while, finally, in respect to sensation, it may possibly ex- plain the want of an exact local sensibility. In concluding this treatise on the anatomy of the spleen, I will allow myself briefly to propound somewhat concerning the physio- logical and pathological properties of the organ. The spleen is developed at the end of the second or the beginning of the third month, in the foetal mesogastrium at the fundus of the stomach. It originates from a blastema which is developed independently in this situation, and neither proceeds from the intestine, like that of the liver, nor from the pancreas, as Arnold has maintained ; since, although in the ruminants it is placed on this gland, yet in the dog, according to Bischoff, it is not. It is at first a small, white, often slightly ta- bulated corpuscle, which gradually reddens, and soon becomes as rich in vessels and blood as it is in the adult. The elements of the foetal spleen are originally quite uniform cells; at a later period part of these are transformed into fibres and vessels, while part become persistent as the parenchyma-cells. It is only subsequently that the Malpighian corpuscles are developed, yet I have found them, without exception, both in man and animals, at the end of the foetal life. Ac- cording to Heusinger, the proportion of the