1337 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. consists of Sanscrit words, although Sanscrit is no longer the spoken language of any part of India ; and they are acquainted with only the simplest form of Hindoo mythology; whence it may be fairly concluded, that they separated from the common stock at a very early period. Thus, then, we have very strong evidence that a certain relation exists between climate and colour; and it is no valid objection to the existence of such a relation, to say that it is not perfectly uniform. For it is at least as uniform as the relation between colour and race, even where the climatic influences are the same ; that is, the difference of shade among people of different races that have been exposed sufficiently long to the same climatic influences, is not greater than that which presents itself among individuals of the very same nation. It would seem that, among the most dark-skinned races, there is a greater variety of complexion than is found in those of fairer hue. Such has been already shown to be the case among the Polynesian islanders; and the following extract from Bishop He- ber's Journal will serve to indicate the amount of variety existing among the Hindoos. " On first landing," he remarks, " the great differ- ence in colour between different natives struck me much. Of the crowd by whom we were surrounded, some were as black as Negroes, others merely copper-coloured, and others little darker than the Tunisines whom I have seen in Liverpool. Mr. Mill, the principal of the British College, who came down to meet me, and who has seen more of India than most men, tells me that he cannot account for this difference, which is general throughout the country, and every where striking. It is not merely the difference of exposure, since this variety is visible in the fishermen, who are naked all alike. Nor does it depend on caste, since very high-caste Brahmins are sometimes black, while Pariahs are comparatively fair. It seems, therefore, to be an accidental difference, like that ot light and dark complexions in Europe ; though, where so much of the body is exposed to light, it becomes more striking here than in our own country." So among the in- habitants of Central Europe, it appears that a considerable modification in complexion has oc- curred, which is not sufficiently accounted for by the climatic change that has taken place in it since the classical epoch. For the Ger- manic nations were unanimously described by ancient authors as exceedingly fair, possessing yellow or red hair, and blue or grey eyes ; but these characters are now far from being pre- valent among them, and it is only amongst the Scandinavian races that they are common to the mass of the people. On the whole, then, it must be concluded that the Colour of the Skin is a character of such variable nature, that no positive line of demarcation can be drawn by its aid between the different races of mankind ; and whilst it must be freely admitted that we are far from comprehending all the influences which ope- rate to modify it, there seems ample evidence that climatic variations, whose agency is ex- erted for a sufficiently long period, are among the most efficient. This statement is ob- viously not invalidated by the fact, that Ne- groes and other dark-skinned people, who have lived for some time in temperate cli- mates, have not lost their characteristic hue. For there is no example on record, so far as the author is aware, in which a Negro tribe or set of families has maintained itself for even three or four generations in a temperate climate, without intermixture either with the surrounding " whites " or with " blacks " of more immediate tropical descent. And until it shall have been shown that a continuous descent of many generations has taken place, in a group of Negroes completely isolated from the parent stock, and exposed to the condi- tions which are presumed to favour the pro- duction of the xanthous variety, without any considerable departure from their present com- plexion, there will be no negative evidence at all equivalent in probative value to the facts already cited on the affirmative side of the question. 5. We have now to inquire into the cha- racters furnished by the colour, texture, and mode of growth of the Hair, which have been much relied on by some writers, as more per- manent and distinctive than those furnished by the hue of the skin. Thus, the Negro is usually characterised by his " woolly " hair ; while the Mongolian races are affirmed to be peculiar in the scantiness of their pilous covering ; and the Hottentots are further separated by its tufted arrangement, which has been compared to the mode in which the bristles are set in'a scrubbing-brush.—Now in regard to the colour of the hair, it is scarcely necessary to remark that it cannot be taken alone as a distinctive character of races ; since it is liable to present the most extreme variations within the limits of any one. Among the xanthous Anglo-Saxons, for example, jet-black hair is by no means uncommon ; although various shades of brown are most frequently met with. Among Ne- groes, on the other hand, it is not at all rare to meet with a more or less complete de- parture from what may be freely admitted to be the prevalent character of their race. In the instances which have been already cited as proving the want of constancy in the com- plexion of the dark or melanic races, a corre- sponding change manifests itself in the colour of the hair, which often becomes of a reddish brown, or even of a much lighter hue. These may occur in individuals, or in whole tribes. Thus, Dr. Pickering speaks of having seen two children, in whom "the Negro aspect had so entirely disappeared, that they might have passed for the children of Europeans, but for the remarkable appearance of the hair," which he could " compare to nothing but a white fleece." * The Cinghalese, according to the testimony of Dr. Davy, present as many va- * The Races of Man (Bohn's edition), p. 188