TUNICATA. I Salpa cordiformis, Quoy and Gaimard must comprehend the two dissimilar states which have hitherto been falsely considered as two distinct species, and to which have been given specific names, that can now serve only to designate one or the other of the hetero- morphous conditions.* Amongst the characters that distinguish the different generations of each species of Salpa, one of the most remarkable is offered by the disposition of the muscular bands. These are variable in the two generations, but constant for each of them. There is, however, a still more essential difference, and that is, the mode of propagation peculiar to each generation. The aggregate individuals proceeding from the isolated individuals grow by gemmation within the mother animals, on a cylindrical prolongation, which may justly be termed a proliferous")- stolon, but which differs from stolons observed in many other animals, in not ever appearing externally. — The stolons of the " social" Ascidians spring up bare, the animal not being connected by a common gelatinous envelope, as is the case with the "compound" Ascidians; in which latter group the stolons necessarily remain hidden in the common envelope, somewhat approaching in this respect the stolons of the Salpians. The solitary Salpians derived from the aggregate generation are, on the contrary, produced by a process more complicated namely, by means of the sexual functions,—the concurrence of the eggs and the sperm. Generation in the "aggregate" Salpians. — With very few exceptions, the individual aggregate Salpians produce only one offspring throughout their lifej, so that, if we examine them at one period, anterior to fecundation, we find a single egg, and, at a later period, a fetus. The egg is distinctly visible within the young aggregate individual before it has left its parent (isolated) Salpian ; and as the fecundation of this egg takes place immediately, or at least a very short time after, the birth of the young aggregate Salpa, it can be examined before fecundation, that is, during the development of the aggregate within the isolated individual, or shortly after its birth. The egg is lodged in the thickness of the internal tunic of the mother, at a little dis- tance from the inner wall of the respiratory cavity. It is very clearly distinguishable in the aggregate embryo at a period intermediate be- tween the appearance of the solitary embryo as a bud and its full development. It is then situated above the visceral mass, at the an- terior extremity of the body, and nearly in the middle line, raising the external tunic into a slight prominence. It is spherical, and consists of a vitellus, containing the germinal vesicle and spot, and invested with a membrane so thick, that M. Krohn is led to regard it as comparable with the " calyx" in birds. During the progress of the development of the ani- mal, the position of the egg is altered, and it becomes situated on the side of the body, somewhat approaching towards its superior surface, and behind the second muscular band. This position is retained by the egg, and sub- sequently by the fetus. To the posterior extremity of the egg a cord is attached, which serves as a sort of peduncle, in general directed nearly horizontally back- wards, and consisting apparently of a pro- longation of the membrane that covers the vitellus. At the period when the egg oc- cupies the anterior extremity of the embryo, this cord is proportionally thicker and shorter than at the subsequent periods of the em- bryo's development. M. Krohn considered it as being the nutritive peduncle of the ovarian capsule, or membrane, enveloping the egg. This cord exists, as above described, up to the time of fecundation, but it soon after- wards disappears. The ovary, we see, is * To the above observations, M. Krohn has added the following list of such species of Salpa as he had been enabled to recognise in the two states: — Species. In the Solitary State {Proles solitaria, Chamisso). {Salpa demoeratiea, Forskahl) S. spinosa, Otto J Salpa africaua, Forskahl In the Aggregated State (Proles gregata, Chamisso). {Salpa mucronata, Forshahl. S. pyramidalis, Quoy and Gaimard. {Salpa maxima, Forskahl. S. Forskahlii, Lesson. C Salpa fusiformis, Cuvier. ■i S. maxima, var. prima, Forskahl. ( S. runcinata, gregata, Chamisso. Salpa punctata, Forskahl. {Salpa bicaudata, Quoy and Gaimard. S. nephodea, Lesson. Salpa proboscidalis, Lesson. t{Salpa zonaria, Chamisso. S. polycratica, Forskahl. The recognition of the two forms of this species was made by Prof. Eschricht, and con- firmed by M. Krohn. o f Salpa costata, Quoy and Gaimard \ (Salpa Tilesii, Cuvier. \ Dagysa strumosa, Banks j ( S. infundibuliformis, Quoy and Gaimard. M. Krohn observes also, that Salpa ferruginea, Chamisso; S. eonfa?derata, Forskahl; S. socia, Bosc; S. octofora, Cuvier (?); S. lasvis, Lesson, and S. femoralis, Quoy and Gaimard, do not materially differ from S. bicaudata. f Professor Eschricht was the first to recognise J S. zonaria is the only example of an aggregate the true signification of this part. Salpa producing several (four) foetuses. Salpa runcinata, Cliamisso Salpa, observed by Krohn Salpa scutigera, Cuvier S. vivipara, Peron and Lesueur S. gibba, Bosc S. dolium, Quoy and Gaimard Salpa, observed by Krohn {