726 SOLIPEDA. 3 a 3 have the same general arrangement as in the human suhjeet. In the horse, their disposi- tion is as follows, beginning with those whose office is to raise the framework of the chest and thus assist in inspiration. The scaleni differ in no remarkable respect from the corresponding muscles in the human body. The same may be said of the inter- costal muscles, the levatores costnrum, the ser- ratus posticus superior (dorso-costien), the ser- vatus posticus inferior (lombo-costien), and the triangularis sterni (sterno-costieri), the two latter of which must be regarded as depressors of the ribs, and consequently acting the part of muscles of expiration. In all quadrupeds possessing a greater num- ber of ribs, and consequently a more capacious thorax than man, the attachments of the dia- phragm are found to be much further re- moved from the margins of the false ribs than in the human subject: nevertheless the position which it occupies, and its connections in the thoracic cavity, are similar in all mammiferous animals. The walls of the abdomen, in the horse as in the generality of quadrupeds, are composed of five pairs of muscles, to which the same names are applicable as are bestowed upon them by the anthropotomist. The obliquus externus abdominis (cosfo-ab- dominien) arises, by tendinous processes that indigitate with the origins of the serratus magnus, from the external surface of all the lower ribs, beginning at the fifth ; and below the last rib it derives its posterior attach- ment from the fascia lumborum ; from these origins, it runs backwards and downwards, terminating in a broad tendinous expansion, the terminations of which in the linea alba, os pubis, and Poupart's ligament, together with the formation of the external abdominal ring, are exactly as in the human subject. The obliquus interims (ileo-abdomiuicn) ex- hibits the usual arrangement, arising tendinous and fleshy from the crest of the ileum and pubic ligament, whence it mounts obliquely for- wards to be inserted into the cartilages of all the lower ribs as far forwards as the ensi- f'orm cartilage of the sternum. The rectus abdominis (sterno-pubien) is much more extensively developed in the horse than in human beings. Arising from the os pubis it passes forwards enclosed in its usual sheath to be inserted into the ensiform cartilage and into the cartilaginous terminations of the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth ribs, and also into the sternum between the cartilages of the third and fourth ribs. There are even fleshy fibres derived from this muscle prolonged as far forwards as the articulation between the first rib and the sternum, which, by the old anatomists, was regarded as a dis- tinct muscle, and named " musculus in summo thorace situs." In many of the Carnivora the rectus ab- dominis is equally remarkable for its great length, and in some species it is even pro- longed forwards to the very anterior ex- tremity of the sternum. When the recti are thus largely developed the pyramidales do not exist. Anterior extremity. Muscles of the shoulder. — It may readily be supposed that in the horse and other herbivorous quadrupeds not possessed of a clavicle, and, moreover, remark- able for the extreme simplicity of the struc- ture of their scapular apparatus, these muscles undergo important modifications in their dis- position and attachments, which it will be interesting to investigate. In the human subject the muscles specially appropriated to the movements of the shoulder are eight in number,— viz. the serratus magnus, the peo toralis minor, the levator scapulae, the rlwmboi- deus, the trapezius, the omo-hyoideus, the sub- ciavius, and the sterno-cleido mastoideus, all of which concur in producing the various move- ments of which the human shoulder is sus- ceptible. Of these, it will be observed, the six first belong exclusively to the Scapula, except the trapezius, which is inserted ex- tensively into the clavicle ; whilst the opera- tion of the two last is upon the clavicle only. In quadrupeds the shoulder is furnished with the same muscles as those which are met with in man, only they present differences in their proportions and attachments, which are dependent upon the structure of the skeleton, or the particular requirements of the animal ; and, moreover, they are provided with an additional muscle, of-which no vestiges appear in our own bodies. In the horse, the ar- rangement of the muscular apparatus of the shoulder is as follows. The trapezius, in all quadrupeds destitute of clavicles, or in which these bones are but imperfectly developed, presents an arrange- ment very different from what exists in such as have the clavicles completely formed : that part which would in the latter case have been the clavicular portion, becomes confounded with the deltoid and with the cleido-mastoid (here a very distinct muscle from the sterno- mastoid). From the combination of these three, there usually results a single muscle, which is implanted immediately into the humerus, and which, from its attachments, might be named the masto-humeralis. It is this muscle which is named by Stubbs the leva'or humeri proprius, and its posterior part musculus ad levatorem accessorius ; and by the French hippotomists muscle commun de la fete de I'enclosure et du bras. This clavicular por- tion of the trapezius is very distinct from the scapular portion, from which it is in many animals separated by the trachclo-acromial muscle, to be described further on. In the horse, therefore, the Trapezius may be said to consist of that part only which is called the ascending portion in the human subject, and which is inserted into the pos- terior margin of the spine of the scapula. The sterno-mastoid is present, but the levator anguli scapulee, the cleido-mastoid, and the clavicular portions of the trapezius and deltoid are all replaced by the muscular expansion above described, and which, taking its origin from the mastoid process of the temporal bone