1153 TONGUE. arch the velum palati postering. At the same time that this is taking place, the base of the tongue is thrown back upon the epiglottis*,the larynx being drawn upwards and forwards to meet it, so that the rima glottidis is com- pletely closed, and the food glides safely down, over the inclined plane thus formed, into the pharynx raised and dilated to receive it : the food then comes within the grip of the constrictors of the pharynx, which successively pass it downwards to the oesophagus. This process takes place so rapidly that it is difficult to trace its parts in succession, anil indeed some of them, which apparently succeed one another, are in reality contemporaneous : thus, the first stage — the raising of the dorsum of the tongue to the palate — is that which mainly contributes to the inclined plane of the second stage; and the raising and carrying forwards of the larynx under the tongue is that which principally dilates the pharynx.f The third stage, or the oesophageal, conducts the food to the stomach ; it is of that peri- staltic or vermicular nature that characterises all the succeeding movements of the alimentary canal; the muscles concerned are entirely involuntary, and the nature of the act purely reflex. The tongue is not concerned in it. Speech. — The tongue is the instrument principally engaged in those modifications of the oral passages which give rise to articulate sounds, which, definitely grouped and com- bined by man, and taken as the representa- tives of certain objects, actions, qualities, and relations, constitute Language. The con- sideration of this interesting subject, however, will more appropriately fall under the article Voice, to which the reader is referred. Morbid Anatomy of the Tongue. — The tongue is obnoxious to a variety of morbid changes, which might naturally be expected from the number and nature of the elementary tissues which enter into its formation, as well as from the diversity of the functions it has to perform, and the exposure to injury in which it is placed;— changes which may consist either in some increase, decrease, or disproportion of its normal ele- ments, in some lesion or morbid change in those elements, or else in the superaddition of some adventitious growth. The tongue may be affected with inflam- mation, hypertrophy, atrophy, induration ; with ulceration, numerous morbid changes in the conditions of the papilla? ; with tumours, cancer, aphtha? ; and the organ, moreover, is subject to be displaced, — there is prolapsus of the tongue, the tongue may be inverted * It would seem that the epiglottis is not abso- lutely necessary for the protection of the rima glot- tidis, but that the pressure of the base of the tongue over it is sufficient; as there are autheutic cases on record, in which the epiglottis was quite destroyed by syphilis, and yet deglutition was never attended with any inconvenience. t For a detailed account of this process, see Dzondi, die Functionen ties weiehen Gaumens. Halle, 1831. VOL. IV. and embraced by the pharynx — swallowed ; and the tongue may be unnaturally fixed by an unusual extent of frenum, the individual thus circumstanced being tongue-lied. Inflammation of the tongue. — The morbid changes caused by inflammation of the tongue are modified by the structure of the organ. There is one form of this disease in which, from the extreme vascularity of the tongue and the distensibility of its covering, it swells to an enormous size with great rapidity, and subsequently recedes without suppuration: this I have ventured to call erectile. In other cases the tongue suppurates. The constitu- tional action of mercury is another cause of glossitis. 1 therefore divide glossitis, for its more complete consideration, into-—I. Idio- pathic (1. Suppurative; 2. Erectile); and II. Mercurial. Suppurative glossitis. — This is an extremely uncommon affection. It commences with heat, swelling, induration, and some fever; matter presents itself at various lengths of time, forming a more or less circumscribed abscess. It generally occurs on one side, and points just beneath the edge of the tongue. According to Dr. Moller, of Zealand, scrofu- lous persons are most liable to this affection. Instances are recorded by Mr. A. Smee, Dr. Graves, Dr. Moller, and one example occurred in the practice of the author's father. This latter patient was a lady, recovering from an attack of influenza. Her tongue, which was affected principally on one side, became swollen, tender, hard, stiff", and incapable of movement. She could not speak, and swal- lowed with great difficulty. At length the pus was evacuated, and the tongue healed, and recovered all its functions immediately. This lady now possesses a remarkably good use of the organ. Erectile glossitis. — This malady, though less rare than the preceding, is still quite un- common. The morbid condition of the tongue in this disease appears to consist in an enor- mous and rapid distension of the organ by blood, rendering it very large, hard, and stiff'. In the majority of cases it occurs in people in perfect health, and seems to be a purely idio- pathic inflammation : in some cases it seems to have followed exposure to cold, and in others it was associated with febrile disorders. In this disease the first change which occurs is a perceptible enlargement of the tongue, which feels rather stiff, painful, and tender with a little difficulty in speaking, the patient being in other respects well. The case gene- rally proceeds rapidly; in two or three hours the tongue is much larger; there is a good deal of distressing burning felt in it. Sy- nocha, symptomatic of the local inflammation, now occurs, and goes on increasing with the glossitis, and the patient becomes anxious and alarmed. The tongue occupies now the whole cavity of the mouth, or even protrudes, and the jaws are kept apart. Mr. Martin thus describes the condition of the tongue at this stage ; — "On examining the tongue, I found that it occupied a large proportion of the 4 E