SPLEEN. 774 with some white fibrous tissue. As to the lower vertebrata, I have examined a great number of them -with respect to this muscular structure, and have found that the smallness of the spleen in many of them offers a great obstacle to observation ; yet I believe I have verified that the spleens of the pigeon, sparrow, blindworm, tench (tinea chrysitis), and trout, contain muscular fibres. So, also, my friend Professor Ecker, of Basle, has orally commu- nicated to me that he has found very dis- tinct muscular fibre in the spleens of the ray and shark. All these muscles are, like those of the fibrous coat, unstriped ; their elements consist of elongated shortish fibres, each possessing a long nucleus. (Fig. 523. a, Fig. 524.) In the thicker partitions there are what I call " mus- cular fibre-cells," either stiff, pale, flat, from 4 to G.lOOOths of a line broad,and2 to3.100ths long, or more cylindrical, darker, spindle- shaped, and undulating, varying from 2 to 5.100ths of a line in length, and 3 to 4.1000ths in breadth. In both cases they have long, neat, small, staff-shaped, nuclei. In the finer partitions, on the contrary, appear many shorter and more spindle-shaped fibre-cells ; their nuclei are elliptical or even spherical, and they often project laterally from the fibres, so as sometimes to render these muscular elements scarcely distinguishable from the spindle- shaped epithelial cells of the splenic arteries. The muscular elements I<ig. o~4. just described are seen in the best and plainest manner in the pig and dog ; but they are also , readily verified in the horse, ox, ass, sheep, and cat, in all of which they may frequently be isolated. In the other mammals previously named, and in the rest | || of the vertebrata, they are less easily recog- nised, and are scarcely susceptible of isola- tion ; but they can al- ways be partially un- covered, and in any case may be demon- strated by the applica- tion of acetic acid, which displays their characteristic niulei. As regards the hu- man subject, I find that in the partitions which are visible by the naked eye, no trace of un- striped muscular fibre is present; and they probably consist entirely of yellow and white fibrous tissue. In the finer partitions, on the contrary, elements occur to which one may perchance ascribe a muscular character. They are the same short fibres of a peculiar kind (jig. 525. 1.), which Gunsburg* has * Pathologische Gewebelchre, Band. i. S. 81. Fig. 525. 1 Muscular fibre-cells from the trabecule: of the Pig, magnified 350 diameters. 1, without acetic acid; 2, with acetic acid; nucleus. Peculiar structures from the human spleen, magnified 350 diameters. 1, spindle-shaped fibres with a nucleus; 2, a cell, which contains such a fibre; 3, a similar cell, without a fibre. erroneously regarded as epithelial cells of the splenic veins ; otherwise they have hither- to remained altogether unnoticed. They are characterised by their roundish or elongated oval nucleus, which is laterally disposed, and often occupies a pedunculated process ; by their homogeneous texture; by their easy undulatory or serpentine outline ; and, finally, by their size, which offers a breadth of 15 to 25-1000ths, and a length of 2 to 3-100ths of a line. The round nuclei of these fibre-cells, even at first sight, somewhat militate against their muscular import ; but it must be recol- lected, that in the mammals named it has been previously stated that the muscular fibre-cells, which occur in the smallest partitions, deviate considerably from the characteristic fibres, and greatly resemble the structures now de- scribed in men. On this account, and from the further fact, that the above mentioned human fibre-cells, in moderately fresh spleens, seem to occupy the smallest partitions, just as the muscular fibres in animals ; while in later periods after death, or in decomposed spleens, they can only be found isolated, with the pa- renchyma cells, in the red pulp of the spleen, I formerly considered it not too hazardous to regard them as muscular fibre-cells. But more recently I have made some observations which have again thrown me into- complete uncer- tainty in respect of the import of these ques- tionable structures. Thus I believe myself to have verified, that these fibres occur in the human subject rolled together in a kind of spherical cell (fig. 525.2,) of 5 to 7-1000ths of a line in diameter ; and that, on tearing up this structure they become free, and extend themselves. But, since this fact in no way harmonizes with the nature of muscular fibre- cells, and is besides altogether obscure and incomprehensible to me, I hesitate to express at once an opinion concerning the above- mentioned structures in the human spleen, but am desirous of calling the attention of inquirers to this peculiar arrangement, which, on ac- count of its constancy and frequency, is very interesting