710 SOFTENING AND INDURATION. rapidly, that, unless perfectly fresh specimens be used, no microscopic structure can be dis- tinguished in the stomachal mucous mem- brane. I have noticed the same thing to occur in caterpillars : their stomachs, which contain both globular and columnar cells, after a time become softened and are per- forated, so, subsequently, is the external cuticle ; nature seems to have taken this ori- ginal method of doing away with useless organisms. In ulceration of the stomach the affected part is generally circular, and if it reaches the peritoneum excites inflammation in the re- flexion contiguous to it; by this means per- foration is rarely accomplished. Now, in post mortem perforations the softened part, said by some to be the seat of ulceration, is diffuse and the perforation large and irregular, and no part of the neighbouring peritoneum presents the slightest trace of recent inflam- mation ; shreds of muscular tissue and cellular membrane, moreover, form an irregular fringe around the opening, and, by their presence, detract greatly from the theory which calls such phenomena pathological and not pseudo- morbid. Generally speaking, the fundus is most fre- quently the part of the stomach most affected by the gastric juice ; but every thing depends upon its being the most depending part, and upon its containing more or less semi-digested food. The solvent matter is secreted by the tubes of the stomach, and consists of pepsin in com- bination with lactic acid and water : it pos- sesses the power of disintegrating all dead structures, but cannot influence the living tissues. It is not secreted when the stomach is empty, a stimulus to the mucous coat, in the form of some matter foreign to the stomach, is necessary for its production ; it is probably the case, that an ulcer of the mucous membrane may act as a stimulus, and that a certain quantity of juice may always be present in the stomach ; and that when, by the de- pressing effect of this lesion, the general nutri- tion suffers and the tissues are less able to resist decomposition, the gastric juice may act locally on the surface of the ulcer, and produce perforation before any peritoneal adhesion is formed. Perforation of the coats of the stomach sometimes occurs suddenly after a meal; it is produced generally by the giving way of some small ulcer, the progress of which had been enhanced by the presence of a large quantity of corroding liquid. Post mortem softening may modify and ex- aggerate softening from other causes, and differs in its own appearances under various circumstances. The colour which the soft- ened membrane presents appears to depend upon the quantity of blood contained in the organ at the time of death; if the quantity be small and natural, the softened parts are of a dull yellow or orange tint; and this colour increases with the quantity of the blood, and is accompanied by a black colour of the vessels. In infants and young children, and in anasmic patients and persons whose blood is deficient in quantity and altered in quality, containing a great disproportion of serum, the whole stomach appears as if macerated; it is, in- deed, sometimes infiltrated with serosity, and is so completely deprived of blood that no trace of this fluid is perceived except in some of the larger veins. Post mortem softening and perforation of the intestines may occur from the presence of an acid fluid, either within them or without, and derived from the stomach ; in the one case, softening is from within outwards, and, in the other, from without inwards. Softening of the skin: the skin may be sof- tened wholly, or one or more of its layers only. In some skin diseases, especially among scrofu- lous subjects, there is an alteration of the cohesion of the epidermis, which is properly formed by layers of cells, the row nearest the basement being smallest and more liquid than the others, the more distant being dry and united laterally, so as to form a dense integu- ment. Certain defects in the quantity and quality of the fluid contained in the newest made cells prevent them from progressing, normally, in their development; they do not become dry, neither is any disposition evinced by the basement to secrete other cells ; under these circumstances the epidermis is soft, and the basement tender and red, the tissue be- neath being visible. The cutis may lose its consistence in several manners. When considerable quantities of serum are collected in the subcuticular cellular tissue, the cutis becomes mechanically dis- tended and remarkably soft ; and sometimes is only represented by a thin friable tissue, which breaks down with the least pressure. It may gradually lose its fibrous structure and degenerate into a tissue analogous to that usually found beneath it. Softening also occurs as a sequel of acute active local congestion. The appendages of the shin, the nails, hairs, and, in the lower animals, horns, undergo softening to a certain extent in diseases of long standing, attended with great emaciation ; and softening of the cornea with ulceration is a common symptom of starvation. Induration of mucous membranes, is gene- rally caused by long continued sub-acute in- flammatory action ; the sub-basement cellular tissue is generally affected, and thickening of the whole structure, with hypertrophy of the papilla;, where they exist, is found at the same time. Induration with hypertrophy is consequent upon chronic dysentery, and upon chronic inflammation of the bladder. Ulcer- ation of mucous membrane is generally ac- companied by surrounding thickening and induration, and this last is frequent in the gall-bladder, gall-ducts, uterus, and urethra. Induration of mucous membranes is generally accompanied by contraction of their caliber or surface, — from the consolidation and subse- quent contraction of lymph effused into the cellular structure. Fatal stricture of the in- testines is produced in this manner, and so