980 TESTICLE^ (NORMAL ANATOMY). epididymis are entirely made up of the con- didymis or vas deferens. It is more com- volutions of the single canal in which the monly attached at the angle formed by the Fig. 634. Fig. 635. An efferent vessel and a portion of the head of the epididymis magnified, to show the progressive dimi- nution of tlte canal of the cone, and the calibre of this vessel, in comparison with that of the canal of the epididymis. c, vas deferens ; d, inflected portion of the duct; ee, head of the epididymis. {After Lauth.) vasa efferentia terminate, closely connected by areolar tissue. Monro described this canal as gradually increasing in size from the head to the tail, and he estimated its calibre about its middle at -J^ of an inch. Lauth states that its size is subject to great irregularities in different parts and in different subjects. This anatomist has particularly described the con- volutions of this duct, and has shown that they are regularly arranged in four series, which successively increase in size ; the first being the smallest, and the fourth the largest. The arrangement will be understood by reference to the subjoined figure. Monro estimated the length of the canal at thirty feet eleven inches. Lauth found its mean length to be nineteen feet four inches eight lines. The parietes of the canal are strong, and bear considerable resistance. The canal of the epididymis ter- minates in the excretory duct of the testicle, the vas deferens, and is usually contracted at the part where the two join, which accounts for the mercury when forced into the vas de- ferens being often arrested at this point. It was calculated by Monro that the semen, be- fore arriving at the vas deferens traverses a tube forty-two feet in length. Lauth, how- ever, makes the whole distance but little more than twenty-two feet. Vasculum aberrans. — This name was given by Haller to a blind duct or coecal appendage often found connected either to the epi- Canal of the epididymis partly -unravelled, to show the four series of inflections winch the duct undergoes in the several divisions of the epididymis. o, o, first series of inflections; p, p, second series; q, q, third series ; r, r, fourth series. {After Lauth). termination of the former in the latter. (Figs. 632., and 633, /;.) It forms a convoluted duct as large as the canal of the epididymis, which is contracted at its insertion, and ter- minates in a blind and often dilated extremity. Sometimes after being dilated for a certain distance it diminishes, and becoming very minute, is lost in the areolar tissue of the cord. It usually passes up the cord for about two or three inches, but has been found to extend as far up as the brim of the pelvis. The length of this appendage when unravelled varies from one to twelve or fourteen inches. The vasculum aberrans is not constantly pre- sent ; indeed, Monro found it only four times in sixteen ; but I believe, with Lauth, that it exists more frequently. Occasionally there is more than one, and as many as three have been found both by Lauth and Sir A. Cooper. Hunter regarded these ducts as supernumerary vasa deferentia, of a nature similar to the double ureters.* Miiller states that their office is evidently the secretion of a fluid which they pour into the epididymis, f We have no evidence, however, that the duct serves any particular office. Fas deferens,— the excretory duct of the testicle, commences from the tail of the epidi- dymis, and terminates in one of the ejacu- latory canals behind the bladder, being in length from fifteen to sixteen inches. Arising * Works by Palmer, vol. iv. p. 24. t Physiology, trans, by Paly, vol. i. p. 45