865 TEETH. The third tissue, when present, is situated between the dentine and cement, and is called " enamel" (encaustuvi, adamas, Lat.). " Dentine " consists of an organised animal basis disposed in the form of extremely minute tubes and cells, and of earthy particles : these particles have a twofold arrangement, being either blended with the animal matter of the interspaces and parietes of the tubes and cells, or contained in a minutely granular state in their cavities. The density of the dentine arises principally from the proportion of earth in the first of these states of combination, the tubes and cells contain, besides the granular earth, a colourless fluid, probably transuded " plasma" or " liquor sanguinis," and thus re- late not only to the mechanical conditions of the tooth, but to the vitality and nutrition of the dentine. This typical structure of dentine is well illustrated in the article Tooth : such " true dentine" has no canals large enough to ad- mit capillary vessels with the red particles of blood, and it has been therefore called " un- vascular dentine." The simplest modification of dentine is that in which capillary tracts of the primitive vas- cular pulp remain uncalcified, and permanently carry red blood into the substance of the tissue. These so-called " medullary canals " or " vascular canals " present various disposi- tions in the dentine which they modify, and which I have proposed to call " vaso-dentine." It is often combined with true dentine in the same tooth ; e.g. in the scalpriform incisors of certain Rodents*, the tusks of the Ele- phant -f, the molars of the extinct Iguanodon.J A third modification of the fundamental tissue of the tooth is where the cellular basis of the dentine is arranged in concentric layers around the vascular canals, and contains " ra- diated cells " like those of the osseous tissue : it is called " osteo-dentine." The transition from dentine to vaso-dentine, and from this to osteo-dentine, is gradual, and the resemblance of osteo-dentine to true bone is very close. "Cement" always closely corresponds in texture with the osseous tissue of the same animal; and wherever it occurs of sufficient thickness, as upon the teeth of the horse, sloth, or ruminant, it is also traversed, like bone, by vascular canals. In reptiles and mammals, in which the animal basis of the bones of the skeleton is excavated by minute radiated cells, forming with their contents the " corpuscles of Purkinje," these are likewise present, of similar size and form, in the " cement," and are its chief characteristic as a constituent of the tooth. The hardening ma- terial of the cement is partly segregated and combined with the parietes of the radiated cells and canals, and is partly contained in disgregated granules in the cells, which are thus rendered white and opaque, viewed by reflected light. The relative density of the dentine and cement varies according to the * Odontography, 4to, p. 405. t II). p. 643. J lb. p. 251. VOL. IV. proportion of the earthy material, and chiefly of that part which is combined with the animal matter in the walls of the cavities, as compared with the size and number of the cavities themselves. In the complex grinders of the elephant, the masked boar, and the capybara, the cement, which forms nearly half the mass of the tooth, wears down sooner than the dentine. The "enamel'''' is the hardest constituent of a tooth, and, consequently, the hardest of animal tissues; but it consists, like the other dental substances, of earthy matter arranged by organic forces in an animal matrix. Here, however, the earth is mainly contained in the canals of the animal membrane; and, in mammals and reptiles, completely fills those canals, which are comparatively wide, whilst their parietes are of extreme tenuity. The hardening salts of the enamel are not only present in far greater proportion than in the other dental tissues; but, in some animals, are peculiarly distinguished by the presence of fluate of lime. The following are characteristic examples of the above-defined tissues, and their different combinations, in different teeth. The examples are extremely few, and, as far as I know, are peculiar to the class Pisces, of calcified teeth which consist of a single tissue, and this is always a modification of dentine. The large pharyngeal teeth of the Wrasse (Labrus) consist of a very hard kind of unvascular dentine. Fig. 544. shows a ver- Fig. 544. Section of pharyngeal tooth of Labrus, magnified. [(Owen's Odontography.~)\ tical section of one of these teeth, supported upon the very vascular osseous tissue of the pharyngeal bone: p is the pulp cavity. The next stage of complexity is where a portion of the dentine is modified by vascular canals. Teeth, thus composed of dentine and vaso-dentine, are very common in fishes. The hard dentine is always external, and holds the place, and performs the office, of enamel in the teeth of higher animals ; but it is only analogous to enamel, not the same 3 K