TERATOLOGY. 966 wanting, and the cases few in which there is but one superior or inferior extremity. 2. Want of the intermediate parts in the extremities, so that the hand u attached im- mediately to the shoulder, and the foot to the hip. — This may happen in one or in more extremities. Of the last, a very interesting example occurred in the person of a certain Marco Catonze, of whom I represent the ex- ternal appearance and the skeleton in Jigs. G24, 625., referring for more details to my Tab. lxxvii. 3. Limbs too short. — All their parts exist in such case, but are too short, as if they were not full-grown. The malformation is however not limited to the extremities, but extends over the trunk and the head. The head has in all the known cases the aspect of hydrocephalus. The neck is short and broad, the trunk short and swollen, and the limbs short, broad, and thick. Soemmering and Otto ascribe this to congenital rachitis. But according to my opinion it ought to be attributed to defective developement, which is confirmed by the dissection, performed by (J. Mayer, of such a mons'rosity. 4. Limbs which seem to be truncated.— Some- times the fore-arm and the leg terminate abruptly like stumps, and present the appear- ance of cicatrices. I saw this on the four extremities of a calf, of which I have repre- sented the external form and the dissection in my Tabula? Ixxviii. and lxxix. In many oi the known cases this defective condition of the limbs seems to be the result of arrested developement. In some others, however, it is the effect of mutilation produced by the con- striction of the umbilical cord, or by pseudo- membranes. Montgomery has given many examples of it in his article Fcetus in this Cyclopaedia. It is an interesting fact that from these stumps may grow rudiments of fingers, as Dr. Simpson showed me during the visit which I paid him at Edinburgh. 5. Diminished member of fingers and toes.— The highest degree of this malformation is the existence of but one finger or toe. Sometimes there are only the thumb and the little finger, as may be seen in a preparation in the mu- seum of Ilovius at Amsterdam. The greatest transition towards the natural condition is the presence of four fingers or four toes. 6. Coalesced fingers and toes. — In other- wise perfect limbs it is possible that hands and feet may be arrested at that inferior de- gree of developement, in which they are not yet separated into fingers and toes. The child is then born with fingers or toes, which seem to be coalesced ; but that is nothing more than a fallacious appearance. The malformation con- sists really in absence of fission. Of this there are different degrees: a, complete absence of fingers and toes, instead of which there is a common mass ; b, connection of the fingers and toes by means of a membrane ; c, the adhesion limited to the posterior parts of the fingers and the toes, while their anterior parts are completely free. All this may be seen in figs. 020, 027, G28 Fig. G26. Fig. 627. Fig. 628. (After Otto.) 7. To all these malformations of the limbs ought to be added the abnormal direction of the foot; but this is fully considered in the