746 SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. lowest root may be attached to the spinal chord opposite the fourth, fifth, sixth, or seventh cervical nerve, but more frequently between the fifth and sixth ; and that when its roots are extended over a more limited por- tion of the spinal chord, this is compensated for by their being proportionally stronger.* Anatomists have differed as widely in their account of the particular column or tract of the spinal chord to which the roots of the spinal accessory are attached, as they have done regarding the extent of the spinal chord over which these roots stretch. This is a point in the anatomy of the nerve which has assumed greater importance since the dis- covery by Sir Charles Bell, of the separate functions of the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and is of much more interest to the modern, than it was to the older anatomists. The filaments of origin or roots of this nerve that come from the spinal chord are attached to the chord near the posterior lateral groove separating its posterior and middle columns, and close upon the pos- terior roots of the spinal nerves, so that we can readily understand how some anatomists should describe these roots as arising from the middle column, and others describe them as springing from the posterior column, -f- Among the modern anatomists we find Bel- linger!, who has attended particularly to the anatomy of this nerve, describing it as arising from the middle or lateral column of the * Huber (De Medulla Spinali, ct speciatim de Nervis ab ea provenientibus, p. 13.) says that this nerve commences opposite the seventh cervical, but he afterwards speaks of it arising opposite the sixth. Lobstein (De Nervo Spinali ad Par Vagum Ac- cessorio, p. 233, as reprinted in Ludwig's Script. Neurol. Min. Selec. torn. ii. Lipsias, 1792) describes it as arising under the sixth pair of cervical nerves by a slender beginning. Bellingeri (De Medulla Spinali, Nervisque ex ea prodeuntibus, p. 74, 1823) places its origin opposite the seventh cervical nerve. Cruveilhier (Anatomie Descriptive, torn. iv. p. 899, 1835) says that its origin seldom passes below the level of the fifth pair of cervical nerves, but it may arise opposite the sixth and even the seventh pair. Bendz (De Connexu inter Nervum Vagum et Ac- cessorium Willisii, p. 22, 1836) describes its lowest root as arising from the spinal chord in the region of the fifth or sixth cervical nerves, and rarely as low as the posterior root of the seventh cervical. Valentin (Soemmering vom Baue des menschlichen Korpers. Hirn und Nervenlehre, S. 513, 1841) states that its most frequent origin is opposite the sixth, or between the sixth and seventh cervical nerves ; sometimes it arises opposite the fourth or fifth, or it may extend as far as the seventh, and in rare cases as far as the first dorsal. Krause (Handbuch der menehliehen Anatomie, Erster Band, S. 10G6: Hannover, 1842) says that it usually arises opposite the upper part of the roots of the seventh cervical, seldom higher. Bernard (Archives Ge'nerales de Me'decine, 4ieme se'rie, torn. iv. p. 410, 1844) describes it as arising by a series of bifid or trifid nervous filaments, which extend, in man, from the origin of the pneumogastric to a point opposite the fourth or fifth pair of cervical nerves. f Bolando (Recherches Anatomiques sur la Mo- elle Ablongee) and Serres (Anatomie Compare'e du Cerveau, torn, i.) have stated that the lower fibres of this nerve come from the anterior column of the spinal chord. spinal chord*, while Bischofff and Bernard I trace its origin to the posterior column; and Bendz ยง states that while nearly the whole of its roots come from the middle column, a few arise between the posterior roots of the spinal nerves and from the posterior column.|| From my own examinations of the attach- ments of this nerve, I had arrived at the con- clusion that it arises from the posterior part of the middle column, and that its middle and inferior roots are attached along the course of the decussating fibres of the pyramidal column, which form the posterior part of the middle column of the chord.^[ Stilling says** that the lower and middle roots of this nerve can be traced to the anterior grey substances in the chord, from which the anterior roots of the spinal nerves arise, and that, in an anatomical point of view, they must be re- garded as performing the same functions as the anterior roots of the spinal nerves ; while the upper roots, or those which are attached to the medulla oblongata, differ in a marked manner, in regard to their origin, from the lower and middle roots. He states that these upper roots above the first cervical nerve arise from a grey mass in the medulla ob- longata, which he styles the accessory-kernel (accessorius-kernf f), and that they resemble closely the lower filaments of origin of the par vagum. These upper roots of the acces- sory do not arise from the gelatinous sub- stance from which, according to Stilling, the posterior roots of the spinal nerves spring, yet they come into closer relation with it the nearer they approach to the commencement of the roots of the vagus. The upper fi- bres of the accessory, though not continuous with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, are yet, he believes, analogous to these; and this view is strengthened by their presenting the same connection with the roots of the hypoglossal as is found between the roots of * De Medulla Spinali, Nervisque ex ea prode- untibus, pp. 51. 55, 1823. f Nervi Accessorii Willisii Anatomia et Physio- logia, p. 11. Darmstadii, 1832. % Archives Ge'nerales de Me'decine, 4ieme serie, torn: iv. pp. 409, 410, 1844. ยง Tractatus de Connexu inter Nervum Vagum et Accessorium Willisii, pp. 22. 39. Hauniae, 1836. || Lobstein (De Nervo Spinali, in Ludwig's Scriptores Nevrologici Minores Selecti, torn. ii. p. 233.) also describes some of the filaments of origin of the spinal accessory as coming from the spinal chord between the fasciculi which consti- tute the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and has represented these in fig. 1. Those who may wish to ascertain the opinions of other anatomists as to the particular column of the spinal chord into which this nerve is implanted, and the extent of its attachment to the cervical portion of the spinal chord, may consult the monographs of Bischoif and Bendz quoted above, and especially that of the former of these authors. \ On some points in the anatomy of the me- dulla oblongata, in Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal for 1841. ** Ueber die Textur und Function der Medulla Oblongata, pp. 55. 57. Erlangen, 1843. \\ He describes the position and structure of this accessorius-kern at p. 23. of the work quoted.