1236 TUNICATA. the birth of the individual, the changes of volume undergone by this organ correspond in general to those of the placenta ; but its decrease proceeds more slowly, and its re- mains are observable long after the placenta has disappeared. Development of the fcetal " isolate " Salpce. — The development of the foetal " isolate " Salpa occupies a considerable time, not being accomplished until the mother has almost attained her full growth. Of the progress of the genesic phenomena, there is as yet but little clearly known. The first changes mani- fest in the egg after fecundation, are the early disappearance of the germinal vesicle and spot, the increase of the egg in size, and the loss of its ovular, and assumption of a spherical, form. Soon afterwards the egg,so transformed, is replaced by a round body, which raises the internal tunic of the mother into a slight nipple-like prominence, projecting into the internal cavity of the latter. This is the rudi- mentary placenta, and is channelled by a cavity which is in direct communication with the two maternal vessels previously spoken of. These vessels are at this period very mi- nute, but they quickly increase in size. By their means a current of blood is already es- tablished in the interior of the rudimentary placenta. The maternal blood carried by one of the vessels of the cavity rises on one side towards its base, and then, describing an arch, descends on the other side, to return to the mother by the opposite vessel. The first rudiment of the foetus is, it seems, developed after the appearance of the placenta. It is at first a very minute body, formed on the sum- mit of the placenta and under its envelope : this covering is a continuation of the internal tunic of the mother, and becomes, at a later period, the external tunic of the foetus. The organs soon appear in the rudimentary embry- onic mass. The respiratory cavity, M. Krohn observes, is, probably, one of the first parts formed, the foetus, previously solid, be- coming evidently hollow ; immediately after- wards the rudiments of the branchia and the nervous ganglion are perceptible ; the visceral nucleus, the eleoblast, and the heart become distinct only at a late period. "When the eleoblast is developed, it is placed anterior to the visceral nucleus, and the heart then begins to contract, although feebly. It is only when the foetus acquires a better determined form, that the two orifices of the body become visible, the posterior at an earlier period than the anterior. The foetus now surpasses the placenta in volume, although the latter has not, since its appearance, ceased to grow ; and the nervous ganglion, distinguishable from all other parts by its rapid growth, is conspicuous from its volume, compared to that of the other organs, and gives origin to numerous nerve-filaments. The eleoblast, the volume of which is considerably increased, tends to place itself below the nucleus. It is at this period also that we can clearly dis- tinguish the muscular bands, although in a yet imperfect state. Each band is represented by two lateral symmetrical portions, separated one from another by a large interval along the superior surface of the body ; it is not until a later period that the two portions are united into a single band. The placenta also exhibits a marked change. The cavity that it con- tained disappears, and its place is occupied by the pulpy whitish substance before spoken of. At a more advanced stage, but still far from the full term of development, the foetus presents a form that subsequently is but little altered. Its volume, compared with that of the placenta, is greater than before. The eleoblast, as yet less than the placenta, is now placed behind it, and soon equals it in size. The distribution of the vessels on the different parts of the foetus is become more apparent; and the two trunks enclosed in the peduncle of the placenta are distinguishable. Now also the contractions of the heart may be seen to change their direction periodically, the blood consequently circulating in the same singular manner as in the adult Salpians. But another still more remarkable phenomenon manifests itself at this period, viz. the precocious form- ation of the stolon prolifervm, which springs from near the heart, in the form of a little button. During the later periods of development, the resemblance of the foetus to the adult be- comes more marked daily, as well as its increase of volume compared with the pla- centa. The foetus, which in the last period referred to already showed some indication of spontaneous movement, commences to alter- nately contract and dilate its body, like the adult animal. These movements, feeble at first, are before long, as the animal approaches its full term, executed with considerable vigour. The foetus being attached to its mo- ther, these movements cannot displace it; and their only end, without doubt, is to draw towards it the supply of water necessary tor its respiration. As regards the stolon proli- ferum, its growth during all this time is so slow, that, even at the time of the birth of the animal, it is but a short, delicate filament. Nevertheless, on a close examination, there may be perceived on its surface a serrated edge of minute elevations, indicating the first vestiges of the buds that will subsequently be developed into embryos. Generation in the " isolate" Salpians. — The "isolate" Salpians are, as we before mentioned, gemmiparous, and have their young produced on a small pedunculated organ, the stolon prolifervm, which is visible within the single foetus whilst still contained within its " aggre- gate " mother. It then exists as a very slen- der short filament, but already gives indica- tions of buds upon its surface. After the birth of the animal, it increases in size in pro- portion to the continually increasing number of buds that spring from it. It is fixed by one of its extremities to the heart of the mother: and it is always at this extremity that the stolon produces new germs. The growth of the buds, just as the nutrition of the embryos, being entirely dependent on the blood of the