TEETH. 293 * Loc. cit, p. 212. in plate 5. by no character more than by the singular seeming exception which they present to the Diphyodont rule which governs the dentition of other hoofed quadrupeds. In fact, the elephant, like the Dugong, sheds and replaces vertically only its incisors, which are also two in number, very long, and of constant growth, forming tusks, with an analogous sexual dif- erence in this respect in the female of the Asiatic species. The molars, also, are suc- cessively lost, are not vertically replaced, and are reduced finally to one on each side of both jaws, which is larger than any of its pre- decessors. These analogies are interesting and suggestive in connection with the other approximations in the " Sirenia" to the pa- chydermal type, which I have pointed out in the "Proceedings of the Zoological Society."* The dentition of the genus Elephas, the sole existing modification of the once numerous and varied Proboscidian family, includes two long tusks (Jig. 592.), one in each of the Intermaxillary bones, and large and complex molars (ib. m. 3, 4, and 5) in both jaws : of the latter there is never more than one w holly, or two partially, in place and use on each side at any given time; for, like the molars of the Mastodons, the series is continually in progress of formation and destruction, of shedding and replacement ; and in the ele- phants all the grinders succeed one another like true molars horizontally, from behind forwards. The total number of teeth developed in the . . 2—2 G—6 elephant appears to be i. ^—-. The two large permanent tusks being pre- ceded by two small deciduous ones, and the number of molar teeth which follow one another on each side of both jaws being at " The socket of the permanent tusk in a new-born elephant, is a round cell about three lines in diameter, situated on the inner and posterior side of the aperture of the temporary socket. The permanent tusks cut the gum when about an inch in length, a Fig. 592. least six, of which the last three may, by analogy, be regarded as answering to the true molar? of other Pachyderms. I have shown in my Odontography that : —■ " The deciduous tusk makes its appearance beyond the gum between the fifth and seventh month ; it rarely exceeds two inches in length, and is about a third of an inch in diameter at its thickest part, where it protrudes from the socket ; the fang is solidified, and con- tracts to its termination, which is commonly a little bent, and is considerably absorbed by the time the tooth is shed, which takes place between the first and second year.f * 1838, p. 40. t See Mr. Corse's " Memoir on the Teeth of the Elephant," in Philosophical Transactions, 1799, p. 211: a good figure of the deciduous tusk is given Section of cranium mid tusk of the Elephant, month or two, usually, after the milk-tusks are shed. At this period, according to Mr. Corse *, the permanent tusks are ' black and ragged at the ends. When they become longer, and project beyond the lip, they soon are worn smooth by the motion and friction of the trunk.' Their widely open base is fixed upon a conical pulp, which, with the capsule sur- rounding the base of the tusk and the socket, continues to increase in size and depth, ob- literating all vestiges of that of the deciduous tusk, and finally extending its base close to the nasal aperture (Jig. 592.). The tusk is formed by successive calcification of layers of the pulp in contact with the inner surface of the pulp cavity ; and, being subject to no habitual attrition from an opposed tooth, but being worn only by the occasional uses to which it is applied, it arrives at an extraor- dinary length, following the curve originally