SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 827 In its third stage, the subclavian artery has very frequently been the subject of operation, and the ligature of the vessel in this situation, in a large number of the cases recorded, has been eminently successful. Mr. Ramsden, of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, in the year 1809, was the first who secured the artery in its third stage, and since then the operation has been successfully repeated by many surgeons, in this as well as in other countries. Although the subclavian artery, above the clavicle, is covered by no muscular fibres except those of the platysma, yet it always lies at a considerable depth, which varies much in different persons; the statement of Dupuytren will generally be found correct, viz., " that the third part of the course of the subclavian artery is placed more superficially in those who have long, slender necks, with lean and pendant shoulders, but is, on the contrary, deeply hidden in persons who have short, thick necks, and muscular shoulders."* It is an unfortunate circumstance that the disease for which the operation is usually undertaken, should so constantly be the cause of great difficulty in its performance, for an axillary aneurism of any considerable size cannot fail to elevate the clavicle con- siderably. This fact is well illustrated in the embarrassments experienced in a case where the subclavian artery was tied by the late Professor Todd, one of the surgeons of the Richmond Hospital, and which are recorded in the third volume of the Dublin Hospital Reports. So great have been the difficulties experienced in the operation, that on one occasion Sir A.Cooper was obliged to abandon the attempt, and on another (already alluded to) Mr. Liston was compelled to tie the artery between the scaleni, finding it im- practicable to expose the vessel in its third stage. (B. Geo. M'Dowel.) SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. (Die Ncbenuierc, Germ. Capsules suprarenale sen atrabilaricB, Lat. Capsules suprarenales, atra- bilaircs, Fr.) — In the bodies of Vertebrata we find a series of organs, which possess a great outward resemblance to the glands, but distinguish themselves from these by the constant absence of a duct. To this class belong the spleen, the thymus, the thyroid, thus narrates in his published lectures: " Some years ago I performed this operation (ligature of the subclavian artery in the supra-clavicular space) ou a clergyman, in the presence of the late Dr. Babing- ton and Mr. Travel's; no difficulty whatever oc- curred, but immediately after its completion the patient was seized with a constant hacking cough, as if resulting from convulsive motion of the diaphragm. This scarcely ceased night or day until the sixth day after the operation, when he died. No post-mortem examination was permitted; but there can be no doubt, in my mind, that the phrenic nerve had been injured, although it could not possibly have been included in the ligature."—Vide Med. Gazette. Lond. Vol. xlii. p. 94. July, 1848. * Lecons Orales, torn. iv. p. 528. and the supra-renal capsules. On account of their great richness in blood-vessels, these organs have been named " blood-glands," or " glands of blood-vessels," or " vascular gang- lia." At present we are tolerably acquainted with the range of their distribution, and the differences of their form in the animal king- dom ; we have, also, some knowledge of their minute structure ; but, on the other hand, their phy siological import, remains just as ob- scure to the inquirers of the present century as it was to the physicians of ages long gone by- The supra-renal capsules, glandules supra- renales sen rcnes succcnturiati, scu capsules atrabilaricB, form, in the higher Vertebrata, a double organ, which is constantly placed in the neighbourhood of the kidneys; and from this situation they have received their name. So, also, in the lower Vertebrata they of'en occupy the same situation ; but, not unfre- quently, they are broken up into a number of small glandular bodies. In the Invertebratu they arc altogether absent. We shall successively consider, 1. The larger series constituted by the differences of form of supra-renal capsules in the animal kingdom. 2. Their structure. 3. Their de- velopment. 4. Their physiological relations. I. As already mentioned, supra-renal cap- sules occur only in the Vertebrata. But we cannot attribute them to all of these without exception. In the lowest Amphibia and Fishes, these organs have not yet been indubitably recognised. Among the Mammalia, the supra- renal capsules exhibit everywhere essentially the same structure, in spite of many differ- ences of form, size, and situation. In Man they possess a half-moon shaped, or triangular and flattened form, with an an- tcro-posterior slightly arched surface, and a sharp convex margin. At their bases they are deeply excavated, so that by this part they rest on the upper end of the kidney like a cap. The anterior part of the basis of the supra-renal capsule extends for a considerable distance further forwards on the kidney than the hinder part. The whole organ is included in a covering which consists of closely woven areolar tissue ; and inferiorly, it is attached by a looser areolar tissue to the kidney. At the base of the organ is also found a well- marked fissure, from out of which passes the supra-renal vein, according to Krause's state- ment.* The anterior and posterior surfaces of the supra-renal capsules exhibit an irregu- larly wrinkled appearance, caused by the nu- merous furrows of the areolar tissue. The size of the supra-renal capsules amounts in the adult to 1—-1 J inches (German) in height, and somewhat less in breadth. The greatest antero-posterior thickness occurs in its lowest part, and amounts from 24—4 lines. In their middle the supra-renal capsules are consider- ably thinner, amounting only to I|—2^ lines. Their absolute weight is estimated by Meckel * Vide. Krause's Handbuch der Anatomie. 2. Auflage, Hannover, 1811. Band 1. S. 668.