797 SPLEEN. theory which ascribes to the spleen a relation to the lymphatic system, and considers it as in a certain manner a large lymphatic gland, is utterly devoid of meaning. In this manner there remains as a last resource the view, that changes occur in the blood itself con- tained in the spleen. But what is the na- ture of these changes ? Are blood corpuscles possibly formed in the spleen, as has been already so often supposed? Certainly not; for in the most rigorous examination of the blood in the spleen and the larger splenic vessels, just as in the spleen-lymph, no trace whatever of the formation of blood globules can be detected, much less in blood which is exactly reversed, and is exhibiting, as I might sa}', at every step the plainest and most lively indications of a dissolution and decomposition. Let us recall to mind the details already given of the condition of the blood globules in the spleen. Upon the facts there men- tioned, in the year 1S47* I founded the con- jecture that the blood corpuscles undergo solution in the spleen, and that their colouring matter is employed in preparing the colouring matter of the bile ; a conjecture which seems to me preferable to all those which have hitherto been offered concerning the function of the spleen. If the fact be made out that new blood globules are continually arising from the cells of the chyle, it is just as certain that the blood globules must also slowly dis- appear in order to make room for those newly arising. And if it be considered that nobody has yet seen the least trace of a solution of blood globules in any other organ, and that, on the contrary, 1 have found in the spleen a healthy organ, in which, in all four classes of vertebrate animals, blood corpuscles are almost constantly undergoing decomposition, even in uncommon quantities, it will, I think, be conceded to me that I have some grounds for setting forth the hypothesis here given. It is, indeed, as yet not altogether settled whether the changes of the blood seen by me are normal or abnormal ; but, as was previously remarked, so long as their patho- logical nature is not proved with certainty, I must continue to regard them as physiological and pertaining to healthy life. But this is not saying that they occur in all creatures in the method described above. It is highly possible that blood globules undergo disso- lution in the spleen without previously form- ing the cells containing blood corpuscles : an opinion which is corroborated by the blood globules described above as occurring in the blood of the splenic vein of the dog and fresh-water perch : these contained crystals of haematine or some kindred substance, and were evidently near their destruction. In- deed, it is even possible that such a direct mode of dissolution may be the rule in some animals, perhaps even in many. And although I have regarded the spleen as an organ in which the blood corpuscles undergo disso- lution, yet I have not maintained therewith * Loc. cit. S. 135. that it is in all animals the only organ in which any thing of this kind occurs : it wotdd therefore in no way militate against my theory if it should ever turn out that in the kidneys of fishes, the vessels of which are arranged so peculiarly, a constant and physio- logical solution of blood globules obtained. The following circumstances also speak for my hypothesis. That in no other way can any reasonable account be given of the changes of the blood in the spleen. Further- more, that it elucidates the relation of the spleen to the portal system of veins; since ac- cording to it, the dissolved blood corpuscles are subservient to the formation of the bile, the colouring matter of which is so nearly allied to that of the blood. Finally, that, as will be more fully stated below, the patho- logical facts are proportionally in unison with it. On all these grounds I am therefore in- clined to defend the hypothesis first set forth by me of a destruction of the blood globules in the spleen; and the more so, that J. Be- clard has lately maintained, that the blood of the splenic vein is always poorer in blood cor- puscles than that of the other veins. He has stated this in a memoir which was laid be- fore the Academie des Sciences in Paris on the 17th January, 1848, and published in the " Archives generales de Medicine" of Oc- tober to December, 1848. Since J. Beclard's results are an important support to my hypo- thesis, I have permitted myself to communi- cate here the most important of them. Bc- clard has analysed the blood from the lower branch of the splenic vein, and that from the jugular vein, in fourteen dogs and two horses. In most of the instances of the analysis, (1.) the water, (2.) the blood corpuscles'and fibrine, and (3.) the albumen and salts, were separated from each other ; and only in the horses were the blood corpuscles anil fibrine obtained separately. A deficiency of the blood globules and fibrine was always present in the splenic vein, which diminution out of a 1000 parts of blood, amounted to the fol- lowing quantities in the sixteen cases. 16-54 15-94 8-51 37-11 19-67 13-06 19-43 20-80 14-91 12-82 10-88 9-40 13-92 16-03 13-60 14-78 On an average of the sixteen cases, the de- ficiency amounted to 16-08 parts. As regards the albumen, on the contrary, there was a constant increase of this constituent in all the sixteen cases, in an average of 13-02 parts. Finally, in the two analyses in which the quantity of fibrine was certified, there was the extraordinary increase in its quantity in the blood of the splenic vein of 0"3 and 0-5 parts. Beclard deduces the same conclusion from these facts which I have drawn from my micro- scopical examinations ; namely, that the blood corpuscles normally undergo dissolution in the spleen ; and 1 regard this conclusion as neither more nor less correctly deduced than