TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). 1014 cumference, and almost to reach the ground when the patient is in the upright position. In a case operated on by Clot Bey in E<rypt, the morbid mass, which weighed one hundred and ten pounds, kept the patient's legs far apart, and obliged him to remain constantly on the ground ; it was so bulky that he could even sit upon it. In the accompanying figure Fie, 656. of a black man, affected with elephantiasis, taken from Dr. Titley's work on " Diseases of the Genitals, in the Male," the tumour de- scended nearly to the ankles. Elephantiasis of the scrotum is a morbid affection of the integuments, analogous to the enlargement of the extremities commonly known by the name of Barbadoes leg ; with which, indeed, in those countries where the disease is prevalent, it is liable to be com- bined. Elephantiasis of the scrotum, how- ever, grows to a greater size and makes more rapid progress than the same disease in the leg, owing to the very loose texture and de- pending state of the parts. The labia pudendi of females in warm climates are subject to a similar change, though not to the same extent nor so frequently as the scrotum. This dis- ease appears to be the result of a low form of inflammation of the veins, and to be analogous to the affection termed phlegmasia dqlens. It is preceded by febrile attacks, attended with pain and heat in the part, and swelling and tenderness of the glands in the groin. After a time, the scrotum continues to enlarge, in- dependently of febrile attacks. In December, 1847, I saw a gentleman, from Barbadoes, who had this disease in the early stage. The whole scrotum was considerably enlarged, forming a doughy inelastic swelling, fissured in two or three places. A portion of skin at the root of the penis was a little red and puffy as if affected in a slight degree. The glands in the left groin were enlarged, but those on the right side were unaffected. The testicles were sound. Hypertrophy of the scrotum is an affection of the same nature as the knotty and lobulated growth of the skin occasionally observed on the nose and in other parts. In this disease the integuments appear as if composed of lobes divided by fissures. In the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital there is a pre- paration of this kind, but no history is at- tached to it. The hypertrophied scrotum appears to have been removed during life. Many years ago I saw a case of the kind at the hospital of La Charite in Paris. The patient was a young man whose scrotum was hypertrophied to about four times its natural size. This disease is liable to be confounded with elephantiasis, but differs from it in the circumstance that the morbid enlargement is entirely confined to the skin, the subcutane- ous areolar tissue being unaffected. Cancer Scroti, or, as it is commonly called, chimney sweeper's cancer, is a disease of the skin, which attacks the scrotum of persons who have been exposed to the contact of soot. It is originally developed in the form of a small pimple or warty excrescence, termed soot- wart, which often remains on the scrotum for months or even years without undergoing any change. Usually, there is only a single wart at the lower part of the scrotum ; sometimes there are two or three of different sizes ; and occasionally they are so numerous and so abundantly and largely developed as to form a considerable cauliflower excrescence. Afttr a time the wart becomes soft, excoriated and red, and exudes a thin irritating discharge, which becoming dry forms an incrustation over the excrescence. After the scab has been picked off, or rubbed off by friction against the dress, ulceration ensues, destroys the wart and produces a painful chronic sore, possess- ing the ordinary characters of a carcinomatous ulcer on the skin, — thick, indurated and everted edges, and an irregular excavated base, the surface of which discharges a thin sanious fluid. The ulcer, if suffered to proceed, in- Fis. 657. 1 small soot warts; 2, cancerous ulcer succeeding the wart.