1241 TUNICATA. method in which this is brought about is not very clear ; it appears to be caused either by the synchronous contraction of the individual animals, causing a diminution in the general calibre of the cylinder, and thus effecting a faint ejaculation of water from the cavity of the latter ; or by the posterior current of water from the anal orifice of each animal being synchron- ously ejected into the cavity of the cylinder, and thus giving a motive power to the whole. We have a more decided locomotion ex- hibited in the Salpa, which is treated of by Mr. Bishop* as a " syringograde" animal, in the same category as " the Holothuria, and the larva? of those insects whose progression is effected by the alternate reception and expul- sion of water to and from their respiratory organs by an action similar to that of the syringe." In Salpa the dilatation of the test and its membranous lining causes the water necessary for respiration and nutrition to enter through the bilabiate posterior orifice, which has a valve preventing the return of the water by the same aperture f; a trans- verse contraction of the body then expels the water through the anterior orifice, and the result is, that the animal is forced backwards, being carried in an inverse direction to that of the ejected water. J This retrograde motion * See art. Motion, Vol. III. p. 433. t See figure of Salpa cristata, showing most of the branchial muscles and the position of the valve (the latter is ideal, not being visible externally in the animal), fig. 228. p. 434. Vol. III. J In a communication from my friend Mr. Pittard on the subject of Syringograde movement, he re- marks as follows: " I am not aware that a true and satisfactory explanation has ever been given of the backward motion of bodies resulting from the ejec- tion out of them of jets or currents of fluid. That the action of such jets is at all comparable to the thrusting out of a solid body, or pole, against some resisting object, is by no means maintainable; for the property of rigidity, which is totally and in all circumstances absent in fluids, is an indispensable condition for the production of such a result. Nor is the action due to the resistance of the external medium in any other way, but solely to the hy- draulic pressure of the contained fluid on (he in- ternal surface of the walls of the hollow body. It has been supposed that the resistance of the sur- rounding medium acts in some degree like the walls of a cannon would in the following case: — If a bomb-shell, containing gunpowder, in the act of exploding, were placed in a cannon with the match- hole of the shell open and turned towards the breech, so that an explosive jet should be projected into the cavity of the cannon, the shell would be forced out with a much greater impetus than it would have if, cceteris paribus, it were in the open air. But this is not a parallel case, for here you have the resistance of the closed end of the cannon in one direction, and an open end, or no resistance, in the opposite direction; whereas, in the case under consideration, you have just the same re- sistance from the external medium in front of the body moved, as you have behind it; and whatever tendency to motion might result from such a re- sistance of the medium to the jet behind, just so much would there be resisting motion in front ; so that the effect would be neutralised, and no motion would result. The truth is, that from the two absolute laws of hydraulics, — that a fluid presses equally on all portions of the surface on which it acts, and that the direction of this pressure or has caused the posterior orifice to be regarded by some naturalists as the true oral orifice. The alternate action, of dilatation and contraction, have been observed to take place about fifteen times in a minute ; and have sometimes been termed the systole and the diastole. The contraction is effected rapidly, but the relax- ation, or rather the dilatation of the sub- elastic test, takes place but slowly. These movements are synchronous throughout a chain or group of Salpce. After all, this is but an imperfect amount of locomotion, and it is extremely probable that both the single Salpce and the Salpian wreaths and chains, the latter often several} ards in length, are, like the feebly moving Pyrosoma, the sport of wind and wave, wafting them hither and thither, either to bask calmly in the sunshine, or to be broken on the rocky shore. Affinities of the Tunicata. — Many of the early naturalists (as we have noticed in the first part of the article) noticed the analogies existing between the Ascidia and the Ostrea, Mytilus, and other Mollusca. The compound Ascidians, however, long remained grouped with Alcyonium, until Sa- vigny, Lesueur, and Desmarest pointed out their alliances with the simple Ascidians and with Molluscs. Lesueur also demonstrated the ascidian character of Pyrosoma, and re- moved it from the Radiata, amongst which it had been grouped ; and Cuvier pointed out the alliance of Salpa with Ascidia and Mollusca. Soon after the publication of the important zoological conclusions thus arrived at by his distinguished countrymen, Lamarck formed these animals into a new group, under the ap- pellation of Tuniciers* (2\inicata), provision- ally placing them between the Radiata and Vermes, and expressed strong doubt of their general alliance with the Mollusca. John Hunter, who perceived the relations force is at right angles to such surface, — it results that the force exerted by or through a fluid con- tained in a closed hollow body is exactly equal in opposite directions; that is to say, whatever may be its force impelling towards the right, by just so much does it impel towards the left ; however much it impels forwards, by just so much does it impel backwards; and so on for up and down, and all other opposite directions: so that the one exactly antagonises the other, and an equilibrium results. But re-move a portion of the wall ; in other words, make a hole through which the fluid may escape, and then the pressure, in the direction of the side in which the hole is made, is minus, or less than the force in the opposite direction, by the size of the hole. The body, therefore, moves in the direction opposite, to the hole, in obedience to the plus, or excess of hydraulic pressure in that direction." The Salpa, compressing the water in its interior, pro- duces a large amount of hydraulic force. Its pos- terior orifice being closed, it presents a hole or deficiency in the front only, and is impelled in the opposite direction. Also, during the act of taking in water behind, the animal moves likewise back- wards, for then there is, so to speak, an inversion of the process described above. The pressure of the external water, otherwise equal on all parts of its surface, is minus behind by the size of the posterior orifice, and therefore plus in front, again impelling it backwards. * Applied at first to the Botryllidcc only.