TERATOLOGY. 958 under the form of cauda equina; to the larger sheath formed there by the dura mater ; and to the very limited tendency which the osse- ous nuclei of the lumbar and sacral vertebras show to unite themselves into an arc, which therefore remains always open at the inferior part of the sacrum. Although it occurs some- times alone, this sort of fissure is generally accompanied with dropsy of the spinal medulla (hydrorachis'), that is to say, with a sac of a red- dish-violet colour, in which fluctuation is easily discerned. Its external covering is sometimes formed by the skin, and then it has the usual colour of the body ; the skin, however, does not in most cases cover the whole surface of the tumour, but ceases at its circumference, and the rest of its surface is only covered with the dura mater. When the child lives, the dura mater becomes, alter some time, thicker, harder, and more solid. When the tumour is covered with the skin, the dura mater is to be found under it. These membranes become often so thick, and so intimately united to- gether, that it is nearly impossible to separate them from each other. The serum contained in the tumour is of a very variable quality, principally composed of albumen, mucus, ge- latin, and muriate of soda (Bostock). It is effused between the pia mater and the arach- noidea, or between this and the dura mater, or in the primitive canal of the spinal me- dulla. If this canal remains open, the hydro- rachis is in general accompanied with hydro- cephalus interims* Sometimes these sacs are found on more than one spot of the spinal medulla, or divided into two by a septum. The size of the sac varies, and the complication with hydrocephalus is very dangerous. If this is the case, the artificial opening of the sac has a very injurious effect. Convulsions and exu- dative inflammation are in most of the cases excited by it. In some very rare cases the operation was attended with success. Sir Astley Cooper healed hydrorachis by reiterated puncturing with a thin needle and by com- pression of the tumour. Dubourg is said to have treated it with success by means of ex- cision of the tumour and bringing together the lips of the wound with needles, in the same man- ner as in the operation for hare-lip. Beynard tied a ligature round the sac. E. de Thine- court compressed the tumour, after having opened it, with two small rods, which he connected and pulled together by means of ribbons. The noxious effects of hydrorachis after the child's birth make it necessary to try an operation. Before birth this mal- formation seems not to have the least in- fliu nee upon the health of the child : it is well nourished and duly constituted. After birth the noxious effect is modified by the different seat of the tumour. When seated in the lumbar and sacral region, it is the least dangerous. It is known that some indi- viduals have lived with it twenty-eight years. In most cases, however, paralysis of the in- ferior part of the body is its consequence. Hydrorachis in the cervical region is much more dangerous. One case of this is men- tioned in my " Tabulas," in which death sud- denly occurred on opening the tumour. Besides hydrorachis, some other malforma- tions of the spinal medulla are observed some- times to accompany fissure of the spinal column: 1. Complete want of the spinal medulla, com- monly connected with acrania ; 2. Its appear- ance under a cylindrical form, with persistance of the primitive medullary canal (Morgagni, Santorini), which is sometimes double (Gall, Von Ammon) ; 3. Fissure of the spinal me- dulla into two juxtaposed cords; so that it seems to be double, which is occasioned by an arrest of developement at that period of its evolution in which the two halves, of which it is formed, are as yet separate ; 4. The pre- sence of a simple nervous expansion instead of spinal medulla; 5. The lamellar form of the medulla ; 6. A too great length. By all this it is proved, that fissure of the spinal column may be accompanied with hydrorachis, and with an imperfect deve- lopement of the medulla. They are totally independent of each other, and each is pro- duced by its own cause. It is, however, not very improbable that a voluminous sac on the medulla may prevent the union of the points of ossification, by which the vertebral arcs are to be formed ; but we are not, I think, justified in concluding from this that hydro- rachis is the cause of the fissure of the vertebral column. For it may exist without fissure of the spinal column, if it has not acquired the form of a bag ; and the spinal column may be cleft although the spinal me- dulla is intact. This leads me to the con- clusion, that malformation of the spinal me- dulla, hydrorachis, and fissured spinal column, do not essentially go together. IV. Hydrocephalus congenitus. Congenital dropsy of the brain. —Under this name we understand such a great volume of the head in a full-grown foetus that it opposes in general a mechanical impediment to partu- rition, which can only be removed by an arti- ficial diminution of the volume of the head. Its forms are — 1. Hydrocephalus interims; 2. Hydrocephalus externus. 1. Hydrocephalus internus is said to exist when the abnormal serous secretion occurs in the ventricles of the brain, wherefore it has also acquired the very rational name of hydrops ventriculorum cerebri. It may be an altogether primitive malformation, when the brain is arrested at that period of its de- velopement in which it has the form of a very thin vesicle, filled with a serous fluid. I have observed this condition principally in Cyclopes, and give an example of it in 7^.614. In such case there is no indication of the hemispheres, nor of the convolutions of the brain, and, in general, no difference to be seen between the white and the grey cerebral substance. In small foetuses of two months, in which the bones of the skull could not yet be discerned, this form of hydrocephalus has