1400 VlSlOxN. advanced by Dulton and supported with the ability for which he was remarkable, was this : " It appears therefore almost beyond a doubt that one of the humours of my eye and of the eyes of my fellows, is a coloured medium, probably some modification of blue. I suppose it must be the vitreous humour : otherwise I apprehend it might be discovered by inspection, which has not been done."* Before his death, the great chemist had re- quested bis friend l>r. Kansome to examine his eyes after his demise: this was done most carefully, and it was ascertained that though the crystalline lens had the slight yellow tinge common in old persons, the vitreous humour of both eyes was absolutely colourless. Nevertheless the hypothesis has been revived by Dr. Trinchiiietti f, who considers that the defect is produced by a coloration of one or more of the transparent media of the eye, and probably of the crystalline lens, and even goes so far as to advise depression or extraction of the lens as a means of radical cure ! Goethe£ attributed the confusion of colours to an insensibility to blue ; whereas Szokalski expressly states $ that among more than sixty cases of achromatopsy, of which he had notes, there was not one in which there was abso- lute deficiency of the perception of blue. Others again have supposed that the retina itself has a blueish tinge in such cases, whilst Dr. Thomas Young|| attributed achromatopsy to the absence or paralysis of those fibres of the retina which are calculated to perceive red. The able metaphysician Dugald Stewart?:, lias viewed the subject from a different point. " In the power (says be) of conceiving colours, too, there are striking differences among individuals. And indeed I am inclined to suspect that in the greater number of in- stances the supposed defects of sight in this respect ought to lie ascribed rather to a defect in the power of conception. One tiling is certain, that we often see men who are perfectly sensible of the difference be- tween two colours when they are presented to them, who cannot give names to these colours with confidence when they see them apart, and are perhaps apt to confound the one with the other. Such men, it should seem, feel the sensation of colour like other n en when the object is present, but are incapable (probably in consequence of some early habit of inattention) to conceive the sensation distinctly when .the object is re- moved." This explanation would have weight sup- posing persons had rare opportunities of contrasting colours, for then their memory * Mem. of the Literary and Phil. Soc. of Man- chester, p. 43. f Atti della sesta Iiiunione degli Scienziati Itali- an i, p. 712. % Zur Farbenlehre, §§ 111 to 113. § Anriales d'Oeulistique, torn. iii. p. 7. || Phil. Trans, vol. lxxvi. p. 344. ^[ Elements of the Philosophy of the Human M.ml, p. 73. might fail them, and they might feel uncer- tainty as to the proper appellation to be given to a tint ; but if there be one sense more than another which enjoys unbounded licence, it is that of sight ; not an hour passes that the property of distinguishing colours is not called into exercise, and in this age of high civilisation it is in perpetual ac- tivity. Nevertheless Dr. Himly has adopted the same view. It is on record however that intelligent persons have expressly de- clared that their infirmity arose from no care- lessness on their part, as they had made many earnest endeavours to correct it.* By phrenologists, achromatopsy has been attributed to imperfect development of the organ of colour; Szokalski, though believ- ing that there exists in the brain a portion which presides over the function of vision, and that this portion is diminished in volume in persons affected with achromatopsy, adds, " We know well that phrenologists place the organ of colour in the middle of the super- ciliary arch ; we have, however, examined scrupulously and with great pains many persons who have presented very decided depressions of this arch ; but despite of the best wishes in the world, we could never discover in them any trace of chromatop- seudopsy."f Neither does our own experience support the theory of the phrenologists; in two weli- marked Daltonians examined by us, the whole superciliary region was remarkably well de- veloped. The vision of the late Mr. Troughton was carefully investigated by Sir John Hersehel, who instituted a series of ingenious experi- ments for the purpose of ascertaining, if possible, the cause of the imperfection. The result at which he arrived was, " that all the prismatic ra}'s have the power of exciting and affecting the eyes with the sensa- tion of light, and producing distinct vision, so that the defect arises from no insensibility of the retina to rays of any particular refran- gibility, nor to any colouring matter in the humours of the eyes preventing certain rays from reaching the retina, but from a defect in the sensorium by which it is rendered in- capable of appreciating exactly those dif- ferences between rays on which their colour depends. j Hartmann(J is of opinion that it is by ana- lysis that we arrive at a knowledge of ob- jects which present themselves to our notice ; he supposes that we do not perceive them instantly, but little by little and only by exa- mination ol their distance, form and colour, which scrutiny rests on a series of changes operating on the retina, ciliary nerves, and motor ocular nerves : we do not easily recognize objects unless this succession of modifications has become habitual and takes * See GlasgowMedica-1 Journal, vol. ii. p. 17 ; Op. it. p. 100. t Op. cit. p. 100. t Encyclopaedia Mctropolitana, article "Light." § Der'Geist des Menschen, S. 152. 1820.