jsnormal Anatomy). 1518 WRIST-JOINT (A take place at a point which is below the level of this line, and any displacement, the result of fracture, cannot readily affect the breadth of the interosseous space, placed above the line of the fracture. Fig. 931. It is only in cases where the fracture is situated so high as an inch and a half, or more, above the joint, that any abnormal ap- proximation of the bones towards each other, and ultimate obliteration of the interosseous interval is to be dreaded. Although therefore, as a result of Colles' fracture, we observe the forearm assume, near the wrist-joint, a cylindroidal form, there may be no real narrowing whatever, but the ap- pearance of it may be attributed rather to an increase, in the antero-posterior diameter of the region of the wrist, than to any real diminution which occurs transversely. Malgaigne has, however, adduced an example to explain how, in certain rare cases, a diminu- tion of the transverse diameter of the forearm may occasionally take place, and by the action of the pronator quadratus not on the inferior, but on the upper fragment of the radius, (fig. 932.) It is said by some, that crepitation, caused by the movements of the fragments of the broken radius on each other, can always be elicited, and that this sign is diagnostic of fracture; moreover, that the deformity is easy to reduce by extension, but liable to return when the extending force is removed. Such observations, no doubt, may sometimes be made with truth. For our own parts, we do not think that crepitation can, except in a very few cases, be elicited in Colles' fracture of the radius. We have found it to be an injury attended with a deformity which can, it is true, be removed by extension, but our experience corresponds with that of Sir A. Cooper, who asserts that in this fracture a very powerful extension is required to bring the broken ends of the radius into apposition. Fig. 932. After Malgaigne. Diagnosis.—■ In many cases, a fracture of the radius in the immediate vicinity of the wrist- joint is attended with so much deformity, and accompanied with such characteristic appear- ances, that the observation of Pouteau appears well founded, that it can be recognised at the first " coup d'ceil;" but on the other hand, there are some cases in which very little ex- ternal evidence of any fracture can, without careful examination, be detected. The un- dulating curve, which has been compared to that represented by a silver fork, cannot exist without fracture, and the elevation from the level of the back part of the radius of the common extensor tendons is another feature, which we believe with Velpeau to be peculiar to fracture; we know that in the normal state the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior remain applied as longi- tudinal bands, lying flat on the posterior surface of the radius, and no interval whatever exists between these two bands and the back part of this bone near to the wrist. Now, when there is a fracture of the radius here, this bone is rendered somewhat concave on its posterior surface, and these tendons must, of necessity, abandon the bony surface, and be raised up several lines from it, so as to repre- sent a cord, more or less tense, but easy to depress. If, for example, the hand of the patient being a little flexed, the surgeon in examining these cases, places his finger or thumb three or four lines above the level of the wrist-joint, on the posterior surface, and near to the external border of the radius, he will, if fracture exist, recognise beneath the