1294 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. The urea is here below the normal standard; the uric acid increased. Scherer examined urine obtained from a person labouring under long-continued icterus, dependent on chronic inflammation of the hepatic structure. On emission this urine was clear, yellow, and perfectly neutral: it subsequently became acid, and deposited uric acid and bile pigment. This acidity Scherer believes was owing to the development of lactic acid. The specific gravity of the specimen was 1018 ; 1000 parts yielded 43 of urea only, and as much as l-8 of uric acid. Silica was also found in this urine. Urine of Pregnancy. The urine of pregnant women often con- tains a peculiar substance, to which the name of kystein has been given. It appears as a white scum when the urine has stood some hours. I have frequently found this substance in urine at the third and fourth months of gesta- tion, and have no doubt that its appearance is closely connected with the phenomenon of the secretion of milk. In several instances I succeeded in detecting distinct milk globules in such urine. Foreign Substances in the Urine. Medicines, and substances taken for food, are occasionally found in the urine. Some of these, however, undergo changes in the organ- ism before they are excreted by the kidneys. Simon has classified these bodies; and I shall here enumerate them according to his arrangement. Inorganic non-metallic bodies, — Iodine, bromine, chlorine, sulphur *, iodide of potas- sium, alkaline borates, silicates, chlorates, and carbonates, chloride of barium, ferridcyanide of potassium, sulphocyanide of potassium. The ferridcyanide was converted, however, into the ferrocyanide in the system. Metallic substances. — Arsenic, antimony, iron, nickel, gold, silver, tin, lead, bismuth, copper, and manganese. I have sought in vain for mercury in the urine. Lehmann and LTIeritier have also failed to find it where it has been largely exhibited. Several chemists, however, declare they have detected it. Inorganic acids. — Nitricf, hydrochloric, and sulphuric. Organic acids. — Oxalic, citric, malic, tar- taric, succinic, gallic, and acetic. Pereira has succeeded in detecting meconic acid in the urine of animals poisoned by opium. Vegetable bases. —Quina, morphia. Indifferent organic substances. — Colouring matters of indigo, gamboge, rhubarb, red beet- root, madder, logwood, mulberries, black cherries; odorous principles of valerian, * This, if exhibited in combination in sulphurets, is excreted as sulphate of the base. f Dr. Bence Jones believes that nitric acid is com- monly present in healthy urine, and appears as the result of the oxidation of nitrogenised food. assafoetida, garlic, castoreum, saffron, turpen- tine. Liebig and Wohler both state that alcohol cannot be detected in the urine. Percy, how- ever, has proved that it can. Dr. Wright has corroborated Percy's experiments, and ob- tained alcohol by the same plan of analysis. Lehmann and others sought unsuccessfully for the following substances in the urine: viz., salicin, phloridzin, caffein, theobromin, as- paragin, and amygdalin. These substances probably undergo changes in the organism. Lehmann has shown that salicin becomes converted into salicylous acid ; this was taken up by ether with the oxide of omichmyle. The addition of nitrate of iron produced the fine violet colour characteristic of salicylous acid. Hippuric acid and oxalate of lime were also produced. Phloridzin is converted into oxalic and hippuric acids during its passage through the organism, according to Lehmann. For the Bibliography reference is made to the works of Berzelius, Prout, Simon, Liebig, Dumas, Lehmann, on Animal Chemistry, and to those quoted in the foot notes. ((?. Owen Rees.) VARIETIES OF MANKIND.—Under this head it is intended to give a general ac- count of the distinctive characters, — struc- tural, physiological, and psychological — of the principal Races of Men ; and to inquire into the nature and degree of their mutual affinity'. Before entering upon these subjects, however, it will be desirable, in the first place, to set forth the most important characters bv which Man, under whatever form, is distin- guished from the Mammalia which approach most nearly to him ; and, secondly, to lay a foundation in the recognised principles of natural history and physiology, for a true ap- preciation of the characters which serve to distinguish sjoecies from each other, as con- trasted with those which may be presented by varieties, whose original stock is known, or believed, to have been identical. I. Distinctive Characteristics of Man. By Cuvier and nearly all modern zoologists, the various races of mankind are included under one genus, Homo; and this genus takes rank, in the classification of Mam- malia, as a distinct order, Bimana, of which it is the sole representative. Of all the cha- racters which distinguish Man from the in- ferior Mammalia, the possession of two hands is doubtless the most easily recognise!], and at the same time the most intimately related to the general organisation of the body; and there is none, therefore, which could be more appropriately selected as the basis of a dis- tinctive designation for this order. At first sight it might be considered that the pos- session of only two hands, whilst Apes and Monkeys and their allies are designated as possessing four, is a character of inferiority ; but such is not really the case ; for none