SPLEEN. 776 The Malpighian corpuscles are imbedded in the red spleen substance, and, with the ex- ception of one point, where they are attached to arterial twigs, they are everywhere sur- rounded by this substance. They are con- Fig. 526. A small arterial trunk with Malpighian corpuscles, on a somewhat larger artery. From the spleen of the Pig. Magnified 10 diameters. a, the artery; b, the sheath of the same; c, Mal- pighian corpuscles; d, pencils or tufts of arteries. nected to the small arteries and their twigs by short peduncles, like the berries of a bunch of grapes ; and, in such wise, that a small arterial trunk of from 2 to 4-lOOths line, with its ramifications, supports 5 to 10 corpuscles. {Fig. 526.) The peduncles of the corpuscles are almost always small arteries, which pass to be distributed to them ; but in less frequent instances, they are constituted by short pro- cesses of the arterial sheaths, which are con- tinuous with the membranous wall of the corpuscle. In this manner the majority of the Fig. 527. ■ A Malpighian corpuscle from the spleen of the Ox in connection with a small artery, magnified 150 dia- meters. a, wall of the Malpighian corpuscle; b, contents of the same; c, coat of the artery; d, sheath of the same. corpuscles are essentially devoid of a peduncle, and sit immediately on the arteries at their points of bifurcation, or at their sides. (Figs. 527, 258.) This relation, which also obtains Fig. 528. Malpighian corpuscle from the spleen of the Pig in connection with an artery from which a branch passes to the corpuscle. Treated with soda, and magnified 250 diameters. a, wall of the corpuscle; b, elastic fibres in the same; c, sheath of the artery; d, dissolved middle tunic of the artery; e, elastic inner coat, in animals, formerly appeared to J. Miiller as indicating the fact that the splenic corpuscles were hollow excrescences of the vessel-walls, or were imbedded in these latter. But if by this be understood, what Miiller's plates and description imply, that the sheaths of the vessels, in their whole thickness, with all their elements, are continued to form the cor- puscles, then it is certainly incorrect : for in some animals I have seen that, from the rich network of elastic fibres and muscular struc- ture of these sheaths, little or nothing passes to the corpuscles : and I have generally found the membrane of the corpuscle very delicate. It is, however, quite conformable to truth, to state that this membrane has a direct con- tinuity with the arterial sheaths. (Fig. 527, 528.) The corpuscles do not possess any con- nection with the trabecular network, still less that which Gerlach has lately attributed to them : viz. that they serve as points of sup- port to the elastic fibres of the partitions ; a belief which is altogether baseless. It is difficult to say any thing definite re- specting the number of the splenic corpuscles. Hessling believes that, in some cases, they constitute from one-fifth to one-sixth of the whole splenic mass ; and this seems to me no overstatement, if we substitute the expression " spleen-pulp " for " spleen-mass." At least, I have found, that their quantity is very considerable; and that in some instances, when they are rather turgescent, the whole pulp appears as if besprinkled with white. They stand so thickly together, that in many places they touch each other's sides ; and in others are only separated from each other by narrow interspaces, which in the least favour- able circumstances are about one to two lines in size. I believe that the estimate, that one and a half to two lines of spleen-pulp con-