711 SOFTENING AND INDURATION. z z 4. are urethral strictures. Ulceration of the stomach when healed, is followed by contrac- tion of the cicatrix; and when the ulcer has extended into the duodenum from the stomach, pyloric constriction of the severest kind occurs. The colour of indurated mucous membrane is generally paler than natural: the opposite may occur, and the degree of density varies from a slight increase to a bony hardness. An indurated and thickened state of the mem- branes of the brain, pericardium, and pleura, are found after long continued chronic in- flammation, either of the membranes them- selves, or of the parenchymatous structures in their vicinity. Effusion of lymph behind serous membranes always tends to their be- coming harder and thicker than natural; after a while the lymph becomes organised and contracts, and produces a puckering and ir- regularity of the membranes. We find thick- ening and induration of the pleura over large tuberculous cavities, the peritoneum covering the liver, and intestinal canal, and in the sacs of old hernia?. Constriction of any part of the intestinal canal, and also of the pylorus, may be produced by sub-peritoneal effusion of lymph. Softening of the liver usually occurs in a manner not to be appreciated by the eye, being simply easily broken down under the finger; occasionally, however, the liver looks as if it had been macerated for a great length of time in a dark fluid, its texture has completely lost its cohesion, and has become in certain spots quite diffluent. Livers in a state of softening may retain their ordinary colour, or it may be increased, and even decreased, in an extraor- dinary manner ; for, sometimes, no traces of blood can be found, except in the larger venous trunks, and the tissue of the liver is pale and light drab in colour. Softening of the liver is found frequently on the anterior and convex surface, as a product of inflammation ; partial and curable softening has been noticed to ac- company inflammation of the right lung; and, finally, the consistence of the liver is much influenced by the abnormal deposition of fat, which sometimes occurs in the ultimate cells of the organ. Induration of the liver is generally produced by the deposition of lymph, its subsequent contraction and its compressing influence upon the lobules. This effusion is the con- sequence of adhesive inflammation in the are- olar tissue about the twigs of the portal vein, serum and coagulable lymph are poured out, thefirst is absorbed, and the latter consolidated, and ultimately converted into dense fibrous tissue, which divides the lobular structure of the liver into well defined masses, gives great density and toughness to the organ, by com- pressing the small twigs of the portal vein, and the small bile ducts, thus impeding the flow of blood and the escape of bile, and causing the usual yellow tint which accompanies this disease. This deposition of fibrous tissue produces different effects according to the parts it prin- cipally involves. Sometimes the lymph is ef- fused exclusively into the cellular tissue of the portal canals of considerable size, and if the person die some time after this has occurred, all the considerable branches of the portal vein are found surrounded, in some places, to the distance of half an inch, by new fibrous tissue, which by its contraction has drawn in and puckered the adjacent portions of the liver. The remaining portions of the liver may be little or not at all altered in texture, and may be readily scraped away from these indurated portions; the main branches of the portal vein are still pervious, but many of the small branches leading from them are obliter- ated, the parts which they supply atrophied, and the liver correspondingly diminished in bulk. When such portions are near the sur- face, the capsule is drawn in, thickened and puckered, and generally covered with false membranes. In other cases, the fibrous tissue is not found around the larger veins, but in the vi- cinity of the small twigs that separate the lobules ; all the substance of the liver is thus rendered tough ; and when the organ is sliced, the fibrous tissue is seen to form distinct lines, between small irregular masses of lobules. At the parts on the surface of the liver which correspond to these lines, the capsule is drawn in, so that the organ presents what is termed a hobnailed appearance. The degree of hard- ness is determined by the amount of the adven- titious tissue, and, as a general rule, the denser the organ, the paler its colour ; ordinarily, the colour is pale grey, or resembles that of impure wax; and hence the term Cirrhosis. Induration of the liver occurs around growths, abscesses, and hydatid cysts, and may be produced by inflammatory action of a specific or non-specific nature. Softening of the spleen is produced by an altered state of the fluid which it contains naturally, and by inflammatory action, or by both causes. Softening produced by the first means is common in low fever, intermittents, and scurvy ; the fibrous element of the spleen does not suffer; but the blood, which is con- tained within its meshes, loses its natural con- sistence, appears to lose its coagulating power, becomes dark, and is washed away, leaving the white fibres intact, by a slight stream of water. In softening from inflammatory action the whole tissue of the spleen is dis- organized ; it breaks down under the slight- est pressure ; the external fibrous envelope is much softer than usual; and its internal prolongation is totally destroyed. Both of these kinds of softening occur, with or with- out alteration, in the bulk and dimensions of the organ. Induration of the spleen may also arise from an abnormal state of the blood, and from in- flammatory action. When the consistence of the blood is altered, the spleen, which may or may not be enlarged, cuts like liver or frozen muscle ; and no great quantity of blood follows the incision, the whole tissue being, in fact, denser than usual. Inflammatory hardening may or may not be