SPLEEN. 788 in one line upon each other in the gastro- splenic omentum, and they are also connected to each other by fat and areolar tissue. The size of the splenic arteries is very consi- derable in proportion to that of the organ, and so also the thickness of their coats is worthy of notice. In the first of these re- spects, it is possible that only the thyroid gland exceeds the spleen; the liver, which is so much larger than this organ, being sup- plied by an artery of scarcely larger size than the splenic, although we must not over- look the fact, that beside this the liver receives very much additional blood through the vena portae. In the mammaliagenerally, the splenic artery is proportionally smaller than in men ; this possibly depends only upon the more considerable contraction of the vessel at their death. Wintringham finds that the thickness of the arterial coats is greater than that of the aorta above the giving off of the renal ar- teries, to which it bears the ratio of 1 to 0-762 ; he also states that they will sustain a pres- sure of 41 lbs. The serous covering of the spleen receives some unnamed small arteries : thus a twig is given to it from the left inferior phrenic artery, which courses in the phrenico-lienal ligament ; and, besides this, it receives branches from the first lumbar, from the left spermatic, and from the splenic itself. Addi- tionally to these, in some of the vertebrata, to wit in the calf, small twigs in great number leave the substance of the spleen, and after perforating the fibrous coat of the organ spread themselves out upon its surface. The sj>lenic vein altogether corresponds in distribution to the splenic artery. So many primary arterial branches enter the hi!us of the spleen, and just as many veins come out of it. These six to twelve veins unite into two branches, and receiving, the upper the vena? breves from the stomach, and the lower the vena gastro-epiploica sinistra, they constitute the trunk of the vein. In the spleen, and at their emergence from it, the veins lie anterior to the arteries, but then they place themselves posteriorly to them ; and it is behind the arteries that they unite to form the common trunk. This trunk receives a twig from the pancreas, from the lymphatics of the spleen, from the stomach, and, further, the vena coro- naria ventriculi; it then passes away over the aorta to the under surface of the liver ; and, finally, with the vena mesenterica superior it constitutes the trunk of the vena portae. The splenic vein, like all the branches of the vena porta;, has no valves, and is the largest branch which assists to form that trunk. Its width is very considerable: ac- cording to E.Home* and Giesker, the propor- tion to that of the arteries is as 5 to I ; and according to earlier authorities it is yet more. The proportionate size of the branches is still larger; and, according to C. A. Schmidt, their ratio in the spleen itself to that of the arteries * On the Structure and Uses of the Spleen, Phil. Trans, for 1808. which run with them is as 20 to 1. In con- trast to this, the thickness of their coats is very inconsiderable, and, according to Win- tringham, is to that of the arteries as 1 to 4-8 or 4*3, to that of the iliac vein as 1 to 3-5. On their entry into the spleen, both arterial and venous branches receive as a covering a process of that "tunica propria" of the spleen which forms the vagina vasorum, previously described. These are not alike in all animals : thus, for instance, they differ in man from those ex- hibited by the higher brute mammalia — a fact which explains the various descriptions given by different authors. In man, the sheaths of the vessels form complete coats around them. A section made in the centre of the hilus, and continued through the spleen, exhibits them very distinctly as projections or processes of the tunica propria, and also allows their further circumstances to be seen. It is thus shown that arteries, veins, and nerves are thickly enclosed in these sheaths; but in such wise that they are easily separated and isolated, especially in old, or macerated, or boiled spleens. The arteries and nerves allow of this more easily than the veins, which latter have a closer connection to these sheaths. It is further seen that not only are the trunks of entering and emerging vessels thus covered, but that their finer ramifications receive a similar clothing. The thickness of these sheaths is in the human subject by no means inconsiderable. As Giesker correctly states, they are at first exactly the thickness of the tunica propria, and retain the same thickness for a considerable distance, that is, as long as they clothe the main trunks of the vessels. On the branches which proceed laterally from these trunks, and on their fur- ther extent, the sheaths become naturally finer, and gradually increase this fineness as the vessels become more minute, until finally, becoming very delicate, they lose themselves in the pulp of the spleen in the manner previously mentioned. The thickness of a sheath is always less than that of the coat of the artery which it incloses, and greater than that of the vein ; yet this does not hold good of vessels in all parts of their extent, since on the finest branches the sheaths are pro- portionally somewdiat stronger than on the larger ones. As to the relations of the sheaths to the rest of the spleen substance, it must especially be considered that they do not lie free in the parenchyma of the organ, but are connected with the general trabecular network by means of balks which are given off from them: but these balks are not so numerous as different anatomists appear to think ; so that we are scarcely entitled to con- sider with Giesker, that the whole trabecular network is formed out of this connection. In other Mammalia, as in the horse, ass, ox, pig, sheep,&c, the course of these sheaths differs in some respects from that seen in man. In the three latter animals, which in this respect are best known to me, no