743 SOLIPEDA. 3 is 4 numerous small bundles. Arrived at the pos- terior extremity of the testes, the epididymus folds back upon itself, to constitute the vas deferens ; which, at its commencement, is very tortuous, and forms a protuberance of considerable size (/). The vasa deferentia (I, m, n) are upwards of fourteen inches in length, and, during the greater part of their course, about two lines in diameter ; but to- wards their termination they become, for a length of about seven inches, much dilated, here measuring upwards of fifteen lines in circumference (oo), The caliber of the in- ternal canal does not, however, expand in proportion to the dilatation of the exterior of the duct. Female Organs of Generation.— The gene- rative organs in the female solipeds offer no variations of structure from the usual type common to placental quadrupeds. The cli- toris {fig. 519. a) is of great size, and is lodged in a cavity appropriated to its recep- tion, situated immediately above the inferior (i. e. anterior) commissure of the labia pudendi; its glans is enclosed in an ample prepuce, above which may be observed an orifice leading into a cavity big enough to lodge a small bean. The canal of the vagina is about a foot in length, and in its capacity corresponds with the ample dimensions of the penis of the other sex. Immediately behind the orifice of the ure- thra, the mucous membrane of the vagina forms a broad fold, which is directed forwards and lies immediately over the urethral opening : the length of this fold in the adult mare is about eight inches, and, near its middle, it is upwards of an inch in breadth. The urinary bladder is small in comparison with the size of the animal ; its shape is nearly round; and its circumference, when moderately distended, about a foot and a half. The urethra is remarkably short and capacious, the circum- ference of its canal being about three inches, while its length is only about an inch and a quarter. The orifice of the uterus (i) projects to the distance of about half an inch into the upper end of the vagina, and is of a rounded shape, encircled by a thick margin. The womb is made up of the body and two cornua, which latter, in the unimpregnated state, measure about seven inches in length. The ovaria and fallopian tubes present nothing remarkable in their structure or ar- rangement. Gravid Uterus.— The anatomy of the con- tents of the gravid uterus, and the arrange- ment of the membranes that enclose the foetus offer some peculiarities worthy of notice. The foetus in utero in the solipeds, is en- veloped in the usual uterine membranes,— the amnion, the chorion, and the allantoid ; but the disposition of these envelopes differs remarkably from what exists in the rumi- nants, and many other quadrupeds. The urachus {fig. 520. a) issues from the umbilicus in company with the umbilical arte- ries and vein (b), and, in the ovum represented in the figure, was found at some distance from the umbilical opening to measure about five inches in circumference, beyond which point its diameter gradually diminishes, till it reaches the point at which the amnion spreads out on all sides to envelope the foetus, where it terminates by the orifice e, and is prolonged to form the allantoid, which encompasses the rest of the cord. On the arrival of the al- lantoid at the extremity of the cord, it ex- tends itself upon the chorion to which it be- comes adherent, lining its internal surface in such a manner, that the two seem to form but a single membrane, the inner surface of which is formed by the allantoid (g), its exterior by Organs of generation and gravid uterus of the mare. Vagina laid open. (After Daubenton.) a, the clitoris; b, anus; c, rectum; d, posterior surface of the vagina; e, the orifice of the urethra; membrane which covers the urethral opening ; g, the canal of the urethra ; h, the bladder ; )', the ure- ters ; k. continuation of the vagina; /, orifice of the womb; m, foetus as seen through the transparent amnion, n ; o, portion of the umbilical cord that ex- tends from the umbilicus of the foetus as far asp, the point where the amnion spreads out; q, portion of the umbilical cord which extends beyond the amnion to the point r, where the chorion and the allantoid become united ; s, the allantoid ; t, the chorion seen from its outer surface; v, a hippomanes attached by its pedicle; x, y, chorion adherent to the uterine walls by numerous rugae; z, the left ovarium; a', the sper- matic vessels. The size of the umbilical cord gradually enlarges as it approaches the chorion, owing to the progressive dilatation of the vessels