VARIETIES OF MANKIND 1323 The orbits in these skulls are large and deep ; and the peculiar conformation of the bones which surround them give to the aperture of the lids an appearance of obliquity, the inner angle being directed downwards {Jig. 81+). Fie. 81+. Portrait of one of the "Siamese Twins." {Taken in Paris in 1830.) The whole face, instead of approaching the oval, as in Europeans, is of a lozenge-shape; and the greater relative development of the zygomatic bones, and of the bones of the face altogether, when compared with the capacity of the cranium, indicate in the pyramidal skull, as in the prognathous, a more ample develop- ment of the organs immediately subservient to sensation ; the lateral expansion being attended with a similar result in this respect, to that which is consequent upon the forward prolongation of the prognathous skulls. In the breadth of the lower jaw (.fig. 813) a remarkable contrast will be noticed with that of the prognathous type (fig. 809). The greater part of the races representing the pyramidal type in a well marked degree, may be designated as pastoral nomades ; some of them wandering with their flocks and herds over the vast plains of high Asia, whilst others creep along the shores of the Icy sea, supporting themselves partly by fishing, but living in part upon the flesh of their rein-deer. As in the preceding case, however, the same type is encountered in a remote quarter of the globe, among tribes whose descent would seem to be altogether different, yet which closely corresponds with the nomadic races of high Asia as to the physical conditions under which they live ; namely, the Hottentots of South Africa, whose resemblance to Mon- golians in cranial conformation, as well as in complexion, hair, and several other charac- ters, is so striking as to have been noticed by all travellers familiar with both, and to have given rise to many speculations as to their possible blood-relationship. It will be here- after shown, however, that there is no valid reason for separating the Hottentots from the general mass of the African nations ; and just as the Australians repeat the progna- thous type at a distance from its chief centre, witli a slight admixture of the pyramidal, so do the Hottentots in some degree repeat the pyramidal, with an admixture of the prog- nathous. Of the Oval or Elliptical type. — This form of cranial configuration at once approves itself to the educated eye, as distinguished by its symmetrical contour; neither the muzzle nor the zygomatic arches having an undue prominence, whilst, on the other hand, there is no appearance of flattening or compression. The cranium, in its fullest development, may be said to have the length of that of the Negro with the breadth of that of the Mongolian; and it is particularly distinguished by the lateral fulness, as well as by the elevation, of the forehead. This will be especially appa- rent on the comparison of fig. 815 with Fie. 815. Fie. 816. Fig. 817. Elliptical Cranium of European. ( From a specimen in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.) the corresponding view in figs. 807. and 811.; for in the former it will be seen that the breadth continues to increase above the orbits, and that the cranial vault is rounded and capacious ; whilst in the other two, the breadth diminishes rapidly, especially in the frontal region, from the floor of the orbits upwards. The form of the zygomatic arches is such, that in the facial view they do not project laterally beyond the general boundary line, as they do in the Mongolian ; whilst the conformation of the jaws is such, that they