THORAX. 1085 intermediate set may maintain the respiratory function. Andral observes, " The partial immobility of the ribs is not without interest in a physio- logical point of view. Does not this fact prove that, in inspiration, the ribs can move independently of each other, and that they have not merely a common movement ? If," says he, " as we have often seen in phthisical patients, the lower ribs can still move when the upper ones remain motionless, it proves that independently of the action of the scaleni, the intercostal muscles are capable of taking, an active part in the act of respiration."* In this way respiration may be separately car- ried on by any of the twelve costal regions. We have seen a man ill of rheumatism, lying on his back, breathe solely with the diaphragm, and not present the slightest motion of any one of the ribs. And we have seen the con- trary, viz., costal breathing, without the slightest movement of the diaphragm. They can act quite independently of each other. (§) Of quick and slow breathing move- ments, — Not only thoracic disease, but most "illnesses, particularly febrile conditions, quicken the respiration. In health the number of respi- rations average twenty per minute (Table (i G), and it has been found that in 244 phthisical cases (males), the average number was from twenty-four to twenty-eight per minute (sitting) (Table 11), the highest number was forty-four per minute. There is every reason to believe that the che- mical quality of expired air is the same whether we are in health or in advanced disease, though our requirements at these two times may be very different; just as the quality of smoke from a fire is the same whether it burns briskly or slowly. — The quality is con- stant, and the required modifications are ob- tained by the difference of quantity in a given time. Quick breathing is short, and slow breathing is long, respiration. The natural time of breathing may change by habit. We have seen a man in health, whose ordinary respirations were six per minute. This extra- ordinary slowness was induced by an attack of asthma, during which attack (lasting about six years), his character of breathing changed from eighteen short, to six long and deep, respirations per minute ; though the asthma entirely left him the character of the re- spiration remained as first changed by the dyspnoea. In this case the return of eighteen respirations per minute, would be to him the rapid respiration of fever, although formerly the respiration of health. Time and volume, in respiration, are the great modifiers of the energy of aeration. (h) Irregular breathing. — Irregular breath- ing movements are less common when organic disease is present. A nervous person, as well as a phthisical person, may have every form of irregular breathing, but in the phthisical per- son the change is less frequent, and is probably due to some change in the disease ; in the * Andral, Clinique Me'dicale, torn. iv. 3d cd. 8vo. Paris, 1804. nervous person the change is frequent, some- times once or twice during an examination of the chest, Nervous breathing is generally well marked in hysteria. (i) Double breathing.—By this is meant cos- tal and diaphragmatic breathing synchronous with each other ; this is not uncommon in severe cases of emphysema, when the mobility of the ribs is much diminished. It is fre- quently met with in phthisis pulmonalis; — in ninety-one cases out of 233. We have no voluntary power to command this form of breathing in health. It is to be looked upon as a serious modification of respira- tion. All the modifications of the respira- tory movements, induced by disease, may return to healthy breathing again, if the derangement has not been kept up too long. As a general rule, the respiratory movements become natural soon after restoration of the diseased parts to health. Of the number of respirations in a given time. — The ordinary respirations should be counted without the individual being con- scious of the observation ; otherwise they be- come disturbed in number, and sometimes in character. Table GG Number o (sitting) in f Respirations per Minute 1897 males. Respirations per minute. Number of cases. From 9 to 1G 79 16 239 17 105 18 195 19 74 20 561 21 129 22 143 23 42 24 243 24 to 40 87 Out of 1897 cases, 1731 of them breathed from sixteen to twenty-four times, and nearly one-third of them twenty times a minute. The mean relative velocity of the breathing and the pulse is about one respiration to four pulsations of the heart (twenty to eighty), and the variation in health in the number of respirations is from sixteen to twenty-four, and of the pulse from sixty-four to eighty- eight per minute. Table H H. — Relation between the Respiration and the Tulse (sitting) H07 males. Number of Respirations Number of per Minute. Pulse. Cases. 16 - - 64 - • 218 17 - - 82 - ■ 102 18 - - 70 - • 176 20 - - 82 - • 546 22 - - 83 - - 135 24 - - 88 - - 230 From Table I I, phthisis pul monalis in- creases the velocity of the breathing move- ments from twenty (the healthy mean) to twenty-eight, and cases are numerous up to thirty-six respirations per minute.