1415 VESICULA TROSTATICA. ventricle. Still observing a transverse direc- tion, the vein in its farther course, passes from left to right, crosses the upper extremity of the posterior interventricular groove, and finally opens into the posterior surface of the right auricle to the right of the mesial line. Before its termination, the great coronary vein presents a bulbous diliration (sinus of the coronary vein). Its orifice in the right auricle, which is protected by a special valve (valve of rTlwbesiiis or lesser Eustachian valve), is situated between the great Eustachian valve and the right auriculo venticular opening. Posterior cardiac vein (posterior or lesser coronary vein).—The lesser cardiac vein arises near the apex of the heart, on its posterior surface, and ascends in the posterior interven- tricular groove, where it is joined by muscular branches from cither side. Finally, it ter- minates in the great coronary vein when that vessel forms its ampulla in the deep groove above the base of the ventricles. Several small veins, which belong exclu- sively to the right ventricle, ascend along the right border of the heart, and, curving round in the groove between the right ventricle and right auricle, likewise join the great coronary vein — one of those which has long been dis- tinguished by the name of the " vein of Galen," is stated to communicate, frequently, by a separate opening, with the right auricle. Other veins of extreme minuteness (vence minima or veins of Thcbesius) are described as opening separately at various points into either auricle. Their existence is denied by some anatomists. (B. Geo. M'Dowel.) VERTEBRAL COLUMN.— (See Sup- plement.) VESICULA PROSTATICA. (Syn. Si- nus prostata?; sinus pocu/aris; utriculus pro- staticusf vesieula p>ostalica media seu spuria; vtems masculinus; CoRl'USCULUM Weberi- anuji.) The tubu'ar structure indicated by this name is a part of the male sexual ap- paratus in Mammalia. It lies between the lower ends of the seminal ducts, and opens between them, by a special aperture, into the commencement of the urino-genital canal : an opening which has been usually, but not quite correctly, viewed as an immediate process of the urethra. Tn Man, in whom alone it was recognised until a few years ago, it is a little vesicle, which is covered by the prostate. A si- milar form and arrangement recurs in many mammalia: but others exhibit very consider- able deviations. Sometimes it is altogether absent, or is but very rudimentary ; while in other instances it is of considerable size. Its relation to the prostate is equally variable ; but even in man it is only superficial, being solely due to its local arrangement. On these grounds, the name " vesieula pro- statica," which at any rate merely applies to its human anatomy, cannot always be used. We prefer, therefore, to use that of " the Weberian organ or corpuscle," a name which has been lately proposed in order constantly to recall the great service which an eminent anatomist has rendered to our knowledge of this remarkable structure. E. H. Weber was the first who recognised the great morphological import of this organ, and who adduced proofs that in man and the male mammalia it is the rudiment of an organ which, by a great development in the female individual, determines the form and physiological relations of her generative ap- paratus. Weber* explained the vesieula pro- statica as the analogue of the uterus, and gave it the name of the uterus masculinus. We would willingly accept this denomi- nation, if Weber's view were quite correct. But since we shall hereafter point out that this never specifies the full morphological value of the vesieula prostatica, but is, in many eases, erroneous, we prefer the nomen- clature already mentioned. Our examination of the Weberian corpuscle is divisible into three sections. The first regards its variations of form ; while the second considers the ques- tion of its possible functional import; and the third has lor its object to determine the mor- phological value of this structure. I. Anatomy. — The Weberian corpuscle occurs only in the class Mammalia, where we meet with a greater complication of the sexual apparatus than in any other group of the Vertebrata. Thus the Mammalia are the only vertebrate animals whose females possess a real vagina and uterus. What we desig- nate by this name in some other Vcrtebrata cannot be regarded as morphological equi- valents of the vagina and uterus of Mammalia. Man. — The Weberian corpuscle is a small flask-shaped vesicle, with a rounded blind end and a narrow neck directed downwards, placed on the hinder wall of the urethra, under the verumontanum, and covered by the prostate. The middle lobe of this gland limits the upper end of the corpuscle. The length varies, but is commonly 3, 4 or 6 lines; the breadth at the upper end is 2 lines, but it sometimes attains a more considerable size. Thus Adamsf men- tions an instance in which it had a length of an inch, and by its upper end, which projected free, was placed upon the dorsal surface of the middle lobe of the prostate. And in the hypospadian described by Theile J ; its size was yet more considerable (1J inches). The constricted neck sometimes forms half of the whole corpuscle, and is, according to HuschkejJ, sometimes separated from the * Annot. anat. et physiol. zu Kretzschmar's Diss, inaug. circa tineam physiol. morbor. Lips. 1836. Amtlieher Bericht iiberdie Versammlung Deutscher Naturforscher in Braunschweig, 1842, p. 65. Zu- siitze zur Lehre vom Bau mid den Verrichtungen der Gesclilechts-organe (in den Abhandl. der Fiirstlich Jablonowskischen Gesellsehaft), Leipzig, 18-16. f See article Prostate Gland, Vol. IV. p. 1.51. j Midler's Archiv fur Physiologie, 1817, p. 23. Tab. III. tig. 4., copied by Adams, loc. cit. fig. 106. § Soemmerriug's Lehre von den Eingeweideu. Leipzig, 1S44, S. 409. 4x4