789 SPLEEN. 3 E 3 sheaths at all are found on the smaller veins, and on the larger they are chiefly found on that side on which the arteries and nerves which accompany them lie. Only the two primary trunks of the veins which proceed from the spleen have for a very short dis- tance a complete sheath, while all the arte- ries, even the finest, possess one; a con- dition of which more will be said hereafter. The minute structure of the sheaths of the vessels in man altogether correspond with that of the partitions ; and this holds good of animals generally. But I have not been able to detect unstriped muscular fibre in the sheaths in all those cases in which I have found it in the trabecular. In oxen this is especially the case; while, on the con- trary, in pigs, &c, they are very plainly present. Great difficulties oppose the inquiry con- cerning the distribution of the vessels in the spleen itself: since, lstly, injection or in- flation of the vessels gives little result on account of the delicacy of the organ ; and, 2dly, great difficulties are connected with the microscopic examination of the organ. What will be now adduced concerning it is espe- cially the result of the latter method of in- quiry, which, combined with fine preparations by the knife, has seemed to me to be the most fertile in results. When the main branches of the splenic artery have entered into the spleen they lie in their sheaths, each in company with a vein, to which they are posterior and infe- rior : they are in tolerably loose connection with the sheath, and not unfrequently they take a serpentine course. In their further distribution they do not behave as arteries generally do, which continually give off smaller branches, but they divide immediately into a quantity of different large and long branches in the manner of a shrub ; of these the larger branches go to the anterior, the smaller to the posterior, margin of the organ. Beside this, it is especially to be remarked of the arteries of the spleen, that their different branches form no anastomoses. Assolant tied a branch of the splenic artery in a living dog, and then allowed the spleen to return into the cavity of the belly. The dog died thirty hours after: much inflammation and exsudation of a bloody serous fluid was found in the belly, and the spleen was quite healthy ; only the part cut off from the circulation of the blood was gangrenous, and, as it were, separated from the sound part by a line of demarcation. In contrast to this, Ileusinger tied all the branches of the splenic artery, one only excepted ; upon dissection, the whole spleen was found to be mortified, excepting the part in which the artery not deligated ramified. Also injections in an artery always return solely by the corresponding branch of vein; and they only fill that region of the spleen in which the branch ramifies, never passing over into any other. I am unable from my own experience to pass any judg- ment upon these data, and will therefore not impugn them ; but I may be allowed to doubt whether the capillaries of the pulp are com- pletely separated from each other, and am more inclined to believe that, in consequence of the anatomical circumstances of the pulp, such a separation must be considered as im- possible ; since in the spleen we have before us, not a gland with special lobes separated from each other, but a parenchyma every- where united. The above results of deli- gation and injection by no means necessardy imply an isolated course of the capillaries, and are fully explained by the supposition that the arteries possess no anastomoses. When the arteries have divided into small vessels of 1 to 2-100ths of a line, they come into contact with the Malpighian corpuscles in the mode already described ; while they are also connected to these by their sheaths. According to Giesker, their final terminations are coronal or pencil-shaped, radiating so as to surround the Malpighian corpuscles, and altogether enclose them ; then arriving at the highest point of the vesicle, they return upon themselves in the shape of a loop, course back again as veins, and there meet together, beneath the point whence the artery radiated, to form a vein, which enters the same sheath from which the artery emerged. At this point the sheath divides into three to lour fibrous threads, which pass over on the spleen corpuscles to the threads arising nearest to them, and unite with these. If we compare with this description of the minute anatomy of the spleen that which is considered most admissible by J. Miiller, the next author after Giesker, we shall find very considerable contradictions. J. Miiller finds that the smallest branches of arteries partly continue on the side of the corpuscles with- out giving off branches to them, partly per- forate either a portion or the whole of the corpuscle, without in any instance leaving any branches of the artery in its interior; that these fine arterial branches pass through the middle of the corpuscles, then con- tinue on their coats, and then quit them altogether ; and that if an artery in the corpuscle divides into many branches—which never happens on the surface, but always in the thickness of its coats — these branches leave it again, in order to ramify minutely in the surrounding red pulpy substance of the spleen, into which part especially all the fine pencil-shaped ramifications of the arteries pass. The commencements of the veins spring from these branches; they are tolerably large, anastomose frequently with each other, and scarcely have a special coat as yet. If a little piece of the pulp of the spleen be care- fully examined, it will be seen that it is as if cribriform, and constitutes as it were a net- work of red partitions, the diameters of which are larger than the interspaces and canals existing between them. It is these venous canals which give the cellular appear- ance seen in inflation of the veins of the pulp, and which, injected, form structures resembling the corpora cavernosa of the