VOICE. 1487 merely as bellows, the trachea or pipe, and the larynx* or reed. The nervous and mus- cular systems are similar to those of man, and do not require to be treated in detail. The acoustic principles of the first section will generally be applicable to the lower orders of Mammalia, so that when the structure is given the functions will be understood. In the account of the anatomy of the vocal organs given by Cuvier, Vicq d'Azyr, Brandt, Wolff, Henle, and others, no estimate is made of the relative dimensions of the larynx in the various classes of animals ; therefore, in order that the reader may form an idea of their magnitude in Mammalia, compared with that of man,"|" it will only be necessary, in those which have a similarity of figure, to give the linear value of one of their dimensions, namely, that of the mean height of the superior margin of the thyroid, above the plane of the base of the cricoid, since their respective magnitudes will be as the cubes of those heights.^ Also the lengths of the inferior thyro-ary tenoid liga- ments, when devoid of tension, are given. The letters H and L will be used to represent the heights and lengths respectively. Quad rum an a.—The vocal organs of the Quadrumana have already engaged the atten- tion of several distinguished anatomists, such as Vicq d'Azyr, Camper, Hunter, Cuvier, Brandt, and others ; and a condensed view of this part of the subject will be now given. Chimpanzee. — Os hyoides : base concave, where a sac b {fig. 89-t) is lodged. Larynx, H. 0*8 in. Thyroid : margins, superior and in- ferior, nearly parallel. Cornua short; supe- rior inclined upwards and backwards, inferior inclined downwards and forwards. Cricoid elliptical: margins, superior triangular, notch in front; inferior parallel to the first ring of the trachea, except in front, where it is de- pressed. Arytenoids small. Cuneiform curved, and in contact with the anterior margin of the arytenoids. Cart. Santorini — inferior thyro-ary tenoid ligaments prominent. L. 0"5 in. to 0'6 in., superior thyro-arytenoid ligament not prominent. Ventricles of Mor- gagni oval, deep, leading to sac (a, a), lying between the epiglottis and arytenoid carti- lage ; right sac anterior to the left, convo- luted, terminating in the concavity of os hy- oides (c). Epiglottis : apex obtuse, trachea 10 rings. Voice more acute than in women ; quality inferior: cause, sacculated larynx, &c* * In the following description, the axis of the vocal tube is supposed to be perpendicular to the horizon, and not parallel or oblique, as is generally the case in the living animal. t In man, we may assume the mean of 11= 1-5 in. and L=0-72834. % In most Mammalia the figures of the larynges are similar; but in some orders they are dissimilar. For instance, in the Cervus, amongst the Ruminantia, the thyroid bulges out considerably in front, and in the Sus scrofa, amongst the Pachydermata, it is ex- tremely narrow. In the Cetacea the whole larynx differs from those of all the other orders. § These measures relate to an animal not quite full grown, and are rather too small for an adult chimpanzee. Orang-outang. — Larynx : volume equal to chimpanzee. Thyroid : wings united at an obtuse angle: margins, superior notched in mesial line. Cornua short. Cricoid ellipti- cal : margins, superior and inferior, depressed in front; the latter connected with the first ring of the trachea. Crico-thyroid chink large. Arytenoids small. Cuneiform large and curved. Cart. Santorini : vocal ligaments, Fig. 80i. Lateral view of the Larynx of the Chimpanzee. a, a, sac connected with the lateral ventricles; 1, os hyoides; c, sac protruding at the base of os hyoides; d, thyroid ; e, trachea; /, cricoid. inferior prominent; L. less than in woman. Ventricles oval, furnished with a canal pene- trating the thyro-hyoid membrane. Sacs large, lie on each side the larynx. Ventricles valvular, rendering the inflation of the sacs under the control of the animal. Epiglottis broad, apex obtuse.* Gibbons.—Os hyoides : base not excavated. Larynx, volume nearly equal that in orang; ventricles deep, communicating with a sac in Hylobates agilis, which lies in front on the thyro-hyoid membrane. Voice acute. Cry, bow wow. Monkeys of the old continent.—Os hvoides : base excavated (fig. 895,b). Sim. Hamadryas, larynx destitute of sac.-f Larynges perfo- rated, sacs in the thyro-hyoid space. S. cyno- cephalus, S. raona, S. cercopithecus (fig.895, a), S.Malbrouch, S.^Ethiops, S. rubra, S.VeterJ, * According to Camper, the laryngeal sacs in the orangs disqualify them from applying the vocal organs to the use of articulate language; but this hypothesis is untenable, because language is in- dependent of the quality, intensity, or pitch of the laryngeal sounds. f Cuvier states that S. Patras has no sac or aperture in the larynx; this is, however, an error. { Cuvier.