1115 THYROID GLAND. veniretur. Hie enim steatoma, ibi atheroma, alio in loco purulentus tumor, in alio hyda- trius, in alio erat coagulatus sanguis, fluidus fere in alio, imo hinc glutine loculus plenus erat, alibi calce cum sebo mista." I may mention here the results of micro- scopic examination of a specimen of this form of enlarged thyroid, for the opportunity of making which I am indebted to the kind- ness of the medical officers of St. George's Hospital. The gland was greatly enlarged ; its surface somewhat nodulated. A sec- tion displayed a number of cavities visible to the naked eye, some of which were circular, others elongated, and as it were compressed. Many of them were about the size of a large pin's head; some however, much more capa- cious. The majority were filled with a slightly opaque, firm, gelatinous material; but some (the larger) with cretaceous or ossiform matter, and some also with a reddish material. The intervening structure in several places appeared tolerably natural ; but even in this, on close in- spection, enlarged vesicles were perceptible. The areolar tissue separating the lobes of the gland was hypertrophied, and formed whitish septal bands. Under the microscope it was seen that the vesicles were generally enlarged. They were found of all sizes, from those that were distinctly visible to the naked eye, or still larger, down to the natural size. Their walls were somewhat but not uniformly or very greatly thickened. The homogeneous envelopes presented, generally, somewhat of a fibrous appearance. The greater number of the cavities were distended with a transparent, feebly refracting, structureless, material, in which were numerous small irregularly shaped particles of higher refracting power. This material resembled, almost exactly, the normal secretion in appearance, and, like it, was free in the cavity of the vesicles. In these vesicles there was very little trace of epithelium, only some small, and few, non-nucleated corpuscles ; but in other vesicles the epithelium was so abundant, that it completely occupied the cavity. It was in no respect different, except as to quantity, from its healthy condition, con- sisting of mere nuclei and interposed granular matter in no great abundance. In some of the vesicles there were large and beautiful crystals of more or less perfect octohedral form. These were either oxalate of lime or triple phosphate. One prodigiously enlarged vesi- cle contained a mass of calcareous matter, very firm and dense throughout, but most in its central and peripheral parts. In the latter situation there were numerous masses of ossi- form substance, of yellowish semi-transparent aspect. On crushing these, no bone lacuna; could be discerned in the fragments. They dis- solved freely with strong effervescence in nitric acid, leaving an homogeneo-fibrous basis substance, which often exhibited a greenish y?llow tint. The material, thus proved to be of cretaceous nature, contained, mingled with it, numerous tablets of cholesterine. One small reddish mass, occupying the cavity of a vesicle, was found to consist almost wholly of blood globules and their detritus, and thus seemed to be the result of haemorrhage. Another opaque whitish mass did not effervesce with nitric acid, and was therefore not cretaceous; it consisted of epithelial nuclei mingled with peculiar, and rather abundant, granular matter. In the above account it is worth noticing that no cells were found ; the epithelium retained its natural appearance ; also the matter distend- ing the greater number of the cavities resem- bled exactly, so far as the eye could judge, the natural secretion ; and lastly, that in some in- stances there was an accumulation of unaltered epithelium and not of the secretion. This last fact is of some importance with respect to the exact nature of the function discharged by the epithelium. Owing to the kindness of my friend, Mr. H. Gray, I have recently had the opportunity of examining a remarkable specimen of Bron- chocele. The gland was greatly enlarged,—-to five or six times its natural magnitude,— and altered in form, one lateral lobe being raised up higher than the other, and the surface being somewhat uneven and nodulated. On a section being made, the exposed surface presented a reddish glossy aspect, somewhat resembling that of certain forms of malignant disease which are undergoing softening: there was no appearance of distended cavities ; in fact, the structure to the eye exhibited less of the cellular arrangement than is usual. Micro- scopic examination confirmed the impression derived from simple inspection. — But little of the natural secreting structure remained, the vesicles being destroyed, and their secretion, though still present in some quantity, being certainly diminished. Some traces of the epithelium of the cavities were perceptible; but there was no special cell growth indicative of any adventitious formation ; a few large cells or globules only, varying in size from ^~|tt to tttVo diameter, existed in some of the remaining cavities : these evidently consisted of aggregations of oily molecules and drops not manifestly enclosed by any en- velope. The blood-vessels were prodigiously and universally enlarged; some of those which were capillaries in structure were from two to three times their normal diameter, and irre- gularly dilated and varicose; they were every where clustered over with minute oil drops ; which formed so thick a coating to many of them, that they appeared as white cylinders by direct light. Some parts of the gland pre- sented to the naked eye a whiter aspect than others ; and in them it was seen that the de- posit of oily matter along the vessels, and the destruction of the glandular tissue, had pro- ceeded to the greatest extent. In some places there were masses of ossiform deposit. The morbid alteration now described ap- proaches most nearly, I think, to the vascular and aneurismatic bronchocele ; but the exten- sive destruction of the glandular tissue, and the copious deposit of oily matter, show that there must have been some grave derangement of the nutrition of the gland. The case oc- curred in a female (yet. 75.), who died with