VESICULA PROSTATIC*. H 17 covering of striped muscular fibres. Sicbold u. Kullikcr, Band II. S. id. disposal from the stores of the Physiological Institute of this place. Volitantia.— Among tlie Bats I have found a Weberian organ hitherto only in Vespertilio murinus. Here it is a small corpuscle, scarcely one line in size, between the ejaculatory ducts. It is covered by the prostate, and opens at the usual place by a small and scarcely visible aperture. In Flecotus auriitis I have sought after it in vain. So also in Galeopilhecus variegatus, where the points of opening of the two seminal ducts are placed close together upon a small and elongated verumontanuin. Inseclivora. — The Erinaceus Europceus Talpa Europcea*, Sore.v araucus, and Macro- seelides Rozeli were examined : only in the last is a Weberian organ present. It is a roundish flask, which is proportionately of a very considerable size, being fully one line long, and quite as broad at the end. It opens, by means of a short constricted neck, into the uro-genital canal between the two seminal ducts. The prostate, which consists, as in the Sorex, of two compound gland-tubes, lies in front of the utriculus, and close to it, but without covering it. The thickened lower ends of the seminal ducts receive it between them, and are united to it by areolar tissue. Fare.—In the dog and the cat the Weberian organ forms, as Weber has shown, a long small bladder of some lines in size, which is, for the most part, placed before the prostate in a fold of peritoneum stretching between the two ejaculatory ducts. There is no open- ing into the urethra. The description of Weberf certainly holds good in many instances, yet not in all. I have examined numerous dogs and cats, and have very frequently found, instead of a vesi- cular structure, a simple solid cylindrical cord, which I have regarded as an obliterated ru- diment of the organ. In many individuals even this could not be detected. I also found the Weberian organ as a solid cord in the fox and leopard. The striped hyaena, on the contrary, possesses an elongated flask- shaped Weberian corpuscle; but it, together with the ends of the seminal ducts, is hidden between the two kidney-shaped halves of the large prostate.^ The latter are only fused posteriorly; in the "larger anterior half they are united by areolar tissue into a common mass. There is no opening into the uro- genital canal, and I have found none in any of the beasts of prey examined. The Weberian organ of the otter, which * The commencement of the uro-genital canal in the Eimacera and Talpa, forms in an anomalous manner a spacious and defined cavity. Into this cavity the urethra opens, as in the female mammalia, by a narrow slit-shaped aperture. This was de- scribed by me some time ago (zur Anatomie, &c., SS. 102. 105.) at which period I erroneously ex- plained the cavitv as a male vagina. t ZusUtze, &c."Tab. VII. % The length of the prostate is fully one and a half inches: its breadth is yet larger. Cowpers glands are also of considerable size, two inches long. They have a longly clavatc form, and a very thick Fig. 875. Weberian Organ of the Hycena Striata (reduced to half the natural size.) a, Weberian organ ; b, b, rasa deferentia ; c, c, pro- state ; d, d, Cowper's glands. Leydig* has described, is of unusual form, and much more considerable development. It lies between the urinary bladder and the two seminal ducts, and consists of a body about six lines in length and propor- tional breadth, the upper free end of which is drawn out right and left into a long and thin thread lying on the seminal duct. The cavities and their openings could not be ex- amined ; but without doubt both were pre- sent. The Weberian organ is very similar in the Meles Taxus. It is a very considerable cylinder, which measures about ten lines, and rises to the hinder surface of the glandular ends of the vasa deferentia, being very firmly united to them by areolar tissue. The upper end is folded into two horns, only the right of which is permeable to a short distance. The left is, from its root onwards, a solid thin thread, which is closely attached to the Fig. 876. Weberian Organ of the Badger, a, Weberian organ ; b, b, vasa deferentia; c, thread- shaped horns of the 'Weberian organ. * Zeitschrift fiir Wissentschaftliclie. Zoolog. vou