7G.5 SPINAL NERVES. tinasus, which varies in its size according to whether this muscle be supplied by the ac- cessory obturator or not : and a third to the adductor Iongus, which also enters its posterior surface. The most important branch, however, is the long cutaneous branch which emerges from behind the lower border of the adductor Ion- gus muscle, passes in the fascia behind the internal saphaena vein as far as the knee joint, where it perforates the fascia, and becomes cutaneous at the anterior border of the tendon of the gracilis muscle. In this part of its course, a little below the upper third of the thigh, it communicates either with the internal branch of the accessory saphcenus, or with a branch occasionally given off from the saphae- nus itself, and which accompanies the saphsena vein to the knee joint. It gives off cutaneous branches to the middle of the thigh, forming, with the above nerve, a more or less intricate plexus. Having perforated the fascia on a level with the knee joint, above it, or a little below it, it communicates with the trunk of the internal saphsenus (being occasionally only in apposition with it), and internal cuta- neous nerve. It terminates by being directed downwards and backwards to above the lower part of the poplitaml region, and continues to give off cutaneous branches, till it is lost in the integument at the inner and back part of the leg to within two or three inches of the ankle: having previously sent filaments of communication to the continuation of the saphaenus nerve. The deep branch of the obtwator runs gene- rally behind the adductor brevis, and divides into two branches, one ramifying through the centre of that muscle : the other, for the supply of the adductor magnus. From the latter is given off a small articular nerve for the knee joint, which is directed downwards and out- wards, towards the attachment of the adductor magnus to the linea aspera, perforates this attachment below the middle of the thigh, and is directed with the poplitceal artery into the ham,winding around the artery, and giving off an internal delicate branch, which enters the knee joint through the ligament of Winslow. The Anterior Branches of the Sacral Neives are six in number, and escape from the anterior sacral foramina, decreasing in size from above downwards, and presenting, consequently, cha- racters reverse to what obtain in the corre- sponding branches of the lumbar nerves. They communicate with the sacral ganglia of the symphathetic, the filaments of communication being usually two between each nerve and the sympathetic. The first nerve, smaller than the lumbo- sacral nerve, extends more obliquely down- wards and outwards, and having passed from the first sacral foramen, unites with it at an acute angle, and communicates with the second nerve. The second nerve, somewhat smaller than the first, passes more obliquely downwards and outwards from the second anterior sacral foramen, and, having communicated with the third, enters the sacral plexus, sometimes bifurcating previously. The third nerve, about one-third the size of the second, comes from the third sacral fora- men, and passes more horizontally outwards to the sacral plexus, having communicated with the second by a delicate filament sent in front of a portion of the pyriformis intervening between it and the second nerve. The fourth nerve, considerably smaller than the third, passes from the fourth sacral fora- men, communicates above and below with the third and fifth nerve, and terminates in three sets of filaments. One, usually in the form of a single trunk, is directed a little downwards and outwards, between the levator ani and the coccygaeus muscle, gives branches to them, and finally becomes cutaneous. This filament in its course generally furnishes a small twig which perforates the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment, and terminates in the skin over the border of the coccyx. A second, as a single small trunk, passes to enter the sacral plexus. The third series anastomose freely with the hypogastric plexus, and then form of them- selves a loose kind of interlacement, from which branches are given off to the rectum sides of the bladder, prostate, and vesicuke seminales, and the vagina in the female. The levator ani generally receives one or two fila- ments, a distinct twig entering the middle, the other supplying the anterior part, alter rami- fying on the prostate. The fifth passes from the fifth anterior sacral foramen, communicates above and below with the fourth and sixth, and sends a filament which perforates the coccygaeus muscle, sup- plies it, and terminates on the skin to the side of it. The sixth (anterior branch of the coccygeal nerve) is extremely delicate, passing between the lower cornu of the sacrum, and the upper border of the coccyx, communicates within the bone with the descending branch of the fifth, and terminates by passing along the border of the coccyx in the substance of the sacro-sciatic ligament to become cutaneous. Some filaments are given off from it which supply the coccygaeus ; others perforate the ligament, and are lost in the substance of the glutaeus maxiinus. The Sacral Plexus (sciatic) is formed by the lumbo-sacral nerve and the four upper ante- rior branches of the sacral nerves, principally, however, by the convergence of the three upper : the fourth sacral nerve sending merely a small filament of communication. The branches that contribute to its formation enter it at once, at a more or le.-s acute angle, with- out any complex subdivision, as usually occurs in other plexuses. It has a well marked tri- angular figure, the apex being indicated by the line of convergence of the different trunks : the base by the trunks as they issue from the sacral foramina. It rests upon the pyriformis muscle, the internal iliac vessels separating it from the pelvic viscera, being however in im- mediate relation with a layer of pelvic fascia. Before terminating in the great sciatic nerve,