777 SPLEEN. tains one Malpighian corpuscle, is rather too little than too large. As regards the lower animals, it would follow from my researches, that the Malpighian cor- puscles occur in Mammalia in precisely the same way as in Man; at least, in more than twenty genera which I have examined, I have never found them to be absent. It has long been known that they are very distinct in pigs, sheep, oxen, goats, and so also in guinea pigs, hedgehogs, and bats, &c, in whom they are rather larger and more resisting than in Man; and although in the dog, cat, and rabbit, they are somewhat smaller and more covered by the pulp, yet they are nevertheless very dis- tinct. As to Birds, Bardeleben seems to have recognised the Malpighian corpuscles in swal- lows, pigeons, and geese ; while I have been able to verify their existence in sparrows, although they are not particularly distinct. So also Ecker briefly states, that he has seen them in birds; and Oesterlen mentions their occurrence in the fowl, pigeon, and in many of the Raptores. Amongst the Reptilia, J. Miiller has detected them in the Chelonia; while I have seen them very distinctly in the anguis fragilis, in whom the corpuscles were surrounded by a beautiful network of capil- laries. Amongst the naked Amphibia, Oesterlen states himself to have seen them here and there in toads and frogs ; but in direct op- position to this, I have found no trace of them. Just as little have I been able to de- tect them in Fishes, although 1 have examined many of the fresh-water genera with this especial purpose. And thus the conjecture of Miiller*, — that they exist in all the verte- brata, although in none so distinct or so easy of observation as in the vegetable-eating mammals—must be considered as incorrect: a cirumstance which is not without consider- able interest in the determination of their import. On inquiry into the more minute structure of the Malpighian corpuscles, it is exceedingly necessary to regard, not only their appear- ances in Man, but also in the lower animals. Each Malpighian corpuscle possesses a mem- brane and contents, and therefore is not a solid corpuscle, but rather a vesicle. The mem- brane which Malpishi beheld, was minutely described for the first time by Miiller and Giesker. According to the first of these ob- servers it is, as previously mentioned, a pro- cess of the common sheath of the vessels, which either immediately continues as a ve- sicular swelling of the same, or is previously produced into a peduncle. Giesker rejects this view, at least as regards the human sub- ject, and describes in each corpuscle a pecu- liar, independent, and tolerably strong mem- brane, which seems to have no connection with the sheaths of the vessels, but receives an additional thin outer covering of white fibrous tissue, in which the vessels of the cor- puscle ramify, and to which they frequently impart their own red colour. The ma- * Thysiologie, i. S. 486. jority of later observers have unconditionally adopted one or the other of these views ; only a few of them, as J. Simon, Henle, Ecker, and Oesterlen, having taken the trouble of substantiating their truth by original inquiry. Henle, Oesterlen, and J. Simon, deny the existence of a special membrane. The first of these observers finds that the wall of the corpuscles is constituted solely of granules, under which appear to be comprised struc- tures resembling the morphous part of the contents ; while fine bundles of white fibrous tissue unite on their outer surface. Oesterlen and J. Simon likewise deny the peculiar mem- brane (limitary membrane), an absence which the latter associates with the capacity of the corpuscles to fill themselves out from the capillary vessels. So also Bardeleben de- scribes a membrane very indistinctly. On the other hand, Ecker * has assured him- self of the presence of a membrane in mam- mals and birds. By the application of pot- ash, the masses of granules which seem to constitute the wall of the corpuscle were dis- solved ; and he then not only saw the rami- fications of the arteries on the Malpighian cor- puscle with great distinctness, but he also recognised that this possesses a distinct mem- branous wall, in which a network of ex- ceedingly fine and well-defined stripes could be detected. Although these stripes are actual fibres, yet, according to Ecker, they everywhere cover a structureless gland-mem- brane, for the wall of the vesicle is never interrupted in the structureless intervals be- tween these fibres ; indeed it is possible that the latter are themselves but folds of a structureless membrane. Amongst the most recent authors, Arnold f and Huschke J ac- cept Giesker's view, and Dr. Gerlach § re- peats Eckcr's decision. As to myself, in the first place, 1 regard it as an incontro- vertible fact, that the Malpighian corpuscles possess a special membrane. If one of the vesicles be isolated, and sufficiently separated from the surrounding tissues, it may be seen without any further preparation, especially with a slight pressure {fig. 527.) ; and it be- comes particularly distinct if a little dilute soda or potash be applied (fig. 528.). These reagents dissolve all the surrounding parts of the pulp, with the exception of the ves- sels, and thus leave the membrane of the vesicle, although somewhat altered, yet quite entire. Concerning the nature of this mem- brane, I have verified the following: it is colourless, transparent, about 1 to 2-1000ths of a line in thickness, has everywhere two contours, and here and there it exhibits con- centric lines. Its structure so far corresponds with that of the sheaths of the vessels with which it is continuous, that it contains at least white fibrous tissue and elastic fibres ; but the unstriped muscular fibres which oc- * Der feinere Bau der Nebennieren, 1846, S. 10. t Anatomie, ii. S. 123. j Eingeweidelehre, S. 178. § Zeitschrift fUr Rationelle Medicin, Bd. vii. S. 77.