SYMPATHY. 855 3 i 4< that apparent connexion which results from the anastomosis of a fasciculus of fibres of the one with a portion of the other. Secondly, the removal of the portion of the nervous centre with which any one of the nerves concerned in the sympathetic action is connected, will prevent the development of the phenomenon, although the nerves themselves remain un- injured in their peripheral distribution, or in their connexion with each other. Thirdly, if there were an}' peripheral communication be- tween nerves, it would be most likely to take place in the plexuses. Experiments, how- ever, upon the nerves which lead to these show that each nerve-tube, in its passage through them, retains its isolation as dis- tinctly as in any other part of its course. The three nerves which supply the lower extremity in the frog, says Miiller, form a plexus from which two nervous trunks issue: if one of these latter be divided and isolated from all its connexions with muscles, and the portion of it connected with the plexus irri- tated, the impression will be transmitted in the centripetal direction by the sensitive fibres of nerve; but the motor fibres of the other nerve arising from the plexus are not affected, and excite no contractions in the muscles to which they are distributed.* In applying these principles to the expla- nation of the instances which we have quoted, we shall find it difficult to determine the cen- tral connexion in some, although in others such a connexion is highly probable. It re- mains, therefore, for future anatomical re- search to ascertain what that connexion is which enables one nerve to sympathise with another. In the instance of pain in the shoulder in sympathy with irritation of the liver, the hepatic irritation excites a change in some sensitive nerves, which i.s propagated to the centre, and there affects some of the sentient fibres distributed in the region of the shoulder. The phrenic and the external tho- racic nerves are both or either of them, but more especially the former, favourably situ- ated to constitute the excitant of such a sympathetic sensation. The phrenic nerve of the right side is largely distributed upon the peritoneal surface of the diaphragm, and upon the inferior vena cava, and forms many connexions with the hepatic plexus in the substance of the liver. It may therefore readily participate in any irritation of that organ. .Now, the phrenic nerve is implanted in the spinal cord on a level with the third or fourth cervical nerves ; and the nerves of the shoulder form their connexion with this cen- tral organ about the same level. The origins of these nerves, therefore, are sufficiently contiguous to each other to warrant the be- lief that an irritated state of one may be pro- pagated to the other through the vesicular matter of the centre. But it may be inquired why the irritation is limited to sensitive nerves of the shoulder ; and why movements are not excited by the stimulation of the motor fibres of the phrenic itself, or of other * Baly's Mtiller, vol. i. p. 750. nerves. The limitation of the irritation to one or two nerves depends on the degree of the stimulus, and the absence of any move- ments is due to the disposition of the phrenic nerve on the surface being unfavourable for the excitation of motions by irritation of its peripheral branches. And the experiment cited from Miiller, in the last paragraph, shows that simple irritation of the trunk of a compound nerve in connexion with the centre is not sufficient to produce motion ; which requires probably either a more prolonged and violent irritation of the nerve, or a polar state of the centre in which it is implanted. Some of the instances of sympathetic sen- sations, referred to above, do not admit of an explanation so obvious. The pain over the brow from ice or cold water in the stomach may be referred to irritation of the gastric branches of the vagus, communicated in the medulla oblongata to the fifth ; but why the irritation should be limited to the ophthalmic division of the fifth cannot be accounted for in the present state of our knowledge. In those sympathetic movements which are of ordinary and normal occurrence, two pro- visions seem to be secured, namely, a certain peripheral organisation of the excitor nerve, and a certain central relation between it and the motor nerve. But in those which are of a morbid kind, it is necessary to suppose the existence of a more or less exalted polarity of the centre in order to explain the pheno- mena fully. This polar state will continue in many instances even after the primary peri- pheral irritation has been removed, as in te- tanus, or in the convulsions from intestinal irritation ; and we learn from this fact the importance in practice of attending to the state of the nervous centre, as well as to the removal of the irritating cause. There are other sympathetic phenomena, of the physical kind, in which, however, the nervous system does not appear to take a prominent part. Such are the changes which occur in different and distant organs in con- nexion with a particular period of life, or the development of a particular function. Among these are the phenomena of puberty in both sexes; the enlargement of the mamma; in pregnancy. Whatever part the nervous sys- tem may take in such changes, it is impos- sible to account for them by reference to that system only ; they must rather be regarded as phenomena of nutrition occurring in har- mony with the laws of growth, and there- fore affecting the vital fluid more particularly than any part of the system of solid parts. Continuity of texture disposes, as is well known, to the extension of a diseased state originating at some one point. So also does contiguity. Phlegmonous inflammation of the areolar tissue, and erysipelas in the skin, spread with great rapidity. Inflammation arising in one of the opposed surfaces of a serous membrane readily attacks the other. These effects have been vaguely assigned to sympathy (the continuous and contiguous sym- pathy of Hunter). But it cannot be supposed