8G8 TEETH. Fig. 5.50. Magnified portion of section of incisor of Horse ; c cement, e enamel, d dentine. the tooth, following the sinuous wavings of the lobes of dentine {d), which diverge from the central pulp-cavity, a. The inflected fold of cement c runs straight for about half a line, and then becomes wavy, the waves rapidly increasing in breadth as they recede from the periphery of the tooth ; the first two, three, or four undulations are simple; then their contour itself becomes broken by smaller or secondary waves; these become stronger as the fold approaches the centre of the tooth, when it increases in thickness, and finally terminates by a slight dilatation or loop close to the pulp-cavity, from which the free margin of the inflected fold of cement is separated by an extremely thin layer of dentine. The number of the inflected converging folds of dentine is about fifty at the middle of the crown of the tooth figured, but is greater at the base. All the inflected folds of cement at the base of the tooth have the same complicated disposition with increased extent; but, as they approach their termination towards the upper part of the tooth, they also gradually diminish in breadth, and consequently penetrate to a less distance into the substance of the tooth. Hence, in such a section as is delineated (Jig- 552.), it will be observed that some of the convoluted folds, as those marked cc, extend near to the centre of the tooth; others, as those marked c', reach only about half-way to the centre; and those folds, c", which, to use a geological expression, are " cropping Fig. 551. Tooth of a Labyrintlwdon, natural size. out," penetrate to a very short distance into the dentine, and resemble, in their extent and Fig. 552. Transverse section of tooth of Labyrintlwdon. (3Iagnified.) simplicity, the converging folds of cement in the fangs of the tooth of the Ichthyosnurus. The disposition of the dentine is still more complicated than that of the cement. It con- sists of a slender, central, conical column, excavated by a conical pulp-cavity for a cer-