VISION. 1157 feared as a blue grey, rose colour dirty white ; (•range, pure yellow ; apple green, yellow ; lilac, blue ; violet, grey. There was no un- usual appearance in his eyes, but he saw most perfectly in the evening. Dr. Sommer* has described his own case thus. Blue can always he distinguished from yellow, bright blue from green, and deep red from black, but green and dark blue are often confounded. Yellow, black, and de- cided blue are the fundamental colours. If he holds a leaf of a tree and a stick of red sealing-wax side by side he recognises dis-- tinctly the difference in intensity between the two colours, but cannot affirm which is green or which red : rather decided blue and rather intense red bear a great re- semblance; blue is confounded with red, green with brown, brown and orange with bright brown. As to crimson, lilac, purple and deep scarlet, they are colours of which he cannot form even an idea. He one day met a.lady wearing a blue bonnet ornamented with red roses, but could scarcely distin- guish any difference between tiie two. On another occasion when walking out it began to rain. " Then (says he) a crowd of red um- brellas displayed themselves, and I compared the colour to the azure of the sky." The rainbow appeared to him composed of blue and yellow ; he knew that there were shades, but could not satisfactorily discern them. The case of the late Mr. Troughlon was examined by Sir John Herschell and Sir D. Brewster, and it was ascertained that he saw the red space yellow; hence according to the views of Sir D. Brewster, he saw a space con- taining much yellow, and little blue, the red light being as it were absorbed in consequence of the retina being insensible to its action. Sir I). Brewster goes on to sayj", " If this be the case there must have been a diminution of light in the red space seen by Mr. Troughton, and I am persuaded from the experiments I made upon his e} es that this was the case ; but whe- ther it was to the extent of the total defalcation of the red rays, I will not venture to assert. But it is not necessary that it should be so ; the defective perception of red lij;ht may be accompanied with a more acute perception of the other colours, in a mariner analogous to what takes place in the chemical spectrum, w here the removal of the red rays produces an increased action of the rays that are left." Sir D. Brewster, adds that he has long been of opinion that the retina receives a more powerful luminous impression from yellow light than from the pure white light of which this yellow forms but a part. Persons affected with achromatopsy not only see well in deep gloom, but their vision of distant objects is particulaily sharp, from the azure blue of the atmosphere presenting the strongest possible contrast to black. One intelligent person saysj, "So much is this the * Graefe und Walthers, Journal fiir Chirurgie, Bil. v. Heft i. S. 135. t Phil. Mag. vol. xxv. p. 139. j Glasgow Medical Journal, vol. ii. p. 12. VOL. IV. case with me when viewing a distant object as to overcome the effect of perspective ; and the shading in the form and garments of persons at a distance is often so predominant as to overcome the effect of diminution in size ; and although, I see the object most dis- tinctly, I am unable to tell whether it be a child near me or a fud-giown person at a distance." Daltonians endeavour to obviate the an- noyances arising from their infirmity by taking some standard colours or shades as points of comparison, as for instance the green of grass ; they also bring the sense of touch to their assistance, and are enabled by these means, united with close attention, to avoid many errors ; but nevertheless they feel repugnance to express an opinion upon colours Non-congenital Achromatopsy.—This though quite distinct from Cliruphia, is generally a morbid symptom, and might easily be con- founded with it. It is to be borne in mind that in certain cases of chrupsia objects ap- pear tinged with colours foreign to them; a general officer for instance saw all white objects of a deep orange colour at certain times of the day, and to a lady they appeared of a bright blue*; but in such cases all objects are tinged with a prevailing tint or it is confined to those which are white, coloured objects being properly recognised. In achromatopsy one or more colours are effaced, and the individual is no longer cog- nizant of them. Permanent Achromatopsy. — A bootmaker in Paris f, was attacked with amaurotic amblyopia, which followed suppression of the cutaneous exhalation. It was accompanied with rheumatic pains, and there was at first irritation of the retina, but this subsided, leaving the sight imperfect. The patient, however, assured M. Szukalski that "he had possessed a full perception of colours until after a copious bleeding from the arm. From that time he could only discern white, black, and grey, and could not distinguish an engrav- ing from a coloured print. He one day bought a piece of yellow morocco leather by mistake for a white piece, and when examined hv M. Szokalski, he could not distinguish anv co- loured patterns which were exhibited to him. Dr. Mackenzie thus writes . " I always con- sidered this affection as a congenital one, till I was consulted by a man who had gradually become subject to it. He was by trade an ornamental painter, and could judge at one time perfectly of colours. His right eye was affected with mydriasis when he called upon me, and there was incomplete amaurosis of both eyes, so that he could no longer read a common type. On trying him I found he mistook red anil green. The use of spirits and tobacco was probably the cause of the affection of sight in this individual."! * Collections from the unpublished medical writ- ings of C. H. Parry, M.D. vol. i. f Ann. d'Oculistique, torn. iii. p. 201. J Practical Treatise on Diseases of the Eye, 3rd edition, \>. 799. 5 \