5 E 3 with the fistulous orifices of canals, which con- duct purulent matter from the centres of some of the carious bones, and from the interstices between them. At this period of the disease we can, by holding the lower part of the forearm with one hand, and grasping the metacarpus with the other, move these parts laterally in opposite directions, clearly ascertaining that all the bones are loose and carious, and in an irrecoverable state of disorganisation. The constitution of the patient invariably sympa- thises deeply with this state of things ; and the wasting effects of hectic fever are found usually coinciding with the disease of the wrist and carpus ; and, if amputation be not performed, the life of the patient may be sa- crificed. This operation, however, almost in- variably succeeds in arresting altogether the hectical symptoms, and the patient is restored to health. The scrofulous disease of the cancellous structure of the bones of the carpus, and of the carpal extremity of the radius, does not always proceed thus unfavourably. Occasion- ally, instead of suppuration, a resolution of the inflammatory action may ensue, or anchylo- sis, with partial displacement backwards of the bones of the forearm at the wrist-joint, may be established. This last, however, may be looked upon rather as an arrest of the morbid action than as a cure, because the patient is not only deprived of the use of the wrist, and sometimes of the medio-carpal joints, but also of the use of the fingers; in- flammatory action in these cases having been communicated to the flexor tendons and their sheaths, rigidity of the ligaments, or even anchylosis of the joints of the fingers, too generally follows as a natural consequence. It may here be asked, whether, in the pro- gress of this disease, the wrist-joint is liable to those spontaneous displacements of the bones which other articulations affected with white swelling seem to be. To which we reply, If we except the partial displacement backwards of the idna, previously mentioned, these displacements must be considered as rare. Bonnet of Lyons, who has had much expe- rience, says he has not himself met with any case of spontaneous luxation of the hand, whether backwards or forwards, the result of disease; nor has he read of any such recorded. Nelaton relates, however, that Richet showed him a preparation found in the dead-room, in which it was observed that the bones of the carpus had lost their usual relation to the radius, the inferior extremity of which was carried into the palm of the hand, while the bones of the carpus were carried back- wards on the dorsal surface of the forearm. Numerous fistulous orifices were seen, which evidently had, up to the period of the pa- tient's death, furnished a purulent discharge, so that the disease had not been completely cured, although it was manifest that the liga- ments had resumed their firmness and solidity, and that the luxation had taken place a long time previous to death. Here, then, is a reply in the affirmative to WRIST-JOINT (Abnormal Anatomy). 1525 the quaere, whether spontaneous dislocation of the wrist-joint occur ; and an unquestion- able example of dislocation of the bones of the forearm forwards adduced, on the respect- able authorities of Nelaton and Richet. To this observation we may add the following, showing that complete dislocation backwards of both the bones of the forearm may occur at the wrist {see. fig. 936'.); and here the testi- mony as to this fact rests also on the produc- tion of a specimen found in the dissecting room * ; its history is unknown. By examin- Fig. 936. ing this preparation, in which the dislocation backwards of both the bones of the forearm had evidently taken place, we can observe much overlapping of these bones on the dor- sum of the carpus, so that the styloid process of the dislocated radius quite overhangs the trapezium, even so far as the root of the meta-carpal bone of the thumb, and the ulna lies in contact with the back of the cuneiform bone, so that the articular extremity of the radius has passed down for more than an inch below its ordinary situation ; the anterior sur- face of the bones of the forearm, when they lie on the dorsum of the carpal bones, are solidly united to them. (See Jig. 936.) Anatomical Characters of Chronic Strumous * This specimen formerly belonged to the Mu- seum in Park Street, Dublin, where I saw it. It now is to be found, I presume, in the Museum of the Queen's College, Belfast.