764 SPINAL NERVES. that muscle and the cruraeus, and, in company with the descending branches of the external circumflex artery, enters its inner aspect by two or three divisions, having previously given off a superficial articular branch. This filament, the analogue of the corresponding branch of the vastus interims, creeps beneath the su- perficial muscular fibres, and near the pa- tella becomes cutaneous, some of the ter- minal filaments passing behind the outer part of the ligamentum patella, others over the patella, where they are lost in the skin and periosteum. The saphcenus nerve (cra<p7]s, manifest), the most internal of the deep-seated branches, and arising behind and external to the mid- dle cutaneous, is the largest branch of the crural. It passes downwards and outwards towards the femoral artery, and, about two or three inches below Poupart's ligament, en- ters its sheath. The nerve first lies outside and behind the artery; but a little before the vessel enters Hunter's canal it gets anterior to it. During the course of the artery down- wards and outwards, to enter the ham, the nerve inclines forwards and inwards, and quits the canal, in company with the anastomotic ar- tery, a little above the level at which the fe- moral vein and artery pass out. It now follows the course of the sartorius lying behind it, to the inner condyle, and one or two inches above the head of the tibia is placed between that muscle and the gracilis, and gives off, before continuing its course, the cutaneous tibial or re- flected branch. This nerve first runs parallel for a short distance with the tendons of the two muscles, then sweeps downwards, for- wards, and slightly upwards over the fascia covering them anil their tendinous expansions, and across the spine of the tibia to the skin at the upper and outer part of the leg, about two or three inches below the head of the tibia, communicating above with the internal cutaneous. The continuation of the nerve, or what may be termed the posterior trunk, inclines slightly backwards from between the tendon of the sartorius and gracilis, and on a level with the knee-joint is a little to the inner and back part of the tendon of the latter. Having received its connection with the cu- taneous branch of the obturator, it passes in company with the saphusna vein into the re- gion of the leg, inclining slightly forwards to the back part of the inner border of the tibia. Having supplied the integuments at the upper, inner, and anterior part of the leg, it inclines slightly backwards about its middle, sends filaments to communicate with the continu- ation of the cutaneous branch of the obturator at the posterior part of the leg. It then again inclines forwards, and terminates about three or four inches above the ankle in two branches. The anterior terminal, the smaller of the two, supplies the skin at the lower sixth of the inner and front part of the leg, and over the front of the ankle joint, a few of the branches entering the articu- lation. The posterior terminal, apparently the continuation of the trunk, supply the inte- guments over the inner malleolus, upper, inner, and back part of the foot. The saphsenus nerve not unfrequently, in its course in the thigh, in company with the fe- mora! artery, gives off, at a variable height, usually however at the lower fourth of the leg, a small branch corresponding more or less with the distribution of the outer division of the accessory saphaenus. The internal sa- phaenus nerve first lies behind the correspond- ing vein ; then in front of it to the middle third of the leg, when it again is placed behind it : an inch or two before it divides into its ter- minal branches, it is again anterior to it, the latter passing over in front, and the other behind. The obturator nerve, derived from the third and fourth, and sometimes also from their internal intercommunicating branch, is much smaller than the anterior crural, and rounded. It perforates the inner border of the psoas, along which it is conducted to the pelvis, a little below the level of which it runs to between the external and internal iliac ves- sels. It then passes obliquely behind the ex- ternal iliac vein, crossing it at a very acute angle, and reaches the obturator foramen in company with, and above, the obturator artery. It passes through this foramen into the thigh, and terminates by dividing into super- ficial and deep divergent muscular branches, situated behind the pectinaeus and adductor longus. Soon after its origin a small nerve, the accessory obturator, is occasionally ob- served to proceed from the outer part of the trunk. It passes in company with the femo- ral vein, anterior and internal to it, beneath the femoral arch, over the horizontal ramus r f the pubis, and external to the pectinaeus. It is then directed a little inwards, and divides into several branches, some of which enter the joint through the anterior part of the cap- sular ligament; others supply the posterior surface of the pectinaeus, and the remainder, as the continuation of the nerve, terminate by communicating either with the upper part of the trunk of the obdurator itself, or with the branch of the nerve destined for the adductor longus. The obturator nerve, in passing through the subpubic canal, gives off two or three branches to the obturator externus muscle : one pene- trating its upper edge, the others its anterior surface. Some articular filaments are also sent off in this direction, and accompany some of the branches of the inferior division of the obturator artery, beneath the trans- verse ligament to the hip-joint. The relation of these filaments as to size and numbers, how- ever, is not constant, being in the inverse pro- portion to the size and number of branches given off from the accessory obturator, which is not unfrequently absent. From the superficial branch is given off a long filament internally to the gracilis muscle, which runs for about two inches along the outer surface of the muscle before entering it, another to the posterior surface of the pec-