691 SLEEP. steadily traverse narrow p'anks, and even clamber precipices; and this with far less hesitation than they would do in the waking state. The fact seems to be, that they are utterly unconscious of the danger they are incurring; and that the whole attention being fixed without any distraction upon the indications of the muscular sense, the requi- site movements are performed under its guidance with steadiness and certainty. So, again, it is well known that somnambulists will write with their usual degree of neatness and regularity, when prompted to do so either by their own train of thought, or by some suggestion from without; and this, when it is perfectly certain that they cannot see. We have ourselves witnessed this in hypnotic experiments on two individuals, and made quite sure that vision could not be affording any assistance, by holding a large book between the eyes and hand of the writer. Not only were the lines well written, and at the proper distances, but the i's were dotted and the fa crossed ; and in one instance, the writter went back half a line to make a correction, crossing off a word, and writing another above it, with as much correctness as if he had been guided by vision. The guidance of the muscular sense in this case may be compared to that which we ourselves receive from it, when ascending or descend- ing a pair of stairs, or traversing a passage, to which we have previously been accustomed, in the dark ; we know when we have come to the end, without having counted our steps, or in any way observed our progress, simply by the information we receive through the muscular sense. To the suspension, com- plete or partial, of the activity of one or more of the organs of sense, which may occur spon- taneously, or may be induced by calling off the attention from it, reference has already been made. The next point to be noticed is the readiness with which the train of thought may be guided, during the state of somnambulism, by the principle of suggestion. This is more, perhaps, the case in artificial or induced than in natural somnambulism ; for in the latter there is fre- quently, as already pointed out, some domi- nant idea or set of ideas, from which the attention of the somnambulist cannot easily be distracted. In the former, the mind is like a weathercock, without the least fixity or self-control, but liable to be turned in any direction by the impressions to which it is subjected. It is one of the most curious and important of Mr. Braid's discoveries, that the suggestions conveyed through the muscular sense are among the most potent of any in determining the current of thought. Let the face, body, or limbs be brought into the atti- tude expressive of any particular feeling, or into a condition at all corresponding with that in which they would be placed for the performance of any voluntary action, and the corresponding mental state is at once called up. Thus, if the hand be placed upon the vertex, the somnambulist will frequently, of his own accord, draw his body up to its fullest height, and throw his head slightly back; his countenance then assumes an expression of the most lofty pride, and his whole mind is obviously possessed by the feeling. Where the first action does not of itself call forth the rest, it is sufficient to straighten the legs and spine, and to throw the head somewhat back, to arouse the feeling and the corresponding expression to its full intensity. During the most complete domination of this emotion, let the head be bent forward, and the body and limbs gently flexed; and the most pro- found humility then takes its place. So, again, if the angles of the mouth be gently separated from one another, as in laughter, a hilarious disposition is immediately generated ; and this may be immediately made to give place to moroseness, by drawing the eyebrows towards each other and downwards upon the nose, as in frowning. Not only have we witnessed all these effects repeatedly pro- duced upon numerous " hypnotised " sub- jects, but we have been assured by a most intelligent friend who has paid special atten- tion to the psychological part of this enquiry, that having subjected himself to Mr. Braid's manipulations, and been only partially thrown into the " hypnotic " state, he distinctly re- members everything that was done, and can retrace the uncontrollable effect upon his state of mind which was produced by this management of his muscular apparatus. So, again, not merely emotional states but definite ideas are thus excitable. Thus, if the hand be raised above the head, and the fingers are flexed upon the palm, the idea of climbing, swinging, or pulling at a rope is called up ; if, on the other hand, the fingers are flexed when the arm is hanging down at the side, the idea excited is that of lifting a weight; and if the same be done when the arm is advanced forwards in the position of striking a blow, the idea of fighting is at once aroused, and the somnambulist is very apt to put it into immediate execution. On one occasion on which we witnessed this result, a violent blow was struck, which chanced to alight upon a second somnambulist within reach; his combativeness being thereby ex- cited, the two closed, and began to belabour one another with such energy, that they were with difficulty separated. Although their pas- sions were at the moment so strongly excited, that even when separated they continued to utter furious denunciations against each other, yet a little discreet manipulation of their muscles soon calmed them, and put them into perfect good humour. The power of the operator, in regulating the state of mind of such somnambulists, is almost unlimited; and surpasses the credibility of those who do not discern the very simple principle on which it is exercised. The facility with which parti- cular feelings or ideas may thus be excited, will of course be dependent in part on the previous character and habits of the somnam- bulist. Again, a very uncommon degree of power