1270 URINE is now precipitated with acetate of baryta, in order to rid it of sulphuric acid. The sulphate of baryta is collected on a filter, and the filtered liquor neutralised with ammonia, and then again thrown down with the acetate, which now causes a precipitate of phosphate of baryta.* This is to be collected, and the filtered liquor evaporated in order to drive off the ammonia ; or, what is better, it may be neutralised by acetic acid. Neutral acetate of lead is now added to the solution, which causes a copious precipitate. This must be collected and washed, and then decom- posed by sulphuretted hydrogen, which pre- cipitates sulphuret of lead, and leaves the animal extractive in solution. This may be obtained by evaporation. This extractive is, however, but part of that meant to be under- stood as the " animal extractive soluble in water only," so often mentioned in analyses. The remainder of it may be procured by pre- cipitating the liquor (in which the precipitate by neutral acetate of lead subsides), by means of the di-acetate of lead ; then collecting the precipitate, decomposing it as before by sul- phuretted hydrogen, and procuring the ex- tractive from the clear liquor. It must be re- membered that each of these extractives has peculiar properties, perhaps dependent on the processes used to obtain them. There is also a portion of animal extractive left unpre- cipitated by the di-acetate of lead. It is easily obtained from the liquor by ridding the solution of any lead which may exist in it by means of sulphuretted hydrogen, filtering, and then evaporating to dryness. It is a mixture of these three peculiar ex- tractives which constitutes the "animal ex- tractive soluble in water only" of Berzelius. The properties of the extractive matter pre- cipitated by the neutral acetate of lead are as follows : — It is of a brownish colour, translucid, and cloys not deliquesce ; has no taste, and scarcely affects litmus paper. Its solution is rendered cloudy by corrosive sublimate, and more so by the protochloride of tin. The extractive precipitable by the di-ace- tate of lead has the following properties:—■ It is of a yellowish brown colour; it has a slightly bitter taste, and does not deliquesce. The watery solution of this extract is of a deep yellow colour. It is not precipitable by the solution of bi- chloride of mercury ; but the protochloride of tin, the di-acetate of lead, and nitrate of silver precipitate it of a dark brown colour. The third extractive, which was precipitated neither by the acetate nor di-acetate of lead, possesses the following characters: — It is of a yellow colour. Solutions of bi- chloride of mercury, protochloride of tin, and nitrate of silver precipitate its aqueous solu- tion. The precipitate produced by the last of * Both these precipitates produced by acetate of baryta contain animal matter, which, in the latter case, is iu very considerable proportion. these re-agents is of a dirty yellowish red colour.* Colouring matters. — These are two in num- ber, Haemaphffiin or the brown; and Uroery- thrin, or the red. a. Htzmaphcein.—This is the substance which gives the yellow or brownish yellow tint to urine, and according to its proportion the urine assumes a lighter or deeper colour. Ac- cording to Scharling, the odour also of the urine depends on this principle. It is soluble in alcohol, and the alcoholic solution reddens litmus. The odour, when concentrated, is said to resemble that of castor. Scharling be- lieves this colouring matter to be an oxide of a radical, to which he has given the name of omichniyle. j3. Uroerythrin. — This exists but in very minute quantity in healthy urine; it attaches itself especially to the Lithic acid, being pre- cipitated with that principle on all occasions. It becomes abundant in some forms of disease. Mucus. — For the history of this substance see article Mucus. Uric or lithic acid. — This acid may be pro- cured from the urine by the addition of a few drops of strong hydrochloric acid, which, after the lapse of some hours, produces a reddish crystalline precipitate of lithic acid. This red colour is caused by an admixture of colouring matter of urine, tor pure lithic acid is per- fectly white. It may be obtained in a pure state from the red crystals by being dissolved in caustic potash, and then precipitated from its solution by the addition of hydrochloric acid. The precipitate may now be collected, and washed on a filter. Lithic acid possesses the following chemical properties: — It is insoluble in water. It is easily soluble in a solution of caustic alkali, and precipitated from such solution by the addition of an acid. It is dissolved by nitric acid with efferves- cence; and, by careful evaporation to dry- ness, yields a red or rather pink colour, which becomes of a fine violet tint when ammonia is dropped on it, or even when it is subjected to the action of strong ammoniacal fumes. This reaction of ammonia is very useful, in- asmuch as it prevents the yellow stain which many animal matters produce with nitric acid from being mistaken for this reaction of lithic acid. In the former case, the ammonia in- creases the yellow tinge to an orange colour, which is very distinct from the beautiful violet tint of what is now known as murexid. Before the blowpipe, this substance emits a fetid smell of burnt horn, mixed with an odour approaching to that of hydrocyanic acid. The ultimate analysis of lithic acid shows its composition to be Co, N2, H 2, 0 3. Hippuric acid. — This acid is considered by Liebig to be constantly present in human urine. * For further examination of these extractive matters, see the article by Berzelius, in his Traite de Chimie, vol. vii. p. 380.; Sur les Matiei'es inde- termine'es dans 1'Urine.