000 TEETH. of dentine and cement. The primary pulp, of the same form and diameter throughout, which first appears as a papilla rising from the except in the immature animal, when it widens Fig. 574. ree surface of the alveolar gum, is the part of the matrix which by its calcification consti- tutes the dentine; it sinks into a cell and becomes surrounded by a closed capsule in every maramiferous species, at an early stage of the formation of the tooth ; and, as the cement is the result of the ossification of the capsule, every tooth must be covered by a layer of that substance. In those teeth which possess enamel, the mould or pulp of that constituent is developed from the capsule covering the coronal part of the dentina.1 pulp. In the simple teeth the secondary or enamel pulp covers the crown like a cap ; in the complex teeth it sends processes into depres- sions of the crown, which vary in depth, breadth, direction, and number in the nu- merous groups of the herbivorous and om- nivorous quadrupeds. The dentinal pulp, thus penetrated, offers corresponding com- plications of form ; and as the capsule follows the enamel pulp in all its folds and processes, the external cavities or interspaces of the dentine become occupied by enamel and ce- ment ; the cement, like the capsule which formed it, being the outermost substance, and the enamel being interposed between it and the dentine. The dental matrix presents the most extensive interdigitation of the dentinal and enamel pulps in the Capybara and Ele- phant. The processes of formation and cal- cification of the several constituents of Mam- malian teeth will be found described in the Introduction to my " Odontography " * and in the article Tooth. The matrix of the Mammalian tooth sinks into a furrow and soon becomes inclosed in a cell in the substance of the jaw-bone, from which the crown of the growing tooth extri- cates itself by exciting the absorbent process, whilst the cell is deepened by the same pro- cess and by the growth of the jaw into an alveolus for the root of tne tooth. Where the formative parts of the tootn are repro- duced indefinitely to repair by their progres- sive calcification the waste to which the work- ing surface of the crown of the tooth has been subject, the alveolus is of unusual depth, and * P. xli. to its bottom or base. In teeth of limited growth, the dentinal pulp is reproduced in progressively decreasing quantity after the completion of the exterior wall of the crown, and forms by its calcification one or more roots or fangs, which taper more or less ra- pidly to their free extremity. The alveolus is closely moulded upon the implanted part of the tooth ; and it is worthy of special remark that the complicated form of socket which results from the development of two or more fangs is peculiar to animals of the class Mam- malia.* In the formation of a single fang the ac- tivity of the reproductive process becomes enfeebled at the circumference, and is pro- gressively contracted within narrower limits in relation to a single centre, until it ceases at the completion of the apex of the fang ; which, though for a long time perforated for the admission of the vessels and nerves to the interior of the tooth, is, in many cases, finally closed by the ossification of the remaining part of the capsule. When a tooth is destined to be implanted by two or more fangs, the reproduction of the pulp is restricted to two or more parts of the base of the coronal portion of the pulp, around the centre of which parts the sphere of its reproductive activity is progressively contracted. The intervening parts of the base of the coronal pulp adhere to the cap- sule, which is simultaneously calcified with them, covering those parts of the base of the crown of the tooth with a layer of cement. The ossification of the surrounding jaw being governed by the changes in the soft, but highly organised, dental matrix, fills up the * On the strength of this generalisation, I have established the Mammalian nature of the huge extinct animal called Basilosaurus by Dr. Harlan, and have advocated the claims of the diminutive Amphitherium and Phascolotherium of the oolitic slate of Stonesfield to be admitted into the same high class, against the objections raised by M. de Blainville. See " Comptes Rendus de l'Acad. des Sciences," Oct. 22, 1838. The bifid base of the teeth of certain sharks not being implanted in a socket, forms no true exception to the rule enunciated in the text. See Geological Transactions, 2d series, vol. vi. p. G6._