2 Y 2 vesicula : able width of the vaginal orifice, and the almost female uro-genital canal, that we had a true female before us. The testicles {aa), which remain in the abdominal cavity, possess a true ala vespertilionis, and also exhibit a more solid parenchyma than usual, although they consist of spermatic gland-canals. Only the epididymis and vas deferens are distinctly male in character. The latter (d d) takes the same course as in the instance previously de- scribed, except that the lower ends are com- pletely buried in the anterior wall of the body of the uterus anil the vagina (like the Gart- ner's ducts), and the seminal vesicles are much smaller. In this way we acquire a conviction that the Weberian organ, by a further development, is formed — not into a uterus only, nor yet into a vagina onlj'— but, at least as a rule, into both these structures simultaneously. Hence we need not scruple to regard it as the mor- phological equivalent of both. So that the We- berian organ is ihe male sinus genitalis, which in the female animal undergoes a further develop- merit into the vagina and the uterus. It is certainly an important guarantee for the correctness of this theory, w hich had been casually expressed for some time by Bim- baum *, and is now—from a communication to me by letter—shared in by my friend H. Meckel, that it had been applied by E. H. Weberf himself, to the vesicula prostatica of the rabbit. From a comparison with the female organs, he came to the conviction, that it represented the uterus with the vagina ; but unfortunately he neglected to extend this view, and in the other Mammalia he regards the vesicula prostatica as only a masculine uterus. We have mentioned above that the lower part of the Weberian organ is cccasionally contrasted with the upper, either by an annular constriction, in man, or by a singular width, as in the horse : or that the contrast may be limited to particular individuals, as in the goat. It is evident that this can only be explained as a transver.se severance into uterus and vagina, a condition which cer- tainly is never normally completed in the male animal. And when, as sometimes happens in the horse, the upper section altogether disappears, we need have no scruples in regarding the lower remaining part as the vagina only. J In such instances the theory of Meckel holds gooil : a theory which was but too widely ap- plied by its founder. Hence it may be laid down as a law, that the upper part of the Weberian organ, which corresponds to the uterus, and which also shows such great variations in the develop- * Beschreibung unci Kritik einer eigenthumliche BiTdungsheinmung. Giesseu, 1848, S. 15. + Zusiitze, Sec, S. 8. j In some pathological instances a vagina exists without an uterus; as was detailed by Kieco (Ceuno Stor. su di un neutro uoino), and quoted by Simp- son (1. c. p. 703.). 'ROSTATICA. 1-127 ment of its horns, is less persistent than the under part of the vagina. Thus the question may arise whether the Weberian organ, when it is devoid of cornua, still possesses an upper or uterine part. In order to decide this with certainty, every such instance would require a careful analysis, assisted by the historv of its normal and abnormal development. But as a rule we are justified in supposing that the Weberian organ is, as was stated above, and as is constantly rendered indubitable by the pre- sence of cornua, both vagina and uterus. I have here, without further discussion, passed over the question, whether a com- plete absence of the vagina may not obtain in the male mammalia ; a supposition which is required by the unconditional reception of Weber's theory. And this has been done because an assumption of this kind only leads to doubtful morphological hypotheses ; the necessity of which seems very inconceivable after the positive results we have already obtained. Wherever the female individual possesses a vagina the Weberian organ is, at least in part, vagina also; even where, as in the beaver, the exterior appearances speak by no means strongly in its favour. But it is certainly otherwise in the case of those Mammalia whose females lack the vagina. Here I do not so much refer to the mono- tremata, who, in the development of their genitals, approach much more closely to the birds than to the other Mammalia, and per- haps are devoid of a proper uterus : but rather to the elephant, in the female of which, as Mayer has lately shown *, the orifice of the urethra is only separated by a very small fold from the external orifice of the uterus, and the vagina is absent. The whole genital canal is here metamorphosed into uterus. In like manner the Weberian organ of the young male certainly corresponds to the uterus solely. In any case, such instances constitute but rare exceptions, and do not affect the general interpretation of the Weberian organ. After all that we have now learnt concern- ing the morphological import of the Weberian organ, it is scarcely necessary to state, that it, — or rather the embryonic part out of which it is developed in the male animal, — is present in all mammalia up to a certain period of foetal life. Where it is afterwards absent it must be attributed to a retrograde process of development ; w hich to some ex- tent appears to occur very early, as in the sheep. The date and degree of this retro- gression is shewn by the anatomical de- velopment of the Weberian organ. In some instances it preserves both its embryonal form and size; in others it continues to in- crease even after birth, as was especially men- tioned of the rabbit. I recur once more to this animal, because it, with its congeners, is not only conspicuous on account of the described connection be- * Beitrage zur Anatomie der Elephanten; in den Jsoy. Act. Leopold, t. xxii. P. II. S. 38.