VITAL STATISTICS. 1475 5 b 2 47i years. The same terms (probable life- time, equation of life, or vie probable) are also employed in speaking of persons who have attained more or less advanced ages. Thus the probable duration of life of a female at 25 years of age is about 41 years, being her actual age added to the number of years required to reduce the females living at that age to one half. In like manner the probable duration of life of a male aged 60 years is 73 years, being his age added to the 13 years required to reduce himself and his contemporaries to one half their number. The term "specific intensity" has also been used as a measure of the value of life. It represents the number living at any given age, divided by the number dying at that age. For example, if, at the age of 44, 72,709 male survivors of the population of Eng- land and Wales, out of 100,000 born into the world, lose by death 990, the specific intensity is 2|£0£ or 73'475, while for the number of 72,190 female survivors losing 923 of their number, the specific intensity is 2ti§"°> or 78,o09. Females, therefore, have a higher intensity of life at 43 years of age than males ; in other words, they suffer from a less mor- tality.* Such are some of the principal methods which have been recommended or employed for ascertaining the true duration of human life, —a branch of statistical inquiry which has received large contributions of late years, many of which, however, are unfortunately rendered altogether valueless by the omission from the calculations of some elements ne- cessary to precision, but not yet obtainable. Bibliography. — 1. The fifth and sixth annual Reports of the Registrar General. — 2. Contributions to Vital Statistics. By F. G. P. Neison, Esq. — 3. Qnarterlv Journal of the Statistical Societ}-, vol. vii. Essays by Edwin Cliadwick, Esq. and F. G. P. Nelson, Esq. at pp. 1. and 40. On the subject of the Construction, Properties, and Applications of Life Tables, which is intimately connected with Vital Statistics, many interesting details and full references to authorities will be found in Mr. Fan 's letters to the Registrar General in the fifth and sixth Annual Reports. (W. A. Guy.) VOICE.f — (Syn. Gr. tfxa.ij; Lat. Vox; Fr. Voix; Germ. Stimvie; It. Voce; Span. Voz.) This term is usually applied to those sounds which animals produce by means of the air traversing their organs of voice, such as we observe in mammalia, birds, reptiles, and in some insects. The human voice is susceptible of several modifications, such as timbre or quality, in- tensity, and pitch ; including those successive transitions of tone from one pitch to another which constitute melody. The organs of voice comprise the thorax with the muscles * See Contributions to Vital Statistics. By P. G. P. Neison, P. L. S. &c, p. 5. t [It was intended that this article should have comprehended Voice and Speech. It is now found necessary to defer the latter subject to the Supple- ment. Ed.] of respiration, the lungs, trachea, larynx, pharynx, mouth, tongue, nasal cavities, nerves, and blood-vessels. Of these, the thorax and lungs may be considered an air-chest or bel.ows, the trachea a porte-vent or air-pipe, and the glottis a complex teed. The trachea varies in length and diameter with the age and sex of individuals, until they arrive at the adult period of life. By its structure the trachea is endowed with elasticity, together with the power of longitudinal extension and relaxation, and of increasing or diminishing in diameter : the acoustic effect of these pro- perties will presently be investigated. The sum of the areas of the two bronchi is greater than that of the trachea ; by which adaptation the latter is more readily supplied with air during the vocalization of the breath. In all mammalia, birds, and reptiles, the axes of the bronchi are inclined to that of the trachea at a greater or less angle. With reference to the voice, the larynx is the most important organ in the whole apparatus. The mouth, fauces, tongue, and nasal organs are not necessary to the production of voice ; nevertheless they exer- cise a considerable influence on its quality, and are indispensable for the production of arti- culate language. The thorax is sufficiently capacious to contain as much air after a full inspiration as will sustain the glottis in a state of vibration, when the tone is of mo- derate intensity, during the space of fifteen seconds, which will enable a person to pro- nounce in rapid succession from thirty to forty monosyllables at one expiration.* The phenomena of the voice of animals must at a very early period have afforded to physiologists proof of the susceptibility of membranous structures to enter into a state of vibration; and it is now generally known that membranes, whether twisted into a cord like the string of a violin, or in the form of a parallelogram stretched in one direction as the vocal ligaments, or in that of discs stretched all round as the head of a drum, are all capable of producing musical sounds when properly excited. The theory of the vibratory movements of stretched membranous surfaces has occupied the attention of many of the most celebrated mathematicians, such as Euler, Bernoulli, Riccati, Biot, Poisson, Sir John Herschel, and others. It is a subject requiring the most profound analysis, and the solution of pro- blems of much greater complexity than those either of strings or bars ; but in order to bring the theory of vibrating membranes within the reach of computation, the membranes are supposed to be homogeneous and of equal thickness and elasticity. Now this hypo- thesis will not satisfy the conditions of the vibratory movements of the vocal organs, such as the windpipe for example, which is composed of tissues of variable thickness, density, and elasticity; it would therefore be * For the anatomy of the human larynx, reference is made to the article Larynx.