THYROID GLAND. 1106 of well marked prismatic, sometimes of oeto- hedral, form, are seen occasionally in the glandular cavities. They are generally single in each, and I have no other guide than their form to lead me to any opinion respecting their chemical constitution. I have seen, in a human thyroid, some large oval or circular corpuscles about j-oVo mc^ diam., consisting of coarse granular matter not surrounded by any distinct envelope, and of an opaque dead white colour. These were perhaps ab- normal formations ; yet in a tortoise, where the gland was quite healthy, similar corpuscles, and more numerous, were observed. The clear fluid material, contained within the glandular cavities, is generally spoken of as of an albuminous nature. This opinion seems con- firmed by two analyses of the gland, made by my friend Mr. Beale, which may be regarded (after allowance is made for the areolar tissue, vessels, envelopes, and epithelium) as express- ing pre tty correctly the chemical nature of the secretion which forms so large a part of the whole bulk. These analyses I will presently quote, but will first detail* a few observations of my own, as to the effects of certain re- agents on the fluid in question. Liq. Potassce, added to a thin section pre- pared for the microscope, rendered it much more transparent, partially dissolving the epi- thelium, and leaving a quantity of oily matter diffused throughout it. Acetic acid now added to the specimen pretty nearly restored it to its former appearance, but did not bring into view any precipitated protein. Acetic acid, alone, dissolves in part the epithelium of the vesicles, and renders the fibrous tissue more transparent. Liq. Ammonicc dissolves the epithelium in great part, but does not alter the transparent contents of the cavities ; nor does liq. potassae or acetic acid. Solution of iodine does not materially affect the epithe- lium of the cavities, but renders it more opaque. Strong nitric acid at first renders the epithelium more opaque and granular, but does not manifestly affect the contained secretion. After a time it colours this material bright green or yellowish green, and disengages a great many bubbles of gas. A saturated solution of bichloride of mercury, even after long maceration, does not seem materially to affect the secreted contents of the vesicles; it makes their peripheral stratum of epithelium quite opaque; but the interior still appears transparent and glistening. The chief conclusion deducible from the above results is, that the secreted material of the glandular cavities of the thyroid is not ordinary fluid albumen ; as otherwise it would certainly be coagulated by the agents em- ployed. The effect produced by nitric acid is also worthy of notice, though I cannot ex- plain the meaning of it. Analysis of thyroid gland. Human. Ox. Water - - - 70-6 7f3-t Solid matter - - 29-4- 28"66 100 100 Solid matter. Animal (fibrinous and albuminous) matter, Human. Ox. vessels and fat - - 26-384. 24-628 Extractive matter - 1*7 Extractive matter with gelatine - - 2-888 Alkaline salts - - 0'5 0642 Earthy salts - - 0816 0 502 29-400 28-660 The analyses given above testify to the presence of a large quantity of fibrinous and albuminous matters in the gland, and leave no doubt that its secretion is a protein com- pound ; it is, however, unfortunately impos- sible to procure a sufficient quantity apart from other substances to analyze correctly ; and the exact nature of the thyroideal secre- tion consequently still remains unknown. Thus much, however, seems to be ascertained, or rendered very probable. (1) That the secreted material is of an albuminoid nature. (2) That it is not in the state of ordinary fluid albumen. (3) That gelatine is sometimes an ingredient of the secretion; (it was found in the gland of an ox, but not in that of the human subject, and consequently could not have been derived from the fibrous tissue). (4) That though crystals of triple phosphate and of oxalate of lime occur in the cavities, no urea nor lithic acid, nor in fact any special organic compound, can be detected.* Vessels. — The vascular supply of the thy- roid is very abundant, and completely justifies Cruveilhier's opinion, that more than a mere process of nutrition is carried on in the gland. The arteries which are distributed chiefly to this organ are very constant in their number, and tolerably so I think in their respective dimensions, though in this respect they vary inversely with regard to each other. They ordinarily arise, as has been well remarked by Mr. Simon, just beyond the points where the arteries to the brain are given off from the large trunks,—a circumstance which he con- ceives to be very significant of the function of the gland which they supply ; — the two superior thyroideal arising one on each side from the external carotids, almost immediately after the bifurcation of the common carotids, and the inferior thyroideals from the intra- scalenal portion of the subclavian, almost opposite the point where the vertebrals are given off". A filth thyroideal artery occa- sionally exists,—that named after Venbauer; taking its origin from the arch of the aorta or thearter. innominata. The superior thyroid not unfrcquently takes origin a little lower down from the division of the common carotid, or even from its trunk ; or it may arise higher up from a common trunk with the lingual. It courses first forward and inward, when it is * I would not omit to express here my obligations to Mr. Beale for undertaking the analyses, and for the care and skill with which he has performed them.