787 SPLEEN. 3 E 2 heaps of blooil corpuscles. This statement is only explicable by supposing that the Mam- malia and Reptilia, in w4*em- this pheno- menon can be seen as plainly as could be wished, were not examined by Virchow. Besides, I do not maintain that the effused blood always forms cells containing blood corpuscles ; only I hold it as a fact established beyond all doubt, that this very frequently happens in the spleen as well as in extrava- sations in the lungs, lymphatic glands, brain, and thyroid body ; and while 1 believe that the formation of cells around these several effusions is not an equivalent fact, yet it is altogether certain that blood globules enclosed in cells undergo a more speedy dissolution than if they remain free. In conclusion, one- word concerning the import of the changes of the blood corpuscles in the spleen. It may be asked, whether they constitute a normal and physiological, or a pathological appearance ? On the one side, very weighty grounds may be alleged for the normal character, especially their (so to speak) constant occurrence and innumerable quantity in such a number of animals living in their natural condition, as the amphibia and fishes were. Furthermore, the appa- rently complete health which existed in spite of the vast quantity of dissolving blood globules. Thirdly, in Reptilia, the cells con- taining blood corpuscles may be seen in blood- vessels which are in no way isolated from the general circulation. Fourthly, similar and constant changes of the blood repeated at short intervals are absent from other organs of birds, mammals, and reptiles ; and many other arguments might be adduced. But, in contrast to these facts, many others appear on a more careful contemplation, which may almost lead to the opinion that all the changes of the blood globules in the spleen are pos- sibly only pathological appearances. In fishes, dissolutions of the blood corpuscles occur not only in the spleen, but in an exactly similar way in other organs, namely in the kidneys, the liver, and the peritoneum. In the first of these organs their presence is constant; at least, in the examination of many examples of eel, pike, Coregonus inuraena and muncnula, Salmo fario, Barbus fluviatilis, Cyprinus brama and carpio, and Tinea chrysitis, not only were they always present, but almost always as numerous as they were observed to be in the spleen. In the peritoneum and the liver they were sometimes scarce, sometimes frequent, but only in the carp and Tinea chrysitis were they constant ; in other fishes they were either altogether absent, or only occurred here and there, as in the trout. If to these facts be appended that in certain animals, — to wit, in cats, sheep, and others,— the changes of the blood corpuscles in the spleen are very seldom observed, one can scarcely resist the notion that the appearance is abnormal ; and this is much more the case when one con- siders that similar appearances which are known not to be physiological, constitute almost constant occurrences, and are asso- ciated with exactly parallel changes of blood globules. Of this, the small effusions of blood in the lungs, bronchial glands, and thyroid bodies of men, and those of the lymphatic glands and mesentery of pigs and rabbits, are instances. But this latter view is insusceptible of full explanation ; for although pathological effusions and metamorphoses of blood often constitute almost a constant oc- curence, yet, first, the quantity of blood globules which undergo dissolution in such effusions is in no comparison at all with that of the millions which are destroyed in the spleen ; and, secondly, it has yet to be shown that effusions of blood may not occur as a physiological phenomenon, as happens in the bursting of a Graafian follicle in the ovary, in menstruation, and in the separation of the placenta. And although all animals do not show in the spleen such a solution of the blood corpuscles as can be verified by the microscope, yet it is by no means proved therewith, that where this takes place it de- pends on a pathological condition ; indeed, the blood corpuscles of different animals may undergo dissolution in different ways. At least thus much is certain, that in all animals, without exception, stagnations of blood occur in the spleen; and I might add, almost of a certainty, in mammals, extravasations also. In these stagnations, the blood globules may dissolve themselves in the one case rapidly, in the other case slowly, and thus, according to the outer phenomenon, a difference will be produced. Such an occurrence may be phy- siological, since it is, at least in many animals, visibly constant and very extensive; and it may have the greatest signification to the life of the organism. Therefore, so long as the pathological character of the phenomenon! s not proved of a certainty, I am disposed to hold fast by its physiological nature, and to consider the dissolution of the blood cor- puscles in the spleen as a normal fact. 6. Bloodvessels of the spleen. — The splenic artery (arteria liena/is) springs from the caeliac axis, and courses with many windings between the layers of the gastro-colic liga- ment until it reaches the fundus of the stomach, where it enters the gastro-splenic ligament, after giving off some small twigs to the pancreas and the stomach. Arriving in the neighbourhood of the lulus Iienalis, it divides into a superior and an inferior branch. The upper of the two, passing somewhat upwards, and giving backwards from two to six short arteries (vasa brevia) to the large extremity or pouch of the stomach, divides into from three to six branches, which, lying in a line one over another, extend to the hilus, into which they enter. The inferior branch is somewhat larger than the others ; it passes to the in- ferior and anterior part of the spleen, sup- plying it with three to six branches, which enter the hilus in the same manner as the others, and it ends finally as the gastro- epiploica sinistra. Thus, all the six to twelve branches which enter the spleen lie tolerably