VARIETIES OF MANKIND. \3U great towns, and yet cherish the belief that, so far from being irreclaimable, they may at least be brought up to the standard from which they have degenerated ; on the other hand, we cannot well doubt the operation of the same causes on the outcasts of the Hot- tentot races, or refuse to believe that even the wretched Bushmen might be brought back at least to the original condition of the people from among whom they have been driven forth* It may be freely admitted that the different races of mankind exhibit very different degrees of capacity for intellectual, moral, and social improvement; but this difference is not greater than that which exists amongst indi- viduals of the most favoured races, and cannot * This parallel, suggested by the writer of this article some time since (Edinburgh Review, Oct. 1848), has been recently followed up by the author of " London Labour and the London Poor;" who has shown that a remarkable correspondence exists in mental habitudes and mode of life, between .the sonquas or paupers of the Hottentot race, and the wandering outcasts of our own, who possess nothing but what they acquire by depredation from the in- dustrious, provident, and civilised portion of the com- munity. The latter, like the former, have a secret or " slang " language of their own, adapted for the con- cealment of their designs; and, as already mentioned, they are generally characterised by the great de- velopment of the facial in proportion to that of the cranial part of the skull. The one tribe of " nomads," like the other, " is distinguished from civilised man, by his repugnance to regular and continuous labour; by his want of providence in laying up a store for the future; by his inability to perceive consequences ever so slightly removed from immediate apprehension; by his passion for stupifying herbs and. roots, and, when possible, for intoxicating fermented liquors; by his extraordinary powers of enduring pain; by an immoderate love of gaming, frequently risking his own personal liberty upon a single cast; by his love of libidinous dances; by the pleasure he experiences in witnessing the suffering of sentient creatures; by his delight in warfare and all perilous sports; by his desire for vengeance; by the looseness of his notions as to property; by the absence of chastity among his women, and his disregard of female honour; and lastly, by his vague sense of religion, his rude idea of a Creator, and utter absence of all appreciation of the mercy of the Divine Spirit." It is further re- markable that the nomadic tribes seem to possess (sometimes hereditarily, sometimes as an acquired habit) such a constitutional adaptation to a wan- dering life, that, despite its privations, its dangers, and its hardships, they can rarely be induced to abandon it. It is well known that among the many instances in which the aborigines of Australia or of North America have been brought up and educated from an early age amongst Europeans, there are few, if any, in which they have been satisfied to to remain aud to adopt the habits of civilised life. On approaching manhood, they become restless, and take the first opportunity of absconding to join their brethren in " the bush." So, again, there are numerous examples of white men adopting, by their own choice, all the usages of the Indian hunter or Australian bushman; and these, having once imbibed a fondness for the nomadic life, are as irreclaimable as those who have grown up in it. The same is the case, according to Mr. Mayhew, with a large proportion of the "street-folk" of London; who will give up situations affording com- forts and advantages of a far superior order, to return to the indulgence of their wandering pro- pensity. for a moment be assumed as the basis for specific distinctions between them. If the Negro, for example, is at present far behind the European standard, yet, under favourable circumstances, the intellect and moral charac- ter of individual Negroes have been elevated to it; while, on the other hand, we have too frequent proof that the intellect and moral character of the European are capable, not merely in individuals, but in families and groups of people, of sinking even below the average African standard. It is the observa- tion of all who have had experience in the education of the children of races reputed to be inferior, such as Negroes, Hottentots, and Australians, that their capacity is at least equal to that of the lowest class of our own youthful town population, and that their do- cility is, if anything, greater. That this mental development is generally checked at an early age, and that the adults of these races too frequently remain through life in the condition of " children of a larger growth," may be freely conceded. But observation of the difference in developmental power, between the mind of the descendant of an educated ancestry, and that of the descendant of an ignorant and uncultivated peasantry, shows that within the limits of the same race the same difference may exist; and nothing is more likely to main- tain it, than the absence of any encourage- ment to advancement, and the persistence, on the part of society at large, in the doctrine that the Negro never can be admitted within the pale of white civilisation. Looking to the fact already mentioned (p. 1 341.), as to thejabsence of that tendency to extinction in the African races, by sexual contamination from Europeans, which shows itself so remarkably among other aborigines, it is not a little interesting to observe, that there are elements in the Negro character, which have been deemed, by competent ob- servers, capable of working a considerable improvement in even Anglo-Saxon civilisa- tion. Many intelligent thinkers have come to the conclusion, that the boasted superiority of the latter is, after all, more intellectual than moral; and that in purity and disinterested- ness of the affections, in childlike simplicity and gentleness of demeanour, in fact, in all the milder graces of the Christian temper, we may have even much to learn of the despised Negro. " I should expect," says Channing, " from the African race, if, civilised, less enenjy, less courage, less Intellectual ori- ginality than in ours; but more amiableness, tranquillity, gentleness, and content. They might not rise to an equality in outward con- dition, but would probably be a much happier race." And it is to be remembered that these and similar remarks have been made respect- ing the Negroes of the Guinea coast, or their descendants, who are, as we shall presently see, the most degraded of all the African races, except those of the neighbourhood of the Cape, whose degradation has been in great measure the result of European oppression, and the introduction of European vices. It