URINE. 1293 Rheumatism. In this disease the urine shows the usual appearances of the inflammatory type, accord- ing to Becquerel. Oxalate of lime not uri- frequently exists as a deposit. Phthisis. In this disease the principal feature ob- served in the urine is the increase in the quantity of uric acid. One analysis gave as much as 2'40 of this acid in 1000 parts of urine. Struma. In struma, generally speaking, the urine is deficient in urea and uric acid. The phos- phates are often excreted in excess, and there is a tendency to the deposit of oxalate of lime. In mollities ossium and rachitis the earthy phosphates are excreted in very large quantity, the alkaline salts are increased, and the urea and uric acid diminished in proportion. The analyses which showed the above results were made on the urine of children, which always contains less urea and salts than that of adults. The following is an analysis, by Marchand, of the urine of a child suffering from mollities ossium. It was acid. Water 938-2 Urea 27-3 Uric acid 0"9 Lactic acid and lactates - - 14 2 Phosphates of lime and magnesia 5*7 Other constituents (loss) - - 13-7 Diabetes Mellitus. The urine in this disease contains a sugar which may be regarded as identical with sugar of grapes. It is generally of very high specific gravity, varying from the highest specific gravity observed in health to 1055 or even 1060. Schonlein has an opinion that in the first stages of diabetes there is albumen in the urine, and that this becomes replaced by sugar. This opinion I scarcely can believe correct. The fact, indeed, could not well have escaped my notice, my attention having been parti- cularly directed to the study of albuminaria for some years past. The experiments of Kant have shown that urea is generally ex- creted in diabetes mellitus to the same amount as in health in the twenty-four hours. During the progress of the disease I have several times observed the whole of the sugar sud- denly disappear from the urine, and its place supplied by an enormous excretion of urea. I at first was inclined to regard this as a favourable indication, but experience has not confirmed that belief. Uric acid is |not un- commonly present in considerable quantity, and this i believe to be a favourable indication in diabetes. Simon has shown that the ab- solute quantity of urea excreted in twenty- four hours is occasionally diminished ; but the general rule is that the quantity approaches that of health. Caseous matter is sometimes found in diabetic urine, and, when present, it excites rapid fermentation immediately after the urine is voided. Bouchardat has described a form of sugar which occasionally exists in diabetes, which is insipid, but which corresponds in every other respect with the sweet sugar. Simon says he once met with it. Lehmann, Ambrosiani, Miiller, and Simon have observed the presence of hippuric acid in diabetic urine. Diabetes Insipidus. In this disease the urine contains an excess of water, and varies in specific gravity from 1001 to 1000. The urea, if regarded in pro- portion to the other solid matters excreted, is excessive in quantity, but the proportion discharged during the twenty-four hours is generally far below that of health. This excessive discharge of urea, as com- pared with the other solids, may be accom- panied by a less discharge of water than that which is generally found to accompany it. Then the urine attains a specific gravity ap- proaching that of health, and sometimes even exceeding it. Chemically, these two con- ditions so nearly approach, as scarcely to need division. Pathologically considered, however, the latter is the more serious form of disease, and is believed by some to be not an unfre- quent forerunner of diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Chylosus. This disease is characterised by the dis- charge of chyle in the urine. It is quite milky in appearance. A specimen I examined some few years ago yielded the following results: Specific gravity 1021. Acid in slight degree only. Milkiness, not changed from subsidence by standing. Agitated with ether the urine was cleared, and the ethereal solution, which then floated above, contained a fat, yielding an alkaline ash on incineration. This fat was not saponifiable by boiling with a solution of potassa. The urine cleared from the fat coagulated by boil- ing, and also on the addition of nitric acid. Jaundice. The elements of bile exist in the urine in cases of jaundice. Simon has published the following result, obtained from the urine of a female, aged twenty, suffering from inflamma- tory icterus. The urine was brownish red, and of specific gravity 1020, and very acid. Water 954-50 Urea - - - - 12-34 Uric acid, with biliphaein - 2-90 Alcoholic extractive - - 4-35 Spirituous ditto ... 5 29 Aqueous ditto, with mi and bile pigment - Biliary resin - - - - 1-4.5 Biliverdin - ]-08 Earthy phosphates - - - 3-14, Chloride of sodium and lactate iucus^| 514 of soda ... Alkaline phosphates and sul- phates, with traces of chlo- ride of sodium 2-61 •90