1220 TUNICATA. The superior abdomen in Amaroucium is short and rounded, and slightly separated from the thorax. The oesophagus is very short ; the stomach in A. proliferum is marked ex- ternally with a series of vertical folds, the edges of which, seen under the microscope, are furnished with secretory follicles. In A. argus, the exterior of the stomach is coated with a tessellated series of irregularly hexa- gonal, gland-like, bodies, having the appear- ance of a number of minute honeycomb com- partments, around each of which are radiating lamellae or folds. In Sidnyum the stomach is also surrounded with glands ; and in this genus the intestine is spirally folded. In Diazona the stomach is striated externally; its inner surface is provided with numerous salient folioles ; and the pyloric entrance is guarded with an annular fold or valvule. The intestine in its first part is simply membran- ous, but afterwards it is furnished with irre- gularly disposed glands, which have the form of caeca! tubes. The stomach of Sigi/liua bears some slight ridges on its inner surface, the strongest of which correspond to external furrows. In Aplidium the stomach is some- what oblong and truncate, and is divided by deep plications into three longitudinal cavities, or rather into five, the lateral ones being sub- divided. The intestine is bent sometimes forward and sometimes backward ; in the latter case it passes upward obliquely on the right side of the stomach ; the rectum is sometimes spirally arranged, and sometimes straight. In Votyplinum also the intestine is spirally folded, obliquely traversing the left side towards the anal orifice. In A. proli- ferum and A. argus the rectum ascends to the middle of the cloaca. The post-abdo- men is elongated, narrow, and tapering, divided from the digestive cavity by a marked constriction. The ovary occupies nearly the whole length of this cavity (Jig. 7&*2. p), and is partially surrounded by the glandular mass of the testicle, from which latter an undulatory vas deferens runs upwards to end in the cloaca near the termination of the rectum. The ova are whitish, yellow, or brown, and on escaping from the ovary appear to pass to the cloaca by the vacant space between the intestines and the interior of the mantle. The heart is a tubular vesicle, bent on itself, and situated at the inferior apex of the ovary. In the Didemnians the digestive, generative, and circulatory organs are grouped together in the pedunculated abdomen, and offer no- thing remarkable. The ovary is situated by the side of the intestine, and protrudes down- wards only when full of eggs, which in this case have, when fully developed, a large size, compared with that of the animals. The mantle of the Didemnum, as in many other BotryllidcB, is frequently produced in the ab- dominal region into stolon-like processes, which traverse the common test. These swell at their extremities into reproductive buds, from whence arise new animals. Of these proli- ferous tubes we shall have to speak hereafter. The stomach ofBotrylloides rotifera (fig. 783.) is pyriform and divided into seven or eight lobes by furrows that pass horizontally from the car- diac to the pyloric extremity. The intestine is sigmoid, and is divisible into three portions ; the first part is smooth and transparent, the second is surrounded with a granular tissue, and the third is membranous like the first. A glandular mass, apparently the hepatic organ, is situated at the commencement of the third portion of the intestine, and gives rise to many minute excretory ducts that soon unite into a single trunk, which appears to empty itself into the intestine near the pylorus. Ee- low this organ and more behind, is another glandular mass, which apparently belongs to the generative organs, and gives origin to a little duet passing upwards to the cloaca. The heart is situated laterally, reposing on the cardiac side of the stomach. In B. rubrum the ovary is double, one part being situated on either side of the thoracic chamber. The testicle is seldom very distinct in the Didcm- nina and Botryllina, but has been occasionally observed. The nerve-ganglion between the two orifices, or rather on the dorsal side of the buccal orifice, is generally more or less distinct in the BotryllidcB. The circulation of the Botryllidce does not materially differ from that of the other Asci- dians, and has the same peculiar periodical change in the direction of the blood-currents. In the Polyclinina the heart is placed quite at the inferior extremity of the post-abdomen. It is invested with a thin, transparent pericar- dium, and has the form of a large contractile tube, bent on itself, and tapering at the ex- tremities. In the Didemnina the heart is shorter, and instead of being situated beneath the ovary, it is lodged with that organ, by the side of the intestinal loop, this condition approaching that existing in the Clave/linidie. Lastly, in the Botryllina, it ascends still higher, being seated near the stomach, nearly at the base of the branchial sac. Milne-Edwards, to whom we are indebted for the preceding facts, remarks that these different positions of the heart always coincide with analogous changes in the position of the ovarium. It is also the same, says he, in the simple Asci- dians ; and Cuvier was, without sufficient reasons, led to consider that the heart fol- lowed in its position that of the mouth. If, says M. Edwards, we separate from the common test of any of the Polyclinian species a lively individual, and place it under the mi- croscope with a little sea-water, the move- ments of the heart may be easily studied. The heart's contractions succeed each other somewhat regularly, but they are not brisk and extending at once through the organ, as in the generality of animals. The contraction commences at one of its extremities, and the narrowing of the tube is propagated in an undulatory manner towards the opposite ex- tremity, in a manner somewhat similar to the peristaltic movements of the intestines in the higher animals. For some time the contrac-