THORAX. 1035 outer garments even exhibit a correspondence to this base of the thorax. II. Contents of the thorax. — Not only does the thorax contain organs proper to itself, but it lodges and protects others passing to the abdomen ; thus, the food we eat passes through the thorax to enter the stomach, while the eighth nerve both supplies the lungs and then passes onwards to the stomach. Like other cavities, the thorax is lined with a serous membrane (pleura costalis), which like- wise invests the lungs (pleura pulmonalis) (See Pleuka). The heart and its blood- vessels, the trachea, and the lungs, almost completely fill the thorax. The remaining organs, viz., the origin of the sterno-hyoid and -thyroid muscles, remains of the thymus gland, lymphatic glands, mammary vessels, triangulares sterni muscles, the phrenic, the eighth pair, and the splanchnic nerves, the oesophagus, thoracic duct, vena azygos, and venae cavae, occupy very little space. Thus the thorax is completely filled. The oliler anatomists, however, even as late as Benj. Hoadley's time, considered that there was a considerable space containing air, between the lungs and the walls of the thorax. Now, we know that any considerable accumulation of air in this situation would be destructive .to the respiratory function. III. Shape of the thorax.—The shape of the thorax is subject to many varieties which may be conveniently studied under the fol- lowing headings : External thorax. — The thorax in the perfect subject is somewhat conical, broader above than it is below ; but when deprived of the upper extremities and their appen- dages, the contrary obtains, for it is nar- rower above than it is below (see figs. 662. anil 630. et scq.). Therefore the notion we commonly connect with broad shoulders or broad back, has but a feeble relation with the~ absolute breadth of the thorax. In fact the diameter of the neck corresponds more correctly with the diameter of the upper part or true apex of the thorax. Freeman the American giant measured 26 inches from tip to tip of his shoulders, while the diameter at the lower part of his neck, in the same direction, was only 6 inches. In women the mammae materially add to the dimensions of the chest towards the apex. We have found the measure of a female round the thorax over the mammas 45^ inches, while the root of the neck was 15 inches. Allowing two inches for muscle, &c, the true thoracic apex would not exceed 13 inches, whilst 45J inches was the apparent circumference of the thorax. The true apex of the thorax is loaded with large muscles, sometimes a vast quantity of fat, the upper extremities, and in the female with large mammae besides. The true base of the chest is comparati vely little covered, particularly below the axilla, where theserrati are seen. This is the weakest and thinnest part of the thorax, but it is well protected by the arms. (a) The anterior or sternal region of the tho- rax.—In a well-developed thorax the sternum appears to lie in a fossa formed by the pecto- rales and mamma;. This region assumes more or less of the perpendicular, according to the carriage of the person ; a perpendicular drawn to the external plane of the sternum would, however, be directed upwards. Laterally to this, the costal cartilages articulate with the sternum ; and, still more laterally, the ribs and their cartilages unite, forming an oblique ridge from above downwards. (See figs. 680. and 081. the line on each side of the sternum.) Still more externally, and parallel to this, may be noticed the projections formed by the anterior angles of the ribs, which bound the anterior region. (b) The posterior or vertebral region.— In the well-developed thorax the spines of the dorsal vertebrae lie in a deep groove formed by the great mass of the erector spina; on either side. These masses extend outwards to about the posterior angles of the ribs, which are nearly in a plane with the spinous processes of the vertebrae, and may be easily distin- guished, bounding the posterior region. (c) The lateral or costal region is composed of the bodies of the ribs and the intercostal spaces. Much difference has prevailed amongst writers upon various points con- nected with the ribs, and the spaces be- tween the ribs. Probably this may have arisen from their having made their observa- tions upon the dead subject, wherein the ribs have collapsed to their minimum, or the thorax of a thin subject with the ribs expanded by, perhaps, 200 cubic inches of air, or the ribs when artificially articulated in the clean skele- ton, wherein they are generall^arranged too wide apart"and too horizontal. ^ In the collapsed state of the ribs, i. e. after the most ample expiration by death, we no- tice 1st, That the intercostal spaces are not of a uniform width from the vertebrae to the ster- \ num. They are most narrow behind, and be- come wider as they approach the sternum (fig. 680.). The 1st, 2d, and 3rd spaces upon the whole are broader than the five next in- ferior, and the 10th and 11th spaces are the widest (fg. 082.). 2dly, Their length differs with the length of the ribs; thus the two first and two last spaces are the shortest. 3dly, The position of the intercostal spaces is very oblique (fig. 684.), roughly speaking, about mid-way between the horizontal and the perpendicular. 4thly, They are moveable, and in the dif- ferent stages of respiration they can assume different positions and different perpendicular widths. It has been found necessary for the con- venience of auscultation, to subdivide the thorax more minutely. The subdivision pro- posed by Laennec has been generally adopted, although some of the terms, like those of the respiratory sounds, have been modified by writers of later date. The anterior and lateral superior division.