J 471 VITAL STATISTICS. and as a measure of that condition when com- pared with another nation, or with the same nation at another time, in ignorance or for- getfulness of the well-ascertained fact that the living population of one nation may differ very widely in its composition from the living population of another, and that the elements of the population of the same nation may- undergo very extensive changes even in a short term of years. In illustration of the first of these state- ments, it will suffice to instance the strongly- contrasted populations of England and Ame- rica, of which the first has 46 and the second 54 in the hundred under 20 years of age, the number above 20 being, of course, reversed. In the two populations of Denmark and Sar- dinia, on the other hand, the relative pro- portions at different ages are very nearly the same ; and, when expressed in round numbers., for long intervals of age, identical. As a general rule, however, there is considerable difference between one population and another in the proportion of persons living at the same ages. In support of the second of these statements, the change which took place in the population of England in the interval from 1821 to 1841 may be adduced. At the former period, the persons living under 20 years of age were 49 per cent, of the whole population, but in 1841 they had fallen to 46 per cent. There is no room for doubt, therefore, that different populations vary in their composition, and that the same population may, in course of time, undergo considerable changes, and exhibit very striking contrasts in the number of persons living at different ages. Such being the case, it will not be difficult to prove that the differences in question do so materially affect the mean age at death as to rob it of its alleged value as a test or measure of the sanitary condition of nations. We have only to suppose the young population of America transferred to England, and exposed to the same causes of death as determine the duration of life of its own inhabitants, in order to be fully convinced of the fallacious- ness of this test. Now, according to the rate of mortality prevailing in England, little more than half its inhabitants die before com- pleting their 20th year, and somewhat less than halt after that age. If the mean age of all who die under 20 years of age be taken at 5 years, and of all who die above 20 at 60 years, the mean age at death of fifty persons dying out of the respective populations of England and America, will be about 34 and 30 )ears. These numbers, however, though correctly calculated from the rough data just assumed, diverge much less widely than the true re- sults, for the actual mean age at death, which is 29 years in England, is only 20 years in America.* So that two populations, subject to the same law of mortality, and losing the same number of persons at the same ages, in * See an essay by F. G. P. Neison, Esq. in the 7th volume of the Journal of the Statistical Society. consequence of the different constitution of their respective populations, may have a widely different mean age at death. Similar results to those obtained by comparing Eng- land and America are arrived at if we compare England in 1821 with England in 1841. The mean age at death, which in 1821 was 25 years, became in 1841, owing to the change in the population already referred to, 29 years.* If any further illustration of the fallacy of the mean age at death, when used as a test of the sanitary state of nations, were required, it might be found in its failure when applied to coun- tries of which the true position in the sanitary scale has been ascertained by the application of unexceptionable tests. The three nations, England, France, and Sweden, for example, occupy the following relative position :— 1. England. 2. France. 3. Sweden. But if the mean age at death were taken as our guide, they would rank as follows :—■ 1. France. 2. Sweden. 3. England. The mean age at death being 34 for France, 31 for Sweden, and only 29 for England. + b. The mean age at death has been em- plo} ed as a measure of the relative sanitary condition of English counties, cities, and towns, of town and country, and of the several districts of large cities. To show the fallacy of the method as so applied, it will suffice to prove that the populations thus compared are composed of different elements. Taking, as before, the number living below 20 years of age as an illustration, it appears that while there are 47 in the hundred under 20 in Essex and Suffolk, there are only 44 in the hundred under 20 in Staffordshire ; that for 47 in the hundred in Leeds, 46 in Sheffield and Birmingham, and 44 in Manchester, there are only 42 in Liverpool, 41 in Exeter, and 40 in London ; and, lastly, that the popu- lation under 20 years of age, which amounts to 47 per cent, in Bethnal Green falls as low as 41 in Clerkenwell, 40 in Kensington, 36 in St. Giles's and Marylebone, and 31 in St. George's, Hanover Square. The effect of this variable distribution of the population on the mean age at death is very well marked, and is placed in a very striking light by sup- posing the population of the metropolis to be transferred to some of these counties and cities, and to be exposed to the influences for good or evil which are brought to bear on the duration of life of their actual populations. Thus, if the population of London, of which 40 per cent, are under 20 years of age, were to be transferred to the county of Hereford, The exact age, deduced from the rough data as- sumed in the text, will be as follows : — England, ~ X 5 + *x60=115+1620=1735, which, di- vided by 50, gives 347 as the average age. America, 5ix 5 +i?x60 =135 + 1380 = 1515, which, di. 2 2 vided by 50, gives 30 3 as the average age. * For the facts on which these comparisons are founded, see an essay in the Gth vol. of the Journal of the Statistical Society. By G. R. Porter, Esq. + See the 6th annual Report of the Registrar General, p. 572.