TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). 1015 3 t 4 creases widely, invading the whole scrotum to the perineum, and laying bare the crura penis. At the same time it penetrates deeply to the tunica vaginalis, which becomes firmly connected to the morbid scrotum and ad- herent to the testicle. This organ may also become involved in the disease, and be the seat of a deep excavated sore. The glands in the groin often enlarge at an early period from irritation ; but at length they become indurated and diseased. The inguinal glands sometimes suppurate, and form intractable ulcers in the groin similar in character to the sore on the scrotum. The ulcer spreads to- wards its circumference widely and super- ficially, whilst in the centre it burrows deeply until in many instances it reaches the great vessels of the thigh, destroys their coats, and causes death by haemorrhage. In other cases the glands remain unaffected, but ulceration advances slowly in the direction of the cord, and a frightful sore is produced. The small excrescence in which cancer scroti usually originates is soft, vascular, and sensitive; and in many respects similar to the soft warts which occur on the internal membrane of the prepuce and on the glans penis. The soot-wart appears, in fact, to con- sist of a congeries of morbidly enlarged papilla;. The Museum of the London Hospital contains a remarkable specimen of chimney-sweeper's cancer, in which nearly the whole scrotum is occupied by a cauliflower excrescence, which exhibits these papillae in a very ad- vanced state of developement. It was removed from an old man, about sixty-four years of age, who afterwards left the hospital cured. The morbid growth is composed of a number of projecting processes densely grouped to- gether, of variable size, but many very large, with their summits tabulated, expanded, and elevated on narrow peduncles, more or less flat- tened. They are represented in the subjoined engraving. The soot-wart is sometimes co- vered with a dense and thick concretion, formed Fig. 658. by successive layers of incrustation, the su- perficial still remaining attached, so as to form a projecting elongated conical process, which is not unlike the spur of the cock, and when very long is occasionally twisted like the horn of a ram. Some curious excrescences of this kind are represented in the clever etchings of Mr. Wadd.* The subjoined figure taken ■Fig. 059. from one of them, exhibits the process of its exact size. Upon dissecting a portion of scrotum af- fected with chimney-sweeper's cancer, the part is found to present very similar appearances to those of carcinoma of the lip. The tissue at the base of the ulcer is dense, indurated, and distinctly laminated, and possesses very little vascularity. On examining some matter scraped from the base of a soot-wart shortly after its removal from the body, I perceived a number of caudate and spindle-shaped nucleated cells. Epithelial cells have likewise been observed in several cases, and the dis- ease is regarded as belonging to the epithelial form of cancer. On examining some diseased glands in the groin in a case of scrotal cancer, I found them enlarged and indurated, and composed of a whitish brown or 3'ellowish white substance, mixed up in some places with a soft curd-like matter, or greyish pus, con- tained in thin white ejsts. Carcinoma scroti is, with few exceptions, confined to chimney-sweepers ; and the irrit- ating action of the soot on the skin of the scrotum is no doubt its exciting cause. A similar disease occasionally occurs in other parts of the skin, but the scrotum being sel- dom cleansed and well adapted to harboursoot * Cases of Diseased Prepuce and Scrotum, pi. x. xi. xii.