919 TEETH. minor particulars in which it differs from the teeth " *, when the mouth is closed, is appli- dentition of the Orang, approaches nearer the cable only to the female, and does not distin- human type. In the upper jaw the middle guish the Chimpanzees from the Orangs. In incisors {Jig, 586, i. 1) are smaller, the lateral the male of the smaller Chimpanzee (Troglody- ones (ib. i. 2) larger than those of the Orang*; tes niger) the upper canine is conical, pointed, they are thus more nearly equal to each other; but more compressed than in the Orang, and nevertheless the proportional superiority of with a sharper posterior edge ; convex ante- the middle pair is much greater than in Man, riorly, becoming flatter at the posterior half of and the proportional size of the four incisors the outer surface, and concave on the corre- both to the entire skull and to the other teeth sponding part of the inner surface, which is is greater. Each incisor has a prominent traversed by a shallow longitudinal impres- posterior basal ridge, and the outer angle of sion ; a feeble longitudinal rising and a second the lateral incisors, i, 2, is rounded off as in linear impression divide this from the convex the Orang. The incisors incline forwards anterior surface, which also bears a longitu- from the vertical line as much as in the dinal groove at the base of the crown. The great Orang. Thus the characteristics of the canine is rather more than twice the size of human incisors are, in addition to their true that in the female. In the male Gorilla incisive wedge-like form, their near equality (Jigs. 585, 586.), the crown of the canine is Fig. 587. Dentition of adult female, Troglodytes Gorilla. {Natural size.) of size, their vertical or nearly vertical posi- tion, and small relative size to the other teeth and to the entire skull. The diastema be- tween the incisors and the canine on each side is as well marked in the male Chim- panzee as in the male Orang.f The crown of the canine (ib. c), passing outside the in- terspace between the lower canine and pre- molar, extends in the male Troglodytes Gorilla a little below the alveolar border of the under jaw when the mouth is shut ; the upper ca- nine of the male Troglodytes niger likewise projects a little below that border ; the seventh character, therefore, which I had formerly assigned to the genus, " apices of canines lodged in intervals of the opposite * Compare fig. 586. with pi. xxxii. (Pithecus Wurmhn) and pi. xxxiv. (Pith. Morio), in vol. ii. Zool. Trans. f Com pave /?*/. 586. with pi. xxxii, (Pith. Wurtn- Mi) in vol. ii. Zool. Trans. more inclined outwards : the anterior groove on the inner surface of the crown is deeper ; the posterior groove is continued lower down upon the fang, and the ridge between the two grooves is more prominent than in the Troglodytes niger. Both premolars (Jig. 586. p. 3 and p. 4) are bicuspid ; the outer cusp of the first and the inner cusp of the second being the largest, and the first premolar consequently appearing the largest on an external view (fig. 585.). The difference is well marked in the female (fig. 587, 3, p. 4). The anterior ex- ternal angle of the first premolar is not pro- duced as in the Orang, which in this respect makes a marked approach to the lower Qua- dramana. In Man, where the outer curve of the premolar part of the dental series is greater than the inner one, the outer cusps of both premolars are the largest ; the alternating su- periority of size in the Chimpanzee accords * Zool. Trans, vol. i. p. 372. 3n 4