VENOUS SYSTEM. 140.3 Bibliography. Normal Anatomy. — Auten- rieth, Dissert. Inaug. Experim. de Sang. Venoso, Stuttg. 1792. Bertin, Mem. sur la Princip. Cause du Gonflement et du Regonflement de Veines jugu- laires. Mem. de Paris, 17G3. Breschet, Rech. Ana- torn. Phys. et Pathol, sur le Systeme Veineux, Paris, 1828. 'Chevers, Med Gaz. vol. xxxvi. Lond. 1845. Cotungo, Del Moto Reciproco del Sangue per I'interne Yeno del Capo, Parte I. Meccanismo. Atti della Acad, di Napoli, 1787. Cuvier, Lecons d'Anatomie Compare'e, torn. iv. Paris, 1833. Fabricius ab Aqua- pendente, De Venarum Ostiolis, Patav. 1C03, et Opera omnia Anatomica, Lips. 1687. Flmirens, Anales des Sciences Naturelles, torn, xxviii. Paris, 1833. Ge- rike, De Valvulis Venarum et earum Usu, Helmst. 1723. Hall (Marshall), Essay on the Circulation of the Blood, Lond. 1831. Harvey, De Motu Cordis et Sanguinis in Animalibus, Anatomica Exercitatio, Lugd. Bat. 1G39. Hasse, Progressio de Fine Arteri- arum earamqne cum Venis Anastomosi, Lips. 1792. HenU, Traite d'Anatomie Generale, Paris, 1843. Homberg, Observation sur un Battement des Veines semblables au Battement des Arteres. Mem. de Paris, 1704. Kemper et Reichelmann, De Valvu- larum in Corporibus Hominis et Brutorum Natura, Helmst. 1082, in Halleri Disp. Anat. vol. ii. Klanke, De Usu Venarum, Lugd. Bat. 1752. Kolliher, in Kolliker and Siebold's Zeitschrift, 1849. Lxigcn- buhler, De Motu Sanguinis per Venas, 1815. Marx, Diatribe Anatomico-Physiologica de Structura et Vita Venarum, Carls. 1819. Meckel, Handbuch der Menschlichen Anatomie, Halle u. Berlin, 1815. Morgagni, Adversaria Anatom. omnia, Lugd. Bat. 1723. Milller, On the Existence of Four Lymphatic Hearts in Amphibia. Phil. Trans. Lond. 1833. Prochasha, Opera Minora, Vien. 1800. Purkinje et Bausehel, De Arteriarum et Venarum Structura, Breslau, 1836. Senac, Traite de la Structure du Coeur, &c. Paris, 1783. Weiss, De Structura Ve- narum ad movendum Sanguinemdiverse aptata, Alt- dorf, 1732. Wrisberg, De Nervis Arterias Venasque comitantibus, in ejus Comment. Gotting. 1800. Abnormal Anatomy. — Abernetliy, Surgical Es- says (111 Consequences succeeding Venesection). Edin. 1793. Andral, Pre'cis. d'Anatom. Pathol. Paris, 1828. Arnott, Med. Chi. Tr. Lond. 1829. Balling, Zur Venenentziindung. Wiirzb. 1829. Bou- illavd, Recherclies pour servir h. l'histoire de la Phle'bite. Rev. Med. h Paris, 1825. Breschet, De l'ln- flammation des Veines. Journ. Comple'ment, Paris, 1819 ; et Phlebite. Die. de Med., Paris, 1820. Car- michael, Obs. on Varix, &c. Trans. Coll. Phys. Dublin, 1818. Crvveilhier, Phle'bite. Die. de Med. Prac, Paris, 1834. Dance, De la Phle'bite, &c. Archiv. de Me'd. Paris, 1828. Davis, Med. Chir. Tr. Lond. 1823. Frank, De Phlebitide. Prax. Med. Univ., Taurin. 1825. Hasse, Pathological Anatom}'. Syd. Soc. Translation, Lond. 1816. Hodgson, Trea- tise on Dis. of Arteries and Veins. Lond. 1815. Hunter, On the Inflammation of Veins, Ed. Med. Comment., Edin. 1775 ; and Obs. on the Inflamma- tion of the Internal Coats of Veins, Med. Chir. Tr., Lond. 1793. Langsvert, Theoria de Arter. et Ven. Affect. Prag. 1764. Lee, Diseases of the Veins. Cyc. of Med., Lond. 1834. Lee (Henry), On Phlebitis and Purulent Deposits. Lond. 1850. Longuet, Sur l'Inflammation des Veines. Paris, 1815. Ph&bus,De Concrementis Venarum Osscis et Calcinosis. Berol. 1832. Puchelt, Der Venensystem, &c. Lips. 1818. Bibes, Expose des Rech. sur la Phlebite. Rev. Med., Paris, 1825. (S. James II. Sailer.) VENOUS SYSTEM (in descriptive hu- man anatomy). — Under this head it is in- tended to give a connected and concise ac- count of the descriptive anatomy of the several elements of the venous system, referring the reader to those articles which treat of the regional anatomy of the body, in which will be found the application of the subject in its practical bearings, in so far at least as the large venous trunks are concerned. The veins connect the capillary vessels with the heart, one of their functions being, to bring back to the central organ of the cir- culation the blood which has been distributed over all parts of the body : they are naturally divided into two classes. 1. The veins which concur to form the two vence cava?, and which thus communicate with the right auricle of the heart ; these constitute the systemic venous si/stem: and 2. The veins which commence in the ca- pillaries of the lungs, and finally discharge their contents into the left auricle: these re- present the pulmonary venous system. These two classes of veins differ from each other in the nature of their contents, no less than in their modes of termination, for whilst the systemic veins contain dark-coloured, and essentially venous blood, the office of the pulmonary veins is to convey red or arterial blood from the pulmonary capillaries, where it has been re-oxygenated, to the left auricle of the heart. Valves are not found in the veins of the pulmonary system, whilst they are very abundant in many of the systemic veins. The cardiac veins constitute a small system apart from that of the general venous system, for not having any communication with the vena? cavas or with any of their branches, these veins open by a separate orifice into the right auricle of the heart. Neither can the portal veins be included in any general description of the venous system. These veins emanate from the stomach, in- testines, spleen, and pancreas, and unite to form one large vessel, the vena portce, which entering the liver, branches out in every di- rection through that organ after the manner of an artery, and thus constitutes the system of the vena porta. From the capillaries of the portal vein in the liver, another series of veins is derived, which coalesce and form larger and larger trunks, like the systemic veins generally, and ultimately, to the number of three or four, issue from the liver at its thick margin, and join the inferior vena cava. These last-men- tioned veins are termed hepatic veins, or venas cavas hepaticae, and the function to which they are subservient in the economy, is that of re- conveying into the general venous system, the blood which has been diverted to the liver by the ramifications of the portal vein. 1. The Pulmonary Veins. These veins commence in the capillaries of the pulmonary lobules, and by successive junctions with adjacent branches enlarge in size, whilst they diminish in number. They traverse the lungs in company with the sub- divisions of the bronchial tubes and of the pul- monary arteries, the number of venous rami- fications beingidentical with thatof the arterial, and finally emerge from those organs, having formed into trunks, each of which corresponds