693 SLEEP. V Y 3 immediately connected with her brother; and her unconsciousness of the presence of her sister might be due to the absence of the latter at the time of his death, which causetl her to be less connected with him in the thoughts of the somnambulist: — or it may have happened that she was directed to this locket by the sense of smell, which is fre- quently exalted in a very remarkable degree in the somnambulistic state. (See Smell) Her feelings were so strongly excited by the posses- sion of the locket, that it was judged prudent to check their continuance; and as she was inaccessible to all entreaties on the subject, force was employed to obtain it from her. She was so determined, however, not to relinquish it, and was so angry at the gentle violence used, that it was found necessary to abandon the attempt; and she became calmer after a time, and at last passed off'into ordinary sleep, which was in her case the successor, instead of being (as it usually is) the predecessor, of the somnambulistic state. Before going to sleep, however, she placed the locket under her pillow, remarking, " Now I have hid it safely, and they shall not take it from me." On awaking in the morning,she had not the slightest conscious- ness of what had passed ; but the impression of the excited feelings remained; for she remarked to her sister, —" I cannot tell what it is that makes me feel so ; but every time that S comes near me, I have a kind of shuddering sensation;" — the individual named being a servant, whose constant at- tention to her had given rise to a feeling of strong attachment on the side of the invalid, but who had been the chief actor in the scene of the previous evening. This feeling wore oft* in the course of a day or two. A few days afterwards, the somnambulism again recurred; and being upon her bed at the time, she immediately began to search for the locket under her pillow. In consequence of its having been removed in the interval (in order that she might not, by accidentally finding it, be led to inquire into the cause of its presence there, of which it was thought better to keep her in ignorance), she was unable to find it ; at which she expressed great disappointment, and continued feeling for it, with the remark, " It must be there ; 1 put it there myself a few minutes ago; and no one can have taken it away." In tins state, the presence of S renewed her previous feelings of anger; and it was only by sending S out of the room that she could be calmed and induced to sleep. This patient was the subject of many sub- sequent attacks, in every one of which the anger against S revived; until the current of thought changed, no longer running exclu- sively upon what related to her brother, but becoming capable of direction by suggestions of various kinds presented to her mind, either in conversation, or, more directly, through the several organs of sense. On one occasion, the attack having come on whilst she was alone, she managed to make her way down stairs, along a passage, and out into the garden by a back-door, although completely paraplegic,—a very curious instance of sleep- walking. So nearly did her condition, in some of these attacks, approach the waking state, that the case might then be almost regarded as one of double consciousness,—. that very curious affection, of which the sub- ject seems to lead two distinct lives, A and B, in neither remembering what takes plaje in the other, but each state being, as it were, continuous with itself. ^-rt^'S HOSpT^sv. The preceding case is well adapted to illustrate the general characters of the som- nambulistic condition : we have now to notice some of those peculiar phenomena which are presented in individual cases. The first of these to which we shall advert, is the extraordinary exaltation of the sensibility to external impressions through one or more of the organs of sense; which would seem to result, in some instances, from the concentra- tion of the attention upon that one class of impressions, but which, in other cases, is independent of any such state of attention.* We have ourselves been particularly struck with this, in the somnambulism induced by the " hypnotic " process of Mr. Braid, to which we shall presently refer. We have seen unequivocal proof that the sense of smell has been exalted to an acuteness at least equalling that of the most keen nosed ruminant or carnivorous animal; that the sense of hearing has been rendered equally acute ; and that the sense of touch has been exalted, especially in regard to temperature, to a degree that would be scarcely credible, were not the phenomena in perfect keeping with the exaltation of the other senses. We are not aware that the sense of sight has ever been thus acted on. In most som- nambulists it is altogether suspended ; and those who claim to possess the power of clairvoyance, reading words inclosed in opaque boxes, &c, do not refer their power of doing so to any unusual acuteness of their visual organs, but attribute it to the develop- ment of an entirely new faculty, for the operation of which any such optical instru- ment as the eye is altogether unnecessary. Among the senses most commonly exalted in somnambulism, is that "muscular sense" by which all our voluntary movements are guided ; and this seems to be so much in- creased in acuteness, as quite to replace the visual sense, in the performance of many of those operations for which sight is ordinarily requisite. Thus we find that sleep-walkers make their way over the roofs of houses, * The young lady whose case we have just de- tailed, exhibited, in a former attack of nervous disorder, a most extraordinary acuteness of the au- ditory sense, so that it was difficult to prevent her from hearing everything that passed in the house. Of a conversation held in an ordinary tone, in a room two stories below, she could hear every word as distinctly as if it had passed in her own chamber. Yet she did not suiter pain, as might have been expected, from the excessive loudness of ordinary sounds.