WRIST-JOINT (Abnormal Anatomy). 1511 extremity was destitute of the rounded head, which in the normal state is received into the concavity of the radius, and was carried for- wards outwards and upwards (see fig. 927.). Ahout half an inch above the level of its lower extremity it was in contact with the radius by a very small surface which was destitute of cartilage. An anterior and pos- terior ligament connected the two bones in this situation, and permitted a very slight degree of motion between them. The lower extremity of the radius was totally destitute of articulating surface, and was represented by a rounded and blunt margin. The surface for articulation with the carpus was placed altogether on the anterior aspect of the bone. It consisted of a deep excava- tion of an oblong form, and its longest diame- ter running somewhat transversely ; it was tolerably smooth, though not invested with cartilage. The radius and ulna were not only remark- ably short, but likewise atrophied, both as to breadth and thickness. Their superior extremities, with the excep- tion of being unusually small, presented no abnormal appearance. The bones of the first row of the carpus were in a state of atrophy, especially the semi-lunar bone. When the hand was flexed at a right angle with the forearm, the lower end of the ulna formed a most conspicuous projection, while during extension, two pro- minences were seen ; one, in front, caused by the carpus, the other posteriorly, mark- ing the position of the lower extremities of the bones of the forearm. The hand was inclined to the radial side of the forearm ; it admitted of being flexed to a right angle, and could be extended perfectly. The ex- tensor tendons in their passage from the forearm to the hand were lodged in deep and narrow grooves, or channels, formed on the dorsal aspect of the radius. Upon the left side the deformity was equally remarkable, although the reverse of that no- ticed on the right side. The carpus was re- ceived into a socket formed for it by the radius and ulna. This socket was not at the lowest extremity of the bones of the forearm but near to it, and on the dorsal aspect of the bones, and it presented somewhat a glenoid shape, the longest diameter of which was directed obliquely downwards and in- wards. With respect to the carpus, there was neither a scaphoid nor semi-lunar bone. The hand placed in the state of extension formed a right angle with the forearm, but the patient had the power of bringing it to a straight line with the latter, in which position two prominences were seen ; but, contrary to what was observed on the opposite side, the dorsal projection was here formed by the carpus, the extremities of the radius and ulna con- stituting the palmar eminences (see Jig. 927.). In this left extremity, the carpus and forearm, including the elbow joint, were malformed, as well as the wrist-joint, but the rest of the skeleton, with the exception of the right wrist-joint and forearm, was quite normal. Case III. — Case of congenital luxation of the wrist-joint of both bones of the left fore- arm backwards. The writer exhibited to a meeting of the Surgical Society of Dublin, on March 20th, 1847, the cast of the left forearm of an adult female, who had been born with a luxation of the carpal extremity of both the bones of" the left forearm backwards. The lower ex- tremities of the radius and ulna were placed completely on the dorsum of the carpus, while the hand was, consequently, situated in the front of these bones. This remarkable cast of congenital luxa- tion of the wrist-joint was sent across the Atlantic by Dr. R. MacDonnell, now holding, as a surgeon of the Montreal Hospital, a distinguished place in British America. We observe that in the casts (figs. 928. and 929., the representations of Dr. R. MacDon- nell's case), the hand is well formed, but that the forearm is much shorter than it should be, being very little longer than the hand ; the whole length of the forearm is not eight inches, while that of the hand, measured in its greatest length, amounts to six inches and one half. The forearm in its upper part is round and muscular; as we examine it towards the hand, Fie. 928. Congenital dislocation of both Bones of the Forearm haehwards. it assumes a well marked quadrilateral form, having passed, by fully an inch, the carpal ex- and we observe a projection on the dorsum of trcmity of the radius. the carpus posteriorly, obviously formed by When we place the forearm on its palmar the lower extremities of the radius and ulna, aspect, as on a table, and view the ulnar side which are dislocated backwards. The lower of it, we notice that the ulna rides conspi- extremity of the forearm at the wrist here cuously on the back of the carpus, being exhibits a very oblique termination, the ulna above its level about an inch ; and at the 5 i) 4