SPINAL NERVES. 750 branch of the spinal accessory is a motor nerve. We found that when it was embraced firmly within the forceps, or tied tightly soon after it had emerged from the foramen lacerum, the animal gave indications of suffering* ; but an experiment of this kind does not enable us to decide whether these sensiferous filaments were originally contained in the accessory, or were derived from the neighbouring nerves. Mr. Shaw has detailed an experiment to show that the movements which it imparts to the sterno-mastoid, and to the trapezius are not voluntary, but respiratory.f In our experi- ments, and in those subsequently performed by Bernard, these muscles acted in unison with the muscles of respiration after the spinal accessory nerves had been divided. While all experimenters agree that the ex- ternal branch of the accessory is chiefly if not entirely composed of motor filaments, they have arrived at discrepant conclusions re- garding the functions of the internal branch. Volkmann J, Van Kempen §, and Stilling |j, observed no movements of the muscles in which the internal branch of the accessory is distributed, on irritating the roots of this nerve within the cranium ; while in those of BischofF, my own, those of Valentin Lon- get**, Hcinff, Morganti JJ, and Bernard§§, partly consisting of irritating the roots of the nerve within the cranium after death, and partly, as in those of BischofF, Longet, Mor- ganti, and Bernard, by lesions of the nerve in living animals, and observing their effects upon the movements of the muscles in which it is distributed, proofs of its being a motor nerve were believed to be obtained. We think that this evidence is sufficiently strong to justify the belief that the internal branch of the accessory does contain motor filaments; * Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal for January, 1838. Valentin states (opus cit. pp. 58. 62.) that he succeeded in increasing the action of the heart by irritating the trunk of the accessoiy; but Van Kempen (opus cit. p. 65) repeated this experiment without success. f London Medical and Physical Journal, vol. xlix. X Mailer's Archiv. 1840. § Essai Experimental sur la Nature Fonctionelle du Nerf Pneumogastrique : Louvain, 1842. In giving the results of Van Kempen's experiments in the art. ParVagum, foot-note at p. 891, vol. iii. upon the effects of irritating the roots of the vagus within the cranium, I have inadvertently written the pa- lato-glossus muscle instead of the palato-pharyngeus or pharyngo-staphylin muscle, as one of the muscles seen to contract in this experiment. I may also here correct another error in the same article: at p. 900, it is stated that Longet believes that the secretion of the gastric juice is greater after section of the vagi than in the sound animal; while in fact he states that it is diminished by section of the vagi, and that this diminution in the secretion may be explained on mechanical grounds. || Bischoff's Bericht iiber die Fortschritte der Physiologie im Jahre 1842, S. 154. In Midler's Archiv. 1843. If Opus supra cit. ** Opus supra cit. ft Midler's Archiv. 1844. JX Omodei, Annali Universal! di Medicina. Juli, 1843. §§ Opus supra cit. but it is at the same time highly probable that it is partly composed of sensiferous and afferent filaments, and if so, its constitution must be similar to the vagus nerve, with which it be- comes so closely incorporated. In the art. Par Vagum, sufficient proof has been ad- duced to satisfy us that the opinion that the spinal accessory furnishes all the motor fila- ments contained in the trunk of the vagus, is no longer tenable. (John Rcid.) SPINAL NERVES (Les Nerfs rachidiens, Fr.; Die Rzteckeiimarlisnervcn, Germ.; I Nervi Spinali, Ital.) are thirty-one pairs, and are dis- tributed to the neck, and the upper extremi- ties, the trunk and lower extremities. They are divided into Cervical, Dorsal, Lumbar and Sacral : the first division comprising eight; the second, twelve ; the third, five ; and the fourth, six. Their general and special cha- racters, and their apparent and absolute con- nexion with the spinal chord having been already described*, we shall limit the details of this article to their ultimate distribution. Each spinal nerve, after the union of its roots, divides into an anterior and posterior branch, the former having generally a much more complicated and extensive distribution than the latter. It will be convenient there- fore for the purpose of description to enter first into a consideration of the posterior branches. The posterior branch of the first cervical or sub-occipital nerve is larger than the anterior, and passes internal to and below the vertebral artery, between the arch of the atlas and the occipital bone, to gain the triangular space be- tween the rectus capitis posticus major, the su- perior and inferior oblique muscles. It is here imbedded in a considerable quantity of fat and dense cellular membrane, and having directed itself from before, backwards, and slightly from belowupwards.dividesinto a series of branches. Two external branches are sent to the two oblique muscles: an internal ascends to the rectus capitis posticus major, and which having supplied this, terminates in the minor : another filament is directed to the anterior aspect of the complexus near to its occipital attachment: and the terminal branch descends, generally perforating the inferior obliquely, and anastomoses with the posterior branch of the second cervical nerve. The posterior branch of the second cervi- cal nerve emerges from between the lower border of the posterior arch of the atlas, and the lamina of the axis, and is larger than any of the posterior branches of the cervical nerves, and three or four times greater than the anterior branch of the same nerve. It appears at the lower border of the inferior oblique, and having passed a short distance horizontally inwards, winds round this muscle to the anterior aspect of the outer part of the complexus, which it perforates. It inclines outward and upwards between it and the * Vide Nervous System, vol. iii. p. G57.