TOUCH. 1170 selected, whose relative position is subject to variation (such as the two eyelids, the two lips, &c), and the two points of the pair of compasses be applied respectively to these two surfaces, the distance which separates them will seem to be much greater than if the two points rest at the same time on one or the other surface. 6. The same holds good, ac- cording to Weber, when the two points are applied to parts of the surface, which, though in continuity with each other, differ remark- ably, either in structure, in function, or in the use habitually made of them ; thus, the points will be more clearly distinguishable, and will therefore seem to be more distant from each other, when one is applied to the inner surface and the other to the red outer surface of the lips, than when they are both applied to the latter, although its discriminating power is much greater than that of the former; and the same holds good of the margin and dorsum of the tongue, the palmar and dorsal surfaces of the last phalanges of the fingers, &c. 7. The discriminating sense is more acute in the in- teguments of the head, than in those of the trunk ; and on the face, its acuteness di- minishes as the distance from the mouth in- creases. 8. The tactile discrimination of the integuments of the limbs augments with the distance of the part from the axis of the body; it is less in the integuments of the trunk, than in those of the members. The power of tactile discrimination may be conceived to depend in part upon the mode in which the ultimate nerve-fibres are dis- tributed in the skin, being greater in propor- tion as contiguous parts are supplied from distinct central sources, and less when the central terminations of their nerve-tubes are the same. Thus, if two impressions be made along the course of the same nerve-tube, they will not be felt as two, but as one, and this probably holds good of the parts of the in- tegument supplied with branches from the central axis of any one tube. On the other hand, whenever two impressions be made upon two distinct nerve-tubes, or on the branches proceeding from them, they will probably be felt to be double ; and the dis- tance at which these impressions seem to the tactile sense to be, appears to have a relation to the distinctness of the central connections of these nerve-tubes, as appears from the fact that the " limit of confusion" is less across the median line than on either side of it ; that it is less between two parts (such as the lips and eyelids) whose nervous supply is known to be distinct, than on either part separately ; and that it is less between two parts whose nervous supply may be presumed, from their difference of function, to be dis- tinct (as the inner and outer surfaces of the lips), than on either part separately. More- ever, it would not seem to be improbable that one use of the plexuses from which the limbs are supplied, is to produce such an inter- mingling of the fibres from different gan- glionic centres, that contiguous portions of the integument shall be connected with cen- tres very remote from each other, and their discriminating power thus augmented. No such intermingling takes place in the nerves which supply the trunk, and the tactile dis- crimination of its integument is (as we have seen) vastly inferior to that of the extremities. Thus it may happen that the common sensi- bility of two parts may be the same, whilst their power of tactile discrimination may differ considerably; and we may even have the common sensibility greatest where the tactile discrimination is least, — as we experience, for example, on the integument of the face, which is far more sensitive to a blow, and especially to a " fillip," than is the integument of the palmar surface of the fingers, although greatly inferior to them in discriminating power. The actual nervous supply, and the conse» quent sensibility, of a part, may be greater in such cases ; but the unity, or close approxi- mation, of the source from which this pro- ceeds, may prevent its discriminating power from augmenting in the same proportion. In like manner, we find that the tactile dis- crimination of different parts bears no relation whatever to that peculiar modification of common sensibility (which yet appears the exclusive attribute of the external integuments) through which the feeling of "tickling" is excited. For the parts which are most sus- ceptible to this feeling, such as the axilla and the soles of the feet, are possessed of a very low degree of discriminating power, and those which possess this power in the highest degree (such as the tips of the fingers) are the least " ticklish." Further, it is worthy of notice that the parts through which that peculiar sensation, which we have termed the genital sense, is specially excited,—namely, the penis and the mammary areola,— are remark- able rather for the obtuseness than for the acuteness of their power of tactile discrimina- tion. That it is only through the skin and those parts of its internal reflexions which are in closest proximity with it (especially the lining of the mouth and nostrils), that we can dis- criminate tactile impressions, appears from this; that although the internal mucous and serous surfaces, the fibrous membranes, and the parenchyma of many organs, &c. &c, are all capable of becoming acutely sensible to pain when irritated or inflamed, yet no foreign substance is ever distinctly felt by the touch through these parts. Thus, although a sensation of a pleasing or a painful nature is excited by certain substances immediately upon being swallowed, all consciousness of their presence (so far as it is dependent upon the sense of touch) soon ceases, and cannot be again recalled by the utmost exertion of the will. Further, a foreign substance, lodged in the alimentary canal, or in the trachea, may give rise to the greatest possible distress, through the irritation it produces ; but though it thus acts upon the nerves of the parts im- mediately in contact with it, these nerves convey no idea to the sufferer of the shape or size of the body, or of any other of its