1048 THORAX. ribs is very oblique; the spine is curved ; therefore the relation of the ribs to the spine is different according to the curve, as are the bars to the body representing the spine {Jig. 679.). It will be seen that the inferior six or seven ribs are at a more oblique angle to the spine than the superior ribs. The spine does not curve sufficiently to bring the upper ribs to an angle of 90° with the spine; there- fore, if all the ribs were raised simultane- ously, they would all increase the breadth of their intercostal spaces, whilst their sternal end would recede from the vertebrae, and thus, by their elevation, the thoracic cavity would be enlarged, until they attained the angle of 90 ° to the spine. But if the elevation were carried beyond this point, the intercostal spaces would diminish, and thus the thoracic cavity would decrease. Fig. 684. is a pos- terior view showing the sloping position of the ribs more clearly. Now, if the spine were perfectly erect, the ribs would have a greater range, and consequently the upper ribs could be elevated higher, and thus still more increase the thoracic cavity. A man Fig. 680. Tlwrax as at death. can expire a greater volume of air when perfectly erect, than in any other position. On the other hand, if we curve the spine, we limit the divergence of the ribs, because then we bring the ribs more into the po- sition of a b and a' b' (Jig. 678.). Thus, in diseases of the spine, when angular cur- vature is extensive, the ribs are materially limited in their capability of increasing the perpendicular depth of their intercostal spaces, and consequently the perpendicular depth of the thorax. Fig. 666. is an instance of angular spine, reducing the ribs to their minimum distances without their moving. We have found by ex- periment, that the greatest volume of air which persons with angular spine can expire, is little more than equal to the volume of air of an ordinary respiration ; i. e. from 20 to 40 cubic inches, instead of 180 to 200 cubic inches. The following experiment proves that the ribs are all elevated when the chest is inflated, and that the spine is straightened. Into the thorax (jig. 680. et seq.) we insufflated, or forced into the lungs 310 cubic inches of air, and a second cast was taken. The changed position of the ribs and spine is represented in Jigs. 681. 683. and 685. where it will be seen that all the ribs are raised ; their perpendicu- lar distances or intercostal spaces are all increased, and the spine is more erect. This experiment, therefore, demonstrates two things : 1st, that by artificially inflating the chest, the intercostal spaces are widened, and 2d!y, that the spine becomes more erect. It is an experiment most unfavour- able for showing these two points, because the altered shape of the thorax by insufflation is not to be compared with the exceedingly enlarged condition produced by vital inspira- tion ; in which case the spine becomes more erect, and the intercostal spaces consequently wider. By placing the fingers in the inter- costal spaces of a living subject during deep inspiration and expiration, it may easily be perceived that in the former they widen, Fig. 681. Thorax artificially inflated with air. and in the latter they collapse. From 3000 observations we have found that, in deep in- spiration, the body becomes more erect, and less so in expiration. Insufflation is not the same, in effect, as inspiration. In the former we force air into the chest, until the parts most yielding, as the diaphragm and abdominal parietes, are rendered so tense that their tension is suffi- cient to overcome the elastic force of the ribs, their cartilages, and the lungs ; then, and not until then, do we move the costal part of the thorax. On the other hand, in the living and deep inspiration, we lift the ribs and sternum, the most unyielding portions, first. These solely produce the threatened vacuum which inflates the lungs, whilst very little, if any, is accomplished by the diaphragm. The following table shows the measure- ments of the thorax, when expanded by in- spiration and insufflation.