VOICE. 1498 forms the boundary : the rest of this cavity is composed of bone. On the left side the larynx is furnished with four membranes, of unequal dimensions, which are inclined to each other at different angles ; of these membranes three are lateral, and the fourth forms the base. The internal lateral membrane b lies almost parallel to the superior promontory of the os transversale i, from which it is separated by a channel, leading from the left to the right larynx .* Through this channel the air from the left bronchus must pass to reach the trachea. The internal lateral membranehasafree salient edge inferiorl}', over which the air brushes in its passage from the lungs to the trachea.f The posterior, anterior, and lateral mera- Fig. branes are supported by bony rings, of which the anterior is the largest. The membrane forming the base is penetrated by the left bronchial tube, and is connected with several of the bronchial rings through the medium of the membrana tympaniformis. Thus the air from the lungs throws into vibration one large membrane in the right, and four in the left larynx, all of unequal dimensions, and con- stituting a very complex piece of mechanism. In the M. Merganser or Goosander the inferior larynx is most developed on the left side h (fig. 916), which is chiefly mem- branous, while the other side d is composed principally of bone. On the left side there are four irregular membranes, a, b, c, supported 915. Two views of the Inferior by bones, and that on the external ring h. The os transversale is very small and does not reach the free edge of the internal mem- brane b, which is similar to that of the Mergus serrator, thus leaving a communi- cation open between the right and left side of the cavity of the larynx, through which the air from the left lung must pass to reach the tube of the trachea, which terminates on the superior part of the right side of the larynx. The right side is chiefly surrounded by bone externally, having a very small oval membrane anteriorly, and is furnished with a small tympanic membrane at its junction with the bronchus. The salient portions of these membranes, and the small membrana tym- paniformis are best adapted for putting the air into a state of vibration, reinforced by * The area of this channel is increased by an osseous cavity which is formed by the posterior eon- cave surface of the ridge g, lying externally in front of the larynx. f Beneath the inferior point of attachment of the internal lateral membrane, the above-mentioned conical osseous cavity passes vertically downwards c terminating between the bronchi in a kind of cul de sac. Larynx of the Mergus Serrator. the chambers of which the larynx is com- posed. Fig. 916 Inferior Larynx of the M. Merganser.