others fold in at the sides so as to embrace the stem or to protect the flower which arises from their axil. It is rare to see a movement of the whole of a compound leaf, when its in- dividual portions fold together ; such a move- ment is seen, however, in the Mimosa;. The variety of positions assumed in sleep by the subdivisions of compound leaves is very con- siderable, and need not be here enumerated : the phenomenon is best exhibited by the Le- guminoses and the Oxalidcce. Of the causes of this phenomenon, little can be definitely stated. They are not to be looked for solely in the operation of exter- nal physical agents, such as light, heat, and moisture; for it can be easily shown that the changes in question cannot be thus accounted for, without attributing to the plants by which it is exhibited a tendency to such periodical manifestations inherent in their own consti- tution. Tims, when sensitive plants are con- fined in a dark room, their leaflets periodically fold and open as usual; the periods, however, being somewhat lengthened. On the other hand, when exposed to continued light, the periodical folding and unfolding still occurs, but the periods are shortened. And when the plants are exposed to strong lamplight by night, and excluded from all light by day, their periods of sleep become extremely ir- regular for a time, but in the end the plants generally close their leaves during the day and open them at night. No such modifica- tions can be induced, however, in the Oxalidece; their periods of opening and closing their leaves being unaltered by light, darkness, or I13' the disturbance of the natural sequence of the two. In the same manner it may be proved that these movements cannot be laid to the account of changes of temperature; for it appears from the experiments of De Candolle, that they continue to take place in plants exposed to various degrees of temperature, as well as in those left in air, provided that the heat or cold be not sufficient to injure the health of the plants. And by the same method of exclusion, they can be shown not to be dependent upon variations in the amount of circumambient moisture ; since they con- tinue equally well, cceterisparibus, when plants are kept in stoves the humidity of whose at- mosphere is uniform, and in some cases even when the plants are entirely immersed in water. We must conclude, then, that al- though the exact time of the occurrence of the phenomenon may be liable to modification from the influence of external agents, its per- formance is. essentially independent of them, and must be referred to causes inherent in the plant itself. The periodical closing of flowers is a change which is obviously analogous to the sleep of leaves. Many flowers only expand themselves once, and speedily wither. Even in this case, however, there is often considerable regularity in the time of expansion, indicating periodi- city. But in the flowers which remain fresh for some days, some degree of alternation between closure and expansion may be gene- rally discerned. There is no definite rela- tion, however, between the sleep of flowers and that of leaves ; for they may be united in the same individuals, or be exhibited sepa- rately in different species of the same genus. Among other curious examples which show the absence of connection between the two classes of phenomena, is one cited by De Candolle from Berthollet; the subject of it being an Acacia cultivated in the garden at Orotava, in which the leaves closed at sunset, but the flowers then expanded, their numerous stamens raising themselves up like tufts of feathers, so as to become conspicuous ; whilst in the morning, when the leaflets assumed their di- urnal position, the filament? relaxed so that the bunches of stamens gave to the flowers the appearance of floss-silk, and the flowers them- selves partly closed together. It has been ascertained by Meyen, that, by the action of artificial light and darkness, the usual hours for opening and closing may be changed in flowers as well as in leaves. Thus he found that after passing two days in a room from which external light was excluded, but which was lighted by four Argand lamps, the flowers of Lpomcea purpurea, which natu- rally open during the night, expanded in the morning ; whilst those of Oxalis tetraphylla, at the end of the fourth day of artificial illumi- nation, opened in the evening, instead of at their usual morning hour. Periodicity of Sleep. — There can be little doubt that a tendency to occasional repose is inherent in the constitution of every animal possessed of a sensorial apparatus; and that this disposition is so arranged as to correspond in its periodical recurrence with the diurnal revolution of the earth. Al- though we are accustomed to think that " night is the time for sleep," and although, in our own case and in that of most other animals, darkness and silence favour repose, yet it must be borne in mind that there are many tribes of animals whose period of activity is the very "same with that during which most others are wrapped in slumber. Thus, among lepidopterous insects, we find the activity of the greater part of the butter- flies to be diurnal, that of the sphinges to be crepuscular, and that of the moths to be nocturnal. So among the insectivorous birds, we find the diurnal swallow replaced during the night by the goatsucker (or night-jar) ; whilst the insectivorous bats are most active during twilight. Among the raptorial birds, again, we find the whole tribe of owls, with only one or two exceptions, to be either noc- turnal or crepuscular in their activity. And among carnivorous animals we meet with a similar diversity. As a general rule, the vegetable-feeders of all tribes are diurnal in their activity, taking their repose at night. The nocturnal predaceous animals take their repose during the day; and those whose period of activity is the twilight, sleep partly by night and partly by day. Notwithstanding this variety as to the periods of sleep and activity, the complete x x 4