1191 TUNICATA. 4 g 1 Fie. 770. Diazonx violacea, magnified. {After Savigny.) circumscription ; animals sometimes scat- tered, sometimes arranged in a quincunx ; branchial orifice circular, without distinct rays ; anal orifice very minute and indistinct ; abdominal viscera pushed up by the side of the thorax. Genus Leptoelinum, Milne-Edwards.—Com- mon body sometimes coriaceous, sometimes gelatinous, thin, sessile and incrusting ; sys- tems few ; individuals arranged irregularly around common cloacal cavities ; abdomen peduncled, short, smaller than the thorax. The tribe Botryllvna (les Botrylliens, Milne- Edwards) comprises those compound Asci- dians that are united in systems around common excretory cavities or cloncce, and whose bodies are not divided into a distinct thorax anil abdomen, the viscera being pushed forward on the side of the branchial cavity, and form- ing with the thorax an ovoid mass. Genus Botryllus, Gaertner ; synonyms, Al- cyonium, Aurt., Polycyclus, Lamarck. — Com- mon body gelatinous or cartilaginous, sessile and incrusting ; systems numerous, pro* minent, round or star-shaped, with central cavities; individuals, six to twenty in each system, lying horizontally with the vent far from the branchial orifice; branchial orifice simple {fig. 771.). Genus BotrylUrides, Milne-Edwards. — This genus resembles the foregoing in most respects, except that the stars formed by the systems of animals are irregular and ramifying ; the cloacae being prolonged into the common mass as irregular internal channels, on each side of which the individuals are placed in linear series, instead of having a simple star- like arrangement around the cloacae, as in Botryllui. The animals of Botrylloid.es, more- over, have a nearly vertical position, and their orifices are closely approximate (fig. 78.'J.). We should perhaps also refer to the group ol the Botryllidce, an obscure form, first no- ticed by Molina*, and subsequently named Pyura by Blainville, and considered by the latter to form a link between the simple and compound Ascidians. M. Blainville gives the following characteristics. Botryllus violaceus. Two of the star-like systems, mag- nified. (After Milne-Edwards.) a, a, common test; b, b, b, some of the branchial ori- fices ; c, the common anal orifice of one of the systems. Genus Pyura, Blainville.—A pyriform body, with two small short tubes, occupying a cell in the external envelope, and forming, by its union with 10 to 12 individuals, a kind of poly- morphous mass somewhat resembling honey- comb, apparently without any external orifice. * Saggio sulk Historia naturale del Chili, logna, 1782, 4to. Bo-