TERATOLOGY. 962 Fig. 619. The skeleton of the foregoing Acephalus. a, mobile bone connected with the single cervical vertebra. always twins, and not full grown. As far as it lias been mentioned by different obser- vers, there is either a common placenta, with two cords (Ponjol), or with one cord split into two (Mery) ; or there are two placenta? connected together (Herholdt); or there are two totally separate ova, with a double placenta (Monro). The external appear- ance differs from that of the fourth type, by greater length, and less truncated upper part of the body, in which a feeble indication of head may sometimes be visible (Ponjol, Prochaska). The integuments are as in the fourth type ; the toes are generally mal- formed ; the arms and the external genital organs are often abnormal. To the lumbar part of the spinal column is joined an imper- fect osseous thorax, sometimes with cervical vertebrae (Hevermann), but without thoracic viscera. The diaphragm exists in most cases. There are vessels without a heart, which cohere with the umbilical vessels. The viscera of the epigastric region are commonly want- ing ; Atkinson mentions only a liver. In some intestines can be recognised either as intestina tenuia or crassa. The uropoietic organs, and the internal parts of generation are commonly present. There is in all a spinal marrow. The observations as to the nervous system are very incomplete. (Seefigs. 618, 619.) Sixth Type. — Acephali ivith a trunk com- posed of a thorax and an abdomen, and with two superior and two inferior limbs. — When the trunk is more developed, the thorax becomes more convex, is more distinct from the abdo- men, and supports two superior limbs. These acephali, too, are twins, at least in the greater number of the cases. They are often not full-grown, and borne by women who have frequently been pregnant. The placenta is in general common to the two foetuses, but with two cords. The thorax is more perfect than in the fifth type; the upper part of the body terminates not in an obtuse end, but in a broad and flat surface, havii g a fissure in the midst, with an indication of a head. The sternum is often rudimentary, and the osseous frame of the superior limbs is very incom- plete. To the spinal column are added cervical vertebrae, and sometimes a confused indication of cranial bones. There is usually a dia- phragm, but neither heart nor lungs. There are commonly two vascular trunks, an arte- rial and a venous. With the venous is con- nected the umbilical vein; and from the in- ternal iliac arteries arise the umbilical arteries. There are uropoietic organs, and an intestinal canal, with a caecal termination ; and some- times a liver. This latter is, however, some- times wanting, together with the spleen and the pancreas. In the intestinal tube there is no meconium, but only a mucous substance. The nervous system is very incomplete; but there is constantly a spinal marrow with the abdominal part of the sympathetic. I have observed distinct muscles, of which the pre- sence has been denied by others. Seventh Type.—Acephali in which some cranial bones are found. — This has been observed by Herholdt, in a monster, born twin with a well-formed child, of a mo- ther who had five other children. There was an amorphous head, with an indication of eyes and nose, but without ears and mouth : the rest of the body was much de- formed. Of the cranial bones, the condyloid and vertical portions of the occipital only could be distinguished. There was no trace of facial bones. Analogous observations have been made by Curtius and Otto. Eighth Type. — Body and extremities per- fectly well developed, and having a neck, which is luauting in the other types. The neck is sur- mounted and terminated by the ears. — This is the form to which Guilt gives the name of perocephalus aprosopus. I have met with it in the lower animals only. The body and the limbs are perfectly well developed ; on the perfect neck are placed two coalesced ears, behind which there is an imperfect cranium, composed principally of the cranial, minus the facial, bones. In all this the deformity makes a transition towards an imperfect formation of the face. (Figs. 620, 621.) Ninth Type. — Acephali which are composed of the trunk only, without the least indication of superior or inferior limbs.— Only one case of this monstrosity is known, observed by Vallis- neri. In a foetus of a very mature period of