URINE. 1286 General Character of Calculi. 6. Alternating calculi com- posed of three layers. Particular Species of Calculi. Alternating calculi com- posed offour layers. d. Alternating calculi com- posed of seve- ral layers. 5. Mixedorcom- pound calculi. Lithate of ammonia, lithic acid, and phosphates - ■——, lithic acid, and lithate of am- monia - - - - , lithic acid, and phosphate of lime , lithic acid, and oxalate of lime England. (Lithate and oxalate of lime,) oxalate of lime, and mixed phosphates (Lithate and oxalate of lime,) (ditto al- ternately,) and phosphates - Oxalate of lime, lithic acid and lithate of ammonia ... , lithic acid and oxalate of lime , lithic acid, and phosphate of —, lithic acid, and mixed phos- phates - - - - -, lithate of ammonia, and phos- phate of lime , lithate of ammonia, and oxalate of lime - - - - Mixed phosphates, phosphate of lime, and mixed phosphates Lithic acid, lithate of ammonia, lithic acid, and lithate of ammonia , oxalate of lime, lithate of am- monia, and phosphate of lime -, oxalate of lime, lithic acid and oxalate of lime , oxalate of lime, lithic acid, and lithate of ammonia - Lithate of ammonia, oxalate of lime, lithate of ammonia, and phosphates . oxalate of lime, lithate of am- monia, and oxalate of lime - , oxalate of lime, phosphates and oxalate of lime - oxalate of lime, lithic acid, and lithate of ammonia -, oxalate of lime, phosphate of lime, and phosphates oxalate of lime, lithic acid, and phosphates oxalate of lime, lithic acid, and oxalate of lime , oxalate of lime, lithate of am- monia, and lithic acid , phosphate of lime oxalate of lime, and lithate of ammonia Oxalate of lime, lithic acid, lithate of ammonia, and lithic acid , lithic acid, oxalate of lime, and phosphate of lime - • - -, lithic acid, oxalate of lime, and phosphates - -, lithic acid, lithate of ammonia, and phosphates Composition not mentioned Mixture not mentioned Fibrous matter and phosphates 129| 87 663 187 218 81 155 Conti- nent. 10 24 23 1 24 23 1 1520