SOFTENING AND INDURATION. Softening and induration in a physiological sense, refer to those changes which occur in the density of tissues and organs during their development, growth, anil decay ; whilst, in a pathological sense, they refer to alterations in the normal consistence, with or without actual molecular change. In order to be able to distinguish morbid alterations of cohesion, from those which oc- cur in the natural course of things, it is neces- sary to be well acquainted with the power exercised by age, sex, and idiosyncrasy, in modifying the density of the tissues. Softening and induration are but relative terms, the standard of consistence is con- stantly varying, both as regards the whole body, or as regards organs and tissue's. In the fcetal state all the tissues are soft, and contain large quantities of fluid ; as develop- ment proceeds, so do the parts gradually be- come hard, not all equally so, for certain tissues remain permanently soft in comparison to others, which rapidly increase in density. After birth, the hardening processes still con- tinue, and it is not until the age of puberty is passed, that all the tissues have attained their highest stage of development. But the pro- cess of natural hardening is interfered with, or retarded, by peculiar idiosyncrasy and by the influence of sex and occupation; the general firmness of the tissue of an athlete is greater than that of those, who, although in perfect health, happen to lead inactive and sedentary lives ; it is greater as a general rule in the male than in the female sex, and in the sanguineous than in the lymphatic temper- ament. As old age comes on, changes in the con- sistence of the tissues occur, which are pro- duced by the natural decay to which all organized matter is subject ; thus the cellular tissue, the serous and mucous membranes, the muscles and tendons, bone, the brain and nervous system, and particularly the uterus and ovaries, sometimes acquire a de- gree of hardness, equal to that which is known to be produced by certain diseases. Finally, after death the whole organism is affected by forces, which had little or no in- fluence upon it during life ; the tissues are subjected to the macerating influence of their fluids, which may also act chemically upon them. In the natural course of things, soften- ing and putrefaction, and disorganization of the ultimate atoms of our body occur, before they are fitted to be assimilated into other organized structures ; this decay increases as time progresses, and is enhanced by a high state of temperature and exposure to the air. After death, hypostatic congestion of the cel- lular tissue simulates the appearance that this structure frequently presents, when af- fected with inflammatory softening ; and the macerating effects of the fluids, which had no such influence during life, are seen in the brain and spinal cord ; whilst the alimentary mucous membrane suffers softening and dis- integration from the peculiarities of the fluid usually secreted by it. By recognising then the normal alterations of cohesion, and those arising from post mortem causes, the attributes of morbid softenings will become perfectly apparent. Softening and induration are said to exist without any structural change ; such is not generally the case, indeed it is exceptional, and were such a state only to be properly termed softening and induration, many of the most important and interesting pathological facts would be unaccounted for. Softening and induration are produced by a variety of causes, and frequently co-exist in the same organ, or one may supervene on, or cause, the other. Both softening and induration may be pro- duced by inflammation leading, on the one hand, to effusion of serum and pus, and on the other to the deposition and subsequent contraction and hardening of coagulable lymph; the one appears to be the result of acute, and the other of subacute, inflam- matory action. Active sanguineous conges- tion produces in some organs the sensation of diminished consistence, whilst in others, especially in those surrounded by a dense fibrous tissue as the testicle, hardening results. In softening, the effused product of inflamma- tion, appears not only to break down the structure by infiltration, but also by its pres- sure to impede the usual nutrition of the part. The softening of an organ, induced by in- flammatory action, is frequently confined to one of the component tissues, especially to the cellular tissue ; the readiness with which the serous envelope may be stripped from off' a parenchymatous organ, depends more upon the subserous cellular tissue, than upon the other structures ; and, in like manner, the softness of a whole organ is often assignable, rather to the deficient tenacity of the mem- brane which unites its lobules, than of the proper tissue. Softening may be produced by causes totally differing from those produced by inflammation ; it may depend upon a deficiency or perverted state of the blood, and an anaemic state of the general system. For instance, in white softening of the brain, the arteries, which ought to have sufficiently nourished the af- fected parts, fail to do so on account of their being blocked up, more or less, by abnormal deposits. In certain softened states of the spleen, the blood contained in its parenchyma loses its consistence, and becomes more fluid than natural, from a perverted state of its constitution ; and the flabby muscles and general loss of tone of anaemic subjects are notorious. In scrofula, the perverted state of the gene- ral nutrition produces softening of peculiar tissues, for instance, of the bones ; and in the cancerous cachexia like effects occur. Long continued functional inactivity, for in- stance of the muscles of an extremity stricken with paralysis, tends to produce softening ; and pressure, in certain instances so interferes with the nutrition of a part as to diminish its cohesion. Fatty deposit in the ultimate cells