1330 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. testimony of disinterested observers, both in the West Indies and in the United States, an approximation in the Negro physiognomy to the European model is progressively taking place, in instances in which, although there has been no intermixture of European blood, the influence of a higher civilisation has been powerfully exercised for a lengthened period. This is particularly the case with Negroes employed as domestic servants. Dr. Han- cock, a most intelligent physician of Guiana, even asserts that it is frequently not at all difficult to distinguish a Negro of pure blood, belonging to the Dutch portion of the colony, from another belonging to the English settle- ments, by the correspondence between the features and expression of each, and those which are characteristic of their respective masters. This alteration, too, is not confined to a change of form in the skull, or to a di- minution in the projection of the jaw ; but it is also seen in the general figure, and in the form of the soft parts, as the lips and nose. And the writer has been informed by Sir Charles Lyell, that during his recent tour in America, he was assured by numerous me- dical men residing in the slave states of the North American Union, that a gradual ap- proximation is taking place in the configura- tion of the head and body of the Negroes to the European model, each successive gene- ration exhibiting an improvement in these respects. The change is most apparent in such as are brought into closest and most habitual relation with the whites (as by do- mestic servitude), without any actual inter- mixture of races, which would be at once be- trayed by the change of complexion, and by the more strongly marked indications of hybridism. It is more easy to imagine that a pyramidal or a prognathous cranium can be metamor- phosed into an elliptical one, than that either of the two first-named forms can be converted into the other. Yet very strong evidence is furnished by philological considerations, that the Hottentot races constitute a branch of the common African stock ; and the approx- imation which their skulls present to the pyramidal type cannot be for a moment attri- buted to intermixture with any Mongolian race. On the other hand, among the in- habitants of Oceania, there are many races which present, more or less decidedly, the prognathous type ; and this sometimes asso- ciated with woolly or " frizzled," sometimes with long and straight hair. Yet there is strong philological evidence for regarding these as descendants of colonists who spread themselves (probably by various lines of migration) from south-eastern Asia, and who carried to the various islands of the vast Malayo-Polynesian Archipelago, the pyra- midal type more or less softened down. On no other hypothesis can the extraordinary community in the fundamental elements of their languages be accounted for, the tribes which use them being in a state of complete isolation from each other. Where, as is frequently the case, the same island or group is peopled by two or more races, having different physical characters, it is always found that the greatest tendency to the prognathous type shows itself among those which appear to have longest dwelt there in a state of barbarism; and that it is most strongly marked, when, to other degrading agencies, that of a low and marshy soil has been added. Even the elliptical type, as already re- marked, may occasionally present indications of degradation towards one of the others. Want, squalor, and ignorance, have a special tendency to induce that diminution of the cranial portion of the skull, and that increase of the facial, which characterise the prog- nathous type; as cannot but be observed by any one who takes an accurate and candid survey of the condition of the most degraded part of the population of the great towns of this country, but as is seen to be pre- eminently the case with regard to the lowest classes of Irish immigrants. A certain degree of regression to the pyramidal type is also to be noticed among the "nomadic" tribes which are to be found in eveiy civilised community. Among these, as has been re- marked by a very acute observer, " accord- ing as they partake more or less of the purely vagabond nature, doing nothing whatsoever for their living, but moving from place to place, preying on the earnings of the more industrious portion of the community, so will the attributes of the nomade races be found more or less marked in them; and they are all more or less distinguished for their high cheek bones and protruding jaivs thus showing that kind of mixture of the pyra- midal with the prognathous type, which is to be seen among the most degraded of the Malayo-Polynesian races. It has not been pointed out, so far as the writer is aware, by any ethnologist, that the conformation of the cranium seems to have undergone a certain amount of alteration even in the Anglo-Saxon race of the United States, which assimilates it in some degree to that of the aboriginal inhabitants. Certain it is, that, among New Englanders more particularly, a cast of countenance prevails, which usually renders it easy for any one familiar with it to point out an individual of that country in the midst of an assemblage of Englishmen ; and although this may chiefly depend upon the conformation of the soft parts, yet there is a certain sharpness, and an angularity of feature about a genuine " Yankee," which would probably display itself in the contour of the bones. So far as the writer's observation has extended, there is especially to be noticed an excess of breadth between the rami of the lower jaw, giving to the lower part of the face a peculiar squareness (something like that which is shown in Jig.S2\), that is in strik- ing contrast with the tendency to an oval * London Labour and the London Poor; by Henry Mayhew, p. 2.