1388 VEIN. spaces : — these anastomoses being all on the same plane, excepting at a few points here and there where a small channel clips down to the deep veins. Such plexuses may be seen on the dorsum of the hand and foot. But the most elaborate and complex of all the plexuses in the human* subject are those formed around, about, and within, the spinal canal: they are composed of nu- merous trunks, which unite, divide, and re- unite, at every possible point, and in all con- ceivable modes,-by branches of all sizes, lengths, and shapes, and leave intervals pre- senting forms of endless variety. A portion of these plexuses, seen in the accompanying figure, from Breschet's work on the veins, conveys a better idea of them than any lengthened description. The diploic plexuses are the net-works of veins which exist in and among the cancel- lated tissue of the bones. In the flat bones of the cranium, at the period of adult life, they form large irregular meshes, by the mean- derings of large, irregular, ampullated, veins. These vessels are very unequal in size, are subject to dilatations, and frequently end in culs-de-sac. They are well represented in Jigs. 187. and 188. Vol. I. But the most re- markable peculiarity in these plexuses, is the change they undergo during osseous de- velopment. In early foetal life, when ossifi- cation commences the cranial bones consist of stella? of numerous ossific rays, the inter- spaces between them being occupied by hosts of small, almost straight, radiating, veins: these veins are not covered in by osseous structure, but are exposed on both surfaces of the bone (fig. 872.); they then gradually become tortuous, and fuse into one another, so as to diminish in number, and lose much of their radiating character ; and after a time they become covered by a thin plate of bone on either surface. The process of fusion and dilatation of the veins still goes on during life, and ultmately leaves the diploic plexus, consisting of a few large vessels. Diploic vessels exist in all cancellated bone in various plexiform combinations. In the loose texture * In birds the intra-spinal plexuses are so large and dense that it is with difficulty that the anato- mist can make out that they are not extravasations.