SLEE1'. C9G that the patient has a disposition to retain them in the situation in which the)' have been placed, if he is intensely affected. If this is not the case, in a soft tone of voice desire him to retain the limbs in the extended posi- tion, and thus the pulse will speedily become greatly accelerated, and the limbs, in process of time, will become quite rigid and involun- tarily fixed. It will also be found that all the organs of special sense, excepting sight, in- cluding heat and cold, and muscular motion or resistance, and certain mental faculties, are at first prodigiously exalted ; such as happens with regard to the primary effects of opium, wine, and spirits. After a certain point, however, this exaltation of function is fol- lowed by a state of depression, far greater than the torpor of natural sleep. From the state of the most profound torpor of the organs of special sense, and tonic rigidity of the muscles, they may at this stage be in- stantly restored to the opposite condition of extreme mobility and exalted sensibility, by directing a current of air against the organ or organs we wish to excite to action, or the muscles we wish to render limber, and which had been in the cataleptiform state. By mere repose the senses will speedily merge into the original condition again." We have our- selves frequently witnessed the induction of somnambulism after this method ; and whilst fully admitting its potency, we are bound to say that the almost invariable success which it has in the hands of Mr. Braid himself, appears partly due to the mental condition of the patient, who is usually predisposed to the " hypnotic " state by the expectation of its certain production, and by the assurance of a man of determined will that it cannot be resisted. When the hypnotic state, however, has been induced a few times in the manner just described, the subject can usually send himself to sleep very readily by looking at his own finger, brought sufficiently near the eyes to occasion a sensible convergence of their axes ; or even by simply standing still, and fixing the eyes on a distant point. In all cases, the fixation of the eyes is the circum- stance of most importance; although the withdrawal of other stimuli has a decided influence in favouring the production of the effect. The peculiar condition of the muscular sense, as felt through the ophthalmic branch of the fifth pair, seems to have a closer relation with the subsequent state than has the con- dition of the visual sense; for the same effect may be produced at night, or in blind persons, if the eyes can be kept in a fixed position, especially in one that produces a feeling of muscular tension. And it seems to be in facilitating this, that the sense of sight comes into play in the operation just de- scribed. How far the mode in which the somnambulism is produced has an influence upon its phenomena, it may not be very easy to determine. For an account of these pe- culiarities, we must refer to Mr. Braid's treatise already quoted ; but we may cite the following, as having ourselves repeatedly witnessed it and satisfied ourselves of its reality. " The remarkable fact that the w hole senses may have been in a state of profound torpor, and the body in a state of rigidity, and yet by very gentle pressure over the eye-balls the patient shall be instantly roused to the waking condition, as regards all the senses and mobility of the head and neck, in short, to all parts supplied with nerves originating above the origin of the fifth pair, and those inosculating with them,— whilst they will not be affected by simple mecha- nical appliance to other organs of sense, — is a striking proof that there exists some remarkable connection between the state of the eyes, and condition of the brain and spinal cord, during the hypnotic state. Another remarkable proof to the same effect is this ; Supposing the same state of torpor of all the senses, and rigidity of the body and limbs, to exist, a puff of air or a gentle pressure against one eye will restore sight to that eye, and sense and mobility to one half of the body — the same side as the eye operated on ; — but will leave the other eye insensible, and the other half of the body rigid and torpid as before." * We consider that the experimental re- searches of Mr. Braid throw more light than has been derived from any other source upon the phenomena of Mesmerism. That there is much of reality mixed up with much impos- ture in these phenomena, is a conclusion at which most candid persons have arrived who have given their attention to them ; and we have little doubt that a searching investiga- tion, carried on under the guidance of his results, would lead to something like a correct discrimination between the two. The induc- tion of mesmeric somnambulism appears to us to be fully explicable by the facts we have previously stated, as to the influence of the mental condition of the patient,— namely, the state of expectation, and the additional confidence derived from the mental impres- sion produced by the operator,—and as to the effect of the fixation of vision. The ordi- nary phenomena of the mesmeric somnam- bulism itself are in most respects identical with those of hypnotism, except in this parti- cular,— that there seems to be a peculiar relation between the somnambulist and the mesmeriser, which does not exist between the somnambulist and any other individual, excepting one who is en rapport with the mesmeriser. This relationship may perhaps be not unreasonably regarded as the result of a dominant idea, which possessed the mind at the moment of falling asleep, and which con- tinued to influence it so long as the somnam- bulism lasts. We have examined into the history of many cases, in which it was affirmed that mesmeric sleep was induced without any consciousness on the part of the subject of it that any influence was being exercised; but we have never been able to satisfy ourselves that such was unequivocally the case. When the patient was expecting the performance * Op. cit. p. G4. note.