URETHRA. 1247 the prostatic part of the urethra gradually de- scends, until its general direction is more con- tinuous with that of the membranous part. I shall defer the description of the caput gal- linaginis until I come to that of the general surface of the urethra. The connection of the urethra to the pro- state is very close, the ducts of the gland passing directly into it ; it is therefore im- possible to raise it from its attachment without division of the prostatic ducts. "When a ca- theter is introduced, the course of the canal invested by the prostate can be indistinctly traced by the finger introduced into the rectum. The membranous portion (pars muscularis, isthmus urethra) commences from the anterior part of the prostate, and extends beneath the arch of the pubis as far as the bulb : it is included between the prostatic and spongy portions, and is covered slightly at its anterior and under part by the bulb, so that it is really shorter below than above. It makes a slight curve, the concavity facing upwards. The concavity is at the distance of nearly an inch from the interpubic substance ; the con- vexity looks towards the perinseum. Be- tween it and the pubis, and just beneath the pubic arch, the dorsal veins of the penis run. Proceeding from the anterior extremity of the prostate, the membranous portion of the urethra traverses the triangular ligament, which splits into two lamellae : one passing backwards over the prostate, is continuous with the capsule of the gland, the other ad- vances forwards over the bulb, and blends with the tendinous investment of the spongy body. The opening through which the ure- thra passes is round. The membranous por- tion forms the segment of a circle, whose radius is, according to Krause, 2\ lines. This part of the canal has been termed membran- ous, from the idea that it represented a simple membrane when deprived of its surrounding muscular structure, and that it was wholly destitute of any investment of the spongy body. This, however, is not correct ; there is a thin layer of vascular tissue, continuous in front with the spongy body, and closely sur- rounding the mucous membrane of this part of the urethra, between it and its muscular layers. The vessels of this extension of the spongy body pass backwards, to terminate in the plexus surrounding the neck of the blad- der : this is mixed up with elastic tissue, and constitutes a truly erectile tissue. An exten- sion of the same structure enters into the for- mation of the caput gallinaginis. Between the layers of the triangular liga- ment, and in close connection with the mem- branous part of the urethra, are found three sets of muscular fibres {musculus urethralis) : they consist of the two pairs of muscles de- scribed, one by Wilson and the other by Guthrie ; and the circular fibres of Santorini, which closely surround the urethra. The anteprostate, or Cowper's glands, covered by the inferior stratum of the compressor urethras, are placed beneath this part, and the arteries of the bulb are in close approximation to it, running beneath and on either side of it. The floor of the membranous portion is traversed longitudinally in the median line by the pointed end of the caput gallinaginis. If a catheter be passed into the bladder, the membranous portion can be distinguished by the finger introduced into the rectum and drawn forwards, there being only a small quan- tity of cellular membrane interposed between the under part of its muscular investment and the intestine. Boyer estimated the length of the mem- branous portion at about 1 inch ; Ducamp from 9 to 10 lines ; Lisfranc found it in twelve subjects to vary from 7 to 11 lines. In these its anterior diameter varied from 3£ to 4-1 lines, its posterior from 4^ to 5 lines, and just behind the bulb it measured at least 1J- line less than in any other part. It is universally admitted that the point of junction between the membranous and spongy portions is the narrowest part of the urethra, with the excep- tion of the meatus. The membranous part of the urethra is sur- rounded by muscular fibres, which have been variously described by different anatomical writers. Thus Santorini, as early as 1724, in his Observationes Anatomicae, pointed out some transverse fibres as encircling the urethra at this part: he terms them "the elevator or eja- culator urethras," and describes them as being inserted into the lower part of the urethra. Mr. Wilson, in the year 1808, gave a descrip- tion of two muscles surrounding the mem- branous part of the urethra, the origin of which is from a tendon attached to the pos- terior part of the symphysis pubis, a little above its lower border: the muscle thus arising from a single origin then descends, and divides into two portions, which, reaching the mem- branous portion of the urethra, spread them- selves out by its side, and are implanted into a common tendon below it. The muscle is termed by Wilson the compressor urethras. In 1834, Mr. Guthrie, in his lectures at the Royal College of Surgeons, demonstrated another series of muscular fibres, as sur- rounding the membranous portion of the urethra, and of which he considers Wilson's muscle as a part. That portion described by Guthrie, and now known by his name, arises by a thin tendon on either side, from the ra- mus of the ischium, and, passing transversely, splits into two portions, one above and the other below the urethra; the two muscles are connected together above by a mesial tendon, which, passing forwards, is inserted in part into the upper part of the urethra, whilst another portion, passing backwards, is im- planted into the upper surface of the front of the prostate. The under portion of the muscle is also connected with its fellow by a similar mesian tendon, which, advancing forwards, goes to the central tendon of the perinasum, and, sending a slip backwards, is inserted into the under part of the prostate. The muscles are included between the two layers of the triangular ligament; and the