VESICULA PROSTATICA. H20 each other ; or it is even, as Weber found it, completely closed. In the same manner Gurlt found that the Weberian organ, instead of opening by a special aperture, sometimes communicated with one or other of the eja- culatory ducts. The lower end of the tube is considerably dilated for a length of 1 to 3 inches. Above, this dilated part gene- rally passes into a narrow cylinder, which Ruminantia.— In the Llama, which pos- sesses a heart-shaped parenchymatous pro- state, I have been unable to find either a median, single, opening into the commencement of the uro-genital canal, or a Weberian organ. But, on the other hand, one finds a very dis- tinct rudiment in the new-born male deer.* Here it courses as a single cord-like thread in the peritoneal fold between the two eja- Eie. 878. Weberian Organ of the Ass (reduced in size.) a, a, vasa cleferentia, with the semiual vesicles, b, b; c, Weberian organ. sometimes attains a length of 5 to 1 inches, and then divides into two short and usually unequal horns. Not unfrequently this upper part is, as was observed by Leydig and seen by myself, a simple solid thread. In the instance described by Weber the cavity was altogether absent; and an absence of the whole Webe- rian organ has been observed by Leydig. In the male ass I have also seen a very con- derableWeberian organ {fig. 878), the existence of which I was first made aware of by Berg- mann. It is here a straight canal, four and a half inches long, which ascends in the peri- toneal fold between the two ejaculatory ducts, and divides at its extremity into two, much wider, horns. These have blind ends, and a length on the right side of 5, on the left of 9, lines. There is no opening into the uro- genital canal, but the lower end has a vesi- cular dilatation of four lines in length, and is separated by a longitudinal fold into two blind sacs lying close behind each other. culatory ducts until finally it bifurcates at about an inch from the place of their inser- tion. It is only during the earlier stage of embryonic life that I have been able to find a cavity and its opening: in the new-born in- dividual the Weberian organ is already ob- literated and solid. Some larger and smaller hydatidous vesicles which are found in its course, and especially at the site of its bifur- cation, are the only relics of this its earlier condition. The same form of Weberian organ is re- peated in the goat; but its development seems here to be very variable. I examined a large number of genitals, which had been preserved some time in spirit. In all, the Weberian organ was of considerable size and develop- ment. Nevertheless I have reasons for the conjecture that this is not the rule, and that * See mv description in the Gottingische Gelehrte Anzeige, 1848, No. 17-1.