922 TEETH. from the Old World Quadrumana more than the Cebidce do ; i. e. they differ not only in having four teeth (p. 2 j—j), which the monkeys of the Old World do not possess, but also by wanting four teeth (m. 3 . .), which those monkeys, as well as the Cebidce, actually have. It is thus that the investigation of the exact homologies of parts leads to a recognition of the true characters indicative of zoological affinity, 3—3 Most of the Lemurinai have p. 3ZZ3' g 3 , together with remarkable modifications 3—a 0 of their incisive and canine teeth, of which an extreme example is shown in the pectinated tooth (Jig. 556.) of the Galeopithecus. The inferior incisors slope forwards in all, and the canines also, which are contiguous to them, and very similar in shape. In the Chirogaleus these canines are entered as in- cisors in the dental formula of the genus (Vol. IV. p. 215), and the laniariform premolar (/;. 2) is entered as a canine : M. Vrolik also describes four teeth on each side of the upper jaw, and four on each side of the lower jaw, as true tubcrculateJ molars. They have tuber- eulated crowns, but the value of shape as a cliaracter is too small to permit our accepting so great an anomaly without the requisite proof of their order of development and suc- cession. Even in the hoofed quadrupeds with toes in uneven number (Perissodactyla), whose premolars, for the most part, repeat both the form and the complex structure of the true molars, such premolars are distinguished by the same character of development as those of the Artiodactyla, or Ungulates with toes in even number ; although in these the premolars are distinguished also by modifications of size and shape. The complex ridged and tuber- culate crowns of the second, third, and fourth grinders of the Rhinoceros, Hyrax (fig. 590.), Fig. tooth be determined, and its proper symbol applied to it. In pi. 136, Jig. 5, of my Odontography, the three posterior teeth of the almost uniform grinding series of the horse's dentition are thus proved to be the only ones entitled to the name of " true molars ;" and, if any one should doubt the certainty of the rule of count- ing, by which the symbols, p. 4, p. 3, and p. 2, are applied to the three large anterior grinding teeth (ib. Jig. 19), which are commonly the only premolars present in each lateral series of the horse's jaws, jet the occasional retention of the diminutive tooth, p. 1 (]b.Jig. 6). would establish its accuracy, whether such tooth be regarded as the first of the deciduous series unusually long retained, or the unusually small and speedily lost successor (p. 1) of an abortive d\. The law of development, so beautiful for its instructiveness and constancy in the pla- cental D'vphyodonts, is here illustrated in the little Hyrax (Jig. 591.), in which the d. 1 is Fig. 591. Deciduous and permanent molars of the Hyrax. normally developed and succeeded by a per- manent p. 1, differing from the rest only by a graduated inferiority of size, which, in regard to the last premolar, ceases to be a distinction between it and the first true molar. The elephant, which by its digital characters belongs to the odd-toed, or perissodactyle, group of Pachyderms, also resembles them in the close agreement in form and structure of the grinding teeth representing the premolars, 590. Molar series, vpperjaw (Hyrax). and horse, no more prove them to be true molars, than the trenchant shape of the lower carnassials of the lion proves them to be false molars. It is by development alone that the primary division of the series of grinding teeth can be established, and by that character only can the homologies of each individual with those that answer to the true molars of the Hyrax, Tapir, and Rhinoceros. The gi- gantic Proboscidian Pachyderms of Asia and Africa present, however, so many peculiarities of structure, as to have led to their being located in a particular family in the Systematic Mammalogies. And this seems to be justified