SPLEEN. 775 3 d 4 4. The splenic corpuscles or Malpighian cor- puscles of the spleen (vesicu/cs seu glandules lieuis, s. corjmscula MalpighH) are whitish spherical corpuscles, which are imbedded in the red spleen substance of certain animals, and are connected with the smallest arteries. In the dead bodies of men, in the state in which they are generally subjected to examination in hos- pitals, these corpuscles are very seldom seen. On this account, some of the earlier observers, as Rudolphi, Heusinger, Andral, and others, and more recently Gluge * and Oesterlen f, have regarded them as not constant structures, or even as products of disease; or have considered them as J. Muller formerly did %, to be altogether distinct from the splenic cor- puscles of the Ruminantia. But this view is erroneous, and since Giesker§, Krause ||, and BischofflT, who described the splenic cor- puscles of the hitman subject, and showed their correspondence with those of the mam- malia ; and since the revocation by Miillcr of his earlier opinion **, all observers are tolerably agreed, that although the corpuscles in question are often deficient in the human subject, yet they are not the less to be re- garded as normal structures, which are in- variably present in the healthy subject. The frequent deficiency of the splenic corpuscles is explained by many circum- stances. Most of the observations of them concern human individuals, in whom a long abstinence from food has preceded death. In such cases, as Henle has well remarked f f, the apparent absence of the corpuscles is easily explicable, since their size is notoriously regulated by the quantity of ingesta. So, also, great number of the human spleens which come under our notice are diseased; either softened, distended with blood, and soaked through with extravasations, or enlarged, hardened, atro- phied, or already half decomposed and putrified. Finally, the human spleen corpuscles are very delicate, and easily destroyed. As to the fre- quency of their occurrence in diseased sub- jects, we are supplied with accurate data by v. Hessling, who has given the results of 9G0 dissections. Of the whole number just men- tioned, Malpighian corpuscles were only pre- sent in 116, or in about every eighth indi- vidual. He also adds the following numerical statement respecting the different ages of life. In the first and second year of life the cor- puscles were present in every second subject; from the second to the tenth year, in every third subject ; from the tenth to the fortieth year, in every sixteenth ; from the fortieth year to old age, in every thirty-second. These numbers are in general correct, and are readily explicable when we recollect that diseases of * Haser's Archiv. fur die gesammto Medicin, 1841, SS. 83. 88. t Beitrage zur Physiologic des gesunden und kranken Organismus, Jena, 1843, S. 48. t Midler's Archiv, 1824, S. 80. § Splenologie, S. 159. || Anatomic, Band. i. S. 520. f Midler's Archiv, 1838, S. 500. ** Physiologie, Aufl. 4. Band. i. S. 466. ft Algemeine Anatomic, S. 1000. the spleen are more numerous as age ad- vances. But the results of my own observa- tions coincide with those of Oesterlen, in representing the number of cases in which corpuscles are detected as greater than that above mentioned. This difference may be ascribed to the difficulties which often prevent the recognition of the dwindled spleen cor- puscles; thus in many cases where the first view has afforded no signs of their presence, the application of soda, or the washing of the pulp, has brought them into view. On the other hand, it is absolutely certain that, in many spleens, they disappear without leaving any traces, and cannot be made visible by any method of treatment. In the bodies of healthy individuals which are examined while fresh, they may always be detected ; at least, there are very numerous observations extant in which they have been found after accidental deaths, executions, suicides, &c.; ami to these cases I myself am enabled to add two. So, also, I have found them in a great majority of the bodies of children which I have examined ; and here they are both very distinct and numerous, so as not to offer any visible difference, in these respects, from those of the Kuminantia. The size of the Malpighian corpuscles ex- periences many variations both in men and animals, even apart from the effects of dis- ease : they measure from one-tenth to one- third of a line; on an average, about one-sixth. Their size has hitherto been somewhat too highly estimated ; and chiefly on this account, that sufficient preliminary care has not been taken to isolate them from the surrounding parts : when this is done it will be found, that they are not so large as appears from viewing them on a section of the spleen ; and that, in many cases, they measure less than the given bulk. The fluctuations in their size depend not merely upon the differences of individuals, but obtain in one and the same animal: in this latter case, they appear mainly to be regulated by the condition of the chylopoietic viscera; although accurate data, as to these points in the human subject, are altogether deficient. It is also possible, as Oesterlen has sup- posed, that these corpuscles experience a certain course of development ; and that, in many cases, the very small corpuscles are very young and undeveloped ones : but, hitherto, I have not been able to observe facts import- ing the certain existence of a continual deve- lopment of the Malpighian corpuscles in the adult animal; nevertheless, I cannot avoid mentioning that, like Oesterlen, I have seen in the spleens of animals little heaps (from 2 to 4-100ths line in size) of cells, which have no distinct cell walls, and which, poss.bly, have some relation to the formation of the splenic corpuscles. It seems quite certain that the spleen corpuscles are not developed from separate cells of the spleen pulp ; al- though this view has lately been brought for- ward in a singular manner by Heinrich.* * Die Krankheiten tier Milz, 1847, S. 15.