716 SOLIPEDA. process, which encroaches largely upon the squamous process of the temporal bone. The zygomatic process of the temporal {Jig. 496. o) has at its base a process which projects upwards and backwards. This process con- stitutes the entire length of the temporal arch, articulating anteriorly by suture with the post-orbital process of the os frontis (Jig. 495. b, c), which is very long : the zygo- matic process of the temporal even extends to beneath the orbit, the bony circle around which it contributes to form, and is thence prolonged behind the os mala, so as to be- come articulated with the superior maxillary bone. The occipital suture is situated con- siderably in front of the superior occipital ridge ; nevertheless there is generally an in- terparietal bone of quadrangular shape, called by hippotomists the os quadratum, but which at an early age becomes consolidated with the two parietals. The interparietal is, indeed, itself frequently divided into two pieces in the new-born foal. It is always much too narrow to reach as far as the temporals. The anterior sphenoid appears but very slightly in the orbit. The posterior sphenoid mounts upwards in that region almost as high as the temporal, but without coming in con- tact with the parietal. Inferioily, it is pro- longed in a square form considerably beyond the pterygoid region. The glenoid cavity for the articulation of the lower jaw is situated beneath the middle of the temporal arch ; it is convex inferioi ly, and has a tubercle situ- ated behind its internal extremity, behind which, and on the same level, is situated the meatus auditorius externus. The bony meatus remains distinct from the temporal even when it has become completely consolidated with the tympanic and petrous portions of that bone. The tympanum is but little prominent, and of a very irregular shape. The petrous portion appears externally at the side of the occiput (Jig. 495. u), in front of the base of the para-mastoid apophysis (Jig. 495.7;),which is here long and pointed. Of the bones of the face it may be ob- served, that the ascending apophyses of the intermaxillary bones (fig. 495. 15) are placed very obliquely, and become connected with the ossa nasi at about one third of the length of those bones from their anterior extremity. Inferior]}', their palatine apophyses penetrate between the maxillary bones as far as the first molar teeth, leaving two incisive foramina, or rather fissures, which are about half the length of the apophyses themselves. The pointed extremities of the ossa nasi arch over the cavity of the nose nearly as far as the middle of the intermaxillary bones. Supe- riorly, the ossa nasi increase in breadth as far as the inner angles of the orbits, where they become joined with the lacrymals (3, 4, 5, 6), which descend to a considerable dis- tance upon the cheek, and enter almost as largely into the structure of the orbital cavity. The jugal (Jig. 495. 7, 8) advances upon the cheek as far forwards as the lacry- mal bone, and terminates beneath the middle of the orbit. This bone does not extend sufficiently far backwards to enter into the composition of the zygomatic arch, properly so called. It forms upon the side of the cheek, by its union with the maxillary bone, a broad, square ridge, which is continued backward as far as the commencement of the zygomatic arch. The palatine bone is deeply notched and very narrow, not extending forward beyond the penultimate molar tooth. This bone merely forms a narrow border around the meso-pterygoid fossa, but it composes more than two thirds of the pterygoid alae. In the floor of the orbit it mounts upwards, between the maxillary bone on one side, and the two sphenoids on the other, as far as the os frontis, but it does not come in contact with the lachrymal. The external pterygoid process of the sphenoid runs along the palatine externally, and extends beyond it, but the internal pterygoid process is dis- tinct from the sphenoid, forming a long and narrow tongue-like process, which, after having covered the lateral suture of the an- terior end of the posterior sphenoid, extends obliquely over the centre of the pterygoid process of the palatine, and proceeds to form a bony hook, situated upon the side of the great palatine fissure. Spinal column.—The cervical vertebrtB of the horse are, as in all mammiferous quadrupeds, seven in number; their proportions are mas- sive, and the whole series forms a chain of great strength and considerable flexibility. All the posterior vertebras of the neck have in the horse a square or oblong shape, and both the spinous and transverse processes are short and stunted, so as not to interfere with that freedom and extent of motion which is essen- tial in this portion of the spine. The atlas, as in man and other mammifera, presents characters peculiar to itself. The body of this bone is entirely suppressed, its place being supplied by the two articulating surfaces appropriated to the reception of the condyles of the occipital : the superior lamina are broad and flat, and the superior spinous apophysis is not developed ; whilst, instead of transverse processes, the vertebra is prolonged laterally into two broad alae, into which nu- merous muscles are implanted. In the horse it may be remarked that the entrance of the canals for the passage of the vertebral arteries, instead of being situated at the posterior edge of the transverse apophyses, is placed upon its upper surface, but in other respects this bone presents no peculiarity worthy of special notice. Axis. — The configuration of the second cervical vertebra in most quadrupeds differs considerably from what is met with in the human subject, owing to the horizontal direc- tion of the neck, and the unfavourable posi- tion in which the head has to be sustained. This difference is most remarkable in the arrangement of the spinous process, which, instead of being merely a prominent tubercle, as in man, is prolonged into a vertical crest that