1190 TUNICATA. rous, slightly prominent, annular or subellip- tical, without central cavities; the animals (3 to 25) are placed in a single row, at Fig. 769. Sigillina australis. {After Sarignt/.') A. Vertical section of a cone, or " system," showing the distribution o f the animals, magnified. B. Isolated individual, magni fied. C. Natural size of isolated individual. a, test, or external envelope ; b, branchial orifice ; c, anal orifice ; d, thorax; e, abdomen ; f, oeso- phagus; g, stomach; h, intestine; ;', thoracic sinus ; h, intestinal loop ; ovary; m, oviduct. equal distances from their common centre ; branchial orifice six-rayed ; division of the thorax and abdomen not always distinctly marked. Genus Sidnyum, Savigny. — Common body gelatinous, presenting a series of closely grouped cones truncated and starred at the summit, rising from a common incrusting base ; each cone composed of a fascicle of indi- viduals, varying in number from five or six to ten or twelve, and forming a margin around a depressed centre. The animals partake of the characters of those of Synoicum and Aplidium, resembling the former in the struc- ture of their stomach, ami the latter in their branchial sac. Each has an eight-toothed branchial orifice and a simple tubular vent folded against the thorax. The ovary is pe- duncled, and very conspicuous at the ex- tremity of the animal. (Forbes.) Genus Synoicum, Phipps.*—Common body semicartilaginous, cylindrical, peduncled, iso- lated or attached to similar cylindrical bodies; svstem single, circular, comprising six to nine animals, terminal; branchial orifice six- rayed; anal orifice having six very unequal rays, the three largest forming the exterior margin of the central star ; post-abdomen sessile. Genus Amaroucium, Milne-Edwards.—Com- mon body fleshy or coriaceous, polymorphous, subpedunculate or sessile, and incrusting ; systems numerous ; individuals arranged irre- gularly around common cloacal apertures ; divisions of the thorax and abdomina faintly marked. This genus resembles Aplidium and Synoicum in the general form of the animal, and Polyclinum in the presence of a central common cavity to each system {Jig. 782 ). The tribe Didenvnina (les Dideniniens, Milne- Edwards) is formed of all the compound Ascidians whose body is distinctly divided into two parts, thorax and abdomen. These closely approach the Clavtllince, and are dis- tinguished from the Polyc/inina by the absence of the post-abdomen and by the position of the organs of generation and the heart, which are raised up by the side of the intestine. This tribe, like the Polyclinina, is divided into two groups, according to the presence or ab- sence of marginal rays around the anal orifice. M. Milne-Edwards observes that the bistellate group (Di&tumus and Diazona) forms a con- necting link between the Clave/linos and the Botryllidce. Genus Distomus, Gaertnert; synom ms, Alcyonium, Auct., Polyzona, Fleming.— Com- mon body semi-cartilaginous, pol} morphous, sessile; s\stems numerous, usually circular; individuals placed in one or two ranks at un- equal distances from their common centre. Both orifices six-rayed. Genus Diazona, Savigny. — Common body gelatinous, orbicular, sessile or subpedunculate; system single, expanded into a disc, compara- ble to that of a flower or of an Actinia; animals very prominent, arranged in con- centric circles (Jig. 770.) ; branchial and anal orifices six-rayed ; abdomen peduncled ; ovary enclosed in the intestinal loop. Genus Didevmum, Savigny.—Common body coriaceous, polymorphous, sessile and incrust- ing ; systems numerous, compressed, without central cavities or distinct circumscription ; animals without any appreciable order of arrangement; abdomen peduncled; ovary placed by the side of the intestinal loop, in- creasing in length when the eggs are fully developed. Genus Euccvttum, Savigny. Common body gelatinous, sessile and incrusting ; systems numerous, without central cavities or distinct * Voyage towards the North Pole, 1773, p. 199, pi. 18. t Gaertner, apud Pallas, Spicilcgia Zoologica, 1774.