768 SPINAL NERVES. to the lower third of the thigh before it enters its surface. The semi-membranosiis generally receives tivo or more branches: and from the lower is not unfrequently derived a branch for the ad- ductor magnus, which also receives a branch from the main trunk. The articular nerve is usually given about the middle; but as this nerve, in the majority of instances, is derived from the peronaeal, it will be described with that nerve. The peroneal nerve (external poplitaeal — external poplitaeal-sciatie) is more superficial, and not much more than a third the size of the posterior tibial. It is directed down- wards and outwards along the inner edge of the biceps muscle, behind the outer condyle of the femur, the outer head of the gas- trocnemius, and the outer and back part of the head of the tibia, to below the head of the fibula, where it divides into four branches, the anterior tibial, and musculo-cutaneous, the former being larger than the latter. The peronaeal nerve, during this course, gives off superficial cutaneous brandies, and occasionally deep articular: the former being represented by the peronceal cutaneous and peronceal saphanus, the latter by the superior and inferior external articular. The peronceal cutaneous proceeds from the back part of the nerve, generally an inch or two after its commencement. Having passed superficially with the trunk as far as its ter- mination, and having supplied the integu- ments in its course, it gives branches on the one hand to the integuments immediately on the outside of the external saphaenus, and on the other over the upper part of the pero- na?us longus, the middle terminal filaments extending below the middle of the leg, and communicating with cutaneous branches from the external saphaenus. The peronceal saphaenus (communicans fibu- lae— communicating saphaenus) usually taking its origin above and to the inside of the pe- ronaeal cutaneous, is directed downwards and inwards beneath the skin, and communicates with a corresponding branch from the pos- terior tibial to form the external saphaenus. This communication is very variable as to situ- ation, usually taking place below the middle of the leg, where it perforates the fascia, oc- casional!)', however, in the lower part of the poplitaeal space in front of the fascia. The nerve now and then runs quite distinct from its corresponding branch, which consequently in these instances entirely constitutes the external saphaenus. It is either very small, terminating about the middle of the leg, or divides opposite the lower part of the tendo Achillis into branches which pass over the lower part of the peronasus iongus to the skin of the external malleolus, where they communicate with small descending branches from the musculo-cutaneous ; and into those which supply the skin at the lower and outer part of the heel, communicating in the in- terval between the heel and malleolus with branches from the external saphaenus. The deep articular branches are external and internal, the one arising above the other. They are thus described by Mr. Ellis*: — " The superior external articidar nerve, arising either from the trunk of the sciatic or the external poplitaeal in the case of a high divi- sion of the sciatic, is a long slender nerve, which descends deeply into the poplitaeal space, under cover of the biceDS muscle, nearly as low as to the outer condyle, then passes from the space beneath the tendon of the biceps, reaches the superior articular artery, which it accompanies to the front of the joint, and supplies the synovial membrane of the articulation. The inferior external articular, more fre- quently a branch of the external poplitaeal than of the sciatic, is also a long nerve close to the biceps, and has the same direction as the preceding ; but it extends lower down, passing beneath the tendon of the biceps, and below the condyle of the femur, to the artery of the same name, and it divides on the outer side of the articulation into many branches that extend forwards, perforate the capsules, and supply the synovial membrane. The anterior tibial nerve (interosseous nerve), rather larger than the musculo-cuta- neous, passes from beneath the extensor com- munis digitorum, having previously perforated the deep surface of the peronaeus longus, to the interosseous membrane, which it crosses obliquely downwards, forwards, and inwards ; and a little below the middle of the leg is placed in front of the corresponding artery. It continues to accompany the vessel beneath the annular ligament, passing first to the in- side of it, then to the outside, and again to its inside, while behind the annular ligament it divides into an internal and external terminal branch. The nerve in this course is placed first between the tibialis anticus and extensor communis digitorum ; then between the former and the extensor proprius pollicis, and lastly between the extensor pollicis and the extensor communis digitorum. In its course from the leg to the ankle the anterior tibial gives off branches to the different muscles between which it passes ; and also one or two delicate satellite filaments to the anterior tibial ves- sels. The terminal branches are both rather deeply seated. The internal deep branch, the continuation of the trunk in reference to di- rection, but not to size, being smaller than the external, passes beneath the dorsal artery of the foot and the tendon of the extensor brevis destined for the great toe, gives fila- ments to supply the inner part of this muscle, and reaches the first interosseous space, send- ing a few twigs to the first interosseous muscle. At the anterior part of this space it communi- cates with the musculo-cutaneous, and ter- minates by dividing into two branches destined for the opposed sides of the first and second toes. The external deep branch passes obliquely * Ellis's Demonstrations of Anatomy, p. 675.