SMELL. 60S to solids, from air to solids, from solids to air, &c.; and many such changes usually take place, before the vibrations originating in a sonorous body are communicated to the sen- tient extremities of the auditory nerve. The same is the case with heat, light, electricity, and other agents whose transmission is be- lieved to be dynamical : that it is not the case in regard to odorous emanations must be regarded, therefore, as a powerful argument against the idea of their dynamical nature. Another argument may be derived from the well-known fact, that odorous emanations re- quire such a time for their propagation, as corresponds rather with the diffusion of the odoriferous medium itself, than with the mere conduction of vibrations. Thus, in a house in which free communication is established throughout by passages, staircases, &c, but in which the course of air is not very direct from one part to another, any strong odour set free in one spot will be gradually diffused through the whole house, the rapidity being governed by the circumstances which favour or obstruct the movement of air. On the other hand, the transmission of sonorous un- dulations, which merely throw the air into vibration, is not dependent upon its move- ment, and is, indeed, but little influenced by it. This argument is, perhaps, yet more cogent than the former, and may be regarded as conclusive against the dynamical theory of odours. It is not difficult to explain many of the apparent inconsistencies which attend the material theory. The varieties of the olfac- tive power among human beings are quite sufficient to prove, that a substance which is strongly odorous to one individual may not produce any impression on the smell of an- other, whose scent for other substances may nevertheless be very acute. And there is strong reason to believe that there is a great diversity in this respect amongst dif- ferent species of animals, some appearing en- tirely insensible to odours which strongly affect others. That we do not appreciate an odour, therefore, is no proof of its non-exist- ence ; and we have no right to say of any volatile or gaseous substances, that they are not odorous, but simply that they are not odorous to us. Again, the sense of smell, like the other senses, is rather relative than positive ; that is to say, it rather estimates a change in the condition of the surrounding medium, than its actual permanent state. This is fully proved by the fact that persons who habitually dwell amongst odours of any one kind, become, in time, entirely insensible to them, although their olfactive sense may re- main of its full acuteness in regard to any different scent. This being the case, we at once perceive that water, oxygen, nitrogen, and carbonic acid could not, in accordance with the general laws of sensation, possess any odour to animals whose organs of smell are constantly imbued with them. We shall presently find that the moisture of the olfac- tory membrane is a necessary condition of its functional power ; and thus neither fishes, which have their olfactory surface con- stantly bathed in water, nor air-breathing ani- mals, whose pituitary membrane is lubricated with it, could take cognisance of any odorous properties which it might really possess. In like manner, the nasal cavities of animals being continually filled with a mixture of oxygen, hydrogen, and carbonic acid, these gases cannot excite the olfactive sense ; whilst on the other hand, we can easily imagine that if animals were adapted to breathe hydrogen or its strongly odorous compounds, they would be insensible to the latter, whilst they might distinguish oxygen, nitrogen, or carbo- nic acid by their respective odours, just as readily as we distinguish phosphuretted, sul- phuretted, or carburetted hydrogen. Although it is through the atmosphere that odorous emanations are most readily conveyed, yet there can be no reasonable doubt that they may be transmitted through water also. Thus we find fishes provided with a complex organ of smell, which seems to be of considerable importance in directing them towards their prey. This may be infer- red, not merely from the fact that the olfactive ganglia and nerves are of large size relatively to the rest of the eneephalon, but also from the circumstance, well known to fishermen, that many fish are particularly attracted, by odorous bait. Some anglers are even in the habit of scenting their bait with essential oils, in order to render it more alluring. The general structure of the organ of smell in man has already been described (Nose) ; but some particulars recently ascer- tained by Messrs. Todd and Bowman re- specting the minute anatomy of the pituitary membrane, and the structure and distribution of the olfactory nerve, are too important to be passed by. That the true sense of smell is specially, if not exclusively, the endowment of the upper portion of the organ, has been inferred by anatomists from the limited dis- tribution of the olfactory nerve, and by phy- siologists from the fact that odours are only perceived strongly when the odoriferous air is drawn into the upper part of the cavity. The lower part of the nasal cavity is pro- perly to be regarded as the orifice of the respiratory passages ; it is extremely sensitive to irritants, but it does not participate in the discrimination of odours properly so called ; and its mucous membrane is covered with a ciliated columnar epithelium. On the other hand, the limits of the olfactive region " are distinctly marked by a more or less rich sienna-brown tint of the epithelium, and by a remarkable increase in the thickness of this structure compared with the ciliated region below ; so much so, that it forms an opaque soft pulp upon the surface of the membrane, very different from the delicate, very trans- parent film of the sinuses and lower spongy bones. The epithelium, indeed, here quite alters its character, being no longer ciliated, but composed of an aggregation of superposed nucleated particles, of pretty uniform appear-