VENOUS SYSTEM. HOB rests upon the first rib, the scaleni muscles, and the phrenic nerve, which descends be- tween the vein and the scalenus anticus mus- cle. Contrary to what is observed in the case of the axillary and of most other veins of large size, the branches which join the subclavian vein do not correspond to those which are given oflF by the subclavian artery. The collateral branches of the subclavian vein, are the external and internal jugular veins; the former joins it on the outer, and the latter on the inner side of the sterno-mastoid mus- cle. The subclavian vein not uncommonly receives the vertebral also, although, as has been stated, this vein is most frequently a tributary of the brachio-cephalic trunk. Brachio-cephalic veins. ( Vena innominata, Meckel.) — These veins, one on each side, are formed by the union of the internal jugu- lar with the subclavian vein ; they are appa- rently of the same size, but are contrasted in other essential particulars, as they are ex- amined on the right and left side: thus they will be found to differ from each other in length and in direction, as well as in their connexions with surrounding parts, as also in the number of collateral branches which they respectively receive. The rigid vena innominata is comparatively short, and nearly vertical in direction ; it is placed behind the cartilage of the first rib, and is related externally to the right pleura and internally to its corresponding artery, the arteria innominata ; the vein and artery how- ever are not in close apposition, and the right pneumogastric nerve is found in the interval between them, but deeper than both; fila- ments of the cardiac nerves also are inter- posed between them.* The left vena innominata, more than twice as long as the preceding, traverses the upper part of the anterior mediastinum almost hori- zontally from left to right, but at the same time with an obliquity downwards and slightly forwards. It is placed behind the first bone of the sternum, from which it is separated hy the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and by the thymus gland ; and bending across the three primary branches of the aorta, slightly overlaps the anterior surface of the arch itself towards the right side. Imme- diately below the cartilage of the first rib and on the right side of the mesian line, the innominate veins unite to form the superior vena cava. Collateral brandies. — The vertebral is in general the only vein which terminates in the right vena innominata, for although it does occasionally occur that the inferior thjroid and internal mammary veins join the vena in- nominata on their respective sides, yet in the great majority of instances these veins ter- minate differently on the right and left side : on the left they almost invariably open into * At the moment of its formation the right vena innominata is placed anterior, and inferior, to the first stage of the subclavian artery ; between them, however, we find the mammary artery, and the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. the corresponding vena innominata, whilst on the right they as constantly open into the vena cava superior. It is not very uncom- mon for the left vena innominata to receive all the inferior thyroid veins ; and the left superior intercostal vein, which is usually connected by a large collateral branch with this vein, sometimes, but more rarely, termi- nates directly in that vessel. Inferior thyroid veins. — Although generally described as consisting of two principal trunks, one for each side, these veins very often con- sist of as many as four or more branches, which, arising from a plexus of veins in the interior of the thyroid gland, emerge from its lower border and descend on the front of the trachea, covered by the deep layer of fascia and by the infra-hyoid muscles, to open into the left vena innominata. These veins lie in a well-defined triangular space of much sur- gical importance, which is bounded on the one side by the innominata, and on the other by .the left carotid artery, whilst its third side, which represents the base of the triangle, is defined by the lower margin of the thyroid body : the apex is constituted by the con- vergence of the arteries which form its sides, to the arch of the aorta ; and in this latter direction, the space above described is some- what encroached on by the left vena inno- minata. Sometimes the thyroid veins of op- posite sides unite to form an arch across the trachea, and in some few instances they open into the transverse branch of communication which sometimes unites the anterior jugular veins of opposite sides. Internal mammary veins. — These, yvhich constitute "venae comites" to the trunk of each internal mammary artery, are formed by branches which correspond w ith those which emanate from that vessel. Very frequently the two vessels unite in a single trunk, which ends, as has been stated, in the vena inno- minata on the left side, and in the vena cava on the right. Vena cava superior. — This great vein re- ceives all the blood from the head and neck, and from the upper extremities; it is formed by the union of the two brachio-cephalic veins, and extends from the lower margin of the cartilage of the first rib on the right of the sternum, to the upper and posterior part of the right auricle of the heart where it terminates. Shortly after its formation, the superior vena cava enters the pericardium. That portion of the vein which is without the pericardium (and which is of very small extent) is invested by a sheath of the fibrous layer of that membrane, whilst its intra-pericardial stage is completely invested by the serous membrane, which it serves to convey to the surface of the heart. In its entire course this vein describes a curve, the convexity of which is related to the right pleura with the inter- vention of the pericardium, whilst the con- cavity touches the aorta ; the pericardium is anterior to it, and the pulmonary artery of the right side passes behind it. The principal collateral branch of the thoracic vena cava is