SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. 745 female rnammse; except, as Aristotle expresses it, in such animals as resemble their mothers* : that is to say, in other words, that there were a few exceptional cases. Subsequent authors have stated the same concerning male solipeds in general")", although none stated in what the resemblance consisted, or where the mamma; in those furnished with them were situated ; so that even Button asserted it as a fact, that the male solipeds had no vestiges of mammae. Daubenton, however, having previously dis- covered the situation of these organs in the male ass, was led from analogy to expect their presence in the horse likewise, and soon detected them, but situated in a very unusual position, — namely, upon the prepuce of the animal. The prepuce of the stallion is found to form a kind of prominent ring around the aperture through which the penis is protruded, and it is upon this circular protuberance, close to the sides of the scrotum, that the mam- mas are situated. These organs are two in number {fig.5\8.ff), situated at a distance of about half an inch from each other, and are easily distinguishable from the circumstance of the skin being raised into a papilla around each nipple, in the centre of which there is a shallow depression. It would seem, however, that in old horses the presence of these ru- dimentary mammae becomes less apparent. In the mare, the mammary glands are situ- ated between the thighs at a distance of about i nine inches in front of the vulva. The nipples are only two in number, one on each side of the mesial line, and their distance from each other is not more than an inch and a half. As in the goat and many herbivorous quadrupeds, all the lactiferous ducts form, in the base of each gland just above the root of the nipple, a large hollow cavity, which is divided by an internal septum into two chambers, one situ- ated in front, and the other behind ; from each chamber a separate duct is derived, which passes along the nipple as far as its extremity, where it terminates. The orifices of these canals are situated, one behind, the other about a line, apart. It is owing to the presence of the reservoirs thus formed by the cavities of the mammary glands, that the lacteal secretion is permitted to accumulate in considerable quantities, until required for the nourishment of the young, or removed by human agency for the purpose of procuring the milk, which is frequently employed as an article of diet. Bibliography.— Buffon et Daubenton, Histoire Naturelle, torn. iv. 4to. Paris, 1753. Cuvier, Anato- mie Compare. Clark, Braci/, A Series of original Experiments on the Foot of the living Horse, 4to. 1809. Clark, Bracy, Sectional Figure of the Horse, with Remarks on certain Properties of Ids general Framing, 4to. London, 1813. Stubbs, Georpe, The Anatomy of the Horse, London, fol. 17CG. Bourgelat, Ele'mens de 1'Art Vete'rinaire. Lafosse, Cours d'Hip- piatrique. Vitet, Me'decine Ve'te'rinaire, Lyons, 1783. (7'. Rymer Jones.) * Equi mammas non habent, nisi qui matri similes prodiere. — Arist. de Partib. Anim. lib. iv. cap. 9. ■f Solidungula mascula mammas non habent prceterea qiue matribus similia sunt.— Eai, Synops. method. Anim. quad. &c. p. 04. SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE (part of the sixth pair of the older anatomists ; part of the eighth pair of Willis ; nervus accessorius ad par vagum; nervus accessorius Willisii; the eleventh pair of Soemmering ; the beinerve of the German anatomists). This nerve is attached to, or, as it is more commonly expressed, arises from, the lateral surface of the cervical portion of the spinal chord close to the posterior roots of the spinal nerves ; and it lies between the pos- terior roots of the spinal nerves and the ligamentum denticulatum. On entering the cranium by the foramen magnum, it continues to receive additional roots or filaments of origin from the medulla oblongata. It com- mences by a very slender filament, most ge- nerally opposite the fifth or sixth posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and in its passage upwards to the interior of the cranium, its bulk is gradually increased by additional fila- ments of origin from the lateral surface of the spinal chord and from the medulla ob- longata. The filaments arising from the spinal chord pass upwards and a little for- ward to join the trunk of the nerve, so that it lies a little nearer to the ligamentum den- ticulatum than the attachments of the fila- ments forming it. After it enters the cranium by the foramen magnum, it runs forward, outward, and upward, places itself in close apposition to the posterior surface of the par vagum, and escapes from the interior of the cranium, through the foramen lacerum posterius, along with the vagus and glosso- pharyngeal nerves. The roots of the acces- sory that arise from the medulla oblongata are placed in the same line with the lower roots or filaments of origin of the par vagum; and the upper roots of the former approach so closely to the lower roots of the latter, that it is frequently difficult to say with con- fidence where the roots of the one nerve end and those of the other begin. {Fig. 521, 3, 5.) Previous to the time of Willis, anatomists considered this nerve as constituting a part of the vagus, and to him is due the credit of first pointing out clearly the grounds on which its separation from the vagus rests. Very great discrepancy exists in the descrip- tion of the origin of this nerve given by the best anatomists. This is explained, not only by the fact first pointed out particularly by Scarpa*, that its filaments of origin are at- tached over different extents of the spinal chord in different individuals, and sometimes to a greater extent on one side than on the other in the same individual, but also by its lower roots or filaments of origin being so slender that they sometimes cannot be ac- curately traced by the naked eye. Willis himself describes it as commencing by a very slender beginning near the sixth or seventh cervical nerve.f Scarpa ascertained that its * Abhandlnng liber den zum aehten Paare der Gehimerven hinlanfenden Beinerven. In den Ah- handlung der rom. K. K. Josephinischen Med. C-hir. Academie, Band i. Wien, 1787. f Cerebri Anatome, &c., Caput xxviii. p. 294. Amstelodami, 1666.