932 incisors were in normal number TEETH. 3—3 3=3' whence the term Hexaprolodon proposed for this inter- esting restoration by its discoverers, Cautley and Falconer. I have before remarked that the even-toed or artiodactyle Ungulate superacid the cha- racters of simplified form and diminished size to the more important and constant one of vertical succession in their premolars. These teeth in the Ruminants, e. g. (Jig. 580., VII., Moscnus,^. 2, 3,4), represent only the moiety of the true molars,or oneof the two semi-cylin- drical lobes of which those teeth consist with at most a rudiment of the second lobe, as Cuvier very accurately describes*, and F. Cuvier figures in pi 94. of his useful work, " Dents des Mammiferes." An analogous morphological character of the premolars will be found to distinguish them in the dentition of the genus Sits (figured in my "Odontography," pi. H0.,Jigs. 1 and 2), in the Hippopotamus (ib. pi, 143.), and in the Phacochcerus (ib. pi. 141.), where the premolar series is greatly reduced in number: yet this instance of a natural affinity manifested in so many other parts of the organisation of the artiodactyle genera has been overlooked in F. Cuvier's work above cited, although it is expressly designed to show how such zoological relations are illus- trated by the teeth. Confiding in the accuracy of the Baron Cuvier's division of the hoofed quadrupeds into " Pachyderms " and " Rumi- nants," M. F. Cuvier separates the non ru- minant Artiodactyles from the ruminant ge- nera of the same natural division by interposing the Tapir, Hyrax, Rhinoceros and Elephant ; whilst the horse, which, in the size and com- plexity of its premolars, as well as in many other characters, agrees closely with the other perissodactyle Pachyderms, is placed in close juxtaposition with the Ruminants, f Most of the deciduous molars of the Rumi- nants resemble in form the true molars; the last, e.g. (Jig. 593., d. 4), has three lobes in the owerjawf like the last true nio!ar(/«. 3.). They Fig. 593. -d Permanent and deciduous teeth, Sheep (Ovis). (Lower jaw.') are three in number on each side, and, being succeeded by as many premolars, the ordinary , „ , . 3—3 3—3 permanent molar formula is p. ^—^, m. —- : * Ossemens Fossiles, 4to, torn. iv. p. 6. f See my " Remarks on the Classification of the Hoofed Quadrupeds " in "Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society," May, 1848. t When, therefore, the third grinder of the lower jaw of any new or rare Ruminant shows three lobes, the crowns of the premolars should be sought for in the substance of the jaw below these, and above but there is a rudiment of d. 1 in the embryo fallow-deer, and in one of the most ancient of the extinct Ruminants (Dorcat/icrium, Kaup) the normal number of premolars was fully de- veloped. Sufficient, it is hopc-d, has been adduced to prove that the molar series of the Diphyo- donts is naturally divisible into only two groups, premolars and molars; that the ty- 4 4, 3 3 pical number of these is -—- -—- ; and that 1 4—4' 3—3 each individual tooth may be determined and symbolised throughout the series, as is shown in the instances under cut 580. If anything were wanting to prove the artificial character of a three-fold division of these teeth, and the futility of any other classification than that founded upon development, it would be af- forded by the attempt to determine the homo- logous teeth which is exemplified by the dotted line which traverses the series, and which crosses the teeth distinguished by the name " principales" in the great " Osteo- graphie and Odontographie" now in course of publication by Prof, de Blainville. This author abandons the classification of the molar series adopted by the Cuviers, without assigning his objections to it ; and proposes another, in which he divides the series into " avant-molaires, principalesy and arriere-molaires;" he exemplifies this division by the human dentition, in which the five grinders on each side of both jaws are for- mulised as " deux avant-inolaires, une princi- pale, et deux arriere-molaires."* With regard to the characters of these kinds of teeth, the avant-molaires are "simple or complex," the principale is " trenchant," and the arriere-molaires are " tuberculous." -f But as shape is not a constant character, especially in the " principale," the author pro- poses another from its position, describing it as " being implanted below the root of the zygomatic process of the maxidary bone " in the upper jaw ; and stating that the tooth which opposes it below, and is in advance of it, or crosses in front of it, is the lower " principale." In defining the dentition of the genus Fe/is%, M. de Blainville accordingly assigns 1 " avant- molaire," 1 " principale," and 2 " arriere- molaires " in the upper jaw ; and 1 " avant- molaire," 1 " principale," and 1 " arriere-mo- laire " in the lower jaw. In another part of the same work §, he. however, proposes another formula, viz., 2 " avant-molaires," ] " princi- pale," and 1 " arriere-molaire " above ; 1 " avant-molaire," 1 " principale," and 1 " ar- riere-molaire " below; but, taking either of these determinations, or the dental formula which he assigns to other carnivorous genera, and comparing them with his formula of the their opponents in the upper jaw; and thus the true characters of the permanent dentition may be ascertained. * Osteot^rapbie, torn. i. p. 43. t lb. p. 43. j Osteographie des Carnivores, p. 69. § Osteographie des Felis, p. 55.