SPLEEN. 782 rectly recognised it; although Oesterlen, Re- mak,and Handfield Jones had already detected isolated facts having a reference to it. Oester- len * was the first who found in the spleen of frogs and toads, and with less distinctness in that of the mammalia, yellow, rose-red, and black minute corpuscles, but he was not in a condition to explain them. Remak followed next without greater success ; he found in the spleen-pulp of the calf delicate trans- parent vesicles, with 1 to 3 round, reddish- yellow homogeneous bodies, the colour of which approximated to that of the blood corpuscles, but which were not so easily swollen out by water. Finally, Handfield Jones f discovered peculiar yellow corpuscles in the spleen of different vertebrata. All these facts are placed in their true light by my discovery that blood corpuscles are almost constantly undergoing dissolution in the spleen and disappearing. This will be shown as follows : — The red pulp of the spleen in man and animals exhibits at different times a different Fig. 531. 1 Cells containing blood corpuscles from the spleen of the Rabbit, magnified 350 diameters. 1, cells with one, three, four, and seven unchanged blood corpuscles; 2, cells with blood corpuscles undergoing dissolution, and coloured in different shades of brown or yellow (coloured granule cells) ; 3, cells with destroyed and decolorized blood globules, larger or smaller, and with or without granules; 4, blood globules altered in colour, di- minished or destroyed, either single or aggregated, in small clumps. In 1, 2 and 3 the following letters signify alike: — a, more or less unchanged blood globules; c, co- lored granules begun by a diminution or destruc- tion and alteration of colour in blood corpuscles; d, colourless granules produced by the discolor- ation of c; e, nuclei of the cells containing blood corpuscles and their metamorphoses ; /, nucleoli of these nuclei. colouring, or rather a different condition of the blood corpuscles contained in it, and * Loc. cit. p. 52. t London Medical Gazette, Jan. 1847, pp. 140- 142. these, without any participation of the other elements, affect its colour by the different nature of their appearances. Thus, in a par- ticular animal or in the human subject, this sub- stance sometimes possesses a paler or more greyish red, sometimes a brown, or even black-red colour : in the latter case a quan- tity of altered blood globules are present, the appearances of which will hereafter be de- scribed ; while in the former case, it may easily be proved by the microscope that the red colour depends on unaltered blood globules, which are easily separated from the pulp by pressure, and on the application of water give off all their colour in a short space of time. In other animals, the spleen has always about the dark colour mentioned : nevertheless, even in these cases, sometimes only un- changed blood globules are seen ; sometimes many of these are undergoing the most manifold changes. Now these changes (>/?g.s.531,532.) are very extraordinary and peculiar, and in all animals depend essentially upon these facts. The blood globules first become at once smaller and darker, while the elliptical corpuscles of the lower vertebrata also become rounder : then, in connection with some blood plasma, they become aggregated into small round heaps; which heaps, by the appearance of an interior nucleus and of an outer membrane, experience a transition into spherical cells containing blood corpuscles. These are from 5 to 15-1000ths of a line in size, and contain from 1 to 20 blood corpuscles {figs. 531. 1. 532. 1.) During this time the blood cor- puscles are continually diminishing in size, and, assuming a golden yellow, brownish-red, or dark colour, they undergo, either imme- diately or after a previous dissolution, a com- plete transition into pigment granules. So that these cells themselves are changed into pigmentary granule-cells ; and, finally, by a gra- dual loss of colour of their granules, they form themselves into completely colourless cells (figs. 531. 3. 532. 4.). In respect of the more special circumstances of this process, it is first necessary to con- sider the commencement of the cells de- scribed, and their changes, somewhat more in detail. As regards the first of these, it is certain that the cells containing the blood corpuscles do not commence directly around a nucleus, but by the circumposition of a membrane around a heap of coagulated blood: in the same way, to wit, that the so-called inflammatory globules of Gluge in certain cases change themselves to cells ; or that by which the smaller globules of fission of the yolk form themselves into vesicles. On the other hand, it remains doubtful whether the nuclei which are seen in these cells are there before the formation of the membrane, or whether they only begin as supplementary to it. If the former be the case, one might add that, in the extravasated or clotted blood of the spleen, nuclei arise in consequence of the commencing organization, each of which then, like the nuclei in the fission of the yolk,