TOUCH. 1163 TOUCH. — The sense through which we tendons, ligaments, fibrous membranes, and take cognisance of the palpable properties of in other parts whose function is purely me- bodies. The term is used, however, in two chanical, we find very little vascularity, and meanings, between which it is requisite to extremely little sensitiveness to ordinary im~ maintain a due discrimination. In its ex- pressions; it is remarkable, however, that tended acceptation, it implies our conscious- although the tissues, whose function it is to re- ness of all those sensory impressions, which sist tension,are scarcely impressible by cutting, are neither olfactive, visual, auditory, nor burning, &c., they cannot be unduly stretched gustative ; and it is therefore designated as without considerable pain. So, also, the serous the general sense, in contradistinction to and synovial membranes are not in the least those, which are considered as sjiecial senses, susceptible of ordinary tactile impressions in In its most limited application, on the other their healthy state ; but they become acutely- hand, it is used to designate that modification sensitive when inflamed. It does not at all of the general sensibility, which is restricted follow, however, that the sensibility of a part to the tegumentary surface, or to some special should increase with its vascularity; for we portion of it, and which serves to excite find that some of the most vascular organs in definite ideas in our minds respecting the the body are the least sensitive, the supply of form, size, number, configuration, weight, tern- blood which they receive having some pur- perature, hardness, softness, &c, of objects pose entirely different. Thus the sensibility brought within its cognisance. The use of of the muscles is by no means proportionate the sense of Touch, in the acquirement of to the large amount of blood which they re- these ideas, is, as we shall see hereafter, a ceive ; and even the substance of the brain very complex process ; involving not merely (like that of the nerves of special sensation) the discriminating employment of the proper is destitute of this property. So, again, the organs of touch, but also the assistance of mucous membranes lining the interior of the muscular action, and of the information de- several viscera, though supplied with blood rived from it by the " muscular sense." even more copiously than the skin, are very General Sensibility. — The most universal far inferior to it in sensibility. The depend- of all the qualities or properties of matter ence of this endowment, however, wherever (that, in fact, upon which our notion of it exists, upon the continued circulation of it is founded) is resistance; and it is of the blood, is at once made apparent by the this quality that we find the power of cog- results of its suspension ; thus, when the nisance most extensively diffused through main artery of a limb is tied, there is a dimi- the body, and most universally possessed by nution of the sensibility both of its surface all beings endowed with consciousness. It and of its substance, which is so exactly would seem to require nothing else than the proportioned to the degree in which the sup- presence of nerves connected (directly or ply of blood is diminished, and the reco- indirectly) with sensorial centres ; for there very from which takes place so precisely in does not appear to be a need of any special accordance with the establishment of the col- organisation, surrounding the peripheral ex- lateral circulation, that we cannot doubt that, tremities of these nerves, in order that they if the supply of blood were completely cut may receive and transmit impressions. Thus off, sensibility would be entirely suspended, any unusual pressure on a nerve in its course The numbness produced by cold, in like is at once perceived by the mind, — not, manner, is partly due to the stagnation which however, as pressure, but as a disagreeable or it occasions in the capillary circulation in the painful sensation, which gives no indication skin ; though it is doubtless in part attributable of the mode in which it was excited. The to the immediate depressing influence of the nerves of smell, sight, and hearing, are not cold upon the vital endowments of the ner- thus affected by mechanical irritation, no vous apparatus itself. manifestations of pain being exhibited when The general sensibility of the body may be they are pinched, torn, lacerated, &c.; and called into activity by impressions received the general sensibility which these organs of from objects external to it, or by causes ori- sense possess is dependent upon other nerves, ginating in itself; and the consequent sensa- The nerves of taste, however, exhibit the tions are sometimes distinguished as " ex- same susceptibility to tactile impressions, as ternal" and "internal." These designations do those of touch ; and hence we have an are by no means logically correct; for all additional proof of the very close affinity of sensations must originate in causes external these two senses (See Taste). to the recipient mind; whilst, on the other The only condition requisite for the ex- hand, in order that any sensation may be felt, ercise of " general sensibility," beyond the a certain condition of the corporeal organism integrity of the nervous apparatus, is the must first be produced ; and this condition adequate supply of oxygenated blood. Wher- may be precisely the same, whether it be ever sensory nerves exist, we find them ac- immediately dependent upon changes ori- companied by blood-vessels; and no non- ginating in the body itself, or upon changes vascular tissue possesses in itself the least impressed upon it from some agency external degree of sensibility. Thus, in the epidermis, to it. Still, however, the terms " external " hair, nails, cartilage, and tooth-substance, nei- and " internal " sensations are sufficiently con- ther nerves nor blood-vessels exist, and we venient, and sufficiently free from the pro- find these tissues completely insensible. In bability of misconception, to justify the phy-