SOLIPEDA. 721 Tarsus.— 3, 5, Astragalus or cockal bones; 7, os Calcis; 10, os Cuboides; 11, os Nayiculare;, 12, os Ciuieiforme. Metatarsus.—14, Upper extremity, and 15, lower extremity of the great metatarsal or cannon bone. 16, 17, rudimentary external metatarsal bone; 20, Sesamoid bone. Hind-foot.—22. Proximal phalanx, or great pas- tern ; 23. Middle phalanx, or lesser pastern, or coro- nary bone; 24, Last phalanx or coffin bone; 25, Sesamoid bone. The leg is in the Solipeda almost exclu- sively formed by the tibia, which is of great strength, and very massive towards its upper extremity, where the ridges for muscular at- tachment stand out in bold relief; inferiorly it becomes more slender, and approaches nearer to a cylindrical shape, expanding again inferiorly to form the articulating surface for the ankle joint. The fibula (Jig. 500. 1, 2.) is even more ru- dimentary in its development than the ulna in the anterior extremity, being, in fact, nothing more than a long spiculum of bone implanted among the muscles, and laid like a slender splint along the outer and posterior angle of the tibia, with which it is firmly connected by ligamentous attachments in the vicinity of the knee-joint, whence it descends separated by a small interval from the tibia as far as the middle of that bone, to which at this point it becomes closely applied, and then, gradually becoming more and more attenuated, is to- wards the lower third of the leg completely lost. The bones of the tarsus in the horse are, 1st, the astragalus, or " cockal-bone," as it is vulgarly named (Jig. 500. 3, 5.), the os calcis, or " heel-bone " (7), the cuboid (10), the navicular (II), the middle cuneiform and the lesser cuneiform (12). The internal or great cuneiform bone is here wanting, as also are the bones of the great toe, which, when pre- sent, it is destined to support. The bones of the metatarsus, like those of the metacarpus, are three in number,— viz. one large central or cannon bone, and two lateral rudimentary pieces. The central piece (fig. 500. 14, 15.), which supports the entire weight of the body, is apparently composed of the conjoined metatarsal bones belonging to the second and third smaller toes; in the human skeleton the line of demarcation between the two being indicated by a deep longitu- dinal groove: by its upper extremity this hone articulates with the three lower bones of the tarsus; while inferiorly it presents a smooth articular surface, whereby it supports the first phalanx of the foot. The external rudiment (fig. 500. 16, 17.) is an imperfect metatarsal bone, occupying the place of that which in the human subject supports the little toe : by its upper extremity it articulates with the cuboid bone of the tarsus, while inferiorly, owing to the deficiency of the cor- responding toe, it forms no articulation. The internal rudiment represents the metatarsal bone of the first of the small toes in the hu- man foot: superiorly it articulates with the lesser cuneiform bone of the tarsus (12), VOI,. IV. whence, as it descends, it gradually dimi- nishes in size, and is lost before it reaches the foot. The bones of the hind foot resemble those already described in the anterior extremity, and are distinguished by similar names, the first phalanx of the solitary toe being the great pastern, the second the little pastern or coronary bone, and the third, or that which supports the hoof, the coffin bone : there are likewise the sesamoid bones ("20), behind the articulation, between the cannon bone and the first phalanx, and also between the coronary and coffin bones (25). Myology.— The myology of quadrupeds k, in many points of view, a subject of particular interest, more especially in those races which are far removed from man in their general habits or in the configuration of their skeleton. In the case of the Solipeds, owing to the exceedingly aberrant structure of their extremities, the disposition of their muscular system becomes a very important subject of inquiry, and it is partly from this cause, and partly from the necessity of ob- taining an accurate knowledge of the anatomy of animals so valuable to mankind, that the my- ology of the horse and its congeners has been studied with great care, and delineated with extraordinary zeal and perseverance. It is for these reasons that we shall in the present article describe at some length this portion of their economy, premising that the details here given will be found more or less applicable to quadrupeds generally, except where obvious peculiarities of structure belong to the class which forms the more immediate subject of our study. Panviculus earnosus. — On removing the skin, the entire body is in most quadrupeds found to be invested with a muscular cover- ing, the thickness and consequent importance of which varies in different parts. In the human subject the traces of this fleshy pan- nicle are very feeble, being confined to certain regions,— such as the anterior part of the neck, the palms of the hands, &c.; but in the horse it forms a much more important investment, giving mobility to the integument, and ma- terially contributing to the support and de- fence of various organs. This fleshy covering is very thick in the anterior region of the neck, whence it extends downwards upon the anterior extremities, and, becoming tendinous, is extensively inserted in conjunction with the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, into the external surface of the hu- merus. From this point strong muscular fi- bres pass downwards over the muscles of the fore-arm, where they terminate in a broad fascial expansion which embraces the lower part of the fore-leg. Another strong portion of this fleshy tegument spreads over the sides and loins, where it degenerates into a tendino- membranous layer, extending downwards as far as the penis, which it likewise invests with a carneo-membranous sheath. It likewise en- cases the buttocks and thighs in a strong covering of fleshy and tendinous fibres, which 3 A