708 SOFTENING AND INDURATION. The colour of an indurated lung may be light or dark grey, or brown, and rarely pale. A section of a piece of indurated lung shows the circular apertures of the bronchi and larger blood-vessels, surrounded by a dense tissue in which no vesicular structure is seen. The fibrinous dense lymph which produces these changes frequently becomes the nidus for tubercular deposit. Partial indurations are found around tuber- cular cavities and abscesses, and around collec- tions of miliary, or of larger tubercular masses. In certain obstructive diseases of the heart the circulation in the lungs is so impeded, that effusion of blood, constituting pulmonary apoplexy, or effusion of lymph, producing general increase of density of the whole lung, may occur. Long continued pressure by a pleuritic effusion, has the effect of rendering the lung nearly solid and impervious to air. In treating of alterations in the cohesion of mucous, serous, and articular membranes, it is necessary to premise that they consist of a basement membrane sustaining epithelium cells and supported by sub-basement areolar tissue in which vessels, nerves, and absorb- ents, are found. The nutrition of the basement membrane and the proper development of the epithelium cells depend upon the amount and health of the fluid parts of the blood supplied to them by the capillaries of the sub-basement tissue. It is evident that any morbid state of this tissue will influence the integrity of the base- ment membrane and the epithelium cells ; and it is known that, for the most part, physical alterations of these last depend upon such morbid states, and that these changes are most likely to happen where the cellular structure is loose and considerable in amount. Softening has been found in all serous and fibro-serous membranes, and may be produced by inflammatory action and by a defective and perverted state of the general nutrition of the body. The lining membrane of the heart is fre- quently softened, being at the same time redder and more vascular than usual. It is occasionally so soft as to peel very readily from the muscular structure ; a like state of the pericardium exists with effusion of pus into its cavity. Softening of the internal membrane of the venous system is found of either a deep red or pale colour ; the tissue is very laeerable and breaks down into a pulp under the scalpel; it may be caused by phle- bitis, by the pressure of a considerable column of blood, especially when the valves have been obliterated ; and is found in cases of malignant fever, scurvy, and whenever the fluids are greatly altered. Post mortem softening is frequent enough to raise our sus- picions, and great allowance must be made for the macerating and colouring properties of the blood. Chronic softening of the internal membrane of arteries is occasionally found ; when so affected the serous tissue is easily laeerable, and such solutions of continuity are deter- mined by causes, which ought in health to have no influence. Portions of the interior lining membrane may be found retracted and rolled up within the canal, so that with the effusion of lymph which generally occurs at the same time, and the consequent coagula- tion of a small portion of blood, the artery may become completely obstructed and ob- literated in a part of its course. Occa- sionally, the arteries of the upper and lower extremities become thus affected in succes- sion, on the employment of the slightest exertion, indicating a very extensive affection of the nutrition of the arterial system. We find, in cases of anaemia, and where athe- roma is being deposited, considerable dimi- nution of the general tenacity of the large vessels. Softening of the arachnoid, peritoneum, and pleura is generally found where there is effusion of pus, or blood into the sub-base- ment tissue ; it rarely occurs when lymph is thrown out into the serous cavity, but seems to be a more advanced phenomenon of in- flammation, or, rather, is produced by inflam- mation of a more intense and destructive character. Dalmas ascribes nearly all serous softenings to diseased states of the subserous cellular tissue, and we find constantly that on account of the altered state of this cellular structure, the peritoneum and pleura may be stripped off large spaces of the parts they cover ; it is notorious, that in the pelvis sero-sanguineous effusion into the subserous cellular tissue, and consequent lacerability of the serous mem- brane, frequently occur. Pulpy degeneration of synovial membrane is a kind of softening with a perverted state of the nutrition of the tissue. Softening of mucous membranes is gene- rally produced by inflammatory causes : it is most frequently noticed, and is best studied, in the alimentary canal, part or the whole of which may be affected; it is most frequently observed at the end of the ilium, in the de- pending portion of the colon, and in the ceb- cum ; in the right and left hypochondriac re- gions, and in the sigmoid flexure. Softening of the mucous membrane in ge- neral, or of any one or more of its elements in particular, presents various degrees. In the first degree, the mucous membrane, instead of possessing that degree of cohesion which per- mits of its being detached from the submucous tissue, breaks as soon as it is seized between the fingers or blades of the forceps ; in the second degree, the edge of a scalpel, or the finger, pressed lightly over its surface, converts it into a soft and somewhat opaque creamy looking pulp ; and, in the third stage, it is so soft that it is removed with ease by a slight stream of water. In this stage portions of the mucous membrane are found partially or en- tirely destroyed, and having been removed by the fluid contents of the stomach or intes- tines, as the case may be, during life, the sub- mucous cellular tissue is thus found destitute