THORAX. 1031 3 u 4 set of ribs, the necks are the thickest and strongest. In the 11th and 12th ribs, the neck, according to our definition, does not exist. 3rd Of the tubercle. — As the tubercle ar- ticulates with transverse processes, those ribs which have no such articulation have no tu- bercle; this is the case in the 11th and 12th ribs. The tubercles are most prominent in the superior ribs, gradually degenerating, or be- coming less apparent, down to the 10th, where it is almost rudimentary. 4th Of the angle. — In strict anatomical lan- guage, the 1st rib has no angle, but the tu- bercle is very prominent, and gives the bone a very angular appearance, likewise in the 2nd, 3rd, 11th, and 12th ribs the angle is almost imperceptible, whereas it is well marked in the 4th, 5th, 0th, 7th, 8th and 9th ribs. (6) Groove {specific differences). — The groove is not perceptible in the 1st, 11th, and 12th ribs, but distinct in all the inter- vening ones. The 1st rib has two depressions separated by a tuberosity. The anterior corresponds to the subclavian vein, and the posterior to the artery of the same name. Costal cartilages. — The flexibility and elas- ticity of the ribs is partly owing to their struc- ture, but more especially to the cartilages which prolong them in front, (figs. 001, 002.) There are twelve costal cartilages distinguished numerically, as 1st, 2nd, 3rd, &c. ; they are separated from each other by intervals which are very considerable at the upper part of the thorax, but gradually diminish as we proceed downwards. It is not very un- common to meet with thirteen cartilages on one side, and at other times there are only eleven. Sometimes two cartilages are joined, and so aticulate with the sides of the ster- num ; when there are thirteen cartilages, the supernumerary one generally exists be- tween the 3rd and 4th ribs ; it is thin, and as it were rudimentary; it does not form the continuation of any rib, and terminates insen- sibly in the muscles. The cartilages from the 1st to the 7th articulate immediately with the sternum ; and hence the name of sternal given to ribs with which they are connected. Of the other five cartilages, the last two have no connection with that preceding them ; and from this circumstance, the name floating has been given to the last two ribs. General characters of the costal cartilages. — All the costal cartilages are flattened like the ribs, and precisely . resemble in breadth and thickness the bones to which they are attached. The external end is received into a cavity hollowed out in the anterior extre- mity of the lib; their internal or sternal ex- tremity, which is much narrower than the external, is angular and articulates with the corresponding angular surfaces of the ster- num, [fig. 001.) Their anterior or cutaneous surfaces are slightly convex, and covered by the muscles of the anterior region of the trunk, to many of which they give attach- ment. Their posterior or mediastinal surfaces are slightly concave. Their superior and inferior edges bound the intercostal spaces, and give attachment to the intercostal muscles. " They are," says Cruveilhier, " altogether distinct from articular cartilages, and have a peculiar tendency to ossify, this process taking place partly on the surface, and partly from within outwards." Differential characters of the costal carti- lages.— The costal cartilages, like the ribs, increase in length, from the 1st to the 7th, and sometimes the 8th, which in this case articulates with the sternum ; from this they diminish in length to the 12th rib When we recollect the conical shape of the thorax this difference is to be accounted for, and moreover, the osseous parts of the upper ribs terminate anteriorly in a line directed ob- liquely from above downwards and outwards. The sternum is only about half the length of the lateral pectoral space, so that only the first four or five cartilages could join this bone, did not the others turn upwards to reach its sides (fig. 001.), by joining the lower edge of the immediately superior cartilage. The first three cartilages alone, therefore, fol- low the same direction as the long rib to which they articulate. The first cartilage differs from all the others by its shortness, its thickness, and breadth, and its tendency to ossify ; it is often, but not always, continuous with the sternum. The 2nd and 3rd costal cartilages cannot be distinguished from each other, but they differ from the rest in being joined to the sternum at right angles, in not being bent, and in being as broad at their sternal as at their costal extremities. The 4th cartilage becomes bent upwards, after having followed the direction of the rib for a little way. (fig. 001. e.) The length and the curvature of the cartilages of the 5th, 0th, and 7th ribs progressively increase, and across their intercartilaginous spaces they fre- quently touch each other. Their inner ends become successively narrowed so as to cor- respond with the diminishing cavities on the edges of the sternum. The borders of the 5th, 0th, 7th, and 8th costal cartilages ar- ticulate together, and present for this pur- pose articular facets supported by emi- nences. The cartilages of the 8th, 9th, and 10th ribs gradually diminish in length. Ex- ternally they have the same breadth as the rib, and decrease as they pass inwards, so as to terminate by a pointed extremity, which is applied to the lower edge of the cartilage above. The cartilages of the 11th and 12th ribs are extremely short, particularly that of the 12th, which is only a mere tip to the bone, and seldom exceeds four or five lines in length ; their free extremity loses itself, so to speak, in the substance of the abdominal parietes; so that they are altogether uncon- nected with the other cartilages. Liability of the costal cartilages to ossify. — The 1st cartilage usually becomes more or less ossified in adult age, and is often anchy- losed to the sternum. After the middle period of life, osseous matter is likewise deposited