1008 TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). siderable firmness and consistency ; the tunica albuginea is thickened, and in some places as dense and indurated as cartilage ; and the surfaces of the tunica vaginalis are closely connected by old adhesions. The glandular structure is partly displaced and atrophied by the pressure of the yellow matter ; and it often happens after some time, that both undergo a slow process of wasting, so that an enlarged and indurated gland is progressively reduced, until scarcely any thing remains beyond a mere nodule of the size of a nut at which the spermatic cord terminates. I found, on examination of the body of a man who some few years previously had suffered from chronic inflammation of the testicles, both glands much indurated, but about the natural size. In both, the tubular structure was very deficient, its place being supplied by a dense fibrous tissue. At the upper part of the right testicle there was a yellowish de- posit almost as dense as cartilage, and ex- hibiting very little trace of vascularity. In these indurated testicles the epididymis often escapes the morbid alteration affecting the body of the gland ; in other cases, however, the epididymis is also found nodose, irregular, and hard. It will be perceived, from the pre- ceding observations, that the tendency of this chronic disease is gradually to destroy the integrity of the testicle. If the inflamma- tion be checked in an early stage, the gland is left unimpaired ; if its course be not arrested until a later period, the secreting structure is partly disorganised and reduced in size; but if the disease be allowed to continue un- checked by treatment, the organ is totally destroyed, either by ulceration of its tunics and the escape of the glandular structure in the shape of a fungous growth, or by the slower process of wasting and absorption. Syphilitic orchitis is essentially of the same nature as the chronic orchitis just described. It commonly commences in the body of the gland and rarely terminates in suppur- ation, or in the production of a hernial fungus. Sir A. Cooper states that in the majority of cases the disease attacks both testicles. The eight examples recorded in his work do not, however, bear out this remark; for in only two of them does it appear that both organs were attacked. According to my observation, the disease is more commonly confined to a single gland, though it occasion- ally affects both: this appears to be the opinion also of Ricord.* The appearances on dissection correspond with those observed in chronic inflammation. Tubercular Disease. — In the testicle,^ this deposit is met with in the crude state, form- ing a yellow caseous substance similar to the tubercular matter occurring in the lymphatic glands. It is sometimes developed in a single mass ; at other times several distinct deposi- tions are formed in different parts of the organ : in both cases at the expense of its glandular structure, which becomes atrophied * Traite Pratique des Maladies Ve'nc'riennes, p. 640. as the disease advances. The epididymis is more frequently affected than the body of the gland. In a specimen taken from a man who died of phthisis, I found the whole of the epididymis occupied by tubercular matter, with scarcely any trace of tubuli; whilst the body of the gland, though small, was perfectly sound and unaffected. (Jig. 652.) In some Fig. 652. cases I have seen two, three, or more distinct tubercular deposits, separated by portions of healthy gland. This was the case in both testicles removed from a middle-aged man who died of phthisis. In some instances these isolated masses appeared to be con- tained in cysts formed by the processes from the tunica albuginea which separate and sup- port the lobules. Sometimes the separate deposits seemed to be coalescing and joining together, so as to form one continuous mass ; and I have found a single mass of tubercular matter surrounded by glandular structure ex- panded into a thin layer. In other specimens the whole testicle was occupied by a homo- geneous cheesy mass, without any trace re- maining of the original structure of the gland. In some instances in which the disease was thus advanced, there was very little increase in the size of the testicle; it only felt heavier and harder than in the natural state. In others, again, there was either a general uni- form enlargement, or an irregular swelling at some part, commonly at the head of the epi- didymis. Some of these testicles, in which the disease was not much advanced, when injected made beautiful preparations, the yellow inorganic tubercular matter contrasting in a marked degree with the vermilion hue of the intervening sound portions of the organ. On several occasions I found a small quantity of serum in the tunica vaginalis, with partial adhesions and depositions of lymph. In a further stage of the disease, the characteristic deposit becomes softened down, and converted into a yellow pultaceous substance, evidently tubercular matter mixed with pus. The ab- scess extends to the scrotum ; and after it has burst and the matter has escaped externally, cavities and sinuses are left which may be said to resemble the tubercular cavities in the lungs. The course of the disease, however,