VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1315 sequently, only when restricted by artificial interference, that a male and a female of different species are disposed to copulation with each other. The hybrid offspring of this act partake of the characters of both the parent stocks, but are deficient in genera- tive power; so that, although a mule may be fertile when paired with an individual of either of the parent races, it is seldom or never fertile with one of its own kind. Thus the peculiarities introduced by hybridity are speedily merged into those of the parent stocks ; and no new race has ever been known to originate from this kind of union.* 14. Among all those races which are en- titled to rank as varieties only, the jihysiological conformity is often closer than the structural ; thus, as Dr. Prichard has pointed out " the great laws of the animal economy, all the principal facts which relate to the natural and vital functions, the periods and duration of life, the economy of the sexes, the pheno- mena of parturition and reproduction, are, with slight deviations resulting from external agencies, constant and uniform in each par- ticular species." 15. So, again, among the varieties of the Fig. 803. Negro of Bournou. {From a portrait taken points of difference are never obliterated. But among these types we should find so wide a diversity, that we should naturally be led to question their relationship to each other and to ourselves ; and should seek to determine whether these differences are in- herent and unalterable in each race, so as to * It is not quite certain whether mule or hybrid Animals have ever produced fertile offspring "when matched with each other; but it is quite certain that if a second generation of hybrids has thus been engendered, a third lias never been, the race having no capacity for perpetuation. Among Plants, the limits are wider, a third and even a fourth genera- tion having been thus sometimes produced; but there is obviously a want of fertility, and a conse- quent tendency to extinction, in all hybrid races whose parents are specifically different. same species, there is, with subordinate dif- ferences, such as can be traced to external agencies, and particularly to human influence, a very close psychical conformity ; the capa- cities of the several races being fundamentally the same, although varying in their degree of relative development. III. General Survey of the Diversities, in Physical and Psychical Charac- ters, presented by the different Races of Mankind. If it were possible to bring together under one view, characteristic examples of every type of Human conformation which the pro- gress of Ethnological research has hitherto made known, it would be found that they all accord in the peculiarities by which Man has been shown (Sect. 1.) to be dis- tinguished from even the highest of the Quadrumanous order ; and that, notwith- standing a certain amount of approximation which is presented to that order in the aspect of certain human countenances (Jigs. 803, 804, 805.), and even in the habits of life of cer- tain tribes, yet the essential and fundamental Fig. 804. under the direction of Prof. Milne-Edwards.) forbid the idea of any essential modification, either in the past or the future, from the in- fluence of external circumstances ; or whe- ther there is any probable evidence that they may have been produced by those external agencies, which we have seen to possess such a remarkable power of altering the conforma- tion, and even the instinctive propensities, of domesticated animals. Such is the first ques- tion which we should have to answer ; and in a. practical point of view, as influencing our conduct towards the races which differ more or less widely from our own, it is undoubtedly the most important. But the physiologist and the zoologist seek to attain a more positive scientific determination of this rela- tionship ; and since, if such a determination 4 p 2