982 TESTICLE (NORMAL ANATOMY). divide and inosculate in the cord, forming a plexus termed vasa pampiniformia. These communications cease as the veins approach the ring, which they enter, and ascending along with the psoas muscle in company with the spermatic artery, unite to form a single vein which usually terminates on the right side in the vena cava inferior, and on the left, in the renal vein; though this is subject to some variety. The left spermatic veins pass under the sigmoid flexure of the colon. Many anatomists speak of the spermatic veins as being destitute of valves, which they assign as one of the reasons for the occurrence of varicocele. I have several times injected these veins with alcohol, and on laying them open have observed valves in the larger vessels, and I have also found injections thrown into the veins arrested by the valves. They are seldom seen, however, very near the testicle, or in the smaller veins forming the plexus; nor have I observed them within the ab- domen. Absorbents. — The absorbent vessels of the testicle are very numerous, and arise from every part of its internal structure and coats. They unite to form four or five trunks, which ascend along the cord, and traverse the in- guinal canal, without communicating with the glands in the groin, but pass upwards in front of the psoas muscle, behind the peritoneum, and terminate in the lumbar glands on the side of the aorta. Nerves. — The nerves of the testicle are derived chiefly from the renal plexus, but partly also from the superior mesenteric and aortic plexuses. These nerves descend in company with the spermatic artery to the cord, where, being joined by branches from the hypogastric plexus, which pass along the vas deferens, they form together the spermatic plexus, the branches of which are intermingled with the vessels of the cord, and ultimately terminate in the substance of the testicle. A few twigs from the external spermatic nerve may also be traced to the coverings of the gland. The Testicle in the Foetus, and its Passage into the Scrotum. — The testicles are first de- veloped and situated in the abdomen. They originate from the lower part of the corpora Wolffiana, and may be detected at an early period of fcetal existence immediately below the kidneys on the forepart of the psoas muscles, to which they are attached by a reflexion of peritoneum. This membrane closely invests the testicles in the same man- ner as it covers the other abdominal viscera. The position of the testicle in the abdomen is nearly the same as it maintains after its passage into the scrotum. The epididymis, however, is relatively of a larger size than in the adult, being about one-third that of the body of the organ. Attached to each testicle whilst in the abdomen is a peculiar body, which was termed by Mr. Hunter, who first described it, the gubernaeulum, as it was sup- posed to serve as a guide to the testicle in its passage. It is a soft solid projecting body of a conical form, which varies somewhat in shape and size at different periods of transi- tion of the testes, becoming shorter and thicker as the gland approaches the abdo- minal ring. It is situated in front of the psoas muscle, to which it is connected by a reflexion of peritoneum. Its upper part is attached to the inferior extremity of the testicle, lower end of the epididymis, and commencement of the vas deferens. The lower part of this process passes out of the abdomen at the abdominal ring, and diminishing in substance and spreading, terminates in three processes, each of which has a distinct attachment. The central part and bulk of the gubernaeulum is composed of a soft, transparent, gelatinous substance, which, on examination by the mi- croscope, is found to consist of nucleated cells, the primitive areolar tissue : this central mass is surrounded by a layer of well-deve- loped muscular fibres, which may be distin- guished by the naked eye, and which can be very distinctly recognised in the microscope to be composed of striped elementary fibres. These muscular fibres, which may be traced the whole way from the ring to the testicle, are surrounded by a layer of the soft elements of the areolar tissue, similar to that composing the central mass ; and, in the same way as the testicle, the whole process, except at its pos- terior part, is invested with peritoneum. On carefully laying open the inguinal canal, and gently drawing up the gubernaeulum, the muscular fibres may be traced to the three processes, which are attached as follows: the external and broadest is connected to Pou- part's ligament in the inguinal canal; the middle forms a lengthened band which escapes at the external abdominal ring, and passes to the bottom of the scrotum, where it joins the dartos ; the internal takes the direction in- wards, and has a firm attachment to the os pubis and sheath of the rectus muscle. Be- sides these, a number of muscular fibres are reflected from the internal oblique on the front of the gubernaeulum. It thus appears, that the attachments of the muscle of the guber- naeulum, and those of the cremaster in the adult are exactly similar. I have succeeded in tracing out the former before the testicle has moved from its original position, at dif- ferent stages of the process of transition, and immediately after its completion ; and of the identity of the two muscles no doubt can be entertained. Cams was of opinion that the cremaster does not exist before the transition of the testicle; but that it is formed mecha- nically, by the testicle pushing before it the lower fibres of the internal oblique, so as to form the loops of this muscle.* This view which has been adopted by M. Jules Cloquet, and after him by many of the anatomists of this country, is erroneous and inaccurate,"]" The vessels of the testicle in the foetus * Compartive Anatomy, by Gore, vol. 2. p. 347. t Vide Obervations on the Structure of the Gu- bernaeulum, and on the Descent of the Testis in the Fcetus, by the author, in Lond. Medical Gazette, April 10. 1811, or in the Lancet, of the same date.