951 TERATOLOGY. 3 p 4 with the genital organs, just as in the cases of imperforate anus just mentioned (Meckel, Burns), or with an open anus, as in the cases of Zhryham, Oliver, and Bonnet; this condi- tion approaches the nearest to the natural state, Fig. 602. Hypogastric region of a Child, which lived, twenty-two days, with vesica inversa, Sec. a, a, congenital umbilical hernia; b, umbilical cord; c, c, the separated halves of the vesica urinaria, with the urethral orifices; d, anus; e, e, penis epi- spadiacus; /. frenulum; g, cutaneous appendage to the closed auus. if the urinary bladder is complete (Martin) ; 2. The rectum may be separate, while the uri- nary bladder remains fissured and fused with the genital organs (Meckel, Gross); 3. The fissured urinary bladder may be separated from the anus, without taking up the ureters, which then open themselves into the rectum (Meckel, Oberteuffer). In some cases the outlets of these three apparatus are found not on a flat surface, but in a cavity. The cloaca, existing previously on the surface of the body, is then removed from it and folded in, so as to form a cavity. In another degree of malformation the cavity is formed, and the uropoietic and generative organs are completely separated from each other; but the rectum, being a distinct organ, is nevertheless in connection with one of the said parts, by means of a sort of canal. In the female sex this communication is found between the rectum and vagina (fistula ani vaginalis congenita); in the male sex between the rectum and urinary bladder (fistula ani vesical^ congenita). The transition towards the natural state is nearest when the rectum opens into the Urethra ; to this condition, when it is complicated with an imperforate anus, Papendorp has given the name of atresia ani urcthralis. b. Congenital fissure of the urinari) bladder.— Without a cloaca, and'with a perforate anus, the interior surface of the posterior part of the bladder may lie exposed on the hypogas- tric region ( 'prolapsus, inversio, jissio vesica'). It then forms a red, spongy tumor, situated somewhat above the separated pubic bones, and involving the umbilicus, so as to give the appearance of a deficiency of the um- bilical cicatrix. In male children the ori- fices of the vasa deferentia are to be found on the inferior part of the tumor. The ure- thral orifices are papillary eminences on the naked internal surface of the bladder. The urine drops continually out of them, but may sometimes be seen to issue in a small stream. The pubic bones are widely apart, sometimes with an interspace of four inches. They have no intermediate cartilage, but are merely united together by a ligament, without form- ing a synchondrosis. The consequence of this is a very peculiar reeling in the walk of the malformed subject, and a great disposition to inguinal hernia, due to the absence of suf- ficient support at the interior surface of the body. The penis is fissured on its superior surface (epispadias). The testes are, even in adults, very small, and often retained in the abdomen or in the inguinal canals. The seminal vesicles, the prostate and the vasa deferentia, offer various deviations. In the female sex the labia majora and minora are separated and without a commissure at their upper part. The vagina is often closed or very narrow. The anus is more protruded than in the natural condition. Sometimes the penis is epispadiac, with a well-formed urinary bladder. In such a case, Bonn found, nevertheless, the pubic bones apart, but united by a ligamentous texture. Although the continual dropping of the urine is a very annoying disturbance, which I contrived to remove by the means illustrated in Jigs. 603 and 604 , and although the .generative organs are very incomplete, this malformation is not dangerous to life, which in several cases has been remarkably protracted. Fig. 603. Hypogastric Region of a living Child, with vesica inversa. a, internal surface of the urinary bladder; h, um- bilical cicatrix ; c, c, urethral orifices; d, epispa- diac penis; e, scrotum.