971 TERATOLOGY. the left of the other, proceed towards the an- terior and posterior aspects, and are there connected with an anterior and posterior sternum. The best idea of the construction of this osseous fabric may be formed by sup- posing the two complete chests of two bodies to be set one against the other, and that then the anterior extremities of the right ribs of the right body, and those of the left ribs of the left body, unite with one sternum and pull it forwards, while, in the same manner, the left ribs of the right body, and the right of the left, unite on the posterior aspect with the other sternum, and carry it back- wards. The consequence is, that the two vertebral columns are turned away from one another, and that the parts above and below the thorax are double. By the formation of this common thorax, the lateral is distin- guished from the anterior duplicity, in which the thoraces are commonly connected only by the points of the sterna, and, as to their cavities, are separate. And with these diffe- rences of external construction, others not less important, of internal arrangement, coin- cide, which fully justify the separation of the two forms, however similar the external ap- pearances of many of the examples of either may be. The numerous varieties of lateral duplicity may be divided into two principal sets. The first begins with the complete duplicity of the whole body, and ends with its perfect sin- gleness ; in the second, the duplicity of the body remains, but the head gradually becomes single. The forms included herein, of which 1 have given ample accounts elsewhere, may be briefly summed up as follows. 1. Complete duplicity: — all the external parts and sometimes the abdominal and pelvic viscera double, — one common double-sized thoracic cavity, formed in the manner just described, and containing four lungs, and (in all cases with which I have been acquainted) only one heart. The examples of this form are very numerous, and are to be met with in all the large museums of Europe. 2. In the examples of this second group, which exhibits the first step towards single- ness, one of the sterna may be traced in a succession of specimens, becoming gradually narrower, and permitting a closer approxima- tion of the two corresponding upper extremi- ties, till, in some examples, they are com- pletely united, and there are found only three limbs above, with three or four below. The two juxtaposed scapulae, for example, are merged into one, or they remain separate, but have only one humerus between them, and this splits below, to articulate with two fore-arms ; or there is but one fore-arm, and this bears supernumerary fingers. In short by a great variety of modes there is a general tendency towards union of two of the upper extremities. 3. In the third group we have a repetition of the same series of changes in the lower limbs, as in the second was traced in the upper; here, as there, presenting numerous varieties, in the last and lowest of which only three lower limbs, and the third of these ill- formed, are found. 4. The third limb has now gradually disap- peared, and, with a complete duplicity above the pelvis, there are but two limbs below it, and these well formed. In this class is placed, with many others, the Ritta-Christina monster, described by Serres, which lived to eight months, and the still more remarkable ex- ample mentioned by Buchanan, of a two- headed man, 28 years old, who lived in the reign of James III. of Scotland. 5. The union proceeding, and this simpli- city of the lower part of the body being re- tained, examples come next in which the upper parts also are united ; the two super- fluous upper limbs being united into one, pre- senting a single upper-arm, with a double fore-arm and hand, or a single upper-arm, fore-arm, and hand with ten fingers, or only a mal-formed limb, or a mere projection, occu- pying the place of the superfluous limbs. 6. Even this last indication of duplicity of the upper parts ceases, a scapula only remains, or this also is absent; and next, one of the sterna having disappeared, and the vertebral columns having been connected on the corre- sponding side by their respective ribs united into single arches, these now become gradually shorter, and the columns approach each other more and more nearly, till they are connected by only a cartilaginous substance in the place of ribs, or are at some part fused together. 7. In this next group both the upper and lower parts of the body are single ; the ver- tebral column is single below the cervical region, or exhibits only a trace of duplicity (to which something similar is often presented by the sternum), but at the cervical region becomes double, and on each portion bears a head. Of thlj also I have published many examples. 8. In the eighth group the extent of th;it cervical part of the column which is double becomes less and less. 9. In the ninth group, the two heads are seated on an apparently single neck, in which all the cervical vertebrae are single, or only bear traces of duplicity, except the first two, or the first alone. 10. Hitherto the duplicity of the head was perfect; in this group the two heads also begin to coalesce, and, in a considerable num- ber of cases, gradations are traced in which the adjacent ears are very closely approxi- mated, and the heads are united behind. Then there are cases in which one ear only is placed between the adjacent surfaces of the two heads, and this disappears gradually, and at last totally. Next in order are the cases in which the adjacent ears being lost, the two adjacent and middle eyes first become very close, and then occupying one orbit finally coalesce. Next come those cases in which there is such a union of the heads, that the two upper jaws are articulated with one lower jaw; and, lastly, those in which the head is doubled only in individual parts or in which