1089 THYMUS GLAND. portion of the thymus, the platysma myoides and external jugular vein are first turned aside, and the origins of the sterno-mastoidei muscles are raised; when this has been accom- plished, the sterno-hyoidei appear covering and passing over the thymus gland. The sterno-thyroidei muscles . . . cover this organ anteriorly; but when they are removed, the cervical portions of the thymus are seen on the anterior and lateral parts of the trachea, and just below the thyroid gland, where it passes on the fascia on the fore part of the air tube, and unites with the larynx by liga- ment." " The internal jugular veins are placed an- teriorly and laterally to the cervical portion, and the carotid arteries, with the par vagum, appear more externally." " The first bone of the sternum and sternal ends of the clavicle cover the junction of the cervical with the thoracic portion of this gland." " In many of the subjects which I have ex- amined, the cervical portion of the thymus passes higher upon the right than on the left side, and I have generally seen it joined by a ligament to the larynx, and by vessels to the thyroid gland." In a human foetus, at about the fourth-and- a-half month, I found the thymus consisting of two lateral portions, of which the right was the larger (in another of similar age the left was); this portion extended downward, lying upon the pericardium, as far as opposite the Fig. right auricular appendix, and reached upwards only to the left brachio-cephalic vein, which it did not cross ; the left extended downwards, over the pericardium, to a point opposite the middle of the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and passed up, lying upon the vena transversa, and afterwards upon the side of the trachea, be- tween it and the common carotid, till it arrived at the level of the bifurcation of the arteria innominata. The appearance of the gland in the foetus about the middle of utero-gestation is precisely similar to that of the salivary gland in the same; it is beautifully lobulated, and sur- rounded by an atmosphere of nascent areolar tissue. In the more perfectly formed con- dition it is surrounded by an envelope of coarse cellular membrane, which penetrates the intervals of its larger divisions, unites the right and left portions together, and forms a general envelope, by which it is connected to the surrounding parts. In examining the structure of the thymus, we are conducted by two eminent guides to conclusions almost identical, though by dif- ferent modes of proceeding. This coincidence is of great value, and we can scarcely enter- tain a moment's doubt of its being founded on real truth ; it may therefore be well to notice separately the modes of investigation above referred to. Sir A. Cooper, by skilful manipulation, suc- ceeded in unravelling the gland, and showed each lateral part to be composed of a 721. The right and left thymus gland injected with wax and. partially unravelled. In one are seen the rope, the lobes, and the cells, in the other the communication between the thoracic and cervical portions. {After Sir A. Coyper.) 4 A