14-83 VOICE. the base of the cranium. By placing the finger on the pomum Adami this motion can be easily felt, and at the same time the thyroid cartilage is drawn up within the os-hyoides, and presses on the epiglottis; the small space between the thyroid and cricoid closes, the pharynx is contracted, the velum palati is de- pressed and curved forward, and the tonsils approach each other : the reverse of these phenomena takes place during the descent of tiie voice. These are the principal pheno- mena common to most mammalia which can be recognised by external observation; the other changes being, on account of their situ- ation, invisible. The effects of these variations on the tone of the voice have been hitherto little under- stood. It has always appeared incomprehen- sible why the vocal tube should apparently increase in length in the production of the acute tones, and shorten in the grave ; a cir- cumstance which theoretically presents an acoustic paradox. Dodart and many ethers have conceived the elevation of the larynx to be merely for the purpose of shortening the vocal tube in the supra-laryngeal cavity, and have considered the trachea as producing no effect on the pitch of the tone. Majtndie has also pointed out the shortening of this part of the tube. In order to ascertain the effect of these changes, the following expeii- ments were made on the dead body. Having laid bare the vocal organs of an adult male, I raised the larynx to the position it would occupy by the elevation of the voice to an octave, being about half an inch, and at the same time minutely observed the position of the lowest ring of the trachea with reference to the sternum. By this operation 1 found the trachea was raised out of the chest, nearly to the same extent as the larynx had been elevated towards the base of the skull. The next step was to examine whether any change had taken place in the diameter of the tube. For this purpose, having measured the diame- ter of the trachea in its natural position, the larynx was again elevated to the same extent as before, when the diameter was found diminished one-third. These experiments prove that, contrary to the general precon- ception, the elevation of the larynx shortens the tube independently of the contraction between the thyroid cartilage and os-hyoides, and at the same time lessens its diameter. The same effects may easily be detected dur- ing life by placing the finger on the trachea immediately above the sternum during the elevation of the larynx, when the trachea is found to ascend out of the chest, and after- wards to return to its former position ; a movement in which the lungs and bronchi participate. The alteration of the tube in diameter may also be perceived by grasping the trachea with the finger and thumb during the elevation and depression of the larynx.* These movements are so striking as to lead * Essays by the author, in the London and Edin- burgh Philosophical Magazine, for September, Oc- tober, and November, 1836. irresistibly to the conclusion, that there exists a constant adaptation between the tension and the vibrating length of the thyro-arytenoid ligaments and the walls of the vocal tube, in the production of tones of the ordinary re- gister; for we have seen that the variations of the vocal cords, at least as far as relates to the modulation of sound, are perfectly in- dependent of the length of the vocal tube, and consequently the changes in its length which we have just described are not at all necessary for that purpose. Again, the vocal tube is so short, that, as has been ascertained by Weber and others, it could not, were it rigid, affect the pitch of the note produced by the glottis. As however this tube is com- posed of flexible materials, its effects are similar to those observed in M. Savart's ex- periments ; that is, the relaxed state of the parietes compensates for its want of length, and enables it to vibrate synchronously, and therefore to give forth sounds equally grave with those of the glottis, thereby reinforcing the tone which would indeed be produced, though with much less intensity, without this aid. The Falsetto, or voccdi testa, has always been considered a most embarrassing subject of re- search, and its peculiar quality has excited the attention both of the physiologist and of the musician. Its most remarkable characteristic consists in its being less reedy in tone, and partaking nearly of the quality of the har- monic sounds of stringed and wind instru- ments. The change produced in the voice when passing from the falsetto into the com- mon tone, or the reverse, is in some persons very sensible to the ear, whilst in others it is almost imperceptible. Some individuals, more- over, have the faculty of producing in the same pitch as many as eight or ten tones, possessing either the falsetto or the common character. The falsetto has been generally ascribed to some particular adaptation of the upper liga- ments of the larynx. Dodart * has attempted to prove that it is a supra-laryngeal function, and that the nose becomes the principal tube of sound instead of the cavity of the mouth. Bennatif also considered these tones as being modulated by the supra-laryngeal cavity alone. This hypothesis, however, is untenable, since it supposes the column of air not to be in- fluenced by the trachea, which is contrarj to experience. In order to detect some of the movements of the larynx while the voice is passing from the first to the second, or falsetto register, it is only necessary to place the point of the finger in the crico-thyroid chink, when it is found that at the moment the transition from the primary to the secondary register takes place, this chink, which was closed dur- ing the production of the highest note of the ordinary register, suddenly opens on the pro- duction of the first note of the falsetto register, and consequently the thyro-arytenoid liga- ments are relaxed at the same'moment the * Mem. de 1'Acad. 1707. t Recherches sur le Mecbanisme de la Voix humaine.