1328 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. have conquered, or by the introduction of Georgian or Circassian slaves into their harems. But the cause suggested is plainly inadequate to the effect. For we know that in the Christian countries subjugated by the Turks, the conquering and the conquered races have been kept from properly domestic intermixture by mutual hatred, fostered by their difference in religion and manners ; and although Greek, Georgian, and Circassian females have been introduced into the harems of those who could afford to purchase them, yet any other modification which has been effected by their means must have had but an insignificant effect upon the mass of the population, since the pure Turkish descent of the poorer classes must have been but little interrupted, and universal experience shows that if the " cross-breeding " be not kept up, any new element introduced into a race speedily disappears. Even admitting that some modification may have been thus engen- dered, we cannot fairly attribute to it more than a very trifling share in the result ; since the effect of intermixture would simply have been to produce a hybrid or intermediate race, instead of the entire substitution of the elliptical type, which now manifests itself among the comparatively civilised Western Turks, whilst those which inhabit Central Asia, and retain the nomadic habits of their ancestors, have retained also their cranial conformation. Another instance of the same modification is to be found in the Magyar race, which forms a large part of the population of Hun- gary, including the entire nobility of that country. This race, which is not inferior in physical or mental characters to any in Europe, is proved by historical and philolo- gical evidence to have been a branch of the great Northern Asiatic stock, which was ex- pelled about ten centuries since from the country it then inhabited (which bordered on the Uralian mountains), and, in its turn, ex- pelled the Slavonian nations from the fertile parts of Hungary, which it has occupied ever since. Having thus exchanged their abode, from the most rigorous climate of the old Continent,—a wilderness in which Ostiaks and Samoiedes pursue the chase during only the mildest season, — for one in the South of Europe, amid fertile plains abounding in rich harvests, the Magyars gradually laid aside the rude and savage habits which they are recorded to have brought with them, and adopted a more settled mode of life. In the course of a thou- sand years, their type of cranial conformation has been changed from the pyramidal to the elliptical ; and they have become a handsome people, with fine stature and regular Euro- pean features, with just enough of the Tartar cast of countenance, in some instances, to recal their origin to mind. Here, again, it may be said that the intermixture of the con- quering with the conquered race has had a great share in bringing about this change ; but a similar reply must be returned ; for the existing Magyars pride themselves greatly on the purity of their descent ; and the small infusion of Slavonic blood, which may have taken place from time to time, is by no means sufficient to account for the complete change of type which now manifests itself. The women of pure Magyar race are said by good judges to be singularly beautiful, far surpass- ing either German or Slavonian females. A similar modification, but less in degree, ap- pears to have taken place among the Finnish tribes of Scandinavia. These may be almost certainly affirmed to have had the same origin with the Lapps*; but whilst the bitter re- tain (although inhabiting Europe) the no- madic habits of their Mongolian ancestors, the former have adopted a much more settled mode of life, and have made considerable ad- vances in civilisation, especially in Esthonia, where they assimilate with their Russian neigh- bours. And thus we have in the Lapps, Finns, and Magyars, three nations or tribes, of whose descent from a common stock no reasonable doubt can be entertained, and which yet exhibit the most marked differences in cranial characters, and also in general con- formation, the Magyars being as tall and well- made, as the Lapps are short and uncouth. Another instance of the same kind, which is still more remarkable if it can be entirely substantiated, is the conversion of the Geor- gian and Caucasian nations from the pyra- midal or Mongolian to the elliptical or Indo- European type. The designation Caucasian seems to have been given to the latter on the following most unsatisfactory ground. " Blu- menbach had a solitary Georgian skull ; and that solitary skull was the finest in his collec- tion, that of a Greek being next. Hence it was taken as the type of the skull of the more organised divisions of the species. More than this, it gave its name to the type, and introduced the term Caucasian." f Now the fact is, that the Georgian and Circassian * This proposition, which is supported by the almost unanimous voice of the learned historians of Germany, was assailed a few years since by Profs. Nilson, Retzius, and other Scandinavian savans, who endeavoured to prove by archseological and anatomical evidence, that the origin of the Finnish race was not the same with that of the Lapps, but that it was more nearly connected with the Swedish nation, which is a northern branch of the great Indo-European family. Much of the archseological evidence adduced, however, is capable of receiving a directly opposite interpretation; and the philo- logical evidence, derived from the comparative study of the Finnish and Swedish languages, shows that the basis of the former was essentially peculiar to it, and that the nature of the modification which it has undergone from Swedish influence, indicates a con- siderable advance in civilisation previously to the subjugation of the race by foreign invaders. Dr. Latham, the latest authority on this subject, ex- presses himself very decidedly as to the affinitv of the Finns, Lapps, and Hungarians, whom he ranks with the Voguls, Ostiaks, and Permians, as off-sets of the Ugrian branch of the Turanian (Mongolian) stock.—See his Natural History of the Varieties of Man, p. 100. j- Latham, op. cit. p. 108.