TESTICLE (ABNOKMAL ANATOMY). 987 might readily be mistaken for an additional testicle. Morgagni mentions that he was once deceived by a portion of omentum. In the pathological collection at St. Thomas's Hos- pital is preserved the testicle of the eccentric Dr. Monsey, who appeared during life to be supplied with three of these glands. The sup- posed additional testicle consists of an in- durated fibrous tumour attached apparently to the tunica vaginalis. Many instances of manorchides, or persons having only a single testicle are also mentioned by the old authors ; but as the data are very imperfect, and as little was known respecting the transition of the testicle at the time these cases were recorded, they must be viewed with great suspicion. They were most pro- bably cases in which one of the glands was either retained within the abdomen, or, from some cause had been completely atrophied. I know no satisfactory reason why a defici- ency of one or both testicles should not occasionally occur without any other mal- formation ; but they are anomalies of which there are few authentic examples in the annals of medical science. Mr. Paget has published the particulars of a case in which he believes one testicle was deficient at birth.* No account of the man is attached to the particulars of the dissection, and it is open to question whether the deficiency of the gland was not the result of atrophy. Dr. Fisher, of Boston "f", has recorded a more satisfactory example of absence of both testicles. The de* ficiency was remarked from birth, and the sub- ject of the malformation was regarded as a na- tural eunuch, and died at the age of forty-five. Mr. Thurnham has published an account of the dissection of an infant who died at the age of four months. In addition to an atrophied condition of the right kidney, and a remark- able malformation of the ureters, it was found that neither of the testicles had descended. The right lay in the abdominal cavity, just above the inguinal canal. On the left side no testicle would appear to have been formed; the spermatic vessels on this side terminated in a little mass of fat; the vas deferens, how- ever, was present, and was apparently as well developed as that of the perfect testicle. J A case of monstrosity is related by Dr. Friese in Casper's Wochenschrift.$ The child lived only half an hour: in addition to the absence of the external genital organs, there were neither testes, vasa deferentia, nor vesiculse seminales. Cases, however, in which the whole of the genital apparatus is deficient or irregularly formed, do not come within the scope of this article. Geofiroy St. Hilaire has recorded a remarkable, and so far as I know, unique case of union of the testicles in the abdomen. || * London Medical Gazette, vol. xxviii. p. 817. \ American Journal of the American Sciences, vol. xxiii. p. 352. \ London Medical Gazette, vol. xx. p. 717. § Dec. 25. 1841. Quoted in the British and Fo- reign Medical Review for April 1842, p. 527. || Hist, des Anomal. de l'Organ. t. i. p. 542. Deficiencies and imperfections of the vas deferens. — In Mr. Paget's case of supposed absence of the testicle it is stated, that the vas deferens terminated nearly opposite the external ring in a rounded cul-de-sac; and in Dr. Fisher's case of deficiency of both testicles, that the vasa deferentia, though properly formed and nearly of natural size, terminated in cul-de-sacs at the end of the cord. In the museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, there is a preparation taken from a man fifty years of age, who died of strangulated hernia. A piece of intestine was strictured by a band of adhesion connected with the mesentery, and the testicle was detained in the upper open- ing of the ring. On dissection of the parts, the vas deferens was found to terminate near the testicle in a cul-de-sac. The gland was very small, and its structure appeared granular like the undeveloped testicle of a youth. There was no trace of the epididymis. Mr. Hunter in dissecting a male subject found the vasa deferentia not only deficient near the testicles, but terminating below in a single irregularly formed vesicula seminalis, and having no com- munication with the urethra.* There are a few other cases on record, in which the vas deferens has been defective at the extremity which joins the ejaculatory canal. Thus, Tenon, in the dissection of an infant affected with extraversion of the bladder, found that the vasa deferentia terminated separately at the bottom of the pelvis, in two white tuber- cles : the scrotum, testes, and vesiculas semi- nales were in a natural state, f But besides these imperfections at its two extremities, this duct has been found wantingthroughout nearly its whole extent. Brugnoni mentions, that in dissecting the parts of generation in a robust man, from twenty-six to twenty-seven years of age, he found the right epididymis almost entirely absent, the only part remaining being the head, which formed nodules filled with semen. The rest of the epididymis and the vas deferens were wanting, without any mark of disease. The testicle was perfectly sound, and nearly of the same size as the left one. On examining the corresponding vesicula seminalis he found at its anterior extremity a portion of the canal of the vas deferens about an inch in length, and properly formed. The vesicula seminalis itself was flaccid and quite empty ; whilst the left was full of semen. He remarks, that although this vicious conforma- tion was according to all appearances con- genital, nevertheless the vesicula seminalis and ejaculatory canal had preserved their natural cavities. J In a case related by Bosscha, the left vas deferens of a robust man terminated in a blind extremity near the testicle, the rest of the canal being wanting. There was the rudiment of a left vesicula seminalis in the * Works by Palmer, vol iv. p. 23. t Mem sur quelques Vices des Voies Urinaircs, &c. n Mem. de 1'Acad. Roy. des Sciences a Paris, 1761, p. 115. X Observ. Anat. sur les Vesicules Seminales. Me'm de l'Acad. Roy. des Sciences a Turin, 1780, and 1787, p. G25.