SOLIPEDA. 732 which it is inserted, above the origin of the stylo-hyoideus. The other muscles of this region exhibit no peculiarities worthy of notice. The muscles of the tongue, of the palate, and of the larynx, are in most quadrupeds strictly comparable to those of the human species. Muscles of the Face. — These, from the con- formity of their general arrangement with what exists in man, are distinguishable by the same names as are employed in human an- atomy. Fig. 504. Facial Muscles of the Horse. {After Sir CharhsBeU. ) a, orbicularis palpebrarum ; b, d, cutaneous slips which raise the outer and the inner commissures of the eyelids; c, depressor of the lower eyelid; e, zygomaticus ; f, g, levator anguli oris alfeque nasi; h, elevator of the upper lip; i, dilator na- rium; k, nasal cartilage ; /, m, orbicularis oris; n, masseter. The epicranius, or occipito-frontalis, exhibits the usual origin from the posterior part of the cranium, whence, running forwards, it covers the skull with its tendinous aponeu- rosis, and, in front, spreads in muscular slips upon the forehead, some of which (fig. 504. /) extend downwards, to spread over those of the orbicularis palpebrarum. Situated upon the outer side of the orbit there is another descending slip of muscle (fig 504. rf), apparently derived from the lateral muscle of the cartilage of the ear which, by elevating the external can thus of the eye, contributes much to the expression of that organ. The orbicularis palpebrarum (fig. 50+. a a) arises, as in the human subject, from the com- missural ligament at the inner canthus of the eyelids, whence it winds round the orbit, its lower fibres receiving attachment from the os lachrymale. Internal to the last-named muscle are a few fibres, that represent the corragator superci/ii. The Levator anguli oris (fig. 504. f g) is, likewise, extensively inserted into the upper lip and margin of the nostril: it has two origins, derived from the surface of the supe- rior maxillary bone, between which the lateral dilator of the nostril and upper lip passes to its destination. The depressor of the lower eyelid (fig. 504. c) is a short muscular slip, the use of which is sufficiently indicated by its name. The zygomaticus (fig. 504. e) is a depressor of the external angle of the eye, as well as an elevator of the corner of the mouth, its fibres being intermixed with those of the orbicu- laris palpebrarum, as well as of the orbicularis oris. The long dilator of the nostril, and ele- vator of the upper lip (fig. 504. i), arises at a little distance below the inferior margin of the orbit ; and, passing between the two ori- gins of the levator anguli oris, terminates in a tendon, which becomes connected with that of the opposite side, and then spreads out in front of the upper lip. From the tendon of the last muscle arises the anterior dilator of the nostril (fig. 504 h ), which, acting upon the interior nasal carti- lage, powerfully expands the aperture of the nose. The other muscles — viz. the orbicularis oris, the levator labii superioris, the elevator of the chin, and the depressors of the lower lip, and angle of the mouth — need no particular de- scription. Alimentary Apparatus. Teeth.— The dental formula common to the Solipeda is as follows : — Incisors g g, canine j—j~, premolars, 3—3 , 3—3 _ ^—y molars, g g The canine teeth, however, it must be observed, only exist in the male sex. The incisor teeth, in the generality of her- bivorous quadrupeds, are bevelled off poste- riorly, so as to present in front chisel-like cutting edges ; but in the Solipeds, when young, the lateral incisors are furnished with two cutting edges, one in front and the other behind, from which circumstance those cen- tral fossae are produced which, as we shall see further on, furnish important testimony relative to the age of the animal. The canine teeth, here called "tusks," or " tushes," are always of very moderate dimen- sions, and their points, at an early age, become flattened and blunt. Those of the upper jaw are separated from the incisors by a con-