THORAX. 1023 Along the middle line, this concavity cor- responds with the interval left by the diverg- ence of the two pleura; (anterior mediasti- num). In the young subject, transverse lines are seen corresponding to those which occupy the anterior surface ; all of these, except the two between the first and second pieces of the bone, are effaced at a more advanced age. This surface is in relation with many organs contained in the chest, and especially the heart, in front of which the sternum forms a kind of shield. This is exemplified, as al- ready noticed, in the frog, which is provided with a sternum, though it hits no ribs. At the lower part of the sternum are many nutritient foramina. Of the borders of the Sternum. — These are thick and marked at each side by seven an- gular depressions for the reception of the cartilages of the first seven ribs, which gives this bone a notched and serrated appear- ance. These angular cavities are separated from each other by semilunar notches, which are longer above than below, where the facettes closely approach each other. The uppermost of these seven cavities is shallow, triangular, and at an early age becomes ingrained with the cartilage of the first rib ; those which follow are deeper, angular, and situated at the ex- tremities of each of the transverse lines. When examined in the dried specimen, they appear more angular and deeper in proportion to the youth of the subject. Of the clavicular extremity.—This is slightly convex, and is the broadest and thickest part of the whole bone. It is slightly excavated from side to side, and presents at each corner a depression for the reception of the sternal end of the clavicle, which bears the name fourchette; this is surrounded with irregula- rities for the insertion of ligaments. It fre- quently happens that the two clavicular arti- culations are not at the same height ; a fact which was noticed by Morgagni, and which Cruveilhier attributes to the unequal wearing of the two articular surfaces. We have once seen the clavicular articulation so low as to unite with the first costal cartilage. Of the inferior extremity of the Sternum. — This is formed by the xiphoid appendix ; or cnxifurm cartilage, for it often remains cartilaginous to adult age. In length, shape, and direction, it presents nume- rous varieties ; it is frequently bifid, some- times pierced by a foramen, and is occasion- ally bent forwards, or to one side, and in certain cases much depressed : its summit gives attachment to an aponeurotic structure, called the lined alba; behind, it indirectly corresponds with the stomach, which rests upon it when the body is placed in a prone position. Connections.— The sternum articulates with fourteen ribs through the medium of their cartilages, and more directly with the two cla- vicles. Structure of the Sternum. — This bone con- sists of two very thin compact laminae, witli an intervening cancellated structure, the cells of which are very large and have very delicate parietes. ;It is one of the most spongy bones of the body, and it is more than probable that to this circumstance the frequency of disease in it may be attributed. Absorption of this bone and great displace- ment by bending inwards is very common, particularly in women who wear tight stays. Under such circumstances, or by disease, we have witnessed the sternum so depressed in- wards that the depth, including all the thoracic integuments from the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebras to the anterior surface of this bone, did not exceed three inches, in- stead of from seven to nine inches. Of the Development or Ossification of the Sternum. — As far as the middle of foetal life or a little later, the sternum is altogether cartilaginous,as represented &ta,Jig. 6G0. This Fig. GGO. bone is one of the slowest in its ossification ; it exhibits no bony points or centres of os- sification up to the sixth month of fostal life. It is also of all bones the one in which the phenomena of ossification proceed with the least regularity. After the sixth month of foetal life, ossification begins with the for- mation of osseous granules in the middle of the intervals between the points at which the cartilages of the ribs are connected. " There are five of these granules for the sternum, exclusive of the ensiform appendage, and they form as many pieces (e, fig. GCO.). The process of ossification makes its appear- ance in the first between the fifth and sixth months ; and, soon following in the second and third, it reaches the fourth at the end of foetal life- The osseous centre of the last varies considerably in the time of its appearance. It may be found soon after birth, and may not be visible for a considerable time (one or two years) after that period." " In many cases, one or more of the divi- sions of the sternum are formed from more nuclei than one, and there are peculiarities with respect to the number and position of these additional granules which require notice." Ossification of the 1st piece.— This some- times presents a single nucleus (fig. 660, b 1.), rounded and transversely strong ; sometimes it presents two nuclei, and'in this case they