741 SOLIPEDA. ral boundary and form to the lateral, the pos- terior, and inferior parts of the foot ; and when the bars or frog are thrust upwards by pressure from without, they are then acting against this same horizontal flooring, formed by the cartilage and the frog, and met by the depression of the bones of the foot forced down from the weight of the animal; the whole can then dilate exteriorly along with the posterior and more elastic parts of the hoof. Longitudinal Section of the Foot of the Horse. 1, Great pastern bone; 2, lesser pastern or coro- nary bone ; 3, sesamoid bone implanted in the flexor tendon of the last phalanx ; 4, coffin bone ; 5, tendon of extensor digiti; 6, tendon of flexor sublimus; 7, tendon of flexor profundus ; 8, section of the posterior expansion of the great cartilage; 9, soft cushion of the heel; 10, section of horny hoof; 11, sensitive hoof; 12, anterior section of the cartilage spreading over the coffin bone. The objects attained by the introduction of this admirable structure into the foot of the soliped are various, and have been well pointed out by Bracy Clark, in Irs excellent treatise, to which we must refer the reader for many practical applications connected with the veterinary art, that would be foreign to the objects of the present article. First, seeing that the resistance of a solid unyielding sup- port would have been inadmissible, the pedal cartilages are emplo3'ed as a substitute for bone, and made to occupy a very large share in the composition of the hinder part of the foot ; for it will be remarked, the coffin bone, except by its extremity, does not extend be- yond the middle of the hoof (fg. 515.), the posterior shape of the foot being almost wholly communicated by the cartilage, which, passing nearly around the whole coronary circle, serves to support and convey the skin to its lodg- ment in the coronary concavity of the hoof. Secondly, it serves to equalise the pressure every where over the internal surface of the hoof when under the pressure of the weight from within, during the descent of the bones of the foot, and, what is singular, the hoof itself is the most solid material of these hind parts of the foot. A more important office still remains to be explained, namely, that of supplying the coffin bone with a considerable share of its capability of motion in the interior of the hoof; for it is to be remarked that, as the coffin bone is obliged to describe in its de- scent a small portion or segment of a circle, at its back part, round its centre of motion, or rather its more fixed part (for there is none of it wholly fixed), towards the front of the foot ; so this could not so well have been accomplished had the bone itself been fixed at its upper part to the processes in front of the hoof, these being too inconsiderable to aiford, in that part of the bone, the extent of motion required ; but, by the intervention of an elastic cartilage between the bone and the substance of the hoof, the bone acquires greater liberty for action, and movement of its upper parts. The cartilages of the foot, in old horses, not unfrequently become partially ossified, in which condition they are known to farriers by the name of ring-bones. Soft Parts of the Foot. — On removing the hoof, and its horny appendages situated be- neath the sole of the foot, the whole subjacent surface is found to consist of a thick, villous looking, and highly vascular membrane, moulded exactly to its inner surface, to which the name of sensitive foot is generally applied ; or, according to the structures beneath which it is situated, it is sometimes divided into sensitive hoof, sensitive frog, &c. This struc- ture is, indeed, the matrix from which the entire corneous hoof derives its origin, and is essentially similar, in its texture and func- tions, to the soft core upon which the hollow horns of many ruminants and the vascular secreting surfaces upon which the nails and claws of unguiculate quadrupeds are formed. Externally it presents, upon the anterior sur- face of the foot, the broad vascular lamina? which interdigitate with the horny plates, pro- jecting from the interior of the hoof, as de- scribed above, so as to amplify, to a very considerable amount, the extent of surface whereby the contact between the sensitive foot and the wall is effected. This entire surface is richly supplied with nerves and bloodvessels, the latter of which open into capacious plexuses, that surmount the coronary margin of the hoof (fig. 514.), and, when injected, present a very beautiful appearance. Nervous System and Organs of the Senses. — The general arrangement of the nervous system and structure of the organs of sensation offer in the class before us no pecu- liarities of sufficient physiological importance to require a detailed description : we append, however, figures representing the cerebral con- volutions anil the base of the encephalon of the horse for comparison with similar figures given in other articles. 3b 3