1522 WRIST-JOINT (Abnormal Anatomy). the dorsal prominence to the root of the in- dex finger (from A to Bfig. 934-.), on the in- jured side, gave an excess of length of half an inch over that of the opposite hand. This excess of length was manifestly caused by the presence of the disjoined epiphysis, which Fig. 934. Disjunction of the Epiphysis of the Radius, with displacement backwards of the Hand and Carpus, — Author's Collection. had been superadded to the summit of the carpus, and was carried back with it, the wrist-joint itself remaining perfect. This simple test of the comparative measure- ment proved the case was not one of mere dislocation of the hand ; but we may also add, that, although there was considerable swelling and projection forwards of the palmar surface of the region of the wrist, there were not those hard protuberances to be felt in front of the carpus which the extremity of the radius and ulna, with their styloid processes, should have presented had the dislocation above alluded to occurred. The man died, in a few hours after admis- sion, from the injuries he received, particularly of the head. It had not been deemed advisable to reduce the fracture, as the man seemed to be in a dying state. Dissection. — With the assistance of my friend, Dr. Power (now Professor of Anatomy of the Royal College of Surgeons, Dublin), I removed the greater part of the forearm, that we -might the more carefully examine the true nature of the lesion, the external ap- pearances of which we have above described. On making, then, the anatomical examina- tion of the parts composing the region of the wrist in this case the radius was found to have suffered a transverse interruption of con- tinuity in the line of junction of its inferior epiphysis, and the lower fragment was dis- placed directly backwards, so far as nearly to have passed the extremity of the upper frag- ment {fig. 935.). The lower extremity of the ulna was broken a short distance above the line of junction with its epiphysis. This fracture was oblique. The extremities of the two frag- ments of the ulna formed with each other an angle salient in front. The ligaments and the radio-carpal articulation also remained unin- jured, and the carpus (of course) accompanied the lower fragment of the radius in its dis- placement backwards. Case 4. — A boy, set. eleven, was admitted into the Richmond Hospital on the 2nd of September, 1840, under the care of Dr. Mac- donnell. Upon the Sunday previous to his admission he had been thrown from a horse with great violence. The lower extremity of the left radius was broken, and he sustained a Fig. 935. Disjunction of the Lower Epiphysis of the Radius, with fracture of the Ulna, and displacement back- wards of the Carpus and Hand. — Museum of the Richmond Hospital. concussion of the brain, under the of which he remained insensible quarters of an hour. The accident at some distance from town. Befor elapsed the boy was visited by a sun it is said, forcibly extended the limb applied a narrow roller tightly round On the following day (Monday) tl influence for three occurred e an hour ;eon, who, , and then the wrist, le patient