979 TESTICLE (NORMAL ANATOMY). 3 r 2 thelial cells. There is no appearance of an intertubular substance ; the ducts are merely connected by a loose network of vessels, and consequently readily admit of being sepa- rated and unravelled. The tubes, when suc- cessfully injected with quicksilver, form a beautiful anatomical preparation. Sir A. Cooper succeeded in filling the tubes with size injection ; but he has not described the mode in which it was effected, and other anatomists have failed in similar attempts.* When the tubuli seminiferi are unravelled, they are found to divide and form numerous anastamoses, which increase in frequency to- wards the circumference of the testicle. (See diagram,fig.633. a1 a1). The tubuli thus form one vast network of communication, so that it is impossible to isolate completely either a duct or a lobule. The credit of making this interest- ing discovery of the anastamoses of the se- minal tubes is due to Lauth. In only one instance did he succeed in finding a duct, ter- minating in a blind pouch, and this he regarded as exceptional. Blind ends have been found, however, more frequently by Krause. The anastamoses of the tubules have been observed in the rat and other animals as well as in man. The convolutions of the seminal tubes di- minish in number as they approach the me- diastinum, and cease altogether at a distance of from one to two lines, where two or more unite to form a single straight duct, termed vas rectum, which joins the rete testis at a right angle (a2 a2). The vasa recta are very slender, and easily give way when injected: their calibre, which is greater than that of the seminal tubes, is estimated by Lauth at y^th Fig. 633. Diagram of the testicle. (After Lauth.) a a a, tubuli; a1 a1, subdivisions and anastamoses of the tubuli; aa as, vasa recta. The other references are the same as in fig. 632. * Sir A. Cooper's beautiful preparations of the testicle are preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. of an inch. Haller reckoned their number at twenty, which is, however, too few. Rete Testis, as its name implies, consists of a plexus of seminal tubes, which occupies the corpus Highmori, or mediastinum testis. The vasa recta, after penetrating the walls of this body, terminate in from seven to thirteen ves- sels which, running parallel to each other in a waving course, and frequently dividing and anastomosing, form the rete testis, (b). Lauth found the mean diameter of the vessels of the rete in injected preparations Ttj of an inch. According to Prochaska, these vessels are supplied with valves, but such is not the case. Small dilatations, however, are often found in different parts of the plexus. III. The Excretory Parts.—The epididymis, a continuation of the testicle, is a body of a crescentic form, divided into an anterior and upper extremity, called head, or globus major, which is firmly attached to the testicle ; a middle part or body, which is less in size, and separated from the gland by a pouch of the tunica vaginalis; and a tail or globus minor, connected to the testicle by areolar tissue. The volume and weight of the epididymis vary in different subjects, but are proportionate to the size of the testicle. It is longer than the testicle, measuring about two inches in length and four or five lines in width. Its name (from eV! upon, and 5i'5u,uos testis,) indi- cates its position, which is along the postero- superior border of the gland. The epididy- mis is chiefly made up of seminal canals connected and supported by a firm resisting areolar tissue. The ducts which spring from the upper part of the rete testis to form the epididymis are termed vasa effcrentia. They are usually about twelve or fourteen in num- ber, but vary from nine to thirty. The inflec- tions of each of these efferent ducts are so arranged as to form in the head of the epidi- dymis a series of elongated conical figures called coni vascidosi. These ducts, at their commencement, run straight for a distance of about one or two lines, when they form con- volutions which become more numerous and close as the ducts recede from the testicle. Their length varies, the upper being the shortest. Lauth found their average length to be seven inches four lines, and calculating their number at thirteen, he makes the united length of the vasa efferentia nearly eight feet. He states that the efferent ducts diminish in size from their commencement to their ter- mination in the canal of the epididymis, where they are less than the seminiferous ducts of the testicle. (Fig. 634.) As in the rete, round dilatations of variable size are often met with in these ducts. (Fig. 632., c c.) The efferent ducts, after forming the coni vasculosi, successively join a single duct, the canal of the epididymis, at irregular distances, the intermediate portions of the duct varying in length from half an inch to six inches. The efferent ducts are more slender than the canal of the epididymis, and frequently give way under the pressure of the column of mer- cury when injected. The body and tail of the