TERATOLOGY. 967 3 q 4 article Abnormal Conditions of the Foot in this Cyclopaedia. VIII. Cyclopia. Upon this interesting malformation, which for many years was the object of my own inves- tigations, I should have much to say; but my friend Paget has already given a succinct survey of its different forms in his learned Article Nose, to which, therefore, I refer. I beg leave here to add to the observations which I have published in my former works upon the origin of Cyclopia, a few additional remarks on the subject. Is it an arrest of developement? It cannot be denied that many deviations of the parts in Cyclopes may be referred to a previous natural form. For example, in one of my published cases the optic lobe and the brain formed one continu- ous part, which is certainly an early natu- ral condition. It is also certain that the disposition of the hemispheres of the brain in Cyclopes, which appear to be a single vesicle, accords with the vesicular state of the brain in the first period of its develope- ment, and that the unprotected situation of the ganglia of the brain, of the cerebellum, and of the medulla oblongata, may be con- sidered as a foetal condition. But, as to the eyes, it is not so certain that their single- ness is the result of an arrest of develope- ment. E. Huschke has, however, main- tained the opinion, that the eyes are formed by a single vesicle, which becomes sepa- rated into two ; but from the more recent and accurate investigations of Bischoff we must conclude that the optic lobes are from the beginning separated- and double, taking their origin from the anterior cerebral vesicle, and that from an abnormal condition of this last, by which the rudiments of the eyes approach each other and fuse together, may be derived the cause of Cyclopia. If this observation is true, of which it is difficult to retain the least doubt, Cyclopia really ap- pertains to the Versehmelzungs Bildungen of Meckel in an early period of developement. Perhaps it may be compared with the meta- morphosis of the eyes in Daphnia, Cypris, Polyphemus, and Cyclops, in which there are originally two vesicular bulbs, which subse- quently coalesce into one. But however this may be, it remains certain that the malforma- tion of the cranial and facial bones in Cyclopes is the consequence of the abnormal condition of the brain and of the visual and olfactive apparatus. IX. Deficiency of the Under jaw {Monotia). Want of the under jaw often coexists with Cyclopia. By this complication is formed a peculiar series of monsters, which make a gradual transition to those in which, notwith- standing the presence of two eyes, the under jaw is absent. I refer to this the following species. 1. Total defect of the opening of the month,— as observed by me in a lamb, in which also the ears were removed to the basis of the head and coalesced. The under jaw was totally absent; and behind the coalescent ears there was an osseous vesicular cavity, formed by the bulbous tympanic cavities, united to- gether. 2. The opening of the mouth represented by a fissure at the inferior surfaee of the face. — The rest of the external appearance is similar to the first species. The under jaw is want- ing, but there is a rudiment of a tongue. 3. Too short an under jaw. In man and the lower animals the under jaw is sometimes incompletely developed, and more depressed posteriorly than it ought to be. This original brevity of the under-jaw is the cause of a great many ulterior deformities. Without doubt, these three forms of mon- strosity make a continuous series. They consist, as Bischoff says, in an imperfect developement of the first visceral arc, by which the under jaw and the bones connected there- with are either wanting or defectively formed, the result of which is, that the ears are re- moved to the basis of the head, and there become fused together. The total defect of the opening of the mouth is the highest, the too short under jaw the least degree of mal- formation. Herewith I conclude my brief account of the monstrosities resulting from arrest of de- velopement. The description of the congenital abnormal condition of the different apparatus would oblige me to surpass the due limits of an Article for this Cyclopaedia, which already, I fear, may be considered rather too long ; and 1 think this the less necessary, because a great deal of information about them may be found in the Articles Anus, Diaphragm, FaiTUS, Hermaphroditism. I therefore pass on to a succinct description of a second group of monstrosities. b. monstrosities produced by excess of Developement. I. Foetus in Fcetu. The human foetus may be included in an- other fetus, or adhere to its body. This may happen in two different manners: — 1. A jietus more or less perfect contained in the caiiity of the body of its twin-brother or sister. a. In the uterus. — The foetus would be pregnant in such a case at the moment of its birth. The observations given of it are, however, somewhat apocryphal. bi In the abdomen. — In a case recorded by Fattow, there are, in a foetus of seven months, two rudiments of foetuses contained in its abdomen. Such observations are also given by lleiter, Heminger, Pacini, and E. Philips. In general, the rudiments of a second foetus are very imperfect, and included in a sac. Sometimes, however, they are more complete, which w as, for example, the case in an observ- ation of Young, of which the preparation is