1355 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. that the people of Delagoa Bay, though of the Kaft're race, as indicated by their language, being degraded by subjugation, approach the people of Guinea in their phy- sical characters. Generally speaking, the Kaf- fres are a people very superior in vigour and capacity to the destitute savages who occupy the insulated regions of Negroland, and how a considerable advance in civilization ; but between the most elevated Kaffre and the most degraded Negro, every possible gradation is presented to us, as we pass northwards and westwards from Kaffraria towards the Guinea coast, so that no line of distinction between them can be founded on physical characters. So, on the eastern side, we pass up until we meet with the same transition. The languages of these people are distinguished by a set of remarkable characters, which have been con- sidered as isolating them from other African tongues. According to Dr. Latham, how- ever, these peculiarities are not so far without precedent elsewhere, as to establish the very decided line of demarcation which some have attempted to draw ; and may be regarded, in fact, as resulting from the fuller development of tendencies, which manifest themselves in other African languages. The Hottentot race (including the Bush- man) has, perhaps, so far as regards its phy- sical characters, a better title to be considered as forming a distinct species of the genus Homo than any other ; for not only do these characters present a combination which is not found elsewhere, but that transitional grada- tion is wanting, which usually presents itself wherever there is a continuous population that has long occupied the same locality. The peculiarities of these people have been already noticed separately; the following is a general summary of them. The cranium is Mongoli- Fig. 837. form and brachycephalic, the cheek-bones pro- minent, the jaws somewhat projecting, the eyes oblique, the nose broad and flat, the lips thick, the chin long and pointed; the complexion is a mixture of black with yellow ochre ; the hair grows in little tufts ; the stature is low, and the limbs are slight; the buttocks, however, frequently present a steatomatous accumula- tion. In their cranial characters there is, therefore, an admixture of the Mongolian and the Negro, the former being predominant; and this resemblance to the people of High Asia is the more remarkable, when it is considered that the physical conditions of the Hottentot country bear a very close correspondence witii those of High Asia, the habitation of this people being for the most part on karroos, or elevated terraces and table-lands, over which the vision extends with as piercing a gaze as that of the Mongols. The buttock-hump, or stea- topyga, is not by any means so characteristic of this race as has been imagined ; for, as Mr. Burchell has ascertained, it is only an indi- vidual peculiarity, about as frequent as cor- pulence among European nations ; and it has been met with in other tribes of Southern Africa, as the Makuani of the Mozambique coast. It cannot, therefore, be regarded as affording the least indication of difference of race, but would seem to result from the opera- tion of the same local influences, whatever may be their nature, as produce a similar accumula- tion of fat in the rumps and tails of the sheep inhabiting the same regions. The peculiar relation of the Bushman tribe to the Hottentot race, has been already explained ; among this degraded people, the same general features present themselves as those which have been described as characteristic of the Hottentots (figs. 837, 838.), but in stature, vigour, anil capacity, they are much inferior. A compari- Fig. 838. Bushman Female. (From the " Atlas des Mammiferes of MM. Fred. Cuvier and Geoff. St.JIilaire.) son of the cranium of a Bushman (figs. 839, already figured, will clearly indicate that the 840, and 841) with the three typical forms pyramidal skull is the one to which this bears the greatest resemblance, especially in the * Dahomey and the Dahomans, 1851. shortness of the antei o-posterior diameter, as