TERATOLOGY. 957 the mouth. In cerebral hernia the chance for the prolongation of life is greater. Some cases are known in which life lasted 20, 30, and even 60 years. When complicated with hydrocephalus, puncture has sometimes been instituted, but without success (Earle). Extirpation produced, in another case, in- stantaneous death. What are the causes of acrania ? From some of its forms, it is clear that there has been hydrocephalus followed by disruption (Morgagni, Penada, Sandifort, Klein, Otto). In an embryo figured by M. Schroeder Van der Kolk, the summit of the head is extended by hydrocephalus, and has on its superior surface a black gangrenous spot which seems to prognosticate a rupture. In another foetus I observed a fissure in the midst of an analogous spot. According to my opinion, the lacerated bags, which are sometimes found on or in the summit of the naked internal surface of the basis cranii, or at the back part of the more developed skull, are caused by such ruptures. Tiedemann gives a description of such a bag, filled with serous fluid, but not yet burst, and situated upon the head of a foetus, which has the ex- ternal appearance of acrania. {Fig. 612.) Fig. 612. But in those cases in which the flat basis of the skull is only covered with a membrane and with cerebral nerves, in those in which there is a spongy substance upon it, and in those in which the skull, although flat, is otherwise complete, not the least probability exists of the rupture of a cerebral vesicle at an early period of formation. I am able to prove this, I think, by a small foetus of two months, in which the superior part of the skull is wanting, and in which a spongy mass occupies the place of the^sbrain. It shows that acrania may also be a pri- mitive malformation, occasioned by the simul- taneous malformation of the brain and of the skull. Why I do not impute these malforma- tions to external injury, such as the leaping of a monkey on the belly of a pregnant woman (Sandifort), to a fall down stairs (Pauli), or to the influence of imagination, needs not be demonstrated. III. Fissure of the Back Part of the Body. Hydrorachis and Spina bifida. — Fissure of the spinal column {spina bifida), and dropsy of the spinal medulla, occur each separately, or connected together. In the highest degree of fissure, the vertebral bodies even are cleft (J. T. Meckel, Tulp, Fleischmann). Fig. 613. represents such a case, after Cruveilhier. Fig. 613. In a less degree, the vertebral bodies are complete, but their arcs very defective, being completely wanting, or laterally incurved and fused together. In the lowest degree, the two halves of the vertebral arcs are completed, but not united together, so that posteriorly an open space remains between them, and a fis- sure occupies the place of the processus spinosi, which are separated into two lateral and equally incurved parts. When this form of fissure of the spinal column is ncj*' accompanied by hydrorachis, both parts of the vertebral arcs are not bent laterally, but meet each other so ex- actly, that no open space remains between them. Sometimes the fissure is extended over the whole vertebral column {spina bifida totalis), sometimes it is but partially cleft {spina bifida partialis). The partial fissure occurs more frequently in the lumbar than in the cervical region of the column. The cause of the greater frequency of the partial fissure in the lumbar region is to be im- puted to the termination of the spinal me- dulla in this region; to its expansion there