945 TERATOLOGY. palate is attributed by Tiedemann to the original absence of olfactory nerves. G. Vrolik found them, however, in children with hare-lip. The nerves of organs may exist, although the organs themselves may be ab- sent (Seiler, W. Vrolik); and inversely, the nerves may be wanting, while the organs are present (0. G. Buttner). In anencephali the body is very massive, notwithstanding the imperfect condition of the nervous centres. In double monsters there is no definite corre- spondence between the condition of the nerv- ous system and the duplication of the body (W. Vrolik).* b. Embryogenesis teaches that the forma- tion of the several parts of the body is not essentially the result of that of the nervous system, but that, on the contrary, each part is formed and developed independently. I refer to what I have already said, in 18.30 (in my treatise on Cyclopia), and am happy to find J. Muller, Rathke, Bischoff, Burdach, and Stannius, with me on this subject. What is now proved for the nervous system, may equally be applied to the system of blood- vessels; and hence I presume to conclude, that no malformation whatever proceeds from a central system, but is occasioned merely by impeded developement, the cause of which remains concealed. This impediment maybe confined to one part, or may be extended over more. This extension may sometimes stand either in causal connexion with an original malformation, as for instance the dis- placing of the nose in Cyclopes ; or may take place in an entirely independent manner. In the latter case, it is a complication of mal- formation, which proves that it may extend itself to more than one region of the body, and to more than one apparatus. I have met with an instance of this, in which to acrania, cyclopia, and absence of the lower jaw, was added ectopia of the intestines. If the origin of the malformation is derived from impeded developement, the so-called monstra per defectum are the result, and from excessive formation arise the monstra per excessum. The malformations occasioned by impeded developement may, for the most part.be com- pared with the natural forms through which the foetus passes in its normal developement. On this is founded the ingenious idea of Meckel, previously suggested by Wolff, that most malformations are caused by arrest of developement (bilduiigskemmiing), for which reason they must be said, according to Bischoff, to be fanned through arrested de- velopement (hemmungsbildungeri). They, how- ever, never give us a perfect representation of the form at which the foetus has been arrested in its developement, because the in- creased growth and the progressive nutrition of the foetus cannot but make an important * On this suliject I have given copious elucida- tion in the Treatise on Cyclopia in Transactions of the First Class of the Royal Netherland Institute, 1836, vol, v. p. 25.; on Double Monsters, ibid. 1840, vol. ix.; and Handbueh, voL i. 1840. VOL. IV. modification therein. As the transient forms of the human foetus are for the most part comparable to the persistent forms of the lower animals, the malformations occasioned by impeded developement often acquire a brute appearance ; and thus a reason is at the same time given why they exhibit, in dif- ferent animals, the form of the lower, but not of the higher classes. A consequence of this mode of origin is, that they never deviate so much from the normal form as would exclude them from the rank of organized beings; and that the devia- tions from the natural form are confined within definite limits, so that they always re- remind us more or less of the regular form. Fixed laws of organization prevail in them, by which they exhibit a certain fitness of organization, and a tendency to render the capacity for life as great as possible, not- withstanding the malformation. Peculiar vi- tal relations are hereby produced adapting them for uterine life, and many are brought forth well nourished and at full time. Most, however, are unfit for life after birth, though for very different reasons. The following remarks may serve for the elucidation of these peculiar vital accommo- dations : — 1. We never see in malformed births, dis- similar parts fused or united with each other, such as the intestinal tube with the aorta, the arteries with the nerves, &c. Each part, therefore, retains, to a certain degree, its own independence, according to what Fleiseh- mann denominates lex proprietatis. The gullet sometimes coalesces with the larynx, and the bladder with the rectum ; but these parts are not originally dissimilar, being developed from a common mass. 2. The malformed parts are restricted to their determinate place, according to what Fleischmann denominates lex topicorum. 3. No malformed organ loses entirely its own character, and no malformed animal loses its generic distinction. It is, therefore, justly observed by Soemmering, that nature does not deviate ad infinitum, and that even in mon- strosities a distinct gradation and natural or- der are observable. An immediate consequence of this must be, that in one and the same sort of monstrosity, there are different degrees of malformation, varying from the greatest possible degree to the very least. We might thus consider the different monstrosities as so many genera, and their varieties as so many species, where- by, according to J. T. Meckel, a new or- ganic kingdom is constituted, differing only from the others by less constancy of form. Consequently a definite type prevails in the generation of monstrosities, and they are subjected to fixed organic laws. This order appears even—1. In the number in which they occur within a certain space of time. In 3000 births in Paris, there occurs about one monster (J. Geoffroy St. Hilaire). 2. In the sex. In impeded developement, the mal- formed children are more frequently female, 3 P