1495 VOICE. lying in front of the larynx. Tracheal length 4 in. ; posterior cartilaginous, an- terior membranous at its laryngeal extre- mity. Arytenoids : superior prominences elongated, flattened, and inclined forwards — their inner margins lie in contact; the inferior Fig. 911. Section of the Tongue, Pharynx and Larynx of the Porpoise. a, pyramidal position of larynx; c, pharynx; d, laryngeal cavities laid open, and a bristle is passed though the glottis,/. prominences short, but strong. Epiglottis : base springs from the superior margin of the thyroid, to which it is fixed by a cartilaginous union. It is flattened and directed back- wards to unite with the superior prominence of the arytenoids, with which it completes the aryteno-epiglottic portion of the vocal tube. The diameter of this portion is nar- rower than the rest of the tube, which crosses the fauces, enters the posterior nares, and terminates in the olfactory organs. In its passage it is grasped by a strong sphincter muscle of the fauces, as in the porpoise, e e (Jig- 911). Vocal ligaments absent. Aper- ture of the vocal tube, in those which have but one opening, as the spermaceti and bottle-nose whales, grampus, dolphin, and porpoise, transverse ; but in those which have two apertures*, as in the great whale- * Hllnter remarks that the cartilages of the larynx are much smaller in the bottle-nosed whale of twenty-four feet, than in the piked whale of fif- teen feet. He is also of opinion that the absence of the vocal cord, co-existing with that of the thyroid gland, tends to show that the functions of the bone whale, it is longitudinal. Thyroid gland absent. Voice absent, or reduced to a single lowing. Trachea, in Ralcenoplera rostrata, length 4 in.; posterior cartilaginous, anterior membranous at its laryngeal extremity. Birds.— The vocal organs of birds differ from every other class of animals by the con- stitution of the superior, and by the addition of an inferior larynx. The same acoustics apply, with few exceptions, to all Mammalia, but in birds is required an additional investi- gation. The superior larynx of birds is situated immediately below the os-hyoides, to which it is connected by the thyroid membrane, and hyo-aryngeal muscles. Its figure and struc- ture are more uniform than those of the inferior larynx. It is partly cartilaginous, and partly osseous. The thyroid cartilage forms the anterior, and part of the lateral boundary of the larynx, and rests upon the first ring of the trachea. Wings, superior margin ascending forwards and upwards, meet each other in the mesial line, where the cartilage terminates in either a pointed, rounded, or flattened projection; in- ferior margin usually horizontal, corresponding to the first ring of the trachea, as in Palmi- pedes, but are excavated in Scansores. The posterior margins terminate in two quad- rangular bones, with which the thyroid carti- lage is frequently ossified (and these then become portions of the wings of the thyroid ; the quadrilateral bones, being also oblique angled, are shaped to form a union with the posterior margin of the thyroid, and present horizontal edges above and below, leaving a small triangular space for the cricoid cartilage posteriorly. The cricoid is a small triangular bone, lying on the inside of the posterior edges of the two quadrangular bones ; it supports the two arytenoid cartilages, as in Mammalia; and although it forms a very small portion of a ring, it is yet necessary for the completion of it. These four bony or cartilaginous pieces are most distinct in young birds, and amongst old ones are quite distinct in the Anas do- mesticus and Anas mollissimus, but are con- solidated into one in the Scansores, ostrich, and many others. The arytenoid cartilages are long and tapering upwards and forwards, and form by their inner margins laterally the rima glottidis: they are generally ossified. Their external margins are bounded by the thyroid cartilage, and their inner margins form the rima glottidis. Epiglottis. — In most birds the epiglottis is situated on the internal surface of the thyroid ; it is rudimentary, and is termed the processus epiglotticus : it is generally osseous, but ac- cording to Henle it is leaf-like in the stork and heron ; and in some of the Gallinaceae, as in Sterna, Rallus, and Larus, it is thin, flat, and flexible, as in Mammalia. Rima glottidis. — The form of this chink in a state of repose is triangular, the apex being directed backwards: it is bounded an- latter are in some manner associated with those of the former. 5(i 4