1202 TUNICATA. it occupies all the length and one of the sides of the cavity of the mantle (Cynthia). In Ascidia mammillata and A. monacha it is very long; and, after having descended to the bottom of the mant le, it is bent upwards upon itself, extending halfway up the cavity again. A tube, differing in size in various species, which has its analogue, perhaps, in the retrac- tile operculum of the Bryozoa, conducts the water from the buccal aperture to the respira- tory sac. This tube or process of the mantle encloses the neck of the branchial sac. At the inner extremity of the tube, where it widens into, and is continuous with, the bran- chial sac, are frequently observed about five small valvular folds ; and below these there is always a circle of fleshy filaments or tentacular appendages (Jig. 778. and Jig. 39 d. Vol. I. page \ \2. Animal Kingdom*). These are present also in the Clavellinidce and the BotryttiaxB. They vary from 6 to 26 in number, and are either simple, as in Phallusia, or branched, as in Cynthia, Bol- tenia, &c. By detaching the anterior part of the respiratory sac of Cynthia, or others, and examining it from its inner and inferior aspect, one may perceive, at the inner mar- gin of the tube, several arboriform append- ages, somewhat large at the base, and having the branches either swollen at their extremi- ties, or finely laciniate and almost plumiform : in Cynthia Dione they are somewhat bipinnate. The number of the tentacles is difficult to be arrived at, as smaller filaments appear amongst the six or seven larger ones. The branches are generally directed downwards, towards the bottom of the sac, but sometimes are slightly curled upwards. Seen under the mi- croscope, these filaments are hollow; and the extremities and swellings of the branches are cul-de-sacs. The several tentacles intercom- municate with each other by their hollow bases, and with the vascular network of the respiratory sac. The walls of these tubular organs are very thin and transparent ; traces of muscular fibre have been detected in their substance, and a circulation ; but no trace of vibratile cilia, either on their outside or within their cavity. Van Beneden observes that a fluid traverses their cavity in a similar manner to the blood in the branchiae of the Doris. In Actinia and Holuthuria simple and ramified filaments occur, that offer considerable analo- gies to the arborescent tentacles of Ascidice. They are all hollow; and the fluid moving in their interior comes directly from the peri- intestinal cavity ; this great cavity, commu- nicating as in Bryozoa, with the tentacular appendages. The internal surface of the respiratory sac is sometimes uniform (in Ascidia, Phallusia, &c), and frequently longitudinally plicated and disposed in deep and regular folds, all following the curve of the cavity, and termi- * This figure represents a Cynthia canopus cut open ; a, oesophagus; b, stomach; c, anus; d, external anal orifice, closed; e, branchial orifice, laid open; f, branchial tentacles; g, nerve-ganglion; h, dorsal sinus; k, ovary (?); i, I, indeterminate bodies. nating at a little smooth area above the pha- rynx (Cynthia, Boltenia, &c). The folds are from 8 to 18 in number, and form the first indication of the four branchial laminae of the bivalve Acephalans. The structure of the membrane consists of an infinity of small, anastomosing vessels, generally cross- ing each other at right angles, and forming quadrangular interspaces, which, under the microscope, are seen to be still more mi- nutely subdivided in the same manner. Milne- Edwards observes that in Phallusia each of the meshes of the respiratory membrane is occu- pied by a minute spiracle, that allows of a communication between the interior of the branchial sac and the cavity of the mantle (the " thoracic chamber " of Milne-Edwards), the dorsal portion of this chamber being the cloaca, the base of which is occupied by the orifices of the digestive and generative tubes, and the summit of which opens externally by the anal aperture. In Cynthia ampulla the meshes are very irregular and almost inextri- cable, some of the minute vessels having apparently a spiral arrangement ; and the vessels are rather more numerously disposed around the oesophageal orifice. A somewhat spiral or vermicular arrangement of the ex- tremities of the branchial vessels exists also in Chclyosoma, as figured by Eschricht; * and as seen in a very minute sessile Ascidia, from South America, in the collection of Mr. Bower- bank. In the respiratory network of Cynthia the large longitudinal vessels are seen to be the most prominent of all. They form, with the large transverse vessels, square meshes, which three other shorter vessels subdivide into four transverse meshes; and these are further intercepted by extremely fine longitudinal vessels. The vertical vessels of this quadran- gular network may be said to arise from the transverse vessels, which communicate by each extremity with two vertical trunks, placed at opposite sides of the sac, and representing respectively the branchial artery and vein. The latter, in C. microcosmas and other As- cidians, bears a longitudinal series of small transverse tentacular filaments. Similar ten- tacles we shall have to describe as belonging to Chclyosoma (Jig. 777. i). The angles of the meshes of the branchial tissue bear papillae, more or less prominent, in some genera (Ascidia, Chclyosoma, &c.) ; but in others they are not papillated (Cynthia, &c). These papillae, or minute pouches, are, according to Savigny, analogous to the fila- ments that border the branchial vein, in most of the simple and compound Ascidians, indi- cating the junction of the transverse vessels with that vein. The appearance of the reticu- lation is large and coarse in Cynthia, minute in Ascidia, and indistinct in Cystingia. Each mesh of this respiratory network is thickly fringed with vibratile cilia, as in the rest of the Tunicates and Acephalans; and Van Beneden points out that this ciliated ex- terior of the branchial vessels is analogous to the ciliated tentacles of the Bryozoa. By the * Koy. Danish Transact, vol. ix. pi. 1. fig. 6 & 7.