THYROID GLAND. 1105 confirming the remark, that the nuclei, instead of remaining in their primitive condition, pro- ceed to the further stage of cell development; this he has noticed both in man and in several of the lower animals. I should say that it is certainly a circumstance of rather rare oc- currence ; but it is worth remarking, that it may be artificially produced by adding to the specimen some coagulating re-agent, which speedily solidifies a film of albuminous plasma around the nuclei, and thus produces very good imitations of cells. The epithelium of the thyroideal cavities often assumes the form of small vesicles larger than the nuclei (see figs. 736, 787, 738.), and easily distinguished Fig. 730. Fie. 737. Cs7 9 © Vesicular epithelium from Human thyroid. Diameter of vesicles, 3.5500 m- Versicular epithelium from thyroid of Pig. Diameter of vesicles, i-ToiJo m- Fig. 738. it is, however, certain, that they are not de- veloped upon pre-existing nuclei. The layer of epithelium is generally of no great thick- ness, not occupying more than one eighth or one sixth of the distance from the envelope to the centre of the cavity; in the rabbit, however, it appeared to be more abundant, encroaching considerably on the interior, which, in this instance, was not filled with the characteristic glistening secretion. In a sec- tion prepared in the ordinary way, a large quantity of epithelium is broken up, and may be seen strewn over the field. Not unfre- quently, however, the nuclei adhere firmly together; and sometimes, as in the pig, I have seen the greater part of the lining of a cavity detached entire. The contents of the cavities are for the most part a clear, somewhat refracting, homo- genous material, which is manifestly the pro- duct of secretion, and fills all the spaces not occupied by the epithelium : this fluid is oome- timcs contained in small vesicles ^-i-^- to ^ito inch diain. (figs. 739. and 740.) which have a Fig. 739. o Two vesicles containing a transparent matter and no epithelium. From thyroid of Bullock; the larger jijj in., the smaller in. diam. Fig. 740. Vesicle from thyroid of Hedgehog, lined by an epithelium consisting of a double row of pellucid delicate vesicles, ^m in. diam. from them.* The diameter of these in a hu- man subject averaged „u'u5 inch; in a bullock, about ^-yVo inch They are, in their natural state, perfectly spherical, but often somewhat angular from mutual pressure. Their contents are a very faintly granular or pellucid material, which does not surround a nucleus except iu some rare instances, where there may be seen an imperfect trace of one. These vesicles, which I thus name to distinguish them from the nucleated cells occasionally met with, exist in the glandular cavities, sometimes alone, sometimes mingled with the ordinary form of epithelium in varying proportion. I am in- clined to believe that they originate in the nuclei, which undergo a kind of expansion, at the same time losing their nucleoli. This opinion needs further confirmatory evidence; * I am obliged to use the same word (vesicle) in speaking of the large glandular cavities, and of the epithelial particles which line them; the dis- tinction between them should, however, bo carefully borne in mind. VOL. IV. Two vesicles from thyroid of Bulloch, having a thicker lining of epithelium than usual, and each containing a single vesicle, whose wall, of homo- geneous membrane, surrounds the central cavity of the original vesicle. well marked, structureless envelope, but are destitute of any thing like epithelium. They may be seen occasionally in the interior of the glandular cavities, and also floating free in the field of view, having been perhaps detached from cavities opened by the section. The exact import of this circumstance does not appear ; for I cannot regard them as newly formed glandular vesicles, developed within the original ones in an endogenous manner. Were this the case they would occur more frequently, and would exhibit some traces of epithelial lining. Large crystals, sometimes 4 B