STATISTICS. 303 3 F 2 appear that a counter experience of the same kind was continually leading to its disuse. Thus Morgagni tells us that, when he was quite a young man and went to Bologna, both methods of using mercury, internal and ex- ternal, were so far deserted, that he never saw any physician make use of them, or ever heard of his using them, for the whole space of eight years, during which he studied there.* It would also appear that from the beginning of the sixteenth century up to the present time, there has always been a large number of sur- geons, who have either abandoned the mer- curial treatment altogether, or have restricted the use of the mineral to certain exceptional cases.f In the difference of opinion which prevailed upon this subject, the necessity of submitting the question at issue to the test of figures made itself so strongly felt, that a series of the most elaborate inquiries was undertaken at the instigation of governments, or by private individuals. These inquiries resulted in the collection of nearly 80,000 facts, by means of which the possibility of promptly healing ve- nereal sores without mercury and with but moderate risk of a relapse, or of the occurrence of secondary symptoms, was conclusively esta- blished. J To this same test of figures, all the questions which arise from time to time, as to the relative value of the several remedies recom- mended in the tieatrnent of syphilis are, by common consent, submitted. A most con- vincing proof that the numerical method is, in all cases of doubt and difficulty, the means of solution to which men naturally resort, is af- forded by the treatise of Benjamin Bell, on this very subject, published in the year 1793.§ Speaking of the treatment of incipient chancres by caustic, he notices the very important ob- jection, that the cure of the sores was often succeeded by buboes ; and he adds, that for a considerable time he was induced to suppose that the swellings of the glands, which thus take place after the cure of chancres, were more the effect of accident than of the method of treatment, and that they would have oc- curred under whatever management the sores might have been. The frequency, however, of their appearance, led him at last to suspect that he was mistaken, and further observation made it obvious that this was the case. He goes on to observe, " As experiment alone could determine the question, I was resolved to employ this test. Of the first twenty patients who occurred with incipient chancres, in ten they were destroyed by an immediate and effectual application of lunar caustic, the remedy being employed, according to my usual custom at that time, instantly on my being called ; of the other ten, five were dressed with blue mercurial ointment, and five with common wax ointment. The sores to which caustic * Morgagni's 58th Epistle. t See on this subject, the British and Foreign Medical Review, vol. v. p. 4. % British and Foreign Medical Review, vol. v. p. 7. § A Treatise on Gonorrhoea Virulenta, and Lues Venerea. By Benjamin Bell, vol. ii. p. 322. were applied healed much sooner than the others, and next to them the sores that were dressed with mercurial ointment. But of the ten patients to whom caustic was applied, no less than eight had buboes, whilst only one bubo occurredin all theothers; and it happened in one of the patients whose chancres had been dressed with mercury. I thought also that buboes appeared to be less frequent from the application of caustic, where mercury had been previously given. This fell within my ob- servation from time to time, with patients who had taken mercury, either of their owiraccord or by the advice of others ; and appearing to be of importance, I was resolved to bring it like- wise to the test of experiment, and the result was as follows : of forty-eight patients with chancres in an incipient state, and exactly as they occurred in practice, one half was treatetS in the manner I have mentioned, by destroy- ing the chancres with caustic immediately on my being desired to see them, while all the others were put under mercury lor eight or ten days before the application of caustic. In every other circumstance the method of treat- ment was the same. The difference, however, surprised me exceedingly. Of the twenty-four treated with the immediate application of caustic, twenty were seized with buboes; while only three buboes occurred in an equal number to whom mercury had been previously admin ■ istered." The subject of the treatment of syphilis has been selected for illustration on account of the large use which has been made of figures in discussing the relative value of the two modes of treatment; and the extract from the works of Benjamin Bell as a proof that, long anterior to any discussions among me- dical men as to the value of the numerical method and the extent to which it might be applied in the solution of medical questions, men of shrewd common sense were driven to the use of numbers, as the natural and only means of solving difficult questions, and set- ting doubtful or disputed points at rest. Thus much, by way of introduction, the difference of opinion which prevails as to the value of the numerical method seemed to demand. The numerical or statistical method may be defined as the science which prescribes rides for the bringing together of scattered observ- ations, arranging them in classes, testing their sufficiency in point of number, and deducing from them, when so arranged, average and extreme results, fitted by their very condensa- tion to become standards of comparison and data for reasoning. The numerical method*, so defined and * The term, numerical method, will be used throughout this article in preference to the word statistics, or statistical method; for, properly speak- ing, statistics means the science of states ("from the German word staat, a state), and is therefore syno- nymous with the terms " political economy," " po- litical science," ".social science." The first use of the term statistics has been traced to Achenwal, Professor of History in Gottingen, who, in 17J9, published an historical work, in which the phrase scientia statistica occurs for the first time. The use