SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 833 3 ii 2 granular substance is also present. Clear spots may also be seen glimmering from amidst the contents of the gland, and isolation shows these to be cells of 5 to 9-1000ths of a line in diameter, with finely granular contents and a nucleus. The application of water renders this more visible. Part of these cells are de- void of the cell membrane, but others of them exhibit it very distinctly. Besides these, free nuclei are found; these are sometimes vesicular and contain a nucleolus, sometimes they appear to be granulated. The nuclei which are included in cells are always of the latter kind. From these microscopic characters of their contents exactly corresponding with those of the higher Vertebrata, the import of these organs as supra-renal capsules is placed be- yond all doubt. The same structure obtains in the tailed Batrachians, only the nuclei and cells are larger, while a part of the latter are com- pletely enclosed in fat. Numerous branches of the afferent renal veins break up anew in the supra-renal capsules, in order to provide it with venous blood, a condition which re- minds us of that seen in the Snakes. The minute anatomy of the supra-renal cap- sules of Fishes is very similar. In the Salmon Ecker found them consisting of separate lo- bules, which are deposited in a loose areolar tissue perforated by vessels, and which, in ad- dition, receive a special covering of this areo- lar tissue. Each lobule is composed of a number of large gland-vesicles, from 5 to 11- lOOths of a line in size, which are surrounded by blood-vessels. Their membrana propria is completely structureless. In their contents we again recognise the pulverulent molecules, separate fatty granules, and vesicular and gra- nular nuclei of 2-l000ths of a line in size. The granular substance is rolled around these nuclei in the manner before described ; so that part of them come to notice as spheres with- out walls, while part are real cells, surrounded by a membrane, and of 7 to 9-100ths of a line in measurement. It is not unfrequent to find two or three nuclei, instead of one, in their interior. We have remarked an exactly si- milar condition in the supra-renal capsules of the young Pike ; there is the same fibrous coat, giving off processes which pass into the interior, and thus isolate the gland-vesicles, but the supra-renal organs are less divided into lobules than in the fish previously con- templated. The contents of the gland-vesicles vary according to their size. In the supra-renal capsules which are smallest of all, and measure under 9-100ths of a line, there are no gland-vesicles to be seen, but only nuclei : to these we shall im- mediately return. But in supra-renal cap- sules which are somewhat larger, the nuclei are partly included in cells. By a yet further enlargement of these or- gans, the gland-vesicles also appear: they contain fine molecules, fatty granules, and nuclei. These are vesicular, flat, of circular or irregular form, and vary in size from 22 to 30-10,000ths of a line. Each of these nuclei contains a single or double nucleolus. Not unfrequently forms appear which may be con- nected with a division of the nucleus, where it appears cut through the middle, or even incompletely broken up into three parts. Finally, the gland-vesicles also contain cells. By enlarging, these cells experience a gradual transition into new gland-vesicles, which are contained within the larger ones; so that we may distinguish them into mother- vesicles and endogenous daughter-vesicles, just as often happens in other cells, to wit, those of cartilage. The endogenous vesicles occur in the older ones in variable numbers. The smaller gland-cells contain only a single nucleus ; others possess two or three of them, which sometimes lie closely packed on each other. Finally, in other cells, three, four, five, and more nuclei occur; and in this manner, by an increase in the number of the enclosed nuclei, and at the same time a continual fur- ther extension of the cell membrane, the cells experience a transition into glandular ve- sicles. These conditions, which were first observed by Ecker, and which I can completely con- firm from an examination of the same animal, will quite permit us to conclude as follows regarding the development of the glandular vesicles. In the smallest gland-vesicles a multiplication of nuclei takes place, most pro- bably from those already present, by the me- thod of fission. This multiplication extends itself to free nuclei, as well as to those which are included in cells. In the latter case, the cell-membrane must be more and more ex- tended by the formation of the nuclei; and in this manner the cells of a gland-vesicle them- selves are changed into new endogenous ve- sicles. By this process, the mother vesicle itself is considerably extended ; so that, finally, its membrane comes into contact with the sheath of the supra-ren^l capsule. Finally, after the membrane of the mother vesicle is destroyed new areolar tissue seems to be developed between the secondary vesicles. In this way the small supra-renal capsules of the Pike experience their growth. In large old Pikes, the process of multipli- cation and growth seems no longer to occur. In their supra-renal capsules, the fibrous foundation is more considerable in quantity, so that by its means the gland-vesicles are more separated from each other. So also in the genus Cyprinus, where a pre- cisely similar structure of the supra-renal cap- sules may be observed, one lights upon con- ditions of nuclei in the gland-vesicles which suffice to prove the transition of gland-cells into gland-vesicles. As to the problematical organs of the Myxine and Petromyzon, the glands which Miiller discovered in the Myxi- noid fishes consist of tufts of small elongated lobules, which are clothed with a kind of cylin- drical epithelium.* Concerning the glands in * See the drawing of this glandular structure in J. Mttller's Essay.