737 SOLIPEDA. liquely, upon the left side of the stomach ; its base pointing upwards and backwards, and its apex downwards and forwards; it is about 9 inches long, 4 inches broad at its widest part, and three-quarters of an inch in thick- ness. Its weight is about twelve ounces. The pancreas is of an irregular shape, ap- pearing to be made up of three branches— the shortest of which terminates at the duodenum ; of the other two, one extends beneath the right, and the other reaches as far as the left kidney: these three branches form, by their union, a flattened mass, about half an inch in thickness, which may be called the body of the pancreas. There is nothing remarkable in the arrangement of its excretory duct. Circulatory Apparatus. — The struc- ture of the heart and the general arrangement of the arterial and venous systems offer no pecu- liarities worthy of notice. Structure of the Horse's Foot.—The mechanical structure of the foot of the horse demands to be considered at length, for in what- ever point of view this part of their economy is regarded, either as a simple instrument of progression, or a curious piece of anatomy, it will be found equally deserving the study of the physiologist and of the veterinarian. Nu- merous writers have accordingly devoted their attention to this subject, both on the conti- nent and in our own country ; but their de- scriptions are, unfortunately, so mixed up with terms of farriery and stable jargon, that the anatomist finds considerable difficulty in deciphering their elaborate disquisitions. Among the most philosophical English treatises are those of Professor Coleman and Mr. Bracy Clark, to both of whom we shall be indebted for many of the following observations. Horny hoof. — The whole exterior conical covering of the horse's foot, called in tech- nical language the " wall of the hoof," is formed of a dense horny substance, which in shape resembles a hollow cone obliquely truncated at its upper part, so that the hoof is deepest or highest in front of the foot, diminishing in this respect as it recedes back- wards towards the "quarters;" it then loses, to a considerable extent, its conical shape, and becomes nearly upright, especially on the inside or inner quarter, still growing narrower or lower to the posterior extremity of the foot, where, at first sight, it appears to termi- nate by mixing with the substance of the " frog," hereafter to be described, and with the integuments of the posterior region of the foot: instead of terminating in this manner, however, a more accurate examination shows it to be suddenly inflected inwards, pursuing its course towards the centre of the foot, where, diminishing gradually in depth, it is finally lost, becoming mixed up with the " sole," near the point of the frog, thus form- ing a distinct anil remarkable internal wall that supports the under parts of the foot, and at the same time protects, by its bold projection, the sole and the frog from an undue degree of pressure and contusion against the ground. The parts thus formed by a continuation of the wall of the hoof beneath the foot, are called the " bars of the foot," and are fre- quently described with, and taken for, part of the "sole." The direction of this sloping floor serves to throw all superincumbent [ires- sure outwards towards the sides of the foot, and at the same time leaves a triangular space, posteriorly, for the insertion of the frog (fig. 513.), which it likewise protects from injury. Fig. 513. Structure of tile hoof of the Horse. 1, the sole; 2, section of the horny hoof; 3, upper surface of the frog ; 4, 4, the horny heels; 5, Bars of the foot; 6, walls of the hoof; 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, boun- daries of the vaulted space, ,in which the frog is lodged; 12, 12, the sensitive foot. The wall thus constructed appears to form the basis of the mechanism of the hoof, to which all the other parts are subordinate, and, if so understood, will much facilitate our views of the nature and economy of its structure. Its inner surface is every where lined, as it were, with numerous elastic lamella1 that pro- ject internally, and arranged in parallel lines, proceeding downwards perpendicularly to- wards the front of the foot (fig. 514, 3.): these horny laminae are, at least, five hundred in number, and afford, from the aggregate surface that they present, a very extensive superficies for the attachment of an equal number of similar processes, derived from the vascular surface that covers the coffin bone, with which they interdigitate in such a way that the (ires- sure to which the foot is subjected, which if concentrated upon a small surface would in- 3 u