SOLIPEDA. 728 lata, these six muscles exist and are disposed pretty nearly as in the human race; but in the Pachydermata and Ruminantia there is but one flexor carpi radialis. In all the above multidigitate animals, the muscles derived from the external condyle, and its vicinity by their co operation, approximate the back of the hand towards the forearm, or, in other words, are extensors of the fore-foot while those derived from the internal condyle have a contrary effect, and act as flexors of the hand. Should the flexor and extensor of the same side of the limb act together, the hand will be bent laterally in the corresponding direction. In the Solipeda, where the movements of the wrist are strictly limited to those of flexion and extension, the disposition of these muscles is considerably modified. The extensor carpi radialis is here single, arising from the anterior part of the external condyle of the humerus, and from the ex- ternal surface of that bone for a consider- able distance: it forms a strong fleshy belly, terminating in a powerful tendon, which runs to be inserted into the base of the anterior surface of the metacarpal or cannon bone. This muscle, called by Bourgelat the " extcn- seur droit anterieur du canon" seems, from the extent of its origin, to represent the long su- pinator and the two radial extensors of the wrist combined, and all three made to co- operate in the extension of the wrist. The flexor carpi radialis :(epi/rocklo-nieta- carpien) arises from the external condyle of the humerus, and is inserted into the posterior surface of the base of the cannon bone, form- ing the antagonist to the preceding muscle : this is the "fleckisseur interne du canon" of Bourgelat. The flexor carpi ulnaris (epitrochlo-carpie)i) arises from the posterior part of the external protuberance of the os humeri, and also by a distinct head from the protuberance situated above the internal condyle ; its tendon is in- serted into the representative of the pisiform bone and also into the root of the rudi- mentary metacarpal bone beneath it : this is the "fleckisseur oblique du canon " of Bour- gelat. The extensor carpi ulnaris (cubito-sus-me- tacarpieri) arises from the posterior part of the external condyle of the humerus, and is inserted, like the preceding, into the os pisiforme, whence it is prolonged beneath the carpus, so as to perform the office of a flexor of the wrist ("fleckisseur externe " Bourgelat.) The palmaris longus does not exist in the Solipeda ; nor is it found in the Pachydermata and Ruminantia, being in these orders of qua- drupeds apparently combined with the flexor sublimis digitorum, as is likewise the case with this muscle in the bear, the badger, and the dog ; in all other unguiculate quadrupeds it is disposed as in the human subject. Muscles of the hand. — The extensor com- munis digitorum (epicondi/lo-sus-pkalangettien commun). — This muscle in the horse is called by Bourgelat " Vextenseur anterieur du pied,1'' and by Lafosse, "Vextenseur du pied:" it arises from the external condyle of the humerus and from the contiguous fascia?, also from the upper and lateral part of the radius; its fleshy belly is strong, and terminates in a single tendon, which runs over the foot to be inserted into the last phalanx or coffin-bone, having pre- viously given off a slip to join the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti. ■Fig. 502. Myology of the Horse. (After Stuibs.) Head. — a, Orbicular muscle of-the mouth.; g, ele- vator of the chin ; 5, arteria augularis ; 6, arteria temporalis. Neck.— /, Obliquus capitis inferior; 7, ligamen- tum nucha;. Trunk. — m, Transversalis abdominis; t, sphincter ani. Left anterior Extremity. — w, Insertion of bra- ehialis anticus ; d, flexor profundus digiti; p, flexor carpi radialis; u, ligaments of the" carpus; I, m, tendon of the flexor sublimis perforatus. Right anterior Extremity. — /, m, Tendon of the flexor sublimis ; i, insertion of flexor profundus into the coffin bone; r, flexor brevis digiti pedis. Left posterior Extremity. —p, adductor magnus femoris ; 7, vastus internus ; u, gracilis ; 13, 15, plan- taris ; 28, flexor longus digiti pedis; 16, external malleolus; 17, Internal malleolus; 18, division of the tendon of plantaris, to allow the tendon of the flexor profundus to proceed to its insertion at 31, into the coffin bone; 11, flexor brevis digiti pedis; 30, obturator artery; 37, nerves to the tibialis an- ticus. Bight posterior Extremity. — c,Tranversalis penis;