URINE. 1273 sent state of our knowledge may permit us to see in too attractive a form. Liebig remarks, "When the hydrochloric acid (in the stomach) has exercised its solvent action upon the aliments, and the latter have passed into a state of solution, the soda which originally entered the organism in com- bination with the hydrochloric acid, that is, as common salt, rejoins the hydrochloric acid during the preparation of the chyme, anil pre- vious to its transformation into chyle, the soda and the hydrochloric acid thus reunited combine again and form common salt : chyle and lymph have no longer any acid reaction, but, on the contrary, they manifest alkaline properties."* The alkaline reaction of the lymph, chyle, and blood of man and of the car- nivorous animals cannot be owing to the pre- sence of a free alkali, as is evident from the preceding observations ; for the nutriments of man and of the carnivorous, as well as the graminivorous, animals, contain no free alkali, nor any salt formed of an alkaline base and an acid which might be destroyed in the organism by the vital process, and thus cause the alkaline base to be liberated. The blood must contain the same salts as exist in the aliments. With the exception of common salt, nothing is added during the digestion of the aliments. We have seen that this substance undergoes decomposition in the upper part of the digestive apparatus, being resolved into frge soda and free hydrochloric acid ; but we hare also seen that the liberated soda rejoins the hydrochloric acid during the pre- paration of the chyme, and previous to the transformation of the latter into chyle ; that is, when the acid has performed its function, viz. the solution of the aliments,—the salt formed by this combination, that is, common salt, has neither an acid nor an alkaline re- action. The salts with alkaline reaction con- tained in meat, flour, or grain, are alkaline phosphates. It is obvious that the alkaline reaction of the chyle, lymph, and blood of animals feeding upon animal and vegetable substances can only be derived from their alkaline phosphates. The serum of the blood can only be considered as a combination of albumen with an alkaline phosphate ; the fibrin of the blood, or the fibrin of the muscular fibre, is a combination of albumen with phos- phate of lime. " The bibasic phosphates of soda and of potash are in many respects highly remarkable salts. Although of a tolerably strong alkaline reaction, yet they exercise no destructive action upon the skin, nor upon organic forma- tions. They possess all the properties of the free alkalies, without being such: thus, for instance, they absorb a large amount of car- bonic acid, and this in such a manner that acids produce effervescence in a saturated so- lution of this kind, just as they would in alkaline carbonates. They dissolve coagulated curd of milk or cheese, as well as coagulated albumen, into clear fluids with the greatest * Lancet, 1844. facility, just as caustic or carbonated alkalies do. But of still greater importance in relation to the secretion of urine is their deportment towards hippuric acid and uric acid. Hippuric acid dissolves with the greatest facility in water to which common phosphate of soda has been added. Uric acid possesses the same property at a high temperature; the phosphate of soda, in this process, loses its alkaline re- action completely upon the addition of uric acid and hippuric acid, and assumes an acid reaction. The acid nature of the urine of man, and of the carnivorous and graminivorous animals, is thus explained in a very simple manner. " There are but two principal channels through which the salts entering the organism with the aliments can effect their exit from the body, viz. they must either be carried off" in the faeces, or in the urine. The most simple experiments show that soluble salts are car- ried off by the faeces only when the amount of salt contained in the fluids in the intestines is larger than that contained in the blood. If the amount of salt in these fluids is ecjual or inferior to that of the blood, the soluble salts are re-absorbed by the absorbing vessels of the intestinal tube, and enter the circula- tion, and are then removed from the body by the urinary organs and channels. If the amount of salt contained in the intestinal tube is larger than that contained in the blood, the salts exercise a purgative action. " If, after previous evacuation of the rec- tum, a weak solution of common salt (one part of salt to sixty parts of water) be taken by means of a clyster, no second evacuation will take place: the fluid is absorbed, and all the salt is found in the urine. This experiment yields the most convincing results if ferro- cyanide of potassium is substituted for com- mon salt. In this case the first urine excreted after the injection of the saline solution, and frequently even after so short a time as fifteen minutes, contains so copious an amount of ferrocyanide of potassium as to yield, upon the addition of persalts of iron, a copious pre- cipitate of Prussian blue. " The influence which salts in general ex- ercise upon the secretion of urine is in the highest degree worthy of attention. It is a well known fact, that a very speedy emission of urine takes place in healthy individuals after drinking fresh pump-water. If ten glasses of water of from six to eight ounces each, containing no more than -j-J-Tjth of its amount in salts, be drunk at short intervals, an emission of urine of the usual colour will, after the lapse of about ten minutes, follow the second glass, and from eight to nine eva- cuations of urine will generally occur in the course of an hour and a half. The urine in this experiment emitted in the last evacuation will be clear and colourless like pump-water, and the amount of salts it contains is little more than is contained in pump-water. There are individuals who are capable of thus im- bibing from six to eight quarts of water con- sccutivelj without any inconvenience !!