VITAL STATISTICS. 1473 classes of society, and of the members of different professions, without reference to their place of residence. But little objection can be made to this test when applied with ordinary precaution. If the earliest age ad- mitted into the tabular abstracts, from which the averages are calculated, is the same in all the classes submitted to comparison ; if during the time over which the observations extend the classes compared with each other have received no rapid accession of numbers ; and if the deaths are those of the whole body of the profession or trade (or, if of a section only, then of a similar section in every case), the mean age at death will constitute a fail- measure of the relative sanitary condition of the several classes in question. But if, on the other hand, two professions or occupations are compared, in which the age at entry is not the same; or the one is stationary in point of numbers, while the other is rapidly increasing ; or if the w hole body is taken in the one case, and only the senior or junior members in the other, the results will be quite unworthy of confidence. Some of the greatest misapprehensions existing with respect to the duration of life of certain classes of the community, are traceable to the selection of the senior members of a class to represent the entire class to which they belong. Nothing is more common, for instance, than to hear royal families, or the members of the aristocracy, or the clergy, or the army, spoken of as long-lived, on the strength of the advanced ages attained by kings, peers, archbishops, or general officers. In making a selection of the more conspicuous members of the class, the significant fact is overlooked that they are also the oldest members, and that they do not attain their exalted rank till a period of life greatly in advance of that at which they entered their several professions. The mean age, at death, for example, of archbishops and bishops of the established church, is upwards of 71 years, but the mean age at death of the whole body of the clergy is about G4 years. A similar disparity would be found to exist be- tween the peers and the whole body of the aristocracy, and between general officers in the army, and admirals in the navy, and the whole body of officers in the two branches of the public service. The tables already referred to as comparing the four classes of gentry, tradesmen, artisans, and paupers in the several districts of the metropolis, supply analogous examples of erroneous selection and classification. In the great majority of the metropolitan parishes, for instance, there is no class of gentry properly so called; but this class consists, with the exception of a few professional men not im- properly mixed up with it, of tradesmen who have retired from business long enough to be entered in the mortuary registers as gentle- men. On the other hand, the pauper class is very largely recruited from the ranks of the artisans and labourers, and contains a very considerable proportion of old persons who, being no longer able to earn their liveli- hood, have come upon the public for support. The mean age of the living has been occa- sionally resorted to as a test or measure of salubrity. It has been assumed that a low average age of the living members of a class, when compared with the average age of ano- ther class, arises, cateris paribus, from a high mortality leading to a quick addition of young members. This assumption is justified only in those cases in which the addition of young members can be shown not to arise from any other cause, such as an increased demand for members of the class in question. It is there- fore a test to be employed with great caution; and it will also be necessary to show that the age of admission of the classes subject to com- parison is the same, or open only to very slight variation. 2. The rate of mortality. — The mortality, or rate of mortality, is the number of deaths which takes place in a given population, in a given space of time. The calculation is gene- rally made for a year, so that the ratio comes to express the number of the living out of which one will die annually. The ratio is sometimes stated as a fraction, and sometimes as a percentage proportion. If, for in- stance, out of a living population of 100,000, two thousand deaths take place every year, \M.%%n' or -bo< or ^ Per cent- is tne mortality, or rate of mortality, to which that population is exposed. In estimating the value of this test, it is necessary to bear in mind that the rate of mortality varies for every year of life. It follows, therefore, as a natural consequence, that the rate of mortality, like the mean age at death, must be materially influenced by the ages of the living population. In a po- pulation containing a large proportion of young children, subject to a very high mor- tality, the aggregate rate of mortality for the entire population will be necessarily higher than in a population abounding in older per- sons and having a comparatively small number of children. But a very cursory examination of tables of mortality will convince us that the error attaching to the rate of mortality as a test or measure of the sanitary condition of a population is much less than that which is inherent in the mean a^e at death; for not only do the extremes of life approximate much more closely to each other in their respective rates of mortality than in the mean ages at death, but ages which, though less widely separated, are far enough apart to affect the mean age at death, are exhibited as subject to a mortality very nearly identical. From 5 to 10 years of age, for example, the rate of mortality, in the male population of England, is "970 per cent., and from 20 to 30 years of age '974 per cent.; so that, while out of 100,000 persons dying at the respective ages of 5—10 and 20—30,970 and 974 persons would die in the year, their age at death would count in the one case as something between 5 and 10, and in the other at some age betw een 2.5 and 30. The difference in the rate of raior- 5 B