TUNICATA. 1195 opaque nucleoli, similar to fat-granules. The external nuclei are larger, round or more or less produced, and contain clear or granular substance, and usually some opaque granules. Test of Pliallusia mammillaris. A. Transverse section, magnified 30 times. 1, inter- nal layer of epithelial cells; 2, the second or inter- mediate layer, consisting of a homogeneous mass, thickly strewn with nuclei; 3, the external layer, composed of a fundamental mass and cells of cellu- lose, with dispersed nuclei (c), and having pigment- cells and acicular crystals in the upper part; 4, vessels. n. A portion of the same, magnified 350 times, a, fundamental mass ; b, cellulose cells ; c, nuclei, some round, others star-shaped; d, acicular crystals of carbonate of lime; e, the extremity of a vessel; /', pigment-cells. The third layer forms the principal mass of the test of this species. It is the scat of the numerous and large arteries, which, arising from the heart, traverse it in every direction, having brush-like ramifications, that penetrate almost to the exterior surface, and then ap- pear to pass into other vessels thai accom- pany them in their course. This layer is formed of large cells, besides a clear homo- geneous substance, which is a continuation of the principal substance of the second layer ; besides these there are locally distributed crys- tals, nuclei, and pigment-cells. The large cells, which R.Wagner previously thought to be cartilaginous, are of a peculiar nature, and resemble no other animal cell hitherto known, except perhaps those of the chorda dorsalis of some animals. The most re- markable character of these cells is their size, which varies from 0-008" to 0W, the aver- age being 0-02'" to 0 03"'. Their form is spherical, pyriform, or elliptical ; their con- tents diaphanous and quite destitute of nucleus or granules ; and their membrane delicate, smooth, and of an equal thickness throughout. The smallest cells are irregularly dispersed in the homogeneous fundamental mass that is common to the second and third layers. The larger cells are arranged closely together to- wards the exterior surface of the layer, pre- senting a very regular cellular tissue with very little intermediate substance; but, immediately beneath the external surface of the envelope, the cells are rather more distant one from another, and the intermediate tissue more visible. The crystals and pigment-cells before mentioned, are present only in the outer part of this third layer ; the former are acicular, about 0-0015'" in length, occupying in com- pact masses the intercellular intervals ; the latter are yellow, and filled with somewhat large granules, and surround in particular the extreme ramifications of the vessels. The nuclei, lastly, are similar to the large nuclei of the second or intermediate layer, and are everywhere present between the large cells in considerable numbers. When slices of the test are treated with hy- drochloric acid, the crystals of the second and third layers quickly disappear; treated with a solution of soda, the epithelial cells, the nuclei, the pigment-cells, and the vessels are dissolved. The fundamental homogeneous sub- stance of the second and third layers and the large cells are not dissolved, nor do they suffer any modification. In Pliallusia monaclius the large cells mea- sure from 0-01"' to 0-02'", and are more dis- tinctly separated from one another than in the preceding example. The nuclei of the homo- geneous substance are few, and generally fusi- form or even ramified ; at the external surface of the envelope they are mixed up with a great number of minute yellow pigment-cells and pigmentary granules, as well as with acicu- lar crystals and very minute crystalline concre- tions ; all of these being in the greatest num- bers in the neighbourhood of the extremities of the vessels. In one specimen of this spe- cies MM. Lowig and Kolliker observed, that in the interior of the third layer no cells could be distinguished ; ultimately, however, they distinctly saw well defined cavities or lacunas, which were evidently vestiges of cells that had been more or less completely fused with the intermediate homogeneous substance ; and the traces of these lost cells were found to be more anil more distinct towards the band of perfect cells in the surface of the test. In Pliallusia sulcata the large round or ellip- tical cells, without nuclei, have a diameter of 0 01"'—0-15"'. In Pliallusiagclaiinosa a very peculiar forma- tion was observed by the experimenters. In one specimen the soft, gelatinous substance of the envelope exhibited no trace of cells throughout its thickness, but its mass was principally composed of a homogeneous sub- stance similar to that of the other Asciduz. In another individual they observed some few and indefinite remains of cells. In both spe- cimens they found, as in the other species, vessels and nuclei, the latter for the most part round and measuring 0"002"', in the homo- geneous substance. In the individual desti- tute of cells, there was also in the exterior part a very large quantity of acicular crystals and yellow granules, the latter frequently re- sembling the nuclei with large coloured nu- cleoli. The tissue in all the Ascidia examined, when chemically treated, behaved in a similar manner to that of Pliallusia mammillaris. We have observed that the test of Boltema reni/qrmis (preserved in spirit) presents a ho-