SPLEEN. 791 leave the arteries and pursue their way alone, they vary in some respects from this descrip- tion, although not so considerably as might be imagined from the delineations which hive been given of them. In the first place, the character of the branchings is peculiar, since from hence onwards, and so much the more frequently the smaller the veins become, branches are given off from the veins on all sides at very nearly right angles, and the open mouths of these ramifications are seen from within as numerous round or oval orifices lying very closely to each other. In the second place, the membranes of these veins gradually become thinner and thinner, and at the same time are blended with the similarly attenuated sheaths, so that both constitute only one delicate membrane, which is never- theless every where demonstrable even in the smallest vessels which can be isolated, and which everywhere exhibits itself without any interruption as a perfectly continuous mem- brane. Dilatations or pouchings can no- where be seen, either in the course of the isolated veins or in their smallest branches ; only it must be added, that the narrowing of their calibre occurs much more slowly than in the arteries. As to the beginnings of the veins, and their connection with the ca- pillaries, I have not been able to detect any- thing more than what one sees elsewhere ; name!}', that by a constant simplification and attenuation of their structure, the veins finally pass into capillaries. Here also no traces of dilatations are visible, of whatever kind these dilatations might be imagined to be ; and there is just as little appearance of any other pecu- liarity. As regards the brute mammalia, many of them certainly correspond in a very considerable de- gree with man, in respect of the condition of these vessels; but my researches do not ex- tend sufficiently to enable me to express myself decisively on this point. While, on the other hand, some, as the horse, ass, ox, pig, and sheep, exhibit essential differences. In the latter animal, which I have examined the most carefully, the following deviations are pre- sent. The arteries differ little from those of man, only they separate earlier from the veins to pursue their isolated course. In most other respects they behave precisely as J. Muller has described them, and as I have also spoken of them in man ; only I cannot corroborate the statement of Muller, that the sheaths of the smaller arteries are equal in strength to those of the greater. The rami- fications which reach the Malpighian cor- puscles measure from 1 to I i-100ths ofaline in diameter; they then course in the pulp, foim very beautiful tufts, and finally capillaries, of which the smallest measure from 3 to 4- lOOOths of a line. But in contrast to this, the veins exhibit very essential differences. In the first place, a special membrane and sheath are only found in the largest venous trunks, and even here they only extend a short dis- tance around the circumference of the vessel ; while more deeply in the spleen they only lie upon the side where the artery and nerve are attached to the vein. In all the smaller veins which are no longer accompanied by arteries, there is no trace of these two membranes to be seen ; and not only is this the case, but the mode in which the precise limit of the venous canal is indicated is also very extra- ordinary. The vein appears to be formed in the first instance by the strong anastomosing trabecular, and soon afterwards it seems com- posed simply of delicate fibres and red sub- stance deposited between them, a structure which continues even into the large venous trunks. They thus distinguish themselves at the first glance as excavations in the paren- chyma of the spleen, which are devoid of walls. Nevertheless, by a more careful ex- amination of the red limits of these veins, one may verify their smooth and shining appear- ances, a circumstance which is significant of the existence of a delicate membranous cover- ing ; and, in point of fact, microscopic inves- tigation proves the existence of an epithe- F.g. 534.. Epithelial cells from the Splenic vein of Man and other Mammalia. Magnified 300 diameters. lium, which every where clothes this surface, and consists of fusiform or more spherical cells, of J to l-100th ofaline in diameter, with roundish or elongated nuclei of 3 to 5- JOOOths of a line in size (fig. 534.). This epi- thelium altogether corresponds with that which covers the part of the veins possessing a visible membrane ; but in the vessels of which I am speaking, it is placed in part imme- diately on the trabecular, in part upon a deli- cate fibrous membrane limiting that part of the pulp which bounds the veins. In con- sequence of what has been said, the greater number of the splenic veins of the ox must be likened in respect of their structure to the spaces in the corpora cavernosa penis, and to the sinuses of the dura mater; since, in- stead of the venous membranes elsewhere present, they possess only the " tunica inthna " in the shape of a delicate epithelium. So that one may speak of them as " venous sinuses," and the more correctly, if it be considered that these veins, almost devoid of walls, possess a colossal width, and are every- where rendered quite cribriform by larger and smaller veins opening into their interior ; which smaller veins may themselves be traced by their great width for a considerable dis- tance. How these smaller veins are con- nected with the very distinct capillary net- 3 e 4