717 SOLIPEDA. Fig. 497. Skeleton of the Horse. {After Stubbs.) Skull.—9, orbit ; 11, 12, superior maxillary bone ; 12, infra-orbital foramen; 15, intermaxillary; 16, os nasi; 17, 18, 19, lower jaw; 18, mental foramen; 19, coronoid process. Cervical region. — a, c, the atlas; g, h, k, the vertebra dentata; o, body; r, transverse; s, t, oblique, and u, spinous processes of cervical vertebras ; z, process from the root of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebrae, assisting with its fellow to form the groove in which the longus colli muscle is lodged. Dorsal region.— c, oblique, and e, e, spinous processes of the two anterior dorsal vertebra?; 5 to 18, continuation of dorsal spinous processes. Lumbar region.-—a, b, c, d, e, f, lumbar vertebras; I, the sacrum; p, superior, and r, inferior, caudal vertebra?. Sternal rex/ion.-—a, b, c, osseous and cartilaginous pieces of the sternum with the cartilaginous attachments of the true ribs. Shoulder.— h, i, o, the scapula; b, g, k, the os humeri. sometimes advances forwards above the atlas and is prolonged posteriorly above the third, or even the fourth, cervical vertebra, thus af- fording an ample expansion for muscular at- tachments. In the Solipeds, this spinous crest (Ic) is but moderately developed, extending backwards so as to overlap the third vertebra to some extent ; but its anterior prolongation is wanting. The transverse apophyses are short, and perforated by the vertebral canal, while the articular processes are but moder- ately developed, and directed backwards to articulate with those of the succeeding ver- tebra. The five postetior cervical vertebra? are remarkable for their strength and mobility ; their bodies are of great proportionate size, and articulated together by broad sub-globular surfaces that allow a considerable extent of motion ; the vertebral laminae are broad and massive, and the articular processes well de- veloped and connected together by large articulating surfaces. The spinous processes are almost wanting except upon the sixth and seventh vertebras, that belonging to the latter being of considerable size and turned backwards, so as to represent the commence- ment of the dorsal series of spines. The bodies of the sixth and seventh vertebrae of the neck, more particularly of the former, are prolonged inferiorly into a central crest of considerable size, which projects downwards and backwards, and gives origin to the longus colli, which muscle is likewise lodged in a kind of groove formed by osseous plates derived from the transverse processes. The dorsal vertebra in the Solipeds are invariably eighteen in number, and are distin- guished by the shortness of their transverse apophyses, each of which is provided with an articulating surface, whereby it is connected with the corresponding rib as well as by similar articulations situated on each side upon the anterior and posterior extremities of their bodies to which the heads of the ribs are affixed. The spinous processes of the anterior dorsal vertebrae are of great length, and dilated at their extremities, where they give origin to the broad elastic cervical liga- ment by means of which the weight of the