989 TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). happens between the years of two and ten.* Of the twelve cases mentioned by Wrisberg, in which one or both testicles were retained in the abdomen, in one the descent took place the day of birth, in three on the day after, in three others on the third day, in two instances on the fifth day, and in one on the twenty- first day: in the other cases, the testicles had not appeared at the fourth or fifth week after parturition, f My own observations lead me to believe, that if the passage does not take place within a twelvemonth after birth, it is rarely fully and perfectly completed afterwards, without being accompanied with rupture. For the causes which operate at this late period tend as much to promote the formation of hernia as the transition of the testicle. In cases where the testicle makes no appearance before puberty, uneasiness is often experienced at that period, owing to the enlargement of the gland being restrained by the rings and parts composing the inguinal canal. At the same time also, it is often protruded outside the external ring by the movements of the abdomen in respiration. The causes of a failure in the transition of the testicle have not been much investigated, and as considerable doubt has long prevailed respecting the mode and agency by which this change is effected, no satisfactory explana- tion could be expected of the circumstances interrupting or preventing it. When we re- flect on the nature of that process, as my researches have led me to describe it, it is clear, that there must not only be a perfect adaptation of parts, a due relation between the body displaced and the structures which it traverses, but also corresponding power in the agent by which it is accomplished. There are few muscles in the human body whose development in different individuals varies in a greater degree than that of the cremaster. And if such be the case after birth, it is not unreasonable to presume that similar differ- ences exist in the fcetus before the gland changes its position, and that a failure in the process may be the result of deficient power in the muscuius testis to accomplish the pas- sage. It is not improbable that this muscle is sometimes paralysed, and that the faulty transition is owing to a want of a due supply of the nervous energy, which we know is often denied to other muscles during foetal exist- ence, and is the cause of deformities in the feet and other parts, with which infantsare often ushered into the world. I think, indeed, we may fairly enumerate paralysis and defective development of the cremaster amongst the presumed causes of the imperfect transition of the testicle. Peritonitis occasionally at- tacks the fcetus in utero J, and produces ad- hesions between the various abdominal viscera. It is well known that in congenital hernia the testicle is frequently united to a portion of * Lib. cit. p. 15. f Lib. cit. p. 203. % Vide Contributions to Intra-uterine Pathology, by Dr. Simpson, Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journal, nos. exxxvii. and cxl. intestine or omentum, and that the formation of these adhesions previous to the transition of the testicle is sometimes the cause of the displacement, the viscera being drawn, together with the gland, into the scrotum. Many facts seem to show that similar adhesions are, on the other hand, an occasional cause of the temporary and permanent retention of the testicle, the cremaster being insufficient to overcome this obstacle to its passage. In the examination of a man, age sixty, I found the right testicle just external to the abdominal ring ; it was small in size, and closely adherent to a portion of omentum. A young man was under my care for many months, on account of an imperfect transition of the testicle on the left side. The gland moved backwards and forwards through the external abdominal ring. By pressure above, it could be forced down sufficiently to admit of being examined. This testicle was much smaller than the right, which was in the scrotum, and I could distinctly make out a portion of intestine closely adherent, which accompanied the organ in all its movements. It is probable that the smallness of the opening in the internal abdominal ring is sometimes a cause of the detention of the testicle, especially in those cases in which the organ is retained within the inguinal canal. Mr. Wilson, an accurate anatomist, was of this opinion*, which is supported by the fact, that the testicle is oftener found in the groin than in the cavity of the abdomen. M. Dela- siauve mentions a case, in which, he states, the organ was retained by the border of the outer column of the ring.-)- Mr. Hunter was inclined to suspect that the fault originates in the testicles themselves. It is difficult to un- derstand how this can be, for as the gland is passive in this process, it can offer no obstacle, unless it grows too large to pass the opening in the abdominal parietes ; whereas, it is ad- mitted that the gland when retained is usually below the natural size. Nor does it appear, that the interruption is owing to any want of proper length in the vas deferens, for in a case of imperfect transition in a boy, whose body I examined, I particularly noticed that this duct was so long as to be doubled on itself, and tortuous, a circumstance which has been remarked in other cases by Mr. Mayo J, Rosen- merheljj, and others. It may be concluded then, that the causes of a failure in the pas- sage of the testicle are various ; that this imperfection may result from want of power, or paralysis of the cremaster muscle; from adhesions retaining the gland within the ab- domen ; and from a contracted state of the opening of the external abdominal ring. Mr. Hunter states, that when one or both testicles remain through life in the belly, he believes that they are exceedingly imperfect, * Lectures on the Urinary and Genital Organs, p. 405. t Revue Medicale, Mars, 1840, p. 363. i Human Physiology, 3d edit. p. 411. ยง Ueber die Kadicaleur des in der Wciche liegen- den Testikels.