TONGUE. 1134 taining some fat, particularly at its inferior part and the median fibrous lamina, when the in- termuscular areolar tissue is sufficiently dense to deserve that name; anteriorly, with the frae- num, to which it is subjacent; inferiorly, with the geniohyoid; and externally, with the sub- lingual gland, the mylohyoid, hyoglossus, and inferior lingualis muscles, the ranine artery, and the gustatory nerve. The hypoglossal nerve threads its fibres, and passes forwards among them. Action: To raise and draw forwards the tongue ; to assist in constricting the pharynx ; to protrude, retract, or depress the tongue in the mouth, according as all or part of the fibres are employed ; to depress the centre of the tongue, and render it concave, from side to side. c. Accessory extrinsic muscles. — These are, in short, all the muscles that move the os hyoides without being attached to the tongue, for whatever moves the hyoid bone must move the tongue, which is fixed to it. They are accessory to the proper extrinsic muscles in two ways, either by acting in con- cert with them, or by facilitating their action on the tongue by rendering the hyoid bone a fixed point. Thus, in the first method, the stylohyoid and posterior belly of the digas- tricus concur with the styloglossus in draw- ing the tongue upwards and backwards. In the same way, the anterior belly of the digas- tricus, the mylohyoid, and geniohyoid, con- cur with the inferior portion of the genio- glossus in raising and drawing forwards the hyoid bone, and facilitating the protrusion of the tongue from the mouth. By the second method the muscles from the styloid process to the hyoid bone assist the longitudinal in- trinsic muscles of the tongue by rendering the base a fixed point from which they can ad- vantageously act on its length, and in the same way the inferior set of hyoidean muscles are accessory to the hyoglossus by fixing the hyoid bone down. More might be said on this subject, but enough has been stated to indicate the important relation of these muscles to the proper muscles of the tongue, and for the sake of brevity that may suffice. Movements of the tongue. — All the infinite variety of movements by w hich the tongue is, by virtue of its complex muscular organisa- tion, susceptible, may be arranged under two heads, — its extrinsic and intrinsic move- ments ; sometimes dissociated, more fre- quently concurrent: for the sake of clearness 1 shall consider them separately, and then group them. First, the intrinsic movements of the tongue are of two sorts; those affecting its length, and those affecting its direction. a. As affecting its length. The elongation of the tongue is provided for, like all in- trinsic elongation, by diminution of calibre ; in the tongue this is produced by transverse and vertical contraction, especially the transverse, whereby the tongue becomes at once elon- gated and pointed ; by this means the tip of the tongue can be protruded beyond the teeth without any movement of the organ en masse, or any assistance of the extrinsic muscles. From this elongated state it is restored to its original position and shape by the contraction of all the longitudinal fibres composing the cortical portion, which draw it directly back, the transverse and vertical fibres at the same time ceasing to act. Thus we see that the central and cortical portions of the intrinsic muscles are antagonistic ; but they are capable of association : for instance, when the tongue is to be flattened and its sides pressed against the teeth without any elongation, an action very frequent in mastication and in the pro- nunciation of some letters, this .is done by the contraction of the vertical fibres associ- ated with the longitudinal, the one diminishing the vertical thickness, and so spreading the tongue out, the other preventing the elonga- tion which the diminution of vertical thick- ness would otherwise be attended with. b. As affecting its direction. The direction of the tongue is entirely regulated, as far as the intrinsic muscles go, by the longitudinal fibres, and their power of modifying the direc- tion of the tongue, as well as shortening it, depends on their power of partial action : thus the lateral lingual of one side can act, or of the other; the superior or the inferior, and the point of the tongue is of course moved to the side of the acting muscle. This modi- fication of the direction of the tongue is, per- haps, the most complete movement that it possesses; it is certainly the most extensive : by it the tip of the tongue may be depressed deep below the incisor teeth, or reflected back on the soft palate, so as nearly to touch the uvula; or laterally, from the pillars of the fauces on one side it may be carried round the cheeks and alveolar arches to the same position on the other side : these are the cardinal points, up and down, right and left; they may be united in any proportions, so as to carry the extremity of the tongue to any intermediate position. Moreover, the movements affecting the length of the tongue may concur with those affecting its direction; for instance, on apply- ing the tip of the tongue to the root of a canine tooth of the upper jaw, on the outer surface of the alveolus, the tongue is elon- gated, and vertico-laterally flexed ; on apply- ing it to the last molar tooth of the lower jaw it is laterally flexed and shortened. Secondly, the extrinsic movements of the tongue admit of the same division as the intrinsic, into those regulating its length, and those regulating its direction or shape. a. Thus the tongue is carried upwards and backwards by the styloglossus, assisted by the other styloid muscles, downwards and backwards by the hyoglossus, directly back- wards when these both concur; and it is carried forwards and protruded from the mouth by the genioglossus. These move- ments, en masse, almost always concur with the intrinsic movements, the whole organ following to a certain extent the direction of the extremity. b. But the extrinsic muscles affect very