THORAX. 1044 on the contrary, decrease in the degree of their obliquity as they proceed in the same direc- tion. Moreover, for the most part the ex- ternal fibres increase in their obliquity in the same intercostal space as you proceed from the vertebras towards the sternum, and the internal intercostal fibres, on the contrary, increase their obliquity from the sternum towards the vertebras, therefore they seldom decussate at right angles to each other, or form a perfect cross like the letter X. This is their general relative position at death, but, during life, in every stage of respiration, their degree of obliquity varies. The obliquity of the intercostal fibres should be viewed more with reference to the spine than to the ribs, because we shall show that their action is relative to the spine, and not to the ribs and that they may be perpendicular to two ribs, while they are oblique to the spine, because the ribs are themselves oblique. We have never seen any of the external intercostal fibres perpendicular to a rib, but we may see that arrangement in the internal layer of the lower intercostal spaces (fig. 673.). The omission of the relative posi- tion of the spine with reference to the ob- liquity of these muscles has led to many false conclusions as to their action in respiration. Let e e (Jig. 675.) represent a spine or a rigid Fig. 675. body, and a c, B d two levers representing ribs, allowing of free rotation at their centres of motion a and b. These two bars are per- pendicular, or at 90°, with reference to the body EE; let l k represent a connecting tension or elastic fibre of any kind, this is oblique with reference to the two bars a c and bd, but move these bars down to the position of p 4, at an angle of 45° to the body E e, and the fibre l k becomes perpen- dicular to the two bars ; now move the bars up to p 3, also at an angle of 45° with e e, and the fibre l k becomes more oblique than at the position p 2. Therefore a tension may change from the oblique to the perpen- dicular relatively to the ribs; but it can never so change its relation to the spine. Thus l" k" and l' k' between the bars at p 3 cross each other, in the same direc- tion, but in different degrees of obliquity; when the bars are at p 4., they decussate in directions contrary with reference to the bars, but not with reference to the body e e. The position of the ribs is similar to the bars at p 4, therefore the decussation of the inter- costal muscles must be viewed wLh reference to the spine. The intercostal fibres never cross each other like the lines l'k' and l"k" (Jig. 675.), nor can they, by any change of movement, ever assume thatposition ; i. e. if they do not decussate in a direction con- trary with relation to the spine, in no change of position, throughout the range of a semi- circle, can they ever become directly decus- sating fibres but when they directly cross each other as v d and v'b (Jig. 676.) relative to e e, in every other position to which the bars Fig. 676. i can be moved, they will be seen still to main- tain the same decussation. Action of the intercostal muscles. — There is, probably, no subject in the whole range of science which has excited more violent con- tention and acrimonious dispute, than that of the action of the intercostal muscles. The illustrious and learned Haller could not enter this field of inquiry without pausing to ob- serve : " Let it be allowed me to deplore-