TEMPERAMENT. 936 sanguineum, et denique a copia atrae bilis me- lancholicum.* This view of the doctrine of temperaments prevailed in the schools down to the time of Cullen, and we find that able and thoughtful physician thus expressing himself upon the subject : " The ancients very early established a distinction of temperaments which the schools of physic have almost universally adopted ever since, and appears to me to be founded on observation. I am very much of opinion, that we can perceive a combination of a particular state of the chief circumstances of the economy to take place very steadily in certain persons, and thereby to form at least two of the temperaments assigned by the an- cients." f The temperaments, the existence of which seems most consistent with observation, are those admitted by Cullen, namely, the sangui- neous and the melancholic, the phlegmatic being a degree or modification of the sanguineous, and the choleric of the melancholic. It is reasonable to expect an infinite variety as regards the extent to which the character- istic marks of the temperaments are manifested in various individuals. Taking examples which afford good indications, the two temperaments above referred to may be described as follows, after Cullen. Individuals of the sanguine temperament have the quantity of fluids in the body large in proportion to the solids, the habit of body soft and plump, after the period of manhood disposed to obesity, and at all times, readily sweating upon exercise, the skin smooth and white, the hair soft, generally of a pale colour or from thence passing through different shades to a red ; the complexion ruddy, the eyes com- monly blue ; the strength of the whole body- is moderate, and the mind sensible, irritable, cheerful, and unsteady. The most exquisite examples of this temperament are found in men from the time of puberty to that of man- hood, and in women. In both sexes the cha- racteristics of the temperaments are far less manifest in old age. In persons of the melancholic temperament the habit of the body is rather hard and mea- gre, the quantity of fluids in the whole system moderate in proportion to the solids, the sim- ple solids firm and dense, the hair hard, black, with a tendency to curl, the skin coarse, of a dun colour, with a corresponding complexion, the eyes very constantly black, the strength considerable, the mind slow, disposed to gra- vity, caution and timidity, with little sensibi- lity or irritability, but tenacious of all emotions once excited, and therefore of great steadiness. This temperament is most completely formed in advanced life, but the characters of it ap- pear often very early.\ By some writers a nervous temperament is admitted, the prominent characteristic of which consists in a great excitability of the nervous system, and a predominance of * Haller, El. Phvsiolog. lib. v. sect. 4. \ Mat. Med. j Cullen, loc. cit. emotional impulses over the influence of the will. Individuals of this temperament are generally fidgetty and restless, take hut little sleep, and are anxious about trifles ; they are called " crestures of impulse ;" their emotions are easily excited, and often not readily sub- dued. In persons of this temperament, when labouring under disease, phenomena referrible to the nervous system are very apt to compli- cate and often to obscure the morbid actions. This temperament, however, cannot be said to exist apart from the sanguineous or me- lancholic : it always accompanies either one or the other, most frequently the former, and the most exquisite examples of it are found in the female sex. In looking at the physical conditions of the best-marked examples of the sanguine and melancholic temperaments, it is im- portant to ascertain whether any one pro- perty or quality stands out more prominently than the rest, which might seem to give to the whole economy of the individuals its peculiar cast. It appears to me that there is no single physical property which is so closely associated with difference of temperament as variety in the quantity, and perhaps also in the kind, of colouring matter or pigment, evinced by the colour of the hair and skin, and influ- encing also the colour of the eyes, and of the blood, and of the nervous centres. Individuals of the melancholic temperament exhibit in their various tissues a considerable amount of pigment, as shown by the dark co- lour, generally black, of the hair and eyes, while on the other hand those of the san- guine temperament are deficient in colour, having light hair, blue or grey eyes, and fair or white skins. Observations are yet wanting, in sufficient number, to determine the relative amount of colouring matter in the blood of individuals of each of these temperaments, or to ascertain whether it is characterised by any peculiar chemical qualities. It seems highly probable that the amount and kind of colouring nutter in the skin, hair, and eyes, as well as of that in some of the secretions, as bile, urine, &c. is influenced by the amount and kind of the liEematine. The xanthous and leucous races of man in- habiting for the most part cold or temperate climates, afford the most numerous examples of the sanguine temperament, while the me- lano-comous or dark races found chiefly in warm climates are mostly of the melancholic temperament. And those individuals of the xanthous and leucous races, which in physical characters approach most nearly to the dark races, as by the existence of a large quantity of dark pigment in their tegumentary tissues, are of the melancholic temperament, whilst the light-coloured members of the xanthous races are prone to exhibit the characters of the sanguine temperament. If it be admitted that a constant connection exists between colour and temperament, as I think is sufficiently obvious, it would follow that the nature of the temperament is deter- mined by certain peculiarities in the physical