772 SPLEEN. of this more will be said hereafter. On an average, its length is from 4 to 5§ inches * ; its thickness from 1 to 1*- inches ; and its breadth, from the anterior to the posterior border, 3 to 4 inches. According to Krause, its cubic contents range between 9£ and 15 inches, with an average of 12. Its absolute weight varies from 6 to 15 oz., according to Soemmering ; from 7J to lOh, according to Krause; and it has a medium of about 8 oz. According to J. Reid f, between the twentieth and sixtieth years, it ranges from 6 to 10 oz. in the male, and from 3 oz. I3|dr. to 9 oz. 10 dr. in the female. Krause also states, that its specific gravity varies from 1.0579 to 1.0625, with an average of 1.0G06. The consistence of the spleen is not very great : its parenchyma is soft and doughy, readily yielding to the pressure of the finger. It is not unliequently torn by mechanical injury during life ; indeed, more easily than any other glandular organ, especially if it be over-distended with blood at the time; but, under the opposite circumstances, it is much less disposed to give way. The colour of the spleen is bluish red, during life greyish violet, and the parenchyma is of a dark dusky red. Structure. — In the spleen we first distin- guish the coverings or involucra, and the paren- chyma or proper spleen-substance. The first consists of the serous and the fibrous mem- brane. The latter is composed of a frame- work of reticulated fibres firmly connected together, constituting the so-called trabecular tissue {trabecules lienis) ; and, beside this, of the red spleen-substance, the splenic cor- puscles, and vessels and nerves, together with sheaths which arise from the fibrous coat. 1. The serous membrane {tunica serosa) is a part of the peritoneum. It accurately covers the outer surface of the spleen as a smooth membrane, with the exception of its hilus only, where it takes the form of two folds which convey the vessels of the organ, con- stituting the gastro-splenic ligament, and pass- ing off to the stomach, where they become continuous with its serous covering. When the ligament uniting the spleen to the dia- phragm exists, the membrane is similarly con- tinuous with the peritoneum covering this muscle. The serous membrane is a thin, mo- derately strong, whitish membrane, which is intimately connected with the fibrous coat; although in particular places, and especially after previous maceration, the two may be separated from each other. In respect of its microscopical structure, it scarcely differs at all from other parts of the visceral layer of the peritoneum; thus it consists of an outer and single layer of polygonal pavement epithelium, and of an inner layer of white fibrous tissue, in which meshes of fine fibre of yellow tissue are present in no very considerable quantity. In mammalia, e. g. in the sheep, ox, &c, * In this and the following measurements the German inch and line have been retained. f London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal, April, 1843. as was remarked by Malpighi, the serous membrane is easily separated entire. But in man this is not the case, and hence Haller and others have supposed that only one membrane is present. But microscopical re- search proves the opinion to be erroneous ; and pathological anatomy confirms this state- ment, by showing that the outer part of the coat of the spleen shares in the diseases of the peritoneum. In animals numerous vessels are seen in the serous membrane, and a very dense network of stronger and thicker fibres of yellow tissue is present. 2. The fibrous coat {tunica fibrosa, albu- ginea, sive propria) is in man a moderately delicate semi-transparent, but firm, membrane, which encloses the parenchyma of the spleen on every side, so as to include it in a kind of sac. Its outer surface is even, and in man is intimately united with the serous covering, with the single exception of the hilus, where the two membranes diverge, and are separated from each other by vessels, nerves, and a loose areolar tissue. The inner surface bounds the parenchyma of the organ, and, with the exception of very numerous solid processes which come off from it, is limited by the tra- becular tissue. At the hilus of the spleen it sinks into the interior of the organ in the shape of tubes {vagina vasorum), which en- sheath the entering and emerging vessels, and are continued on these throughout the whole parenchyma. The fibrous coat, in the human subject, is composed of white fibrous tissue, mixed with elastic or yellow fibres. The former of these, as in other fibrous membranes, consists of bands, which take a parallel course, but do not form distinct bundles ; and the latter are united in a very dense and irregular network. Duvernoy and Stukely have de- scribed muscular fibres Fig. 522. ;n this tunic; but, ac- cording to my re- searches, they certainly are not present in the human subject, al- though I have found them existing in some of the mammalia, and most visibly in the dog ft and pig. They are un- striped muscles, the elements of which, the elongated cells or " fibre cells" {fig. 522.) which I have described *, are deposited in consider- able quantity amongst the elastic network and white fibrous tissue if previously mentioned. Muscular fibre-cell from In addition to these the tunica propria of the two animals I have also spleen of the Dog, mag- foim(\ the muscular nified 350 diameters. structure jn the cat, the a, nucleus ot the same. . y-.- * , ass, and the Dicotyles * Zeitschrift fur wissenschaftliche Zoologie, von v. Siebold und Kolliker, Leipzig, bei Engelmann, Jahrgang, 1848, Heft 1.