TUNICATA. 1187 4 g 2 DiciiiTONiDA. —Family Ascidiad^e, E. Forbes. Synonyms: Tethyessimples, Savigny; Aseidida, MacLeay ; Tuniciers libres ou As- cidiens, Lamarck; Ascidiaria, Stark; " les Iso- lees," Cuvier ; Ascidiacca, pars, Blainville ; Ascidiens simples, Milne- Edwards ; Ascidiens, Van Beneden. Body simple, fixed ; animals isolated or gregarious ; not united into groups by a com- mon integument; oviparous, not genimipa- rous. The following genera are members of this family : — AsCIDIADiE, vel AscmiTE SIMPLICES Branchiae not plicated Branchiae plicated Genus Ascidia, Baster and Linnaeus. — " Rarely," says Professor E. Forbes, " is the dredge drawn up from any sea bed at all pro- lific in submarine creatures, without contain- ing few or many irregularly shaped leathery bodies, fixed to sea-weed, rock, or shell, by one extremity or by one side, free at the other, and presenting two more or less pro- minent orifices, from which, on the slightest pressure, the sea-water is ejected with great force. On the sea shore, when the tide is out, we find similar bodies attached to the under surface of rough stones. They are variously, often splendidly, coloured ; but otherwise are unattractive, or even repulsive, Fig. 706. ~"Hit* J Ascidia mammillata. {Original.') a, branchial orifice, open; h, anal orifice, closed. in aspect. These creatures are Ascidia, pro- perly so called. Numbers of them are often found clustering among tangles, like bunches of some strange semitransparent fruit." Some species (in France, vu/gd " le vichet ") on the Sessile Pedunculated f Ascidia.* " \ Molgula. f Cynthia. ■ 1 Dendrodoa. [ Chrlyosoma. f Bo'tenia. --! Cystingia. [Bipapillaria. coasts of the Channel f and the Mediterra- nean, and in the Chinese Seas, are valued as articles of food In this genus (Jig. 7G6.) the body is sessile ; test, coriaceous or gelati- nous ; branchial orifice eight and six-lobed; branchial sac not plicated, surmounted by a circle of simple tentacular filaments. Genus Molgula, E. Forbes ; synonym, As- cidia, Auct. — Body more or less globular, attached or free J ; test membranous, usually invested with extraneous matter ; orifices on very contractile and naked tubes, the bran- chial six-lobed, the anal four-lobed. Genus Cynthia, Savigny ; sy nonym, Ascidia, Auct.—Body sessile, fixed or unattached; test coriaceous ; branchial and anal orifices open- ing in four rays or lobes; branchial sac lon- gitudinally plicated, surmounted by a circle of tentacular filaments. Genus Dendrodoa, MacLeay'.— Body sub- cylindrical, fixed, sessile; test coriaceous, smooth ; orifices terminal, minute, indistinctly quadrifid ; branchial sac plicated ; tentacula * Some very good observations on the subdi- visions of the Ascidia! have been made by M. Sa- vigny, Dr. Fleming, and Mr. MacLeay. But we must not here enter further into details. The fol- lowing classification is that adopted wholly or in part by the above authors respectively: — I Pyrena. Phallusia! Ascidi^f, Cynthia? - •> Phallusia. (_ Ciona. Cynthia. Ctesira. Styela. Pandocia. Dendrodoa. f " At Cette," says Van Peneden, " Ascidia? are taken regularly to market; and Cynthia microscomus, although so repulsive externally, furnishes a very delicate morsel, much sought after by some." J Individuals of several species of Ascidians, viz. of the following genera, Mulgula, Cynthia, Cystingia, Bipapillaria, and Pdonaia, are found unattached. These animals, however, cannot be said to have an entirely free existence, their tests, whether pe- duncled or otherwise, being usually more or less imbedded in sand or mud, and frequently held to their anchorage by the agglutination of the sur- rounding sand-grains to their outer surface. Put from such a position they are easily disturbed, unless when they are lodged within the mud-tilled cavities of old shells and of water-worn stones, as is the case with the Pdonaia.