SMELL. 702 sence of food, to indicate its direction and thus to guide the animal towards it, and to aid in the discrimination of its qualities. We always find the olfactive organ placed in the neighbourhood of the mouth ; its connection with the respiratory apparatus is by no means so constant. In air-breathing vertebrata, whose olfactive cavity opens into the pharynx, the sense of smell largely participates in that of taste (see Taste), being the means by which we take cognisance of the flavours of sapid bodies introduced into the mouth. Of the importance of this sense in directing ani- mals to their food, it is needless to multiply instances ; but we may remark that, from ob- servation of the actions of the human infant, we are well convinced that it is rendered cognisant by smell of the neighbourhood of its nurse, long before it recognises her by sight, and that this sense is its guide in seek- ing the source of its nutriment. How purely instinctive this action is, — that is, how com- pletely independent of all experience, and en- tirely dependent upon the provocative sens- ation,— is well shown by the experiment of Galen, who placed a kid, just dropped, near three vessels, one filled with milk, another with honey, and another with wine ; after smelling at all three, it presently began to drink the milk. It would seem to be by the information conveyed through their smell, that bees are induced to fly to pastures at a great distance from their hive ; and it would not seem improbable that the sense of direc- tum, which is so remarkably displayed by many animals, is the result of the acuteness of their olfactive power. Whilst the chief use of smell to the carnivorous tribes is to guide them to their prey, the herbivorous races, whose food is constantly within their reach, are warned by its means of the neighbourhood of their enemies. The sense of smell is sub- servient to defence in another way; being the means by which the foetid scents, emitted by many animals under the influence of alarm, deter their enemies from further pursuit. In nearly all animals, the sexual secretions are more or less odorous ; and these would seem to be intended, not merely to contribute to make the sexes aware of each other's prox- imity, through the sense of smell, but also, in many instances, to serve as a provocative to sexual desire. The odours which are attrac- tive to animals are usually related either to their food or their sexual instinct ; but there are cases in which animals seem to delight in odours which have no such relation : thus, cats seem to revel, as it were, in the odour of Nepeta (catmint) or Valerian. In the air-breathing vertebrata, the sense of smell is, as it were, the sentinel of the respi- ratory organs, having for its office to take cognisance of the aeriform fluids which enter them, and to give warning of such as are in- jurious. The contact of irritating matters, however, is perceived (as already stated) through the general sense of feeling, not the special sense of smelling; and it is through the fifth pair that the act of sneezing is ex- cited, the purpose of which is to expel such particles from the nasal cavity. The distinc- tion is well seen in some air-breathing inverte- brata, whose organ of smell is seated in the head, whilst the impression of irritants on the respiratory surface, exciting reflex movements for the purpose of avoiding or expelling them, is made through the stigmata. Thus M. Duges relates* that if the stigmata on one side of a decapitated Scolopendra be exposed to. an irritating vapour, the body will be imme- diately flexed in the opposite direction ; and that if the stigmata on the opposite side be then similarly irritated, a contrary movement will occur ; whilst by exposing the anterior stigmata on one side, and the posterior on the other, to the same irritation, the body will be bent into the form of the letter S. In man, the sense of smell is not ordinarily so acute as it is in many of the lower animals ; yet it is very possible that it may be capable of taking cognisance of a greater variety of odours. In the selection of his food, it is to him by no means the infallible guide that it seems to be in many other races; for it not only gives no warning, in many instances, of what is noxious, but renders certain poisonous substances (as, for instance, those charged with prussic acid or the essential oil of al- monds) positively attractive. So, again, in regard to the respiratory organs, whilst it gives warning of the presence of certain gases and emanations which are injurious, it takes no cognisance of many others which are not less hurtful. In the ordinary conditions of civilised life, man is not dependent upon his sense of smell for many of the ends which it answers in other animals ; hence this sense is altogether subordinate to others, and the want of it is not usually attended with any great inconvenience. But the case is far different among savage tribes, to whom it is as impor- tant as it is to other animals in a state of nature, and in whom it seems to acquire, by the constant habit of attention to its indica- tions, a similar acuteness. Thus, it is stated by Humboldt that the Peruvian Indian, in the middle of the night, is informed of the proximity of another individual by his smell, and can distinguish by his sme'l whether the stranger be an European, an American Indian, or a Negro. It has even been asserted that some other savage tribes of mankind are enabled to follow a track by the scent of the footsteps, like the bloodhound. The sense of smell, moreover, usually acquires great acute- ness, when, from deficiency of the other senses, its indications become the chief or only means of recognising bodies not in immediate con- tact with the individual. Thus, in the well- known case of James Mitchell, who was deaf, blind, and dumb from his birth, it was the principal means by which he distinguished persons, and enabled him at once to perceive the entrance of a stranger. Mr. Wardrop gives the following curious account of the mode in which he exercised this sense, anil of * Op. cit. torn. i. p. 1G2.