680 SLEEP. cycle in every case is fulfilled in twenty-four hours ; and this uniformity in their recurrence would seem to indicate either an entire and invariable dependence on external agencies, or else a periodical tendency to sleep, inherent in the animal kingdom, and corresponding with the cycle of day and night. The ex- perience of the human species seems to be decisive in favour of the latter view. There is, among all tribes of mankind, a general uniformity in the periods of slumber and activity, which is scarcely inferior to that observable among the lower animals; yet we find reason to believe that this periodicity is a law of our own organic constitution, for it is quite certain that it cannot be seriously de- parted from without injury to the system, and that, even where light and warmth are continuous through the whole range of the twenty-four hours (as during the summer in arctic regions), the same periodical desire for sleep manifests itself, resistance to which is prejudicial to the health. As Dr. Whewell justly remarks* — " No one can doubt that the inclination to food and sleep is periodical, or can maintain, with any plausibility, that the period may be lengthened or shortened with- out limit. We may be tolerably certain that a constantly-recurring period of forty-eight hours would be too long for one day of em- ployment and one period of sleep, with our present faculties ; and all whose bodies and minds are tolerably active will probably agree, that, independently of habit, a perpetual al- ternation of eight hours up and four in bed would employ the human powers less advan- tageously and agreeably than an alternation of sixteen and eight." We may remark, however, that when the habit has been once acquired, the shortening of the cycle is probably not so injurious as its extension. We know by ex- perience that the habitual attempt to sustain an uninterrupted activity during more than sixteen or eighteen hours at a time, is either unsuccessful, or, if successful, is very wearing to the system. On the other hand, the ex- perience of seamen who kept " watch and watch" during long voyages without any ob- vious injury to their health, indicates that if the due amount of sleep be obtained within every twenty-four hours, the division of the cycle is not attended with any prejudicial effect. On the whole, we may conclude with Dr. Whewell, that, " when we have sub- tracted from the daily cycle of the employ- ments of men and animals, that which is to be set down to the account of habits acquired, and that which is occasioned by extraneous causes, there still remains a periodical cha- racter, and a period of a certain length, which coincides with, or at any rate easily accom- modates itself to, the duration of the earth's revolution. Causes of Steep. — The most potent of all the causes of sleep, which is capable of acting by itself, when in sufficient intensity, in opposition to the most powerful influences tending to the continuance of wakefulness, is the condition * Bridgewater Treatise, p. 40. of the nervous system induced by its pro- tracted functional activity. Sleep may thus come on in the midst of the roar of cannon, and this not merely in persons accustomed to the noise, but in those who have never previously experienced it. Thus it is on record that during the heat of the battle of the Nile, some of the boys who were over-fatigued fell asleep on the deck. We have known a listener to an orchestral performance drop off in slumber during the noisiest part of the grand finale. Again, the continued demand for muscular activity is not incompatible with the access of sleep. During fatiguing marches, as in the retreat to Corunna, it has been repeatedly noticed that whole battalions of infantry have slumbered whilst in motion ; muleteers frequently sleep on their mules, coachmen on their boxes, and post-boys on their horses ; and factory children, before the shortening of the hours of work, were often known to fall asleep whilst attending to their machines. Bodily pain, again, yields before the imperative demand occasioned by the continued exhaustion of the powers of the sensorial centres. Of this the medical prac- titioner has frequent illustrations. It is well known, too, that the North American Indians, when at the stake of torture, will go to sleep on the least remission of agony, and will slumber until the fire is applied to awaken them. It is related that Damiens slept during his protracted tortures upon the rack ; and that this having been prevented by the con- stant renewal of fresh torments, he spoke of the want of sleep, a little before the termi- nation of his existence, as the most dreadful of all the sufferings he had endured. That the strongest voluntary determination to remain awake is forced to give way to the demand for sleep produced by the exhaustion of nervous power, must be within the ex- perience of every one. It does not appear to be of any consequence whether this exhaustion is produced by the active exercise of volition, emotion, reflection, or simple sensation. In all alike the sen- sorial centres must participate; by all alike, therefore, must their nervous substance be subjected to that disintegration which cannot proceed beyond a certain point without either being repaired by sleep, or producing a state of exhaustion which becomes fatal. Never- theless, we find that the involuntary con- tinuance of mental activity is unfavourable to access of sleep, so as to oppose the action of other predisposing influences ; and such per- sistence will be found to be especially difficult to check in cases in which the feelings are concerned. The activity of the purely intel- lectual operations, which can be suspended at any moment, provided the feelings be not interested in their cjJttUa«ance, predisposes to sleep instead of preventing it. But the desire to work out a result, or to complete the survey of a subject, is an emotional state which in- duces restlessness, remaining active until it is gratified. So, again, anxiety or distress is a most frequent cautle of wakefulness ; the ex-