VITAL STATISTICS. 1470 words, to do for this Important branch of statistics what has been done elsewhere for the statistical or numerical method.* Having already insisted on the precautions to be ob- served in the use of numbers as a scientific instrument, it remains to determine the pre- cise value of those measures of the duration of life which are in common use for scientific and practical purposes. On a superficial view of the subject, it might seem sufficient, in order to determine the mean age attained by a given class of persons exposed to a given class of influence?, to collect the ages, at death, of a certain number of persons belonging to that class, to add those ages together, and to divide the sum by the number of persons. But it must be evident, on further consideration, that an average so obtained may furnish a very im- perfect measure of the longevity of the class, and of the force of the influences brought to bear upon the individuals of whom it is com- posed. In order to build up a science of Vital Statistics—in other words, in order to deter- mine the true influence of external agents on the duration of human life, we must make use of such materials as happen to be ready to our hands. These materials do not always present themselves in the same shape, nor do they all possess the same value. Sometimes tliey are simple averages ; at other times they are complex calculations based upon the same, or similar facts, but moulded into new forms by means of certain necessary corrections. A few preliminary observations on these mate- rials will be found to answer several useful purposes. They will serve, at one and the same time, as a test of the value of the prin- ciples sought to be established, and as a check to the tendency with which the statist is often reproached to exaggerate the value of inferences drawn from numerical data. Several methods are in use for measuring the duration of human life. Of these, the best known and most commonly employed are the following: — 1. The mean age at death ; 2. The rate of mortality; 3. The expectation of life ; 4. The mean duration of life ; and 5. The probable duration of life. Other terms, such as the specific intensity of life, and other methods, such as the ages of the living, are occasionally employed. 1. The mean age at death. — The mean, or average age at death, is the sum of the ages at death, divided by the number of deaths. Thus, if five persons die at the respective ages of 20, 30, 40, 50, and 60, their mean, or „ , t, . 20 + 30+40 + 50 + 60, average age at death is - or 40 years ; and if a second group of five persons die at the respective ages of 20, 35, 50, 65, and 80, their mean age at death is 20 + 35 + 50 + 65 + 80 >Of50years> Nqw> -f these two groups of five persons were each exposed during their lives to a peculiar set of * See Statistics, Medical, p. 801. influences, the mean age which they respec- tively attained would be a measure of the force of those influences. But such a mea- sure would be open to the serious objection that the number of facts from which the averages are calculated is insufficient. Let us, however, suppose this objection to be set aside by increasing the number of deaths in each case to several hundreds or thousands, so as to embrace either the entire number of deaths of the classes submitted to comparison, or such a considerable proportion of deaths taken without selection as would give satis- factory results in accordance with the strictest requirements of the numerical method, the question still presents itself, Is the mean age at death a safe measure and standard of com- parison ? The answer to this question must be in the negative. The mean age at death is not always a safe and sound standard. Its employment would often lead to very erro- neous inferences. It will therefore be neces- sary to discriminate between those cases in which it may be employed with safety, and those in which its use would lead to fallacious results. The mean age at death can be employed with safety as a true test or measure only in those cases in which the calculation purport- ing to embrace an entire class of persons, every member of that class is included, or in which the calculations embracing only a sec- tion of an entire class, the class in question is retained in a state of perfect uniformity during the whole time comprised in the calculation. According to the first supposition, we take a given number (say 100,000) of children born in a given year, and trace them through life till they are all dead, summing up their ages at death, and dividing by the number of deaths. According to the second supposition, we ex- tract from some register of deaths the ages of all who die during some term of years, having ascertained, by referring to the census, that the population has continued stationary (that is to say, constantly gaining as many by fresh births as it loses by death), during the time over which the calculations extend. The same reasoning will be found to apply to the mean age at death, taken as a measure of the true duration of life of the members of any handicraft, trade, or profession. It can only be a true measure so long as the blanks caused by death are filled by new recruits, entering at the same age as the age of entrance of the deceased. In all other cases but those now specified, the mean age at death is a more or less fallacious measure of the true duration of life. As the mean age at death has been lately revived as a measure of the duration of human life, and a test of the sanitary condition of the population, though its fallaciousness was long since recognised and pointed out by the early constructors of life-tables, it may be well to devote some space to a statement of the cases in which the proposed test is most open to objection. a. The mean age at death has been employed as a test of the sanitary condition of a nation,