SOLIPEDA. 714 description of their anatomy and general or- ganisation. The Solipeda, zoologically considered, com- prehend but the single genus Equus, at once distinguishable from all other quadrupeds by the remarkable construction of the anterior and posterior extremities, each of the four feet appearing externally to consist of but a single toe enclosed in a solid hoof of horn, although, within, there are found con- cealed beneath the skin the rudiments of two other digits, appended to each side of the metacarpal and metatarsal portion of the limb. The genus Equus is further characterised by the following pectdiar disposition of the dental apparatus : — There are six sharp and trenchant incisors both in the upper and in the lower jaw, and an equal number of grind- ing teeth, the crowns of which are of a square form, each having its surface intersected by deep plates of enamel, arranged in the shape of four crescentic masses, in addition to which there exists in the teeth of the upper jaw a small disc of enamel, situated upon the inner border of each tooth. The males have, moreover, two small canine teeth developed in the upper jaw, and some- times in the lower one also ; but these canine teeth, or tushes (tusks), as they are generally called, are for the most part altogether want- ing in the females. A considerable interspace exists between the canine teeth and the first molar, so that that portion of the mouth of the horse which is opposite to the commis- sure of the lips is devoid of any dental arma- ture, a circumstance of which man has availed himself for the purpose of introducing into the mouth of these animals that bit by the aid of which he is enabled to subjugate his steed, and thus secure to himself the services of an assistant not less conspicuous for his indomitable strength than for his matchless docility. The stomach of the Solipeds is simple in its form, and of moderate dimen- sions, but their intestinal canal is of very great length, and the ccecum and colon enor- mous in their proportionate size. Thus characterised, the genus Equus is found to comprehend several different races of quadrupeds that are generally regarded by modern naturalists as constituting so many distinct species. These are— 1st. The Horse (Equus Caballus), " man's noble companion in the chase or on the battle-field, in the labours of agriculture, in the arts, or in commerce." The original country whence the horse has been disseminated through the whole world has now become a matter of uncertainty, although most probably the wide plains of eastern Europe and of Asia, where wild horses still abound, may be pointed out as their central station. That they were in com- mon use in Egypt from the very earliest pe- riod of which we have any record, is evident from the sacred writings (vide Gen. c. xlvii. v. 17., and c. 1. v. 9.), and hence it is supposed to have been derived by the Arabs, Persians, Ethiopians, Indians, Parthians, Scythians, &c. At the present day, wild horses are by no means common even in their native regions, owing to the encroachments of man upon their original haunts ; but, on the other hand, they have spread over the vast prairies of the new continent, and may now be said to be as extensively distributed as the human race itself. The second species admitted by zoologists to form a distinct race is the Dzigguetai (Equus Heniionus), intermediate in size be- tween the horse and the ass, from both of which it is distinguished by its colour, which is light bay, with a black mane and dorsal line, and it also has a black tuft of hair at the end of its tail. This animal is found in large troops among the sandy plains of Cen- tral Asia. 3d. The ass {Equus Asinus), at once recog- nisable by the length of its ears, by the tuft of hair at the end of its tail, and by the black cross upon its shoulders, which is the first appearance of those transverse bands which become numerous in the succeeding species. This animal seems to be indigenous to the desert regions of Central Asia, where vast troops of them still abound in a wild state. 4th. The Zebra (Equus Zebra), a native of the southern regions ot Africa,and conspicuous for its symmetry and the alternate transverse stripes of black and white with which its skin is all over marked. 5th. The Quagga (Equus Quaccha), a native of the same regions as the Zebra, from which it principally differs in the colour of its skin and more horse-like appearance. Its hair upon the neck and shoulders is brown, marked transversely with white stripes ; its croup is of a greyish-red colour, while the tail and legs are white. The name of this animal is derived from its peculiar voice, which some- what resembles the bark of a dog. 6th, The Onagga, or Dauw (Equus mon- tanus), is somewhat less than the ass, and in its shape resembles the quagga. Its general colour is a light bay marked with black stripes, that are alternately broader and narrower over the head, neck, and trunk ; the hinder stripes are directed obliquely forward, while the legs and tail remain white. With respect to their anatomy, it may be observed, that all the above species resemble each other as closely in their internal economy as they do in outward form, and accordingly, in the following pages, we shall confine our- selves principally to a description of the horse, as being the typical species of the group, noticing, however, incidentally, such peculiarities of structure as may be worthy of remark in the humbler congeners of their noble prototype. So near, indeed, is the relationship between the different members of the entire genus, that they will breed together without difficulty, although the progeny of such a union, the mule, is generally incapable of reproduction. Such is well known to be the case between the horse and the ass, as also with the zebra, and doubtless with the genus generally.